Sanofi, Regeneron explore Dupixent’s role in targeting Type 2 inflammation as an underlying cause of atopic dermatitis – pharmaceutical daily news
Monday, April 22, 2019
pharmaceutical daily news
Pharmaceuticals, Biotechnology and Life Sciences
HOME
Pharma news
News by region
East and Central Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East and North Africa
North America
Pharma Business
My Pharmaceutical
Events
About us
Privacy Policy
Contact
Contact us
Advertise with us
Approval news
Sanofi, Regeneron explore Dupixent’s role in targeting Type 2 inflammation as an underlying cause of atopic dermatitis
May 16, 2018 Dino Mustafić	0 Comments dermatitis, Dupixent, Regeneron, Sanofi
Sanofi’s pivotal Phase 3 test of Dupixent (dupilumab) to treat moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adolescents met its primary and key secondary endpoints.
Sanofi said Wednesday that, in the trial, treatment with Dupixent as monotherapy significantly improved measures of overall disease severity, skin clearing, itching, and certain health-related quality of life measures. Sanofi noted that Dupixent is the first and only biologic to show positive results in this patient population.
“Moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis can place a particularly significant burden on adolescents, who have to deal with oozing skin lesions with unrelenting, intense itching during their formative years,” said George D. Yancopoulos, President and Chief Scientific Officer of Regeneron, with whom Sanofi is studying dupilumab in a broad range of clinical development programs. “Dupixent blocks the IL-4/IL-13 pathway, which is emerging as a central driver of Type 2 allergic inflammation. We are committed to investigating the potential for Dupixent across Type 2 inflammatory diseases with high unmet need including atopic dermatitis, asthma, eosinophilic esophagitis, nasal polyps, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and food allergy.”
The primary endpoints were the proportion of patients achieving Investigator’s Global Assessment (IGA) score of 0 (clear) or 1 (almost clear) and 75% improvement in Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI-75, co-primary endpoint outside of the U.S.) at 16 weeks.
Elias Zerhouni, President, Global R&D, Sanofi, said: “Current treatment options for these adolescent patients such as topical steroids, oral steroids, and non-steroidal immunosuppressants can have significant side effects. We continue to explore Dupixent’s role in targeting Type 2 inflammation as an underlying cause of atopic dermatitis to potentially provide adolescents, some of whom have lived with this disease their entire lives, a therapy that treats more than just their symptoms.”
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Related
← Idorsia enrols first patient in study to test lucerastat as treatment for Fabry disease
FDA approves Aimovig for migraine →
You May Also Like
Alexion Pharmaceuticals’s founder retires as Chairman of the Board, current CEO to succeed him
March 3, 2017 Dino Mustafić 0
Eurostars grant awarded to international consortium including Abzena company, Antitope, for development of novel treatment for clotting disorders
January 18, 2016 Dino Mustafić 0
Abzena settles with Stanford University over claims against PacificGMP
March 5, 2018 Dino Mustafić 0
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Recent posts
Pfizer and Lilly Announce Top-Line Results From Long-Term Phase 3 Study of Tanezumab in Patients With Osteoarthritis April 22, 2019
FSD Pharma Receives Cannabis Sales License from Health Canada April 22, 2019
Global Anticoagulants Reversal Drugs Market Covering Key Players & Their Competitive Strategies, 2019: Analysis & Outlook Through 2018-2026 – ResearchAndMarkets.com April 19, 2019
Anterior Uveitis – Pipeline Insight, 2019 – ResearchAndMarkets.com April 19, 2019
Don't miss anything
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Social
View pharmaceuticaldaily’s profile on Facebook
View pharmacdaily’s profile on Twitter
Copyright © 2019 pharmaceutical daily news. All rights reserved.
Theme: ColorMag by ThemeGrill. Powered by WordPress.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.