Skin Treatments Archives - Page 2 of 3 - Scars and Spots
Scars and Spots
Advanced Treatment for Scars and Dark Spots developed by a leading plastic surgeon
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
About INVICIBLE
Press
Subscribe
Buy NOW
April 20, 2019
InviCible Scars August 8, 2014 6 Comments
Scar Healing Time
If the trauma is minor, healing time for the wound should be quick, and scar formation minimal. If your scar is deeper, as is often the case with surgical scars, healing time will take longer. However long it takes, a scar goes through three stages of healing. The first phase of wound healing is a period of inflammation that may last anywhere from two to six days, depending on how severe the initial trauma. During this period, you’ll experience warmth, some redness, swelling, and pain.
When the initial trauma spot begins to subside and ceases inflammation, your skin begins to produce collagen to knit the edges of the wound or trauma area together. This is the period when scarring may develop. Most scars start to improve within 2 – 3 weeks, and will continue to improve for up to six months. Finally, your skin will continue to break down the excess collagen that created your initially raised and reddish scar, and turn it into a thin, flat scar that may be visible or almost invisible. This period take from six months to several years with the finalized appearance of your scar in about 1-2 years.
Read: How to Help Your Skin Heal Scars
It’s important to respond to a wound or trauma to your skin immediately, even before healing begins. If you’re a smoker, stop! It causes blood vessels to contract, decreasing healing oxygen to the body and skin. Avoid direct sunlight while your skin heals. This may seem impossible, but it is necessary! When your skin is fully knit together, begin exercising regularly. Exercise will increase oxygen to all of your body tissues, including the deep levels of your skin. Your scar will heal more quickly, and your body will be healthier, too.
If you haven’t been eating properly, now is the time to rethink your eating habits. A balanced diet is very important to proper scar healing. Try to get the most nutritional foods possible into your system, especially foods rich in Vitamin C. Be sure to include protein-rich foods for the collagen your skin needs to heal properly, and increase your Vitamin B and zinc levels, too. Eat plenty of foods rich in Vitamin A to enhance your skin’s ability to absorb moisture, and drink plenty of liquids.
Most importantly, stay out of the sun and apply a sunblock with SPF 30 to ensure total protection when you go outside. At the same time, begin applying a scar healing cream to your traumatized skin or scar, as soon as your skin has completely closed up. For instance, if you have a surgical scar, laceration or burn that required sutures, use InviCible Scars on the area as soon as the sutures are removed. If you’ve had a skin resurfacing, wait until there is no “rawness” before beginning to use Invincible. For scars or dark marks from acne, apply InviCible at least twice a day, directly on the affected areas, but not on active acne spots.
With proper exercise and nutrition, avoidance of the sun and application of InviCible Scars, your scar will heal beautifully, and more quickly than you might think.
Have a question about your scar? Leave a comment and we’ll be happy to answer.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Burn Scars, C Section Scars, Chemical Peels, Dark Scars, Face Scars, Get Rid of Scars, Hypertrophic Scars, New or Old Scars, Plastic Surgery Scars, Scar Healing Tips, Skin Resurfacing, Surgery Scars Tagged: fade scars, get rid of scars
InviCible Scars April 10, 2014 32 Comments
Does Micro-Needling Cause Scars?
Does micro-needling cause scars? The quick answer is yes, however it’s not the way you think.
If you are not familiar, micro-needling is a non-invasive cosmetic procedure where a dermaroller or pen-like device containing several needles is moved along the skin as a means to create micro-wounds that cause the body to quickly create collagen and elastin fibers, which plump up the skin. Micro-needling causes the skin to initiate its natural wound healing process and is done in combination with products that promote the fading of hypermentation (such as Vitamin C) and ingredients that moisturize, such as aloe. This process can be done in an office setting or at home.
Micro-needling is mainly a treatment for mild to moderate acne scars, both old and new. However, it is also used to treat stretch marks, fine lines and wrinkles, and sun damage.
When performed in an office setting, it’s common that the doctor, nurse or esthetician will apply a topical numbing cream so as to avoid any discomfort. For the most part, despite it sounding painful having needles pierce your skin, the needles are often not felt.
So if micro-needling is intended to treat scars, why would it also cause them? Whenever you have an injury that creates a wound of any kind, even a microinjury and controlled wound created by micro-needling, it also causes micro-scars as well.
This is where a great product like InviCible Scars is beneficial because once your skin has been pierced by the needles, it more easily absorbs skin care products. InviCible contains Vitamin C, which will help in the fading of any hyperpigmentation – or if the procedure was done with the intention of getting rid of dark spots. Vitamin C also aids in collagen production. InviCible Scar Treatment contains moisturizing ingredients like aloe vera, licorice extract and EFA’s (essential fatty acids.) These same ingredients will also target the inflammation that ocurrs post-procedure as well. Moreover, it contains silicone, which will help treat the micro-scars.
When micro-needling is done at home, the upmost care should be taken as one of the biggest risks is pressing too hard onto the skin and creating a bigger skin injury than intended. Always follow the instructions that come with your kit.
Have you tried micro-needling?
Have a question about your scar? Leave a comment and we’ll be happy to answer.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, New or Old Scars, Skin Resurfacing Tagged: acne scars, fade hyperpigmentation, get rid of scars
InviCible Scars March 10, 2014 Leave a Comment
Benefits of Laser Skin Resurfacing
Laser skin resurfacing is one option may people explore when they want to improve the appearance of wrinkles, lines, blotches, or scars caused by acne, too much sun exposure, aging, or other skin damage. Laser skin resurfacing works by removing layers of skin, thereby encouraging the growth of new skin cells and resulting in younger-looking, tighter, and smoother skin. This may be the only procedure done, or it may be done at the same time as other cosmetic procedures.
Specific areas of the skin can be targeted with laser skin resurfacing, such as laugh lines, smoker’s lines, crow’s feet, acne scars, or frown furrows, or the entire face may be treated for the most dramatic results. The procedure is also used in some cases to remove warts, pre-cancerous lesions, benign tumors, and certain skin cancers.
It’s important to understand that this procedure works by first creating a wound, and the skin’s natural healing processes work to form new, fresher-looking skin. During healing, this wound must be cared for like any other wound to ensure the best results.
Read: What Affects Wound Healing?
If you think laser skin resurfacing may be right for you, the first step is to consult a dermatologist or plastic surgeon to discuss your options. If it is determined that you are a good candidate, there are several things you can do right off the bat to ensure that you get the results you want.
First, make sure to follow your doctor’s pre-procedure instructions. He or she will probably counsel you to avoid taking things like ibuprofen and vitamin E, which can affect clotting. You should also avoid smoking, which delays the healing process and exacerbates scarring. In addition, your doctor will probably want you to take an antibiotic, which is important in preventing infection – another factor that affects scarring and final results.
Laser skin resurfacing is typically an outpatient procedure, meaning you will not have an overnight hospital stay. You may receive local or general anesthesia, depending on the extent of the area being treated and your and your doctor’s preferences.
After the procedure some patients need light dressings, but most are just instructed to use topical hydrating ointments instead of true bandages. Generally, after the first day, you will be instructed to clean the treated areas several times a day and apply an ointment to prevent scabs, which worsen scarring. Moisture is an important part of the healing process.
To maximize your results, stay out of the sun or, at a minimum, use sunscreen every time you go outside. A scar treatment can also minimize your risk of developing lasting scars from the procedure and improve your overall result. Choose one that contains ingredients known to be effective and safe, and avoid those that contain questionable ingredients such as hydroquinone.
The skin may take up to three weeks to heal. The skin will typically have a pink appearance that may last for several weeks. This can be easily covered with makeup, but be sure to apply your scar treatment before your makeup, as it does its best work when applied directly to your skin. Swelling is normal and using an extra pillow or two at night to sleep in a more upright position can help.
Laser skin resurfacing is a highly effective procedure and many people who choose it are thrilled with the results. Combine it with an effective scar therapy and impeccable adherence to your doctor’s instructions for younger, smoother, more beautiful skin.
Have a question about your scar? Leave a comment and we’ll be happy to answer.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Age Spots, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, Hyperpigmentation, Melasma, Scar Healing Tips, Skin Care Tips, Skin Resurfacing, Skin Spots, Skin Treatments, Sun Spots, Uneven Skin Tone Tagged: acne scars, get rid of dark spots, laser for acne
InviCible Scars January 20, 2014 2 Comments
Getting the Most Out of Your Scar Treatment
Finding a great scar treatment product is only half the battle. If only it were as simple as applying a gel and watching your scar vanish! The truth is that the effectiveness of any product depends partly on how you use it and many of the choices you make during treatment. You want your scar as minimally visible as possible, so be sure to follow these tips to maximize your results.
1. Choose the right product. You want a product you can trust to be safe and effective, one that does not contain any harmful ingredients or unnecessary chemicals. Look for a scar treatment with dimethicone silicone, a stable form of Vitamin C, aloe vera, licorice extract, and other ingredients that have been proven to heal scars without damaging your health.
2. Use the product consistently. Of all the things you should be doing, this is probably the most important. It is far too common for people to begin using a product and then get busy, distracted, or even discouraged if their results aren’t fast and dramatic. This can lead to using the product sporadically or stopping its use altogether before treatment is complete, which will not yield the best possible results. Use the product at least twice a day for at least 12 weeks. You may notice improvements within the first couple of weeks, but the scar will continue to improve for up to several months.
3. Apply the product first. That means under any moisturizer, sunscreen, or makeup. In order for the product to be effective, it must be applied directly to the skin. After applying, be sure to wait for it to dry before applying cosmetics or other products.
4. Boost your results with a healthy diet. Vitamin C isn’t only effective in a scar cream and applied to the skin; it also offers great scar-healing benefits when eaten, so get plenty of citrus fruits, broccoli, peppers, and other foods rich in vitamin C. Protein will help your body make the most of collagen; zinc and vitamin B both work to help your skin heal faster; Vitamin A is great for tissue synthesis.
Read: How Nutrition Affects Scar Healing
5. Avoid the sun. Even brief exposure can lead to darkening of your scar, and this change can be permanent. Especially during the first six months, when scars are still forming and changing, be sure to wear an SPF 30 sunblock, or keep the scar covered with clothing.
6. Get plenty of exercise. Exercise offers many heart and overall health benefits, improves your mood, gives you more energy, and helps you sleep better. But exercise also helps your scar heal faster! That’s because exercise improves your circulation, meaning that more oxygen-rich blood is transported to the site of your healing scar, and oxygen is key in optimal healing. If your scar is the result of a surgical incision, you may not feel much like exercise at first, but do as much as you can (and as much as your doctor gives the green light on). Even a short daily walk will go a long way to help with healing.
Do you have a question about your scar? Leave us a comment and we’ll be happy to answer.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Burn Scars, C Section Scars, Dark Scars, Exercise, Face Scars, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, Hyperpigmentation, Hypertrophic Scars, New or Old Scars, Nutrition, Plastic Surgery Scars, Scar Healing Tips, Skin Care Tips, Skin Treatments, Surgery Scars Tagged: fade scars, get rid of scars, scar treatment
InviCible Scars October 21, 2013 Leave a Comment
Benefits of Chemical Peels
A chemical peel is a procedure done by a dermatologist. A chemical solution is applied to the face, for the purpose of removing the upper layer of skin cells. A chemical peel accelerates the rate of new skin growth, promotes lightening of pigment, and imparts healthier, more uniform skin. Chemical peels can be combined with skin lightening procedures to maximize results.
Chemical peels have several benefits. First of all, they reduce wrinkles. The procedure separates and removes the top layers of skin to reveal the smoother, younger-looking skin below. A peel may also stimulate your skin to produce more collagen, which will promote fewer wrinkles and a younger-looking complexion.
Acne scarring is also affected by chemical peels. The peel gets rid of dead skin cells, which results in an evened-out texture. Acne scars, freckles, sunspots, and other discolorations are greatly improved by chemical peels. Chemical peeling is a quick and simple procedure with a short recovery time.
Types of Chemical Peels
There are several different types of chemical peels; you and your dermatologist should discuss them and choose the one that suits your individual needs best.
Alpha hydroxy peels typically use glycolic acid to reduce the appearance of fine lines and smooth out rough skin. This is a mild peel, so while it probably won’t require any anesthetic, it will require a series of treatments to achieve the desired results.
Beta hydroxy peels use salicylic acid to treat very acne-prone skin. This type of peel is deeper than an alpha hydroxy peel and offers more striking and longer-lasting results. It is still a mild peel, though, and usually does not require anesthetic and may still require a series of treatments.
Jessner’s peels use a combination of ingredients that form a stronger solution than the alpha or beta hydroxyl peels. These peels require a recovery time of about a week, but do not require anesthetics.
TCA peels use trichloroacetic acid to treat many skin imperfections, such as sun damage, wrinkles, and acne scarring. Anesthetic may not be required during the procedure, but over-the-counter pain medications can be taken for the following day or two to reduce stinging. The recovery time is about a week, and the results are dramatic.
Phenol peels provide the most dramatic results of all. This peel can not only treat visual imperfections, but may also be used to remove precancerous growths. This is a more involved procedure which requires local anesthesia during the procedure and pain medication after. Recovery time can be up to a month, but many people find that the results are well worth it.
Special Considerations
Your dermatologist may advise you to apply certain products to your skin for several weeks before your treatment to exfoliate your skin and maximize the effects of the peel. In addition, a silicone gel can help your skin post-peel. This works by promoting collagen and lipid production, helping to moisturize and heal your skin. Silicone gels may also help reduce hyperpigmentation and significantly enhance the results of the procedure. Be sure to use sunscreen after a peel, as your skin is likely to be much more sensitive to sunlight. Ask your dermatologist about recommended aftercare.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Age Spots, Chemical Peels, Face Scars, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, Hyperpigmentation, New or Old Scars, Skin Spots, Skin Treatments, Sun Spots Tagged: acne scars, get rid of scars
« Previous Page
Next Page »
EMAIL NEWSLETTER
Sign up to receive our free monthly newsletter with tips and advice on how to treat dark spots and scars.
Enter your email address...
Subscribe to Scars and Spots
Enter your Email
Preview | Powered by FeedBlitz
Buy Now
See Our Studies
See the results of our Clinical Studies
See Before and Afters
View Images of real results!
Popular Posts
Can You Tattoo Over Scars?
How to Remove Dark Spots from Razor Bumps and Ingrown Hair
How Do You Soften Scar Tissue?
Why Does a Scar Turn White?
Are Second Degree Burn Scars Permanent?
How to Fade Shingles Scars
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bite Scars
Why Do Scars Itch?
Is a Red Scar a Permanent Scar?
Why Do Surgical Scars Itch?
Press
About INVICIBLE
InviCible has a superior safety profile and is also hypoallergenic. It contains NO hydroquinone, preservatives, fragrances, petroleum, mineral oil, or alcohol. It is not tested on animals.
Privacy Policy Cookie Policy
RECENT POSTS
Scar Cream Available Internationally on Amazon
Cosmetic Surgeon Red Flags You Should Not Ignore
Pediatric Sun Exposure – Tips from St. Jude to Protect Your Child
How to Get Rid of Scars Fast
How Long Does it Take a Hypertrophic Scar to Heal?
My Scar Won’t Stop Itching, Is This Normal?
SEARCH
Search Tags
Acne Scars Acne Tips Age Spots Breast Cancer Scars Breast Surgery Scars Burn Scars Chemical Peels C Section Scars Dark Scars Exercise Facelift Scars Face Scars Get Rid of Dark Spots Get Rid of Scars Hyperpigmentation Hypertrophic Scars InviCible Scars Reviews Keloid Scars Mastectomy Scars Melanoma Scars Melasma New or Old Scars Nutrition Plastic Surgery Scars Scar Healing Tips Skin Care Tips Skin Resurfacing Skin Spots Skin Treatments Sun Spots Surgery Scars Tummy Tuck Scars Uneven Skin Tone
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2019 · Streamline Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in