Iron-Deficiency Anemia (for Parents) - KidsHealth
[Skip to Content]
Open Search
for Parents
Parents site
Sitio para padres
General Health
Growth & Development
Infections
Diseases & Conditions
Pregnancy & Baby
Nutrition & Fitness
Emotions & Behavior
School & Family Life
First Aid & Safety
Doctors & Hospitals
Videos
Recipes
Close for Parents nav
for Kids
Kids site
Sitio para ninos
How the Body Works
Puberty & Growing Up
Staying Healthy
Staying Safe
Recipes & Cooking
Health Problems
Illnesses & Injuries
Relax & Unwind
People, Places & Things That Help
Feelings
Expert Answers Q&A
Movies & More
Close for Kids nav
for Teens
Teens site
Sitio para adolescentes
Body
Mind
Sexual Health
Food & Fitness
Diseases & Conditions
Infections
Drugs & Alcohol
School & Jobs
Sports
Expert Answers (Q&A)
Staying Safe
Videos
Close for Teens nav
For Educators
Open Search
Search KidsHealth library
Open Search Language Selector
Search Language Selector English Español
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Pinterest
Share via Email
KidsHealth /
for Parents
/ Iron-Deficiency Anemia
Iron-Deficiency Anemia
Reviewed by: Rupal Christine Gupta, MD
People who become iron deficient aren't getting enough iron in their diet. This means that the body can't make hemoglobin, so it makes fewer red blood cells. This is a condition called anemia. When someone has anemia, less oxygen reaches the cells and tissues and affects how the body works.
Iron plays an important role in muscle function, energy creation, and brain development. As a result, a child with iron deficiency may have learning and behavioral problems.
Causes
In developed countries, getting enough iron in the diet is not usually a problem for healthy babies. In general, breastfed babies tend to get enough iron from their mothers until they start other foods and liquids. As long as formula-fed infants drink formula that is fortified with iron, they also usually get enough iron.
Toddlers can run into problems if they drink too much cow's milk (more than 24 ounces a day) and eat fewer iron-rich foods, like red meat and green leafy vegetables. Cow’s milk is not a good source of iron. In fact, milk makes it harder for the body to absorb iron and can contribute to iron-deficiency anemia.
Older picky eaters may not eat foods with enough iron, and sometimes parents have trouble finding healthy foods that are high in iron. Kids or teens on a vegetarian diet also might not get enough iron, because iron from meat sources is more easily absorbed than iron from plant sources.
Teenage boys sometimes develop iron deficiency during the rapid growth of puberty. But teen girls have iron deficiency more often because their bodies can't store as much iron and lose blood during menstruation. Young athletes who exercise often tend to lose more iron and may also become iron deficient.
Symptoms
Iron-deficiency anemia develops over time. First, the amount of iron in the body goes down and the child starts to have iron deficiency, where muscle and brain function are affected. The red blood cells don't change much at this point because the body uses most of its iron to make hemoglobin.
But in time, as the iron is used up, the body starts making fewer red blood cells and becomes anemic. At that point, symptoms may include:
tiredness and weakness
pale skin, especially around the hands, nails, and eyelids
rapid heartbeat or a heart murmur
irritability
low appetite
dizziness or feeling lightheaded
In rare cases, a child with iron-deficiency anemia may develop pica, a craving to eat nonfood items such as paint chips, chalk, or dirt.
Diagnosis
Iron-deficiency anemia is often first noticed during a checkup. Babies should receive blood testing for anemia within their first year. Doctors sometimes screen earlier for certain children, such as premature babies, who have lower amounts of iron in their bodies at birth than full-term babies.
A doctor may consider the possibility of iron deficiency in an older child who is tired and looks weak. The doctor will likely ask questions about the child's diet and growth and may do a blood test to check for low hemoglobin or iron levels, which could mean the child has anemia. The doctor also may do a stool test because iron-deficiency anemia can sometimes be caused by the gradual loss of small amounts of blood through the intestinal tract.
Treatment
Usually, kids with iron deficiency need to take daily iron supplements to get their iron levels back up. Multivitamins with iron and changes to a child's diet can help, but usually are not enough on their own. Ask a doctor before giving your child iron supplements, as too much iron can cause health problems.
Iron should be taken on an empty stomach or with a small amount of food. Avoid giving a child iron with milk or caffeinated drinks because both prevent the iron from absorbing well. Things like orange juice and other foods that are high in vitamin C can make iron absorb better.
Within a day or two of starting iron, children should feel better and have a better appetite. Over the next month, as the blood makes more red blood cells, their hemoglobin levels should go up. It usually takes 3-6 months of iron supplements to correct the deficiency, but sometimes kids are treated for longer periods.
If the treatment doesn't work, it's usually because the child's body is not properly absorbing the iron or the child is getting the wrong dose. In these cases, the doctor probably will do a blood test to see how the iron levels have responded. Kids with severe cases of iron-deficiency anemia may require treatment from a specialist or a blood transfusion.
Prevention
Preventing iron deficiency in the first place can help kids avoid long-term behavioral and learning problems. Here are some tips:
Infants younger than 1 year old should drink only breast milk or an infant formula that contains iron. Breastfed infants should eat iron-fortified solid foods starting at about 6 months of age.
Kids under 2 should have no more than 24 ounces of whole milk a day. Iron-fortified products such as cereal can be a great way to help young children to get more iron.
Good sources of iron include: red meats, dark poultry, salmon, tuna, egg yolks, green leafy vegetables, dried peas and beans, molasses, dried fruits and raisins, and enriched whole-grain bread. Serve these alongside foods or drinks rich in vitamin C (tomatoes, broccoli, orange juice, strawberries, etc.), which improves the body's absorption of iron.
Try cooking food in a cast iron pan, which can help enrich the food with iron.
Reviewed by: Rupal Christine Gupta, MD
Date reviewed: October 2014
More on this topic for:
Parents
Kids
Teens
Anemia
Iron
Blood Test: Ferritin (Iron)
Blood Test: Hemoglobin
Pregnant or Breastfeeding? Nutrients You Need
Finger Foods for Babies
Formula Feeding FAQs: Getting Started
Blood
Breastfeeding FAQs: How Much and How Often
Vegetarianism
Word! Anemia
Vitamins
About Anemia
Blood Test: Complete Blood Count
Becoming a Vegetarian
Blood
PMS, Cramps, and Irregular Periods
Anemia
Vitamins and Minerals
View more
About Us
Contact Us
Partners
Editorial Policy
Permissions Guidelines
Privacy Policy & Terms of Use
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Note: All information on KidsHealth® is for educational purposes only. For specific medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, consult your doctor.
© 1995- The Nemours Foundation. All rights reserved.
Images provided by The Nemours Foundation, iStock, Getty Images, Veer, Shutterstock, and Clipart.com.