21 Amazing Magnesium Benefits + Side Effects, Dosing, Sources - Selfhacked
Home
Start Here
Posts
Biohacking Science
Miscellaneous
Mitochondria
Neuroscience
Transcription Factors
Conditions
Anti-aging
Autoimmunity
Blood Sugar
Brain
Gut
Heart Health
Histamine intolerance
Infections
Inflammation
Mold
Thyroid
Weight loss
Healthy Living
Detox
Devices
Diet
Fitness
Holistic Interventions
How-to
Sleep/Circadian Rhythm
Stress Reduction
Substances
Amino Acids
Fats
Foods
Herbs
Nutrients
Probiotics
Supplements (other)
Testing
Blood Tests
Cytokines
Genetics
Hormones
About
Genetics
VIP Login
Store
Search for an Article
Search
Selfhacked
Home
Start Here
Posts
Biohacking Science
AllMiscellaneousMitochondriaNeuroscienceTranscription Factors
Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Function
Too Much Norepinephrine: Symptoms & How to Lower It
How to Increase Norepinephrine + Deficiency Symptoms
Norepinephrine Function, Effects, Synthesis & Receptors
6 Oxaloacetate Benefits (incl. Brain Protection) + Side Effects
Catalase Enzyme: Function, Benefits, Supplements
View all
Conditions
AllAnti-agingAutoimmunityBlood SugarBrainGutHeart HealthHistamine intoleranceInfectionsInflammationMoldThyroidWeight loss
9 Chicory Root Fiber, Coffee & Extract Benefits + Side Effects
10 Impressive Bentonite Clay Benefits (incl. Detox) + Dangers
10 Luteolin Benefits + Foods & Supplement Side Effects
Too Much Norepinephrine: Symptoms & How to Lower It
How to Increase Norepinephrine + Deficiency Symptoms
Norepinephrine Function, Effects, Synthesis & Receptors
View all
Healthy Living
AllDetoxDevicesDietFitnessHolistic InterventionsHow-toSleep/Circadian RhythmStress Reduction
6 Dragon Fruit Benefits, Taste, Nutrition & How To Eat It
5 Ornithine Benefits (incl. Sleep) + Side Effects
7 Benefits of Hemp Seeds + Nutrition & Side Effects
HMB Supplement Benefits + Side Effects, Dosage & Reviews
10 Impressive Bentonite Clay Benefits (incl. Detox) + Dangers
Alkaline Water Hype vs. Potential Benefits & Side Effects
View all
Substances
AllAmino AcidsFatsFoodsHerbsNutrientsProbioticsSupplements (other)
6 Dragon Fruit Benefits, Taste, Nutrition & How To Eat It
11 Chinese Skullcap Benefits (incl. Hair Loss) + Side Effects
11 Anise Seed Benefits + How to Use the Oil, Extract & Tea
Armour Thyroid Dosage, Side Effects, Reviews
6 Benefits of Passion Fruit (Maracuya) & How to Eat It
Laetrile (Vitamin B17, Amygdalin) Benefits, Foods & Fallacies
View all
Testing
AllBlood TestsCytokinesGeneticsHormones
Armour Thyroid Dosage, Side Effects, Reviews
Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Function
Levothyroxine Uses, Side Effects, Dosage + Thyroid Support
Too Much Norepinephrine: Symptoms & How to Lower It
How to Increase Norepinephrine + Deficiency Symptoms
Norepinephrine Function, Effects, Synthesis & Receptors
View all
About
Genetics
VIP Login
Store
Anti-aging
21 Amazing Magnesium Benefits + Side Effects, Dosing, Sources
By Dr. Biljana Novkovic, PhD
Reviewed By Selfhacked Science Team
Last updated: April 16, 2019
Evidence Based
4.5/5
13
Our team comprises of trained MDs, PhDs, pharmacists, qualified scientists, and certified health and wellness specialists. We are dedicated to providing unbiased, comprehensive, objective information on any given topic.
Note that each “R” in parentheses [R, R, etc.] is a clickable link to peer-reviewed scientific studies. “R+” means that the information is found within the full scientific study rather than the abstract.
Magnesium is super important for so many issues. It’s one of the basic supplements that almost everyone should take. Magnesium benefits include reducing anxiety, improving physical performance and improving bone health. Read more to learn about the various health benefits of Magnesium.
What is Magnesium?
Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral found in our body [R]. It is essential to all living cells, and vital for numerous physiological functions [R].
Magnesium is required for the production of ATP (the main source of energy in our cells) [R], and the production of DNA, RNA, and proteins [R].
Magnesium plays an important role in cell-to-cell communication [R].
Over 300 enzymes require the presence of magnesium to function properly [R].
Because of its positive charge, magnesium stabilizes the cellular cover (membranes) [R].
Magnesium can benefit even people who are not ‘deficient’.
Magnesium is important for:
bone health [R]
muscle contraction and relaxation [R, R]
heart rhythm and blood pressure [R]
stabilizing blood glucose levels, and regulating sugar and fat metabolisms [R, R]
neurotransmitter production and regulation [R]
neural function [R]
the immune system [R]
Magnesium Deficiency
Low consumption of magnesium is common throughout the world [R].
Dietary magnesium intakes among most American adults are low. A study estimated the magnesium intake from food sources to 261 mg in women and 347 mg in men, which is well below the RDA (320 mg for women and 420 mg for men) [R].
Low magnesium levels in the body may occur due to defects in its absorption or as a result of its loss via kidneys (in case of diabetes, alcoholism, treatment with antidiuretics, aminoglycosides, fluoroquinolones, cisplatin, digoxin, cyclosporine, amphotericin B).
Acute emotional stress and stressful activities increase magnesium excretion/loss [R].
Magnesium excretion increases while absorption decreases with age, because of various chronic diseases and decreased intake of foods high in magnesium [R].
Elderly women may be more susceptible to magnesium deficiencies than men, partly because they are more likely to have osteoporosis, which limits the exchange of magnesium between bone and blood [R].
Magnesium deficiency produces a variety of neuromuscular and psychiatric symptoms such as hyperexcitability, agitation, tetany (involuntary muscle contractions), headaches, seizures, ataxia, vertigo, muscular weakness, tremors, irritability, anxiety, insomnia, nervous fits, faintness, fatigue, confusion, hallucinations, and depression [R].
Severe dietary magnesium restriction has a detrimental effect on metabolism, glucose balance, and retention and excretion of other minerals [R].
Are you Magnesium Deficient?
You can request from your doctor to test your magnesium. But conventional doctors will look at high or low magnesium levels and not mention anything. Sometimes, a lab result may be in the reference range, but not actually be in the optimal range. Reference ranges are not the same as an optimal range. This is why magnesium even in the ‘normal’ range can be unhealthy and indicate that certain processes in the body aren’t optimal.
Magnesium Snapshot
Pros
Has a very wide range of actions and can benefit the body in many ways.
Excellent for mood and mental health. Helps you relax and combat stress, while also giving you energy.
It’s gentle and can be taken daily.
Great for Heart Health
Helps with sleep
Safe for pregnant women
Cons
You need to take more than one pill if you want to “feel it.”
Can cause loose stools if you take too much
Doesn’t taste good if it’s not in a capsule
Health Benefits of Magnesium
1) Can Improve Physical Performance
Magnesium is required for proper muscle function, both at rest and during exercise [R].
Magnesium deficiency can impair exercise capacity and reduce physical performance [R].
Magnesium depletion is associated with increased inflammation, muscle cell alterations, and impaired calcium balance in the cells [R].
Magnesium supplements had a positive impact on performance in resistance exercise [R] and improved performance in volleyball players, even though the players were not magnesium-deficient [R].
Other studies failed to find improvements in muscle strength and function [R].
Generally, magnesium supplements have a greater effect when dietary intake or blood levels are low [R].
Magnesium supplements prevent or delay an age-related decline in physical performance [R].
Daily magnesium oxide supplementation for 12 weeks improved physical performance in healthy elderly women [R].
2) Maintains Bone Integrity
Lower magnesium intake is associated with lower bone mineral density and promotes osteoporosis [R].
In postmenopausal women, low magnesium intake has been correlated with more rapid bone loss or lower bone mineral density [R]. Magnesium supplementation was beneficial in osteoporotic women [R].
On the other hand, elevated magnesium may have a harmful effect on bone metabolism and parathyroid gland function, leading to mineralization defects [R].
Magnesium excess (5 – 10 times nutrient requirements) in rats had no effect on bone mineral density in short-term but lowered bone mineral density in long-term studies [R].
Bone lesions and lower bone mineral density were recorded in cases of acute exposure to high-dose magnesium in humans.
Magnesium consumption slightly greater than the RDA was associated with increased lower-arm and wrist fractures that were possibly related to more physical activity and falls [R].
3) Reduces Blood Pressure
Magnesium supplementation has led to reductions in blood pressure of up to 12 points (mmHg) [R, R].
Magnesium increases the effectiveness of all drug classes that reduce blood pressure [R] and additionally decreases high blood pressure in patients on blood pressure lowering medications [R].
4) Protects against Cardio-Vascular Disease
Magnesium is required for the normal electrical activity of the heart, and has beneficial effects on the cardiovascular system, by widening blood vessels, improving fat metabolism, reducing inflammation, and inhibiting blood platelet aggregation.
Low magnesium and experimental restriction of dietary magnesium increase cardiac arrhythmias.
Abnormally low circulating magnesium is a known risk factor for cardiac arrest [R, R].
Increase in circulating magnesium was associated with a 30% lower risk of cardiovascular disease, while dietary magnesium was associated with a 22% lower risk of ischemic heart disease.
An increased consumption of magnesium-rich foods, such as whole grains, nuts, and vegetables has been estimated to lower the risk of cardiovascular mortality by 28% [R].
My personal preference is to skip the lectins and take magnesium supplements and eat veggies.
Self-reported magnesium intake was inversely associated with hardening of the arteries (calcification), which may play a contributing role in magnesium’s protective associations in stroke and fatal heart disease [R].
5) Lowers the Risk of Diabetes and Insulin Resistance
Low magnesium levels play a role in the development of insulin resistance. Nondiabetic patients with low serum magnesium are significantly more likely to have insulin resistance, glucose intolerance and elevated insulin levels compared to patients with higher magnesium levels.
Low magnesium has been implicated in the cause of liver disease, especially non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Both conditions are strongly associated with insulin resistance, as well as obesity, type 2 diabetes, elevated fat levels and high blood pressure [R].
Magnesium was inversely associated with metabolic syndrome [R], and oral magnesium supplementation improved the metabolic profile and lowered blood pressure of metabolically obese and normal-weight individuals [R].
In the study, blood pressure, insulin resistance, fasting glucose and triglyceride levels all decreased significantly in the subjects who received Magnesium chloride compared with individuals who didn’t [R].
Lower magnesium intake was associated with a higher risk of diabetes in the Taiwanese population [R].
Greater magnesium intake was associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes and metabolic abnormalities [R].
Increased consumption of magnesium-rich foods such as whole grains, beans, nuts, and green leafy vegetables may reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes [R].
Evidence suggests that insulin sensitivity, elevated blood sugar, type 2 diabetes and elevated fat content in the blood can be improved with increased magnesium intake [R].
6) Is Beneficial for Nerve and Brain Function
Elevation of brain magnesium can enhance learning and prevent overgeneralization of fear in rats [R].
Magnesium supplements have been shown to significantly improve functional recovery in various neurological disorders.
Magnesium supplements improved neurobehavioral, electrophysiological functions, enhanced nerve regeneration and reduced inflammation in mice [R].
7) Relieves Headaches and Migraines
Magnesium deficiency can lead to brain artery spasm and increased the release of pain substances (such as substance P).
Significantly lowered serum magnesium levels have been seen in migraine and tension headache sufferers.
A high dose (600 mg) of oral magnesium daily for 12 weeks significantly reduced the frequency of headaches by 41.6%, and also reduced the severity, drug usage, and duration of the acute attacks [R].
Intravenous magnesium sulfate in acute migraine sufferers with a known low serum magnesium level leads to remission of the attack.
Magnesium supplements, along with routine treatment, significantly improved all migraine indicators [R].
8) Relieves Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
Stress hormones, including both catecholamines and corticoids, can cause a reduction in tissue magnesium levels.
Many of the symptoms and findings in chronic fatigue syndrome resemble those of magnesium deficiency.
A referral center that evaluated several hundred chronic fatigue syndrome patients observed that half of their patients were magnesium-deficient [R].
Chronic fatigue syndrome patients who are magnesium deficient benefit from an injection of 580 mg magnesium [R, R].
9) Reduces Anxiety and OCD
Magnesium supplementation is effective in treating anxiety and anxiety-related disorders when used in combination with other vitamins, minerals and herbal extracts [R].
Magnesium helps suppress the HPA axis (CRH, ACTH, Cortisol) [R].
Magnesium relieved premenstrual anxiety in women, when taken together with B6 [R].
Partial magnesium-depletion increased anxiety-related behavior in mice [R].
Patients with OCD were found to have lower magnesium [R].
Magnesium’s anti-anxiety role is mediated in large part by its ability to block NMDA receptors [R].
10) Reduces Depression
Magnesium plays a role in many of the pathways involved in depression and is found in several enzymes, hormones, and neurotransmitters [R].
Mice consuming a diet with very low magnesium content—consisting of only 10% of the daily requirement—showed depressive behavior [R].
Low magnesium status has been associated with increased depressive symptoms in several different age groups and ethnic populations [R].
Major and suicidal depression particularly seems to be related to magnesium insufficiency [R].
Magnesium supplementation has been linked to improvements in symptoms of major depression, premenstrual symptoms, postpartum depression, and chronic fatigue syndrome [R].
Administration of magnesium sulfate to rats subjected to traumatic brain injury significantly decreased both incidences of post-traumatic depression and its severity [R].
Co-treatment of magnesium salts and antidepressants from different classes (i.e., fluoxetine, imipramine, and bupropion) resulted in the synergistic antidepressant-like effect [R].
Case studies of magnesium supplementation reported improvements in depression, anxiety, and sleep within one week. Surprisingly, in one study, low magnesium intake in older adults seemed to protect from depression [R].
11) May be Beneficial in ADHD
Reduced serum levels of magnesium were found in patients with ADHD. Psychostimulants increased serum magnesium levels in ADHD after 3 weeks of treatment [R].
Magnesium supplementation may be beneficial in treating attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
12) Is Beneficial for Skin Allergies
Magnesium deficiency impairs immunity. Topical and oral administration of magnesium salts had beneficial effects in patients with skin allergy [R].
13) Decreases Inflammation
Magnesium sulfate (Epsom salt) exposure before preterm birth is neuroprotective, reducing the risk of cerebral palsy and major motor dysfunction.
In pregnant mothers, magnesium sulfate reduced maternal TNF and IL-6 production and substantially reduced the frequency of the baby’s monocytes producing TNF-α and IL-6 under stimulated conditions [R].
Magnesium plays a critical regulatory role in Nf-kB activation [R].
The immunomodulatory effect was mediated by magnesium rather than sulfate, and it was reversible [R].
14) May Slow Aging
Several pieces of evidence link low Magnesium to aging and age-related diseases. Studies have shown that cultures in low magnesium (Mg) accelerates the death of human endothelial cells and fibroblasts [R].
Magnesium inadequacy interferes with cellular metabolism, which could affect this process.
15-16) Is Critical For The Mitochondria and Antioxidant Function
Magnesium in the mitochondria accounts for one-third of total cellular magnesium [R]. Magnesium forms a complex with ATP, which is an important source of stored energy.
A large portion of the energy used in humans is produced by mitochondria through the movement of electrons over the respiratory chain.
Magnesium is critical for basic mitochondrial functions, including ATP synthesis, electron transport chain complex subunits, and oxygen detoxification [R].
Inadequate availability of magnesium may lead to reduced mitochondrial efficiency and increased production of reactive oxygen species with consequent structural and functional impairment to proteins, DNA, and other essential molecules.
Studies of magnesium-deficient cultured human cells and animals show evidence of decreased antioxidant capacity and mitochondrial swelling in magnesium-deficient animals [R].
Hence, magnesium seems fundamental for the control of oxidative stress and to maintain the normal function of mitochondria.
17) Prevents Cancer
Magnesium deficiency, by exacerbating chronic inflammatory stress, may play a role in the onset of cancer.
Middle-aged men with higher serum magnesium concentrations had a 50% lower risk of cancer death than those with low serum magnesium [R].
Magnesium intake may be beneficial in terms of primary prevention of pancreatic cancer. Every 100 mg per day reduction in magnesium intake was associated with a 24% increase in the incidence of pancreatic cancer [R].
18) Is Beneficial in Pregnancy
Gestational magnesium deficiency may cause developmental defects [R].
Magnesium supplementation resulted in lower incidence of newborn jaundice and newborn hospitalization [R] and reduced the risk of low birth weight [R].
Women receiving magnesium were significantly less likely to require hospitalization during pregnancy [R].
Magnesium supplementation among women with pregnancy-induced diabetes had beneficial effects on metabolic status and pregnancy outcomes [R].
Transfer of large amounts of magnesium from mother’s blood to the fetus with other nutrients may contribute to the occurrence of post-pregnancy depression (by causing magnesium deficiency in the mother) [R].
19) May Relieve Pancreatitis
Nutritional magnesium deficiency increases the susceptibility of the pancreas towards disease, by elevating calcium concentrations. Elevated calcium is an established risk factor for pancreatic inflammation (pancreatitis).
Magnesium administration reduced pancreatic enzyme activities, tissue swelling and death, and inflammation during pancreatitis in rats [R].
20) Protects From Kidney Function Decline
Low magnesium is associated with increased risk of death and kidney function decline in chronic kidney disease patients as well as mortality in dialysis patients [R].
Cisplatin, a commonly used chemotherapeutic for ovarian and other cancers, reduces magnesium levels in most patients and causes acute kidney injury in 25-30% of patients.
Magnesium supplementation during cisplatin treatment protects against cisplatin-mediated acute kidney injury in mice [R].
Additionally, magnesium supplement therapy was significantly associated with both reduced frequency and reduced severity of kidney toxicity in patients receiving cisplatin [R].
21) Prevents Hearing Loss
Magnesium intake acts synergistically with antioxidants to prevent hearing loss [R].
Drawbacks and Side Effects of Magnesium
Chronic high dietary magnesium exposure causes potential thyroid disruption in rats and humans [R].
Magnesium can also cause loose stools and “make you go”.
In patients with chronic renal failure or in individuals undergoing dialysis, serum magnesium concentrations are frequently elevated and correlate with mineralization defects [R].
Chronic high dietary magnesium exposure causes potential thyroid disruption [R].
Magnesium can sometimes potentially increase GSK3b, a problematic protein, but this can be inhibited by lithium [R].
Sources of Magnesium
Major food sources containing magnesium are leafy green vegetables, fruits, legumes (especially soy), nuts (almonds, cashews), whole grains, red meat and seafood [R, R].
Consumption of these foods can easily elevate magnesium levels [R].
Magnesium-containing supplements are generally well-tolerated with very few reported side effects [R]. Side effects include gastrointestinal upset such as nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea in some people [R].
Magnesium supplementation provides quick results. Case studies of magnesium supplementation reported improvements in depression, anxiety, and sleep within one week.
Bioavailability and Dosing
Not all supplements of magnesium are readily absorbed [R].
Organic forms of magnesium like aspartate, citrate, lactate, fumarate, acetate, ascorbate and gluconate have greater solubility and bioavailability in comparison to inorganic forms like oxide, sulfate, chloride, and carbonate [R].
A magnesium chelate such as magnesium citrate is considered safe for doses up to 600 mg per day in adults [R].
Evaluation of both circulating and dietary magnesium is important because circulating magnesium reflects not only diet but also gastrointestinal absorption and renal regulation [R].
High doses (>10mg/kg/d) of magnesium can be toxic [R].
Irregular Magnesium Levels?
LabTestAnalyzer helps you make sense of your lab results. It informs you which labs are not in the optimal range and gives you guidance about how to get them to optimal. It also allows you to track your labs over time. No need to do thousands of hours of research on what to make of your lab tests. LabTestAnalyzer is a sister company of SelfHacked.
Buy Magnesium Supplements
Different forms of magnesium have different effects. The worst form is magnesium oxide.
The magnesium glycinate, citrate, malate, butyrate or lactate varieties are all fine.
The Epsom salt bath is good because the magnesium doesn’t pass through the gut, so you can probably get more magnesium before you have loose stools. The downside is preparing the bath!
The threonate version is better for cognitive enhancement, according to one study.
Magnesium calm helps you fall asleep.
Magnesium Glycinate (Amazon or iHerb)
Magnesium Citrate (Amazon or iHerb)
Magnesium Sulfate/Epsom Salt (Amazon or iHerb)
Magnesium Threonate (Amazon or iHerb)
This section contains sponsored links, which means that we may receive a small percentage of profit from your purchase, while the price remains the same to you. The proceeds from your purchase support our research and work. Thank you for your support.
Dr. Biljana Novkovic, PhD
About the Author
Dr. Biljana Novkovic, PhD
PHD (ECOLOGICAL GENETICS)
Biljana received her PhD from Hokkaido University.
Before joining SelfHacked, she was a research scientist with extensive field and laboratory experience. She spent 4 years reviewing the scientific literature on supplements, lab tests and other areas of health sciences. She is passionate about releasing the most accurate science & health information available on topics, and she's meticulous when writing and reviewing articles to make sure the science is sound. She believes that SelfHacked has the best science that is also layperson-friendly on the web.
RATE THIS ARTICLE
(15 votes, average: 4.53 out of 5)
Loading...
FDA Compliance
The information on this website has not been evaluated by the Food & Drug Administration or any other medical body. We do not aim to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease. Information is shared for educational purposes only. You must consult your doctor before acting on any content on this website, especially if you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition.
Contents
What is Magnesium?
Magnesium Deficiency
Are you Magnesium Deficient?
Magnesium Snapshot
Health Benefits of Magnesium
1) Can Improve Physical Performance
2) Maintains Bone Integrity
3) Reduces Blood Pressure
4) Protects against Cardio-Vascular Disease
5) Lowers the Risk of Diabetes and Insulin Resistance
6) Is Beneficial for Nerve and Brain Function
7) Relieves Headaches and Migraines
8) Relieves Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
9) Reduces Anxiety and OCD
10) Reduces Depression
11) May be Beneficial in ADHD
12) Is Beneficial for Skin Allergies
13) Decreases Inflammation
14) May Slow Aging
15-16) Is Critical For The Mitochondria and Antioxidant Function
17) Prevents Cancer
18) Is Beneficial in Pregnancy
19) May Relieve Pancreatitis
20) Protects From Kidney Function Decline
21) Prevents Hearing Loss
Drawbacks and Side Effects of Magnesium
Sources of Magnesium
Bioavailability and Dosing
Irregular Magnesium Levels?
Buy Magnesium Supplements
Joe Cohen, CEO
About Joe
Joe Cohen won the genetic lottery of bad genes. As a kid, he suffered from inflammation, brain fog, fatigue, digestive problems, anxiety, depression, and other issues that were poorly understood in both conventional and alternative medicine.
Read More
Comments
G C F 51 October 18, 2018at 3:29 pm
I would like to see a nih statistical analysis (study) of these benefits between people with magnesium hard-water and those that have soft-water. If a study does exist please provide a link.
Val October 8, 2018at 2:57 pm
Besides, Calm, is there a capsule of Magnesium Citrate you would recommend? In researching the various ones, I can’t seem to find one that looks good, for one reason or another. I’d rather take it as a capsule than in powdered form Calm.
Niklaus June 12, 2017at 12:09 pm
I was under the impression that epsom baths were useless because magnesium solution can’t pass through the skin barrier. The only way would be in an oil format as lipids can (cross the dermal layer). Maybe I’m missing something here…
Bethany February 8, 2017at 7:27 pm
I’m sorry, I’m still slightly lost at the recommended dosing…particularly for high blood pressure.
Emily Porter December 16, 2016at 6:41 pm
What do you think is an okay and optimal RBC mag level on a test result?
Diego June 2, 2016at 5:35 pm
I won´t get tired of thanking you all this data.. so well arranged!! Dude, u rock!
Steven Fowkes May 13, 2016at 11:22 am
According to Jonathan Wright, there is a cellular-tissue entrainment mechanisms for “enduring” chronic magnesium deficiency. Given the low level of magnesium in the general population, this mechanism may be active more of the time than not. He suggests that this mechanism is why people can aggravate a cellular magnesium deficiency by supplementing magnesium to excess. In other words, once the cell and tissue have entrained to a low level of magnesium, elevations of tissue magnesium are “resisted” by homeostatic mechanisms and the cell defends its lower-than-ideal magnesium level. Wright suggests that the solution to this condition is to override the entrainment with a series of IV pushes of roughly 3 grams of magnesium per treatment. This is enough to overcome the entrainment without causing magnesium toxicity, which resets the cellular-tissue dynamic and restores the “normal” use of magnesium.
I also find it interesting that the subjective experience of people undergoing magnesium pushes is body heating. In fact, this is the limiting factor for how fast the magnesium can be pushed. Giving the individual patients the syringe and control of the push seems to increase the speed at which they can tolerate the push. But this reminds me of the heating effect from Emanuel Revici’s catabolic-aerobic-acidifying selenium and magnesium thiosulfate therapies. Perhaps there is a non-magnesium-regulating metabolic mechanism that is also involved in the magnesium entrainment phenomenon?
Rodrigo Nunes May 18, 2016at 8:43 am
When you say 3 grams of magnesium, is it the element itself? That would be close to 27 grams of magnesium citrate, for example?
Joseph M. Cohen May 18, 2016at 7:37 pm
NO, I’m not referring to elemental
joel February 1, 2017at 6:26 am
Steven, what about transdermal magnesium?
MachineGhost May 11, 2016at 1:30 pm
Be aware that glycinate and bisglycinate are essentially the same thing and also have undisclosed magnesium oxide as a buffer. Albion and several manufacturer’s are currently under a class action lawsuit over this. Since they’re sold at a premium and the oxide is undisclosed… Doctor’s Best does sell the unbuffered glycinate form but fair warning that it may give you incredibly painful gut cramps.
There’s also aspartate (ZMA) and asporotate (Solaray) forms. The oxide and citrate forms are what causes diarrhea. What is “best” usually comes down to bioavailable cost vs density which is more of an issue with capsules/tablets than powders.
Joseph M. Cohen May 11, 2016at 5:46 pm
Thanks!
mr.jeannay May 11, 2016at 1:14 am
Another possible drawback: after supplementing 400mg of magnesium daily nonstop for 2 years i started to develop allergies against magnesium(sneezing multiple times) , yes im serious. Now when i eat high magnesium foods (red beets, pumpkin seeds,..) i also feel like total crap afterwards. The sources of magnesium in my supplement were magnesiumHydroxid , magnesiumcarbonat , magnesiumacetat
Add Comment CANCEL
Please enter your comment!
Your email
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
Name
Please enter your name here
Notify me of replies via email
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Related Articles
VIEW ALL
Foods
0
0
6 Dragon Fruit Benefits, Taste, Nutrition & How To Eat It
Herbs
0
2
11 Chinese Skullcap Benefits (incl. Hair Loss) + Side Effects
Hormones
0
0
Armour Thyroid Dosage, Side Effects, Reviews
What do your genes tell you about your health?
Align your health hacks with your genes for optimal health & cognitive function.
Check out SelfDecode Now
Why did you dislike this article?
Science is not accurate Not interesting Not what I was looking for Not written well Not thorough Grammar / Spelling Too difficult to understand Titles / Headings are misleading Other
Submit
Navigation
Home
Start Here
Posts
About
Genetics
VIP Login
Store
Disclaimer
Careers
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact us
Contact Us
[email protected]
Follow Us
Join SelfHacked today and start the journey of improving your life
I'm most interested in...Overcoming brain fogBoosting energy and overcoming fatigueOvercoming inflammation and autoimmunityOptimal health and longevityBalancing hormones and metabolismBiohacking/Becoming superhumanAll of the above
SUBSCRIBE
Thank you for subscribing!
Invalid email. Please enter a valid email address.
Processing...
Yes, sign me up for marketing emails from SelfHacked. For more information on how we use your information check out our Privacy Policy. You can change your mind at any time by unsubscibing
SelfHacked © 2016 – 2019 All Rights Reserved
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();