Athlete's Foot | Tinea Pedis | MedlinePlus
Skip navigation
U.S. National Library of Medicine
Menu
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
About MedlinePlus
Search
Search MedlinePlus
GO
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Health Topics
Drugs & Supplements
Videos & Tools
Español
You Are Here:
Home →
Health Topics →
Athlete's Foot
URL of this page: https://medlineplus.gov/athletesfoot.html
Athlete's Foot
Also called: Tinea pedis
On this page
Basics
Summary
Start Here
Diagnosis and Tests
Prevention and Risk Factors
Learn More
No links available
See, Play and Learn
Images
Research
Clinical Trials
Journal Articles
Resources
Find an Expert
For You
Children
Teenagers
Patient Handouts
Summary
Athlete's foot is a common infection caused by a fungus. It most often affects the space between the toes. Symptoms include itching, burning, and cracked, scaly skin between your toes.
You can get athlete's foot from damp surfaces, such as showers, swimming pools, and locker room floors. To prevent it
Keep your feet clean, dry, and cool
Wear clean socks
Don't walk barefoot in public areas
Wear flip-flops in locker room showers
Keep your toenails clean and clipped short
Treatments include over-the-counter antifungal creams for most cases and prescription medicines for more serious infections. These usually clear up the infection, but it can come back.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Start Here
Athlete's Foot (American Podiatric Medical Association)
Athlete's Foot (American College of Foot and Ankle Surgeons) Also in Spanish
Athlete's Foot (Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research) Also in Spanish
Diagnosis and Tests
Fungal Culture Test (National Library of Medicine) Also in Spanish
Prevention and Risk Factors
Athlete's Foot: How to Prevent (American Academy of Dermatology)
Fungus Infections: Preventing Recurrence (American Osteopathic College of Dermatology)
Hygiene-Related Diseases: Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis) (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
Images
Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis) (Logical Images)
Clinical Trials
ClinicalTrials.gov: Tinea Pedis (National Institutes of Health)
Journal Articles References and abstracts from MEDLINE/PubMed (National Library of Medicine)
Article: One Foot After Another-Fungal Foot Issues in Expedition Adventure Racing.
Article: End of the road for terbinafine? Think of compliance to treatment.
Article: A Phase 2, Controlled, Dose-Ranging Study of SB208, an Investigational Topical...
Athlete's Foot -- see more articles
Find an Expert
American Podiatric Medical Association
Find a Dermatologist (American Academy of Dermatology)
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
Children
Athlete's Foot (Nemours Foundation) Also in Spanish
Teenagers
Athlete's Foot (Nemours Foundation)
Patient Handouts
Athlete's foot (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
Skin lesion KOH exam (Medical Encyclopedia) Also in Spanish
Topic Image
Stay Connected
Sign up for the My MedlinePlus newsletter What's this?
GO
MEDICAL ENCYCLOPEDIA
Athlete's foot
Skin lesion KOH exam
Related Health Topics
Foot Health
Tinea Infections
National Institutes of Health
The primary NIH organization for research on Athlete's Foot is the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
Disclaimers
MedlinePlus links to health information from the National Institutes of Health and other federal government agencies. MedlinePlus also links to health information from non-government Web sites. See our disclaimer about external links and our quality guidelines.
About MedlinePlus
Site Map
FAQs
Customer Support
Get email updates
Subscribe to RSS
Follow us
Disclaimers
Copyright
Privacy
Accessibility
Quality Guidelines
Viewers & Players
MedlinePlus Connect for EHRs
For Developers
U.S. National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20894 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health
Page last updated on 19 December 2018 Topic last reviewed: 4 April 2016