L-Theanine (60 Caps) - 88Herbs
Home
Store
Education
Home
What is magnesium bisglycinate (glycinate)?
Sleep
Ashwagandha
L-theanine
Anxiety
About Us
Contact
0 items
SUPPLEMENT
STORE
SLEEP-X
SLEEP AID
L-Theanine
Pharmaceutical grade
60 veggie caps (250 mg)
PureTheanine™
Promotes Relaxation
Improves Mood
Sharpens Mental Focus
22.95 CAD
add to cart
*Fast and FREE Shipping
For any order of 2 or more bottles (CAN and USA)
CLINICALLY PROVEN BENEFITS OF PureTheanine™ L-THEANINE
Reducing stress and anxiety (non-drowsy)
Improving mood
Improving mental focus and concentration
Improving the quality of sleep
Synergistically combines with caffeine for calm,
sharp, mental focus
L-Theanine is a natural anti-anxiety supplement. It’s non-drowsy and
fast-acting. It provides a pleasant “Zen like” calming sensation
while helping to improve your mental focus.
L-Theanine
L-Theanine is an extremely powerful, unique, and fast acting amino acid. It’s found naturally in the leaves of green tea. It’s the reason tea feels much less “jittery” and more calming than coffee does, even after accounting for the caffeine differences.
A cup of green tea has only about 15 to 20 mg of L–Theanine, and even in that small dosage the effects are very real.
L–Theanine is not to be confused with green tea extract. The L–Theanine we use is a special pharmaceutical grade, extremely pure white powder. We provide a full 250 mg of pure L–Theanine in each capsule, roughly 12 times the amount found in a cup of green tea.
PureTheanine™ L-theanine
L–Theanine is used for many things, but its best known for its stress and anxiety reducing properties. L–Theanine reduces blood pressure and other physiological stress signals during stressful situations.
Many anxiolytic (anti-anxiety) medications cause extreme drowsiness as a major side effect. L–Theanine, however, is unique in that it’s able to reduce anxiety without causing drowsiness.
It does this by increasing alpha brain wave activity, which is high during peak states of deep meditation and during REM sleep. The increased alpha brain wave activity provides a calm sense of “relaxed wakefulness”.
Powerful benzodiazepine medications like Valium®, Xanax®, and Ativan® work by increasing the effectiveness of GABA, the body’s main inhibitory neurotransmitter. L–Theanine also appears to increase the effectiveness of GABA.
The “Zero Series” from 88Herbs is part of our commitment to purity. Most products on the market sneak in unhealthy
“non medicinal” and “other” ingredients or “flow agents” to make their pills and capsules. In our trademarked “Zero Series”, we use absolutely:
Zero magnesium stearate
Zero animal products and gelatins
Zero allergenic materials or additives
FREE Shipping for all orders over $29 (more than one bottle) $4.99 Flat Rate Shipping for all orders of 1 bottle
Applies only to North America ($3.91 USD approx)
add to cart
30 DAY MONEY
BACK GUARANTEE
Investor Relations
Retailer
Affiliates
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Refunds
Contact
(US): +1 888 265 2577
© 2016 88Herbs, a brand entirely owned by BB&G HEALTH CORP. an all-Canadian Premium Health Corporation. The statements on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA or Health Canada. Our products and information are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.