anxiety | Vita Sciences
Healthier Lives Through Science. ™
Welcome to Vita Sciences
Register Login View Cart
1-877-212-7282
Home
About VitaSciences
Creams
Capsules
Patches
Powders
Blog
Contact Us
Tag Archives: anxiety
Could weight loss help lower risk of migraine?
March 27, 2019 alternative medicine, blood pressure, Blood pressure, diabetes, exercise, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, migraine, Migraine Headaches, obesity, pain, stroke, supplements, weight lossanxiety, blood pressure, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, Diabetes, migraine, Migraine headaches, Migraine symptoms, Migraine triggers, Natural migraine treatment, weight lossStaci
With summer on the horizon, weight loss efforts are in full bloom. However, weight loss can provide more than just body confidence. The Centers for Disease Control report that just losing 5-percent of your body weight, which is equal to about 10 pounds for a 200 lb. person, can lower your risk of chronic diseases like heart disease and type 2 diabetes. Not to mention that a recent study shows that losing weight can also lower risk of migraines.
What is a migraine?
A migraine is a recurring type of headache that causes a throbbing or pulsing pain along with other uncomfortable symptoms. Other symptoms of a migraine may include:
nausea
weakness
sensitivity to light and sound
Migraines can be triggered by a variety of different things such as:
stress
anxiety
hormonal changes in women
loud noises
bright or flashing lights
lack of sleep
tobacco
skipped meals
certain medicines
caffeine
too much activity (overexertion)
Women and those with a family history of migraines are at greater risk of developing migraines. Treatment usually includes certain pain relievers, resting with your eyes closed in a quiet, dark room, as well as placing an eye pack on your forehead and drinking plenty of fluids.
Migraines and weight loss
A recent study analyzed data from 10 different studies regarding migraine occurrence. Study results show that those who lost weight had a reduction in the days per month they had migraines. Also, pain severity and duration of the headache was reduced with weight loss. The results seemed to be the same in adults and kids. Also, results were similar for anyone who lost weight, no matter how the weight was lost (i.e. surgery, diet and exercise).
It is thought that those who are overweight or obese may be more at risk for migraine headaches due to inflammation. Researchers suggest that certain proteins released by fat tissue, obesity-related health problems such as hypertension and type 2 diabetes, as well as psychological risk factors, stroke, and respiratory conditions may also increase risk of headaches in those who are overweight or obese.
If you have migraines, but have not found success with any medications over-the-counter, then you may want to visit your doctor for suggestions. Another option is to try a natural supplement like Migravent by Vita Sciences. Migravent contains ingredients like CoQ10, magnesium, and riboflavin, among others to help promote migraine relief and provide neurological support.
Tips on losing weight
There are many ways to approach weight loss. It will vary according to the individual. Your current health status will determine your nutrient needs and exercise tolerance. Also, your food allergies or intolerances and daily schedule will help determine the eating plan that will work best for you. The key is to start changing unhealthy habits one at a time. Over time, you will create the healthy lifestyle that helps you meet your health goals and that is easy for you to stick with for the long term.
Here are some tips to help you start planning your weight loss program.
Write down short-term and long-term goals: Although the term goals may make some people sigh in frustration, they are important for keeping you on track with your weight loss regimen. Start by writing out your ultimate goal for the year, then break it down into smaller goals such as monthly goals. For example, your yearly goal may be to lose 50 pounds. Since this can seem overwhelming to approach, break this goal down into smaller monthly goals. These goals should be S.M.A.R.T., or specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound. A goal of this kind will help you track your progress since it’s measurable. Therefore, instead of just saying “I want to eat more vegetables,” instead you could make one of your monthly goals “I will eat at least one cup of vegetables at each meal over the next four weeks.”
Make time for planning and prepping meals: Your busy schedule may have you pressed for time. However, in order to have the best chance of weight loss success, you need to make time for meal planning and prepping. Just an hour a week can give you plenty of time to write a shopping list and meal calendar. These tools can help you know what foods you need to stay on track with your diet. A registered dietitian may be helpful to get you started on such as meal plan. Once you have the foods you need in stock, then just take another hour or so a week to wash, chop, dice, and portion out fruit and vegetables for meals and snacks. This can provide convenient meal and snack options that can make it easier for you to stay on track throughout the week.
Be active whenever possible: Every step counts, so move whenever possible. Take the stairs when you can, or walk your dog or take a walk after meals. You can also take a walk at lunch at work or home to help get some steps in and aid digestion.
Visit your doctor regularly: You should visit your doctor at least once a year to check your numbers. These numbers include blood pressure, weight, and labs like cholesterol and blood glucose. However, if you have a chronic condition or are at risk for such conditions like heart disease or diabetes, then you should visit twice a year or more to keep track of your numbers and risk factors.
Be accountable: Besides going to the doctor, it’s important to stay accountable in other ways as well to stay on track with your weight loss. This means weekly weigh-ins, having a weight loss buddy, and/or having a health coach to support you and provide motivation along the way.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD of LighttrackNutrition.com
References:
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (last reviewed February 13, 2018) “Losing Weight.” https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/losing_weight/index.html
Mayo Clinic Medline Plus (Last updated on February 7, 2019) “Migraine.” https://medlineplus.gov/migraine.html
MindTools (accessed March 27, 2019) “SMART Goals: How to Make Your Goals Achievable.” https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/smart-goals.htm
Preidt, R. (March 25, 2019) “Fewer Excess Pounds May Mean Fewer Migraines.” https://www.usnews.com/news/health-news/articles/2019-03-23/fewer-excess-pounds-may-mean-fewer-migraines
Move more to fight depression …and diabetes
January 30, 2019 alternative medicine, anxiety, cardiovascular, cognitive function, depression, diabetes, diabetes medicine, exercise, headache, Health, Health News, heart health, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, Diabetes, exercise, heart health, mental healthStaci
When most people start an exercise program, they may be trying to do one of a few things. Most people move more to lose weight, some exercise to gain muscle, and some just want to tone up. However, the benefit from exercise that most may not think of is improved mood. A recent study shows that moving more each day may have prevent depressive symptoms. Not to mention, that research also shows that preventing or improving such symptoms can help improve health outcomes in those with diabetes.
What is depression?
Depression is a mood disorder that can greatly impact daily life. It can make daily activities seem impossible by impacting the way you feel, think, sleep, eat, and work. There are various forms of depression such as persistent depressive disorder, which involves symptoms lasting two years or more.
On the other hand, there are forms of depression that occur as a result of certain environmental changes such as in climate like with seasonal affective disorder, or after pregnancy like with postpartum depression. Some people with depression may also experience other serious mood symptoms like with bipolar disorder or psychotic depression.
No matter what type of depression a person may have, they all share certain serious symptoms for more than two weeks at a time that may include:
persistent “empty” mood or sad feelings
irritability
hopelessness
loss of interest in hobbies or daily activities
decreased energy or fatigue
restlessness
moving or talking more slowly
difficulty concentrating
trouble sleeping or eating
digestive problems or headaches without a medical cause
thoughts of death or suicide
Not everyone with depression experiences every symptom. However, if you have a few of these symptoms and you feel that daily life has become hard to handle, then it may be time to reach out to a healthcare professional for help.
Antidepressant medications and psychotherapy, like talk therapy are typical primary treatments for depression. However, if these treatments alone are not helping all of your symptoms, then there are some other things you can try. Experts suggest asking for help from a trusted friend, family member, or counselor as well as taking steps to take part in your community for social support.
Another treatment option is to join a study through the National Institutes of Health where new treatments will be tested. If you need help now, then reach out to someone today for advice through one of the resources found on this website. Exercise can also be something you can do now to help improve your depressive symptoms.
Exercise and depression research
The American Heart Association suggests that most adults exercise at least 150 minutes a week. This means that for most days of the week, you should move at least thirty minutes a day. This doesn’t have to be all at once, but can be a few minutes at a time. And this exercise should be at a moderate pace. Therefore, if you walk briskly for a few minutes here and there for a total of thirty minutes a day, then you can keep your heart strong. Not only that, but you can also keep your mind healthy too.
A recent study shows that exercise may help improve depressive symptoms. This study looked at data from over 600000 adults. Study results show that there is a protective relationship between exercise and risk for major depressive disorder. And what makes this finding stronger is that this data was taken from actual measured movement, not self-reported exercise. Therefore, experts suggest that exercise could be an effective adjunct strategy to help treat and prevent depressive symptoms.
Exercise and diabetes research
If you exercise to help improve your depressive symptoms, you could also help improve your diabetes risk. Experts report that depressive symptoms correlate strongly with a risk of incident diabetes. A study of data from the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) looked at whether positive behavior could help lower risk of type 2 diabetes in postmenopausal women.
The study looked at data from over 100000 women over 14 years. Study results show that those who were the most optimistic had a 12-percent lower risk of developing diabetes versus those in the lowest quartile of optimism. Also, those who showed more hostile and negative behaviors, were at higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Therefore, prevention strategies to help target such negative mood and personality traits may help lower risk of type 2 diabetes in these persons.
Take home message
If you suffer from depression, then there are many steps you can take to help improve your quality of life. The first step is to ask for help. I know this is not an easy ask, but there are many resources out there where people want to help you take back your life.
And if you have diabetes, it may be worth it to be screened for depression to see if such strategies listed above may help you not only feel better in your mind, but also help improve your diabetes symptoms.
Changes in diet such as consuming more antioxidant-rich foods and taking supplements such as Elevia by Vita Sciences may also help. Elevia contains GABA and 5-HTP to help calm your mind and boost serotonin levels. This could be another tool in your belt to help you improve your depressive symptoms and start feeling better inside and out.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD
References:
American Heart Association (last reviewed April 18, 2018) “American Heart Association Recommendations for Physical Activity in Adults and Kids.”
Choi KW, Chen C, Stein MB, et al. (Published online January 23, 2019) “Assessment of Bidirectional Relationships Between Physical Activity and Depression Among Adults: A 2-Sample Mendelian Randomization Study.” JAMA Psychiatry, doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2018.4175
National Institute of Mental Health (February 2018) “Depression.”
Sandoiu, A. (January 27, 2019) “Diabetes: How optimism may influence your risk.” Medical News Today, https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324297.php
Can healthy fats help your anxiety?
September 19, 2018 anxiety, blood pressure, Blood pressure, cardiovascular, cognitive function, fiber, gut health, Health, Health News, healthy fats, heart health, high cholesterol, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, medication, medicine, stressanxiety, Cardiovascular health, gut health, heart health, hypertension, mental healthStaci
An essential part of a heart healthy diet is plenty of plant-based unsaturated fats. Not only do plant-based foods provide heart-healthy fiber, but they are also rich in antioxidants. These antioxidants can help reduce inflammation in the body, and in turn reduce chronic disease risk. One such group of antioxidants are the omega-3 fatty acids found in such foods as avocado, plant-based oils and fatty fish. Recent research shows that these healthy fats may be able to help with mental health. A recent study shows that by increasing the amount of healthy fats in your diet, you could help reduce symptoms of anxiety.
What are healthy fats?
Healthy fats typically describe the group of fats known as unsaturated fats. These fats can be found in plant-based foods such as avocado, nuts, and seeds. They can also be found in plant-based oils like olive oil and fatty fish like salmon and trout. Research shows that by replacing some of your saturated fat intake with unsaturated fats, you can benefit heart health. The cause of this is still unknown, but it is suggested that it may be due to the fiber and antioxidants in such unsaturated food sources.
Healthy fat intake and anxiety
A recent meta-analysis study looked at research done on omega-3 fatty acid supplementation and mental health. Study results show that those with clinically diagnosed anxiety may benefit from treatment with omega-3 fatty acids. This is because treatment with such fats seemed to reduce symptoms of anxiety under stressful situations. Even those who suffered from other diagnosed mental health conditions outside of clinical anxiety showed reduced anxiety symptoms after such treatment.
Although more research needs to be done to confirm such findings, these results are promising for future potential treatment options for anxiety. In the meantime, it can’t hurt to add in more healthy fats to your daily diet. Also, an omega-3 fatty acid supplement could be helpful to healthy of the body and mind. An example of such a supplement is fish oil like that by Vita Sciences. This formula by Vita Sciences provides 400 milligrams of EPA and 300 milligrams of DHA, which are omega-3 fatty acids found in cold water fish. This supplement is a great way to get your healthy fats if you don’t think you will be able to get them in every day in your diet.
Other ways to help reduce anxiety
Besides increasing healthy fats in your diet, there are other ways you can work to reduce anxiety in your daily routine.
Make sure to sleep enough each day: The average adult should receive at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep every night. Sleep is important not just for energy levels, but for regulating fluid, hormones, and blood pressure in the body. Lack of sleep can also increase risk of anxiety and stress levels, especially in those that already suffer from anxiety. If you have trouble sleeping, visit the National Sleep Foundation website for tips. You should also visit your healthcare provider if you find that your sleep problems become a long-term problem. This is because you may be suffering from a condition known as sleep apnea that can affect quality of sleep and breathing. A healthcare provider can also help you manage pain, urinary incontinence, or insomnia that can impact sleep quality and quantity.
Talk to someone: Talking to a health care professional like a therapist or counselor can help you come up with strategies for dealing with your stress or anxiety. Even just talking to a friend or loved one may be helpful to get worries off your mind.
Find time to relax: Try to set aside at least 15 minutes a day to relax. This relaxing could include relaxation breathing, diffusing calming essential oils like lavender, or engaging in activities like yoga or meditation.
Volunteer in your community: Helping others in your community may be able to increase your sense of purpose and help you meet others with similar interests. In turn, these factors may help lower your stress and anxiety levels over time.
Stay active: Regular exercise each day can help reduce anxiety levels. This may be due to the vitamin D you get from working out in the sunshine. Also, it could be from the serotonin your body releases when you exercise. Either way, get moving each day and it can make you feel better inside and out.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD
References:
Harvard Health Publishing: Harvard Medical School (August 13, 2018) “The truth about fats: the good, the bad, and the in-between.” https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/the-truth-about-fats-bad-and-good
Lattari, E., Budde, H., Paes, F., Neto, G. A. M., Appolinario, J. C., Nardi, A. E., … Machado, S. (2018). Effects of Aerobic Exercise on Anxiety Symptoms and Cortical Activity in Patients with Panic Disorder: A Pilot Study. Clinical Practice and Epidemiology in Mental Health : CP & EMH, 14, 11–25. http://doi.org/10.2174/1745017901814010011
National Sleep Foundation (accessed September 18, 2018) “How Much Sleep Do We Really Need?” https://www.sleepfoundation.org/how-sleep-works/how-much-sleep-do-we-really-need
Nauert, PhD, R. (accessed September 18, 2018) “Sleep Loss Increases Anxiety-Especially Among Worriers.” https://psychcentral.com/news/2013/06/27/sleep-loss-increases-anxiety-especially-among-worriers/56531.html
Su K, Tseng P, Lin P, et al. Association of Use of Omega-3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids With Changes in Severity of Anxiety SymptomsA Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. JAMA Network Open.2018;1(5):e182327. doi:10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2018.2327
Can alcohol intake increase your appetite?
August 21, 2018 anxiety, Health, Health News, heart health, Mental Health, stress, wateralcohol, anxiety, appetite, Cardiovascular health, heart health, mental health, weight gainStaci
After a long, hard week you may be reaching for a nice, cold beer or a glass of wine. Sure, an alcoholic drink can take the edge off and lower your stress for a bit. However, it could increase your appetite and make healthy eating very hard to do. A recent study shows that this overeating caused by alcohol could be due to a gene that is activated by alcohol consumption.
About alcohol
Alcohol has been enjoyed for thousands of years since about the 5th century AD. This type of drink comes in many forms and flavors, is a central nervous system depressant that can relax the mind and body upon consumption. It is absorbed quickly from the stomach and small intestine into the bloodstream. Drinking too much though can impair mobility and cognition in the short-term. If consumed in excess over many years can increase risk of liver disease.
Ethanol is the active ingredient in alcoholic drinks. This substance is produced by the fermentation of yeast, sugar, and starches into alcohol. The way that ethanol affects you depends on a variety of factors including age, weight, how much you ate before drinking, and use of medications, to name a few. Regardless of these factors, the recommended maximum intake of alcohol for moderate consumption is 14 standard drinks a week for men and 7 standard drinks a week for women. One standard drink is equal to (ABV=alcohol by volume):
12 ounces beer (5% ABV)
8 ounces of malt liquor (7% ABV)
5 ounces of wine (12% ABV)
1.5 ounces of liquor (40% ABV)
Alcohol and appetite
Drinking alcohol often occurs in establishments which serve unhealthy fare as french fries, nachos, hot wings, and other fried foods. This type of food is thought to help those who are drinking to sober up. Research has found that all types of protein, fat, and carbohydrates can help you sober up after drinking, as long as you eat something.
So, what if you don’t feel like eating after drinking? A recent study has found that this is an unlikely outcome. This is because alcohol triggers a neuron signal found in both animals and humans that increases appetite. Starvation normally activates this neuron, known as Agrp, to increase a person’s motivation for eating. However, ethanol can also activate these neurons. This can explain why you may be extra hungry after a few drinks at the bar.
If this type of drinking and eating becomes a pattern, it could lead to weight gain and heart health issues over time. Therefore, it is important that if you do drink alcohol, that you do so in moderation and make sure you limit eating too many unhealthy foods while drinking.
Staying healthy during social hour
Since hunger seems to be inevitable after drinking, week after week of this behavior may impact your health in a not-so-healthy way. Therefore, use the following tips to have your drink and stay healthy too.
Choose healthier food to munch on while drinking: Instead of fried foods, opt for a veggie plate with celery, carrots, and salad dressing. Or you could get a turkey burger without a bun topped with tons of vegetables like lettuce and tomato. Other options like baked chips and salsa, grilled chicken wings, or fruit salad are found at some bars and could be healthier drinking snack options.
Drink lots of water: Drinking alcohol can dehydrate you since it reduces the activation of the hormone known as ADH or anti-diuretic hormone. When it does this, the kidneys do not reabsorb as much water, so you urinate more. Over time, this can cause you to become dehydrated. Water is needed for many aspects of health, so if you do drink alcohol, drink plenty of water with it.
Find other ways to relax: If drinking wine or beer is a way for you to relax, perhaps try not to do it so much. Find other ways to relax such as walking, reading, yoga, meditation, or exercising, among other things. You could also take a supplement such as Elevia by Vita Sciences that increases your “feel-good” hormone serotonin to help you relax. Elevia contains ingredients such as GABA and 5-htp to help calm your body and mind.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
References:
Cains, S., Blomeley, C., Kollo, M., Racz, R., and Burdakov, D. (2017) “Agrp neuron activity is required for alcohol-induced overeating.” Nature Communications, 8:14014.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (March 29, 2018) “Alcohol and Public Health: Frequently Asked Questions.”
Freudenrich, Ph.D., C. (accessed August 21, 2018) “How Alcohol Works.” How Stuff Works online.
Gowin, Ph.D., J. (September 15, 2013) “What’s the Best Meal to Sober up after drinking?” Psychology Today online.
Is eight hours of sleep enough for your health?
June 13, 2018 alternative medicine, anxiety, Health News, medication, medicine, stressanxiety, blood pressure, heart health, Insomnia, mental health, sleepStaci
When you don’t get enough sleep, it can affect your whole day. You may move slower, have less energy, your mind may have a hard time learning or remembering things, and you may be more easily stressed and irritated. In turn, these factors can affect your productivity during the day and the way you get along with others. Therefore, it is super important to get enough rest at night. And just when you thought that you were reaching your health goals, a new report states that eight hours a night of rest may not be enough.
Why is sleep important?
Besides feeling better and having more energy, getting more rest at night impacts many aspects of your health. Harvard University reports that getting enough Zzz’s helps to regulate many body functions such as:
keeping the immune system healthy
muscle growth
tissue repair
protein synthesis
growth hormone release
Also, lack of sleep can increase risk of high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, depression, and obesity. One cause of such risk is the impact of poor sleep on the circadian rhythm. Furthermore, your risk for such conditions is higher if your circadian rhythm is thrown off. Late nights, jet lag, shift work, medications, or medical conditions can impact circadian rhythm.
New sleep recommendations
Previous recommendations say that most adults should get between 7 and 9 hours of sleep each night. However, a recent report reveals that eight hours may not be enough for optimal health. Scientists say that while in bed, only about 90-percent of that time is spent actually sleeping. Therefore, if you are in bed for eight hours, you may only be getting less than 7 hours and 12 minutes of rest. If you go to bed for 8.5 hours, then you will be getting closer to the recommended eight hours each night.
How to get better sleep
If you have trouble even getting your eight hours of rest each night, then use the tips below to help you. If these tips still do not work, then be sure to see a qualified medical provider to help you identify the reason for your sleep troubles.
Meditation can help increase theta waves in the brain. These waves are the same kind that the brain produces during a nap. If you have a hard time falling asleep, then try meditation to let your brain rest.
Get blackout curtains for your room to help stimulate rest. This is because the circadian rhythm is controlled largely by environmental cues like sunlight. On the other end of that spectrum, cut screen time and turn lights out by a certain time each night to get your body and brain ready for bedtime. Researchers recommend a cold, quiet environment for optimal sleep quality.
Try a supplement such as melatonin to help you fall asleep. Melatonin is a natural hormone made by the body’s pineal gland. Usually, at sundown the body produces melatonin to prepare the body for rest. The body may not produce enough melatonin due to exposure to artificial light in the evening, or conditions such as mood disorders, insomnia, dementia, or stress-related conditions. This can lead to problems falling asleep as well as low energy in waking hours. Melatonin supplements have been found to help those who may have trouble falling asleep. Another supplement option is Somnova by Vita Sciences, which contains melatonin along with L-theanine, which both show promise for providing restful and refreshing sleep.
See a specialist. If you snore or have trouble breathing at night, then you may need to see a specialist. A sleeping study could help them see if there is a medical condition that is causing you to wake up tired or have trouble falling asleep at all. Treatment, such as a CPAP machine, could help improve your breathing, and in turn help improve your sleep.
Manage stress: Regardless of your situation, it is important to manage stress during the day so you can rest better at night. If you have a stressful day, then your blood pressure may increase and your mind may be racing. This can make it very hard to rest. Therefore, try relaxation breathing exercises, meditation (as mentioned above), diffuse essential oils like lavender or frankincense in your home, or talk to someone that can help calm your mind. Acupuncture, massages, or counseling sessions with a therapist are other ways you can help manage stress in your health routine, and in turn improve your sleep patterns.
References:
Hardeland, R. (2012) “Neurobiology, Pathophysiology, and Treatment of Melatonin Deficiency and Dysfunction.” Scientific World Journal, 2012: 640389.
Hirshkowitz, Ph.D., M., et al. (March 2015) “National Sleep Foundation’s sleep time duration recommendations: methodology and results summary.” Sleep Health: Journal of the National Sleep Foundation, 9(1): 40-43.
King, G.F. (June 10, 2018) “Why eight hours a night isn’t enough, according to a leading sleep scientist.” Quartz.
National Institute of General Medicine Sciences (May 30, 2018) “Circadian Rhythms.”
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (May 22, 2017) “Brain Basics: Understanding Sleep.”
National Sleep Foundation (accessed June 13, 2018) “Melatonin and Sleep.”
Sleep Medicine at Harvard Medical School (December 18, 2007) “Why Do We Sleep, Anyway?”
A lonely mood could be worse for your health than obesity
June 7, 2018 alternative medicine, anxiety, brain health, cognitive function, depression, Health, Health News, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain fog, Brain health, Depression, health, mental healthStaci
So much focus is placed on diet and exercise to stay healthy, that sometimes mental health care can be forgotten. However, the health of both mind and body is important to be in your best state of health. In fact, a recent report has found that being lonely may be a greater hazard to public health than obesity.
What is mental health?
Mental health considers the well-being of the emotional, social, and psychological parts of one’s life. Although mental health issues can affect the mood of a person, it can also impact important life factors. The way we feel can affect the way we think, act, make decisions, and how we handle relationships with others, among other things. Therefore, it mental health should be taken just as seriously as physical health.
How can being lonely affect your health?
A recent report has found that being lonely is a serious public health issue. The health insurance company Cigna reports that most American adults consider themselves lonely, or feel disconnected from the world and people around them. Younger American, such as those in Generation Z and millennials, report being the most lonely.
Since loneliness is not necessarily a condition on your diagnosis sheet, health care providers may overlook it. However, left untreated, loneliness can lead to more serious mental health conditions such as depression. Experts suggest “social cognitive retraining” to combat loneliness. This is because the brains of lonely people can make the negative feelings worse if left untreated. A qualified psychologist or psychiatrist can perform this type of brain retraining.
Ways to help improve your mood
If you feel that your lonely mood is starting to affect your daily life and relationships, then you should contact a health care provider or counselor to get proper treatment. However, if you feel that your lonely feeling is in its early stages, then you may be able to take steps to improve this feeling on your own.
Extend yourself in the community: By volunteering or attending social events, you can feel more engaged in your community. This can help you feel less lonely and perhaps make some new friends and contacts.
Find groups to join that involve your hobbies: Whether you like to read, run, or play music, find local groups in your community to join. These groups can help you meet like-minded people that like the same things that you do. This can help you get out of your comfort zone at home a little and find others to talk with that you have something in common with. One app to help with this is Meetup, which provides you access to local clubs and events in your community.
Take a mood lifter supplement: Elevia by Vita Sciences is a mood lifting supplement. It contains compounds such as GABA (gamma amino butyric acid) and 5-HTP that research shows to calm the mind and body, while boosting levels of the feel good hormone serotonin.
Stay positive: As the saying goes, energy creates energy. If you exude negative energy, then that negative energy will likely remain within you. However, if you go into life and situations with a positive attitude, then it is likely that before long, that positive energy will become a part of you. Certain mental health issues may make staying positive nearly impossible. However, with the help of a mental health professional, counselor, and a network of family and friends to reach out to, you can start to create more positive energy in your life and mind.
Be sure to call the following hotlines if you are experiencing a mental health crisis or have questions about getting started on treatment for your mental health condition.
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline: 1-800-662-HELP (4357)
National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) Helpline: 1-800-950-NAMI (6264)
Sources:
Loria, K. ( June 3, 2018) “Loneliness may be a greater public health hazard than obesity- here are 4 psychology-backed tips to combat it.” Business Insider, http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-feel-less-lonely-2018-5
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (August 29, 2017) “What is Mental Health?”
Could your sleep patterns affect your mental health?
May 29, 2018 anxiety, blood pressure, Blood pressure, Boost energy!, brain health, cognitive function, depression, digestion, exercise, Health News, heart health, hypertension, Mental Health, stress, supplementsanxiety, blood pressure, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, hypertension, mental health, sleepStaci
Sleep. Work. Eat. Repeat. Does that sound like your day, or something like it? Sleep is often set aside as just something that a person does at the end of the day. It is often overlooked as a very important part of optimal health. A recent study found that it is so important in fact, that not getting enough sleep may increase your risk for mental health disorders.
The Importance of Sleep
The average adult needs at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep a night. This may seem like a lot if you live a busy life which many of us do. And you may shrug it off and say, “Who needs sleep. I don’t need sleep.” The fact is that sleep is more important than you think, and without it your health could suffer.
So many things happen while you sleep. For example, at rest your body conserves energy, regulates blood pressure, and restores tissues and muscles. Furthermore, your body regulates fluids and controls hormone levels in the body while you sleep. Without enough sleep, your circadian rhythm can go off course. In turn, this can lead you to eat when you’re not hungry, which can lead to weight gain and increased chronic disease risk over time.
And if these weren’t enough reasons to hit the snooze button, sleep also has an impact on the immune system. Lack of sleep can cause yo to get sick more often, which in turn could put more stress on your body and mind.
Sleep and Mental Health
A recent study looked at about 90,000 residents from the United Kingdom in regards to sleep patterns. Study subjects between the age of 37 and 73 years wore accelerometers for 24 hours a day for 7 days. In other words, these devices measured the rest and activity levels of participants. Those with reduced activity during the day or increased activity at night were described as having a disrupted circadian rhythm, or lower amplitude. Comparing these patterns with questionnaires filled out by participants found links between lower amplitudes and health measures such as:
higher risk of unstable moods
lower levels of unhappiness
lower health satisfaction
greater reported loneliness
Among other findings, it is clear that this study shows that lack of sleep can greatly impact mental health measures, and in turn quality of life.
Ways to Help You Get More Sleep
There may not be enough hours in the day to get everything done. However, it is really important to make sure sleep gets a priority on your to-do list. Therefore, if you have trouble sleeping, try some of the methods below to help.
Stick to a sleep schedule: Just like your other daily tasks, put sleep on your daily planner. Although it can be hard to do sometimes, setting a time to prepare for bed each night can help you develop a new healthy sleeping pattern over time.
Start a bedtime ritual: When it is coming close to that time of night, start a bedtime ritual that will help your body prepare for bed. Whether it is drinking a cup of herbal tea after dinner, or diffusing some lavender essential oils to relax your body, this type of ritual can reduce your risk of tossing and turning into the night. It is also helpful to reduce caffeine, sugar, and alcohol intake in the latter part of the day as well as turning off any screens during your bedtime ritual to help your eyes and mind rest.
Exercise each day: Any type of movement for at least 30 minutes each day can tire your body out a bit, so you can rest better in the evening. Otherwise, your body will have energy to expend with no outlet to provide it with. In turn, you will likely stay up late and have trouble sleeping. Besides that, exercise is good for keeping your body and mind healthy.
Take a supplement for sleep like Somnova by Vita Sciences. Somnova contains melatonin and l-theanine to help relax your mind, feel refreshed, and get more peaceful sleep. Add a sleep supplement to your bedtime routine about 30 minutes before you plan on going to sleep.
Visit your healthcare provider: If you have tried all of the above, or feel particularly tired upon waking, you may need to see your healthcare provider. This is because your sleep problems may be related to other conditions such as pain issues, sleep apnea, or other health conditions and should be treated under medical supervision.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Division of Sleep Medicine at Harvard Medical School (December 18, 2007) “Why Do We Sleep, Anyway?”
National Sleep Foundation (accessed May 16, 2018) “How Much Sleep Do We Really Need?”
NIH News in Health (April 2018) “Tick Tock: Your Body Clocks.”
Paddock, Ph.D., C. (May 16, 2018) “Sleep-wake disruption strongly linked to mood disorders.”
Is anxiety on the rise in America?
May 9, 2018 anxiety, ashwagandha, blood pressure, Blood pressure, Health News, hypertension, medication, medicine, stress, supplements, unemploymentanxiety, blood pressure, Brain health, hypertension, mental healthStaci
With ever-increasing demands in our work schedules and family obligations as well as financial stress and personal stresses it is no surprise that anxiety is on the rise. A recent report shows that from last year, more Americans say they are more anxious than ever.
What is anxiety?
Stress is a part of daily life. It is by definition the way the body reacts to any demands placed on it. However, anxiety is a whole different beast. Anxiety is a response to the stress itself and involves tension and fear that can be so severe that it makes a person lose sleep, be afraid to enter social situations, and can affect their daily living. Everyone encounters stress, but those with anxiety have difficulty managing it.
Having come from a family of anxious people with confirmed diagnoses, I can tell you that stress from sitting in traffic is much different than the feelings those with anxiety disorder experience. This disorder can take the form of panic attacks, obsessive-compulsive behaviors, or complete avoidance of social situations, among other things. It can disrupt a person’s daily quality of life and can affect their relationships with others.
Anxiety on the Rise
Over 40 million people in America suffer from anxiety, but this number is getting higher. A recent report has found that between 2017 and 2018, about 57-percent of women and 38-percent of men between the ages of 18 and 49 years reported being more anxious. In older Americans, 39-percent of women 50 years and older and 24-percent of men this age reported being more anxious than the year before. Overall, nearly 4 of 10 people surveyed reported being more anxious in 2018 than in 2017.
The leading causes of such feelings included paying the bills, health, and safety. About 3 of 4 women and millennials as well as 4 of 5 Hispanic adults were most anxious about paying bills. Baby boomers had the highest jump in anxiety since last year. It is suggested that this rise is due to people in recent days being more vocal about their complaints, differences in the way we care for others, and perhaps less stress-tolerant behavior, especially of those younger people.
How to Reduce Anxiety
There are many effective treatments for anxiety, but not one treatment is effective for everyone. Here are several treatments that you can try if you need help managing this condition.
Psychotherapy is a treatment that is getting more and more coverage from insurance carriers everyday and can be the most effective at getting to the core of your disorder. Talking about past and current traumas, family history, and the way you currently manage stress can take a huge weight off of your shoulders. Not only that, but the therapist can help you learn strategies to deal with your stresses in a more healthful manner.
Medication is often paired with psychotherapy since the medication tend to just treat imbalances in the brain, but does not deal with the root causes of certain stresses and behaviors. Medication is not for everyone since certain anti-anxiety medications can have side effects. Also, getting off of some medications can be very difficult. It is important to talk with your healthcare provider to see if medication treatment is appropriate for you.
Mindfulness can teach you how to live in the present moment so that you do not dwell too much on the past or the future. It can increase quality of life and teach people to worry less about everyday stresses.
Sleep Hygiene is important since lack of sleep can actually make stress more difficult to deal with. You should aim for 7 hours of sleep a night. If you have trouble falling asleep, ask your healthcare provider. You may need to visit a sleep center to make sure you do not have any underlying conditions that are affecting your sleep.
Improved Diet such as eating less sugar and drinking less caffeine can help reduce your anxious behavior. These types of foods are stimulants that can make you feel more anxious if you consume them in excess. Also, if you consume these types of foods close to bedtime, it can make it harder to fall asleep.
Exercise can help you manage stress better. Not only will working out help you sleep better, but it can get the “feel good” hormones like serotonin flowing in your body. You should aim for some form of movement like walking most days of the week for at least 30 minutes a day.
Supplements like Passionflower tincture, kava, and valerian root can be effective for some anxiety symptoms. Also, it is thought that some symptoms may be the result of a magnesium deficiency. Try a supplement like Sereneo from Vita Sciences. Sereneo contains magnesium, chamomile, and valerian root and can provide a serotonin boost and provide support for daily stress.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Anxiety and Depression Association of America (accessed May 9, 2018) “Exercise for Stress and Anxiety.”
Anxiety and Depression Association of America (accessed May 9, 2018) “Stress.”
Anxiety and Depression Association of America (accessed May 9, 2018) “What is Anxiety?”
Brooks, M. (May 7, 2018) “High Anxiety in America: APA Poll Highlights Nationwide Worries.”
Calm Clinic (accessed May 9, 2018) “Which Anti-Anxiety Supplements Work?”
Corliss, J. (January 8, 2014) “Mindfulness meditation may ease anxiety, mental stress.” Harvard Health Publications
Jovanovic, Ph.D., T., et al. (accessed May 9, 2018) “Anxiety- What is Anxiety?”
Could a walk in the park lower stress levels?
March 14, 2018 alternative medicine, blood pressure, Blood pressure, Boost energy!, brain health, cardiovascular, cognitive function, depression, exercise, Health News, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, heart health, hypertension, lower stress, mental healthStaci
Staying active has many benefits. In particular, you may have been told by a healthcare provider to move more to help manage weight or improve heart health. However, a recent study has found that a walk in the park may also reduce stress levels in the body.
How Much Exercise Do I Need?
The Department of Helath and Human Services recommends that most adults exercise 30 minutes a day for most days of the week. In particular, it is suggested that most adults should engage in:
150 minutes of moderate activity a week or 75 minutes of vigorous activity a week, or a combination of both levels of activity.
2 days each week of resistance or strength training that involves a single set of exercises that includes 12 to 15 repetitions at a weight that will tire the muscles by the end of the set.
This thirty minutes does not have to be all at once. Five minutes here and ten minutes there is enough as long as it adds up to 30 minutes by the end of the day. Also, you may be wondering what moderate activity is. Moderate activity is any exercise that allows you to hold a conversation, but does not allow you enough breath to sing. In addition, you should break a light sweat within 10 minutes of a moderate activity, while vigorous activity will have you breaking a sweat in a few minutes or less. Moderate activities include:
walking
water aerobics
gardening
light dancing
slow bicycling
Walking to Lower Stress
A study by researchers at the Center for Nature and Health at the University of California San Francisco looked at the effects of exercise on a group of 78 parents and children. This group of parents and children were encouraged to visit local parks as often as possible over the course of the study period. They were either provided maps to local parks and bus schedules or invited to group outings at local parks.
Follow-ups were done at one month and three months after the start of the study. During these follow-ups, self reports, journalling, and salivary cortisol levels were used to measure stress levels. It was found that every increase in park visits each week was linked to decreases in stress. In addition, it was found that those who visited the parks often saw:
increased physical activity
decreased loneliness
increased interest in nature
Other Ways to Lower Stress
Besides getting fresh air and exercising, there are many ways you can try to lower your stress levels.
Deep breathing can help relax the mind during stressful times and can also help improve sleep. This type of breathing involves breathing from the diaphragm, which means your stomach should inflate as you inhale and deflate as you exhale. Inhale for several seconds, hold your breath for several seconds, and exhale for several seconds. You may feel a bit lightheaded when starting this practice, so do not perform deep breathing when driving a car or operating machinery.
Simplifying your life by donating items in your home that you do not use such as clothes, excess furniture, or decorative items. Also, delegate tasks when possible at both home and work if possible to lighten your load. Finally, write upcoming events on a calendar and keep a running shopping list so you can lighten the burden on your mind.
Getting enough sleep is important not only for lowering stress, but for overall health. The average adult should get at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night.
Eating a balanced diet that is low in sugar, high in fiber, and high in other nutrients such as iron, B12, and vitamin C will help your body perform better in many ways. Some benefits of a healthy, balanced diet include improved cognitive function, better heart health, and an enhanced ability to handle stress. This balanced diet also includes lowering caffeine, increasing water intake, and reducing alcohol intake as well as eating a minimally processed diet.
Spending more time with others in your family, circle of friends, and/or community since social engagement can help boost “feel good” serotonin levels in the body.
Taking mood-boosting supplements like Elevia by Vita Sciences. Elevia contains GABA, chamomile, and 5-HTP. These compounds can calm the mind and boost serotonin levels.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Burton, M.D., N. (February 11, 2017) “How to Reduce Stress.”
Healthline (accessed March 5, 2018) “Parl Prescriptions Can Help Lower Stress Levels.”
Laskowski, M.D., E.R. (August 20, 2016) “How much should the average adult exercise each day?” Mayo Clinic.com
Mayo Clinic (May 19, 2017) “Exercise intensity: how to measure it.”
National Sleep Foundation (accessed March 5, 2018) “How Much Sleep Do We Really Need?”
Razani, N., et al (2018) “Effect of park prescriptions with and without group visits to parks on stress reduction in low-income parents: SHINE randomized trial.”
Watson, S. (June 18, 2014) “Caffiene and a healthy diet may boost memory, thinking skills; alcohol’s effect uncertain.”
Could Having a Pet Improve Your Anxiety?
February 21, 2018 alternative medicine, anxiety, Boost energy!, brain health, cognitive function, depression, exercise, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Cardiovascular health, Depression, heart health, hypertension, mental healthStaci
There’s nothing better than coming home after a long and stressful day of work or school, and having a happy wagging tail waiting at the door for you. Owning a pet involves a lot of work and cost. However, studies show that a pet may be worth the time and money for the good of your health. A recent study review has shown that having a pet can decrease anxiety and provide overall benefits to anyone suffering from mental health issues.
About Mental Health and Anxiety
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), mental health is a “state of well being” in which a person can lead a productive life while being able to deal with the normal daily stresses of life. The National Alliance on Mental Illness reports that mental illnesses are not just the result of one event. However, such a state of being involves multiple factors such as genetics, environment, and lifestyle.
Examples of mental health conditions include:
Anxiety Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Eating Disorders
Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophrenia
According to the American Psychiatric Association, anxiety disorders are the most common mental health disorders. In particular, about 30-percent of adults deal with such a disorder at some point in their life. Anxiety disorders are not just everyday stress or worry. On the contrary, those with such disorders worry or fear that may be seen as “abnormal” in certain situations. This fear or worry can result in disruption of their daily life.
For example, it may be “normal” to worry about taking a test. However, someone with anxiety disorder may have a similar level of worry and stress when having to talk with someone at the store. On the other hand, a person with the disorder may lose sleep because they worry that if they leave the house tomorrow that something bad may happen to them. These are just some examples of how anxiety disorder can manifest. However, this condition can come in many forms such as:
generalized anxiety disorder
panic disorder
phobias, or fears, such as agoraphobia (fear of public places)
social anxiety disorder
separation anxiety disorder
Pets and Mental Health Benefits
An analysis of 17 studies reported in BMC Psychiatry found that having a pet may help those with mental health disorders. Results of this study review found that pets had the following positive impacts on mental health:
One study interviewed some people who had depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or post-traumatic stress disorder. Subjects reported feeling more secure and stable with a pet in their lives.
Another study reported that those with a pet had lower levels of anxiety and a lower average body mass index.
Pets can provide unconditional love as well as support without judgment. In turn, this can help those with mental health issues cope if they are not getting such support from their family and friends.
Pets forced their owners to stay connected with the outside world and be more active. Besides helping those with mental health issues to connect with others, the act of going outside is also very helpful to overall health. For one thing, getting outside can help people get sunlight that helps make sure they get enough vitamin D, which can affect mental health. Also, mental health may benefit from the act of exercise.
Researchers suggest that mental health care plans should include asking patients with mental health issues to get a pet. However, more studies need to be done to figure out how pets could play in the lives of patients and in treatment plans.
Other ways to help improve your mental health
Besides having a pet, there are some other things you can do to help your mental health.
Be mindful by living in the present moment. Talk with a counselor if you have troubles in your past that are stopping you from living in the moment. Also, take a yoga class, learn relaxing breathing techniques, or get a wellness app to help you find ways to stay calm each day and night.
Eat balanced meals since sometimes low levels of certain vitamins or nutrients can make you feel more tired or nervous. Eat plenty of fiber-rich fruits and veggies to help keep your gut healthy. Also, make sure to eat enough protein each day such as meats, beans, low fat dairy products, nuts, and seeds. Low protein intake can cause you to feel tired. This is because protein-rich foods contain dopamine and tyrosine which keep you alert. Finally, make sure to eat some carbohydrate foods such as whole grains and cereals. This is because such foods increase “feel-good” serotonin in the body.
Volunteer or help out a friend or loved one since such acts can help you feel better about yourself. Also, such acts can help you connect with others and perhaps help you to see how much you have to be grateful for.
Get plenty of sleep since lack of sleep can greatly impact your mood. Set a bed time each night, avoid caffeine in the latter half of the day, and limit screen time at night to help you get more sleep.
Visit your doctor to make sure your vitals are healthy and to get help for any symptoms that may be bothering you or affecting your daily life.
Take a supplement such as Sereneo by Vita Sciences. Sereneo contains ingredients such as magnesium, chamomile, and valerian that promotes a boost in serotonin and supports stress and anxiety relief.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
American Psychiatric Association (January 2017) “What are anxiety disorders?”
Greenblatt, M.D., J.M. (November 14, 2011) “Psychological Consequences of Vitamin D Deficiency.”
Medical News Today (February 19, 2018) “It’s official: Pets benefit our mental health.”
National Alliance on Mental Illness (accessed February 20, 2018) ” Mental Health Conditions.”
Psychology Today (October 27, 2015) “9 Ways You Can Improve Your Mental Health Today.”
Weir, K. (December 2011) “The exercise effect.”
World Health Organization (August 2014) “Mental health: a state of well-being.”
Posts navigation
← Older posts
Search
Search the blog with this form:
Special Offers
Sign-up for Email Offers with this form:
Subscribe
Tags
Tags Select Category Aging (20) alternative medicine (66) antioxidant (31) anxiety (17) arthritis (7) ashwagandha (3) back pain (5) blood pressure (40) Blood pressure (50) bone health (11) Boost energy! (23) brain health (28) breakfast (12) calcium (7) cardiovascular (56) chondroitin (2) Chronic Pain (11) coffee (2) cognitive function (30) depression (14) diabetes (41) diabetes medicine (17) digestion (26) exercise (40) eye health (6) Fertility and Pregnancy (2) fiber (39) garlic (2) Gastrointestinal (GI) Disorders (6) glaucoma (3) gut health (22) Hair, Skin, and Nails (3) hawthorn (2) headache (3) Health (77) Health News (110) healthy fats (21) heart health (70) Help for Tinnitus (4) herbs (1) high cholesterol (13) hydration (11) hypercholesterolemia (14) hypertension (53) Hypothyroidism (2) insulin (8) joint pain (8) l-arginine (1) medication (39) medicine (39) memory (10) menopause (2) Mental Health (28) migraine (2) Migraine Headaches (12) Neuropathy (14) niacin (2) obesity (34) omega-3 (2) osteoporosis (2) pain (3) Pernicious Anemia (PA) (1) probiotic (11) probiotics (11) retinopathy (2) Sciatica (2) stress (40) stroke (18) supplements (56) unemployment (3) unsaturated fat (7) vision (6) vitamin A (1) vitamin A deficiency (1) Vitamin B12 Benefits (4) Vitamin B12 Deficiency (10) vitamin D (8) vitamin deficiency (8) Vitamin Deficiency Risk Factors (9) water (12) weight loss (34) women’s health (4) yoga (4)
Recent Posts
Could eating breakfast could lower your heart disease risk? April 24, 2019
Reduce carbs at breakfast to lower blood sugar April 17, 2019
Improve your diet, extend your life April 10, 2019
Add nuts to your diet for better brain health April 4, 2019
Could weight loss help lower risk of migraine? March 27, 2019
Could sugary drinks reduce life expectancy? March 20, 2019
Could your yo-yo diet lifestyle be hurting your heart? March 12, 2019
A plant-based diet may help treat diabetes March 6, 2019
Could too much fat in your diet harm your gut health? February 27, 2019
Could preventing or treating hypertension protect your mind? February 20, 2019
Could eating processed foods increase risk of death? February 13, 2019
Heart Health Month: How to protect yourself from heart attack February 6, 2019
Move more to fight depression …and diabetes January 30, 2019
Could fish oil lower your risk of stroke? January 24, 2019
A team approach may help diabetes health and your relationships January 16, 2019
Eat less red meat in your diet for better heart health this new year January 8, 2019
Could sleep help you meet your New Year’s weight loss goals? January 2, 2019
Could a Mediterranean diet improve your brain health? December 27, 2018
Drinking less alcohol could help weight loss goals this new year December 18, 2018
Do you have good metabolism? If not, try this December 12, 2018
Products
Migravent
B12 Patch
Nervex
Maxasorb B12 Cream
Maxasorb D3 Cream
Maxasorb Melatonin Cream
Nurenza
About Us
Company History
Practitioners
Wholesale
Quality Assurance
Help
Terms and Conditions
Product Index
Category Index
Store Locator
Copyright © 2016 Vita Sciences / All rights reserved. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.