Easing Anxiety And Depression Symptoms Through Exercise - InfoBarrel
Log into InfoBarrel
Forgot your password?
Sign In
Cancel
Log in with Facebook
Need an account?
Close
Health
Auto Business Entertainment Health History Home Lifestyle Sports Tech Travel >>
Auto History Sports IB University
Login Sign Up
By Carola Finch
Follow
Carola Finch is a free-lance writer who writes about health, disabilities, and social issues. Her website is: www.carolafinch.com
InfoBarrel is a writing platform for non-fiction, reference-based, informative content. Opinions expressed by InfoBarrel writers are their own.
InfoBarrel > Health > Mental Health > Self Improvement
Easing Anxiety And Depression Symptoms Through Exercise
By Carola Finch
Feb 18, 2016
0 Shares
0
0
0
0
0
<?xml encoding="UTF-8"><?xml encoding="UTF-8">
Credit: Wikimedia Commons
According to Harvard Medical School, one out of 10 American adults struggle with depression. While antidepressant medications are usually treatments, Harvard researchers say that exercise can be just as effective a treatment for those with mild to moderate depression.
When you experience anxiety and depression, exercise is probably the last thing you want to do. Working out, however, may reduce these symptoms and elevate your mood by:
Releasing brain chemicals that help you to feel good
Raising body temperature, which may be calming
Reducing immune system chemicals that can make depression worse
Reducing stress levels
Improving sleep
During exercise, the body releases endorphins, chemicals that interact with the receptors in your brain. Endorphins can trigger positive feelings similar to that caused by morphine which can be described as “euphoria” or “runner’s high.” After a workout, you may feel more positive and energized. Endorphins also reduce the body’s perception of pain and can act like sedatives.
There are many general health benefits as well such as:
Strengthening the heart, protecting against heart disease
Protecting against diabetes
Improved brain function
Increasing energy levels
Lowering high blood pressure
Improving muscle strength and tone
Strengthening and builds bones
Improving sleep quality
Helping to decrease body fat
Making the body look fit and healthy
Starting an Exercise Program
While you may know the benefits of exercise intellectually, emotionally, you may be resistant to starting an exercise program. You can become more motivated to try it by setting small, achieving short-term goals. Sessions can start at five minutes a day, continue at 10, and then increase to 15.
There are other factors to consider when planning an exercise program. These activities should be things that we enjoy doing. We need to ensure that exercise works with our schedule and fits with the time that we have available.
Beginning to Exercise
We should take it easy in the beginning with about 20 minutes. This time can be increased to 30 minutes and should occur three times a week. Exercising four or five times a week is even more beneficial. Exercise does not have to be a formal exercise program to effectively deal with anxiety and depression symptoms. Activity such as walking or housework may also help improve your mood and are beneficial to your physical health.
Physical activity expends energy and contracts muscles. Exercise is structured, planned, and repetitive movement that seeks to maintain or improve physical fitness and has the same effect on your state of mind.
Exercise and other physical activity does not require big chunks of your day. Activities can be introduced in small increments such as walking instead of using a car, gardening, and other less intense activities such as taking the stairs instead of using an elevator.
The Positive Benefits of Exercise
Becoming more self-confident: setting and meeting exercise goals, even small ones can really boost confidence and build self-esteem.
A distraction from negative thought cycles
Depression and anxiety causes our minds to go round and round in a cycle of negative thoughts. Exercise provides a distraction that takes our minds off of our worries. Music while we exercise also provides a new focus and can be relaxing when we feel anxious.
Social interaction
When we work out at a gym we have the opportunity to socialize with others. People at gyms usually greet their members with a smile and words of encouragement. Exercise classes can create a sense of camaraderie among the participants. The music at the gym is often upbeat and encouraging. Music can also help elevate mood at home as well.
Provides a coping strategy
Exercise is a positive alternative to alcohol or drug use, which can worsen the symptoms of depression and anxiety.
Keeping us motivated to make exercise a habit
The first step to keep on is to make exercise a habit that is easy to maintain. You can establish a routine such as laying out gym clothes the night before and packing a gym bag with needed items such as a towel, change of clothes, and hygiene products. We can plan to attend classes on a regular basis or go to the gym at specific times. Making exercise a ritual helps us to stick to it. Exercise should be fun and varied so that it is not boring.
Considerations
You also need to consider any physical limitations that may limit your choice of exercise types. If in doubt or you have certain medical conditions, you should consult your doctor before beginning a fitness program.
Next >> How to Get Creative Juices Flowing - Get Your Body, Mind and Soul on the Same Page
Share
Pin
Tweet
Share
Share
More
Carola Finch
Follow
Self Improvement
Follow
Health
Follow
Related Articles
22 Habits of Unhappy People
How to Make Your Commute More Productive
5 Ways to Exercise Your Brain
Understanding People: Personality Types Explained
5 Ways To Get More Humor Into Your Life
4 Great Benefits Of Art Therapy
5 Ways To Boost Your Mood When You Are Feeling Depressed
6 Ways To Be More Successful In Life
5 Techniques For Overcoming Panic Attacks
Comments
2016-02-18 6:54pm PST
Ross B
Couldn't agree more!
Couldn't agree more!
Save
Cancel
Reply to this Comment
Save
Cancel
Reply
2018-08-10 2:19am PDT
Henriette Lessard
When you are experiencing the effects of anxiety and depression, life seems as though it is moving in slow motion and you are inside watching it all go by. When someone gets to the point of being unable to function in their normal everyday activities, it is time for anxiety depression treatment. The side effects of anxiety and depression can be scary for those who have to endure it. In depression, the term daydreaming takes on a whole new meaning. A person's ability to concentrate becomes next to none during a severe depression and could be costly if that person is driving or operating heavy machinery. One can natural ways like trying therapists, counselors, etc. or can consult a psychic like Voyance Direct if left with no option. Psychics also help people come out with problems of depression, stress, anxiety, fear of loving again, betrayal, etc.
When you are experiencing the effects of anxiety and depression, life seems as though it is moving in slow motion and you are inside watching it all go by. When someone gets to the point of being unable to function in their normal everyday activities, it is time for anxiety depression treatment. The side effects of anxiety and depression can be scary for those who have to endure it. In depression, the term daydreaming takes on a whole new meaning. A person's ability to concentrate becomes next to none during a severe depression and could be costly if that person is driving or operating heavy machinery. One can natural ways like trying therapists, counselors, etc. or can consult a psychic like Voyance Direct if left with no option. Psychics also help people come out with problems of depression, stress, anxiety, fear of loving again, betrayal, etc.
Save
Cancel
Reply to this Comment
Save
Cancel
Reply
Comment on this Article
Save
Cancel
Bibliography
" Depression and anxiety: Exercise eases symptoms." Mayo Clinic. 17/08/2018
"Exercise and Depression." WebMD. 17/02/2016
"3 Ways to Beat Depression Through Exercise." PsychCentral. 17/02/2016
Site Links About Us Advertise on IB Contact Us Our Charity Work
Members Blog Contests The Top 100 Writer's Community Forum
Help FAQ How Does InfoBarrel Work? How Do I Start Writing? How Can I Get Preapproved?
RSS Feeds Articles Blog Features
© Copyright 2008 - 2019 by My Passion Media Inc. Terms of Service Privacy Policy XML Sitemap Page built in 0.7603s
article: 0.0052s
Article Score (12): 0.0164s
Author Score (13): 0.0169s
Author Profile Links (15): 0.0178s
Parent (20): 0.0216s
Hub Parent (30): 0.0278s
References (35): 0.0574s
Comments (38): 0.0614s
Save Socials (40): 0.6884s
Related (119): 0.7519s
Format Article (119): 0.7550s
Choose Ads(119): 0.7565s
Load Ads(119): 0.7565s
HeaderS (119): 0.7566s
HeaderE (119): 0.7567s
DB Connections: 121