Key Facts about Imitrex for Migraines Including Side Effects
icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Key Facts about Imitrex for Migraines Including Side Effects
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Migraines
Treatment
Symptoms
Types
Causes & Risk Factors
Prevention
Living With
Related Conditions
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Brain & Nervous System Migraines Treatment
Key Facts about Imitrex for Migraines Including Side Effects
Risks and Precautions of Imitrex and Its Use in Pregnancy and Breastfeeding
Print
By Teri Robert
Updated April 30, 2016
JGI/Jamie Grill/Blend Images/Getty Images
More in Migraines
Treatment
Symptoms
Types
Causes & Risk Factors
Prevention
Living With
Related Conditions
Imitrex (sumatriptan) is a triptan medication used to relieve acute migraines. See whether this medication is a good option for you, and what to expect if your doctor prescribes it.
How Do I Take Imitrex for My Migraines?
Imitrex is available as a nasal spray, tablet, or subcutaneous injection — given in your fatty tissue. The nasal spray and injection are helpful for people who have severe nausea and vomiting with their migraines. Talk with your doctor about what the best formulation is for you.
Who is Not a Candidate for Imitrex?
Certain people should not take Imitrex for their migraines. This is why it's important to discuss all your health problems and all your medications, including over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements, with your doctor.
People who are not candidates for Imitrex include those with:
presence or risk factors for coronary artery disease, stroke, or peripheral vascular disease
uncontrolled hypertension
basilar or hemiplegic Migraines
severe liver impairment
allergy to sumatriptan or its ingredients
Imitrex may also interact with certain medications. For instance, a person should not take Imitrex within 2 weeks of discontinuation of monamine-oxidase inhibitor therapy. Also, a person should not take Imitrex within 24 hours of taking a separate Imitrex dose or any other triptan. Likewise, a person should not take Imitrex within 24 hours of taking any ergotamine medication, such as DHE or Migranal.
Can I Take Imitrex When Pregnant or Breastfeeding?
Imitrex is FDA pregnancy category C, which means that it's not known whether this drug will harm an unborn baby. Be sure to speak with your doctor if you are pregnant or could become pregnant during treatment.
In terms of breastfeeding, the American Academy of Pediatrics, or AAP, lists sumatriptan as compatible with breast-feeding. That being said, the scientific evidence is still limited — so speak with your doctor first if breastfeeding.
What are the Common Side Effects of Taking Imitrex for Migraines?
Talk with your doctor if you find any side effects bothersome or persistent. Some common side effects include:
tingling or numbness in fingers and toes
dizziness
flushing of face
weakness
drowsiness
feeling tired
Also, if you are feeling dizzy or drowsy, don't drive or operate heavy machinery, or do anything that requires you to think clearly.
What are the Serious Side Effects of Taking Imitrex for Migraines?
Imitrex can cause a heart attack or other heart problems. It's important to seek emergent medical attention if you develop any of these symptoms:
discomfort in the center of your chest that lasts for more than a few minutes or that is recurrent
chest pain or pain in arms, back, neck, jar, or stomach
trouble breathing or catching air
sweating
nausea or vomiting
lightheadedness
In addition, Imitrex can lead to a serious condition called serotonin syndrome — this is more likely to occur when Imitrex is taken with other medications that increase serotonin levels in the body, like the antidepressants SSRIs or SNRIs. Call your doctor right away if you experience symptoms of serotonin syndrome like:
nervous system changes like confusion, hallucinations, agitation, or coma
hallucinations
fast heartbeat
change in blood pressure
increase in body temperature
tight muscles
problems walking
nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea
coma
Other serious health problems associated with Imitrex include:
Raynaud's phenomenon — color and sensory change in fingers and toes
Gut ischemia — poor blood flow to your stomach and intestines
Peripheral vascular ischemia — poor blood flow to legs and feet
Allergic reaction — may cause hives, wheezing, problems breathing, or swelling of the tongue, mouth, or throat
What Does This Mean for Me as a Migraineur?
Imitrex is an effective migraine therapy, and the fact that it comes in different forms is appealing for many migraineurs. That being said, as with any medication, there are certain risks and serious side effects you should be aware of — this way you can take Imitrex comfortably and safely. Remain proactive in your migraine health.
The material on this page is for educational purposes only and should not replace the advice of a licensed physician.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you live your healthiest life.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
​Sources:
American Headache Society. Triptan Therapy for Acute Migraine. Retrieved December 3rd 2015.
FDA. Imitrex (sumatriptan succinate): Prescription Information. Retrieved December 3rd 2015.
Hutchinson S, Marmura MJ, Calhoun A, Lucas S, Silberstein S, Peterlin BL. Use of Common Migraine Treatments in Breast-Feeding Women: A Summary of Recommendations. Headache. 2013 Apr;53(4):614-27.
Continue Reading
Article
Can Maxalt Medication Help With Your Migraines?
Article
Ethosuximide: A Helpful Treatment for Seizures
Article
10 Key Facts About Cluster Headaches
Article
Can Sumatriptan Soothe Your Migraine?
Article
What to Know About Triptans and Migraines
Article
Zolmitriptan is a Triptan Used for Migraine Relief
Article
How Ginger May Relieve Your Migraines
Article
Propranolol: A Blood Pressure Medication That May Prevent Migraines
Article
Why Do You Get Nauseous When You Have a Migraine?
Article
Topamax: How This Anti-Seizure Drug Can Help Prevent Migraines
Article
How Dihydroergotamine Medication Can Alleviate Your Migraines
Article
Migraines (and Their Treatment) Can Cause Complications
Article
Can Verapamil Prevent Migraines?
Article
The Many Forms of Migraines
Article
Cefaly Neurostimulation: A New Way to Treat Migraine Attacks
Article
What Can You Do If Migraines Make You Nauseated?
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more