Migraine – Page 2 – Buy Fioricet Online
Skip to content
Buy Fioricet Online
Fioricet Online, Tramadol Online
Menu and widgets
Categories
Butalbital
Fioricet
Headache
Migraine
Tension Headache
Category: Migraine
The Migraine Caffeine Link
When one comes across literature about migraine and the identified triggers, caffeine is always mentioned as one of the culprits that could potentially start an attack. Hence, there is indeed a migraine caffeine connection that exists. How does consumption of this substance affect the occurrence of migraine?
Caffeine is a plant-based substance that has a bitter taste. It is a known stimulant that affects an organism’s nervous system. Even with this property, its use is not regulated or controlled; hence, caffeine is very much a part of our lives because it can be found in coffee, cocoa, tea and sodas that we drink everyday. Although it is not addictive in the way that drugs are, the body can build a tolerance towards it over time if taken regularly. If this is halted abruptly, withdrawal also occurs, characterized by painful headaches. This is why some people cannot go through their day without their morning coffee fixes.
The caffeine migraine link has been the subject of numerous studies and results have not been very conclusive. While most believe that caffeine is a migraine trigger, it has also been found to bring faster relief from migraine attacks. In fact , it is used by drug manufacturers as an ingredient in headache medicines. It is said that in the past, Coca-Cola was even marketed as a headache remedy.
One of the properties of caffeine is its ability to constrict the blood vessels. It is this specific ability that makes it useful for migraine sufferers because attacks are caused by the expansion of blood vessels in the brain. Medications prescribed for migraine headaches focus on stopping the expansion of the vessels and bringing them back to normal size. This is something that caffeine can do. Some migraineurs have already developed the practice of drinking coke or coffee when they feel the first sign of a migraine attack and have attested to the effectiveness of caffeine as a preventive measure. This alone proves the existence of a migraine caffeine connection.
Caffeine possesses other properties that a migraineur has to be aware of if he plans to use it to fight migraine. It is a diuretic and increases the excretion of urine from the body. When this happens, other substances are expelled as well, including magnesium, a mineral needed by those who suffer from migraine. In addition , caffeine affects the level of blood sugar in the body especially when taken with large amounts of sugar. Fluctuations can cause a headache and the benefit that caffeine is supposed to provide has now been reversed. To prevent this from occurring, beverages containing it must never be ingested on an empty stomach.
If the migraine caffeine connection is to be made a part of migraine relief therapy, it is essential to bear in mind that the consistency of intake matters as much as the quantity. Any change in diet must not be abrupt and the amounts taken should be more or less the same every day. In this way, the treatment will provide the most benefits.
Posted on August 7, 2016 Categories MigraineTags Caffeine, Link, MigraineLeave a comment on The Migraine Caffeine Link
Homeopathic Migraine Relief
Homeopathy involves the use of non-toxic medicine for the treatment of illnesses. Several remedies used for homeopathic migraine relief, are available from pharmacies or health food stores. These medicines have been found to be very beneficial, especially at the onset of an attack. If you are able to identify the particular symptoms of your migraine headache; e. g. whether they are worse in the mornings or afternoons, then you are in a better position to determine which treatment would be best for you.
There are a number of homeopathic migraine relief remedies available, and they are generally safe. However , because each person’s pain and makeup differs, then a remedy that benefits one person might not be helpful to another. It is for this reason, that you should identify the peculiar symptoms of your migraine headache. You can then opt for a treatment that relates to those signs. If after using the medicine for a reasonable period of time there is no improvement, then discontinue using it, and seek an alternative remedy.
Some common homeopathic remedies include:
Natrum Muriaticum
This is normally recommended for migraines that occur on the right side of the head. In addition , these headaches tend to be aggravated by one or several other factors such as exposure to the sun, and emotional upset. They also tend to be worse in the morning, and the pain is likened to a constant pounding in the head. Other symptoms include watery eyes, and tingling in the lips and face.
Byronia
This is useful if you are having a severe headache with starts near the eyes and then spreads to the entire head. Any movement of the eyes or head, tends to worsen the condition, and persons also complain of experiencing excessive thirst. Nausea and vomiting can also occur.
Belladonna
Useful for the relief of migraine headaches that originate at the back of the skull or upper neck. The pain can also spread to the forehead and temple. The attacks are more common in the afternoon, and are associated with very intense shooting pains in the head. Other symptoms include drowsiness, sensitivity to light and cold hands and feet.
Nux Vomica
This is normally used for migraines that result from stress and mental strain. The headaches usually occur in the mornings and start over one eye, usually the left. The headaches are accompanied by gastric problems such as constipation, or a bloated abdomen.
Sepia
Normally recommended for migraines that occur around the left side of the head. These are usually the result of skipping meals. They become more acute close to the menstrual period and during menopause. The pain associated with these headaches has been described as being similar to shocks. Persons normally become irritable and feel fatigued.
The use of homeopathic migraine relief remedies has become very common, as people seek alternatives to prescription drugs for treating migraines. It should be noted that the medicine works best when matched with the specific symptoms that you have. Particular attention should also be paid to the dosage, as this can vary according to the individual and the condition. As long as care is taken, homeopathic medicine can be very effective for the treatment of migraine headaches.
Posted on July 13, 2016 Categories MigraineTags Homeopathic, Migraine, ReliefLeave a comment on Homeopathic Migraine Relief
Migraine Headaches Relief
Not Every Migraine Headaches Relief Treatment Is The Same
If you’re considering treatment for migraine headaches relief, you should know there are a wide range of options available to you.
For the record, I’m no stranger to every sort of migraine headache treatment that’s out there. Some have worked fairly well, and other just FAILED MISERABLY.
So , with that said, I’ll try to wrap up neatly what I have learned over the course of my 10 year quest for migraine headaches relief.
The Drawbacks – Common Mistakes in Treatment For Migraine Headaches Relief
1) The Only Solution For Migraine Headaches Relief is Medication
If we become ill, we visit a doctor. The doctor prescribes medicine.
If this is the kind of mindset you have, then your solution for migraine headaches relief will be medication.
This solution will lead to 3 results:
Your current migraine headache will be immediately relieved
A disastrous cycle of headaches will rebound that will seem almost impossible to escape
You will end up frustrated with all medications for migraine headaches relief
2) Inability To Identify Triggers
Any good treatment for migraine headaches relief SHOULD begin with identifying your personal migraine triggers. But , in my experience, not one doctor I have ever consulted put the first emphasis on identifying my personal triggers.
And, in all of my years of experience, I have found this to be the ONLY effective migraine headaches relief CURE. Instead, each and every doctor gave me a prescription for one medication or another – many prescribing 2 or more drugs at the same time.
Over the course of 10 years, this has been the automatic treatment for migraine headaches relief from EVERY doctor I visited.
The FIRST step in any treatment for migraine headaches relief must be identifying and eliminating ALL of your personal triggers. This will benefit you much more than any medication EVER will.
3) Afraid of All Medications
If the alternative is blindly taking every medication prescribed, it’s better to avoid all medications.
But… an effective treatment for migraine headaches relief will include the occasional use of abortive migraine medication. Zomig, Axert, Imitrex are a few examples. In addition , Aleve will be periodically advised to give the Triptan, or abortive medication, an effective boost.
But if you are already following a treatment for migraine headaches relief that includes NO medication, this is much preferred than following a treatment with LOADS of migraine medication.
Not Questioning Your Treatment For Migraine Headaches Relief
We’re raised not to question doctors. It’s a rare doctor indeed that relishes in having his authority or judgment questioned.
This is especially so when you want to ask questions of your doctor after he prescribes your treatment for migraine headaches relief.
But your doctor is not the one that has to deal with the consequences of the plan of treatment. And he is well compensated for the few short minutes you get to bask in his presence. If a question comes to your mind, you need to ask it.
If you want to know why a particular medication is giving you certain reactions, then ask.
If you want to why you are suffering even more migraine headaches since the onset of your treatment for migraines relief, that question needs to be asked as well.
If you are not satisfied with the answers and treatment you are getting from your current doctor, you shouldn’t hesitate to see another doctor.
Just like any other profession in this world, not all doctors have the same level of skill.
4) Not Trusting What Your Own Body Is Telling You About Your Treatment For Migraine Headaches Relief
When I was child, my parents instructed me to do as the doctor advised.
But after 10 years of taking medications for migraine headaches I realized a couple of things. The first was that the more medications I took for migraine headaches relief, the more frequent and severe my migraines became. The second thing I realized what that I had tried virtually medical treatment available.
I had not listened to what my body had been telling me all along.
See, if you can answer this one simple question: When was the last time you had a migraine headache and didn’t take a pill?
When was the last time you considered a natural treatment for migraine headaches relief?
You have the ability to decide which treatment for migraine headaches relief is right for you.
Summation
An effective treatment for migraine headaches relief requires a Triptan prescription that works best for you
But even these are not very often necessary if you follow a proper path for migraine headaches relief. The last thing you want is to get caught in the rebound cycle.
There is not one person is this world that should naturally suffer more than a few migraine headaches a month (even that is too much).
There is not one person in this world that should be taking pills every day as their treatment for migraines relief.
There is a better way.
Posted on June 13, 2016 Categories MigraineTags Headaches, Migraine, ReliefLeave a comment on Migraine Headaches Relief
Understanding Silent Migraine
“Silent migraine” is an unusual name for a chronic illness. People are used to saying or hearing a scientific term when referring to a medical condition. Accordingly, the names of the different types of migraine give clue to its believed cause or source, or nature. Silent migraine, however , is a curious name because sound is not something associated that with migraine. Nevertheless, it is a disease that affects quite a number of people and for this reason, it needs to be understood.
Silent migraine is also known as acephalgic migraine, eye migraine, visual migraine, ocular migraine. Experts, however , refer to it as migraine aura without headache. To better understand it, one needs to be familiar with the four stages of a typical migraine attack. The initial stage is called the prodrome. It is the time when warnings of an attack start to appear, such as irritability or confusion, diarrhea, thirst and food cravings. The next phase is the aura, a time when visual symptoms are felt. During this stage, other physical manifestations could also arise. These include slurred speech, tingling sensations or numbness and difficulty in moving. The pain then proceeds after this phase, which could last up to seventy-two hours. When this is over, sufferers will feel very tired for a day or so. Not all migraineurs go through all the four stages during an attack. Some migraines occur without the aura and some have episodes without the pain. This is what happens with a silent migraine.
Like the other migraine types, silent migraine has its own set of symptoms consisting of diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, loss of appetite or food cravings, thirst, fatigue, increased urination, chills, confusion, irritability and a feeling of euphoria. The most obvious symptom of silent migraine is the aura, which is a visual disturbance that is felt by the sufferer. When experiencing aura, he sees one or more of the following: wavy or jagged lines, flashing lights, dots and blind spots. Together with the aura, the patient might also go through distortions in sounds, smell or taste, numbness or tingling sensations in other parts of the body or speech difficulties.
Experts believe that a silent migraine is caused by abnormal nerve cell activity in the brain. Auras result when there is overstimulation and then depression from the activities of these nerve cells. The reduction of activity spreads across the brain, starting from the visual part to the other parts which affect bodily sensation and hearing. This chain reaction is started by certain events or substances called triggers. Identified triggers for silent migraine include stress, inadequate sleep, skipped meals, caffeine, alcohol, changes in weather, certain food, hormonal changes, bright lights and loud noises.
Mild or moderate attacks of silent migraine do not need treatment except rest. For more severe episodes, aspirin, beta-blockers and drugs classified as beta-agonist inhalant, are prescribed. Like the other forms of migraine, the best treatment is prevention the natural way. This involves no drugs but requires good self-care. This is the option that most migraine sufferers ought to consider.
Posted on June 8, 2016 Categories MigraineTags Migraine, Silent, UnderstandingLeave a comment on Understanding Silent Migraine
Posts navigation
Previous page Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page
Proudly powered by WordPress