Tick Bite Protocol - Windhorse Naturopathic Clinic
Windhorse Naturopathic Clinic
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Our Doctors and Staff
Appointments, Directions, Contact Info
Specialty Services
Infrared Sauna
Colon Hydrotherapy
Tick Bite Protocol
Posted on March 6, 2016 March 6, 2016 by Emily Maiella
1. Promptly remove with tweezers or tick spoon. Pull the tick out perpendicularly to the skin. Do not aggravate the tick. Pull gently and swiftly. Do not apply Vaseline or any other agent (including lighting it on fire) prior to removal. However, you may apply some antibacterial ointment to the area after removal.
2. Take homeopathic Ledum 1M if embedded and you can’t get the head out.
3. If you have identified it as a female deer tick, put in a plastic bag with a moist piece of paper towel and send it to UMASS for testing. They will test for Borellia and for Babesia. http://extension.umass.edu/agriculture/index.php/services/tick-borne-disease-diagnostics The cost is $50. You can also have it tested for co-infections for an additional fee.
4. Another option is to stop by our office for a “Tick-it” which is a kit that uses the same technology as UMASS, but it tests for 2 types of borellia, Bartonella, Babesia and Ehrliosis. The cost is $35.00. The tick does not need to be alive. The results are far more accurate than human blood testing.
5. While you await the results of the testing, we recommend starting on an herbal protocol. THOUGH if you get a rash, fever, stiff neck/joints, headache etc, begin antibiotics treatment right away. Doxycycline (not for kids under 7) 100 mg 2x/day. There is now evidence to suggest that the preventive, one-day course of doxycycline is not effective. * If the tick comes back positive, we recommend continuing treatment with antibiotics and herbs.
6. Get yourself tested (western blot), 4-6 weeks after initial tick bite, though is you have been on antibiotics, then the test may come back falsely negative.
We do have a Lyme prevention protocol available if any one is interested. It is a tincture and homeopathic. Good for kids and pets too.
*For references please see Dr. Betty Malone’s work on the prophylactic doses and duration of antibiotics
See our full Lyme Disease Page
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Related
This entry was tagged front. Bookmark the permalink.
Post navigation
Colon Hydrotherapy and Detox Programs now Offered! →
Pages
Patient Forms
Lyme Disease
Articles and Handouts
Updates & Useful
Colon Hydrotherapy, An Alternative Choice for Colonoscopy Preparation
November 5, 2018
Usually, colonoscopy screening has you fasting for 24 hours, and drinking a vast amount of liquid laxatives the night before your test. This is typically not everyones’s favorite day. However, there is a complementary …Read More »
Weekly Colon Hydrotherapy Wisdom
October 17, 2018
Let talk about Peristalsis, Serotonin and SSRI’s…. Peristalsis is the wave-like action of the smooth muscles within your gastrointestinal tract. This wave helps to move food down through your digestive tract, and prevents food from …Read More »
Now Accepting NEW Primary Care Patients!
October 15, 2018
Dr. Laila Tomsovic is now accepting new primary care patients contracted with Vermont Medicaid, Cigna and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Vermont. RelatedRead More »
Colon Hydrotherapy and Detox Programs now Offered!
May 23, 2017
We are excited to announce that the Windhorse Naturopathic has added a state of the art, FDA-regulated, Colon Hydropathy machine, operated by Kimberly Rankin, CMT. Kimberly and the staff at the clinic offer guided detoxification …Read More »
Tick Bite Protocol
March 6, 2016
1. Promptly remove with tweezers or tick spoon. Pull the tick out perpendicularly to the skin. Do not aggravate the tick. Pull gently and swiftly. Do not apply Vaseline or any other agent (including lighting …Read More »
Patient Portal
Patient Portal
©2017 WIndhorse Naturopathic Inc., Brattleboro, VT