Can Rose Hip Oil Help Scars? | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Supplements
Can Rose Hip Oil Help Scars?
Marcia Frost
About the Author:
Marcia Frost
Marcia Frost is a writer covering travel, food, wine/spirits, and health. She writes for many on and offline publications, including The Daily Meal, Girls Getaway, Travelhoppers, and Princess Cruises.She also has a popular blog, Wine And SpiritsTravel. She has a Bachelor of Arts in journalism from Long Island University.
View Full Profile
The rose plant can do so much more than adorn a table. Oil from the seed pods or petals of the rose bush is extracted to make rose hip oil. It is considered a vegetable oil and is high in vitamins and fatty acids. These nutrients make rose hip oil a possible treatment for scars.
Cultivation
According to "The Guide to the Good Life," it takes 60,000 blooms to produce an ounce of rose hip oil. The process that's used to get the purest form is called "otto" and it involves steam distillation of the crushed rose petals. It is also possible to yield rose hip oil with the "absolute" method, where the seed pods or petals are processed with a solvent. The Vegetarian Nutrition website notes that Damask roses are used most often, with the majority hailing from Bulgaria.
Properties
Within rose hip oil are a number of properties that aid in its possible ability to help scars fade. Retinol, a Vitamin A, is frequently used in cosmetic creams as a wrinkle reducer. It is found in rose hip oil along with vitamin C, omega-3, omega-6 and linolenic acid. The last three are fatty acids, which one producer of the essential oil, Anyang General International Corporation (AGICO), states is used to heal scars.
Mechanism
The ability of rose hip oil to fade scars is easily explained by AGICO given the properties of the essential oil. It contains vitamins and fatty acids that have been shown to restore original skin color by reducing hyperpigmentation and redness, avoid formation of keloids scars, fade scars left by chicken pox or acne, and even treat skin burned from radiation therapy.
Directions
Both AGICO and the Stretch Marks Treatment website advise that in order to use rose hip oil to minimize scars, massage it into the affected area. It should be applied with fingertips a few times a day and may take weeks to show results. Keep in mind that rose hip oil can increase skin's sun sensitivity so put sunblock on top of it after it dries if you are going to be outdoors.
Considerations
There are a few things you should know before using rose hip oil to treat scars. Since it is a dry oil, the skin will soak it up quickly without a greasy feeling. It can be used straight or mixed into a cream or lotion. Rose hip oil should not be used on broken skin or open wounds unless directed to do so by a physician. If you develop a rash or other irritation while using rose hip oil, consult a health care professional.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
The Guide to the Good Life: Rose Oil, Rose Hips
ASCOF: Rose Hip Oil
Acne Cures
Stretch Mark Treatment: Rose Hip Oil and Skin Health
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Apply Bio-Oil
2
Is it Safe to Take Rose Hip Oil Internally?
3
How to Close Pores After Unclogging Huge Blackheads & Whiteheads
4
How to Treat Burned or Irritated Skin From Benzoyl Peroxide
5
Calendula & Pregnancy
6
Top Ten Essential Oils for Mature Acne & Scars
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.