5 Best Light Therapy Lamps - May 2019 - BestReviews
Categories
Air Conditioners
Water Filtration Systems
Dishwashers
All-In-One Washers and Dryers
Bottom Freezer Refrigerators
Built-In Dishwashers
Carpet Sweepers
Down Draft Range Hoods
Dryers
Electric Dryers
Electric Smokers
Electrolux Ranges
Freezerless Refrigerators
Freezers
Frigidaire Refrigerators
Front Load Washers
Gas Dryers
Automotive
Radar Detectors
Navigation Systems
Cargo Boxes
10-inch Car Subwoofers
12-inch Car Subwoofers
8-inch Car Subwoofers
All-Weather Car Covers
ATV Loading Ramps
ATV Tires
ATV Winches
Auto Insurance
Battery Chargers
Bluetooth Car Kits
Boss Car Stereos
Bottle Jacks
Brake Pads
Brake Parts Cleaners
Baby & Kids
Convertible Car Seats
Baby Monitors
Kids' Tablets
Playhouses
Baby Bathtubs
Baby Bottles
Baby Bouncers
Baby Burp Cloths
Baby Carriers
Baby Cribs
Baby Food Makers
Baby Food Storage Containers
Baby Foods
Baby Formula Mixers
Baby Gates
Baby Handprint Kits
Baby Jogger Strollers
Beauty
2-in-1 Shampoos
3-in-1 Shampoos
Anti-Aging Creams
Anti-Frizz Oils
Antioxidant Creams
Bath Soaks
Blackhead Removers
Blotting Papers for Men
Blow-Dry Sprays
Boar Bristle Brushes
Body Concealers
Body Creams
Body Glitters
Body Lotions
Body Oils
Body Paints
Body Scrubs
Bed & Bath
Air Mattresses
Toilets
Bathroom Scales
Mattresses
Quilt Sets
Adjustable Beds
Air Bathtubs
Alcove Bathtubs
American Standard Toilets
Automatic Soap Dispensers
Bamboo Bath Mats
Bath Bombs
Bath Mats
Bathrobes
Bathroom Fans
Bathroom Light Fixtures
Bathroom Pedestal Sinks
Education
GRE Books
ACT Prep Books
Firefighter Exam Prep Books
Photoshop Classes
CAPM Exam Prep Books
CFA Prep Books
CPA Prep Books
Globes
GMAT Prep Books
MCAT Prep Books
PMP Prep Books
Property and Casualty Exam Prep Books
PSAT Prep Books
Real Estate Exam Prep Books
SAT Prep Books
Computer Science Books
GED Prep Books
Electronics
Laptop Computers
Apple Watches
RC Cars
Presentation Remotes
15-Inch Car Subwoofers
18-Inch Car Subwoofers
4K Camcorders
4K Projectors
4K TVs
Acer Laptops
Acer Monitors
AKG Headphones
Alienware Laptops
All-In-One Computers
AM Radios
Amazon Echo Devices
Android Streaming Boxes
Fashion
Kate Spade Bags
Casio Watches
Cufflinks
Maternity Jeans
Men's Combat Boots
Maxi Dresses
Stilettos
Waist Cinchers
Adidas Sandals for Women
Aldo Boots for Women
Aldo Flats
Aldo Heels
Aldo Sandals for Women
Ankle Bracelets
Anne Klein Boots for Women
Arc'teryx Jackets for Men
Arc'teryx Jackets for Women
Health & Wellness
Blood Pressure Monitors
Antifungal Creams
Inversion Tables
Hemp Oils
Acupressure Mats
Adult Arm Cast Covers
Adult Diapers
Alkaline Bottled Water
Ankle Braces
Arthritis Gloves
Athletic Tape
Back Braces
Back Stretchers
Bike Rollers
Biohazard Waste Containers
Blood Glucose Test Strips
Body Cleanses
Home
Dehumidifiers
Carpet Cleaners
Clothes Steamers
Floor Lamps
Mousetraps
Weather Stations
Microscopes
Window Shades
Adesso Floor Lamps
Air Circulator Fans
Air Ionizers
Air Purifiers
Air Sofas
Airbeds with Built-in Pump
Alarm Clocks
Angle Brooms
Area Rugs
Kitchen
Air Fryers
Instant Pots
Juicers
Coffee Makers
Casserole Bakeware Sets
Cheese Plates
Coffee Urns
Cappuccino Machines
Teapots
All-Clad Cookware
Apple Peelers
Bar Stools
Black Refrigerators
Black+Decker Blenders
Blendtec Blenders
Braun Blenders
Bread Makers
Lawn & Garden
Weed Eaters
Pressure Washers
Garden Hoses
Grass Seeds
Deer Repellents
Adjustable Garden Rakes
Animal Traps
Backpack Blowers
Bird Baths
Bird Feeders
BLACK+DECKER Edgers
BLACK+DECKER Hedge Trimmers
Black+Decker Lawn Mowers
BLACK+DECKER Tillers
Bonsai Starter Kits
Bonsai Tool Kits
Bulb Planters
Music
MP3 Players
Acoustic Guitar Bags
Audio Mixers
Accordions
Acoustic Guitars
Baritone Horns
Bass Drum Heads
Bongo Drums
Bose Soundbars
Clarinets
Condenser Microphones
Cowbells
Crash Cymbals
Cymbal Safe Cases
Digital Keyboards
DJ Mixers
Drum Cymbal Sets
Office
Printers
Paper Shredders
Desktop Computers
Label Makers
Laser Printers
Water Coolers
3-Hole Punchers
3D Printers
3D Printing Liquids
Accounting Software
Adidas Backpacks
Antivirus Software
Bankers' Lamps
Barcode Scanners
Bookends
Bubble Wrap Rolls
Business Tax Preparation Software
Outdoors
Electric Bikes
Hoverboards
Tents
10-Person Tents
11-Person Tents
12-Person Tents
2-Person Tents
3-Person Tents
4-Person Tents
40-Degree Sleeping Bags
5-Person Tents
6-Person Tents
Coleman Coolers
9-Person Tents
Action Cameras
Adult BMX Bikes
Adult Tricycles
Patio
Bug Zappers
Zero-Gravity Chairs
Coolers
Hybrid Grills
Adirondack Chairs
All-Purpose Grill Spatulas
Bamboo Torches
Barbecue Grill Lights
BBQ Grills
BBQ Smoker Boxes
Beer Can Chicken Roasters
Beverage Coolers
Bistro Sets
Bug Vacuums
Canopy Porch Swings
Char-Broil Grills
Chimineas
Personal Care
Teeth Whitening Strips
Electric Toothbrushes
Electric Razors
Acne Therapeutic System Kits
Adult Body Powders
Adult Wipes
After Shave for Men
After-Sun Lotions
Antifungal Soaps
Antiperspirants
Art of Shaving Kits
Beard Balm
Beard Combs
Beard Oils
Beard Trimmers
Bedside Commodes
Bikini Trimmers
Pets
Shock Collars
Dog Food
Dog Harnesses
Dog Houses
Invisible Fences
10-Gallon Fish Tanks
Aquarium Decorations
Aquarium Filters
Aquarium Heaters
Aquarium Plants
Betta Fish Tanks
Bird Cages
Blankets for Dogs
Blue Buffalo Dog Food
Car Pet Barriers
Cat Collars
Cat Flea and Tick Prevention
Services
Moving Service Companies
Extended Auto Warranty Services
Debt Relief Services
Anti-Virus Protection Services
Fire Damage Services
Flood Restoration Services
Home Warranty Services
Medical Alert Services
Mold Remediation Services
Mortgage Company Services
Payday Lending Services
Pest Control Services
Solar Companies
Student Loan Refinancing
Walk-in Bathtubs
Water Damage Services
Window Services
Sports & Fitness
Fitness Trackers
Fitbits
Dip Stations
Step Machines
28.5-inch Basketballs
Ab Belts
Ab Straps
Adidas Basketball Shoes
Adidas Basketball Shoes for Women
Adidas Running Shoes for Men
Adidas Running Shoes for Women
Adidas Soccer Cleats for Women
Adjustable Dumbbells
Adjustable Kettlebells
Adjustable Workout Benches
Adult Bicycle Helmets
Adults' Swim Caps
Tools
Gas Chainsaws
Cordless Drills
Cricut Machines
Saws
Tool Boxes
4-Wheel Hand Trucks
Absorbent Socks
Adjustable Wrenches
Air Sanders
Airless Paint Sprayers
Angle Grinders
Augers
Auto Darkening Welding Helmets
Axes
Band Saws
Bandsaw Blades
Belt Sanders
Toys & Games
Nintendo Switch Games
Laser Tag Sets
Nerf Guns
American Girl Accessories
American Girl Dolls
Barbie Dolls
Beanie Boos
Big Wheels
Bingo Sets
Board Games
Bottle Launchers
Card Shufflers
Connect 4 Games
Cornhole Game Sets
Craft Kits For Kids
Cranium Games
Dollhouses
Travel
Luggage Sets
Suitcases
Samsonite Luggage
Carry-On Luggage
Duffel Bags
Packing Cubes
Travel Mugs
Umbrellas
Backpacks
Coach Bags
Duffel Bags
Folding Bikes
Garment Bags
Insulated Tumblers
Messenger Bags
Money Belts
Neck Pillows
See all
About
Contact
Best Light Therapy Lamps
Updated April 2019
Why trust BestReviews?
BestReviews spends thousands of hours researching, analyzing, and testing products to recommend the best picks for most consumers. We buy all products with our own funds, and we never accept free products from manufacturers.
We may earn a commission if you purchase a product through our links.
BestReviews spends thousands of hours researching, analyzing, and testing products to recommend the best picks for most consumers. We may earn a commission if you purchase a product through our links.
BestReviews spends thousands of hours researching, analyzing, and testing products to recommend the best picks for most consumers. We buy all products with our own funds, and we never accept free products from manufacturers.
We may earn a commission if you purchase a product through our links.
Bottom Line
Pros
Cons
Best of the Best
Verilux
HappyLight Liberty Lux Light
Check Price
Bottom Line
Verilux is a brand that knows light therapy, and this model is no exception - provides light that's just as effective yet less pricey than some high-end competitors.
Pros
Delivers therapeutic white light with customizable settings in a model that falls in the middle of the price spectrum. Size is fairly compact yet light is bright. Sleek design with a spacious light surface.
Cons
The sliding on/off switch is somewhat awkward to use. A faulty units have been reported.
Sphere Gadget Technologies
Lightphoria
Check Price
Bottom Line
Might be considered a bit underpowered, but the price is right and the unit is portable and well made.
Pros
Extremely portable and energy efficient; often on sale so it typically costs just a bit more than inferior lights.
Cons
One year warranty, but no returns.
Best Bang for the Buck
Verilux
HappyLight Liberty Portable Light Therapy
Check Price
Bottom Line
The portable version of one the top brands in light therapy for a surprisingly low price.
Pros
An inexpensive model in a durable, small design that's built for travel or use anywhere a full-size model won't fit. Emits bright light despite its compact size.
Cons
Gets a bit hot, especially with extended use. Rare incidences of broken bulbs upon arrival.
Northern Light Technology
Boxelite-OS
Check Price
Bottom Line
A great unit, but not for people looking for an affordable, portable unit. Large field of pleasing light, however, and it is one of the more adjustable units available so you can put that light where you want it.
Pros
Very adjustable, huge field of pleasing light, built like a tank — and that means it will last for a long time.
Cons
Expensive and large — not very portable.
Aura Day Light
Therapy Lamp
Check Price
Bottom Line
A good choice, but you can do as well (or better) with a lower-priced unit.
Pros
Great timer, very adjustable and can even be mounted on a wall. Easy to adjust power, too.
Cons
Expensive, but right on par with man lower priced lamps.
How we decided
We purchase every product we review with our own funds — we never accept anything from product manufacturers.
34 Models Considered
21 Hours Researched
1 Experts Interviewed
79 Consumers Consulted
Zero products received from manufacturers.
We purchase every product we review with our own funds — we never accept anything from product manufacturers.
Why trust BestReviews?
BestReviews spends thousands of hours researching, analyzing, and testing products to recommend the best picks for most consumers. We buy all products with our own funds, and we never accept free products from manufacturers.
We may earn a commission if you purchase a product through our links.
BestReviews spends thousands of hours researching, analyzing, and testing products to recommend the best picks for most consumers. We may earn a commission if you purchase a product through our links.
BestReviews spends thousands of hours researching, analyzing, and testing products to recommend the best picks for most consumers. We buy all products with our own funds, and we never accept free products from manufacturers.
We may earn a commission if you purchase a product through our links.
Personal Care
Shopping guide for light therapy lamps
Last Updated April 2019
Not getting enough sunlight can be devastating to your overall well-being. Whether your mood is just a little lower than usual or you fall deep into depression, a light therapy lamp may be able to help. Light therapy lamps affect the chemicals in your brain that are linked to mood and sleep and can reduce symptoms of seasonal depression.
When considering a light therapy lamp, intensity is your primary concern. The brighter a light is, the shorter your sessions will need to be. It is also important that your lightbox filters out harmful UV rays, which can damage your skin and eyes. The ideal light for you will be large enough to be effective, but not too big for your environment.
Continue reading this article for some tips and possible side effects to using a light therapy lamp. If you are ready to purchase, check out the lamps we've scrutinized and determined are the best.
Stay connected
Get exclusive content, advice, and tips from BestReviews delivered to your inbox.
Subscribe
Like us on Facebook!
Stay updated
A variety of ancient cultures, including Ancient Egypt, Ancient Greece, and Ancient Rome, practiced some form of light therapy, also known as heliotherapy.
Who needs a light therapy lamp?
Light therapy lamps are often recommended for individuals who experience some type of seasonal depression. The main type is SAD, a form of clinical depression with symptoms that typically start sometime between September and January, and go away when the days become longer in April or May. Symptoms typically include sadness, moodiness, fatigue, weight gain, irritability, and difficulty concentrating.
Nearly 10.8 million people in North America suffer from SAD. If you experience a milder form of seasonal depression, it’s informally known as the “winter blues.” The symptoms are similar to SAD but less severe. Up to 25% of people in northern latitudes suffer from some type of winter blues.
Approximately 75% of people who experience SAD or the winter blues are women. SAD usually starts when you’re in your early 20s, but it can begin as soon as puberty. It’s also believed to be a genetic condition, so if your family members experience the condition, you’re likely to as well.
In addition to SAD and the winter blues, light therapy lamps can also help treat jet lag, sleep disorders, non-seasonal depression, and even dementia.
EXPERT CONSULTANT
Dr. Lauren Tessier is a licensed Naturopathic Physician, specializing in functional and integrative medicine. She takes great joy in helping motivated patients find their path to health through education and empowerment. Dr. Tessier is also the founder of Life After Mold, a clinic specializing in the treatment of mold and other biotoxin illnesses.
Dr. Tessier | Naturopathic Physician
How does light therapy work?
Light therapy usually involves a box or lamp with fluorescent lights that simulate natural outdoor light. The light typically has a minimum intensity of 2,500 lux, which is the same intensity as a somewhat overcast day.
To use the light, you place the lamp on a surface near where you are sitting, making sure to aim it at your eyes. You shouldn’t stare directly into the light, though; it’s best to position the lamp so it shines down at your eyes from a slightly elevated angle.
The light from the lamp hits your retina, and nerve impulses are transmitted to the pineal gland to enhance the effectiveness of serotonin and other neurotransmitters, which can help boost your mood. You should sit near the light for anywhere from 15 minutes to 3 hours to see results.
Users often experience results from light therapy in 2 to 4 days, though you usually need up to 3 weeks of treatment for the full benefits.
DID YOU KNOW?
The first artificial light source used for therapeutic reasons was developed by Dr. Niels Finsen, who won the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1903.
DID YOU KNOW?
Approximately 75% of people who experience SAD or the winter blues are women. However, men should not neglect it if they feel any of the symptoms.
DID YOU KNOW?
Nearly 10.8 million people in North America suffer from SAD (Seasonal Affective Disorder). So be sure to consult with your physician if you feel down.
DID YOU KNOW?
It usually takes two to four days to see results from light therapy, and up to three weeks may be required to see the full benefits, depending on the condition.
Light therapy lamp feature considerations
Size
Light therapy lamps come in a variety of sizes, which range from small, tabletop models to larger, box style lamps.
Choosing the right size is mostly a matter of preference. Some users don’t like big, bulky box styles, but those with larger surface areas usually mean better exposure for your eyes.
If you choose a light therapy lamp that’s too small, it may not be as effective.
Intensity
A light therapy lamp’s intensity is the main factor in predicting effectiveness. The intensity of the light in measured in a unit called lux, which describes how brightly the light is perceived by the human eye.
Light therapy lights usually fall within a range of 2,500 to 10,000 lux.
For reference, the average rating of home lighting is 50 lux.
When it comes to light therapy lamps, the most common mistake is buying a light that isn’t intense enough. Our expert Lauren mentions, “I see people buying lights that are not powerful enough. 10,000 lux is suggested for the quickest treatment.”
More intense lights usually have a higher price tag, but your treatment sessions will be shorter.
With a 10,000 lux lamp, you usually only need a 15 to 30 minute session daily.
With an 8000 lux lamp, try for a 45 to 60 minute session every day.
With a 2500 lux lamp, your daily sessions should be 1 to 2 hours.
Full spectrum vs. broad spectrum
Some light therapy lamps utilize full spectrum light, while others feature broad spectrum light.
Full spectrum light features wavelengths rangeing from infrared to near-ultra violet, so they tend to have a bluish light. Broad spectrum light doesn’t contain UV rays and is whitish in color.
Either type of light can work in a therapy lamp, but as our expert Lauren cautions, “If a full spectrum bulb is used, make sure that UV light is being filtered out.” That’s because UV rays can burn and damage the skin, which is a side effect no one wants from their therapy lamp.
Timer
It isn’t an essential feature, but a built-in timer on your light therapy lamp can come in handy.
The timer can keep track of how long your sessions are, so you don’t necessarily have to time it yourself.
If your doctor wants precise numbers tracking the time you spend with the light, the timer also makes it easier to provide accurate records.
EXPERT TIP
Beyond being used for depression and seasonal affective disorders, light therapy lamps can be used in circadian disturbances and sleep disorders.
Dr. Tessier | Naturopathic Physician
EXPERT TIP
To see the effects of light therapy, consistency is most important. Use your lamp daily, from the beginning of fall through winter, to ensure it’s as effective as possible.
Dr. Tessier | Naturopathic Physician
EXPERT TIP
To see results, you must sit facing the lamp. Perpendicular orientation might not suffice. You can do other activities during therapy, but your position to the lamp is important.
Dr. Tessier | Naturopathic Physician
Light therapy lamp prices
Light therapy lamps vary in price based on their intensity and size, but you can usually expect to pay between $30 and $200.
For a small, 2,500 lux lamp, you can typically expect to spend between $30 and $40.
For a small, 7,500 to 8,000 lux lamp, expect to pay between $45 and $65. For a larger lamp with 7,500 to 8,000 lux, you’ll usually pay between $70 and $90.
Small, 10,000 lux lamps cost between $75 and $100, while larger 10,000 lux lamps run between $100 and $200.
FOR YOUR SAFETY
If you’re considering using a light therapy lamp, it’s best to talk with your doctor first about whether it’s a good option for you. Your doctor can also help you plan an effective treatment schedule.
Light therapy lamp tips and tricks
If you’re considering using a light therapy lamp, talk with your doctor first to confirm it’s a good option for you.
It’s best to use a light therapy lamp in the morning. Start with 20 to 30 minutes to see if it improves your mood. If you don’t feel the effects, increase your time to up to an hour each morning.
You should place your light therapy lamp so it’s approximately two feet from your eyes. If your lamp is weaker, such as a 2,500 lux model, you may need to sit closer to it.
To see the effects of light therapy, consistency is most important. Use your lamp daily from the beginning of fall through winter to ensure that it’s as effective as possible.
You shouldn’t use a light therapy lamp if you’re taking medication that makes you more sensitive to the sun, such as lithium, melatonin, acne medications like isotretinoin, and certain antibiotics.
For most people, light therapy works best if it’s done first thing in the morning, right after you wake up.
FAQ
Q. Are there side effects to using a light therapy lamp?
A. Side effects from using a light therapy lamp are usually minor. However, some users can experience headaches, anxiety, and jitteriness when first using the lamp. The side effects usually go away after a few days, but you can reduce the chance of experiencing them by starting with shorter sessions. If you have an eye disease or other vision issues, you should consult with an eye doctor before using the lamp.
Q. Can you get a similar effect with brighter light bulbs in your home as you would with a light therapy lamp?
A. Using bright light bulbs in lamps and other fixtures around your house won’t provide the same effect as a light therapy lamp. That’s because you must be positioned at the proper distance and orientation from the light to experience the therapeutic benefits, and it’s usually not possible to stay in front of non-therapy fixtures in the proper position for the necessary amount of time.
Q. Do you stare into the light therapy lamp to receive the benefits?
A. No. In fact, you shouldn’t stare directly into the lamp’s light, because it may cause cornea or retina damage. The lamp should actually be positioned so it shines down at you from a slightly elevated spot.
The team that worked on this review
Alvina
Photographer
Amos
Director of Photography
Branson
Videographer
Ciera
Production Assistant
Devangana
Web Producer
Eliza
Production Manager
Jeff
Editor
Jennifer
Writer
Melissa
Senior Editor
Steph
Web Producer
×
Sphere Gadget Technologies
Lightphoria
Sphere Gadget Technologies
Lightphoria
Might be considered a bit underpowered, but the price is right and the unit is portable and well made.
$65
×
Verilux
HappyLight Liberty Lux Light
Verilux
HappyLight Liberty Lux Light
Verilux is a brand that knows light therapy, and this model is no exception - provides light that's just as effective yet less pricey than some high-end competitors.
$78
×
Verilux
HappyLight Liberty Portable Light Therapy
Verilux
HappyLight Liberty Portable Light Therapy
The portable version of one the top brands in light therapy for a surprisingly low price.
$39
×
Northern Light Technology
Boxelite-OS
Northern Light Technology
Boxelite-OS
A great unit, but not for people looking for an affordable, portable unit. Large field of pleasing light, however, and it is one of the more adjustable units available so you can put that light where you want it.
$232
×
Aura Day Light
Therapy Lamp
Aura Day Light
Therapy Lamp
A good choice, but you can do as well (or better) with a lower-priced unit.
$69
BestReviews wants to be better. Please take our 3-minute survey,
and give us feedback about your visit today.
Take Survey
Get exclusive content, advice, and tips from
BestReviews delivered to your inbox.
Stay Updated
Links
FAQ
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Featured
Partnerships
Press
Gift Ideas
© 2019 BestReviews
All Rights Reserved.