Zinc deficiency: Symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
All you need to know about zinc deficiency
Last reviewed	 Fri 22 December 2017	 Last reviewed	Fri 22 Dec 2017
By Rachel Nall, RN, BSN, CCRN
Reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Table of contents
Symptoms
Causes
Diagnosis
Treatment
Prevention
Takeaway
The body needs a variety of vitamins and minerals to function optimally. One essential mineral is zinc, which is found in small amounts in food.
Although the body does not require large amounts of zinc, it is possible for a person to be zinc-deficient.
If the body does not have the zinc it needs, a person could experience symptoms associated with zinc deficiency.
Fast facts on zinc deficiency:
The body uses zinc for several important processes.
The National Institutes of Health say zinc deficiency is rare in the United States. However, if a person has a poor diet, they are more likely to be deficient.
Doctors often recommend supplements for zinc deficiency.
What does zinc do in the body?
Zinc may help cells divide and promote wound healing.
Zinc does many things in the body.
Zinc supports cell function, helping an estimated 100 enzymes — molecules that make chemical reactions happen — perform their duties.
Zinc plays additional roles in the body, including:
boosting immune function
helping cells divide
maintaining the sense of smell and taste
promoting wound healing
Zinc also supports a person's growth and development. As such, it is an essential mineral for pregnant women as well as growing children.
A person's body does not store zinc, which means getting enough of the mineral from food is important in preventing a deficiency.
Symptoms of zinc deficiency
Symptoms of zinc deficiency tend to be linked to the roles that zinc performs in the body. Some of the most common zinc deficiency symptoms include:
appetite loss
slower than expected growth
poor immune system function
Severe zinc deficiency can cause even more concerning symptoms. Examples include:
delayed sexual maturity
diarrhea
eye and skin lesions
feeling lethargic
funny-taste sensations
hair loss
poor wound healing
unexplained weight loss
Men and boys can also experience impotence and hypogonadism, which is when a male's body does not produce enough testosterone.
What are the causes?
People with an alcohol addiction may experience zinc deficiency.
Worldwide, about 1.1 billion people are zinc-deficient due to inadequate dietary intakes, according to an article published in the journal Scientific Reports.
However, there are three chief causes of an underlying zinc deficiency:
not taking in enough zinc through one's diet
losing excess amounts of zinc from the body, such as through poor absorption
people with chronic conditions
People with the following chronic conditions may experience zinc deficiency:
alcohol addiction
cancer
celiac disease
chronic diarrhea
chronic kidney disease
chronic liver disease
Crohn's disease
diabetes
pancreatic disease
sickle cell disease
ulcerative colitis
Link to vegetarianism
Vegetarians traditionally have lower zinc levels because the body breaks down zinc found in meats more efficiently.
Vegetarians tend to eat higher levels of legumes, soybeans, beans, nuts, and whole-grain food products. While they are healthful food choices, they can impair the body's ability to absorb zinc due to the presence of phytates. These substances bind to zinc, so the body cannot absorb it.
Link to age
Older adults are at risk for zinc deficiency because they may not eat or have access to a wide variety of foods. Taking some medications can also increase the body's release of zinc.
Examples include taking thiazide diuretics, such as chlorthalidone or hydrochlorothiazide.
There is also a rare medical disorder called acrodermatitis enteropathica, which affects the body's ability to absorb zinc.
Can zinc help treat erectile dysfunction?
Zinc deficiency can stop the body from regulating hormones such as testosterone, which may lead to erectile dysfunction. Learn more about it here.
Read now
Diagnosis
While a doctor can order a blood test or urine test to check zinc levels, these may not give a definitive result. This is because zinc is only present in small amounts in the body's cells.
In diagnosing a zinc deficiency, a doctor will need to take a full health history. They will ask questions about a person's dietary intake. If a person does not take in enough calories daily or eat enough of a variety of foods, it is possible a zinc deficiency could be an underlying cause.
Treatment
Baked beans are a zinc-containing food and are recommended to help increase zinc in the diet.
Supplements are available at most pharmacies and health stores. Supplements can contain different amounts of elemental zinc (the weight of the actual zinc molecule) and are labeled as zinc gluconate, zinc sulfate, or zinc acetate.
Each supplement should have information about how much elemental zinc is available in each type. Zinc is also a common component of throat lozenges, as zinc is thought to help treat the common cold.
A person can also try to increase their intake of zinc-containing foods. Examples of these include:
oysters
beef chuck roast
fortified breakfast cereals
baked beans
yogurt
chickpeas
instant, plain oatmeal
milk
A person who eats a wide variety of foods is more likely to take in enough zinc in their daily diets. This includes lean meats, fruits, vegetables, and dairy products.
Tips for preventing zinc deficiency
There are ways a person can prepare and eat foods to make zinc more available in their daily diets.
For example, a person can soak beans in water before cooking them. This reduces the presence of phytates, making it easier for the body to process the zinc.
Choosing leavened grain products can also help reduce the number of phytates, increasing the amount of zinc for the body to use.
Takeaway
Just as there are problems with zinc deficiency, a person can also take in too much zinc. This usually occurs when a person takes an excess of zinc supplements to boost their immune system.
Too much zinc intake can cause symptoms that range from nausea and vomiting to impaired immune system functioning. For this reason, adults older than age 19 should not take more than 40 milligrams (mg) of zinc a day.
If a person thinks they may have a zinc deficiency, they should talk to their doctor about supplementation or other treatments.
Related coverage
Eczema elimination diet and foods to eat Eczema is linked to inflammation in the body, so eating an anti-inflammatory diet may help reduce symptoms. Learn about which foods to eliminate. Read now
Can zinc help treat erectile dysfunction? Erectile dysfunction occurs when a man is unable to perform sexually as he cannot maintain a successful erection. In this MNT Knowledge Center article, learn about zinc and its possible effects on erectile dysfunction. Also, find out more about zinc deficiency and zinc supplementation. Read now
What are the health benefits of zinc? Zinc is a trace element that is essential for regulating the immune system. It can be found in a range of foods, including seafood. Find out about the benefits of zinc and how it helps the body, the recommended daily requirements, the problems caused by zinc deficiency, and what happens if a person takes too much. Read now
Everything you need to know about zinc Zinc is an important mineral that supports a wide range of functions and systems. The body cannot store it, meaning adequate intake is vital. Find out about the potential health benefits of zinc including maintaining skin integrity and structure, aiding growth in children and fighting age-related macular degeneration. Read now
What is a qi deficiency? The concept of qi deficiency comes from Traditional Chinese Medicine. Practitioners say that qi is a person's energy or life force, often related to the spleen. A qi deficiency is said to create negative symptoms, including poor physical and mental health. Recommended treatments include certain foods and rest. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Fri 22 December 2017.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Caulfield, L. E. & Black, R. E. (n.d.). Zinc deficiency. Retrieved from http://www.who.int/publications/cra/chapters/volume1/0257-0280.pdf
Johnson, L. E. (n.d.). Zinc. Retrieved from http://www.merckmanuals.com/home/disorders-of-nutrition/minerals/zinc
Kumssa, D. B., Joy, E. J. M., Ander, E. L., Watts, M. J., Young, S. D., Walker, S., & Broadley, M. R. (2015, June 22). Dietary calcium and zinc deficiency risks are decreasing but remain prevalent. Scientific Reports, 5(10974). Retrieved from https://www.nature.com/articles/srep10974?WT.ec_id=SREP-704-20150623&spMailingID=48939655&spUserID=ODkwMTM2NjQzMwS2&spJobID=703017936&spReportId=NzAzMDE3OTM2S0
Shrimpton, R., Gross, R., Darnton-Hill, I. & M. Young. (2005, February 12). Zinc deficiency: What are the most appropriate interventions? BMJ, 330(7487), 347–349. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC548733/
Tuerk, M. J. & Fazel, N. (2009, March). Zinc deficiency. Current Opinions in Gastroenterology, 25(2), 136–143. Retrieved from http://journals.lww.com/co-gastroenterology/Fulltext/2009/03000/Zinc_deficiency.9.aspx
Zinc. (2016, February 11). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Zinc-HealthProfessional/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Nall, Rachel. "All you need to know about zinc deficiency." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 22 Dec. 2017. Web.
25 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320393.php>
APA
Nall, R. (2017, December 22). "All you need to know about zinc deficiency." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320393.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Could invigorating the immune system prevent lung cancer?
Early immune-related molecular changes in airway tissue could potentially predict invasive lung cancer and serve as prevention targets, new study suggests.
Does your tongue have a sense of smell?
New research in mice and human cell cultures has revealed that the taste cells of humans and other mammals can also contain smell receptors.
This common food additive may fuel weight gain, diabetes
A new research study links the common anti-mold food additive propionate to blood sugar metabolism and insulin resistance in human volunteers and mice.
Study explores the neuroscience of overindulging
A recent study in mice identified a new brain circuit that appears to play a part in an animal's drive to overeat high-calorie foods.
How the brain adapts to hear better after vision loss
Researchers look at what happens in the brains of people with vision loss to understand what allows them to hear better than their fully sighted peers.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
Which foods are good for constipation?
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320393.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);