Acetaminophen Won't Help Arthritis Pain, Study Finds - MedicineNet
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/arthritis center/ arthritis a-z list/ acetaminophen won't help arthritis pain, study article
Acetaminophen Won't Help Arthritis Pain, Study Finds
By Steven Reinberg
HealthDay Reporter
Latest Arthritis News
Health Tip: Foods that Reduce Inflammation
Is Your Hand Pain Arthritis, Carpal Tunnel?
Walking, Not Riding, Boosts Health in Golfers
Gout Drug Uloric Increases Risk of Death: FDA
Gut Microbes May Help Drive Lupus, Study Finds
Want More News? Sign Up for MedicineNet Newsletters!
THURSDAY, March 17, 2016 (HealthDay News) -- Acetaminophen -- commonly known as Tylenol in the United States -- isn't an effective choice for relieving osteoarthritis pain in the hip or knee, or for improving joint function, a new study finds.
Although the drug rated slightly better than placebo in studies, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or diclofenac are better choices for short-term pain relief, the researchers said.
"Regardless of dose, the prescription drug diclofenac is the most effective drug among painkillers in terms of improving pain and function in osteoarthritis," said lead researcher Dr. Sven Trelle. He's co-director of clinical trials at the University of Bern in Switzerland.
However, even diclofenac comes with side effects.
"If you are thinking of using a painkiller for osteoarthritis, you should consider diclofenac," Trelle said, but also keep in mind that like most NSAIDs the drug increases the risk for heart disease and death.
Tylenol manufacturer McNeil Consumer Healthcare took issue with the new study. "We disagree with the authors' interpretation of this meta-analysis and believe acetaminophen remains an important pain relief option for millions of consumers, particularly those with certain conditions for which NSAIDs may not be appropriate -- including cardiovascular disease, gastrointestinal bleeding, and renal [kidney] disease," the company said in a prepared statement.
"The safety and efficacy profile of acetaminophen is supported by more than 150 studies over the past 50 years," the company added.
The new report was published March 17 in The Lancet.
Osteoarthritis is the leading cause of pain in older people. It can impair physical activity, and that increases the risk of obesity, heart disease, diabetes and general poor health, the study authors said.
One expert said it's "not surprising" that acetaminophen won't help arthritis pain.
"Osteoarthritis is caused by inflammation of the joints, and acetaminophen is not meant for inflammation," explained Dr. Shaheda Quraishi, a physiatrist at Northwell Health Pain Center in Great Neck, N.Y.
The current research included information from 74 trials published between 1980 and 2015. These trials included more than 58,000 patients. The studies compared how well various doses of acetaminophen and seven different NSAIDs relieved arthritis pain.
The researchers found that acetaminophen was slightly better than an inactive placebo. But they added that taken by itself, acetaminophen has no role in treating osteoarthritis, regardless of dose.
The maximum daily dose of diclofenac -- a prescription pain reliever -- was the most effective treatment for pain and disability, the new study showed. The researchers also found diclofenac was better than the maximum doses of NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, naproxen (Aleve) and celecoxib (Celebrex).
In addition to not helping with pain, one expert pointed out that acetaminophen can also be dangerous.
"Acetaminophen may not be as safe as most people would believe: it is known to be toxic to the liver, and acetaminophen overdose is a leading cause of liver transplantation," said Dr. Nicholas Moore. He's from the department of pharmacology at the University of Bordeaux in France. Moore is also the co-author of an accompanying journal editorial.
"NSAIDs are much more effective painkillers, and avoiding them puts patients at risk of overdosing with acetaminophen," he said.
New painkillers are needed, but "narcotics are not a good choice," Moore added. Prescription narcotic painkillers -- drugs such as Oxycontin, Vicodin and Percocet -- are not as effective as NSAIDs for inflammatory pain, he explained. And the risk of dependency or overdose with narcotics is considerable, he added.
"We should look also at older drugs that may have been discarded, and perhaps work more to understand the mechanism of action of acetaminophen to develop a new, more effective and less toxic drug of the same class, or develop new classes of painkillers," Moore suggested.
Copyright © 2016 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR NEXT NEWS ARTICLE
SOURCES: Sven Trelle, M.D., co-director, clinical trials, University of Bern, Switzerland; Nicholas Moore, M.D., Ph.D., department of pharmacology, University of Bordeaux, France; Shaheda Quraishi, physiatrist, Northwell Health Pain Center, Great Neck, N.Y.; McNeil Consumer Healthcare, statement, March 17, 2016; March 17, 2016, The Lancet
From
Arthritis Resources
Tips to Pamper Your Joints
Painkillers and Opioid Use Disorder
How Well Are You Living With AS?
Featured Centers
How Is Your MS Care Routine? Assess Yourself
11 Things Not to Do If You Want to get Pregnant
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
World Class Heart Care
Living Donor Kidney Donation
Treat Enlarged Prostate
Treating Baby Eczema
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Related Article
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Symptoms & Treatment
What is rheumatoid arthritis (RA)? Learn about juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Discover rheumatoid arthritis (RA) symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment.
Read more: Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Symptoms & Treatment
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth