Aleve (Naproxen sodium) | MyMigraineTeam
Many features of MyMigraineTeam will not work unless you enable JavaScript support in your browser.
Sign up / Log in
NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUG (NSAID)
Aleve (Naproxen sodium)
3211 people have indicated they have taken Aleve
Overview
Aleve is an over-the-counter medication used to treat mild to moderate osteoarthritis pain. Aleve is also referred to by its drug name, Naproxen. Naproxen is also sold under the brand name Naprosyn. Naproxen is sometimes used to prevent migraines, as well as to relieve ongoing migraines.
Aleve is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). NSAIDs help reduce fever, pain, and inflammation. Aleve is believed to work by inhibiting the production of chemicals that promote inflammation and blood clot formation in the body.
How do I take it?
Take Aleve according to directions given by your doctor or found on the medication package. Do not exceed the recommended dosage.... read more
Aleve comes in tablet, caplet, liquid gel, and gel cap forms.
Side effects
The FDA-approved label for Aleve lists common side effects including the sensations of spinning or constant movement, changes in hearing, upset stomach, and gas.
Rare but serious side effects listed for Aleve include stroke, heart attack, and serious gastrointestinal injury.
For more details about this treatment, visit:
Aleve – Bayer
http://alevepro.com/en/home/product-information/
Aleve side effects - Drugs.com
http://www.drugs.com/sfx/aleve-side-effects.html
Aleve – Naproxen for migraine prevention : an introduction – Migraine.com
https://migraine.com/migraine-treatment/aleve-n...
Aleve (Naproxen sodium) Questions
Question:
daith piercing
Answer:
not true... I'm a piercer here in Philadelphia PA we have nerves throughout our entire body not just the left side... your faith should be done on the side you have the migraine on the most...if all over the head then both sides would be ideal read more
ask a question about Aleve
view all questions about Aleve view all conversations about Aleve
Join today!
Start meeting others who understand
We never share your personal information with anyone.
Continue with Facebook
Sign up with your email
Already a Member? Log in
×
Welcome back!
Log in to gain access to the thousands of comments being shared on MyMigraineTeam.
log in
×
ABOUT MIGRAINES TYPES DIAGNOSIS CAUSES SYMPTOMS TREATMENTS RESOURCES
Learn more...ABOUT MIGRAINES TYPES DIAGNOSIS CAUSES SYMPTOMS TREATMENTS RESOURCES
MyMigraineTeam is the social network for those living with migraines. Get the emotional support you need from others like you, and gain practical advice and insights on managing treatment or therapies for migraines. MyMigraineTeam is the only social network where you can truly connect, make real friendships, and share daily ups and downs in a judgement-free place.
Quick Links
Q+A Treatments A-Z Resources Provider directory Are you a provider? Crisis
About Us
What is MyMigraineTeam? Partner with us Terms of service Press/News Privacy policy Cookie policy
Help With This Site
Getting started FAQ Community guidelines Contact us
Get the MyMigraineTeam mobile app
© 2019 MyHealthTeams. All rights reserved.
MyMigraineTeam is not a medical referral site and does not recommend or endorse any particular Provider or medical treatment.
No information on MyMigraineTeam should be construed as medical and/or health advice.