Athlete's Foot Treatment, Symptoms, Causes, Cream & Home Remedy
Topics A-Z Slideshows Images Quizzes Medications
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©2018 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved. eMedicineHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See Additional Information.
home skin conditions & beauty centerTopic Guide
Athlete's Foot
Medical Author: Gary W. Cole, MD, FAAD
Gary W. Cole, MD, FAAD
Dr. Cole is board certified in dermatology. He obtained his BA degree in bacteriology, his MA degree in microbiology, and his MD at the University of California, Los Angeles. He trained in dermatology at the University of Oregon, where he completed his residency.
Medical Editor: William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR
William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR
Dr. Shiel received a Bachelor of Science degree with honors from the University of Notre Dame. There he was involved in research in radiation biology and received the Huisking Scholarship. After graduating from St. Louis University School of Medicine, he completed his Internal Medicine residency and Rheumatology fellowship at the University of California, Irvine. He is board-certified in Internal Medicine and Rheumatology.
Athlete's Foot Related Articles
Ringworm on Body
Skin Problems Slideshow
Is It Contagious Quiz
Athlete's Foot 1
Jock Itch
Ringworm Slideshow
Athlete's Foot 2
Athlete's Foot Facts
Athlete's Foot Causes
Athlete's Foot Symptoms and Signs
When to Seek Medical Care for Athlete's Foot
Diagnosis of Athlete's Foot
Home Remedies for Athlete's Foot
Medications and Treatment for Athlete's Foot
Prevention of Athlete's Foot
Prognosis of Athlete's Foot
Athlete's Foot Topic Guide
Doctor's Notes on Athlete's Foot Symptoms
Athlete's Foot Facts
Athlete's foot refers to a fungal skin eruption that is confined to the foot, in both athletes and nonathletes. It can occur anywhere on the foot, including the sole, toe webs, and back of the foot.
"Athlete's foot" is a commonly used popular term that can refer to any skin inflammation of the foot in an athlete. While this frequently is a result of fungal infections, although this is not the strict definition of this entity.
Athlete's Foot Causes
Readers Comments 1
Share Your Story
Dermatitis affecting the foot can be caused by contact allergens, irritants, sweat and rash (intertrigo), poorly fitting shoes, psoriasis, and interdigital bacterial toe web infections, and fungal infections.
Fungi (either yeasts or molds) cause athlete's foot.
These fungi can be contracted by sharing the shoes or socks of an infected person.
They need a warm moist environment to flourish and can be found growing on the floors of locker rooms and public showers and in swimming pools and whirlpools.
Athlete's foot seems to be relatively uncommon in humans who rarely wear closed shoes. It is most common is older adult males.
Adult Skin Problems Slideshow
Quiz: Is Ringworm Contagious?
Gallery of Skin Problems and Images Collection
Athlete's Foot Symptoms and Signs
Readers Comments 5
Share Your Story
Most commonly, athlete's foot is characterized by cracking and itchy, moist, white, scaly lesions or sores between the toes. It frequently spreads to the sole of the foot.
Another type of athlete's foot is a dry, scaly form that causes a reddish "moccasin-like" area over the soles of the feet. This type often affects both feet.
Less frequently, this infection may involve painful blistering lesions.
When to Seek Medical Care for Athlete's Foot
If your athlete's foot inhibits your normal daily activities, you should seek medical attention. If it does not bother you and is only a cosmetic annoyance, then a visit to a medical professional may not be necessary.
A simple fungal infection such as athlete's foot can become "super-infected" with bacteria. If this should happen, the rash will become increasingly painful and red. Your foot may become swollen, and you may develop blisters and even open sores in the infected area. These are indications that you may need oral antibiotics and will need to call your doctor.
It is unlikely that athlete's foot would ever become severe enough that a trip to a hospital's emergency department is required. However, if you have diabetes or any other type of illness that will make it hard for your body to fight off an infection, athlete's foot may become a more serious skin problem.
If you develop severe pain, redness, or swelling, notice a pus-like drainage, see large blisters on your foot, or if you develop a fever, you should be seen as soon as possible by your doctor.
Diagnosis of Athlete's Foot
The accurate diagnosis of athlete's foot can usually be made simply by looking at the rash. The diagnosis can also be confirmed by looking at scrapings of the infected area of the foot under a microscope. The doctor will see microscopic fungal elements on the slide.
If the doctor suspects a secondary bacterial infection, he will prescribe the proper antibiotic.
Home Remedies for Athlete's Foot
Many over-the-counter antifungal medications can be applied to the affected area. These creams should be used sparingly but regularly, at least once a day. An application the size of a chocolate chip should be adequate to cover the entire bottom of your foot.
It is important to keep your feet clean and dry. Wear clean, absorbent socks made of natural fibers, such as cotton, and change them during the day if your feet become moist or sweaty.
If possible, remove the insoles of shoes and sneakers to allow them to dry out over night.
Dusting the inside of your shoes and socks with talcum powder or a medicated powder such as Zeasorb-AF will help to decrease the moisture level.
Alternate wearing different pairs of shoes to allow them to dry out for a day or two at a time.
If you plan to see your physician for diagnosis and treatment of your athlete's foot, it would be desirable to stop using any antifungal medication for at least two weeks as it could inhibit an accurate diagnosis.
Bad Bugs and Their Bites
Sex Drive Killers
Cancerous Tumors
Multiple Sclerosis
Adult Skin Problems
Habits That Wreck Your Teeth
Manage Diabetes in 10 Minutes
Erectile Dysfunction
Type 2 Diabetes Warning Signs
Health Benefits of Sex
Scalp, Hair and Nails
ADHD Symptoms in Children?
Medications and Treatment for Athlete's Foot
Share Your Story
Over-the-counter antifungal creams are sufficient for treating most cases of athlete's foot. Apply them as directed to the toes and foot. Common brands include clotrimazole (Lotrimin) and terbinafine (Lamasil) (Lamasil).
If the topical antifungal medications do not clear up the infection, your doctor may prescribe an oral antifungal medication.
If you are unsure of your diagnosis and/or you plan to visit a physician within the next month, the application of 1% hydrocortisone cream purchased over the counter would be a reasonable therapeutic tactic. Since many of the causes of foot dermatosis are not infections, they may respond to this medication. Moreover, it will enhance your doctor's ability to find fungal organism should they be the cause.
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE
VIEW
Fungal Infections: Fungus Among Us
Prevention of Athlete's Foot
Simple precautions may help.
Wear sandals in public locker rooms and swimming areas.
Do not wear someone else's shoes, especially if that person has athlete's foot.
Thoroughly clean home showers and floors where family members walk barefooted to avoid spreading the fungus.
Prognosis of Athlete's Foot
Most cases of athlete's foot go away within a few weeks. More severe cases may take a month or even longer.
Athlete's Foot Sign
Rash
Rash is a general, nonspecific term that describes any visible skin outbreak. Rashes are very common in all ages, from infants to seniors, and nearly everyone will have some type of rash at some point in their life. There are a wide variety of medical diagnoses for skin rashes and many different causes. It is not possible to fully cover every type of rash in this type of article. Therefore, special mention has been given here to some of the most common types of rashes. A dermatologist is a medical provider who specializes in diseases of the skin and may need to be consulted for rashes that are difficult to diagnose and treat.
Read more about rashes »
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
From
Skin Problems and Treatments Resources
Latest Ways Psoriasis Is Treated
Skin Care for Psoriasis
All About Psoriatic Arthritis
Featured Centers
How Is Your MS Care Routine? Assess Yourself
11 Things Not to Do If You Want to get Pregnant
Reviewed on 12/14/2018
Sources:
Medically reviewed by Norman Levine, MD; American Board of Dermatology
REFERENCES:
Field, Leslie A., Brian B. Adams. "Tinea Pedia in Athletes." International Journal of Dermatology. 47 (2008): 485-492.
Wyndham, Mike. "Diagnostic Pitfalls of Plantar Dermatoses." The Practitioner. July 1997: 420.
Patient Comments & Reviews
Athlete's Foot - Symptoms
How long did the symptoms of your athlete's foot last? Was there anything that helped with symptom relief?
Post View 5 Comments
Athlete's Foot - Cause
Was the cause of your athlete's foot a condition (psoriasis, fungal infection, contact allergens) or poorly fitting shoes, sharing socks and shoes, or using public shower facilities?
Post View 1 Comment
Athlete's Foot - Treatment
What was the treatment for your athlete's foot?
Post
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED ARTICLE
Featured Slideshows
ADHD in ChildrenBetter Parenting
Atrial Fibrillation (AFib)Heart Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment
Breast Cancer Symptoms, Diagnosis and Treatment
First Aid & Emergencies Topics A-Z Slideshows Images Quizzes Medications About Us Privacy Terms of Use Advertising Policy Site Map Contact Us
WebMD Medscape Reference Medscape MedicineNet RxList OnHealth WebMDRx
©2019 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved.
eMedicineHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See Additional Information.