Does Rogaine Work for Hair Loss? (Baldness Cure, Hair Loss Vitamins, Advice)
Toggle Navigation
Biotin
Castor Oil
Coconut Oil
Finasteride (Propecia)
Foods
Minoxidil (Rogaine)
Viviscal
About
Hair Growth Pills The Free Guide to Vitamins for Growing Hair
Tag: Rogaine
Rogaine is the brand name for minoxidil, which is one of the most popular hair growth medications in the world. Here on Hair Growth Pills we have talked about Rogaine more than any other medication, and there is good reason for that. This is a product that has worked for many people, a product that has been the go-to cure for baldness for a number of years now and a product that can cure many of your hair loss woes.
Of course, minoxidil doesn’t work for everyone and there are reasons for that. If you take a look at the articles below, all of which relate to this product, then you can learn more about this and understand just why it has its limitations. There are many products that contain this drug in a generic form, and the articles that have been linked to here make mentioned of those products. However, the main focus is on the brand name.
Best Shampoo for Men’s Hair Loss
Best Shampoo for Men’s Hair Loss
By Hair Growth | July 16, 2017 | Comments 1 comment
This is a question that we get asked a lot: just what is the best shampoo for men’s hair loss? The truth is, this is not an easy question to answer. There are a lot of products on the market, a lot of shampoos to sift through.
However, many of these products actually use the same ingredients. In most cases that ingredient is Minoxidil, which is used in many shampoos and is also available in the popular treatment Rogaine.
Worried about your hair thinning, falling out and eventually needing a toupee yourself? Try taking vitamin-enriched products like HairBella to give your hair the support it needs and to make sure it stays strong and healthy.
In this article we’ll look at the best shampoo for men’s hair loss, factoring in many different products and focusing only on the ones that we think actually do what they promise to do.
Rogaine / Minoxidil
There is a reason this is the most popular product on the market, and that’s because it has proven to be effective time and time again. Of course, Rogaine doesn’t work for everyone. But it’s safer, it is much more effective and while it’s expensive, it’s in line with many similar products out there.
There are Rogaine formulas for men and for women. However, it has traditionally been marketed at men. It works in men pretty much the same way that it works in women. The only difference is the marketing, and the fact that more men suffer from hair loss than women.
Rogaine is FDA approved, it comes in many different forms and it has been on the market long enough for there to be plenty of reviews out there that you can read. However, there are just as many cons as there are pros.
For one, while Rogaine is fairly cheap per bottle, that price escalates considerably when you factor in that you have to use it for several months before you see any positive effects. The studies performed on Rogaine tested it for a period of 4 months. That’s a long time. However, these studies did report positive hair growth in the majority of men trialled, so it’s worth it.
Another concern that potential users have are the long list of side effects. This may be an FDA approved medication, but that doesn’t mean it’s completely harmless. It can cause some potential serious side effects and although these are rare, it is something to bear in mind. It’s also reason why you should not treat this medication lightly.
Keranique
Keranique Hair Growth Treatment was marketed toward women, but much like Rogaine, it can also be used by the opposite sex. And that’s not the only thing that Keranique has in common with Rogaine, as they both use the same active ingredient: Minoxidil.
Use this Keranique link to save $65 on your order courtesy of HairGrowthPills.
There are many generic formulas out there that contain Minoxidil and this is one of the most popular. It also happens to be one of the most expensive, and that has put a lot of users off. Once you factor in the cost of the shampoo, the conditioner, and the spray, this actually costs more than a treatment of Rogaine.
However, it’s worth noting that Minoxidil isn’t the only ingredient in Keranique. It also has a number of other ingredients that have been shown to help limit hair loss and speed up hair growth. Also, unlike Rogaine, Keranique can help to condition your hair. It can help to make it stronger, to give it a shine. This essentially means that Keranique Hair Growth Treatment offers the complete package.
Of course, that’s only if you can afford it and if you can bring yourself to use a product that has been labelled as being more or less exclusively for women.
Alpecin Shampoo
If Keranique is designed to appeal to women then Alpecin is clearly designed to appeal to men. This bottle of shampoo even looks like a bottle of motor oil. So, they clearly know that men have been put off by shampoos deemed “too feminine” and they have gone all-out to try and change that and to offer something that is definitely, 100%, without a doubt: male.
Marketing has played a big role in the success of this product, and not just because it has been designed to appeal to a niche male market. That marketing has also focused on the fact that this is a “caffeine shampoo”. We are almost programmed to believe that caffeine speeds everything up. It’s why they add it to painkillers, and it’s why it has been added to this shampoo.
But like those painkillers, there is very little truth to the notion that caffeine can somehow speed up hair growth. However, saying that, there have been some mildly interesting studies that have suggested this could be a genuinely helpful product. There are just as many studies that say otherwise and just as many users that back them up. But there is something to this shampoo.
Also, while everyone is a little undecided on whether or not it will work for baldness or hair growth, they are a little more confident in the belief that Alpecin shampoo works to condition and strengthen your hair. It’s also one of the cheapest hair growth shampoos you will find and is considerably cheaper than any Minoxidil shampoos.
Other Shampoo for Men’s Hair Loss
The three mentioned above are the ones that standout for us the most, deserving of any list of the best shampoo for men’s hair loss. But in all honesty, when it comes to actual hair growth, it’s only the two listed first that seem to have any sort of positive effect.
There are other shampoo for men’s hair loss out here that might have a similar effect though. Many of them are just different brand names for similar products and formulas. The trick is to focus on the things that work and to remember a few key points:
Minoxidil is the same in any formula. There may be other stuff added alongside it, but it’s the same ingredient and in most cases it is the only active ingredient.
Vitamins don’t always work. We have explored the benefits of vitamins for hair growth many times on this site. That’s one of the reasons Hair Growth Pills was created. However, those vitamins often need to be consumed, and even when they are, they don’t always work. There are exceptions, but products rely on scant public knowledge and marketing, and rarely focus on what actually works.
Caffeine is for drinking. It may seem logical that it somehow speeds up hair growth, but it does not. Your hair doesn’t consume it and then suddenly perk up. And as far as anyone knows, caffeine does not have any benefits as a topical medicine.
How to Stimulate Hair Growth (Vitamins, Minerals, Essential Oils, More)
How to Stimulate Hair Growth (Vitamins, Minerals, Essential Oils, More)
By Hair Growth | April 21, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
There are many ways that you can trigger hair growth, filling-in that receding hairline and those bald patches, or simply speeding up the natural growth process. In this article we will show you how to stimulate hair growth quickly, easily and through any number of methods.
How to Stimulate Hair Growth: Vitamins and Supplements
We find that the best way to stimulate hair growth is to opt for 100% natural vitamins and minerals, all of which can be found in the food you eat. It sounds a little too simplistic, even hard to believe, but the health of your hair depends greatly on your diet. The reason this should be the first step is because a deficiency in many vitamins and minerals, including zinc, iron and vitamin C, can trigger hair loss.
There are many people out there who are expiring hair loss symptoms and are using all kinds of topical treatments and shampoos to treat them, failing to realize that the reason behind their hair loss is a simple vitamin deficiency and that the only thing they need to fix it is a multi-vitamin. What’s more, an excess of certain key vitamins, such as Biotin and Vitamin B5 (pantothenic acid) may be able to trigger further hair growth, even in healthy individuals. That’s because these vitamins are involved in the hair growth process, so it only makes sense that an abundance of them will allow for more hair to come through.
Supplements are also good for this. By “supplements” we mean products that contain a mixture of vitamins and minerals. These basically bring a host of ingredients together, focusing on the ones that can help with hair growth in some way. By talking all of these together you’re giving your hair the best chance to grow naturally.
How to Stimulate Hair Growth: Essential Oils
There are many essential oils that can also help to stimulate hair growth. These work by nourishing your scalp, by cleaning the area, killing bacteria and providing nutrients to the roots. There are many essential oils that can help with this, including lavender oil and chamomile oil, both of which we have discussed at great length on this site already.
These oils obviously need to be diluted, because they may do some damage to your scalp and/or skin if you apply them directly in undiluted form. One of the most important things to remember about these oils is that while they are natural, they are also very potent and can be dangerous. So, take care with them and don’t make any assumptions before doing your research.
As with vitamins and minerals you can also combine these oils to create a concoction that offers more benefits and delivers more results. For instance, you can combine sage oil, lavender oil and chamomile oil to create something that can kill growth-inhibiting bacteria, can clean the area and can also provide nutrients to the root. It’s an assault on all fronts, and because it’s topical you can even apply such a product while also taking a supplement.
How to Stimulate Hair Growth: Other Natural Products
There are many other natural products that can help. Fats tend to be very good for stimulating hair growth. Olive oil is one of the ones we have discussed at great length already. This is a great oil when consumed and when applied directly. It may not stimulate growth directly, but it can help to condition your hair and it can also help to keep the area moisturized and protected.
Coconut oil and argan oil are also very good for this purpose, as is castor oil. All of these can keep the area protected and they can also deliver nourishment. Also, as with the supplements and the essential oils, these can be combined for maximum effect. We have discussed this before and find that castor oil works well when it is combined with a gel such as aloe vera gel. You can also mix it with coconut oil, which makes a very good base ingredient.
These products are cheap, readily available and safe, so there is no reason not to use them.
How to Stimulate Hair Growth: Medications
There are two main medications designed to stimulate hair growth. These are Minoxidil and Finasteride, also known by the names Rogaine and Propecia. The former is applied as a topical solution, typically on bald spots and on a receding hair line. The latter is taken as a tablet.
Both of these are effective, but there are problems with them. The first issue is that they are not effective in all users. There is no definitive figure regarding who can benefit and who can not benefit, but in our experience they tend to work roughly 50% of the time when they are taken properly and for the prescribed length of time. The number of people that experience positive results using these products is actually much lower, especially with Minoxidil, but only because they don’t use them for the full length of time required.
One of the reasons behind that is because it’s too expensive, and that’s another issue with both of these medications. They can set you back quite a lot of money if you purchase a full course of treatment. You can buy generic though if you want to cut costs, just make sure you don’t try to cut corners by shortening your treatment.
Other issues include a number of side effects; the fact that Propecia is not approved for use in women; and the fact there are many low-quality copies of these drugs on the market. Read our articles on Minoxidil for Men and Minoxidil for Women to learn more.
How to Stimulate Hair Growth: Surgery
This is often seen as the last resort, but it is effective, it is relatively safe and it works, so if you have the money then it can also be your first choice of treatment. The surgery in this case is a hair transplant, which involves taking hair from one part of you body (often the back of your head/neck) and then transplanting it in the problem areas. The hair is transplanted one follicle at a time, and after you have given it time to heal it should begin to grow as normal.
You can use medications (such as this mentioned above) to speed up the growth process, but typically you will have the results you seek in a matter of months anyway. The only real issue with this treatment is the price, because it’s not cheap. In fact, it is the most expensive treatment we have mentioned on this page.
That’s the bad news. The good news is that it’s also the most effective, working nearly 100% of the time.
How to Stimulate Hair Growth: Radical Treatments
There are a few other treatments worth discussing. We have already showed you how to stimulate hair growth using traditional methods and even drastic options, but there are less traditional and even more drastic options out there. One such method is known as PRP, which we discussed at length on our PRP Hair Loss page.
This treatment involves drawing blood from your body, processing the blood and then injecting it into your scalp. It sounds bizarre, and it’s not cheap, but the research is positive on this one, almost as much as hair transplants. And while it is expensive, it is actually cheaper than hair transplants. So if you can’t quite afford to get the grafts then you might want to consider this treatment.
There is also a lot of research being done on stem cell therapy. This is a treatment that is changing the medical sector and is helping with all kinds of diseases and ailments. One of those may just include hair loss, although a lot more work needs to be done on this before we can be sure about its effectiveness.
Male Pattern Baldness: What is it and How to Cure it
Male Pattern Baldness: What is it and How to Cure it
By Hair Growth | April 7, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Male Pattern Baldness is very common, with a large number of men experiencing symptoms before they turn 21, and with the vast majority suffering before they hit their 40th birthday. It’s something that is seen as unavoidable, yet something we have grown to hate. Men don’t like it and try their best to cover it up, and you’d be hard pressed to find anyone who found it attractive.
So, just what is Male Pattern Baldness, what can cause it, and what can you do to stop it?
What Doesn’t Cause Male Pattern Baldness
There are a number of causes of Male Pattern Baldness, but there are also many myths out there. Some old wives tales suggest that you can go bald by repeatedly running your hand through your hair or combing it too much. This likely comes from assertive mothers who became annoyed at their slightly narcissistic sons and tried to scare them away from the mirror.
But it’s just not true. Unless you happen to have asbestos fingers that is, in which case you have more serious things to worry about. There is also a myth that warns against wearing a baseball cap too much. This likely comes from the fact that the majority of old men that wear baseball caps have Male Pattern Baldness. But they wear caps because of the baldness, not the other way around.
It is true that repeated damage can cause hair loss. This is something we have discussed in our Causes of Hair Loss in Men article. However, you need to be fixing it into some pretty tight and complicated hairstyles in order for this to happen, and a simple baseball cap won’t do any harm.
What Does Cause Male Pattern Baldness
One of the main causes of Male Pattern Baldness is genetics. So, you should be blaming your father and not your baseball cap. Your father’s hair and you grandfather’s hair is actually a good indicator of whether or not you will experience baldness.
If they both had thick and long hair late into their lives and you are balding early, then there is a good chance that something else is at fault. There are a number of other causes. These can include stress, medication, diet, smoking, alcohol, drugs and a sensitivity to DHT, which can also cause problems with your prostate.
Infections such as parasites can also cause hair loss, as can lyme disease and alopecia, which is an immune disorder. For some problems there are immediately obvious causes and ones that can be easily fixed. For others, it’s much harder to find a cause and nearly impossible to cure it.
Is There a Male Pattern Baldness Cure?
The important thing to know is that there is no cure for Male Pattern Baldness. No amount of supplements or vitamins can fix this problem. However, there are products that can slow it down, products that can stop it at its source and help you to maintain the hair that you have. One such product is Minoxidil for Men, which is applied direct to the scalp and has shown to be effective in the majority of users; and Finasteride, which also goes by the brand name Propecia and works by reducing the levels of DHT in the body.
There are many hair growth vitamins such as Biotin that can help, and you can also create homemade formulas from substances such as Castor Oil, Coconut Oil and more. These probably won’t trigger any kind of hair growth and they are definitely not cures. However, they can help to limit hair loss and at the least they can also help to strengthen the hair that you have. Think of them as very potent and useful shampoos that have the added bonus of potentially triggering hair growth and you can’t go wrong.
There is an actual cure for Male Pattern Baldness that doesn’t involve tablets or shampoos and that’s a hair transplant. This works by taking hair from one place and grafting it onto another. It basically replaces dead hair follicles with living ones and it can restore your lost hair and ensure that it grows back and keeps growing. However, it’s not cheap and surgery should never be a snap decision, even if it is a simple procedure.
Tips for Curing Male Pattern Baldness
There are a few important things to bear in mind regardless of which product you use and how bad your hair loss is:
The Sooner You Start, The Better: If you start using hair growth products as soon as you start to experience hair loss, then you can make sure that you lose very little hair from that point on. Many men began using Propecia when they were in their 40s and have gone on to maintain full heads of hair well into their 70s. There is even a rumor that Donald Trump used the drug, which might explain why he has so much hair despite his age.
There is Always Hope: Don’t give up just because you have already lost a lot of hair. There’s always something worth saving. You may have a blasé attitude now, but in 5 years when the hair you have now goes you will regret not trying to salvage it. Using hair growth treatments can help to maintain the hair you have and to make it thicker and stronger. That’s always worth having.
Keep Using: If you use products like Minoxidil for a few months and experience some results, don’t stop and assume you’ll be okay in the long run. If you stop, then the hair loss with continue. Minoxidil and products like it essentially halt the hair loss process, but as soon as you take that block away, then it will continue.
Stack-up: There are many products that you can use together. You can create concoctions from oils like omega 3 and omega 6 and still take products like Finasteride, for instance. However, you need to be very careful with this. It is not advise that you take Rogaine and Propecia together. You should also keep an eye out for shampoos that contain these ingredients. For example, Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment contains 2% Minoxidil, which means there is no need to take it with other Minoxidil products or with any other products that cause contraindications.
Best Hair Loss Shampoos for Women (Hair Growth Formulas)
Best Hair Loss Shampoos for Women (Hair Growth Formulas)
By Hair Growth | March 31, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Looking for some hair loss solutions? This list of the best hair loss shampoos for women might be able to help you.
We have combed through the best products on the market and have pieced together a list of the shampoos that standout the most for us. These shampoos have been listed below in no particular order and are typically available all over the world. However, there may be some restrictions with some of these shampoos depending on where you live.
Minoxidil for Women
We have covered this product extensively in our Minoxidil for Women article, so we won’t repeat that here. Needless to say, this is a high quality, FDA approved and clinically proven product that does seem to work, but doesn’t work for everyone. It is available as a generic product, as Women’s Rogaine, and as a formulation in products such as Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment.
As good as it is (or rather, can be) it’s not the ultimate product. It can cause side effects, it doesn’t work for everyone and it can also be expensive. Visit the linked page to learn more about this product, the many forms that it comes in and what we think about it. It does deserve to be on a list of the best hair loss shampoos for women, but there are also many other top products out there that deserve a little discussion. And because we’ve already focused heavily on Minoxidil for Women, it’s now time for those other products to shine.
Argan Oil Shampoo
This oil is used as an ingredient in many high-end shampoos. You can also buy it in its pure form. When choosing an argan oil shampoo it’s important not to be swayed by marketing claims and to look at the actual ingredients. Anything can call itself an “Argan Oil Shampoo” if it contains just the smallest amount, but you need it to be a main ingredient if it’s going to do you any good and if it’s going to deserve a place on any list of the best hair loss shampoos for women.
Argan oil works because it is an effective moisturizer. It helps to lock moisture into the roots and the hair itself. Like ingredients such as castor oil, it is also high in Vitamin E, which is great for your skin and for your hair. Argan oil is also easy absorbed into the skin and does not leave any kind of greasy residue, which is why it is often used in skin creams and why it works well on its own as a moisturizer.
One of the best hair loss shampoos for women that has argan oil as a main ingredient is the simply named Argan Oil Shampoo by Art Naturals. This consists mainly of argan oil, but there is also some aloe vera and rosemary in there for balance.
Pura D’or
This deserves to be on any list of the best hair loss shampoos for women and makes it near the top of ours. It is an all-natural and organic shampoo that contains many of the hair grow vitamins we have discussed here on Hair Growth Pills. These include Vitamin B compounds like Niacin and Biotin, both of which have been proven to help strengthen, repair, condition and grow your hair. What’s more, a deficiency in these compounds can actually trigger hair loss, so this shampoo helps you to top up (although, in truth, you should be consuming these vitamin in the food you eat or as a supplement).
There are no harmful ingredients used in the creation of this hair loss shampoo. No parabens, no sulfates. It’s all natural, it’s all organic and it’s all exactly how it should be. It may not be the most effective hair loss shampoo on the market, but those natural ingredients mean it is safe to use everyday. It may also be safe to use in combination with other hair loss treatments.
Avalon Organics Biotin B-Complex
Created by the haircare experts at Avalon, this product aims to help build your strands from the root to the tip. It is on our list of the best hair loss shampoos for women because it is effective, it has a variety of uses and it is also very cheap. Like Pure D’or above, it may not be the most effective shampoo for hair loss you will come across, but it can also be used as an everyday shampoo.
And let’s be honest, once you move away from treatments like Minoxidil, the effectiveness declines somewhat. So, you’re really only looking for a shampoo that offers some form of benefit, and a shampoo that also aids with conditioning and strengthening, as opposed to s shampoo that can perform miracles. Because if it was that easy to cure hair loss with a few vitamins, minerals and fancy oils, then there would be no bald people in the world.
If you like this shampoo then we would also recommend some other shampoos from the Avalon range. There are a number of these out there, all with different purposes. These is one of the better ones we have encountered in the range, but there are others, including the Rosemary Volumizing Shampoo.
Waterman Grow More
This is a hugely popular product. It is one of our favorites and a good way to round off a list of the best hair loss shampoos for women. There are a host of effective hair loss vitamins, minerals and more packed into this shampoo. Some of them have been proven to assist with hair growth, some of them are all marketing hype. But it’s nice to see a shampoo that brings all of these together.
This means that along with ingredients like argan oil, rosemary extract and biotin, this formula also contains caffeine, vitamin B7 and more. They claim to have tested it on many different hair types and hair styles, all with positive results. We’re not sure about that, but we have experienced some positive feedback and it certainly seems to be able to get the job done.
What’s more like all the other products on this list of the best hair loss shampoos for women, it’s natural, it is composed mainly of vitamins and minerals, and it is therefore relatively harmless. There are no parabens or other nasty ingredients either and there are also many extracts and vitamins in here that you won’t find in the products mentioned above. So, even if it doesn’t work, at least the only thing you stand to lose is a few dollars.
Minoxidil for Men (Minoxidil Beard, Results, Rogaine, Side Effects,)
Minoxidil for Men (Minoxidil Beard, Results, Rogaine, Side Effects,)
By Hair Growth | March 29, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Minoxidil is an FDA approved medication that is prescribed for use in the treatment of alopecia, a form of hair loss. It is applied topically and can help with hair loss on the head and the face. Minoxidil for Men, also known by brand names like Men’s Rogaine and Rogaine for Men, is a formulation of this medication that is designed to be used by men.
In this article we will look at Minoxidil for Men in full, covering everything from results and application, to side effects and more. If you’re thinking about using Rogaine for Men or any of the generic formulas, then this is the article for you. If you’re female, then check with our Minoxidil for Women article instead.
The goal of this guide is to answer the following questions, all of which are asked on a regular basis by our readers, and the answers will be addressed here:
Can I use Minoxidil on my Beard?
How Long Before Minoxidil Begins to Work?
Why Does Minoxidil Not Work for Me?
Is Minoxidil Safe for Men?
Minoxidil for Men: How to Use
To use Men’s Rogaine or a generic formula of Men’s Minoxidil, you just need to follow the instructions on the packaging. Typically, this will involve washing your hair, applying the product and then repeating this process a set number of times a day and for a set number of months. We can’t give you the instructions here simply because they differ from product to protect. However, they will all include detailed instructions, as well as a leaflet that describes potential problems that you might encounter; the length of time that it might take for you to notice results; and what you should do if you make a mistake.
There are many formulas that use this substance and they go by many names. Rogaine for Men is one of the most popular, but there are also generic version of Men’s Minoxidil that can be bought either under other brand names like Keranique Hair Growth Treatment, or as simple, affordable solutions from Walmart, Costco and other major stores.
The application, the amount of times you need to apply it and the length of time you need to wait will depend on the brand, the concentration (Minoxidil 2% or Minoxidil 5%, for instance) and any other active ingredients that are present. So, make sure you always read those instructions and make sure you follow them to the letter.
Minoxidil for Men: Does it Work?
It does work for some men. There is no denying that. However, it doesn’t work all of the time for every single man that tries it. Rogaine for Men is something that can be very hit and miss. After all, if that wasn’t the case then there would be very few bald men in the world. They would all be taking some form of Minoxidil for Men, they would all be experiencing positive results and they’d all be walking around with a big mane of hair.
Unfortunately for those men, that’s just not the case.
The reason it works for some men and not for others is not entirely clear. The cause of baldness may have something to do with it (read our guide on Causes of Hair Loss in Men to learn more). Sometimes, there is just no hope, as sad as it is to say. The majority of failed treatments are the result of people just not following the instructions.
In many cases, they use it for a few weeks, don’t see the results they expect or want, and then give up. Some may even wait for couple months before thinking they have been throwing their money away and then giving up. Others may not be applying it correctly, washing it off too soon, or using something that stops the drug from working.
If you follow the directions to the letter, as mentioned above, then you are giving Minoxidil for Men every chance to work. It might still not work, of course. But your chances certainly increase when you use it properly and you give it plenty of time to show some results.
Minoxidil Beard?
We get asked this a lot: Can I use Minoxidil on my beard? The simple answer is yes. In fact, many users have used Minoxidil for Men to grow their beard. It helps to speed up the process. It helps to give the the beard they want without needing to wait countless months for it. In our Beard Growth and Beard Products articles we discussed many products that you can use that are 100% safe. Minoxidil for Men is not one of those, but it is certainly effective.
To use Minoxidil on your beard you should first wash your face and then start applying small drops of Minoxidil for Men to the area. Once you have finished, make sure your wash your hands thoroughly. You don’t want to end up with hairy hands.
You will need to use less on your face than you would on your head. In fact, many users of Rogaine for Men have seen results with as little as 0.5ml. This is a very small amount and means that you can stretch your formula for many months. As a result, it’s much cheaper, and because you’re using a smaller amount you may also be reducing the potential for side effects.
Of course, when you start showing off your new beard to your fully-bearded friends, you might want to omit the fact that you used Rogaine for Men to get there. Let them think that you grew it with your own manliness and then bathe in the glory of their bearded appreciation.
Minoxidil for Men: Side Effects
So, just what are the side effects for this medication? Well, many of them are actually the result of an allergic reaction, which is a very rare occurrence to say the least. If you have a reaction to it then you may experience everything from a rash to chest pains and swelling of the extremities. There are other side effects though, including:
Trouble Sleeping
Dry Skin
Headaches
Temporary Hair Loss
Overeating
Add the many side effect of allergic reactions to that list and it’s fair to say that Minoxidil for Men is not safe, at least not 100%. However, it’s important to note that these side effects are rare. The majority of users will not experience any side effects at all. In fact, the main complaint has nothing to do with side effects and everything to do with the Rogaine for Men formula not working as they thought it would.
That’s something that you have to consider; it’s a risk that you have to take. Because whether you are using Minoxidil on your beard or you head, there is a good chance that it just won’t work. If that is the case then you have just wasted a small fortune on something that didn’t do anything for you.
You might think that’s a small price to pay for the chance at getting that full head of hair or that full beard. You might think that it’s just not worth it. That’s up to you to decide. Just make sure that you don’t half-ass it. The worst thing you can do is invest big, try it for a couple months and then stop. Trust us when we say that the results probably won’t show at that point and that you need to give it time.
So, make a note of when you started, pay close attention to the bald patches that you are looking to fix; take pictures, take notes, follow instructions and then see where you are in 6 months. If nothing has happened by that point then you can start thinking that you have just wasted your money.
Best Hair Loss Solutions (Baldness Cures, Hair Growth, Eyebrows, Eyelashes)
Best Hair Loss Solutions (Baldness Cures, Hair Growth, Eyebrows, Eyelashes)
By Hair Growth | March 28, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Suffering from hair loss? Worried that this is the beginning of a long, difficult and depressing process that ends up with you losing all of you hair? Don’t worry, because there might be something that you can do about it. In this article we will try to help you out as we look at the best hair loss solutions available to both men and women.
FDA Approved Medication
If you are a man, then you can safely use a product that goes by the name “Finasteride” or the brand name “Propecia”. This works by reducing the amount of DHT in your body. This is the chemical that attacks your hair follicles and stops them from growing hair. By limiting the amount of DHT in your body, you can limit the amount of hair loss you experience.
This is easily one of the best hair loss solutions for men, but it has not been approved for women. There are issues with birth defects and potential hormonal problems, so women should avoid it. There is an FDA approved medication for females though and that’s Minoxidil. This is a topical solution that works over the course of many months and can help to ease hair lost through alopecia and female pattern baldness.
To learn more about this, pay a visit to our Minoxidil for Women page. You should also take a peek at our Keranique Hair Growth Treatment Page. This is a shampoo that contains 2% Minoxidil, the main active ingredient.
Vitamins and Minerals
Your hair loss may be the result of a vitamin or mineral deficiency. Therefore, one of the best hair loss solutions for you is to simply discover what this deficiency is and then make sure you get enough of that vitamin/mineral going forward.
If you are not getting enough iron, then your hair will suffer. The same may apply to Vitamin D. However, the vitamin that causes the most problems when you don’t get enough of it is zinc. This can actually cause hair loss, so if you are not consuming adequate amounts, your hair will begin to fall out. It will also become brittle and prone to breaking.
In our Best Hair Vitamins article and our Hair Growth Vitamins articles we also discuss how extra amounts of certain vitamins can work wonders for your hair. These are also discussed in our Foods for Hair Loss page, where we discuss how you can get these vitamins in their natural source.
Simply put, if you get a complete vitamin profile every day, then you are drastically increasing your chances of experiencing hair growth. A good diet and a good vitamin profit is therefore one of the very best hair loss solutions for both men and women.
Supplements
There are hair growth supplements out there and many of these can help. However, most of them just contain a bundle of vitamins and minerals that you pay over the odds for. Manufacturers basically add simple hair loss vitamins into one tablet, give it a fancy name and design, market it like crazy, and then hope you pay inflated prices for it.
If you break the ingredients down and buy them separately, some of the highest priced supplements will cost you just a tenth of their retail price. However, there are others that use rarer ingredients and specialist formulas. Such is the case with Viviscal. Typically, we would be dismissive of such products. However, this actually seems to work. Reviews are very good and the majority of people who use it seem to experience some kind of hair growth, making this one of the best hair loss solutions by far.
It might not work for you, of course. But the same can be said for everything out there. The good news is that this is relatively safe and if it doesn’t work, the only thing you have lost is a few dollars. The price is a issue that many will not be able to get over. So, it all depends on your budget and on how desperate you are. Don’t worry though as there are other options. Our list of the best hair loss solutions is not yet over.
Better Care
We’re not going to judge you for your routine, but if you are experiencing hair loss then there is a good chance you are doing something wrong. At the very least there is a chance that you could do something better. One of the best hair loss solutions is to stop the hair from being damaged or from falling out in the first place.
For this, you need to understand what the cause might be. So, be sure to check with our Causes of Hair Loss in Women and Causes of Hair Loss in Men articles. You might be able to find a cause that you can undo. For instance, if it’s hormonal, then a simple course of medication can fix it; if it’s pregnancy related, then it’s just a matter of time; if it’s related to hairstyles, then find a new style!
We’re always quick to look for an easy fix. We would rather take a magic pill and have our issues go away than work hard at getting them fixed. However, in many cases it just takes a little care and attention and the problem will resolve without the risk of side effects and without incurring a great expense.
Home Remedies
And finally for our list of best hair loss solutions, there are ways that you can speed up hair growth at home. You can use everything from castor oil to coconut oil and more to help. These are topical solutions that you apply direct to the source of the problem. They work in a number of ways depending on the ingredient, but typically they attack microbes that are limiting growth; they provide nourishment to your hair; and they soothe the scalp.
We have countless articles on DIY Hair Growth here on Hair Growth Pills, so take a look around and see if you can find anything to your liking. Just remember that these don’t work for all causes of hair loss. And if the cause is an infection, then you might be doing more harm than good by applying a product to the source of hair loss.
Minoxidil for Women / Rogaine for Women (Does it Work? Side Effects, Results)
Minoxidil for Women / Rogaine for Women (Does it Work? Side Effects, Results)
By Hair Growth | March 26, 2017 | Comments 1 comment
If you are experiencing hair loss as a woman then it may feel like you don’t have many options. In fact, Minoxidil for Women is one of the few options that you do have. Prescribed as a treatment for female pattern baldness and alopecia, this is the only hair loss treatment that has been approved by the FDA for use in women.
Minoxidil for Women is widely available and has been used by a number of women already, with many of them reporting results. However, it’s not all positive. There are side effects, risks. It can also be quite expensive and it’s far from a completely safe product. In this guide we’ll look at this product in full, answering all of your questions and hopefully alleviating your concerns regarding Minoxidil for Women.
Hair Growth Treatments for Women
As mentioned above, there aren’t really that many options for women when it comes to hair growth. Rogaine for Women was therefore launched into a wide open market. It had the “FDA Approved” label, it had the backing of a brand that had already proved with the male market. As a result, Rogaine for Women was an instant hit and many generic copycat formulas began to appear on the market.
The only other options that women have are hair growth vitamins and supplements, which we have already discussed extensively here on Hair Growth Pills. These are natural and safe. They are not FDA approved, but they are not medications and most of the ingredients they use are commonly found in food anyway.
There are also treatments that resolve around using certain tools or beauty treatments. Such is the case with the Dermaroller, which we have already covered. However, while this might have some (debatably) positive results when used on the skin it is unlikely to produce similar results on the hairline or scalp.
In other words, if you want something that will work more times than it will not; something that has worked for countless of people already; and something that has the scientific studies to back it up, then Rogaine for Women, or generic formulations of Minoxidil for Women, is your only option.
Hair Loss in Women
In previous articles we have explained how there can be many causes of hair loss in women. These relate to hormonal issues, trauma, infections and more. What’s more, hair loss is actually more common than you think. Not only does it affect more than 30 million women in the United States alone, but we all lose around 100 hairs every single day without any underlying problems. For women who have alopecia, which is one of the more damaging causes of hair loss, that figure increases to a minimum of 150.
So, don’t worry if you’re noticing a lot of hairs in the plughole or on the brush, it’s common. Instead, you should be on the lookout for bald spots, thinning hair, a receding hairline and any other noticeable hair loss. If you notice a problem then make sure you discuss it with a doctor so they can rule out a number of potentially serious conditions (and provide more effective treatments for ones that are not) before you start using Rogaine for women.
Minoxidil for Women: Does it Work?
It does work for many women, but not for all. The rates of success are high, but you need to use it correctly and for many months at a time, and even then you may not experience the effects that you expect. However, even users who don’t get the full hair growth they have been expecting still experience some form of growth, thickening or conditioning of their hair.
Minoxidil for Women may also go by the name “Minoxidil 5”. The “5” in this case refers to the strength of the formula, as it contains 5% Minoxidil. Some hair growth formulas only contain 2%. The product should be effective in both cases, with the lower concentrations the directions may require you to use more of the product. At the same time, you may need to be more careful when applying the higher concentrated product.
Rogaine for Women: Side Effects
There are a number of side effects to look out for when using Women’s Rogaine, as well as generic formulations of women’s Minoxidil. Many of these are the result of an allergic reaction. But that doesn’t mean they should be dismissed. We’re sure we don’t need to tell you that allergic reactions can cause serious medical complications and that they may even kill you, so don’t take these lightly if they do occur.
Low blood pressure
High blood pressure
Chest pains
Rapid heartbeat
Feeling faint and dizzy
Sudden unexplained weight changes.
Facial hair growth.
Swollen hands or feet.
Rash that lasts for a long time
If you experience any of these you should look to stop treatment and then speak to a doctor. These are rare, not common. And you should only look to continue treatment indefinitely or for an extended time if you experience no side effects at all.
Minoxidil for Women: Pros and Cons
To help you make up your mind about using Women’s Rogaine or generic formulas of women’s minoxidil, take a look at these pro and cons. Just bear in mind that these are our opinions. We have taken a neutral stance on this issue and on all treatments discussed on this site. As a potential user, you need to enter this with a neutral, yet open, mind as well. If you start looking for it as a product that can help you and even “save” you from your problems, then you will be less inclined to pay attention to the warnings.
At the same time, if you are negative about using women’s Minoxidil before taking the plunge, then you will likely pay more attention to the cons than the pros.
Pros
Results: Rogaine for women has proved to be as effective, if not more so, than any other product on the market. This is also true for the generic formulations of this medication, such as Keranique Hair Growth Treatment. It has not proved to be as effective of a hair growth treatment as Finasteride, but that has only been approved for use by men due to the complications regarding birth defects and other potential hormonal issues.
Availability: It’s one of the few hair loss treatments for women that has actually been approved by the FDA. It’s also widely available, both as a generic formula, as the brand name and as something that can be found alongside the best hair growth vitamins.
Easy to Apply: Minoxidil for women is very easy to apply and the fact that it is a topical solution as opposed to a tablet makes people feel more at ease regarding its use. The truth is, side effects still appear regardless of how it gets into your bloodstream, but it does make it more accessible.
Cons
Side Effects: You could argue that the side effects are minimal and rare, which is a positive. But when you compare those side effects to the hair loss treatments, they are actually much more common and much more serious.
Price: Minoxidil for women is fairly cheap over the short-term. But you need to be using it for many months at a time to see results. Once you start purchasing in bulk the price goes up and you might need to spend over $100 before you start seeing any results.
Rogaine for Women: Conclusion
We can’t tell you whether you should or should not use this medication. It might be able to help you, it might not. It might be cost effective, it might leave you broke and frustrated. It’s up to you to determine if it’s a good option. But before you dive into it, you should make sure that you discuss it with your doctor, try to find the cause of your hair loss and then carefully study the side effects and the pros and cons above before making your decision.
You can also find many more articles that can help you here on Hair Growth Pills. So, take a look around, learn more about hair loss, about women’s minoxidil and about alternative treatments that can help you without needing to use this medication.
Keranique Reviews (Hair Growth Treatment, Shampoo Review)
Keranique Reviews (Hair Growth Treatment, Shampoo Review)
By Hair Growth | March 18, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
We have fielded a number of questions about the effectiveness of Keranique. So, we have decided to pool many different Keranique reviews into one place, aiming to answer those questions more clearly.
As you may know, we have already covered this topic a few times on Hair Growth Pills. We recently launched a page that covered a number of your Keranique questions and essentially exposed the truth (in our opinion) of this topic. In that page we made it clear that this is a product that works for some. But it is also a product that doesn’t work for everyone, a product that has some side effects and a product that needs to be used with care.
Use this Keranique link to save $65 on your order courtesy of HairGrowthPills.
As if to emphasize that, here are a few Keranique reviews. These have been taken from readers of Hair Growth Pills, as well as a couple of our writers. We’ve tried to provide some varied opinions and have also provided a variety of test subjects so you can find someone who relates to you and might have similar experiences.
Keranique Reviews
So, let’s get to it. Below you will find a list of Keranique reviews from genuine users of this product. These should be taken as they are: opinions. At the time of writing we are not affiliated with this product or with any of their rivals. Our goal is to provide genuine, helpful opinions. We ask our readers to remember that because one user had a bad experience or a positive experience, it doesn’t mean they will.
These Keranique reviews have been provided by the reviewer and then compiled and edited by our own writers in order to ensure they are ready for publication.
Keranique Review 1: Sandy
Sandy is a 40 year old female with thinning hair.
My hair began thinning after pregnancy. I suffered from postpartum hair loss like many women, but poor diet, poor care and a number of other factors made that issue continue.
After letting it get out of hand, I had really bad thinning hair. It was wiry, thin, uncomfortable. I was embarrassed, so I used Keranique in the hope I could fix it.
Within 3 weeks I didn’t see any improvements. However, a few weeks later I began noticing that my hair was thicker. I am now 8 weeks in and I do notice some positive changes. I wouldn’t go as far as saying it cured me. But it does seem to have done something and that’s a plus.
Keranique Review 2: Michael
Michael is 56 and only has hair on the sides and back of his head.
I have been bald as a baby since I was 35. In fact my niece was born with more hair on her head than I’ve had grow on mine in 20 years!
I have used Saw Palmetto before. I have used Propecia before. I’ve used hair growth vitamins. Supplements. You name it, I have used it. Usually, it’s not easy to tell whether something works or not when you’re using so many products together like I was. But I know that none of them worked, because I didn’t see a single new hair sprout on my head!
I had avoided using Minoxidil because a friend of mine had a bad experience with it. I know it’s just one experience, these things happen. But I’m a little bit of a hypochondriac, so it put me off. If I had known that Keranique contained Minoxidil when I first took it, I wouldn’t have gone anywhere near it, but I didn’t. I saw an ad for a product that was just a simple shampoo and I dived right in. Stupid really, I know. But I did’t have any bad side effects, so everything work out in that regard.
As for positive effects, I didn’t see any of those either.
I followed the label. I did as I should have done. But I didn’t see anything on the top of my head. I did notice that the hairs on the sides and back of my head seemed to grow. I’m not sure if that’s just my imagination or if that is actually the case. I’m now wondering if the hair follicles on the top of my head are somehow dead, in which case the Keranique never stood a chance.
I know many Keranique reviews are hit and miss. I’m a rarity in the sense that I’m still up in the air with this one. I imagine that it probably will work, but that my scalp, on the top at least, is beyond help. I’m now contemplating hair transplants and will maybe order some more Keranique when that happens. That way I can truly understand if it works. And if it does, it will mean thicker, longer hair in a place I previous had none!
Keranique Review 3: Kieran
Kieran is a 25 year old man with a rapidly receding hair line.
I have grey hairs. But I don’t care. It’s something that my partner and mother always pointed out, as if I was supposed to be concerned about them. I think the same applies to many men and most of us don’t care. We know that grey hair is not an issue and that the real worry is a receding hair line.
Such is the case with me. I have a young face, but the hairline of a 50 year old. Add the fact that I’m a little chubby, and I look like a full-grown baby. Not ideal. If I wasn’t already married, I’d have a hard time getting a girlfriend I’m sure.
My hairline has always been a problem and a concern. So, I used Keranique to try and fix the problem. Within a few weeks I began to notice some positive effects. My hair did look thicker and it did seem to grow longer. I have always struggled with my hair. I’ve never liked it, so I’ve usually just shaved it off, which doesn’t help with the hairline problem.
But as it grew, I began liking the way it looked and felt, so I let it grow more. After 6 weeks or so, I became convinced that the Keranique had worked. My partner, on the other hand, tells me that my hairline just looks better because my hair is longer.
I’m not sure what to believe. I know for a fact that my hairline hasn’t grown back. But I also know that my hair looks and feels better and that I’m more confident than ever as a result. Who knows, maybe I’ll start slathering some of it on my chin as well. Always wanted a big beard…
Keranique Review 4: Jessica
Jessica is a 32 year old female worried about brittle, damaged hair from years of tight hairstyles.
I never realized I had a problem with my hair because it was always contorted into an elaborate hair style (editor note: never a good idea, as described on our Hair Loss for Women and Hair Loss for Men articles). When I was 30, I decided to just let my hair grow. I had a new boyfriend who hated the previous hairstyles and encouraged me to let out my natural hair.
I was shocked to discover that it was in terrible condition. It was breaking, practically falling out. So, I stopped the tight hairstyles. I stopped dyeing and even straightening. I started using Keranique and also tried to increase my level of B Vitamins and other vitamins for hair growth.
Within 3 months, my hair was much better. And I mean much better. I attributed a lot of this to the Keranique, but in truth, it might have been a combination of everything. Still, my hair looks better. It’s thicker. It’s not falling out and it even has a shine to it. So, if it is the combination that worked, then it’s a combination that someone should be bottling and selling.
Beard Growth: FAQ (How to Grow, Rate of Grow, Oils)
Beard Growth: FAQ (How to Grow, Rate of Grow, Oils)
By Hair Growth | March 16, 2017 | Comments 1 comment
Beards seem to be the “in” thing right now. For men, that is. They haven’t quite caught on with women just yet. But what if you can’t grow a beard? What if it takes you many weeks just to grow something even resembling hair? What are your options? Well, in this beard growth guide we’ll try and help you and your wimpy, scrawny beard out.
We’ll answer the following questions and more:
What Beard Oil to Use?
When do Beards Grow?
How Fast do Beards Grow?
How to Grow a Beard?
How to Grow a Beard Faster?
Why is my Beard Not Growing?
Why is my Beard Hair Coarse?
Beard Growth FAQ
Beard trends come and go. What is “hip” today might not necessarily be hip tomorrow. So, just bear in mind that you could spend the next few months doing your best to look like Grizzly Adams, only to discover that the “clean-shaven” look is back in. Such is life, such is fashion. At least you can have some fun doing it. Because as any man will tell you, there is a certain satisfaction that comes from growing a big, full beard and sharing your beardness with your bearded brothers.
What Beard Oil to Use?
There are a number of beard growth oils out there. Some work, some don’t. Some smell great, some smell like your Uncle Steve after a night at the races. Like any industry, there are products that shine and products that should be ignored. Preference also plays a role, as what works for you might not work for someone else.
However, quality is universal and if you take a look at our Beard Growth Products article you can see what we thought of the most popular beard growth oils, creams, sprays and more out there. There seems to be a new one of these hitting the market everyday, so we’ve focused on the best and the most well known.
When do Beards Grow?
Facal hair begins to grow in men between the ages of 11 and 15, depending on the individual. It begins with hairs above the corners of the lips and then spreads to a mustache by the time they are 16 or 17. Mot men will not develop a full beard until they are in their early twenties, and for some it takes even longer, with the beard not coming in until they are in their late twenties.
So, if you’re a young man and haven’t had your beard come in yet, don’t worry. It will happen in time. And don’t worry if a young friend seems to have jumped a few years ahead and has a full human forest growing on his chin even though you’re the same age and are struggling with a few wisps. Sometimes that happens—everyone is different. If anything, it’s your friend who is abnormal.
And you’re probably better looking than him anyway.
How Fast do Beards Grow?
Believe it or not, hair grows at the same rate, which is a rate of about 1,25 CM per month. As mentioned above, there are people who grow hair quicker than others, but this is more down to them starting the process earlier than anything else. If two people are able to grow full beards, then both of them will grow hair at the same rate.
Most beards will begin to show after a couple weeks and will begin to come in properly after about four weeks. Many men shave it off before it gets a chance to grow in full. They get worried that it is growing in patchy or messy, so they chop it off. But most beards go through this process. If this is happening with your beard you can either clean it up, making it level and getting rid of loose hairs or, preferably, you can just put up with the mess and wait another week or so before it grows in full.
How to Grow a Beard?
It sounds simple, but you just need to wait. There are no special tricks. You can purchase some oils and creams that might help. There are also hair loss vitamins, hair growth supplements and even hair growing foods that can all help. But basically, it just takes time.
It can become like the “watched pot that never boils” though. If you’re so hellbent on growing a beard, you can get too fussy, too stressed over each stage. It may feel like you’ve been trying forever, even though it has only been a week or two. As a result, you may give up sooner or get frustrated easier.
How to Grow a Beard Faster?
Although vitamins and supplements don’t work for everyone, they can help to condition the hair on your face and they may also be able to help it to grow. Take a look a our articles on eyelash growth and eyebrow growth. You can use the homemade techniques described therein to help with your beard as well. It’s facial hair, so it’s the same principle. And because it’s cheap, accessible and safe, you don’t lose anything even if it fails.
Why is my Beard Not Growing?
It probably is, you’re just not giving it time. Beard growth is not a quick process. However, there are other issues that may be stopping it. You may have some form of alopecia. If so, read our article on hair loss in men to learn more. It may simply be that you’re too young and not yet capable.
You can also use Rogaine for this. It works the same on beard growth as it does on hair growth.
In most cases, however, proper beard growth is just about patience.
Why is my Beard Hair Coarse?
It’s hair, so it will be coarse. And if it is short then it will be even coarser. It’s not the hair. It’s not the fact that you have been cutting it either. It’s all down to length. The shorter it is, the coarser it will feel.
Beard growth takes time, as mentioned above, and when it grows it will become softer. However, you should also look to condition it and to use some oils or creams, otherwise it may feel dry and brittle.
Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment (Shampoo, Side Effects, More)
Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment (Shampoo, Side Effects, More)
By Hair Growth | March 15, 2017 | Comments 4 comments
We get a lot of questions about Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment and whether it is effective or not. In the past week we have been hit with a deluge of them, including:
Does Keranique Work?
Is Keranique a Scam?
Is Keranique Safe?
What are the Side Effects of Keranique?
For whatever reason, this seems to be the treatment of choice right now. Never mind hair treatments like transplants and Propecia. This is the one that everyone is asking questions about. As a result, we’ve decided to do a full article on it, discussing how effective it is and answering your questions. We have also asked our readers to review Keranique and we have provided some Keranique reviews ourselves.
To see these, simply pay a visit to our Keranique reviews page. To learn more about Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment, read on.
Is Keranique a Scam?
It’s important to get this one out of the way first. The internet is very distrusting of anything that promises anything, and indeed anything that involves the movement of money. The “Is Keranique a scam?” question pretty much applies to every single product or service out there. Just swap the word “Keranique” and you can guarantee that question will be in the top ten Google searches.
Use this Keranique link to save $65 on your order courtesy of HairGrowthPills.
It’s quite amusing actually, as it works for anything. It seems that when the internet is not asking, “Is [Insert Name of Celebrity] gay?” they are asking, “Is [Insert Product/Service] a scam?”. Trust us on that one. Just type, “Is [Name]” on Google and look at the search terms that appear. You could say that we have a one-track mind, but we actually have a two-track mind, because we’re either convinced that someone is not as heterosexual as they claim or that something is not as legitimate as it claims.
Anyway, enough about that. We’ve detoured a little bit.
So, is Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment a scam? Well, no. That’s the short answer. It’s not snake oil. It’s not out to rip you off and leave you hair mangled mess. In this day and age, advertising standards agencies ensure that companies don’t make big promises that they can’t at least back up in some form or another. That doesn’t apply as stringently to the online world (where “miracle cures” are always just a banner ad away) but it applies to TV and product packaging, and Keranique is a product primarily advertised on TV.
They have studies and research to back up their claims and there are also customers who will back them up. Whether that means it is effective for you, however, is a different story. But just because something doesn’t work for you does’t mean it’s a scam. After all, that’s how medication and supplements work. It’s why they have such long side effects and it’s why one particular medication may be the answer to one person’s concerns, while it could be nothing more than a placebo to a second person and something toxic to a third.
The question you should be asking is “Does Keranique work?” and that’s what we’re going to address next. And if that wasn’t a genius segue, we don’t know what is (even though we just ruined it).
Does Keranique Work?
At the time of writing, if you punch “Does Keranique work?” into Google you get a site that claims, rather resoundingly, that no, it does not work. As far as that site is concerned, Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment may as well be water branded as fairy dust. But there are a few things to consider when looking for reviews. Firstly, someone with a bad experience is more likely to voice their opinions to the world.
The internet has turned us into angry reviewers. When we find something we might recommend it to a few friends and we might use it regularly, but we tend not to post positive reviews. But if we are offended by a product or a service, then everyone is going to find out about it. We can use cable providers as an example. How many of you would post a positive review along the lines of, “I’ve been a customer for years and have had no problems.”? Not many, right? You probably wouldn’t even know where to post it. But when you encounter a problem, when they lower your opinion of them and make your life difficult, how many of you would now rush to leave a bad review?
Bad reviews exist because nothing is perfect and because a high proportion of reviews are only focused on the negative. At the same time, you also have to factor in the fact that many positive reviews could be (we’re not saying they are) posted by the company and its affiliates. That doesn’t seem to be a huge problem in this industry, but it has become a problem elsewhere.
Simply put, reviews aren’t always reliable. If you’re going to pay attention to them, make sure you can trust them and that there is no bias either way. On our Keranique reviews page, for instance, we tried to remove the bias and compile as many honest reviews as we could. But we had to ask our readers and then decide if we were going to take their word. So, even that wasn’t a flawless method.
So…Does Keranique Work?
If you take reviews out of the equation, you have a product that contains ingredients that have been shown to be effective in regrowing and conditioning hair. We have talked about these ingredients a lot on this site. You can find such articles on our Hair Growth Pills section and our Hair Growth Supplements section.
There are ingredients that we know can help to strengthen hair and they are contained in Keranique shampoo. The main addictive ingredient is minoxidil, which also goes by the brand name Rogaine and is available in many generic formulas.
There are many topical treatments out there that consist purely of vitamins and minerals. In our Beard Growth Pills and our Eyelash Growth page we discussed a few of them. They are safe, moderately effective and completely harmless. It’s important not to put Keranique Hair Growth Treatment in the same category. It is a medication.
Is Keranique Safe?
Keranique Hair Growth Treatment is just a shampoo. So it can’t cause any problems, right? Well, not really. That seems to be the general consensus, but it’s a dangerous misconception to have.
As mentioned above, Keranique Hair Growth Treatment contains minoxidil, which does have a long list of side effects. Keranique shampoo also contains other potentially harmful ingredients. We’re not scaremongering. In fact, we think it is one of the best treatments out there when it comes to trading off potential effectiveness versus side effects. But those side effects do exist.
What are the Side Effects of Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment?
So, what are the side effects of Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment? Well, these include the side effects associated with minoxidil use. However, that doesn’t mean it’s not safe. Bear in mind that minoxidil has been FDA approved, so these side effects are considered to be rare or uncommon at most:
Inflamed Scalp
Itchiness
Swelling of Extremities
Chest Pain
Rapid Heartbeat
Unwanted Facial Hair Growth
Weight Changes
If you experience any of these, you will want to stop immediately. The side effects of minoxidil don’t pain a pretty picture of what you might turn into, so you will want to put a stop to that.
Posts navigation
OLDER POSTS
Search for:
Search
Categories
Baldness Cures
Beard Growth
Dandruff
Gray Hair
Grow Your Eyebrows
Grow your Eyelashes
Hair Growth Supplements
Hair Growth Vitamins
Hair Loss in Children
Hair Loss in Men
Hair Loss in Women
Hair Tools
Mustache Growth
Uncategorized
Recent Posts
6 Amazing Stats you Didn’t Know About Hair
The Future of Regenerative and Restorative Medicine for Hair and Skin
Medications that Can Cause Sudden Hair Loss
Legal Cases Brought Against Haircare Supplements and Companies
How Much Can you Make as a Hair Stylist (Jobs in Haircare)
Directory | Terms | Privacy Policy | Contact Us
© 2019 Hair Growth Pills
{{{ success_message.replace("{name}", optin_name) }}}
<# if(elements.indexOf("image") !== -1){ #>
<# } #> <# if(optin_title || optin_message){ #>
<# if(optin_title){ #>
{{optin_title}}
<# } #> <# if(optin_message){ #>
{{{optin_message}}}
<# } #>
<# } #>
<# if( has_args ){ #>
<# _.each(module_fields, function(field, key){ #>
{{field.placeholder}}
<# }); #>
<# } else { #> <# _.each(module_fields, function(field, key){ #>
{{field.placeholder}}
<# }); #>
{{cta_button}}
<# } #>
<# } #> <# } #>
<# if( typeof group !== "undefined" && group.type !== "hidden" ){ #> <# if(group.type === "dropdown"){ #>
Please select an interest <# _.each(group.interests, function(interest, id){ #> {{interest.label}} <# }); #>
<# } #> <# if(group.type === "checkboxes"){ #>
<# _.each(group.interests, function(interest, id){ var unique = _.uniqueId(interest.value); #>
{{interest.label}}
<# }); #>
<# } #> <# if(group.type === "radio"){ #>
<# _.each(group.interests, function(interest, id){ var unique = _.uniqueId(interest.value); #>
{{interest.label}}
<# }); #>
<# } #> <# } #>
{{cta_button}}