Does Yoga help in Asthma? - acac.in
011-26148490
011-26145578
Asthma Chest & Allergy Centre
A centre of excellence providing treatment of Asthma, Allergies and Chest Diseases since 1992
Home
About Us
About The Clinic
Experts
Photo Gallery
Facilities
Diagnostic Services
Laboratory Services
Diseases Treated
Quick Guide PDF
Information for Patients
Educational Videos
Publications
Newsletters
Book an Appointment
In the news
Contact us
Does Yoga help in Asthma?
Jun
2014
By Dr. Vikram Jaggi
Category: Alternative Therapy Options
Yes it does. Somewhat.
What yoga can do:
It instills a sense of discipline.
It increases the awareness of breathing and breath control
It trains those respiratory muscles which have but don’t ordinarily use for breathing.
It helps the asthmatic to learn diaphragmatic breathing
So when there is breathing difficulty these muscles come to your rescue
It generally strengthens the respiratory muscles and thus aid breathing.
The discomfort associated with breathing difficulty of asthma is felt lesser
Yoga helps the body to become fitter and leaner. This makes breathing easier
So what I am saying is that yoga is a very special exercise that makes breathing better and easier. An asthmatic who does regular yoga feels his breathing to have become better and easier.
What yoga cannot do:
It cannot reduce the atopy i.e. the tendency to have allergy
It cannot reduce the airway hypersensitivity
It cannot open up the constricted air tubes
It cannot cure asthma
So what should be done?
Each system of medicine or therapy has its own strengths and weaknesses.
None has a monopoly. So my advice would be take help from wherever you can get.
Use them complementarily. Have realistic expectations.
Yogic exercises particularly useful in asthma are:
anuloma vilom
bhastrika
kapal bhati
bhramari
shitali
taad asana
surya namaskar.
These can be learnt from a knowledgeable yoga teacher or a reputed institution. Do yoga and pranayama regularly. They are very good for health promotion in general. But do not discontinue your medication. If yoga is to do some good to your asthma, then your medication dose may come down.
ALLTHE BEST !!
← Previous post Next post →
Newsletters
* indicates required
Email Address *
Categories
Allergy
Allopathic Treatment
Alternative Therapy Options
Asthma & Associated Conditions
Asthma Introduction
Childhood Asthma
Others
Recent Newsletter
Time to be Careful !!
Why are Asthma & Allergy increasing so much?
Naturopathy for asthma
Homeopathy for asthma
Steroid phobia in India
New Delhi Clinic
128, Vasant Enclave, New Delhi - 110057, India
Phone : 011-26148490, 011-26145578
Email ID: vikramjaggi@yahoo.com
Gurgaon Clinic:
U-25/11, DLF-III, Gurgaon, 122002, Haryana, India
© 2014 Asthma Chest & Allergy Centre | www.acac.in All Rights Reserved.