The Best Nootropics For Anxiety & Stress Relief | A Buyer's Guide
SuperLearner Academy
Free Trials
Buy Modafinil
Nootropics
Anxiety
Creativity
Depression
Memory
Focus
Energy
Mood
Motivation
Sleep
Studying
Verbal Fluency
Coupons
Reviews
Blog
About
Top 10 Nootropic Stacks
Menu
The Best Nootropics For Anxiety
Nootropics are supplements that improve the brain health of a person. There are several important benefits of this supplement such as cognition enhancement, memory increase, and repairing damaged brain cells. The brain cells are damaged due to the natural process of aging as well as from neurological disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease. Nootropics can also have a positive effect on your mood. They help an individual feel more relaxed and improves his or her social skills. In fact, nootropics are ideal for treating various types of anxiety. The nootropics that are effective in treating anxiety are known as Anxiolytic supplements. They are quite common on the market. Hence, you should be cautious when picking the right product to treat your anxiety.
What is GABA?
GABA or gamma-aminobutyric acid is a neurotransmitter that transmits signals from one part to another part of the brain. Although anxiety could be caused due to numerous factors, the deficiency of GABA is one of the major causes of anxiety. GABA is produced by a chemical known as glutamate. When the levels of GABA are low, the nerve cells become more active and start firing off brain signals much more quickly than they would normally do. This can result in the feeling of nervousness and include panic attacks. The process can even lead to seizures if not taken care early on.
When GABA is at its normal levels, a person would feel more relaxed and happy. That is why people turn to many stimulants to stimulate the GABA receptor sites of the brain. Even alcohol is such a stimulant. Since alcohol has many side effects, it cannot do the work that a nootropic does. There are many GABA stimulant nootropics on the market today. These products can help calm your mind and arrest the anxiety situation.
But one problem with GABA supplements is that they cannot cross the blood-brain barrier. This is where a nootropic that is a precursor to GABA comes in handy. There are so many such nootropics on the market today. You should be cautious to pick the right product to relieve your anxiety condition quickly. While some of these supplements are available without a prescription, some others need a valid prescription from a qualified medical practitioner. Here are some of the most effective nootropics that will help relieve your anxiety condition.
Nootropic
Formula
Typical Dose
Half Life
Phenibut C10H13NO2 250-1000 mg 5 hours
Check Price
Aniracetam C12H13NO3 750-1500 mg 1-3 hours
Check Price
Ashwagandha N/A 300-500 mg N/A
Check Price
L-Theanine C7H14N2O3 100-200 mg 2.5 – 4.5 hours
Check Price
Picamilon C10H12N2O3 100-200 mg 30 minutes
Check Price
Phenibut
Phenibut is an effective GABA derivative. The product could easily extend over the blood to brain barrier and activate the GABA-B receptors and boosts the dopamine levels. This helps cause a sedative-like effect. This will cause the individual to relax. Phenibut was manufactured in the late 1960’s in the Soviet Union as a non-sedative option to benzodiazepines. In fact, the nootropic has been a part of the Russian cosmonaut medical kit to treat stress and anxiety. The product has been found to have negative side effects when used for prolonged periods of time. That is why it is important that you speak to a qualified healthcare provider when taking the nootropic. Although the product is a prescribed medication in most of the countries across the globe, it can be purchased over the counter in the United States. All in all, this is one of the best nootropics for anxiety and stress.
Aniracetam
Aniracetam is also known as Ampamet in Europe. The product is a compound of Racetam family. Aniracetam is the best to treat stress and anxiety out of the family. The drug modulates AMPA receptors in the brain. In fact, AMPA is regarded as one of the major 3 excitatory neurotransmitters. The other two being kainate and NMDA receptors. A compound that acts on AMPA receptors is known as AMPAkines. These substances have neuroprotective and cognition-enhancing effects. Aniracetam is also used as an antidepressant and currently tested on treating conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease. This is another effective nootropic for anxiety.
Ashwagandha
Withania somnifera or Ashwagandha is another effective nootropic to treat anxiety and stress. Ashwagandha has many other benefits too. In fact, it acts as an anxiolytic, a neuroprotector, libido enhancer, and a thyroid booster at the same time. The drug would activate GABA-A receptors in the brain. This action is responsible for its sleep-inducing and anxiolytic effects. The drug has also shown to be effective as fluoxetine for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). This was revealed in a mice study conducted recently
L-Theanine
L-Theanine is another effective nootropic for anxiety. This is a natural amino acid in green tea. There is a greater concentration of L-Theanine in teas such as matcha, kabusecha, and gyokuro. On the other hand, the store-bought green teas have minimal amounts of this compound. The compound is structurally similar to neurotransmitters glutamate and GABA. The drug also acts as a neuroprotective agent in order to increase the levels of serotonin, GABA, and dopamine in the brain. L-Theanine is mostly used with stimulants such as amphetamines and caffeine to reduce some of its side effects. But the drug could be used by itself quite effectively at times. All in all, this is another effective nootropic supplement for anxiety.
Picamilon
This is another Russian nootropic made by combining GABA and niacin or vitamin B3. This helps the drug to cross the blood-brain barrier quite effectively. The product has anxiolytic and vasodilating effects. Picamilon is commonly used in Russia to treat anxiety, stress, alcoholism, depression, and brain damage. Picamilon is another effective nootropic supplement to treat anxiety and stress quite effectively.
Final Words
There are millions of people across the globe that suffer from varying degrees of anxiety and stress. Nootropic supplements or Anxiolytic drugs are effective in treating anxiety and stress. In fact, these drugs can relieve anxiety and stress quite effectively. With a host of nootropic supplements on the market, how will you choose the right supplement? That is where you need to do the homework properly. The above article provides information on some of the best nootropic supplements for anxiety.
Share this entry
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Google+
Share on Linkedin
Share on Vk
Share on Reddit
Share by Mail
0 replies
Leave a Reply
Want to join the discussion?
Feel free to contribute!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
Eric Belcher
Eric Belcher is a nootropic enthusiast and avid biohacker. On his free time, he loves reading, meditating, and working out.Read more...
Recent Post
10 Best Nootropic Supplement Stacks To Help You Boost Brain PowerJuly 24, 2018 - 12:21 pm
Optimind vs. Adderall: Understanding Which Of The Two Works BestMarch 14, 2018 - 6:51 pm
The Best Supplements For Focus And Concentration – Our Top 9 ListMarch 13, 2018 - 5:04 pm
FREE TRIALS BELOW:
➢OptiMind
➢Alpha Brain
➢New Mood
➢Shroom Tech Sport
➢TruBrain
FREE TRIALS:
➢OptiMind
➢Alpha Brain
➢New Mood
➢Shroom Tech Sport
➢TruBrain
Recent Posts
10 Best Nootropic Supplement Stacks To Help You Boost Brain Power
Optimind vs. Adderall: Understanding Which Of The Two Works Best
The Best Supplements For Focus And Concentration – Our Top 9 List
Like Us On Facebook
Newsletter
© Copyright - The Nootropics Review
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Terms and Conditions
Medical Disclaimer
Affiliate Disclosure
Scholarship
Contact
Scroll to top
X
Get Exclusive Coupons & Samples
Click Here