Can any foods beat colds and flu? - Healthy Food Guide
Oops! It appears that you have disabled your Javascript. In order for you to see this page as it is meant to appear, we ask that you please re-enable your Javascript!
Home
Favourites
Recipes
Shop
Checkout
Contact us
Lost your password?
Create an account
Navigation
Expert advice
Ask the experts
Recipes
All Recipes
BakingHundreds of easy baking recipes with a healthier twist that still taste great. We have the classics such as chocolate cake, muffins and brownies, as well as reduced sugar and raw treats – all with a healthier spin.
BeefHundreds of delicious and healthy beef recipes – find your favorites.
ChickenEveryone loves chicken – here are hundreds of our most delicious and healthy chicken recipes. All are tried and tested for your satisfaction. Enjoy!
Dairy freeCutting dairy out of your diet for health reasons or because you’re vegan doesn’t have to be a chore. Healthy Food Guide has an extensive collection of healthy dairy-free recipes to make the transition easy and delicious.
Diabetes-friendlyHaving type 2 diabetes, or pre-diabetes, doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy amazing food! Here are hundreds of healthy and delicious type-2 diabetes-friendly recipes.
Family favouritesIt can be hard pleasing everyone when it comes to family meals but these recipes stand up to the pickiest of eaters. Have them asking for seconds with these nutritious and satisfying dishes from our family favourite’s collection.
FishFish, fish the family dish! Healthy and delicious too!
Gluten freeBrowse hundreds of gluten-free recipes. Easy and healthy gluten free meals, delicious cakes and desserts.
Kids in the kitchenHere are fun recipes created especially for children to make. To be served with lots of laughs.
LambOur most delicious lamb recipes, made with a healthy twist
Meals for oneWhen cooking for one, or two, meals can be easy, delicious and healthy. Try these!
Low FODMAPFor sufferers of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) a low FODMAP diet can significantly improve symptoms. Healthy Food Guide has a collection of FODMAP-friendly recipes so you can look after your IBS without struggling to find things you can eat. For more low FODMAP recipe ideas see our recipe filter for recipes that can easily be made into a low FODMAP options.
Ready in 20 minutesWhen you need something to eat fast but don’t want to settle for nutritionally deficient convenience food, try one of these quick and easy recipes. You’ll have exactly what you need in just 20 minutes.
SoupsNutritious, soothing, flavourful soup recipes to suit everyone – from hearty meat-based soups to tasty broths and creamy vegetable soups Healthy Food Guide has it all.
VeganWhether you’re new to veganism, trying to add more vegetables to your diet, or cooking for a vegan friend, Healthy Food Guide has a fabulous range of vegan recipes, so you can love your animal friends and be healthy.
VegetarianFresh, inspiring and healthy vegetarian recipes to help you maintain a balanced diet while living meat free. Our vegetarian recipes are full of goodness and perfect for vegetarians and people wanting to enjoy a meal without meat.
Work lunchesIt can be a challenge to eat healthy at work, however these recipes are specifically designed to be very quick, healthy and convenient. Give them a try and notice the difference.
Shopping
Videos
Win
Shop
About us |
Issue lookup |
Favourites
| Subs options
Search for:
Recipes Advice All
Exercise
« Food and nutrients »
Alcohol
Beverages
Breads, cereals
Calcium
Carbohydrates, grains
Chocolate
Dairy products
Eggs
Fast food
Fats
Fibre
Fruit, vegetables
Herbs, spices
Iron
Legumes, pulses
Meat, seafood
Nuts, seeds
Oils
Omega-3
Organic
Pasta, rice and noodles
Probiotics, prebiotics
Protein
Salt, sodium
Soy
Sugar
Vitamins, minerals
« Health and medical »
Allergies, intolerances
Appetite
Asthma
Body fat
Brain, cognition
Cancer
Cholesterol
Diabetes
Energy
Eyesight
Gastrointestinal
Glycaemic Index
Heart
Immunity
Inside your body
Low weight
Measuring health
Metabolism
Migraines
Obesity
Oral health
Osteoporosis, bone health
Health blogs
Kick-start plan
« Life stage »
Babies' health
Children's health
Family health
Men's health
Pregnancy
Seniors' health
Teenagers' health
Women's health
« Resources »
Calculators
Charts and diaries
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise and fitness
FODMAP toolkit
Guides and planners
Weight-loss tools
« Lifestyle and environment »
Additives
Christmas
Community initiatives
Cooking
Eating out
Eating well at work
Entertaining
Food safety
Gardening
Holidays, travel
Myths
School lunches
Skin, sun, hair, nails
Sleep
Sustainability
Vegetarianism
News
Psychology, behaviour
Schools
Stress and mental well-being
« Weight loss »
Advice
Fad diets
Health assessments
Weight-loss programmes
Workplace wellbeing
SHARE
ADVICE
Can any foods beat colds and flu?
Subscribe Now!
Subscribe now in to enjoy this feature
Favs List
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
PRINT
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
It’s cold and flu season — Niki Bezzant explores the links between food and seasonal ills.
It’s that time of year again — the bugs are going around, workplaces are full of coughs and sneezes, kids are coming home sniffly and it seems impossible to avoid coming down with something.
It can seem as if some people get colds and flu all the time and others never do. Is it just the luck of the draw? This might be partly the reason. Those of us exposed to more germs — schoolteachers, for example — are at higher risk of picking up a cold or flu. But, as with other illnesses, how well you are generally can affect how likely you are to get sick, and how well you recover. A healthy diet and lifestyle can boost immunity, while a poor diet, stress, lack of sleep and exercise can lower immunity, making us more susceptible.
Colds can be caused by one of more than 200 different viruses, and once the virus reaches the nasal passages, the healthy immune system will respond.
Kids are more susceptible to colds and can average between six to eight colds each year while adults average two to four. Older people and others with a weakened immune system are also more susceptible.
The flu, also a viral infection, can affect anyone, no matter how healthy they are. Although people with underlying health conditions are most at risk from complications associated with the flu, healthy people can still become seriously ill or die.
So can food stop us getting a cold or flu?
The short answer is no. However, eating well can boost your immunity so if you do get a cold or flu, it may not be as serious. Plenty of vegetables and fruit, lean protein and healthy fats are all important. Foods providing iron, zinc and vitamins A, C, E, B6 and B12 support your immunity. Limiting alcohol and caffeine and avoiding smoking also boosts immunity.
People who exercise regularly are less likely to get colds and other respiratory infections and, when they do succumb, the symptoms are less severe. Exercise also helps manage stress and enhance sleep, two factors which affect our immunity. The flipside is that immediately following a session of intense physical exercise we are actually more susceptible to a respiratory infection.
As far as supplements go, the evidence is fairly patchy. Despite what we may read in advertisements or online, echinacea might have only a slight effect on preventing or treating a cold; the results are, so far, statistically insignificant. Vitamin C, long thought of as a cold remedy, does not seem to reduce the incidence of colds, although it might slightly shorten their duration. The exception is for those under extreme physical stress, for whom vitamin C appears to halve the risk of developing a cold. Zinc may also slightly shorten the duration of a cold.
Cold and flu myths
Will chicken soup cure my cold?
Probably not, but it is soothing and comforting and can contain useful nutrients and vegetables, so it’s a good food to have if you’re feeling poorly. A study in 2000 found chicken soup to be anti-inflammatory; not much has emerged since then, but at the very least it will be good for the soul.
Will the flu jab give me the flu?
No. The vaccine doesn’t contain any live viruses. Some people experience mild side effects such as muscle aches or headaches for a short time after the jab; this is normal. The flu vaccination is highly recommended and is free for people most at risk. (See www.fightflu.co.nz for more information.)
Should you feed a cold and starve a fever?
This old advice is probably not quite right. When you’re sick, fluids are the most important, especially if you have a fever, as you’re more prone to dehydration. Sipping fluids helps keep the lining of your nose and throat passages moist and the mucus fluid. Warm fluids, such as hot water with lemon and honey, can help to clear nasal passages and may soothe a sore throat. Herbal teas, juice, water and soups help keep fluids up, but try to limit or avoid caffeinated drinks and alcohol, which can be dehydrating. When it comes to food, go for nutrient-dense foods such as porridge, fruit smoothies or vegetable soup with dry wholegrain toast.
How not to catch a cold
Cold and flu viruses spread in droplets of moisture from breathing, coughing and sneezing. If we touch droplets which contain the virus, then touch our mouth, nose or eyes before washing our hands, we inoculate ourselves with the virus. The most important way to cut down on the spread of colds and flu is to wash our hands frequently. Alcohol-based hand sanitisers are useful when we can’t get to a bathroom.
Rhinoviruses, which account for around 50 per cent of colds, can live for up to three hours on our skin and on objects such as door knobs, telephones, light switches and stair rails. Disinfecting these surfaces could help prevent a virus spreading.
When children have colds, teach them to cover their nose and mouth when sneezing, and to wash their hands frequently. Toys may need washing, too.
Author: Niki Bezzant
Healthy Food Guide
First published: Jul 2016
Last updated: April 3 2017
Last science review: November 8 2016
Ready to put your health first?
Subscribe here
© Healthy Life Media LimitedAll rights reservedReproduction without permission prohibited
www.healthyfood.com
colds, flu, food for thought, influenza, viruses
Free newsletter
Get the latest recipes, health news, expert nutrition tips & more…
Email*
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Your privacy is important to us
More Advice
BLOG
Should we feed a cold and starve a...
ADVICE
Beat colds and flu
ADVICE
Six everyday foods to increase immunity
ADVICE
Immune-boosting foods
Expert advice
Allergies, intolerances
Anxiety
Ask the experts
Asthma
Babies’ health
Children’s health
Cholesterol
Coeliac Disease
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise
FODMAPs toolkit
Fussy eaters
Men’s health
PCOS
Pregnancy
Resources
Sleep
Stress and mental well-being
Weight loss
Women’s health
Healthy recipes
Baking
Beef
Chicken
Dairy free
Diabetes-friendly
Family favourites
Fish
Gluten free
High fibre
Kids in the kitchen
Lamb
Low FODMAP
Meals for one
Pork
Ready in 20 min
Slow cooker
Soups
Vegan
Vegetarian
Work lunches
About us
About Healthy Food Guide
Contact us
FAQs
Help with this website
Help your school be healthier!
How to use our website
Inspire workplace wellbeing
Media appearances
Media kit and Advertising
Our recipes explained
Our team
Privacy policy
Research
References
Suggestions, questions or comments
Terms of use
© 2019 Healthy Food Guide. All Rights Reserved.
Please log in
This page requires a healthyfood.com account. Please create one below, or sign in if you already have one.
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise.
Already have a login?
Need an account?
+ Register
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
{{formAction == 'login' ? "Log in here to continue" : "Enjoying Healthy Food Guide?" }}
{{formAction == 'login' ? "" : "You've seen 3 free recipes, articles or videos." }}
Register for your free account below to see 3 more, and then 6 free per month OR log in here if you already have an account.
Need an account? Register
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise. See Terms of use.
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
You need a digital subscription to continue
Join thousands of others discovering how easy it is to eat well and feel great:
enjoy unlimited access to thousands of quick & healthy meals
save recipes to your own personal favorites folder
get evidence-based & expert nutrition advice you can trust
money back guarantee for any unused portion of a subscription
Log in here to continue
Subscribe today for just US$1/month {{ (signIn ? "CANCEL" : "SIGN IN") }}
X
{{ contentNotIncluded('company') }} has not subscribed to {{ contentNotIncluded('contentType') }}.
Ask your librarian to subscribe to this service next year. Alternatively, use a home network and buy a digital subscription—just $1/week...
Go back