L-Theanine Supplement For Anxiety: What Is The Best Brand?
NEWS
NOOTROPICS
5-HTP
Forskolin
Panax Ginseng
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
GABA
Phenibut
Adrafinil
Ginkgo Biloba
Phenylethylamine
Alpha Brain
Green Tea Extract
Phosphatidylserine
Alpha-GPC
Holy Basil
Piracetam
Alpha Lipoic Acid
Huperzine A
Pramiracetam
Aniracetam
Kava
PRL-8-53
Armodafinil
Kratom
Pterostilbene
Ashwagandha
L-Theanine
Racetams
Astaxanthin
L-Tyrosine
Reishi Mushroom
Bacopa Monnieri
Lemon Balm
Rhodiola Rosea
Centrophenoxine
Lion’s Mane
Semax
Chaga
Magnesium
Mind Lab Pro
Shilajit
CILTEP
Citicoline
Modafinil
St John’s Wort
Coluracetam
Modvigil
Sulbutiamine
CoQ10
Mucuna Pruriens
Curcumin
N-Acetyl L-Tyrosine
Tianeptine
DHEA
Noopept
Tongkat Ali
DMAE
Omega-3s
Valerian Root
Vinpocetine
Fasoracetam
OptiMind
Qualia
Fish Oil
SARMS
REVIEWS
0
L-Theanine Supplement For Anxiety: What Is The Best Brand?
Do you feel nervous when confronted with new tasks? Are you constantly worried about simple things, like applying for a job or returning a purchase to a store clerk? When anxiety becomes the rules rather than the exception in your life, you may have GAD (generalized anxiety disorder), social anxiety or panic disorder.
If you have mild to moderate problems with daily anxiety, you don’t have to suffer anymore. L-theanine, an amino acid found in green tea and black tea, is proven safe to use for anxiety relief, in tea or as a supplement. Isolated as a component of green tea in 1949, it has gained acceptance as a supplement for anxiety and other health problems in the U.S. since 2011.
L-Theanine for Social Anxiety
The list of social anxiety triggers, according to the Social Anxiety Association, includes:
Public speaking
Looking people in the eyes
Being the center of attention (being “put on the spot”)
Not knowing what to say or do in social situations (i.e., a party or conference)
Being watched while performing a task
Being criticized
The emotional and physical effects of social anxiety can be devastating. It isolates you, and can make you feel depressed and even affect your physical health.
An anxiety attack floods your body with the stress hormone cortisol, making it hard to get a grip on your sense of dread and fear. This state naturally decreases the amount of serotonin in your body. L-theanine can increase serotonin, a neurotransmitter in your brain responsible for a good mood
How Effective is L-Theanine for Anxiety?
Researchers worldwide have conducted L-theanine and anxiety studies. In the Netherlands, one study noted, “L-theanine significantly increases activity in the alpha frequency band which indicates that it relaxes the mind without inducing drowsiness.”, and other studies back up the results.
L-theanine stimulates the brain’s Alpha waves, which give you a feeling of wakeful relaxation. This feeling is similar to what happens when you meditate. It offers other anti-anxiety benefits, including:
Increases dopamine, a neurotransmitter in the brain responsible for mood, memory, and pleasure
Promotes the production of GABA, a neurotransmitter necessary for relaxation
Improves memory and reaction time when combined with caffeine (green tea contains caffeine)
Boosts learning by giving you the ability to filter out distractions
Based on these facts, L-theanine reduces anxiety and is excellent for improving memory and focus.
You’ll find many L-theanine for anxiety reviews on YouTube and elsewhere on social media In this video, Mansal Denton gives his take on this non-essential amino acid.
L-Theanine Review – Anxiety Benefits and Concentration Tool (Video)
How to Take L-Theanine for Anxiety
Taking L-theanine for panic attacks and other anxiety-related problems opens up your life without the side effects of prescription anti-anxiety medicine.
The Cleveland Clinic recommends taking 200 to 400 mg of L-theanine day, and no more than 1200 mg daily as the appropriate L-theanine anxiety dosage.
L-theanine for anxiety side effects are relatively minor. They include dizziness, headaches, and upset stomach.
L-theanine may decrease the effectiveness of stimulant drugs, such as epinephrine, phentermine, pseudoephedrine (Sudafed). If you take low blood medication with L-theanine, it may cause extremely low blood pressure.
Calm Down and Get Focused with L-Theanine
L-theanine is suitable for treatment of anxiety and stress, as well as poor concentration and insomnia.
Anxiety is different from stress. Anxiety is usually triggered by your thoughts (“What if this interviewer doesn’t like me?”) while stress is trigged by an external factor, like your house key getting stuck in the lock.
The best L-theanine supplement for anxiety is the one that works for you. Try one of these L-theanine supplements to relieve anxiety:
THE BEST L-THEANINE SUPPLEMENT ON THE MARKET: Absorb Health Mood Support
SymNutrition L-Theanine
Suntheanie L-Theanine
Final Thoughts
Taking an L-Theanine supplement will be even more effective if you establish new, positive behaviors in your daily routine. Here are a few ways you can relieve stress and build a foundation of calm and confidence in your life –
Reduce or eliminate sugar, salt, fast-food and alcohol from your diet
Eat more fresh fruits and vegetables
Exercise every day, even if it’s only a walk around the block
Meditate daily
Expand your social circle. Meet new people through classes, volunteering or other activities
Laugh more. Watch funny videos or movies. Laughing releases dopamine, a happiness neurotransmitter
Feel free to leave a question or comment about the effects of L-Theanine on anxiety.
Other L-Theanine resources
Having Trouble Sleeping? Sleep Better with L-theanine!
9 L-Theanine Benefits That Go Far Beyond Anxiety
What are The Side Effects of L-Theanine?
How To Stack Caffeine and L-theanine for Relaxed Focus
Click Here to Leave a Comment Below 0 comments
Leave a Reply:
←Previous post Next post→
Nootropics News on Corpina
ModafinilStar Review: Look Elsewhere When Buying Modafinil Online
Duckdose Review and Comparison to ModafinilCat
Phenibut’s INSANE Benefits (and Brutally Awful Side Effects)
Uridine Supplement Stacks Help Repair Dopamine Receptors
Why (and How) Nootropics Bypass the Blood-Brain-Barrier
My name is Dan. I'm a research associate at Harvard and current father of two beautiful girls. I've bought tens of thousands of dollars of nootropics over the last few years. This site is my way of giving back to the nootropics community that's done so much for me. Every article on here is carefully researched and written by me. Leave a comment if you have any questions.
CORPINA’S MISSION
Our mission at Corpina is to inform the world about Nootropics and responsible Nootropic use. We hope you enjoy your stay here. Hit us up in the comments section or via email if you have any questions or comments. Affiliate Disclosure
DISCLAIMER
None of the statements made on Corpina have been reviewed by the FDA. Nothing you read on this website should be considered medical advice. Consult your doctor, and use common sense before doing anything that you think might have a lasting impact on your brain. Full Medical Disclaimer
Terms
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
About
Privacy Policy
Write For Us
Copyright © 2017 by Corpina Nootropics
Top
Do You Want
Discounts﻿ on Nootropics﻿﻿﻿﻿?﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿
YES, SEND ME THE COUPONS!
NO, I LIKE PAYING MORE.
x
Enter Your Email To Get Massive Discounts on The Best Nootropics
SEND ME THE COUPON CODES
x