Health Benefits of Sunlight Lamps | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Supplements
Health Benefits of Sunlight Lamps
Erica Roth
About the Author:
Erica Roth
Erica Roth has been a writer since 2007. She is a member of the Society of Professional Journalists and was a college reference librarian for eight years. Roth earned a Bachelor of Arts in French literature from Brandeis University and Master of Library Science from Simmons College Graduate School of Library and Information Science. Her articles appear on various websites.
View Full Profile
Light therapy, also called phototherapy, is a treatment that uses an artificial sunlight lamp to simulate the natural light that may be lacking at certain times of the year, like the dead of winter. Sunlight lamps provide a more concentrated dose of UV rays and can provide benefits to your mental and physical health. Depression and skin conditions are treated with phototherapy. Premature babies may also benefit from exposure to sunlight lamps.
Enhanced Mood
Sunlight lamps can be a noninvasive, nonchemical method to treating a variety of mood disorders, including SAD, or seasonal affective disorder, postpartum depression, and PMDD, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, according to the Mayo Clinic. The exposure to the light stops your body from releasing melatonin, which might enhance your mood and give you more energy. Phototherapy does not always cure mental depression but can improve your symptoms enough so that you can function more effectively in your day-to-day life.
Improved Skin Condition
If you have a skin disease such as psoriasis or eczema, light therapy may improve your condition significantly. Light therapy has been proven to be an effective treatment for psoriasis, an autoimmune condition in which your skin cells shed too quickly, leaving you with raised, thick, scaly lesions on the surface of your skin. Phototherapy may also be recommended for some types of eczema, an inflammation of the skin that can be caused by allergies, contact with irritants or unknown factors. The National Psoriasis Foundation explains that people who have psoriasis benefit from a combination of medications and UV exposure, because the light slows down the production of skin cells.
Lowered Risk of Neurological Damage
Some types of neurological damage may be slowed or prevented through the use of artificial sunlight lamps. Methods of Healing, an online resource for alternative and natural medical treatment, explains that some people with Parkinson's disease may benefit from phototherapy. University of Texas Medical School researchers report that babies who are born prematurely may gain the most from light therapy, as light helps decrease high bilirubin levels that are not uncommon with preemies. Very high bilirubin levels may lead to brain damage. The university's study also showed that neurological impairments of micropreemies dropped as much as 14 percent when sunlight lamps were introduced during the babies' first day of life.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Mayo Clinic: Light Therapy: Why It's Done
Methods of Healing: Phototherapy Treatment
National Psoriasis Foundation: Phototherapy
Science Daily: Aggressive Phototherapy Can Improve Neurodevelopmental Outcomes in Some Preemies
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Health Effects of Fluorescent Lighting
2
Can Vitamin D Deficiency Cause Persistent Itching?
3
Allergy to UV Light
4
Eczema & Sun Allergy
5
How to Get Rid of Redness From Psoriasis
6
Dark Dry Patches on the Skin
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.