Standard Process Folic Acid B12 Review (UPDATE: 2019) | BrainReference.com
Menu
CATEGORY
Memory Disorders
Movement Disorders
Mood Disorders
Hormone Disorders
Attention Disorders
Anxiety Disorders
Autism Disorders
Addictive Disorders
Pain Disorders
Other Disorders
Disorder Tools
Disorder Ingredients
Disorder Research
ABOUT
About Us
Medical Disclaimer
Advertising Disclosure
CONTACT
Company
About Us
Topics
CATEGORY
MEMORY DISORDERS
MOVEMENT DISORDERS
MOOD DISORDERS
HORMONE DISORDERS
ATTENTION DISORDERS
ANXIETY DISORDERS
AUTISM DISORDERS
ADDICTIVE DISORDERS
PAIN DISORDERS
OTHER DISORDERS
DISORDER TOOLS
DISORDER INGREDIENTS
DISORDER RESEARCH
ABOUT
MEDICAL DISCLAIMER
ADVERTISING DISCLOSURE
CONTACT
Close Menu
Last updated: 02/25/2019 - Advertising Disclosure
×
Advertising Disclosure
BrainReference is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com.
We aim to provide consumers with helpful, in-depth information about brain health products. Whether we make money or not on a certain page does not influence the core mission of our writers and medical reviewers, which is to publish content that is accurate and informative.
All product names, logos, and brands are the property of their respective owners.
Home Other Disorders Standard Process Folic Acid B12
Standard Process Folic Acid B12 Review
By Razvan Radu, Senior Writer - Last updated: Feb 25, 2019
0 User Comments
Standard Process Folic Acid B12 promotes the health benefits of Folic Acid (Vitamin B9) and Vitamin B12. The formula is manufactured by Standard Process, which advertises the supplement to support normal nervous system development of adults and babies (for pregnant women), to support healthy circulation and homocysteine levels, as well as to play an important role in DNA formation and replication and cell production.
Standard Process is enjoys a good reputation as a manufacturer of dietary supplements, having been founded in 1929. The company manufactures and distributes more than 300 dietary supplements, herbal formulations and veterinary products.
Standard Process Folic Acid B12 is designed for any adult who is Folic acid or B12 deficient or wishes to prevent depletion of these essential vitamins. Standard Process Folic Acid B12 is also suited for pregnant women due to the Folic Acid content, a vitamin which assists unborn babies with normal neural tube formation, supports the development of the nervous system and reduces the risk of birth defects.
Standard Process Folic Acid B12 Ingredients
Standard Process Folic Acid B12 includes the following ingredients: Folate, Vitamin B12, Proprietary Blend: Carrot (root), calcium lactate, bovine liver, porcine stomach parenchyma, defatted wheat (germ), bovine spleen, ovine spleen, bovine adrenal Cytosol extract, oat flour, and ascorbic acid, Honey, cellulose, folic acid, dicalcium phosphate, and cyanocobalamin.
Product Features
Standard Process Folic Acid B12 is a vitamin formulation featuring two essential B Vitamins: B12 and B9. They can be absorbed from different foods or through supplementation. Vitamin B12 can be found in dairy products, eggs, meat, poultry and shellfish. Folic Acid is often found in green vegetables, fruits, dried beans, cereals, peas, cornmeal and nuts.
Vitamin B9 and B12 play an essential role in the red cell formation process. Red blood cells or haematids have a limited lifespan of 120 days. They are essential to transporting oxygen to body tissues and carbon dioxide from the tissue. Vitamin B12 and Folate help continuously supply red blood cells and promote optimum oxygen levels at cellular level.
Folate or Folic Acid is essential to fetal development, particularly the development of an unborn child’s spinal cord and brain. It is also known for its benefits on brain function and nervous tissue functioning. Several studies indicate that Folate supplements can positively impact mood disorders such as symptoms of bipolar disorder and depression. Folic Acid may improve cognitive function and prevent ailments affecting memory such as symptoms of dementia or Alzheimer’s disease. In 2007, a research study was conducted by the Wageningen University in the Netherlands investigating the potential benefits of folic acid supplements on cognitive function in elderly adults. Results showed that patients taking 800 mg Vitamin B9 daily for three years had recorded improved performance tasks (memory, information processing, etc) than those taking a placebo. High doses of Folic Acid may cause diarrhea, abdominal cramps, sleep disorders, irritability, nausea, confusion, stomach upset or behavior changes.
Low levels of Vitamin B12 are associated with Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease and a condition called vascular dementia, ailments caused by age related cognitive impairment. Vitamin B12 is also essential to energy production, promoting physical and psychological energy. B12 deficiencies have been associated to depression, symptoms of stress, and brain shrinkage (a common sign of Alzheimer’s disease). In rare cases vitamin B12 may cause diarrhea, itching, blood clots, and allergic reactions.
The recommended dose of Standard Process Folic Acid B12 is 1 tablet per day. There are no consumer reviews regarding the formula posted online. Also, the manufacturing company does any side effects or precautions involving the formula.
Continue Your Brain Product Research: See Our Featured Product.
Advantages
A daily serving provides 100% of the daily required dosage of Vitamin B12 and Folic Acid Affordable product (approximately $25 for a 3 months’ supply)
Scientifically proven benefits of Vitamin B12 and vitamin B9
The product has an affordable price (approximately $10 for a 3 months’ supply)
The formula has been available since 1981
Disadvantages
There are no consumer testimonials posted online
Potential side effects may sometimes be related to the 2 essential ingredients
Conclusion
Vitamins and minerals are essential nutrients for numerous body functions and for the health of most organs. Folic Acid and Vitamin B12 are particularly important in red blood cells formation (a process called methylation), in supporting the nervous system and circulation. They may prevent or be part of the treatment of ailments affecting the cardiovascular system and cognitive function, depression and stress. Each capsule of Standard Process Folic Acid B12 provides 100% of the daily value of the two vitamins. However, the formula did not receive consumer reviews; hence we can’t evaluate its effectiveness. Vitamins supplementation taken without the consent of a healthcare provider may prove harmful for your health. We strongly advise you to talk to your healthcare provider before starting using dietary supplements.
Product
Star Rating
10yrs or More
Proven Product
Less Than
$6 Shipping
Testimonials
HCF Quality (4.8) (4.8)
Standard Process Folic Acid B12 (3.3) (3.3)
Ginkgo Biloba (2.9) (2.9)
MagMind (2.8) (2.8)
EcoSmart DHA 500 (2.3) (2.3)
Only Natural Smart Pill (2.2) (2.2)
Explanation of Our Quality Comparison Table
×
The main issue with synthetic ingredients is that you don’t always get what you pay for. In reality, synthetic ingredients are well known for their low absorption, poor bioavailability, and the fact that they drain the body’s reserves of other minerals and vitamins (e.g., cofactors) required for proper absorption of other nutrients.
read more
×
At BrainReference we recognize that dietary supplements can be the source of many allergic responses either due to cross-contamination with high-allergen compounds during the manufacturing process or because they incorporate ingredients obtained from high-risk allergenic foods (milk, eggs, or fish).
read more
×
Companies with less integrity will use dangerous fillers as a “grease or lube” to aid in easier and faster production. Artificial dyes and colors are used to make supplements more appealing to the eye. Coatings are added to make capsules easier to swallow. How do these fillers impact your body and health?
read more
×
Independent testing labs are not associated with the producing company, ingredients supplier, the company whose name appears on the product, or with the consumer. This means independent testing labs have no vested interest in the result of the testing and are less likely to “dry lab” or manipulate test results for self-serving reasons.
read more
0 Reviews
Leave a Reply
Product rating
Have you tried this product?
Yes
No
United States
About
About Us
Contact Us
Medical Disclaimer
Advertising Disclosure
Receive New Brain Research Updates
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Copyright © 2012 BrainReference.com. All rights reserved.
BrainReference does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Research Library | Ingredients Library
Standard Process Folic Acid B12 or HCF?
Click Here to Find Out Menu
wpDiscuz