15 List of Health Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil - Dr Heben
Home
Diet & Fitness
Disease & Disorder
Drugs
Food & Bevarages
Health A-Z
Herbal
Lifestyle
Home
Diet & Fitness
Disease & Disorder
Drugs
Food & Bevarages
Health A-Z
Herbal
Lifestyle
Home » Herbal » Herbal Oil » 15 List of Health Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil
Herbal Oil
15 List of Health Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil
by Eka Arifin May 18, 2018
written by Eka Arifin May 18, 2018
There are a lot of types of essential oil and evening primrose oil is one of the essential oils that commonly used. The list of health benefits of evening primrose oil basically related to the fatty acids content found in evening primrose oil. If you have been familiar with the omega 6 and omega 3 fatty acids health benefits and then the benefits of evening primrose oil is not really different.
What Is Evening Primrose Oil?
Evening primrose oil is essential oil commonly used for health care extracted from flowering plant well known as evening primrose. The botanical name of evening primrose is Oenothera biennis. This plant is originated from North America and some sub-tropical regions. People have been using evening primrose oil since ancient time but even now, evening primrose oil is used as part of modern medication.
Nutritional Values of Evening Primrose Oil
As mentioned above, the most essential content found in evening primrose oil is fatty acids. However, there are more active compounds found in evening primrose oil that could be used to treat skin condition like eczema up to breast pain. To learn more about the benefits, the list of health benefits of evening primrose oil will give you more information.
Solution to Eczema
Eczema is probably one of the common skin conditions that indicated by itchy skin and inflammation. As anti-inflammation, evening primrose oil is effective solution to treat the inflammation as well as dealing with the itchy effectively.
Treats Psoriasis
Psoriasis is a bit different with eczema because though psoriasis is indicated with red skin like eczema but instead of suffer from inflammation, the skin will turn scaly. The fact that evening primrose oil could help treating this skin condition has been proven scientifically.
Natural Acne Treatment
Acne and pimples are not fatal condition but since they mostly occur in face area, they could be really annoying. Applying evening primrose oil could help prevent acnes and pimples because the anti-inflammatory properties will reduce the swollen and the anti-bacterial agents will help killing the bacteria.
Used to Treat Rheumatoid Arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis occurs caused by inflammation. However, applying evening primrose oil to the painful area could help reducing the pain caused by inflammation though it is depending on the severity of the condition.
May be Useful for Osteoporosis
Some scientific research studies showed that elderly people who are suffering from osteoporosis who are consuming evening primrose oil regularly are able to improve the bone density while at the same time is decrease the bone loss.
Fights Cancer
There are a lot of studies that have proven the effectiveness of evening primrose oil in fighting cancer especially liver cancer. However, those are only early studies and required further study to support the current claim.
Manages Cholesterol Level
The fact that evening primrose oil could help reducing the cholesterol level and managing it have been proven through several claims. Unfortunately, there is no specific study yet that focusing on this subject.
Reduces the Risk of Heart Diseases
There are a lot of risks behind heart diseases and some of them could be really fatal such as stroke and heart attack. Reducing the risk of heart disease is the best thing you could do if it is difficult to control the symptoms of high blood pressure.
Reduces the Symptoms of Asthma
There is no absolute way to treat asthma. In other words, once a person is diagnosed with asthma they should be ready with the symptoms when they occur. However, having evening primrose oil regularly could help reducing the symptoms of asthma.
Treats Symptoms of PMS
PMS is a condition that is not easy to handle. Women who don’t need to suffer the pain and the cramp during PMS are considered lucky. However, most women should endure the pain and the cramp but with the help of evening primrose oil, the pain could be bearable.
May be Helpful for Children with ADHD
If you know about the health benefits of omega 3 fatty acid, one of the benefits is to help children with ADHD overcoming the symptoms. The same thing is applicable with the using of evening primrose oil as well.
Solution to Obesity
There is a specific research regarding the use of evening primrose oil for obesity. Obese women who are taking evening primrose oil regularly are likely losing their weight after 12 weeks.
Nerve Damage Caused by Diabetes
It is a common knowledge that the benefits of fatty acids like the health benefits of omega 3 fish oil is good for brain and nerve system. Some studies stated that taking evening primrose oil regularly could help decreasing the symptoms of nerve damage caused by certain types of diabetes.
Treats Breast Pain
Breast pain is also well known as mastalgia a condition indicated by dull ache in the breast. Taking evening primrose oil regularly could help treating breast pain naturally and effectively though of course it is depending on the severity of the breast pain.
Reduces the Symptoms of Hepatitis B
Evening primrose oil may not cure the hepatitis B completely but some scientific studies showed significant result that this essential oil could help reducing the symptoms.
Cautions of Evening Primrose Oil
When it comes to the benefits of evening primrose oil for human health, the list is probably endless but of course there are some cautions you should aware as well.
Though there are some studies that evening primrose oil may help preventing pre-eclampsia during pregnancy but those studies were not supported with enough data whether taking evening primrose oil during pregnancy is safe or not because there are other studies, that taking evening primrose oil may cause bleeding disorder which could be fatal for pregnant mother.
Those who have history with seizure are recommended to avoid taking evening primrose oil at all cost because it could be the trigger.
Be careful with negative interaction of evening primrose oil with specific drugs such as antiplatelete drugs and anticoagulant drugs.
The best thing you could do to avoid all the negative effects of evening primrose oil is by discussing the usage with the professional first before you add it as part of your medication purpose.
Essential Oilherbal oiloil
0 comment
0
FacebookTwitterGoogle +PinterestWhatsappTelegram
Eka Arifin
previous post
10 Delicious Health Benefits of Danish Bread for The Body Strength
next post
12 Numerous Health Benefits of Homemade Bread Vs Store Bought
You may also like
Cypress Essential Oil for Emotional Benefits (Mental Health...
March 6, 2019
Vetiver Essential Oil for Emotional Health Benefits (Anxiety...
March 4, 2019
Benefits of White Flower Analgesic Balm – Natural...
February 25, 2019
8 Superb Benefits of Rosemary Oil for Respiratory...
January 5, 2019
7 Natural Benefits of Rosemary Essential Oil in...
January 2, 2019
What are The Spiritual Benefits of Rosemary Essential...
January 2, 2019
Fabulous Benefits of Fur Oil for Pubic Hair...
November 12, 2018
Proven Benefits of Full Spectrum CBD Oil for...
November 5, 2018
10 Extraordinary Benefits of Shiling Oil – Quick...
October 22, 2018
Benefits of Rose Geranium Essential Oil in Soap...
August 27, 2018
Recommended Post
Cypress Essential Oil for Emotional Benefits (Mental Health Cure)
Vetiver Essential Oil for Emotional Health Benefits (Anxiety and Brain Health)
Benefits of White Flower Analgesic Balm – Natural Remedy
8 Superb Benefits of Rosemary Oil for Respiratory (No.1 Good for Asthma)
7 Natural Benefits of Rosemary Essential Oil in Soap For Your Skin
@ Dr Heben - DrHealthBenefits.com - All Right Reserved
Back To Top