Music Therapy for Stress
Follow Us
Contact Us
Home
My Story
Getting Healthy
Stress
Anxiety
Depression
Panic Attacks
Agoraphobia
OCD
Positive Self Talk
Breathing Exercises
Anxiety Symptoms
Building Self-Confidence
Diet and Nutrition
Benefits to Exercise
Medications
Natural Remedies
Stress Management
Christian Self Help
Recovery Steps
Where to Start
Step 1 - Treatments
Step 2 - Journaling
Step 3 - Exercise
Step 4 - Eating Habits
Step 5 - CBT Techniques
Step 6 - Manage Stress
Step 7 - Affirmation
Step 8 - Never Give Up
Keep In Touch
Sound Mind Blog
Your Stories
Anxiety Advice Blog
Website Reviews
Article Submissions
Link Exchange
Shop
Shop By Affiliate
Books
Alternative Medicine
Mind and Body
Emotional Health
Music Therapy
Using Music to Relieve Stress
Using music therapy for stress can be an effective tool to help you towards healing and wholeness.
One might ask what music has to do with the well being of one's mind or body. Scientific research has a lot to say when it comes to music and the effects it has on our body and mind.
According to the American Music Therapy Association, it is a "formal" established healthcare profession that uses music to address physical, emotional, cognitive, and social needs of individuals of all ages. It is used to promote wellness, manage stress, alleviate pain, express feelings, enhance memory and help during times of physical rehabilitation. Board certified Music Therapist help many in this growing profession.
Unlike the formal profession, as listed above, there is an informal type of therapy that is very beneficial in self-help during times of stress. Using music as a form of self-help therapy has many benefits in regards to health and stress management. Music can reduce stress and promote a healthy mind and body.
Stanford University shares an interesting news release on "The Therapeutic Benefits of Music Rhythm". It is amazing to learn that they are using rhythmic music to treat a range of neurological conditions such as attention deficit disorder, depression, and anxiety.
Not only does music have an effect on our brain waves but also on our breathing and heart rate. Music can also be used to induce a healthy, positive, state of mind as well as lowing blood pressure, boosting your immune system, and helping to release muscle tension.
It is scientifically proven that music has a profound effect on both mind and body and can also touch our soul in ways that nothing else can.
Faster rhythms can bring focus and motivation while slower rhythms can promote relaxation and some may even promote meditative qualities.
Today there is an extensive variety of different music styles. There is virtually something for everyone of different walks of life. Because of our unique, individual makeup, not all music styles are right for everyone. It is very important to find music you thoroughly enjoy. Music that produces good feelings and promotes healthy inner self-talk is most beneficial to those suffering with stress and stress disorders such as anxiety and depression.
People who struggle with anxiety and depressive disorders are easily influenced by negative lyrics. When listening to music with lyrics, you are better off choosing music with positive, uplifting and encouraging lyrics and sounds.
It is true that music has the ability to affirm positive thinking. When it comes to lyrics, it is very important to recognize what you are listening to and how it is making you feel inside.
Music can easily be added to any exercise routine. As we know, there are many benefits to exercise. Music can motivate you with energizing beats during aerobic exercise or it can relax you when you are exercising your mind during visualization and/or meditation. It can simply be in the background when you are working or just cleaning your house. Music therapy is a very powerful tool that can enhance your road toward recovery.
No matter how you look at it, music has the ability to impact us and how we experience the world around us.
Return from Music Therapy to Types of Alternative Medicine
Sound-Mind.Org Homepage
Home
Stress
Depression
Panic Attacks
Agoraphobia
Obsessive Thinking
Positive Thinking
Breathing Exercises
Anxiety Symptoms
Emotional Health
Self-Confidence
Diet and Nutrition
Benefits to Exercise
Medications
Natural Stress Relief
Stress Management
Mind Body Connection
Christian Self Help
Sound Mind Blog
Share Your Story
My Story
Stress Diet Recipes
Resources
Book Reviews
Sitemap
© Copyright 2008-2017
Sound-Mind.org - All Rights Reserved
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliate sites.
The information provided on this site is for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for professional advice. It is important that you understand that there are underlying health problems that can cause anxious and depressive symptoms. It is recommended that you seek the advice of a qualified professional prior to beginning any forms of self treatment. Always consult your physician prior to taking any forms of supplements, such as vitamins, minerals, and/or amino acids. Always consult your physician prior to beginning any diet, exercise, or supplementation program. Never stop taking prescription medication without discussing it with your doctor first. Never disregard medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you read on this website.
* All statements made about natural supplements have not been evaluated by the FDA. These supplement products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Please be advised: Not all of the ads displayed on this website are a reflection of the personal/spiritual views of Sound-Mind.org