7 Best Home Remedies For Anemia - NDTV Food
SEARCH
Summer Tips
Summer Diet
Mango Benefits
Summer Beverages
Summer Skincare
Summer Salad Recipes
Summer Vegetables Juice
Features
Food News
cooking Tips
Opinions
World Cuisine
Food & Drinks
Festivals
Restaurants
Recipes
Healthy Recipes
Snacks Recipes
Vegetarian Recipes
Chicken Recipes
Meat Recipes
Seafood Recipes
Rice Recipes
Bread Recipes
Desserts
Dinner Recipes
Festivals
Kids Recipes
Winter Recipes
Drinks
Breakfast Recipes
हिन्दी रेसिपीज़
Ingredients
Pulses
Spices
Sugar Products
Nuts & Oilseeds
Vegetables
Dairy Products
Meat
Seafood
Fruits
Other Ingredients
Health
Diabetes
Health Tips
Yoga Benefits
Weight Loss
Fitness Tips
Quick Tips
Cholesterol Control
Heart Health
Ayurvedic Tips
Beauty
Languages
हिंदी में पढ़ें
தமிழில் படிக்க
বাংলায় পড়ুন
SEARCH
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Health
7 Best Home Remedies For Anemia
7 Best Home Remedies For Anemia
NDTV Food | Updated: August 30, 2018 17:42 IST
Tweeterfacebook Reddit
Highlights
Anemia is a condition where your body is low on red blood cells
The most common one is caused due to a deficiency of iron
To treat anemia, you should include more iron-rich foods in your diet
Do you feel constantly fatigued? Or has your skin been pale and dull recently? May be rest is not all that you need. Anemia is a condition where your body is low on red blood cells. Healthy red blood cells are the main part of haemoglobin in your blood that binds the oxygen. This simply means that if you have a low red blood cell count or haemoglobin then the cells in your body may not get enough oxygen to function properly as a result of which you might feel tired and energy less most of the time.There are many types of anemia but the most common one is caused due to a deficiency of iron in the body. The bone marrow requires iron to produce haemoglobin. Without enough iron in the body, it will not be able to produce haemoglobin for the red blood cells. According to an IndiaSpend analysis conducted in 2016, India tops the list of nations with most anemic women and children. In pregnant women, iron-deficiency anemia can cause serious complications while in children it can affect their language and motor skills. There are many home remedies for anemia that one can bring into practice.
The symptoms of anemia
Most of the important symptoms of anemia are very common and may go by unnoticed or confused for something else. Therefore, it’s important to get your haemoglobin count checked if you’ve been experiencing any of the following for a long time now:
Constant fatigue
Paleness or dullness of skin
Severe hair fall
Lack of energy
Regular palpitations (heart beating really fast)
Shortness of breath
Being moody or feeling low all the time
As per the World Health Organisation guidelines, men who have less than 13 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter are anemic and the same goes for women who have less than 12 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter. But, don’t fret. Anemia can be treated and managed with a little care and caution. If you have anemia, the first step would be to talk to your doctor about taking iron supplements and also enrich your diet with iron-rich foods. Here’s where we can help. We’ve put together some of the best home remedies for anemia that can help boost your energy and restore your vitality.
Here Are Some Natural Remedies for Anemia You Can Try
1. Increase Vitamin C intake
Anemia tends to weaken your immune system and thus, you may be more prone to infections and inflammatory diseases. Adequate doses of vitamin C can help fortify you from within and at the same time it also helps in the absorption of iron. Dote on oranges or you can even have a glass of lemon water every day.
(Also Read: 6 Amazing Vitamin C Benefits For Skin And Health)
Adequate doses of Vitamin C can help fortify you from within.
2. Yogurt with Turmeric
In his book, ‘Ayurvedic Home Remedies’, Dr. Vasant Lad suggest that those suffering from kapha-type anemia should have a cup of yogurt twice a day, morning and afternoon, with a teaspoon of turmeric. In kapha-type anemia, a person may experience swelling and the skin turns cold and clammy. This remedy helps in balancing the kapha dosha in the body.
(Also Read: 6 Impressive Health Benefits of Eating Curd (Yogurt) Daily​)
Yogurt helps manage anemia naturally.
3. Eat more green vegetables
The high amounts of chlorophyll contained in green vegetables like spinach, celery, mustard greens ​and broccoli is a good source of iron. Keep in mind that it's best to have cooked spinach as raw the leaves contain oxalic acid with may prevent the absorption of iron in the body.
(Also Read: Broccoli Nutrition: This Nutritional Showstopper Can Do Wonders For Your Health​)
The high amounts of chlorophyll contained in green vegetables is a good source of iron.
4. Drink up
Fresh beetroot or pomegranate juice acts as great blood builders and also blood purifiers. Beetroots are rich in folic acid you can team them up with apples or carrot. Pomegranates, on the other hand, are rich in iron and also other minerals like copper and potassium. Both these juices, if had regularly, can boost your energy levels by supporting healthy blood flow and make you feel more active.
(Also Read: 6 Amazing Benefits of Beetroot: In the Pink of Health)
Beetroots are rich in folic acid.
5. Copper water
Copper water is considered very healthy in Ayurveda. Dr. Vasant Lad also advices to have water stored in a copper vessel overnight every morning. This helps in replenishing your body with natural minerals and is also known to be very good for treating hair loss.
(Also Read: 12 Amazing Healing Benefits of Drinking Water in a Copper Vessel​)
Copper water is considered very healthy in Ayurveda.
6. Sesame seeds
Eating sesame seeds is another great way of increasing your iron intake, especially black sesame seeds. You can soak the sesame seeds in some water for two to three hours and then grind them into a paste. Have this with a teaspoon of honey every day.
Eating sesame seeds is another great way of increasing your iron intake.
7. Raisins and dates
These dried fruits offer a combination of iron and Vitamin C. This enables the body to quickly and effectively absorb the iron from them. Eat a handful of raisins and one or two dates for breakfast or as a mid-meal snack. They are also know to give you instant energy.
Dried fruits offer a combination of iron and Vitamin C.
Comments
Follow these tips and manage anemia naturally!
For the latest food news, health tips and recipes, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and YouTube.
Tags: DeficiencyHome RemediesIron
Summer Diet Tips: Turn Fresh Strawberries To Pickle To Boost Benefits
Obesity May Affect Protective Blood Brain Barrier, Lead To Memory Loss: 5 Tips To Manage Obesity
Related Articles:
World Iodine Deficiency Day: Understanding the Importance of Iodine
Iron Deficiency: What Happens To Your Body When You Are Iron Deficient
Anemia: Signs, Symptoms, Deficiency, Diagnosis, Causes and Prevention
8 Signs of Zinc Deficiency and How to Cure It
Advertisement
Our Best Recipes
Vrat Foods:10 Delicious Recipes Made Without Onion And Garlic
7 Must-Try Restaurants In Aerocity: The New Food Hub In Delhi
11 Best Broccoli Recipes | Easy Broccoli Recipes
11 Most Cooked Beetroot Recipes | Popular Beetroot Recipes
Top 10 Natural Foods To Control High Blood Pressure
13 Best Gujarati Recipes | Popular Gujarati Recipes
11 Best Vegetarian Salad Recipes | Easy Vegetarian Salad Recipes
13 Best Vegetarian Dinner Recipes| 13 Easy Dinner Recipes
10 Most Popular Chinese Dishes | Easy Chinese Dishes
10 Best Eggless Cake Recipes | Easy Eggless Cake Recipes | Cake Recipes
Latest Articles
Video: Gol Gappe, Pani Puri Or Puchka - How To Make This Street Food At Home
"India Has Given Me An Opportunity That I Would Never Have Imagined": A Freewheeling Chat With Australian Celebrity Chef Sarah Todd
Add Spinach To Your Eggs For A Wholesome Breakfast Meal
Kitchen Hacks: 3 Easy Ways Of Increasing The Shelf-Life Of Fresh Ginger Roots
Healthy Vitamin D Foods: 7 Foods You Must Eat To Avoid Vitamin D Deficiency
Hypertension Diet: 5 Summer Fruits To Manage High Blood Pressure
Obesity May Affect Protective Blood Brain Barrier, Lead To Memory Loss: 5 Tips To Manage Obesity
5 Best Baked Snacks Recipes
Summer Diet Tips: Turn Fresh Strawberries To Pickle To Boost Benefits
Weather Plays An Important Part In Rating Of Restaurants, Says Study
Advertisement
Health
Weight Loss
Diabetes Diet
Obesity
Depression
Low Blood Pressure
Healthy Food
Digestion
Headaches
Beauty
Aloe Vera
Rose Water
Hair Growth
Dry Skin
Dandruff
Face Packs
Beauty Tips
Acne
Veg Recipes
Dinner Recipes
Salad Recipes
Paneer Recipes
Mushroom Recipes
Soya Recipes
Dal Recipes
Cabbage Recipes
Beetroot Recipes
Summer Special
Summer Recipes
Summer Foods
Summer Drinks
Benefits of Curd
Skin Care Tips
Face Care Tips
Dehydration Treatment
Heat Stroke Treatment
Indian Recipes
Chicken Recipes
Chicken Curry
Mutton Recipes
Biryani Recipes
Butter Chicken
Dinner Recipes
Breakfast Recipes
Pav Bhaji
Benefits
Garlic
Beetroot
Saffron
Bitter Gourd
Ajwain
Onion
Sugarcane Juice
Grapes
हिन्दी रेसिपीज़
बटर चिकन
बिरयानी रेसिपी
अंडा करी
पनीर रेसिपी
पालक पनीर
पावभाजी
नारियल चटनी
दम आलू
© 2019 NDTV Convergence, All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
Feedback
About Us
Contact Us
Author