Starve a fever, feed a cold? The truth behind this old adage - FOX21- Entertaining Delmarva One Click at a Time
Starve a fever, feed a cold? The truth behind this old adage - FOX21- Entertaining Delmarva One Click at a Time
Games
Auto
Beauty & Style
Entertainment
Food
Health
Home/Family
Money
Pets
Tech
Travel
VideoBytes
Press Releases
Member Center:
Create Account|
Log In
Manage Account|
Log Out
SITE SEARCH
Starve a fever, feed a cold? The truth behind this old adage
Posted:
Friday, October 12, 2018 9:26 AM EDT
Catchy health phrases, such as “an apple a day keeps the doctor away” or “you are what you eat,” have been passed down from generation to generation. But there’s one adage moms have been saying that’s literally ancient: “starve a fever, feed a cold.”
Fasting was a common practice in ancient Greece, as it was believed to purify the body and spirit. Beloved Greeks like Hippocrates, Socrates, and Plato all advocated fasting for a variety of purposes, whether to rid the body of an illness or prepare it for athletic events.
Although ancient Greeks believed illnesses were spiritual punishments that must be “cleansed” away, current research theorizes that fevers are the body’s way of fighting off infectious bacteria, viruses, or parasites. These invaders thrive at the body’s normal temperature, but struggle when the body heats up, according to the U.S. National Library of Medicine.
Why Fasting?
You may have heard of “starving a fever” from Mommy Dearest, but it was first written as advice by John Withals in 1574, who wrote, “Fasting is a great remedie of feuer” (a.k.a. remedy and fever).
The concept of fasting may have gained traction due to the fact that fasting appears to lower the body’s core temperature. The belief is that the lower temperature would bring the fever down.
A few researchers have put this ancient advice to the test. One small Dutch study from 2002 studied the T cells (the cells of the immune system that help fight infections) and how they are affected by food intake. According to their findings, eating resulted in one type of immune response (cell-mediated) whereas fasting resulted in a different type (humoral immune response). They believe this technical difference proved the adage true.
But hang on—the study was never successfully repeated, and the 2002 study analyzed just six male individuals. That’s not particularly persuasive.
How to Treat a Fever
A fever isn’t an illness in itself; it’s a symptom of the body’s immune response. You basically have to let the body do its thing to fight the infection and get back to normal. If you have the flu, that recovery should take about three to four days, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
But there are ways to make the fever less miserable as you give your body time to recover:
Resting helps provide the energy needed for the immune response.
Fluids helps prevent dehydration (especially if your fever is accompanied by diarrhea or vomiting).
OTC pain meds can bring down your fever slightly if it’s very high.
A cool sponge bath can bring relief from the heat.
As for food, most doctors agree to eat if you’re hungry and ignore the outdated advice to “starve a fever.” If possible, aim for a nutrient-rich diet with fruits, veggies, and whole grains to help support the immune system with crucial vitamins, minerals, and calories. If you’re hungry but have nausea, opt for bland foods.
Need more cold + flu tips?
Learn the five foods you should always eat if you have a cold.
Here are ways to tell if your kid’s flu is serious.
Learn more about Tamiflu, a flu treatment medication.
Find out tips to sleep better when you’re congested.
All rights reserved.
Home Shopping Connect Entertainment Outdoors Sports Wild Wild Web Music Wheels Food
WBOC.com DelmarvaLife Media Kit eats + drinks Outdoors Delmarva WBOC Classifieds MD Digital Political Ad Disclosures
All content © Copyright 2000 - 2015, WorldNow and EBOC. All Rights Reserved. For more information on this site, please read our Privacy Policy, and Terms of Service, and Ad Choices.