How Music Changes Your Mood - Brain Health | Personal Development | Fitness News and reviews
Blog
30 Pictures With Funny Quotes About Life
Training the Brain
Brain Health / Functionality
Nootropics
L-Tyrosine
Type A vs Type B Personality Traits
What is Dopamine and What is its Function?
The Difference Between Fluid Intelligence and Crystallized Intelligence
Personal Development
Emotion Management
Productivity
Education and Learning
Motivation
10 Motivational Bruce Lee Quotes
40 Motivating Picture Quotes About Hard Work
Health / Fitness
Studies / News
Visual
Reviews
Video
Home /
Blog /
Brain Health and Functionality
/ How Music Changes Your Mood
How Music Changes Your Mood
Brain Health and Functionality
Emotion Management
By
Are you sad, depressed, or anxious maybe? You will be glad to know that you can chase all the blues away just by listening to your favorite music. Considered as a natural antidepressant, music can give you the euphoric high that antidepressant medications can bring. So if you are looking for a great way to end your crappy day, read on to learn more about how music can uplift your mood almost instantly.
How Music Affects the Brain
Music is known to tap into various parts of the brain, that is why it is utilized by many experts in treating depressed or anxious patients. The meter, timber, rhythm and pitch of music are managed in areas of the brain that deal with emotions and mood. These key areas are the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and the parietal lobe.
The hippocampus, a structure of the limbic system, is responsible for spatial orientation, navigation and the consolidation of new memories. It also brings about emotional responses. The prefrontal cortex, on the other hand, manages extreme impulses and emotions. Known as the “seat of good judgment,” it enables one to make good and acceptable calls so that inappropriate behaviors are prevented.
As for the parietal lobe, it is in charge of spatial orientation, information processing and cognition, affects many others.
Because of its ability to alter the different parts of the brain, music has been utilized in a number of therapies. For example, it has been applied to stroke victims to teach them how to talk once again. At the same time, it is recommended to stutterers so that they can dictate words clearly once again. Since it reaches the emotion-related barriers too, music is now being utilized as a mood-altering therapy for depressed and anxious individuals.
How Music Uplifts Your Mood
Whenever you are feeling down and blue, music can get you out of the dumps – literally. Here are ways on how music can help improve your mood:
Music can make you happy.
A lot of people turn to upbeat music whenever they feel sad or depressed, and it comes as no surprise why it is a viable solution for people feeling blue. For several years, music has made a lot of individuals happy. That’s because soothing tunes foster the release of serotonin, a hormone that fosters happiness and a general sense of well-being. It also flushes the body with dopamine, a neurotransmitter that makes you feel good. Music also paves the way for the release of norepinephrine, a hormone that brings about euphoria and elation.
With all the hormones that flood the body with happy thoughts, you do not have to purchase expensive anti-depressant medications just to feel better.
Music can motivate you.
Songs with positive messages, such as “Eye of the Tiger” by Survivor and “Stronger” by Kelly Clarkson are filled with inspirational meanings that can truly uplift your mood. The messages that are embedded in such songs – plus the euphoria that comes with singing these tunes – can motivate you to brush yourself up and try again.
Whenever you are feeling down in the dumps, listening (even singing) to “I Will Survive” at the top of your lungs can give you the strength and motivation to pick yourself up.
Music can reduce your stresses.
Are work-related stresses making you feel sad and anxious? A great way to relieve the tensions that bring you down is to listen to music. Soothing tunes can help relax your tensed muscles, as well as pace down your breathing rate. With these physiologic changes, you can eliminate the stresses that can make you cranky and moody.
Music can change your perception.
Even if a thing that saddens you is not present in front you, it can make you feel down for the days to come – especially if you let it get to you. But if you want to enjoy a more positive view in life, then what you need to do is listen to your favorite tunes.
READ What Causes Stress? The Three Conditions That Cause Stress
A study conducted by experts from the University of Groningen shows that people enjoy a ‘happier’ perception when they listen to lively music. So if you want to drown all the depression away, crank up the radio and expect your perception to be changed – at least for the better.
Music can modify your brain waves.
Music does not only change your present disposition, it can alter your future mood as well. Even if you turn that iPod off, the music that you just listened to can significantly change your brain waves. That means a positive mood for the hours (even days) to come.
Better Mood = Better Life
Music is a safe and cheap way to improve your mood. And with a better disposition, you can have a better life.
Proving this true is a study conducted by experts from the University of Missouri. In this research, it has been proven that music is monumental in mood improvement. With a better sense of happiness, studies show that people experience improved health, greater relationship satisfaction, enhanced behavior – even higher income.
Music to Listen to
With music’s mood-uplifting effects, you might be asking yourself, “What’s the best music to listen to?” Well then, you will be glad to know that all kinds of music can improve your mood.
In a study conducted by researchers from Penn State University, results showed that students who listened to music – almost any type of music – reported feeling more joyful, optimistic, friendly, calm and relaxed.
While most recommend soothing music such as classical masterpieces by Beethoven and Mozart, the research shows that even the loudest of songs – such as rock and grunge – can make you feel positive. Whether you are into pop, new wave, soft rock or alternative genres, you can rely on your favorite tunes to make you feel happy – even after a crappy day.
Be forewarned, there is such a thing as “sad music.” In one experiment, research subjects were separated into two groups. One group listened to upbeat “happy” music while the other group listened to somber “sad” music. The people who listened to the “happy” music felt happy afterwards. The people who listened to “sad” music conversely felt sad. But what was actually surprising was the change in thoughts after listening to music. Those who listened to the sad music remembered more of the bad things that had happened during the course of their lives and had little confidence in their ability to complete simple tasks successfully.
***
For the ultimate listening experience, I recommend the Sony MDR-XB950BT bluetooth headphones. I got them for Christmas and they are they best headphones I own and well worth the price. You can read my review of it here.
Share
Tweet
Related Posts
10 Tips To Break Through Your Socially Awkward Behavior
By Sara Miller
6 Practical Ways On How To Deal With Mental Fatigue
By Sara Miller
What Do You Do And How Do You Cope When You Feel Like Giving Up?
By Sara Miller
How To Work Through Your Selective Attention Span
By Sara Miller
Working On Wish Fulfillment: How To Reach Your Goals
By Sara Miller
Amazing Things You Can Do With the Power Of Your Mind
By Mark Willigerod
When Is The Time To Move On And How Do You Do it – Helpful Advice
By Sara Miller
How To Forgive Someone: 12 Helpful Tips And Advice
By Sara Miller
Morning Motivation: How to Get Your Morning Started Right
By Sara Miller
About the author
9 comments
Click here to add a comment
loading ...
Leave a comment:
Name *
Email *
Website
Comment
←Previous post Next post→
Stay connected!
Keep in the know.
Name:
Email:
We respect your email privacy
Powered by AWeber Email Marketing
Categories
Categories Select Category Brain Health and Functionality (101) Examined Existence (1) Export (1) Health and Fitness (83) List Articles (6) Modern Living (1) Nootropics (18) Personal Development (171) Education and Learning (36) Emotion Management (24) Motivation (26) Productivity (56) Quizzes (3) Resources (4) Reviews (14) Riddles (5) Studies and News (38) The Best of Examined Existence (69) Video (25) Visual (32)
Advertise
Advertise with us
Disclaimer
Disclaimer: None of the statements made on this website have been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. The products and supplements mentioned on this site are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, alleviate or prevent any diseases. All articles on this website are the opinions of their respective authors who do not claim or profess to be medical professionals providing medical advice. This website is strictly for the purpose of providing opinions of the author. You should consult with your doctor or another qualified health care professional before you start taking any dietary supplements or engage in mental health programs. This website is supported by different affiliates and we receive a paid commission on certain products from our advertisers. Any and all trademarks, logos brand names and service marks displayed on this website are the registered or unregistered Trademarks of their respective owners.
Copyright @ 2019 by Examined Existence. - Designed by Thrive Themes | Powered by WordPress
Home
About
Contribute
Video
Sites I Love
Archive
Privacy Policy
Cookies
This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Learn more.
Got it!