Why I Eat 5 Brazil Nuts Every Day | JaxAllenFitness.com
JaxAllenFitness.com
YOUR Goals MY Passion OUR Success
Menu
Skip to content
Home
About Me
Breakfast Bootcamps Restart
FEES
Nutrition Coaching
SMART Training System
WEEKLY TEACHING SCHEDULE
Why I Eat 5 Brazil Nuts Every Day
Posted on October 29, 2014 by jax allen
Brazil Nuts -Why?
Selenium of Course!
Why I Eat 4 or 5 Brazil Nuts Daily
According to results of a study, selenium intake is associated with decreased risk of bladder cancer.
Selenium is a trace mineral that is incorporated into proteins to make selenoproteins, which act as strong antioxidants to help prevent free radical damage to your cells. It is because of its potent antioxidant properties that selenium may benefit:
Cancer
Heart disease
HIV
Cognitive decline
Cataracts and macular degeneration
Cold sores and shingles
Osteoarthritis
How Does Selenium Help Prevent Cancer?
According to the latest research, people with higher selenium intakes had a 39 percent reduced risk of bladder cancer, which is right in line with prior studies that have linked the mineral to lower rates of breast, prostate, lung, colorectal and skin cancer as well.
A 1996 study by Dr. Larry Clark of the University of Arizona also showed just how effective selenium can be in protecting against cancer.
In the study of 1,300 older people, the occurrence of cancer among those who took 200 micrograms of selenium daily for about seven years was reduced by 42 percent compared to those given a placebo.
Cancer deaths for those taking the selenium were cut almost in half, according to the study. In addition, the men who took selenium had 63 percent fewer prostate cancers, 58 percent fewer colorectal cancers, 46 percent fewer lung cancers and overall 37 percent fewer cancers.
Selenium was even found to reduce the risk of lung cancer to a greater degree than stopping smoking.
Some of the scientific explanations for selenium’s anti-cancer effect include:
Increased antioxidant protection and immune system
Regulation of cell proliferation and apoptosis (programmed cell death)
Triggering DNA repair in damaged cells
Suppression of growth of blood vessels supplying nutrients to the cancer
Inhibition of tumor cell invasion
Selenium also plays a role in activating glutathione peroxidase, an enzyme that helps the liver detoxify harmful substances, thereby helping with cancer prevention.
Selenium rich foods :
Brazil nuts (which average about 70-90 micrograms per nut)
Button mushrooms and shitake mushrooms
Eggs
Sunflower seeds
Mustard seeds
Eat Clean Train Smart. Expect Results!
Jax
Share this:
Print
Email
Facebook
Twitter
Reddit
More
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Like this:
Like Loading...
This entry was posted in Healthy Eating, One Small Change and tagged brazil, cancet, Fat loss, health, nuts, selenium. Bookmark the permalink.
Post navigation
← Common Food Like Narcotics
Why Are We Getting Fatter? →
Healthy Eating
Healthy Eating Select Category class schedule Fat Loss Fitness Healthy Eating LifeStyle miclub Neck Pain Again! One Small Change Recipe Ideas rest and recovery Tests & Quizzes The 365 Club transformation stories Uncategorized video
Life Style
Life Style Select Category class schedule Fat Loss Fitness Healthy Eating LifeStyle miclub Neck Pain Again! One Small Change Recipe Ideas rest and recovery Tests & Quizzes The 365 Club transformation stories Uncategorized video
The 100 Club
The 100 Club Select Category class schedule Fat Loss Fitness Healthy Eating LifeStyle miclub Neck Pain Again! One Small Change Recipe Ideas rest and recovery Tests & Quizzes The 365 Club transformation stories Uncategorized video
Fitness
Fitness Select Category class schedule Fat Loss Fitness Healthy Eating LifeStyle miclub Neck Pain Again! One Small Change Recipe Ideas rest and recovery Tests & Quizzes The 365 Club transformation stories Uncategorized video
Archive
October 2014
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Sep Nov »
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
Stay Tuned
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 668 other followers
Sign me up!
Follow me on Twitter
The #Fatloss Solution for busy people. Indoor #Breakfast #Bootcamps @Sports Direct Gym 1st Month 50% Off! ONLY £25… twitter.com/i/web/status/9… 11 months ago
INDOOR #Breakfast #Bootcamps for #Busy People. #Nutrition #Coaching & #Body #Composition Analysis 1st month ONLY £2… twitter.com/i/web/status/9… 11 months ago
Join us NOW! #Special #Offer #50% #Off first month. https://t.co/iCB2cyV47L 11 months ago
Blog at WordPress.com.
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: