10 Allied foods for those who have a headache - en.aazsante.fr
en.aazsante.fr
The Largest Portal Of Health And Quality Of Life.
Health
Food
Beauty
Fitness
Family
Well-being
Home
Food
10 Allied foods for those who have a headache
10 Allied foods for those who have a headache
Who has a headache, especially migraine, may have a love-hate relationship with food. "Migraines can be triggered by a number of substances: sweeteners like aspartame, nitrate of sausages such as ham and turkey breast, alcoholic beverages, monosodium glutamate present in various ready-made spices, coffee and chocolate by the presence of caffeine and so many others," the nutrologist Lenina Matioli, specialist by the Brazilian Association of Nutrology (ABRAN).
However, those who suffer from constant headache need not remove all these foods from the diet, since each person is sensitive to different compounds.
"To find out if food causes crises, it is important to note what you eat and to see which items can cause the pain in each case," teaches nutritionist Clarissa Fujiwara, Master of Science from the University of São Paulo (USP).
Likewise, there are some foods that can be allied to those who feel headaches. "Studies are still initial on these nutrients and show responses in people who are predisposed to observe improvement of seizures with the intake of these substances," says Clarissa. However, as they are part of a healthy diet, it does not cost a try, does it?
See below what foods these are and how they can help:
1. Salmon Fish
Fish such as salmon, herring, sardines, tuna and cod are rich in a nutrient called omega-3, which may be an ally of those who have frequent headaches. "This fatty acid has an anti-inflammatory activity and also prevents blood clotting, so it is believed that it can help, by analogy," explains nutritionist José Alves Lara Neto, vice president of ABRAN. who do not have headaches triggered by fish can benefit from these items. Omega-3 can also be found in plant foods, such as oilseeds.
2. Beans
Beans are rich in some nutrients that help fight headaches such as magnesium. "This is one of the minerals related to muscle contraction, and often the headaches can be caused by involuntary contraction of the smooth muscle of the artery," says Lara Neto.
In addition, Lenina Matioli reminds us that beans contain tryptophan , a precursor substance to serotonin, a neurotransmitter linked to well-being and that can help reduce headache. "However, some people may have headaches triggered by this food, so be careful," the specialist says.
3. Acerola
The vitamin C present in acerola acts as an antioxidant in the body. "This improves circulation in the brain and blood pressure and can relieve headaches," says Clarissa Fujiwara.
Because many citrus fruits have a substance called octopamine, which can cause headaches, it is best to start investing in acerola, which does not have this substance, is less likely to aggravate discomfort and still has more vitamin C than orange.
4. Quinoa
Quinoa is a grain rich in B vitamins and vitamins A and C. "These substances can be used as adjuvants in a treatment to improve headache crises," says neurologist Lenina. The food also contains tryptophan and magnesium, as well as beans, bringing more benefits.
5. Ginger
Ginger is a useful food both to avoid headaches and to alleviate possible nausea. "Gingerois, a nutrient that is typical of ginger, has a reductive function of substances related to headaches, and they help reduce nausea, a common symptom of migraines," says nutritionist Clarissa.If the person does not have ginger-related headaches, he can be a great ally.
6. Sesame
This seed is rich in several nutrients, such as good fats and vitamin E. "This vitamin is a powerful antioxidant, capable of stimulating the body to protect itself against free radicals, which in excess cause inflammation," says Clarissa . By combating inflammation, the headache can be reduced.
In addition, it can help especially those who suffer from headaches during menstruation. "Vitamin E and magnesium present in sesame are related to the hormonal balance (estrogen) and in the case of certain types of migraines can help improve," explains Lenina, who points out that the patient must first realize if the sesame does not is an item that causes pain.
7. Watermelon
Watermelon is a fruit rich in liquids. "Water is always an ally in the fight against headache, because proper hydration helps prevent seizures when caused by dehydration," says Lenina.
In addition, watermelon contains magnesium, an important nutrient for people with headaches and deficiency of this mineral.
8. Egg
Eggs are foods rich in B-complex vitamins, which are essential for brain metabolism, as Lenina points out. Two vitamins from this complex in particular may help headaches: "One is vitamin B2, which plays a part in the production of energy in the cells, which can help the neurons linked to headaches," explains Clarissa Fujiwara. However, vitamin B12 possibly prevents changes in pain sensitivity, but there is no scientific evidence to fully support this.
9. Potato
The potato is often used in slices on the forehead to improve headaches, but ingesting it also helps a lot. "It is rich in potassium and magnesium, important nutrients to prevent muscle contractions that can cause migraine, as well as being a source of vitamin C," Clarissa says.
10. Milk and dairy products
Foods from milk, such as yogurt and cheese, are good sources of calcium. "Mineral is also key to minimizing muscle contractions, bringing benefits to those who experience headaches," explains Clarissa Fujiwara.
However, it is important to note that yellow yogurts and cheeses are common triggers of headaches, therefore, if the person usually feels pain when consuming them, they should be avoided.
Neither near the stove nor under the sink: find the ideal place to store the spices
Who cooks knows how to cook seasoning is important when it comes to giving the food more flavor. But is the way the spices are stored correct? To find out more about it and learn where each item has to go, My Life talked to sports nutritionist Aline Quissak, who is also a specialist in obesity and diabetes and food psychology.
(Food)
Eating too fast makes you fat and bad for your health
Due to the day-to-day running of people many people end up leaving aside some simple habits that can contribute to a healthier life. A great example of this is the custom of eating very fast, we know that eating a meal slowly may seem like a luxury, but according to the American Heart Association (AHA) this practice is fundamental to our health.
(Food)
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Interesting Articles
Blepharoplasty: plastic surgery lifts eyelids and eliminates purse of fat
Do you have a broken tooth?
5 Important care when applying insulin
Dental Implants: Know What It Is and Which are the Best
Popular Posts
Learn how to run to lose your belly
Vaccination against yellow fever in outbreak areas reaches 90%
Know five attitudes that help in digestion
Coffee can help you lose weight and exercise more
Plastic surgery can reduce the size of the areolas and nipples
en.aazsante.fr
de.aazsante.fr