Vitamin D Supplements May Cut the Risk of Asthma Attacks by Half: Study
NDTV
Business
हिन्दी
Movies
Cricket
Lifestyle
Health
Food
Tech
HOP
Auto
বাংলা
தமிழ்
Apps
Trains
Art
Sections
Home | Food
COMMENTS
Sections
Live TV
Latest
India
Budget
Opinion
Cities
World
Sports
OffBeat
Videos
Trends
Schedule
Education
Science
People
Indians Abroad
South
Cheat Sheet
Photos
Weather
News Alerts
Vitamin D Supplements May Cut the Risk of Asthma Attacks by Half: Study
Taking oral vitamin D supplements in addition to standard asthma medication may cut the risk of asthma attacks, in people with moderate asthma.
Food | NDTV Food Desk | Updated: October 05, 2017 13:19 IST
Share
EMAIL
PRINT
COMMENTS
Highlights
Asthma deaths arise primarily during episodes of worsening of symptoms
The team of researchers analysed 955 participants
The results were based on data from adults with mild to moderate asthma
Asthma is a condition in which a person's airways become inflamed, narrow and swell. In some cases they also produce extra mucus, which makes it difficult to breathe.According to a latest study, taking oral vitamin D supplements in addition to standard asthma medication may cut the risk of asthma attacks, in people with moderate asthma. The study published in the Lancet Respiratory Medicine Journal, there was 50 percent reduction in the risk of people experiencing at least one asthma attack requiring Accident and Emergency Department attendance or hospitalization. Previous research said that vitamin D supplements could help alleviate pain.
Asthma deaths arise primarily during episodes of acute worsening of symptoms, known as attacks or exacerbations that are commonly triggered by viral upper respiratory infections. According to the researchers of the Queen Mary University of London, vitamin D is thought to protect against such attacks by boosting immune responses to respiratory viruses and dampening down hazardous airway inflammation.
The team of researchers analysed 955 participants in seven controlled trials that tested the use of vitamin D supplements. They also found a 30 percent reduction in the rate of asthma attacks. The results were based on data from adults with mild to moderate asthma- children and adults with severe asthma were relatively underrepresented in the data.
Here are some foods that may help you get the required amount of vitamin D every day-
1. Mushroom
Inlcude mushrooms in your diet at least four times a week and watch your vitamin D levels shoot up. They can be cooked, baked or pan fried into a tasty and healthy delight. Mushrooms can naturally produce vitamin D when exposed to sunlight.
2. Egg
Vitamin D comes from the yolk, but it is important to eat the egg whites too. So indulge in eggs and ensure a healthy intake.
3. Soy Milk
Soy milk is plant based milk produced by soaking dry soybeans and grinding them with water. While it contains the same amount of protein as regular cow's milk it boasts of high Vitamin D, Vitamin C and iron.
Get the latest election news, live updates and election schedule for Lok Sabha Elections 2019 on ndtv.com/elections. Like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram for updates from each of the 543 parliamentary seats for the 2019 Indian general elections.
NDTV Beeps - your daily newsletter
These Three Winter Root-Vegetables May Help You Achieve Your Weight Loss Goals
Uri: The Surgical Strike Actor Navtej Hundal Dies In Mumbai
Trending
Two Women Cricketers From Australia, New Zealand Get Married. See Pic
Kareena And Malaika Twinning At Weekend Party Is A Double Stunner
Gold Prices Fall By 405 Rupees: 5 Things To Know
Related
Excess Of Vitamin D May Up Kidney Failure Risk
Vitamin D Toxicity: High Doses Of 'Sunshine Vitamin' May Result In Kidney Failure
The Truth About Vitamin D Supplements: Are They Healthy Or Unhealthy?
Vitamin DVitamin D SupplementsAsthma Attack
................................ Advertisement ................................
................................ Advertisement ................................
Quick Links
Mulayam SinghHD Deve GowdaRobert MuellerHardik PatelBataVoting PercentageElections 2019Election 2019 NewsLok Sabha Election DatesLive NewsIPL 2019PNR StatusEntertainment NewsUpcoming MoviesIPL TicketsLalit ModiGood FridayOnePlus 7Avengers EndgameZenFone Live L2
................................ Advertisement ................................
X
Congress's Priyanka Chaturvedi Quits Party Day After Tweet Criticising It
Lalit Modi Says He Will Sue Rahul Gandhi For "All Thieves Are Modis" Dig
"Will Sit By His Side If Rahul Gandhi Becomes Prime Minister": Deve Gowda
"I'm F****d," Trump Had Said On Mueller's Appointment, His Report Says
RSS
News Alerts
Mobile
Apps
Apple
Android
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
About Us
Archives
Advertise
Feedback
Disclaimer
Investor
Complaint Redressal
Ombudsman
Careers
Service Terms
Channel Distribution
© Copyright NDTV Convergence Limited 2019. All rights reserved.
Tweet
Add to Flipboard Magazine.