Does L-Theanine Work?
Share:
eMedTV Login
eMedTV Home
TOPIC HOME
HEALTH CHANNELS
HEALTH TOPICS A-Z
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
Alzheimers Home > Does L-Theanine Work?
As with many dietary supplements, many people may question, "Does L-theanine work?" Some studies show that the amino acid can help people feel more tranquil, while others suggest that it could increase the effectiveness of certain chemotherapy medications. However, much more research is needed before the effectiveness of L-theanine can be determined.
Does L-Theanine Work?
L-theanine (also known as just theanine) is an amino acid used in dietary supplements. It is a natural component of tea. As with most supplements, people use L-theanine for a number of different uses. L-theanine supplements are sometimes claimed to be helpful for the following purposes:
Anxiety
Alzheimer's disease
High blood pressure (hypertension)
Cancer treatment (to boost the effectiveness of certain chemotherapy medications)
Alcohol poisoning prevention.
L-Theanine Studies
L-theanine studies are generally lacking. Research is in early stages, and much more research is necessary before L-theanine can be confirmed to be safe and effective for any use.
One study demonstrated that L-theanine could help healthy people (with no anxiety problems) to feel more tranquil. This should be interpreted to mean that it also will be effective for treating anxiety disorders. Early evidence suggests that L-theanine could increase the effectiveness of certain chemotherapy medications and may actually decrease some of the side effects of such medications. Animal studies suggest that L-theanine may be effective for lowering blood pressure and for protecting against liver damage from alcohol poisoning, but human studies are needed to confirm such findings.
Final Thoughts on L-Theanine Effectiveness
Very preliminary research suggests that L-theanine may work for several conditions. However, much more research is needed to confirm that L-theanine is indeed effective (and safe) for any use. It is important to remember that L-theanine is classified as a dietary supplement (not a drug) and is, therefore, less strictly regulated than drugs.
Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD
Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD;
Last updated/reviewed:
List of references (click here):
Jellin JM, editor. Pharmacist's Letter/Prescriber's Letter Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Web site. Available at: http://naturaldatabase.com/. Accessed March 4, 2008.
Sadzuka Y, Inoue C, Hirooka S, Sugiyama T, Umegaki K, Sonobe T. Effects of L-theanine on alcohol metabolism and hepatic toxicity. Biol Pharm Bull. 2005;28(9):1702-6.
Sugiyama T, Sadzuka Y. L-theanine, a specific glutamate derivative in green tea, reduces the adverse reactions of doxorubicin by changing the glutathione level. Cancer Lett 2004;212(2):177-84.
Sugiyama T, Sadzuka Y. L-theanine and glutamate transporter inhibitors enhance the antitumor efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents. Biochim Biophys Acta 2003;1653(2):47-59.
Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
L-Theanine
Benefits of L-Theanine
Does L-Theanine Work?
L-Theanine Side Effects
L-Theanine Dosage
L-Theanine Drug Interactions
L-Theanine Safety
L-Theanine and Pregnancy
L-Theanine and Breastfeeding
L-Theanine Overdose
Topics & Medications
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
Alzheimer's Disease
Aricept
Binswanger's Disease
Cognex
Dementia
Exelon
Ginkgo Biloba
L-Theanine
Lecithin
Lewy Body Dementia
NADH
Namenda
Namenda XR
Phosphatidylserine
Razadyne
Vitamin E
Quicklinks
Alzheimer's
Lewy Body Dementia
Dementia
Aricept
Symptoms of Dementia
Causes of Dementia
Vitamin E
Benefits of Vitamin E
Namenda
Exelon
Cognex
L-Theanine
Phosphatidylserine
Ginkgo Biloba
Lecithin
Related Channels
Depression
Mental Health
Nervous System
Senior Health
eMedTV Links
Exit Mobile View
Terms of Use
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
About eMedTV
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2006-2019 Clinaero, Inc.
eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind. Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with their own physician. Click Terms of Use for more information.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.