Popular Fermented Scandinavian Milk Drink Lowers Blood Pressure - Valio Brand
Home Top Stories Sports Entertainment Health News Business Personal Finance
Real Estate Business Finance Insurance Consulting Tax News Forum
Writers
Featured Articles
Search:
Popular Fermented Scandinavian Milk Drink Lowers Blood Pressure - Valio Brand
January 26th 2006
Valio Popular Brand
A popular Scandinavian fermented milk drink appears to reduce blood pressure using the same mechanism as common angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors pills. According to research published in the American Journal of Hypertension, the beverage will help reduce blood pressure in people with hypertension.
The drinks are made by adding Lactobacillus to milk, which breaks down the milk protein called casein into two protein fragments. These fragments, called tripeptides, have been shown to reduce blood pressure in animal studies and also people with mild hypertension.
This study lasted for 10 weeks where 94 people with un-treated hypertension were divided into two groups. One group drank 150 ml of fermented milk while the other did not. Participants had their blood pressure monitored.
After 10 weeks there was a noticeable difference in blood pressures. The group that drank the fermented milk had a lower systolic blood pressure of about four points. Their diastolic blood pressure was about two points lower. The systolic pressure is the top number and diastolic pressure is the lower number.
Lowering a persons blood pressure will also lower their risk of stroke and heart attack. A spokesperson for Valio, one of the makers of the popular drink, told Reuters in an email interview that a three-point reduction in systolic blood pressure reduces the risk of stroke by 10 percent to 13 percent and the likelihood of heart attack by 7 percent. Reuters reports Dr. Riita Korpela of Valio said "It is also important to notice, that this is a very natural way of treating enhanced blood pressure, without any adverse side effects”.
It has been know that a diet loaded with fruits and vegetables can also lower blood pressure. In previous studies the “Dash Diet” has proven effective in lower blood pressure. Also, new research from Israel has found that taking a daily capsule of tomato extract can lower blood pressure. There appears to be many dietary life choices that can lower blood pressure.
Comment on this Article at our Forum
Submit your own Article
Lung and Heart News
RSS Feed to our Heart/Lung News
RSS Feed to health News
RSS Feed to all of our News
By Dan Wilson
Best Syndication Staff Writer
Books on Heart Disease
Keywords and misspellings: dash deit blood presure stroke embolism imbolism embilism embelism boode clot
Web BestSyndication.com
About Contact site map
Copyright 2005 Best Syndication Last Updated Saturday, July 10, 2010 09:49 PM
Your browser does not support iframes.