Combination of Two Drugs Work Best On Migraine Headaches – Combine Sumatriptan and Naproxen – Trexima is Planned Brand Name
Home Top Stories Sports Entertainment Health News Business Personal Finance
Real Estate Business Finance Insurance Consulting Tax News Forum
Writers
Featured Articles
Search:
Combination of Two Drugs Work Best On Migraine Headaches – Combine Sumatriptan and Naproxen – Trexima is Planned Brand Name
April 6th 2006
Migraines
A combination of sumatriptan and a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicine, naproxen sodium, the active ingredient in Aleve, work better than either drug taken separately. Harvard Scientists say that this suggests there are two separate brain pathways involved in triggering migraines.
The research involved two studies, combining more than 2,800 migraine sufferers. Within two hours after taking the combination drug, 65 percent said their migraine pain was relieved, compared with 55 percent on sumatriptan alone and 44 percent of that on naproxen.
The data was presented at the 58th Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Neurology (AAN). Data from one “long term” study over one year prompted researchers to say that combining the two drugs into a single tablet was well tolerated. The single tablet is currently under review by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under the proposed brand name Trexima.
The other study found that triptan alone could not block the central neuronal sensitization that results from stimulation of the main sensory nerve (trigeminal nerve), but naproxen was effective at suppressing central neuronal sensitization.
There are about 29.5 million people who suffer from migraine headaches in the US, according to National Headache Foundation (NHF). The foundation says that many migraines can be brought on by foods, and they recommend keeping a diary of what you ate before each migraine. This can help in building a list of foods to avoid, at least for those who have migraines triggered by food.
Comment on this Article at our Forum
Submit your own Article
Pain and Arthritis Special Topic
RSS Feed to Pain / Arthritis News
RSS Feed to our health News
RSS Feed to all of our News
By Dan Wilson
Best Syndication
Books about Pain
Keywords and misspellings: Migrane sumatroptan advile nnaprozen head ache ake pane reumatoid rhumatoid rhumatoidal rheumatoidal arthritis arthrites pain
Important: The material on Best Syndication is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment for any medical conditions. You should promptly seek professional medical care if you have any concern about your health, and you should always consult your physician before starting a fitness program.
Web BestSyndication.com
About Contact Site Map
Copyright 2005 Best Syndication Last Updated Saturday, July 10, 2010 09:50 PM
Your browser does not support iframes.