Achilles Tendinitis - What You Need to Know
Skip to Content
Search Drugs.com
All Select the section you want to search in All Consumer Professional Pill ID Interactions News FDA Alerts Approvals Pipeline Clinical Trials Care Notes Natural Products
Close
Search
Browse all medications: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9
Advanced Search
Register Sign In
Sign In
Register
Menu
Close
Account
Sign In
Register Now
Drugs A-Z
A-Z Drug Index
Treatment Options
Drugs by Class
Compare Drugs
Generic Drugs
OTC Drugs
International Drugs
Natural Products
Drug Side Effects
Dosage Guides
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Warnings
Pricing & Coupons
Inactive Ingredients
Info en Español
Veterinary Products
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
FDA Alerts
New Drugs
News
Pro Edition
More
Videos
Slideshows
Newsletters
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Facebook Twitter YouTube
CareNotes
Achilles Tendinitis
Print Share
This material must not be used for commercial purposes, or in any hospital or medical facility. Failure to comply may result in legal action.
Achilles Tendinitis
Medically reviewed by Drugs.com. Last updated on Apr 11, 2019.
Disease Reference
Care Notes
Overview
Aftercare Instructions
Ambulatory Care
En Español
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW:
What is Achilles tendinitis?
Achilles tendinitis is swelling of the tendon that connects your calf muscle to your heel bone. It may happen suddenly or become a chronic condition. Your risk for Achilles tendinitis increases as you age.
What causes Achilles tendinitis?
Overuse of your leg muscles
A sudden increase in the amount or intensity of an activity
Jumping or running on hard or uneven surfaces
Wearing shoes that do not fit or support your foot and ankle
Tight calf muscles
A bone spur where your Achilles tendon attaches to your heel
Medicines such as steroids or antibiotics
What are the signs and symptoms of Achilles tendinitis?
Pain in your heel that gets worse with activity
Swelling in your heel or calf
Stiffness in your heel or calf
How is Achilles tendinitis diagnosed?
Your healthcare provider will examine your heel and calf for swelling. He may move your foot or ankle and ask if you have pain. Tell him when your symptoms started and which activities make the pain worse. You may need an x-ray, ultrasound, or MRI to check for bone spurs or tears in your Achilles tendon. Do not enter the MRI room with anything metal. Metal can cause serious injury. Tell the healthcare provider if you have any metal in or on your body.
How is Achilles tendinitis treated?
Medicines may be given to decrease pain and swelling.
Support devices may include a splint, orthotic, or brace. These devices will decrease pressure on your Achilles tendon and help relieve pain.
Physical therapy may be needed. A physical therapist teaches you exercises to help improve movement and strength, and decrease pain. You may need to practice exercises at home.
Surgery and other procedures may be needed if other treatments do not work. Surgery may be done to repair a tear in the tendon, or to remove parts of the tendon. Other procedures may include an injection of platelets or red blood cells into your Achilles tendon. It may also include therapy with electrical currents to treat swelling and pain.
What can I do to manage Achilles tendinitis?
Rest as directed. Rest decreases swelling and prevents your tendinitis from getting worse. Your healthcare provider may tell you to stop your usual training or exercise activities. Ask him when you can return to your normal activities or exercise plan.
Apply ice on your Achilles tendon for 15 to 20 minutes every hour or as directed. Use an ice pack, or put crushed ice in a plastic bag. Cover it with a towel. Ice helps prevent tissue damage and decreases swelling and pain.
Wear a compression bandage or use tape as directed. This will decrease swelling and pain. Ask your healthcare provider how to wrap a compression bandage or apply tape. If you use a support device ask if you should wear a compression bandage or use tape.
Elevate your heel above the level of your heart as often as you can. This will help decrease swelling and pain. Prop your heel on pillows or blankets to keep it elevated comfortably.
Stretch as directed when you return to your exercise program. Always warm up your muscles and stretch before you exercise. Do cool down exercises and stretches when you are finished. This will keep your muscles loose and decrease stress on your Achilles tendon.
Do bilateral heel drop exercises as directed. Bilateral heel drops strengthen your Achilles tendon. Do not do the following exercise unless your healthcare provider says it is safe:
Stand at the edge of a stair or raised step. Hold onto the railing for balance.
Place the front part of your foot on the stair or step. Let the back of your foot hang off of the stair or step.
Slowly lift your heels off the ground and then slowly lower your heels past the stair. Do not move your heels quickly. This could make your injury worse. Repeat this exercise 20 times or as directed.
Slowly increase the time and intensity when you return to your exercise program. Start with short and low intensity exercises. Ask your healthcare provider how and when to increase the time and intensity of your exercise.
When should I contact my healthcare provider?
You have a fever.
Your swelling or pain gets worse.
You feel or hear a sudden pop near your ankle.
You cannot bend your ankle or put pressure on your leg.
You have questions about your condition or care.
Care Agreement
You have the right to help plan your care. Learn about your health condition and how it may be treated. Discuss treatment options with your healthcare providers to decide what care you want to receive. You always have the right to refuse treatment. The above information is an educational aid only. It is not intended as medical advice for individual conditions or treatments. Talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before following any medical regimen to see if it is safe and effective for you.
© Copyright IBM Corporation 2018 Information is for End User's use only and may not be sold, redistributed or otherwise used for commercial purposes. All illustrations and images included in CareNotes® are the copyrighted property of A.D.A.M., Inc. or IBM Watson Health
Further information
Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances.
Medical Disclaimer
Next → Aftercare Instructions
Print this page
Learn more about Achilles Tendinitis
Associated drugs
Tendonitis
IBM Watson Micromedex
Tendinitis
Symptoms and treatments
Tendonitis
Mayo Clinic Reference
Achilles tendinitis
Achilles tendon rupture
More About Achilles Tendinitis
Medication Guide1 related article
Care Notes1 related article
Harvard Health Guide1 related article
Mayo Clinic2 related articles
Related News and Articles
Health Tip: Dealing with Tendinitis Pain March 27, 2019
AHA: Achilles Tendon May Be Window Into Heart Disease Severity November 15, 2018
Subscribe to our newsletters
FDA alerts
Daily news summary
Weekly news roundup
Monthly newsletter
I accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Email Address
Drugs.com Mobile Apps
The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices.
Explore Apps
Support
Help Center
Frequent Questions
Sitemap
Contact Us
About
About Drugs.com
Advertising Policy
Content Submissions
Drugs.com Blog
Terms & Privacy
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Attribution & Citations
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS Feed
Subscribe to receive email notifications whenever new articles are published.
Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 1 Apr 2019), Cerner Multum™ (updated 1 Apr 2019), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated 29 Mar 2019) and others.
Third Party Advertising
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information - verify here
Copyright © 2000-2019 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.
Hide