Migraines Pictures: What Aura Looks Like, Tracking Triggers, and More
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Migraine & Headaches
Slideshows
Slideshow: A Visual Guide to Migraine Headaches
1 / 27
What Is a Migraine?
A migraine is a headache with throbbing pain that is usually worse on one side of the head. The pain is often severe enough to hamper daily activities and may last from four hours to three days if untreated. More than one in 10 Americans, including one in 6 women, have migraines, but many have been told mistakenly that they have a sinus or tension headache. Foods, stress, and hormones can be migraine triggers.
Swipe to advance
2 / 27
Migraine Symptoms
Throbbing pain typically occurs on one side near the temples, forehead, and eyes. Migraine headaches can make you very sensitive to light, sound, or mild exertion, such as climbing the stairs. Many people have nausea, vomiting, or vision problems. The pain can be disabling, forcing people to miss work or other activities.
Swipe to advance
3 / 27
Migraine With Aura
About 20% of people who suffer from migraine headaches will have an aura about 20 minutes to an hour before the pain. They may see flashing lights, wavy lines, or dots, or they may have blurry vision or blind spots. These are called "classic migraine headaches."
Swipe to advance
4 / 27
Migraine Warning Signs
Some people may have a change in mood before a migraine begins. They may become more excitable or irritable or depressed. Others may detect a sensation, such as a funny smell or taste. They may feel more fatigued, yawn frequently, or experience muscle tension. About 1 in 4 people experience this prodrome phase, which can occur as early as 24 hours before any head pain.
Swipe to advance
5 / 27
What Causes a Migraine?
The exact cause of migraine headaches is still not well understood, but the problem is considered to be neurological (related to the nervous system). It is believed that brain chemicals, blood vessels, and nerves of the brain are involved.
Swipe to advance
6 / 27
Trigger: Flashing Lights
Migraine headaches may be set off by some specific cause, such as flickering lights. This could be a reflection from snow or water or from fluorescent bulbs or television or movie screens. Wearing polarizing sunglasses outside and using daylight spectrum fluorescent bulbs inside may help.
Swipe to advance
7 / 27
Trigger: Anxiety and Stress
Emotional stress is a common trigger of migraine headaches. While it's impossible to completely avoid stress, relaxation exercises can help you cope. Inhale and exhale slowly, letting the air fill you and then deflate like a balloon. Some people find that thinking of a peaceful scene or listening to favorite music can help.
Swipe to advance
8 / 27
Trigger: Lack of Food or Sleep
It's important for people prone to migraine headaches to have a regular pattern of meals and sleep. Low blood sugar from skipping meals can trigger a migraine. Eating too much sugar also can cause a spike, then a "crash" in blood sugar. Drink water throughout the day to avoid dehydration and sleep at least six to eight hours a night.
Swipe to advance
9 / 27
Trigger: Hormonal Changes
For many women, migraine headaches are tied to their menstrual cycle, occurring either a few days before or during their period, when estrogen levels drop. Some women may benefit from anti-inflammatory medication before their headaches begin, or hormonal birth control such as pills, patches, or rings. Others may have no benefit or worse migraine headaches with hormonal birth control.
Swipe to advance
10 / 27
Trigger: Headache Foods
Migraine sufferers often report that certain foods trigger their headaches. Common culprits include MSG, red wine, cheese, chocolate, soy sauce, and processed meats. However, scientific studies haven't confirmed any particular food as a migraine trigger.
Swipe to advance
11 / 27
Trigger: Tyramine
Aged, fermented, and stored foods have higher levels of tyramine, a substance created from the breakdown of the amino acid tyrosine. Tyramine may cause blood vessels to constrict then expand, and it may be a trigger for some migraine headaches. Some headache experts advise limiting fermented or aged foods, such as cheese, soy sauce, pickles, and pepperoni.
Swipe to advance
12 / 27
Caffeine: Help or Hindrance?
When combined with some pain medications, caffeine can help provide relief. Most migraine sufferers can drink a cup or two a day of coffee without any problems. However, too much caffeine can lead to headaches when the stimulant effect wears off.
Swipe to advance
13 / 27
Tracking Personal Triggers
Find out what triggers migraine headaches by keeping a headache diary. Each time you suffer from a migraine, make a note about the warning signs (the "prodrome"), triggers, and severity. If you can discover some of your personal triggers, you may be able to avoid future headaches.
Swipe to advance
14 / 27
Who Gets Migraines?
Women are three times more likely to have migraine headaches than men. If you have a close relative with migraine, you are much more likely to have them, too. Experts believe migraine may be related to mutations in genes that affect certain areas of the brain. Migraine headaches are also more common among people who have epilepsy, depression, asthma, anxiety, stroke, and some other neurologic and hereditary disorders.
Swipe to advance
15 / 27
Migraine headaches in Children
About 5% of the children with headache problems suffer from migraine headaches. Both boys and girls can get migraine headaches, but after puberty they are more common among girls. Children may have symptoms other than headache, including stomach pain (abdominal migraine) or forceful and frequent vomiting (cyclic vomiting). If young children become wobbly on their feet, pale, and fussy, or have involuntary eye movements or vomiting, they may have a form of migraine called benign paroxysmal vertigo.
Swipe to advance
16 / 27
Diagnosing Migraine
Migraine headaches are diagnosed primarily from symptoms, but your doctor may want to do a brain scan to rule out other causes of headaches, such as a brain tumor or bleeding in the brain. A CT scan uses special X-rays to create cross-sectional images of the brain. An MRI uses radio frequency pulses and a magnetic field to create images of the brain.
Swipe to advance
17 / 27
Calculating Your Headache Burden
Before you begin treatment, your doctor may want to assess your "headache burden" -- how much your life is affected by migraine headaches. A simple questionnaire asks how many times you have missed work, school, or family or leisure activities because of headaches.
Swipe to advance
18 / 27
Treatment: Over-the-Counter Drugs
Combinations of common pain relievers and anti-inflammatories may help: acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen sodium. Some have been formulated specifically to treat migraine headaches. However, overuse may actually make headaches worse or may lead to ulcers or other gastrointestinal problems.
Swipe to advance
19 / 27
Treatment: Triptans
Triptans, the most common medication prescribed for migraine headaches, are most effective when taken early in an attack. Common triptans include Amerge, Axert, Frova, Imitrex, Maxalt, Relpax, Treximet, and Zomig. People with high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, and other conditions may not be able to take triptans. And because of possible serious drug interactions, you should talk to your doctor about other medications you take, such as antidepressants or antiseizure drugs. Side effects of triptans include nausea, dizziness, tingling, numbness, and chest pain.
Swipe to advance
20 / 27
Treatment: Ergotamines
If triptans don't give you relief, your doctor may prescribe dihydroergotamine (Migranal) or ergotamines (Cafergot or Migergot) as tablets, nasal sprays, or injections. These drugs narrow the blood vessels and can cause nausea, dizziness, muscle pain, or a bad taste in the mouth. They are not usually as effective as triptans and also have some interactions with other drugs.
Swipe to advance
21 / 27
Is Your Treatment Working?
After you have treated two or three headaches, ask yourself some simple questions. Are you getting the relief you need? If not, you should ask your doctor about altering treatment. Be sure you take medications early in the attack -- at least within two hours of migraine pain.
Swipe to advance
22 / 27
Limits of Medication Use
Overuse of medications can sometimes lead to chronic headaches. You shouldn't take prescribed medication more than two times per week. You can get rid of the chronic headaches by tapering and discontinuing medication -- under a doctor's supervision. Pain medicines containing narcotics should be taken at the direction of physician because they can be habit-forming.
Swipe to advance
23 / 27
Treatment: Preventive Medication
If migraine headaches are frequent or very severe, you may need to take a drug every day to prevent attacks. Drugs used to treat high blood pressure can be prescribed for this purpose. They include beta blockers and calcium channel blockers. Several types of antidepressants can also be used to prevent migraine, as well as anticonvulsants. Even Botox, which is normally used to treat wrinkles, can keep migraines at bay for some people.
Swipe to advance
24 / 27
Alternative Therapy: Biofeedback
Biofeedback and relaxation training can give you relief that is similar to the help you get from medications. Biofeedback uses a monitor to train you to recognize the onset of muscle tension and changes in body temperature that are signals of stress.
Swipe to advance
25 / 27
Alternative Therapy: Acupuncture
Acupuncture is a form of Chinese medicine that uses very fine needles inserted in specific spots to balance the body's energy flow. Some researchers have found acupuncture causes the brain to release chemicals that affect pain. However, studies on the effectiveness of acupuncture for migraine symptoms has been mixed.
Swipe to advance
26 / 27
An Advantage of Aging
Migraine headaches most often strike in the prime of life – between the ages of 20 and 60. While elderly people still get migraine headaches, they often decrease in severity and frequency as we age, or even disappear entirely. Good management of migraines may help you get rid of migraine headaches for good.
Swipe to advance
27 / 27
When You Need Quick Care
Any new headache that is unusually severe or lasts more than a couple of days should be checked by a doctor. It's also important to let your health care provider know if the pattern of headaches changes -- for example, if there are new triggers. If you have a headache accompanied by paralysis, confusion, fever, or stiff neck, seek emergency medical care.
Swipe to advance
Up Next
Next Slideshow Title
Skip Ad
1 / 27
Skip Ad
Sources | Medically Reviewed on 08/09/2017 Reviewed by Stephen D. Silberstein, MD on August 09, 2017
IMAGES PROVIDED BY:
1) Fancy
2) 3D4Medical.com
3) Candace Cusack / E+
4) Jon Feingersh / Blend Images
5) Gustoimages/Photo Researchers, Inc. and Hank Morgan/Rainbow
6) Image100
7) Radius Images
8) John Rowley / Digital Vision
9) Tina Sbrigato / Getty
10) FoodCollection
11) Image Source
12) Robert Kineschke / Getty
13) Steve Pomberg / WebMD
14) Pascal Broze
15) Liane Cary / Getty
16) Science Photo Library RF
17) WebMD
18) Ingram Publishing
19) Bruce Laurance / White
20) Hemera
21) Tetra Images
22) AJPhoto / Photo Researchers, Inc.
23) Image Source
24) William McCoy / Rainbow
25) Polka Dot Images
26) Fancy
27) Radius Images
REFERENCES:
American Headache Society.
American Migraine Foundation.
American Pain Foundation.
Lifting the Burden: A Global Campaign to Reduce the Burden of Headache Worldwide.
Migraine Research Foundation.
National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine.
National Headache Foundation.
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
National Library of Medicine.
The Journal of the American Medical Association.
Reviewed by Stephen D. Silberstein, MD on August 09, 2017
This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information.
THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911.
WebMD Slideshows
View our slideshows to learn more about your health.
Psoriasis 14 home remedies to try.
Rheumatoid Arthritis Is it the source of your aches?
Foods for Focus Eat these to help you stay on task.
Multiple Sclerosis Warning signs to watch out for.
Attention Killers What steals your concentration?
Cancer Does THIS cause cancer?
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.