Fungal infections: Symptoms, types, and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What you need to know about fungal infections
Last updated	 Thu 15 November 2018	 Last updated	Thu 15 Nov 2018
By Jon Johnson
Reviewed by University of Illinois-Chicago, School of Medicine
Table of contents
Symptoms
Types
Risk factors
Outlook
Fungal infections are common throughout much of the natural world. In humans, fungal infections occur when an invading fungus takes over an area of the body and is too much for the immune system to handle.
Fungi can live in the air, soil, water, and plants. There are also some fungi that live naturally in the human body.
Like many microbes, there are helpful fungi and harmful fungi. When harmful fungi invade the body, they can be difficult to kill, as they can survive in the environment and re-infect the person trying to get better.
In this article, we take a look at who is most at risk of getting a fungal infection and what the symptoms and treatment options are for some common types.
Symptoms
Skin changes, redness, and itching are common symptoms of many fungal infections.
The symptoms of a fungal infection will depend on the type, but common symptoms include the following:
skin changes, including red and possibly cracking or peeling skin
itching
Read on to find out more about some common types of fungal infection, their symptoms, and the treatment options.
Types
The following conditions are all common types of fungal infections.
Athlete's foot
Tinea pedis or athlete's foot is a common fungal infection that affects the foot.
Athlete's foot is commonly associated with sports and athletes because the fungus grows perfectly in warm, moist environments, such as socks and shoes, sports equipment, and locker rooms.
In reality, anyone may be affected by athlete's foot. It is most common in warmer climates and summer months, where it can quickly multiply.
Symptoms
Athlete's foot is a common infection where the fungus grows in warm and moist environments.
The symptoms of athlete's foot may vary slightly from person to person. Classic symptoms include:
redness or blisters on the affected area
the infected skin may be soft, or layers may start to break down
peeling or cracking skin
the skin may scale and peel away
itching, stinging, or burning sensations in the infected area
Diagnosis, treatment, and prevention
Not all itchy feet are the result athlete's foot. Doctors usually diagnose the infection by scraping scaling skin off of a person and inspecting it under a microscope for evidence of any fungus.
There are a few different fungi that can cause athlete's foot. The infection may behave differently depending on the specific fungus that is infecting the skin.
Athlete's foot is often treated with topical antifungal ointments, which are available to purchase over-the-counter or online. Severe infections can require additional oral medications as well. The feet will also need to be cared for and kept dry to help kill the fungus.
Prevention methods include allowing the feet plenty of air to breathe and keeping them clean and dry. It is a good idea to wear sandals in public showers or locker rooms.
Yeast infection
Vaginal yeast infections are a common form of Candida overgrowth in women, usually caused by Candida albicans.
An overgrowth of Candida disrupts the normal balance of the bacteria and yeast in the vagina. This imbalance of bacteria may be due to antibiotics, stress, and hormone imbalances, or poor eating habits, among other things.
Candida infections can also commonly cause fungal toenail infections and diaper rash.
Symptoms
A yeast infection may commonly cause fungal toenail infections.
Symptoms of a yeast infection include:
itching and swelling around the vagina
burning sensations or pain during urination or intercourse
redness and soreness on and surrounding the vagina
unusual vaginal discharge, such as gray clumps that resemble cottage cheese or a very watery discharge
A rash may develop over time in some cases. Yeast infections should be treated quickly, as the symptoms may become severe if left untreated.
Diagnosis, treatment, and prevention
The classic symptoms of a yeast infection make them easy to diagnose. Doctors may ask about the person's medical history, such as any previous yeast infections or sexually transmitted infections (STIs). They may also ask whether the person was recently taking antibiotics.
Doctors will then examine the vaginal walls and cervix for signs of infection, taking cells from the vagina if necessary for proper diagnosis.
Treatment of yeast infections depends on their severity. Standard treatments include creams, tablets, or suppositories, which are available via prescription, or over-the-counter or online. Complicated infections may require complex treatments.
Avoiding yeast infections begins with a balanced diet and proper hygiene. Wearing loose-fitting clothing made from natural fibers may also help prevent infection. Washing underwear in very hot water and changing feminine products often can also help prevent fungal growth.
Jock itch
Tinea cruris, commonly known as jock itch, is another common fungal skin infection.
These fungi love warm and damp environments and thrive in moist areas of the body, such as the groin, buttocks, and inner thighs. Jock itch may be more common in summer or in warm, humid areas of the world.
Jock itch is mildly contagious and is often spread through direct contact with an infected person or an object that is carrying the fungus.
Symptoms
Thrush can affect the genital area in men as well as women.
Jock itch appears on the body as an itchy, red rash that often has a circular shape to it. Symptoms include:
redness in the groin, buttocks, or thighs
chafing, irritation, itching, or burning in the infected area
a red rash with a circular shape and raised edges
cracking, flaking, or dry peeling of the skin in the infected area
How does thrush affect men?
Jock itch is not the only type of fungal infection that can affect a man. Find out more about Candida in men.
Read now
Diagnosis, treatment, and prevention
Jock itch has a very particular look and can usually be identified based on its appearance. If doctors are uncertain, they may take a skin sample to inspect and confirm their diagnosis.
Treating jock itch usually involves topical antifungal ointments and proper hygiene. Many cases of jock itch are improved by over-the-counter medications, though some require prescription medications. Cleaning the affected area and keeping it dry can also help kill the fungus.
Jock itch can be prevented by wearing loose-fitting natural fibers, such as cotton underwear which is available to buy online. Avoiding contact with others who have the infection is also important. Avoiding shared items, such as towels and sporting equipment may also help.
Ringworm
Tinea corporis or ringworm is a skin infection caused by a fungus that lives on dead tissues, such as the skin, hair, and nails. Ringworm is the fungus that causes both jock itch and athlete's foot. When it appears anywhere else on the body, the infection is just called ringworm.
Symptoms
Ringworm is a skin infection that causes jock itch and athlete's foot.
Ringworm is usually easy to notice because of its shape. A red patch that may itch or be scaly will often turn into a raised, ring-shaped patch of skin over time. It may even spread out into several rings.
The outside of this ring is red and may appear raised or bumpy, while the inside of the ring will remain clear or become scaly.
Ringworm is highly contagious, and it can be transmitted by skin-to-skin contact, or from contact with pets, such as dogs. The fungus may also survive on objects, such as towels, clothes, and brushes.
The ringworm fungus also infects soil and mud, so people who play or work in infected dirt may catch ringworm as well.
Diagnosis, treatment, and prevention
Other skin conditions may look like ringworm, so doctors will usually want to take a skin sample to inspect for the fungus.
After confirming a diagnosis, doctors will recommend a treatment, depending on how severe the symptoms are.
Creams and medicated ointments are often sufficient to treat many cases of ringworm, and may be purchased over-the-counter or online. Ringworm of the scalp or severe ringworm may require a prescription.
Basic hygiene can help treat and prevent ringworm as well. Keeping the skin clean and dry can help avoid infection.
Safety in public includes wearing sandals into public showers or locker rooms and avoiding shared items and towels.
Treatments for ringworm are available for purchase online.
Risk factors
Fungal infections are common in humans and are usually not very serious if they are treated quickly and correctly.
Anyone with a weakened immune system may be more likely to contract a fungal infection, as well as anyone who is taking antibiotics.
Cancer treatment and diabetes may also make a person more prone to fungal infections.
Outlook
Most fungal skin infections can be treated with over-the-counter or prescription creams. Severe infections may require additional methods.
Taking preventive action can go a long way towards avoiding fungal skin infections as well.
It is always best to notify a doctor at the first sign of infection to avoid possibly serious complications. By working directly with a doctor, most cases of fungal skin infections can be easily treated.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
What to know about antibiotics Antibiotics include a range of powerful drugs that kill bacteria or slow their growth. They treat bacterial infections, not viruses. If used incorrectly or overused, there is a risk that the bacteria will become resistant. This article looks at the history, uses, and side effects of antibiotics. Read now
What you need to know about ringworm Despite the name, ringworm refers to several types of contagious fungal infection. It most often results in an itchy rash. We describe symptoms as they appear in several parts of the body, as well as causes, risk factors, prevention, and treatment. Read on and check out our photo gallery to learn more about ringworm. Read now
Everything you need to know about athlete's foot Athlete's foot is an infection of a fungus that thrives in warm, moist areas, particularly between the toes. The infection can spread to the hands, and it is contagious. Up to 70 percent of people in the U.S. are expected to develop athlete's foot, but many over-the-counter medications are effective. Learn more here. Read now
Jock itch: Causes, treatments, and remedies Jock itch is an itch around the genital and buttock areas, common in athletes and people who build up large amounts of sweat in these areas. This article examines how it is diagnosed, the risk factors, when should a doctor be consulted, and what lifestyle tips may help to prevent it. Read now
Fungi: Hazards and health applications A fungus is one of a wide range of living organisms, some of them beneficial to health, others less so. Find out more about the health and harms of fungi. Read now
email email
print
share share
Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses
Dermatology Sexual Health / STDs
Additional information
Article last updated on Thu 15 November 2018.
Visit our Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Crawford, F. (2009, July 20). Athlete's foot. BMJ Clinical Evidence, 1712. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2907807/
El-Gohary, M., van Zuuren, E. J., Fedorowicz, Z., Burgess, H., Doney, L., Stuart, B., ... & Little, P. (2014, August 4). Topical antifungal treatments for tinea cruris and tinea corporis. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 8. Retrieved from http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD009992.pub2/full#abstract
Genital / vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC). (2014, February 13). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/candidiasis/genital/index.html
Ringworm. (2015, December 4). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/fungal/diseases/ringworm/index.html
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Johnson, Jon. "What you need to know about fungal infections." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 15 Nov. 2018. Web.
22 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/317970.php>
APA
Johnson, J. (2018, November 15). "What you need to know about fungal infections." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/317970.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Popular in: Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses
Chickenpox vs. measles: What's the difference?
What is the best home remedy for toenail fungus?
Sore throat and rash: Strep infection and other causes
Herpes simplex: Everything you need to know
How to treat and prevent an infected ear piercing
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/317970.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);