Buy Imitrex. Online Generic (Sumatriptan) 100 mg in USA - HealthSavy
Skip to content
Menu
Contact Us
Home
Imitrex
Where to buy imitrex online?
Pharmacy
Buy
Description
Description
Imitrex
Imitrex is one of the most effective modern medications for the treatment of migraine from the triptansdrug class. Imitrex contains the active ingredient Sumatriptan succinate.
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) manufactures three dosage forms of Imitrex:
Nasal spray (5 mg and 20 mg),
Subcutaneous injections (6 mg)
Tablets (50 mg and 100 mg).
Prescribing Information
Imitrex is prescribed for the treatment of migraine with or without an aura. This drug helps to quickly relieve headaches of medium and high intensity.
Imitrex helps relieve migraine symptoms (phonophobia, headaches, nausea, or photophobia) approximately in:
10 minutes after the injection;
30 minutes after the tablets ingestion;
15 minutes after the nasal spray use.
Imitrex is prescribed for adults over 16 years of age. Geriatric patients (over 65 years of age), under-age children and adolescents should use alternative methods of migrainetreatment.
Dosage
To relief migraine, Imitrex should be taken once. The size of the dose depends on the pharmaceutical form, chosenfor the treatment of migraine. If you have migraine symptoms (with or without an aura), you can take one:
Oral dose of Imitrex: 50 mg to 200 mg (tablets).
Injection dose of Imitrex: 6 mg to 12 mg (injection solution).
Nasal dose of Imitrex: 5 mg to 40 mg (nasal spray).
Regardless of which form of Imitrex was chosen for the treatment of migraine, the interval between the doses should be at least two hours.
Interactions
Imitrex should not be taken concomitantly with such drugs, as Migranal (Dihydroergotamine) or Sansert (Methysergide). The minimum interval between doses of these medicines and Imitrex is one day.
Hyperreflexia, diarrhea, tachycardia or agitation are possible,when Imitrex is used in combination with other antimigrenous (including Zolmitriptan), or antidepressants (including Sertraline, Paroxetine). If a patient takes one of these drugs, he may be advised to reduce the dose of Imitrex.
Imitrex is contraindicated during the course of monoamine oxidase inhibitors, including when a patient uses Marplan (Isocarboxazid), Nardil (Phenelzine), or Emsam (Selegiline) medications.
Side effects
In Imitrex use, the risk of cardiovascular events increases, including arrhythmias, myocardial ischemia, discomfort or chest pain, and sudden changes in blood pressure. The list of frequent undesirable phenomena of Imitrex includes:
vomiting
nausea
drowsiness
dizziness
visual disturbances
These adverse reactions are mild, and last approximately 45-120 minutes after Imitrex administration.
Tips
To avoid relapse of migraine, patients with a history of drug abuse are advised to take precautions when using Imitrex.
Before the beginning of an Imitrexcourse, diagnostic tests should be performedto exclude neurological disordersand to reduce the likelihood of cerebrovascular events (for example, stroke).
Imitrex should be taken cautiously in patients at risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes or obesity. The use of Imitrex for the treatment of cluster headaches is impractical.
Search for:
Products
Zovirax
Zithromax
Xenical
Ventolin
Valtrex
Topamax
Synthroid
Strattera
Proscar
Propecia
Prednisone
Paxil
Nexium
Nolvadex
Neurontin
Lipitor
Lexapro
Levaquin
Lasix
Kamagra
Inderal
Imitrex
Flagyl
Effexor
Doxycycline
Diflucan
Diclofenac
Cymbalta
Clomid
Cipro
Celexa
Celebrex
Amoxicillin
Accutane
Xanax
Valium
Tramadol
Soma
Provigil
Priligy
Phentermine
Meridia
Klonopin
Ativan
Ambien
Adderall
Levitra
Cialis
Viagra
© 2019
All Rights Reserved. HealthSavy