Home remedies for head cold | Remedies to treat head cold | Home Remedies
Newsletter
हिंदी
Subscribe to Onlymyhealth Newsletter
Living Better
Women's Health
Men's Health
Weight Loss Wisdom
I have read the Privacy Policy and the Terms and Conditions. I provide my consent for my data to be processed for the purposes as described and receive communications for service related information.
Gender :
Please SelectMaleFemale
✖
Health Diseases
Children Health
Men's Health
Women's Health
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Other Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Weight Management
Healthy Diet
Exercise Fitness
Yoga
Grooming
Fashion and Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Parenting
New Born Care
Parenting Tips
Know Baby Name
Search Baby Name
Relationships
Marriage
Dating
Cheating
Alternative Therapies
Mind and Body
Ayurveda
Home Remedies
Slideshows
Videos
Health A to Z
Health News
Baby Names
QNA
Health Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Parenting
Relationships
Alternative Therapies
Health
Health⁄
alternative therapies⁄
Home Remedies
Home remedies for head cold
Skin Care By Varsha Vats , Onlymyhealth editorial team / Apr 03, 2019
Quick Bites
Gargling your throat with saline water can help combat cold as well as cough.
Lemon juice can help in relieving the nasal congestion and preventing dehydration.
Chopped garlic added to 2 tablespoons of honey every night also works well.
Inhaling steam is 100 per cent effective in giving much wanted relief from head cold.
A clear mucus drainage, study nose and shooting headache are some common symptoms you will experience when suffering from a head cold. Head cold is commonly referred to as common cold and is caused by the body’s contact with viruses.Common cold mostly does not react or subside with the help of medicines and lasts a few days. The good news is that while medicines may not work their usual wonders, there are a host of remedies that you can seek refuge in right in your home.
To treat the usual discomfort which you cannot really help, especially if you are stuck in a social situation, head to the washroom and release the pressure and heaviness that may be there in your head and blow the nose. Remember not to pull the mucus back to where it should not be. Blowing nose can help the mucus to clear.
Gargle with saline water
Gargling your throat with saline water can help combat cold as well as cough. One aromatic potion is sage tea gargling which can help one disinfect the oral cavity and inhale the beautiful essence.
Drink Lemon Juice to treat head cold
Lemon juice is a miracle drink for people with cold and cough. It can help in relieving the nasal congestion and preventing dehydration. Irritated membranes in the nose that surround the nasal passage may through the lemon get relief. For best results, try coupling a glass of water diluted with lemon juice and a spoon of honey dipped in it.
Use honey, cinnamon and ginger tea
Chopped garlic added to 2 tablespoons of honey every night can work well to ease cold and cough. You may also take cinnamon powder mixed with honey for three days to clear the sinuses. Hot ginger tea can help you in getting relief from head cold.
Make a home nasal spray
You can easily make a nasal spray at home to clear your stuffed nasal passage with the help of saline water. Mix 1/4th of a teaspoon of salt along with baking soda in a glass of water. Take a dropper and fill it with this mixture. Take the spray and lean over a basin to spray it and squirt the water into your nasal passage. Close one nostril and spray the water in the other nostril. Let the water drain out and try the same procedure in the other nostril for a minimum of three times. Do not, however, overdo this as it will drain all the mucus in the nose away which is important to help you fight against infections.
Inhale steam to ease the congestion
Inhaling steam is one of the best home remedies that are known to be 100 per cent effective in giving much wanted relief from head cold. Hold your head over a pot with boiling water and breathe the steam in. Doing so will help you clear the congestion and breathe in peace. The steam will also help in draining the phlegm and mucus that had been congesting the respiratory tract.
Rub eucalyptus oil to clear a blocked nose.
Eucalyptus oil is highly effective in clearing a blocked nose. Take a few drops of the oil onto your finger tips and rub it on the sides of the nose to clear the blockage. You may follow it up with a warm bath to relieve body ache or fatigue that may have been caused by the cold.
Add a Humidifier to treat a stuffy nose
Dryness in your surroundings can cause the viruses to lead to cold. Add a humidifier in your home to fight against the stuffy nose.
Image source: Getty
Read more articles on Home Remedies for Daily Life.
Written by
Bhadra Kamalasanan
Source: Onlymyhealth editorial teamJun 18, 2013
All possible measures have been taken to ensure accuracy, reliability, timeliness and authenticity of the information; however Onlymyhealth.com does not take any liability for the same. Using any information provided by the website is solely at the viewers’ discretion. In case of any medical exigencies/ persistent health issues, we advise you to seek a qualified medical practitioner before putting to use any advice/tips given by our team or any third party in form of answers/comments on the above mentioned website.
Go Back To Jagran
×
Trending Topics
How to make Nasal Spray
Benefits of Eucalyptus Oil for Cold
Remedies for Cold
Related News
Treat cold sores overnight with our magical home remedies
10 Best home remedies for Cold and Cough
Natural remedies to curb cold and cough
Bizarre Home Remedies for Common Cold
5 home remedies you should swear not to try
All Sections
Health Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Parenting
Relationships
Alternative Therapies
Featured Health Topics
Dental Health
Hepatitis
Dengue
Allergy
Asthma
Hypertension
About Us
Contact Us
Management
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
Copyright © 2018 MMI ONLINE LTD
This website uses cookie or similar technologies, to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations. By continuing to use our website, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. OK