Benefits of L-Theanine
Home
eMedTV Home
Alzheimers Home
Switch To Mobile View
Health Topics
eMedTV Health Topics
Alzheimers Health Topics
Disease & Conditions
Tests & Procedures
Drugs & Supplements
Symptoms
Articles
eMedTV Articles
Alzheimers Articles
Videos
eMedTV Videos
Sign In | Site Map
Alzheimers Channel
Topics & Medications
Alzheimer's Disease
Binswanger's Disease
Dementia
Lewy Body Dementia
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
Aricept
Cognex
Exelon
Ginkgo Biloba
L-Theanine
Lecithin
NADH
Namenda
Namenda XR
Phosphatidylserine
Razadyne
Vitamin E
Advertisement
Quicklinks
Alzheimer's
Lewy Body Dementia
Dementia
Aricept
Symptoms of Dementia
Causes of Dementia
Vitamin E
Benefits of Vitamin E
Namenda
Exelon
Cognex
L-Theanine
Phosphatidylserine
Ginkgo Biloba
Lecithin
Related Channels
Depression
Mental Health
Nervous System
Senior Health
Advertisement
Tweet
Alzheimers Home > Benefits of L-Theanine
Benefits of L-Theanine
There appear to be numerous benefits of L-theanine, but some have absolutely no scientific basis. L-theanine is claimed to be useful for treating high blood pressure, Alzheimer's disease, and anxiety. It may increase serotonin and GABA levels, lower norepinephrine levels, and protect brain nerves from damage caused by Alzheimer's. It is important to know, however, that these reported L-theanine benefits have not been confirmed.
"; s+="
"; $('#articlevideoplayer').html(s); $('#articlevideoplayer').click(function(){window.location="http://depression.emedtv.com/depression-video/depression-introduction-video.html"}); if (window.navigator.userAgent.indexOf("Firefox")!=-1) $(".videobox").css("margin-top","10px"); //]]>
What Benefits Can L-Theanine Provide?
L-theanine (also known as just theanine) is an amino acid found in tea. It is not essential for human nutrition. L-theanine supplements are often claimed to be beneficial for the following conditions:
Anxiety
High blood pressure (hypertension)
Alzheimer's disease.
There is also some interest in using L-theanine to boost the effectiveness of certain chemotherapy medications for treating cancer. Early research is also evaluating L-theanine for preventing liver damage due to excessive alcohol poisoning.
Although some of the benefits of green tea may be attributed to L-theanine, it cannot be assumed that L-theanine provides all the benefits of green tea (since green tea contains many different active compounds).
Some of these claimed benefits of L-theanine may be more valid than others (see Does L-Theanine Work? for more information), and some have absolutely no scientific basis. As with many supplements, claims for the benefits of L-theanine are sometimes exaggerated, and such claims must be evaluated critically. Most importantly, it is essential to remember that natural products should not be used carelessly, as many natural products can be quite toxic (for instance, many poisons are natural products).
Benefits of L-Theanine Article Continues on Next Page >
Advertisement
5 Tips to Reduce Your Risk of Alzheimer's
L-Theanine Supplement Information
Are There Tests to Diagnose Adult ADHD?
Does Marijuana Help With Adult ADHD?
Can You Be Too Old for an ADHD Diagnosis?
What Online Organizations Can I Trust for Info on Adult ADHD?
Can I Get Fired for Having Adult ADHD?
What Kinds of Doctors Diagnose Adult ADHD?
Can I Have Adult ADHD But Not Be Hyperactive?
Do Children Inherit ADHD From Their Parents?
Are There Natural Treatments for ADHD?
Are ADHD Tests Just for Children?
Do People Take ADHD Medication for Life?
Do I Need to See a Specialist for Adult ADHD?
How Is Adult ADHD Diagnosed?
Is It Adult ADHD or Something Else?
What Is the Difference Between Adult ADD and Adult ADHD?
Can I Treat ADHD and Other Diagnoses at the Same Time?
Are There Alternative Medicines for Adult ADHD?
Are ADHD Medications Safe for Adults?
Will I Take Stimulants for Adult ADHD?
What Are the Long-Term Effects of Stimulants for Adult ADHD?
Are There Food Triggers for Adult ADHD?
Is There a Link Between Adult ADHD and Food Additives and Pesticides?
List of references (click here)
Jellin JM, editor. Pharmacist's Letter/Prescriber's Letter Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Web site. Available at: http://naturaldatabase.com/. Accessed March 4, 2008.
Sadzuka Y, Inoue C, Hirooka S, Sugiyama T, Umegaki K, Sonobe T. Effects of L-theanine on alcohol metabolism and hepatic toxicity. Biol Pharm Bull. 2005;28(9):1702-6.
Sugiyama T, Sadzuka Y. L-theanine, a specific glutamate derivative in green tea, reduces the adverse reactions of doxorubicin by changing the glutathione level. Cancer Lett 2004;212(2):177-84.
Sugiyama T, Sadzuka Y. L-theanine and glutamate transporter inhibitors enhance the antitumor efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents. Biochim Biophys Acta 2003;1653(2):47-59.
Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD
Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD
L-Theanine
Benefits of L-Theanine
Does L-Theanine Work?
L-Theanine Side Effects
L-Theanine Dosage
L-Theanine Drug Interactions
L-Theanine Safety
L-Theanine and Pregnancy
L-Theanine and Breastfeeding
L-Theanine Overdose
Advertisement
Referring Pages:
Articles
Terms of Use
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
About eMedTV
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2006-2019 Clinaero, Inc.
eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind. Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with their own physician. Click Terms of Use for more information.
Please sign into you HealthSavvy account.
Email Address
Password
Forgot your password?
Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet?
Click Here to sign up
has been added to your selected topics.
Would you like to view your HealthSavvy Programs now, or stay on this page and continue reading this article?
Benefits of L-Theanine
Send using Facebook
Share on Facebook
Send using email:
Email To:*
Separate multiple addresses with a comma or semicolon
Your Name:*
Message:
Your Email:*
* Required Field
Cancel
Send
In order for us to best serve you and provide you with the best information, can you please tell us if you currently have health insurance?
In order for us to create your customized HealthSavvy programs, we need a little more information about the health topic(s) that you are interested in.
Press "Continue" button below to begin selecting your HealthSavvy topic(s).
Are You Sure?
You've chosen to add topics from the topic group to your selected topics.
Are you sure you want to add all of these topics?
Are You Sure?
You've chosen to clear all of your selected topics. Remember, you need at least one selected topic to use HealthSavvy. If you choose this option, it cannot be undone, and you'll need to choose at least new topic to continue using your HealthSavvy programs.
Are you still sure that you want to clear all of you selected topics?