Calm-Pro Chewable | personalpower
Log in | Sign up
0 items in your cart
Home
Catalog
Menu Account Cart
Search
Latest posts
Your post's title Your store hasn’t published any blog posts yet. A blog can be used to talk about new product launches, tips, or other news you want to share with your customers. You can check out Shopify’s ecommerce blog for inspiration and advice for your own store and blog.
Your post's title Your store hasn’t published any blog posts yet. A blog can be used to talk about new product launches, tips, or other news you want to share with your customers. You can check out Shopify’s ecommerce blog for inspiration and advice for your own store and blog.
Your post's title Your store hasn’t published any blog posts yet. A blog can be used to talk about new product launches, tips, or other news you want to share with your customers. You can check out Shopify’s ecommerce blog for inspiration and advice for your own store and blog.
Your post's title Your store hasn’t published any blog posts yet. A blog can be used to talk about new product launches, tips, or other news you want to share with your customers. You can check out Shopify’s ecommerce blog for inspiration and advice for your own store and blog.
Your post's title Your store hasn’t published any blog posts yet. A blog can be used to talk about new product launches, tips, or other news you want to share with your customers. You can check out Shopify’s ecommerce blog for inspiration and advice for your own store and blog.
Follow us
Newsletter
Sign up to our newsletter for the latest news and special offers...
Subscribe
Popular products
Lymph Stim Liquescence $19.00
Bio Tears Oral $34.95
Thyroid Px $39.50
Adrenal Px DHEA $39.95
EssentiaBar Double Dark Chocolate $2.95
Silvercillin $54.60
Iron Chelate 28mg $12.50
Cocoa Butter 100% Pure $8.99
Giant Redwood/Sequoia Gigantea $13.66
Adrenal Px DHEA-25 $42.95
Calm-Pro Chewable
Bioclinic Naturals
$32.80
Default Title - $32.80 USD
Qty
Add to Cart
Share:
Share Tweet Pin it +1
L-Theanine is an amino acid found almost exclusively in tea that influences the central nervous system through a number of mechanisms. It crosses the bloodbrain barrier in a dose-dependent manner within 30 minutes, and influences levels of the neurotransmitters dopamine, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), serotonin, norepinephrine, and glutamate. These effects cause a significant increase in alpha brain wave activity, indicative of a state of wakeful relaxation, increased performance under stress, improved learning and concentration, as well as decreased anxiety.
Studies also suggest that L-theanine may have neuroprotective properties against brain injury, such as that resulting from stroke, as well as from environmental neurotoxins. L-Theanine’s neuroprotective capacity has been attributed to its effects on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) production. Because it reduces levels of norepinephrine, it has also been shown to have a hypotensive effect. In clinical trials, L-Theanine has been shown to buffer sympathetic activity during stressful events, reducing subjective as well as physiological stress responses.
Benefits
•Contains Suntheanine®, the most clinically-studied L-theanine
•Suntheanine® is a pure form of L-theanine, naturally extracted from green tea using a patented enzymatic process
•Reduces stress and anxiety, restoring a calm mental state
•Chewable tablets are convenient and fast-acting
•Delicious tropical fruit flavored chewable
Search
Disclaimer
DCMA Copyright Notice
Refund Policy
Terms of Service
Privacy Statement
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 personalpower. All Rights Reserved.
Site by Rawsterne
Powered by Shopify
Back to top