Kefir And High Blood Pressure - Lower Your Blood Pressure Fast
Ask Me About Blood Pressure
My Books
About Dr Sarah Brewer
Affiliate Disclosure
Image Credits
Privacy Policy For MyLowerBloodPressure.com
Cookie policy
Terms And Conditions
PR Contact Page
My Recommended Products Amazon.com
Useful Links
Lower Your Blood Pressure Fast
Natural Remedies For High Blood Pressure by Dr Sarah Brewer
Natural Remedies For High Blood Pressure by Dr Sarah Brewer
Home
45 Natural Remedies For High Blood Pressure
All About Blood Pressure
What Is Blood Pressure?
Normal Blood Pressure Regulation
What Is Low Blood Pressure?
What Is Prehypertension?
What Is High Blood Pressure?
The U.S. Definition Of High Blood Pressure Has Changed
High Blood Pressure Classification Chart
High Blood Pressure Statistics
Symptoms Of High Blood Pressure
What Causes High Blood Pressure
How Blood Pressure Changes With Age
Older People And High Blood Pressure
Older People Need Good Blood Pressure Control
Teenagers Get High Blood Pressure Too
White Coat Hypertension
Secondary Hypertension
High Blood Pressure Linked With Depression
Complications
Are You At Risk Of A Heart Attack Or Stroke?
Atrial Fibrillation
High Blood Pressure Causes Nose Bleeds – Take Them Seriously
Aortic Aneurysm
Angina & Heart Attack
Congestive Heart Failure
Stroke
Self-Monitoring
Why Self-Monitoring Is Important
How To Choose A Blood Pressure Monitor
Best Upper Arm Monitors
Why You Should Check Blood Pressure in BOTH Arms
Diet
DASH Diet For High Blood Pressure
25 Foods That Lower Blood Pressure
Apple Cider Vinegar For Blood Pressure Lowering
Artichoke For High Blood Pressure
Avocado Lowers Blood Pressure
Caviar And Blood Pressure
Celery And Blood Pressure Effects
Cherry Juice For High Blood Pressure
Chia Seeds For High Blood Pressure
Cocoa Lowers A High Blood Pressure
Coconut Water For High Blood Pressure
Beetroot Juice For High Blood Pressure
Eggs Protect Against High Blood Pressure
Flaxseed For High Blood Pressure
Fish And High Blood Pressure
Grana Padano Cheese For High Blood Pressure
Grapefruit And High Blood Pressure
Licorice Raises Blood Pressure
Magnesium Rich Foods For High Blood Pressure
Monosodium Glutamate Raises Blood Pressure
Pistachios Lower Blood Pressure
Potatoes And High Blood Pressure
Salt And High Blood Pressure
Vegetarian Diets Lower Blood Pressure
Yogurt For High Blood Pressure
Lifestyle
Alcohol And High Blood Pressure
Red Wine And Blood Pressure
Caffeine And High Blood Pressure
How Much Caffeine’s In Your Coffee?
Cold Weather Increases Blood Pressure
Energy Drinks Increase Blood Pressure
Exercise And High Blood Pressure
Fitness Trackers For High Blood Pressure
Owning A Pet Can Lower Blood Pressure
How Saunas Affect Blood Pressure
Shift Work Raises Your Blood Pressure
Stress And High Blood Pressure
Giving Blood Lowers Blood Pressure
Smoking And High Blood Pressure
Weight And High Blood Pressure
Antihypertensive Drugs
High Blood Pressure Treatment
ACE Inhibitors
Alpha Blockers
Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers
Beta-Blockers
Calcium Channel Blockers
Diuretics
Aspirin And High Blood Pressure
Ibuprofen Raises Blood Pressure
Blood Pressure Drugs Can Affect Your Mood
Herbal Medicines
Ashwagandha
Black Cumin Seed
Chamomile
Garlic
Ginseng
Hawthorn
Hibiscus Tea
Lemon Balm
Reishi
Rhodiola
Valerian
Supplements
Aged Garlic
L-Arginine
Calcium
Cannabidiol (CBD) Oil
Coenzyme Q10
Fish Oil
Magnesium
Multivitamins
Lycopene
Potassium
Pycnogenol
Spirulina
Tomato Fruitflow
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Vitamin E
Whey Protein
Natural Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Aromatherapy
Biofeedback
Breathing Exercises
Deep Breathing
Floatation Therapy
Flower Essences
Homeopathy
Lavender Oil
Meditation
Music
Qigong
Reflexology
Relaxation Exercises
RESPeRATE
Shinrin-Yoku Forest Bathing
Tui Na Massage
Yoga
Cholesterol
Metabolic Syndrome
What is cholesterol?
What Is A Normal Cholesterol Level?
What Causes High Cholesterol?
A Lower Cholesterol Diet
Cholesterol Lowering Supplements
My Books
Ask Me About Blood Pressure
Buy Blood Pressure Monitors
Home » Foods & Diet » Kefir And High Blood Pressure
Kefir And High Blood Pressure
25 Sep, 2018 by Dr Sarah Brewer
Kefir is a traditional dairy product that originates from the North Caucasus, Tibetan and Mongolian mountains. The name kefir originates from a Slavic word, keif, which means living and wellbeing, as its consumption has long been associated with health benefits. Modern research suggests that kefir has antibiotic properties, and may lower blood pressure as well as improving glucose tolerance.
Contents Of This Article
What is kefir?
How does kefir lower blood pressure?
Will kefir lower your blood pressure?
Kefir may improve glucose control
What is kefir?
Kefir is a drink made by fermenting sheep, goat or cows’ milk with a unique mixture of bacteria and yeasts. These microbes clump together to form kefir grains which resemble a cross between cauliflower florets and cottage cheese. After fermenting the milk, the kefir grains are strained out for reuse and were traditionally passed from generation to generation as a source of family wealth.
Over 300 microbial species have been isolated from kefir of different origins, including lactic and acetic acid bacteria (eg Lactobacillus kefiranofaciens, Lactobacillus kefiri, Lactococcus lactis) and yeasts (eg Candida kefyr). Fermented kefir milk has a sour taste and is similar to a thin but creamy, effervescent yogurt – those made from goat milk have a stronger taste than those made from sheep and cows’ milk.
Kefir contains vitamins A, B1, B2, B5, B6, B12, folic acid, biotin, C and K that derive from the milk, bacteria and yeasts. It is also good source of magnesium, calcium and phosphorus, which may partly explain its blood pressure benefits, and provides small amounts of zinc, copper, iron and manganese.
How does kefir lower blood pressure?
Kefir contains small protein chains (polypeptides) created from the milk proteins that are broken down during fermentation. It also contains a starchy polysaccharide called kefiran which is derived from the walls (capsules) of the bacteria present. These substances have biological actions and are small enough to be absorbed into the circulation intact. Drinking kefir has been found to:
stimulate the production of new, healthy, blood vessel lining cells which improves arterial elasticity
suppress inflammation
improve nerve signalling systems between the gut and brain
enhance the reflex baroreceptor control of blood pressure
act as an ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) inhibitor, although the exact kefir milk peptides that inhibit ACE have not yet been identified.
Most kefir studies so far have involved cell cultures and rodents. Researchers recently presented findings at the American Physiological Society meeting, for example, involving hypertensive rats; those whose diet was supplemented with kefir for nine weeks had significantly lower blood pressure than those not given kefir, and also had reduced gut permeability and lower circulating levels of endotoxins. They suggested that kefir may lower blood pressure through interactions between the gut and brain and by restoring normal nerve function needed for blood pressure control.
Will kefir lower your blood pressure?
Recent studies have found that the balance of gut bacteria is different in people with coronary heart disease compare to those without. Consuming probiotic foods such as yogurt and kefir may help to correct this imbalance, although this is far from proven.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that some people experience a beneficial lowering of blood pressure from drinking kefir regularly, but while there are plausible mechanisms to support this, it has not yet been confirmed in clinical trials.
There is preclinical evidence (cell and animal studies) to suggest that kefir may help to lower blood pressure, but this has not yet been studied in human clinical trials and it is not yet possible to say whether or not it is effective. Kefir is a nutritious drink, however, and has been consumed for over 4,000 years with a long tradition of promoting good health.
Kefir may improve glucose control
Kefir has been studied in a clinical trial to investigate its traditional use in improving diabetes control. A study involving 60 people with type 2 diabetes mellitus compared the effects of drinking either 600ml kefir per day, or a conventional fermented milk yoghurt (containing Streptococcus thermophiles and Lactobacillus bulgaricus) for 8 weeks. Significantly greater improvements were seen in fasting blood glucose and HbA1C levels in those drinking kefir compared to those drinking the yogurt milk.
Research suggests this beneficial effect on glucose control results from activating insulin signalling pathways to improve the uptake of glucose into skeletal muscle cells.
Do you drink kefir? Have you noticed an effect on your blood pressure control?
Image credit: david.niergarth/flickr
About Dr Sarah Brewer
QUORA EXPERT - TOP WRITER 2018 Dr Sarah Brewer MSc (Nutr Med), MA (Cantab), MB, BChir, RNutr, MBANT, CNHC qualified from Cambridge University with degrees in Natural Sciences, Medicine and Surgery. After working in general practice, she gained a master's degree in nutritional medicine from the University of Surrey. Sarah is a registered Medical Doctor, a registered Nutritionist and a registered Nutritional Therapist. She is an award winning author of over 60 popular self-help books and a columnist for Prima magazine.
View all posts by Dr Sarah Brewer →
Leave a comment Cancel reply
Your e-mail address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Post navigation
← Magnolia Bark Lowers Blood Pressure
.
My New Guides
.
.
Search This Site
Search for:
.
Shop At Boots
.
.
Health Ads by
Like My Facebook Page
Like My Facebook Page
About Dr Sarah Brewer
Registered Medical Doctor
Registered Nutritionist
Registered Nutritional Therapist
Award-winning author of over 60 books
Medical Advisor To:
Prima Magazine
Healthspan
Patient Connect
AHPMA
Curalife
Site Map
Sitemap
Contact
Contact Page
· © 2019 Lower Your Blood Pressure Fast ·
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you are happy to accept cookies, please click OK. If you wish to refuse cookies, please click NO. For more information, read our Privacy Policy. Thank you.OKNoRead more