NON-SURGICAL - Meshkin Medical (949) 478-5787 Hair Transplant Irvine
Hair loss is a choice. You can stop it now!
HOME-2
ABOUT DR. MESHKIN
BLOG
A review of the best hair restoration solution for hair loss
A Review of the Post Op Care and Hair Loss Maintenance After Hair Transplant
Alopecia Areata: Causes, Symptoms and Treatment Options
Baldness is Now a Choice – Request Your Hair Loss Consultation Now
Beard Transplant Newport Beach
Best Hair Transplant in Irvine Using State of the Art Technology
Best modern hair transplant vs. old hair transplants in Los Angeles, San Diego, Newport beach
Break Bad Habits, Not Hair
Can cosmetic products help with hair loss?
Can hair transplant be used for hairline lowering? From best hair transplant doctor in Los Angeles
Cause of increase in hair loss in women
Causes of hair loss and treatment options for younger patients
Cricket players love hair transplants
Did you know that hair goes through cycle of growth?
Do Beard and Eyebrow Hair Transplants look Natural?
Do crash diets cause hair loss?
Does Dandruff Cause Hair Loss?
Does Proper Diet effect Hair?
Does stress cause hair loss?
Does Stress Cause Hair Loss?
Expected Results After Hair Transplant Surgery
Expected Results After Hair Transplant Surgery
FUE technique using Robatic vs Neograft instrument
Hair Care Products For Hair Loss
Hair Loss and Hair Restoration Newport Beach
Hair Loss Awareness: Alopecia Areata
Hair Transplant Cost Newport Beach
Hair Transplant Costs Newport Beach
Hair Transplant in Los Angeles: Best and Affordable
Hairline lowering, design and planning
Homeopathic and Herbal Remedies as alternatives to Slow Down Hair Loss - Hair Implant Dr. Los Angeles
How to Choose the most Qualified Hair Restoration Surgeon
How To Estimate The Number of Grafts
How to select a hair transplant surgeon?
How to select the best hair transplant doctor?
Is hair transplant safe to do in unregulated countries?
Is Scalp Micro pigmentation a viable option for hair loss?
Latest Tests for Diagnosis and prediction of future hair loss
Most common hair loss questions
Natural hair loss or genetic?
PRP and Acell as Non-surgical treatment option for hair loss?
Psychological effect of hair loss
Reconstructive and Hairline Revisions using the most modern and best Hair Transplant Techniques
Stem Cell Regeneration on Hair Follicles Growth Process
Want to regain your hair? Hair loss is no longer an inevitable march to baldness
What are some of the side effects associated with hair loss medications?
What are the different aspects when choosing best hair transplant technique?
What are the different procedural aspects of hair transplantation?
What are the possible causes of hair loss in women?
What are the potential side effects of FUE harvesting technique?
What Causes Hair Loss?
What drugs help with hair loss and what are the side effects?
What is Best Modern Hair Restoration Technique for Hair Transplants?
What is the best comprehensive approach to hair loss and FUE hair transplant?
What is the best hair restoration for hair loss from nutritional deficiency or diet in Los Angeles?
What to expect during and after hair transplant procedure?
What you need to know about ARTAS and NeoGraft
Who can benefit from hair restoration surgery?
Who Can Benefit from Hair Transplantation?
CONTACT
FAQs
Hair Restoration Virtual Consultation
Successful Submission
LOCATIONS
MENU
NON-SURGICAL
PATIENT RESULTS
PRODUCTS
OTHER PRODUCTS
Self Evaluation
SPECIAL OFFERS
SURGICAL
Sitemap
NON-SURGICAL
Non-Surgical Treatments
Finasteride (Propecia™)
Topical Minoxidil (Rogaine™)
Low Level Laser Treatment (LLLT)
Cosmetic Products
Finasteride (Propecia™)
is an oral medication available by prescription only, having been introduced to the market more than a decade ago. Finasteride is approved only for use by men. Through scientific studies, it has been shown to re-grow hair in some men and stop hair loss in an even higher percentage. Finasteride works by decreasing the formation of DHT, a hormone responsible in large part for male pattern hair loss, while not reducing testosterone, the overall male hormone responsible for masculinity. Therefore, any side effects that may involve male sexual function are mild and occur in less than 2% of all patients. There have been reports by the drug manufacturer that side effects may be permanent and patients need to do more research before using this medication.
Finasteride (Propecia™) works best for early and moderate hair loss, but it may also help patients with more advanced hair loss to preserve their remaining hair. Its use is suggested by hair restoration surgeons as an effective medication to slow down or reverse male pattern hair loss in many men. It is often used as a complimentary treatment for hair transplant patients.
Top
Topical Minoxidil (Rogaine™)
has been around for over 15 years and is helpful in slowing down hair loss, but less effective in helping new hair to grow. A higher concentration (5% solution) of minoxidil is now available for men and has been shown to be more effective than the 2% solution. 5% minoxidil solution is generally not recommended for use by women because it may stimulate the growth of facial hair, and also because at least one study suggests that it is not more effective than the 2% in females. Both finasteride and minoxidil must be used on a continual basis in order to sustain results. If discontinued, the process of balding resumes. These medications may not work for everyone but they have a proven track record that shows some benefit to many people. In addition, combination treatment with minoxidil solution and finasteride may provide added benefit for men with androgenetic alopecia.
Other Topical Medications are available such as Tretinoin, Diazoxide, Cyotcol, Progesterone, and topical Estrogen. These medications have been used in the past for the treatment of hair loss.
Top
Low Level Laser Treatment (LLLT)
Available for treating hair loss. This device was originally used for tissue and wound healing which lead to observation of growth of hair surrounding the wound. It has been claimed by manufacturers that low level laser increases the quality and health of growing hair. It increases blood circulation to the hair follicles, stimulates protein synthesis, decreases inflammation and energizes the follicular cells, allowing the hair to grow thicker and fuller.
LLLT comes in the form of either laser combs or oscillating hoods. To see results, it must be used up to three times a week, each time for 20 minutes for about 6-12 months. These are more effective if used in conjunction with Minoxidil or Propecia™ and are considered to be safe. However, the long term effectiveness and its safety need to be further investigated before the use of the device is substantiated.
Top
Cosmetic Products
Cosmetic Products that can help treat hair loss are creams, colored sprays, and powders that help to camouflage thinning areas, as long as there is some hair present. They do not treat the hair loss process. Hairpieces have also been worn throughout time as a means of covering up bald spots and giving the appearance of fuller hair. The most common hairpieces are glue adhesive, weave attachments and clips. It is important to note that hairpieces require monthly maintenance and should be replaced regularly. For some patients, these products are the only available option as they may have a strong family history of hair loss, and aggressive male pattern hair loss that began early. Hair transplantation may never be an option for such a patient, who will eventually have no hair from which to transplant.
It is important to research these products thoroughly before using them. There are many undocumented “miracle cures” that have circulated the market since the 19th century. You can either blindly accept the claims these products make and purchase them or you can approach them with some skepticism to discern the product’s reliability. It is always good to look for documented proof on products such as FDA approval to discern whether the product has, in fact, stimulated hair growth in a majority of persons using it in a safe manner with minimal side effects.
Top
Design by: innova | accelerator
* For non-surgical hair loss evaluations, there may be a fee for an office visit
The information provided on this website represents an effort to educate you about some of the options and general information available on hair loss. This information should not replace a thorough evaluation of your medical doctor. Hair Transplant procedures may vary from surgeon to surgeon and individual results may vary from patient to patient. Medical knowledge is constantly changing and improving. Readers are advised to confirm the information contained herein with other sources and consult a physician specialist before using any of the products mentioned in this website. Neither the publisher nor the editor assumes any liability for an injury and/or damage to person or property arising from this website.
Follow Us
Sign in|Report Abuse|Powered By Google Sites