4 Types of Headaches and How to Treat Them - Central Readers
Tuesday, April 23, 2019
Beauty
Fitness
Food
Health
Life
Tips
Search for:
Health Tips
4 Types of Headaches and How to Treat Them
December 9, 2017 Central Readers 1	Comment(0)
Headache is a symptom of pain whether serious or not. We all get headaches from time to time. Sometimes they are self-induced by stress, diet or lack of movement and other times they indicate that something else is might be going on inside our bodies. The pain may be in one part of your face or may be in the whole head. Well, if you feel the pain sometimes can be difficult to describe.
There are different types of headaches, their causes and more importantly, how to make them go away.
Migraines
Migraines are severe headaches that affect more boys than that girls, and more women than men. The cause isn’t clear, but genes do play a role.
Aside from pain, there are other symptoms, such as sensitivity to bright lights, an odd smell in the air, swirling colors, confusing thought patterns. Auras can occur a few seconds to a couple hours in advance. They usually but not always subside once the actual migraine hits.
Migraine Treatments
B Vitamins:
Vitamin B12: B12 deficiency can cause some serious problems like migraine vulnerability.
Folate: In women migraine sufferers, take more folate had reduces migraine attacks. Higher doses may be better; 1 mg folate was ineffective, while 2 mg folate was an effective prophylactic.
Riboflavin: In a research, patients who suffered from migraines have a Riboflavin deficiency. A 2004 study found that giving riboflavin to patients with migraine reduced their frequency and resulted in fewer uses of anti-migraine abortive meds. Riboflavin decreased migraines in kids and teens in one study, but others have had mixed results. All in all, it appears safe and effective for adults, and perhaps worth a shot in kids (just don’t get your hopes up).
Magnesium: Taking magnesium supplements will help to prevent migraines. According to the studies that during a migraine attack shown a low magnesium level. Therefore, magnesium deficiency and migraines may be related. What important is to consult a doctor.
Red meat: Red meat is the best source of both L-carnitine, riboflavin, and vitamin B12. Throw some sauteéd spinach in there and you’ve got a big dose of L-carnitine, riboflavin, and magnesium. Make it beef heart and you’ll get some CoQ10 as well. Make it liver and you’ve got yourself some folate.
Just don’t forget the dual nature of red meat. Red meat may help your migraine, improve your body composition, boost your performance in the gym, increase bone mineral density, and help your grandma’s brain work better, but it’s going to kill you!
Triggers: According to Chris Kresser, the most common triggers are foods containing histamine, tyramine, or arginine. Actually not all foods and drinks, but it can be trigger by the common household chemicals and perfumes. Stressful situations, powerful emotions and non-corporeal phenomena can also be triggers for some individuals.
Supplementation: In a recent research gave a proprietary magnesium, riboflavin, and CoQ10 supplement to migraine sufferers. The supplement was a huge success, reducing symptom severity and duration.
Meditation: Mindfulness meditation seems to work.
Cluster Headaches
Cluster headaches are probably the most painful type of headache, but they don’t last as long as a typical migraine. The pain usually on one side of the head, usually centralized around the eye, and come in waves or “clusters.” Cluster headaches are more common in men than women.
Cluster Headache Treatments
Psychedelics: May help to reduce the severity of cluster headaches.
Sex hormone replacement: Cluster headaches frequently appear in people with low testosterone levels. When you give testosterone to male cluster headache sufferers with low testosterone, symptoms improve. Half experience total remission.
Circadian hygiene: For decades, researchers have found many examples of circadian misalignment in patients suffering from cluster headaches.
Headaches has been linked to a wide range of sleep problems.
In non-sufferers, melatonin and cortisol secretion are synchronized; as one goes up, the other goes down. In cluster headache patients, there is no synchronization. Almost half show no evidence of melatonin or cortisol rhythm at all.
Individuals with cluster headaches are more likely to sleep poorly. Headache frequency correlates with daylight hours, increasing during winter and late autumn and decreasing during spring, summer, and early fall.
Melatonin supplementation (10mg in the evening in one study) seems to help. I’d imagine that getting more natural light during the day and less artificial light at night will also help.
Tension Headaches
The most common type of headache is tension headaches which usually feels like a constant aching or pressure. This type of headache, have many different causes, some physical, some psychological. Women are more likely than men to get tension headaches.
Tension Headache Treatments
Vitamin D/Sun: There’s a fairly consistent relationship between latitude and headache occurrence. The further away you are from the equator, the less sun and the more headache. This probably holds true for migraine as well.
Massage: Gently massage your temple until the tension headache diminishes. It can be more complicated, employing trigger point therapy. Maybe it’s Thai massage. Maybe it’s just your significant other rubbing your neck and head while you watch Netflix together. Perhaps the most reliable way to alleviate a tension headache with massage is to focus on the sub occipital muscles along the base of your skull.
You don’t necessarily need a massage therapist every time. Touch heals, and healers needn’t be experts.
Chiropractic: Spinal manipulation may help some tension headaches, particularly combined with massage. It improves range of motion along the cervical spine, which should also help prevent future headaches.
Exercise: Regular exercise can reduce headaches.
Address posture: People with chronic tension headaches tend to show more forward head posture and have more active (read: painful/tender) trigger points along the neck and upper shoulders. Avoid text neck. Break up sitting time and especially staring-at-a-device time.
Trigger point therapy: Trigger point therapy purpose is to alleviate the source of pain, so individuals with tension headache can try this kind of therapy. You can experience a significant decrease in pain with this treatment.
Sinus headache
Sinus headaches occur as a result of an acute sinus infection. The symptoms of a sinus headache are pain around the nose and eyes, a runny nose, and fever. The pain can vary from mild to severe, and the best treatment is over the counter pain relievers and sinus medications
Relax: Just relax and find a quiet place and be calm.
Source: marksdailyapple
Loading...
Tagged 4 Types, Headaches
Central Readers 1
http://www.centralreaders.net
Related Articles
Life Tips
When Your Ring Finger Is Longer Than Your Index Finger This Is What It Means
March 18, 2018 March 19, 2018 Central Readers 1
According to several studies have shown that the secret of your personality traits lies in your hands. That’s right and to be more precise the length of your index finger is very important. According to science the ring finger shows the level of the testosterone you were exposed to while you were growing in the […]
Beauty Health Tips
The Secret To Staying Young Scientists Say Consume More Pineapple
October 4, 2017 Central Readers 1
Pineapple is a fruit which is loaded with many vitamins and enzymes. It is beneficial for: The eyesight; Weight; Teeth; A lot of people have been consuming a fresh pineapple juice to get numerous benefits. You can watch your body get healthier with every sip of this amazing fruit and watch your health improving with […]
Beauty Tips
Skin Whitening Facial Bleach To Get Brighter, Tighter, Youthful Skin
September 23, 2017 Central Readers 1
If you want to naturally whiten and bleach your face, you have to try this home remedy. It contains natural ingredients which won’t harm your skin and will brighten your skin tone in just 2 weeks. Here’s what you need to do: Ingredients needed 1 teaspoon of curd or yogurt 1 tablespoon of grated apple […]
Post navigation
11 things the color of your urine says about your health
Homemade Cream To Get Rid Of Scars from Your Body in Just 2 Weeks
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
Recent Posts
Meet The World’s Sexiest And Hottest Weather Girl Who Has Become Loved By Viewers For Wearing Skimpy Outfits While Giving Weather Forecasts On TV
LOOK: Dingdong Dantes And Marian Rivera’s 300 Sqm Modern Penthouse In Quezon City
IN PHOTOS: 18 Famous And Gorgeous Pinay Celebrities With Tattoos
Iwa Moto Shows Off Her New Home With Pampi Lacson
Xyriel Manabat Is All Grown Up Now. See Her Transformation As She Looks More Beautiful!
Recent Comments
Archives
April 2018
March 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
June 2017
May 2017
Categories
Beauty
celebrity
Fitness
Food
Health
Life
News
Tips
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
2017 editorial | Editorial by MysteryThemes.