How To Use L-Theanine For Opiate Withdrawal - Opiate Addiction Support
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Opiate Addiction Support
Best Remedies For Opiate Withdrawal
HOME
ABOUT
MY STORY
BLOG
VIDEOS
COURSE
COACHING
TESTIMONIALS
RESOURCES
CONTACT
How To Use L-Theanine For Opiate Withdrawal
Natural Remedies for Opiate Withdrawal, Nootropics for Opiate Withdrawal, Opiate Withdrawal · February 5, 2016
In this article, I’m going to teach you how to use L-Theanine for opiate withdrawal. L-Theanine is an amino acid that is not common in the diet. It’s unique because it’s neither an essential or one of the common nonessential amino acids, and is deemed a nondietary amino acid.
L-Theanine is found primarily in plant and fungal species. It was discovered as a constituent of green tea (Camellia sinensis) in 1949, and in 1950, a laboratory in Japan successfully isolated it from gyokuro leaf (a type of green tea) which has a high L-Theanine content. Along with green tea, L-Theanine is also found in black tea, white tea, and certain types of mushrooms.
L-Theanine has been reported to increase mood-enhancing chemicals in the brain such as serotonin, dopamine, and GABA. It is able to cross the blood-brain barrier and produce psychoactive properties.
L-Theanine has been studied for its potential ability to:
Reduce mental and physical stress
Improve cognition
Boost mood and cognitive performance in a synergistic manner with caffeine
Reduce opiate withdrawal symptoms
L-Theanine significantly increases alpha wave production in the brain. Alpha brain waves are most present in a wakeful state that is characterized by a relaxed and effortless alertness. Alpha states have been described variously as sublime, flying, floating, lightness, peace, and tranquility.
Alpha waves are present when your brain is in an idling default-state typically created when you’re daydreaming or consciously practicing mindfulness or meditation.
L-Theanine For Opiate Withdrawal Study
More and more people are starting to learn about the use of L-Theanine for opiate withdrawal. Since it is reported to increase alpha brain waves and mood-enhancing neurotransmitters, it may be useful in the treatment of opiate withdrawal.
In a study from 2012, researchers wanted to see if L-Theanine reduced opioid withdrawal symptoms in morphine-dependent monkeys, as a model for what could potentially happen with human opioid addicts. They also wanted to see if L-Theanine decreased anxiety-like behavior in mice using the elevated plus maze and marble burying assays.
Here is a quote taken directly from this study, which discusses the outcome:
“l-theanine significantly attenuated designated opioid withdrawal signs, including fighting, rigid abdominal muscles, vocalizing on palpation of abdomen, pacing, retching, wet-dog shakes, and masturbation. It had a relatively quick onset of action that persisted for at least 2.5h.
l-theanine also produced anxiolytic-like effects in the elevated plus maze and the marble burying assay in naïve mice at doses that did not significantly affect motor behavior. The results of these studies suggest that l-theanine may be useful in the pharmacotherapy of treating opioid withdrawal as well as anxiety-associated behaviors.”
How To Use L-Theanine For Opiate Withdrawal
After reading the results of that study, you may be thinking about using L-Theanine for opiate withdrawal. L-Theanine may be useful for opiate withdrawal anxiety due to its action on the GABA receptors.
GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter that steers the mind to naturally reduce feelings of anxiety and stress. Instead, a person feels relaxed, peaceful, and confident. Sleep cycles are normalized, and “fight or flight” reactions are minimized throughout all systems of the body.
Here are some guidelines on the use of L-Theanine for opiate withdrawal:
The amount of L-Theanine found in tea likely will not be enough, so you’ll want to use a high-quality supplement, such as Absorb Your Health L-Theanine.
Take 200 mg to 400 mg doses a few times throughout the day, with a maximum daily amount of 1200 mg.
Always take this supplement on an empty stomach to increase absorption rates.
Be sure to use L-Theanine under the care of your healthcare provider, and be aware of the possible interactions.
Using L-Theanine may reduce blood pressure, so use caution while taking other medications or supplements with this effect.
In addition, you may really benefit from taking L-Theanine with an Opiate Withdrawal Supplement that was formulated to help ease the symptoms of opiate withdrawal.
If you can afford it, I also highly recommend taking this awesome supplement, because the benefits are just too good to pass up.
If you have any questions on using L-Theanine for opiate withdrawal, please feel free to post them in the comment box below.
Please review this post!
Filed Under: Natural Remedies for Opiate Withdrawal, Nootropics for Opiate Withdrawal, Opiate Withdrawal Tagged With: L-Theanine for opiate withdrawal, natural remedies for opiate withdrawal
Matt Finch
Matt helps men and women that are dependent on opiates learn how to get off these drugs without getting sick. He is a former opiate addict and a former Substance Abuse Counselor at an Opiate Treatment Program (OTP). Matt has since become an Opiate Recovery Coach, Author, and Speaker.
COMMENT DISCLAIMER
The information we provide while responding to comments is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. The responses to comments on OpiateAddictionSupport.com are designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. Please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition.
Reader Interactions
Comments
Bonnie says
January 22, 2018 at 6:04 am
So I am slowly coming off VALIUM. I take 15mg. Soon to drop by a quarter. I had a hip replacement and take 5mg. hydrocodone day, tapering off that as well with no problems EXCEPT INSOMNIA! I’ve gotten about 7 hours sleep in 4 days, which is why I want to try L Theanine. The benzos lock into the gaba receptors, apparently so does thiamine. Will I have a problem here?
Thank you so very much. I need SLEEP!
Reply
Matt Finch says
January 25, 2018 at 4:16 pm
No issues with theanine withdrawal. I’m going to post an article that you will benefit from reading. In the title it says Klonopin, but this plan is for getting off any benzodiazepine drug:
How Taper Off Klonopin Without Withdrawal>>
Reply
dee says
June 28, 2017 at 4:40 pm
any adverse reaction when taken with methadone?
Reply
Cat says
January 31, 2018 at 2:16 pm
I would also like to know the answer to this. As I have been having horrible anxiety with panic attacks but I am at 100mg on a 5mg bi-weekly taper and I’m too scared to take anything with the methadone. I also looked into taking magnesium but heard some horror stories about adverse reactions, including a feeling of being under the influence of ecstasy.
Reply
Jarrett says
December 15, 2016 at 11:36 pm
Hi Matt,
I wanted to be a bit more specific than my original post. I currently have 2.5 years of clean time from opiate addiction. I’m currently taking 300mg of wellbutrin once daily for depression. While wellbutrin has been a life saver, I have found it’s s not working as well as it did when I first started. I’ve done a ton of research and cannot find anything negative about L-theanine being a problem with someone with a drug addiction history. I decided to try L-theanine 200mg three times a day and I’ve found it works very well. I’m no longer having social anxiety, and my mood has been more stable. I’m just concerned, I want to make sure it’s safe for someone like me. Thanks for your help.
Reply
Jarrett says
December 15, 2016 at 11:27 pm
Hi Matt,
Is L-theanine safe for someone in recovery from opiate addiction?
Thanks, Jarrett
Reply
Ian Howard says
July 9, 2016 at 12:18 pm
Hi Matt ,, does L- theanine help with rls ,,
thanks for your co-operation
Ian H
Reply
Mary Price - Certified OAS Recovery Specialist says
July 10, 2016 at 2:39 am
Ian,
L-Theanine is an amino acid commonly found in tea and is what gives it a calming effect without causing one to feel sleepy. Supplementation with L-Theanine does however seem to improve sleep quality over time. While it is not commonly known to help with RLS, this doesnt mean that for some people it does. This amino acid promotes both dopamine and seratonin, and in relation it help produce the “happy hormones” and calm the stress hormones, like cortisol. Since the exact cause of RLS is still unknown, many things do point to being a contributing factor for this syndrome. It does make sense that since L-Theanine supplementation over time can produce restfull sleep and that this does contribute to dopamine production, that yes, for some it may very well help with RLS.
Reply
Ian Howard says
July 10, 2016 at 8:56 pm
Thank you Mary
Reply
TJMatch says
October 28, 2017 at 5:15 pm
Read about Kratom.
Reply
Unnamed says
February 28, 2016 at 8:49 pm
I see that it’s been a few days and you haven’t had a chance to respond to precious postings, but could you please contact me (or let me contact you) via e-mail? I have many of the vitamins u have suggested (with the exception of passion flower) and I am already starting detox but feeling okay (on day 1, so you know). Can you help me figure out how much of each to take when and is it OK to do that along with the mega dosing vitamin c method?? Thanks so much, I appreciate your time and please ask that you respond quickly if possible!
Reply
Matt Finch says
February 29, 2016 at 4:57 pm
I just emailed you. 🙂
Reply
BeckBeck says
February 23, 2016 at 8:23 pm
We’re can I buy a L-theanine?? Thanks!!
Reply
Matt Finch says
March 2, 2016 at 5:57 pm
The article has a clickable link, and it’s also sold in health food stores and vitamin stores.
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Do Not Send Email Notifications.Send Email Notification ONLY If Someone Replies To My Comment(s).Send Email Notification Whenever A New Comment Is Posted. If A New Comment Is Posted:
Primary Sidebar
ABOUT ME
Welcome to Opiate Addiction Support! My name is Matt Finch, and this website has seen millions of visitors and the Newsletter has had over 40,000 subscribers. I warmly welcome you to Opiate Addiction Support! Read More…
MOST COMMENTS
How To Use Kratom For Opiate Withdrawal
January 7, 2015 By Matt Finch 640 Comments
How To Mega-Dose Vitamin C To Stop Opiate Withdrawal
February 14, 2015 By Matt Finch 451 Comments
How To Use Loperamide For Opiate Withdrawal
January 22, 2015 By Matt Finch 424 Comments
How To Use Gabapentin For Opiate Withdrawal
January 13, 2015 By Matt Finch 412 Comments
DLPA: A Miracle Supplement For Opiate Addiction Recovery
March 9, 2015 By Matt Finch 272 Comments
How To Stop Restless Legs From Opiate Withdrawal
February 8, 2015 By Matt Finch 239 Comments
How To Get Off Methadone Without Withdrawal
January 2, 2015 By Matt Finch 225 Comments
RECOMMENDED VIDEOS
The Top 2 Opiate Withdrawal Supplements On The Market
April 18, 2015 By Matt Finch 60 Comments
Kratom For Opiate Addiction – Miracle Plant? or Dangerous Drug?
January 25, 2018 By Matt Finch 12 Comments
Gabapentin in the Treatment of Opiate Withdrawal
May 12, 2018 By Matt Finch 1 Comment
Get Off Short-Acting Opiates With Ease Using This Detox Protocol
September 20, 2018 By Matt Finch 6 Comments
Will I Ever Feel Normal Again After Quitting Opiates?
September 20, 2018 By Matt Finch Leave a Comment
Opiate Withdrawal Symptoms & Timeline | Here’s What To Expect…
December 13, 2018 By Matt Finch 3 Comments
Footer
DISCLAIMER
The content on opiateaddictionsupport.com is for informational use only and not medical advice, legal advice, or psychological advice. The content on this website is meant to provide you with education, and if you believe you have a medical condition make sure you talk to your doctor.
Privacy Policy
Full Disclaimer
Terms of Use
Contact
Search this website
Follow on Social Media
Copyright © 2019 · Maker Pro on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in