Foods In A High Blood Pressure Diet | Cleveland Clinic
800.223.2273
MyChart
Need help?
From out of town?
Giving
Careers
Search
Menu Search
Cleveland Clinic Menu
ClevelandClinic.org
Find a Doctor
Locations & Directions
Patients & Visitors
Health Library
Institutes & Departments
MyChartNeed help?
Call for Additional Assistance 800.223.2273
ClevelandClinic.org
Find a Doctor
Locations & Directions
Patients & Visitors
Health Library
Institutes & Departments
Home / Health Library / Articles / Hypertension and Nutrition
Hypertension and Nutrition
In most cases, no one knows what causes high blood pressure. What is known is that the foods you eat can affect your blood pressure, in both good ways and bad.
Appointments & Access
Contact Us
What is high blood pressure?
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against blood vessel walls. The heart pumps blood into the arteries (blood vessels) which carry the blood throughout the body. High blood pressure, also called hypertension, means the pressure in your arteries is above the normal range. In most cases, no one knows what causes high blood pressure. What you eat can affect your blood pressure.
How does nutrition affect blood pressure?
Certain foods can increase blood pressure.
Certain foods can lower blood pressure.
Gaining weight can increase blood pressure.
Losing weight can reduce blood pressure.
What should I eat to control high blood pressure?
Eat foods lower in fat, salt, and calories.
Use spices and herbs, vinegar, lemon or fruit juices instead of salt to flavor foods.
Use less oil, butter, margarine, shortening, and salad dressings.
What are some of the foods I should eat?
Skim or 1% milk, yogurt, Greek yogurt (calcium-rich foods can lower blood pressure).
Lean meat.
Skinless turkey and chicken.
Low-salt, ready-to-eat cereals.
Cooked hot cereal (not instant).
Low-fat and low-salt cheeses.
Fruits (fresh, frozen, or canned without added salt).
Vegetables (fresh, frozen or canned, no added salt).
Richly colored green, orange, and red items are high in potassium and minerals that help lower blood pressure.
The goal is 5-9 servings of fruits and vegetables per day.
Plain rice, pasta, and potatoes.
Breads (English muffins, bagels, rolls, and tortillas).
Lower salt "prepared" convenience food.
Unsalted seeds (pumpkin, squash, sunflower) and unsalted nuts are mineral-rich foods that lower blood pressure.
What foods should I eat less of?
Butter and margarine.
Regular salad dressings.
Fatty meats.
Whole milk dairy products.
Fried foods.
Salted snacks.
Canned soups.
Fast foods.
Deli meats.
What's the difference between sodium and salt?
Salt is mostly sodium, a mineral that occurs naturally in foods. Sodium is the substance that may cause your blood pressure to increase. Other forms of sodium are also present in food. MSG (monosodium glutamate) is another example of a sodium added to food (common in Chinese food).
How does salt increase blood pressure?
When you eat too much salt, which contains sodium, your body holds extra water to "wash" the salt from your body. In some people, this may cause blood pressure to rise. The added water puts stress on your heart and blood vessels.
How much sodium is too much?
The American Heart Association recommends limiting daily sodium intake no more than 1,500 milligrams. (A teaspoon of salt has about 2,400 milligrams of sodium.) Most people greatly exceed these sodium guidelines.
How can I reduce my sodium intake?
Don't use table salt.
Read nutrition labels and choose foods lower in sodium.
Choose foods marked "sodium-free," "low sodium," and "unsalted."
Use salt substitutes (ask your healthcare provider first).
Don't use lite salt as a substitute.
Read content labels. (Contents are listed in order of greatest amount.)
Purchase sodium-free herbs and seasoning mixes like Mrs. Dash®.
What foods are high in sodium?
Processed foods such as lunch meats, sausage, bacon, and ham.
Canned soups, bouillon, dried soup mixes.
Deli meats.
Condiments (catsup, soy sauce, salad dressings).
Frozen and boxed mixes for potatoes, rice, and pasta.
Snack foods (pretzels, popcorn, peanuts, chips).
Pickled or marinated food in brine. (Vinegar- and lemon juice-based marinades are ok.)
What else should I do to change my diet?
Avoid alcohol.
Eat a variety of foods.
Eat foods high in dietary fiber (whole grain breads, cereals, pasta, fresh fruit, and vegetables).
Comparison of Sodium in Foods
Meats, poultry, fish, and shellfish
Food: Milligrams (mg.) sodium
Fresh meat, 3 oz. cooked: Less than 90 mg
Shellfish, 3 oz: 100 to 325 mg
Tuna, canned, 3 oz: 300 mg
Lean ham, 3 oz.: 1,025 mg
Dairy products
Food: Milligrams sodium
*Whole milk, 1 cup: 120 mg
Skim or 1% milk, 1 cup: 125 mg
*Buttermilk (salt added), 1 cup: 260 mg
*Swiss cheese, 1 oz: 75 mg
*Cheddar cheese, 1 oz : 175 mg
Low-fat cheese, 1 oz.: 150 mg
*Cottage cheese (regular), 1/2 cup: 455 mg
Vegetables
Food: Milligrams sodium
Fresh or frozen vegetables, and no-salt-added canned (cooked without salt), 1/2 cup: Less than 70 mg
Vegetables canned or frozen (without sauce), 1/2 cup: 55-470 mg
Tomato juice, canned, 3/4 cup: 660 mg
Breads, cereals, rice and pasta
Food: Milligrams sodium
Bread, 1 slice: 110-175 mg
English muffin (half): 130 mg
Ready-to-eat, shredded wheat, 3/4 cup: Less than 5 mg
Cooked cereal (unsalted), 1/2 cup: Less than 5 mg
Instant cooked cereal, 1 packet: 180 mg
Canned soups, 1 cup: 600-1,300 mg
Convenience foods
Food: Milligrams sodium
Canned and frozen main dishes, 8 oz: 500-1,570 mg
*These can also be high in saturated fat, unless low-fat or reduced fat options are purchased.
*High in saturated fat.
Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print
Cleveland Clinic is a non-profit academic medical center. Advertising on our site helps support our mission. We do not endorse non-Cleveland Clinic products or services. Policy
Related Institutes & Services
Glickman Urological & Kidney Institute
The Glickman Urological & Kidney Institute offers innovative treatments in urology and nephrology, including minimally invasive, scarless options for urologic procedures and medical management of kidney disease.
Medicine Institute
The Medicine Institute puts patients first with comprehensive, coordinated, personal healthcare.
Pathology & Laboratory Medicine Institute (R. Tomsich)
Cleveland Clinic’s Robert J. Tomsich Pathology & Laboratory Medicine Institute touches virtually every patient at Cleveland Clinic and thousands of patients across the world.
Related Health Information
Checking Your Blood Pressure at Home
High Blood Pressure and Nutrition
Hypertension: FAQ
Hypertension Glossary
Hypertension: High Blood Pressure
Hypertension Treatment Overview
When to Call the Doctor
Myths About Hypertension
Preventing Hypertension
Cleveland Clinic is a non-profit academic medical center. Advertising on our site helps support our mission. We do not endorse non-Cleveland Clinic products or services. Policy
References:
American Heart Association. Sodium and Salt Accessed 12/17/2014.
Frisoli TM, Schmieder RE, Grodzicki T, Messerli FH. Salt and hypertension: is salt dietary reduction worth the effort?. Am J Med. 2012;125(5):433-9.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sodium and Food Sources Accessed 12/17/2014.
This information is provided by the Cleveland Clinic and is not intended to replace the medical advice of your doctor or healthcare provider. Please consult your healthcare provider for advice about a specific medical condition. This document was last reviewed on: 12/17/2014
Cleveland Clinic News & More
Cleveland Clinic News & More
{{&title}}
{{/posts}}
Show More
Appointments & Access
Contact Us
Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Pinterest Snapchat
Actions
Appointments & AccessPay Your BillFinancial AssistanceAccepted InsuranceMake a DonationRefer a PatientPhone DirectoryEvents Calendar
Blog, News & Mobile Apps
Consult QDHealth EssentialsNewsroomMobile Apps
About Cleveland Clinic
About UsLocationsQuality & Patient SafetyOffice of Diversity & InclusionPatient ExperienceResearch & InnovationsCommunity CommitmentCareersFor EmployeesResources for Medical Professionals
Site Information & Policies
Send Us FeedbackSite MapAbout this WebsiteCopyright, Reprint & LicensingWebsite Terms of UsePrivacy PolicyNotice of Privacy PracticesNon-Discrimination Notice
9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195 | 800.223.2273 | © 2019 Cleveland Clinic. All Rights Reserved.