The Saltburn WellBeing Centre (CIC) - 01287 204400 - Complementary Therapies A-Z & Prices
Expand/collapse navigation
THE WELLBEING CENTRE (SALTBURN) CIC
About us
Calendar of Events
Complementary Therapies A-Z & Prices
Contact us
Corporate Services
Counselling
Press Articles
Meditation Classes
Opening hours
Room Hire Costs & Details
Gift Vouchers
Shop
Spiritual Matters - Channelling & Clairvoyance Events
Testimonials
The Team
Veterans Support services
Funded Services
Well Being Community Outreach
Yoga
The Saltburn WellBeing Centre (CIC)
Tel: 01287 204400
Email: info@saltburnwellbeingcentre.co.uk
THE WELLBEING CENTRE (SALTBURN) CIC
About us
Calendar of Events
Complementary Therapies A-Z & Prices
Contact us
Corporate Services
Counselling
Press Articles
Meditation Classes
Opening hours
Room Hire Costs & Details
Gift Vouchers
Shop
Spiritual Matters - Channelling & Clairvoyance Events
Testimonials
The Team
Veterans Support services
Funded Services
Well Being Community Outreach
Yoga
The WellBeing Centre has a team of highly qualified and experienced therapists. All have been selected as they excel in their different fields. All offer a selection of therapies and are happy to answer any questions you may have, with no obligation.
A to Z of Complementary Therapies
Angelic Reiki
Angelic Reiki is a type of energy healing conveyed through reiki symbols and the angels. The therapist will channel angelic healing energies that can reach the recipient on a number of different levels both physical and psychological. This therapy can help to achieve complete relaxation and bring a healthy balance to thoughts and emotions.
Prices:
£20 for 30 mins
£35 for 60 mins
Taster sessions are also available on the monthly Complementary Therapy Taster Days at The WellBeing Centre
Antaneea Massage Technique
Antaneea Massage Technique is a new vibrational healing system which originated in South Africa. The therapy involves the use of oils, colour, crystals, sound and massage. The theory behind this is that our body stores all of our negative experiences within our cell structure that can have a negative effect on our physical, emotional and mental well being. In Antaneea, it is known as a time lock. It is believed that through the vibration of the colours, oils, sound and massages, the locks can be located and released, giving the client physical energy, mental clarity and a positive sense of well being.
The body gets massaged three times in one treatment, working on the physical, emotional and spiritual body of the individual. This is a wonderful therapy that is believed to support and heal on all levels. It is also a very relaxing treatment and takes up to 2 hours.
Aromatherapy Massage
Aromatherapy is a treatment that involves using a range of natural oils extracted from things such as plants, flowers and roots to heal and relax.
Aromatherapy massage can benefit a range of conditions including:
Alopecia (hair loss)
Agitation, including agitation related to dementia
Anxiety
Circulation problems
Constipation
Insomnia
Itching - which may be a side effect of dialysis
Pain - studies have shown that individuals with rheumatoid arthritis, cancer and headaches, require fewer pain medications after an aromatherapy massage
Psoriasis
Prices: Aromatherapy massage
£45 - Initial treatment includes a Consultation
£25 - Half treatment
Prices: Aromatherapy facial
£40 - Initial treatment includes a Consultation
£25 - Half treatment
Auricular Acupuncture
Acupuncture is now widely accepted all over the world and often used for helping with stress, anxiety, depression and physical pain all of which are common, modern day issues.
Acupuncture is a healthcare system that's based on a very positive model of good health and wellbeing. People who have acupuncture often experience positive side effects such as improved sleep, a more positive outlook and better interpersonal relationships with family and friends.
Common Benefits can include:
Relief from stress and tension
Relaxation of mind and body
Increased blood circulation
Relief from head, neck and shoulder aches
Increased energy levels
Increase overall feeling of well-being
Prices:
Acupuncture treatments - please contact The WellBeing Centre for information
Eastern Facials
Information to follow
Hand and Foot Massage
As well as being a wonderful way of pampering yourself and of de-stressing there is evidence that hand and foot massage promotes healing and pain management.
Prices:
£40 - Initial consultation and treatment
£25 - Half session
Why not also consider a Holistic Thai Hand & Foot Massage or Thai Foot Pamper?
See information in the listings below.
Holistic Thai Hand & Foot Massage
The main aim of Thai massage is to re-balance the flow of energy in the body using the system of 'Sen' energy lines. These are similar to the meridian energy lines of Chinese medicine but follow the natural contours of the body.
Unlike the techniques used in Western massage, the Thai method uses a rhythmic movement to appy pressure to energy lines and points, together with muscle stretching and compression. Although it is known as massage, it has more in common with Japanese Shiatsu or Chinese acupressure systems of bodywork.
The benefits of Thai Foot and Hand Massage are truly holistic, as they work not just on the physical, but also the emotional, mental and spiritual layers of our being. It can:
free energy blockages
facilitate relaxation
instill a feeling of wellbeing
increase flexibility in joints
The calming and restorative effects of the massage also work on both the superficial and deeper layers of the muscles and connective tissue.
Price:
£30 for 45 minute sessions
Initial appointment includes consultation.
Hot Stone Massage
Hot Stone Massage is a wonderfully relaxing treatment where the therapist uses smooth heated stones and warm oil for massage.
Benefits can include pain relief with conditions such as fibromyalgia, arthritis and other chronic conditions and stress relief and reduced tension.
Price: £45 - 1 hour
Hypnotherapy
Clinical Hypnotherapy can help release your fears, phobias, and negative habits,assisting you to overcome unhelpful thoughts and behaviour patterns, in order to unlock your inner resources and improve your life.
The Hypnotherapist utilises a number of techniques, including direct suggestion, to access your unconscious mind and modify your behaviour,changing self- limiting fears,thoughts and behaviour patterns into positive and healthier patterns, to help you develop your inner potential and resolve non-serving habits quickly and effectively.
Hypnotherapy may be used to improve your performance and remove blocks in your work and sporting activities and can also be used in specific situations such as examinations, driving tests and public speaking.
Hypnotherapy is a safe and effective treatment which may significantly help with:
Anxiety and stress management
Increasing self confidence
Obsessive behaviour
Phobias
Pain reduction
Facing and overcoming fears
Weight control
Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Panic Attacks
Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD)
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
Sports performance
Smoking cessation
We recommend that you make an appointment for your first consultation and access our professional and confidential service to discover how Hypnotherapy can help you.
Initial Assessment is free.
Prices:
Hypnotherapy - £65
Stop Smoking - £130 (single session - 2 hours)
Hypno-Band System - £350 (4 sessions, includes CD's)
FREE 30 minute initial consultation
Indian Head Massage
Indian Head Massage is usually carried out seated and involves massaging of the neck, shoulders, head and face.
Benefits of Indian Head Massage can be to
Relieve tension and headaches, neck and back pain
Alleviate stress, promotes relaxation a popular massage often requested for general well-being
Stimulate lymphatic drainage, helping to remove toxins and boost the immune system
Restore joint mobility, improving circulation which lifts energy improving concentration
Indian Head Massage reaches all energy centres where tension accumulates
Price:
£35 - 60 mins
Kwan Yin Healing
Kwan Yin Healing is a unique healing treatment, available from Annette. During a session, the client receives Kwan Yin's beautiful energy, followed by channelled messages or a soothing hand massage. Kwan Yin is said to have had a thousand hands which she used to reach out to the world and the combination of a hand massage and her gentle energy is a truly divine experience.
Kwan Yin energy works holistically, on mind, body and spirit, but clients often recognise it as a connection with the heart. In a physical sense you may feel warmth or tingling, with a deep sense of relaxation and release of tension throughout the body. On an emotional level you may experience feelings of deep peace, tearfulness or happiness, as her energy releases and heals emotional blocks and old issues that often manifest as stress, depression & physical pain. You may experience an overall feeling of well being, coupled with a sense of love and compassion.
Following a treatment, you may become more positive, patient or tolerant and aware that your perception of people and events alters; or that your ability to express forgiveness and compassion grows; or you may become more self-forgiving as old emotional wounds are healed, allowing you to move forward and experience improved confidence or self worth.﻿
Disclaimer: By law we have to state that any messages received are considered for entertainment purposes only. Nor can it be guaranteed that messages will be received.
Prices:
KWAN YIN HEALING WITH CHANNELLED MESSAGES
£35 for a 60 min appointment
(initial appt to include a consultation)
£16 for a 30 min appointment without channelled messages
KWAN YIN HEALING WITH THAI HAND MASSAGE
£35 for a 60 min appointment
(initial appointment to include a consultation)
Reflexology
Reflexology is a non-intrusive complementary health therapy, based on the theory that different points on the feet, lower leg, hands, face or ears correspond with different areas of the body. Reflexology is a very individual treatment which is tailored to you as a whole person, taking into account both physical and non-physical factors that might be affecting your well-being.
Prices:
£30 - 30 mins
£40 - 60 mins / Feet and Hands
Initial appointment includes a consultation.
Reiki
Reiki means ‘Universal Life Force Energy’. It is an ancient, energy healing system that benefits the body, mind & spirit. Reiki practitioners have been attuned enabling them to effectively channel the ‘life energy’ through their hands. The Reiki activates the body’s natural ability to heal itself. Reiki is totally safe, non invasive, natural & holistic. It is suitable for all. All initial appointments include a consultation.
Prices:
£32 - 60 mins
£20 - 30 mins
photo credit Milada Vigerova-Unsplash
Reiki Seichem
At the end of the 19th century a healing method was rediscovered in ancient Sanskrit texts by a Japanese scholar, Mikaomi Usui. Mikaomi Usui called it Reiki (pronounced ray-key) a Japanese word meaning Universal Life Energy. Reiki has no association with religion, faith or belief systems, and can be received by anyone who is willing to be healed.
Seichem (pronounced say-keem) works in the same way as Reiki, with hands placed on the body, but in addition hands may be working in the aura which surrounds the body. It is reputedly one of the healing arts practised in ancient Egypt.
Reiki is the Earth elemental ray and combined with the Seichem energies of Water (Sophi-El), Spirit (Angeliclight) and Fire (Sakara) helps to; ease tension, soothe pain, promote relaxation, boost the immune system, improve the quality of sleep, reduce the effects of trauma. Reiki can also help individuals in the latter stages of life in coming to terms with the death process. It does this by promoting relaxation therefore reducing the effects of trauma which in turn helps passing to be a more calm and peaceful process.
Price:
£35 - 60 mins
photo credit Cristian Newman-Unsplash
Shamanic Treatments
We currently offer:
Shamanic Power Retrieval
Shamanic Soul Retrieval
Shamanic Extraction Medicine
Price:
Varies upon treatment. Contact us to discuss cost and lengh of treatment.
<< New text box >>
Spiritual Healing
Are you feeling stressed or having difficulty sleeping? Do you feel lacking in energy? Are you feeling generally out of balance?
The Benefits of Healing Energies
The human body depends on an overall energy flow. We suffer when we don't have enough energy to carry out our life functions or when we, as energy systems, are out of balance. The effect of receiving an energy treatment is that our supply of life energy is increased and this may help our body return to a better state of balance. It is in such a state of balance and renewed energy that we can heal on not just a physical level but also emotional, mental and spiritual.
Spiritual Healing is an energy healing therapy. It is not faith healing and is not linked to a religion. Healers learn to use their ability to tap into the natural energy that is around us and pass it on. This energy can help restore harmony of body, mind and spirit. Some healers see the energy as Divine, others see it as pure universal energy.
What to expect…
The client remains fully clothed during the treatment, which is carried out either sitting or reclining. The therapist gently places their hands on, or over, different points on their body.
During the healing you may experience a variety of different sensations, you may feel tingling or ‘pins and needles’, heat or coolness or simply feel calm, peaceful and relaxed.
Price:
£35- 60 mins
Swedish Massage
FULL BODY MASSAGE
Massage in various forms has existed since early civilisation and is the manipulation of soft tissue and muscles for therapeutic purposes. The treatment can be used purely for relaxation and well-being or to help with a number of ailments including muscle pain, back pain, stress and tension. Massage can be used to stimulate blood circulation, boost the immune system, improve muscle tone and encourage toxins to be expelled from the body.
This treatment will usually include legs, arms, upper chest & neck, abdomen (optional), back and shoulders.
BACK, NECK & SHOULDER MASSAGE.
This is a shorter massage, specifically designed to target problem areas such as lower back pain and muscle tension in shoulders and neck area.
This treatment helps to improve circulation and posture, relaxes muscles and improves flexibility.
Prices:
£40 - Full Body Massage -1 hour includes initial Consultation
£25 - Back, Neck & Shoulder - 40 mins
Thai Foot Pamper
Using aromatic Thai products. Beautify your feet with a soak, scrub, mask and moisturiser. Includes a soothing foot and lower leg massage which leaves you feeling relaxed and pampered.
Price:
£20 - 30 mins
DISCLAIMER; all treatments work alongside of, and not to be considered as a substitute for conventional medicine. It is strongly recommended that you contact your physician or healthcare specialist if you have any concerns about your health. Clients accept full responsibility for their own well-being.
Print | Sitemap
© 2010 The WellBeing Centre Saltburn © 2018 revision
Login
Web ViewMobile View
Logout | Edit page
Call
E-mail
Directions