About Adult Eczema (Atopic Dermatitis) | DUPIXENT® (dupilumab)
Patient Prescribing Information
Patient Prescribing Information
Prescribing Information
Instructions for Use - 200mg
Instructions for Use - 300mg
Healthcare Professionals
For U.S. Residents Only
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic
Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 12-17)
Other Condition
What is Atopic
Dermatitis?
Disease Education
Eczema Check-in
About
DUPIXENT
How DUPIXENT Works
How DUPIXENT May Help
How DUPIXENT Is Taken
DUPIXENT
Support
DUPIXENT MyWay®
Sign Up
Copay Card
DUPIXENT Pricing Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary
Patient
Experiences
Patient Stories
Healthcare Professionals
Disease Education
Kristy
DUPIXENT MyWay®
Patient Ambassador,
on DUPIXENT Individual results may vary.
“My doctor explained that
atopic dermatitis was
about my skin being
inflamed from the inside,
not only from the outside."
Home
Home
What is Atopic Dermatitis?
Disease Education
Getting to Know Atopic Dermatitis
One of the most important keys to dealing with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe
eczema (atopic dermatitis) is having a full understanding of the disease, including
the inflammation happening beneath the surface of your skin. Take a few minutes
to read more about atopic dermatitis and see if any of this sounds familiar.
Just the Facts
Your eczema could be more than a skin condition. It could be atopic dermatitis, the most common form of eczema, and might be uncontrolled despite the use of topical prescription treatments. Uncontrolled, moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis affects an estimated 1.6 million adults in the U.S.
Atopic dermatitis is an immunological disease.
With eczema, your immune system produces more inflammation than normal, contributing in part to the itchy flares on the surface of your skin.
Atopic dermatitis commonly appears on the face, hands, knees, neck, elbows and ankles.
Frequent flare-ups while using topical prescription therapies may mean you have moderate-to-severe eczema that is not well controlled.
Download your Doctor Discussion Guide 234 KB
An Endless Cycle
Does the following cycle sound familiar? In eczema patients, the immune system (coupled with an impaired skin barrier) produces inflammation, contributing to the flare-ups on the surface of the skin.
Itching
Immune cells in the deep layers of your skin send inflammatory signals to the surface. This causes the urge to itch.
Scratching
When you start scratching, you can further break down the outer layer of skin cells and allow germs, viruses and allergens to penetrate your body.
Inflammatory Signals
The more you scratch, the more your skin breaks down. That brings about more itching. The cycle continues.
Connect With a Specialist Who Treats Eczema
Use this tool to easily find nearby specialists with experience in treating adults with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis).
Find an Eczema Specialist on Healthgrades.
Sanofi US and Regeneron do not endorse or recommend any particular physician, and search results do not include a comprehensive list of doctors in your area.
Eczema Check-in:
Understanding Your
Condition
Answer a few quick questions to better understand
moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis) and
how it could be affecting you.
Have you experienced uncontrolled symptoms, such as dry, itchy red patches that sometimes ooze, crack or become scaly, even with the use of prescription therapies used on the skin (topicals)?
Yes
No
Take the Evaluation
How It Works
DUPIXENT helps address an underlying cause of the inflammation in your body which contributes to your moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis.
Explore the Process
DUPIXENT MyWay®
With two easy ways to enroll—whether you're seeking information or starting treatment—get the resources and information you need.
Learn More
Important Safety Information and Indication
Do not use if you are allergic to dupilumab or to any of the ingredients in DUPIXENT®.
Before using DUPIXENT, tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions, including if you:
have eye problems
have a parasitic (helminth) infection
are taking oral, topical, or inhaled corticosteroid medicines. Do not stop taking your corticosteroid medicines unless instructed by your healthcare provider. This may cause other symptoms that were controlled by the corticosteroid medicine to come back.
are scheduled to receive any vaccinations. You should not receive a “live vaccine” if you are treated with DUPIXENT.
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known whether DUPIXENT will harm your unborn baby.
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. It is not known whether DUPIXENT passes into your breast milk.
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements. If you are taking asthma medicines, do not change or stop your asthma medicine without talking to your healthcare provider.
DUPIXENT can cause serious side effects, including:
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity), including a severe reaction known as anaphylaxis. Stop using DUPIXENT and tell your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you get any of the following symptoms: breathing problems, fever, general ill feeling, swollen lymph nodes, swelling of the face, mouth and tongue, hives, itching, fainting, dizziness, feeling lightheaded (low blood pressure), joint pain, or skin rash.
Eye problems. Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worsening eye problems, including eye pain or changes in vision.
The most common side effects include injection site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching, pain in the throat (oropharyngeal pain) and cold sores in your mouth or on your lips.
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. These are not all the possible side effects of DUPIXENT. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Use DUPIXENT exactly as prescribed. DUPIXENT is given as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection). If your healthcare provider decides that you or a caregiver can give DUPIXENT injections, you or your caregiver should receive training on the right way to prepare and inject DUPIXENT. Do not try to inject DUPIXENT until you have been shown the right way by your healthcare provider. In adolescents 12 years of age and older, it is recommended that DUPIXENT be administered by or under supervision of an adult.
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information including Patient Information.
Indication
DUPIXENT is a prescription medicine used to treat people 12 years and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 12 years of age.
Site Map
Legal Disclaimer Information
Privacy Policy
Questions or comments?
Contact Sanofi US or call 1‑844‑643‑7346
to contact Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
© 2019 Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DUPIXENT® is a registered trademark of Sanofi.
Sanofi US is hosting this website on behalf of Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
×
This DUPIXENT® (dupilumab) website is for U.S. healthcare professionals only. Click "continue" only if you are a U.S. healthcare professional.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
Are you sure you want to leave?
Please note: By clicking on this link, you will be leaving this Sanofi-hosted US website and going to another, entirely independent website. Sanoﬁ US and Regeneron provide these links as a service to its website visitors and users; however, they take no responsibility for the information on any website but their own.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
You are about to leave sanofi site for U.S.
Sanofi US does not review the information contained on this website and/or database for content, accuracy or completeness. Use of and access to this information is subject to the terms, limitations and conditions set by the website and/or database producer.
This site might not comply with the regulatory requirements of US
Cancel
Continue
×
You are moving to an Unbranded site
Cancel
Continue
US-DAD-13323(7) Last Update: March 2019