Magnesium glycinate: Uses, benefits, and side effects
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
The uses and benefits of magnesium glycinate
Last reviewed	 Fri 18 January 2019	 Last reviewed	Fri 18 Jan 2019
By Brian Wu
Reviewed by Alan Carter, PharmD
Table of contents
Uses
Benefits
Sources
Requirements
Deficiency
Risks and complications
Magnesium glycinate is a supplement that boosts magnesium levels in people with a deficiency of the mineral.
Magnesium is a vital nutrient for regulating many body processes, including muscle and nerve function, blood sugar levels, and blood pressure. This mineral also supports the making of protein, bone, and DNA.
The body requires magnesium in large amounts. This type of mineral is known as a macro-mineral.
While the most efficient way to consume nutrients is in their natural forms, supplements are available to boost magnesium intake in people with low levels.
Uses
Magnesium glycinate is a supplement that the body can easily absorb.
People often use magnesium glycinate instead of other magnesium supplements, as the body finds it easier to absorb magnesium in this form.
It is also one of the gentlest supplements on the stomach. People often use magnesium glycinate instead of other magnesium supplements, as the body finds it easier to absorb magnesium in this form.
Unlike other forms of magnesium, it might not cause as many side effects, such as an upset stomach or loose stools.
This characteristic makes magnesium glycinate a good supplement for people recovering from bariatric surgery or anyone who might be at risk for magnesium levels.
People who have kidney issues should consult a doctor before taking magnesium glycinate. Kidney problems can cause difficulties in excreting the excess magnesium.
Benefits
Some people benefit more from magnesium glycinate than others.
People with the following conditions might see positive effects after taking magnesium glycinate:
High blood pressure or heart disease: Magnesium supplements can help decrease blood pressure slightly.
Type 2 diabetes: Consuming high amounts of magnesium in the diet might reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. Magnesium helps to break down sugars and might decrease insulin resistance.
Osteoporosis: Magnesium plays a role in the development of healthy bones, and people with higher levels of magnesium might have a higher bone mineral density. This is important in helping reduce the risk of bone fractures and osteoporosis.
Migraine headaches: People who experience migraines sometimes have low levels of magnesium in their blood and tissues. Supplements may help reduce the frequency of migraines.
Depression: Serotonin is a "feel-good" chemical in the brain. Insufficient levels of magnesium seem to reduce serotonin levels, and antidepressants can raise levels of brain magnesium.
Measuring magnesium levels in the blood can show misleading results because magnesium sits within the cells or bones, rather than the bloodstream.
Doctors will typically measure serum magnesium concentrations in the blood, saliva, or urine to help assess levels as accurately as possible.
A person should wait for a final diagnosis of deficiency before taking supplements, as the symptoms commonly associated with low magnesium levels could be the cause of another health problem.
Sources
Legumes are a key source of magnesium.
Most people can reach the recommended daily dosage through diet alone.Many common foods contain magnesium.
Common foods that contain magnesium include:
legumes, nuts, and seeds
whole grains
spinach and other leafy vegetables
fortified breakfast cereals and other fortified foods
yogurt, milk, and other dairy products
Magnesium glycinate supplements are available to purchase online. Click here for an excellent range with thousands of customer reviews.
Speak to a doctor before taking any new supplements.
Requirements
The recommended daily amount of magnesium depends on the age and sex of a person. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) provide guidelines for the daily recommended amount in milligrams (mg) below.
LIFE STAGE RECOMMENDED AMOUNT
Between birth and 6 months 30 mg
Infants 7 to 12 months 75 mg
Children aged 1 to 3 years 80 mg
Children aged 4 to 8 years 130 mg
Children aged 9 to 13 years 240 mg
Boys ages 14 to 18 years 410 mg
Girls ages 14 to 18 years 360 mg
Adult men 400 to 420 mg
Adult women 310 to 320 mg
Pregnant teens 400 mg
Pregnant women 350 to 360 mg
Breast-feeding teens 360 mg
Breast-feeding women 310 to 320 mg
Deficiency
According to the NIH, most people in the United States do not get enough magnesium from their daily diet. Men older than 70 years of age and girls under 18 years of age are most likely to have low intakes of magnesium.
Low magnesium intake does not typically cause any symptoms. The body loses a certain amount of magnesium every day as a result of normal processes, such as muscle movement, the heartbeat, and hormone production.
Though only a person needs only a small amount of magnesium, it is important to replenish magnesium levels to prevent deficiency.
When people who do not have magnesium deficiency experience low magnesium levels, the kidneys help to retain magnesium by restricting the amount that the body loses in the urine. This process has a temporary effect until levels rise, but a person with low magnesium levels for long periods can develop magnesium deficiency.
Causes
Some gastrointestinal diseases can lead to magnesium deficiency.
There are non-dietary causes that can reduce magnesium levels.
Some medical conditions and medications affect magnesium absorption. They can also increase the amount of magnesium expelled from the body. These factors can result in magnesium deficiency.
Health conditions that can lead to magnesium deficiencies include:
gastrointestinal diseases, such as irritable bowel syndrome, Crohn's disease, celiac disease, and ulcerative colitis
diabetes
pancreatitis
high thyroid hormone levels
kidney disease
long-term use of proton pump inhibitors, such as Prilosec
Some medications can have a similar effect, including:
taking prescription drugs used to treat acid reflux or peptic ulcers, which can lead to low blood levels of magnesium when people take them over a long period
taking diuretics, which assist with water retention and can increase or decrease the loss of magnesium through urine.
Certain lifestyle factors can also reduce magnesium levels, including:
drinking too much coffee, soda, or alcohol
eating too much sodium
heavy menstrual periods
excessive sweating
Symptoms
People who are deficient in magnesium can experience the following symptoms:
loss of appetite
nausea
vomiting
fatigue and weakness
Extreme magnesium deficiency can lead to the following symptoms:
tingling
numbness
muscle cramps
seizures
personality changes
abnormal heart rhythm
Risks and complications
Only a doctor should diagnose magnesium deficiency.
They can confirm the condition through blood tests, as well as identify the correct plan of action to return magnesium levels to normal.
Taking large or frequent doses of dietary magnesium supplements, including magnesium glycinate, can cause adverse effects, including diarrhea, nausea, and stomach cramps. Extremely high intakes of magnesium can lead to an irregular heartbeat and potentially a cardiac arrest, which can be dangerous.
Magnesium glycinate and other supplements might also interfere or interact with the following medicines:
Bisphosphonates: These are used to treat osteoporosis. The body does not absorb these drugs well if people take them too close to taking supplements or medications that contain a high amount of magnesium.
Antibiotics: The body may not absorb some antibiotics if an individual takes them too soon before or after a magnesium supplement.
Taking extremely high doses of supplemental zinc can also interfere with the absorption and regulation of magnesium in the body.
Q:
Which other nutrients are vital?
A:
Thirteen nutritional vitamins are essential for supporting health.
These include the B vitamins, such as niacin, riboflavin, thiamine, biotin, pantothenic acid, B-6, B-12, and folate, along with vitamins A, C, D, E, and K. Adequate calcium and potassium intake is also important.
Alan Carter, PharmD Answers represent the opinions of our medical experts. All content is strictly informational and should not be considered medical advice.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
How can I tell if I have low magnesium? Early signs and symptoms of magnesium deficiency can include vomiting, loss of appetite, and tiredness. However, magnesium deficiency is rare, and symptoms usually indicate an underlying health condition. In this article, we look at the symptoms and implications of magnesium deficiency, as well as how to correct it. Read now
Everything you need to know about migraines Migraines are headaches with extreme pain and often nausea. Finding triggers is one way to try and prevent them. But there are drug treatments, too, for the different types of migraines, plus Botox injections in some cases. Find out all about migraines here, including the symptoms and some supplements that may help. Read now
What different types of headaches are there? Learn about some different primary and secondary headaches, including their causes and triggers. For each, we also examine the available treatment options. Read now
All you need to know about zinc deficiency A look at zinc deficiency, a condition where the body doesn’t have enough of the mineral. Included are details on causes and how it is diagnosed. Read now
Why do we need magnesium? Magnesium is an essential nutrient in the body that can help decrease the risk of developing osteoporosis, improve insulin sensitivity, and lower the risk of hypertension. This article looks at other health benefits of magnesium, what happens if a person has a deficiency, supplements, and how to include it in the diet. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Additional information
Article last updated by Adam Felman on Fri 27 July 2018.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Magnesium. (2016, February 17). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Magnesium-Consumer/
Mauskop, A. & Varughese, J. (2012, May). Why all migraine patients should be treated with magnesium. Journal of Neural Transmission, 119(5), 575-579. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22426836
Orchard, T. S., Larson, J. C., Alghothani, N., Bout-Tabaku, Cauley, J. A., Chen, Z., & Jackson, R. D. (2014, April). Magnesium intake, bone mineral density, and fractures: results from the Women's Health Initiative Observational Study. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 99(4), 926-933. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24500155
Tarleton, E. K., Littenberg, B., MacLean, C. D., Kennedy, A. G., & Daley, C. (2017). Role of magnesium supplementation in the treatment of depression: A randomized clinical trial. PLoS One, 12(6), e0180067. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5487054/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Wu, Brian. "The uses and benefits of magnesium glycinate." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 27 Jul. 2018. Web.
22 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/315372.php>
APA
Wu, B. (2018, July 27). "The uses and benefits of magnesium glycinate." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/315372.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition
A new study suggests that almost 20 percent of people who receive a diagnosis for multiple sclerosis do not have the chronic disease.
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Which foods are good for constipation?
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/315372.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);