Zinc Uses, Side Effects & Warnings - Drugs.com
Skip to Content
Search Drugs.com
All Select the section you want to search in All Consumer Professional Pill ID Interactions News FDA Alerts Approvals Pipeline Clinical Trials Care Notes Natural Products
Close
Search
Browse all medications: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 0-9
Advanced Search
Register Sign In
Sign In
Register
Menu
Close
Account
Sign In
Register Now
Drugs A-Z
A-Z Drug Index
Treatment Options
Drugs by Class
Compare Drugs
Generic Drugs
OTC Drugs
International Drugs
Natural Products
Drug Side Effects
Dosage Guides
Pregnancy Warnings
Breastfeeding Warnings
Pricing & Coupons
Inactive Ingredients
Info en Español
Veterinary Products
Pill Identifier
Interactions Checker
FDA Alerts
New Drugs
News
Pro Edition
More
Videos
Slideshows
Newsletters
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Facebook Twitter YouTube
Drugs A to Z
Zinc
Print Share
Zinc
Generic Name: zinc sulfate (ZINK SUL fate)
Brand Name: Orazinc 110, Orazinc 220, Zinc, Zinc-220
Medically reviewed by Drugs.com on Dec 17, 2018 – Written by Cerner Multum
Overview
Side Effects
Dosage
Interactions
Pregnancy
More
What is Zinc?
Zinc is a naturally occurring mineral. Zinc is important for growth and for the development and health of body tissues.
Zinc is used to treat and to prevent zinc deficiency.
Zinc may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Important Information
Follow all directions on your medicine label and package. Tell each of your healthcare providers about all your medical conditions, allergies, and all medicines you use.
Before taking this medicine
Before using Zinc, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or other healthcare provider. You may not be able to use this medicine if you have certain medical conditions.
FDA pregnancy category C. It is not known whether Zinc will harm an unborn baby. Do not use Zinc without a doctor's advice if you are pregnant.
It is not known whether zinc sulfate passes into breast milk or if it could harm a nursing baby. Do not use this medicine without a doctor's advice if you are breast-feeding a baby.
How should I take Zinc?
Use exactly as directed on the label, or as prescribed by your doctor. Do not use in larger or smaller amounts or for longer than recommended.
Take Zinc with a full glass of water.
Take Zinc with food if it upsets your stomach.
Your healthcare provider may occasionally change your dose to make sure you get the best result. The recommended dietary allowance of zinc sulfate changes with age. Follow your healthcare provider's instructions. You may also consult the Office of Dietary Supplements of the National Institutes of Health, or the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Nutrient Database (formerly "Recommended Daily Allowances") listings for more information.
Store at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
What happens if I miss a dose?
Skip the missed dose if it is almost time for your next scheduled dose. Do not use extra medicine to make up the missed dose.
What happens if I overdose?
Seek emergency medical attention or call the Poison Help line at 1-800-222-1222.
Overdose symptoms may include nausea, severe vomiting, dehydration, and restlessness.
What should I avoid while taking Zinc?
Avoid taking this medication with foods that are high in calcium or phosphorus, which can make it harder for your body to absorb Zinc. Foods high in calcium or phosphorus include milk, cheese, yogurt, ice cream, dried beans or peas, lentils, nuts, peanut butter, beer, cola soft drinks, and hot cocoa.
Zinc side effects
Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Less serious side effects may include:
nausea; or
upset stomach.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
See also:
Zinc side effects (in more detail)
What other drugs will affect Zinc?
Other drugs may interact with zinc sulfate, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, and herbal products. Tell each of your health care providers about all medicines you use now and any medicine you start or stop using.
See also:
Zinc drug interactions (in more detail)
Further information
Remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only for the indication prescribed.
Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances.
Copyright 1996-2018 Cerner Multum, Inc. Version: 6.03.
Medical Disclaimer
Next → Side Effects
Print this page Add to My Med List
More about Zinc (zinc sulfate)
Side Effects
During Pregnancy
Dosage Information
Drug Interactions
En Español
Consumer resources
Zinc
Other brands: Zinc-220, Orazinc
Professional resources
Zinc Sulfate Injection (FDA)
Related treatment guides
Dietary Supplementation
Vitamin/Mineral Supplementation and Deficiency
Drug Status
Rx
OTC
Availability Rx and/or OTC
Pregnancy & Lactation Risk data available
N/A
CSA Schedule* Not a controlled drug
Related Drugs
Dietary Supplementation biotin, multivitamin, Lovaza, Fish Oil, ascorbic acid, CoQ10, Coenzyme Q10, pyridoxine, Dextrose, chondroitin / glucosamine, More...
Vitamin / Mineral Supplementation and Deficiency folic acid, ferrous sulfate, ergocalciferol, thiamine, Vitamin D2, selenium, More...
Zinc Rating
No reviews - Add your review
Subscribe to our newsletters
News & warnings related to this drug
FDA alerts for all medications
Daily news summary
Weekly news roundup
Monthly newsletter
I accept the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
Email Address
Drugs.com Mobile Apps
The easiest way to lookup drug information, identify pills, check interactions and set up your own personal medication records. Available for Android and iOS devices.
Explore Apps
Support
Help Center
Frequent Questions
Sitemap
Contact Us
About
About Drugs.com
Advertising Policy
Content Submissions
Drugs.com Blog
Terms & Privacy
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Attribution & Citations
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS Feed
Subscribe to receive email notifications whenever new articles are published.
Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Data sources include IBM Watson Micromedex (updated 1 Apr 2019), Cerner Multum™ (updated 1 Apr 2019), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated 29 Mar 2019) and others.
Third Party Advertising
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information - verify here
Copyright © 2000-2019 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.
Hide