Chronic migraines: When pain is all in the head - SFGate
SUBSCRIBE
Sign In
Home
Contact SFGATE
Classifieds
About SFGATE
About SFGATE
FAQ
SFGate Newsletters
SFGate Staff
Careers
Site Index
Hearst
Ad Choices
About The Chronicle
About The Chronicle
The Chronicle Staff
Become a Subscriber
Manage Your Subscription
Customer Service
Careers
e-edition
Back Copies
Chronicle in Education
Corrections
Advertise with Us
More on Advertising
More on Advertising
Place a Classified Ad
About Our Ads
Public Notices
Local Business Directory
Place an Obituary
Gate List
Store
Privacy Notice
Chronicle Archives
Terms of Use
Newsletters
Get news alerts
SFGate Customer support
Get VIP access with SF Chronicle Membership
Get SFGate newsletters for the latest from the Bay
Check out the Top 100 Bay Area restaurants
Local
Bay Area & State News
Traffic
Weather & Storms
Crime
Earthquakes
Obituaries
California Wildfires
Expensive SF
Arrest Records
Wild SF History
Video
State investigating injury of woman whose hand got stuck in Muni
Man arrested after allegedly making death threats against
More than 20 Berkeley elementary school kids mysteriously fell
Fish and Wildlife rescue 5-foot alligator, ferret in Hollister
News
Education
Nation
World
Politics
Weather
MBA by the Bay
Apollo 50th
Sharks & Whales
Sponsored: Clean Energy CA
Moon Landing 50th
Tourists, Easter worshippers lament closure of Notre Dame
NKorea issues mild criticism of Bolton over media interview
The Latest: Egypt begins vote on extending el-Sissi's rule
Egypt votes on referendum extending el-Sissi's rule to 2030
Sports
49ers
Raiders
Giants
A's
Warriors
Quakes
Golf
Sports Calendar
NFL
MLB
NBA
College
Preps
Outdoors
Sharks, in must-win game, top Golden Knights
Schedule notes: 49ers to face four well-rested foes
A’s giving Khris Davis a contract extension
Avalanche top Flames in OT, lead West series 3-1
Real Estate
The Walk-Through
Expensive SF
New Homes
Open Homes
Luxury
Rentals
Mortgage Rates
Place an ad
Home Guides
On the Block Blog
These South Bay Eichlers offer atriums, A-frames and other
Steam ovens, wine cellars rank among top features to sell an SF
Waterfront living in Alameda for only $420K with this updated
Oakland Craftsman mixes vintage charm with modern touches for
Business
Technology
Jobs
Real Estate
Public Notices
Sponsored Content
MBA by the Bay
VisionSF
Lehman Bros., a family saga, as viewed by some who lived it
Checking on Social Security estimates is a good idea, but many
After social media bans, militant groups found ways to remain
FTC reportedly considering oversight of Facebook’s Zuckerberg
A&E
The Daily Dish
Movies
Music & Nightlife
Performance
Art
Comics
Datebook
Books
TV
Horoscope
Dear Abby
Crosswords & Puzzles
Things To Do
SNL alum Will Forte on growing up in Lafayette: 'I feel like I
The latest from Dear Abby
Olivia Wilde, John C. Reilly and other celebs take over SF for
Kim Kardashian shares picture studying for 'baby bar' exam with
Eat + Drink
Restaurants
Wine
The Press
Top 100 Restaurants
Chronicle Wine Competition
Reservations
Beer News
Inside Scoop SF
Healthy Eating
Here's what Julius' Castle looks like 12 years after its closure
7 Top Winery Concerts You Can’t Miss in August and September
Ballast Point backs out of SF brewpub plans
Ballast Point 'halting' plans for brewpub near SF's new Chase
Living
Home & Garden
Pets & Animals
Pets Remembered
Style
Cannabis
LGBT
Mommy Files
Parenting
Sponsored Content
Outdoors
Health
Senior Living
Education
159 dead animals: Hawks, bobcats and more found on NorCal
Army Corps takes heat in wake of Missouri River flooding
Pets remembered: Willow our Beloved Puffy Pants
The oil pulling fad is back: We asked 3 cynical dads to try it
Travel
Monterey-Carmel
Weekend Getaways
Wine Country
Napa
Reno-Tahoe
Hawaii
Mexico
SF Insider: Things to do
Chris McGinnis' Travel Tips
Airports: New SFO garage, long Customs waits at ATL + LAX, CLEAR,
The ultimate guide to Livermore's top wineries (The Press)
Fare war: Hong Kong for $416 roundtrip
Yosemite to test lottery system as a replacement for daily
Obits
Obituaries
Place an Obituary
10 Things to Know for Today
America's 1st female astronaut candidate, Jerrie Cobb, dies
Longtime Chicago sportscaster Chet Coppock dies at 70
Hall of Famer Forrest Gregg remembered as gentle giant
Cars
Dealers
Car Blog
My Ride
Sell Your Car
Craigslist will start charging to list your car
The cars most likely to cause buyer's remorse in San Francisco
Chrysler fanatic loves restoring neglected, tired cars
‘Experienced home mechanic’ loves his Geo Metro
Jobs
This Week's Ads
SFGATE & Chronicle Jobs
Advertise
Salary Wizard
Get To Work
Manage crazy work stress with these tips
When meeting people, know the difference between selling and
What all new employees need to know
What drives your career choices?
Classifieds
Local Professional Services
Chronicle
Latest columns
Jonathan Kauffman
Leah Garchik
Bruce Jenkins
Esther Mobley
Ann Killion
Otis R. Taylor Jr.
Heather Knight
Kathleen Pender
Scott Ostler
Death and survival in California’s tornado of fire
The new restaurants headed to the Bay Area in 2019
Future of travel: 8 things to watch for in 2019
The Influencers: 10 Bay Area sports figures to watch
MenuSections
https://www.sfgate.com/entertainment/article/Chronic-migraines-When-pain-is-all-in-the-head-2452747.php
Chronic migraines: When pain is all in the head
HEALTH & FITNESS
By Kathryn Roethel
Published 4:00 am PST, Monday, December 20, 2010
Oona Robertson (center) sits with her father Peter Walbridge and mother Lael Robertson at their home in San Francisco, Calif., on Friday, Nov. 5, 2010. Robertson, 17, has suffered from severe migraines since she was 10 years old and has had to drop out of school as a result. less
Oona Robertson (center) sits with her father Peter Walbridge and mother Lael Robertson at their home in San Francisco, Calif., on Friday, Nov. 5, 2010. Robertson, 17, has suffered from severe migraines since ... more
Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle
Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle
Image 1 of / 5
Caption
Close
Image 1 of 5
Oona Robertson (center) sits with her father Peter Walbridge and mother Lael Robertson at their home in San Francisco, Calif., on Friday, Nov. 5, 2010. Robertson, 17, has suffered from severe migraines since she was 10 years old and has had to drop out of school as a result. less
Oona Robertson (center) sits with her father Peter Walbridge and mother Lael Robertson at their home in San Francisco, Calif., on Friday, Nov. 5, 2010. Robertson, 17, has suffered from severe migraines since ... more
Photo: Paul Chinn, The Chronicle
Chronic migraines: When pain is all in the head
1 / 5
Back to Gallery
Celia Robertson, 17, is graduating from high school this year. Her goal is to study art and leave for college in the fall.
Oona Robertson, Celia's twin sister, won't be graduating this year. She had to drop out of school two years ago because of constant, debilitating migraine headaches. Her goal is to leave the house at least once a day.
"I feel dizzy, shaky, nauseous and exhausted all the time," said Robertson, of San Francisco. She has had chronic migraine syndrome for three years. "I've been hospitalized, but no one can do anything for my pain. My headache is consistently a 9 on a scale of 10 ... and 10 is equal to surgery without anesthesia."
According to Dr. Peter Goadsby, director of the Headache Foundation at UCSF, 37 million Americans suffer from migraine headaches. Ten percent of those, like Robertson, have chronic migraine syndrome, meaning they get migraines 15 or more days a month.
The answer to what causes them or what might cure them has been slow in coming. But new research, and the efforts of a small band of Bay Area activists, may help lead to some relief.
Abnormal brain action
When scanning the brain of a patient in the midst of a migraine, Goadsby said, he sees "areas of the brain - small very distinct areas - that are abnormally active."
That abnormal activity is a sign of debilitating head pain - and more. Sensitivity to light, movement, sounds or scents; nausea; numbness in the hands or face; flashes of light, wavy lines, blind spots or other changes in vision can sometimes accompany the pain.
"People's lives come to a halt," Goadsby said. "During a migraine, the brain gets overloaded like a switchboard that cannot take more calls."
After Robertson's headaches began, she started wearing sunglasses to school because the migraines made her sensitive to light. Then she gave up fencing - a sport she'd competed in for seven years. She cut school to half time, then had to quit altogether.
In their Potrero Hill home, Robertson's family put in skylights because the light bulbs were too bright for her. They stopped cooking with garlic and onions because the scents made her nauseous. On the rare occasions when she is well enough to eat meals at the dinner table, her mother lowers the lights and everyone speaks calmly and softly.
"It's a good week if I can get out of bed every morning," she said. "I have no hope of graduating, traveling, working or going to college like my sister and my friends. I just have to accept that people are going to live their lives without me."
Doctors have not been able to precisely pinpoint what causes migraines. According to Goadsby, there is a hereditary link - 90 percent of migraine sufferers have family members who also get migraines. But patients can have different headache triggers, which can include specific foods, alcohol, perfume or other scented products, hormonal shifts, stress or changes in sleep patterns.
"We can safely say that change in daily routines is bad for migrainers," Goadsby said. "Regularity in sleeping, eating and exercising is good."
Goadsby is seeking migraine sufferers who will volunteer to have a migraine chemically induced in his clinic so he can use scanners to study what's happening in patients' brains before the pain starts. This research, he believes, may help shed light on new ways to prevent and treat migraines.
Migraine research has been slow in the past several decades due largely to lack of funding, said Goadsby. Of the $1.3 billion given out in 2009 by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, the branch of NIH that is the top funder of headache research, only half of 1 percent of that amount went to headache research. Part of the problem may stem from the fact that the number of applications for headache research is also low.
"We can't fund applications we don't get," said Linda Porter, program director for the neurological disorders branch.
Lack of funding may explain why most of the commonly prescribed drugs to treat migraines have been on the market for almost two decades. Triptans, such as Imitrex, Relpax and Zomig, are taken to treat migraines when they start. They reduce a migraine sufferer's abnormal, excessive pain signals sent through neural pathways in the head. But triptans also constrict blood vessels, which can increase the risk of heart attack in a small number of patients.
There are several prescription medications used to treat other medical conditions that doctors have found sometimes relieve migraines, including beta-blockers, usually prescribed for cardiovascular problems; antidepressants; and even anti-seizure medications. Some migraine sufferers take them preventively to ward off the headaches before they start. But for some migraine sufferers, like Robertson, nothing seems to work.
New classes of drugs
Goadsby predicts that new classes of migraine drugs are on the way. He's conducting a program of in-patient treatment for 10 consecutive days, during which people with severe migraines receive regimented intravenous injections.
Within 18 months, he expects to see drugs called CGRP receptor antagonists on the market. They target a different brain chemical than triptans do, one that drives migraine sufferers' pain-sensing nerves. According to Goadsby, the new drugs won't carry triptans' increased risk of heart attack.
In October, the FDA approved Botox injections for patients with chronic migraine syndrome. Botox may prevent migraine pain signals from being sensed by the nerve endings. Robertson tried the treatment, but it didn't help relieve her pain, and getting it approved by her insurance company was a battle.
"We were denied twice," said Lael Robertson, Oona's mom. "Sometimes, dealing with insurances is like a second job."
Eileen Jones of Piedmont can relate. She, like Robertson, has chronic migraine syndrome and faces migraine headaches every day. Because of the pain, which she compares with natural childbirth, she had to quit her job as an ICU nurse seven years ago. Her insurance company denied her cutting-edge treatment three times before finally agreeing to pay for it.
Jones had an occipital nerve stimulator surgically implanted below her right clavicle. The battery-powered device sends electrical pulses through wires in her neck to nerves in the brain. The signals don't block pain, but they alter the way parts of the brain deal with migraine pain.
"The ONS doesn't cure the headache, but it dampens the pain," Jones said. "It feels like I iced it down."
In 2007, Jones traveled to Washington with 43 doctors from around the country to lobby Congress for increased migraine research funding. She went back in 2009 to do more lobbying. As a result, she says, for the first time NIH will include a migraine research scientist on one of the committees that reviews grant proposals.
Jones is also building grassroots support at home. She and her husband, Ken, used their savings to establish a migraine fundraising race, Miles for Migraine. The third annual race took place in November in Golden Gate Park. Despite rainy weather, 200 participants - Oona Robertson's family among them - raised $10,000 for the UCSF Headache Center.
These efforts are cause for optimism on the part of migraine sufferers like Jones and Robertson, Goadsby believes. "Look up and look forward," he said. "Find ways to support the funding problem. Migraines are a real neurological disorder that science is just starting to understand."
{{captions}} {{credits}} {{resaleLink}}
{{taboolaSlide}}
{{captionTruncated}}
Buy photo
{{img}}
Most Popular
1
People are pooping more than ever on the streets of San Francisco
2
California teen swept to sea while boogie boarding
3
Draymond Green lost 23 pounds for Warriors playoff run
4
The event-pocalypse is coming to San Francisco this weekend
5
I lived like Jack Dorsey for a day. I immediately regretted it.
6
Big rule changes coming shortly for Disneyland
7
70-year-old woman accused of killing 3-year-old appears in court
8
Bumble and Tinder refuse to help Trayvon Martin's killer look for love
9
20+ Berkeley kids mysteriously fell ill after choir performance
10
Militia in New Mexico detains asylum-seekers at gunpoint
LATEST NEWS
Draymond Green lost 23 pounds for Warriors playoff run
Officials call off search of Bay Area teen swept out to sea
70-year-old woman accused of killing 3-year-old appears in court
Abandoned harbor seal pup rescued at Carmel Beach
Box truck catches fire at Benicia Bridge toll plaza
Militia in New Mexico detains asylum-seekers at gunpoint
20+ Berkeley kids mysteriously fell ill after choir performance
More than 100 dead birds found on NorCal man's property
The best of Beach Blanket Babylon through the years
View Comments
© 2019 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo Return to Top
About
Privacy Notice
Your California Privacy Rights
Interest Based Ads
Terms of Use
Our Company
The Press: Guide to Wine Country
Green State: Cannabis Culture
Careers
Advertising
Contact
Customer Service
Newsroom Contacts
Connect
Sign up for Email Alerts
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Instagram
Subscribe
SFChronicle.com
App
e-edition
The Chronicle Archives
Subscription Offers
Store
Subscriber Services
Hearst Newspapers © Copyright Hearst Communications, Inc.