What Are the Benefits of Music Therapy?
— Main Menu —Home Blog Shop About Free PDF
Home
Blog
Shop
About
Free PDF
Home » Therapies » What are the Benefits of Music Therapy?
What are the Benefits of Music Therapy?
20 Mar 2019
Heather Craig
0 Comment
Last Updated on March 20, 2019
Sharing is caring.
Tweet
Image by khamkhor from Pixabay
Since the earliest days of humankind, music and the power of music, has been evident to us. After World War II, a new profession entered the arena – music therapy. With far-reaching benefits and in a variety of settings, the types and methods of music therapy have had a profound impact.
Used in conjunction with traditional therapies, positive psychology, and even as a stand-alone intervention, music therapy offers a variety of benefits. It is these benefits we will evaluate here.
This article contains:
6 Proven Benefits of Music Therapy
What are the goals and objectives of music therapy?
What Effects Can Music Therapy Have on a Client?
What Can Music Therapy be Used For?
9 Interesting Facts and Statistics
A Look at the Nordoff-Robbins Approach
Relaxation and Music Therapy
4 Music Therapy Ideas and Interventions
12 Recommended Songs Commonly Used
10 Music Therapy Activities and Exercises for Adults
5 Group Ideas and Activities
Using Music Therapy in Schools
Music Therapy for Children
5 Ideas for Kids
A Take-Home Message
References
6 Proven Benefits of Music Therapy
Jillian Levy (2017) shares the six major health benefits of music therapy:
Music therapy reduces anxiety and physical effects of stress
It improves healing
It can help manage Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease
Music therapy reduces depression and other symptoms in the elderly
It helps to reduce symptoms of psychological disorders including schizophrenia
Music therapy improves self-expression and communication
What are the Goals and Objectives of Music Therapy?
The overarching goal of music therapy is to achieve the objectives that meet the needs of the individual (Therapedia, n.d.). This may include, for example, improving motor function, social skills, emotions, coordination, self-expression and personal growth (Therapedia, n.d.).
Common goals in music therapy, as identified by Everyday Harmony (n.d.) are the development of:
Communication skills (using vocal/verbal sounds and gestures)
Social skills (making eye contact, turn-taking, initiating interaction, and self-esteem)
Sensory skills (through touch, listening, and levels of awareness)
Physical skills (fine and gross motor control and movement)
Cognitive skills (concentration and attention, imitation, and sequencing)
Emotional skills (expression of feelings non-verbally)
What Effects Can Music Therapy Have on a Client?
Music can affect a client’s attention, emotion, cognition, behavior, and communication (Koelsch et al., 2009). It can also help bring about relaxation and pleasure (Koelsch et al., 2009). Music also affects perception (Koelsch et al., 2009). Training in music promotes an individual’s skills in the decoding of acoustic features, such as pitch height and frequency modulation (Koelsch et al., 2009).
Music has various effects on the activity of a large range of brain structures (Koelsch et al., 2009). Functional neuroimaging studies have shown that listening to music can have effects on the core structures of emotional processing (the limbic and paralimbic structures) in both musicians and ‘non-musicians’ (Koelsch et al., 2009).
The peripheral physiological effects of listening to music and making music are still being looked into (Koelsch et al., 2009). However, given the effects of emotion on the autonomic nervous system, endocrine system, and immune system – and the fact that music has the power to evoke and modulate emotions – Koelsch and colleagues (2009) suggest that music therapy may be used to treat disorders associated with dysfunctions and imbalances within these systems.
What Can Music Therapy be Used For?
Research supports the effectiveness of music therapy for a wide range of purposes, as described by The American Music Therapy Association, n.d:
Music therapy can be used for facilitating movement and overall physical rehabilitation and motivating clients to cope with treatment. It can provide emotional support for clients and their families, and provide an outlet for expression of feelings.
Credentialed music therapists can work with patients with an acquired brain injury (AMI). For example, music therapy helped congresswoman Gabby Giffords to regain her speech after she survived a bullet wound to her brain. Music therapy can be used to lessen the effects of dementia, reduce asthma episodes in both children and adults and help reduce pain in hospitalized patients.
Music therapy can also be used to help children with autism spectrum disorder to improve their communication capabilities. Furthermore, it can help premature infants improve sleep patterns and increase their weight gain. Finally, music therapy can be used to help individuals with Parkinson’s disease to improve motor function.
9 Interesting Facts and Statistics
86% of users of the Nordoff-Robbins music therapy services said that music therapy had enabled them to develop social skills and interaction (Nordoff Robbins, n.d.)
Your heartbeat changes to mimic the music that you listen to
Distinguishing changes in sounds were found to be equipped in those as small as a developing fetus
Listening to happy vs. sad music can affect the way you perceive the world around you
An “earworm” is a song that you can’t seem to get out of your head
A ‘brain itch’ is a need for the brain to fill in the gaps in a song’s rhythm
Music triggers activity in the same part of the brain that releases dopamine (the ‘pleasure chemical’)
Music triggers networks of neurons into an organized movement
Learning a musical instrument can improve fine motor and reasoning skills
These interesting facts were sourced from Ashley Blodgett (2015).
A Look at the Nordoff-Robbins Approach
The following information was found on the Nordoff Robbins website.
In the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, the Nordoff-Robbins approach was developed by Paul Nordoff (an American composer and pianist) and Clive Robbins (a teacher of children with special needs from Britain). This is not a ‘method’. It is an approach designed to harness every person’s potential for engagement in active, communicative, expressive music-making.
The Nordoff-Robbins approach began as a form of collaborative music-making used to engage vulnerable and isolated children. Nordoff and Robbins term this ‘therapy in music’.
The Nordoff-Robbins approach emphasizes the importance of music-making in developing skills, a sense of self and a capacity for satisfying social interaction. It recognizes that all people, regardless of pathology, illness, disability, trauma or social isolation have the potential to make music. The approach is well known for its work with children and adults with learning difficulties. This is because, like all forms of music therapy, the work has a non-verbal basis.
Every music therapist using the Nordoff-Robbins approach thinks strategically. Using their musical abilities, they help people in ways that are specific to each person, each group, or each community.
Relaxation and Music Therapy
While most of us would agree that music can be relaxing, how is relaxation promoted with music therapy? To begin with, music can lead to relaxation of tense muscles (Scott, 2018). When you allow your muscles to relax and loosen your body, your mind relaxes too (Scott, 2018). Music is fun, cheap, and simple. It can decrease all the tension, worries and stress you may not even have been aware of (Scott, 2018).
Listening to music can also enhance other stress-relieving activities (Scott, 2018). For example, it can aid in practicing yoga, self-hypnosis or guided imagery. In other words, music can enhance the stress-relieving properties of other relaxing activities (Scott, 2018).
Music can also help the brain reach a meditative state (Scott, 2018). This promotes relaxation. Listening to music may be a less intimidating way for a client to practice meditation (Scott, 2018).
4 Music Therapy Ideas and Interventions
Image by Free-Photos from Pixabay
1. Singalong
Fandom (n.d.) suggest that music therapy sessions for groups or individuals may include singing together in a way less formal than a choir.
The singalong may use a songbook of the music therapist’s repertoire, or plain copies of popular song lyrics (Fandom, n.d.). Participants could sing preferred and highly familiar songs by memory, or learn a new song by rote (Fandom, n.d.).
Singalongs encourage participation in a fun, music-making process (Fandom, n.d.). They can be used to meet various goals and objectives, including teaching breathing exercises (Fandom, n.d.).
2. ‘Blackout song-writing’ (Seibert, n.d.).
In this session, the therapist provides clients with the lyrics to 4 – 5 different choices of songs which represent recovery – such as overcoming barriers, support, or struggles. Then, clients are encouraged to take some time to read the lyrics of the song they choose, and to select words from the lyrics to make up their own song.
The idea is to ‘blackout’ the lyrics which the client does not want in the song and to use the words that they have chosen to create their own song.
3. Musical Hangman (Seibert, n.d.).
This idea is to draw a thematic picture on a board, and ask clients to guess the missing word before the picture loses its details – e.g. to try and guess the word before the tree loses all its’ leaves.
Then, choose a thematic word and find songs that start with each letter of that word. The aim is for clients to listen to the songs and try and guess the target word. For example, the word ‘happy’ may have the songs “Hey Jude”, “A Little Ray of Sunshine”, “Praying” and so on.
Each letter that is guessed correctly earns the corresponding song to play and sing. The therapist can even coordinate songs that share a thematic idea as well as matching the letter.
4. Blues Song-writing (Seibert, n.d.).
The music therapist explains the background of the blues, so that the client understands the basics – i.e. having a line A, repeating line A and a subsequent line B. Ask the client to share something that they may be feeling ‘blue’ about, and to think of a solution to the problem or a coping mechanism. Then, brainstorm ideas as to how to make the statements sound poetic in song-writing.
After each client has had a chance to write their ‘blues’, have a continuous improvisation/singalong. Sing each person’s ‘blues’ as a group, following the same melody line. This activity can be extended using an iPad: clients can improvise on the blues scale keyboard on the app ‘GarageBand’.
12 Recommended Songs Commonly Used
According to Rachel Rambach (2011), the following are twelve songs that every music therapist should know:
‘American Pie’
‘Amazing Grace’
‘Blue Suede Shoes’
‘Blue Skies’
‘Don’t Worry, Be Happy’
‘The Lion Sleeps Tonight’
‘Lean on me’
‘Ob-la-di’
‘Somewhere Over the Rainbow’
‘Take Me to The Ballgame’
‘This Little Light of Mine’
‘You Are My Sunshine’
10 Music Therapy Activities and Exercises for Adults
The following are research-based activities (interventions) for adults, found in Wigram and colleagues’ 2002 book.
Improvisation
Singing well-known songs
Vibroacoustic therapy
This is a receptive form of music therapy. It involves music being played through speakers which are built into a chair, mattress or bed (which the client lies in). Then, the client directly experiences the vibrations that are brought about by the music (Wigram, Pedersen & Bonde, 2002).
Stress-reduction techniques
Music and movement
Folk dancing or social dancing
Vibrotactile stimulation
Music reminiscence
Music stimulation
Songwriting
For more information about any of these activities, Wigram et al. (2002) provide the scientific references associated with each activity on pages 193 – 194.
5 Group Ideas and Activities
1. ‘Beach ball autonomy’ (Seibert, n.d.)
Use a blow-up beach ball and draw on a range of shapes. Inside each, write genres, styles and generic artists. Toss the ball to a client. Whichever shape their thumb lands on describes the next song selection.
The therapist encourages the client to choose a selection of appropriate songs so that the therapist can choose the preferred song for that individual. The client also gets to choose whether the group will play instruments, sing, dance, or just listen.
2. Drumming Emotions (Fandom, n.d.).
Each member of the group writes down one word to describe the emotion that they are feeling on a slip of paper. The paper is then put in a hat/bowl and group members take turns in selecting a different piece of paper. The person will then ‘perform’ (demonstrate) on the drum the emotion that is written on the paper. The rest of the group listens and tries to identify who in the group the emotion belongs to.
3. Conversation Drum Circle (Fandom, n.d.).
The group plays a beat, and in pairs take turns in a ‘musical dialogue’ exchange.
4. Name-That-Tune! (Fandom, n.d.).
The music therapist asks clients to form two or three teams and to come up with a team name. Play appropriate music and each team has a turn at earning points for stating the name of the song, the group or artist, or sharing interesting, relevant facts about the song.
It can also be fun to open up the guessing to the whole group if they are unable to identify the song. You could play “free-for-all” lightning rounds or use TV show themes, or popular movie soundtracks.
5. Music trivia (Fandom, n.d.).
This game challenges teams to answer trivia questions on music and pop-culture.
Using Music Therapy in Schools
Music therapy can be used with school-aged students in their school setting. Music therapy can be used at school to focus on higher level social and academic skills, including empathy, turn taking, compromise and problem-solving skills in social situations (Jacobson & Artman, 2013).
It can be used to promote academic understanding in mathematics, such as teaching math facts, telling the time, and money concepts (Jacobson & Artman, 2013). Music therapy can also target academic improvement in reading and writing (Jacobson & Artman, 2013). For example, music therapy improves phonic and sight words, and story elements (Jacobson & Artman, 2013).
In schools, music therapy can be used to improve children’s behavior and wellbeing (Jacobson & Artman, 2013). It can help children learn classroom rules, improving attention and focus, and promoting self-expression (Jacobson & Artman, 2013).
Finally, music therapy can be used in schools to improve social skills and communication (Jacobson & Artman, 2013). For example, it can help with “wh” questions (who, what, where, and when) and develop vocabulary (Jacobson & Artman, 2013).
Music therapy can also be used in Special Education settings (Jacobson & Artman, 2013). For example, a music therapist may work with a special needs student in the consideration of an Individual Education Program (IEP) (Jacobson & Artman, 2013). They may work with the IEP team and the student’s family throughout the music therapy process (Jacobson & Artman, 2013).
Music Therapy for Children
This following information about the use of music therapy with children is provided by the Children’s Health Queensland Hospital and Health Service (n.d.).
Music therapy can be a useful way to meet the various psychosocial needs of children, through engagement in song-writing and improvisation. It can provide children with opportunities for self-expression and communication. Music therapy can also give children the opportunity to identify their strengths, providing a way for them to maintain a sense of self-esteem.
For infants and children, a music therapist can use live, familiar music in conjunction with physical, social and cognitive activities to stimulate development. This also promotes interaction and encourages participation and motivation in young children. In order to reduce irritability, pain or anxiety, the music therapist can use soothing music. This also encourages child and family bonding.
To help develop creative self-expression in infants and young children, the music therapist and child can make music together and write songs.
Adolescents can play a more active role in coming up with their own music therapy program. With a therapist, adolescents can explore a range of musical activities and select what feels right to them.
Possible activities for adolescents are song-writing, improvisation and/or singing the songs by their favorite artists or bands. Adolescents may like to use technology to produce personalized audio/visual projects. The use of live music in addition to relaxation techniques can be an effective way to help reduce pain and anxiety in adolescents.
Clinical music therapy may benefit children who are chronically ill (or are long-term hospital patients) or have a developmental delay. It can help children who have autism or are isolated or bed-bound. Music therapy can be used for children who are anxious or depressed, are physically impaired or are frequently admitted to the hospital. Finally, clinical music therapy may benefit children who have experienced trauma.
5 Ideas for Kids
1. Leader of the band (Fandom, n.d.).
The therapist can sing a little song about who’s turn it is to be the ‘leader of the band’. Demonstrate to the group appropriate directions (such as “start”, “stop”, “LOUD”, “fast”, “slooooow”) or anything that the group will understand.
You may choose a child who is cooperating and listening to directions to be the leader. Children are highly reinforced for their behavior when they get to have a turn in communicating their preferred directions to the whole group.
2. “The Hello Song” from Dragon Tales (Fandom, n.d.).
This song, based on simple chords, is a suitable ‘hello’ song for children under 8 years of age. It brings together social skills, interactive responses and allows an opportunity to greet each child individually. This activity also incorporates vocal and musical opposites such as “high” and “low” and “fast” and “slow”.
3. “Hot Potato” (Fandom, n.d.).
The group passes an object around in a circle, and when the music stops the person holding the object can – answer a question; ask a question; say something about themselves, or discuss something related to treatment.
4. ‘Music bingo’ (Fandom, n.d.)
Create bingo sheets for children that use songs instead of letters and numbers.
5. ‘Pictionary’ (Fandom, n.d.).
Prepare cue cards with song titles written on them for individuals to draw pictures of while their team attempts to guess the song.
A Take Home Message
We all can attest to the power of music, and using it to teach, calm, and encourage recovery, make it a viable therapy to consider.
We hope this article has given you an indication of some of the benefits of music therapy, and look forward to your feedback and examples where music therapy has benefited your clients.
References
Blodgett, Ashley (2015). These 12 facts about music, and how they affect your brain, will astound you! Retrieved from https://www.unbelievable-facts.com/2015/04/facts-about-music.html/2
Blood, A., & Zatorre, R. J. (2001). Intensely pleasurable responses to music correlate with activity in brain regions implicated in reward and emotion. National Academy of Sciences, 98, 11818 – 11823.
Bradt, J., & Dileo, C. (2010). Music therapy for end-of-life care. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 1, Art. No: CD007169. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD007169.pub2
Children’s Health Queensland Hospital and Health Service (n.d.). Music Therapy. Retrieved from https://www.childrens.health.qld.gov.au/fact-sheet-music-therapy/
Everyday Harmony (n.d.). What is Music Therapy? Retrieved from www.everydayharmony.org/what-is-music-therapy/
Fandom (n.d.). Music therapy activities wiki. Retrieved from https://musictherapyactivities.fandom.com/wiki/Music_Therapy_Activities_Wiki
Forsblom, A., Lantinen, S., Särkämö, T., & Tervaniemi, M. (2009). Therapeutic role of music listening in stroke rehabilitation. The Neurosciences and Music III-Disorders & Plasticity: Annals of the New York Academy of Science, 1169, 426 – 430.
Gerdner, L. A., & Swanson, E. A. (1993). Effects of individualized music on confused and agitated elderly patients. Archives of Psychiatric Nursing, 7, 284 – 291. https://doi.org/10.1016/0883-9417(93)90006-1
Geretsegger, M., Elefant, C., Mössler, K. A., & Gold, C. (2014). Music therapy for people with autism spectrum disorder. Cochrane Review of Systematic Reviews, 6, Art. No: CD004381. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD004381.pub3
Gold, C., Voracek, M., & Wigram, T. (2004). Effects of music therapy for children and adolescents with psychopathology: A meta-analysis. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 45, 1054 – 1063.
Greenberg, D. M. (2017). The World’s First Music Therapist. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/au/blog/the-power-music/201704/the-world-s-first-music-therapist
Guetin, S., Portet, F., Picot, M. C., Pommie, C., Messgoudi, M., Djabelkir, L. et al. (2009). Effect of music therapy on anxiety and depression in patients with Alzheimer’s type dementia: Randomised, controlled study. Dementia & Geriatric Cognitive Disorders, 28, 36 – 46. doi: 10.1159/000229024
Hillecke, T., Nickel, A., & Volker Bolay, H. (2005). Scientific perspectives on music therapy. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 1060, 1 – 12. doi: 10.1196/annals.1360.020
Jacobson, V., & Artman, J. (2013). Music therapy in a school setting. Retrieved from https://williams-syndrome.org/sites/williams-syndrome.org/files/MusicTherapyTearSheet2013.pdf
Klassen, J. A., Liang, Y., Tjosvold, L., Klassen, T. P., & Hartling, L. (2008). Music for pain and anxiety in children undergoing medical procedures: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials. Ambulatory Pediatrics, 8, 117 – 128.
Koelsch, S. (2009). A Neuroscientific perspective on music therapy. Annals of the New York Academy of Science, 1169, 374 – 384. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.04592.x
Levy, Jillian (2017). Music therapy: Benefits and uses for anxiety, depression and more. Retrieved from https://draxe.com/music-therapy-benefits
Maratos, A., Gold, C., Wang, X., & Crawford, M. (2008). Music therapy for depression. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Issue 1, Art. No: CD004517. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD004517.pub2
Muzique (n.d.). Top 3 instruments to use in a music therapy session. Retrieved from https://www.muzique.org/muziqueblog/top-3-instruments-to-use-in-a-music-therapy-session
Nordoff Robbins (n.d.). What is music therapy? Retrieved from https://www.nordoff-robbins.org.uk/what-is-music-therapy
Rambach, Rachel (2011). 12 songs every music therapist should know. Retrieved from https://listenlearnmusic.com/2011/03/12-songs-every-music-therapist-should-know.html
Rambach, Rachel (2016). My top 10 music therapy instruments. Retrieved from https://listenlearnmusic.com/2016/02/my-top-10-music-therapy-instruments.html
Scott, Elizabeth (2018). Music relaxation: A healthy stress management tool. Retrieved from https://www.verywellmind.com/music-as-a-health-and-relaxation-aid-3145191
Seibert, Erin (n.d.). Mental health session ideas. Retrieved from https://musictherapytime.com/2015/12/24/mental-health-session-ideas/
Sena, Kimberley (2012). Guest Post: Essential iPad apps for music therapists. Retrieved from www.musictherapymaven.com/guest-post-essential-ipad-apps-for-music-therapists/
Smith, Yolanda (2018). Types of Music Therapy. Retrieved from https://www.news-medical.net/health/Types-of-Music-Therapy.aspx
Soundscape Music Therapy (n.d.). Music Therapy Methods. Retrieved from https://soundscapemusictherapy.com/music-therapy-methods/
The American Music Therapy Association (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.musictherapy.org/
Therapedia (n.d.). Music Therapy. Retrieved from https://www.theravive/therapedia/music-therapy
Wigram, T., Pedersen, I. N., & Bonde, L. O. (2002). A Comprehensive Guide to Music Therapy: Theory, Clinical Practice, Research and Training. London: Jessica Kingsley Publishers
Wong, H. L., C., Lopez-Nahas, V., & Molassiotis, A. (2001). Effects of music therapy on anxiety in ventilator-dependent patients. Heart and Lung: The Journal of Acute and Critical Care, 30, 376 – 387. https://doi.org/10.1067/mhl.2001.118302
Your Free Career Test (n.d.). What does a music therapist do? Retrieved from https://www.yourfreecareertest.com/what-does-a-music-therapist-do/
Related Posts
Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy: How Far We’ve Come From Freud
What is Interpersonal Psychotherapy (IPT): A Case History
Positive Psychotherapy: 5 Exercises and Tools for Counsellors and Therapists
What is Psychotherapy: 15 Techniques and Exercises (+PDF)
About the Author
Studying psychology, Heather Craig is a freelance writer from Melbourne, Australia. As well as writing, Heather is fond of coffee, dogs, and morning walks.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
Website
Sign me up for the newsletter
Search
Categories
Body & Brain (18)
Book Reviews (8)
Coaching & Application (23)
Compassion (10)
Emotional Intelligence (18)
Experts & Scientists (14)
Gratitude (18)
Happiness & SWB (31)
Meaning & Values (16)
Meditation (8)
Mindfulness (30)
Optimism & Mindset (14)
Positive CBT (15)
Positive Education (15)
Positive Emotions (13)
Positive News (19)
Positive Psychology Articles (38)
Positive Workplace (17)
Relationships & Communication (13)
Resilience & Coping (27)
Strengths & Virtues (13)
The Self (26)
Therapies (37)
Writing Therapy (6)
Recent Posts
What is Locke's Goal Setting Theory of Motivation? (Incl. Examples)
19 Apr 2019
The Science of Self-Acceptance Masterclass Reviewed
17 Apr 2019
Mindfulness and the Brain: What Does Research and Neuroscience Say?
16 Apr 2019
What is Mindful Yoga? 4 Poses + Yoga Retreats
15 Apr 2019
What is Self-Reliance and How to Develop It?
15 Apr 2019
Positive Psychology Exercises
Download These 3 Positive Psychology Exercises For Free!
Legal
Disclaimer
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Opportunities
Free PDF
Positive Psychology Courses
Positive Psychology Toolkit
Contact
Toolkit Login
Our Team
Sitemap
Contact
Copyright 2019 Positive Psychology Program B.V. All Rights Reserved.