Patient Experiences with DUPIXENT® for Adult Eczema | DUPIXENT® (dupilumab)
Patient Prescribing Information
Patient Prescribing Information
Prescribing Information
Instructions for Use - 200mg
Instructions for Use - 300mg
Healthcare Professionals
For U.S. Residents Only
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic
Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 12-17)
Other Condition
What is Atopic
Dermatitis?
Disease Education
Eczema Check-in
About
DUPIXENT
How DUPIXENT Works
How DUPIXENT May Help
How DUPIXENT Is Taken
DUPIXENT
Support
DUPIXENT MyWay®
Sign Up
Copay Card
DUPIXENT Pricing Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary
Patient
Experiences
Patient Stories
Healthcare Professionals
Patient Experiences
Jennifer
DUPIXENT MyWay®
Patient Ambassador,
on DUPIXENT Individual results may vary.
“In my job, I’m an
advocate for
others. It’s what I do.
As someone with
moderate-to-severe
atopic dermatitis, I’m
my own advocate."
Home
Home
Patient Experiences
Patient
Experiences
Everyone has a story to tell. With every story, there are messages to be shared
and lessons to be learned.
Patient
Ambassador
Program
Your experience with DUPIXENT is unique and yours to tell, and we want to
know your story. Not only can sharing be cathartic, it can also inspire and
empower people going through similar experiences.
Want to read about our ambassadors’ journeys deciding to use DUPIXENT
and their experiences?
Follow their journeys
Share Your Story
If selected, you may be featured in print materials, on social media or in
videos. Interested in hearing more or sharing your story?
Call 1‑844‑DUPIXENT, option 5
(1‑844-387-4936)
Patient Education Program Events
Coming Soon
Check back often to see what events are happening and where they are.
Patient Education Program Events
DUPIXENT MyWay®: Coming Together for Informative Conversations
Are you an adult living with moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis) that is not well controlled with prescription topical therapies or who cannot use topical therapies? Did you know the flare-ups you see and feel on your skin could be caused in part by inflammation below the surface? It's time to learn more about how DUPIXENT can help heal your skin from within! Attend a FREE educational seminar to meet other adults living with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, to learn more about DUPIXENT and the support offered by DUPIXENT MyWay, and to listen to a DUPIXENT MyWay patient ambassador who will share their story of living with atopic dermatitis and their experience using DUPIXENT.
Date
Location
Wednesday, April 10, 2019 Sheraton Bloomington Hotel
Minneapolis, MN
Tuesday, April 30, 2019 Embassy Suites
Lubbock, TX
Wednesday, May 1, 2019 Hilton Garden Inn
Perrysburg, OH
Monday, May 6, 2019 Hyatt Regency
Jersey City, NJ
Wednesday, May 8, 2019 Hilton
St. Louis, MO
Wednesday, May 8, 2019 Embassy Suites
Hunt Valley, MD
Thursday, May 9, 2019 Hilton Garden Inn
Gainesville, GA
Tuesday, May 14, 2019 Chicago Marriott
Oak Brook, IL
Tuesday, May 14, 2019 Falls Church Marriott
Falls Church, VA
Wednesday, May 15, 2019 Hyatt Place
Las Vegas, NV
Thursday, May 16, 2019 Hilton Garden Inn
Little Rock, AR
Tuesday, May 21, 2019 Hyatt Place
Topeka, KS
Wednesday, May 22, 2019 Crowne Plaza
Cherry Hill, NJ
Tuesday, June 4, 2019 Hilton Garden Inn
Flowood, MS
Call 1-844-DUPIXENT, option 5
(1-844-387-4936)
to register
for an event.
Connect With a Specialist Who Treats Eczema
Use this tool to easily find nearby specialists with experience in treating adults with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis).
Find an Eczema Specialist on Healthgrades.
Sanofi US and Regeneron do not endorse or recommend any particular physician, and search results do not include a comprehensive list of doctors in your area.
Important Safety Information and Indication
Do not use if you are allergic to dupilumab or to any of the ingredients in DUPIXENT®.
Before using DUPIXENT, tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions, including if you:
have eye problems
have a parasitic (helminth) infection
are taking oral, topical, or inhaled corticosteroid medicines. Do not stop taking your corticosteroid medicines unless instructed by your healthcare provider. This may cause other symptoms that were controlled by the corticosteroid medicine to come back.
are scheduled to receive any vaccinations. You should not receive a “live vaccine” if you are treated with DUPIXENT.
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known whether DUPIXENT will harm your unborn baby.
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. It is not known whether DUPIXENT passes into your breast milk.
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements. If you are taking asthma medicines, do not change or stop your asthma medicine without talking to your healthcare provider.
DUPIXENT can cause serious side effects, including:
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity), including a severe reaction known as anaphylaxis. Stop using DUPIXENT and tell your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you get any of the following symptoms: breathing problems, fever, general ill feeling, swollen lymph nodes, swelling of the face, mouth and tongue, hives, itching, fainting, dizziness, feeling lightheaded (low blood pressure), joint pain, or skin rash.
Eye problems. Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worsening eye problems, including eye pain or changes in vision.
The most common side effects include injection site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching, pain in the throat (oropharyngeal pain) and cold sores in your mouth or on your lips.
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. These are not all the possible side effects of DUPIXENT. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Use DUPIXENT exactly as prescribed. DUPIXENT is given as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection). If your healthcare provider decides that you or a caregiver can give DUPIXENT injections, you or your caregiver should receive training on the right way to prepare and inject DUPIXENT. Do not try to inject DUPIXENT until you have been shown the right way by your healthcare provider. In adolescents 12 years of age and older, it is recommended that DUPIXENT be administered by or under supervision of an adult.
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information including Patient Information.
Indication
DUPIXENT is a prescription medicine used to treat people 12 years and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 12 years of age.
Site Map
Legal Disclaimer Information
Privacy Policy
Questions or comments?
Contact Sanofi US or call 1‑844‑643‑7346
to contact Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
© 2019 Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DUPIXENT® is a registered trademark of Sanofi.
Sanofi US is hosting this website on behalf of Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
×
This DUPIXENT® (dupilumab) website is for U.S. healthcare professionals only. Click "continue" only if you are a U.S. healthcare professional.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
Are you sure you want to leave?
Please note: By clicking on this link, you will be leaving this Sanofi-hosted US website and going to another, entirely independent website. Sanoﬁ US and Regeneron provide these links as a service to its website visitors and users; however, they take no responsibility for the information on any website but their own.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
You are about to leave sanofi site for U.S.
Sanofi US does not review the information contained on this website and/or database for content, accuracy or completeness. Use of and access to this information is subject to the terms, limitations and conditions set by the website and/or database producer.
This site might not comply with the regulatory requirements of US
Cancel
Continue
×
You are moving to an Unbranded site
Cancel
Continue
US-DAD-13323(7) Last Update: March 2019
×