Fever Management
Naturally Healthy Kids
From Natural Care Clinic
Naturally Healthy Kids is a part of Natural Care Clinic
Home
About
Overview
Dr. Sonya Doherty
Sleep
Diet
Genetically Modified Food
Pesticides
Fish oils and EFAs
Healthy Snacks
Food Introduction
Immunity
Allergies
Asthma
Ear Infections
Vitamin D
Immune Boosting Tips
Warming Sock Treatment
Fever Management
Digestion
Colic
Probiotics
Food Allergies
More Topics
Development
Developmental Milestones
Language Development
Mood and Behaviour
Tantrums
Skin
Cradle Cap
Eczema
Diaper Rash
Breastfeeding
Fish Oils, Pregnancy and Breastfeeding
Thrush
Fever Management
“Give me a fever, and I can cure any illness”
~ Hippocrates
I have provided you with information to know how to handle your child’s fever safely, effectively, and as naturally as possible. To do this you will need to to recognize warning signs and when to seek proper medical attention.
Fever from a Naturopathic perspective:
Naturopathic treatment is to support a fever, unless it rises too high or too quickly. A fever of 39 C (102.2 F) to 39.4 (103 F) is considered the optimal defense against microbes. This temperature range also heals the body most effectively. Fever is not a disease. It is the way your child body fights off disease.
Functions of fever:
To stimulate the immune system
To create an inhospitable environment for invading organisms
The benefits of fever:
Increased antibodies – cells that attack the exact type of invader your body is fighting
Increased white blood cells – cells that circulate and fight off microbes
INCREASED INTERFERON – BLOCKS THE SPREAD OF VIRUSES TO HEALTHY CELLS
Increased temperature that directly kills microbes including bacteria and viruses
When to seek medical attention
Infants less than 6 weeks old, with a temperature greater than 38 C (100.4. F).
Continue to breastfeed while waiting for treatment
Breastmilk has antibodies that help your infant fight disease
Infants from 1-3 months, with a temperature greater than 38 C (100.4 F), if they appear ill
Children between 3-46 months, with a temperature over 39 C (102.2 F), if they appear ill
Anyone with a temperature over 41 C (105.8 F)
Naturopathic Treatment for Fever:
Hydrotherapy
For fever 106 degrees F and above:
Tepid bath
Cold compress to head and neck.
Ice pack placed over the heart.
Fresh, cool (60 degrees to 65 degrees) air in room
Cool water (60 degrees to tap temperature) taken by mouth can promote sweating
For fever between 103-105 degrees F:
Hot blanket pack of 5 to 10 minutes duration: This will reduce chilliness and initiate heat dissipating mechanisms
Short hot bath or repeating hot sponging to bring blood to the surface
Hot evaporating sheet bath
Cold compress to head and neck
Ice pack placed over the heart
Fresh cool (60-65 degrees F) air in room
Cool water (60 degrees F or tap temperature) taken by mouth to promote sweating
For a mild fever between 99-103 degrees F:
Treatment goal is to encourage fever
Hot foot bath with blanket pack, to elevate temperature
Finish by pouring cold water over feet
Hot water and/or diaphoretic herbal tea to promote sweating
Botanical Medicine:
Diaphoretic Herbs – herbs that encourage sweating
Zingiber officinale (ginger) root
Achillea millefolum (yarrow) herb
Sambucus Canadensis (elder) flower
Tilia x vulgaris (linden) flower
Management of Fever – Overview
Prevent dehydration – encourage child to drink plenty of cool fluids including water, herbal tea and vegetable broth
Herbal teas including chamomile, catnip, ginger or yarrow
Monitor temperature frequently
Rest
Promote perspiration and bring down moderate to high temperature by giving child a fever-reducing herbal tea (chamomile and peppermint)
Beneficial herbs can be absorbed through the skin. Pour several cupfuls of fever-reducing tea into tepid bath water
For fever of 103-105 degress Farenheit apply a hot blanket to the childs body for 5-10 minutes. This will reduce chilliness and initiat heat dissipating mechanisms.
Short hot bath or repeat hot sponging to bring blood to the surface.
Cold compress to head and neck
Warming socks – See tips for boosting immunity and preventing H1N1. Warming socks. Take 2 pairs of socks. With one pair wet with cold water and wring out, please on the childs feet. Take dry wool or cotton socks and put on top of the cold wet cotton socks. Put child to bed. Check on child’ feet to insure there feet have warmed up 5-10 minutes after wearing. If they have not warmed up, then remove the socks. Some children will need their feet warmed with warm water before applying the wet cold socks.
Diet:
“Liquid diets suit all persons with fever, but especially children”
~ Hippocates
DR. SONYA DOHERTY, ND
I would like to tell you why I am so passionate about biomedical treatment. In my first year of practice I wrote an article on AD/HD. My personal experience with AD/HD motivated me during my extensive research and I discovered the mountain of evidence the biological aspects of ASD and AD/HD. Continue Reading
Blog Categories
Featured (8)
News (1)
Uncategorized (1)
Copyright © 2013 Natural Care Clinic | Site design by We Do Wordpress powered by Market Mechanics