Getting rid of old scars: Types of scar, home remedies, and prevention
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
How can home remedies get rid of my old scar?
Last reviewed	 Tue 10 October 2017	 Last reviewed	Tue 10 Oct 2017
By Jennifer Berry
Reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
Table of contents
Types of scar
Home remedies
Prevention
Outlook
If the skin becomes injured, it will form a protein known as collagen to repair the wound. This healing process occurs anytime the skin is cut, burned, or damaged from a disease or condition, such as acne or chickenpox.
While the skin does an efficient job of healing and closing its wounds, the new collagen and repaired skin are often noticeable in the form of a scar.
Scars are one of the most difficult cosmetic skin issues to treat. While it is possible to reduce some new scars, older ones are particularly hard to get rid of.
Though many natural remedies are claimed to reduce or get rid of scars, most of them lack any scientific evidence that they work.
A few home remedies may be worth trying, but the best way to reduce scars is to care for wounds as they heal, limiting their formation from the beginning.
Types of scar
Scars are commonly caused by injuries, surgery, or skin conditions. Some types of scars will heal quicker than others.
The type of scar that a person gets depends on many factors, such as:
The kind of skin injury that occurred, such as acne, surgery, or a burn.
A person's natural skin type. Some scar types can run in families, and the thickness, color, and texture of a person's skin may affect how they scar.
The location of the injury. The skin may be thicker or tougher on some regions of the body, which can influence the appearance of a scar.
Knowing the type of scar is helpful when deciding how to treat it.
Keloids
A keloid scar usually grows much larger than the wound itself. It is raised, dark in color, and can continue to grow after the wound has healed.
Keloids can have side effects such as interfering with movement, pain, and itching. They may be more common in people with darker skin tones and do not resolve or fade with time.
Hypertrophic scars
Like keloids, these scars are usually raised and red. But, they occur only at the site of the injury. They can be itchy or painful, but this often improves as the skin completely heals.
Hypertrophic scars often become less raised and noticeable with time, though this process can take years.
Atrophic scars
An atrophic scar appears as a pit or dent in the skin. It forms as a result of damage to the skin's collagen and commonly occurs with conditions such as chickenpox and acne.
Contracture scars
These scars will cause the skin to become tight, or contract. They are often the result of burns and can be painful.
Contracture scars can affect muscles and nerves beneath the skin and can reduce movement of the affected body part.
Widespread scars
Also known as stretched scars, these are common after surgery. They occur when a surgical incision scar stretches and becomes wider.
These scars are usually flat and pale, so they tend to be less noticeable than raised or indented scars.
Home remedies
Many lotions, creams, and other products claim to reduce a scar's appearance but lack evidence to back up their claims.
However, for those who wish to try a noninvasive treatment for scars at home, a few options may be able to help.
1. Silicone sheets and gel
Applying silicone sheets or gel to the skin may help to improve the appearance of a scar.
Of all the home remedies for scars, silicone may have the most evidence that it works.
A number of studies over the past 20 years have confirmed that applying silicone sheeting or gel can gradually improve a scar's appearance:
Silicone sheeting has been shown to be a proven scar treatment over the years, according to one study.
A review states that silicone sheeting improves the appearance of hypertrophic scars.
Another study found that a silicone gel was as effective as silicone sheeting in diminishing hypertrophic and keloid scars.
Topical silicone gel provided an improvement in keloid and hypertrophic scars, according to another review.
Silicone scar treatment products are available in many stores without a prescription. Doctors may also prescribe this treatment after surgery or to aid in scar formation after an injury.
Silicone has a low risk of side effects and is usually easy and painless to use.
2. Onion extract to remove scars
One of the most well-known natural remedies for scar treatment is onion extract. This extract is widely available in scar treatment products that are available at drug stores.
Some studies found that:
A proprietary onion extract product improved and softened scars after 4 weeks.
People who used an onion extract gel reported improvements in scar texture, softness, redness, and overall appearance after 4 weeks.
Despite these studies, evidence on onion extract is mixed. One study found that onion extract was no better than a petroleum-based ointment in treating scars.
3. Chemical exfoliators
Many over-the-counter creams and serums contain exfoliants. These substances are designed to help remove the outer layers of dead skin, revealing a smoother appearance.
While there are some claims that exfoliants can smooth fine lines, they may be beneficial for some types of scars and dark marks.
One study found that two types of chemical exfoliators helped to reduce the look of acne scars and dark marks caused by acne. The study looked at peels that contained glycolic acid and a salicylic-mandelic acid combination and found both types offered some improvement.
Another study found that glycolic acid peels can improve the look of atrophic acne scars. The authors stated that people who have stronger peels done in a doctor's office may get better results, but that lower-strength peels done at home can also offer benefits with fewer side effects.
4. Sun protection
While sun protection alone will not get rid of a scar, it can keep them from getting worse and help with the natural fading process.
People using glycolic acid or other scar-fading products are strongly advised to use sun protection.
Careful use of sunscreen and sun-protective clothing is necessary for both newly-formed and old scars alike. It will help prevent additional darkening, which makes a scar more noticeable.
Lack of evidence for other remedies
Many other home remedies have been promoted as scar removers, such as aloe vera, honey, and olive oil.
While these natural substances may help soften and smooth skin, and likely will not do any harm, no studies have yet found these substances to work in reducing or removing scars.
Prevention
Keeping the area of the wound clean, and using moisturizer to prevent the skin from drying out, may help to prevent scarring.
Preventing a scar while a wound is healing is the best way to keep scars away. How the wound heals can affect how a scar may look.
Though some scars cannot be avoided, there are ways to help minimize their appearance. After an injury to the skin, the American Academy of Dermatology recommend that people do the following:
Keep the area clean: Mild soap and water work for most minor cuts and scrapes. Clean it once a day.
Do not let it dry out: Studies have shown that a moist environment helps keep tissue healthy as it heals and can help reduce scar tissue formation.
Get stitches removed as advised: Waiting too long to remove stitches or taking them out early could interfere with healing.
Use sun protective clothing and sunscreen: The sun's rays can darken or enhance the appearance of a scar. People should keep injured skin protected from the sun both during and after healing.
Most healthcare providers recommend applying plain petroleum jelly and covering it with a clean bandage once a day while it heals. This prevents the formation of a hard scab, which can make a scar more likely to appear.
Outlook
Scars can take a toll on a person's physical and mental well-being, especially if they are on a noticeable area such as the face.
Home remedies will not be able to erase a scar completely. Due to the low risk of side effects, however, they may be an option to consider for mild to moderate improvement.
People who are struggling with the effects of a scar may wish to talk with a qualified dermatologist or plastic surgeon about more aggressive options. These include lasers, surgery, steroids, or other treatments.
Some of the home remedies for old scars listed in this article are available for purchase online.
Shop for silicone gel and sheets.
Shop for onion extract products.
Shop for chemical exfoliants.
Shop for sunscreen.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
How to get rid of burn scars Treating burn scars depends on the severity of the burn and how recently it occurred. The article examines the various types of burn scars, how to remove or reduce existing burn scars, and how to prevent new scars developing. Also, learn about how to treat a burn in the first instance and possible complications. Read now
How do I get rid of stretch marks? Stretch marks occur when a person's skin stretches too quickly, which can be due to puberty, pregnancy or weight gain. They can appear anywhere on the body, including the hips, stomach, and thighs. They are not dangerous but can be unsightly. Learn more about stretch marks, what causes them, and how to prevent them. Read now
Tips for treating and reducing hypertrophic scars Hypertrophic scars are raised, red scars that occur due to collagen imbalance at the location of an injury. This MNT Knowledge Center article explains everything you need to know about hypertrophic scars, including what they and tips on how to treat or remove them. Read on to find out if these scars can be prevented. Read now
What to know about mastectomy scars Learn more about treatments for mastectomy scars. We run through the options for women and provide details on types of mastectomy procedures. Read now
I tried cupping, and this is how it felt Recently, cupping has become popular with sportspeople and celebrities. I gave it a try and, in this feature, I explain how it felt and if it works. Read now
email email
print
share share
Dermatology
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Tue 10 October 2017.
Visit our Dermatology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Dermatology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Chung, V. Q., Kelley, L., Marra, D., & Jiang, S. B. (2006, February). Onion extract gel versus petrolatum emollient on new surgical scars: A prospective double-blinded study [Abstract]. Dermatologic Surgery, 32(2), 193-197. Retrieved from http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1524-4725.2006.32045.x/full
Draelos, Z. D. (2008, May 13). The ability of onion extract gel to improve the cosmetic appearance of postsurgical scars [Abstract]. Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology, 7(2), 101-104. Retrieved from http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1473-2165.2008.00371.x/full
Draelos, Z. D., Baumann, L., Fleischer, A. B., Plaum, S., Avakian, E. V., & Hardas, B. (2012, June). A new proprietary onion extract gel improves the appearance of new scars: A randomized, controlled, blinded-investigator study. The Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology, 5(6), 18–24. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3390235/
Erbağcı, Z., & Akçali, C. (2000, October). Biweekly serial glycolic acid peels vs. long-term daily use of topical low-strength glycolic acid in the treatment of atrophic acne scars. International Journal of Dermatology, 39(10), 789-794. Retrieved from http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1046/j.1365-4362.2000.00076.x/full
Field, C. K., & Kerstein, M. D. (1994, January). Overview of wound healing in a moist environment [Abstract]. The American Journal of Surgery, 167(1), S2-S6. Retrieved from http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0002961094900027
Garg, V. K., Sinha, S., & Sarkar, R. (2008, December 9). Glycolic acid peels versus salicylic-mandelic acid peels in active acne vulgaris and post-acne scarring and hyperpigmentation: A comparative study. Dermatologic Surgery, 35(1), 59-65. Retrieved from http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1524-4725.2008.34383.x/full
Keloids. (n.d). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/diseases/bumps-and-growths/keloids
Mustoe, T. A., Cooter, R. D., Gold, M. H., Hobbs, F. D., Ramelet, A. A., Shakespeare, P. G., ... Ziegler, U. E. (2002, August). International clinical recommendations on scar management [Abstract]. Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 110(2), 560–71. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12142678
Mustoe, T. A. (2008, January). Evolution of silicone therapy and mechanism of action in scar management [Abstract]. Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, 32(82). Retrieved from https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00266-007-9030-9
Proper wound care: How to minimize a scar. (2017). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/skin-hair-nails/injured-skin/wound-care
Puri, N., & Talwar, A. (2009). The efficacy of silicone gel for the treatment of hypertrophic scars and keloids. Journal of Cutaneous and Aesthetic Surgery, 2(2), 104–106. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2918339/
Rawlings, A. V., Bielfeldt, S., & Lombard, K. J. (2012, September 21). A review of the effects of moisturizers on the appearance of scars and striae. International Journal of Cosmetic Science, 34(6), 519–524. Retrieved from http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2494.2012.00751.x/full
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Berry, Jennifer. "How can home remedies get rid of my old scar?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 10 Oct. 2017. Web.
24 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319654.php>
APA
Berry, J. (2017, October 10). "How can home remedies get rid of my old scar?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319654.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study reveals how general anesthetics affect the brain
For the first time, scientists have shown that general anesthetics activate the same small group of cells in the brain as that which induces sleep.
Ginkgo seeds may help keep skin blemish-free, but there's a catch
Ginkgo seed extracts can fight bacteria that harm the skin, but researchers are still a long way from developing them into safe products.
How ketamine can change the brain to fight depression
New research in mice pinpoints some of the key mechanisms that ketamine triggers in the brain to fight the symptoms and characteristics of depression.
Using small molecules to regenerate heart tissue
New research in mice uses gene-regulating molecules called microRNAs to repair heart tissue after an adverse cardiovascular event such as a heart attack.
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Popular in: Dermatology
What causes patches of discolored skin?
What causes tongue bumps?
What can cause a bump on the lip?
What causes an underarm rash?
Hair growth: 6 home remedies
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319654.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);