How to get rid of keloids: Home remedies, treatment, and tips
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
How do you get rid of keloids?
Last reviewed	 Fri 3 November 2017	 Last reviewed	Fri 3 Nov 2017
By Jennifer Berry
Reviewed by Catherine Hannan, MD
Table of contents
Why are keloids an issue?
Causes
Keloids and piercings
Home remedies
Medical treatments
Outlook
Scars come in many different textures, colors, and sizes. Many scars become smaller, smoother, and less noticeable with time.
But for about 10 percent of people, even minor injuries can create scars that are excessively large, raised, and dark in color.
They extend far beyond the original injury to the skin and may continue to grow with time. These types of scars are known as keloids.
Fast facts on keloids:
Keloids can be a concern due to their appearance, particularly if on the face, neck, or hands.
There's no foolproof way to get rid of keloids.
A keloid forms as a result of an exaggerated healing response in some people, especially those with more pigment in their skin.
Prescription medicines and in-office procedures may be able to improve the appearance of keloids.
Why are keloids an issue?
Unlike most scars, keloids do not regress over time.
Though unsightly, people with keloids may have concerns that go beyond aesthetics. Keloids can cause discomfort, tightness, or even limited range of motion if they occur near a joint, such as the knee or ankle.
The excessive stretching of the skin can cause itching, and because of their larger size, keloids are prone to rubbing on clothing, causing irritation.
Like any scar, keloids can be tricky to treat. But, medical advances are being made in keloid treatment that may hold promise.
Preventing keloids through proper wound care and avoiding injury to the skin, such as piercings, is the best strategy for people who are prone to getting keloids.
Causes
A keloid forms due to the skin's exaggerated response to an injury. Even minor cuts can cause keloids. Some of the most common causes of keloids include:
cuts or punctures, including from shaving
burns
incisions from surgery
insect bites
skin conditions, such as acne
chickenpox or diseases that cause scarring of the skin
tattoos or piercings
Some keloids form without any apparent cause. A review in the Journal of Medical Investigations and Practice states that some keloids have been known to appear without the presence of a skin injury. They may also crop up years after an injury has taken place.
When the skin is injured, it sends collagen-making cells to heal the wound. Ideally, the cells do their job and close the injury, leaving a small scar. With keloids, the skin's cells continue to multiply even after the wound has healed. The scar tissue continues to grow, forming a large, raised scar.
Though keloids can occur in any skin type, they are more likely to form in:
those who have a family history of keloids
people under 30, especially teenagers going through puberty
pregnant women
people with darker skin tones, such as those people of Asian, Hispanic, or African-American descent, are also more likely to develop keloids than other people.
Keloids are considered to be a type of benign tumor. Though they can be bothersome, they do not turn into cancer or pose serious health problems.
Keloids and piercings
Using non-metal earing backs may help to prevent keloids from forming after ear piercing.
Keloids often develop after piercings. Whether they occur more frequently after piercings as opposed to other skin injuries is unknown. They are more prevalent on the earlobes than on other parts of the body, but this is probably because the earlobes are a popular location for piercings.
Though preventing keloids is not always possible, there may be a few ways to reduce the risk of getting one after a piercing:
Use non-metal earring backs
A study in the Australasian Journal of Dermatology examined the reason why keloids tend to form more frequently on the back of the earlobe after an ear piercing. They determined that earrings with metal backs more often led to keloids on the back of the earlobe.
As such, they suggest that using non-metal earring backs could be a way to reduce the chance of getting a keloid on the back of the earlobe after a piercing.
Piercings and age
A study in AAP News & Journals found that keloids from ear piercings were more common in children who got their ears pierced after 11 years of age. The incidence of keloids after ear piercings was much lower in children under 11 years old.
The authors suggested getting the piercing before 11 years of age, or avoiding ear piercing if there is a family history of keloids.
Once you have them, keloids are notoriously difficult to eliminate and have a very high chance of re-growing once they are surgically cut out. This is because the body is likely to respond in the same exaggerated way to this surgery as it did to the initial injury.
How can home remedies get rid of my old scar?
Getting rid of old scars can often be done at home. Learn more about the best methods here.
Read now
Home remedies
No home remedies have been shown to get rid of keloids once they have formed. But, there are a few things that people can do at home after a skin injury to help prevent keloids from forming or minimize their appearance.
Silicone sheeting or gel
Silicone is one of the most widely used scar remedies, and it has been proven to help shrink some raised and keloid scars. Silicone has a low risk of adverse effects and is easy to use.
Reviews published in Aesthetic Plastic Surgery and the Journal of Cutaneous and Aesthetic Surgery confirm that applying silicone sheeting or gel as advised can provide an effective way to shrink existing raised scars or help keep them from forming.
Silicone sheets are available for purchase online.
A heavy skin cream or lotion
A review in the International Journal of Cosmetic Science states that some skin products, such as those that contain lanolin or petrolatum, may improve a scar's appearance. People should use the creams regularly and cover the scar as the wound is healing.
Although creams containing onion extract or Vitamin E are widely used for scars, a review in American Family Physician and a study in Dermatologic Surgery found that these ingredients have not been shown to help with keloids.
Heavy creams for healing scars are available for purchase online.
Medical treatments
Options include:
Tretinoin cream (Retin-A)
Temporarily freezing tissues with cryotherapy may help to reduce the appearance of keloids.
Tretinoin is a prescription medicine that people apply to their skin. Commonly used for acne and aging, it works by speeding up the skin's natural cell turnover.
A 2010 review in the Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology found that retinoids, such as tretinoin cream and isotretinoin, may help reduce the size and appearance of keloids.
Cryotherapy
Cryotherapy is a process that involves temporarily freezing the tissues with a handheld device. Most people tolerate the therapy well, but some people may experience severe pain during the procedure that goes away afterward.
A small study published in the Journal of Cutaneous and Aesthetic Surgery suggests that after several treatments, cryotherapy can reduce the size of keloids by up to 50 percent. But, the study also states that cryotherapy works best on smaller keloids that are less than 3 years old.
Steroid injections
This treatment has been used for years on keloids with some success. A study in the Journal of Medical Investigations and Practice stated that injected steroids are an effective way to reduce the size and appearance of keloids.
A review in American Family Physician states that steroid therapy works best on newer keloids and when combined with surgery to remove part of the scar. It can also be used in conjunction with cryotherapy.
Imiquimod cream
This cream is used to treat a variety of skin lesions, including superficial basal cell skin cancers. It appears to work well on the skin after a keloid has been removed. A review in the Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery found that the cream reduced the chances of a keloid coming back.
Radiation treatment
A newer treatment that is showing promising results involves a short course of radiation therapy, which is given immediately after surgically cutting out the keloids. Several studies in the plastic surgery and dermatology literature show a high rate of cure, or at least improvement, in keloid scars in people treated by this method.
Scars: Are they preventable?
Click here to find out whether scars are preventable.
Read now
Outlook
Because keloids are difficult to treat, it is best to take steps to prevent them immediately after an injury, surgery, or piercing. People who are prone to keloids may wish to avoid tattoos and piercings altogether. If someone requires surgery for any reason, they should make their doctor aware of any history of keloids so prevention can begin soon after the surgery.
Though keloids do not pose a health risk, they can be emotionally and mentally damaging. Some treatments are available, but no single treatment works for all. People will need to discuss keloid removal options with their doctor and determine the best course of action to take.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Psoriasis scars: What can I do about them? Psoriasis is a chronic skin condition that can lead to scars in the areas it affects. Scarring is not hazardous, but it can be unsightly, and scarring on the scalp can increase the risk of alopecia. Treatments, such as creams, can help remove the scars, and preventive measures can help stop them forming. Read now
How to get rid of burn scars Treating burn scars depends on the severity of the burn and how recently it occurred. The article examines the various types of burn scars, how to remove or reduce existing burn scars, and how to prevent new scars developing. Also, learn about how to treat a burn in the first instance and possible complications. Read now
Tips for treating and reducing hypertrophic scars Hypertrophic scars are raised, red scars that occur due to collagen imbalance at the location of an injury. This MNT Knowledge Center article explains everything you need to know about hypertrophic scars, including what they and tips on how to treat or remove them. Read on to find out if these scars can be prevented. Read now
What to know about mastectomy scars Learn more about treatments for mastectomy scars. We run through the options for women and provide details on types of mastectomy procedures. Read now
How can home remedies get rid of my old scar? Scars may not cause any long-term health problems, but they can be an unsightly reminder of injury or trauma than many try to remove. Can home remedies be used to reduce or remove old scars? This MNT Knowledge Center article looks at the evidence, along with information about different types of scars and prevention. Read now
email email
print
share share
Dermatology
Rehabilitation / Physical Therapy
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Fri 3 November 2017.
Visit our Dermatology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Dermatology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Barara, M., Mendiratta, V., & Chander, R. (2012). Cryotherapy in treatment of keloids: Evaluation of factors affecting treatment outcome. Journal of Cutaneous and Aesthetic Surgery, 5(3), 185–189. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3483575/
Chung, V. Q., Kelley, L., Marra, D., & Jiang, S. B. (2006, February). Onion extract gel versus petrolatum emollient on new surgical scars: Prospective double-blinded study. Dermatologic Surgery, 32, 193–197. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16442038
Hochman, B., Isoldi, F. C., Silveira, T. S., Borba, G. C., & Ferreira, L. M. (2015, February 25). Does ear keloid formation depend on the type of earrings or piercing jewellery? Australasian Journal of Dermatology, 56(3), e77–e79. Retrieved from http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajd.12190/full
Juckett, G., & Hartman-Adams, H. (2008, August 1). Management of keloids and hypertrophic scars. American Family Physician, 80(3), 253–260. Retrieved from http://www.aafp.org/afp/2009/0801/p253.html
Keloids and hypertrophic scars. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.aocd.org/?page=KeloidsAndHypertroph
Keloids: Overview. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/diseases/bumps-and-growths/keloids
Keloids: Prevention and treatment. (2009, August 1). American Family Physician, 80(3). Retrieved from http://www.aafp.org/afp/2009/0801/p253-s1.html
Lane, J. E., Waller, J. L., & Davis, L. S. (2005, May). Relationship between age of ear piercing and keloid formation. Pediatrics, 115(5), 1312–1314. Retrieved from http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/115/5/1312.short
Mustoe, T. A. (2008, January). Evolution of silicone therapy and mechanism of action in scar management [Abstract]. Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, 32-82. Retrieved from https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00266-007-9030-9
Mustoe, T.A., Cooter, R., Gold, M. H, Hobbs, F. D., Ramelet, A. A., Shakespeare, P. G., ... Ziegler, U. E. (2002, August). International clinical recommendations on scar management [Abstract]. Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 110(2), 560–71. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12142678
Onyenyirionwu, E & Agu, A. (2015, November 4). Keloids: A review. Journal of Medical Investigations and Practice, 10(1), 24–29. Retrieved from http://www.jomip.org/article.asp?issn=2468-645X;year=2015;volume=10;issue=1;spage=24;epage=29;aulast=Onyenyirionwu
Perkins, K., Davey, R. B., & Wallis, K. A. (1983, January). Silicone gel: a new treatment for burn scars and contractures. Burns, 9(3), 201–204. Retrieved from http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0305417983900396
Proper wound care: How to minimize a scar. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/skin-hair-nails/injured-skin/wound-care
Puri, N., & Talwar, A. (2009, July–December). The efficacy of silicone gel for the treatment of hypertrophic scars and keloids. Journal of Cutaneous and Aesthetic Surgery, 2(2), 104–106. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2918339/
Rawlings, A. V., Bielfeldt, S., & Lombard, K. J. (2012, September 21). A review of the effects of moisturizers on the appearance of scars and striae. International Journal of Cosmetic Science, 34(6), 519–524. Retrieved from http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2494.2012.00751.x/full
Shin, J. Y., Yun, S.-K., Roh, S.-G., Lee, N.-H., & Yang, K.-M. (2017, February). Efficacy of 2 representative topical agents to prevent keloid recurrence after surgical excision. Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, 75(2), e1–401–e6. Retrieved from http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0278239116310175
Viera, M. H., Amini, S., Valins, W., & Berman, B. (2010, May). Innovative therapies in the treatment of keloids and hypertrophic scars. The Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology, 3(5), 20–26. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2922716/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Berry, Jennifer. "How do you get rid of keloids?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 3 Nov. 2017. Web.
25 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319900.php>
APA
Berry, J. (2017, November 3). "How do you get rid of keloids?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319900.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study explores the neuroscience of overindulging
A recent study in mice identified a new brain circuit that appears to play a part in an animal's drive to overeat high-calorie foods.
How the brain adapts to hear better after vision loss
Researchers look at what happens in the brains of people with vision loss to understand what allows them to hear better than their fully sighted peers.
Study reveals how general anesthetics affect the brain
Using a mouse model, scientists have shown for the first time that anesthetics activate the same group of cells in the brain as that which induces sleep.
Ginkgo seeds may help keep skin blemish-free, but there's a catch
Ginkgo seed extracts can fight bacteria that harm the skin, but researchers are still a long way from developing them into safe products.
How ketamine can change the brain to fight depression
New research in mice pinpoints some of the key mechanisms that ketamine triggers in the brain to fight the symptoms and characteristics of depression.
Popular in: Dermatology
What causes patches of discolored skin?
What causes tongue bumps?
What can cause a bump on the lip?
What causes an underarm rash?
What can cause sores or scabs on the scalp?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/319900.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);