TShellz Achilles Deep Tissue Repair Wrap
Need Help? Call: 705.532.1671 M-F: 9am - 5pm EST
aidmyrotatorcuff aidmyfrozenshoulder aidmytenniselbow mendmyhip mendmyknee
Welcome Back, Guest | LOGOUT?
View Your Cart (0)
Products
Reviews
About Us
Questions/Answers
Contact Us
Articles
Categories
EBooks
Creams & Lotions
T-Shellz
Home > T-Shellz > Achilles T-Shellz Wrap
Achilles T-Shellz Wrap
0 Review(s)
0
0
5
Price
On sale: $124.00
Retail Price:$169.00
You Save:$45.00(27%)
Availability:
Currently on Backorder. New inventory late April. Lock in now at a special price!
Part Number:ACH-T
Targeted treatment of Achilles Tendinitis, Posterior Tibial and Pernoneal Tendons
FDA Registered device - very high quality
60 Day Money Back Guarantee and 1 Year Warranty Coverage
Carbon fiber energy pad is strong, lightweight, and flexible - contours very easily
Soft and durable neoprene for superior comfort
Put me on the Waiting List
Quantity
Add to Cart
Review this item
Add to Gift Registry
Email a friend
Description
Customer Reviews
Helps treat Achilles Tendon Tears, Achilles Tendonitis, Strained Achilles, Haglund's Syndrome, Achilles Bursitis, along with other Chronic Achilles Pain Safely, Naturally and Effectively!
When most people think of Achilles related conditions, they instantly think of tendonitis. The truth is, more tendon related conditions involve a gradual breakdown of the tendon tissue along with mild to moderate development of scar tissue. The Achilles bears a tremendous amount of the body's weight, which makes the tendon prone to injury and to degenerative changes. The tendon simply weakens over time, and eventually at some point in the future, a specific movement or steps cause more damage to the Achillles. At that time, the issue becomes more prominent and constant.
As tendons lack an enhanced supply of blood flow, challenges and generally weak results are experienced when you attempt to heal your tendon injury only through the traditional recommendations of stretching or wearing of an ankle brace or support.
While we do not downplay the importance of protecting an injured Achilles through the use supports and braces, one must do more and supplement with treatments designed to accelerate the rebuilding of the injured tissues.
In addition, you do not want to over-rely on the use of cold compression therapy. Cold therapy is designed to reduce blood flow to tendons by constricting the vessels. If you constantly reduce blood flow to the tendon, that tendon can potentially take much longer to heal.
Cold therapy treatments can certainly help alleviate short term bouts of inflammation, but once again, a focus on healing is needed for long-term success and this requires getting consistent blood flow to the tendon consistently (which is where the T-Shellz Wrap comes into use).
The Achilles T-Shellz Wrap is based on an Electromagnetic Energy - which is very beneficial during the healing process. This form of energy is designed specifically to penetrate into dense tissues (such as tendons). When using the T Shellz, you open up the vessels within the tendon, which allows for more oxygen and nutrients to reach the damaged tissues. This serves as the catalyst for the healing process.
Read on to learn how you can benefit from the Achilles T-Shellz Wrap...
How The Achilles T-Shellz Wrap Enhances Your Healing
One basic premise of healing muscle or soft tissue injuries is to focus on enhancing blood flow to those damaged tissues. It is through the blood the body transports antibodies, nutrients, and oxygen. Nourishing your injured tissues with these healing properties should enhance the capacity of the body to help in healing of them.
An effective way to stimulate blood flow to the tissues deeper within the body is through the use of an energy based on an Electromagnetic principal. Of importance, Electromagnetic Energy waves are not conductive heat waves (like a traditional heating pad is) - they operate on a different wavelength and hence, can penetrate deeper into the body.
When these energy waves are emitted, they penetrate through your skin and fatty tissues until they reach your ligaments, muscles, cartilage, and tendons. Once they reach the targeted areas, they are absorbed and quickly converted into thermal energy...right at the location of the injury.
This results in relaxation of the vessel walls within the targeted and surrounding tissues. The vessels gently expand when warmed, allowing for more nutrient rich blood flow along with extra oxygen and antibodies to reach the damaged tissue. Plus, the enhanced blood flow helps in flushing cell waste and fluid build-up from the injury site - further enhancing the ability of the body to begin to heal.
In comparison to a traditional heating pad (which most people are familiar with), those devices provide more of a surface heat. The heat that a standard heating pad and heated pack provides has to be forced through multiple layers of skin and fatty tissues (known as conduction). With each layer of skin the heat passes through, there will a corresponding energy loss because that heat is absorbing into each layer of skin or fat it passes through. By the time the heat reaches the targeted area deeper in the body, there is less energy remaining and hence, a lessened ability to stimulate blood flow to the injured tissues you are attempting to heal.
The T-Shellz Wrap Difference!
1. Well to begin, the T-Shellz wrap uses a very soft neoprene that feels very comforting on the body. It hugs the body in a very serene way. You will love how it feels!
2. The energy pad produces a consistent and very soothing electromagnetic energy that penetrates effectively to targeted muscle, tendons, ligaments, cartilage, and more.
The T-Shellz Wrap produces a beneficial energy that can target deep within your body. Receive an almost instant feeling of comfort and warmth while your injured tissues suddenly feel more relaxed and limber. The energy transfer will greatly increase the amount of blood flow reaching your injured tissues - which should result in a better capacity for rebuilding those tissues.
3. The T-Shellz has an intensity controller that is already secured to the energy pad.
4. T-Shellz Wraps are tested during the production process to ensure you receive a product that functions well and will last a long time.
You will be greatly impressed with the new T-Shellz Wrap - we guarantee it with a 60 day money back guarantee.
When To Use Your Achilles T-Shellz Wrap
After swelling and inflammation have been reduced with Arnica Infusion Pain Cream
Before exercise or workouts to warm up your Achilles to prevent injury. You will also want to consider using the T-Shellz before situations where you will be walking for periods of time (grocery shopping as an example) or just doing general household activities that require a lot of standing and moving around.
Before and after surgery during rehabilitation to enhance the extensibility of the tissues before physical therapy, exercising or stretching.
Any time you feel that your Achilles feels tight, reducing your mobility and causing pain (especially in the morning or after sitting for extended periods of time - at home, work, commuting, etc).
On a consistent, daily basis if you are dealing with a more chronic Achilles issue where scar tissue has developed and is leading to a cycle of re-injury and re-aggravation.
If you are in a situation where you are required to wear a removable ankle brace or support - the Achilles T Shellz Wrap can be used at different points during the day to help prevent the Achilles tendon from constricting and tightening to a certain degree. Immobilizing the Achilles is needed in cases of significant injury or post-operative situations. The concern always is, if the tendon is immobilized in a brace or support, the tendon can contract and become very tight and inflexible. You, along with your doctor, could make a consideration to use the T-Shellz wrap at a low level setting to gently stimulate blood flow to the tendon, gradually warming the Achilles to help with enhancing flexibility.
And any other situation where you need to increase blood flow to your Achilles to relax your soft tissue, relieve pain, prevent re-injury and enhance the flexibility of the targeted area!
As a general rule, people will use the Achilles T-Shellz Wrap approximately 3 times a day - before bed, upon awakening, and one other time corresponding with one of the situations mentioned above (perhaps an hour or so after work, before exercise, etc).
You are always welcome to contact us to find out the optimal times to use your T-Shellz Wrap based on your daily routine/schedule. We will be happy to provide you with recommendations based on our experience. Please note that individual results may vary and the information provided on this site is not intended as a substitute for advice from your physician or other health care professional.
The Many Advantages of Electromagnetic Energy
According to the trusted medical knowledge of Justus F. Lehmann, M.D. (well-known rehabilitation medicine specialist-amazon.com link), increasing the temperature of soft tissue through the application of a deep tissue therapy will also provide these 7 Truly Amazing Benefits:
1. Increase The Flexibility of Tissue
Warming up tissue before stretching (exercise at home or in a physical therapy clinic) can provide on-going flexibility in your tissue that will continue after the stretch is done. Experiments conducted by medical professionals have shown that applying deep tissue treatments before stretching range-of-motion exercises can provide lingering flexibility that is beneficial when stretching any of the soft tissue in your hip and back.
2. Decrease Joint Stiffness
Medical studies have shown a decrease in joint stiffness after the temperature of injured tissue is increased with a diathermic therapy compared to the stiffness experienced at a much lower, normal, body temperature.
3. Relieve Muscle Spasms
Tissue and muscles that have been over-strained or injured can suffer from continuous squeezing in the muscle fibres. This is also known as a muscle spasm or trigger point pain. On-going muscle spasms will decrease blood flow and increase your nerves' sensitivity to pain.
It has been believed for a long time by many medical professionals that electromagnetic energy can reduce muscle spasms.
4.Control and Reduce Pain
You could be feeling pain from muscle spasms, lack of blood flow to your soft tissue, tight muscles or tissues, and even stress placed on your body. Pain relief can be felt from introducing Deep Tissue treatments - as increasing the temperature of the tissues will help them feel more relaxed and less constricted.
5.Increase Blood Flow
Using an electromagnetic energy treatment, you can produce an increased level of blood flow to the targeted tissues. This results in more nutrients and oxygen reaching those injured tissues, helping to enhance one's recovery.
6. Relieve On-going Inflammation
While icing a fresh injury during the first 48 hours is recommended, a better approach beyond that time is to open up the vessels so the body can flush the injured area of the excess fluid and cellular waste resulting from the injury. Excess fluids get trapped and cause vessels to swell - so by expanding the vessels, you give the body the chance to whisk away those fluids and reduce pressure on the vessels.
7. Treat a Variety of Muscle and Soft Tissue Ailments
Electromagnetic energy is recognized by many for its role in helping soft tissue injuries by promoting both relief in chronic injuries (torn muscles/tendons/ligaments or arthritis) and speed up the overall healing process for newer (acute) injuries.
Incredible Therapy and Comfort - All Wrapped Up In One Device
The unique Achilles T-Shellz Wrap is designed with every detail in mind to give you the most effective and most enjoyable therapeutic experience available anywhere. Here’s why!
Plugs into a wall outlet using an AC/DC adapter to get the necessary power for consistent therapeutic treatments.
Has a special signal controller that can be set for 3 different power levels of application (3 = High, 2 = Medium, 1 = Low) with an automatic 30 minute shut off feature.
Has a flexible Energy Pad made from a strong, yet flexible carbon fiber material that conforms easily to your body..
Has a 7 foot long cord so you can sit or lie comfortably and watch TV, read or surf the net while you're using it.
Operates with no sound or vibration or motion.
Doesn't require the use of creams or gels.
Wear the T-Shellz Wrap loosely for easy re-positioning over the treatment area.
Has adjustable Velcro straps for a fit that you control to your personal level of comfort.
Ability to place the wrap over your clothes for a more comfortable treatment.
Uses a soft, breathable material with comfort in mind.
Is made of a premium grade neoprene that will retain it's shape over time.
What Can The Achilles T-Shellz Wrap® Treat?
Practically any condition or injury affecting the achilles tendon and surrounding tissues can benefit from treatment with the Achilles T-Shellz Wrap.
general pain affecting the back of the ankle
Achilles tendonitis
torn Achilles tendon
chronic tendonosis
arthritis at the back of the ankle
general stiffness and tightness of the Achilles
post operative recovery of the Achilles tendon
Achilles bursitis
Haglund's Syndrome
other soft tissue injuries and chronic conditions affecting the Achilles and surrounding area
MendMeShop - Our Reputation Speaks for Itself!
Our business is built on our reputation and we want you to be as satisfied with your MendMeShop experience as tens of thousands of our customers are. That is what your purchase from us will be - an experience. Not only do we supply superior products, MendMeShop Specialists are available to help you get the right products and advice.
You will also have the peace of mind with our 60 day trial period and our comprehensive 1 year warranty. We know making a decision to find the right pain relief and healing products for you can be difficult, especially on-line, and we don't want you to worry. With every product, you have our guarantee that you will be 100% satisfied or you get your money back. That's how much we believe in the products we sell!
Superior products that have been carefully researched and developed to stop your pain naturally and heal you faster.
Trained MendMeShop Product Specialists available 5 days a week for individualized help - just call 1-866-237-9608 within Continental North America (+1-705-445-3505 internationally).
Our iron-clad 60 day money back guarantee. After following instructions and find your are not satisfied with your purchase, call us to return for a 100% refund (shipping not included).
Automatic 1 year replacement warranty against manufacturing defects.
Order your own Achilles T-Shellz Wrap today and we will have your order shipped promptly. We do shipping six days a week and delivery typically occurs in 2 or 3 business days.
In addition to ordering online, you may also place an order over the phone by calling our office directly. We are available Monday through Friday from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm Eastern Standard Time. If we miss your call, please leave a message and we will follow up promptly.
Our toll free number is 1-866-237-9608.
If you still have questions about the Achilles T-Shellz Wrap® call us toll free at the number above or send us an email to service@mendmeshop.com
The Next Step Is Up To You!
Living with pain is never easy as it affects your entire lifestyle. Nothing is more important than making the proper decision when it comes to treating your achilles injury. Most methods only mask the problem or provide temporary relief; they do not treat the pain at its source.
This is where our company stands out as our goal is to help you heal for the long term – without the setbacks you have likely experienced up until this point.
The bottom line is, you are welcome to try our products for a full 2 months. If you do not receive the benefits that others have experienced after 6 weeks of fair use, simply return your products back to us and we will issue a prompt & full refund. There will be no hassle and no hard feelings.
You may order online through this web page (at the top - click on Add To Cart) or call us during business hours at 1-866-237-9608
IMPORTANT: Since the dawn of our business in 2005, we have maintained a very strict privacy policy. We do not rent, sell, or provide customer information to any third party - period!
In addition, we do not database credit card information on our internal systems (unlike many companies). Customers seem very appreciative of this fact.
In processing thousands of orders over the past 12 years, you can be assured we do whatever it takes to make the ordering process is secure and customer-friendly.
Accessories
Arnica Infusion - Fast Acting Pain Relief Cream - 5 Pack Special
(3)
Sale
$86.00 On sale: $67.00
Free Shipping. Effective relief from sore muscles, sprains, tendonitis, bruises, and more.
Buy One Get One Free - Arnica Infusion Pain Cream
(3)
Your Price: $22.95
Two-Pack Newsletter Special
Free Shipping Currently Offered. Order Online or Call: 1 (866) 237 9608
Questions Before Ordering?
Terms and Conditions
Copyright MendMeShop.com. All Rights Reserved.
Quick View