Fibromyalgia Treatments: Pain Medicine, Antidepressants, Therapies, and More
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
Is a New Remedy for Body Odor on the Horizon?
FDA Bans Sales of All Vaginal Mesh Products
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Chiropractic Care Home
Medical Reference
Features
Slideshows & Images
News Archive
Fibromyalgia Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Medications
Find a Rheumatologist
Fibromyalgia Guide
Overview & Facts
Symptoms & Signs
Treatment & Care
Living With Fibromyalgia
Related to Fibromyalgia
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
Drug Interaction Checker
Family Health
Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Pain Management
Sex & Relationships
Sleep Disorders
Fibromyalgia
Guide
Fibromyalgia Treatments
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
Is Fibromyalgia Pain Similar to Arthritis Pain?
How Is Fibromyalgia Fatigue Treated?
How Does Exercise Help Fibromyalgia Symptoms?
How Does Physical Therapy Help Fibromyalgia?
Which Drugs Treat Fibromyalgia Symptoms?
Can Alternative Treatments Help Fibromyalgia?
What Is the Long-Term Outlook for People With Fibromyalgia?
When it comes to fibromyalgia treatments, there are drugs, alternative remedies, and lifestyle habits that may help decrease pain and improve sleep. Your fibromyalgia specialist may prescribe pain medication or antidepressants to help treat the pain, fatigue, depression, and anxiety that comes with the disease. In addition, your doctor may recommend physical therapy, moist heat, regular aerobic exercise, relaxation, and stress reduction to help you self-manage your symptoms.
There is no one "pill" that treats or cures fibromyalgia. A multidisciplinary approach that uses both medication and alternative or lifestyle strategies seems to work best to treat fibromyalgia symptoms.
Is Fibromyalgia Pain Similar to Arthritis Pain?
Fibromyalgia can cause symptoms similar to arthritis, bursitis, and tendinitis. Consequently, some experts group fibromyalgia with arthritis and related disorders. The pain associated with these other conditions is typically localized to a single area, while the pain and stiffness of fibromyalgia are very widespread and consists of deep muscle pain, morning stiffness, and painful tender points, making it difficult to exercise or be physically active.
For in depth information, see WebMD's Fibromyalgia Pain.
How Is Fibromyalgia Fatigue Treated?
Along with deep muscle pain and painful tender points, fatigue is a key symptom of fibromyalgia and it can be debilitating. Not only do you feel exhausted and weak, but bed rest does not seem to help. Many people with fibromyalgia report sleeping eight to 10 hours at night and feeling as if they haven't slept at all.
Some drugs may help ease the fatigue associated with fibromyalgia. In addition, aerobic exercise can help ease fatigue, minimize pain, improve quality of sleep, and improve mood.
For in depth information, see WebMD's Fibromyalgia and Fatigue.
How Does Exercise Help Fibromyalgia Symptoms?
Numerous studies show that exercise is one of the most important treatments for fibromyalgia. Many people with fibromyalgia are not physically fit. They avoid exercise because they fear increased pain. Yet aerobic or conditioning exercise can actually help relieve pain and depression.
Regular exercise increases the body’s production of endorphins, natural painkillers that also boost mood. Starting slowly and gradually increasing the duration and intensity of exercise can help you enjoy the benefits of exercise without feeling more pain.
For in depth information, see WebMD's Fibromyalgia and Exercise.
Continued
How Does Physical Therapy Help Fibromyalgia?
Physical therapy can help relieve fibromyalgia pain and stiffness. Regular visits to a licensed physical therapist can increase confidence with exercise, help relax tense muscles, and teach you more about your body and movement. In addition, physical therapy helps with ‘new’ muscle memory and neuroendocrine changes in a positive way to help you muscles recover.
Your physical therapist will show you the proper way to stretch painful muscles to get optimal relief. In addition, using hydrotherapy (moist heat or ice packs) along with physical therapy may ease pain even more.
Physical therapy can enable you to regain control of your illness. That’s because you can focus on lifestyle changes rather than on the chronic dysfunction. Proper posture, which your physical therapist will help you with, allows efficient muscle function. That way, you can avoid undue fatigue and pain.
For in depth information, see WebMD's Fibromyalgia and Physical Therapy.
Which Drugs Treat Fibromyalgia Symptoms?
Antidepressants, such as amitriptyline (Elavil) are sometimes prescribed to treat fibromyalgia symptoms. These medications may affect multiple symptoms – pain, fatigue, depressed mood, and sleep disturbances.
The anticonvulsant drug pregabalin (Lyrica) has been approved by the FDA for fibromyalgia. Lyrica reduces pain and improves daily function for some people. The drug's most common side effects include mild to moderate dizziness and sleepiness. Lyrica can also cause swelling and weight gain. The FDA advises patients to talk to their doctor about whether the use of Lyrica may impair their ability to drive. Other anticonvulsants are sometimes used to treat fibromyalgia.
Duloxetine (Cymbalta), an antidepressant, is another drug approved by the FDA for the treatment of fibromyalgia. Cymbalta is an antidepressant that belongs to a class of drugs called serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Besides fibromyalgia and depression, Cymbalta is also approved to treat generalized anxiety disorder and diabetic nerve pain in adults. Cymbalta’s most common side effects include nausea, dry mouth, and constipation. It can also cause insomnia and dizziness.
The FDA has also approved milnacipran (Savella) for treating fibromyalgia. Savella -- like Cymbalta -- is in the class of drugs known as SNRIs. But while it acts in the body the same way certain antidepressants do, Savella is not used to treat depression. When used to treat fibromyalgia, Savella has been shown to reduce pain, improve physical function, and bring about overall fibromyalgia improvement for some people. The most common side effect of Savella is nausea. Other side effects include headache, constipation, dizziness, and insomnia.
Continued
Medications that increase restful sleep may help treat fibromyalgia symptoms. These drugs include low doses of antidepressant medication such as amitriptyline taken before bedtime. Other kinds of sleeping pills are often not very helpful for people who have fibromyalgia.
Anti-inflammatory drugs -- including ibuprofen and naproxen -- are not particularly helpful since there is little to no inflammation with fibromyalgia. However, they may help boost pain relief from other fibromyalgia medications. Anti-inflammatory drugs have many side effects, such as stomach upset and bleeding and may increase blood pressure.
The pain reliever acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) may be helpful, and it is easier on the stomach and less likely to cause drug interactions than anti-inflammatory drugs. However, acetaminophen should only be taken as recommended. Too much acetaminophen can lead to liver problems.
Muscle relaxants, such as cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril), may provide some relief of muscle pain, especially when taken at bedtime.
Steroids (such as prednisone) used to treat inflammation associated with other rheumatic conditions have been tested in people with fibromyalgia and did not appear to improve symptoms. However, a steroid injection directly into a muscle spasm (trigger point) may sometimes be used when other treatments have failed.
In addition to medication, other treatments, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy, can help develop a sense of self-control and provide education about your condition. With talk therapy, you can learn new self-management strategies that can boost coping skills, particularly in managing symptoms.
For in depth information, see WebMD’s Fibromyalgia Medications.
Can Alternative Treatments Help Fibromyalgia?
With fibromyalgia pain being so debilitating, you may wonder about the effectiveness of alternative treatments to ease your discomfort. Some people with the chronic pain of fibromyalgia do find good relief with alternative treatments, including the following:
Acupuncture . Some findings show that acupuncture may alter brain chemistry and help increase pain tolerance.
Chiropractic . Chiropractic may improve pain levels, ease low back pain, and increase cervical and lumbar ranges of motion.
Massage . Massage may stimulate circulation and release chronic patterns of muscular tension..
Biofeedback. Using electronics to measure stress-related responses in the body, biofeedback helps some people control the stress response and relieves chronic pain, according to the National Institutes of Health.
Meditation . Studies show that meditation produces brain waves consistent with serenity and happiness, which may help to relieve anxiety.
Tai Chi and qi gong. These are two Chinese practices that have been found to be helpful with some fibromyalgia symptoms including pain, sleep troubles, and depression in some patients.
Herbals and dietary supplements . While the studies are limited on natural dietary supplements and fibromyalgia, some patients have found relief with over-the-counter natural dietary supplements such as 5-HTP, melatonin, alpha hydroxy, L-carnitine, SAM-e, and probiotics. Many of these have drug interactions, so avoid these if you are on any prescription medications or on other supplements. Some may not be safe for you if you have other medical problems.
Continued
In addition, people with fibromyalgia often wonder if medical marijuana, which can be prescribed by physicians in some states, can help their chronic pain and fatigue. While medical marijuana doesn’t cure diseases like fibromyalgia, some pain experts say it may work against pain, help people sleep better, and improve mood. Other pain specialists see no role for medical marijuana in pain management and express concern that people don’t know what they’re getting when they buy it."
Talk to your doctor before trying any alternative or complementary treatments.
To learn more about alternative treatments for fibromyalgia, see WebMD’s Fibromyalgia and Alternative Treatment.
Also see WebMD’s Fibromyalgia and Medical Marijuana.
What Is the Long-Term Outlook for People With Fibromyalgia?
As with many conditions, people with fibromyalgia often have good days and bad. With proper fibromyalgia treatment, including regular exercise, most people have good symptom relief. However, typically the pain will come back, especially when life is stressful. Over time, you will learn what helps you work through these painful episodes and how to help prevent them.
People who continue to stay active socially as well as physically, despite their pain, often end up doing best.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by Melinda Ratini, DO, MS on August 16, 2017
Sources
SOURCES:
Fibromyalgia Network: "Treatment Studies."
Arthritis Foundation: "Fibromyalgia: Treatment Options."
National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases: "Fast Facts about Fibromyalgia."
McIlwain, H. and Bruce, D. The Fibromyalgia Handbook, Holt, 2007.
© 2017 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next Article
Fibromyalgia Medications
Fibromyalgia Guide
Overview & Facts
Symptoms & Signs
Treatment & Care
Living With Fibromyalgia
Top Picks
Fibromyalgia Health Check: Get a Personalized Report
Easy Exercises for Pain Relief
What You Need to Know About Fibromyalgia
Fibromyalgia and Exercise
9 Reasons Depression Is Hard to Treat
Can Acupuncture Help My Fibromyalgia?
further reading
Slideshow: A Visual Guide to Acupuncture
Slideshow: Back Pain Myths & Facts
Providing the Alternative
Alternative Therapies and Pain Management
Back Pain Treatment
Alternatives Treatments for Chronic Pain
Learn About Osteopathic Manipulative Treatment and Its Risks and Benefits
Chiropractic Care Topics
Today on WebMD
Physical Therapy
Can it help your fibromyalgia flare-ups?
Fibromyalgia Treatments
Medications, lifestyle changes, and more.
Working with Fibro
Tips to modify your workspace is one step.
Getting a Fibro Diagnosis
Learn what steps to take.
Recommended for You
Slideshow
9 Tips to Avoid Fibro Pain & Fatigue
Article
Common Fibro Misdiagnoses
Article
4 Steps for Dealing With "Fibro Fog"
Article
What Causes Fibromyalgia?
Article
Can Acupuncture Help My Fibromyalgia?
Article
Has Fibromyalgia Stolen Your Libido?
Article
16 Fibromyalgia Symptoms
Article
Fibromyalgia and IBS: Is There a Link?
Tools & Resources
Fibro-Friendly Exercises
Fight Fibro Fatigue
Fibro Exercises You Can Do at Home
Video: Fibromyalgia Symptoms and Treatments
Medications That Treat Fibromyalgia
Fibromyalgia: Safe Supplements
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.