Health benefits of corn and Nutrition facts
healthremediesinfo.com
Best Health, Treatment, and Remedies Article
Health
Research
Diseases
Prevention
Diet & Weight Loss
Alzheimer’s & Dementia
Menu
Health
Research
Diseases
Prevention
Diet & Weight Loss
Alzheimer’s & Dementia
Health benefits of corn and Nutrition facts
Mar 19, 2018 | admin | Say something
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
is not only rich in fiber, corn is also a source of complex carbohydrates, and a number of other nutrients such as vitamin B, and C, carotene, potassium, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, omega 6 and unsaturated fats that can help lower cholesterol. Corn is rich in carbohydrates, mostly located in endospermium. The carbohydrate content may reach 80% of the dry matter of the seeds. Carbohydrates as starch is generally a mixture of amylose and amylopectin. Sweet corn is known to contain a lower amylopectin, phytoglycogen but increased sucrose. Since nutrition is fairly complete, maize is very beneficial to health.
Data corn Nutrition
nutritional value per 100 g (3.5 oz)
Energy
360 kJ (86 kcal)
carbohydrates
18.7g
Starch
5.7 g
Sugars
6.26 g
dietary fiber
2 g
fat
1.35 g
Protein
3.27 g
tryptophan
0023 g
Threonine
0.129 g
isoleucine
0.129 g
leucine
0.348 g
lysine
0.137 g
methionine
0.067 g
cystine
0.026 g
phenylalanine
0150 g
tyrosine
0123 g
Valine
0185 g
arginine
0131 g
histidine
0.089 g
alanine
0295 g
aspartic acid
0.244 g
glutamic acid
0636 g
glycine
0.127 g
Proline
0.292 g
serine
0.153 g
Vitamins
vitamin A equiv.
zeaxanthin lutein
(1%) 9 g
644 g
thiamine (B 1 )
(13%) 0155 mg
riboflavin (B 2 )
(5%) 0.055 mg
niacin (B 3 )
(12 %) 1.77 mg
The pantothenic acid (B 5 )
(14%) 0717 mg
vitamin B 6
(7%) 0093 mg
folate (B 9 )
(11%) 42 g
vitamin C
(8%) 6.8 mg
trace metals
Iron
(4%) 0.52 mg
magnesium
(10%) 37 mg
manganese
(8%) 0163 mg
phosphorus
(13%) 89 mg
potassium
(6%) 270 mg
Zinc
(5%) 0.46 mg
Other constituents
Water
75.96 g
Link the database input USDA
An ear of medium size (6-3 / 4 “to 7-1 / 2” long)
corn seeds have 90 grams of
units
g = microgram • mg = milligrams
IU = international units
the percentages are closer or less using US recommendations for adults.
Source: Database USDA Nutrient
10 health benefits of corn
1. calories origin
corn is a rich source of calories and is often used as a staple food. The calorie content is 342 Corn calories per 100 grams, which is a type of cereal is high. Is made from corn often it consumes to gain weight fast. the corn crop conditions are flexible, so it is essential for the survival of dozens of agricultural countries.
Related Post: 7 Foods That Will relax the stomach
2. Improving digestive system
The fiber content of a cup of corn, enough fiber 18,4% of the daily amount needed help reduce digestive problems like constipation and hemorrhoids. Fiber help defecation, which stimulates peristalsis and even stimulates the production of stomach acid and bile. It is also possible dapatmengurangi diarrhea.
3. Sources of vitamin
Corn is rich in vitamin B, especially thiamine and niacin. Thiamine is important for maintaining healthy nerve and cognitive function. Niacin deficiency can cause a disease characterized by diarrhea, dementia and dermatitis usually seen in malnourished. Corn is a source of pantothenic acid, carbohydrates, proteins and fats. Folic acid deficiency in pregnant women can cause birth defects of the neural tube. corn seeds are rich in vitamin E benefits as natural antioxidant that is essential for growth and body protection.
4. Rich in minerals
Corn contains abundant minerals and provide many health benefits. Phosphorus, magnesium, manganese, zinc, iron and copper are also commonly found in all varieties of corn. Corn also contains minerals such as selenium, which is hard to find in other foods. Phosphorous is essential for regulating the growth, bone health and optimal renal function. Magnesium is necessary to maintain a normal heart rate and increase bone strength.
Related Post: Oil, cheese and other fats you should eat when trying to lose weight!
5. Sources of antioxidants
According to a study conducted at Cornell University, corn is a rich source of antioxidants that fight free radicals that cause cancer. In fact, unlike many other foods, cooked foods can increase the amount of antioxidants in sweet corn. The benefits of antioxidants have been shown to reduce cancer because of its ability to induce apoptosis in cancer cells, while healthy cells unaffected. This is particularly relevant when phytochemicals are antioxidants, which is a chemical that is high in maize.
6. Maintain heart health
According to the researchers, corn oil has been shown to have anti-atherogenic effect on cholesterol levels, thereby reducing the risk of various cardiovascular diseases. corn oil, in particular, is the best way to improve heart health, and this comes from the fact that corn near optimum combination of fatty acids. This allows omega-3 fatty acids to abandon the “bad” cholesterol and replace destructive in the binding site. This will reduce the likelihood of becoming clogged arteries, lowers blood pressure and reduce the change of heart attacks and strokes.
7. Preventing anemia
Vitamin B12 and folic acid present in corn pliers, has health benefits to prevent anemia caused by a deficiency of this vitamin. Corn also has significant levels of iron and is one of the essential minerals needed to form new red blood cells. Iron deficiency is a major cause of anemia as well.
Related Post: 12 Food sources of vitamin B3
8. Reducing LDL cholesterol levels
According to the Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry, consumption of corn husk oil will lower LDL cholesterol, reducing cholesterol absorption in the body. Reduction in LDL cholesterol, does not mean a reduction of HDL cholesterol, which is considered “good cholesterol” and have a variety of beneficial effects on the body, including reducing heart disease, and prevention of atherosclerosis.
9. Sources of vitamin A
The yellow corn, is a rich source of beta-carotene, to form vitamin A in the body and is essential for maintaining eyes and skin. Beta-carotene is a source of vitamin A as it becomes the body, but only in the amount needed by the body. Vitamin A can be toxic if too much is consumed, reducing vitamin Through the transformation of beta carotene is ideal. Benefits of Vitamin A is also useful for skin health and mucous membranes, as well as stimulation of the immune system.
10. The control of diabetes and hypertension
Eat more organic fruits and vegetables such as corn, has been found to be associated with decreased signs of diabetes . Research has shown that consumption of maize seeds can help insulin delivery and effective against hypertension due to phenolic phytochemicals in whole corn. Phytochemicals can regulate the absorption and release of insulin in the body, which can reduce the likelihood of patients to help maintain a more normal life style. Health benefits of corn and Nutrition facts , article source: http://www.gethealthiness.com/2015/01/health-benefits-of-corn-nutrition-facts.html
You may also like:
Posted in: Healthy Foods, vegetables
« Why some women feel stigmatized if they are not able to breastfeed?
Develop training tool “smart” to treat prostate cancer »
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Popular Posts
Popular Keywords
health benefits of corn starch
health benefits of corn flour
health benefits of cider vinegar
health benefits of ginger
black seed oil health benefits
healthgrades tv commercial
healthy dinner ideas vegan
health net app
healthy baked chicken vegetable recipes
healthy lunch ideas healthy
healthy fast food open late
healthy desserts under 100 calories
health and wellness nurse
health articles a-z
health alliance plan weight watchers
health and wellness centre north sydney
health and wellness jobs washington dc
health benefits of garlic chips
healthcare human right
Pages
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
DMCA Notice & Policy
Contact
Disclaimer
All content on this website is for informational purposes only and should not be considered to be a specific diagnosis or treatment plan for any individual situation. Use of this website and the information contained herein does not create a doctor-patient relationship. Always consult with your own doctor in connection with any questions or issues you may have regarding your own health or the health of others.
Copyright © 2019 healthremediesinfo.com.
==[Click 2x to Close X]==
Most Popular Today!
Vitamin And Mineral Deficiency Can Lead To Various Symptoms- Headaches, Cramps, Bumps, Acne, Brittle Hair And Nails 200 views