How to Reduce the Appearance of Scars…Naturally
About
Products
Blog
Contact
Cart
Select Page
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
0 Items
FIRST TIME CUSTOMER?
Enter Your Email To See Our First Time Customer Special
SEE THE SPECIAL
How to Reduce the Appearance of Scars…Naturally
by Beverly Hills MD | June 14, 2017 | Skincare | 0 comments
When you scrape your knee or get a paper cut, getting the bleeding and sharp pain to stop isn’t the end of it. Long after you’ve forgotten about the mishap, you’ll still be left with a memory of it by way of a visible scar. Fortunately, there are steps you can take to help lighten or fade scars altogether – as long as you act quickly.
Scars form when your skin heals itself after becoming damaged. This damage can occur from a variety of sources, including burns, surgeries, injuries, and animal bites. 1
For the first two years you have a scar, it will fade. After that, the scar will usually not change.2 This is why the best time to treat a scar is as soon as you begin to heal from an injury. There are ways to make older scars look less noticeable, but it is easiest to change the appearance of a potential scar while the skin is still healing. If you don’t treat a scar right away, you may need to explore surgical methods to reduce the intensity of it at a later time.
Scars can make you feel self-conscious about your appearance. If you have scars on highly visible parts of your body such as your face or hands, you’re probably wondering how you can make them less noticeable. Here are seven natural ways to reduce the appearance of scars.
Vitamin C
You probably know that your body needs vitamin C to stay healthy. In dermatology, vitamin C is used topically, as it’s the most common antioxidant in the skin. (Antioxidants play an important role in protecting your cells from damage.)3 In the case of vitamin C, it can protect your skin from ultraviolet (UV) damage and also help your skin heal. A 2013 Korean study found that using a topical silicone gel containing vitamin C was effective in reducing the appearance of scars.4 Study participants included 80 surgical patients. Their scars were evaluated after six months of applying the gel, and found to be less elevated and lighter than scars of the control group.
Onion Extract
A study published in the Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology found that onion extract gel improved the appearance of new scars after four weeks.5 Onion extract gel was applied topically to the new scars of 44 male and female participants. Researchers found that the scars were softer after just two weeks of application. A few study participants experienced slight stinging, which went away after additional applications. Onion extract gel has been found to be a safe and effective scar treatment, and is even included in some popular over-the-counter scar lotions.
Use Sunscreen Daily
Exposing a scar to UV radiation from the sun can either darken or lighten it.6 This can make your scar look more noticeable against the background of your skin. Dermatologists recommend putting sunscreen on your scar – and the skin around it – daily. Use an SPF of at least 30 for the best protection, and remember to reapply throughout the day.
Shea Butter
Shea butter is a fat extracted from the nuts of the shea tree, and it’s a common ingredient in skincare products, thanks to its excellent moisturizing abilities. Research shows that the omega-3 fatty acids found in shea butter are effective at treating keloid scars.7 Shea butter is also known to help fight inflammation in your body and reduce swelling. On top of that, the ingredient is rich in vitamins A and E, two nutrients known to help with wound healing and skin cell renewal.
Emu Oil
An emu is a flightless bird native to Australia, and the processed fat of this bird creates the oil. Emu oil contains high levels of vitamin A, as well as omega-3, omega-6 and omega-9 fatty acids. Emu oil has been found to be a powerful anti-inflammatory, which may be why it is beneficial in reducing the appearance of scars.8 A study from the Albany Medical College found that an emu-oil based treatment effectively reduced scarring for recent breast surgery patients.9
Honey
It’s sticky, it’s sweet and it’s naturally made by bees. Honey has long been used as a natural remedy for many types of ailments, including treating wounds and burns. A review published in The Cochrane Library found that topically applied honey can heal wounds up to four times faster than they would heal on their own.10 One reason honey may work to help wounds and scars is that it has potent antioxidant and antibacterial properties.11
Pressure Therapy
Applying nearly constant pressure as wounds mature can lessen the appearance of scars.12 Researchers have found some evidence that pressure can help prevent and treat scarring after burns.13 This can be done using elastic bandages or other custom-fitted compression garments. Unfortunately, to be the most effective, evidence has shown that you need to wear the compression garment or bandage for 23 hours per day and for at least six months.14 This type of scar therapy is best for scarring of the hands and feet, as it would not be practical for facial scars.
Some people see their scars as markers of history and a way to remember a significant life story. But most of us would rather get rid of them, particularly if they’re on the face. Try these natural methods to help reduce the appearance of your wound’s aftermath so you can enjoy smooth, even-toned skin once again.
For more home remedies to beautify your skin, keep reading here:
How To Shrink Pores! (12 DIY methods to minimize their appearance)
How to Prevent Wrinkles on Your Neck & Chin
Sources:
1. “Scars – Causes – NHS Choices”. Nhs.uk. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
2. “Scars – Causes – NHS Choices”. Nhs.uk. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
3. “Antioxidants: Medlineplus”. Medlineplus.gov. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
4. Yun IS, et al. “Improved Scar Appearance With Combined Use Of Silicone Gel And Vitamin C For Asian Patients: A Comparative Case Series. – Pubmed – NCBI”. Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
5. Zoe D. Draelos, Bhushan Hardas. “A New Proprietary Onion Extract Gel Improves The Appearance Of New Scars: A Randomized, Controlled, Blinded-Investigator Study”. PubMed Central (PMC). N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
6.”Scars And Healing : How To Care For Your Incision”. N.p., 2011. Web. 13 June 2017.
7.Peter B. Olaitan, Ernst J. Reichenberger. “Inhibitory Activities Of Omega-3 Fatty Acids And Traditional African Remedies On Keloid Fibroblasts”. PubMed Central (PMC). N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
8.”Emu Oil: Uses, Benefits, And Side Effects”. Medical News Today. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
9. Therapy, Transdermis. “New University-Based Study Recommends All-Natural Emu Oil To Reduce The Appearance Of Scars From Surgery”. Prnewswire.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
10. “Honey Holds Some Promise For Treating Burns”. Medical News Today. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
11. “Honey: Health Benefits And Uses In Medicine”. Medical News Today. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
12. “Widened And Hypertrophic Scar Healing Treatment & Management: Medical Therapy, Surgical Therapy, Complications”. Emedicine.medscape.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
13. B.S. Atiyeh, S.A. Dibo. “Pressure Garment Therapy (PGT) Of Burn Scars: Evidence-Based Efficacy”. PubMed Central (PMC). N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
14. “Widened And Hypertrophic Scar Healing Treatment & Management: Medical Therapy, Surgical Therapy, Complications”. Emedicine.medscape.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 June 2017.
Submit a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Dr. Payman Danielpour (left) and Dr. John Layke (right) Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery Group
Search for:
Find Us on Facebook
Join Our Newsletter
We promise to keep your information safe.
Recent Posts
Your Ideal Nighttime Skin Care Routine
How to Apply Skincare the Right Way (and Why That Matters)
Types of Scars – What Causes Them and How to Get Rid of Them
Finding Moles In Your Scalp and Hair – Causes and Treatments
The Truth about Microneedling (Does it Really Work?)
What Causes Large Pores (and how to make them look smaller)
Categories
Anti-Aging
Beauty Trends
DIY Beauty
Nutrition
Skin Care Ingredients
Skincare
Tips
Uncategorized
Updated Privacy Policy
We've revised our Privacy Policy pursuant to GDPR.
Please take a moment to review.
Loading...
By checking this box, you are indicating that you have read and agree to the Privacy Policy.
Continue
Contact
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Sign Up
†These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Use only as directed. Consult your healthcare provider before using supplements or providing supplements to children under the age of 18. The information provided herein is intended for your general knowledge only and is not intended to be, nor is it, medical advice or a substitute for medical advice. If you have or suspect you have, a specific medical condition or disease, please consult your healthcare provider.
CALL US 1-877-828-5528 | Our call center is open Weekdays from 5:00am-7:00pm PST and Weekends 6:00am-4:30pm PST
© Beverly Hills MD 2019. All Rights Reserved. “Beverly Hills MD” is a trademark of Beverly Hills MD, LLC.