Selenium: Health benefits, sources, and potential risks
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Selenium: What it does and how much you need
Last updated	 Fri 12 January 2018	 Last updated	Fri 12 Jan 2018
By Megan Ware RDN LD
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
Benefits
Values
Sources
Risks
Selenium is an essential trace mineral that is important for many bodily processes, including cognitive function, a healthy immune system, and fertility in both men and women.
It contributes to thyroid hormone metabolism and DNA synthesis, and it helps protect against oxidative damage and infection, according to the United States Office of Dietary Supplements.
It is present in human tissue, mostly in skeletal muscle.
Dietary sources are varied. They include Brazil nuts, seafood, and meats.
The amount of selenium in food often depends on the selenium concentration of the soil and water where farmers grew or raised the food.
Fast facts on selenium
Here are some key points about selenium. More detail is in the main article.
Selenium is a mineral that plays a role in many bodily functions.
It may protect against cancer, thyroid problems, cognitive decline, and asthma, but more research is needed.
Brazil nuts, some fish, brown rice, and eggs are good sources.
The best source of nutrients is food. Any supplement use should first be discussed with a doctor.
Possible health benefits
Selenium is an essential trace mineral that assists with cognitive function and fertility.
Selenium may help prevent cardiovascular disease, thyroid problems, cognitive decline, which means disorders related to thinking, cancer, and others.
Cardiovascular disease: According to the Office for Dietary Supplements, selenoproteins can protect against cardiovascular disease, because they prevent the oxidative modification of lipids, or fats, in the body.
This reduces inflammation and prevents the buildup of platelets.
However, clinical evidence does not support the use of selenium supplements for this purpose.
Cognitive decline: Selenium's antioxidant activity may help reduce the risk of cognitive, or mental, decline, as people get older.
Evidence from studies is mixed, however, and selenium supplements are not yet prescribed for people at risk of diseases such as Alzheimer's, although it may have a role in prevention that is still under investigation.
Thyroid disorders: Selenium has an important role in producing and metabolizing thyroid hormone.
There is some evidence that women with higher selenium levels have fewer thyroid problems, but this has not been proven for men, and other studies have produced mixed results.
More studies are under way to decide whether selenium supplements might support thyroid health.
Cancer: The role played by selenium in DNA repair and other functions may mean that is can help prevent cancer. However, studies have produced mixed results.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) concluded in 2003:
"Some scientific evidence suggests that consumption of selenium may reduce the risk of certain forms of cancer."
Studies have suggested that selenium may also help to:
prevent HIV from progressing to AIDS
reduce the risk of miscarriage
protect against asthma
There has been some investigation into whether a woman's selenium levels during pregnancy might predict her child's risk of asthma.
While selenium is clearly element for many aspects of human health, there is too little evidence to indicate that supplements could be of use in preventing these conditions.
Recommended intake
An adequate selenium intake during pregnancy may reducing the risk of childhood asthma.
The recommended Daily Value (DV), or daily allowance, for selenium is 55 micrograms (mcg) per day for adults.
During pregnancy, a woman should consume 60 mcg, and lactating women should consume 70 mcg a day.
Selenium deficiency is rare worldwide. It often takes years to develop, and it usually only occurs in regions with severely low selenium content in the soil.
Several regions in China have low soil selenium content, but deficiencies in the population have been eradicated through supplementation programs.
Selenium supplements are available, but it is best to obtain any vitamin or mineral through food.
It is not the individual vitamin or mineral alone that make certain foods an important part of our diet, but the way the nutrients work together.
Isolating specific nutrients in supplement form does not necessarily provide the same health benefits as consuming the nutrient from a whole food.
The daily requirements of any nutrient should first come from food.
Foods sources
Selenium is most likely to be found in whole grains and animal produce, rather than fresh fruit and vegetables.
The following foods are a good source:
Brazil nuts are rich in selenium.
Brazil nuts: 1 ounce provides 544 micrograms (mcg), or 777 percent of the daily recommended value (DV)
Tuna: 3 ounces of yellowfin tuna, cooked dry, contains 92 mcg, or 131 percent of DV
Halibut, baked: 3 ounces, cooked dry, contains 47 mcg, or 68 percent of DV
Brown rice, cooked: 1 cup contains 19 mcg
Egg: One large egg contains 15 mcg
Bread, white: 1 slice provides 10 mcg
The amount of selenium in grains and grain-based foods depends on the soil content where the grains grew.
Possible health risks
The upper limit per day for selenium is 400 mcg for adults.
Selenium toxicity due to overdose is rare, especially from dietary sources, but an overdose of highly concentrated supplements could have negative effects.
These may include:
a garlic-like smell on the breath and a metallic taste in the mouth
brittle nails
mottled or decaying teeth
gastrointestinal problems such as nausea
neurological abnormalities
fatigue and irritability
skins lesions and rashes
hair loss
In extreme cases, it could lead to kidney failure, heart failure, and death.
Selenium supplements can also interact with some medications, including cisplatin, a chemotherapy drug. The use of this drug can reduce selenium levels in the body.
Use of selenium supplements
The 2015-2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans encourage people to get their nutrients from food sources rather than supplements.
Eating a varied and healthful diet is more important than concentrating on individual nutrients as the key to good health.
When taking any supplement, it is important to purchase from a reputable source. In the U.S., the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not monitor supplements for quality, purity, packaging, or strength.
Related coverage
What are the health benefits of vitamin D? The body produces vitamin D in response to sun exposure. Vitamin D has a range of benefits. It protects the teeth and bones and defends against diseases, including cancer and multiple sclerosis. We look at how much vitamin D a person should have, where to find it, and how to recognize a deficiency. Learn more here. Read now
What is thiamin, or vitamin B1? Vitamin B1, or thiamin, is essential for glucose metabolism and healthy nerve, muscle, and heart function. A deficiency of vitamin B1 can be fatal. Read now
Everything you need to know about vitamin A Vitamin A is an essential nutrient for healthy vision, teeth, skeletal tissue, and skin. It can be found in natural food sources such as carrots. Read now
Vitamins: What are they and what do they do? Vitamins are essential to life, but what are they and why do we need them? Here is an overview of the different types of vitamins. Read now
Are Selenium Supplements Good For You? Yes And No If you lack selenium, supplements are good for you, if you have enough they could raise your risk of developing diabetes type 2, says a study published Online First in The Lancet. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Cancer / Oncology Endocrinology Mental Health
Additional information
Article last updated by Tim Newman on Fri 12 January 2018.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Allam, M.F., & Lucane, R. A. (2004). Selenium supplementation for asthma. Cochrance Database Systematic Reviews 2 CD003538. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15106206
Cardosoa, B. R., Silva Bandeiraa, V., Jacob-Filhob, W., & Franciscato Cozzolinoa, S. M. (2014, October). Selenium status in elderly: Relation to cognitive decline. Journal of trace elements in medicine and biology, 28, 4, 422-426. Retrieved from http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0946672X14001631
Executive summary. (2015). Retrieved from https://health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/executive-summary/
Goluch-Konuizsky, Z. S. (2016, March). Nutrition of women with hair loss problem during the period of menopause. Menopause Review 151, 56-61. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4828511/
Harris, C. (2012, July). Thyroid disease and diet — nutrition plays a part in maintaining thyroid health. Today's Dietitian 147, 40. Retrieved from http://www.todaysdietitian.com/newarchives/070112p40.shtml
Leoni S. G., Sastre-Perona, A., De la Vieja, A., & Pilar, S. (2016, May). Selenium increases thyroid-stimulating hormone induced sodium/iodide symporter expression through thioredoxin/apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1-dependent regulation of paired box 8 binding activity. Antioxidants & redox signaling, 24, 15, 855-866. Retrieved from http://online.liebertpub.com/doi/abs/10.1089/ars.2014.6228
Office of dietary supplements. (2016, February 11). Selenium [Fact sheet]. Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Selenium-HealthProfessional/
Office of dietary supplements. (2016, February 11). Selenium [Fact sheet]. Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Selenium-Consumer/
Rayman, M. P. (2000, July 15). The importance of selenium to human health. Lancet. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10963212
Shaheen, S. O., Rutterford, M., Lewis, S. J., Ring, S. M., Holloway, J. W., Golding, J., & Henderson A. J. (2015, April). Material selenium status in pregnancy, offspring glutathione peroxidase 4 genotype, and childhood asthma. The journal of allergy and clinical immunology, 135, 4, 1083-1085. Retrieved from https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaci.2014.10.035
Song, G., Zhonghao, Z., Wen, L., Chen, C., Qingxue, S., Zhang, Y., … Qiong, L. (2014, January 9). Selenomethionine Ameliorates Cognitive Decline, Reduces Tau Hyperphosphorylation, and Reverses Synaptic Deficit in the Triple Transgenic Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease. Journal of Alzheimer's disease 41, 1, 85-99. Retrieved from http://content.iospress.com/articles/journal-of-alzheimers-disease/jad131805
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Megan Ware RDN LD. "Selenium: What it does and how much you need." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 12 Jan. 2018. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/287842.php>
APA
Megan Ware RDN LD. (2018, January 12). "Selenium: What it does and how much you need." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/287842.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Which foods are good for constipation?
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/287842.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);