13 Brain Boosting Supplements
Live Fit Strong Healthy
Follow Me On
Home
Personal Training
Training Rates
Referral
Client Checkin
Nutritional Solutions
Resources
Warmup
Hot Topics
Cool Stuff!
Real Healthy Recipies
Clean 15 & Dirdy Dozen
MacroNutrient Calculator
Ideal Body Weight Calc
PN's Food Encyclopedia
Recipes for Good Health
Thrive Marketplace
Food Alergy Testing
Shin Splints
Back Pain Solutions
Testimonials
Read Testimonials
Leave a Testimonial
About
My Book Shelf
Fitness Workouts
13 Supplement Recommendations to Boost Brain Power
Vitamin D3 - 2000-4000 daily international units (IU)
preferably from a highly absorbable liquid source, such as a spray or an oil. Used for everything from boosting hormone levels to promoting bone health. But there are actually receptors for Vitamin D in the central nervous system and in the hippocampus (memory and spatial recognition) region of your brain. In these areas, Vitamin D not only protects neurons, but also regulates enzymes in your brain and cerebrospinal fluid that are involved in neurotransmitter synthesis and nerve growth. One recent study investigating Vitamin D and cognitive function found that the lower your Vitamin D levels, the more negative your performance is on mental tests. Another study fund that people with lower vitamin D levels have slower ability to process information – with this effect even more pronounced in individuals older than 60. To get the memory-enhancement effect of increased Vitamin D (especially if you live in a northern climate or get limited sun exposure) include a few teaspoons of cod liver oil frequently in your diet, eat beef and butter, have calf’s liver now and then. When it comes to Vitamin D, there can be a law of diminishing returns, so I highly recommend you pair Vitamin D testing with your intake, and keep your levels between 40 and 80 ng/ml. Finally, if you’re a vegetarian or vegan or eating inadequate amounts of fat, do not just take a bunch of D, because it can be toxic unless you pair it with A and K.
Vitamin K2 - 100 Micro-grams
Your brain contains one of the highest concentrations of vitamin K2 in your entire body, and it is in this area of your body that Vitamin K2 prevents free radical damage to neurons and contributes to the production of the protective “myelin” sheets around your brain cells. A very important supplement for vegans and vegetarians. Also great for it’s bone building, brain building, and crucial for a healthy heart. But the fact is, unless you are vegan or vegetarian, or you have a serious deficiency or disease that requires K2 intake, you’re better off getting your K2 from natural sources such as grass-fed beef, fermented dairy products (like kefir) and natto (a fermented soybean derivative).
Arachidonic acid
One of the most abundant fatty acids in the brain, and is crucial for neurological health, since it helps build the cell membranes in your hippocampus, helps protect your brain from free radical damage, and activates proteins that are responsible for growth and repair of neurons in your brain. In one study, 18 month old infants who were given arachidonic acid supplements for 17 weeks showed significant improvements in intelligence, and in adults impaired arachidonic acid metabolism or insufficient arachidonic acid intake is linked to brain issues such as Alzheimer’s and bipolar disorder.Readily available in food sources, including Tilapia, catfish, yellowtail and mackerel (sushi anyone?), fatty cuts of meat, duck, eggs and dairy. If you want a better brain, you should frequently go out of your way to get your chompers on fatty foods. Incidentally, this highlights a reason why very active women need to be careful not to let their body fat levels fall too low if they plan on having children. Hip and butt fat are full of the the specific omega-3 fatty acids and DHA necessary for major brain development during the development of a baby, and if women are low on body fat and low in DHA, this will severely compromise intelligence in the baby.
Phosphatidylserine - 100mg
Found in abundance in neural tissue, where it serves as a structural component of cell membranes, and acts to increase your available acetylcholine levels, which means it can increase alertness, and dopamine/glutamate levels in your brain. Phosphatidylserine has been shown to improve memory and spatial recognition, and may also improve cognitive performance and memory in humans, Shown to be beneficial in decreasing progression of Alzheimer’s disease and dementia. Although you can find phosphatidylserine in supplement and pill forms (especially in the form of krill oil), it tends to be expensive, especially when you consider that you can get it in fairly high levels in seafood, particularly herring and mackerel. Perhaps you’re seeing a pattern here that it might be a good idea to become a fan of sushi and sashimi if you’re aren’t already including in your diet – or at least start getting some good canned herring or mackerel to put on your salad every now and again.
Fish Oil - 2-10g
As you learned in the last chapter, signals used in thought, memory and processing bounce around in your brain and get transferred from one brain cell (neuron) to another via a point called a synapse, where the signals cross a physical channel before moving on to the next neuron. The walls that these signals need to pass through are comprised of cell membranes made up of about 20% essential fatty acids – like the omega-3 fatty acids found in fish oil. Specifically, these Omega-3 fatty acids may make the membrane that holds these channels more elastic, making it easier for the channels to change shape and for signals to propagate throughout your nervous system. With inadequate Omega-3 fatty acids, these channels lose flexibility and electrical impulses become hindered. Inadequate fatty acids may also harm the function of structures called G-proteins, which are the inside the cell membrane and of vital importance to the transmission of signals between brain cells. With as little as 2 grams per day, the use of omega-3 fatty acids like fish oil may also reduce severity of dyslexia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), Alzheimer’s, brain atrophy and cognitive decline, while simultaneously improving mental function. Don’t waste your money on cheap, ethyl-ester forms of fish oil that you’ll find in most supplements. Instead, pair 1-2 grams of a daily dose of triglyceride based fish oil with regular intake of cold-water fish like mackerel, herring, anchovies or sardines. It’s also a good idea to consume a fish oil that includes antioxidants such as astaxanthin, Vitamin D and Vitamin E, and to also step up dark, leafy green and dark fruit intake, or include a good antioxidant supplement. This is all the more important if you decide to “mega-dose” with 8-10g of fish oil per day.
MCT’s (from coconut oil)
When your body burns fatty acids as a fuel, it produces an end-product called Acetyl-CoA. Acetyl-CoA is then converted into ketones, which are a fuel that is preferentially used by your brain. At high enough levels of blood ketones, you begin to experience significant cognitive boosts and an increase in focus. One of the quickest ways to generate ketones from fatty acids is via the use of a special kind of fat called medium chain triglycerides, or MCT’s (9). While you can get ample MCT’s from coconut oil, you can get them in an even more purified and concentrated form from liquid MCT oil. MCT’s are easy to use. You can blend several tablespoons of MCT oil with the coffee recipe you’ll find below or you can eat a couple tablespoons of coconut oil in the mid-morning or the mid-afternoon. Too many MCT’s can easily cause an upset stomach, so start small, and gradually titrate your dosage up. Interestingly, although at the time of this writing, it has yet to be approved by the FDA, a special kind of ketone called “BHB” is sold in the form of beta-hydroxy-butyrate salts and can instantly increase levels of blood ketones without you needing to consume any fat at all.
Caffeine - 100mg
About the amount you’ll get in a cup of black coffee, has been proven to improve memory recall. Caffeine’s psychostimulatory effects are primarily because it blocks a receptor in your central nervous system that is responsible for binding a compound called adenosine. When you inhibit adenosine, you get increased activity of dopamine and glutamate, two feel-good, alertness-increasing brain-stimulating compounds. More caffeine is not better, since higher doses may decrease blood flow to your brain, and you can quickly build up tolerance. Furthermore, at least three caffeine-induced disorders are recognized by the American Psychiatric Association: caffeine intoxication, caffeine-induced sleep disorder and caffeine-induced anxiety disorder. Choose fresh coffee from arabica beans, and not coffee powders or substitutes, since cheap coffee and coffee knock-offs are high in mycotoxins, which ironically give you fuzzy thinking. Once every few weeks, switch to decaf to avoid building up any caffeine tolerance.
L-Theanine
One of the major amino acid components in green tea and black tea, and it appears that it has a role to play in reducing stress and anxiety. Specifically, L-Theanine blocks glutamic acid to glutamate receptors in your brain, and in doing so can increase alpha brain wave activity, boost cognitive ability and provide a calming effect. So not only can L-Theanine help you sleep, but it also assists with relaxed focus. Mix L-Theanine with caffeine to experience the combination of a slight “pick-me-up” from caffeine with the improved focus and mood from L-Theanine. The three best sources for theanine are green tea (edible green tea), the Neuroscience Travacor supplement, and delta-E, a powdered supplement that can be added to water.
L-Phenylalanine
An amino acid that is converted into L-tyrosine. L-tyrosine in turn is converted into L-Dopa, which is further converted into dopamine, norepinephrine (noradrenaline), and epinephrine (adrenaline) – the primary chemicals in your body responsible for increasing alertness and focus. L-Phenylalanine can achieve this effect without throwing your HPA axis off kilter.
Creatine - 5g
Not only has strength and power-enhancing effects, but can also be a very effective nootropic. Creatine can have a neuroprotective effect by slowing down neuronal cell death, and can also increase levels of the neurotransmitter glutamate, improve memory and learning, assist with depression, and suppress steep spikes in serotonin. This is especially important news for vegans and vegetarians, who may find that by consuming adequate dietary fats combined with creatine, they can stave off much of the cognitive fuzziness that can accompany a plant-based diet. Most studies on creatine use a “loading protocol” of 0.3g/kg bodyweight for 5-7 days followed by 5g of creatine per day after that. However, if you’re already eating meat, as little as 2g daily is enough supplementation to maintain average stores of creatine.
Carnitine - 750mg-2,000mg/day (split into two daily doses)
Another precursor to acetylcholine, and plays a variety of roles within your brain, including synthesis and stabilization of cell membranes, regulation of neural genes and proteins, better function of the “mitochondria” (the energy powerhouse of the cell), protection from free radical damage to the brain, better transmission of acetylcholine, and enhanced glucose uptake to the brain. Carnitine has been shown to be very effective in alleviating the side-effects of aging, such as neurological decline and chronic fatigue, and also improving insulin sensitivity and blood vessel health. It has beneficial effects on neurons, repairing them from damage induced by some states such as high blood sugar. Carnitine also increases fat burning and mitochondrial respiration. So you get a brain buzz, along with more energy when you use the stuff prior to workouts. Both this and creatine would be good supplements to use if you’re doing lots of strength training or explosive exercise, and want to kill two birds with one stone.
Alpha-Lipoic Acid (ALA) - 300-600mg
A fatty acid that can protect neurological decline with age, and can also be used as a treatment for diabetic neuropathy. Alpha lipoic acid can easily cross the blood-brain barrier (a wall of tiny vessels and structural cells that protect your brain), and pass into the brain to have these neuroprotective effects. ALA has been shown to reduce oxidative damage in neuronal cells, increase the release of the neurotransmitter glutamate in your synapses, and increase dopamine and acetycholine availability.
Huperzine
An “acetylcholinesterase inhibitor”, which means you get more of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine rushing around in your brain. You call these type of compounds “cholinomimetics“. Acetylcholine is a very important neurotransmitter that is found in many nootropics, and the foundation of several smart drugs is to simply halt breakdown of acetylcholine, or maximize production of acetylcholine (also known as aceytlcholine agonists). Studies have shown that Huperzine supplementation has neuroprotective effects and enhances cognitive function in animals and humans – but what most people don’t know is that there are natural herbal sources of Huperzine. For example, in Chinese herbal medicine, an herb called “Club Moss” is used slow progression of Alzheimer’s. Guess what the active ingredient in Club Moss is? That’s right – Huperzine. Be very careful if you’re going to order Club Moss. Most Chinese herbs sit in big bins in China for several years and get old, ineffective, and sprayed with toxic ethylene oxide. TianChi is the only Chinese adaptogenic herb complex that I’ve found which actually has effective doses Club Moss, along with a cocktail of other brain-boosting ingredients – including citicholine, which is one of the best ways to acetylcholine. It’s spendy but in my opinion well worth it. I take one packet of TianChi on an empty stomach every morning, and if you were going to do one thing that you could feel instantly in your brain, this would be it.
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started