Yogurt may protect women from developing high blood pressure | American Heart Association
Skip to Content
American Heart Association Learn and Live
Volunteer Donate
Search
Get Your Local Info
Find out what is happening at your local American Heart area
Search by State
SELECT YOUR LANGUAGE
Español (Spanish)
简体中文 (Traditional Chinese)
繁体中文 (Simplified Chinese)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
Healthy Living for Heart.org
Conditions for Heart.org
Support for Heart.org
Professional for Heart.org
Research for Heart.org
Educator for Heart.org
CPR & ECC for Heart.org
Shop for Heart.org
Causes for Heart.org
Advocate for Heart.org
Giving for Heart.org
Media for Heart.org
Welcome to the AHA / ASA Newsroom
Search Newsroom
Submit
Skip newsroom navigation
Newsroom Home
Search News Releases
Embargo Policies
Video/Photos & More
Audio
Images
Podcasts & Vodcasts
Video & Animations
Usage Policy
News Media / Access
Media Access to AHA/ASA Embargoed Media Materials
Media Contacts
Boilerplates
Copyright Permissions
Embargo/Recording Policies
Linking Policy
Resources
About Us
Consumer Health Care
AHA/ASA Watch and Learn Medical Illustration Library (copyrighted materials for viewing only - may be licensed for use with permission)
Heart & Stroke Encyclopedia
Statements & Guidelines
Statistics
Other AHA/ASA Sites
Advocacy
American Stroke Association
CPR and First Aid
Empowered to Serve
Go Red for Women
My Heart, My Life
My Life Check
Voices for Healthy Kids
Connect with us
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
RSS
Email Alerts
Social Media Hub
Tweets by HeartNews
Making News on Heart.org
Learn More
Yogurt may protect women from developing high blood pressure
American Heart Association Meeting Report Abstract P169
March 03, 2016 Categories: Scientific Conferences & Meetings
Study Highlights:
Women who ate five or more servings of yogurt per week, especially as part of a healthy diet, had lower risk of developing high blood pressure.
Men did not appear to have the same benefit from eating yogurt.
The analysis examined the long-term effects of yogurt intake on high blood pressure in middle-aged adults.
Embargoed until 3 p.m. MT / 5 p.m. ET, Thursday, March 3, 2016
PHOENIX, March 3, 2016 — Women who ate five or more servings of yogurt per week had a lower risk of developing high blood pressure compared to those who rarely ate yogurt, according to research presented at the American Heart Association’s Epidemiology/Lifestyle 2016 Scientific Sessions.
“No one food is a magic bullet but adding yogurt to an otherwise healthy diet seems to help reduce the long-term risk of high blood pressure in women,” said Justin Buendia, lead author of the study and a Ph.D. candidate at Boston University School of Medicine in Boston, Massachusetts.
“I believe that this is the largest study of its kind to date to evaluate the specific effects of yogurt on blood pressure,” he said.
To examine the long-term effects of eating yogurt on high blood pressure in middle-aged adults, researchers analyzed data on participants in two Nurses’ Health Study cohorts (NHS and NHS II) – mostly women between 25-55 years old – and the Health Professionals Follow-up Study – mostly men between 40-75 years old.
During 18 to 30 years of follow-up, researchers documented 74,609 new cases of high blood pressure in the three study groups. After adjusting for other risk factors and diet, they found:
Women from the two NHS groups who ate five or more servings of yogurt per week (compared with those consuming one serving per month) had about a 20 percent reduction in the risk of developing high blood pressure, which was statistically significant.
Men in this study had much lower intakes of yogurt than women and, perhaps as a result, the effects of regular yogurt consumption were weaker.
The authors also evaluated whether the effects of consuming larger amounts yogurt were different among subjects with a healthy overall diet. To do this, subjects were given a score to reflect how closely their diet matched that of a DASH diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) – an eating plan designed to lower blood pressure.
The benefit of eating five or more servings of yogurt on the risk of high blood pressure was strongest among those with the highest DASH scores – that is, those who ate more fruits, vegetables, nuts and beans, other low-fat dairy and whole grains. In the pooled analysis, men and women who had a higher DASH score and who consumed yogurt five or more times per week had a 31 percent lower risk of developing high blood pressure compared with those who had the lowest yogurt intakes (one time per week) and the lowest DASH scores, he said.
Additionally, researchers noted that several servings of milk and cheese each day also had beneficial effects on blood pressure “although the effects of yogurt seemed stronger than other forms of dairy,” Buendia said.
“Our study shows that daily intake of dairy products, particularly yogurt, lowers the risk for developing high blood pressure, which is a key risk factor for the development of heart disease and stroke,” he said.
Researchers had no information on the types of yogurt participants had eaten. “It would be interesting to see if popular yogurt types, such as Greek yogurt, had different effects than regular yogurt,” he noted.
In the future, researchers hope to analyze yogurt intake among different subgroups such as African Americans, who are at higher risk for high blood pressure, he said.
Co-authors are Frank B. Hu, M.D., Ph.D; Martha R. Singer, M.S., R.D.; Howard J. Cabral, Ph.D. and Lynn L. Moore, D.Sc., M.P.H. Author disclosures are on the manuscript.
This study was funded by the National Dairy Council.
Note: Actual presentation time of Poster P169 is 5 p.m. MT/7 p.m. ET, Thursday, March 3, 2016.
Additional Resources:
Photos available on the right column of the release link http://newsroom.heart.org/news/yogurt-may-protect-women-from-developing-high-blood-pressure?preview=e81712d838d60340d0f39338740e038a
American Heart Association Nutrition Center
American Heart Association High Blood Pressure information
Follow AHA/ASA news on Twitter @HeartNews
###
Statements and conclusions of study authors that are presented at American Heart Association scientific meetings are solely those of the study authors and do not necessarily reflect association policy or position. The association makes no representation or warranty as to their accuracy or reliability. The association receives funding primarily from individuals; foundations and corporations (including pharmaceutical, device manufacturers and other companies) also make donations and fund specific association programs and events. The association has strict policies to prevent these relationships from influencing the science content. Revenues from pharmaceutical and device corporations are available at www.heart.org/corporatefunding.
For media inquiries about this news release and AHA spokesperson perspective:
Darcy Spitz: (212) 878-5940; darcy.spitz@heart.org
Julie Del Barto (national broadcast): (214) 706-1330; julie.delbarto@heart.org
For general media inquiries:
American Heart Association Communications: (214) 706-1173
For public inquiries:
(800) AHA-USA1 (242-8721)
heart.org and strokeassociation.org
Life is why, science is how . . . we help people live longer, healthier lives.
Related Images
Yogurt LowFat plain in cup with spoon verticle
Cup of plain low fat yogurt
copyright American Heart Association
Download (856.0 kB)
Yogurt LowFat plain in cup with spoon verticle
Cup of plain low fat yogurt
copyright American Heart Association
Download (856.0 kB)
Blood Pressure Check (V)
Checking blood pressure using cuff on female.
copyright American Heart Association
Download (552.3 kB)
Blood Pressure Check (V)
Checking blood pressure using cuff on female.
copyright American Heart Association
Download (552.3 kB)
Blood pressure monitoring
Blood pressure test at a kiosk
copyright American Heart Association
Download (6.5 MB)
Blood pressure monitoring
Blood pressure test at a kiosk
copyright American Heart Association
Download (6.5 MB)
High blood pressure
Blood pressure reading
copyright American Heart Association
Download (1.9 MB)
High blood pressure
Blood pressure reading
copyright American Heart Association
Download (1.9 MB)
Click thumbnails to view content
What's Happening at AHA/ASA
${day}
${title}
View AHA/ASA Scientific
Conferences and Meetings
Heart and Stroke Encyclopedia
Find definitions to
cardiovascular terms
and links to in-depth information.
The link provided below is for convenience only, and is not an endorsement of either the linked-to entity or any product or service.
CLOSE PROCEED