Kirkland Minoxidil – Cobourg Chamber
Skip to content
Cobourg Chamber
You are welcome
Home
About Me
Contact Me
Privacy
Tag: Kirkland Minoxidil
What You Need To Know About Minoxidil For Men
December 24, 2017 admin Leave a comment
If you are an adult male experiencing hair loss issues, you may have heard about Minoxidil for men as being one of the most popular solutions to your baldness problems. This information is correct to a certain extent, as this product is effective only when it comes to male pattern baldness, and only in the 5% concentration form. Beware, though, there are also other forms on the market, a 2% concentration solution and a foam. These two are indicated for the treatment of female thinning hair problems, so don’t waste your money on purchasing them to treat your baldness.
Once you buy Minoxidil for men from a trustworthy source, you should take the time to read the instructions for use. For best results, you should follow the exact procedure described in the leaflet or on the product label. You may apply the solution to damp hair, but make sure you fill the applicator as instructed. Don’t apply too much solution, because this would be a waste. Don’t apply too little, because it may not have the desired effect. After all, filling the applicator to a sign or counting 20 drops shouldn’t be a problem. Apparently, you should always rub the solution into your scalp through a gentle massage, until the product turns into foam. Let it dry completely before applying your usual styling products or before going to bed. This will enable the active ingredient to complete its action, in order to deliver you thee expected results.
If you haven’t tried this treatment before, you should probably inform yourself before purchasing it. Try to find online user reviews, so that you can find out what other men think about this product. When browsing through these reviews, you should pay attention to the duration of the treatment of each user. Some of them may have expected to see instant results, so they’ve been disappointed with the treatment. Others may have used it for the right period of time, so they may say it has been effective. As Minoxidil 5% works only on pattern baldness, you can safely ignore those reviews from users who have tried it for random alopecia problems.
Although the treatment is considered safe, you should watch your scalp for the first few days, in order to see if you develop any irritations or other type of problems. Should you notice any adverse reactions, you should discontinue use and seek for medical advice. Nonetheless, such cases are rather rare.
Continue Reading →
Posted in: Kirkland Minoxidil Filed under: Kirkland Minoxidil
Contact Me
admin@cobourgchamber.com
Copyright © 2019 Cobourg Chamber — Primer WordPress theme by GoDaddy