Music Therapy – Health and Fitness
Skip to content
Menu
All about Calories
Anti Aging / Nutrition
Diet
Diet for Disease
Food and Diet Reviews
Fitness
Health Exercises
Weight Loss
Yoga
Green Energy
Solar Energy
Health Care
Addictions
Dental Health
Disease and Cure
Medicine Review
Tests
Women & Child Care
Health News
Health Q & A
Herbs and Plants
Tips
Beauty Tips
World Churches
Health and Fitness
Promoting global health, fitness and well-being
Music Therapy
Music Therapy
Ancient Greek philosophers believed that music could heal both the body and the soul. A number of clinical trials have shown the benefit of music therapy for short-term pain, including pain from cancer. Music Therapy is a medical process that uses music to heal. When used with conventional treatment, music therapy can help to reduce pain and suffering. Music therapy is an interpersonal process, the therapist uses music and all of its features to help clients to improve or maintain their health.
Uses of Music Therapy
Many hospitals and research centers use Music Therapy for following purposes:-
· To help with pain management
· To help to protect against depression
· To promote body movement
· To calm down patients
· To ease muscle tension
· To improve cognitive functioning, motor skills, emotional and affective development
· To improve behavior and social skills
· To improve quality of life
MusicTherapy
How Music Therapy Works
Music Therapy is used to supplement medicines and results in more cooperation from the patient
· Music with a strong beat can stimulate brainwaves to resonate in sync with the beat, with faster beats bringing sharper concentration and thinking that is more alert. A slower music tempo promotes a calmness, serenity, tranquility and meditation. Music can bring the change in brain action levels that enables the brain to shift speeds as desired. In this manner, the music can bring lasting benefits to the patient.
· Music can control breathing rate, slower the breathing rate the slower would be the heart rate and vice versa. Alteration in breathing rate means its impact on our nervous system. This is how music therapy can help to heal various diseases that are related with our nervous system like stress, depression and anger management.
· Music can relax our mind and muscles, thus it is a useful aid in anxiety disorders and depressions.
· The theme of the music can affect our thought process, resulting in happy and positive behavior
· Slow and soothing music can result in relaxed mind and muscles, one can use music therapy to treat sleep disorder
How to Design Music Therapy
Doctor and qualified Music Therapist design the Effective Music Therapy with mutual consultation, most of the time Music Therapy will supplement medicines.
Re-creative experiences are most appropriate for patients who need to develop sensorimotor skills, learn adaptive behaviors, maintain reality orientation, master different role behaviors and identify with the feelings and ideas of others.
Playing instruments can help physically disabled clients to develop gross and fine motor coordination.
Music listening experiences can be used with clients who need to be activated or soothed physically, emotionally, intellectually or spiritually.
Composing music can be used with clients who need to learn how to make decisions and commitments
Competences of Music Therapist
Competencies as a music therapist involves
Client assessment
Implementation of music therapy strategies
Evaluation
Documentation
Discharge planning
interdisciplinary team work.
Related articles
Aromatherapy
Add Fragrance to your Garden, it improves your Mood
Health Enhancing Indoor Plants
Xylitol or Birch Sugar
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
More
Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
LinkedIn
Like this:
Like Loading...
May 16, 2013 Rogers TahirDisease, Health, TreatmentChicago, Competences of Music Therapist, Counseling Services, Expressive Therapies, Health, How Music Therapy Works, How to Design Music Therapy, Mental health, Music, Music therapy, Norton Healthcare, Playing instruments, Preterm birth, United States, Uses of Music Therapy
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Post navigation
Previous Post Loose Weight through Diet Pills
Next Post Improve Sex Life by Kegel Exercises
Advertisements
Must Read
This slideshow requires JavaScript.
Find More
Search for:
Follow Health and Fitness on WordPress.com
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Advertisements
Follow Health and Fitness on WordPress.com
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
%d bloggers like this: