Iron Deficient Anemia
Mission: Education of Neurofibromatosis Type 2: for a better Quality of Life. Education is the Key
Menu
About Us
Donate
News
What Is NF2?
⇒ Basic Description /
All Major Health Risks
⇒ NF2 Tumors
⇒ Eyes (Vision Issues)
⇒ Cranial Nerves
⇒ Spinal Cord /
Vertebrae
⇒ Peripheral Nerve
Genetics
Diagnosis
Family Planning
Treatment Options
⇒ NF2 Treatment Centers
⇒ Tumor-drug Treatments
⇒ Surgery
⇒ Radiation Treatments
⇒ Hearing Implants
Research
⇒ Fundraising for NF2
⇒ Science Timeline
⇒ Transcripts & Videos
About Us
Donate to NF2 Education
English
Site Search
About Us Donate News What Is NF2?
NF2 Tumors
Eyes (Vision Issues)
Cranial Nerves
Spinal Cord
Vertebrae
Peripheral Nerve
Genetics Diagnosis Family Planning Treatment Options
NF2 Treatment Centers
Surgery
Tumor-drug Treatments
Radiation Treatments
Hearing Implants
Research
Fundraising for NF2
Science Timeline
Transcripts & Videos
Understanding NF2 >
Iron Deficient Anemia
Last Updated: 03/29/19
High White Blood Cell Count and Low Blood Pressure
Index
What is Iron Deficient Anemia?
Symptoms
Diagnosis by Doctor - In Office Visit
Management Options
Iron Rich Food
Meats - Heme Iron
Vegetables - Non-Heme Iron
General Food Types
Absorption
Increase Absorption
Iron (Heme) Inhibitors
Sources
At some point in time for some duration of time people with neurofibromatosis type II (NF2) are at risk of iron deficient anemia. From different situations that can result in low levels of hemoglobin. Contents here explain not just what this might mean to people with NF2, but anyone who may have iron deficient anemia, should know; symptoms, reasons for proper diagnosis, and management options in food and vitamin forms.
Iron deficient anemia is not always a permanent health issue if the reason of the Anemia development is addressed.
1. What is Iron Deficient Anemia?
The most common type of Anemia in the general American population, is Iron Deficient Anemia, also known as Iron-deficiency Anaemia as simply a result of not enough iron rich foods in the typical American diet. It can also be the result of health issues that lower the rate of absorption of iron from food, or an individual may require more iron than the average diet due to health-related blood issues. Some of reasons for this would be from a person:
experiencing Blood Loss,
bloody loss, could even be minimal like bleeding gums or minor nose bleeds
following surgery
women, from blood loss during monthly periods and childbirth
Over 65, who are more likely to have diets that are low in iron
taking Blood Thinners
have Kidney Failure (especially if they are on dialysis), because they have trouble making red blood cells
have trouble absorbing iron
Iron Deficient Anemia commonly occurs after surgery during the healing process, particularly following brain surgery. It otherwise could be the result of certain tumor growth, congestive heart failure, inflammatory diseases.
2. Symptoms
If you have Iron Deficient Anemia you may experience some of the following:
Extreme tiredness (Fatigue)
Headaches, Dizziness, Lightheadedness, or feeling Faint
Weakness
Anxiety
Depression
Chest pain, Palpitations, Fast, or Irregular heartbeat
Shortness of Breath
Trouble breathing when doing things like walking, climbing stairs, or even talking
Swelling or cold hands and/or feet
Pale or yellow skin, nail beds, mouth, and gums
Inflammation or soreness of the tongue
Brittle Nails
Unusual cravings for non-nutritive substances, such as ice, dirt or starch
Poor appetite, especially in infants and children with iron deficiency anemia
Twitching muscles
Constipation
Dysphagia (Difficulty Swallowing)
3. Diagnosis by Doctor - In Office Visit
Iron Deficient Anemia, might be seen in blood tests as; High White Blood Cell Count, or Low Platelet Count, but more specifically a low Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin Concentration (MCHC), it can also result in Low Blood Pressure Hemoglobin is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to all parts of the body necessary for the brain and organs.
It is dangerous for an individual to determine if they do or do not have Iron Deficient Anemia on their own based on symptoms and personal review of blood test, this is something a doctor needs to do in an in-office visit. Confirmation of Anemia is based not just on White Blood Cells or Platelets, but Complete Blood Count (CBC) and additional factors. The options of what to do for best options for each person is different depending on the situation and self-management can be not just dangerous but life threatening.
Prescriptions, Treatments and Chemotherapies might require adjustments such as breaks or temporarily taking lower doses.
How much iron is needed, depends on many factors, and only a small amount in diet may correct the situation. However, iron is not a substance the body will pass if more than is needed is consumed.
The amount of iron assumed to be necessary may not be enough and after attempts at adjustments may require more iron than food or supplements can deliver and a blood transfer may be necessary.
High Hemoglobin levels from over-consumption of Iron in food or supplements can cause kidney or other organs. A yearly or more frequent blood test may be required to monitor organs.
Symptoms and numbers in blood work can be the result of something else.
Anemia is best treated when the actual reason for its development is found, which is best done with the help of a doctor.
The amount of iron an individual needs each day typically depends on age, sex, and whether a mostly plant-based diet is consumed. A person with Iron Deficient Anemic as a result of poor iron absorption, or health issue will require more iron than listed numbers found. Talk to your doctor.
4. Management Options
Management of Iron Deficient Anemia may require a combination of an increase of foods high in Iron, an Iron Supplement (Ferrous Sulfate), Vitamin B12 and/or Folic Acid. Depending on the situation supplements alone may not be enough and require a blood transfusion.
Hemoglobin iron is commonly referred to as Heme Iron. Heme-Iron is found in animal foods that originally contained hemoglobin, such as red meats, fish, and poultry meat. Poultry, and seafood contain both heme and non-heme iron. Your body absorbs the most iron from heme sources. Most Non-Heme Iron is from plant sources.
Iron rich foods fall under two categories; heme (from animal sources) and non-heme (from plants). Iron rich foods from animal sources can help reach iron levels faster and stay in the body longer. Plant based iron rich foods have many additional health benefits, despite the need of more to maintain the same amount of Hemoglobin in the blood. Remember that Iron Deficient Anemia causing fatigue and poor appetite, which means eating until full is not necessarily enough.
5. Iron Rich Food
Listed in the first two sections are foods highest in iron, but does not include the whole list of foods that also include iron.
Hemoglobin Iron also known as Heme Iron (from animal sources)
Beef (Chuck, Roast, Lean, Ground or Liver)
Chicken Liver
Clams
Leg of Lamb
Oysters
Shrimp
Salmon
Tuna
Turkey Leg
Non-Hemoglobin Iron also known as Non-Heme Iron (from plants)
Beans (Kidney, Lima, Navy)
Brown Rice
Lentils
Molasses
Multigrain Bread
Oatmeal
Peanut butter
Raisin bran (enriched)
Spinach
Whole Wheat Bread
General Iron Food Explanation
Lean meat, seafood, and poultry.
Iron-fortified breakfast cereals and breads.
White beans, lentils, spinach, kidney beans, and peas.
Nuts and some dried fruits, such as raisins.
6. Absorption
Increase Absorption
It can be harder to reach iron goals with non-heme irons, but the following can help without requiring a large quality of food to meet goals:
Eating some heme iron with other sources of non-heme iron, the iron is more completely absorbed.
Food with iron can have a higher rate of absorption if eaten along with a good source of vitamin C. Sources of Vitamin C include; orange juice, broccoli, strawberries, tomatoes, citrus fruits like strawberries, red peppers, yellow peppers and orange peppers, or eat non heme iron foods with a food from the meat, fish, and poultry group.
Iron (Heme) Inhibitors
Be it heme or non-heme certain foods can lower chances of not just meeting goals and resulting in issues. However, the body will be able to obtain proper ion availability 2 hours after digestion, or a higher amount of iron rich foods would be required if eaten in combination of these thing.
Foods that can lower absorption include: (Polyphenols) Coffee, black tea, calcium rich foods, eggs, walnuts, fruits such as apples, blackberries, raspberries and blueberries.
7. Sources
American Cancer Society. Anemia in People With Cancer. (2016) http://www.cancer.org/treatment/treatmentsandsideeffects/physicalsideeffects/anemia/anemia-in-people-with-cancer
Mayo Clinic. Iron Deficient Anemia. (2016) http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/iron-deficiency-anemia/symptoms-causes/dxc-20266514
National Institute of Health. Iron. (2016) https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Iron-Consumer
WebMD. Iron-Rich Foods. http://www.webmd.com/diet/iron-rich-foods
Cleveland Clinic. Anemia and Iron Rich Foods. http://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases_conditions/hic_Anemia/hic-anemia-and-iron-rich-foods
Medscape. Iron Deficiency Anemia Workup. http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/202333-workup
Volunteer or Donate Follow Us
Site Graphics
Never Give Up
What is NF2? | About Us | Treatment Options | Sitemap
Disclaimer: Neurofibromatosis Type 2 - Information and Services, www.nf2is.org, is not run by medical experts, affiliated with any healthcare organization or any other company. No assurance can be made to the accuracy or completeness of the information provided here, the accuracy of other sites to which this site links, or of sites that link to this site. - Read More
Copyright © 2008 - 2019