Fleas, Ticks, and Bugs...OH MY! PART 2 - A Million Canine Kisses
Bridging the Communication Gap Between Pet Professionals and Pet Lovers
Menu
About
Categories
All Things Dog
Breeds
Dog Behavior
Healthy Pet
Fun Dog Stuff!
Grooming
Contact
Sat
02	nd
Fleas, Ticks, and Bugs…OH MY! PART 2
Posted by Tara Pellegrino	— Comments Off
Ticks. Just the word alone makes me think of old B-Rated horror films that portray these nasty blood suckers. And with good reason. Just the thought of something as disgusting as a bug, resembling a spider, attached to your skin, sucking your blood like a vampire can give even the bravest of people the heebie-jeebies.
Tick – Close up
Ticks, like fleas (Covered in Part 1), are resilient and crafty. They live in the deep woods, suburbia and urban neighborhoods. Besides being miniature Dracula’s, ticks can carry very serious and debilitating diseases – the most common is Lyme’s Disease. A fantastic resource regarding ticks and how they affect your pooch is on the amazing website Dogs and Ticks
If you don’t have the time or the subject makes you all-together queasy, I’ll cover the basics and avoid the gore!
The Facts About Ticks
The disease a tick carries is the most serious part of a tick bite, not the actual bite.
If you or your pet get a disease from a tick, it is not transmitted back and forth. The disease comes only from getting bit.
Ticks do not jump on you like fleas, they instead crawl on you from the ground and/or bushes.
Ticks do not need to feed on blood for 3 years
Ticks Be Gone! I wish it was as easy as waving a magic wand and chanting these words over your beloved pet, but it’s not. Yet, it is not hopeless. Here’s what you can do…
Start with a flea and tick preventative that you purchase at your vet’s office, online or local pet box store. Check with your vet first to see which products they recommend. Depending on where you live, your pet’s outdoor activities and lifestyle; a vet can come up with the best solution for your needs based off of known diseases ticks carry in your region.
Treat Your Yard – There are multitudes of products on the market from full assault chemicals to natural remedies. Go with your comfort level and call an expert when in doubt.
Put a Castle Moat around your yard. Well, not exactly! I don’t expect you to dig a ditch to keep out the bugs! But a quick defense is to create a 2-3 foot buffer between your yard and any woods that your property sits next to. Using such landscaping items as mulch, stones, gravel and wood chips make it challenging for the tiny bugs to navigate through, thus preventing an army of blood thirsty villains roaming your lawn.
Regular appointments at the groomers can add a second level of eyes on your fur babies skin. Groomers have the tools, resources, and knowledge to scope out ticks and remove them, if necessary.
How to remove a tick? When I was a kid, I had a tick attach itself to the back of my neck. My mom got the tweezers and pulled the sucker out. The problem was, she left the head and mouth piece. We had to go to the doctors and they had to cut the rest out for the fear that it would lead to an infection or some disease. This is not an attempt to blast my poor, loving mom over the internet (sorry mom!) but to instead, warn you as to the proper way to handle a tick removal.
There are multiple ways to do this:
Tweezers – get as close to the skin as possible without pinching your pooch and pull straight out.
Rub your finger over the tick quickly in a circular motion for about 30 seconds and the tick will detach itself (See this video for a demonstration).
Vaseline – put a thick glob of Vaseline over the tick to suffocate it. The tick will detach itself in order to breathe. However, this could take up to 2 days and if the tick is a carrier, it may give it time to infect your pet.
Go to the vet
As with fleas, no tick preventative will stop ticks from crawling on your four-legged family member but once it bites, it will then die based on the tick remedy being in your pet’s bloodstream. The slightly good news is that, although ticks can lay anywhere from 2,000-18,000 eggs (GASP!), they do so on the ground and not on your furry bedmate. (PHEW!)
Hope your days are filled with a million canine kisses (and no scratching)!
Tara
This post contains affiliate links. For more information, see my disclosures here.
Related Posts
Fleas, Ticks and Bugs…OH MY! PART 1
How do I know if my dog has allergies?
Importance of Regular Nail Trims
Kickoff To Flea Season
Bath Time! Proper Ways to Give Your Dog a Bath
A Note on Dog Training at MDD
Share this:
Facebook
Pinterest
Email
Google
Print
Twitter
Related
Filed under All Things Dog, Bugs, Grooming, Healthly Pet
Tagged as Bugs Dog Health Dogs Tick Removal Ticks
Share
Author Tara Pellegrino
Search for:
Glad To Meet You!
Tara Pellegrino
Lover of all things dog
Hi! I'm Tara and I work, study and play with man's best friend! The more I learn, the more I want to share with the world. Join me in this fun little blog on our fur-babies!
Let's Be Friends!
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 2,424 other subscribers
Email Address
Let's Stay Connected!
Top Posts & Pages
Why does it take so long to get my dog groomed?
The Green Bean Diet for Overweight Dogs
Why Does My Dog Bark at People on Walks?
Why do Groomers Ask for Shot Records?
There is No Such Thing as a Puppy Cut
About
Importance of Regular Nail Trims
Recent Posts
Why do Groomers Ask for Shot Records?
The Green Bean Diet for Overweight Dogs
9 Months to Prepare Your Pet for Your Baby
Kickoff To Flea Season
Read This Before You Purchase Your Next Pet Shampoo
Archives
January 2017
November 2016
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
March 2012
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Copyright © 2016 Million Dollar Dog. All Rights Reserved
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.