Virtual Pediatric Hospital: CQQA: Croup
Home | About Us | FAQ | Reviews | Search | Connect with us @pedseducation on and @pedsimaging on
Additional pediatric resources: GeneralPediatrics.com | PediatricEducation.org | SearchingPediatrics.com
Pediatrics Common Questions, Quick Answers
Croup
Donna D'Alessandro, M.D.
Lindsay Huth, B.A.
Peer Review Status: Internally Reviewed
Creation Date: December 2001
Last Revision Date: April 2002
Common Questions, Quick Answers
What is croup?
What causes croup?
Who can get croup?
What are the symptoms of croup?
Is croup contagious?
How is croup treated?
How long does croup last?
How can croup be prevented?
When should I call the doctor?
What is croup?
Croup is an illness of the respiratory system.
What causes croup?
Croup can be caused by either a viral or bacterial infection.
The same virus that can cause croup also causes the flu and common cold.
Who can get croup?
Most children with croup are from three to five years old.
Croup is more common in boys and during the cold season.
Symptoms of croup are worse for children who are under 3 years old.
What are the symptoms of croup?
The most typical sign of croup is a cough that sounds like a barking seal or dog.
Croup can cause the upper airway to swell, making it hard to breathe.
A high-pitched noise or 'stridor" may be heard with each inward breath.
Signs of troubled breathing are flaring nostrils or a blue color to the face and lips.
Symptoms could also include a hoarse voice, sore throat, or fever.
Infants with croup may be grumpy, sleepy, and have little appetite.
A bad case of croup can cause gagging and vomiting.
Is croup contagious?
Yes. Croup is contagious.
Croup can be spread through sneezing and coughing. Germs can be picked up from tabletops and fingers.
Children with croup are most contagious during the first days of illness.
How is croup treated?
If your child is having trouble breathing, there are simple things you can do to help.
There should be no smoking in the house if your child has croup.
Stepping out into the cool night air may help your child breathe.
Putting a vaporizer or humidifier in your child's room may help him breathe.
Put the humidifier close enough to your child so that his hair gets damp after a few minutes. If it is a warm-mist humidifier, make sure it's far enough away from him so that he won't get burned.
You can also run hot water in the shower and close the bathroom door. Sit with your child in the steamy room for 10-15 minutes.
Keep your child calm. It will be harder for him to breathe if he is upset.
You can clear a stuffy nose with salt-water drops (1 teaspoon of table salt in one cup water). Gently suction out the nose with an ear bulb every few hours.
Your child should drink plenty of clear liquids.
Quiet play is best. Running around can make the cough worse.
You may want to sleep in your child's room to keep an eye on his breathing.
How long does croup last?
Croup usually lasts for 2 to 3 days.
A wet cough with mucous may last for 1 or 2 weeks.
Infants and children may return to school or daycare if they feel better and don't have a temperature.
You don't need to keep your child home from school because of a lasting cough.
How can croup be prevented?
Little can be done to prevent the spread of infection in your house.
Children who come into contact with croup will probably get a sore throat or cough.
Coughing helps get infected mucous out of your child's airways. Do not use cough medicines to stop the cough.
When should I call the doctor?
Go to the emergency room if your child is drooling or has trouble breathing for more than 20 minutes.
Go to the emergency room if your child has blue lips, sucks in his chest with each breath, or is losing consciousness.
Go to the emergency room or call the doctor if you believe something is caught in your child's throat.
Go to the emergency room or call the doctor if your child is breathing very fast.
Call the doctor if your child has an earache, fitful sleeping, or becomes increasingly grumpy.
Call the doctor if your child has a fever over 104 degrees F (or 40 degrees C) or a fever that lasts more than 5 days.
Quick Answers
Croup is an illness of the respiratory system.
Croup can be caused by either a viral or bacterial infection.
Croup can cause a barking cough and troubled breathing.
Croup is contagious. It can be spread through sneezing, coughing, and direct contact.
Inhaling moist air can help your child breathe easier. Use a humidifier, steam the bathroom, or take your child in the night air to help him breathe.
Croup usually lasts for 2 to 3 days.
Children who come into contact with croup will probably get a sore throat or cough.
Call the doctor if you have questions or concerns about your child's illness.
References
The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, "Croup," 1996-2001. URL: http://www.chop.edu/cgi-bin/consumer/your_child/wellness_index.jsp?id=-8886
KidsHealth, "Croup," 1995-2001 URL: http://www.kidshealth.org/Pagemanager.jsp?dn=KidsHealth&lic=1&ps=107&cat_id=&article_set=22991
Pediatric Infectious Diseases Journal, "Croup: Information for Parents and Patients," (Virtual Children's Hospital) 1992-2001 URL: http://www.vh.org/Patients/Ihb/Peds/Infectious/Croup2.html
Title Page
Home | About Us | FAQ | Reviews | Search | Connect with us @pedseducation on and @pedsimaging on
Additional pediatric resources: GeneralPediatrics.com | PediatricEducation.org | SearchingPediatrics.com
Virtual Pediatric Hospital is curated by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and by Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D.
Please send us comments by filling out our Comment Form.
All contents copyright © 1992-2019 Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. and the authors. All rights reserved.
"Virtual Pediatric Hospital", the Virtual Pediatric Hospital logo, and "A digital library of pediatric information" are all Trademarks of Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D.
Virtual Pediatric Hospital is funded in whole by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. Advertising is not accepted.
Your personal information remains confidential and is not sold, leased, or given to any third party be they reliable or not.
The information contained in Virtual Pediatric Hospital is not a substitute for the medical care and advice of your physician. There may be variations in treatment that your physician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
URL: http://www.virtualpediatrichospital.org/