What are the Benefits of Zinc in Pregnancy? - Pregnancy Stages
Skip to content
Search for:
Home
About and Contact
Privacy Policy
Pregnancy Stages and Pregnancy Tips
About pregnancy stages, week by week pregnancy analysis and baby health; you can find all kinds of information that you want.
Pregnancy
Everything you want to know about pregnancy stages
After Pregnancy
Everything you want to know about after pregnancy
Pre-Pregnancy
Everything you want to know about Pre-Pregnancy
Pregnancy Week by Week
Everything you want to know about pregnancy week by week
Baby Health
Everything you want to know about baby health.
Women’s Health
Everything you want to know about womens health.
What are the Benefits of Zinc in Pregnancy?
Posted on November 2, 2018 December 13, 2018 by Midowe
Although Zinc is a trace element, it has important functions for life.
It helps your body to transform fat, protein and carbohydrates, and helps your baby to be fed.
Zinc supports the body in cellular size. It plays a role in strengthening the immune system as well as in cell construction, division and protection. It also provides benefits in conceptual development, reproductive and bone health.
Most pre-pregnancy multivitamin contains high amounts of zinc, but it is more wiser to get zinc from food sources.
You can consume these foods to make sure you get enough zinc: Zinc supplemented cereal, red meat, veal and lamb, poultry; especially turkey, whole wheat bread, nuts, dairy products and eggs.
Contents
1 Zinc For Your Baby
2 Zinc for an Easier Birth
Zinc For Your Baby
Getting enough zinc has a positive effect on the baby’s intelligence development.
This conclusion was achieved in research conducted at 2 health centers in the UK and Bangladesh and it published in the medical journal Lancet.
During the research, the effect of zinc that mothers take during their pregnancy on 13 months old babies was examined. Babies of mothers who taken 30 milligrams of zinc per day during pregnancy were found to be more intelligent and more resistant to disease than control group. It was also revealed that zinc can increase the resistance against diseases in children born with low weight.
Zinc for an Easier Birth
Zinc is a must to have a healthy pregnancy process! A study shows that zinc deficiency, which is important in the development of the baby, is present in 70 percent of the expectant mothers. At the same time, zinc which effective in the timing and regular development of labor, facilitates delivery and reduces possible laceration.
With this, miscarriage and stillbirth can be seen in zinc deficiency. Zinc which needed heavily in the winter months, especially recommended for pregnant women who do not want to catch flu and colds.
Fatigue, loss of smell and taste sensation, thinning of nails and white spots on the nails, recurrent infections are symptoms of zinc deficiency. Only a doctor should decide on its deficiency and supplementation. Unnecessary zinc supplementation is as detrimental as its deficiency.
Always consult your doctor before starting zinc supplementation.
Posted in Pregnancy, Women's Health
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Categories
After Pregnancy
Baby Health
Pre-Pregnancy
Pregnancy
Pregnancy Week by Week
Pregnant
Women's Health
Best Sleeping Positions During Pregnancy
Best Sleeping Positions During Pregnancy
How is the Pregnancy Due Date Calculated?
Pregnancy Due Date Calculated
Frequently Asked Questions in Pregnancy
Frequently Asked Questions in Pregnancy
Latest Articles
Fever in Babies: Symptoms and Treatment
Feb 23, 2019
Tetanus Vaccination in Pregnancy
Feb 20, 2019
Cough in Babies
Feb 17, 2019
Archives
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
Last Comments
bandarq on Oral Thrush in Babies: Causes, Symptoms and Treatments
DRB on Oral Thrush in Babies: Causes, Symptoms and Treatments
happymother on 31 Weeks Pregnant: Advice for Parents
Amy on Benefits of Calcium in Pregnancy
Suzi on 11th Week of Pregnancy
Sitemap
Pregnancy Stages
© 2019 Pregnancy Stages and Pregnancy Tips. Through PregnancyStages.Net you can reach informative and current contents about pregnancy stages. The most exclusive articles about pregnancy and babies will be shared on our website. We will be happy to share the information with you for more comfortable stages of pregnancy.