Sinus Congestion - My Symptoms
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
Mypurmist Pty Ltd, The ONLY Australian and New Zealand Official Importer
Register
Log In
Products imported through the official importer come with Australian power supplies that conform to the Australian electrical standards.
Home
Products
My Symptoms
Why Steam?
Testimonials
Support
Shop
0Item(s)
0 Items View Cart
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Allergy Symptoms
Wash away allergens and environmental pollutants with soothing steam
Cold, Flu and Cough
Warm steam relief for your worst flu and cold symptoms, including coughs
Dryness Symptoms
Moisturise sinus, nose and throat passages with soothing mist
Sinus Congestion
Ease your sinus pressure and pain with a natural expectorant
Breathing Conditions
Direct germ-free symptom relief to reduce inflammation and relieve congestion
read more
See how mypurmist uses 100% natural steam to provide fast relief
mypurmist free cordless
ultrapure steam inhaler
Get the world's most advanced steam inhaler! Provides 100% natural, drug-free, and ultrapure therapy for sinus congestion, colds and allergies.
ultrapure sterile water
20 x 30ml refills
The most sterile and purest form of water commercially available. When used with mypurmist, it provides a pure, and warm therapeutic mist.
mypurmist free
handsfree strap
A specially designed adjustable elastic strap so you can use your mypurmist free when on the move without having to hold it.
mypurmist free
ScentPad 4 pack
Releases soothing aromatic vapours of Eucalyptus and Peppermint for non-medicated comfort and a peaceful nights rest.
Shipping Information
Learn about our shipping options.
Warranty Registration
Register to apply for warranty
FAQ
All your questions answered
Contact Us
Get in touch with us
Home
Products
mypurmist free cordless ultrapure steam inhaler mypurmist ultrapure sterile water mypurmist free handsfree strap mypurmist free additional mask mypurmist free scentpad 4 pack
My Symptoms
Allergy Symptoms Cold, Flu and Cough Dryness Symptoms Sinus Congestion Breathing Conditions
Why Steam?
Testimonials
Support
Shipping Information Warranty Registration FAQ Contact Us
Shop
Register / Login
View Cart
My Symptoms
Allergy Symptoms
Cold, Flu and Cough Symptoms
Dryness Symptoms
Sinus Congestion
Breathing Conditions
Why Steam?
Watch our TV ADs
Mypurmist TV ad 30 sec
Mypurmist TV ad 60 sec
Mypurmist V4 Cordless
How to use cordless mypurmist free
Professionals
Overview
Research Studies
Resources
Testimonials
Real Users
Medical Experts
Celebrities
Celebrity Quotes
Shop
Nasal Decongestant
Steam Mask
Natural Remedies For Sinus Infection
Nasal Congestion Relief
Remedies For Cough & Cold
Natural Sinus Congestion Remedies
Product was successfully added to your shopping cart.
Go to cart page
Continue
Sinus Congestion
My Symptoms
Sinus Congestion
Sinusitis and Sinus Headaches
What are sinuses?
There are four pairs of sinuses in the human head. The largest ones are located behind the cheekbones and in the forehead above each eye. The sinuses are air filled cavities which are lined with mucous. The mucous is continually being swept into the nose to moisten the air we breathe and to keep the nasal passages clear of allergens and pollutants. Sinuses also act to lighten the bones of the skull and serve as sound-resonance chambers for speech.
Sinus congestion, sinus headaches and sinusitis
When not properly drained, mucous builds up in the sinuses and they can become inflamed, this is known as sinusitis. Inflammation can be the result of a cold or flu virus as well as from untreated allergic rhinitis (commonly known as hay fever). These conditions lead to a blocked nose which in turn blocks the sinuses. Other causes of sinusitis include crooked nasal anatomy (deviated septum), nasal polyps, smoking and overuse of decongestant nasal sprays. Sinus headaches can also occur from blocked sinus passages. Sinusitis can be acute, lasting up to 4 weeks, or chronic lasting from several weeks to years.
Common Symptoms of Sinusitis
Symptoms include headache, sinus pressure, facial pain, runny nose and nasal congestion.
How to Treat Sinusitis
Treatments include pharmaceuticals such as paracetamol or ibuprofen for pain and anti-inflammatory sprays and short term use of decongestant. Natural therapies include saline nasal sprays and irrigation, as well as steam. If an infection is present antibiotics may be required. Surgery might be necessary for patients with persistent and chronic conditions.
Why Steam?
Steam inhaled through the nose moisturises and soothes the inflamed, swollen passages and sinus cavities that triggers sinus congestion and pain. Warm steam vapour is a natural expectorant which helps to dislodge the mucous trapped within the stuffed-up sinus cavities. By expelling the blockage, pressure is relieved as is the facial pain and headaches associated with sinusitis. The therapeutic benefits of steam are recommended by doctors and leading medical sites. Being all natural, there is no unpleasant side effects.
91%
of mypurmist users saw an improvement in sinus discomfort and sinus congestion
mypurmist User Survey
September 2015
As someone that suffers from hay fever and mild asthma I have a cupboard full of medications. mypurmist has given me relief that has allowed me to cutback completely on the sprays and pills feeling relieved and comfortable. Cant recommend the natural remedy enough!
Nic, Perth
Natural
100% drug-free. Steam is a doctor recommended natural decongestant
Instant
Instant fine mist penetrates deep into your sinuses, nose, and throat
Ultrapure
Ultrapure water vapour - free from allergens, germs and pollutants
Cordless
Handheld, use anywhere, anytime. Instant ON, and no maintenance
Sinus congestion can be eased by steam inhalation and is often advised by doctors. Patients complain that it is easier said than done. mypurmist solves this problem, making steam inhalation easy and convenient
Dr Joe Kosterich (M.B.B.S), GP, Perth WA
Why mypurmist?
mypurmist uses advanced innovative technology to deliver steam directly into your nose, sinuses and throat. Using double distilled pure water through a patented capillary force action, it produces instant fine steam that can be temperature controlled to your liking.
mypurmist was developed in the USA to treat not only the symptoms of sinusitis and blocked sinuses but also allergic rhinitis (hayfever), cold and flu. It provides instant superb natural relief and can be used by anyone in the house over 12 years old. A survey of mypurmist users in the USA found 92% had improvement in their symptoms.
Instant fine mist penetrates deep into your sinuses, nose, and throat, providing superb relief
100% natural & 100% drug-free
Handheld, portable, and lightweight
99.9999% germ-free warm mist
Microprocessor controls multiple safety features and regulates temperature within 37.7°C - 46.1°C
Instant steam for fast relief > No waiting
Automatic drying cycle > No cleanup
No boiling water > No scalding risk
Great for the whole family (for ages above 12 years)
Over 500,000 mypurmist's have been sold in the USA. It is now exclusively available in Australia. As we so strongly believe in the mypurmist, we offer a 21 day money back guarantee*.
Shop Now
Dryness Symptoms Questions & Answers
What type of symptoms is mypurmist recommended for?
mypurmist relieves the inflammation and congestion of your sinuses, alleviates mucous membrane dryness; and helps keep nasal passages moist and clean.
mypurmist can provide symptomatic relief for:
Allergies
Sinusitis - sinus infections
Colds
Flu
Laryngitis
Nasal, sinus and chest congestion
Coughs
Parched or dry throat
Lessening mucus production
Discomfort from sore throat
Sinus headache
Can I use mypurmist for my symptoms?
mypurmist can provide symptomatic relief for any of the above symptoms. However, for any other symptoms you can use mypurmist if you believe humidification would be useful for alleviating those symptoms. mypurmist provides the most efficient form of humidification and is very easy to use. So, if you are looking for humidification, mypurmist is very likely to be an exceptional option.
I am exposed to occupational dust, or pollen, or other irritants - will mypurmist help me?
mypurmist provides directed humidification and will effectively rinse out the nasal passage. By removing an irritant quickly from the nasal passage, you will prevent congestion caused by inflammation of the passages. Using mypurmist as quickly as possible right after exposure to an irritant, including dust, is the best way to avoid inflammation and congestion.
How does mypurmist help?
mypurmist reinvents steam therapy utilizing breakthrough patented Capillary Force Vaporizer (CFV) hospital technology*. mypurmist provides instant, targeted, and directed 100% humidity right where and when you need it and nowhere else, providing superb relief from inflammation and congestion caused by allergies, sinus infections, the common cold, and flu. Steam is a doctor recommended natural decongestant used by millions and mypurmist is the world's most advanced steam inhaler making steam delivery effective, safe, and easy. mypurmist is 100% natural drug-free solution to all your sinus and upper respiratory symptoms. mypurmist sets a new standard for effectiveness, safety, purity, convenience, and ease of use. mypurmist provides instant fine mist that penetrates deep into your sinuses, nose, and throat effectively washing away irritants and allergens.
*CFV technology as used in FDA-cleared PARI Hydrate Omni humidifiers for hospital ventilator therapy.
Is mypurmist safe to use for mould allergies?
Humidifiers will create humidity in the entire room. Normal recommendation is to keep the room approximately 40% humid. High humidity causes mould in the room that can make your symptoms even worse. However, mypurmist is directed humidity, so it will only provide humidity where you need it and will not humidify the room. This can in turn help the inflammation and congestion that you may have because of mould allergies.
Will my sense of smell improve after using mypurmist?
mypurmist can provide symptomatic relief for any of the above symptoms. However, for any other symptoms you can use mypurmist if you believe humidification would be useful for alleviating those symptoms. mypurmist provides the most efficient form of humidification and is very easy to use. So, if you are looking for humidification, mypurmist is very likely to be an exceptional option.
Is mypurmist Doctor Recommended?
Yes, mypurmist is recommended by doctors in the USA and Australia and received rave reviews on leading doctor shows in the USA. In addition, medical institutions like Harvard Medical School, Cleveland Clinic, National Institute of Health (NIH), Columbia University Medical Center, and Kaiser Permanente recommend use of steam for symptomatic relief. mypurmist is the world's most advanced steam inhaler utilizing patented Capillary Force Vaporizer technology previously only available in FDA cleared hospital ventilator humidifiers.
What are the benefits of steam?
Steam has been used for decades to provide therapeutic benefits to the upper respiratory system. Steam inhalation is a natural and effective treatment for respiratory conditions and is highly recommended for treatment of the common cold, sinusitis, allergies and laryngitis.
Steam relieves inflammation and congestion of upper respiratory mucous membranes, it moistens dry nasal passages, thins and loosens mucus for easier elimination and helps clear congestion.
Inhaling steam also helps to relax muscles, thereby relieving coughing. mypurmist is the world's most advanced steam inhaler making steam delivery effective, safe, and easy. mypurmist has harnessed and maximized the therapeutic power of steam in a simple handheld device that is easy to use.
DISCLAIMER: Please note, information contained on this page is not intended to replace medical advice, if symptoms persist seek professional medical treatment.
* Terms and conditions apply.
Cordless Steam Inhaler
Truly enjoy your freedom to breathe anywhere, anytime!
Introducing mypurmist free, the world's most advanced steam inhaler! It provides 100% natural, drug-free, and ultrapure therapy for sinus congestion, cold, and allergies
Shop Now Comes with a 21-day, 100% money back guarantee
Shipping
Free shipping on any orders over $99
(Applies to Australia only)
21 Day Money Back Guarantee
Try the mypurmist risk free today with a
21 day 100% money back guarantee*
Products
Shop Now
Menu
Home
Why Steam?
Testimonials
Register
Login
Contact Us
Products
Cordless Steam Inhaler
Additional Mask
Handsfree Strap
Ultrapure Sterile Water
Scentpad
My Symptoms
Allergy Symptoms
Cold, Flu and Cough
Dryness Symptoms
Sinus Congestion
Breathing Conditions
More Information
Shipping Information
Warranty & Returns
FAQs
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
About Us
CALL US NOW
1300 121 316
or
Contact us
Steam Inhaler
Best Steam Inhaler Online
Steam Inhalation Machine
Handheld Nasal Steam Inhaler
Steam Breathing Mask
Nasal Mist Machine
Benefits
Sinus Congestion Relief
Nasal Decongestant
Sinus Pressure Relief
Nasal Steamer
Cold Remedy
Symptom Relief
Hayfever
Allergies
Sinus Infection
Coughs & Colds
Natural Sinus Relief
© MyPurmist 2019. All Rights Reserved
Digital Marketing by King Kong Digital Marketing by King Kong
* Terms and conditions apply