Vitamin E Oil for Scars? - Pharmacist Tom gives you the answer you need in just one minute.
Popular
Site Search
What's New
Remedies A-Z
Ailments A-Z
Home
Popular Remedies
Maca
Turmeric
Coenzyme Q10
Serrapeptase
Q & A's
Facts or Hype?
Does It Work?
Answers to FAQ
Health Articles
Remedies Reviewed
Common Ailments
Erectile Dysfunction
Low Sex Drive
Infertility
High Blood Pressure
Skin Tags
Insomnia
Warts
Yeast Infection
Herbs for Anxiety
ADHD Natural Cures
References
User Forum
Health News
Resources & Links
Site Map
Privacy Policy
New Nav HeaderNew Nav Header
About Us
BEe
Coffee For ADHD
Planning to Use Vitamin E Oil for Scars?
Does vitamin E oil really works for scars?
Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin that has shows antioxidant benefits and is found in abundance in the skin. Because of these reasons, many people believe it will help the skin to rejuvenate and eliminate the appearance of scars.
In one well-designed study (double-blinded clinical trial) involving 15 patients, there was no difference between those using the vitamin E cream and those using just the plain cream.
However, another study showed that adding vitamin E to silicone gel (designed for reducing the appearance of scars) was slightly better than just using the silicone gel alone after a 2 month period.
Keep in mind that vitamin E oil does help other skin conditions like burns and skin damage from excessive sun exposures.
Anecdotal reports suggest applying vitamin E could help fade and heal scar marks. But clinical research studies don't seem to support this claim of healing scars. So, the truth is, it look like using vitamin E wouldn't be very helpful despite what people might believe.
On a positive note, clinical studies do show that silicone gel or pads are effective in reducing the appearance of scars. Try using silicone based-products first. They are a little bit pricey but at least we know that they work!
Related to Using Vitamin E for Scars
Discover the benefits of Vitamin E
Go back to FAQ List
References for Vitamin E Oil for Scars
Revised: 25.04.2015
Use the search box below to quickly find what you are looking for!
Home | What's New! | A-Z Herbs | A-Z Ailments | FAQ's | Sitemap | Privacy