July | 2012 | THE TICK THAT BIT ME
THE TICK THAT BIT ME
A supportive resource for patients with Lyme, Borrelia hermsii, and other tick-borne infections
Home
Tick 411
My Story
Whole Person
Infection Fact Sheets
Glossary
Contact
jump to navigation
Choline Breakfast in Mom’s Kitchen 07/29/2012
Posted by thetickthatbitme in Choline Diet, Whole Person.
Tags: Borrelia, Central Coast, choline, eggs, Food, health, Lyme, Sourdough, tomatoes
2 comments
I’m excited to be visiting my parents this week, especially because their kitchen is always filled with fresh fruits and vegetables. I missed the Central Coast’s superior tomatoes!
Tomato and egg sandwich on toasted sourdough.
Choline count: 2 eggs (250 mg) + 1 tomato (12 mg) + sourdough bread (15 mg) = 277 mg of choline
Happy Sunday everybody!
Related articles
This week’s choline diet highlights (thetickthatbitme.com)
The Choline Diet: Herbivore Style (thetickthatbitme.com)
You are What Your Mother Eats: Higher Choline Means Lower Cortisol For Baby (valerieberkowitz.wordpress.com)
Advertisements
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
More
Email
LinkedIn
Reddit
Tumblr
Pinterest
Print
Like this:
Like Loading...
What a difference a year makes! 07/14/2012
Posted by thetickthatbitme in Patient Stories, Treatment.
Tags: Borrelia, Borrelia hermsii, brain fog, choline, energy, healing, health, IV antibiotics, Lyme Disease, medicine, pain, Relapsing Fever, ticks, treatment
2 comments
A year ago yesterday was when I started my treatment for Borrelia hermsii. I left my home, my boyfriend, and my dog to stay with my parents so I could get treated with 42 days of IV antibiotics. Looking back on this time last year, so much has changed:
1. My knowledge level. I’m embarrassed to say that when I started treatment, I couldn’t even tell you if a tick has eight legs or six. (I never saw the ticks that bit me.) I knew nothing about the habitat or biology of ticks, and I didn’t know how many different diseases they can spread. I didn’t know how to spell Borrelia. Pretty much all I knew was that I was infected with a bacterium that was like Lyme but not Lyme that causes Relapsing Fever. This was strange to me because I never remembered having a fever–cold sweats, yes, but no measurable fever. I’d had IVs in my hand before when I’d been hospitalized, but I didn’t really understand what an infusion was, or that it mattered which vein a needle goes in. I had no idea what PubMed is. I’d read maybe three medical journal articles in my lifetime. Over those six weeks, I learned a lot from my doctor and other patients, and I kept learning through support group meetings and emails. Finally, I got up the energy and courage to launch this blog, and well…you know the rest.
2. My energy level. The fall of 2011 was when I should have realized something was wrong. I was student teaching in the mornings and teaching my regular classes at night. I remember what a struggle it was to get out of bed in the morning. Getting dressed was like running a marathon. I’d had back surgery the previous June, and I was in this hard brace that everyone called my turtle shell. But it wasn’t just my back that was a problem. Even with eight to ten hours sleep, by noon, I was struggling to stay awake. My 30 minute drive home on the freeway was terrifying. The only thing that kept my eyes open most days was if I was constantly chewing something, so I tried to always have snacks with me. When I got home, I’d take a 90 minute nap–which was never enough–and then I’d get up and go to work again. When the semester ended, I thought I would catch up on rest, but even only working part-time, I was constantly fatigued. I spent any time that I wasn’t working in bed. When I had to go on a business trip in March, I freaked out. How would I handle being on someone else’s schedule? How would I go six or seven hours without lying down? By June, I was freed from back braces, and my spine had healed, but I still felt awful. And I felt guilty. How had I become this lazy, unmotivated person who spends all her time in bed? A year later, I have my life back. I work two jobs, plus freelance work. I cook dinner for Boyfriend and me several nights a week, do all the grocery shopping, and keep the house clean. I walk my dog and ride my bike. I go shopping and to the movies with friends, drive long distances, and even occasionally babysit. Before, I only had the energy to do one or two of these things per day. I was a spoonie with a very low spoon limit. If I cleaned the house, that was it for the day. If I went to the store, I probably wouldn’t have the energy to cook the food I’d bought. If I taught a 3 hour class, I would come home and sleep the rest of the day. All of this I tried to conceal from my family and friends. I tried to be fine because there was no explanation for why I wasn’t.
Spoon chasing. (Image via unfocusedcreativity.blogspot.com)
Looking at how much better I am now makes me realize how sick I was. Yesterday, I had a two-hour morning conference call, after which I worked on the computer for another hour. Then I ate lunch and went to the grocery store. When I got back, I cleaned out the fridge, put the groceries away, and then did a thorough de-clutter and clean of the entire house. I read a chapter in my book, took a shower, and went out to dinner with Boyfriend. All that activity would never have fit into one day when I was sick. I was up again this morning at 8:00, feeling rested.
Weather-style pain scale. (Image via fibroofoz.blogspot.com)
3. My pain level. I was on strong prescription painkillers for a year and a half, starting in June 2010 after my surgery. Clearly, I didn’t get off them when I was supposed to, 6-9 months post-surgery. That’s because I didn’t just have back pain. It was in my hips, neck, and shoulders, too. The pain didn’t completely go away right after treatment. It’s been a slow progression. In the fall, I was able to wean myself off painkillers and just use heating pads when my back or joints bothered me. We know from the research that reactive arthritis may simply be part of the package for some patients with treated Borrelia infections. This is my framework for understanding some of my continuing aches and pains. For me, low-impact exercise, comfortable shoes, heating pads, and a memory foam mattress pad help a great deal. Whereas before my daily pain level rarely dropped below a four, even with drugs, now I’m at a one or a two most days, and I’m drug-free, aside from very rarely taking Advil.
What brain fog does to reading a book. (Image via a-b-martin.blogspot.com)
4. My cognitive level. The ability to think, speak, and write clearly is essential to my livelihood. Having a Borrelia infection plunged me into what many people describe as a “brain fog.” For more than a year, I was sort of drifting through life, not able to think very clearly about anything. It came on gradually, and after my surgery, it got worse, which I attributed to the pain and the painkillers. Now I’ve met enough fellow patients that I see the pattern. I understand how this infection clouded my cognition. One of the reasons I didn’t start writing this blog while I was getting treated was that I couldn’t focus well enough. Even post-treatment, it took me a few months to start feeling sharp again. I really noticed the change this past semester when teaching got easier. I was able to learn the names of all my students within the first three weeks–which hadn’t happened the previous four semesters. My focus and mental endurance were so much better, as was my time management during class. I felt sort of like I’d woken up from a long sleep. The time in my life when I was very sick seems blurry. Now, not only do I have the energy to do more, but I have much better concentration. I can even go back and look at things I wrote two years ago and see the difference in sentence structure. All I can say is it’s good to be “back.”
What I’m doing to stay well, one year out:
(Image via Wikipedia. Credit: Ren West)
1. Eating my eggs. You wouldn’t believe how “off” I feel if I go a day without an egg. That’s probably because my neurologically-damaged body likes choline, and eggs are full of it. I also find myself craving green vegetables. In fact, whenever friends ask me where I want to eat, I usually say, “Anywhere with good veggies.” I know there are many diets out there that are designed to help people with Borrelia infections avoid inflammation and other problems, and many of those recommend avoiding meat, dairy, gluten, and sugar. Personally, I’m not really cut out for that. I’m not the kind of person who can say, “I’m not going to eat X” when X is something that I really like, like sourdough bread, or milk, or chocolate. That’s not to knock the vegetarian, dairy-free, gluten-free, and/or sugar-free diets. I recognize that they do work for some people. However, I’m pretty sure that my body needs both meat and sugar to function normally, so I’ve always been opposed to giving up those. Other than being lactose-intolerant, I have no problems with dairy, and I don’t have more pain when I drink my Lactaid milk than on days when I don’t, so I’m not so concerned with the inflammation factor there. I seem to tolerate gluten pretty well, but I do try to limit my grains, as they’re not the best source of choline. No one gets between me and my egg sandwiches, though.
2. Staying active. I spent a large percentage of a year in bed, and going back there is very tempting at times, especially since during that time I developed a large collection of movies and TV shows, and my bed is VERY comfortable. Because I used to do most things from bed, I’m just now getting used to LIVING in my living room, WORKING in the office, and SLEEPING in my bedroom. (In fact, I’m breaking this rule now, typing the first draft of this from bed, but it’s a Saturday, and I’ve been working all week, so I don’t feel bad.) For me, staying active means not only “working out” (by walking the dog, riding my bike, and playing Dance Central on Xbox) but “getting stuff done.” I used to put off doing things and tell myself, “I’ll do it when I’m not so tired, or when I’m in less pain.” Now I don’t have those excuses, and it’s much less burdensome to get things done right away. Procrastination used to be a form of self-preservation. Now it’s a habit I have to work to break.
3. Preventing re-infection. After what I’ve been through, the last thing I want is another tick-borne infection, so I make sure that both my dog and I stay out of high risk areas for ticks. When we walk, we stay on the sidewalk. Boyfriend and I keep the yard clean–which is not too difficult since our backyard is mostly concrete. We treat Lucy monthly for fleas and ticks, and I’m always spraying that Cedarcide. I’ve decided not to do any hiking or camping for a while. When I want to enjoy the outdoors, I ride my bike or go to the beach.
4. Staying current on my tests. I get my blood drawn every 3 months so my doctor can check my antibody titer. My doctor said if I have a four-fold rise, then we’ll need to consider re-treatment. So far, I’ve been okay, but I want to be vigilant. I don’t want to get re-infected and not know about it.
Hope everyone is having a wonderful weekend!
Related articles
5 Things That Helped Me Heal
Q&A with Dr. W: Labs and Testing for Borrelia Infections
Ceftriaxone (Rocephin): Is your doctor following directions?
A fellow patient shares her story
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
More
Email
LinkedIn
Reddit
Tumblr
Pinterest
Print
Like this:
Like Loading...
Six Tick Misconceptions 07/05/2012
Posted by thetickthatbitme in Diagnosis, Prevention, TBI Facts.
Tags: Babesia, Borrelia, Colorado Tick Fever, health, Lyme Disease, medicine, misconception, Ornithodoros, prevention, Rickettsiosis, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, tick, Tick-borne disease
4 comments
I have a confession to make. I have a phobia of most creepy-crawly things–roaches, mosquitoes, spiders, and especially ticks. When I see pictures of any of these critters, my first instinct is to shield my eyes. Ick! But what I should be doing is taking notice, so that if a tick ever gets on me again, maybe I can identify that little jerk.
This tick I can stand to look at. (Image via templeofcartoonmojo.blogspot.com)
Today’s post is about the misconceptions that many people have about ticks. As I warn frequently, there’s a lot of misinformation about ticks and the diseases they spread in the mainstream media and on the Internet. Here are six big misconceptions.
#1: Only deer ticks transmit diseases.
Deer ticks (a.k.a. blacklegged ticks) carry a lot of pathogens, including those that cause Lyme disease, Anaplasmosis, Babesiosis, and Bartonellosis, but they’re not the only ones you need to worry about. Dog ticks (Dermacentor variabilis) and wood ticks (Dermacentor andersoni) carry Rocky Mountain spotted fever (Rickettsiosis), Tularemia, and the Colorado Tick Fever virus. The lone star tick (Ambylomma americanum) carries Ehrlichiosis and the pathogen that causes STARI; bites from this tick have also been linked to a delayed allergic reaction to red meat. Two other types of Rickettsiosis, Rickettsia parkeri and 364D Rickettsiosis can be transmitted by the Gulf Coast tick (Amblyomma maculatum) and the Pacific Coast tick (Dermacentor occidentalis), respectively. Q fever (Coxiella burnetii) can be transmitted by the brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus), Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni), and the lone star tick (Amblyomma americanum). Last but not least, soft-bodied ticks like Ornithodoros hermsi, Ornithodoros parkeri, and Ornithodoros turicata transmit Relapsing Fever-causing species of Borrelia. These ticks can live up to ten years!
#2: Lyme disease is the most dangerous thing I can get from a tick.
Though life-threatening complications like myocarditis can occur in the later stages of Lyme disease, B. burgdorferi infection is rarely fatal in the first months of infection. Many patients survive years without being properly diagnosed and treated. By contrast, Rickettsiosis (Rocky Mountain spotted fever) can be fatal in the first 8 days of symptoms (which vary greatly from person to person and don’t always involve the spotted rash) if it goes untreated. Female tick saliva also contains a neurotoxin that can cause tick paralysis, which can be fatal if the tick is not found and removed.
#3: I can’t get sick unless the tick is attached 36-48 hours.
While the CDC claims this is true for Lyme disease, if the tick has bitten you, there’s always a chance that bacteria or a virus is already in your system. Even if the tick doesn’t infect you with bacteria or a virus, you are still at risk for tick paralysis (see #2). In the case of soft-bodied Ornithodoros ticks, which spread Relapsing Fever Borrelia, feeding may only take a few minutes, and then the tick falls off, often undetected. (You can read more about soft-bodied ticks here.)
#4: If I don’t go hiking or camping, I’m not going to get bitten by a tick.
While participation in these activities does put you at higher risk for tick exposure, ticks can hide out in plenty of other places besides the forest floor, including the leaf litter in your yard. Ticks can hitch a ride into your yard on any of the wildlife on which they feed, including deer, mice, squirrels, and birds. They can hitch a ride into your house on your dog or cat. And don’t forget other four-legged friends like horses and sheep. If you have mice in your house or attic, you probably also have ticks. To avoid exposure, you should limit your contact with leaf litter, tall grasses, wood piles, and bird feeders. When hiking, stay in the middle of trails, wear long pants tucked into your socks, and wear repellent. Avoid sleeping in cabins that may be infested with rodents (and thereby ticks). After spending time outdoors or with animals, do a thorough tick-check. (This requires getting naked.) And if you’re a fan of spelunking, know that ticks—particularly soft-bodied ones—can live in caves too.
#5: If I don’t have a rash or a fever, the tick that bit me didn’t give me a disease.
At least 20% of people infected with Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme) don’t have the characteristic erythema chronicum migrans (bull’s-eye) rash (EM). People with other tick-borne illnesses may be asymptomatic or have other symptoms (like joint and muscle pain or fatigue) that may not directly suggest an infection. That’s why it’s important to keep track of all of your symptoms following a tick bite, and to save the tick for identification and testing. You should always make sure your doctor is aware of any tick bites or tick exposures you may have had—and be clear about what regions/countries you’ve visited and what animal exposure you’ve had.
#6: I can use soap or Vaseline to remove a tick, and afterwards I should burn it with a match.
The proper way to remove a tick is with tweezers, grabbing the tick close to the skin, and using a slow, steady motion to pull it out. Using soap or Vaseline will not help you get a better grip on the tick, and may increase the likelihood that you squeeze the tick, causing it to regurgitate bacteria and other pathogens into your skin. Once you remove the tick, you should store it in a secure container and bring it to your doctor’s office for identification and testing. If you do get sick, it will be helpful to know what kind of tick it is and what pathogens it’s carrying. Don’t destroy the evidence with a match! If for some reason you can’t save the tick (because you’re too busy spelunking), at the very least try to take a picture of it. You’ll probably need a zoom lens.
So how do I spot them?
I usually try to link to pictures of ticks instead of posting them on this site because seeing tick photos can be a bit traumatizing to those of us who have been sick with tick-borne infections. However, for the purpose of prevention education, I’ve included pictures of all the ticks mentioned in this post (that I could find) in the slideshow below. You can read about the geographic distribution of hard-bodied ticks in the U.S. here and the habitats of soft-bodied ticks here.
Related articles
Four (surprising) places ticks hang out
Infection Fact Sheets
Major Misnomer: 8 things you need to know about Rocky Mountain spotted fever
This slideshow requires JavaScript.
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
More
Email
LinkedIn
Reddit
Tumblr
Pinterest
Print
Like this:
Like Loading...
The Choline Diet: Herbivore Style 07/01/2012
Posted by thetickthatbitme in Choline Diet, Tick-Lit, Whole Person.
Tags: allergy, Anaplasmosis, Borrelia, Borrelia hermsii, choline, diet, health, Lyme Disease, meat, steak, vegetarian
add a comment
In the past, my choline diet posts have been mostly geared towards omnivores, as eating eggs and meat is an easy way to get one’s daily dose of choline. If you’re new to this blog–or just forgetful–I’ve been on a choline-rich diet since I started getting treated for Borrelia hermsii and Anaplasmosis last year. My doctor recommended this because I had some neurological involvement with my illness–brain fog, chronic fatigue, arthralgias–and there’s research that suggests that eating choline helps our bodies produce more of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Choline has also been linked to lower levels of inflammation. In addition, choline is particularly important for pregnant women, as higher choline intake during pregnancy is associated with a lower risk of neural tube defects in infants.
Image via doubleeaglefitness.wordpress.com
So that’s why I’m always telling my readers to eat their eggs and meat and green veggies. However, since a study led by Scott Commins at the University of Virginia linking lone star tick bites to red meat allergies gained national media attention (ABC, CNN) a few weeks ago, I’ve been thinking about how to make my choline recipe recommendations more herbivore-friendly.
After my last choline-related post, I stumbled upon the USDA Database for the Choline Content of Common Foods, which is a fairly good resource (and handy since it comes in a searchable PDF), although it doesn’t include everything I like to eat. (For example, the desserts section is severely lacking.) The other issue with it is that the choline values are reported in mg per 100 grams of food, and the average person may not eat 100 grams of some of those food items in one sitting–particularly the spices. (100 grams of chili powder, anyone?) So keep in mind that the choline numbers below are based on that ratio, and don’t think you’re getting 120 mg of choline in a pinch of mustard seed. This week, I decided to go through the database and find the foods with the most choline. For my herbivore/vegetarian readers out there, whatever your reason for avoiding meat (moral, dietary, tick-bite-induced allergy…), here are the top choline sources from several non-meat categories:
Top 10 Veggies:
edamame—56 mg*
broccoli (boiled) —40 mg
cauliflower (boiled) —39 mg
tomato paste—39 mg
artichokes (boiled)—34 mg
peas (boiled)—28 mg
spinach (cooked) —28 mg
asparagus (boiled) —28 mg
sweet corn (boiled) —22 mg
red potatoes (baked) —19 mg
Top 10 Fruits:
dried figs—16 mg
clementines—14 mg
avocados—14 mg
dried apricots—14 mg
raspberries—12 mg
raisins—11 mg
prunes—10 mg
mandarin oranges—10 mg
medjool dates—9.9 mg
bananas—9.8 mg
Top 10 Nuts and Seeds:
flaxseed—79 mg
dry roasted pistachios—71 mg
roasted pumpkin seed kernels—63 mg
roasted cashews—61 mg
dried pine nuts—56 mg
sunflower seed kernels—55 mg
almonds—52 mg
hazelnuts—46 mg
dry roasted macadamia nuts—45 mg
pecans—41 mg
Top 5 Legumes:
creamy peanutbutter—66 mg
boiled navy beans—45 mg
baked beans—28 mg
firm tofu—28 mg
soft tofu—27 mg
Top 10 Spices:
mustard seed—120 mg
dried parsley—97 mg
garlic powder—68 mg
chili powder—67 mg
curry powder—64 mg
dried basil—55 mg
paprika—52 mg
ground turmeric—49 mg
ground ginger—41 mg
onion powder—39 mg
*All measurements are given in mg/100 g of food
I hope these lists get you on your way to a diet more rich in choline, whether it includes meat or not.
This concludes the herbivore section of this post. If you don’t want to be tempted with any meat, try clicking over to some of my other posts.
***
If you’re here in search of choline diet inspiration of the omnivore variety, I haven’t completely forgotten you. Here’s a glimpse of what I had for lunch.
Steak sandwich on pumpernickel with avocado and tomato.
Happy Sunday, everybody! And watch out for ticks!
Related articles
Eat Your Eggs, Benedict!
Snacking in the name of choline
Ehrlichia: confusing cousins, the blood supply, and the new kid on the block
My Story
Four (surprising) places ticks hang out
Fresh Friday: 10 Reasons to Eat Egg Yolks (doubleeaglefitness.wordpress.com)
Share this:
Twitter
Facebook
More
Email
LinkedIn
Reddit
Tumblr
Pinterest
Print
Like this:
Like Loading...
search
Like THE TICK THAT BIT ME on Facebook
Like THE TICK THAT BIT ME on Facebook
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 495 other followers
Sign me up!
Archives
July 2013
February 2013
November 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
What We’re Talking About
Anaplasma phagocytophilum Anaplasmosis antibiotics Arthritis azithromycin Babesia bladder Blood donation Blood transfusion board certification Borrelia Borrelia burgdorferi Borrelia hermsii breakfast CDC Ceftriaxone choline chronic Lyme communication diagnosis diet doctor accountability doctors doxycycline Dr. Phil eggs Ehrlichia embarrassment Entamoeba histolytica facts Food healing health hermsii hiking humor illness infection IV antibiotics IV therapy labs Lyme Lyme-literate Lyme Disease media medical records medicine misdiagnosis mistreatment mushroom neurogenic patient experience patient rights patients pets PICC line pregnancy prevention proactive recipe Relapsing Fever research Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever spinal subtraction osteotomy TBI tick tick-borne Tick-borne disease tick bite ticks treatment TV ugly stepsister Wall Street Journal
Latest Tweets
So glad CR is highlighting the dangers of #supplements: 15 Supplement Ingredients to Always Avoid - Consumer Reports consumerreports.org/vitamins-suppl…from	2 years ago
Bravo to TickEncounter for using crowd sourcing to collect info on ticks! #Lyme #Borrelia tickencounter.org/tickspottersfrom	4 years ago
It's #tick questing season. Be smart out there. #Lyme #Borrelia #prevention commonhealth.wbur.org/2014/05/tick-s…from	4 years ago
Interactive Tick-Borne Illness Map | DiscoverMagazine.com discovermagazine.com/2013/nov/putti…from	5 years ago
RT @nytimeshealth: Well: The Trouble With Rice nyti.ms/1f47eIKfrom	5 years ago
Follow @tickthatbitme
Top Posts & Pages
Four (surprising) places ticks hang out
Eight things you need to know about Anaplasmosis
9 things you need to know about Borrelia miyamotoi
Six Tick Misconceptions
My Story
Infection Fact Sheets
All IV therapy is the same, right?
Borrelia hermsii (TBRF)
Choline Diet
Anaplasmosis
Categories
Choline Diet
Diagnosis
Humor
Media
meta-blog
Patient Stories
Peer-Reviewed
Prevention
Reblogs
TBI Facts
TBID Facts
Tick-Lit
Treatment
Uncategorized
Whole Person
© thetickthatbitme.com, 2012. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from this blog’s author and/or owner is strictly prohibited. Excerpts and links may be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to thetickthatbitme.com with appropriate and specific direction to the original content. For questions, e-mail thetickthatbitme@gmail.com
Blog Directory Web Directory Blog Directory | Submit to Directories and Promote your Blogs
Advertisements
Feeds
Full
Comments
Blog at WordPress.com.
Top
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: