Natural Wart Remedy - ModernMom
Home
Brooke Burke
Must Have
Recalls
Contributors
Contests & Twitter Parties
Become An Insider
ModernMom Store
ModernMom
The premiere destination for moms
Parenting
Pregnancy
Baby
Kids
Tweens and Teens
Ask Dr. Psych Mom
Cooking
Around The House
Crafts
At Home
Education
Travel
Pets
Decorate
Money
Career
Living Healthy
Breast Cancer
Health & Fitness
Body after Baby
Beauty
Relationships
Love
Celebrate
Holidays
Easter
Valentine’s Day
New Year’s
Christmas
Hanukah
Halloween
Thanksgiving
Birthdays
Parties
Tech
Entertainment
Hot Topics
Games
You are here: Home / Living Healthy / Health/Fitness / Natural Wart Remedy
Natural Wart Remedy
June 24, 2010 by ModernMom Staff Leave a Comment
Common warts grow on your fingers and hands; plantar warts grow on the bottom of your feet. Both types of warts are caused by a strain of the human papillomavirus. Warts are also contagious. You can spread your warts to others by sharing towels or anything else that comes in contact with them. You can also spread your wart to other parts of your body by touching it. A wart can clear up on its own, but several remedies you can try might help you get rid of it faster.
Duct Tape
Covering a wart with duct tape is one surprising natural remedy. According to the Mayo Clinic, covering a wart with duct tape is more effective than freezing it off. You will be wearing a piece of duct tape over the wart for the next two months, so you may want to try another remedy if the wart is visible. Cover the wart with a piece of tape and leave the tape in place for six days. Remove the tape and soak the wart in warm water for about five minutes. Scrub the wart with a pumice stone, then cover the wart with a new piece of tape. Repeat every six days until the wart is gone.
Vitamin Treatments
Other natural wart remedies that may be effective include treating the wart with vitamin E or vitamin D-3, according to Health911 and the Mayo Clinic. To treat with vitamin E, break open a gel capsule and apply some of the oil to a bandage. Cover the wart with the bandage, reapplying as needed until the wart is gone. You can also try covering the wart with a vitamin D-3 patch until it clears up.
Garlic
Rubbing the wart with garlic can help it clear up. Garlic contains the sulfur compound allicin, which gives it its distinct taste and smell. According to the World’s Healthiest Foods website, allicin also has anti-viral properties. To treat your warts with garlic, Health 911 recommends slicing open a clove and rubbing it on the wart. Cover the wart with a bandage. Wash the wart the next day, and reapply the garlic until the wart goes away.
Salicylic Acid
Most over-the-counter (OTC) wart treatments contain at least a 15 percent solution of salicylic acid. The acid is an effective way to remove warts, but you need to be careful using it. Getting the acid on non-infected parts of your skin can lead to irritation and burning. Soak your warts in water for a few minutes before applying the acid. Cover the wart with a bandage after treatment. Use a pumice stone to remove dead tissue and continue to apply the acid until the wart goes away.
Warning
You should check with your doctor before trying any natural wart remedies. It is important to know for sure that what you are treating is actually a wart. It could be something more serious. If you are pregnant, you should avoid treating your wart with salicylic acid, unless you specifically have your doctor’s permission.
Photo Credit
garlic in the pigtail image by Maria Brzostowska from Fotolia.com
Comments
comments
Filed Under: Health/Fitness
About ModernMom Staff
Search
Contests & Twitter Parties
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
ModernMom TV
We Are Never “Asking For It”
The following is a guest post by Alane Miller Howell, …[Read More...]
ModernMom TV
How to Find Out Your Pregnancy Due Date
Ready or not, he's coming. The usual date of your period …[Read More...]
Does Pregnancy Cause Flu-Like Symptoms?
Several pregnancy symptoms do indeed mimic flu symptoms, …[Read More...]
How to Ask a Guy You Are Seeing Where You Stand
Now that you have gone on a few dates with that special guy, …[Read More...]
What Type of Vitamins Help Fertility?
When you are trying to conceive, taking steps to improve …[Read More...]
How to Bake Frozen and Pre-Breaded Chicken
How to Bake Frozen and Pre-Breaded Chicken Convenience …[Read More...]
How To Know If A Married Man Hides His Feelings For You
Married people, both men and women, often find themselves …[Read More...]
Different Kinds of Textures for Children
Teaching Your Children About Texture For better or for …[Read More...]
{ proper_display('modernmom_main_1'); }
About Us
Contact ModernMom
Advertise With Us
Press
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 · Mom, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Reproduction of any portion of this website only at the express permission of Mom, Inc. The information provided on ModernMom is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.