Pure Vitamin E Oil for your face | My Women Stuff
About Me
Contact Me
For PR
Budget Beauty »
Save & Splurge
Makeup »
Eyes »
Brow pencil
Mascara
Eyeshadow
Eyeliner
Face »
BB Cream
Blush
Bronzer
CC Cream
Concealer
Foundation »
Cream Foundation
Liquid Foundation
Cushion Foundation
Highlighter
Loose Powder
Lips »
Lip Gloss
Lipstick
Lipbalm
Makeup Brushes
Skincare »
Cleanser »
Cleansing Balm
Cleansing Cream
Cleansing Gel
Cleansing Milk
Cleansing Oil
Cleansing Water
Makeup Remover
Mask
Moisturiser
Scrubs
Serum
Sunscreen
Toner/Lotion
Treatment »
Acne
Anti-Aging
Brightening/Whitening
Hydrating
Bath & Body »
Body Lotion
Body oil
Hair
Shower Gel
Facial Oils
Tips »
Tips & Discussions
Blogging Tips
Lifestyle »
Cooking at Chez PB
Beauty Services »
Hair Salon
Facial
Spa
Fashion »
Bags
Jewellery
Shoes
Home
Brands
Product Reviews
Beauty hor d’oeuvres
Home » Face » Pure Vitamin E Oil for your face
Pure Vitamin E Oil for your face
March 21, 2007 Paris B 84 Comments
Pure Vitamin E Oil as a moisturiser is a recent re-discovery for me, as well as being a recommendation from a friend. I used to use it many years back to heal acne scars but along the way, it got forgotten.
I have been using it for slightly more than a week now, and the results have been amazing! I only use it at night because its terribly sticky, and the box recommends it be left on overnight. The oil is thick and clear and its hard to spread on the skin, and be careful of your hair, if you have long hair. It sticks. The box has suggested to warm it up and apply on moisturised skin, but I haven’t gotten round to trying that.
The next morning, my skin feels soft and moisturised. by then, most of the oil has been absorbed into the skin. I usually lay a towel on my pillow so the oil doesn’t stain it. The immediate result I noticed was the lightening of the lines around my mouth, what is known as “laugh lines”. I had quite prominent laugh lines, but after about a week, they are now barely noticable. The slightly deeper lines will take longer, but any fine lines I have seem to have evened themselves out a bit.
Vitamin E is supposed to make a good natural anti-oxidant for the skin, and its good for lightening scars, acne marks and fine lines. I have some old pitted acne scars which I am hoping this Vitamin E oil will help even out with time.
I don’t intend to use it everyday all over my face (its too sticky), but only twice a week. I’m not sure if this oil will be too much for those will oily skin so if you have oily skin or combination skin, you might want to be more careful when trying it in case it causes more pimples.
For application purposes, I go for the highest IU (International Unit) I can find, which is Colonial Dames Vitamin E Oil.
The highest they have is 35,000 IU. The stickiness and viscousity gets less the lower the IU. I like this one as it comes in a pump bottle which makes it easy to dispense and to control. This is 100% Alpha (Vitamin E) and there is no smell. This retails for RM59.90 at Guardian and some other pharmacies (but not Watsons). You only use a little so it will last a while.
The other brand I’ve tried before this is Organic Aid.
This one comes in a glass bottle without a dispenser. The highest IU I’ve seen is 28,000 IU and the Vitamin E is derived from wheatgerm. I used it a long time ago which I started but I opted not to go back to this brand as I did not like the open mouth of the bottle. The oil residue will collect around the mouth and it goes rancid so it smells bad even if the rest of the oil is still good. This one is cheaper at about RM39.90.
I have also seen Vitamin E oil by Fruit of the Earth and The Body Shop. I’ve never tried them so I will not comment on them.
Opinion seems to be divided if Vitamin E has any benefits for topical application, but while it works for me, I’ll keep on using it.
UPDATE: Try not to use it to often as it could possibly clog pores if you have oily skin. I use it only once a week but nightly on scars.
[rating:4/5]
technorati tags: Vitamin_E, Vitamin_E_oil, face, skincare
84 Insightful comments ... Read or JOIN THE DISCUSSION
Pin188
Share20
Tweet
208 Shares
YOU MAY FIND THESE THESE POSTS HELPFUL TOO!
About Paris B
Paris B is a 40-something beauty and skincare enthusiast with a practical and very critical view of beauty products and the world of beauty. Her mission on My Women Stuff is to deliver clear, honest reviews and facilitate discussions about beauty trends and life, tempered with a healthy dose of humour. Let the buyer's remorse be ours not yours! When not testing the newest skincare creams and lotions, or playing with makeup, find her testing her culinary skills in the kitchen at Chez PB. Read more about us here or leave a comment below or connect with us on social media at Instagram, Facebook and Twitter!
PREVIOUS POST: Shiseido Summer 2007 collection
NEXT POST: Bra Straps that show
84 comments ... Read or JOIN THE DISCUSSION
maria says
December 25, 2009 at 2:57 pm
Hi I just got a new tattoo and its very very dry can I use skin oil vitamin e 12,000 on it
Reply
sidney says
February 17, 2010 at 2:26 pm
hi, i a vitamin e oil user (organic aid), almost finish 1 bottle. i have been using vit e oil twice a day after cleansing. it works for my dry sensitive skin. its great as i dont feel any greasiness even for day time used. it even softened my keloid. i hope everyone could discover themself the wonderful results of using it. After this bottle, i’ll switch to colonial dames
Reply
S says
March 22, 2010 at 8:01 am
i used vitamin E and it got my face very red not sure what to do? i feel its working (my skin is smooth), its this normal?
Reply
ParisB says
March 22, 2010 at 11:10 am
Be careful – your skin getting red might be a reaction. Some people react to Vitamin E
Reply
katy says
March 30, 2010 at 2:17 am
Hi guys,
anyone know if organic aid vit e oil are safe to apply at eyes are(like your eyelid and surroundings)?since its done miracle to my skin:)
thx alot!
Reply
dee says
June 16, 2010 at 5:28 am
it is an minor eye irritant
I smth sme on my crows feet, and it works wonders but a little too close t the eye and, when I happen t get it in my eye..it irritates it..
other whiles..LOVE IT!
I by the cheap kind frm walmart in the vitamin sectin and I swear the few wrinkles I have really do disappear!
Im 45
Reply
deva says
May 13, 2013 at 9:38 pm
hai i am having oil skin. i can use vitamin e oil ?
Reply
Nikki says
April 1, 2010 at 10:21 am
I find it easy to simply buy the soft Vitamin E tablets. I warm one up and simply squeeze or puncture the tablet until the oil flows. I find it less sticky if I mix it with my daily face moisturizer. I noticed that my skin is much smoother.
Reply
daljit says
July 8, 2010 at 8:42 am
can u please tell me the full name of those tablets?
Reply
mine says
April 6, 2010 at 11:32 pm
hi all,,,
i’ve been using Organic aid facial foam & moisturizing cream 4 a week…my skin become soft & amazingly not as oily as b4…ive became interested w8 all the good talk about vit E oil cos i do hv lines under my eyes…but can we apply it on eyes area??pls do rep any1
Reply
ParisB says
April 7, 2010 at 3:33 pm
Be careful applying thick vitamin e oil around the eye area because it can clog pores. Try a lighter oil i.e. lower dose if you like.
Reply
jean nunes says
May 28, 2010 at 12:21 am
where can i buy Vit E oil, organic aid, 28,000 units for my skin? derived from wheat germ oil. cost around 39.00 dollars. los angeles 90049
Reply
MsVal says
June 7, 2010 at 7:39 pm
I just started using Vitamin E, for my dark under-eye circles… it’s in a small vial and I just apply it under my eyes… it’s only about 5,000 IU, so I know that I have to wait a bit longer for dramatic results… I’ve also been using African Formula Black Soap with Cocoa Butter and Vitamin E, on my face and neck… overall I’ve gotten great results. My skin is brighter and more hydrated. My question is are there any know side effects from Vitamin E getting in the eyes?
Reply
dee says
June 16, 2010 at 5:31 am
its a minor irritant..MsVal
sometimes I use it for my crows feet and hap to get it in the eye……its not major but annoying….;)
Reply
daljit says
July 8, 2010 at 8:38 am
hi
can u please tell emif those pills were normal vitamin E pills we get from any pharmacy or its calls vitamin E facial pills? can u please tell me the full name of those pills.
Reply
pam says
July 12, 2010 at 10:19 am
I bought the general dollar brand 2.00 just to try..im half way through and i can see and feel a difference in my skin texture and lines.
Reply
vani says
July 17, 2010 at 10:44 am
Hi there
Just purchased a CD 35000iu from guardian cos it had a less RM10.00 offer a week ago. Both my daughter and I have started using but my daughter says her skin looks darker. Is this possible or are we imagining?
Reply
Rose says
August 6, 2010 at 3:24 pm
there is a roll on with a potency of 32000iu in a 32g bottle. I paid $12 Aus for. you can find it at any warehouse chemist.
it is called Medivite Pure vitamin e
Reply
Lisa says
August 29, 2010 at 9:40 am
I bought a bottle of Spring Valley Natural vitamin E soft gels a while ago cause I read some reviews too about being good for the skin but I never used them. I heard that you can just open them or cut them up and apply on to the skin. Now I’m in search of a good facial moisturizer cause I have extremely dry skin on my face that is so uncomfortable when I smile or open my mouth, it feels pretty tight like it’s going to break and it’s driving me crazy. I also have acne prone skin besides being dry. So I’m using Proactiv and downsized to Aveeno Tinted Moisturizer cause it’s 3 in 1 plus it helps fade away the blemishes left behind after the pimples are gone. I was using too many different products on my face and wasn’t seeing no results for my acne but now I think my acne is getting better and the blemishes too but now the big problem is the dry skin. I love the Aveeno Tinted Moisturizer cause it has SPF 30, gives me some coverage and fades away the blemishes but as far as moisturizing it doesn’t do much at all for me. I need a really good hydrating moisturizer. Any help, advice will be so appreciated! I have Vitamin E 1000 I.U. Will this one work good for my skin…?
-Thanks…
Reply
mitziril says
September 8, 2010 at 3:27 pm
i want to try it, because i want to make my skin smooth, but i am afraid coz i have oily and acne prone skin…and i come from a tropical area…and i dont know if i can find that those brands mentioned,but i will surely try to find one,or just use what’s available…
Reply
Yvonne says
September 23, 2010 at 10:13 am
Hello!! I first bought a bottle of vitamin e oil 28000iu for my son, he has stretched his earlobes and it helps. After reading this I am using it tonight on my face (after warming it in a cup of hot water) and on some stretch marks on my tummy and breasts. 🙂 Has anyone had good results with stretch marks ? Will it work to tighten the skin on my breasts?
Reply
Ann says
October 8, 2010 at 9:46 am
Hi Paris,
I have been a silent reader, and its about time I got around to thank you on your wonderful reviews.
I had been using Colonial Dames Vitamin E Oil almost every other night for the past month. The ingredients include Safflower Oil and Grape Seed Oil. I ‘accidentally’ bought it while scouting around for Vitamin E oil in Guardian Malaysia.
My secret to using it is to pump some toner onto the palm,then pump Colonial Dames Vitamin E Oil . This is make it less sticky and managable. One pump is good enough for me, as I have oily skin and prone to white heads and milia. Heat up the the two slightly by rubbing the palm. Apply by printing on the cheeks, nose, mouth and forehead area by using the palm. Dab the balance of the oil on your palm with your fingers and gently go through your eyes. The oil take time to absorb into my skin, about 2-3mins. If I use 2 pumps, there will be remainder of the oil on my skin and it will feel oily.
The morning after each night’s application, my skin feels soft, and radiant,no kidding… lol…. It has a soft glowy under the light, but it is not oily. I just love it.
Reply
ParisB says
October 8, 2010 at 9:51 am
Thank you so much for your tip! I’ll have to give it a shot some day 🙂
Reply
hana says
October 13, 2010 at 7:40 pm
im using this product now,,,yeah.. its good for scar..but the pimple come out too much on my cheek and forehead…:(
what am i suppose to do?
Reply
ParisB says
October 13, 2010 at 8:02 pm
It might not agree with your skin. Just apply it at affected areas and avoid your cheek and forehead. Or stop using it altogether.
Reply
Miranda says
March 7, 2011 at 9:55 am
Had used Vitamin E cream on my face for over 35 years. Unfortunately according to the surgeon who had the work of performing MOHS surgery on my face for the removal of BCC”s. When I asked her when I could resume using it for scar help she almost fell off the chair, asked if i had been using it in daylight, sunlight and said DON’T when I told her how long i had been using it. Unfortunately had the misfortune to have other major surgery for the same problem, and the Oncologist said when I asked her about using it also said DON’T UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES USE IT WHEN OUT IN THE SUN. Radiotherapy was not fun, Have had the latest op done for removal of this problem again and will never use it again. It doesn’t cause SKIN CANCER, but it has an adverse effect with sunlight. Oncologist said its a mixed blessing for me as looked 20years younger than I am, , but BCC’S ARE NOT FUNNY. Loved using it for so many years, but well and truly will never use it again, in the day light hours.
Reply
Ann says
April 2, 2011 at 3:45 pm
I am an African-American of a brown hue. I have had hyper-pigmentation (dark spots) develop under my chin from ingrown hairs that I have plucked. I started using Vitamin E Oil about two weeks ago on the area. I am seeing results; the hyper-pigmentation is fading and my skin tone appears to be returning to one even color. I am also a woman who loves to wear sandals, but I am plagued by cracked heels. I have started putting Vitamin E on the bottoms and sides of my feet and wearing socks to bed. I have noticed my feet are getting smoother, but my heels are still cracked. I am not putting the Vitamin E oil on my feet everynight. However, I would like to think that with more regular, continued use, I would get better results. I am using a Walgreen’s Brand of Vitamin E in a softgel capsule. This capsule has only 1000 I.U’s of d-AlphaTocopheryl Acetate and contains soybean oil as well as glycerin. I am going to look for Vitamin E with a higher I.U. I am hoping I can get better results in less time by doing so. I am in my 50’s.
Reply
Sam I Am says
October 9, 2011 at 2:04 am
I’ve been using Vitamin E oil as a moisturizer on my face under makeup for years. The secret to using it as a moisturizer is to wet your fingertips with cold water and gently smooth it in. A famous makeup used to have what they called Ester-Droplets and I believe it was nothing but Vitamin E oil and it was expensive. Now I just buy a bottle at Walgreen’s, it’s inexpensive and it works. My doctor actually double-checked my birthday (honest) and said no WAY do you look your age. I attribute this to my long-term use of Vitamin E oil as a moisturizer.
Reply
« Older Comments
Newer Comments »
Comment Policy:At MWS we love reading your comments. However, if you are new to leaving comments you may benefit from reading the comment policy first.
What's your view? Share it! Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Yes! Please notify me of reply comments via e-mail
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Bloglovin
Email
Facebook
Instagram
RSS
Twitter
Looking for Something?
NEVER MISS ANOTHER POST! Subscribe for weekly updates of all published content
Your first name:
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
BEAUTY TIPS & DISCUSSIONS
Travel Skincare Tip: Keeping up appearances on holiday or How to ace your base in low humidity
Are you OK? : Being present for yourself and for others
Skincare Tip: The 13 dot technique has transformed the way I apply moisturizer and I love how my skin feels!
The fun and previews happen on Instagram @parisbmws
Join over 8700 followers on Instagram
ABOUT ME · CONTACT ME · DISCLAIMER & COPYRIGHT · PRIVACY · ARCHIVES
© Copyright MY WOMEN STUFF 2007 - 2018 · All Rights Reserved