Common Cold Treatments: Decongestants, Cough Suppressants, and More
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Common Cold Symptoms Home
Medical Reference
Features
Slideshows & Images
Quizzes
Health Tools
News Archive
Cold, Flu, & Cough Home
Cold
Cough
Flu
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Boards
Medications
Find a Doctor
Related to Cold, Flu, & Cough
Allergies
Bronchitis
Cold & Flu Map
Ear Infection
Flu Vaccine
Sinus Infection
Strep Throat
Drug Interaction Checker
More Related Topics
Cold, Flu, & Cough
Reference
Nagging Cough? Ask WebMD
Understanding Common Cold -- Treatments
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
What Are Treatments for the Common Cold?
What Are Treatments for the Common Cold?
Since there is no cure for the common cold, treatment has two goals: to make you feel better and to help you fight off the virus.
Lots of rest is the key treating a cold. You may find you need 12 hours of sleep each night, so don't set that alarm. You'll be most comfortable in a warm, humid environment. It's also important to stay hydrated by drinking lots of water and avoiding alcohol and caffeine. This makes mucus flow more freely and helps with congestion.
No specific treatment exists for the virus that is causing your cold, but in treating the symptoms you can find relief. For aches and pains accompanied by a fever of 100.5 degrees or higher, give Tylenol rather than aspirin in children to avoid the risk of Reye syndrome, a sometimes fatal condition that may occur in children with viral illnesses. Adults can take Tylenol, aspirin or Naproxen OTC. There is a soft recommendation to avoid ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), which may increase replication of rhinovirus.
If your throat is sore, gargle as often as you like with warm salt water (1/2 teaspoon salt in 1 cup water).
Think twice before using heavily advertised over-the-counter cold and flu medications, which likely contain drugs for symptoms you don't have and therefore may result in needless overtreatment.The FDA and manufacturers now say that over-the-counter cough and cold drugs should not be given to children under age 4.
Over-the-counter decongestants containing pseudoephedrine can help dry and clear nasal passages, but only temporarily. Decongestant nasal sprays like oxymetazoline (Afrin) can help, too, but if they're used for more than three to five days, they may cause a "rebound" effect. This means more mucus and worse congestion. Pseudoephedrine may increase blood pressure and heart rate. Do not take it without first checking with a doctor if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, prostate problems, diabetes, or thyroid problems.
Over-the-counter decongestants containing phenylpropanolamine have been pulled voluntarily from the shelves because they increase the risk of stroke. If you have a drug containing this ingredient, also called PPA, throw it away.
Continued
Over-the-counter cough suppressants, such as those containing dextromethorphan, can be helpful if your cough is so severe that it interferes with sleeping or talking. Otherwise, allow yourself to cough as you need to (always covering your mouth as you do), because coughing removes mucus and germs from your throat and lungs.
Antihistamines seem to help some people, but their effect during colds remains controversial.
Good nutrition is essential for resisting and recovering from a cold. Eat a balanced diet. Take supplements as needed to ensure you are receiving the recommended dietary allowances for vitamin A, the vitamin B complex (vitamins B1, B2, B5, B6, folic acid), and vitamin C, as well as the minerals zinc and copper. Both vitamin C and zinc are essential for production of infection-fighting neutrophils; without adequate levels, you're an easy mark for all types of infections. Evidence shows zinc may shorten the duration of a cold, especially in adults if taken within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms. Avoid zinc nasal spray as it may lead to permanent loss of smell.
After much research, vitamin C is believed to have a small effect in preventing colds, and no benefit in treating a cold. There have been several large studies in adults and in children, but the results have been inconclusive. Taking a lot of vitamin C over a long period of time can be harmful.
Chicken soup has been heralded as a cold therapy since the 12th century. Recent scientific evidence shows mild support for the notion that chicken soup reduces cold symptoms, especially congestion.
Asian healing treatments often use hot soups to treat upper respiratory infections, making use of red pepper, lemongrass, and ginger, in particular. Any food spicy enough to make your eyes water will have the same effect on your nose, promoting drainage. If you feel like eating, a hot, spicy soup may help ease your cold symptoms.
To ease cold symptoms, the essential oils of aromatherapy may be rubbed on the body, inhaled with steam, diffused into the air, or poured on a cloth to be used as a compress. Try rubbing diluted eucalyptus oil on the chest as a decongestant, or inhale eucalyptus or peppermint oil to clear stuffiness. Adding lavender, cedar, or lemon to steam may also soothe nasal passages. Inhaling menthol not only provides relief from nasal congestion, but might help inhibit infection as well. Rosemary, thyme, mint, basil, and tea tree oils can also provide relief from symptoms of a cold. Use caution if you have asthma, since aromatherapy can trigger an attack.
Continued
Many Americans turn to herbal remedies to ease cold symptoms. Some research supports the use of the Chinese herbal remedies yin chao and gan mao ling. Rather than self-prescribe, it's best to consult an expert practitioner of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM).
Echinacea may help strengthen the immune system by stimulating the activity of white blood cells, but there is little evidence that it can prevent colds in particular. Several studies show adults using echinacea at the first sign of a cold suffered shorter and less severe illness. Because herbs are so poorly regulated and labeled in the U.S., however, it's difficult to know if the product you're using contains the right species and active ingredient. If you decide to try echinacea, take small doses for no more than eight weeks, since prolonged use may suppress your immune system.
Little research exists to support the use of other herbs, such as astragalus, eyebright, elder flower, garlic, ginseng, goldenseal, or yarrow.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by Sabrina Felson, MD on March 16, 2017
Sources
SOURCES:
Singh, M. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 2011.
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases: "Common Cold."
Palo Alto Medical Foundation: "The Common Cold."
University of Virginia Health System: "Upper Respiratory Infection (URI or Common Cold)."
National Jewish Medical and Research Center: "Getting Well When You Have a Cold or the Flu."
Medline Plus: "Common Cold."
FDA: "Colds and Flu: Time only Sure Cure."
American Lung Association: "A Survival Guide for Preventing and Treating Influenza and the Common Cold."
© 2017 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Top Picks
10 Foods to Eat When You Have the Flu
Personalized Treatments for Your Cold Symptoms
Tips to Survive Cold & Flu Season
Flu Shot and Side Effects
15 Immune-Boosting Superfoods
Myths & Facts About Colds
further reading
Slideshow: Natural Cold and Flu Remedies
Cold & Flu Treatment: Medication and Home Remedies for Children Slideshow
Stuffy, Cruddy, Icky: What's Got You Feeling Down?
Common Cold Overview
Quiz: The Truth About the Common Cold
How to Stop a Cold
Heart Disease and Colds
Common Cold Symptoms Topics
Today on WebMD
Natural Cold & Flu Remedies
15 tips to help you feel better.
The Truth About the Common Cold
Do echinacea and vitamin C really help a cold?
Calm a Nighttime Cough
Get a good night’s rest with these remedies.
15 Immune-Boosting Foods
Eat these to fight colds, flu, and more.
Recommended for You
Quiz
Can Fevers Be Good for You? Facts About Body Temperature
Article
Best Ways to Avoid Colds and Flu
Article
Is It a Cold or a Sinus Infection?
Slideshow
Germy Things You Touch Every Day
Article
How Exactly Do You Catch a Cold or the Flu?
Quiz
Superbugs: Fact vs. Fiction
Article
6 Things Crashing Your Immune System
Slideshow
Anatomy of a Sore Throat
Tools & Resources
Tips to Survive Cold & Flu
Do Antibiotics Cure Colds?
Calm Your Cough at Night
15 Immune-Boosting Foods
Inside an Ear Infection
Scratchy Throat: Is It Strep?
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.