KILL FAT CELLS INSTANTLY JUST BY FREEZING THEM! (YOU’LL NEVER BELIEVE HOW IT WORKS) - Fitness Woman Magazine
Fitness Woman Magazine
Challenge to Be Fit and Stay Fit
Home
About Us
Contact
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms and Conditions
Where to?SitemapAbout UsContactPrivacy PolicyTerms and Conditions
Home » Weight Loss & Diet » KILL FAT CELLS INSTANTLY JUST BY FREEZING THEM! (YOU’LL NEVER BELIEVE HOW IT WORKS)
KILL FAT CELLS INSTANTLY JUST BY FREEZING THEM! (YOU’LL NEVER BELIEVE HOW IT WORKS)
Admin January 4, 2016 KILL FAT CELLS INSTANTLY JUST BY FREEZING THEM! (YOU’LL NEVER BELIEVE HOW IT WORKS)2016-01-04T18:05:01+00:00 Weight Loss & Diet No Comment
Very unpleasant thing for many people, are the fat bulges. They also increase the risk for certain diseases, such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease despite the fact that they make our clothes fit tight and our thighs jiggle. The researches have tried to find ways to reduce them for decades.
People have 2 types of fat cells: brown and white fat and to help yourself to lose weight means to understand the differences between the two of them.
A thin layer of blubber that we see on a human body – on the thighs and the backs of the arms is “White fat” . This certain fat acts as a thermal insulator, which keeps the stability of the body temperature.
Less abundant in a body and making heat, rather than tricking it as the white does is “Brown fat” . In fact, brown fat warms cold body by burning calories or energy.
Where Do We Have Brown Fat?
Because it’s hard to find it in adults, and usually can be found in random locations in the body brown fat could be really difficult to study, and not always in the same region on every person. Most of the times there is an area in the shoulders and the neck, where you can find it, but again not on every person. The researches have shown that particular groups of people have more brown fat than others do. For instance:
More brown fat than older people have younger people.
Slender people have way more brown fat than overweight people.
People with a normal blood sugar levels have way more brown fat than the ones with high blood sugar levels.
Researches Have Shown Exposure to Cold Causes Fat Cell Death
Many experts claim that it could cause their bodies to not typically burn calories to keep warm because people spend so much of their time indoors, in offices and overheated homes.
“Cold thermogenesis” is a practice, which could double the volume of metabolically active brown fat, an increase in insulin sensitivity, and burn more calories.
Just by wearing shorts that is very significant for the formation of brown fata moderate intensity of cold thermogenesis could sit in 50 to 60 degree room.
Just by wearing an ice vest and a pair of some firm shorts that are filled with an ice packs a hardcore intensity of cold thermogenesis could be achieved. This particular practice makes the body to shiver and burns massive amount of calories.
Ice Therapy to Burn More Body Fat
Tim Ferriss the author of the book “The Four-Hour Body”, states that by adding ice therapy to your workout routine and healthy eating you could increase the fat burning potentials.
Using Ice Pack Therapy At Home in Order to Shed Excess Fat
For decades, the ice-packs prevent swelling in sport injuries and bring down an inflammation. That just by applying ice packs *to your skin it is possible to replicate these effects at your home, claim the experts.
What to Watch Out For
An incorrect usage of ice packs could cause skin burns, which can vary from mild burns of second or third degree, to serious burns of the first degree.
Between your skin and the ice you can use some thin layer as T-shirt.
Also, for a couple of minutes, till your skin adjusts you could try thin hand towel or a few papers-layer towels, and then remove the layer. The usage of material or thick towels will keep the ice not to decrease its benefits on the affected area.
There are some factors which increase the cold induced burn injuries throughout icing, and they include:
People that use medications that decrease the blood flow to the skin, like beta-blockers.
People that have peripheral vascular disease that decrease the blood flow to the certain tissue.
People that have peripheral neuropathy, which decrease the abilities to feel injuries.
Diabetes and smoking.
Symptoms of Cold Induced Burn Injuries:
Needles and pins sensation, followed by numbness and tingling
Pain and redness in the affected place
Waxy of firm skin that is white and totally numb
Skin blisters
Treatment of Ice Pack Burn:
If you develop the signs and symptoms of a cold induced injury, such as feel burning, developing blisters, itchiness, numbness, and pain sensation in the affected place you will notice an ice pack burn. The color of your affected place can turn yellowish-gray. In order to stop the burns not to become severe the affected area should be re-warmed.
The warming procedure should be GRADUAL not to burn yourself and cause more damage to your skin.
Soak the affected skin into warm water. That the temperature of the water should be from 104 – 108 degree, for about 20 minutes (never use a hot water) claims the National Institute of Health.
You could use warm compresses or wrap the affected area with some blanket.
Because this could cause even more damage avoid massaging and do not move the damaged area.
Because these areas are really numb and could burn very easily avoid a direct usage of dry heat to warm the affected place, as hair dryers or radiator.
http://www.fitnesswomanmagazine.com/kill-fat-cells-instantly-just-by-freezing-them-youll-never-believe-how-it-works/http://www.fitnesswomanmagazine.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Kill-Fat-Cells-Instantly-Just-By-Freezing-Them.jpghttp://www.fitnesswomanmagazine.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/Kill-Fat-Cells-Instantly-Just-By-Freezing-Them-150x150.jpg 2016-01-04T18:05:01+00:00 AdminWeight Loss & Diet
Very unpleasant thing for many people, are the fat bulges. They also increase the risk for certain diseases, such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease despite the fact that they make our clothes fit tight and our thighs jiggle. The researches have tried to find ways to reduce...
daniela.zdraveva2014@gmail.comAdministratorFitness Woman Magazine
Related Posts
Worth Trying:Only Two Cups A Day For 7 Days For A Completely Flat Belly
7 Secret Tricks To Lose Weight At Any Age!
Unbelievably Efficient Cucumber Diet Helps You Burn 14 Pounds in Just 2 Weeks
This Amazing Drink Before Going To Bed Will Melt Your Belly Fat Almost Instantly
Drink That Burns Belly Fat 4X Faster, Prevents Cancer And Eliminates Toxins
Brazilian Diet – Lose 24 Pounds in 1 Month!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
« Bullet-Proof Recipe to Help You Lose 15 Pounds Without Exercise
They All Laughed When He Put a Sock Inside His Car During Winter! Now They Are Doing the Same Thing! »
Search for:
Recent Posts
Cirrhosis of the Liver: Causes, Symptoms and Treatments
Baking Soda and Maple Syrup – Miraculous Combination That Can Treat Different Types of Cancer
Coffee that Damages Kidney and Liver
Make This Easy Turmeric-Tomato-Black Pepper Soup to Fight Cancer, Inflammation and More
Ancient Medicine: Apply Pressure To The Right Finger In Order To Get Rid Of Stomach Ache, Fear, Insomnia, Headache…
Recent Comments
Dani on How I Lost 22 Pounds With This Weird Lemon Diet in Just 2 Weeks
Nadeen H. on Bedtime Drink that Reduces Tummy Fat Like Crazy-Results Guaranteed!
NADEEN HALL on Bedtime Drink that Reduces Tummy Fat Like Crazy-Results Guaranteed!
Sara on How I Lost 22 Pounds With This Weird Lemon Diet in Just 2 Weeks
Kalina on How I Lost 22 Pounds With This Weird Lemon Diet in Just 2 Weeks
Archives
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
Categories
business & career
General
Health Tips
Recipes
Uncategorized
Weight Loss & Diet
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Facebook
Recent Posts
Cirrhosis of the Liver: Causes, Symptoms and Treatments
Baking Soda and Maple Syrup – Miraculous Combination That Can Treat Different Types of Cancer
Coffee that Damages Kidney and Liver
Make This Easy Turmeric-Tomato-Black Pepper Soup to Fight Cancer, Inflammation and More
Ancient Medicine: Apply Pressure To The Right Finger In Order To Get Rid Of Stomach Ache, Fear, Insomnia, Headache…
Hot Topics
Bedtime Drink that Reduces Tummy Fat Like Crazy-Results Guaranteed! (5)
How I Lost 22 Pounds With This Weird Lemon Diet in Just 2 Weeks (3)
Liver Cleansing Drink That Burns Belly Fat in Just 48 Hours (2)
Just a Slice of Watermelon a Day Helps You Lose Weight Extremely Fast (1)
These 6 Golden Rules Help You Lose a Lot of Weight Quickly Without Starvation (1)
Copyright © 2019 Fitness Woman Magazine Magimo WP Theme by MagPressGo back to top ↑
error: Content is protected !!