Knee and Hip Exercises for Osteoarthritis
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Knee Osteoarthritis Home
Medical Reference
Features
Video
Slideshows & Images
Quizzes
Health Tools
News Archive
Osteoarthritis Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Find a Rheumatologist
Medications
Osteoarthritis Guide
Overview & Facts
Symptoms & Types
Diagnosis & Tests
Treatment & Care
Living & Managing
Tools & Resources
Related to Osteoarthritis
Arthritis
Drug Interaction Checker
Living Healthy
Pain Management
Pill Identifier
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Tendinitis
More Related Topics
Osteoarthritis
Feature Stories
Knee and Hip Exercises for Osteoarthritis
By Sharon Liao
If you have osteoarthritis (OA) in your hips or knees, exercising may be the last thing you feel like doing. Symptoms like pain and stiffness in your joints can make it tough to work out.
But moving is important for hip and knee OA. It causes your joints to compress and release, bringing blood flow, nutrients, and oxygen into the cartilage. “This can help prolong the function and longevity of your joints,” says Eric Robertson, DPT, a physical therapist and associate professor of clinical physical therapy at the University of Southern California.
Physical activity can also help you feel better. “Along with boosting your overall health, exercise can improve your OA symptoms” like pain, stiffness, fatigue, and even depression, says Leigh F. Callahan, PhD, associate director of the University of North Carolina Thurston Arthritis Research Center. One study found that people with knee OA who worked out regularly lowered their pain by 12% compared to those who didn’t.
Ready to lace up your sneakers? No single workout is best. But some moves are better for hip and knee OA. Experts recommend doing a mix of the following three exercises. But first, remember to check in with your doctor before you start any new physical activity.
Aerobic Exercise
This is the type that strengthens your heart and helps your lungs work better. “It also burns calories, which can help you lose or maintain a healthy weight,” Callahan says. That’s important, because extra pounds add stress onto your hip and knee joints.
If you’re new to exercise, start with low-impact activities. They’re gentle on the joints. Good options for hip and knee OA include:
Walking
Swimming
Biking
Elliptical training
Cross-country skiing
To ease the pain and lower your odds of an injury, don’t try to do too much at once. “Start with just 10 minutes,” says Arina Garg, MD, a rheumatology fellow at The Center for Excellence for Arthritis and Rheumatology at the Louisiana University Health Sciences Center. “Every few days, increase that time by 5 to 10 minutes.” Your goal is to work up to 30 minutes of aerobic exercise, 5 days a week.
Continued
Strengthening Exercise
Strong muscles support and protect your joints. “Strengthening the lower body takes some of the pressure off of the hip and knee joints,” says William Oswald, DPT, a physical therapist and clinical instructor of rehabilitation medicine at NYU Langone Health. This can relieve some of the pain and protect against more damage. “It can also make daily tasks, such as climbing the stairs, easier,” he says.
A physical therapist can teach you the best leg-strengthening exercises for your joints. You may use a stretchy resistance band or light weights. “Yoga and tai chi can also build strength and improve your balance,” Callahan says. Look for classes that are geared for people with arthritis.
But you don’t have to sign up for a class or hit the weight room. You can also use your own bodyweight. These moves target the muscles that support your hip and knee joints:
Sit to stand. Sit in a chair. Slowly stand up, and sit back down again without using your hands. Focus on keeping your feet shoulder-width apart and knees over your feet. If you need help, use the armrests to lower yourself down. Repeat for 30 seconds.
Mini wall squats. Stand with your head and back against the wall. Place your feet shoulder-width apart. Squat down slightly, so that your knees bend at a 30-degree angle. Press back up to stand. Repeat 10 times.
One-leg balance: Stand next to a counter or table, and place one hand on it for support. Lift one leg and balance on the other for up to 10 seconds. As you get stronger, you can use one finger or let go of your support altogether. Repeat on the other side.
Range-of-Motion Exercise
Try these moves to ease the stiffness in your hips and knees. They can help improve your flexibility and how well you can move around. To get started, do the following hip and knee moves a few times a week. Try to build up to doing them daily.
For the knee:
Sitting knee extension. Sit in a chair. Slowly extend one leg as much as you can, or until it’s parallel to the floor. Hold for 1 to 2 seconds; lower back to the ground. Switch sides. Repeat 10 times.
Sitting knee flexion. Sit on the edge of a chair. (Make sure the chair is stable and won’t tip over.) Lift one knee and place your shin in your hands. Gently pull your shin toward your thigh. Hold for 1 to 2 seconds; lower back to the ground. Switch sides. Repeat 10 times.
For the hip:
Standing hip flexor stretch. Step one foot forward so that your feet are hips-distance apart. Bend your back leg slightly, and slowly bend your front knee, keeping your upper body upright. (Don’t let your front knee go past your toes.) Hold for 5 to 20 seconds. Repeat 10 times. You may need to hold onto a wall or the back of a chair for support.
Knee to chest. Lie on the floor on your back with your knees bent and feet flat on the floor (or straighten your legs in front of you). Bring one knee into your hands. Gently pull your knee toward your chest. Hold for 1 to 5 seconds. Repeat three times; switch to the other side.
Continued
What Exercises Should You Avoid for Hip and Knee Osteoarthritis?
Experts used to ban high-impact exercises, such as running and jumping, for people with hip and knee OA. The idea was that they could overload and damage the joint. But the opposite may be true for people with mild to moderate OA. “The impact may stimulate cells that repair in the cartilage,” Oswald says.
But this doesn’t mean that you can hop on a treadmill right away. If you’re just starting out, you need to build up your strength and endurance first. This can prevent injury. “Then slowly add in high-impact exercises,” Robertson says. “For instance, begin with just 5 minutes of jogging.”
Is your OA severe? Chances are you’ll need to steer clear of high-impact exercise altogether. Be cautious about the following workouts; check with your doctor if you’re able to do them.
Running, especially on uneven surfaces
Tennis, basketball, and other activities where you change direction quickly
Step aerobics and other workouts that involve jumping
WebMD Feature Reviewed by Michael W. Smith, MD on December 14, 2017
Sources
SOURCES:
Eric Robertson, DPT, physical therapist; associate professor of clinical physical therapy, University of Southern California; spokesperson, American Physical Therapy Association.
William Oswald, DPT, physical therapist; clinical instructor of rehabilitation medicine, NYU Langone Health.
Arina Garg, MD, rheumatology fellow, The Center for Excellence for Arthritis and Rheumatology, Louisiana University Health Sciences Center.
Arthritis Care Research: "Is There an Association Between a History of Running and Symptomatic Knee Osteoarthritis? A Cross-Sectional Study from the Osteoarthritis Initiative."
Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise: “Effects of Exercise on Patellar Cartilage in Women with Mild Knee Osteoarthritis.”
American Journal of Sports Medicine: “Running and Knee Osteoarthritis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.”
Arthritis Foundation: “Standing Hip Flexors and Quadriceps Stretches.”
© 2017 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Top Picks
Knee Injuries and OA
Tips for Living Better With OA
Knee Arthritis: Treatment Advances
10 Ways to Exercise Hands and Fingers
Gout: Risk Factors and Triggers
Better Sleep With Osteoarthritis
further reading
Slideshow: Exercises for Knee Osteoarthritis and Joint Pain
Slideshow: Tips to Keep Joints Healthy
How Osteoarthritis Affects Your Knee
An Exercise Fix for Knee Osteoarthritis
Hyaluronan Injections for Knee Osteoarthritis
Knee Injuries and Ostoearthritis
Quiz: Bone Up on Your Joints
Knee Osteoarthritis Topics
Today on WebMD
Staying Active
Even with arthritis pain.
Better Living With Osteoarthritis
10 tips for your daily routine.
Acupuncture Guide
How it helps arthritis, migraines, and dental pain.
Coping With Pain?
Get personalized tips to reduce discomfort.
Recommended for You
SLIDESHOW
18 Ways to Keep Your Joints Healthy
HEALTH CHECK
Living With Chronic Pain: What Can You Do?
Article
Adult Obesity and Arthritis
Article
Everyday Tips for Healthy Joints
QUIZ
Do You Know How to Relieve OA Pain?
Article
Tai Chi for Arthritis Relief
Slideshow
10 Exercises for Hand and Finger Pain
Slideshow
Devices to Make Living With OA Easier
Tools & Resources
Best Exercises for OA
Quiz: How to Relieve OA Pain
Exercises for Healthy Knees
OA Pain? Practical Tips to Help
Tips for Healthy Joints
OA: Symptoms and Risk Factors
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.