Foot and Ankle Problems By Dr. Richard Blake: December 2011
Foot and Ankle Problems By Dr. Richard Blake
Welcome to the Podiatry Blog of Dr Richard Blake of San Francisco. I hope that the information here will help you in some way. Please feel free to leave a comment on the blog, or email me questions at drblakeshealingsole@gmail.com. If the blog helps you, consider a $5 donation to keep the blog growing. Thank you so very much for the generosity. Dr Rich Blake
Total Pageviews
Followers
Search This Blog
Paypal Button for Donations
Saturday, December 31, 2011
Sesamoid Injury: MRI evaluation
The following series of MRI images closes out my first full year as a blogger. I started in 2010 and still have not found my rhythm of sorts. I am amazed that the blog has hit 150,000 page views. Thank you readers. I hope this blog has been helpful to many people and I will continue to work hard on the content in 2012. Happy New Year!! First some fireworks from the Hilton Hawaiian Village in Waikiki.
Here the injured tibial sesamoid (aka medial sesamoid) under the first metatarsal shows up white on this T2 image MRI. The arrow points to the injured sesamoid on the bottom of the foot at the ball of the foot. The first metatarsal overlying the sesamoid is also inflamed on its weight bearing surface making it difficult to walk. The same injury on the top of the joint can walk more easily. The the top and side of the first metatarsal intense soft tissue swelling is seen making it difficult to bend the joint. Sorry Jen!!
On this image, the normal fibular sesamoid (aka lateral sesamoid) shows up dark black. On this T2 imaging, normal bone, tendon, and ligaments are dark black. When they are injured, the normal healing process brings fluid into them and they get white reflecting that fluid.
On this image, the bottom of the ball of the foot is sliced. The tibial sesamoid is seen white, and the fibular sesamoid black. The arrow points to the grayish fracture line running through the sesamoid.
This same image is shown to demonstrate the intense swelling near the fracture, which occurred many months ago. This swelling will be addressed with contrast bathing (see blog post) and icing during the day. Anti-inflammatory medications like Advil or Aleve are contra-indicated since they can slow bone healing. Jen may need a bone stimulator to help heal this bone which is a notorious slow healer. She has been placed in a removable cast with her orthotics to off weight the injured bone.
Again the healthy fibular is highlighted by the arrow. Jen is upping her daily Vit D and Calcium. We are going to get a Bone Density Screen and Vit D3 blood levels. She has run low in the past. The injury occurred 6 months after childbirth and perhaps her estrogen levels were off. We need normal Vit D and estrogen to move calcium into bones. Even transient drops in these levels, at a time of increase activity, can produce a stress fracture.
On this section, the top of the foot, especially the top of the big toe joint is sectioned. The arrow points to the intense swelling at the top of the joint making it impossible to bend her toe. The initial X-rays taken were negative for fracture, but stress fractures can be a hair line and never show up. Many patients have X-rays for sesamoid injuries read as negative correctly, but still may have a stress fracture. With sesamoid injuries, you have to treat the worse case scenario, a possible fracture unless an MRI or bone scan proves it is not a fracture. X-rays are not great indicators since the injury can be too subtle to pick up. Many stress fracture locations are probably fine if the patient does not know exactly if the bone is fractured or not. The patient is still treated until the symptoms go away. With sesamoid fractures, when the stress fracture is not picked up, there is a greater chance of surgery down the road. As of right now, I told Jen she has about a 10% chance of surgery 6 to 12 months from now. We will get a new MRI in 3 months to check healing. If improvement is noted, the odds for surgery go now. If no improvement is noted, the odds for surgery go up.
This is a T1 image highlighting normal bone as white. The arrow points to the fracture line in the tibial sesamoid. The fracture is non displaced and has excellent healing potential. I tend to use bone stimulators when there is some displacement of the fracture pieces which could make healing slower or not occur at all. I love Smith and Nephew's Exogen Unit. It is used 20 minutes twice daily.
This T1 image shows the tibial (medial) sesamoid surrounded by inflammation. The inflammation is a grayish cloud that can be seen on top of the joint also. The fracture line is seen along with other areas of the bone which are darkened indicating healing is active. Emphasis on healing!!
This image shows the normal fibular sesamoid. The difference in the 2 sesamoids is quite distinct visually.
This T2 image really shows the healthy top bone, and the inflamed angry mad sore unhappy discontented "difficult to get along with" bottom bone. Sorry the image is on its side. When the bottom (plantar) part of the bone is involved, weight bearing can be difficult and harmful. If I can not get her weight bearing comfortably, but I should if I am worth my salt, she would have to be non weight bearing. The Golden Rule of Foot: You must always create a pain free environment for injuries to heal. Even though levels 0 to 2 pain is still considered good pain, pain is different for different people. Jen has a high pain threshold, so her level 2 may be a 4 or 5 for someone else. I have to be more cautious and protective in a high pain threshold patient, than a low pain threshold patient like myself.
The fibular sesamoid and underlying tendon to the big toe look normal.
This image shows the non displaced fracture line in the tibial sesamoid.
This T1 image shows the inflamed tibial sesamoid, and the inflamed bottom of the first metatarsal. The fibular sesamoid and all of the other metatarsals look very healthy. We can not rule out actual injury to the first metatarsal also, so I will be talking to Jen about getting a CT Scan in the New Year (less than 6 hours at the time of this typing). The CT Scan will only show bone and show me if there is anything more happening than just (poor choice of words) a sesamoid injury.
Jen, we have a little adventure ahead of us. Rich
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 6:21:00 PM 5 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Sesamoid, Sesamoid Fractures
Friday, December 30, 2011
Extrinsic Rearfoot Posting: Adding Stability with Birkocork
The following photos demonstrate the application of an extrinsic rear foot post. For many custom made orthotics, they are a vital component. For many Over The Counter devices like Superfeet, they can be added for greater stability. The Birkocork material is the same material used in Birkenstock sandals. It is heat moldable, and easily sanded. The material I purchase from JMS Plastics in New Jersey is bought 10mm thickness hard. It is heated in a convention oven at 475 deg F for 5 plus minutes until browning on top.
Typical San Francisco Sunrise!!
Extrinsic Rearfoot Post after years of wear and no longer stable against the ground. The entire post should be on the ground flush for maximal stability.
Another view of how the worn down rear foot post is no longer stable and in full contact with the ground.
The original post is removed. The surface is glued with Barge cement as is the surface of the birkocork. It is let to dry for 10 minutes.
Then the birkocork is heated at 475 deg F for 5 plus minutes until the top starts to brown.
It is now laid on top of the heel area of the orthotic device.
Utilizing a glued hand, the birkocork is molded to the shape of the heel cup.
Then the birkocork is placed on the ground and the sides are pushed in to attempt a straight vertical wall around the heel cup. All excess will be ground later by a sander.
This demonstrates 2 rear posts with birkocork, one in its raw stage, and the other sanded. The bottom surface needs still to be sanded.
This demonstrates the complete extrinsic rear foot post ground to be in full contact with the supporting surface at the same time that the leading edge of the orthotic is in full contact with the ground.
Another view of the rear foot post flush with the ground as is the front or leading edge of the orthotic device. This is very stable.
Another view of the complete sanded extrinsic rear foot post and a raw, not yet sanded, birkocork heel.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 8:57:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Foot Orthotic Devices, Rearfoot Posts
Thursday, December 29, 2011
Calluses: A Beauty Product worth checking out
http://www.amazon.com/Artemis-Woman-SMOOTHER-pedicure-appliance/dp/B001JYJLMY/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1325220512&sr=8-1
TX Podiatrist Discusses Dry Skin and Callused Heels
Dry skin and callused heels are by far the most common foot complaints. These conditions make feet look older and less attractive, and they can pose a significant health risk. Dr. Glen Beede, a podiatrist in Fort Worth, Texas, says that dry, cracked heels can fissure, causing pain or even tissue wounds. Left untreated, calluses continue to grow thicker and, if they become infected, they may require antibiotics.
Dr. Glen Beede
But, with a little know-how and some due diligence, you can keep your feet healthy and looking great, no matter what your age. Beede recommends the Artemis Woman Heel Smoother (artemiswoman.com), a hand-held, battery-operated pedicure tool that has earned the APMA's Seal of Acceptance. The device features a DuraCrystal tip that easily exfoliates dead skin on the feet and smoothes calluses without the use of chemicals or dangerous blades.
Source: South Florida Health [12/28/11]
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:04:00 PM 1 comment: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Calluses
Monday, December 26, 2011
How to Add More Stability to An Orthotic Device Via Topcovers
This simple trick has made many orthotic devices more stable over the years. Here I show a more complex version, but the general principle can be used just by adding a new top cover with medial and lateral wings. When the patient places their foot in the shoe, they must make sure the wings do not end up under their foot. They should be between your foot and the shoe. This trick can also be used with power lacing and simple tongue pads to greatly stabilize the foot and ankle for less pronation/supination tendencies.
Here is a right orthotic device that I will add stability to by using 1/8th inch poron (JMS Plastics) to the medial and lateral sides of the heel cup area. This will increase the surface area to grab the foot from moving. Of course, for a severe supinator, this can be done only to the lateral side (baby toe side), and for a severe pronator, this can be done only on the medial side (arch side).
Here the poron has been glued and the poron has been skived along the edge of the plastic.
The poron is now rounded to mold to the shoe easier.
Leather is used to reinforce the outside of the flaps or wings as I like to call them to make it more sturdy.
Here the leather reinforcement has been glued.
Here you can see the leather goes all the way down to the bottom of the rear foot extrinsic post.
Here the leather has been trimmed.
Side view of the wings created by the poron and leather. Any shoe repair store will have some scrapes of leather to use.
Another view on how the poron has been skived or beveled.
Here 1/8th inch neolon to cut to be the top cover of the orthotic (also purchased JMS Plastics).
Bottom view of the top cover glued and applied.d
Top view of the final trimmed product.
Closer view of the wings and top cover in place.
Close up view of the leather, poron, and neolon around one side of the heel cup.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:38:00 PM 1 comment: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Foot Orthotic Devices, Orthotic Modifications
Sunday, December 25, 2011
Cortisone Shots: Avoid Too Close to the Skin
When giving cortisone shots near the skin, it is important to avoid long acting Cortisone which can weaken the skin and soft tissue for up to 9 months. Here a shot into the plantar fascia 2 months prior left some skin breakdown which will need some time to heal. Protective covering along with daily softening cream should be used until the skin becomes healthy again.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 3:26:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Cortisone, Cortisone Shot Adverse Effect
How To Safely Drive In The Rain On The Way To Your Favorite Podiatrist
Sent to me by my good friend Kenn. Thanks Kenn.
DEFINITELY WORTH READING - The first tip is excellent. Have not tried the second.
Subject: Driving in the Rain (2 Life Saving Tips)
Driving in the rain -- this may save your life
GOOD VISION IN A DOWNPOUR
How to achieve good vision while driving during
a heavy downpour.
We are not sure why it is so effective;
just try this method when it
rains heavily. This method was told
by a Police friend who had experienced and
confirmed it. It is useful....even driving
at night.
Most of the motorists would turn on HIGH or
FASTEST SPEED of the wipers during heavy
downpour, yet the visibility in front of
the windshield is still bad......
In the event you face such a
situation, just try your SUN GLASSES (any
model will do), and miracle! All of a
sudden, your visibility in front of
your windshield is perfectly clear,
as if there is no rain.
Make sure you always have a pair of SUN
GLASSES in your car, as you are not only
helping yourself to drive safely with good vision,
but also might save your friend's life
by giving him this idea..
Try it yourself and share it with your
friends! Amazing, you still
see the drops on the
windshield, but not the sheet of
rain falling.
You can see where the rain bounces off the
road. It works to eliminate the
"blindness" from passing semi's
spraying you too.
Or the "kickup" if you are following
a semi or car in the rain. They
ought to teach that little tip in
driver's training. It really
does work..
This warning is a good one! I
wonder how many people know about
this~
A 36 year old female had an accident several
weeks ago and totaled her car. A
resident of Kilgore , Texas
she was traveling between Gladewater
& Kilgore. It was raining, though not excessively,
when her car suddenly began to hydro-plane and
literally flew through the air. She
was not seriously injured but very stunned
at the sudden occurrence!
When
she explained to the highway patrolman
what had happened he told her something
that every driver should know - NEVER DRIVE IN THE RAIN WITH YOUR CRUISE CONTROL ON
She thought she was
being cautious by setting the cruise
control and maintaining a safe consistent
speed in the rain. But the
highway patrolman told her that if the cruise
control is on when your car begins to hydro-plane
and your tires lose contact with the pavement,
your car will accelerate to a higher rate
of speed making you take off
like an airplane. She told the patrolman
that was exactly what had occurred.
>
The patrolman said this warning should
be listed, on the driver's seat
sun-visor - NEVER USETHE CRUISE CONTROL WHEN
THE PAVEMENT IS
WET OR ICY , along with the airbag warning.
We tell our teenagers to set the cruise control and
drive a safe speed - but we don't tell them
to use the cruise control only when the
pavement is dry.
The only person the accident victim found,
who knew this (besides the patrolman),
was a man who had a similar accident,
totaled
his car and sustained severe
injuries.
NOTE: Some vehicles (like the Toyota
Sienna Limited XLE) will not allow you to
set the cruise control when the
windshield wipers are on. If you send this
to 15 people and only one of them
doesn't know about this, then it was all
worth it.. You might have saved
a life.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:09:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Thursday, December 22, 2011
Nature's Healing Powers: 25% of you will feel deep peace with this video
When you are in pain, and whether or not you believe in God, you will find this video of Nature has great healing powers. Happy Holidays. Dr Rich Blake
I love seeing the differences in people. I love seeing the great array of complexities patients bring into my office. And, at a deep level, I love to get a sense how various people sense the world around them. We are so different, yet so much the same. Our human nature pulls us together. Facebook wins because we all, at some level, feel lonely. We all crave for deeper meaning. One psychologist explained that we all search for the deeper meaning in life primarily in one of four ways: Through Truth, Through Oneness, Through Beauty, or Through Peace. This nature video will especially work on those of us who feel inspired with the beauty of nature. But, the rest of us will enjoy if we love the oneness of nature, or the peace imparted by nature, or the truths imparted by nature.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:15:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Meditation for Healing
Wednesday, December 21, 2011
Juvaderm: A Fat Pad Possible Replacement? The Jury is still out.
Tissue Filler Can Delay or Prevent Hammertoe Surgery: NY Podiatrist
When Diana Smirkle had painful corns which conservative treatment did not work, she turned to Dr. Johanna Youner in Manhattan for one of the latest techniques in foot pain relief. "It's an off-label use of filler that has been FDA-approved for areas on the face, the nose, and the labial folds for years, and we found it safe and effective in the feet," Dr. Youner says.
Dr. Johanna Youner
The filler, Juvederm is injected beneath the corn and fills up surrounding tissue that has been lost through years of wear and tear. The filler not only evens out and shrinks the corn, it triggers the body to replace its own worn out tissue. "Using filler we can either delay surgery or halt it all together," Dr. Youner says.
Source: Amy Leone, WUSA-9 [12/20/11]
http://www.juvederm.com/views/what-is-juvederm/?cid=ppc_gg_juvederm
http://www.zeel.com/t/Juvederm/review?utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=Non-Invasive_Search&gclid=COb6pKfZlK0CFQhbhwod0VOdlw
http://www.yourplasticsurgeryguide.com/injectables-and-fillers/juvederm.htm
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 7:19:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Fat Pad Replacement, Juvaderm
Sunday, December 18, 2011
Bunions: What the top covers on your orthotics should not look like!!
I am getting a lot of mileage out of these inserts for my blog since they tell a great story. Orthotic devices are used all the time for long term preventative care of bunions. If you look at the wear pattern of these insoles recently removed from the top of a pair of orthotics for refurbishing, you will see that there is way too much pressure under the first metatarsal. This pair of orthotics will not prevent bunions, they may speed up the formation of bunions. There is too much pressure under the first metatarsal which makes the bunion worse. Golden Rule of Foot: If you are designing a pair of orthotic devices to slow down the development of bunions, you must shift the weight under the arch and into the center of the foot. We have to say that the majority of the weight on this pair is on the first metatarsal which is not good for bunion care. A redesign of the orthotics is in order. Also, this brings up the point of when to refurbish the orthotic devices. I believe that once a year ideally, the patient should relinquish their orthotics for several days for analysis of the wear pattern on the top covers and posts, and then for refurbishing. As a patient, you should make sure you tell the office that you want the doctor/therapist to look at the wear patterns, before refurbishing is done (normally by a technician).
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:33:00 PM 1 comment: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Bunions
When We Push Off the Ground: What is the Ideal Wear Pattern?
When we push off of the ground, the powerful first metatarsal should be free to plantar flex (move downward towards the ground) with most of the weight on the 2nd through 5th metatarsals (2nd the most). As push off continues (aka propulsion), the sign of great push off is strong wear under the hallux (big toe) itself.
In the photo above, the right foot shows the typical signs of great push off (also called a propulsive gait pattern), and the left shows minimal to no active push off (confusingly called an apropulsive gait pattern). The right side shows dramatically more pressure under the first through third metatarsals seen in a good push off.
Overall, however, the left side shows more mid foot and metatarsal area pressure, so that side is bearing more weight. These top covers were put on at the same time, and are only used for walking. The patient does a lot of walking each day.
For those biomechanical afficianodos, this patient has forefoot varus with a Root Balanced Technique. I do not like the first metatarsal pressure on both sides, and would personally convert the orthotic to a Kirby skive with first ray cutout or the Inverted Orthotic Technique.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:14:00 PM 5 comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Biomechanics, Push Off, Shoe Inserts
Friday, December 16, 2011
Heel Pain: Try to Beat the Wear Pattern on these Orthotic Devices
The science of reading shoe inserts for pressure analysis can be as mysterious as reading the tea leaves for some, but not for experienced forensic podiatrists like myself. When this patient stated she was having heel pain, and found great relief from some orthotic devices she only wore occasionally, the wear pattern on the top covers shows the whole story. This may be a fitting blog post for the day the new Sherlock Holmes movie comes out. Can you see where the wear is? Probably more important, can you see the heels have had excellent pressure relief? Elementary my dear Watson!!
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:02:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Heel Pain, Shoe Inserts, Shoe Wear Patterns
Wednesday, December 14, 2011
Getting Better Heel Stability with Orthotic Devices
Here various materials are used along the medial and lateral borders of the heel cup to obtain getter stability out of an orthotic device.
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:23:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Foot Orthotic Devices
Tuesday, December 13, 2011
When Toenails Should Be Registered as Lethal Weapons
Here my patient John, his name has been changed to protect his identity (witness protection), demonstrates why his toenails need to be registered as a lethal weapon. I, Rich Michael Westin Blake, must protect his identity (but also prevent his significant other from massive trauma). It is the duty for my country and humanity.
Ow!!!!
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:32:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Humor
Good News: Almost a Oxymoron--Check this website and Feel Happier!!
GoodNewsNetwork at www.goodnewsnetwork.org
Oh by the way, did I tell you the story of the paralyzed cyclist who is now trying for the Olympics!!
http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/12/08/cycling-paralympian-cured-idUSL5E7N74MR20111208
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:40:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Cycling, Good News Network
Monday, December 12, 2011
Cold Feet: Where to Start.
Hi my friend! I'm making some progress on the foot with an accupuncturist. It's slow going but a little less painful. I'm writing for another reason though...my Mom has been suffering with some weird symptoms in her feet and, although she's seen every doctor imaginable, she hasn't gotten any relief. I thought I would ask my favorite podiatrist! Her symptoms are that her feet feel frozen 99% of the time. The ONLY time they are warm is when she is barefoot and drinking wine which, although that sounds like fun, can't be all the time. She believes it is circulatory but has seen a specialist and they can't find anything wrong. She is at her wits end and doesn't know where else to turn. Any thoughts? I would appreciate any advice. I hope you are well and that your holidays are outstanding.
Best,
Karen
Dear Karen, Thank you for the email. I know on my blog there are some references to help this problem. Most of the time it is some vaso-spastic condition that can not be identified. So the detective in you and her must come out. I am assuming a vascular specialist has ruled out PAD, peripheral arterial disease (the reason for so many amputations and deaths). If she was in my office right now, I would check her pulses which again I am assuming are fine. I would look for other signs of poor circulation--loss of foot hair, shiny skin, excessive swelling, inadequate return of blood flow to the toes (SPVPFT-yes, there are abbreviations for everything). I would ask her what makes the coldness worse: cold temps, socks, shoes, elevation, dependency of the legs, etc. I would then list what has made her better:
Wine--alcohol is always a vasodilator (increases the blood flow).
Barefoot--normally means that there is no compression on the arteries from socks or shoes.
Can you think of anything else?
I would have her experiment with elevation vs dependency, short socks vs long socks, warm water soaks, niacin tablets, 8 oz glass of quinine water, Toastie Toes from REI or Amazon, Infracare Socks, Contrast bathing. As the results turn up, you find the answers to the riddle. Great Sherlock are we!!
If she lives near me, I expect an invite for a glass of wine for the advice. Only partially teasing!!
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:11:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Cold Feet
Sunday, December 11, 2011
Doctor's Orders: 15 MInutes of Exercise A Day for Better Health
15-Minute Daily Walk Can Extend Life 3 Years: Aussie Podiatrist
Dr. Phil Vasyli, a podiatrist and founder of Orthaheel and Vionic Performance Footwear, notes that a 15 minute bout of exercise each day can increase your life expectancy by three years, even if you have cardiovascular disease risk factors. Daily physical activity is especially important for older adults, because maintaining an active lifestyle into the senior years has been shown to reduce blood pressure, inflammation, blood sugar and other markers of chronic disease.
Dr. Phil Vasyli
Exercise can also boost immunity. Additionally, getting outdoors and exposed to some natural sunlight at any point in the day can help regulate the body’s production of melatonin, a hormone that controls the sleep cycle, says Dr. Vasyli.
Source: Denise Reynolds, EMax Health [12/6/11]
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:08:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Health Benefits Daily Exercise
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Translate
Dr Blake's Book
Follow by Email
Blog Archive
► 2019 (36)
► April (3)
► March (12)
► February (8)
► January (13)
► 2018 (148)
► December (11)
► November (2)
► October (10)
► September (13)
► August (6)
► July (3)
► June (22)
► May (8)
► April (18)
► March (20)
► February (4)
► January (31)
► 2017 (159)
► December (10)
► November (8)
► October (17)
► September (7)
► August (17)
► July (22)
► June (17)
► May (19)
► April (13)
► March (5)
► February (10)
► January (14)
► 2016 (189)
► December (21)
► November (24)
► October (6)
► September (19)
► August (11)
► July (16)
► June (15)
► May (28)
► April (25)
► March (9)
► February (11)
► January (4)
► 2015 (153)
► December (5)
► November (14)
► October (22)
► September (5)
► August (11)
► July (28)
► June (7)
► May (4)
► April (11)
► March (5)
► February (15)
► January (26)
► 2014 (218)
► December (10)
► November (17)
► October (19)
► September (17)
► August (14)
► July (17)
► June (20)
► May (11)
► April (17)
► March (31)
► February (29)
► January (16)
► 2013 (289)
► December (9)
► November (24)
► October (31)
► September (19)
► August (31)
► July (30)
► June (41)
► May (22)
► April (13)
► March (16)
► February (28)
► January (25)
► 2012 (262)
► December (22)
► November (22)
► October (14)
► September (33)
► August (21)
► July (23)
► June (17)
► May (25)
► April (26)
► March (20)
► February (20)
► January (19)
▼ 2011 (244)
▼ December (24)
Sesamoid Injury: MRI evaluation
Extrinsic Rearfoot Posting: Adding Stability with ...
Calluses: A Beauty Product worth checking out
How to Add More Stability to An Orthotic Device Vi...
Cortisone Shots: Avoid Too Close to the Skin
How To Safely Drive In The Rain On The Way To Your...
Nature's Healing Powers: 25% of you will feel deep...
Juvaderm: A Fat Pad Possible Replacement? The Jury...
Bunions: What the top covers on your orthotics sho...
When We Push Off the Ground: What is the Ideal Wea...
Heel Pain: Try to Beat the Wear Pattern on these O...
Getting Better Heel Stability with Orthotic Device...
When Toenails Should Be Registered as Lethal Weapo...
Good News: Almost a Oxymoron--Check this website a...
Cold Feet: Where to Start.
Doctor's Orders: 15 MInutes of Exercise A Day for ...
Running: The First Year is Critical Just to Surviv...
Plantar Fasciitis: MRI views noting Inflammation n...
Nerve Pain: Email Followup as Patient Attempts Inc...
Toenail Fungus News About Lamisil (terbinafine)
Morton's Neuromas: Email Advice
Foot Stress Fractures: Why do they occur?
Top 100 Biomechanical Guideline #55: Develop the a...
Top 100 Biomechanical Guideline #63: Extrinsic Rea...
► November (17)
► October (24)
► September (11)
► August (29)
► July (18)
► June (20)
► May (21)
► April (22)
► March (20)
► February (22)
► January (16)
► 2010 (197)
► December (23)
► November (33)
► October (25)
► September (13)
► August (27)
► July (25)
► June (11)
► May (13)
► April (21)
► March (6)
Popular Posts
Why do toenails become more curved as we Age?
Toe Nail Fungus: 30 Minute Vinegar Soaking
Achilles StretchIng: One Stretch to Avoid (when you have achilles tendinitits or plantar fasciitis)
Supinators: Wedges for the Shoes (Email correspondence)
Sesamoid Fractures: Advice when not healing well
Foot Pain in 8 year old: Email Advice
Taping for Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction/Tendinitis
For Podiatrists: Biomechanical Discussion Points #1
Cortisone Shots: The Thought Process Behind
Cartiva Joint Implant vs Arthrosurface: Present Thoughts
AvantLink
About Me
Dr Richard Blake
San Francisco, CA, United States
I have been a podiatrist for 34 years now and I am excited about sharing what I have learned on this blog. I love to exercise, especially basketball and hiking. I love to travel. I am very happily married to Patty, and have 2 wonderful sons Steve and Chris, a great daughter in law Clare, my new grandson Henry, and a grand dog Felix.
View my complete profile
AAPSM for Sports Podiatrists
AAPSM - American Academy of Podiatric Sports Medicine
Dr Blake's Typical Orthotic Response
Labels
2nd Metatarsal Fracture (1)
2nd Metatarsal Pain (5)
2nd Toe Dislocation (2)
2nd Toe Problems (2)
3rd Metatarsal Capsulitis (1)
4th Metatarsal Stress Fracture (1)
5th Metatarsal Fractures (4)
5th Toe Dislocation (1)
A.R.T. (1)
AAPSM (1)
AAPSM Lecture 4/11 (1)
AAPSM Referral Source for Good Podiatrists (2)
Abductor Hallucis Strengthening for Bunions (2)
Accessory Navicular (26)
Accommodative Padding (3)
Accupuncture (2)
Achilles (8)
Achilles Strengthening (8)
Achilles Stretching (7)
Achilles Stretching Principles (2)
Achilles Tendinitis (7)
Achilles Tendon Cortisone Shots (1)
Achilles Tendon Injuries (11)
Achilles Tendon Partial Tear MRI Image (2)
Achilles Tendon Ruptures (9)
Achilles Tendon Surgery (2)
Achilles Tendon Tightness (1)
Achilles Tightness Measurement (1)
Achilles Treatment with Soleus Roll (1)
Acute Ankle Sprain Treatment Advice (1)
Acute Injury Treatment (1)
Alcohol Injections for Nerve Pain (7)
Alpha Lipoic Acid (1)
Anatomy of the Foot (1)
Anatomy of the Foot and Ankle Video (1)
Ankle Brace Waterproof (1)
Ankle Braces (3)
Ankle Foot Orthotic (1)
Ankle Fracture (1)
Ankle Images Cartilage Damage (1)
Ankle Instability (5)
Ankle Pain (1)
Ankle Reconstruction Surgery (1)
Ankle Replacement Surgery (1)
Ankle Snapping (1)
Ankle Sprain (4)
Ankle Sprain Exercises (1)
Ankle Sprain Treatment Videos (1)
Ankle Sprains (14)
Ankle Strengthening Exercises (7)
Ankle Strengthening Video (1)
Ankle Xrays (1)
Anti-Inflammatory Medication (2)
Appointment with Dr Rich Blake (1)
Arch Heights (1)
Arch Strengthening Exercises (1)
Arch Supports Over the Counter (1)
Arch Taping (3)
Arm Swing (1)
Arthritis (when is it time to stop?) (1)
Ask The Podiatrist Segment (2)
Babinski (1)
Back and Foot Connection (1)
Back Exercises for Curves (1)
Balance (2)
Balance Exercises (5)
Balance Improvement with Orthoses (1)
Ball of Foot Pain (12)
Ballet (4)
Ballet Sesamoid Injury (1)
Ballet Shoes (1)
BAPS for Foot and Ankle Strengthening and Range of Motion (1)
Bar Method Intro (1)
Barefoot Running (6)
Basketball (3)
Big Toe Joint Fusion (4)
Big Toe Joint Injury (7)
Big Toe Joint Motion Evaluation (1)
Big Toe Joint MRI (1)
Big Toe Joint Pain (12)
Big Toe Pain (5)
Biker's Knee (1)
Biomechanics (11)
Biomechanics for the Podiatrist (4)
Biomechanics of Running (4)
Biomechanics of the Foot (1)
Biomechanics of Walking (2)
Bipartite Sesamoid (2)
Blake Inverted Device (5)
Blisters (6)
Bone Density Test (2)
Bone Scan for Diagnosis of Bone Pain (4)
Bone Spur Big Toe Joint (2)
Bone Spurs (1)
Bone Stimulators for Slow Fractures (3)
Breaking Into Orthotic Devices (1)
Bromstrom Procedure (1)
Buddy Taping (2)
Budin Splints (5)
Bunion and Treatment Recommendations (2)
Bunion Evaluation (4)
Bunion Exercise (1)
Bunion Night Splints (1)
Bunion Padding (1)
Bunion Self Help Tips (3)
Bunion Stages (1)
Bunion Surgery PreOp Considerations (1)
Bunion Surgery Problems (2)
Bunion Taping (1)
Bunion Treatment Tips (1)
Bunion Xray Evaluation (2)
Bunions (27)
Bunions and Shoe Recommendations (1)
Bursitis (6)
Bursitis Heel (1)
Bursitis on MRI imaging (2)
Buttock Pain (1)
Buzzing Sensation Feet (1)
Calcaneal Apophysitis (4)
Calcaneal Fracture (3)
Calcaneal Stress Fracture (2)
Calcaneo-Navicular Coalition (1)
Calcific Achilles Tendinitis (1)
Calf Atrophy (1)
Calf Pain (2)
Calf Strain (1)
Calf Tightness (1)
Calluses (4)
Calmare Pain Therapy (10)
Cane Decorative (1)
Canes (2)
Capsulitis of the 2nd and 3rd Metatarsal Phalangeal Joints (1)
Carbon Graphite Steel for Hallux Rigidus (1)
Cartilage Supplementation Injectable (1)
Cast Disease (1)
Cast Immobilization Rehab (3)
Casts/Splints/Braces (2)
Cerebral Palsy Patient (2)
Cervical Spine Myelopathy (1)
Chairs: Leading to Inflexibility (1)
Charcot (1)
Charcot Shoes (1)
Checklist Gait Evaluation (1)
Cheilectomy for Hallux Rigidus (5)
Cheilectomy Post Op (2)
Chi Running (1)
Children's Feet (2)
Children's Flatfeet (1)
Children's Health Article (1)
Children's Shoes (1)
Chronic Pain (6)
Chronic Pain treatment with Opioids (1)
Cipro Negative Impact Tendons (2)
Clonus (1)
Cluffy Wedge (1)
Coalition (1)
Coban Wraps (1)
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (1)
Cold Feet (3)
Cold Therapy (3)
Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (21)
Compression Pumps for Swelling (1)
Contrast Bathing (2)
Corns (1)
Correct Toes (2)
Cortisone (2)
Cortisone Injections Near Tendons Are Potentially Dangerous (2)
Cortisone Shot Adverse Effect (2)
cortisone shots (2)
Cramping at Night (1)
Creating a Pain Free Environment (1)
CRPS (27)
CRPS emergency room protocol (1)
CRPS patients needing shots (1)
CRPS Study 2016 seeking participants (1)
Crutches (1)
Crutches Weaning Off (1)
Cryotherapy (1)
Custom Orthotic Devices (3)
Custom Shoes (1)
Cycling (5)
Dance Injury (1)
Dancer's Knee (1)
Dancer's Pads (2)
Deep Relief for Soreness (1)
Deep Vein Thrombosis (3)
Diabetes (11)
Diabetes and Vegan Diet Help (1)
Diabetes Blood Test (1)
Diabetes Treatment (1)
Diabetic Neuropathic Pain (4)
Diabetic Socks (1)
Diet Health (1)
Dislocated Toe (1)
Distance Running (1)
Double Crush Syndrome (11)
Dr Deepak Chopra (pain specialist Rhode Island) (1)
Dr Lance Silverman's Blog (3)
Drawing Salve (1)
Dress Orthotic Devices (2)
Dry Cracked Heels (1)
Dry Skin (1)
Ehler Danlos (1)
En Pointe (Ballet) (2)
En Pointe Starting Point (1)
Epiphyseal Injury (1)
Equinus (1)
EvenUps (2)
Excessive Pronation (3)
Excessive Pronation Varus Wedge (1)
Excessive Supination (6)
Exercise Health Benefits (2)
Exercise Is Medicine Program (1)
Exercise Tips (1)
Exogen Bone Stimulator (5)
External Hip Rotator Strengthening (5)
Extracorpreal Shockwave Treatment (1)
Fall Injury with Advice (1)
Fall Prevention Program (2)
Falling and Ways to Prevent (2)
Family Support for Injury (1)
Fascia (1)
Fat Pad Atrophy (4)
Fat Pad Replacement (3)
Fettig Technique (2)
Fifth Metatarsal Fracture (6)
Finn Comfort Boots/Shoes/Sandals (1)
First Metatarsal Phalangeal Joint Pain (1)
First Metatarsal Position Evaluation (3)
First Metatarsal Stability (1)
Flat Feet (5)
Flat Feet and Running (1)
Flatfeet (2)
Flatfeet in Children (1)
Flexor Hallucis Longus Eccentric Strengthening (1)
Floor Mirror for Diabetes (1)
Flying Advice when Swollen (1)
Foam Toe Caps (1)
Food Allergies (1)
Foods to Fight Pain (1)
Foot Anatomy (1)
Foot and Ankle Strengthening Video Playlist (1)
Foot and Knee Relationship (2)
Foot Drop (3)
Foot Exercises (2)
Foot Health Websites (1)
Foot Nerve Pain (8)
Foot Orthotic Devices (21)
Foot Poem (1)
Foot Smart Company (1)
Foot Strengthening Exercises (16)
Foot Stress Fractures (6)
Foot Surgeries and Strengthening (1)
Force Length Curve (1)
Forefoot Abnormalities (3)
Forefoot Pain (2)
Forefoot Valgus (1)
Forefoot Varus (2)
Fracture Foot Advise (1)
Fracture Healing with Bone Stimulation (1)
Fracture with Soft Tissue Involvement (1)
Fractures and Smoking Link (1)
Fractures Foot (1)
Fractures of Metatarsals (3)
Fractures of the Foot (1)
Friction Relief (1)
Front of Foot Pain (2)
Frozen Ankle (1)
Functional Foot Orthotics (3)
Functional Hallux Limitus (2)
Gabapentin (1)
Gait Abnormalities (1)
Gait Evaluation (22)
Gait Phases (1)
Ganglions (5)
Gangrene (1)
Gel for Cushioning (2)
General Biomechanical Principles (4)
General Foot Care Advice (1)
Golden Rules of Foot (5)
Good Pain vs Bad Pain (4)
Gout (6)
Gout: General Treatment Thoughts (1)
Graded Motor Imagery for Nerve Pain (1)
Hallux Inter-Phalangeal Joint Pain (1)
Hallux Limitus Functional (1)
Hallux Limitus Initial Symptoms (1)
Hallux Limitus Xray Evaluation (1)
Hallux Limitus/ Rigidus (44)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus (9)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Playlist (1)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Reader Comment Post (1)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Self Mobilization Technique (2)
Hallux Pain (1)
Hallux Rigidus (5)
Hallux Rigidus Splint (1)
Hallux Rigidus Surgical Options (3)
Hallux Rigidus/Post Op (5)
Hallux Sesamoiditis (1)
Hallux Valgus/Bunion (1)
Hallux Varus (2)
Hammertoe Surgical Rehabilitation (1)
Hammertoes (8)
Hammertoes: Cause and Treatment (1)
Hamstring Stretches (5)
Hamstring Stretches Floor Based (1)
Hamstrings (2)
Hannaford Orthotics (8)
Hapad OTC Arch Supports (3)
Hawaii (1)
HbA1c Blood Test for Diabetes (1)
Health Benefits Daily Exercise (1)
Health Tip (1)
Heat Therapy (1)
Heel Bursitis (3)
Heel Lifts (1)
Heel Pain (26)
Heel Pain Evaluation (1)
Heel Pain in a Runner (1)
Heel Pain in Children (1)
Heel Pain Treatment with Orthotics (1)
Heel Pain Video (1)
Heel Pain Website (1)
Heel Slippage (1)
Heel Slippage and Shoes (1)
Heel Spurs (1)
High Heels (8)
High Heels with Orthopedic Thoughtfulness (1)
Hiking (1)
Hiking Boot Lacing for Stability (1)
Hiking Boots (5)
Hiking Preparation (1)
Hip Arthritis in Runners (1)
Hip Hop Dance (1)
Hip Pain (4)
Hip Pain and Foot Mechanics (1)
Hip Replacement (4)
Hip Replacement Problems (1)
Hip Replacements and Limb Length Discrepancies (2)
History of Podiatric Biomechanics (1)
HOKA shoes (4)
How To Begin To Run (1)
Hypermobility of Joints/Feet (1)
Ice Pack (1)
Ice Therapy (1)
Ice Treatment (1)
Icing for Swelling Reduction (2)
Ilio-Tibial Band Syndrome (3)
Iliotibial Band Syndrome: General Thoughts (1)
Images of Plantar Fascial Tear (4)
Immobilization with EvenUp (1)
Impressions for Orthotic Devices (1)
Infected Ingrown Toenail (3)
Infections (2)
Inflammation Food Triggers (1)
Ingrown Toenails (4)
Injection Tips for Comfort (1)
Injections for Diagnosis (1)
Injury Rehabilitation (4)
Injury Rehabilitation Principles (12)
Insect Bite (1)
Insertional Achilles Tendinitis (3)
Instep Pain (1)
Internally Rotated Legs (2)
International Biomechanics (1)
Intoed Gait (1)
Intrinsic Foot Strengthening (2)
Inverted Orthotic Technique (33)
Iontophoresis (1)
Joint Dysfunction (1)
Joint Mobilization Treatment (1)
Jones Fifth Metatarsal Fracture (3)
Juvaderm (1)
Keep It Simple Stupid (1)
Ketamine sublingual (1)
Kinesiotape (2)
Kirby Skive (3)
KISS Principle (2)
Knee Arthritis in Runners (1)
Knee Mechanics (1)
Knee Pain (16)
Knee Pain and Short Leg Syndrome (1)
Knee Treatment with Varus Wedging (1)
Kneecap Injuries (1)
Knees (4)
Lacing for Stability (2)
Lacing Modifications (2)
Lamisil (2)
Laser for Fungus (1)
Lasers for Pain (1)
Lateral Ankle Pain (1)
Lateral Knee Compartment Syndrome (2)
Laterality Flash Cards (3)
Laterality Flash Cards for Nerve Pain (1)
Ledderhose Disease (2)
Leg Length Discrepancy (1)
Leg/Shin Pain (7)
Lifts (2)
Lifts for Short Leg (4)
Limb Dominance in Gait (1)
Limb Length Discrepancies (4)
Limping Discussion (1)
Lipitor (1)
Lisa Tonra's Fitness Tips (4)
Lisfranc's Joint Sprain (5)
Listen To Your Body/Never Push Through Pain (1)
Long Distance Running (1)
Longer Feet Problems (1)
Loss of Sensation (1)
Lotions/Creams (1)
Low Back Nerve Compression (1)
Low Back Pain (4)
Low Dose Naltrexone (2)
Low Dye Taping (1)
Lower Extremity Review (1)
Lumps on the Foot (1)
Lymphatic Drainage (1)
Lyrica Dosing for Neuropathic Pain (1)
Magical 80% (1)
Malignant Melanoma (2)
Marathon Matt (2)
Marathon Training for Beginners (2)
MarathonRookie.com (1)
Marathons (3)
Marc Evans Triathalon Coach (4)
Massage Balls for Foot Pain (2)
Maximalistic Shoes (3)
Mechanics of Overuse Injuries (1)
Medial Knee Arthritis (1)
Medial Knee Compartment Syndrome (3)
Medical History (3)
Medical History: Biomechanics (1)
Medications Causing Tendon Problems (1)
Medications for Nerve Pain (5)
Meditation for Healing (2)
Men's Shoes for Long and Narrow Feet (1)
Metatarsal Arcing Exercise (1)
Metatarsal Doming Exercise (2)
Metatarsal Fracture Oblique Fifth (1)
Metatarsal Fractures (4)
Metatarsal Pain (16)
Metatarsal Support (1)
Metatarsalgia (6)
Midfoot Arthritis/Arthralgias (1)
Midfoot Pain (1)
Mirror Box Therapy (1)
Morton's Neuromas (29)
Morton's Syndrome (1)
MRI Knee (1)
Multiple Sclerosis (1)
Music for Chronic Pain (1)
Music for Healing (2)
Mustard Seed Plaster (1)
Nail Matrixectomy (kill root cells) (1)
Nail Polish (1)
Navicular (4)
Navicular Drop Test for Pronation (1)
Navicular Fractures (2)
Negative Cast Bisection (1)
Negative Cast Pouring (1)
Nerve Hypersensitivity (2)
Nerve Injury (2)
Nerve Pain (40)
Nerve Pain after Injuries (1)
Nerve Pain and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (1)
Nerve Pain and Exercise (1)
Nerve Pain caused by Neck Problems (1)
Nerve Pain Diet (1)
Nerve Pain Forefoot (1)
Nerve Pain from Back (1)
Nerve Pain Topical Medication (2)
Nerve Pain Treatment with Exercise (1)
Nerve Symptoms in Foot (1)
Neural Flossing (7)
Neural Prolotherapy (1)
Neural Tension (2)
Neuro-Eze (3)
Neuromas (6)
Neurontin (2)
Neuropathic Pain (11)
Nexcare Tape (1)
NSAIDS (1)
Numbness in the Foot (2)
Ollier's Disease (1)
Onychomycosis (3)
Oral Cortisone (2)
Orthotic Adjustments (1)
Orthotic Casting (1)
Orthotic Design (4)
Orthotic Designs (7)
Orthotic Device Break In (Tips) (1)
Orthotic Device Shoe Fit (1)
Orthotic Functions (1)
Orthotic Manufacturing (1)
Orthotic Modification to Prevent Movement (1)
Orthotic Modifications (7)
Orthotic Prescription Writing (1)
Orthotic Research (1)
Orthotic Waterproofing Product (1)
Orthotics for Maximum Shock Absorption (1)
Orthotics for Sandals (1)
Os Peroneum (1)
Os Tibial Externum (1)
Os Trigonum (2)
Osgood Schlatters Prolotherapy (1)
Osgood Schlatters Syndrome (1)
Osteoporosis Exercises (1)
Overheating While Exercising (1)
Overuse Injury Generalizations (1)
PAD: Peripheral Arterial Disease (1)
Pain (3)
Pain Checklist (1)
Pain Flareups (1)
Pain Management (3)
Pain Medical History (1)
Pain Scale (2)
Pain Treatment with Laser (1)
Pain: 3 Sources (2)
Paraffin Wax Treatments (1)
Partial Sesamoidectomy (3)
Patella Injuries (1)
Pediatric Problems (1)
Pedicures (1)
Pelvic Pain (1)
Pelvic Tilts (2)
Peripheral Arterial Disease (1)
Peripheral Neuropathy (9)
Peripheral Neuropathy with Gluten Sensitivity (1)
Peripheral Venous Insufficiency (1)
Peroneal Subluxation/Dislocation Syndrome (3)
Peroneal Tendinitis (7)
Peroneal Tendon Injuries (1)
Peroneal Tendon Repair Post Op (1)
Peroneal Tendon Repair Rehabilitation (1)
Peroneal Tendon Strengthening with Therabands (1)
Pes Cavus (1)
Pes Cavus Orthotic Therapy (1)
Pes Planus Orthotic Therapy (1)
Phantom Limb Pain (1)
Phases of Rehabilitation (1)
Physical Fitness (1)
Physical Therapy Modalities (4)
Pigeon Toes (1)
Piriformis Syndrome (2)
Plantar Fascia Sock (1)
Plantar Fascial Night Splint (2)
Plantar Fascial Stretches (9)
Plantar Fascial Surgery/Post Op (1)
Plantar Fascial Tear (15)
Plantar Fasciitis (45)
Plantar Fasciitis General Treatment based on need (1)
Plantar Fasciitis General Treatment Principles (3)
Plantar Fasciitis Injection (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Massage Technique (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Orthotics by Hannaford Technique (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Prolotherapy (1)
plantar fasciitis taping (1)
Plantar Fasciitis: Basic Treatment Remedies (1)
Plantar Fibromatosis or Fibromas (3)
Plantar Heel Bursitis (2)
Plantar Plate Tear (11)
Plantar Wart (4)
Playlist for Morton's Neuroma (2)
Playlist for Plantar Fasciitis (1)
Playlist for Short Leg Syndrome (1)
Playlist Hallux Limitus/Rigidus (1)
Plyometrics (1)
Posemethod of Running (1)
Positive Casts (2)
Positive Casts before Balancing (1)
Post Exercise Cool Down (1)
Post Op Foot Concerns (1)
Posterior Ankle Impingement Syndrome (1)
Posterior Heel Pain (1)
Posterior Tibial Dysfunction (26)
posterior tibial strengthening exercises (3)
posterior tibial tendinitis (11)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction Brace (1)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Surgery (1)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Taping (1)
Power Lacing (4)
Pre-Dislocation Syndrome (1)
Prednisone Negative Impact Tendons (1)
Pregnancy (2)
PRICE (2)
Prolotherapy (1)
Pronation Control with Orthotic Modifications (2)
Pronation Evaluation (1)
Proprioceptive Exercises (1)
PRP injection (1)
Psoriasis (1)
Psoriatic Arthritis (3)
Psoriatic Arthritis and Ankle Swelling (1)
Push Off (1)
Quadreps Stretching (2)
Quadriceps Strengthening (1)
Radiculopathy (1)
Rearfoot Posts (3)
Recovering from Injury (1)
Referred Pain from Low Back (5)
Referred Pain to Foot (1)
Removable Boot from Ovation Medical (1)
Removable Boots (3)
Research on Treatment Success (1)
Retro-calcaneal bursitis (2)
Retrocalcaneal spur/exostosis (1)
Return to Activity (1)
Returning to Running after Injury (1)
Rheumatoid Arthritis (1)
RICE Therapy (1)
Rockport Shoes (1)
Roll A Bout (2)
Ronald Reagan's Humor (1)
Root Balance Technique (8)
Root Balancing Device (2)
RSD (5)
Runner's Exercise (1)
Runner's Knee (3)
Runner's Knee Exercise (1)
Runner's Loop (1)
Running (16)
Running 2012 (1)
Running Downhill (1)
Running Form (2)
Running Injuries (4)
Running Low Impact (1)
Running Shoe Evaluation for Wear (1)
Running Shoe Lecture (1)
Running Shoes (13)
Running Socks (1)
Running Technique (1)
Running vs Walking (1)
Running vs Walking Mechanics (1)
Running Warehouse (1)
Sacro-Iliac Joint Testing (1)
Samuel Merritt University Lecture Oct 2015 (1)
Samuel Merritt University Lecture on Gait Evaluation (1)
Samuel Merritt University Sports Medicine Lecture 1/13 (1)
Sandals for Cushioning (2)
Sandals for Summer (3)
Scar Breakdown (3)
Scar Reduction Techniques (2)
Sciatica (2)
Sciatica and Piriformis Syndrome (3)
Scoliosis (2)
Second Opinions (3)
Senior Health Issues (1)
Sensoria (1)
Sesamoid (10)
Sesamoid AVN (9)
Sesamoid Fracture (40)
Sesamoid Fracture General Rules (3)
Sesamoid Fracture Growing Child (3)
Sesamoid Fracture Initial Plan of Attack (1)
Sesamoid Fracture Post Surgery (12)
Sesamoid Fractures (53)
Sesamoid Injuries (58)
Sesamoid Missing in Child (1)
Sesamoid MRI views (1)
Sesamoid Partial Removal Post Surgery (2)
Sesamoid Post Op (6)
Sesamoid Sleeve for Protection (1)
Sesamoid Surgery Advice (1)
Sesamoid Surgery with Complications (4)
Sesamoiditis (8)
Sesamoidits (2)
Sever's Disease (3)
ShearBan (2)
Shin Splints (8)
Shin Splints 4 Basic Types (1)
Shin Splints Basic Treatment (1)
Shock Absorption (4)
Shoe Biomechanics (2)
Shoe Buying Tip (1)
Shoe Evaluation (4)
Shoe Evaluation for Flexion Properties (1)
Shoe Horn Replacement: Footfunnel (1)
Shoe Insert Evaluation (1)
Shoe Inserts (18)
Shoe Lace Modification (1)
Shoe Lacing for Wide Feet (1)
Shoe Lacing Techniques (5)
Shoe Lift Online Purchasing (1)
Shoe Lifts for Short Leg (4)
Shoe Modification (11)
Shoe Purchasing (1)
Shoe Size (2)
Shoe Size Measurement (1)
Shoe Stability Tests (2)
Shoe Wear Patterns (3)
Shoe Wedging (1)
Shoe Wedging for Supinators (1)
Shoes (10)
Shoes for Fashion (1)
Shoes for Infants (1)
Shoes for Men Long and Narrow (1)
Shoes online (1)
Short Leg Lifts Shoe Website (1)
Short Leg Syndrome (47)
Short Leg Syndrome and Hip Replacement (2)
Shots (1)
SI Joint (1)
Single Leg Balancing Exercise (1)
Sinus Tarsi Syndrome (1)
Skin Cancer (3)
Skin Discoloration (1)
Skin/Nail Conditions (2)
Sleeping Protection for Foot Pain (1)
Smart Socks (1)
Smart Sox (1)
Soccer Cleats (2)
Socks (3)
Socks for Cold Feet (1)
Socks with High Tech (1)
Soft Tissue Injury Treatment (1)
Sole OTC Arch Supports (2)
Solemates for Heels (1)
Soles4Souls (1)
Somatic Experiencing (1)
Song of Podiatry (2)
Sore Pressure Spots Bottom Feet (3)
Special Interest Story (1)
Spica Taping (5)
Spica Taping for big toe joint problems testimony (1)
Sports Medicine (1)
Sports Medicine Class 2012 (1)
Sprain Big Toe Joint (1)
Squeaking Orthotics (2)
Stationary Bike (2)
Steida's Process Fracture (1)
Stinky Feet (1)
Stonger Bones (1)
Straight Leg Raise Test (1)
Strengthening 6 Basic Types (1)
Strengthening Achilles Eccentrically (2)
Strengthening for Ankles (1)
Strengthening for Feet (2)
Strengthening for Hips (1)
strengthening for posterior tibial tendon (1)
Strengthening General Principles (4)
Stress Fractures (4)
Stress Fractures of the Leg (1)
Stretching (4)
Stretching 13 General Principles (1)
Stretching Achilles Principles (1)
Stretching for Achilles (1)
Stretching for Hamstrings (4)
Stretching for Ilio-Tibial Band (2)
Stretching for Plantar Fasciitis (2)
Stretching for Quads (2)
Stretching General Principles (1)
Stretching Principles (1)
Stretching Technique (1)
Stretching the Achilles Properly (1)
Stretching with Heat and Ice (2)
Subtalar Joint Arthritis (1)
Sunscreen for Feet (1)
Supination (15)
Supination causing Ankle Problems (2)
Supination Exercises for better Stability (1)
Supination Orthotic Modifications (2)
Support Hose for Leg Swelling (5)
Support Hose Slippage (1)
Support the Foot Taping (1)
Supportthefoot.com (1)
Sural Neuritis (maybe) (1)
Surgery of the Future?? (1)
Swelling After Ankle Sprains (2)
Swelling and Nerve Symptoms (1)
Swelling Self Help Tips (1)
Swelling Treatment (7)
Swimming Rehabilitation Ankle Brace (1)
Swollen Big Toe Joint (8)
Tailor's Bunions (2)
Talar Fractures (1)
Talus Injury (2)
Taping for 2nd Metatarsal/Toe Pain (4)
Taping for 5th Metatarsal Base Fractures (1)
Taping for Achilles (2)
Taping for Ankle Sprains/Pain (1)
Taping for Arch Pain (4)
Taping for Big Toe Joint Pain (3)
Taping for Bunions (1)
Taping for Plantar Fasciitis (4)
Taping for Posterior Tibial Tendon (1)
Taping for Toe Injuries (1)
Taping Modifications (1)
Taping of Posterior Tibial Tendon (1)
Taping of the Arch (2)
Taping the Arch (1)
Taping/Wraps (2)
Tarsal Tunnel Syndrome (13)
Team In Training (1)
Tendinitis (3)
tendinitis of the posterior tibial tendon (1)
Tendinitis Treatment with BRISS (3)
Tennis Shoes (2)
Theraband Strengthening Equipment (1)
Tibial Stress Fractures (3)
Tingling in the Foot (1)
Tip of the Iceberg Concept (1)
Tips for Breaking in Orthotic Devices (1)
Toastie Toes (1)
Toe Dislocation with Closed Reduction (1)
Toe Hyper Flexion Injury (1)
Toe Injury (1)
Toe Length Differences (1)
Toe Length Issues (1)
Toe Problems (4)
Toe Separators for Bunions (2)
Toenail Fungus (17)
Toenail Fungus Cold Plasma Treatment (1)
Toenail Fungus Topical Medication (1)
Toenail Fungus Urea Treatment (1)
Toenail Pain (1)
Toenails (1)
Top 100 Biomechanical Guidelines (45)
Treadmill Workouts (2)
Triathalons (3)
Tumeric (2)
Tumor of the Bone (1)
Turf Toe (7)
Twitter Updates (2)
Two Different Size Feet (1)
Ulcerations (3)
Ultrasound Examination Foot and Ankle (1)
Underpronation (aka over supination) (1)
Valgus Wedging for Knee Pain (1)
Varicose Veins (1)
Varus Wedging (3)
Vegan Diet (1)
Vitamin B Deficiency (1)
Vitamin D Deficiency (2)
Vitamin D/Calcium (6)
Walk Run Program (2)
Walking Poles for Hiking (1)
Walking Schedule Website (1)
Walking Shoes (1)
Walking Stairs (1)
Walking vs Running Mechanics (1)
Walnuts (1)
Wart (1)
Wart Treatment with Apple Cider Vinegar (1)
Water Aerobic Shoes (1)
Water Gym (1)
Water Workouts (1)
Waterproofing (1)
Weaning from a Cast (2)
Websites for Foot Health (1)
Wedging for Knee Pain (1)
Weight Loss Workouts (1)
Weighted Jackets for MS patients (1)
When To Ice? (1)
Wide Feet Shoes (3)
Women's Shoes (1)
Wounds (1)
X-rays for Hallux Rigidus (1)
Xrays for Short Leg (3)
Xrays for Tibial Stress Fractures (1)
Xrays/MRIs/Tests (7)
Yoga (2)
Yoga Introduction 13 Poses (1)
Yoga Toes (1)
Zappos Shoes Online (1)
Sitemap
Watermark theme. Powered by Blogger.