Achilles Tendonitis Brace | Night Splints for Tendon Tears & Heel Pain
Easy Exchanges
Free Shipping on U.S. Orders $50 or More
Next Day / 2 Day Shipping Available
Help Sign In / Track
866-712-7808
View Cart
(0) Items
Menu
Abdominal Ankle Back Elbow Finger & Thumb Foot & Toe Knee Shoulder Thigh & Groin Wrist
All Plus Size Supports Plus Size Knee Braces Plus Size Back Braces Hernia Belts Hip Supports Night Splints Pediatric / Kid's Plantar Fasciitis Posture Correctors Walker Boots
Shop by Injury/Condition On Sale View All Braces
BRACES
Abdominal Ankle Back Elbow Finger & Thumb Foot & Toe Knee Shoulder Thigh & Groin Wrist
All Plus Size Supports Plus Size Knee Braces Plus Size Back Braces Hernia Belts Hip Supports Night Splints Pediatric / Kid's Plantar Fasciitis Posture Correctors Walker Boots
View All Braces
Shop By:
Injury / Condition
ON SALE
Home / Achilles Tendonitis Treatment
Achilles Tendonitis Treatment
Plantar Fasciitis Night Sock | Soft Stretching Splint & Sleep Support Brace
$34.99
Sale
Orthopedic Air Walker Boot Cast for Ankle Sprains, Fractures and Achilles Tendonitis
$44.99 $99.99
Soft AFO Foot Drop Treatment Brace for Walking Barefoot or Inside Shoe
$69.99
Sleeping Stretch Boot for Plantar Fascia, Achilles Tendonitis & Heel Spur Treatment
$27.99
Sale
Nighttime Splint for Achilles Tendon & Calf Stretching and Ankle Dorsiflexion
$24.99 $65.00
Padded 90 Degree Soft Nighttime Dorsiwedge Boot Splint
$34.99
Plantar & Achilles Heel Spur Shoe Inserts - Silicone Pain Relief Gel Cup Cushions (Pair)
$29.99
Breathable Knit Ankle Support with Silicone Padding for Swelling & Inflammation
$39.99
Visit our resource library for more information on Achilles Tendonitis Causes, Symptoms, and Preventative Treatments.
Achilles Tendonitis Support Products
Much like Achilles from Homer’s Iliad or of Greek mythology, an injury to the back of the ankle can bring many of us to our knees, so to speak. The Achilles tendon connects the calf muscles to the heel bone and is the strongest tendon in the body. It is essential for both day-to-day activities and athletics. This tendon allows you to walk, run, jump, and do other activities.
Thus, inflammation of the Achilles tendon, known as Achilles tendonitis, should not be ignored. If left unaddressed, the resulting pain, swelling and irritation of tendonitis can evolve into something even more debilitating, not to mention it increases the likelihood of a rupture (tear) of the Achilles tendon that can only be healed via surgery.
Brace for Achilles Tendonitis
There are a number of orthotics for Achilles tendonitis that treat the chronic inflammation or tissue degeneration of the tendon that plagues those with this condition. This degeneration or inflammation is typically caused by overuse or putting too much strain on the Achilles tendon.
Our Achilles tendonitis wrap contains two silicone inserts—one located beside the Achilles tendon and the other beneath the heel. These enable the brace to ease pressure on the tendon and provide pressure to the affected region, at intervals, to reduce swelling.
This knitted ankle support for Achilles tendonitis keeps the ankle in a slight plantar flexion position. The brace also features heel wedges for Achilles tendonitis to lift the heel and provide further pain relief—one for the affected foot and the other to prevent leg-length differences.
In addition, these heel cups for Achilles tendonitis help reduce shock on joints and the spine.
And further making this ankle brace for Achilles tendonitis easy to use, it is lightweight, breathable and machine-washable.
Night Splint: Achilles Tendonitis
Many doctors recommend using an Achilles tendonitis night splint to keep the foot upright at night to ease inflammation and treat the pain when you are not putting force on the Achilles tendon. BraceAbility offers a number of night splints for Achilles tendonitis at discounted prices.
Consider the popular padded nighttime boot splint for Achilles tendonitis. This splint features a simple design and memory foam padding to ensure user comfort without compromising a secure, stable fit.
Looking for even more support? An Achilles tendonitis boot that supports the foot and encloses the ankle and lower calf can provide even more stability while restricting movement that may be injuring or re-injuring the Achilles tendon.
This along with Achilles tendonitis braces can be helpful for post-operative use following an Achilles tendonitis tear, as well.
Heel Lifts for Achilles Tendonitis
As you may have inferred from the previous Achilles tendonitis ankle brace talk, shoe inserts for Achilles tendonitis can also be helpful for easing the strain on the Achilles tendon and the pain associated with the formation of any bone spurs as a side effect. These heel pads for Achilles tendonitis lift the heel, diminishing any strain on the Achilles tendon, itself.
Compression socks for Achilles tendonitis are another treatment and prevention option. Similar to the wraps or taping recommended as a home treatment for Achilles tendonitis, these can help prevent or reduce swelling of the foot and ankle. This style of the sock can also be helpful for certain medical conditions associated with tendonitis, such as diabetes.
Information
About Us
Blog
Customer Help Center
Injury Library
Security & Privacy
Terms of Use
Join our Product Advisory Team
Social Media
Facebook
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
My Account
Log In
Return/Exchange Policy
Easy Online Returns
View Cart
Contact Us
BraceAbility, Inc.
115 East 2nd St.
Cedar Falls, Iowa 50613
United States
Contact Us
Frequently Asked Questions
866-712-7808
Copyright 2018 - BraceAbility
The advice and information contained in this website is not intended as a substitute for medical counseling.
If you have any questions about treatment for a specific condition, please check with a health care professional.
Customer Service
Customer Support
Our customer support team is available Monday - Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Central time.
Give Us a Call
866-712-7808
Send Us an Email
Use our contact form to submit an email to customer support team. Click the “Support” icon on the bottom right of any page on our website. We typically respond within one business day (or faster).
Holidays
BraceAbility.com is closed on the following United States holidays. This may affect your shipping time and they will be accounted for in the estimated ship date listed on each product page.
New Year's Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
Helpful Links
Easy Online Returns
Return/Exchange Policy
Frequently Asked Questions
body
Close