Aleve (Naproxen) Side Effects
Newsletter
Aleve (Naproxen sodium 220 mg): What Are the Side Effects?
Medically reviewed by Alan Carter, PharmD on May 16, 2017 — Written by University of Illinois-Chicago, Drug Information Group
About Aleve
Short-term side effects
Long-term side effects
Warnings
Takeaway
Overview
Aleve is one brand of the over-the-counter drug naproxen sodium 220 milligrams (mg). It treats many types of mild pain. You may have taken it to treat your headaches, menstrual cramps, arthritis, muscles aches, toothaches, backaches, and even mild fever. If you take Aleve, though, you may wonder what else it does in your body.
Although Aleve can bring relief, it can also cause side effects. Some of these side effects can happen just from short-term use. Long-term use of Aleve can also cause other side effects. Some people are at greater risk of Aleve side effects because of certain medical conditions that they have.
Here’s what to know about how Aleve works and the side effects it can cause.
How Aleve works
Aleve, or naproxen sodium 220 mg, is the over-the-counter version of naproxen sodium 275 mg, which is available by prescription only. Aleve is closely related to naproxen base 250 mg, also prescription only.
Both Aleve and its prescription counterparts belong to a class of medications called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). These drugs reduce pain and fever by preventing your body from making prostaglandins. Prostaglandins are substances your body produces when tissues of your body are injured. These substances contribute to many of the effects of inflammation, including swelling, fever, and pain.
Inhibiting your body’s production of prostaglandins can help prevent pain and other effects related to inflammation. But it can also interfere with some other functions.
Side effects from short-term use
Prostaglandins naturally help protect your stomach from damage. When Aleve reduces your prostaglandin production, it can cause:
stomach pain
constipation
diarrhea
gas
heartburn
nausea or vomiting
These effects are more likely the older you are or the longer you use Aleve.
More serious side effects include:
swelling
bleeding
ulcers
tears in your stomach, small intestine, or large intestine
These effects can be fatal and can happen without warning. If you notice severe stomach pain or bloody or black, tarry stools while you take Aleve, stop taking the drug and call your doctor right away. To lower your risk of digestive system side effects, use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest time.
Aleve can also increase your blood pressure. You might not notice any signs that your blood pressure is increased. And if you already have high blood pressure, taking Aleve might make it worse. You should talk to your doctor before using Aleve if you have high blood pressure.
Aleve can also reduce your blood’s ability to clot. This can lead to bleeding. Talk to your doctor before using Aleve if you plan on having surgery soon.
Side effects from long-term use
Long-term use of Aleve can make your heart work harder. Aleve makes you retain water, which increases the load on your heart. This extra work can cause pressure on your cardiovascular system and can sometimes lead to a heart attack or stroke. These risks are even greater at higher dosages, even if you don’t have any heart conditions or risk of heart disease. Call 911 or local emergency services if you have:
chest pain
shortness of breath
slurred speech
weakness in your arms or legs
These are signs of a stroke or heart attack. If you take Aleve and have unexplained weight gain or swelling, especially in your legs and feet, talk to your doctor right away. These may be signs of heart failure. To lower your risk of heart problems, use the lowest dosage for the shortest amount of time.
Prostaglandins maintain the pressure in your kidneys so that these organs can filter the fluids in your body. A decrease in your level of prostaglandins from taking Aleve can cause problems with your kidney function. You may notice fluid retention or changes in how much you urinate. If you notice these changes while taking Aleve, stop taking it and contact your doctor.
Effects in people with certain medical conditions
People with certain medical conditions may experience more side effects from Aleve than other people. These conditions include:
history of stomach ulcers or stomach bleeding
kidney disease
heart disease
liver disease
If you have any of these conditions, talk to your doctor before using Aleve. Your doctor may suggest another medication to avoid complications.
Talk with your doctor
For most people, Aleve is an effective treatment for mild pain and fever, especially for short-term use. Side effects can occur, but for the most part the effects are mild. Typically, more severe side effects are associated with extended use. But, as with any medication, if you have a medical condition, take other drugs, or simply aren’t sure if you should take it, talk to your doctor.
Medically reviewed by Alan Carter, PharmD on May 16, 2017 — Written by University of Illinois-Chicago, Drug Information Group
related stories
Pain Relief Basics
Try This: 18 Essential Oils for Sore Muscles
Do Magnetic Bracelets Really Help with Pain?
31 Ways to Help Relieve Endometriosis Pain
Hydromorphone vs. Morphine: How Are They Different?
READ THIS NEXT
Pain Relief Basics
Medically reviewed by Stacy Sampson, DO
We all experience pain. Fortunately, there are many ways to manage pain, whether that means treating the source of the pain or coping with the pain…
READ MORE
Try This: 18 Essential Oils for Sore Muscles
Medically reviewed by Karen Cross, FNP, MSN
Dealing with sore muscles? If foam rolling and other home remedies aren't working, it may be time to try essential oils. Here's how you can find…
READ MORE
Do Magnetic Bracelets Really Help with Pain?
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Popular even in Cleopatra's time, but still a hotly debated topic today, magnetic bracelets are used by many to treat arthritis pain. Do they really…
READ MORE
31 Ways to Help Relieve Endometriosis Pain
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Endometriosis affects every woman differently, so there isn't a pain relief plan that's guaranteed to work for everyone. Here's what some women…
READ MORE
Hydromorphone vs. Morphine: How Are They Different?
Medically reviewed by Alan Carter, PharmD
Hydromorphone and morphine are both strong pain medications. They are very similar, but have important differences. Learn the specifics here.
READ MORE
Steam Room Benefits for Your Health
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Spending time in a steam room can improve a person's health in several ways, especially for older individuals. Find out how.
READ MORE
Aleve and Alcohol: Are They Safe to Use Together?
Medically reviewed by Zara Risoldi Cochrane, PharmD, MS, FASCP
Generally, it's safe to drink alcohol while taking Aleve, but there are some precautions. Find out what you need to know here.
READ MORE
Ibuprofen vs. Acetaminophen: How Are They Different?
Medically reviewed by Lindsay Slowiczek, PharmD
Ibuprofen and acetaminophen are drugs for mild to moderate pain. Learn how they compare.
READ MORE
Ibuprofen vs. Naproxen: Which One Should I Use?
Medically reviewed by Lindsay Slowiczek, PharmD
Ibuprofen and naproxen are both NSAIDs. How different can they be? Learn more to judge for yourself.
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, RD
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 107679 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877