Venerable copper… our friend and healer
Venerable copper… our friend and healer
Copper is one of the oldest metals to be mined and by alloying it with tin (another metal mined thousands of years ago) early man gave us the bronze age. Both on its own and as an alloy, copper has been used as a cooking utensil, for weapons and for healing purposes
We need trace quantities of copper in our diets to ensure that our bones grow healthy and strong. Copper helps promote the formation of collagen and (in conjunction with vitamin C) creates elastin, a protein required by connective tissue. It plays an important role in the synthesis of chemicals required by the brain, heart and immune system. It is necessary for the production of haemoglobin and myelin (the sheath that covers nerve fibres). It is also an important element for the skin, helping in the synthesis of melanin, the chemical that gives colour of the skin (and hair). Furthermore, copper is also an antioxidant, getting rid of harmful molecules called free radicals which are like saboteurs inside the human body.
Thousands of years before we knew this, early man was able to take in the copper he needed by using the element in cooking utensils. When such utensils were heated, some of the copper got into the food.
Copper also helps to fight bacteria and destroy harmful fungi. Consequently copper was used by healers to treat wounded soldiers, preventing their wounds from becoming infected. Today copper is used by alternative medicine both on its own and in conjunction with magnets to treat anaemia, heart disease and rheumatoid arthritis. The reason for this effect is that copper can be absorbed through the human skin and one can absorb up to 40% of the daily recommended dose of copper from a copper bracelet.
Now obviously one can also absorb the mineral through ones diet. Red meat (especially liver), shell fish (and other fish), beans, lentils, cereals, nuts, fruits and vegetables (especially green leafy vegetables) all contain copper. On the other hand, other eating practices that are otherwise healthy – such as a high fibre diet – can actually reduce the amount of copper one takes in. The reason for this is that the copper binds to the fibre and the fibre passes through the system. (Remember that the purpose of eating fibre is to increase the speed at which the waste products of digestion are eliminated from the body.) Vitamin C and zinc, though good in themselves, can also reduce the amount of copper that the body retains through the digestive system.
But by adding a source of copper that comes from something other than the digestive system, one can increase the amount of copper in the body. And because magnetism has also been shown to be beneficial to human health, the combination of magnetism and copper can offer added health benefits. One can buy a copper bracelet with embedded magnets from a magnetic products store. And this is not only for women. Magnetic bracelets for men are becoming increasingly popular because of their proven health benefits.
Shopping Basket
Magnetic Therapy Info
THE SPOTLIGHTS ON PRODUCTS
RESOURCES
BUYING MAGNETIC BRACELETS
GENERAL INFO
› Copper and cooking
› Health, Beauty and aesthetics
› Holograms – what are they?
› How lasers work - I
› How lasers work – II
› Magnetism and a scholarly Crusader
› Magnets and giving up smoking
› Venerable copper… our friend and healer
MAGNETS IN THERAPY
HISTORY
MAGNETS & MAGNETISM
ANIMALS & MAGNETS
SPORT & MAGNETIC POWER
HEALTH & MAGNETS
Advanced Search
STRENGTH (Highest strength 5):
All Results12345
SUITABLE MOSTLY FOR:
All ResultsMenUnisexWomen
PRODUCT TYPE:
All ResultsAnkletBangleLinks BraceletPendant
METAL:
All ResultsCopperGrade 2 TitaniumPlated Copper AlloyStainless Steel
Shop by Price
All Results£0 - £15£15 - £30£30 - £60£60+
Recently Viewed
Evo-Flow Energy Bands
Only £19.99 !
Available in White, Red and blue, the energy band represents superb value for money. Will make a great gift.
Click here to see the full range.
White Ceramic Bracelets
£29.99
Ceramic bracelet are most elegant and will stand scratches better than Titanium & Stainless Steel.
Click here to see the full range.
DID YOU KNOW?
You can send the item in
any condition
for the first 30 days after receiving it, or if new and unused,
any time!
LICK HERE FOR DETAILS
SUPER STRONG MAGNETS !
Booster bangles features two mega size magnets that makes all the difference - boosting the magnetic strength, and with the addition of four standard size magnets.
From £11.95 !
LASER ENGRAVED COPPER
From £ 7.99
Wide copper bangles, laser engraved with amazing patterns, with 6 powerful magnets. Shipped with luxury gift pouch.
JET-BLACK MEN'S TITANIUM
ONLY £ 27.00
Men's classic magnetic bracelets with two super strong magnets in each link.
SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR HER
£22.99 - £39.99
Classic range for ladies, offer wide range of prices and styles. Man, you cannot go wrong if you give one of those bracelets for St. Valentine's Day.
Treating Arthritis with Magnetic Bracelets
It appears to us from the feedback we are receiving from our customers that they proud supporters of using the unique benefits of treating arthritis with magnetic bracelets. Many others, mostly people that never used magnetic therapy, remain sceptic.
For this reason, it has become an issue of controversy between those that did not try magnetic therapy and do not believe in it, and those who actually used magnetic therapy.
And so it remains a hot topic in the world of medicine today.
With an estimated 8.5 million people in the UK suffering from different forms of arthritis, the suggestion that the inflammation that arthritis brings can be eased with something as simple as magnetic bracelet, it is no wonder that it is such a debated issue.
According to Arthritis-Relief.co.uk, there has been in recent years, and continues to be large volume of research conducted about using magnets to eliminate arthritic ailments which has demonstrated that magnetic bracelets, can be an effective method of pain management.
In the United States alone it is reported that as many as one in three adults are being affected by different forms of arthritis, with more than 70 million Americans suffering from the disease.
The Arthritis and Glucosamine Resource Centre reported that in a research carried out to whether or not magnetic bracelets are effective in fighting arthritis pain which questioned whether a ‘placebo effect’ of wearing a magnetic bracelet is the cause for arthritis patients endorsing that the bracelets create pain relief, it was concluded that arthritis patients should embrace magnetic bracelets with an open mind.
GENERAL
Go Top
All Products
Latest Products
Advance Search
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Return Policy
Resizing Links Bracelets
Spending Points
Bracelet Care
SITE INFORMATION
Postage
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map
HELP
Contact Us
Read Our Blog
About Magnetic Therapy
© 2019 Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
ALL PRODUCTS
Special OffersBlack RangeTitanium BraceletsStainless Steel BraceletsBio 4 in 1 ElementsEnergy PendantsNew Items
For Him For Her Bangles Anklets
Contact UsRecent Product Reviews
View Cart | Wish List | New Account | Sign In