Selenium Doesn't Lower Cancer Risk, But Does Raise Diabetes Risk
Skip to content
Home
CC Clinical Trial
News
Search for:
Selenium Does Not Prevent Colon Cancer, But Does Increase Risk of Type 2 Diabetes
November 1, 2016 November 2, 2016
by Ines Martins, PhD
Click Here to receive Colon Cancer news via e-mail
Selenium, used as a nutritional supplement for decades with the belief it significantly lowered the risk of colorectal cancer, does not. Worse, in people with an adequate selenium intake, it more than doubles the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes.
Those were the conclusions reached by researchers at the University of Arizona Cancer Center, who conducted a 12-year study, Selenium Supplementation for Prevention of Colorectal Adenomas and Risk of Associated Type 2 Diabetes.” The study was published recently in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute.
Selenium, a popular nutritional supplement, has been thought to protect against the development of cancer. Indeed, studies have shown that selenium deficiency is associated with increased cancer risk, suggesting that its antioxidant properties and the ability to prevent free radicals from damaging cells and DNA play a key role in cancer prevention.
However, research also suggested that selenium could increase the risk of Type 2 diabetes.
To understand whether selenium truly could prevent colon cancer, researchers conducted a randomized, double-blind, Phase 3 clinical trial (NCT00078897) assessing the safety and effectiveness of selenium in preventing the recurrence of colon polyps.
The study enrolled 1,824 participants from clinical centers in Arizona, Colorado, Texas, and New York who were randomized to receive either selenium (200 µg daily in the form of selenized yeast), or placebo for three to five years, and then monitored for 12 years. Patients also received celecoxib (400 mg daily), a selective COX-2 inhibitor non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), with or without selenium, but celecoxib was demonstrated to increase cardiovascular toxicity in patients with pre-existing cardiovascular factors.
Among 1,374 participants who took selenium or placebo and were available for analysis, results revealed that selenium did not change the risk for the development of colon polyps, the precursors of colorectal cancer, suggesting that, contrary to previous beliefs, selenium did not protect from colon cancer.
Importantly, the researchers found that selenium supplementation significantly increased the risk for Type 2 diabetes, more than doubling patients’ chances of developing the disease.
“Overall, selenium did not prevent colorectal adenomas and showed only modest benefit in patients with baseline advanced adenomas,” the researchers wrote. “With limited benefit and similar increases in T2D to other trials, selenium is not recommended for preventing colorectal adenomas in selenium-replete individuals.”
“The possibility that selenium supplements may increase the risk of Type 2 diabetes has been hinted at before,” Peter Lance, MD, deputy director of the UA Cancer Center and the study’s principal investigator, said in a press release. “But this is the first study to have substantiated such a risk in the setting of a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.”
Now, new studies are being conducted at the University of Arizona to unravel the molecular mechanisms through which selenium increases the chances of developing Type 2 diabetes.
Print This Page
Click Here to receive Colon Cancer news via e-mail
Tagged celecoxib, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), selenium, type 2 diabetes.
Ines Martins, PhD
Inês Martins holds a BSc in Cell and Molecular Biology from Universidade Nova de Lisboa and is currently finishing her PhD in Biomedical Sciences at Universidade de Lisboa. Her work has been focused on blood vessels and their role in both hematopoiesis and cancer development.
Post navigation
Previous: Colon Cancer Patients Who Lack Emotional Support Have Much Greater Risk of Depression, Study Finds
Next:Massachusetts Health Insurance Reform, Model for ACA, Seen to Improve Colon Cancer Care
2 comments
david hughes says:
November 2, 2016 at 10:36 AM
This is very disingenuous by Ines Martins, who shows a lamentable lack of understanding of ‘study context’ to now boldly (and incorrectly) claim that Selenium does not prevent colon cancer. I could easily have predicted the results of this study as this study should never have been done in North America. Most North Americans are adequately supplied with Selenium (many blood and toenail biomarker studies of their selenium status show this), thus of course no colon cancer preventative effect was going to be seen. This study was a waste of funding. Why weren’t the baseline selenium status of the volunteers first assessed to see if it was right to give them further supplementation? It was plain stupid to give these people extra selenium just as for the SELECT study (involving many of the same people) where the baseline Selenium status for everyone in these studies was sufficient for adequate function of the main selenium containing proteins (like SePP and GPx3) that are likely to help prevent cancer. The median Selenium blood level in this stuiyd was 135ng/ul so above what is needed for selenoprotein saturation. Why on earth then were these people given more selenium? So it is a poorly designed study that now will distort the important link between Selenium and cancer in areas of the world where the levels of selenium are much lower. For, in other parts of the world, such as many areas of Europe, Selenium is at sub-optimal levels and such a study is needed. However, the stupidity in doing this study in North America and the sweeping headlines and inadequate attention to detail of people reporting on this study like Ines Martins will obscure a very simple rationale of study context and make it very difficult to actually study this in a population setting where it should have been done in the first place. Furthermore, the findings for type 2 diabetes (T2D) are interesting but very tentative (and it was irresponsible to conduct this study in North America). The findings were only statistically significantly for an increased risk of selenium-associated T2D among older participants (RR = 2.21; 95% CI = 1.04 to 4.67, P = .03). The confidence intervals are very wide, and there are several possible confounding reasons for this finding (of which age is the most obvious). The authors acknowledge in their summary that the population is largely selenium replete. Thus why did they undertake a supplementation trial in the first place?
Reply
Ines Martins, PhD says:
November 2, 2016 at 11:45 AM
Hi David.
Thank you for your comment. You actually did make a very good point and we will update the story to specify that the study is based on a selenium-replete population and that selenium supplements should not be recommended to prevent colon cancer in populations that are largely selenium replete.
Reply
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
Recent Colon Cancer Articles
Clinical Trial to Test Mekinist as Combo Therapy in Advanced Colorectal Cancer Patients
June 8, 2017
Certain Colon Cancer Patients May Need a Shorter Chemotherapy Course, International Study Finds
June 6, 2017
Binimetinib Triple Combo to Be Tested in Microsatellite Stable Colorectal Cancer Patients
June 1, 2017
PCM-075 Proves Safe as Treatment for Colon, Other Cancer Types, Phase 1 Trial Shows
May 30, 2017
FDA Approves Merck’s Keytruda for Colorectal, Other Solid Cancers with Specific Genetic Feature
May 25, 2017
You May Also Like…..
FDA Approves Merck’s Keytruda for Colorectal, Other Solid Cancers with Specific Genetic Feature
May 25, 2017
Patient Is Key Factor That Predicts Colorectal Cancer Screening, Study Finds
April 6, 2017
UConn Center Uses More than Colonoscopy to Prevent Colorectal Cancer
April 18, 2017
Visit Colon Cancer News Today's profile on Pinterest.
Colon Cancer News Today
BioNews Services, LLC
5307 E. Mockingbird Ln.
5th Floor
Dallas, TX 75206
Email: [email protected]
Phone: 1-800-936-1363
Recent Posts
Clinical Trial to Test Mekinist as Combo Therapy in Advanced Colorectal Cancer Patients
June 8, 2017
Certain Colon Cancer Patients May Need a Shorter Chemotherapy Course, International Study Finds
June 6, 2017
Binimetinib Triple Combo to Be Tested in Microsatellite Stable Colorectal Cancer Patients
June 1, 2017
PCM-075 Proves Safe as Treatment for Colon, Other Cancer Types, Phase 1 Trial Shows
May 30, 2017
About CC News
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Disclaimer:
Colon Cancer News Today is strictly a news and information website about the disease. It does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. This content is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this website.
Copyright © 2013-2019 All rights reserved.
Pin It on Pinterest
Share This
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Pinterest
LinkedIn
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. We never use your cookies for creepy ad retargeting that follows you around the web.	OkRead more