ihbPT | Inner Health Blog
Inner Health Blog
Health, Vitality & Beauty from the Inside Out!
Main menu
Skip to content
Inner Health Home
Hypnotherapy
Self-Hypnosis Downloads
Testimonials
Weight Loss
Stress Elimination Self-Hypnosis
Nutritional Supplements for Stress & Anxiety
Pain Management
Author Archives: ihbPT
Post navigation
← Older posts
Supplements to Help with Stress & Anxiety
Posted on January 9, 2019 by ihbPT
THRIVE Rest Ingredients
L-Tryptophan, GABA (Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid), Skullcap Extract, Ashwagandha Extract, Bacopa Monnieri Extract, Valerian Root Extract, Passion Flower Extract, Hops Extract,
Chamomile Extract, Melatonin, L-Theanine
Other ingredients: Purified Water, Fructose, Glycerin, Natural Flavor, Cellulose Gum, Xanthan Gum, Citric Acid, Stevia Leaf Extract, Potassium Sorbate.
Please Note: The following ingredients research is not company supplied but based upon my own independent Google research, you are welcome to do your own research.
If you decide to try using herbal stress relief, it is important to be consistent and use the chosen herbs for some time. They are usually quite gentle in action on the body and need to be used regularly for you to see the results.
The Thrive Rest Sublingual Gel Technology Delivery System:
Sublingual from the Latin for “under the tongue”, refers to the pharmacological route of administration by which substances diffuse into the blood through tissues under the tongue.
When a chemical comes in contact with the mucous membrane beneath the tongue, it is absorbed. Because the connective tissue beneath the epithelium contains a profusion of capillaries, the substance then diffuses into them and enters the venous circulation. In contrast, substances absorbed in the intestines are subject to “first-pass metabolism” in the liver before entering the general circulation.
-Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sublingual_administration
L-Tryptophan for Sleep, Anxiety and Stress Relief
L-Tryptophan is an all-natural dietary supplement commonly used to counter insomnia, as well as depression, anxiety and premenstrual syndrome.
Tryptophan is an amino acid that interacts with those brain chemicals important to sleep and the timing of your biological clock’s sleep-wake cycle. Tryptophan increases serotonin, which also increases melatonin, both neuro-transmitters in your brain’s pineal gland. These neural “gateways” regulate sleep and mood chemicals that affect sleep and mood balance.
When either serotonin or melatonin is disrupted you can suffer insomnia and depression symptoms. Tryptophan supplements provide extra doses of sleep inducing amino acids that reportedly help counter sleep disturbances.
-Source: https://www.insomnia.net/natural-remedies/l-tryptophan/
One of the most useful benefits Tryptophan for anxiety provides is mood regulation, through the production of the neurotransmitter Serotonin. Supplementing with L-Tryptophan and its by-product 5-HTP may improve mood and relieve stress.
Once consumed, L-Tryptophan is converted into 5-HTP (5-hydroxytryptophan) and other metabolites in the liver. 5-HTP, which is also available as a mood supplement, travels through the blood stream to the brain. Once there, it is able to cross the blood-brain barrier.
In the brain, 5-HTP is converted into Serotonin, the neurotransmitter most commonly associated with the regulation of mood.
In addition to the role it plays in regulating mood, Serotonin is also converted into the hormone Melatonin. Melatonin is a sleep-regulating neurotransmitter that controls the sleep/wake cycle (circadian rhythm).
During the day, the brain produces more Serotonin, and Melatonin production is very low. When light levels drop at dusk, Serotonin is converted more readily into Melatonin, and levels rise in the body.
Melatonin helps you stay asleep throughout the night and wake feeling rested. This may help to control anxious thoughts during the day.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/l-tryptophan-anxiety/
Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA)
What is it? Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA) is a chemical made in the brain and often taken as a supplement to relieve anxiety, improve mood, reduce PMS symptoms, and treat symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Does it work? There is some limited evidence to suggest that orally-administered GABA supplements can help promote relaxation and immunity and reduce anxiety during times of stress. -Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
According to recent sleep studies, GABA levels are up to 30% lower in people suffering from insomnia. Similarly, GABA levels are also lower in patients with depression or mood disorders.
GABA (gamma-Aminobutyric acid) is a naturally occurring chemical compound produced in your brain, and, according to a recent study, helps to relax your body as well as your mind. “After 60 minutes of administration,” the clinical trials abstract reads, “GABA significantly increases alpha waves and decreases beta waves compared to water or L-theanine. These findings denote that GABA not only induces relaxation but also reduces anxiety.”
-Source: https://thethirty.byrdie.com/gaba-for-sleep
GABA is a highly important element in the brain. Essentially, it plays a key role in regulating the depressive neuro-activity in the human brain. In other words, it’s responsible for helping your mind switch from “work mode” to “relaxation mode”. It also plays a role in sedative change in the brain, which is the key to falling asleep at night.
How GABA helps reduce stress: GABA, in supplement form, is used for its relaxation-inducing effects, and to help relieve stress. It has also been shown to help improve mood, which can also lead to less stress in the future. Essentially, it works by blocking brain signals that incite anxiety and stressful feelings, allowing the brain to remain calm and inducing relaxation. -Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Skullcap Extract
Skullcap herb is an amazing plant for stress, tension, anxiety, nervousness and panic attacks. If I were pressed to simply list one application for skullcap it would be its ability to relieve stress and anxiety. It works well in acute situations and can be taken over time to decrease chronic stress (along with lifestyle modifications of course).
It works well for acute and sudden onset anxiety or panic attacks. For people susceptible to sudden onset anxiety or panic attacks, fresh skullcap tincture can be kept on them at all times.
Experienced herbal medic, Sam Coffman, shares his reliance on skullcap herb for shock-related anxiety.
Skullcap (Scutellaria spp.) and Passionflower are two that have never failed me as a formula to help someone cope quickly with shock-related anxiety. – Sam Coffman, Plant Healer Magazine 11
Not just for acute cases, skullcap can be taken over time as a nerve tonic to support nervous system health in people who have been through prolonged periods of stress and feel like their nerves are constantly on edge.
-Source: http://www.herbalremediesadvice.org/skullcap-herb.html
While skullcap may help with anxiety, it also can help those who experience insomnia and other sleeping problems, such as restlessness, muscle tension and clenching the jaws.
-Source: https://draxe.com/skullcap/
Studies showed that American skullcap has antioxidant properties that may help protect against Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, anxiety and depression.6
These antioxidant capabilities were also linked to increased antioxidant activity in the liver, considered to be one of the slowest-recovering organs. The herb boosts the liver’s efficiency, helping with reduction of toxin levels in the body and blood, and consequently enhancing well-being. Furthermore, other properties discovered in American skullcap include:7,8
• Sedative: American skullcap is a known nervine, and it has potential as treatment for epilepsy, hysteria, panic attacks, anxiety and delirium tremens. Meanwhile, people with sleep problems can use American skullcap since it’s able to help induce sleep naturally, without the negative effects of prescription drugs and over-the-counter (OTC) sleep aids
• Antispasmodic: The herb can help minimize throat infections, headaches from stress, neuralgia and after-effects of incessant coughing. American skullcap can also be useful when treating withdrawal symptoms from tranquilizers and barbiturates, and may even benefit people with anorexia nervosa, fibromyalgia and mild Tourette’s syndrome
People with nervous disorders who experienced seizures or other spasmodic side effects that occurred from a problem in the nervous system may also utilize American skullcap.
• Analgesic: This herb can help with pain relief all throughout the body, as it can reduce inflammation and deliver a major boost in wound healing and injury recovery
-Source: https://articles.mercola.com/herbs-spices/skullcap.aspx
Ashwagandha
The Ayurvedic herb, Ashwagandha supports healthy sleep by rejuvenating the body and addressing stress-related exhaustion. Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) has emerged as one of the world’s most powerful adaptogen, which means it helps the adrenal system regulate hormones and helps the body cope with stress. In fact, “somnifera” in Latin literally means the “sleep inducer.”
Lowers Stress Hormones: One of the well-understood pathways linked to sleep disturbance is the overproduction of the stress hormone, cortisol. According to our circadian clock, cortisol should naturally decrease in the early evening in preparation for sleep. Stress can overrule these rhythms and cortisol can stay elevated into the night and affect sleep success. Ashwagandha, in numerous studies, has been shown to help control and limit the production of cortisol as a result of stressful situations.
-Source: https://lifespa.com/5-reasons-use-ashwagandha-sleep/
Many people are ditching over the counter sleep aids and trying the herbal supplement Ashwagandha for sleep issues. We know that this plant-based medicinal has been used for centuries in India to treat a number of conditions and disorders.
It has strong anti-oxidant and anti-microbial properties, which it uses to protect cell health in the brain and major organs.
Ashwagandha reduces stress by cutting the amount of cortisol, a hormone commonly released by the body during stressful situations. Cortisol triggers various stress reactions in the body, or “fight or flight” reactions. It further cuts stress by reducing blood pressure, and balancing blood sugar levels.
Ashwagandha quells anxious thoughts and allows the mind to become calm. These anxiolytic effects are achieved by activating signaling via GABA receptors. When these receptors are activated, it results in feelings of calm and relaxation.
The central nervous system is mildly sedated and a sense of peace may result. We think that this is the key to the efficacy of taking Ashwagandha for sleep issues.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/ashwagandha-for-sleep/
Research has shown that there are measurable health benefits of engaging in a creative activity such as stress reduction, reduction of feelings of anxiety or depression, improvements in immune function, and improvements in your cognitive function are all associated with creative pursuits.
The Role of Herbs in Supporting Our Creativity
There are many herbs and supplements that are known to help boost creativity. These are commonly grouped together and called nootropics. A nootropic substance is anything that enhances our brain, especially in creativity, cognitive function, and memory.
Ashwagandha is one of these powerful herbs. Ashwagandha is one of the most heavily studied adaptogens there is. It is most known for its ability to reduce stress, but it has many other health benefits as well!
Researchers reported that it blocked the stress pathway in the brains of rats by regulating chemical signalling in the nervous system. In human studies, the herb showed a 69% reduction in anxiety and insomnia, compared to only 11% in the placebo group.
Ashwagandha can help your focus and concentration, both of which are incredibly important when you’re working on a creative project!
-Source: http://healthywithstefan.com/
There have been over 200 studies on Ashwagandha’s ability to:
Improve thyroid function
Treat adrenal fatigue
Reduce anxiety and depression
Combat effects of stress
Increase stamina and endurance
Prevent and treat cancer
Reduce brain cell degeneration
Stabilize blood sugar
Lower cholesterol
Boost immunity
In this article I’m going to discuss the benefits of Ashwagandha in healing your thyroid, adrenal glands, improving mood and energy, preventing cancer, and supporting brain health… read the full Dr. Axe article here: https://draxe.com/ashwagandha-proven-to-heal-thyroid-and-adrenals/
Here are 7 benefits women may experience with Ashwagandha:
1. Promotes Graceful Aging
Stress, both metabolic and emotional, dramatically affects aging. Cortisol, the body’s stress hormone, contributes to muscle loss and weakness, wrinkles, and cognitive impairment. Research has found that Ashwagandha improves resistance to stress, possibly decreasing cortisol production. [1] One study of 64 individuals observed a reduction in stress and a significant decrease in cortisol levels in individuals taking Ashwagandha compared with placebo.
2. Menopausal Support
Ashwagandha acts on the endocrine system by encouraging hormone balance. A study involving 51 menopausal women supplementing with Ashwagandha noted a significant reduction in symptoms such as hot flashes, anxiety, and mood. [2]
3. Sexual Potency (men and women)
The Kama Sutra, one of the oldest surviving texts on human sexuality, mentions Ashwagandha in its literature as a potent sexual stimulant for both men and women. Research indicates that the herb supports sexual health and vitality by increasing blood flow and reducing bodily tension. Women taking Ashwagandha typically experience an increase in sexual desire and satisfaction.
4. Memory Support
Recent research has shown that Ashwagandha reduces memory impairment in animal models. The herb may also protect the brain from the oxidative stress that leads to neurodegeneration. Relaxation, a benefit derived from the herb’s stress-fighting effects, also improves long-term visual memory. [3] [4]
5. Revitalization
Another benefit many women report after taking this herb is in regards to energy levels. This anecdotal evidence is supported by scientific investigation; a recent study reported Ashwagandha’s benefits for improving energy while reducing stress-related disorders. [5]
6. Mood Booster
Ashwagandha is a known mood-boosting herb, and research suggests that the therapeutic plant may play a potential role in fighting mood imbalance. [6] Women battling mood swings may benefit from supplementing with Ashwagandha.
7. Fertility
Stress, illness, hormone imbalance, and nutrient deficiencies — all of these issues threaten female reproductive health and make it difficult for a woman to conceive. Research shows that Ashwagandha supports thyroid function, an organ responsible for regulating hormones. [7] Also, by decreasing stress, Ashwagandha may encourage a situation that is optimal for fertility. [8] More research is needed to clarify whether or not Ashwagandha is effective for helping infertile females struggling to conceive.
-Source: https://www.globalhealingcenter.com/natural-health/7-amazing-benefits-of-Ashwagandha-root-for-women/
Bacopa monnieri
Bacopa monnieri is an herbal nootropic, a plant-based supplement that boosts brain power and reduces anxiety naturally. Bacopa monnieri is one of the oldest and most well-respected nootropic supplements. A traditional Ayurvedic medicine, sometimes referred to as Brahmi, has centuries of history as a potent cognitive enhancer, stress reliever, and brain protectant.
Bacopa monnieri is used to improve memory formation and speed of recall, make learning faster and easier, enhance clarity of thought, and augment overall brain function. It is also believed to act as a brain protectant, and studies show that it has potential as a treatment for dementia.
Bacopa has also been shown to have significant anxiolytic or anti-anxiety effects, producing a feeling of calmness and tranquility and reducing feelings of stress. Users report that it is an excellent general relaxant and can improve the quality of sleep, so they wake feeling rested and refreshed.
-Source: https://www.braintropic.com/nootropics/bacopa-monnieri/
I recently read an Ayurvedic weight loss protocol that included bacopa taken a few times a day to reduce nervous food cravings. The kind of sleepiness that a high dose of bacopa induces is not a heavy, drugged feeling, but a feeling of deep peace and calm in keeping with its respected Ayurvedic mental and soul-calming properties.
Bacopa is an ideal herb to give not only to induce sleep, but for staying asleep through the night.
-Source: https://planetherbs.com/blogs/michaels-blogs/bacopa-monnieri-the-true-brahmi/
Valerian Root
What is it? Valerian is an herb commonly used to treat insomnia, anxiety, and stress. Although it’s considered safe for most adults, the effects of long-term use are unknown. Short-term side effects include headaches and sluggishness in the morning, especially if taken at higher doses.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Some herbal supplements reduce anxiety without making you sleepy (such as L-theanine), while others are sedatives. Valerian (Valeriana officinalis) is squarely in the second category. It is a sleep aid, for insomnia. It contains sedative compounds; the German government has approved it as a treatment for sleep problems.
Valerian smells kind of nasty, so most people take it as a capsule or tincture, rather than a tea. If you want to try it, take it in the evening—not before you go to work! Valerian is often combined with other sedative herbs such as hops, chamomile, and lemon balm.
-Source: http://www.health.com/health/gallery/0,,20669377,00.html#valerian-2
Valerian is a very helpful form of herbal stress relief if you suffer from tension and anxiety, or have a tendency to get easily over-excited and/or hysterical. It is very calming but is unlikely to make you sleepy (although I wouldn’t suggest taking large quantities and then driving) and you can use it without any worries about getting addicted to it. If you have trouble sleeping, try taking valerian an hour or so before you go to bed. If your body gets so tense that you experience pain, taking valerian can help to relieve the discomfort. –Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Passionflower
Studies have shown that passionflower lowers anxiety in mice, but only one study has been carried out in humans, according to Lenz. That randomized, placebo-controlled study was done in 2001 in patients with general anxiety disorder, and found that 45 drops of liquid passionflower daily was as effective in treating the disorder as the drug oxazepam. Still, more research on its safety and effectiveness is needed, Lenz wrote in his study.
-Source: https://www.livescience.com/16975-herbal-supplements-stress-reduction.html
Passion flower is extremely useful if you suffer from long term insomnia. It can be taken over a long period of time. It helps you get to sleep, sleep well and wake up without any of the heavy feeling of some sleeping tablets. It has a generally tranquillizing effect. It can help to relieve restlessness, irritability, nervous stress and anxiety and can also be used where great tension is causing spasms in the body as it is also an antispasmodic. -Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH), more research is needed to assess the potential uses of P. incarnata. Some studies suggest it may help relieve anxiety and insomnia. Other species of passionflower have shown promise for treating stomach problems.
P. incarnata has many common names, including purple passionflower and maypop. Early studies suggest it might help relieve insomnia and anxiety. It appears to boost the level of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in your brain. This compound lowers brain activity, which may help you relax and sleep better.
In a trial published in Phytotherapy Research, participants drank a daily dose of herbal tea with purple passionflower. After seven days, they reported improvements in the quality of their sleep. The researchers suggest that purple passionflower may help adults manage mild sleep irregularities.
Some trials suggest that purple passionflower may also relieve anxiety. A study reported in the journal Anesthesia and Analgesia examined its effects on patients scheduled for surgery. Patients who consumed it reported less anxiety than those who received a placebo.
-Source: https://www.healthline.com/health/anxiety/calming-effects-of-passionflower#calming
There are many passion flower benefits — it may help reduce and possibly eliminate insomnia, anxiety, inflammation from skin irritations and burns, menopause, ADHD and even more serious conditions such as seizures, high blood pressure and asthma, just to name a few.
Studies have shown that passion flower may be just as effective as synthetic drugs for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD)! (1) It’s common to see passion flower combined with other calming herbs such as valerian root and lemon balm, chamomile, hops, kava and skullcap.
May Help Reduce the Effects of Menopause, Including Hot Flashes & Depression
Menopause is associated with feeling of anxiety and depression, which is often caused by low levels of amma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which is a chemical in the brain. Hormone therapy that relies on modern medicine can create a lot of unwanted side effects. Studies have been conducted that show that passion flower can treat menopausal symptoms such as vasomotor signs (hot flashes and night sweats), insomnia, depression, anger, headaches, and may be a great alternative to conventional hormone therapy. (3)
Reduce Anxiety
Passion flower may be helpful in reducing anxiety and has long been known as a folk remedy. It’s believed that certain compounds found in passion flower may interact with some receptors in the brain provoking relaxation. Because passion increases GABA, the activity of some brain cells that may be causing anxiety is lowered and makes you feel more relaxed. Studies suggest that passion flower extracts may even have mild anti-inflammatory and anti-seizure benefits. (4)
A study was performed for four weeks on 36 out-patients that were diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The results indicated that passion flower extract was an effective treatment for managing the anxiety and did not negatively affect job performance unlike the synthetic therapy. (1) Another study involving children showed that nervousness was reduced after the use of the combined plant extracts to include passion flower, St. John’s Wort and valerian root. (9, 10)
-Source: https://draxe.com/passion-flower/
Hops Extract
Hops work as a central nervous system relaxant. This makes them a very helpful form of herbal stress relief if you suffer from insomnia and the stress states caused by not getting enough sleep. Hops help to relieve tension and anxiety and are helpful in reducing restlessness.
Hops have a strong muscle relaxing effect so if being stressed gives you headaches, indigestion, stomach pains, palpitations or a nervous cough, then taking hops, especially in the form of a tincture, could prove very helpful for you.
-Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Effects of a hops (Humulus lupulus L.) dry extract supplement on self-reported depression, anxiety and stress levels in apparently healthy young adults: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover pilot study.
OBJECTIVE: The Humulus lupulus L. plant (hops) is used as a herbal medicinal product for anxiety/mood disorders. Our aim was to study the effects of a hops dry extract on self-reported, anxiety and stress levels in young adults.
DESIGN: Apparently healthy young adults from our university completed the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21) and those reporting at least mild depression, anxiety and stress were invited to complete the study intervention. This followed a randomized (1:1), placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover design with two 4-week intervention periods (hops or placebo; two 0.2 gr capsules once daily) separated by a 2-week wash-out.
Anthropometric measurements, DASS-21 assessments and measurements of morning cortisol plasma levels were performed at the beginning and the end of the 4-week treatment periods.
RESULTS: 36 participants (Females/Males: 31/5; age: 24.7±0.5 years) completed the study intervention (attrition: 6/42). No significant changes in body weight and composition or morning circulating cortisol were noted with the hops or placebo.
Significantly decreased DASS-21 anxiety, depression and stress scores were documented with hops (9.2±7.3 vs. 5.1±5.9, 11.9±7.9 vs. 9.2±7.4, and 19.1±8.1 vs. 11.6±8.1; all p values <0.05), which were significantly greater compared to those caused by the placebo (all p values <0.05).
CONCLUSION: In otherwise healthy young adults reporting at least mild depression, anxiety and stress symptoms, daily supplementation with a hops dry extract can significantly improve all these symptoms over a 4-week period. These beneficial effects agree with the indication of hops for anxiety/mood disorders and restlessness, as approved by the German Commission E.
-Source: https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/71e2/7c6afadc2f206330e9a94eab28ccfea6fbfb.pdf
FOR STRESS AND ANXIETY
Anybody that enjoys a glass or two of rich, hoppy beer will be familiar with the way that the tension seems to ease from your body. While alcohol may well have something to do with this, hops themselves may also play a part.
Hops have been traditionally used for their sedative abilities and may help to ease feelings of anxiety and stress.
Several studies have demonstrated that hops have sedative effects on the body’s nervous system (1)
It is believed to work because it modulates the GABA receptors in the brain. Studies have also shown that hops are more effective as a sedative when used in combination with valerian. (2)
FOR IMPROVED SLEEP
There is a growing body of scientific evidence that hops could help people improve their quality of sleep and even help treat sleep conditions like insomnia.
Hops have traditionally been used to help with sleep issues and several studies have analysed its effectiveness as a sleep aid. Several studies have found that hops were effective in promoting sleep in combination with another herb – valerian. (3)
A study published in 2012 set out to examine the effects of hops in female nurses chosen because of their stressful jobs and their poor sleep patterns.
The study found that the participants who drank non-alcoholic beer containing hops experienced a much-improved quality of sleep compared with the control group. (4)
FOR MENOPAUSE
Studies have found that hops have chemicals that act like estrogen. These chemicals may help relieve some of the symptoms of hormonal changes which occur because of menopause.
A study done on 100 postmenopausal women found that a vaginal gel using hops as one of the major ingredients reduced dryness in the vagina. It also helped relieve painful intercourse, burning, itching, and vaginal inflammation.
One study published in 2006 examined the effects of a phytoestrogen extracted from hops (8-prenylnaringenin) on menopausal discomfort.
The results of the study indicated that a daily intake of hop extract had beneficial effects on many of the discomforts associated with menopause including hot flashes. (5)
TO RELAX THE MUSCLES
Hops can also be used alone or in combination with valerian to help relax your overly stressed muscles, ease stiff joints and prevent spasms and twitching.
According to experts when these herbs are used in combination, they are even more effective than when used alone.
COGNITIVE HEALTH
Recent research carried out in China suggests that xanthohumol – a compound found in hops may help protect the brain’s cells from oxidative stress.
According to the researchers, this type of oxidative stress can lead to degenerative disorders such as Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease.
The researchers at Lanzhou university concluded that xanthohumol may protect the brain from damage and reduce the risk of various brain disorders. (6)
WEIGHT LOSS
A study published in 2012 reported that the flavonoid – xanthohumol – extracted from hops helped reduce body weight and fasting glucose levels in obese rats.
The researchers also concluded that the results demonstrated the extract may have a beneficial effect on some of the symptoms of metabolic syndrome. (8)
HEART HEALTH
Another potential benefit of the xanthohumol found in hops is the effect it may have on heart health. A study published in 2012 found that it possessed powerful antiplatelet activity. The researchers concluded it may have a role to play in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease. (9)
-Source: https://healthyfocus.org/benefits-of-hops/
Chamomile Extract
Chamomile is a mild relaxant and sedative. A cup of chamomile tea before bed can help you to fall asleep easily and sleep well. Like lemon balm, it also has anti-spasmodic properties. This is a wonderful tea for children. It can be slightly bitter so sweeten it with a little honey if you like. -Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Recent clinical and laboratory research has determined that chamomile is not only relaxing, but it can significantly decrease anxiety and even fight depression.
The most recent study, from the UK’s University of Nottingham Medical School, found that chamomile significantly relaxed blood vessels and smooth muscle fibers. This effect was indicated specifically with the application of three of chamomile’s central constituents, apigenin, luteolin and bisabolol – all hydroxylates.
The fact that chamomile is an anti-anxiety and anti-depression herb was cemented by a clinical study at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. This study was done in 2009, but its data and findings were re-investigated and confirmed last year.
The researchers enlisted 19 people diagnosed with anxiety with depression, along with 16 people who were diagnosed as having a history of anxiety and depression. These groups were studied along with a control group of 22 people who had no anxiety or depression – past or present.
The study was randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled. The researchers gave the subjects either 220 milligrams of chamomile extract (standardized to 1.2% apigenin) or a placebo study, both in capsules.
The researchers found that 57% of the group using the chamomile extract had significantly reduced (greater than 50%) anxiety scores using the HAM-A system.
-Source: https://www.realnatural.org/chamomile-relaxes-fights-anxiety-and-depression/
Chamomile Improves Sleep Quality
A study (RCT) on 80 postnatal women with poor sleep quality showed that drinking chamomile tea significantly improved in sleep quality after 2 weeks [R].
Another study (RCT) involving 80 elderly people over 60 yielded similar results. After 4 weeks of oral consumption of chamomile extract, the participants improved their sleep quality [R].
Chamomile Reduces Anxiety And Depression
Chamomile can be used as a treatment for patients with generalized anxiety disorder by reducing depression, restlessness, and constant worrying.
Several studies (RCT) concluded that long-term chamomile consumption reduces generalized anxiety disorder symptoms without significant side effects [R, R].
Furthermore, a study has revealed that aromatherapy with Roman chamomile oil over a 2-week period reduced depressive-like behaviors in rats [R].
Chamomile Rids Parasites In The Gut
A cell-based study showed that chamomile extracts exhibit anti-parasitic activity against Haemonchus contortus. Chamomile inhibited egg hatching and led to worm paralysis and/or death even at low concentrations [R].
Anisakiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the presence of worms from the Anisakis genus in the gut. This disease is usually contracted through consumption of raw or undercooked fish. Symptoms of anisakiasis include vomiting, nausea, stomach pain, and diarrhea.
An animal study concluded that chamomile essential oil can treat anisakiasis by producing damage to the parasite’s muscular and digestive systems, and ultimately killing, the worms [R].
-Source: https://www.selfhacked.com/blog/health-benefits-chamomile/#3_Chamomile_Improves_Sleep_Quality
Considered to be one of the most ancient and versatile medicinal herbs known to mankind, dried chamomile flowers have numerous, widespread health implications thanks to their high level of disease-fighting antioxidants like terpenoids and flavonoids.
Chamomile’s vital antioxidants are found in the plant’s potent oils and are the main contributors to its natural healing properties. As an effective alternative medicine with almost no known negative side effects, chamomile has been used for nearly 5,000 years in standardized tea, herbal extract and cosmetic forms to promote tranquility, vitality, a youthful appearance and longevity.
1. High Source of Antioxidants
The main antioxidant components extracted from chamomile flowers are the terpenoid group of antioxidants, including chamazulene and acetylene derivatives. Because these delicate compounds are unstable, they’re thought to be best preserved in an alcoholic tincture or “essential oil” form. Other major constituents of the flowers include several phenolic compounds, primarily the flavonoids, including apigenin, quercetin, patuletin as well as various glucosides. (1, 2, 3)
These compounds lower inflammation by fighting free radical damage and preventing cell mutation. Chamomile benefits start with antioxidants that are associated with better immune function; lower rates of mood disorders; reduced pain and swelling; and healthier skin, hair, nails, teeth and eyes.
2. Fights Anxiety and Depression
Chamomile, whether in tea, tincture or essential oil form, is one the best medicinal herbs for fighting stress and promoting relaxation, according to research from Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine and Pharmacognosy Review. (4, 5) Inhaling chamomile vapours using chamomile essential oils is often recommended as a natural remedy for anxiety and general depression, which is one reason why chamomile oil is a popular ingredient in many candles, aromatherapy products and bath-soaking treatments.
In extract form, chamomile is frequently used as a mild sedative to calm nerves and reduce anxiety because its vapours travel directly to the olfactory part of the brain, turning off tension and reducing the body’s stress response. This is why practitioners use chamomile to effectively relieve symptoms of chronic anxiety and stress, including hysteria, nightmares, insomnia and various digestive problems. (6)
Smells are carried directly to the brain, and they serve as an emotional trigger. The limbic system evaluates the sensory stimuli, registering pleasure, pain, danger or safety; this then directs our emotional response, such as feelings of fear, anger and attraction.
Our basic emotions and hormonal balance are in response to the most basic smell. Scents are a direct pathway to memory and emotion. Fragrances, like chamomile, relieve pain and generally affect personality and behaviour. Research proves that using oil fragrances is one of the fastest ways to achieve psychological results.
-Source: https://draxe.com/chamomile-benefits/
Melatonin
What is it? A hormone produced by the brain’s pineal gland, melatonin helps control sleep cycles. Because sleep and mood are closely connected, supplementing with melatonin can alleviate stress. It’s considered safe, but can cause side effects like headaches, short-term feelings of depression, dizziness, and irritability.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Generally, people use Melatonin supplements to help with sleep disorders, such as primary insomnia. It also used for a variety of health conditions that include bipolar disorder, dementia, depression, endometriosis and anxiety.
Melatonin is a hormone made by the brain to regulate sleep cycles, but it can also play a role in mood and anxiety. It helps to control the level of stimulation and activity experienced by the body, and demonstrates anxiolytic effects.
If you have anxiety, melatonin may help make it easier to fall asleep at night, since insomnia is a common side effect of this mood disorder. It can also improve depression symptoms in patients with both anxiety and depression.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/melatonin-for-anxiety/
Melatonin: The Brain Hormone
Melatonin was introduced to the United States in 1992 as a “sleep hormone.”
While some find melatonin helps restore restful sleep, scientists are finding far more consistent applications for melatonin in the area of brain protection.
New discoveries are validating melatonin’s ability to guard the brain from oxidative stress and the neurodegeneration that occurs as a result of aging and environmental factors.1 With this research, melatonin deserves the title of “brain hormone.”
Scientists are increasingly finding that the age-related decline in melatonin levels may be one factor for the age-related increase in neurodegenerative diseases.2-4 In fact, some symptoms of melatonin deficiency are seen in patients with Alzheimer’s, such as disruption of day/night patterns, mood changes, and delirium.5
Fortunately, supplementing with melatonin in middle age and beyond has been shown to protect against Alzheimer’s as well as reduce the risk of Parkinson’s disease, shrink the size of the infarct area involved in a stroke, and minimize the brain swelling and dysfunction following a head injury. 2,6-13
As if this were not enough, research is also finding that in lab studies melatonin can play a role in longevity by increasing the “longevity protein” SIRT1.14,15 Clearly, melatonin’s beneficial properties extend far beyond sleep.
-Source: https://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2013/9/melatonin-the-brain-hormone/page-01
Melatonin and Brain
Melatonin as a natural occurring free radical scavenger and an inducer of antioxidant enzymes has been well documented in thousands of publications within the last decade. Melatonin is no longer exclusively classified as a neurohormone since melatonin has been identified in bacteria, fungi, algae and plants.
Likewise, endogenously-produced melatonin is no longer the only source in the body since melatonin is also derived from the diet when vegetables, fruits, cereals, herbs, olive oil, wine or beer are consumed.
One important characteristic of melatonin is its permeability into the brain. It readily passes through the blood-brain-barrier and accumulates in the central nervous system at substantially higher levels than exist in the blood. As a result, this molecule exhibits strong neuroprotective effects, especially under the conditions of elevated oxidative stress or intensive neural inflammation.
-Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3001209/
Theanine (L. Theanine)
There’s been a resurgence of interest in the anxiety-relieving powers of L-theanine, an amino acid found in green tea.
Discoveries over the past two years have uncovered exciting additional properties of this nutrient best known for inducing calming, tranquilizing effects while simultaneously improving alertness.
L-theanine relieves anxiety in large part because it bears a close resemblance to the brain-signalling chemical glutamate. L-theanine produces the opposite effect in the brain.
While glutamate is the brain’s most important excitatory neurotransmitter, L-theanine binds to the same brain cell receptors and blocks them to glutamate’s effects. This action produces inhibitory effects. That inhibition to brain overactivity has a calming, relaxing effect in which anxiety fades.
In addition to blocking excitatory stimuli at glutamate receptors in the brain, L-theanine also stimulates production of the inhibitory, relaxing neurotransmitter GABA, adding to its calming, anti-anxiety effects.
Unlike prescription anti-anxiety drugs, however, some of which mimic GABA’s effects, L-theanine produces its anti-anxiety effects without producing sleepiness or impairing motor behaviour. In fact, L-theanine has been shown in human studies to moderately improve alertness and attention while exerting its anxiety-reducing effects.
Of particular interest are studies showing that L-theanine supplementation prevents the abrupt rise in blood pressure that some people experience under stress. The reason this is so critical is that many people have normal blood pressure readings at rest that spike up to dangerously high levels when subjected to stressful situations.
There’s a link between anxiety, reaction to stress, and the brain’s most fundamental function, maintaining cognition. Studies over the past two years suggest a potential role for L-theanine in supporting cognitive function and preventing its loss.
-Source: http://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2016/3/brain-benefits-of-l-theanine/page-01
How L-theanine helps reduce stress: Primarily, L-theanine helps to relax the body and mind, without having sedative effects. So, it’s a great way to help manage stress, and you can use it during the day because it won’t cause drowsiness.
Theanine supplements may also help to reduce the perception of stress and help you stay in a more positive mindset. Theanine has also been shown to work synergistically with other supplements, including caffeine. Research has shown a combination of 200mg of theanine with 200mg of caffeine promotes significant improvements in cognition and attention.
Many people consider L-theanine a way to “take the edge off”, so to speak. Particularly when used in combination with stimulants, like caffeine, the relaxing-but-not-sedative effects of L-theanine really come into play.
Also, while most people drink caffeine on a daily basis, few people know that coffee and caffeinated beverages can actually worsen anxiety and stress symptoms. But when combined with L-theanine, you shouldn’t experience any negative effect from the caffeine, and you can still enjoy that helpful pick-me-up from a cup of coffee, combined with the calming effects of the amino acid supplement.
http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
What You Need to Know about L-theanine to Sleep Better at Night and Feel Relaxed during the Day.
What is L-theanine?
L-theanine is an amino acid that is found in tea leaves. It was identified in tea by Japanese scientists in 1949. While tea is the most common dietary source for L-theanine, this compound is also found in some types of mushrooms. In foods, particularly green tea, L-theanine is thought to be a source of umami, the savory, brothy taste.
Scientists studying umami flavor have made some interesting discoveries. Umami has been linked to decreased risk for obesity. It may stimulate metabolism, and may boost sensations of fullness and lengthen the time before hunger returns after eating.
There’s also evidence suggesting that L-theanine, when consumed in tea, may change taste perception, specifically diminishing the taste of bitterness in foods such as chocolate and grapefruit.
How L-theanine works…
L-theanine promotes relaxation and facilitates sleep by contributing to a number of changes in the brain:
Boosts levels of GABA and other calming brain chemicals. L-theanine elevates levels of GABA, as well as serotonin and dopamine. These chemicals are known as neurotransmitters, and they work in the brain to regulate emotions, mood, concentration, alertness, and sleep, as well as appetite, energy, and other cognitive skills. Increasing levels of these calming brain chemicals promotes relaxation and can help with sleep.
Lowers levels of “excitatory” brain chemicals. At the same time it is increasing chemicals that promote feelings of calm, L-theanine also reduces levels of chemicals in the brain that are linked to stress and anxiety. This may also be a way that L-theanine can protect brain cells against stress and age-related damage.
Enhances alpha brain waves. Alpha brain waves are associated with a state of “wakeful relaxation.” That’s the state of mind you experience when meditating, being creative, or letting your mind wander in daydreaming. Alpha waves are also present during REM sleep. L-theanine appears to trigger the release of alpha-waves, which enhances relaxation, focus, and creativity.
One of the appealing aspects of L-theanine is that it works to relax without sedating. That can make L-theanine a good choice for people who are looking to enhance their “wakeful relaxation,” without worrying about becoming sleepy and fatigued during the day.
Benefits of L-theanine
Improving sleep…
With its ability to increase relaxation and lower stress, L-theanine can help in sleep in a number of ways. L-theanine may help people fall asleep more quickly and easily at bedtime, thanks to the relaxation boost it delivers. Research also shows L-theanine can improve the quality of sleep—not by acting as a sedative, but by lowering anxiety and promoting relaxation.
There’s evidence that L-theanine may help improve sleep quality in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). A study examined the effects on the sleep of boys ages 8-12, and found that the supplement worked safely and effectively to improve the quality of their sleep, helping them to sleep more soundly.
Reducing stress and anxiety…
L-theanine is what’s known as an anxiolytic—it works to reduce anxiety. Some anxiolytics, such as valerian and hops, have sedative effects. L-theanine, on the other hand, promotes relaxation and stress reduction without sedating. L-theanine can help foster a state of calm, attentive wakefulness.
L-theanine has positive effects on both the mental and physical symptoms of stress, including lowering heart rate and blood pressure.
Research suggests that L-theanine can help reduce anxiety in people with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder.
Enhancing attention, focus, memory and learning…
Under stress, the body increases production of certain hormones, including cortisol and corticosterone. These hormone changes inhibit some brain activity, including memory formation and spatial learning. L-theanine helps to lower levels of the stress hormone corticosterone, and avoid the interference with memory and learning.
L-theanine may help boost other cognitive skills. Research shows L-theanine can increase attention span and reaction time in people who are prone to anxiety. It may help improve accuracy—one study shows that taking L-theanine reduced the number of errors made in a test of attention.
Sometimes, L-theanine is used with caffeine to enhance cognitive skills. Studies show that combinations of L-theanine and caffeine can improve attention span, enhance the ability to process visual information, and increase accuracy when switching from one task to another.
-Source: https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/sleep-newzzz/201708/what-you-need-know-about-l-theanine
THRIVE products are all about nutritional support and enhancing general health, wellness, weight management, fitness, mental acuity and mood support. It is about bringing the body back into nutritional balance. For more about Thrive Products for mood and better sleep go to: https://brainspahealth.le-vel.com/Products/THRIVE/SGTRest
GMP and NSF Certified
Thrive is independently tested, and the facilities where Le-Vel’s products are manufactured, and the manufacturing processes, are GMP and NSF certified. We also have double-blind studies and clinical data – unfortunately we are not going to be releasing these as they are lengthy and do contain proprietary company information.
Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) are guidelines that provide a system of processes, procedures and documentation to assure a product has the identity, strength, composition, quality and purity that appear on its label.
NSF International independently registers manufacturers as meeting GMP requirements. The program is open not just to manufacturers of dietary supplements but also to manufacturers of ingredients and raw materials, as well as distribution, warehousing and packaging companies, who want to demonstrate their commitment to public safety. NSF certification is your key to making sure that the products you use meet strict standards for public health protection.
Disclaimer Note: just because an herbal supplement may be natural doesn’t mean it’s safe. If you are under a doctor’s care or on any kind of medications, always check with your therapist or physician before taking any herbal supplements. These statements have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
The total content material of this article is in relation to the investigation and viewpoints of the publisher, except if otherwise noted. The content on this website is not meant to substitute a one-on-one relationship with a certified health care specialist and is not intended as medical health advice.
Posted in Anxiety and Stress	| Leave a comment |
Insomnia and Other Sleep Disorders
Posted on June 25, 2018 by ihbPT
Sleep disorders such as insomnia, circadian rhythm disorder, sleep apnea, and hypersomnia can be caused by a number of different events including:
Substance abuse (alcohol, smoking, illicit drugs and medications).
Physical disturbances like ulcers or acute pain in the body.
Medical issues like asthma.
Psychiatric disorders (depression and anxiety disorders including anxiety about not being able to sleep).
Extreme temperature fluctuations.
Environmental noise or changes.
Medication side effects.
Hormone Imbalance.
Disruption to the regular sleep pattern (shift work and jet lag).
By far the biggest culprit for sleeping disorders however is stress in all its forms:
Family stress
Relationship stress
Workplace stress
Environmental stress
Lifestyle can also affect insomnia: studies have shown that consuming alcohol or caffeine and smoking cigarettes before bedtime acts as a stimulant and disrupts sleep, as can excessive napping in the afternoon or evening.
Other types of sleep disorders include:
Sleep Apnea: You wake up in the morning feeling tired or and drained of energy even though you have had a full night of sleep. During the day, you may feel fatigued, have difficulty concentrating or you may even unintentionally fall asleep. This is because your body is waking up numerous times throughout the night, even though you might not be conscious of each awakening.
The most common symptom of sleep apnea is snoring. However, not everyone who snores has sleep apnea.
Hypersomnia: A group of sleep disorders that causes a person to be excessively sleepy. People with a hypersomnia may fall asleep at times that are inconvenient or even dangerous, such as at work or while driving.
Circadian Rhythm Disorder: Conditions in which the sleep times are out of alignment. A patient with one of these disorders does not follow the normal sleep times at night.
Here are some suggest steps that may provide relief:
Establish a consistent bedtime routine. Take a warm bath, go for a relaxing stroll, or practice meditation/relaxation exercises as part of your regular nighttime routine.
Try to go to bed at the same time every night, and get up at the same time each morning, including on weekends.
Get plenty of exercise during the day. Studies have shown people who are physically active sleep better than those who are sedentary. The more energy you expend during the day (preferable earlier in the day) the sleepier you will feel at bedtime.
Reduce your intake of caffeine and alcohol, particularly in the evening.
Avoid large meals late in the evening.
Learn and use a relaxation technique regularly. Breathing exercises, meditation, and yoga are good examples.
Use “white noise” devices to block out surrounding environmental noise.
Don’t obsess about not sleeping. Not surprisingly, studies have shown that individuals who worry about falling asleep have greater trouble dropping off. It may help to remind yourself that while sleeplessness is troublesome, it isn’t life-threatening.
Short naps are good. Try to get into the habit of napping: nap for no longer than 10 to 20 minutes in the afternoon, preferably lying down in a darkened room.
Spend some time outdoors as often as you can to get exposure to bright, natural light. If you are concerned about harmful effects of solar radiation, do it before 10 a.m. or after 3 p.m. and use sunscreen.
Try to give yourself some time (up to an hour) in dim light before you go to sleep at night. Lower the lighting in your house and bedroom and if other members of the household object, wear sunglasses.
Supplement with powerful nutrients of the highest quality and purity (preferably pharmaceutical-grade supplements).
Best Supplements for Better Sleep
Magnesium, Calcium, Vitamin B-6, Eleuthero Root Extract, Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), 5-HTP, GABA (Gamma Aminobutyric Acid), GABA + 5-HTP together, L-Tryptophan, Skullcap Extract, Ashwagandha Extract, Bacopa Monnieri Extract, Valerian Root Extract, Passion Flower Extract, Hops Extract, Chamomile Extract, Melatonin, and L-Theanine.
The Most Effective Natural Herbs and Supplements to Help You Sleep through the Night
Natural sleep supplements, such as vitamins, minerals, and healthy herbs can help us to stimulate the calming and drowsy sleep receptors in the brain—helping to prepare us for a night of deep rejuvenating sleep that restores energy and enhances mental and physical performance, not inhibit it the following day.
These kinds of supplements can actually help you get your circadian rhythms regulated; allowing you to maximize your daytime energy levels and enhance performance in all you do. Let’s talk about the best, proven sleep supplements…
5-HTTP: Why 5-HTP is one of the Best Sleep Supplements
In humans, 5-HTP is the immediate nutrient precursor to the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) and it converts into serotonin in the brain. Your body uses tryptophan to manufacture 5-HTP, which is part of the reason for all the mythology about turkey making you sleepy from all the tryptophan. Serotonin is, of course, profoundly important for sleep and mood, as well as learning, sexual behavior, and hormone regulation among its many other roles in the human body.
One reason 5-HTP is such a good supplement for sleep is that it helps replenish the serotonin we naturally lose as we age. So, 5 HTP can help alleviate serotonin deficiencies as we age and help manufacture new serotonin as well.
Serotonin also helps us to manufacture melatonin, which is vitally important for sleep and is the chief hormone that controls our wake-sleep cycle. In several studies, 5-HTP has been shown to be beneficial in treating insomnia, especially in improving sleep quality by increasing REM sleep. [19][20][21] The research is clear that 5-HTP is one of the best sleep supplements.
GABA (Gamma Aminobutyric Acid): Why GABA is one of the best sleep supplements
GABA (gamma butyric acid) is a naturally occurring chemical compound produced in the brain that helps to calm the excitability of neurons. GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain which has suppressive effects upon the excitatory neurotransmitters norepinephrine and glutamate. And it’s one the top sleep supplements.
GABA is also intimately tied to the parasympathetic nerve system, which is our “rest and digest” system – the polar opposite of our sympathetic nervous system’s fight or flight mechanisms in the body.
People who have chronic sleep problems typically have GABA levels that are 30% below normal, as do people with mood disorders, like depression, which are tied to insomnia as well. [22]
GABA helps to activate calming neurotransmitters in the brain helping us to get naturally sleepy. As an added bonus, GABA can also help relieve anxiety and relax the body and muscles as well. Users say taking GABA at night helps them feel very calm, drowsy, and ready for a good, long night of sleep.
In a study at UCLA School of Medicine of 18 people with sleep disorders, individuals who were given a GABA supplement were able to fall asleep in almost half the time it took those taking placebos and increased their time spent sleeping by approximately 73%. Before supplementation, the duration of their sleep was about 5 hours, and after supplementation, it increased to about 6.83 hours. There was virtually no change in the placebo group. [23]
Recently, researchers found that natural GABA has various sleep-improving effects. The researchers measured brain waves using electroencephalography (EEG) after participants took 100 milligrams (mg) of natural GABA or placebo. [24] Those who took GABA fell asleep faster and had longer quality sleep time. They also experienced enhanced periods of REM sleep and reported feeling more energized in the morning.
In a 2013 study on elderly men with frequent night urination, GABA proved to enhance sleep length, quality, while helping them wake up feeling less groggy in the mornings and greatly curbing nighttime urination. [25]
GABA is one of the best natural sleep supplements around for helping you get truly restorative sleep.
GABA + 5-HTP Together
When combined with 5-HTP GABA has proven effects of improving sleep quality and sleep duration as well. In fact, a new paper published in Life Sciences reports that a combination of GABA (Gamma Aminobutyric Acid) and 5-HTP (5-Hydroxytryptophan) improved sleep and sleep duration more than the use of either of the two amino acids alone.
Although this study was conducted upon fruit flies, the results are significant as these flies are often used in scientific studies because, as these researchers note, “Homeostatic and circadian regulation in Drosophila are comparable to findings from mammalian sleep research.”
The reasons why these supplements work so well synergistically is because insomnia is a product of both low GABA and low serotonin levels in the brain, and when combined, these supplements boost both, greatly enhancing serotonin, GABA, and tryptophan production in the brain, helping you to get to sleep fast and deeply. [26]
L-Theanine: Why L-theanine is one of the best sleep supplements.
L-theanine is one of the most amazing sleep supplements. L-theanine is an amino acid that is found in abundance in some teas, especially green tea. What L-theanine does is to increase alpha wave activity in the brain, mimicking brain waves during deep sleep phases. Because of this, L-theanine increases the production of dopamine, serotonin, and GABA, which all promote sleep and elevate mood.
In a recent study of young males with ADHD, L-theanine improved sleep quality and length of time spent sleeping, and typically, all children with ADHD have much trouble sleeping. They also reported feeling more refreshed after sleep, that they had fewer nightmares, decreased anxiety and more relaxation at bedtime, and more energy throughout the following day as well. [27]
One great asset of L-theanine is that it does not cause grogginess or become addictive over time, as most sleep aids do. L-theanine has also been found to counteract the effects of caffeine (in studies with rats, to note) and promote sleep even when excessive caffeine is in the system. [28]
In another recent study, l-theanine helped subjects with major depressive disorder to get more restful sleep, and also produced positive effects like reducing anxiety and elevating mood. [29]
Vitamin B-6: Why B-6 is one of the best sleep supplements
Vitamin B-6 converts a small amount of the tryptophan in your body to niacin, or vitamin B-3, and serotonin, a neurotransmitter that helps regulate sleep patterns. By failing to obtain an adequate amount of vitamin B-6 in your diet, your body’s metabolism of tryptophan may be disturbed. This may limit the amount of serotonin in your body, potentially leading to disturbed sleep patterns and insomnia. A deficiency in B6 will cause insomnia and difficulty sleeping. [30]
B6 has proven to stimulate the brain during sleep phases of REM, and individuals often say it gives them more vivid dreams. [31]
Melatonin: Why melatonin is one of the best sleep supplements
Melatonin is best known as a natural cure for jet lag. However, many studies have shown it to be very effective for insomnia — it is one of the absolute most effective sleep supplements. In a 1996 study on 15 healthy, middle aged men and women, just 1.0 mg of melatonin proved to enhance many aspects of sleep including:
Actual total sleep time
Sleep efficiency
Non-REM Sleep
REM Sleep Latency (how fast you get into deep sleep) [32]
In a 2005 meta-analysis of 17 studies on the efficacy of melatonin supplementation on individuals with insomnia and other sleep disorders, researchers found overwhelming that melatonin is a highly effective sleep supplement. As the researchers explain…
“A meta-analysis essentially tells ‘yes’ or ‘no’–that a treatment does or does not have a significant effect,” Wurtman said. “When a meta-analysis says ‘yes,’ there should no longer be any controversy about whether the treatment works.” The melatonin meta-analysis delivered a definitive “yes.” [33]
In a more recent 2008 study, 5 mg of melatonin taken daily helped shift-work nurses fall asleep more easily as well. In fact, melatonin is particularly effective helping people to fall asleep who typically have trouble falling asleep. [34]
But if you take melatonin, it’s important to be mindful of the dose, as it’s important to not overdo it.
Passion Flower: Why passion flower is one of the best sleep supplements.
Passion flower is a popular supplement and tea that has been found very effective for helping to relieve both anxiety and insomnia. What passion flower does is to boost the level of sleep promoting GABA in the brain. Passion flower also helps to quiet brain activity, helping individuals relax, quiet the mind, and sleep better. In a 2004 study of 40 individuals with insomnia, passion flower proved to enhance sleep significantly more than the placebo. [35]
It has also been found to be highly effective for relieving anxiety, depression, and insomnia in women going through menopause. [36]
Magnesium: Why magnesium is one of the best sleep supplements
Magnesium is involved in more than 300 metabolic reactions. It is essential for bone strength, a strong immune system, muscle contractions and a healthy nervous system, and it’s one of the best sleep supplements.
Magnesium deficiency can result in neural over-excitation causing anxiety and restlessness and excess physical tension, insulin resistance, increased blood pressure, fatigue, irritability, poor cognitive function, lethargy, and sleep problems.
It’s important to note that magnesium deficiency is very common in the U.S. and the many other developed countries. And there is indeed research showing that magnesium supplementation can improve sleep significantly.
One study published in the journal of Pharmacopsychiatry measured hormonal and electrical changes in the brain of older persons during sleep and found that magnesium supplementation improved both hormonal and electrical patterns in the brain during sleep. [57][58]
Chamomile: Why chamomile is one of the best sleep supplements.
Chamomile has long been revered for enhancing relaxation and promoting sleep. Chamomile is rich in a flavonoid called apigenin that binds to benzodiazepine receptors in the brain.
In a recent 2016 study, women with postpartum depression who supplemented with chamomile experienced improved sleep and alleviated depression as well. [59]
Another double-blind study revealed that chamomile can help users moderately improve many aspects of sleep latency, night time awakenings, daytime functioning, and fatigue severity. [60]
Valerian: Why valerian is one of the best sleep supplements
Valerian root has been found to be a highly effective sleep aid supplement for persons with insomnia and other sleep disorders.
In one recent double-blind study, valerian was found to yield nights of perfect sleep for 44% of participants and improved sleep for 89% of participants. [55]
-Source: https://www.theenergyblueprint.com/sleep-supplements/
Valerian Root to Induce Sleep
Valerian root is a plant with roots that contain many healing properties, in particular for a relaxation and sedative effects. It’s often found in combination with chamomile in a tea. By increasing the amount of gamma aminobutryic acid (GABA), it helps calm the nerve cells in the brain, resulting in a calming effect. GABA works by blocking brain signals that cause anxiety and that ongoing trickle effect that can come from it. This calming effect has made it a favorite natural remedy for anxiety too. (9)
Passion Flower for Calming and Restful Sleep
There are numerous benefits in Passion Flower including calming and anti-anxiety effects. When we have anxiety, it can greatly affect how we sleep because you just cannot seem to turn the brain off… especially while you’re trying to rest. Passion flower can provide the calming effect needed to help stop that vicious circle of thought.
Clinical trials have shown that passion flower can reduce anxiety as effectively as the prescribed drug known as benzodiazepine oxazepam. A four-week, double-blind study of patients with generalized anxiety disorder compared passion flower to the common anti-anxiety drug. While the oxazepam worked a little faster, both were the same in terms of effectiveness — however, the passion flower did not cause problems with job performance, such drowsiness while on the job, unlike the oxazepam. (8)
This shows that passion flower is one of the most powerful anti-anxiety natural sleep aids that don’t cause lingering tiredness the next day.
-Source: https://draxe.com/natural-sleep-aids/
Want to know how to get these powerful nutrients into your body each day? Ask me how…
Posted in Brain Health	| Tagged circadian rhythm disorder, hypersomnia, insomnia, sleep apnea	| Leave a comment |
How to Slow the Aging Process…
Posted on March 27, 2018 by ihbPT
If you’re over 50 then you’ve probably had the experience of not being able to do things that you used to be able to do pretty easily… If you are experiencing:
Low energy levels
Lack of motivation to do things.
Finding it harder to get a decent night’s sleep
Stiffness and niggly aches in the body.
Finding you are not as sharp as you used to be.
Lack of mental clarity and focus.
Finding weight management an issue
Finding it hard to maintain a healthy diet
It’s called aging, and while there is currently no way to completely avoid aging we can take anti-aging steps to slow it down.
To do this we must understand the 5 causes of premature aging…
Free Radical Damage to Cells
Under normal circumstances your body’s natural antioxidants can neutralize harmful free radicals, but system stressors like poor diet, environmental toxins, and emotional stress can tip the scales in the favour of oxidation damage.
Immune System Deterioration
As you age your body produces fewer immune cells and does a poor job of quickly getting those cells to the places they’re needed. The result? You get sick more often and it takes you longer to recover.
Hormone Imbalance
Hormones are how your brain sends instructions to your organs. Brain cell oxidization and under-nourished, under-performing mitochondria (the powerhouse of your cells) can throw your hormones out of balance.
Decreased Organ Function
Almost every organ in your body becomes less efficient as the cells in them age and become oxidised. Once again, under-performing cell mitochondria not receiving the nutrition it needs to function at optimal levels is a major contributor here.
Neurological Deterioration
1 in 3 seniors die from Alzheimer’s or another type of neurodegenerative disease.
If all of this makes you a little uneasy then I want to tell you one big step you can take on the path to optimal health… GET YOUR NUTRITION RIGHT!
Making sure you are getting an ample supply of amino acids, enzymes, vitamins, minerals, pre and probiotics and antioxidants (free radical scavengers) is a powerful way to slow down the aging process and revitalize your body.
And I am not talking about the cheap nutritional supplements (if that’s what you can call them) off the supermarket and chemist shelves. I am talking about the highest quality, pharmaceutical-grade nutritional supplements.
Did you know that there are 3 grades of nutritional supplements for human consumption? Those 3 grades are:
Pharmaceutical Grade is the highest quality grade of vitamins and supplements meaning the purity; dissolution and absorption meet the highest regulatory standard verified by an independent party. Pharmaceutical grade vitamins and nutrients may be available without a prescription, but they are typically sold by licensed health care professionals.
Medical Grade vitamins and nutrients are also high-grade supplements but may not meet all the standards of pharmaceutical grade supplements. Prenatal vitamins normally fall into this category.
Cosmetic or Nutritional Grade supplements are typically sold in health food stores, chemists and, readily available on supermarket shelves. These supplements may not always be tested for absorption, dissolution or purity. Additionally, these supplements do not always have the same concentration of active ingredients as what is listed on the label.
Did you know that 98% of supplements readily available in stores are cosmetic grade… the lowest grade safe for human consumption?
The Bottom Line: If you are serious about attaining optimal health, you need to source premium, preferably pharmaceutical-grade; nutritional supplements to stop-gap your nutritional deficiencies.
If you are looking for powerful nutritional supplements that will support you in:
More energy for your day (but not overwhelming… but available if you need it)
Mental Clarity & Focus
Sleep Sounder & Deeper
Joint Support
Reduce Aches and Discomforts
Supports Gut Health
Weight Management
No Fasting or Starving
Anti-Aging Antioxidants
Better Exercising
Faster Recover Times
Lean Muscle Support
You need to be accessing powerful, high-quality, pharmaceutical nutritional supplements… because you deserve to feel the best you can feel. And what makes premium grade nutritional supplements superior? It’s all about the purity and absorption rate… it’s in the science! We recommended Le-vel Thrive Nutritional Supplements because they are premium.
Other powerful steps you can take to slow down the aging process are:
Keep moving… regular exercise, even walking every day and preferably in nature, can make a big difference to your wellbeing.
Removing refined hydrolyzed oils like vegetable and soy oils, fast foods, processed packaged foods, refined flours, foods containing gluten (bread, bagels scones, pizza, pasta), and sugary foods and drinks (especially soft drinks and energy drinks). This is not hard to do if you try removing one thing at a time and replacing it with an alternative like organic cold-pressed coconut oil for cooking instead of vegetable or soy oils.
Remember to take time out for you… de-stress by taking up meditation, having a relaxation de-stress hypnotherapy session, getting a luxury massage, pouring a long hot bubble bath, reading a book or listening to some relaxing, soothing music.
If you are struggling right now, talk to me about what steps you can take to get YOU back onto the path of optimal health and wellbeing.
Posted in Immune System Booster	| Tagged anti-aging, antioxidants, emotional stress, hormone imbalance, hormones, hypnotherapy, immune system, nutrition, weight, weight management	| Leave a comment |
The Dark Side of Your Emotional Needs – Mind and Body
Posted on March 27, 2018 by ihbPT
“The human body experiences a powerful gravitational pull in the direction of hope. That is why the patient’s hopes are the physician’s secret weapon. They are the hidden ingredients in any prescription.” – Norman Cousins
Your body matters, and so does your mind, because they’re the same matter. Your emotions directly affect your body, and it goes the other way too. Mental and physical health cannot be disentangled.
Each and every one of us has a natural current running through us called the ultradian rhythm. Every 90 to 120 minutes we shift from left-brain dominance to right-brain. The shift takes about 20 minutes, and it usually makes us feel a little entranced or day-dreamy.
It’s during this shift that the immune system does its upkeep, the brain incorporates new learning, and the gut digests and absorbs nutrients. It’s little wonder that when we continue to swim against the tides of this natural rhythm we start to feel broken and emotional.
Sure, you can refuse to listen to your physical needs for a while, override them for a bit… but do it for long enough and you’ll come to feel depleted on every level.
Hypnotizing someone is often a case of just letting the sails catch the breeze of this warm and wonderful natural shift in physical and mental focus.
People increasingly treat themselves as machines. We work through lunch, sleep too little, eat junk on the run, skip the gym, and prop up our flagging bodies with ‘energy drinks’.
But neglecting proper nutrition, sleep, rest, and exercise long term leads to psychological problems and stress-induced illness, and not just on the individual level. In unhealthy populations, collective emotions run riot. And that can lead us down some dark paths.
With too little exposure to natural light, poor nutrition, and scant exercise we start to feel second-rate… we become weak and sick in mind and body.
And what is good for the body is good for the mind. Having a terrible diet (or eating foods your body is intolerant of) can make you feel depressed and anxious. Conversely, physical exercise, even a 30 minute walk is protective against anxiety and a wonderful mood enhancer, especially when done outdoors in nature.
It’s a cliché to talk about ‘self-medicating’. But people do. Whether through comfort eating, smoking, alcohol, or barbiturates, or cannabis, it’s a common way to ‘switch off’, forget about the day and absorb oneself in the moment.
But self-medication is always accompanied by self-delusion – convincing ourselves, consciously or unconsciously, that the ‘medication’ has few side effects, or that somehow we can cheat the future.
Cliché it may be, but ‘self-medication’ is a fine analogy. Indeed, it’s the side effects that are the problem. Side effects that can make it harder for people to meet their actual physical and emotional needs.
When we seek in the long term to provide ourselves with energy through coffee instead of rest, to distract ourselves from problems through the oblivion of drugs, or to resort to any form of self-harm rather than actually working to solve our problems, then the attempted ‘solution’ becomes the enemy – not the comforting or encouraging ‘friend’ it might masquerade as.
Listen and you will hear…
We all need to work at being attuned to our bodies. If we don’t, we can lose the capacity to interpret the signals from our bodies. We need to listen to our bodies – always. What is it you actually need?
From the desk of Mark Tyrrell http://www.hypnosisdownloads.com/?6660
Posted in Brain Health	| Tagged anxiety, diet, hypnosis, immune system, nutrition, stress	| Leave a comment |
When to Stop Being a Patient and Escape the Victim Cage!
Posted on February 27, 2018 by ihbPT
Louise had really been through some serious life trials – a history of disordered eating, multiple psychiatric hospitalizations, 5 psychotropic’s for 15 years, and an extremely challenging taper process. We had resolved any diagnostic trace of Grave’s Disease, moved her through a beautiful pregnancy, and homebirth, breastfeeding, and yet, it was hard for her to feel – truly feel – the magnitude of healing that had taken place. To embrace what it means to no longer be a patient – not an endocrine patient, not a psychiatric patient, not an obstetrical patient… to simply be herself.
Surrendering the status of patient
One would think that being released from the patient role would feel like getting out of jail. But what if when the jail cell is open, you don’t want to leave? In psychology, this is called learned helplessness: a kind of beating down of any sense of personal power that creates incapacity to change one’s circumstances.
This learned helplessness is what the conventional medical system can do to an unsuspecting consumer. It can give you a label – one that actually feels good to receive because it seemingly validates your felt experience of suffering and struggle – and then you become that label. I suffer from general anxiety disorder, I have ADD, ADHD, I’m bipolar, I am on the Asperger’s Spectrum, I am a diabetic, etc.
And you don’t know who you are without this label, without the routine of appointments and prescriptions, without the social currency of your health complaints, and without worrying about your wellbeing. Sometimes, this state of being just feels too familiar to imagine moving beyond… like an itchy wool sweater that you’ve gotten used to and would rather not brave the cold without.
What does it mean to no longer be sick?
What it means is that suffering has taken on personal meaning. Almost the moment that it does, it paradoxically ceases to be suffering. Symptoms stop being a problem and start being an opportunity to learn more about this wondrous vessel your consciousness inhabits… Your Body!
But is it really your body? Did you make it? As Michael Singer would say, “Go ahead – make an eyeball…I’m waiting!” Or as Alan Watts would say, “You don’t have to think about how to work your thyroid gland, it just happens.” And you are there simply to be with this happening. .. to support it and allow for it?
It is your body’s process; the depth, timing, and mystery of it is not for you to command.
And like a child having a tantrum, it’s only when you make a practice of really seeing them, hearing them, and honouring them that the tantrums stop and the harmonious dance of mother-child begins. Similarly, it’s only when you stop fighting, domineering, and dictating the conditional terms of acceptance to your body – when you finally stop and you make a truce – then the deep healing begins.
Is your inner control freak at the wheel?
Having been on both the patient and the clinician end, I now find that a lot of the testing, supplementation, and general high-level management of integrative and functional medicine can keep patients stuck in the fighting and commanding posture, lording over their body machine.
How about a new probiotic for the less-than-perfect poops, or more pau d’arco to kill the yeast, or perhaps extra l-theanine for the possibility that I might not fall immediately asleep tonight. Do your thoughts ever sound like that? Of course, there is nothing inherently wrong with supplements or natural approaches – the point is that the intentionality and the mindset matter. Are you looking to fight a symptom or support the response that it represents?
Stopping this fight entails relinquishing the need to micromanage your body’s expressions, getting to a point where you say – wow, I hear you Body…I’m finally listening. I promise to honour you every day and to trust that you know exactly what you’re doing.
This receptive energetic posture is how you create the conditions for healing. This is how your Body shows you, in the present, that there is something that has yet to be resolved. And only when we listen with curiosity will we be intuitively led to exactly what that is – from a toxic exposure to a buried traumatic memory. No fancy testing required.
First things first – the reunion with the Body
Saying no and setting boundaries is hard. In a people-pleasing social fabric, we are very uncomfortable with the possibility that someone might not like us if we do. But if there’s one thing I’ve learned, it’s that boundaries set us free.
That lines create the empty spaces that we release into. So, before letting go of the Body steering wheel, before understanding that it’s not really your Body to manage, and before bowing to it every day – you have to reunite with this Body. You have to learn what it is to care for your Body even when your mind is trying to tell you that you don’t have time, that it’s not necessary, and that self-care is a precious fad.
I believe in fierce grace.
And the fierce part comes first, in the form of commitment to a higher level of care – Body, mind and spirit – than most of us are comfortable with. Through this ritual – in the case of my patients and Vital Mind Reset participants, a month-long ritual – you send your body a very different signal… a signal that informs a truce. You say, I will prioritize caring for you – nourishing, cleansing, and generally honouring you. And this gesture – even if you don’t even feel it authentically from the start – incites a response.
The Body responds with the dissolution of symptoms and early indications that it is, in fact, listening, and that a conversation has begun. But there is a point at which you understand the cosmic hierarchy, and then you bow down to its wisdom and give your Body permission to do its thing, its way. And then your Body shows you where the journey is taking you. A clear Body feels intuitively what is right and what is wrong. And as long as the mind is receptive and not reactive, then there are no longer any mental decisions to make. It all becomes a happening.
The tyranny of perfect health and happiness
The goal cannot and should not be perfect health and happiness. Why not? Because these goals imply that the process of Body truce and honour is simply a means to an outcome that is ever receding into the future. But we are here, right now, having a real embodied experience of this lifetime. It is rich with strangeness and wonder, and if you are courageous enough, it will be peppered with mystical opportunities to grow and to look deeper into the hurt places that need attention, love, and care…and you won’t call them problem symptoms any longer. You’ll call them invitations to finally, truly be yourself.
From the Desk of Mark Tyrrell http://www.hypnosisdownloads.com/?6660
Posted in Brain Health	| Tagged anxiety, hypnosis, hypnotherapy, thyroid, trauma, victim	| Leave a comment |
Sexual Harassment – Sexual Assault – Domestic Violence
Posted on December 28, 2017 by ihbPT
Have you or someone you know being a victim of sexual harassment, sexual assault or domestic violence and are hurting and living in fear and pain as the result. My name is Paul Holcroft and I am an Australian and internationally trained hypnotherapist and I have worked with and helped many women and men who have been the victims of physical and psychological trauma… and I can help!
One area of trauma that is not often talked about is psychological abuse where the victim is constantly berated and demeaned until their self-esteem and self-confidence is eroded away, and eventually begins to believe they are worthless and unlovable. This is all part of the game for the controller, usually a psycho-narcissist, in turning the victim into a possession… a virtual slave.
There are many symptoms of these deep-seated traumas including:
Feeling down all the time, stressed or can’t stop worrying.
Cannot understand why certain things always happen to you or why you always attract the wrong partner into your life.
Living in constant fear
Finding when you are in particular situations… it re-triggers the emotions.
You may be carrying extra weight as a protection measure (you may not consciously be aware of this one but it is quite common).
Avoiding and fearful of being in social situations or places where you feel venerable.
Have turned to alcohol or drugs to mask and suppress the thoughts and feelings.
Have a problem with eating food (under-eating or over-eating).
Feeling sick all the time or worried about your health.
Worried about your sexuality, identity or relationships.
Feeling unlovable and unwanted… worthless.
Have lost trust or are having difficulties communicating with family or friends, perhaps because they don’t understand what you have been through… or worse don’t believe you.
Have feelings that perhaps you are to blame… it’s your fault… that you attracted it into your life by your behaviour or lack of behaviour.
Carrying guilt, anger or sadness about the event(s).
Physical and psychological trauma is a heavy burden to carry and the emotional stress from the event(s) can become emotional blockages in the body, which can cause a myriad of physical and mental health issues… but here is nothing inherently wrong with you… you are hurting… you are in pain and you need help and support.
And being the victim of physical and psychological abuse is not the only issue here… many people, especially children, become victims by merely witnessing the event(s).
Many times the event, especially a childhood trauma, is buried somewhere in the unconscious mind… it has been compartmentalized to protect you… and you are no longer consciously aware of it. When this happens, you tend to have physical ailments in the body, or your mind begins to act differently and you may start to develop disorders like anxiety, panic attacks, and depressive thoughts, OCD, ADD and ADHD.
But you don’t have to live with it… there is a way out!
Using techniques such as double disassociation, the rewind technique, uncommon psychotherapy, and Ericksonian hypnosis, I have helped many individuals break free of the cage trauma had them trapped in by releasing the emotional charge surrounding the event… the emotional charge that has kept the memory trapped in the amygdala… the flight or fight centre of the brain.
Your first step to healing is to call and have an obligation-free chat over coffee or tea to see if I can help. Call Brain Spa Health today on 0424 671 411 or message me to arrange a time.
Posted in Hypnotherapy	| Tagged anxiety, domestic violence, emotional blockages, emotional stress, hypnosis, mental health, panic attacks, sexual assault, sexual harassment, trauma	| Leave a comment |
How Alkalizing Your Body Can Improve Your Health
Posted on December 25, 2017 by ihbPT
Alkalising can be a powerful way for us to support our cells so they can work at their best. A powerful way to accelerate healing in your body is to eat alkaline inducing whole foods. Alkalising foods can help to regulate our energy intake, assist our cardiovascular system and even how we metabolise proteins.
If you have a weight issue and/or suspect you may have a thyroid issue try having protein for breakfast instead of in the evening, this can make a huge difference.
What to Eliminate from Your Diet:
Additive loaded processed and fast foods.
Remove all foods containing refined flour and gluten including bread and other wheat products such as breakfast cereals and pasta. Gluten can cause gut problems like malabsorption syndrome and leaky gut syndrome.
Remove all dairy products from your diet. Try unsweetened almond, macadamia or coconut milk instead.
Avoid sugar, particularly refined sugars. Now I know this is a hard one because we are addicted to sugar but it is really important.
Avoid alcohol because it is loaded with sugar too. If you cannot live without it then cut it down to one or two glasses, once or twice a week.
What to add to your diet:
Eat whole foods… not processed or fast foods which are loaded with additives.
Try going to your local health food store and creating your own breakfast power mix with non-wheat, no-GMO cereals, nuts and fresh fruits.
Eat only pasture-raised, grass-fed animal meats that contain no hormones boosters and antibiotics.
Fish like wild-caught salmon and sardines.
Try unsweetened almond, macadamia or coconut milk instead of dairy milk especially if you suspect you maybe lactose intolerant. Actually you not lactose intolerant… you are an adult… milk is for infants (and preferably mother’s milk).
Organic cold-pressed coconut oil (anti-inflammatory) or pure organic extra virgin olive oil (not for cooking on high heat as it breaks down into carcinogens, use coconut oil instead as it has the highest heat threshold).
Eat lots of coniferous vegetables like broccoli, cabbage and cauliflower.
Add beans (not baked beans as they have sugar in them) and eggs into your diet.
Introduce garlic and red onions to your evening meal.
Eat lots of watermelon (richest source of L-Citrulline) and other melons, cucumbers, onions, garlic and chick peas which also contain L-Citrulline. (Your kidneys change L-Citrulline into another amino acid called L-Arginine and a chemical called nitric oxide. These compounds are important to your heart and blood vessel health. They can also boost your immune system.
Natural food sources containing L-Arginine which include turkey (richest source), chicken, pork, pumpkin seeds, walnuts, spirulina (seaweed) and quinoa.
Include a high-quality pre and probiotic formula
Add an alkalizing booster powder containing Magnesium Carbonate, Citric Acid, Potassium Bicarbonate and bicarbonate of soda.
Supplement with high-quality nutritional supplements, they are more expensive but have a better absorption rate and less additives, and preferably look for the highest grade pharmaceutical-grade rather than the lower medical-grade or the lowest grade cosmetic or nutritional grade supplements (most commonly found on chemist and supermarket shelves).
Have protein smoothie for breakfast (PEA protein powder, chia seeds, mixed berries, bananas, strawberries, mangoes (skin and all) and other fresh seasonal fruits).
A Warning about Whey Protein Powders
Whey Protein
Dr. Art Ayers, a former professor at Harvard University with a Ph. D. in Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, had this to say about whey shakes:
“Avoid whey protein (a by-product of the dairy industry) as it may destabilize the gut microbiota by disrupting the gut flora. This is why it can facilitate weight gain or loss, since gut flora are involved in weight stability but at what cost. But whey shakes also have proteins that are partially digested to produce antimicrobial peptides and other factors that disrupt adult gut flora. I think that the whey shakes work temporarily, because they destabilize the gut microbiota that are providing part of the metabolic set point that helps the body to resist weight change from excess or insufficient dietary calories. Whey protein supplements contain peptides and hormones that may negatively impact human health.”
Calcium Caseinate
Dietary supplement ‘calcium caseinate’ is a protein that is obtained from casein present in skim and milk. Calcium caseinate, micellar casein, and milk casein isolate are the three types of casein proteins, out of which calcium caseinate is the lowest quality casein.
Calcium Caseinate does not contain pure casein but a highly processed variant of casein, called calcium caseinate. It cannot offer similar health benefits as offered by casein. Proteins that undergo heating (processing involves exposure to high heat) and various other chemical processes often lose many of the functional benefits. They are said to be denatured (different from their original, natural structure). Such proteins can prove to be harmful to your health.
Possible Side effects
Those that are lactose-intolerant may experience stomach pain and bloating (excess gas and pressure in stomach). They are at a higher risk for developing gastrointestinal problems. Excessive consumption of this supplement may result in heartburn, indigestion, etc.
Acid casein is treated with the chemical calcium hydroxide (alkali) to get calcium caseinate. Such chemical alkalies may curb and damage the nutrient-absorbing capacity of your digestive system.
Because it is exposed to high heat during processing, the caseinate becomes an ultra thermolyzed protein combined with MSG (a by-product of protein thermolyzation). Consumption of this protein may lead to headaches, chest pain, nausea, weakness, heart palpitations, etc. It is true that more research is needed to prove these facts. Most people experience short-term reactions to MSG that don’t require any treatment, but possibility of long-term effects cannot be completely denied. Dangers of MSG include brain damage, weight gain, obesity, liver inflammation, type 2 diabetes, etc. The MSG in disguise can trigger your allergies too.
It is difficult for the human stomach to digest the denatured protein completely. So, some undigested protein enters the colon. There, it is fermented by colonic bacteria. This results in formation of highly carcinogenic phenolic compounds that contribute to the growth of colonic tumours. Thus, ultra thermalised casein can increase the risk of colon cancer.
Researchers and doctors are of the opinion that casein peptides can seriously affect blood pressure levels during and after surgery.
It has been observed that casein products interfere with the adsorption of certain drugs which can eventually result in serious health issues.
Some people are allergic to casein and may have a life-threatening reaction.
Dr. Russell Blaylock M.D., has described in his book “Excitotoxins: The Taste that Kills” that calcium and sodium caseinates as food additives always contain free glutamate. The review of this book is available on the American Nutrition Association’s Nutrition Digest, Volume 36, No. 4. Although MSG is not added to the supplement as an ingredient, it is formed during processing, and therefore, it may not be mentioned on the label. To be on the safe side, pregnant and breastfeeding women and those who are about to undergo a surgery should avoid taking calcium caseinate supplement.
Read more at Buzzle: http://www.buzzle.com/articles/side-effects-of-calcium-caseinate.html
Fructose Excess in your Protein Powders
It’s good to keep in mind though that fructose, in small amounts, has been in our diet for a very long time as a species and that we usually handle small amounts very well. The real damage is when the high sugar habit becomes chronic and is repeated day after day like consuming protein powders with a large Fructose component.
Here are a few known possible health issues:
Fructose can only be metabolized by the liver and can’t be used for energy by your body’s cells. It’s therefore not only completely useless for the body, but is also a toxin in high enough amount because the job of the liver is to get rid of it, mainly by transforming it into fat and sending that fat to our fat cells. Excess fructose damages the liver and leads to insulin resistance in the liver as well as fatty liver disease.
Fructose reacts with proteins and polyunsaturated fats in our bodies 7 times more than glucose. This reaction creates AGEs (advanced glycation end-products), which are compounds that create oxidative damage in our cells and ultimately lead or contribute to inflammation and a host of chronic diseases.
Fructose increases uric acid production, which, in excess, can cause gout, kidney stones and precipitate or aggravate hypertension.
While most of your body’s cells can’t use fructose as a source of energy, the bacteria in your gut can and excess fructose can create gut flora imbalances, promote bacterial overgrowth and promote the growth of pathogenic bacteria.
In part because of the damage done to the liver, chronic excess fructose causes dyslipidemia, which means that your blood lipid markers tend to shift towards numbers that indicate a risk for heart disease.
Fructose rapidly causes leptin resistance. Leptin is a hormone that controls appetite and metabolism to maintain a normal weight. Leptin resistant people tend to gain fat and become obese really easily.
Excess fructose alone can cause all the problems associated with the metabolic syndrome (diabetes, obesity, heart disease).
Cancer cells thrive and proliferate very well with fructose as their energy source.
Excess fructose also affects brain functioning, especially as it relates to appetite regulation. It has also been shown to impair memory in rats.
-Source: https://paleoleap.com/10-reasons-why-fructose-is-bad/
Posted in Entire Body Detox	| Tagged alkalizing, alkalizing foods, detox, immune system, microbiota, nutrition, protein powders, weight, weight gain	| Leave a comment |
Is Detoxing for You?
Posted on December 24, 2017 by ihbPT
Robyn Openshaw is a researcher and expert in human detoxification.
You’ve heard about cleansing or detoxing, and maybe you’ve wondered:
Is it scary?
Will I suffer?
Will I be hungry?
Don’t I have a liver and kidneys already “detoxing” for me?
Will my food addictions get the best of me?
Will I fail?
Robyn made this short video about WHO should detoxify, and WHY…..after over 20 years of studying with the most gifted and knowledgeable holistic clinicians all over the world–on 4 continents, in 19 clinics.
She learned that the vast majority of medical doctors have no idea how to optimize the detoxification pathways of the body.
And why you NEED to, just like you need to change the air filter and oil filter in your car.
(If you’d had a Model T in the 1930’s during the infamous Dust Bowl, could you have driven forever without changing the air filter? With 84,000 chemicals approved for use in our environment now….well, it’s the equivalent of the Dust Bowl!)
Eating processed food and animal products, and even conventional produce sprayed with herbicides and pesticides, adds to your Toxic Body Burden. (That is, the amount of toxicity that goes in, reduced by the amount that is filtered out, by your organs of elimination.)
Toxins in your beauty products and in your water and air are other sources of exposure.
We live in a strange new world full of synthetic chemicals harmful to human life, everywhere.
(The Environmental Working Group estimates the average woman is exposed to over 100 harmful chemicals every week, through personal care products alone!)
In your food, there are genetically modified ingredients, synthetic additives, preservatives, nitrites and nitrates in cured meats, neurotoxins like MSG and aspartame in hundreds of products. And so much more.
Municipal water contains endocrine disruptors like chlorine, fluoride, phthalates, and even residuals of prescription drugs. Bottled water contains leached plastics.
In Robyn’s Detox Video Masterclass she’s made available to us, Robyn tackles all these topics.
If you’ve ever wondered what you can do, to eliminate more toxicity from your body, check out her 4 really educational inspiring and educational videos in the masterclass on these topics:
Could Toxicity Be Why I’m Sick? The 7 Types of Toxins in Your Body and How to Eliminate Them
How to Change Your Weight Set Point Forever (Detoxing, Not Dieting)
8 Foods That Help You Detoxify (and 11 That Cause Toxicity)
Bonus: How a Physical Detox Can Resolve Emotional Issues
She’s offering you a spot in her FREE video class, on how to clean up and reboot your organs of elimination, to feel better than you have in 20 years.
VIDEO: Is Detoxing For You?
After 20 years of research and experimentation, Robyn has now supported over 10,000 people through a 26-day detox process.
She’s gathered data, including 500 detoxers’ inspiring stories, and she has some pretty interesting things to say about what happens, in the process!
(What’s “easy and fun.” What’s “hard.” She’s really honest about it.)
If you think detoxing is for weight loss, think again. Watch the short video to learn why some folks in the “ideal weight” category are shown to be at higher risk than those with lots of external body fat.
Detoxing is for anyone who lives where there’s car exhaust, processed food, chlorine and fluoride in the water, electronic devices in your energy field, or who experiences chronic stress. Robyn explains why.
It’s a strange, polluted world out there, and we have to get very smart, to eliminate higher-than-ever “toxic body burden.”
That’s where A (the input of toxic chemicals) minus B (the amount of chemical burden your elimination channels successfully excrete) = C (what’s left).
So, what do you do about the remainder? That overwhelm of toxicity, when kidneys, liver, lymphatic system, blood, and respiratory system can’t keep up?
An extremely well tested detoxification process radically reduces your disease risk.
Plus, following the program for 26 days robs your fat stores of the job they’re currently doing for you.
(Because your fat stores are hoarding toxic chemicals. Why? So they don’t get into critical organs and kill you. Your fat plays a very important role, especially around the middle of your body. And your body will keep hoarding fat, until you decrease that toxic body burden.)
I highly recommend this Video Masterclass, where Robyn explains that. She began researching detoxification when she was obese, very ill with 21 diseases, and her 1-year old was dying, in and out of hospitals, on constant bronchial drugs, steroids, and antibiotics. A “failure to thrive” baby below the 5th percentile, he clung to life and bounced in and out of emergency rooms.
What she discovered is in this Video Masterclass. Detoxing twice a year is how she became a competitive athlete, and ditched 70 pounds and all medications and disease states. She was dying, and on half a dozen drugs, diagnosed with 21 diseases, at 25. Now she’s 50 and free of all symptoms, diagnoses, and prescriptions.
She believes that aging isn’t so much about years, as much as toxic body burden overwhelming the immune system.
And I won’t be a spoiler, but there’s a really amazing story about what happened to her severely ill “Failure to Thrive” baby, in one of the masterclass videos as well.
Watch this short video to help you think through whether a period devoted to resting, rebuilding, and repairing your elimination organs and immune system is right for you.
If you’re intrigued by the idea of decreasing your own toxicity, take a deeper look, in the free video masterclass. And ask questions of Robyn after watching any of the videos. Enjoy!
Posted in Entire Body Detox	| Tagged cleansing, detox, detoxification, detoxing, diet, immune system, toxic body, Toxic Body Burden, toxic chemicals, weight, weight loss	| Leave a comment |
Why Should I Detox?
Posted on December 21, 2017 by ihbPT
Did you know that many reasons why people are sick or end up with inflammation and disease in the body is through unchecked build-up of toxins in the body? There are many different toxins that enter our bodies from different sources and disrupt and interfere with our internal endocrine system.
The endocrine system consists of a set of glands (thyroid, gonads, adrenal and pituitary) and the hormones they produce (thyroxine, estrogen, testosterone and adrenaline), which help guide the development, growth, reproduction, and behaviour of animals, including humans. Hormones are signalling molecules, which travel through the bloodstream and elicit responses in other parts of the body.
Known endocrine disruptors in the human body include:
Heavy Metals like lead, nickel, tin, arsenic, cadium, antimony and uranium. Heavy metals cause oxidative damage to your cells and deplete essential minerals your body needs. One of the big one’s is mercury from dental fillings.
Household Products that contain plasticizers such as Bisphenol A found in plastic bottles. Endocrine disruptors may be found in many everyday products– including metal food cans, detergents, food, toys, and cosmetics.
Pharmaceuticals
Endocrine-disrupter compounds (EDC) are also found in pharmaceuticals. Protein Disulfide Isomerase (PDI) in the endoplasmic reticulum of all cells catalyses the rearrangement of disulfide bridges during folding of membrane and secreted proteins. As PDI is also known to bind various molecules including hormones such as estradiol and thyroxin, we considered the hypothesis that adverse effects of endocrine-disrupter compounds (EDC) could be mediated through their interaction with PDI leading to defects in membrane or secreted proteins.
The present data indicate that the tested EDCs could not only affect endocrine target cells through nuclear receptors as previously shown, but could also affect these and all other cells by positively or negatively affecting PDI activity. The substrate DiE-GSSG has been demonstrated to be a convenient substrate to measure PDI reductase activity in the presence of various potential EDCs. It will certainely be usefull for the screening of potential effect of all kinds of chemicals on PDI reductase activity. -Source: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0009507
Phytoestrogens
Another natural example of an endocrine disrupter is Phytoestrogens, which are naturally occurring substances in plants that have hormone-like activity. Examples of phytoestrogens are genistein and daidzein, which can be found in soy-derived products.
Emotional Toxins
Emotional toxicity from stressful situations can cause mental and physical impairment in the body, even witnessing a traumatic event on the television screen can cause emotional toxins in the body.
Electromagnetic Frequencies that mess with our body’s electromagnetic frequency and include cell /mobile phones, tablets, laptops, desktop computers, power lines and telecommunication towers.
Environmental Pesticides, Herbicides and Flame Retardants
More than 50 pesticide active ingredients have been identified as endocrine disruptors by the European Union and endocrine disruptor expert Theo Colborn, PhD. –Source: https://www.beyondpesticides.org/resources/pesticide-induced-diseases-database/endocrine-disruption
A huge number of chemicals have been identified as endocrine disruptors, among them several pesticides. Pesticides are used to kill unwanted organisms in crops, public areas, homes and gardens, and parasites in medicine. -Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3138025/
PBCs
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are a broad group of chemicals that includes 209 aromatic chlorinated hydrocarbons used for products ranging from fluorescent light fixtures to coolant fluids inside parts of consumer electronics. Short-term exposure to large amounts of PCBs can cause liver damage; the effects of smaller concentrations can be more subtle, affecting the reproductive development of children of exposed mothers. -Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1480494/
The potential for human exposure to PCBs still exists, however, because they persist in air, soil, and water sediments for many years. Additionally, they are also found in older transformers, capacitors, fluorescent lighting fixtures, electrical devices, and appliances that are still in use.
Dioxin and Dioxin-like Compounds (DLCs)
Dioxins and dioxin-like compounds (DLCs) are compounds that are highly toxic environmental persistent organic pollutants (POPs).
DLCs are unintended by-products of combustion. Combustion sources can be of anthropogenic (e.g., waste incineration) or natural origin (e.g., forest fires). Industrial (e.g., paper and chemical manufacturing) and biological processes also contribute to DLC production, although in smaller quantities.
Nutritional supplementation is a powerful and effective way to detox your system but before you rush out and buy different detox vitamins, minerals and herbs, you need to know the different grades of nutritional supplements available in the marketplace: Pharmaceutical Grade, Medical Grade, Cosmetic or Nutritional Grade.
Pharmaceutical Grade is the highest quality grade of vitamins and supplements meaning the purity; dissolution and absorption meet the highest regulatory standard verified by an independent party. Pharmaceutical grade vitamins and nutrients may be available without a prescription, but they are typically sold by licensed health care professionals.
Medical Grade vitamins and nutrients are also high-grade supplements but may not meet all the standards of pharmaceutical grade supplements. Prenatal vitamins normally fall into this category.
Cosmetic or Nutritional Grade supplements are typically sold in health food stores, chemists and, readily available on supermarket shelves. These supplements may not always be tested for absorption, dissolution or purity. Additionally, these supplements do not always have the same concentration of active ingredients as what is listed on the label.
You may or may not be aware that 98% of supplements readily available are of cosmetic grade… not even close to pharmaceutical grade.
One line of powerful and very effective nutritional supplements is the Le-vel brand THRIVE line here https://brainspahealth.le-vel.com The reason people are seeing amazing results when using THRIVE nutritional supplements, and why they cost a little more, is because they are pharmaceutical-grade, and only the highest quality nutritional ingredients are sourced.
Posted in Entire Body Detox	| Tagged anxiety, body cleanse, cleanse, depression, detox, hormones, inflammation, mind food, nutrition, stress, thyroid	| Leave a comment |
Importance of Mitochondria in Your Body-Gut Health
Posted on November 21, 2017 by ihbPT
Importance of Mitochondria in Your Body-Gut Health
The gut has been often called the second brain but new research is indicating that it may be the first brain. Your gut feeds your body and brain and can be beneficial or detrimental (dependent on what you put in it) to your overall heath including mood, energy, motivation, mental clarity and focus, weight and even disease in the body… if your gut ain’t right… you ain’t right!
That is why it is vital that you are supplementing your diet with high-quality, pharmaceutical-grade nutritional supplements… because on the account of mineral depleted soil and erosion, fast foods, processed foods, sugary foods and drinks, and environmental factors… we are just not getting all the nutrients our body crave and need in our diets today.
Gut microbiota (formerly called gut flora) is the name given today to the microbe population living in our intestine. Some of the functions are:
It helps the body to digest certain foods that the stomach and small intestine have not been able to digest.
It helps with the production of some vitamins (B and K).
It helps us combat aggressions from other microorganisms, maintaining the wholeness of the intestinal mucosa.
It plays an important role in the immune system, performing a barrier effect.
A healthy and balanced gut microbiota is key to ensuring proper digestive functioning.
Taking into account the major role gut microbiota plays in the normal functioning of the body and the different functions it accomplishes, experts nowadays consider it as an “organ”. However, it is an “acquired” organ, as babies are born sterile; that is, intestine colonisation starts right after birth and evolves as we grow.
Although it can adapt to change, a loss of balance in gut microbiota may arise in some specific situations. This is called dysbiosis. Dysbiosis may be linked to health problems such as functional bowel disorders, inflammatory bowel disease, allergies, obesity and diabetes.
-Source: http://www.gutmicrobiotaforhealth.com/en/about-gut-microbiota-info/
Before telling you how you can put your heart attack worries behind you, you need to understand WHY healthy older people have heart attacks in the first place… and it all starts with the little power plants inside your cells called mitochondria.
Mitochondria (might-o-con-dria) are responsible for turning food into cellular energy. They’re responsible for every ounce of energy created in your body… whenever you garden or golf… whenever you do something as simple as flex a muscle… the energy you do it with comes from millions of microscopic mitochondria.
You might think that since your entire body needs energy that the mitochondria are spread out evenly… but that’s not the case. Take your biceps for example…
Your biceps have about 200 mitochondria in every cell – that’s what it takes to flex your muscles, pick up your groceries, or raise your arm to scratch your nose. Not 200 mitochondria in your biceps…200 mitochondria in every single cell in your biceps.
But it takes 5,000 mitochondria in each heart cell to keep it pumping strong! Your heart is the biggest user of mitochondria, by far. And yet, as important as mitochondria are…
1 out of every 6 people has mitochondrial dysfunction!
And it turns out, as we get older, our mitochondria start to mutate. Our cells come under attack from toxins … from stress … but mostly, from free oxygen radicals. These toxins cause the mitochondria to mutate and die out.
Each time it happens it’s like microscopic blackout… Picture your heart full of millions of energy plants that are going dark, one by one… that’s exactly what happens as we age… the process takes years but eventually, your heart lacks the energy to even beat properly… it gets sluggish and irregular.
If you’ve ever felt your heart skip a beat or had a single powerful beat that scared you… you might be experiencing what happens when your heart doesn’t have enough energy. Without help, this happens to all of us.
But the process starts when you’re 30 and takes years before it’s a killer… and that’s the real reason teenagers generally don’t suffer heart attacks… their mitochondria haven’t been under attack long enough… not enough of them have mutated YET! So, their heart has plenty of energy to fire on all cylinders. So if you are not a teen… every year takes its toll.
As mitochondria die off, our heart doesn’t have the energy it needs to pump like it should… our heart doesn’t “fire” right… it gets sluggish… so, it must work harder to try and keep blood flowing to your arteries.
Your heart is like any other muscle – it grows when it’s overworked… so, your heart becomes enlarged. Then it takes on excess fluid, straining itself even more until finally, blood backs up in your lungs and other vital organs… and that’s called Congestive Heart Failure, or CHF.
Five million Americans have CHF and there’s a half million new cases every year… and CHF is nasty. It leaves you short of breath, tired, and weak… your legs, ankles, and feet swell… your heart beats funny… and you pick up a cough that won’t seem to go away.
Over time, Congestive Heart Failure will kill you if left untreated. And I’ve been told it feels like you’re drowning… but it’s slow… so you have this horrible feeling for months.
Young people don’t get normally suffer from CHF because they still have plenty of mitochondria to keep the heart pumping.
The OTHER Reason Teenagers Don’t Get Heart Attacks
Have you heard about “good cholesterol” and “bad cholesterol”? The good cholesterol is called HDL (High Density Lipoprotein – lie-po-pro-teen). HDL sweeps gunk out of your arteries.
The bad cholesterol is called LDL (Low Density Lipoprotein). LDL sticks to the walls of your arteries and blocks them up.
But that’s only half the story…
After all, teenagers eat a pile of that stuff… and they aren’t dropping dead on the ground with blocked arteries. As it turns out, LDL (bad) cholesterol doesn’t grab on to the walls of your arteries… and it doesn’t block the blood flow to the heart… not by itself anyway.
In young people, LDL cholesterol particles pass through the arteries, like a hot knife through butter. It simply doesn’t cause kids any problems. But as we get older, something changes… our LDL particles start to oxidate (rust).
And as LDL particles rust, that’s when they get stuck to our artery walls. The rust builds up, and causes heart attacks. How does this happen? Well, it’s not exactly rust. Rust is the term for what happens when iron meets free oxygen radicals and oxidizes.
But lots of other things besides iron oxidize too. When you slice an apple in half and leave it and it goes brown is an example of oxidation. But you don’t want oxidation on your LDL particles… because that’s what turns them into deadly plaque…
And it’s oxidation that mutates and kills off your Mitochondria too. If it’s oxidation that causes plaque, and it’s oxidation that kills your energy-producing mitochondria… it makes sense to stop oxidation dead in its tracks… so how do we do that?
The human body is colonized by a vast number of microbes, collectively referred to as the human microbiota. The link between these microbes and our health is the focus of a growing number of research initiatives, and new insights are emerging rapidly.
Your first step to improving your gut health is to remove sugar, alcohol, wheat products, and fast foods and processed foods (most contain sugar under different guises) from your diet. If possible, eat certified organic wholefoods, fruit and vegetables (we want to avoid additives, pesticides and herbicides that may still be present). Try this for a month and you will be amazed on how much better you feel.
The second step is to supplement your diet with high-quality; pharmaceutical-grade supplements that contain not only the essential vitamins and minerals but also prebiotics, probiotics, enzymes, and amino acids, which are all essential for maintaining good gut health and help feed your good microbiota and guard against two common forms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis.
-Source: https://www.nature.com/articles/nature11582
Another very powerful supplement for gut health is Coenzyme-Q10 (CoQ10).
CoQ10 is a powerful antioxidant and is much better at keeping LDL from turning into plaque than Vitamin E is https://www.emoryhealthcare.org/heart-vascular/wellness/heart-failure-statistics.html
CoQ10 isn’t some foreign chemical… it’s already produced in every cell of your body. Not only does CoQ10 keep oxidation at bay… it’s the fuel that helps mitochondria turn food into energy.
CoQ10 functions in the mitochondria, the “powerhouse” of the cell, to assist in making energy (called adenosine triphosphate or ATP) from carbohydrates and fats.
CoQ10 primarily acts as an antioxidant in the heart and is involved in the synthesis of energy, but it also has other important functions inside the mitochondria such as stabilizing membranes. CoQ10 protects the “bad” LDL cholesterol that is implicated in atherosclerosis from oxidizing. Because of CoQ10’s role in oxidative stress, energy production and stabilization, it is useful in preventing damage to the heart during periods of stress.
CoQ10 levels have been shown to be depleted in patients with a variety of heart conditions and in those taking cholesterol-lowering statin drugs. Research of CoQ10 spanning over 30 years shows potential for use in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease in these patients.
-Source: https://www.nutritionexpress.com/showarticle.aspx?articleid=786
But when you hit about 30, you start to lose CoQ10. – http://www.liveinthenow.com/article/anti-aging-supplement-profile-coq10
The fact is, you’ll lose up to about 72% of your CoQ10 as you near old age. – http://www.lifeextension.com/Vitamins-Supplements/item01733/Super-Ubiquinol-CoQ10-with-BioPQQ
And if you take statins, your CoQ10 levels dip even faster. Statins alone lower CoQ10 levels by a whopping 40%! – http://www.lifeextension.com/Vitamins-Supplements/item01733/Super-Ubiquinol-CoQ10-with-BioPQQ
If you are looking for powerful pharmaceutical-grade nutritional supplements that provide high-quality pre and probiotics, enzymes, amino acids, antioxidants, Co-Q10 plus a whole range of other vitamins, minerals, and herb and plant extracts, then you need to look no further than the THRIVE line of supplements…
Also read:
Cancer and the gut microbiota: An unexpected link: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4690201/
Microbiota: a key orchestrator of cancer therapy: https://www.nature.com/articles/nrc.2017.13
Gut microbiota and colorectal cancer: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5395603/
Disclaimer Note: just because an herbal supplement may be natural doesn’t mean it’s safe. If you are under a doctor’s care or on any kind of medications, always check with your therapist or physician before taking any herbal supplements. These statements have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
The total content material of this article is in relation to the investigation and viewpoints of the publisher, except if otherwise noted. The content on this website is not meant to substitute a one-on-one relationship with a certified health care specialist and is not intended as medical health advice.
It is designed as being a expressing of information and knowledge through the investigation and practical experience of the numerous authors. You should try to make your individual healthcare decisions dependent on your research and in collaboration with a qualified health care professional.
Posted in Gut Health	| Tagged anxiety, autoimmune disorder, brain health, depression, gut health mitochondria, immune support, microbiota, nutrition, stress, weight loss	| Leave a comment |
Post navigation
← Older posts
Search for:
Recent Posts
Supplements to Help with Stress & Anxiety
Insomnia and Other Sleep Disorders
How to Slow the Aging Process…
The Dark Side of Your Emotional Needs – Mind and Body
When to Stop Being a Patient and Escape the Victim Cage!
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2019
June 2018
March 2018
February 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
July 2017
June 2017
January 2017
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
November 2015
October 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
December 2014
November 2014
September 2014
August 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
November 2013
July 2013
Categories
Categories Select Category 7-Minute Work Out System Addiction Help Anxiety and Stress Benefits of Maca Brain Health Brainwashing Business Mindset Colds & Flu Virus Protectors Dangers of Sugar Eating Disorders Entire Body Detox Food Myths Guilt Free Deserts Gut Health How to Attract Money Hypnotherapy Immune System Booster Meditation & Hypnosis Mind Food Nutrition Pain Management Power Protein Powders Psychology of Eating Relationships Self-Confidence on Steroids Stress Relief Water Purification Weight Loss Secrets
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Design by Steve Deane.