Massage Oils For Pain
Herb Chart
Herbal Remedies
Herb Store
Arthritis
Diabetes
Weight Loss
Pain Relief
Anxiety
Memory
Oils
Digestive
Massage Oils For Pain
Select Acne African Alcoholism Allergies Alopecia Amenorrhea Anxiety Aphrodisiac Aromatherapy Arthritis Asthma Fungus Ayurvedic Beauty Incontinence Bladder Bronchitis Bruises Burns Cancer Candida Heart Cellulite Children Chinese Cholesterol Circulation Colds Compress Congestion Constipation Cough Cramps Culinary Cuts Teeth Depression Detoxification Diabetes Diarrhea Weight loss Digestion Dysmenorrhea Ear Eczema Eyes Facial Fatigue Female Hormones Fever Fibromyalgia Flu Garden Ulcer Gout Green Home Herbal Hair Halitosis Headache Herbal Decoctions Herbal Steam Herbal Teas Herbal Infused Oils Herpes Honey Hypertension IBS Immune Infection Insect repellenst Insects Kidney Libations Libido Lice Liver Tonic Lupus Massage Memory Men Menopause Menorrhagia Aroma Lamps Nausea Neuralgia North American Nutrition Osteoporosis Pain Parasites Pets PMS Polynesian Powders And Capsules Pregnancy Prostate Psoriasis Rashes Rheumatoid arthritis Salves Scabies Shampoo Sinus Skin Sleep Sore throat South American Spring Smoking Stress Summer Sunburns Syrup Tinctures/Extracts Varicose_veins Warts Wrinkles
﻿
Massage Oils for Pain
Aromatic massage oils
Olive oil is a good analgesic base oil for massage blends to treat pain. The rosemary and eucalyptus oils will help wake you up in the morning, while the frankincense anchors and deepens the blend.
Ingredients:
Eucalyptus * Frankincense * Olive Oil * Rosemary *
Variations:Variations: Benzoin or Sandalwood for Frankincense
Recipe Instructions: Massage Oils/Essential Oil Blends :Massage: Dilute with 1 tablespoon of organic virgin olive oil or other carrier oil.
Tags and Uses for this Remedy
Aromatherapy :Essential oils are a powerful way to enhance the beauty of your home and health.
Massage Oils :The blend of the healing touch of massage and aromatic massage oils blends helps make self massage at home a powerful healing modality.
Pain Relief :Herbal remedies can bring blessed relief from body aches, sore muscles, headaches and arthritis pain..
Rheumatoid_arthritis :There are many herbal remedies that can help to ease rheumatoid arthritis pain ,and many have a long history of use.
Buy Bulk Herbs and Supplies
Looking for something you can read offline? Join our mailing list and get a free copy of Methods for Using Herbs. This free handbook includes instructions on how to make basic herbal preparations at home. It covers making herbal teas, herb infused oils and balms, tinctures, and more.
Herbal Teas
Decoctions
Poultice
Herbal Oils
Powders/Caps
Aromatherapy
Massage Oils
Salves & Balms
Tinctures
HERBAL BATHS
Compress
Cough Syrups/drops
Copyright © 2005 - 2018 Annie's Remedy * All rights reserved Citations Feel free to cite information given on these pages with a link to: Anniesremedy.com . Fair use of this copyrighted information is limited to small snippets of text.
List of Herbs by Common Name
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Annies Remedy Home | Privacy:About: Contact | Medicinal Herbs Uses Chart | Herbal Remedies | A- Z Health Index | Books |
** Information on the traditional uses and properties of herbs are provided on this site is for educational use only, and is not intended as medical advice. Every attempt has been made for accuracy, but none is guaranteed. Many traditional uses and properties of herbs have not been validated by the FDA. If you have any serious health concerns, you should always check with your health care practitioner before self-administering herbs. **