James | Rankinlive.com
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Rankinlive.com
An In-Depth Look at The Top Laser Hair Regrowth Devices
Rankinlive.com
Guides
All Reviews
Hair Growth Tips
James
Best Fat Freezers Review
February 18, 2019 By James
Losing weight can be such a drag! It costs you not only money, but your time, and in a world where time is money, this can be a hard pass for many of us. But wait.. what if there was a better way?? Cue the new and exciting world of “fat freezing”..
Traditional methods like diet and exercise can rack up your bills with healthy foods and memberships to the gym and/or personal trainers. It’s even more wasteful to your wallet when food goes bad—because lets be honest, there’s always food that goes to waste—and you miss gym dates because your days and weeks don’t have the time for it.
But before giving up entirely on losing weight, you need to investigate fat freezing products and how they can help with your weight loss journey, without putting your body, or your wallet, to strain.
Fat Freezing benefits.
Non-surgical treatment – Fat freezing is non-invasive procedure, which means you avoid all the downsides of surgery, such as needles, scars, downtime and lengthly recovery process. It’s also much less of a commitment and can be done in the comfort of your home.
Natural looking results – The results you get from fat freezing are very natural since the fat is broken down by your body over time and there are no scars left behind. The lack of scarring is a huge benefit for many patients, who don’t want another thing that makes them self-conscious about their appearance. CoolSculpting doesn’t require any incisions to be made on the treated areas.
A boost to your confidence – There’s no doubt that making positive changes to your body can have a big positive impact on your confidence. When you’re no longer self-conscious about those stubborn pockets of fat, you’ll feel a lot better about yourself.
Safe and effective –The fact that fat freezing products don’t require any incisions means it’s a very safe form of treatment too.
Minimal reported side effects– Minimal reported side effects include temporary numbness of treated area, rash and increased sensitivity.
Costeffective – Especially newer at home fat freezing treatments are relatively inexpensive compared to most other effective weight loss methods.
Fat Freezing products cost
Doing your fat freezing treatment at home is much cheaper than having it at clinics. A fat freezing product for home use could be anywhere from $150-$600 (depending on wrap or machine form), and some are even as effective as the commercial machines. This is a perfect option for those who are not comfortable opening their bodies to strangers.
Fat Freezing product reviews
These are highly recommended products for at home fat freezing treatments as compared to a costly clinical procedure.
Blue Fat Freezing System – 2019 BEST OVERALL FAT FREEZING SYSTEM!
The blue fat freezing system uses controlled temperatures to help you lose those stubborn inches on your sides, back, abs and legs. It even helps tighten skin and reduce cellulite.
Overview
Blue pioneered this space and was the very first at home fat freezing system. In our research and tests it was by far the highest quality product of the bunch. Also according to the customers we contacted it was also the most effective of our fat freezer reviews.
Proprietary Dual
Targeting Technology
Blue proprietary dual targeting technology uses specially engineered cold packs consisting of two unique inner and outer layer refrigerant formulas. Each layer has a different purpose. The outer layer works to insulate the inner layer to further extend cooling while maintaining comfort by contouring to your body.
The inner layers special formula allows it to harden significantly more and drop to a much colder temp than traditional refrigerants. This allows the blue dual targeting packs to reach temperatures up to 16-22° lower and maintain their temperature 6 times longer which triggers optimal fat cell death.
Engineered Compression
Wraps
Blue’s engineered compression wraps are designed to insulate & extend the optimal temperatures needed to safely and quickly lose weight without causing damage or adverse effects on your skin. All this so you can get on with your busy day doing the activities you know and love.
Pros
High quality neoprene and suede wraps
High quality dual targeting layered gel packs
Comfortable to wear and forms nicely to your body – even legs/arms
Reduces inches in targeted areas
Cons
The only con with the blue system is that it’s a bit more expensive than others we reviewed. However based on customer feedback it’s by far the most effective system.
Asrais Touch Fat Freezing System
About Asrai’s Touch
Using cold to lose fat, a more natural to slim down.
A fast, easy fat loss procedure in the privacy of your home
Can be used on your waistline, love-handles, thighs and buttocks
Tailored for busy lifestyles; take it out, put it on and repeat.
Will work best when combined with proper diet and exercise program.
Isavera Fat Freezing System
Overview
The Isavera fat freezing product is somewhat based on the same components that blue pioneered. However based on our inspection of the product this system is somewhat cheaply made.
When we attempted to contact their customer service (to discuss their product and ask to interview real customers) we could not get a response and therefore aren’t as confident that their claims of guaranteed money back results would be accurate as well.
At this time based on the above we would not recommend the Isavera fat freezing product unless you’re looking to take a gamble on a less expensive product.
Pros
Less expensive option
Cons
Absent customer service department
Poor product quality
Coolsculpting
Overview
The CoolSculpting fat-freezing procedure is the only FDA-cleared,* non-surgical fat-reduction treatment that uses controlled cooling to eliminate stubborn fat that resists all efforts through diet and exercise. The results are proven, noticeable, and lasting—so you’ll look great from every angle.
What are the risks of Coolsculpting
Some common side effects of CoolSculpting include:
Tugging sensation at the treatment site. …
Pain, stinging, or aching at the treatment site. …
Temporary redness, swelling, bruising, and skin sensitivity at the treatment site. …
Paradoxical adipose hyperplasia at the treatment site.
How many times do you have to do CoolSculpting?
Each treatment will be performed several months apart, to give the body enough time to react naturally, and dispose of the fat cells organically. Typically it is best to wait a minimum of 30 days before starting a new session of CoolSculpting, with 4 months being ideal.
What is the average cost of Coolsculpting?
Small Applicators ~ $750 per hour. If you’ve booked yourself a session for a CoolSculpting treatment, chances are you’ll be a suitable candidate for a small applicator, which comes in three varieties: CoolCore – A problem for many people, especially women, is excess fat in the belly area.
Pros
FDA approved
Safe and effective
Administered by a professional
Cons
Expensive
Multiple treatments needed
Must drive to clinic each time
Fat Freezer body sculpting system
Overview
After researching this product we do not recommend it at all. It is one of possibly 100 copycat products selling under different names on Amazon and other retailers. We looked at reviews extensively and nothing convinced us this product is worth a try.
Conclusion
If you’ve never tried fat freezing products or treatments before, you can benefit from them as long as you’re careful in selecting the right product for you. We recommend the blue fat freezing system as an at home fat freezing treatment and Coolsculpting for a clinical treatment option.
Filed Under: Uncategorized
Minoxidil: A Real Hair Regrowth Miracle in a Bottle?
October 22, 2018 By James
Hair fall is a common problem among a large chunk of the population. These days, both men and women alike suffer from severe hair fall problems. While genetics plays a huge role in hair loss, secondary factors, such as unhealthy eating habits, stress, lack of sleep, and so on, also affect the hair. You will find several over-the-counter medications designed to tackle this issue, and Minoxidil is one of them.
Minoxidil is famous all over the world and is available in different brand names including Rogaine, Mintop, and more. Aside from that, this medication is available as either oral or topical solutions.
That being said, many still ask: does Minoxidil really work? Or is it just another product offering false hopes? Well, we have decided to dig deep into this subject to find out everything about this so-called miracle hair regrowth drug and whether it is worth buying or not.
Now, before we can understand how it works, we must first talk about the many different causes of hair loss and hair fall. In this way, we will have a better understanding of this rather unfortunate condition.
Different Causes of Hair Fall
While hair loss is more common in men than women as they suffer from male pattern baldness, it isn’t unusual for women to have hair loss too. Hair loss or thinning hair in women also could be a result of a variety of reasons. These reasons could be as temporary and simple as deficiency of vitamins to something more complex like a serious health condition.
Treating hair loss for both men and women entirely depends on what’s causing it in the first place. Below, we start off listing some of the highly common reasons and then follow with some the uncommon ones as to why you see lesser or thinner hair on your head.
Physical Stress
Something as basic as the flu, severe illness, or even a car accident could possibly trigger temporary hair loss. Any one of these triggers could result in a kind of hair fall called telogen effluvium. How so?
Our hair comes with a life cycle that is fully programmed. This includes a growth phase, a rest phase, and a shedding phase. In case of physical stress, the whole cycle gets affected and puts more of our hair into the shedding phase. Thankfully, this is completely temporary, and your hair cycle will revert back to normal once the stress eases.
Pregnancy
Pregnancy is yet another kind of physical stress. That, along with all the hormones in the body, directly affect your hair. You will notice that the hair loss is more noticeable after childbirth rather than during the pregnancy, as giving birth can be traumatic for the mother.
Even for this kind of hair loss, the solution is awfully simple. All you need to do is wait, and things will work itself out eventually.
Too Much Vitamin A
If you consume too many medications or supplements that contain Vitamin A, they could potentially trigger hair loss. Adults are not supposed to consume more than 5,000 IU (International Units) of Vitamin A in one single day.
This issue is reversible, though. All you need to do is stop or limit your consumption of Vitamin A, and your hair fall will reduce over time.
Lack of Protein
If your diet lacks adequate protein intake, then your body is forced to ration the protein by halting the growth of your hair. This typically happens about three months after a dip in protein intake. Hence, for a healthy head of hair, ensure that you stock on a ton of protein on a daily basis.
Emotional Stress
While this isn’t as common as physical stress, emotional stress, such as the death of a loved one or an on-going divorce, can potentially cause hair loss. In most cases, the emotional stress will not precipitate the hair loss. It will rather exacerbate the problem that already exists. This too requires time for the hair loss to stop. Exercising, yoga, or going for therapy could all help with emotional stress.
Deficiency of Vitamins B
Having low levels of Vitamin B could potentially trigger hair loss in both men and women. However, this is quite uncommon in the United States. Tackling this issue can be simple. You can either consume Vitamin B medications or supplements. Alternatively, you can naturally find Vitamin B in foods like meat, fish, non-citrus fruits, and starchy vegetables.
Quick Weight Loss
If you have recently lost a lot of weight, it could be categorized as another form of physical stress, which could either result in hair thinning or hair loss. While weight loss is ultimately good for your health, your hair is undoubtedly going to get affected. All you need to do is wait a couple of months as this issue will correct itself.
Over Styling
It goes without saying that years of styling your hair by using hair straighteners, curling irons, constantly bleaching and coloring your hair, and several other hair treatments could have an adverse impact on your hair. All of these practices could affect the roots and completely stop the hair growth.
It is essential that you give your hair a break from styling from times to time. While avoiding heat treatments is one way to go, you must also use a conditioner after every time you shampoo. Furthermore, only let your hair air dry as often as possible.
Chemotherapy
Unfortunately, a few of the drugs used to beat cancer also affect your hair. Chemotherapy can destroy the rapidly dividing cells. While these are typically cancer cells, the hair too is another rapidly dividing cell. In such cases, there is nothing you can do to help your hair loss until the chemotherapy stops. Once that stops, your hair will begin to grow back normally.
Hypothyroidism
Hypothyroidism is basically a medical term for those who have an underactive gland of the thyroid. This is a little gland that is located inside your neck, and it produces hormones that are highly critical to a good metabolism and also growth and development.
The lack of this hormone could potentially contribute to hair loss. Treating this issue will require you to consume synthetic thyroid medication. Doing so will help bring your thyroid functions to normal.
Anemia
It is said that one in every 10 women who are aged between 20 and 49 suffer from anemia. This occurs due to a deficiency of iron, but it is easily fixable. First, you will need to do a simple blood test that determines if you suffer from anemia. If you do test positive for it, your doctor will put you on a simple iron supplement that will take care of the hair loss.
Male Pattern Baldness and Heredity
It is said that two in three men will experience hair loss by the age of 60. Most of the time, this is because of male pattern baldness. This kind of hair loss is caused by a combination of male sex hormones and genes, which will typically follow a classic pattern in which hair will start receding at the temple and leave a hairline that is M-shaped.
In women, there also exists something called female pattern baldness. This is also called either androgenetic or androgenic alopecia. However, it isn’t as common as male pattern baldness.
This will typically occur to women who come from a family wherein the women begin to experience hair loss at a particular age. Unlike men, women do not typically suffer from a hairline that recedes. Instead, they will have thinning hair, or their part could widen.
In such cases, it is said that both men and women can benefit greatly from a topical solution such as Minoxidil. These do not require a prescription and can be bought over the counter. They are believed to help stop further hair loss and can even promote new hair growth.
On Minoxidil
You will often find this medical term, Minoxidil, brought up over and over again in several medical journals, articles, and even in the media. Typically, Minoxidil is often talked about by health care professionals when they have to discuss male pattern baldness and female pattern baldness.
We decided to find out all the important things there is to know about Minoxidil, which includes what it is, how it works, and also the multiple kinds of applications on the market right now, to name a few.
What Is Minoxidil?
Minoxidil is basically an antihypertensive vasodilator that could help in reducing or even slowing down the process of hair loss in some men as well as women. In some people, it could potentially stop the hair loss altogether, and for others, it has the ability to promote the formation of healthy and new hair.
Minoxidil recently has been off-patented, which means that it can be bought as an over-the-counter medication in order to treat androgenic or androgenetic alopecia. These are hair loss and hair thinning conditions that are often referred to as male or female pattern baldness.
The Origins of Minoxidil
You would be surprised to know that Minoxidil wasn’t first used to treat baldness and hair loss. In fact, this drug was first used to combat high blood pressure and was first sold under the name, Loniten. It was only upon extensive research that it was found that Loniten had a side effect, which was hair growth.
Due to this, Minoxidil was no longer used to treat high blood pressure as an oral medication, but it was prescribed to both men and women to treat hair loss and other hair-related issues.
Minoxidil is typically sold as a topical solution and is available in 2% and 5% concentrations. In certain countries, for example, such as India, Minoxidil is also sold in a 10% concentration. In Northern America, you will only find 2% and 5% Minoxidil solutions sold under the brand name, Rogaine.
Typically, 2% Minoxidil solutions are used by both men and women. However, 5% and higher concentrations of the medication is only prescribed to men. This is because they contain much more patent properties, and hence, have adverse side effects for women. In Europe and Asia, you will find this product sold under the brand names, Regaine and Mintop.
Different Forms of Minoxidil
The dropper application is the most traditional and commonly used form of Minoxidil. Other than the dropper, there are newer forms of application that this drug comes in as well. These include:
Spray
Minoxidil sprays are fairly new to the market. This is a simpler way to use this medication since all you need to do is spray on the topical solution onto the affected area of the scalp. This form of Minoxidil application is much cleaner as well. It definitely reduces the amount of solution that gets wasted in comparison to a dropper.
To spread the solution a little more evenly all over the head, you can try pulling back your hair that is abundant and thick so that the solution can successfully reach into the scalp and also the hair follicles that are adjoining.
Foam
Another kind of Minoxidil application is via foam. This is much newer than the previous two. To use this, you will need to take a considerable amount of foam onto your hand and then directly apply it onto your scalp. Begin by massaging it in first with your fingertips.
Dropper
The traditional dropper is considered to be one of the most common forms of Minoxidil’s application, and it makes application extremely easy. While this is the most traditional form of applying Minoxidil on the scalp, most people still prefer this. For this reason, we will give you a step-by-step guide to applying Minoxidil using a dropper application.
How to Use Minoxidil: Dropper Application
Before you even begin, make sure you read all the directions on the package before you use this product. If you feel you aren’t sure at any point, then consult your pharmacist or your doctor.
Start by cleaning the scalp and make sure it is dry. Take the dropper application and fill it with about one milliliter of solution. Typically, all droppers will have a one-milliliter line to make things easy for you.
Now, part your hair, especially around the area where there is maximum thinning. Apply the minoxidil solution properly and evenly to the scalp’s affected area and gently massage and rub it in using your fingertips.
Use this solution twice a day and wait for the solution to dry fully before you apply any of your styling products. Make sure you do this at least six months to a year in order to see positive results.
Precautions
It is essential that before you use Minoxidil, you consult with your doctor or your pharmacist to know whether you are allergic to any of the ingredients used in the solution. Furthermore, this solution may also contain multiple other inactive ingredients, which could potentially cause some allergic reactions or even some other problems.
Make sure you find out all the details from the doctor or your pharmacist. This is especially important if you suffer from the following: diseases of the scalp such as infections, cuts, and eczema; heart diseases such as heart attack, chest pain, or heart failure; kidney diseases; and liver disease.
If you are consuming medications for any of the above ailments, then ensure you talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you use this solution. There could be a possibility that these medications could have an interaction with the Minoxidil solution. Ensure you never start or stop any medication without prior approval from the doctor.
For women who are pregnant, this product should only be used if advised by the doctors. While there isn’t adequate research done whether the ingredients in the solution get passed down to the breast milk, we would highly recommend to steer clear of this product even if just for a year or two after pregnancy.
Storage
Store the Minoxidil solution at room temperature between 67 and 77 degrees F. It should also be away from sunlight and moisture. Make sure that the solution is out of reach of pets and children. Minoxidil solution is flammable, so keep it as far away from fire or even open flame until the solution has dried off completely.
If the product is expired and you need to get rid of it, do not flush it down the drain or the toilet. Make sure you properly discard the product. To know how to get rid of the solution appropriately, get in touch with your pharmacist or your local waste disposal company.
Side Effects
Stinging, redness, or burning at the site of application could possibly occur. If you feel you have any of these side effects, or they get worsened, then contact your pharmacist or your doctor as quickly as possible.
If your doctor has advised you to use this solution, it is important to note that the doctor has judged appropriately that the solution’s benefits are significantly greater than all of its possible side effects. That being said, it is rare that people who have used this medication have had a serious side effect.
It is also rare that this solution could be absorbed by the skin, which could cause some side effects. If you feel that that did occur, then immediately stop using the solution and get in touch with your doctor.
Some rare but serious allergic reactions of this product may include growth of unwanted body or facial hair, fast or irregular heartbeat, dizziness, chest pain, fainting, swelling of the hands and/or feet, unusual weight gain, difficulty breathing, and tiredness. As mentioned earlier, these are extremely serious side effects of the solution, and it is unlikely for them to occur. If it does occur, then get medical help quickly.
If you are in the United States, you can report these side effects to the FDA at www.fda.gov/medwatch or at 1-800-FDA-1088. If you are in Canada and experience any side effects, you can report them to the Health Canada at their phone number, 1-866-234-2345.
What to Do In Case of an Overdose
This solution can be fatal if it is swallowed. If you know someone who has swallowed it and has overdosed on it or facing a serious symptom such as difficulty in breathing or passing out, then immediately call 911. Else you can get in touch with the poison control center at 1-800-222-1222. On the other hand, Canadian residents can get in touch with a provincial poison control center. Some symptoms of overdose could possibly include drowsiness, fainting, flushing, and dizziness.
Minoxidil’s FAQs
There are often these questions that are frequently asked by everyone about Minoxidil. So, we decided to list the top FAQ’s and answer them for you to make things easier.
Q: There are different concentrations of Minoxidil, such as 2%, 5%, and 10%. Is the highest one always better?
A: Products that have a concentration of 5% and above have shown far better results in studies. That being said, this only applies to men. If you are a woman, you can only use the 2% solution as anything higher than that can be harmful to you.
Q: There are different kinds of Minoxidil application such as a dropper, foam, and spray. Does any one of them work better than the other?
A: There is no evidence that supports the claim that any one of the applications works better than other. That being said, there has been some evidence that has suggested that the foam application is a little less irritating to the scalp. The biggest difference between the three is the cosmetic result after each of their use.
Q: Do I have to use the Minoxidil solution at least twice a day?
A: You will notice that several Minoxidil manufacturers claim that using the solution twice a day shows better results. This is true only for the 2% and 5% concentration solution. As these are not as strong, and in order for it to show results within six to eight months, using them twice a day is essential. However, if you use minoxidil 10%, then you only need to use it once a day.
Q: What is the most common side effect of using the Minoxidil solution?
A: While it is rare to have a side effect from this solution, there have been cases that have shown people developing an irritated or an itchy scalp when used regularly. Another side effect that could be common would be the growth of facial hair.
Q: How can I know whether the solution is doing any good to me?
A: A good way to know whether this solution is working for you is to look out for any signs of hair growth, possibly after two to three weeks of regular use. It goes without saying that if you see new hair follicles coming along in the front of your hairline or even on the top and the vertex of your scalp, it is an excellent sign.
New hair growth will typically occur only after four to six months of regular use. When these new hairs come out, they will appear to be down and soft. However, after using the solution further and regularly, your hair will become the exact same consistency as all the other hairs present on your scalp.
It has been found that the fastest people have seen results with the Minoxidil solution is a little over two months. However, that is rare. Everyone will respond differently to the solution, and their results will vary.
Q: Can Minoxidil solution be used for beard growth?
A: The fact is that there have not been many clinical trials done to know whether Minoxidil can be used on a man’s face. However, it does not mean that you cannot try it out. Men with lack of beard growth have been using Minoxidil on their beard. While the results may vary, the 5% concentration is safe to use.
The Pros and Cons of Minoxidil
Commonly known as Rogaine in the United States, Minoxidil solution has been used by men and women for decades now as it is believed to help hair loss issues. The solution is available easily over the counter and is known to promote hair growth. However, the question still arises that if this does work so effectively, why do people still opt for expensive hair transplants?
Hence, we decided to do the pros and cons of this medication to see whether it is a viable option.
What We Like About It
Easy to get
One of the biggest pros of using this medication is how easy it is to get. While it is recommended to visit a doctor before buying it, you don’t necessarily have to as there is no need for a prescription to purchase some.
This advantage can also be a disadvantage to a certain extent as it keeps the patient from visiting the doctor. Minoxidil does an excellent job to help treat hair loss, but before using this product, it is essential that you find out the actual cause of your hair loss. In some cases, you may not even need Minoxidil to treat the issue.
Easy to use
Minoxidil is quite easy to use. It is available in different types of applications, and each of them is quite simple to do. All you need to do is get into the habit of using this medication at least twice a day for six to eight months. The application process is in no way too precise or even demanding.
Boosts hair restoration
People who opt to do hair transplant surgery also choose to use Minoxidil solution to boost the result of hair restoration further. That being said, it is always good to speak to your doctor first before you do it.
Remember that Minoxidil was first marketed as a drug that would help patients with high blood pressure. Using this solution right after your surgery could possibly cause a dip in your blood pressure, which may result in dizziness.
What We Don’t Like About It
You have to be consistent
In order to see the results and for this medication to work well, it is highly essential to use it as consistently as possible. This solution will only work if you apply it the way it has been directed on the package, which means that you have to do it twice a day, every single day for a minimum of six to eight months.
If you aren’t consistent with the solution, any new hair that came out because of this medication will cease to grow and will fall out.
Not effective for people with advanced hair loss
Minoxidil solution tends to be more effective if it is used by people who are under the age of 30. It is also typically more effective if it has been only a few years since you have started losing your hair. If you have an area that is entirely bald, it is unlikely for Minoxidil to work on it.
That being said, it is still recommended to use Minoxidil. The treatment works differently for different patients, after all. So, there is a possibility for the solution to actually work for you.
Concerns for women
While the FDA has approved 2% of the Minoxidil solution to be used by women for hair loss, they didn’t approve anything higher than that. There are multiple reasons why women can only use the 2% solution.
For starters, the 5% solution tends to contain ingredients that are stronger and could possibly trigger an allergic reaction or skin irritation. Furthermore, this strong concentration could potentially put women at an elevated risk of low blood pressure, which could cause fainting or dizziness or even hypotension.
The other reason why the 5% and above concentration isn’t safe for women is that it could cause hair growth that is unwanted. The medication can easily migrate from the scalp to the face, and if the solution is left on the face, it could potentially cause hair to grow in that area.
Conclusion
In conclusion, Minoxidil is a brilliant alternative to those expensive hair transplant surgeries. While how well it may actually work for you entirely depends on many factors, it will definitely make even a little difference if used as directed.
If you are young and male or female pattern baldness runs in your family, then we highly recommend you start using this solution right away to show results as quickly as possible and more effectively!
Want more hair growth tips? View our “Best Laser Caps For Hair Regrowth” article.
Filed Under: Tips
What Vitamins Are Good for Hair Growth and Thickness?
October 15, 2018 By James
Everyone can agree that having healthy hair is a trait we all desire. Healthy hair isn’t just a sign of beauty, but it is also a sign of good health. Like all the other parts of our body, our hair also needs a set of nutrients in order to be healthy and grow better. Hence, in this article, we will talk about what vitamins are good for hair growth and thickness.
When it comes to hair health, other than vitamins, there are various minerals and proteins that are absolutely essential. With proper intake in the right proportions, they will ensure that you have thick and fast-growing hair.
Do Vitamins Really Make That Much of a Difference?
Yes, vitamins can do wonders for your hair. It provides it with all the natural and essential nutrients that your body requires in order to produce glossy and thick hair. In a nutshell, the right diet is about 90% of what is needed for the thick and long hair that you desire.
Having all the necessary vitamins on a regular basis will ensure that they travel into your bloodstream, reach all the essential organs, and then, at last, to your hair cortex and hair follicles. This is where they get used for growing beautiful and thick hair.
What Is the Difference Between Hair Growth and Hair Thickness?
Hair growth and hair thickness are two very different things. Hair growth refers to the rate at which the hair grows. This rate could possibly be affected by multiple factors such as diet, hair care, genetics, and general health.
Hair volume or thickness, on the other hand, refers to the appearance of the greater mass in your hair. This, too, is affected by what we mentioned earlier. However, in addition to those, even the kind of haircut makes a difference to the volume of your hair.
What Vitamins Are Good for Hair Growth and Thickness?
While hair growth and the hair thickness are two different things, you can tackle both of these issues in one blow. All the vitamins, minerals, and proteins you consume make a difference for both of them.
Here is a list of the best vitamins to take for hair growth and hair thickness:
Vitamin A
All the cells in our body require vitamin A in order to grow. These include our hair cells too, which is the second fastest-growing tissue in our body. This vitamin is also essential to help keep our skin glands create the oily substance called the sebum, which helps moisturize the scalp and keep them healthy.
Diets that are deficient in this vitamin will lead to several health problems including hair loss. However, as important as it may be to get enough of this vitamin, too much of it is not good for you as well. In fact, it can also be dangerous. Studies have shown that excess of vitamin A leads to hair loss too.
You will find vitamin A naturally in carrots, kale, spinach, pumpkins, and sweet potatoes. These are also all high in beta-carotene. Additionally, you can find vitamin A in eggs, yogurt, and milk. Cod liver, in particular, is a good source of this vitamin too.
B-Vitamins
B-vitamins, also called biotin, is considered to be one of the best-known vitamins for hair growth. In fact, a deficiency of this vitamin in the body is known to cause hair loss in humans. Biotin is used extensively as a treatment for hair loss. However, those who are genuinely deficient in it show the best results.
That being said, having a biotin deficiency is extremely rare as this occurs naturally in a lot of foods. Furthermore, the effectiveness of biotin for hair growth in a healthy individual is suspect as there is lack of data on it.
Other B-vitamins are essential as they create red blood cells. These cells carry nutrients and oxygen to the hair follicles and the scalp. These processes are extremely important for healthy hair growth.
These vitamins can be easily found in whole grains, seafood, dark and leafy greens, and meat. However, animal foods are considered to be the better sources of vitamin B12.
Vitamin C
This vitamin is a powerful antioxidant, and it helps us protect our bodies against oxidative stress that is caused by free radicals. These free radicals cause our hair to age by blocking the growth.
Vitamin C is essential to create collagen, which is an important part of our hair structure. It also helps in absorbing iron, which is a necessary mineral for hair growth. You can find these naturally in peppers, citrus fruits, guavas, and the likes.
Vitamin D
Having low levels of vitamin D causes alopecia, the technical term for hair loss. It has been shown that vitamin D can help to create new hair follicles. They also play an important role in the hair production. However, the actual role of vitamin D with regards to hair growth is still unknown.
Our bodies produce this vitamin when we are in contact with the sun’s rays. Other sources of this vitamin include cod liver oil, fatty fish, certain mushrooms, and fortified foods. Many people do not get the necessary quantity of vitamin D naturally. So, it will be a good idea to increase its intake via supplements.
Vitamin E
Vitamin E is quite similar to vitamin C in that it is also a powerful antioxidant that can help prevent oxidative stress. In fact, there are people suffering from hair loss who experience a significant increase in hair growth after taking vitamin E supplements.
Among the natural sources of vitamin E include almonds, spinach, sunflower seeds, and avocados. These are all both very nutritious and delicious.
Other Essential Nutrients
Vitamins aren’t the only necessary source for healthy hair growth. Minerals and proteins are also essential for having thick and healthy hair. Some of these minerals and proteins include:
Folic Acid
Iron Zinc
Magnesium
Omega-3 Fatty Acids
Are Hair Supplements Good?
Food is always the best source of getting the vitamins needed for hair growth, but if you cannot get those in your diet, supplements are the next best option. These supplements, however, are believed to work best on people who are deficient of those particular vitamins.
Furthermore, if you aren’t deficient and consume large doses of these vitamins and minerals, they can be harmful to your well-being. Hence, always consult a doctor before you take these supplements or any other kind of supplement for that matter.
Conclusion
Knowing what vitamins are good for hair growth and thickness are essential even for your overall well-being. It is best to derive these vitamins naturally from foods and not from supplements. An active and healthy lifestyle is also beneficial for good hair growth.
Want more hair growth tips? View our “Best Laser Caps For Hair Regrowth” article.
Filed Under: Tips
How to Accelerate Hair Growth the Natural Way
October 8, 2018 By James
Have you ever seen someone with the most beautiful hairstyle and wish to have the same? In most cases, though, to get that particular hairstyle, you will need to let your hair grow out. Now, only if there was a magic potion to grow your hair quickly, right? Sadly, there isn’t, which is why we aim to talk about how to accelerate hair growth in this article.
While you may have seen ads for certain hair oils or serums that claim to grow your hair at lightning speed, let us tell you right away that these claims aren’t true. Sure, they may help to a certain extent, but nothing will grow your hair instantly or overnight. So, don’t bother with all these claims and let us give you some top tips on growing your hair quickly.
How to Accelerate Hair Growth?
Scientifically, on an average, human hair grows at the rate of half an inch every month. It could be lesser or may be slightly more, but there are no proven ways to make your hair grow significantly faster than half an inch per month.
With that in mind, rather than aiming to unrealistically growing your hair faster, what you should try to understand are the factors that slow your hair growth and how you should be avoiding them.
What You Should Know About Hair Growth
After the intestinal cells, the human hair is the fastest growing cell in the body. In fact, the average scalp will approximately have about 120,000 strands of hair growing on it.
With that being said, the hair is not an essential tissue nor is it a vital organ. Hence, in that case, your body will never put the hair’s nutritional needs ahead of anything else. So, when you have a nutritional imbalance in your body, it will first take a toll on your hair before anywhere else.
While growing more than half an inch a month is very difficult, it is possible to grow your hair slightly quicker. However, that entirely depends on genetics, which is also known as the gene lottery.
There are certain remedies that you can try to encourage a better supply of normal and healthy growing hair. Some of the tips we have listed below are everyday lifestyle tips that don’t just benefit your hair but also your entire well-being.
Top Tips on Accelerating Your Hair Growth
Eating Healthy
Since our hair is a representation of our overall health, it comes as no surprise that what we put inside us makes a massive difference on its appearance. So, for a well-nurtured and nourished hair, there are certain things you must regularly do and add to your diet.
Water: Just like your skin, your scalp also gets dry. To address this, ideally, you should consume about two to 2.5 liters of water every single day. If you work out or live in an area with a warm climate, then adding half a liter more is necessary.
Vitamin C: Vitamin C, which is a resource for producing the necessary collagen for hair growth, is needed for having healthy skin and hair. This acts as a major antioxidant, which will fight the cellular damage we do on a regular basis. Sweet potatoes, red peppers, and citrus fruits are some of the excellent sources of Vitamin C.
Biotin: Like all cells in our body, hair cells are also coated with a fatty membrane. For these cells to multiply and grow healthily, it is necessary to keep the fatty membranes healthy as well. This can only happen when you have the right diet that includes a healthy amount of fat. Some of the top natural sources of biotin include nuts, salmon, oysters, and avocados.
Protein: Since our hair is protein-based, it is essential to consume more protein. Having a serving of roughly 120 grams of meat protein for your breakfast and lunch would be ideal. If you are a vegetarian, you can get these 120 grams of protein from beans, legumes, nuts, and tofu.
Breakfast: There is a good reason why our parents told us that the breakfast is the most important meal of the day. A nutritious breakfast is basically like refueling most of your body, which also includes your hair follicles and your scalp. Having a meal that contains all the above will give your hair cells all the energy it needs to be formed.
Don’t Shampoo Often
Shampooing too often will result in your hair becoming drier and more brittle. It also strips away the scalp and hair off of their natural oils and sebum. What you will need to do is use a good conditioner daily.
Using a conditioner will help in maintaining the ends of the hair. It will also minimize the risk of split ends, tangles, and breakage. The conditioner is used to replace the natural oils that are washed away.
Exercise
Hair cells rely on oxygen in order to stay healthy and duplicate. The oxygen can only reach every cell through blood circulation that is fully operational. A half-an-hour-long cardio three times a week is recommended. At the same time, also make it a habit to massage your scalp regularly as that will help the hair cells too.
Sleep Well
Sleep also plays an important role in your hair growth. Ideally, about eight hours of sleep every night is perfect. It is during these eight hours that the body gets the chance to repair itself. This is also the window for more growth hormones to come out, which in turn speed up the process of cell reproduction. Furthermore, sleeping will increase the blood circulation too.
Don’t Comb When Wet
When your hair is dripping wet, it is at its most vulnerable state to break. Combing it then will result in you stretching and pulling it, which will cause damage. So, before combing, dry your hair with a towel until it is just damp and then gently use a comb or a brush. Do not rush this process. Even the drying process should be gentle. Do not quickly rub your hair with the towel.
Conclusion
Knowing how to accelerate hair growth entirely depends on how much you know about hair and how they develop and grow. We hope that this article has given you enough insight into this matter.
While you cannot magically grow your hair overnight, you must ensure that you keep yourself healthy to promote good hair growth and avoid damage. Follow our list of tips to the T, and we are certain that you will have healthy hair in no time!
Want more hair growth tips? View our “Best Laser Caps For Hair Regrowth” article.
Filed Under: Tips
Hair Strong by Vali: The Secret to Long and Luscious Hair
October 1, 2018 By James
Hair is undoubtedly one of the most important features of our physical appearance. This applies equally to women and men. Unfortunately, the appearance and the quality of hair tends to fluctuate. This can happen due to multiple factors.
The first important one being age. As we grow, our body slows or even loses its natural ability to produce certain vitamins in our body. This leads to hair loss or hair thinning, among many others. Other factors that affect our hair include genetics, stress, lack of sleep, eating unhealthily, excessively using hair products, and the likes.
There are multiple solutions to tackling such issues. Living a healthier life tops the list, of course. Now, you may have noticed the market flooded with hair supplements. These are gaining a lot of popularity. Hence, we decided to review a popular hair supplement in particular—Hair Strong by Vali.
Bear in mind that this is just a hair supplement and not a drug. While it may help tackle your hair-related issues, this supplement is not a solution for it.
[amazon fields=”B0743KTM9B” value=”thumb” image_size=”large”]
[amazon link=”B0743KTM9B” link_class=”checkprcbttn” title=”CHECK LATEST PRICE ON AMAZON.COM”]
About the Company
The company Vali was created by its founders because of their desire to find out what exactly goes into different kinds of supplements. For this reason, they made sure that their products are only made from quality ingredients.
With each product they offer, they ensure real results minus all of the marketing fluff that several other companies use. This, in turn, led these companies to charge exorbitant prices, which is something that Vali refuses to do.
All of their supplements are made in the U.S. in an FDA-registered, cGMP facility. Their ingredients are always tested by trusted third party laboratories.
What Is Hair Strong by Vali?
Hair Strong by Vali is a formula that helps promote healthy and better-looking hair. This formula is specifically created to absorb into one’s system and reach into the root cause of the problem to help support the strength and improve the growth of the hair.
In order to achieve optimal results, you must carefully follow the dosage directions mentioned behind, on the bottle. Incorporating this supplement into your haircare routine regularly and as directed will help you get that full set of luscious, beautiful hair that you’ve been wishing for.
Hair Strong by Vali contains supplements such as various minerals, essential vitamins, herbs, proteins, amino acid protein, nutrients, and nourishment for your body. These are imperative for the hair to grow thicker and maintain a vibrant look to it. This supplement is completely safe for vegetarians to consume.
Since most of our diet nowadays lack such critical nutrition that the hair longs for, taking [amazon link=”B0743KTM9B” title=”Hair Strong by Vali”] on a regular basis will ensure that you have a fuller, healthier, natural, and great-looking hair right from the roots and follicle, going all the way to the end of each strand.
The Main Ingredients in Hair Strong
As mentioned earlier, Hair Strong by Vali includes several potent and powerful ingredients in their formula that work together to support healthy hair growth. The main ingredients in this hair supplement include:
Collagen
Bamboo Stem Extract
Hyaluronic Acid
Saw Palmetto Berry
Horsetail Whole Herb
Stinging Nettle Root
Solubilized Keratin
MSM
Biotin
Zinc
Vitamin A
Vitamin C
Vitamin E
Most of these ingredients are derived from natural substances, which are specifically formulated to enhance not just the health but also the appearance of your hair. Furthermore, since all of these are natural, they are completely free from fillers, additives, synthetic substances, chemicals, and other harmful substances.
For this reason, you can be certain that no other physical ailments will occur when you consume this supplement.
Additional Benefits
While the product is meant to improve your hair health, all the ingredients in this supplement will do wonders for your nails and skin as well. What do we mean by this?
Hair Strong helps in achieving shiny nails, which become less prone to cracking and breakage. Additionally, over the course of time, you will notice that this supplement will also make your skin appear more even, glowing, and has improved elasticity and vibrancy.
Guarantee
The company takes great pride in the excellent quality of their product, which is why they offer you a 100% money back guarantee in case you aren’t satisfied with it. Furthermore, if you have any complaints or suggestions, you can get in touch with their customer care service too.
The Pros
Contains all essential nutrients for improving hair health
One bottle lasts for a month
Supports nail and skin health too
Can aid in weight loss when paired with chromium
Safe for vegetarians to consume
Does not come with fillers, preservatives, and other unnecessary additives
Money back guarantee
Excellent customer care service
Made in an FDA-registered facility
The Cons
It takes a long time to see any noticeable difference
Some may experience nausea and an upset tummy in the first week of taking this supplement
Summary of the Features
Hair Strong by Vali is an excellent way to tackle your hair-related problems. One container contains 60 capsules, which will easily last you for a month. This supplement is a perfect blend of all essential nutrients, minerals, and vitamins that help promote healthy hair.
In addition, the supplement also helps improve your nails and skin simultaneously. Lastly, the company offers a money back guarantee if you are dissatisfied with their product.
Comparison with a Similar Product
Not a fan yet? It only makes sense to put Hair Strong by Vali to test by comparing it to another hair supplement. Since there are several of them in the market, finding one to compare wasn’t so difficult. We found that [amazon link=”B014G3WK9U” title=”Olly Undeniable Beauty Supplement”] is very closely similar to it.
On the surface, both of these supplements are very similar. They even come in a bottle that both will last for a month. However, the biggest difference between the two is that Hair Strong comes in the form of a capsule while its counterpart comes in the form of a gummy.
While gummies may be easier to consume, the sugar level in these is very high. This makes it out of reach for diabetics and the health conscious. Furthermore, Hair Strong contains far more essential nutrients than its counterpart too, which means it not only works faster than the gummies but will also do so far more effectively.
The Verdict
Hair Strong by Vali is a brilliant supplement to promote the health of your hair. It is made from all the essential vitamins, minerals, and nutrients that will not only make your hair better but help in improving the health of your skin and nails as well. One bottle of Hair Strong will last you for a month, and in a couple of months of use, you will begin to notice how amazing your hair, skin, and nails will be doing.
Want more hair growth tips? View our “Best Laser Caps For Hair Regrowth” article.
Filed Under: Reviews
Best Vitamins for Hair Growth: Top Choices for Men and Women
September 24, 2018 By James
Hair loss and thinning hair is not only a problem that older men face. This is something that affects anyone who has vitamin deficiencies and poor nutrition. If a person’s hormone levels have some sort of imbalance, that too will damage your hair. In such cases, having the best vitamins for hair growth becomes absolutely imperative.
While these vitamins serve a great purpose for helping tackle hair damage and hair loss issues, it is important to note that this is not a drug and it will not completely solve all your hair-related issues. In tandem with these vitamins, it is imperative that you maintain a healthy diet by consuming vitamin-rich foods, consuming ample water throughout the day, and maintaining a healthy lifestyle in general.
Best Vitamins for Hair Growth: The Must Haves
It is a known fact that you will find several vitamins for hair growth in the market. So, we carefully tested and reviewed several of them and narrowed it down to the top three based on how well they worked.
Below, we will review each of them to help you make an informed decision.
HairAnew by Naturenetics
Naturenetics is a company that mainly focuses on providing effective products that are completely natural to help you effectively meet all your nutrition and health goals. The company only uses high-quality ingredients that have been shown to be safe and effective, and they follow strict regulations set by the FDA and Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP).
Highlights
With 11 active ingredients and 5,000mcg of biotin per serving, HairAnew is a brilliant vitamin to help boost your hair growth. These 11 ingredients are specially selected to nourish your hair from within. They also address the nutritional deficiencies that cause hair fall, reduced hair growth, and even hair thinning.
The company manufactures HairAnew to the highest GMP and NSF standards inside a state-of-the-art facility based in Oregon. Before they become available for retail, the vitamins are thoroughly tested by six independent laboratories.
This product is safe to consume by vegetarians and vegans alike, as it contains no animal products or collagen. Furthermore, it is completely sugar-free, soy-free, gluten-free, and also non-GMO. The product has been tested thoroughly for allergens.
HairAnew is meant for everyone over the age of 18. It is also suitable for any hair type—be it curly, straight, coily, wavy, etc. The product has been on the market since 2014, and the company has sold over 11 million capsules.
The company claims that it will take roughly one to two months to see a noticeable difference. Since this product contains biotin, it will also give you thicker eyelashes and eyebrows as well as glowing skin and strong nails.
The Pros
Safe for vegans and vegetarians
Never been tested on animals
Offers additional benefits too
The Cons
Does not work for everybody
Can cause headaches and nausea for some
Newopure: Advanced Hair Support Formula by Pure Results Nutrition
Pure Results Nutrition’s motto is “excellence is not a choice, it’s a must”. Keeping that in mind, they have created supplements that are highly beneficial for your well-being and only manufactured them in the U.S. under the strict manufacturing guidelines set out by the FDA. All the ingredients in their products are safe and legitimate.
Highlights
The Newopure: Advanced Hair Support Formula is an effective way to promote hair growth as it contains anti-hair loss, broad-spectrum DHT blockers. This product is a brilliant blend of all things natural along with science.
The vitamins address deficiencies that lead to hair loss, hair thinning, receding of the hairline, alopecia aerata, hormonal hair loss, stress hair loss, and so on. This means that this product addresses the root of the problem, nourishing the scalp along with the hair follicles in order to reverse the damages.
The vitamins are available in a bottle of 60 capsules. Each of these capsules contains powerful ingredients such as fo-ti, biotin, collagen, keratin, MSM, and others. What’s more interesting is that there are no preservatives and fillers in this product.
The company claims that while the vitamins are highly effective, they are extremely gentle on the body. The Newopure: Advanced Hair Support Formula can be used by men and women and will effectively treat any and every type of hair.
Lastly, the company is so confident about their product that they offer you a 90-day money back guarantee in case you are not satisfied with the results.
The Pros
Improves the condition of the scalp
Shows quick results
Great for people suffering from psoriasis, dermatitis, and eczema
The Cons
A week after you start the vitamins you may experience nausea
Extra doses of this vitamins may lead to acne and rashes
Hair, Skin, & Nails by 1 Body
1 Body is a company that is well-known to create several premium nutritional supplements for hair, skin, brain, thyroid, liver, and many more. It aims to help people by providing them with great products at affordable prices. The ingredients they use are tested thoroughly before the manufacturing process, and they manufacture these supplements in the U.S. only in a cGMP certified facility.
<
Highlights
Hair, Skin, & Nails by 1 Body is an all-in-one supplement that contains vitamin C for collagen production, vitamin B complex for skin health, and many other nutrients that will help you achieve more glowing and youthful skin. The biotin protein that promotes hair growth will also help you have stronger nails. It comes in the form of a capsule, and one bottle contains 60 capsules.
The product contains no harsh chemicals as well. These hair vitamins are a unique combination that helps support the growth of your hair without Propecia and is significantly cheaper than buying an overpriced branded shampoo or doing a keratin treatment at the salon.
Hair, Skin, & Nails by 1 Body contains saw palmetto, B-12, choline, and other natural vitamins to prevent hair thinning and hair loss from DHT. There is no soy, gluten, sugar, and artificial colors or flavors in this product.
The Pros
Promotes softer skin
Using it correctly will help prevent hair fall
You will have longer and stronger nails
The Con
It takes a very long time for the results to be noticeable
Conclusion
These three are among the best vitamins for hair growth that you can find on the market today. Choosing any one of these three will definitely help you tackle your hair-related issues better.
If we have to choose between the three of them, our top pick would be the HairAnew by Naturenetics. Why? While all of the supplements we have listed contains almost the same vitamins, we found that the HairAnew worked better among all three. It also showed results far more quickly than the rest.
Want more hair growth tips? View our “Best Laser Caps For Hair Regrowth” article.
Filed Under: Reviews
Next Page »
Rankinlive.com
GDPR – Request personal data
Privacy Policy
Disclosure
Contact
About
© 2018 Rankinlive.com
This website uses cookies to provide you with the best browsing experience.
Find out more or adjust your settings.
Accept
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Powered by GDPR plugin
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
disable
If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.
Enable All
Save Settings