TriDerma Supports ACCO! | ACCO Children's Cancer Association
“The Grassroots” e-Bulletin
18|8 Fine Men’s Salons
2015 ACCO Go Gold® Shirt
2015 Tree Ribbon Tributes
2016 Go Gold® Shirt
2016 ICCD Shirt
2016 National Awareness Tree Event
2016 Tree Ribbon Tributes
2017 Go Gold® Shirt
2017 ICCD Shirt
2017 Tree Ribbon Tributes
2018 ICCD Awareness Shirt
2018 National Awareness Tree Event
2018 Tree Ribbon Tributes
24 Hour Online Peer Support
30 Days 30 Smiles
About ACCO
About Childhood Cancer
ACCO Awareness Tee Shirts
ACCO Partners with Toonia
ACCO Registered Trademarks
ACCO Supported Research
ACCO Webinars
ACCO’s Board and Staff
ACCO’s Privacy Policy
Action Days 2016
Action Days 2017
Adeline’s Clubhouse – WI
Advocacy
Album 2017 Go Gold Awareness Shirts
Album Brendan’s Fund
Album Hope 4 Heros
Album Hope4CCF
Album Light Up Gold 2015
Album Love for Zac
Album Mason
Album Maylea’s Journey
Album Over the M00n
Album Over the Moon
Album Through Xen
Album Wyatt’ Warriors
Amazon Goes Gold
Amazon Smile
Angela and Roi
Ari’s Bears- MD
Awareness & Advocacy
Awareness Tree
Awareness Tree History
Become a Partner
Bereavement
Blog
Blood Counts
Bone Cancer
Bone Marrow, Stem Cell and Cord Blood Transplants
Books
Brain Cancers
Brendan’s Fund for a Better Tomorrow – MA
C-Change
Candlelighters Expands Mission To Include Research
Cheecha’s Fresh & Healthy
Chemotherapy Drug Administration
Childhood Cancer Awareness Map
Childhood Cancer Awareness Month
Childhood Cancer Legislation
Childhood Cancer Statistics
Childhood Leukemias
Childhood Lymphomas
Children’s Oncology Group (COG): New Cooperative Group Created
Christmas Boat Parade Grand Marshals 2016
Clinical Trials
Clinical Trials Part I
COG Treatment Centers
Collaborations and Committees
Comfort Kit
Complementary and Alternative Medicine
Contact ACCO
Cord Blood Transplantation
Corporate Events
Cozy Cares Journal
Cozy Cat Stuffed Animal
Cozy Coloring Contest
CTA TEST
Current and Ongoing Advocacy
Declan the Dinosaur – WA
Diagnosis
Digital Advocacy
Distribution Re-stock Form
Donate Now
Donor Rights
Drugs: Chemotherapy Drugs and Other Pharmaceuticals
Drugs: How Chemotherapy Works
Drugs: Side Effects of Chemotherapy
Educate Others
Education Issues
Education Scholarships
Event Registration
Federal
Financial
For Families
For Kids
For Siblings
For Teens
Founding Hope
Kin’s Kids – CA
Gavin Fritts Shining Star – NC
Genetic Changes in Cancer: Second of Three Parts
Genetics and Anti-Leukemia Therapy: The TPMT Story
Get Help from a Local Division
Get Involved
Getting Social Security Benefits For a Child with Cancer
Giggles of Gold Project
Giving Tuesday
Global Childhood Cancer Event
Go Gold For Kids With Cancer®
Go Gold Shirts
Gold Ribbon Awareness
Gold Ribbon Heroes
Golden Angels – Puerto Rico (PR)
Goorin Bros. Supports Children with Cancer
Green Family
Groups
Happy Hearts – WA
Health-Related Outcomes for Hodgkin Disease Survivors
Hepatoblastoma (Liver Cancer)
Hero Beads®
History of ACCO
History Timeline
Home
Home
HOPE – CA
Hope 4 Heroes – CO
Hope4CCF – LA
Hospital Network Program
Hydrocephalus, Shunts, and Gamma Knife
iCANcer
ICCD
ICCD Awareness Shirt
ICCD Shirt FAQ
Illuminate Gold – Light Up the World Gold! GO GOLD®
Improving Informed Consent in Childhood Cancer Trials
International
International Statistics (Summary of IARC Report)
Isaiah’s Hope – FL
It’s only a Phase! Clinical Trials Part II
Jake’s Dragon Foundation – PA
Jel Sert
Joel’s Gift – NJ
Join ACCO
Karis’ Cause – OH
Kemper Foods International
Kid Nicholas Going Gold 4 Kids – NJ
Kovach Family
Kristine’s Joy for Kids- SC
Labor in Love: Building in Hope – OR
Late Effects
Live Newsfeed
Local Groups
Love for Zac – CA
Mason Leach Superstar Fund – MD
Medical Play Kit
Microsoft
Mission of Hope – Sean Swarner Cancer Climber
Mission Statement
Neuroblastoma
Neuropsychological Testing: An Excerpt from Educating the Child
New Approaches for Resistant Brain Tumors
News and Press
Newsfeed Test
Nicky’s Heart of Gold – PA
Orange Ribbon Foundation
Osteonecrosis: A Source of Bone Pain and Loss of Function
Otter Pop Vibes Tour #GoodWillChill
Outside Resources
Over the Moon – PA
P.S. One More Thought – MO
Palliative or Hospice Care: Does my child need this service?
Palmco
Paranormal With a Purpose – FL
Paul and the Dragon
Paul and the Dragon Video
Pedi-CURE
PJammin® For Kids with Cancer
PJammin® Frequently Asked Questions
Ports and Central Lines
Practical Genetics in Cancer: The Human Genetic Code
Proclamations
Psychological and Emotional
Raise Awareness
Raise Awareness
Read About It: ACCO Publications
Relapsed ALL: Chemotherapy vs Transplant
Relapsed ALL: Questions for Parents to Ask
Research
Research Articles
Researching the Medical Literature
Retinoblastoma
Rhabdoid Tumors
Ribbons of Gold – WI
Rock Bottom
Rock Bottom Holiday Families
Sal’s Journey of Hope – TX
Sample Page
Sarcomas
Scherff Family
Sitemap
Start a Division or Group
State
Store
Stories from Adult and Child Survivors
Strength to Survive Childhood Cancer Foundation – HI
Suicidal Thoughts and Attempts in Adult Survivors
Sullivan Family
Super Zach’s Hope Fund
Survivorship and Bereavement
Take Action
Targeted Therapeutics
Targeted Therapeutics Workshop at International Cancer Congress
Targeting Cancer In The 21st Century
Team Go Gold
Team Shoe Foundation – OR
Teen Journal
Thank you
Thank You For Ordering
The Brave Beauty Project – IL
The Miracle of Madison – MD
The Problem of Pain in Childhood Cancer Survivors
Through Xen – CT
Timeline
Treating High-Risk Neuroblastoma at the Turn of the Century
Treatment Centers for Childhood Cancers
Treatment Options
TriDerma Supports ACCO!
Types of Childhood Cancer
US Childhood Cancer Statistics
Walsh Family
We Can Help
We Love Riley Fan Club – MA
Websites for Kids with Cancer
Why Not Kids
Why Research is Needed
Will you join us?
Wilms’ Tumor and Other Childhood Kidney Tumors
Wrapped In Strength Project – VA
Wyatt’s Warriors Toy Chest- KY
YouCaring
Your Child and the Individualized Education Program (IEP)
Donate
Welcome
About ACCO
Live Newsfeed
Mission
History
Timeline
Board and Staff
Contact
Get Help
Resources
Books
Kits
24 Hour Online Peer Support
Children’s Oncology Group (COG)
Local Groups
Founding Hope
Hero Beads®
Assistance
Financial Assistance
Outside Resources
Our Heroes
Gold Ribbon Heroes
Child4Child
Get Involved
Take Action
Awareness
PJammin® For Kids with Cancer
Go Gold For Kids With Cancer®
Awareness Shirts
Tree for Hope
Pedi-CURE
Childhood Cancer Awareness Month
Tee-Shirts
Light it Up Gold
Founding Hope
Host An Event
Take a Pop, Share a Smile
Donate Now
Join ACCO
Advocacy
State
Proclamations
Federal
International
ICCD
Digital Advocacy
Facts
Childhood Cancer Statistics
International Statistics
Diagnosis
Types of Childhood Cancer
Clinical Trials
Store
Blog
Contact Us | Location
[contact-form-7 404 "Not Found"]
Current Specials Get Directions Photo Gallery
TriDerma Supports ACCO!
TriDerma® is a line of true skin care products made with Certified Genuine Virgin Organic Aloe, moisturizers, and other carefully selected ingredients to target and help heal a wide variety of skin problems. In its mission to create the perfect healing formulations for specific irritations, TriDerma’s true products are made using only the finest quality, hand-selected ingredients. TriDerma is passionate in its pursuit to create truly fast healing, natural formulas that do not cause harmful side effects.
What is TriDerma® doing to help?
A respected leader in the medical skincare field, TriDerma® has generously offered to support the ACCO mission by donating 20% of their proceeds (between August and October 2015) from sales of the products listed below to the American Childhood Cancer Organization. Each of these five products are formulated to provide relief from many of the common side effects associated with childhood cancer treatments, and to minimize the pain and discomfort children with cancer are forced to endure on a daily basis.
TriDerma® is available in major drugstores nationwide and on www.triderma.com.
Products
Baby Feet® Ultimate Foot Cream: 4.0 oz. tube
Product Description: Baby Feet® Ultimate Foot Cream smooths, softens, moisturizes, and helps protect against dry, cracked, rough, and callused feet. This powerful skin healing cream provides fast relief for the most severely cracked, dry, crusty feet and elbows. Daily use helps break down dry dead skin cells, supply and retain moisture, and promote healthy baby soft skin.
How this product helps: One of the most common requests from children with cancer is for foot massages to moisturize the dry, cracked skin on their feet and lower legs, and to relieve foot soreness after exhaustive cancer treatments. Baby Feet® Ultimate Foot Cream utilizes a combination of powerful skin protectants and skin softeners to heal severely dry and cracked skin, and its creamy, rich formula is perfect to massage sore little feet.
Everyday Bruise Relief™: 2.2 oz. tube
Product Description: This gentle, yet powerful cream provides fast healing and soothing relief for bruises, itching, redness and dryness. Everyday Bruise Relief™ is the perfect cream to help heal skin after cosmetic, esthetic or surgical procedures, including laser, waxing or peels, to help calm and soothe skin. It’s also ideal for those who bruise easily, have thin skin or heal slowly. The specialized formula contains carefully selected healing ingredients, botanicals, rich plant complexes and vitamins for healthy skin.
How this product helps: The seemingly never-ending barrage of tests, port placements and removals, blood draws, and IVs take a toll on a child’s fragile skin, often leading to painful, unsightly bruising. Everyday Bruise Relief™ cream is formulated with botanicals, rich plant complexes, and vitamins proven to soothe and heal bruised, irritated, tight, and/or dry skin.
Post Laser Aloe & Zinc Occlusive™: 4.0 oz. tube
Product Description: Recommended by doctors for more than 15 years, this creamy occlusive helps provide fast healing and soothing relief for delicate skin following a cosmetic, surgical or aesthetic procedure. It hydrates and helps relieve skin tightness, scabbing, itching, burning and redness. Use af2ter laser, dermabrasion, chemical peel, thermal burns, facelift or other common procedures on the face or body. The fast-soothing formula is specially formulated with a proprietary AP4® Genuine Virgin Organic Aloe Complex, which naturally contains more than 200 healing properties. It also contains Zinc PCA, Vitamins A, B, D, E, soothing oat protein, moisturizing Shea butter and other advanced healing botanicals to help tender skin recover faster. The non-greasy formula is free of fragrance and parabens, and safe for all skin types.
How this product helps: Safe for all skin types, the Post Laser Aloe & Zinc Occlusive™ cream is formulated with a propriety combination of Zinc PCA, Vitamins A/B/D/E, soothing oat protein, moisturizing shea butter, advanced healing botanicals, and AP4® Genuine Virgin Organic Aloe Complex, which naturally contains more than 200 healing properties.
This cream is ideally suited for the treatment of tight, scabbing, burning, itchy, inflamed, or tender skin—all of which are common side effects of many childhood cancer treatments. By providing crucial hydration, this rich, smooth recovery cream expedites the healing process and soothes the skin after your child’s treatment sessions.
Radiation Skin Relief™ Fast Healing Cream: 4.0 oz. tube
Product Description: This doctor-recommended unique skin healing cream helps soothe, heal and minimize the skin damaging side effects from radiation therapy. Daily use helps peeling, redness, burning and skin discoloration. Plus, it helps provide fast relief and soothing comfort for damaged skin. Radiation Skin Relief cream contains a highly concentrated healing system that combines multiple natural botanicals, extreme moisturizers, AP4® Genuine Virgin Organic Aloe Complex, plus two clinically proven skin protectants. It is non-sticky, non-greasy, fragrance free and paraben free. Patients should start using the cream a week prior to starting treatment. The cream may be used daily and after each treatment or as directed by a doctor.
How this product helps: It is a sad fact that potentially lifesaving radiation therapy (administered to shrink/kill cancerous cells) is proven to cause adverse skin reactions in nearly 98% of patients. TriDerma®’s Radiation Skin Relief™ Fast Healing Cream was formulated specifically for patients receiving radiation treatments, does not contain any fragrance, color, or parabens, and helps to minimize skin damage while smoothing and ameliorating the discomfort and harsh side effects of radiation treatments.
Scar Block® for Kids: 1.0 oz. bottle
Product Description: Recommended by pediatricians and a must-have for every parent’s medicine cabinet, Scar Block® for Kids is a 2-in-1 healing gel. This gentle, yet powerful dual-action formula contains proprietary AP4® Genuine Virgin Organic Aloe complex plus medical strength Silicone to help skin heal without scarring. Unlike silicone patches that don’t stay on, especially on active kids, this easy-to-use gel provides the protective coating necessary to help promote healing. Scar Block® for Kids helps prevent and minimize scarring for new and existing scars and helps skin irritations heal faster. Safe for use on everyday common skin problems like cuts, knee and elbow scrapes, burns and bug bites to help them heal faster, as well as after the removal of stitches. It combines gentle, yet powerful medical strength ingredients that are known to help reduce scarring. For best results, apply as soon as possible to cuts, scrapes, burns, bug bites or other skin injury to reduce the risk of scarring. Or, use it on existing scars to help improve the appearance of thick, red, pink or raised scars.
How this product helps: Scar Block® for Kids is a 2-in-1 healing gel that can be used to minimize post-surgical scarring for both new and pre-existing scars, and to help skin irritations heal more rapidly. When utilizing this product as a preventive measure, apply as soon as possible to your child’s skin injury to effectively reduce the risk of scarring.
The American Childhood Cancer Organization is a 501(c)(3) public charity, whose programs and services are funded entirely by private donations, foundation grants, and corporate contributions. IRS Tax ID 52-1071826 All donations are tax-deductible as allowed by law. Click here for info about ACCO's trademarks
Links
Home
Types of Childhood Cancer
Blog
Stay Connected
Contact Us
Ruth I. Hoffman MPH, Chief Executive Officer
rhoffman@acco.org
Cell: 202-262-9949
Jamie Bloyd, Director Government Affairs and External Relations
jbloyd@acco.org
Cell: 859-948-4626
Maura FitzGibbon
Community Specialist
mfitzgibbon@acco.org
Office: 855-858-2226 Ext. 102
Lauren Whitney
Office Manager
lwhitney@acco.org
Office: 855-858-2226 Ext. 105
Angelique Byrd
Operations & International Affairs Coordinator
abyrd@acco.org
Office: 855-858-2226 Ext. 107
Clarissa Simon
Program Coordinator
csimon@acco.org
Office: 855-858-2226 Ext. 101
Christy Perry
Director, Media and Marketing
cperry@acco.org
Cell: 407-341-0313
Mailing Address
ACCO
6868 Distribution Drive
Beltsville, MD 20705
Toll Free Phone
855-858-2226
Local Phone
301-962-3520
Local Fax
301-962-3521
Copyright ©2019 ACCO.	All Rights Reserved. CreativeTake Web.