A Comparison of the Best Creams For Stretch Marks -
Skin Concerns
Aging
Acne
Eczema
Rosacea
Scars
Stretch Marks
Skin Health
Warts
Product Reviews
Butters
Concealers
Creams
Lotions
Oils
Scrubs
Soaps
Serums
Toner
Vitamins
Tips and Advice
0
Are you looking for the best stretch marks cream? Do you need to get rid of your stretch marks but is confused with the multitude of products available in the market? If the answer is yes to any of these questions, you’ve come to the right place because we are rounding up some of the best stretch marks products in the market and comparing them so that you can decide which product is the right choice for you.
Reading reviews is like taking a short cut because it can lead you to the right product without having to buy product after product and wasting time and money.
If you’re looking for the best stretch marks cream, check out these products and their reviews.
A Comparison of the Best Creams For Stretch Marks
Product Price Range Our Rating Buy
Mederma Scar Cream Plus SPE30 $$$ 4.9/5
First Botany Cosmeceuticals Arabica Coffee Scrub $$ 4.7/5
Kerah Lane Pure Skin – Natural Toner & Cleanser $$ 4.6/5
Body Merry Stretch Marks & Scars Defense Cream $ 4.8/5
PRI Dermarestore Advanced Stretch Marks and Scar Therapy $ 4.7/5
Mederma Scar Cream Plus SPF30
When it comes to stretch marks products many people are sceptic. This is very understandable since there are a lot of products for stretch marks in the market and many of them claim to be “miracle workers”.
However many of them are very expensive and don’t seem to work. Buying ineffective products can be a waste of time of money. If you are looking for the best cream for stretch marks, Mederma Scar Cream Plus SPF30 could be the answer to your prayers.
Features
Topical gel that helps to reduce the appearance of old and new scars
Helps prevent sunburn
Reduces discoloration and improves appearance, texture and softness of scars
Works on scars from acne, burns, injury, surgery, cuts and others
Product Overview
Mederma Scar Cream Plus SPF 30 is a doctor and pharmacist recommended scar treatment topical cream. This cream is applied to healed skin once a day to reduce its appearance over time. It contains SPF 30 not only for sun protection for the overall skin but also to prevent the scar itself from darkening. When exposed to the sun, the scar tissue darkens making it more visible. This special formulation will prevent darkening making scars look lighter; and over time almost invisible.
Easy to apply
The product is a topical cream so it is easy to apply. Simply apply an ample amount of the product on your stretch marks or scars. Manufacturers recommend using the product once a day before bedtime but you can apply up to 3 times to help speed up the healing process.
Effective on old and new scars
One of the greatest benefits to using Mederma Scar Cream is its effectiveness not only on new scars but also on old ones. This is good news for people who are thinking about using this product for their acne scars and also to get rid of stretch marks.
Even though this product is not really intended for stretch marks, it is still a form of scarring. Stretch marks can appear due to changes in the body like weight gain or pregnancy. Newly formed stretch marks usually have a dark reddish color that can make you feel unattractive especially during bikini season. Consistent use of the product can reduce the reddish coloring so that it looks like you made your stretch marks disappear.
Best results when combined
If you are using this product specifically to remove stretch marks, it’s best to use it in conjunction with other Mederma products like their Stretch Marks Therapy Cream. This product works by increasing moisture content of the skin to keep it more elastic and prevent further tearing which results in more stretch marks. Combining this product with the Scar Cream SPF 30 will provide sun protection to prevent current marks from darkening while preventing the creation of new stretch marks.
By itself, Mederma Scar Cream is already a good product. It is affordable and easy to use. Many users of this product use the product three times a day to increase efficacy but once a day is good enough. Multiple applications however will speed up the healing process so you can get rid of your stretch marks more quickly. Overall, it is impressive and is a good option as one of the best creams for stretch marks.
What we like
Affordable
Easy to apply
Works on most skin types
Works for old and new scars
What can be improved
Is not specifically formulated for stretch marks
Needs to be applied three times a day to increase efficacy
Have to wait 15 minutes to be absorbed by the skin for maximum sun protection
First Botany Cosmeceuticals Arabica Coffee Scrub
Can a body scrub product truly help get rid of stretch marks? For many women, cellulite scars and stretch marks are the enemy. These imperfections prevent us from feeling beautiful and attractive. This is why many of us are always on the lookout for a product that can get rid of all 3 problems in just one go.
Applying different products for every single skin problem is not only impractical; it is also a financial drain. Lucky for us, First Botany Cosmeceuticals has an Arabica Coffee Scrub product designed to combat cellulite, stretch marks, spider veins and wrinkles while detoxing the skin. It all sounds too good to be true, right?
Features
High caffeine formula targets stretch marks.
Loaded with antioxidants to help detoxify skin to reduce the appearance of stretch marks, fine lines, swelling and inflammation.
Cacao coconut shea butter with dead sea salt lightens scars and tightens skin
100% natural Arabica Coffee
Product Review
When you see a product labelled to solve many products, it’s natural to be wary of it. After all, how can 1 product remove stretch marks, reduce the visibility of spider veins and prevent the appearance of winkles?
Combination of great ingredients
The secret of First Botany Cosmeceuticals Arabica Coffee Scrub is the combination of caffeine, dead sea salt, coconut oil, shea butter and coco butter that works together to create an aromatic exfoliating scrub. The effect of these ingredients results in improved skin moisture which helps to plump up the skin. When skin is plump and taut, stretch marks, spider veins and wrinkles become less visible. The improved hydration also makes the skin more elastic preventing the creation of more skin imperfections.
Easy to use
This product is relatively easy to use. You just need to scoop up enough to cover the affected area. You will then proceed to massage it gently over the skin so that the ingredients are absorbed while blood flow to the area is increased thereby speeding up the healing process. You need to do this 3 to 4 times a week to see changes in your skin. In 2-3 weeks you will see that skin is more radiant and plump with reduced appearance of stretch marks, wrinkles, acne scars and spider veins in the area.
Contains different oils
The Arabica Coffee Scrub contains many different oils along with the coffee beans but it can feel abrasive when applied to the skin. Many reviewers of this product suggest wetting the coffee beans before applying or to mix a small amount unscented non comedogenic facial cleanser before application. This will reduce the gritty feeling to the skin so it doesn’t feel too rough as you apply it especially along the eye area.
Good results
It can take some time before you can see the effect of the product on your skin. This is especially true if you’re using it to remove stretch marks and scars. However, it is easy to see that skin is softer and feels more hydrated even after the first use. Consistent use of the product can help hasten the efficacy because the combined ingredients will leave your skin nourished and moisturized aside from cleansed.
The Coffee Scrub is a good product and works well if you have most of the skin problems mentioned above. It is easy to use and affordable. The only thing we don’t like is the time it takes for improvements to show up. Stretch marks removal for example can take weeks before they look invisible. This can be a downside if you’re in a rush and want to see immediate results. However, the important part is that it works and is affordable.
What we like
Softens skin while sloughing off dead skin cells
Very aromatic and relaxing
Targets many skin problems in 1 product
Affordable and uses 100% natural Arabica coffee
What can be improved
Feels dry and abrasive
Jar is not travel friendly
Results take time to be visible
Kerah Lane Pure Skin – Natural Toner & Cleanser Review
Clean skin and remove stretch marks with Kerah Lane Pure Skin – Natural Toner & Cleanser. It heals, protects and hydrates your skin so stretch marks are visible and skin is cleaner after use. This product contains safe and natural ingredients for the prevention of stretch marks formation.
It thoroughly cleans the skin to enhance skin care repair using Aloe Vera, Witch Hazel, MSM, salicylic acid and other botanical antioxidants designed to heal redness from hair removal methods, ingrown hairs, stretch marks blemishes. Kerah Lane’s deep penetrating formulation is naturally antiseptic and cooling and safe to use on sensitive body areas.
Will this combination of ingredients reduce the appearance of stretch marks? Read our review below.
Features
Safe and natural ingredients
Antiseptic, cooling and safe to use on sensitive body areas
Hypoallergenic and non-irritating with great scent
Protects skin to leave it softer, smoother and firmer
Product Review
Kerah Lane Pure Skin – Natural Toner & Cleanser is a deeply penetrating gel designed to prevent redness and inflammation due to hair removal methods. Its formulation can also reduce the visibility of stretch marks thanks to its hydrating action and aloe vera that can reduce redness and inflammation in scars.
Deeply penetrating
This gel deeply penetrates the skin to reduce redness and irritation as a result of waxing, plucking, shaving and other hair removal methods. Irritated skin is usually due to sensitivity to a procedure or product and this gel fights and prevents rashes from razor bumps, pimples, and blemishes. Oil and pollution also builds up on your skin which results in uneven skin tone and breakouts. Regular and consistent use of this product can cleanse the skin and prevent redness, irritation and pimple formation.
The secret is in Kehera Lane’s blend of ingredients. This gel-toner contains high quality premium ingredients like Aloe Vera, Witch Hazel, MSM, salicylic acid and other botanical antioxidants which will greatly improve the cleanliness, elasticity and hydration of your skin. If skin is elastic, stretch marks formation is reduced and when it is hydrated, it becomes plump and firm so stretch marks are less prominent.
Daily cleaning
This product is designed to be used as a daily gel cleanser. The hydrating effect of the above mentioned ingredients can deeply nourish dry skin so that it becomes smoother and healthier. Continued use of the product can reduce visibility of stretch marks while also improving your skin quality by rejuvenating and protecting it, making it a good stretch marks treatment alternative.
Kerah Lane Pure Skin – Natural Toner & Cleanser can be used by men and women of all ages. Regular cleansing can prevent blockage of pores and the formation of black heads and pimples which lead to breakouts. It doesn’t burn like other astringents and is safe and gentle to use on sensitive skin and areas.
Free of nasty ingredients
Khera Lane says that this product is free of parabens, petroleum, artificial colors and dyes. However, a check of the product’s ingredients says that it contains artificially derived ingredients and chemicals. This can be a problem for users who have sensitivity to artificial or chemical ingredients. Even if Khera Lane says that their product is hypoallergenic and non-irritating, the artificial ingredients of this gel toner can still cause issues to sufferers.
It is also good to note that this product is not specifically designed as an anti-stretch mark cream. As a gel toner, it is a cleanser designed to rid the skin of dirt. The ingredients of this product however contain stretch marks reducing powers that can benefit sufferers to a certain degree. Success can vary from user to user but if you want a product made specifically to remove stretch marks; this product is not for you.
However, it cannot be denied that this product can provide results. Their formulation corrects the skin so that unhealthy skin becomes healthy so you can get rid of redness and irritation. The product is easy to apply. Simply use on affected areas twice daily consistently and you will see a marked difference in a couple of weeks. It is a good choice if you’re looking for a product that is affordable, easy to use and provides good results.
What we like
Affordable
Easy to use and apply
Evens redness and skin tone
Safe for pregnant and lactating women
What can be improved
Does not have SPF protection
Contains artificial ingredients (not really 100% natural or organic)
Is really designed as a cleanser and toner and not specifically to remove stretch marks
Body Merry Stretch Marks & Scars Defense Cream Review
Body Merry Stretch Marks & Scar Defense Cream works by increasing skin elasticity to reduce the appearance of stretch marks and scars. Stretch marks are basically narrow lines that appear on the surface of the skin during pregnancy or changes in weight. When they first appear, they look purple or red and then fade into white or silver.
Their presence on the skin can be unsightly and cause confidence issues in women. Luckily there are products like Body Merry Stretch Marks and Scar defense that can get rid of stretch marks and acne scars easily.
How effective is this product in getting rid of stretch marks? Check out our review of one of the best stretch marks cream.
Features
Contains organic cocoa butter and shea butter
Delivers maximum hydration in a creamy and buttery texture
Stimulates production of new collagen
Gentle for any skin type
Product Review
Use Body Merry Stretch Marks & Scar Defense Cream twice daily to get rid of stretch marks. It is very easy to use. Simply apply the product on clean skin morning and night and enjoy the results with consistent use. This product contains organic cocoa and shea butter with natural organic ingredients like aloe, sunflower oil, plant stem cells, seaweed extract and green tea extract to deliver maximum hydration in a creamy and buttery texture.
Great smell
The product smells great and feels luxurious to the touch. The combination of ingredients reduces and prevents the appearance of stretch marks and scars by firming up and hydrating the skin. When skin is tight and well-moisturized, it will feel plumper so scars, stretch marks and fine lines are reduced. This is a gentle but powerful remedy that works well and is safe to use by pregnant and lactating women.
Don’t let the rich texture of this product fool you because it can be absorbed in seconds. Massage into problem areas like your stomach, thighs and buttocks to tighten and lighten the skin thereby reducing the appearance of stretch marks and scars.
Treat your stretch marks
It is good to note that this product won’t get rid of your stretch marks. They will still be there but they will be nearly invisible to the eye. This is because a well-hydrated skin is plumper compared to dry skin so your skin will feel tauter and smoother.
However, a well-hydrated skin is also defensive against the formation of new stretch marks; therefore, regular use will reduce stretch marks visibility while preventing the creation of new ones for added self-confidence.
Application and use
The product works well by itself but it will take time to see visible results. The best practice is to use this product together with Body Merry’s Stretch Marks Defense Oil or a derma roller to help speed up the healing process. Using the Defense Oil is a good idea if you want fast results but it can be expensive. Using a derma roller is also advantageous and more cost-effective if you already have one.
Good for hydration
Aside from reducing the visibility of stretch marks and scars, this product is also ideal as a daily moisturizer. It can also help hydrate dry skin and tighten loose skin. You can use it as part of your skin care regimen also to smooth rough skin and take care of unsightly blemishes.
Overall, this is a good product to try if you’re looking for ways to get rid of stretch marks. Many reviewers like using this product because it is effective and is easy to use.
What we like
Great for stretch marks, scars and loose and dry skin
Safe to use by pregnant or lactating women
Rich in vitamins and anti-oxidants
90-day manufacturer guarantee
What can be improved
Best if used with Stretch Marks and Scar Defense Oil or derma roller
A bit expensive at approximately $20 for a 4 oz. jar
Results take time to be visible
PRI Dermarestore Advanced Stretch Marks and Scar Therapy Review
Women all around the world are looking for ways to reduce their stretch marks. While many women view this skin imperfection as a badge of motherhood, there are those who are distressed because these lines look unsightly and cause self-confidence issues.
Stretch marks are the result of decreased elasticity in the skin caused by pregnancy or weight gain or rapid growth. There are women who result to cosmetic surgery just to get rid of their scars and stretch marks. But lucky for us there are over the counter products like PRI Dermarestore Advanced Stretch Marks and Scar Therapy cream that can help us get rid of stretch marks without invasive or costly surgeries.
Can this product remove stretch marks? Read the review below.
Features
Contains a proprietary complex of oils and vitamins designed to reduce visibility of stretch marks and scars.
Non-staining deep penetrating formula.
Contains zero allergens
Easy and gentle to use
Product Review
If you’re looking for a product designed specifically for stretch marks and scars, PRI Dermarestore Advanced Stretch Marks and Scar Therapy cream is a good choice. Pregnant women gain a lot of weight during their gestation period and this is understandable since they’re growing a human being inside their bodies. As a result many teenagers who are undergoing puberty or rapid growth are neglected by manufacturers of stretch marks solution products. Fortunately, this product also has teenagers in mind because growing up too fast or gaining weight due to changes in the body can result in unsightly stretch marks.
Good for teenagers
Teenagers are very sensitive when it comes to changes in their bodies especially their skin since these changes are very visible. For many teenagers, getting rid of stretch marks on their arms, stomach, legs and thighs are very important. Newly formed stretch marks are red or purple and are very visible which can make them more self-conscious. Using this product can make stretch marks less visible so that self-confidence is regained. Consistent use of this product can help remove stretch marks so that they are nearly invisible to the eye.
Get rid of stretch marks
Advanced Stretch Marks and Scar Therapy cream is a good product if you want to get rid of stretch marks. It doesn’t really make stretch marks disappear but it can help fade the color to white or a faded silver color so it looks less prominent. It works well for pregnant women as a prenatal and post natal care and for teenagers who have old and new stretch marks.
Advanced Stretch Marks and Scar cream contains ingredients that are hard to pronounce and spell. While this proprietary blend of ingredients are effective in making stretch marks look less visible, the alcohol, artificial fragrance and chemicals can cause sensitivity in some people. The artificial products could also be causing the unpleasant smell of the product. The chemicals can also be off putting to people who are looking for products that contain mostly organic and natural products.
Application
The cream however is easy to use. For best results, manufacturers recommend using the product twice a day while reviewers are suggesting to use it with a derma roller for faster absorption and healing. This is one of the best stretch marks creams if you’re alright with using a stretch mark cream that uses a lot of artificial ingredients and chemicals. However, if you have skin sensitivity, it’s better to find alternative products.
What we like
Specifically formulated for pregnancy, weight gain and rapid growth.
Repairs skin to help reduce stretch marks visibility
Very easy to apply
Non greasy feeling
What can be improved
Unpleasant smell
Contains artificial scents and ingredients
A bit expensive
Final Thoughts
These products are currently enjoying a lot of positive reviews from the viewers with many of them commenting on reduced visibility of their stretch marks and scars. Many users are finding that the products are effective well not only for the reduction of stretch marks and scars but also for preventing the formation of new ones.
If you’re still confused on which of these products are the best creams for stretch marks, creating your own personal criteria can make it easier to decide on a product. For example, you want a product that is easy to apply, contains SPF and is marketed specifically as a stretch mark removal cream. In this instance, Madera’s Scar Cream Plus SPF 30 is your best bet. However, if you want a product that contains mostly organic and natural ingredients you can choose between Body Merry and First Botany Cosmeceutical’s anti-stretch marks products with First Botany as a good choice if want something more affordable. Knowing what features are important to you can help you narrow down your choices. If you care about results and don’t worry about artificial inredients, you can always try PRI Dermastore Advanced Stretch Marks or Kerah Lane Pure Skin – Natural Toner & Cleanser (for clean skin too).
Some of these products work well with other skin care products. Body Merry’s Stretch Marks and Scars Defense Cream for example works well with their Stretch Marks and Scar Defense Oil. Other recommendations include using the product for up to a certain number of times or using a derma roller to hasten the absorption of the product on the skin. Following manufacturer’s recommendation of accompanying products can help improve its efficacy because the healing effect is boosted so you will see results quickly.
In the end, reducing the appearance of stretch marks and scars boil down to how consistent you are in using the product and in following the instructions for use. The best creams for stretch marks are available on the market but if you don’t use them as directed you won’t be able to see results quickly. If you don’t see improvement after a couple of months don’t be afraid to look for a new product. After all, part of the excitement of finding ways to get rid of stretch marks is finding the best anti-stretch mark product that works.
March 29, 2018
Categories ↓
Creams
Product Reviews
Scars
Stretch Marks
Related Posts
How to get rid of wrinkles around your mouth (effective even for smokers)
Best Way To Heal Sunburn
Does Cocoa Butter Gets Rid Of Stretch Marks?
Best Vitamin C Serums for a Brighter and Healthier Skin
The Best Gotu Kola Creams for Stretch Marks
Click Here to Leave a Comment Below 0 comments
Leave a Reply:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Categories
Acne
Aging
Butters
Concealers
Creams
Eczema
Lotions
Oils
Product Reviews
Rosacea
Scars
Serums
Skin Concerns
Skin Health
Soaps
Stretch Marks
Sunburn
Tips and Advice
Toner
Vitamins
Warts
Wrinkles
Archives
November 2018
October 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
July 2017
June 2017
March 2017
December 2016
October 2016
The content on skinmadeclear.com is intended for informational purpose only and it does not constitute a medical consultation. See a certified medical professional for diagnosis and treatment We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
About
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Sitemap
Copyright © 2018 skinmadeclear.com
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OKPrivacy policy