Imitrex (Sumatriptan) | MyMigraineTeam
Many features of MyMigraineTeam will not work unless you enable JavaScript support in your browser.
Sign up / Log in
TRIPTAN
Imitrex (Sumatriptan)
4908 people have indicated they have taken Imitrex
Overview
Imitrex is a prescription drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat acute cluster headaches and migraine headaches with or without aura in adults. Imitrex is also known by its drug name, Sumatriptan.
Imitrex is a triptan. Triptans are believed to work by constricting blood vessels and reducing inflammation.
How do I take it?
Imitrex is generally taken once or twice a day.
Imitrex comes in the form of tablets, nasal spray, prefilled syringe, and single-use vial.
Side effects... read more
The FDA-approved label for Imitrex lists common side effects including vertigo, malaise, fatigue, “pins and needles” tingling sensation, temperature change sensation, injection site reaction (if using injection), throat or sinus discomfort (if using nasal spray), and sensation of tightness, heaviness, or pressure in the chest, throat, jaw, neck, or other body parts.
Rare but serious side effects listed for Imitrex include stroke, cerebral hemorrhage (bleeding), serotonin syndrome, medication overuse headache, and ischemia (insufficient blood supply) to the heart, spleen, or gastrointestinal system.
For answers to frequently asked questions about exposure to Sumatriptan during pregnancy and breastfeeding, visit the experts at MothertoBaby.org.
For more details about this treatment, visit:
Imitrex tablet – GSK Source
https://www.gsksource.com/imitrex_tablets
Imitrex Injection – GSK Source
https://www.gsksource.com/imitrex_injection
Imitrex Nasal Spray – GSK Source
https://www.gsksource.com/imitrex_nasal_spray
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Questions
Question:
Does your child suffer worse migraines than you?
Answer:
Yes MY daughter does read more
Question:
I took Imitrex pills about 15 or more years ago, does injectable work better? Also does it come in a pen form?
Answer:
I believe it works better as an injectable. Yes, it is in a pen. I no longer take Immetrex. It stopped working for me because I used it for to long. They used DHE for days &amp; now I use Benadryl injections, Norflex &amp; Promethazine to treat my migraines. If I get stuck in a cycle… read more
ask a question about Imitrex
view all questions about Imitrex view all conversations about Imitrex
Join today!
Start meeting others who understand
We never share your personal information with anyone.
Continue with Facebook
Sign up with your email
Already a Member? Log in
×
Welcome back!
Log in to gain access to the thousands of comments being shared on MyMigraineTeam.
log in
×
ABOUT MIGRAINES TYPES DIAGNOSIS CAUSES SYMPTOMS TREATMENTS RESOURCES
Learn more...ABOUT MIGRAINES TYPES DIAGNOSIS CAUSES SYMPTOMS TREATMENTS RESOURCES
MyMigraineTeam is the social network for those living with migraines. Get the emotional support you need from others like you, and gain practical advice and insights on managing treatment or therapies for migraines. MyMigraineTeam is the only social network where you can truly connect, make real friendships, and share daily ups and downs in a judgement-free place.
Quick Links
Q+A Treatments A-Z Resources Provider directory Are you a provider? Crisis
About Us
What is MyMigraineTeam? Partner with us Terms of service Press/News Privacy policy Cookie policy
Help With This Site
Getting started FAQ Community guidelines Contact us
Get the MyMigraineTeam mobile app
© 2019 MyHealthTeams. All rights reserved.
MyMigraineTeam is not a medical referral site and does not recommend or endorse any particular Provider or medical treatment.
No information on MyMigraineTeam should be construed as medical and/or health advice.