Altra Mente
Altra Mente
Choose healthy, choose women's health tips accordingly
Home
Contact Us
Do Penis Pumps Really Work?
12/05/2018 7:39 AMKizzieLeave a Comment
“Size does matter”. This is a saying that many men tend to believe because for them it really does matter, and not just in the bedroom. As a man, you may find yourself wondering if your penis size and length are enough to satisfy your partner in bed. These concerns may cause one to start looking for ways to increase the length and girth of his member.
You might have seen ads on the internet about penis pumps that can supposedly help improve your erection and size down under, but are uncertain about whether or not they truly work. Well we can’t blame you if you start questioning the ads because anything that sounds too good to be true may have a catch to it.
So can using a penis pump really give you a lengthier penis? The answer is yes because using this device does help lengthen your penis and increase its size to a certain extent. But, let’s discuss further how that is possible.
Do They Help in Getting Better Erections?
Penis pumps have proven to be great tools in the treatment of erectile dysfunction and helping men maintain penis length after getting a prostatectomy. This tool can also be used to help men get maintain erectile functions and have better erections. Even those who have never undergone treatment for prostate cancer can benefit from this.
So what exactly is the reason for this? It’s simple: using a penis pump improves the oxygenation of your penis’ tissues, reduces the risk of cavernal fibrosis from forming, and improves the blood flow in your penis. All three of these issues can improve the chances of improving penis length and preserving erectile function.
Do They Help Improve Penis Size and Length?
This is the question that most men ask whenever they use a penis pump. The good news is that it does help improve the length and size of your penis. However, the only catch is that the effects are temporary. Some men who use penis pumps three to five times a week on a regular basis have claimed to have gotten much greater penis length. But once they stop using the pump even for just a few days, their penis goes back to its normal length before the pump.
Surgery is Not a Practical Option
Unfortunately, some men will still go to great lengths (no pun intended) to improve the size of their penis. This includes getting surgery once they realize that pumps only provide temporary benefits. Although there are different surgical techniques that may help one get a lengthier penis, studies have found that results have been mixed.
There are always risks that come with getting a cosmetic procedure, and anything that involves altering your genitalia may result in unwanted complications. Not only that, but surgery is also a pricey endeavour and one that could cost you a lot of money for unwanted results. Consult with a doctor before undergoing this sort of procedure because it might not be worth it in the long run.
Posted in Uncategorized
The Convenience that Hair Removal Creams Bring
02/05/2013 2:36 PMKizzieLeave a Comment
Some of the most common methods used for removing any unwanted hairs on the body including waxing, tweezing, shaving and even surgical procedures like laser removal.
Of course, all of these have gotten more prominent in society simply because both men and women wish to look prim, proper and neat.
While it would seem like a very common thing for women, some men nowadays are also looking to improve their appearances, coming off as tidy and well groomed.
With some stray patches of hair growing on different parts of their bodies, including the cheeks at times, it’s very much understandable why hair removal has often been sought out.
While these methods are effective in their own right, they also come with their own set of disadvantages.
Take for example; waxing may end up becoming a very painful experience, shaving often leads to cuts on the skin, tweezing can take up a lot of time, and surgical procedures can amount to a ton of expenses.
However, there are solutions which are definitely more convenient and affordable, one of which is using creams that can help remove unwanted hairs off the body.
Below are just the benefits to expect from this method.
Pricing – A lot of people often take part in beauty rituals which would cost a lot, all for the sake of feeling like they fit in a society that’s concerned with aesthetics. However, hair remover creams can make it easy for one to get the results they want without having to use up every penny in their pockets. It proves to be an inexpensive option that guarantees smooth and soft skin in just a matter of time. While they may often vary in pricing, these are certainly a lot more reasonable compared to the methods provided above.
Simplicity – Not everyone has the time to visit a beauty parlor or sit around in a chair waiting for thin needles to put in shocks of electricity in each follicle on their skin. Creams meant to remove hair are easy to apply and are ideal options for those people who are always on the go. They would only need to spread the cream all over the areas which they don’t want stray hairs to grow from, waiting for a certain amount of time and essentially washing it off. There isn’t a ton of effort to it, either.
Quick results – When people wax, they may often experience certain allergic reactions. Shaving would leave cuts on their faces. Laser therapy for removing hairs can be time-consuming, and might even take up to a few more sessions before one is fully satisfied with the results. Creams actually release chemical compounds and natural ingredients which can ensure that hairs stop growing, even permanently for that matter.
These are just three benefits that one can expect from the use of hair removal creams. However, it is necessary for people to consult with a dermatologist or a physician if they want to make sure no unwanted allergic reactions or side effects are experienced.
Posted in Hair RemovalTagged benefits of hair removal creams, hair removal, hair removal creams, use of hair removal creams
Preventing A Stretch Mark From Happening
01/31/2013 2:20 PMKizzieLeave a Comment
Ask any person what bothers them the most about their skin and many of them will say that they do not like their stretch marks. For many people, stretch marks are often associated with pregnant women.
They think that stretch marks only happen to pregnant women. This is not the correct mindset to adopt. In fact, stretch marks can occur in both men and women.
This is the main reason why, if people do not like stretch marks then they better take steps on making sure that they prevent stretch marks from happening to them.
Here are some of the ways that a person can prevent getting stretch marks.
Avoid gaining weight fast
Men often get stretch marks if they gain weight fast. For example, if they become fat in just a matter of months, then there is a big chance that their belly will become large.
When this happens their skin may not be able to cope with the growing belly to the point that stretch marks will form. This also holds true for other parts of the body that get fat fast.
This is the main reason why people should always watch what they eat in order to make sure that they are able to control their weight and avoid having to deal with stretch marks.
Take a lot of vitamin E to keep the skin elastic and strong
Vitamin E makes a skin elastic and strong. This is the main reason why people should take vitamin E supplements if they want to prevent stretch marks.
If the skin is elastic and strong enough, then connective tissue will not easily break if the skin gets stretched. They can take special vitamin E supplements or take comprehensive supplements that have high vitamin E content. The choice is theirs.
Moisturize
Regularly moisturizing the skin also makes it very elastic. Elastic skin is skin that is not susceptible towards stretch marks. There are many ways to moisturize the skin.
There are soaps, lotions as well as special oils that can make the skin elastic enough that stretch marks are prevented.
Use special creams or lotions
Special creams and lotions that are designed for stretch marks have a two fold purpose. Firstly, it can be used to prevent getting stretch marks and they also are ideal for treating stretch marks.
Many pregnant women swear by specialty creams like Shea butter in terms of preventing stretch marks. The great thing about creams and lotions like these is the fact that they are readily available.
People can easily include these to the products that they regularly use on a daily basis. These creams are not expensive so they are readily accessible for everyone.
If people are really serious about avoiding stretch marks, they they should consult with a dermatologist.
These people are the best source for an ideal stretch mark treatment that they can actually use to avoid getting stretch marks at all costs. A simple visit to the nearest skin clinic is already good enough and people can find a competent dermatologist.
Posted in Stretch MarkTagged avoiding stretch marks, prevent stretch marks, stretch mark, stretch mark treatment
Laser Therapy for Scar Removal
01/21/2013 1:23 PMKizzieLeave a Comment
The presence and acquisition of a scar is highly inevitable. In the beginning, no one really wants to have a scar especially in skin areas that are commonly exposed for the public to notice (e.g. face, arms and legs).
However, accidents do happen in a person’s life and if there are wounds or lacerations involved, it would be no wonder that these wounds would eventually turn out to become a scar.
What is worse is that these scars could reside permanently on the skin or if one is lucky, will just go away after a month or so.
What are temporary scars?
Temporary scars appear when the wound that was acquired was only superficial which means that it only involved the upper layer of the skin which is the epidermis.
The skin cells on this area of the skin are constantly multiplying that for every 30 days or one month, a new cell layer is always produced and that could include replacing the scar tissue on the epidermis with a new and healthy skin layer.
What are permanent scars?
If the wound that was created was deeper than the epidermal layer, then you are in for a big problem since these scars would usually do not disappear until forever.
When these wounds would go beyond the epidermal layer, it would be harder for it to be removed since there are no more active areas for cell division that occurs in this area.
But the good news is that the technology nowadays has provided us techniques on how to remove these permanent scars.
Laser Scar Removal
Through laser therapy, one can now remove permanent scars in just a snap of the finger. These laser scar removal therapies have been designed to remove scars especially the keloids. But nowadays, this laser therapy is applicable basically to all types of scars.
How does this laser scar removal therapy works?
The basic technology that has been incorporated in these laser scar removal therapy is through fractionization by the use of laser.
What happens in this therapy is that this technology would use fractional laser light that would create micro columns of coagulated tissue that would be able to extend into the deeper parts of the skin.
Since this laser technology is able to go beyond the epidermis, it could allow cell multiplication in that area therefore the scar could be easily removed and replaced by new skin tissue.
What are the benefits of this laser scar removal therapy?
The best thing about this laser therapy is that is able to penetrate into the deeper portions of the skin. When compared to pharmacologic agents, this technique is also faster and that the results are immediate.
The recovery time is minimal or there is no recovery time at all! And even if this is a surgical technique, no pain is also felt during the procedure and yet, the outcome is still great. Just remember that this technique must be done by experts in order for it to be safe and highly effective.
Learn more about scar removal from this website
Posted in Scar RemovalTagged laser scar removal therapy, permanent scars, remove permanent scars, scar removal, scar removal therapy, temporary scars
Determining the Safety of Breast Enhancement Supplements
01/11/2013 1:07 PMKizzieLeave a Comment
A lot of women on this planet are surely unhappy with how their breasts have developed. It has long been emphasized that all people are born equal, yet sadly that is not the case.
Breast size varies a lot among women, with some having significantly bigger pairs of breasts than others.
For those who are born with small breasts, there’s a pretty good chance that they’ll have a much lower amount of confidence in their bodies, especially when it comes to visiting the beach and wearing bikinis.
They would feel “flat” and would rather have a more buxom chest. Of course, there are ways in which this can be made possible, and that is through the use of breast enhancement supplements.
While some women are looking to avail of the services of a highly reliable surgeon and undergo an invasive procedure known as breast augmentation surgery, they would have to deal with massive expenses.
Breast surgery is definitely expensive and can lead to some unwanted risks, most notably the pain from recovery, which can be quite intolerable. Therefore, the use of breast enhancement pills can truly be a heaven sent, although there are some things that women should know about prior to using them.
It would be necessary to learn all about these supplements, and below are the things to keep in mind regarding their safety.
Some supplements may cause a few unwanted reactions in the body, which is why it would be wise to seek out advice from the pharmacist. This individual is the one responsible for selling women the supplements they wish to avail of, and can be a great source of helpful tips. Through their guidance, women won’t have to risk making such costly mistakes especially with supplements which may not prove effective and would just cause further problems.
It would be important to look into the ingredients of these supplements. One has to choose the right products, and this means that they’ll have to be a bit more precautious of the ingredients contained in these supplements. Looking through the list of ingredients can help determine if there are any components that may prove effective in helping them experience a boost in breast size. However, some ingredients may also cause some unwanted reactions in the body, especially synthetic compounds, and just may put a woman’s health at risk
It’s also necessary to look into the reviews of websites, publications and other women who have tested these products out for themselves. One doesn’t have to rely on the world of a complete stranger on the Internet, yet to know that other people have certain things to say about these supplements can really help in formulating a smart decision. With the use of reviews and testimonials, a woman would be able to identify just how effective certain supplements are, what benefits there are to be expected, and the risks associated with them.
Posted in Breast EnhancementTagged breast enhancement, breast enhancement supplements, breast surgery
Essential Ingredients of Female Libido Enhancers
01/01/2013 12:47 PMKizzieLeave a Comment
Female libido enhancers are as popular as they can ever get these days, especially with the huge number of women all over the world looking to improve their sex life significantly.
As a woman gets older, she starts to lose interest in the act of sex, and that is due to several factors such as deficiencies going through her body, the stresses she experiences or even poor dietary practices and lifestyles.
Of course, when a woman looks to the aid of these enhancers, it only means that she’s willing to make herself and her partner happy when it comes to sexual satisfaction. Besides, physical intimacy is a major component in every relationship.
There are those who ignore this concern simply because they think that things will take care of themselves. Others would be too ashamed to discuss this situation, which is why they secretly seek out aid with the use of libido enhancers.
These products would definitely break that dreaded cycle of low sex drive, allowing a woman to once again experience sexual arousal, although men use sexual enhancement products too to combat the same kind of situation among themselves.
There are certainly a lot of ingredients that can make a dependable libido enhancer, and below are just some of them.
L-Arginine – This is a nutrient that allows the body to produce more nitric oxide naturally, which then leads to improved circulation and flow of blood. With this ingredient, both men and women can once again feel aroused. The key component in L-arginine is epimedium, an herb that is cultivated in Asia, and has proven to be quite the potent ingredient. There are a lot of people these days utilizing L-arginine as an aphrodisiac as well as for reducing fatigue in the body.
Maca – This is a vegetable root, being similar with a radish that grows naturally at areas such as the Andes Mountains in South America or any other place with harsh climates. A lot of people, especially native Indians back in the day, have made use of this ingredient in order to improve their fertility, enhancing sexual virility among the men and women in their ethnicity. However, it also provides a host of other benefits to women who utilize it, such as the reduction of hot flashes, enhancement of their sex drive and decreasing symptoms of menopause.
Yohimbine extract – This is derived from evergreen trees which are found in West Afrrica’s indigenous regions. This was also used by the tribes of ancient Africa as an aphrodisiac which can truly increase a person’s sex drive. There are even more benefits to be experienced, especially among women, since this ingredient can help them increase their endurance and energy levels.
These are just some of the essential active ingredients that women should look for whenever they decide to use female libido enhancers.
These are all quite potent and can significantly improve their sex drive, thus allowing them to enjoy the act of sex yet again even in old age.
Posted in Female LibidoTagged female libido, female libido enhancers, sexual enhancement products, use of libido enhancers, use sexual enhancement products
The Different Treatments for Hair Removal
11/27/2012 2:28 PMKizzieLeave a Comment
Back then, it was only the women on this planet who used to worry about getting unwanted hairs on their bodies. Women would want to maintain that feminine appearance as much as possible, sporting smooth and flawless skin.
However, men have become quite conscious about the random spurts of hair on their bodies even more these days. Hair removal was something that was originally practiced by body builders and swimmers, yet some men wish to maintain a smooth look.
It may seem odd, since body hairs often make a man a MAN, yet for reasons of vanity or even self-esteem, the removal of unwanted body hairs is certainly becoming a popular topic.
There are indeed a ton of products out in the market nowadays focusing on eliminating the presence of body or even facial hair. However, there are also several methods in which this is made possible.
For a man to appear neat and smooth, he would have to avail of the methods indicated below.
Laser hair removal is considered to be one of the most effective means of getting rid of those unwanted hairs on a man’s body. This procedure works simply by using a laser that emits heat to kill the roots of hair on any area of the body. This will make it difficult for hairs to grow out again. This procedure actually takes around 30 minutes or so to be completed, and would last up to 8 sessions. Most men who avail of this method usually want to get rid of hairs on their backs, chests and stomachs.
Waxing is another option that men take advantage of, although it was originally something practiced by women. Formerly, waxing made use of sticky pastes that would lead to a session of screaming and pain. However, soy products have been implemented now, which makes the process a lot easier to deal with. In fact, the use of soy wax makes it feel as if one’s pulling band-aids off, which is essentially a pain-free experience. Sessions can go all the way up to an hour, depending on how much hairs are being removed and in which parts of the body.
Electrolysis is procedure which consists of a thin needle delivering minor electricity shocks to the hair follicles. This will lead to the cells being destroyed. Many men take advantage of this method, but only if they have a few hairs that they want removed. They would often have this procedure done on areas like the eyebrows and the neck. It’s also a pretty affordable method, costing only 40 dollars for every session.
Lastly, back shavers can also be used. This method is practically the most affordable out of the ones mentioned, and will only last about 20 minutes until the procedure is completed. However, it is a temporary solution, and hairs may grow back after a few weeks.
These are the most common ways in which hair removal for men is made possible.
Posted in Hair RemovalTagged electrolysis, hair removal, laser hair removal, shavers, treatments for hair removal, waxing
Can Stretch Marks Be Prevented?
09/22/2012 1:41 PMKizzieLeave a Comment
Although pregnancy is a source of bliss for many women, it can’t be denied that it comes with a lot of discomforts to a woman.
Among the many disadvantages of pregnancy, one thing that really takes a toll on the appearance of a pregnant woman is stretch marks.
Stretch marks results from the tearing of the dermis especially during the third trimester of the pregnancy. Although it is impossible to get rid of stretch marks, their visibility can be reduced.
The Cause of Stretch Marks
But, why are stretch marks common to pregnant women? Well, stretch marks develop because of the increased production of glucocortocoids, a type of body hormone.
Because of the increased production of glucocorticoids, the dermis of the skin tears up, especially because the elastin and the collagen are torn by the hormone.
However, this overproduction of glucocortioids is not only common to pregnant women; they are common to people who lost or gained weight rapidly, too.
Can Stretch Marks Be Eradicated?
Contrary to what many people think, stretch marks can never be eradicated. The truth of the matter is that even the pricey fractional laser treatment cannot get rid of them.
What this procedure does is to only increase the production of the collagen so that the skin becomes more elastic and firmer.
When the skin becomes more toned and elastic, it creates an optical illusion that the stretch marks are not there. Hence, even if they have not been gotten rid of, it is not easy to notice them.
Common Stretch Mark Remedies
Apart from the fractional laser treatment, it is also common for people who have stretch marks to use stretch mark creams to deal with their unsightly marks. Do these creams or lotions do the trick in eradicating the stretch marks?
If the pricey fractional laser treatment cannot get rid of stretch marks, how much more these creams? However, just like fractional laser treatments, these stretch mark creams can also do the trick in creating an illusion that the stretch marks are not there.
These days, the market is flooded with various stretch mark creams and lotions that promise to help people with stretch marks.
Although these stretch mark creams and lotions have varying ingredients, more often than not, they contain Vitamins A and E, which are known to be good stimulants of collagen production. When the skin produces more collagen, stretch marks become less visible.
How Pregnant Women Can Control the Appearance of Stretch Marks
Since the cause of the formation of stretch marks is hormonal, it means that pregnant women can never really runaway from the formation of these unsightly lines on their skin.
However, they can definitely do something in order to control their formation. One of the best ways that they can do so that the appearance of their stretch marks can be controlled is to apply creams or lotions that contain Vitamins A and E.
And, they shouldn’t just apply them; they have to apply them in a massaging motion so that blood circulation can be improved. When the blood flows freely, the growth of new skin tissues can be promoted. Hence, the skin becomes healthier.
Posted in Stretch MarkTagged cause of stretch marks, common stretch mark remedies, eradicating stretch marks, fractional laser treatment, get rid of stretch marks, stretch mark creams, stretch mark lotions, stretch mark remedies, stretch marks, treatment for stretch marks
Topical Agents for Scar Removal
12/12/2011 1:14 PMKizzieLeave a Comment
The presence of a scar would imply that a person had a previous wound that was already healed. Probably, the wound was a little deeper than the usual therefore a scar tissue was present after it healed fully.
In some instances, after a wound has healed, the scar it formed may become permanent or not depending on the type and depth of the wound. If the wound is just superficial, the scar that will be formed after healing could disappear in a couple of days.
However, if the wound is deep and relatively bigger, it could cause a bigger scar formation and the scar could remain permanently in the person’s life.
In the past, there were no products that could help remove a scar. That is why in the past, men who have acquired scars from battles and any other ways, would be very proud of the scar because it was their “battle sign” and the indication that they have gone through a great battle.
But in the present, even men would want to have their scars removed because it is already distracting and that it does not look good on the skin.
Good thing also that currently, there have been many ways on how to remove a scar and these are the following:
Topical Agents
The most common method of removing a scar is through the use of pharmacologic topical agents that can be applied directly on the scar tissue. These topical agents usually come in the form of creams and lotions that is why their application on the scar is easy and the effect is direct.
The only downside to this type of scar removal treatment is that it has many limitations. First, this will only apply to scars that have been formed recently therefore the old scars that may have been present in the person’s life for years could not be easily removed.
And second, it would take a long time before these topical agents would work but rest assured, they will.
How do these topical agents work?
The basic mechanism of these topical agents is through the enhanced growth and multiplication of the epithelial skin cells.
When the scar is found only on the epidermal or the upper portion of the skin, by enhancing skin cell division, the upper portion can be easily shed off and be replaced by a new skin layer.
The normal epithelial skin cell cycle is at 30 days but with these topical agents, they could increase its speed as much as two times!
How can I know if these topical agents are effective?
Many of the scar removal topical agents are being advertised in the internet therefore through this media, one can easily browse through the many reviews of a certain product to know whether or not is it effective.
The reviews will also mention if there are any harmful side effects or contraindications of that certain drug. But to be safer, one could always consult an expert on which among the many products of scar removals one could purchase.
Posted in Scar RemovalTagged remove scar, scar, scar removal, scar removal treatment, scar tissue, topical agents for scar removal
The Drawbacks to Getting Breast Enhancement Surgery
06/26/2011 12:59 PMKizzieLeave a Comment
There are surely several women in the world who are hoping to improve on their physiques far beyond what exercise and diets can accomplish. In fact, having a much bigger breast size is something which they would desire.
To them, having a bigger pair of breasts can lead to a boost in their self confidence, apart from providing more pleasure and satisfaction to their partners in the act of sex.
Of course, there are many ways in which this can be accomplished, although one has to admit that undergoing surgical means is definitely the most popular way of getting breast enhancement. However, is it really the most beneficial?
While there are other methods utilized by women, such as creams, pills and hormonal supplements, most women would turn to breast augmentation surgery instead.
However, what some don’t realize is that there are a few risks that are associated with this. It’s an invasive process which requires the use of scalpels, anesthesia and breast implants.
For those who are still on the fence on whether getting breast enlargement surgery is really worth it, perhaps the details provided below should be enlightening.
These are the pitfalls associated with breast augmentation surgery.
Pain – There will be some pain experienced when a woman undergoes breast surgery. If one has seen TV shows such as Nip/Tuck, this is something which has been made really apparent. This procedure will lead to the use of painkillers to help alleviate the discomfort felt post-surgery, although it may not be all that effectively. This is why there are some women who opt for non-invasive breast augmentation; there is no pain to be experience and can still provide the same kind of results that they would want.
Recovery time – When a woman undergoes surgical procedures for breast augmentation, she will have to take several weeks off to recover before regaining proper functionality. This means that a woman will need a time off from work, since she’ll be too busy trying to deal with the pain from the breast tissue healing.
Scarring – Since it’s an invasive process, there’s a pretty good chance that women going through this will have to deal with scars. Of course, having a reliable surgeon makes the scarring less apparent, yet there’s absolutely no way they’ll be able to completely hide scarring. If one simply avails of the expertise of a regular surgeon, scarring will most likely be more visible, and this can be off-putting. As mentioned before, one doesn’t have to deal with these side effects since there are breast enhancing products out there which are just as effective as surgery.
Leaking – Breast surgery utilizes implants which can be of varying quality, depending on the suppliers. However, regardless of this fact, there’s always a chance that these implants may end up leaking. Implants are also made with saline, a component which is totally unnecessary for the body. If they do leak, the implants will be removed, and replaced with new ones.
If there’s a universal drawback to breast enhancement through surgery, it would be the cost incurred. It’s expensive, and will lead to the disadvantages provided above as well.
Posted in Breast EnhancementTagged breast augmentation, breast augmentation surgery, breast enhancement, breast enhancement surgery
Post Navigation
1 2 Next »
Recent Posts
Do Penis Pumps Really Work?
The Convenience that Hair Removal Creams Bring
Preventing A Stretch Mark From Happening
Laser Therapy for Scar Removal
Determining the Safety of Breast Enhancement Supplements
Essential Ingredients of Female Libido Enhancers
The Different Treatments for Hair Removal
Can Stretch Marks Be Prevented?
Topical Agents for Scar Removal
The Drawbacks to Getting Breast Enhancement Surgery
Archives
December 2018
February 2013
January 2013
November 2012
September 2012
December 2011
June 2011
April 2011
Categories
Breast Enhancement
Female Libido
Hair Removal
Scar Removal
Stretch Mark
Uncategorized
Tags
avoiding stretch marks breast augmentation breast augmentation surgery breast enhancement breast enhancement supplements breast enhancement surgery breast surgery cause of stretch marks common stretch mark remedies dealing with low female libido eradicating stretch marks facts about female libido enhancers female libido female libido creams female libido enhancers female libido pills female libido supplements female sex drive enhancers fractional laser treatment get rid of stretch marks hair removal hair removal creams laser scar removal therapy low female libido permanent scars prevent stretch marks remove permanent scars remove scar scar scar removal scar removal therapy scar removal treatment scar tissue sexual enhancement products stretch mark stretch mark creams stretch mark lotions stretch mark remedies stretch marks stretch mark treatment temporary scars topical agents for scar removal treatment for stretch marks use of libido enhancers use sexual enhancement products
© Copyright 2019 Altra Mente