Using Aromatherapy for Arthritis
Menu
Home
Blog
Aromatherapy
Skin Care
Body/Hair Care
Essential Oil Uses
Healing Articles
Starting Guide
Essential Oils Guide
Massage
Massage Benefits
Massage Information
Technique
Massage Business
Self Care
Stress Relief
Somatics
About
Contact
Some links on this site are affiliate links, where I may earn a commission if you make a purchase. This does not affect the price you pay. Privacy Policy / Disclosures
How To Use Aromatherapy For Arthritis
To use aromatherapy for arthritis, you want to choose essential oils that can help calm inflammation.
Two of the top choices are peppermint and wintergreen. Add 5 to 10 drops of one of the oils to 1 teaspoon of carrier oil and rub into painful joints.
Other suggested essential oils for rheumatoid arthritis and for osteoarthritis include:
Balsam fir
Clove
Copaiba
Helichrysum
Nutmeg
Pine
White fir
You may need to experiment to see what works best for you. Start by trying some of the blends suggested in this article.
Note: If you are new to essential oils, test each essential oil on a small area before using it on a larger area to make sure your skin is not sensitive. If you are sensitive to an oil, substitute other essential oils.
Bath Aromatherapy For Arthritis
Blend the essential oils into a teaspoon of carrier oil or milk. Stir the blend into a bath of comfortably warm/hot water.
Bath Blend #1
3 drops rosemary essential oil
3 drops marjoram essential oil
2 drops ginger essential oil
You can also just soak your feet or hands in a basin of water with one drop of each of these oils.
Source: Aromatherapy for Dummies
Bath Blend #2
5 drops lavender essential oil
3 drops geranium essential oil
3 drops frankincense essential oil
2 drops German chamomile essential oil
Source: Essential Oils For Healing
Bath Blend #3
3 drops black pepper essential oil
3 drops marjoram essential oil
3 drops lemon essential oil
1 drop cypress essential oil
Source: Massage & Aromatherapy: Simple Techniques to Use at Home
The same source recommends this bath blend of essential oils for gout, a specific type of arthritis caused by the formation of urate crystals in a joint (most commonly the joint at the base of the big toe):
3 drops Roman or German chamomile essential oil
3 drops lavender essential oil
2 drops ginger essential oil
2 drops bergamot essential oil
1 teaspoon carrier oil
Combine oils and add to a bath.
Aromatherapy For Arthritis Massage Oils
Make a blend using essential oils and carrier oil and massage into painful joints several times a day.
Blend #1
10 drops black pepper essential oil
2 drops rosemary essential oil
5 drops marjoram essential oil
5 drops lavender essential oil
1/4 teaspoon carrier oil
Source: Essential Oils Desk Reference
The same source recommends the following massage blend for gout:
10 drops lemon essential oil
4 drops juniper essential oil
2 drops Roman chamomile essential oil
3 drops tea tree essential oil
1/4 teaspoon carrier oil
Massage gently into affected joint 2 to 3 times a day.
Blend #2
2 drops eucalyptus essential oil
10 drops lavender essential oil
6 drops wintergreen essential oil
2 tablespoons carrier oil
Source: Healing With Aromatherapy
Blend #3
2 drops juniper essential oil
3 drops German chamomile essential oil
3 drops ginger essential oil
3 drops lavender essential oil
4 drops wintergreen essential oil
4 drops marjoram essential oil
6 drops helichrysum essential oil
4 tablespoons carrier oil
You can also add one tablespoon of this blend to a bath.
Source: Aromatherapy: A Complete Guide to the Healing Art
Blend #4
4 drops myrrh essential oil
3 drops lemongrass essential oil
2 drops vetiver essential oil
2 drops eucalyptus essential oil
4 tablespoons carrier oil
Photo Credit: handarmdoc CC
Home › Aromatherapy Treatment › Aromatherapy For Arthritis
Looking for essential oil information & recipes? Subscribe to my newsletter and receive a
free aromatherapy ebook.
Email
First Name (optional)
I am at least 16 years of age.
I have read and accept the privacy policy.
I understand that you will use my information to send me a newsletter.
Subscribe
Follow @carolwiley
carolawiley
Recent Articles
Lemongrass Essential Oil Benefits and Uses In Aromatherapy
Apr 20, 19 02:06 PM
Learn about the benefits and uses of lemongrass essential oil (Cymbopogon citratus and Cymbopogon flexuosus) in aromatherapy.
Read More
Using Aromatherapy For Headache Relief
Mar 25, 19 10:06 PM
To use aromatherapy for headache relief, choose essential oils such as lavender, peppermint, and marjoram. Get essential oil blends for headaches.
Read More
Rosemary Essential Oil Benefits and Uses In Aromatherapy
Mar 15, 19 05:20 PM
The stimulating properties of rosemary essential oil encourage energy, clarity, concentration, and focus. Learn more about the benefits and uses of rosemary...
Read More
Menu
Home
Blog
Aromatherapy
Skin Care
Body/Hair Care
Essential Oil Uses
Healing Articles
Starting Guide
Essential Oils Guide
Massage
Massage Benefits
Massage Information
Technique
Massage Business
Self Care
Stress Relief
Somatics
About
Contact
The information on this site is for educational purposes only. Consult a healthcare professional as appropriate.
Copyright ©2003–2019. Bold Visions LLC. All rights reserved.