9 Things to Have in Your First Aid Kit for Treating Burns
Skip to content
Search
Menu
Survival Directory
About
Learn
Search
9 Things to Have in Your First Aid Kit for Treating Burns
August 28, 2018 November 23, 2016 by Jacob Hunter
725shares
Share121
Tweet
Pin604
Email
Build Your Bug Out Bag The Right Way
FREE 5 Day Build Your Bug Out Bag Mini Course
Click To Download
Consider this: an earthquake hits while you are cooking dinner. The tremors cause the pot of boiling water to fly off the stove, scalding your body in the process. The emergency rooms will likely be swamped with injured people, meaning that you’d have to treat the burn yourself.
Don’t think that this couldn’t happen. According to one report, burns account for 3% of earthquake-related injuries.
Burns are also very common in other types of disaster situations, such as hurricanes and tornados. Not to mention the burn injuries that could occur every day.
According to a survey from Adelphi University, 44% of Americans don’t have a first aid kit. Even the ones who do may find that their first aid kit is incomplete.
I’d recommend printing the checklist below (click to get printable version emailed to you).
For burns specifically, make sure you have all of these first aid items for treating burns.
1. Nitrate Gloves
When treating a burn victim, your hands must be clean. You can’t always wash your hands properly (such as after an earthquake when the water is off).
For these situations, it is better to have nitrate gloves.
Put them on before you treat the burn injury.
2. Cool Compress and Basin for Water
The first thing to do after a 1st or 2nd degree burn is run the burn under cool water for 15-30 minutes.
Again, it isn’t always possible to run the burn under water. For example, if the water has been shut off, you won’t be able to do this. Likewise, if the burn is located somewhere like on the head, it might not be possible.
Instead, use a cool compress on the burn.
The cool compress will draw heat out of the burn so it heals faster. You could also fill a clean basin with cool water and soak the burn in it. The basin works great for burns on the feet.
*Note: NEVER use ice water or ice packs on burns! They can cause permanent damage to the burn area!
3. Aloe Vera Gel
For superficial 1st degree burns, especially when the blisters haven’t broken, you should apply a moisturizing gel such as aloe vera.
According to AAFP.org, the lipid component of the gel prevents the burn from drying out and accelerates healing.
4. Antibacterial or Antibiotic Ointment
If the blisters on the burn have broken, then the damaged skin could easily get infected. Thus, it is very important that you apply an antibacterial ointment to the burn. Some of the recommended antibacterial ointments for burns are:
Bacitracin
Silvadene
Neomycin
5. Cotton Swabs
You’ll need cotton swabs to clean debris out of the burn wound and also for applying the antibacterial ointment. Do NOT use cotton balls. They can cause pieces of cotton to get stuck inside the wound.
6. Nonstick Bandage
After running the burn under cold water or a compress and applying an ointment, the next step is to apply a nonstick bandage.
The bandage (also called a dressing or a nonstick pad) should be individually packed so it is sterile. Remember, you’ll have to change the bandage fairly frequently, so you really can’t have too many of these bandages in your first aid kit.
Remember to get many different sizes. The bandage should cover the entire burn.
If the bandage gets stuck to the burn, soak it in water to unstick it before removing.
You can buy special burn dressings. These have been pre-treated with ointment for burns. This saves you the step of having to apply aloe vera or an antibacterial ointment.
7. Gauze
After applying the nonstick bandage to the burn, you wrap it in gauze to hold the bandage in place.
Always wrap the gauze very loosely. Burns will swell. If you wrap the gauze too tightly, then it can cut off circulation to the burn area.
8. Pain Medicines
This is something you should have in your first aid kit for multiple types of injuries. Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is okay for treating burn pain.
For more severe burns, you’ll obviously want something stronger – but this is only available with a prescription.
9. Cling Wrap
Here’s a cool first aid burn treatment trick that many people don’t know about.
Because plastic wrap is produced at very high temperatures, it is sterile. It can be applied directly on top of a 2nd or 3rd degree burn to prevent contamination. It also won’t stick to the burn like dressings will.
So, if you get a 3rd degree burn and need to head to the hospital, just put layers of cling wrap on top.
Cling wrap is also sometimes used instead of a sterile dressing because it is clear, which means the burn can be monitored without having to remove it.
Cling wrap should always be applied in layers, not wrapped, to prevent pressure on the burn if it starts to swell. After applying the cling wrap, you can wrap it loosely with gauze to hold it in place.
Have You Brushed Up On Your First Aid Skills Lately?
It is really important that you have a fully-stocked first aid kit. But, bear in mind that these items will be worthless if you don’t know how to use them properly.
I strongly recommend taking a first aid course and retaking the course at least once a year. This will give you the training you need to react quickly and accurately in an emergency situation!
Here you can find a list of the 10 First Aid Skills Every Prepper Should Know.
To find a first aid course, I recommend:
Local ranger stations often have any search and rescue, wilderness, and EMT training
Community colleges often have first aid courses
Your local fire station may offer a free first aid course
Check with your local health department as they might organize courses
The Red Cross has lots of first aid courses, including online courses
Like Our articles?
Check out our Ebook bundle. Nine titles packed full of premium prepper information.
Instant download - print off for use when the grid goes down.
Learn More
Jacob Hunter
I’m Jacob Hunter, founder of Primal Survivor.
I believe in empowering people with the knowledge to prepare and survive in the modern world.
More about Jacob here.
725shares
Share121
Tweet
Pin604
Email
Categories First Aid Post navigation
What Soldiers Have in their IFAK Individual First Aid Kits
How to Take Your First Aid Skills to the Next Level
Leave a comment
Merlin
December 22, 2017 at 10:33 am | Reply
Silver! Heals burns fast and leaves no scars. Just because hospitals can’t use it, doesn’t mean you can’t.
Tom Stanley
April 30, 2018 at 10:26 am | Reply
Are silver rounds ok
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name Email
Popular Posts
Prepper’s Emergency Dental Kit Checklist (and Why You Need One)
Essential Guide To Fish Antibiotics for Humans
How to Make Penicillin at Home (Just in Case SHTF)
How to Build a Compact Wilderness First Aid Kit which Could Actually Save Your Life
28 OTC Medications to Stockpile in Your Emergency Kit
About
About
Contact Us
How We Review
Unsubscribe Notifications
Disclaimers
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Cookie Policy
Disclaimers
Contact Us
[email protected]
3 Germay Dr, Ste 4 - 4740
Wilmington
Delaware
19804
©2019 Primal Survivor ™ | All Rights Reserved
This copyrighted material may not be republished without express permission. The information presented here is for general educational purposes only.
MATERIAL CONNECTION DISCLOSURE: You should assume that this website has an affiliate relationship and/or another material connection to the persons or businesses mentioned in or linked to from this page and may receive commissions from purchases you make on subsequent web sites. You should not rely solely on information contained on this website to evaluate the product or service being endorsed. Always exercise due diligence before purchasing any product or service. This website contains advertisements.
AMAZON DISCLOSURE: Survive & Prosper LLC is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Bugging Out
Survival Food
Survival Water
Disaster Preparedness
EMP
Natural Disasters
War & Nuclear Disasters
Defense
Prepper Health
First Aid
Hygiene
Natural Remedies
Self Sufficiency
DIY Projects
Food Preservation
Growing Food
Off Grid
Survival Gear
Knives
Paracord
Weapons, Guns & Ammo
Survival Skills
Fire
Shelter
Wilderness Food
Urban Survival
Directory
Close