Natural Cures for Prostate Cancer Stunning Breakthrough!
Natural Cures For Prostate Cancer... Selenium Blows Cancer Away!
Some incredible and life-saving information on natural cures for prostate cancer and selenium supplementation have now been released. Here's why this mineral is considered to be the "ultimate" in natural prostate remedies and home treatments...
Article by Troy Sawyer (Certified Holistic Nutritionist, Health & Wellness Coach/Specialist)
Updated April 24, 2019 -- This post contains affiliate links
Back in the 1990’s, Dr Larry Clarke performed the now famous study on selenium and cancer. What he discovered in regards to selenium and prostate cancer shocked the cancer world beyond belief!
Two thirds of the participants in Dr Clarke's study were men and he found that by males simply taking 200 micrograms a day of selenium they could reduce their risk of prostate cancer by an astonishing 63%.1
Not a bad effort?
And as a result of separate studies carried out on selenium and cancer, the British Medical Journal came out and said the use of selenium supplements on patients could easily cut cancer rates by over half!
How Does Selenium Prevent and Treat Prostate Cancer?
For preventing cancer, selenium's real power lies in its ability to stop pre-cancerous cells from ever being able to grow and replicate. So, according to acclaimed cancer expert, Dr. James Howenstine,… "it helps stop cancer before it even gets started". For treating cancer (including prostate cancer) selenium is able to render cancerous cells "inactive", so they cannot continue to grow and reproduce as well.
So when it comes to selenium and cancer, you get the best of both worlds!
These findings are extremely significant as prostate cancer is now the biggest killer in men today. Of course, prevention is always better than the cure so being able to prevent prostate cancer from developing in the first place (by taking some selenium) is such a simple step that all men, regardless of age, can easily do.
But Wait... There's More!
So the fact that selenium can prevent and treat prostate cancer is great news, but what if you have advanced prostate cancer? Can selenium still be of benefit to you?
Well, further studies have been able to show that selenium supplementation can help slow, and even reverse, the progression of advanced prostate cancer (stage 4). And researchers have also discovered that the powerful healing effects of selenium are further enhanced when it's combined with vitamin E, vitamin C and beta carotene!
The fact is, Western soils are now extremely deficient (almost dead actually) in selenium, so supplementation is an absolute "must". Japanese soils, on the other hand, are still relatively rich. This is one of the reasons why five times as many American men die of prostate cancer each year compared to Japanese men.
The "Experts" Praise Selenium...
To finish off, and for extra validation and proof, here's some terrific quotes from some of the world’s most highly regarded natural health authors on the powerful benefits of selenium, vitamin E, vitamin C and beta-carotene for preventing and treating prostate cancer.
They're certainly worth taking the time to read…
Men with higher intakes of antioxidants such as vitamin C, vitamin E, and the trace mineral selenium have lower levels of prostate cancer.
- Alternative Cures by Bill Gottlieb (available from Amazon.com)
The patients receiving selenium had a 67% decrease in cancer of the prostate, a 58% decrease in colon or rectal cancer and a 45% decrease in lung cancer. This suggests that possibly up to 100,000 lives a year might be saved in the USA by the simple addition of selenium to the diet.
– A Physicians Guide To Natural Health Products That Work by James Howenstine MD (available from Amazon.com)
But what if you already have cancer? Again, the research shows a prolongation of lifespan with proper supplementation. In a study in Cancer Letters (Evangelou et al. 1997), animals with malignant tumors given high doses of vitamins C, E and selenium manifested a significant prolongation of the mean survival time. Complete remission of tumors developed in 16.8% of the animals.
– Disease Prevention And Treatment by Life Extension Foundation (available from Amazon.com)
A powerful antioxidant “selenium is a crucial mineral in the battle against prostate cancer”, says Dr. Schachter. In one study of hundreds of men, a daily intake of 200 micrograms of selenium cut the incidence of prostate cancer by 60 percent.
– Alternative Cures by Bill Gottlieb (available from Amazon.com)
The garlic connection. It has long been noted that people who ate garlic, onion, broccoli, and whole grains had a reduced risk of cancer. It turns out that all of these foods are rich in selenium, in fact, selenium is one of the reasons that these particular foods are so healthful for us.
– Antioxidants Against Cancer by Ralph W Moss PhD (available from Amazon.com)
One good food source is Brazil nuts, which happen also to contain at least one other anticancer substance, ellagic acid. One large nut can provide over 50 mcg of selenium. When Cornell scientist Donald J. Lisk and his colleagues ate six Brazil nuts a day for three weeks, their blood levels of selenium rose between 100 and 350 percent.
– Cancer Therapy by Ralph W Moss PhD (available from Amazon.com)
In parts of Europe, pumpkin seeds are the standard treatment for benign prostate enlargement. The seeds are rich in zinc, selenium and other minerals that have been shown to reduce prostate cancer risk. Typical daily dosage: Eat one-quarter cup of the seeds.
– Bottom Line Yearbook 2002 by Bottom Line Personnel
Moderate doses of zinc, beta-carotene, selenium and vitamin E are safe and inexpensive. I believe these results are valuable and are an accurate reflection of what antioxidants can do. The finding that two terrible cancers could be prevented by a few pennies worth of supplements received little attention in the mainstream media.
– Antioxidants Against Cancer by Ralph W Moss PhD (available from Amazon.com)
While everyone needs selenium on an everyday basis, there are certain situations in which the human need for selenium may be increased, or in which additional selenium may be helpful in the treatment of disease. If you are a male, your selenium needs are greater than if you’re a female. If you suffer from heart disease or muscular disorders, additional selenium may help you. The same can be said if you suffer from cataracts, diabetes, cystic fibrosis, liver necrosis, iron deficiency anemia, joint problems, heavy metal poisoning or cancer.
– Complete Guide Health Nutrition by Gary Null (available from Amazon.com)
Some scientists still do not accept the need for selenium supplements and argue against its protective effect against cancer and other diseases. Others endorse the value of moderate amounts of selenium added to the diet. In the laboratory, selenium has shown a wide range of anticancer effects.
– Cancer Therapy by Ralph W Moss PhD (available from Amazon.com)
All quotes are sourced and available from this link the mineral selenium proves itself as a powerful anti-cancer medicine
So, as far as natural prostate remedies and treatments go, selenium definitely needs to be at the top of your list. Just be sure to check out our "where to get your cancer fighting nutrients from" section here to find the best food and supplemental sources of selenium for yourself.
Go from natural treatments for prostate cancer - selenium - to more natural remedies for prostate cancer and prostatitis
Go to life-saving natural cures and natural remedies home page
Home
Dedication
What's new?
Healing stories
Ask a question?
Breaking news!
Expert interviews
Natural cures and remedies...
Acid reflux
Acne
ADD & ADHD
Age spots
Allergies
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Bone spurs
Breast cancer
Bursitis
Cancer cures
Canker sores
Cellulite
Cold & Flu
Cold sores
Constipation
Cystic acne
Dandruff
Dementia/Alzheimer's
Depression
Diabetes
Diarrhea
Erectile dysfunct
Gas/Flatulence
Gout
Grey hair
Headache/Migraine
Hemorrhoids
Herpes
High bloodpressure
High cholesterol
Hot flashes
Hypothyroidism
IBS
Kidney stones
Multiple sclerosis
Osteoporosis
Parkinson's
Pink eye
Prostate cancer
Psoriasis
Receding gums
Rosacea
Shingles
Sinus infection
Toenail fungus
Upset stomach
UTI
Weight loss
Yeast infection
Youthful skin
Miscellaneous
About us
Contact us
Work From Home
Page Likes
Recent Articles...
3 Natural Cures for Parkinson's Disease That Work...
Apr 24, 19 03:14 AM
QUESTION: My dad has Parkinson's disease. Are there any natural remedies or treatments for this horrible disorder? Please help. ANSWER: Hi Joe, and
Read More
A Natural Remedy for Rosacea That Gives Amazing Results!
Apr 23, 19 09:00 AM
Discover this little-known (but extremely powerful) natural remedy for rosacea, along with other cutting-edge rosacea treatments & home remedies in this "must read" article...
Read More
If this page was helpful, please take a quick moment to share with friends...
Social media drives a lot of traffic to this website so a big "thank you"!!!
Return to Top of Page
Yes, We Value Your Comments and Opinions...
Ask a question or have your say on what you've just read by leaving us a comment in the box below...
By accessing or using any page on life-saving-naturalcures-and-naturalremedies.com, you agree that you have read, understood, and will abide by our Disclaimer, Privacy Policy and Affiliate Disclosure. This website is for general knowledge and educational purposes only. The information provided is NOT intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease or health condition nor is it implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. This information has not been evaluated or approved by the U.S. FDA. Please read our Disclaimer here for more information.
Life-saving-naturalcures-and-naturalremedies.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn advertising fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites. Please read our Affiliate Disclosure for more information.
© Copyright 2010-2019 life-saving-naturalcures-and-naturalremedies.com. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copying content from this website without our expressed written consent is Plagiarism and NOT fair use as outlined in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998. We legally pursue all copyright infringements.