4 olive oil benefits for your face
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Is olive oil a good moisturizer for your face?
Last reviewed	 Sun 18 March 2018	 Last reviewed	Sun 18 Mar 2018
By Jayne Leonard
Reviewed by Karen Cross, FNP, MSN
Table of contents
Benefits of olive oil
How to use
Risks
Takeaway
Olive oil is derived from olives and is a staple of the Mediterranean diet. The oil has many nutritional benefits when consumed, but it is also frequently applied to the skin and hair.
Learn more about the benefits of using olive oil on the face, and discover how to use it for the best results.
Benefits of olive oil for the skin and face
Some of the potential benefits of olive oil for the skin include:
1. Antioxidant content
Olive oil may help prevent premature signs of aging on the skin.
Olive oil acts as an antioxidant, which is a substance that prevents oxidation. Oxidation is a process that can produce free radicals, which are chemicals that can potentially damage cells and may contribute to cancer development.
When applied to the skin, antioxidants may prevent premature aging. Also, some research suggests that putting olive oil on the skin after sun exposure may fight off cancer-causing cells.
In the study, scientists applied the oil to the skin of mice that had been exposed to potentially harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays. Tumor growth was significantly lower in the mice that had olive oil on their skin compared with those who did not.
Scientists need to carry out more research in this area to understand the effects of olive oil's antioxidant properties on human skin.
2. Vitamin content
Olive oil contains the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. Some of these vitamins may be beneficial for the skin.
For example, people have used vitamin E oil topically throughout history to treat a variety of skin conditions, including psoriasis and eczema.
3. Antibacterial effects
Olive oil has been shown to have antibacterial properties. However, there are very few studies on olive oil's ability to control bacteria on the skin.
One small study looked at the effects of using olive oil and coconut oil on Staphylococcus aureus bacteria on the skin. The results found that both oils exhibited antibacterial properties, but virgin coconut oil was more effective at eliminating the bacteria.
Nonetheless, olive oil may sometimes be used to treat bacterial infections of the skin. It may also improve healing in people with foot ulcers caused by type 2 diabetes.
4. Moisturizing effects
Olive oil is a popular natural moisturizer that is often used to soften both skin and hair. However, there is very little research on its effectiveness.
How to use olive oil on the skin
Olive oil is an ingredient in many personal care products, including face wash, body wash, soap, and lotions. Other ways to use olive oil on the skin include:
Moisturizer and after-sun treatment
Some people use olive oil as a moisturizing lotion by applying it directly to the skin before blotting off excess oil. Alternatively, the oil can be applied to damp skin to prevent a greasy feeling.
Based on the study of its antioxidant effects on mice, olive oil may be especially beneficial when applied following sun exposure.
Exfoliator
To exfoliate the face and body and treat areas of dry or scaly skin, a person can mix olive oil and sea salt to make a scrub.
People should use fine-grained salt on the face and other sensitive areas, and coarser grains on the rest of the body.
Eye-makeup remover
Olive oil breaks down any water-resistant substances in eye makeup, allowing them to be wiped away more easily.
To remove eye makeup, just add a few drops of olive oil to a cotton ball and gently wipe the eye area.
Dry skin: Seven home remedies
There are a range of home remedies for dry skin available, including coconut oil and honey. Which ones are effective? We look at the evidence.
Read now
Face mask
People with dry skin may see benefits from using an olive oil-based face mask. Olive oil mixed with ingredients such as egg white, honey, or ground oats can soften and hydrate the face.
Wrinkle treatment
Due to its antioxidant content, olive oil may reduce aging skin and wrinkles. The oil can be dabbed around the eye area at night or following sun exposure.
Scar oil
The vitamins and other antioxidants in olive oil may fade scars by helping skin cells to regenerate.
Simply massage the undiluted oil into scars or mix it with a squeeze of lemon juice to treat areas of hyperpigmentation, where the skin has darkened due to scarring.
Olive oil may also be used to prevent or treat stretch marks, although studies on its effectiveness have found mixed results.
Risks
Childhood eczema may develop if olive oil is used on a child's skin.
Although some studies have shown that olive oil has skin benefits, others suggest it is not the best option for everyone.
Potential risks of using olive oil on the face include:
Damaged skin barrier
A 2013 study reported that the use of olive oil for dry skin in adults and infants should not be encouraged. Researchers suggest that it may cause redness and damage to the outer layer of the skin in some people.
Childhood atopic eczema
Olive oil may contribute to the development of childhood eczema, according to 2016 research, especially in children with a family history of the condition.
Clogged pores
Olive oil is a heavy oil that may clog pores and trap bacteria if used in excess. People should use it sparingly, and wipe off any extra oil with a soft cloth or cotton ball immediately.
Using low-quality oil
Using high-quality olive oil is important. Low-quality oils may contain additives or chemicals that could irritate or damage the skin.
People should try to buy from a reputable brand and look for certification from the International Olive Council.
Research found that 73 percent of the five top-selling imported extra-virgin olive oil brands in the United States did not meet the required standards for olive oil.
Finally, be sure to choose pure olive oil or virgin olive oil over blends.
Takeaway
Olive oil may offer some benefits for the skin, including vitamins, antioxidants, and antibacterial effects. However, the research on olive oil benefits for the face and skin is limited.
Evidence suggests that it may cause adverse reactions in some people, so people with sensitive skin should use it sparingly and do a test patch first.
To do this, rub a few drops of the oil onto the arm and watch for a reaction. If none appears in 48 hours, it is likely safe to use.
Remember to only use high-quality, certified olive oil.
Related coverage
Coconut oil: Healthful or unhealthful? Coconut oil is shrouded in controversy. While health organizations advise a limited intake, it is seen by many as a superfood. What is the latest? Read now
What are the health benefits of olive oil? Olive oil plays a big part of the Mediterranean diet, and people now eat it worldwide. It is rich in monounsaturated fatty acids, which are considered healthy fats. In this article, we go into detail about the many ways oil olive may be healthy for people, including reducing breast cancer risk and preventing strokes. Read now
Can you use baking soda to treat acne? Baking soda is a popular method that many people use to help treat acne breakouts. But is it safe to use, or can it cause more harm than good? Read now
Top six home treatments for oily skin Oily skin can be frustrating, but it can be managed. Read about 6 effective ways to manage oily skin at home, what causes it, and how it can be prevented. Read now
Extra virgin olive oil or olive oil: Which is healthier? Extra virgin olive oil is an unprocessed, tasty, and healthful alternative to olive oil. It is full of healthy fats and benefits when used in moderation. Read now
email email
print
share share
Dermatology
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Sun 18 March 2018.
Visit our Dermatology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Dermatology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Brennan, M., Clarke, M., & Devane, D. (2016, September 21). The use of anti-stretch marks' products by women in pregnancy: A descriptive, cross-sectional survey. BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth, 16(1), 276. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5031338/
Budiyanto, A., Ahmed, N. U., Wu, A., Bito, T., Nikaido, O., Osawa, T., ... Ichihashi, M. (2000, November 1). Protective effect of topically applied olive oil against photocarcinogenesis following UVB exposure of mice. Carcinogenesis, 21(11), 2085–2090. Retrieved from https://academic.oup.com/carcin/article/21/11/2085/2908770
Cooke, A., Cork, M. J., Victor, S., Campbell, M., Danby, S., Chittock, J., & Lavender, T. (2016, March). Olive oil, sunflower oil or no oil for baby dry skin or massage: A pilot, assessor-blinded, randomized controlled trial (the Oil in Baby SkincaRE [OBSeRvE] study) [Abstract]. Acta dermato-venereologica, 96(3), 323–330. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26551528
Danby, S. G., AlEnezi, T., Sultan, A., Lavender, T., Chittock, J., Brown, K., & Cork, M. J. (2013, January–February). Effect of olive and sunflower seed oil on the adult skin barrier: Implications for neonatal skin care [Abstract]. Pediatric Dermatology, 30(1), 42–50. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22995032
Frankel, E. N., Mailer, R. J., Wang, S. C., Shoemaker, C. F., Guinard, J.-X., Flynn, J. D., & Sturzenberger, N. D. (2011, April). Evaluation of extra-virgin olive oil sold in California. Retrieved from http://oliveoil.ucdavis.edu/research/files/report041211finalreduced.pdf
Medina, E., Romero, C., Brenes, M., & de Castro, A. (2007, May). Antimicrobial activity of olive oil, vinegar, and various beverages against foodborne pathogens [Abstract]. Journal of Food Protection, 70(5), 1194–1199. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17536679
Michels, A. J. (2012, February). Vitamin E and skin health. Retrieved from http://lpi.oregonstate.edu/mic/health-disease/skin-health/vitamin-E#
Nasiri, M., Fayazi, S., Jahani, S., Yazdanpanah, L., & Haghighizadeh, M. H. (2015, April 29). The effect of topical olive oil on the healing of foot ulcer in patients with type 2 diabetes: A double-blind randomized clinical trial study in Iran [Abstract]. Journal of Diabetes & Metabolic Disorders, 14(1), 38. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25969821
Olive oil and skin. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.internationaloliveoil.org/web/aa-ingles/oliveWorld/salud12.html
Verallo-Rowell, V. M., Dillague, K. M., & Syah-Tjundawan, B. S. (2008, November–December). Novel antibacterial and emollient effects of coconut and virgin olive oils in adult atopic dermatitis [Abstract]. Dermatitis, 19(6), 308–315. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19134433
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Leonard, Jayne. "Is olive oil a good moisturizer for your face?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 18 Mar. 2018. Web.
25 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321246.php>
APA
Leonard, J. (2018, March 18). "Is olive oil a good moisturizer for your face?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321246.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
How the brain adapts to hear better after vision loss
Researchers look at what happens in the brains of people with vision loss to understand what allows them to hear better than their fully sighted peers.
Study reveals how general anesthetics affect the brain
For the first time, scientists have shown that general anesthetics activate the same small group of cells in the brain as that which induces sleep.
Ginkgo seeds may help keep skin blemish-free, but there's a catch
Ginkgo seed extracts can fight bacteria that harm the skin, but researchers are still a long way from developing them into safe products.
How ketamine can change the brain to fight depression
New research in mice pinpoints some of the key mechanisms that ketamine triggers in the brain to fight the symptoms and characteristics of depression.
Using small molecules to regenerate heart tissue
New research in mice uses gene-regulating molecules called microRNAs to repair heart tissue after an adverse cardiovascular event such as a heart attack.
Popular in: Dermatology
What causes patches of discolored skin?
What causes tongue bumps?
What can cause a bump on the lip?
What causes an underarm rash?
What can cause sores or scabs on the scalp?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321246.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);