Anemia In Children – Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
Getting Pregnant >
How To Get Pregnant
Symptoms
Body Care
Infertility
Pregnancy>
Pregnancy Week by Week
Food
bio-oil
Second Pregnancy
Safety
Fitness
Giving Birth
Health
Post Pregnancy
Baby>
Product Reviews
Choose Gentle
Breastfeeding
Food
Development
Sleep
Health
Products
Safety
Baby Names
Browse Names
Play & Activities
Himalaya Baby Care
Baby Dove
Toddler>
Fisher Price
Development
Food
Pediasure
Sleep
Safety
Health
Behavior
Education
Play & Activities
Coloring pics
Kid>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
Teens>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
For You>
New Parents
Single Parenting
Adoption
Relationships
Trending
Tools>
Baby Eye Color Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
Chinese Gender Predictor
Implantation Calculator
hCG Calculator
Period Calculator
ovulation calculator
pregnancy due date calculator
Child Height Predictor
Pregnancy Weight Gain Calculator
Breast Milk Calculator
Child Growth Percentile Calculator
Baby Cost Calculator
BMI Calculator For Kids & Teens
Contraction Calculator
Immunization Scheduler and Chart
C-Section Checklist
Online Twin Pregnancy Quiz
Numerology calculator
Child Blood Type Calculator
Nakshatra Calculator
Diaper Bag Checklist
> हिंदी
गर्भावस्था
शिशु
×
Home » Kid » Health & Fitness
Anemia In Children – Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
Sagari Gongala Written by Sagari Gongala
March 27, 2019 March 27, 2019
Image: iStock
Jump to:
Causes Of Anemia
Types Of Anemia
Symptoms Of Anemia
How Is Anemia Diagnosed?
Anemia Treatment For Children
How To Prevent Nutritional Anemia?
Home Remedies for Anemia
Around 7% of our body weight is made up of blood. Up to 45% of the blood is made up of red blood cells (1).
We need red blood cells (RBC) to transport oxygen and infection-fighting antibodies to different parts of the body. RBCs also regulate body temperature and help the blood transport waste products to kidneys and liver, thereby cleaning and filtering the blood. When the body lacks enough red blood cells to perform these functions, it leads to a condition called anemia.
MomJunction tells you everything you need to know about anemia in children, its symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment options.
Causes Of Anemia In Children
Sponsored
Ideally, a child should have anywhere between 3.9 and 5.3 million red blood cells per microliter of blood (2). The ideal RBC count varies from one child to another, depending on the child’s age. Your child may be anemic if he or she:
Has a low production of red blood cells. This is often the result of poor nutrition and iron deficiency. This condition is referred to as iron-deficiency anemia.
Has an underlying illness or an inherited blood disorder such as sickle cell anemia, which results in excessive destruction of red blood cells.
Has lost a lot of blood due to an injury or due to long-term, low-grade blood loss such as in stools. In girls, this could also happen due to excessive menstrual bleeding.
Younger children (aged less than three) who drink a lot of cow’s milk without other nutritious foods may also end up anemic (3).
A little bit of bleeding does not make a person anemic. That said, you should not rule out anemia without checking for the symptoms first.
Back to top
[ Read: Best Nutritious Foods For Kids ]
Types Of Anemia
There are different types of anemia in children, depending on what is causing it. They are:
Iron-deficiency anemia
Megaloblastic anemia or macrocytic anemia, which is caused due to vitamin B-12 deficiency
Hemolytic anemia, an inherited condition that develops when the body produces damaged red blood cells
Sickle cell anemia, which is abnormal hemoglobin (red blood cells) that are distorted or sickled. These damaged cells are delicate and can get ruptured easily. This is an inherited disorder
Thalassemia or Cooley’s anemia is also an inherited disorder due to which the body produces abnormal red blood cells. Thalassemia could be alpha or beta, which could be major or minor (4).
Chronic anemia or anemia of chronic condition is usually in people who have chronic medical conditions involving inflammation.
When the bone marrow is unable to produce enough red and white blood cells, it leads to aplastic anemia in children.
The symptoms of different anemia are similar:
Back to top
Symptoms Of Anemia
Common symptoms of anemia in children include:
Severe exhaustion
Irritability
Lightheadedness
Headache
Mild weakness
Rapid heartbeat
Shortness of breath
Craving for unusual foods such as chalk
Loss of appetite
Sore or swollen tongue
[ Read: Iron Rich Foods For Kids ]
Signs that could indicate anemia in your child are:
Pale skin
Pale eye whites, maybe with a tinge of blue here and there
Brittle nails
Problem in healing tissues or wounds
Delayed growth and development
Children with anemia need not necessarily have all the above symptoms. Proper medical diagnosis is the only way to be sure if the child is anemic.
Back to top
How Is Anemia Diagnosed?
Diagnosis of anemia primarily consists of a physical examination of the child, followed by a complete blood count (CBC). The CBC test gives a detailed account of the number of red and white blood cells in the body. In addition to that, the medical practitioner may also suggest the following blood tests and diagnostics.
Blood smear exam, which involves observing the RBCs to determine the cause of anemia
Iron tests to determine if the child has an iron deficiency
Hemoglobin electrophoresis, which can detect any abnormalities in the red blood cells, and diagnose sickle cell anemia and thalassemia
Bone marrow aspiration lets the doctors understand the activity in the bone marrow and can contribute to diagnosing aplastic anemia. Biopsy of the bone marrow cells can also assist in detecting any form of leukemia that may have affected the organ
The reticulocyte count is to determine the count of young red blood cells. This is done to see if the RBC production in the body is normal.
The results of the diagnostic tests determine the course of treatment for anemia.
Back to top
[ Read: Benefits Of Vitamin B For Kids ]
Anemia Treatment For Children
Treatment for anemia in children varies based on the diagnosis, age of the child, medical history and, overall health of the child, and his or her tolerance to specific medications (5). Treatment options include:
Iron or B-12 supplements in case of iron-deficiency anemia and macrocytic anemia.
Change in the diet to include more iron-rich or vitamin B-12 rich foods.
If anemia is caused by an infection or any medical condition, treating the infection or the condition will treat anemia .
Blood transfusion may become necessary to treat some forms of chronic anemia.
Use of medication to treat the spleen. In some cases, removal of the spleen may be necessary.
Medication may also be given to fight a bone marrow infection or to stimulate the bone marrow to produce more blood cells.
Bone marrow transplantation may be recommended in severe cases of aplastic anemia.
Back to top
How To Prevent Nutritional Anemia?
Nutritional anemia, or anemia not caused due to an inherited blood disorder, can be avoided by taking a few precautions such as:
Giving the child a healthy diet that has iron-rich foods such as green vegetables, yellow fruits and vegetables, tomatoes, egg yolks, red meat, and fortified cereals and grains.
Limiting the intake of cow’s milk in children less than one year can protect them from possible iron deficiency in the future (6).
B-12 deficiency anemia can also be prevented by ensuring that the child’s diet includes foods rich in vitamin B-12.
Add citrus fruits in the diet to increase the iron absorption levels in the child. This is especially helpful when your child’s source of iron is plant based.
Inherited anemias such as sickle cell anemia, thalassemia, or hemolytic anemia cannot be prevented.
Back to top
[ Read: Vitamin C For Children ]
Home Remedies For Anemia
Giving your child a healthy diet rich in minerals and vitamins can prevent or minimize the chances of them developing anemia. These natural home remedies will be useful if your child is anemic and is undergoing treatment for the same.
Beetroot is beneficial for kids, especially teenagers who have anemia (7). Blend a medium beetroot with carrots and sweet potato and give the juice to the child once daily.
Spinach and other green vegetables and fruits are rich in iron (8). So if the child has iron-deficiency anemia, a cup or two of spinach soup every day can help.
Blackstrap molasses is rich in iron, vitamin B, and minerals. A spoonful of blackstrap molasses in a glass of warm water can contribute to improving the child’s iron levels considerably.
Dates are rich in vitamin C and can improve the body’s iron absorption levels. Soak two dates overnight in a cup of milk. Get the child to drink the milk and eat the dates on an empty stomach.
Bananas are rich in iron and can boost the production of red blood cells in the body. They are also rich in magnesium and support hemoglobin synthesis in the body.
Apples, rich in vitamin C, also aid in improving iron absorption in the body.
The high iron content in fenugreek will aid in maintaining the iron levels in the body, thereby aiding the production of hemoglobin.
Red meat is the richest and fastest source of iron. Vegetarian food is rich in iron but it is difficult to absorb due to the presence of phytates
Back to top
Eliminating certain foods with added sugars and artificial sweeteners, processed grains, chocolate, soda, coffee, and bran can also improve the iron levels in the body. Use of probiotics will help your child maintain a clean gut, which in turn enables the body to absorb nutrients better.
[ Read: Loss Of Appetite In Children ]
If your child’s diet is not enough to provide sufficient nutrition, then consider giving supplements, but only after consulting your doctor.
Have any tips on dealing with anemic children? Share them with the other parents here.
Recommended Articles:
Lead Poisoning In Children –Symptoms And Treatment
Hepatitis In Children And Their Prevention
Calcium Rich Foods For Kids
Amazing Benefits Of Protein For Kids
The following two tabs change content below.
Latest Posts
Bio
Latest posts by Sagari Gongala (see all)
29 Exciting and Easy One-minute Games For Kids - December 21, 2018
101 Heartwarming Birthday Wishes For Son - December 20, 2018
Taking A Break In A Relationship: 5 Ways You Can Do It - December 13, 2018
101 Sweet Good Morning Messages For Husband - December 6, 2018
15 Relationship Books To Keep That Love Alive - November 28, 2018
20 Smart Brain Games For Kids - November 27, 2018
101 Positive Thought For The Day Quotes For Kids - January 8, 2018
Himalaya Pure Hands: The Germ-Free And Cruelty-Free Sanitizer - May 17, 2017
A Test to Take: How High Is Your Food IQ - March 26, 2017
Heart Rate In Children: What Is Normal And What Is Not - March 16, 2017
Sagari Gongala
Sagari is a math graduate and studied counseling psychology in postgraduate college, which she uses to understand people better. This skill also helps her write better articles about kids and their behavior. She is meticulous in her research and gives you information that could be the ultimate help you’ll need in times of need. An animal lover, vegan, and coffee addict, Sagari puts her mind and soul into whatever she does. During her free time, you'll find her either rescuing a sick/injured animal with a friend, or glued to her couch watching Sons Of Anarchy on Netflix.
Incnut Incnut Incnut
Hotpicks
18th Week Pregnancy: Symptoms, Baby Development, And Body Changes
101 Best Sweet & Cute Baby Names With Meanings
Understanding Teenage Behavior Problems And Tips To Handle Them
10 Best Yoga Poses For Relaxation For Moms
Top 10 Fun Food Ideas For Kids
Related Articles
Epilepsy In Children - Causes, Symptoms And Treatment
Tamiflu For Kids - Uses, Dosage And Side Effects
Growing Pains In Children: Causes, Symptoms And Home Care
Top 5 Relaxation Exercises And Techniques For Children
Salmonella In Children : Symptoms And Treatment
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with us
Doctors, Join Us
Mommy Influencer Network
Report Violation
Image Usage Policy
Privacy Policy
Editorial Policy
Disclaimer
Follow Us:
Our Sister Sites:
Copyright 2019 Mom Junction
MomJunction provides generic information on health for educational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional health services, and cannot be used as a replacement for personalized health consultation. If you or your child has any health concerns, you should consult a healthcare professional. Please read our Disclaimer before proceeding to use our website.