Treatment Options For Ovarian Cysts In Women - How To Treat Ovarian Cysts | GilsCosmo.com - Shopping made easy!
Skip to content
Body Care
Fashion
Hair Care
Beauty Tips
Health Care
Home Remedies
Diet Remedies
Natural Cures
Sex Health
Make up
Skin Care
DIY
Health Care, Sex Health
Treatment Options For Ovarian Cysts In Women
Posted on July 26, 2013 July 26, 2013 by romana
Ovarian cysts can resolve on their own; absence of troubling symptoms can indicate only watchful waiting for any change in the cyst. Functional cysts generally shrink spontaneously within few months. However, should you require treatment, there are quite a few which are helpful.
If cysts are recurring, you may need a surgical treatment. Treatment for ovarian cysts can be ascertained through many factors including your age, the size of cyst, symptoms and whether you are having periods or not.
Treatments For Ovarian Cysts
Birth Control Pill
Birth control pill may provide relief from painful ovarian cysts. As a birth control pill prevents ovulation, it reduces the probability of formation of new cysts. Oral birth control pills also provide the benefit of reducing the risk of ovarian cancer in women and can be doubly advantageous.
If you’re still having periods with mild symptoms and having functional cyst, you possibly could cure it without undergoing a surgery. Cysts are likely to be benign or noncancerous in women of child bearing age. A combined treatment of hormonal contraceptives can also be used to regulate the menstrual cycle and prevent the formation of follicles (that turn into cysts) and even shrink a present cyst.
Pain Reliever
Treatment of ovarian cysts may also include pain relievers and can particularly help when taken early. Paracetomol or acetaminophen and ibuprofen can prove helpful in relieving pain. A narcotic pain medicine may also be taken but under prescription for dealing with pelvic pain.
Laparotomy
This surgical procedural is done for larger cysts (ovarian tumors). A cancerous growth is also removed through laparotomy. During the surgery, the ovaries, fallopian tubes and even the uterus can also be removed depending upon the spread of the cancer. When ovarian cysts can be removed without removing the ovary, cystectomy is said to be done. But in some cases, the doctor may want to remove the affected ovary without removing other parts.
Source: https://myhealth.alberta.ca/health/pages/conditions.aspx?hwid=zm2659&
This is called oophorectomy. If cancerous ovarian tumors return, more surgeries may be needed. Sometimes, a combination of chemotherapy or radiation and surgery may also be required. It is important to discuss the various aspects of a surgical procedure, like risks and side effects, before implementing it.
Laparoscopy
In this surgical procedure, a very small incision is done and a small telescope-like instrument is inserted into the abdomen. Smaller cysts can be removed this way.
Surgery
Surgical treatment of ovarian cysts can become the only form of treatment when they do not go away after several menstrual periods, cause pain or/and get larger (usually over 5 cm in diameter). Cysts which do not appear as functional (on the sonogram) may require an operation for their removal.
Radiation
Ovarian cysts can also be treated through high-energy radiation (X-rays) externally or internally. The radiation can kill (or shrink) cancer cells. Radiation can, however, cause side effects as fatigue, nausea and diarrhea.
Chemotherapy
Chemotherapy can also be used to treat ovarian cysts. Drugs are administered through vein, orally or directly into the abdomen to kill cancer cells. However, chemotherapy also kills normal cells besides the cancerous ones.
Chemotherapy medications can produce side effects as hair loss, nausea, vomiting and kidney damage. They can also increase the risk of infection.
Photo Credit: http://www.medicinenet.com/ovarian_cysts/article.htm
Tweet
Pin7
Share
+1
7 Shares
Leave a Comment
This entry was posted in Health Care, Sex Health.
romana
Effective Eye Wrinkles Treatments
Marvelous Skin Care Tips Using Essential Oils
Search
GET FREE UPDATES
Enter your email below and click "Get Free Updates!
Follow Us On Facebook
Follow Us On Facebook
Most Popular Today
7 Fun Hairstyles For Women With Small Forehead
7 Ways To Get Rid Of Sunburn Overnight
DIY Natural Liquid Foundation Making At Home
7 Best Vaseline Body Lotions For Soft And Smoother Skin
7 Best Hair Removal Soaps
Top 10 Natural Cures For STDs
5 Best Powdered Milk Face Masks For Beautiful Skin
Colours For Dark Complexion
5 Common Causes For Recurring Yeast Infections In Women
7 Simple Makeup Tips For Under Eye Wrinkles
Visit Scoop's profile on Pinterest.
Tweets by @girlscosmomag
ABOUT GIRLSCOSMO
Home
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms
Disclaimer
Write For US
Follow Us Everywhere
Follow Us Everywhere
SUBSCRIBE NEWSLETTER
Get the best viral stories straight into your inbox!
Copyright © 2019 Girlscosmo.com. All rights reserved. The information given in this site is for informational use only
Body Care
Fashion
Hair Care
Beauty Tips
Health Care
Home Remedies
Diet Remedies
Natural Cures
Sex Health
Make up
Skin Care
DIY