Does Exercise During Pregnancy Prevent Postpartum Depression?
Skip to content
Search for:
About
About Our Program
Mission Statement
Staff
Our Publications
Location
Contact Us
Support Our Program
Specialty Areas
PMS & PMDD
Literature on PMS & PMDD
The Etiology of PMDD
PMS & PMDD in Teens
Fertility & Mental Health
Literature on Fertility & Mental Health
Psychiatric Disorders During Pregnancy
Literature on Psychiatric Disorders During Pregnancy
Postpartum Psychiatric Disorders
Literature on Postpartum Psychiatric Disorders
Breastfeeding & Psychiatric Medications
Literature on Breastfeeding & Psychiatric Medications
Menopausal Symptoms
Literature on Menopausal Symptoms
Blog
Recent Posts
Our Column at OBGYN News
Subscribe to Our Newsletter
Clinical Program
Research Program
MGHP3
MGHP3 Website
A Neurosteroid Intervention for Menopausal and Perimenopausal Depression
National Pregnancy Registry for Psychiatric Medications ©
Atypical Antipsychotics
Antidepressants
ADHD Medications
Other Psychiatric Medications
MGHPDS Mobile App
Course of ADHD in Pregnancy and the Postpartum
Lifestyle Intervention Research Study
Our Publications
Resources
For Patients
For Providers
Resources in the Boston Community
Contact
Contact Us
Subscribe to Our Newsletter
Support Our Program
Search for:
Does Exercise During Pregnancy Prevent Postpartum Depression?
Previous Next
Does Exercise During Pregnancy Prevent Postpartum Depression?
By MGH Center for Women's Mental Health|2019-01-31T14:11:46-04:00February 1st, 2019|Depression, Depression in Women, Postpartum, Postpartum Psychiatric Disorders, Pregnancy|0 Comments
View Larger Image
While there is some data to indicate that exercise may improve well-being and diminish symptoms of depression and anxiety, the results have been mixed. A recent randomized controlled trial has explored the efficacy of exercise during pregnancy for reducing the risk of postpartum depression.
The Physical Activity for Mothers Enrolled in Longitudinal Analysis (PAMELA) Study was nested in the 2015 Pelotas (Brazil) Birth Cohort Study. A total of 639 pregnant women between 16 and 20 weeks of gestation with no contraindications to exercise (mean age, 27.1 years; mean gestational age, 16.5 weeks) were randomly assigned to the intervention group (n?=?213) or control group (n?=?426). Women assigned to the intervention group participated in a 16-week supervised exercise program which included aerobic and resistance training delivered in 60-minute sessions three times per week.
Postpartum depressive symptoms were assessed using the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) 3 months after birth. A score of 12 or greater was defined as screening positive for postpartum depression.
Overall compliance with the exercise program (defined as having attended at least 70% of exercise sessions) was low (40.4%). There was no statistically significant difference in rates of PPD between the intervention group (12 of 192 [6.3%]) and the control group (36 of 387 [9.3%]) (odds ratio, 0.65; 95% CI, 0.33-1.28). There was no significant difference in mean EPDS scores between the intervention and control groups.
So the jury is still out with regard to the benefits of exercise for the prevention of PPD. Obviously low rates of compliance may make it difficult to measure the beneficial effects of the intervention. This study was also conducted in a general population of healthy women with a normal risk for PPD; the efficacy of an intervention to prevent PPD may be easier to measure when tested in a group of women at higher risk for PPD, such as those women who have had an episode of PPD after a previous pregnancy.
While we don’t know if regular exercise can reduce the risk of PPD, there are other benefits to exercising during pregnancy. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) provides helpful information regarding the safety and benefits of exercise during pregnancy.
Ruta Nonacs, MD PhD
Efficacy of Regular Exercise During Pregnancy on the Prevention of Postpartum Depression: The PAMELA Randomized Clinical Trial.
Coll CVN, Domingues MR, Stein A, da Silva BGC, Bassani DG, Hartwig FP, da Silva ICM, da Silveira MF, da Silva SG, Bertoldi AD. JAMA Netw Open. 2019 Jan 4;2(1). Free Article
Share This Post, Choose Your Platform!
FacebookTwitterLinkedInRedditGoogle+TumblrPinterestVkEmail
Related Posts
Anti-Epileptic Drugs in Reproductive eAge Women: Valproic Acid and Topiramate Commonly Used
April 9th, 2019 | 0 Comments
Timing of Postpartum Depression Onset May Predict Symptom Pattern
March 6th, 2019 | 0 Comments
Perinatal Depression: How Do We Define High Risk? (Part 1)
February 27th, 2019 | 0 Comments
In Brief: Improving Care for New Mothers with Severe Psychiatric Illness
January 24th, 2019 | 0 Comments
Perinatal Depression and Anxiety: How Long Does It Last?
January 23rd, 2019 | 0 Comments
Leave A Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
The MGH Center for Women’s Mental Health
Perinatal and Reproductive Psychiatry Program
Simches Research Building
185 Cambridge St Suite 2200
Boston, MA 02114
admin@womensmentalhealth.org
Support Our Program
About
Specialty Areas
Blog
Clinical Program
Research Program
Resources
Subscribe To Our Newsletter
Keep up with the latest news in women’s mental health and our research.
SUBSCRIBE NOW
Copyright 2018 MGH Center for Women's Mental Health | All Rights Reserved | Site Developed by Tiny Frog Technologies