42 Tips How To Treat Anemia in Babies&Adults During Pregnancy at Home
How To
Skin Care
Hair Care
Beauty
SuperFoods
About Us
Contact Us
Home » How To » 42 Tips How to Treat Anemia in Babies & Adults during Pregnancy at Home
How To
42 Tips How to Treat Anemia in Babies & Adults during Pregnancy at Home
When you are pregnant, your risk of developing anemia may be higher. When you suffer from anemia, your blood may not have enough red blood cells to transport oxygen to your baby. During pregnancy, your body needs to produce more blood to support your baby’s growth. And, if you do not have enough iron or other essential nutrients, your body cannot produce the required amount of red blood cells. While you need to follow a specific regimen provided by a doctor, you also need to change your diet, take supplements and use medications.
List Of 25 Best Healthy Pregnant Recipes For Women To Go/ List Of 30 Healthy Food For Pregnant Women During Pregnancy
List Of Simple Yet Effective Tips On How To Treat Anemia In Babies And Adults During Pregnancy
If you are suffering from anemia, you can reduce the severity of its symptoms by applying some of natural treatments on how to treat anemia in adults and in babies at home. Now, in this article, Healthy Guide will show you some of the most effective treatments for anemia. However, at first, you should have a general understanding about this health condition, including what it is, what common symptoms are, what complications are, etc.
CONTENTS
I. What Is Anemia In Pregnancy?
II. How To Treat Anemia Through Diet And Exercises
1. Say No To Beverages
2. Get Enough Vitamin B12
3. Get Enough Iron
III. How To Treat Anemia During Pregnancy
1. Blackstrap Molasses
2. Beetroot
3. Sesame Seeds
4. Banana
I. What Is Anemia In Pregnancy?
Some types of anemia that you can experience during pregnancy include:
Iron-deficiency anemia: It occurs when your body does not get enough iron to produce hemoglobin; therefore, the blood cannot carry enough oxygen to the body’s tissues
Folate-deficiency anemia: During pregnancy, women need to have extra folate. But, if they cannot get enough folate from their diet, their body cannot produce enough healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen to body’s tissues. Folate deficiency can cause some certain types of birth defects, such as low birth weight and neural tube abnormalities.
Vitamin B12 deficiency: When pregnant women do not have enough vitamin B12 from their diet, their body cannot create enough healthy red blood cells. Vitamin B12 deficiency can cause birth defects, such as preterm labor and neural tube abnormalities,.
Some common signs and symptoms of anemia during pregnancy include:
Pale skin, lips and nails
Light headedness and dizziness
Brain fog
Feeling weak or tired
Shortness of breath
Trouble concentrating
Rapid heartbeat
If you want to know some of the common signs and symptoms of pernicious anemia in infants, read on 22 Pernicious Anemia Symptoms In Infants And Treatments
All pregnant women can develop anemia, but the risk may be higher if you:
Are pregnant with multiples
Vomit a lot due to morning sickness
Have experienced 2 pregnancies close together
Are a pregnant teenager
Do not consume enough iron-rich foods
Experienced anemia before becoming pregnant
Untreated or severe anemia during pregnancy can make you have:
A low-birth-weight baby
Postpartum depression
A blood transfusion
A baby with developmental delays
A baby with anemia
A baby with neural tube defects
To know some of the best foods that you should avoid consuming when you are pregnant, read on List Of 29 Foods To Avoid When Pregnant For Women
II. How To Treat Anemia Through Diet And Exercises
To prevent and treat anemia, you need to exercise regularly and make some changes in your diet. Now, discover some of the simplest home remedies for how to get rid of anemia naturally at home.
1. Say No To Beverages
This should be the first way on how to treat anemia in adults and in babies at home that we want to mention in this article. To prevent and treat anemia, you need to cut down your intake of coffee and tea. This is because excessive caffeine levels can negatively affect the iron absorption. Besides, you also need to limit the intake of alcohol. This is because alcohol can prevent the body from making healthy blood cells, and even destroy your blood cells. Therefore, if you are diagnosed with anemia, you have to limit your alcoholic intake in order to prevent your condition from worsening. Instead, opt for freshly squeezed fruit and vegetable juices or smoothies. You can also add some honey for taste and added benefits.
Read on List Of 29 Best Easy Homemade Drinks To Make At Home to discover some of the best drinks recipes that you can make at home.
2. Get Enough Vitamin B12
If you are unsure about how to treat anemia during pregnancy, then you should increase your intake of vitamin B12, either in the supplement or foods. To treat anemia caused by vitamin B12 deficiency, you may need to take a vitamin B12 supplement and include more animal foods such as eggs, meat and dairy products in your daily diet.
3. How To Treat Anemia – Get Enough Iron
To prevent and treat anemia during pregnancy, you need to ensure that you get enough iron. Have a well-balanced diet and add more iron-rich foods to your diet.
Lean poultry, red meat
Fish and seafood
Eggs
Dark green veggies like broccoli, spinach and kale
Dried fruits such as raisins, prunes, and apricots
Iron-enriched grains and cereals
Nuts and seeds
Beans, lentils, and tofu
Besides, vitamin C helps the body absorb iron more easily, so you should consume vitamin C-rich foods or drink a glass of orange juice along with your iron supplement.
4. Get Enough Vitamin C
Consuming foods that are rich in vitamin C can help you absorb iron more effectively. These include kiwis, citrus fruits and juices, tomatoes, strawberries, bell peppers, etc. You should try eating these foods along with iron-rich foods. For instance, you can have an iron-enriched cereal and a glass of lemon juice for breakfast.
List of Benefits Of Drinking Lemon Water – 19 Reasons To Drink It! Will show you some of the benefits of lemon water for human health, so check it out!
5. Get Enough Folate
Also, it is very important for you to choose folate- rich foods in order to prevent folate deficiency. These include citrus fruits and juices, leafy green veggies, dried beans, cereals and breads fortified with folic acid. Besides, you also need to consult your doctor about prenatal vitamin to get enough iron and folic acid.
6. Take A Cold Bath
This sounds strange when it comes to learning how to treat anemia at home, but taking a cold bath actually does work. Researchers found that a cold water bath can help reduce your body temperature, which is required for the proper blood flow to all body’s parts.
7. Yoga Practices
Yoga for anemia is also another solution for you to choose. Yoga exercises include many good postures that can help increase blood flow to the body and simultaneously prevent anemia. Here are some yoga postures for anemia that you can practice:
Snake posture: It is one of the best yoga moves for anemia. It works to stretch the shoulders, chest and abdomen, and stimulate the abdominal organs. This also helps to reduce stress and anemia.
Camel posture: It helps to increase the blood vessels to the brain, improve the digestive and reproductive system, the back muscles, the spine, the shoulders and arms, and simultaneously increase the spine’s flexibility.
Fish posture: it works to reduce excess pounds, improve the blood flow and stretch the skin.
Plow posture: It works to detoxify the body, stabilize the thyroid gland and stimulate the activity of your digestive organs.
Triangular posture: It helps improve the strength of muscles, abdominal organs, and spine toughness.
Wind relieving posture: It helps enhance the activities of your internal organs, and increase blood flow to the skin.
Read More: 10 Best And Simple Pregnancy Yoga Poses For Pregnant Women
III. Home Remedies For Anemia During Pregnancy
Now, in this article, we want to mention some of the most effective home remedies for anemia that you can make use at home. Actually, all of these home remedies can help you get rid of the signs and symptoms of anemia without causing any unwanted side effects; therefore, you do not need to feel worried when applying any of these remedies.
1. Blackstrap Molasses
If you are looking for 100% certain way on how to treat anemia in babies and adults during pregnancy, then you should not skip this remedy. Blackstrap molasses is known as one of the best food sources for those suffering from anemia. They are rich in B vitamins, iron as well as other essential minerals, which help increase the production of red blood cells. According to a study about blackstrap molasses benefits [1], 5 tbsp. of blackstrap molasses offers about 95% of your daily iron requirements. To use blackstrap molasses for treating anemia, you can use either of the following recipes:
Method 1:
Firstly, add 1 tbsp. of blackstrap molasses to a cup of hot milk or water.
Drink this solution once or twice per day.
Method 2:
Mix 2 tsp. each of apple cider vinegar and blackstrap molasses in a cup of water.
Then, drink this solution once per day.
2. How To Treat Anemia – Beetroot
If you want to know how to treat anemia in babies and adults during pregnancy by using natural ingredients, you should consider using beetroot. Beetroot is beneficial for those who have anemia caused by iron deficiency. Apart being high in iron content, beetroot also contains high contents of potassium, fiber, calcium, sulfur and essential vitamins. Beetroot not only provides nutrition, but it also cleanses the body and supplies more oxygen, thereby increasing the red blood cell count in the body.
Method 1:
Firstly, blend a medium beetroot, ½ sweet potato and 3 carrots in a juicer.
Drink this juice once per day.
Method 2:
Eat cooked beetroots or add them to your salads.
Method 3:
Mix a cup of apple juice with a cup of beetroot juice.
Then, add 1 tsp. of honey to this and mix them well.
Drink this juice twice per day.
Learn More: 34 Health Benefits Of Beet Juice For Children And Adults
3. Sesame Seeds
Consuming sesame seeds are also another great way on how to treat anemia at home thanks to their high content of iron. About 1/4 cup of sesame seeds offers nearly 30% of your daily iron requirement. To get rid of anemia symptoms with the help of sesame seeds, you can try applying either of the following methods:
Method 1:
Firstly, soak 2 tbsp. of sesame seeds in water and let it stay for 2- 3 hours.
Strain it and create a paste from these soaked seeds.
Then, add 1 tbsp. of honey to the paste and mix well.
Consume this mixture twice per day.
Method 2:
Soak 1 tsp. of sesame seeds in a bowl of warm water for about 2 hours.
Then, grind these seeds until you get a paste and then strain it.
Mix this in a cup of warm milk.
Now, add honey to the solution and drink it once per day.
4. Banana
Bananas are rich in iron, which helps increase the production of hemoglobin as well as many other enzymes required for the red blood cell production. Addition to this, bananas are also a great food source of magnesium that helps with hemoglobin synthesis. You just need to have one ripe banana with 1 tbsp. of honey twice per day. Otherwise, you can mix a mashed ripe banana and 1 tbsp. of amla juice and consume this mixture 2- 3 times daily.
Do you want to discover other effective ways on how to treat anemia at home? Keep reading this interesting article to find out the best solutions for your health condition.
5. Pomegranate
Pomegranate is worth mentioning in the list of great ways on how to treat anemia at home due to its benefits for health. According to a research about pomegranate nutrition facts [2], pomegranate is rich in iron, calcium and magnesium. Also, it has high content of vitamin C, which helps with the iron absorption, resulting in increased hemoglobin level and more red blood cells.
Method 1;
Mix ¼ tsp. of powdered cinnamon and 2 tsp. of honey in a cup of pomegranate juice.
Drink this solution with your breakfast on a daily basis.
Method 2:
Consume a medium pomegranate every morning when you have an empty stomach.
Method 3:
Mix 2 tsp. of pomegranate seed powder in a cup of warm milk
Drink this once or twice per day.
6. Yogurt And Turmeric
Another natural tip on how to treat anemia in babies and adults during pregnancy is using the combination of yogurt and turmeric. People with kapha-type anemia should enjoy a cup of yogurt with 1 tsp. if turmeric twice per day, morning and afternoon.
7. Apple
Being high in essential nutrients like iron, consuming apples can help you treat anemia naturally at home. Simply, you just need to consume an apple daily. For the maximum results, eat green apples with their skin. Alternatively, you can also mix equal amounts of fresh beetroot juice and apple juice and a little bit of honey. After that, drink this juice twice per day.
8. How To Treat Anemia – Watermelon
When it comes to learning how to treat anemia during pregnancy, watermelon is a really amazing treatment for anemia. Watermelon contains iron, protein, potassium, vitamin C and carbohydrate, which helps increase blood circulation. Apart from eating these fresh fruits, you can make watermelon juices. Juices from natural fruits can help treat and prevent anemia effectively.
9. Spinach
Spinach is rich in folic acid, vitamin B12 and iron as, all of which are necessary for the body to recover from anemia. According to a study, 1/2 cup of spinach supplies nearly 35% of your daily iron and 33% of your daily folic acid requirements. Follow either of the following recipes for at least one month.
Method 1:
Mix 2 tsp. of honey in a cup of fresh spinach juice.
Then, drink this juice once per day.
Method 2:
Firstly, have a cup of spinach and then add a little water to puree it.
Heat 1 tsp. of olive oil in a saucepan, sauté a few chopped onion and garlic until brown.
After that, add a little bit of salt and the pureed spinach to the saucepan.
Cook on low heat for about 5-10 minutes.
Enjoy this spinach soup twice per day
10. Dried Black Currant
Due to its high contents of vitamin C and iron, dried black currant can be used to treat anemia naturally at home. Vitamin C helps improve the iron absorption, thereby increasing the hemoglobin levels and red blood cells. Now, if you want to make use of dried black currant as an anemia treatment, you can take the following steps:
Directions:
Soak 10-12 dried black currants in a bowl of water and leave it on overnight.
The next morning, remove these black currants from the water and then remove these seeds.
Then, consume them daily before having breakfast.
Use this home remedy for several weeks.
11. Fenugreek
According to a research about amazing herbs for managing with anemia [3], fenugreek is rich in iron, which will help you maintain the iron levels in your blood and boost the formation of new red blood cells. You can use both the seeds and leaves of fenugreek to treat the symptoms of anemia. Simply, you can cook a cup of rice along with 2 tsp. of fenugreek seeds. After that, you add a little bit of salt and consume it once per day for 2-3 weeks. Alternatively, you can also add fenugreek leaves to your soups or salads.
12. Wheatgerm
Another natural way on how to treat anemia in babies and adults during pregnancy is using wheatgerm, which is highly recommended for anemia symptoms. Wheatgerm is a powerhouse of iron and zinc, so there is no wonder that wheatgerm can be used to treat anemia. Here is a recipe to help you make a homemade iron tonic using wheatgerm.
Directions:
Mix 1 tbsp. each of wheatgerm, blackstrap molasses, Brewer’s yeast and canola oil in ½ cup of orange juice.
Use this wheatgerm iron tonic 2-3 times per day.
13. Dates
Dates are rich in iron and vitamin C, both of which help with the iron absorption. You just need to soak 2 dates in milk overnight and consume it on an empty stomach the next morning. Alternatively, you can consume some dry dates along with a cup of warm milk on an empty stomach.
14. Tomatoes
Tomatoes are rich in lycopene and vitamin C, which is required for the body’s ability to absorb iron. You just need to consume 1-2 raw tomatoes, drink a cup of tomato juice or include them in your soups, salads or sandwiches. Actually, tomatoes are known as one of the best ways on how to treat anemia in adults and babies during pregnancy that you should not look down.
15. How To Treat Anemia – Parsley
Parsley has high contents of folic acid and iron. A 100g serving of parsley provides 5.5mg of iron and 1 tbsp. of this dried herb can offer 10% of your daily iron requirement. Addition to this, its high content of vitamin C also helps with iron absorption. You can add some parsley to your salads, sandwiches, soups, stews, sauces and gravies. Alternatively, you can try making parsley tea by steeping some parsley leaves in a cup of hot water for a few minutes. Add 1 tsp. of honey to the herbal tea if necessary and drink it twice or thrice per day.
16. Liver
Organ meat like liver is known as a powerhouse of iron, which is a essential nutrient required for treating anemia. Consuming liver can meet 16- 85% of your daily requirement of iron, depending on what kinds of liver you are eating. Raw chicken liver is the richest source of iron. Addition to this, liver is also a great source of B vitamins, copper, zinc and phosphorus. Nonetheless, it is also very important to consume organ meats of those animals that are not treated with antibiotics, hormones and commercial feed. So, if you are diagnosed with anemia, you should include liver in your diet plan in order to increase the iron level in your blood.
When purchasing liver, you should take note the following things:
Patients who have high blood pressure should not eat liver too much in order to avoid cardiovascular disease.
Avoid eating pig liver along with vitamin C- rich foods.
Pregnant women should avoid eating pig liver frequently.
17. Grape
Grapes are rich in vitamins, iron, magnesium and amino acids, which make them a great home remedy for anemia. Addition to this, consuming grapes also helps detoxify your body and increase blood regeneration. Especially, for pregnant women, grapes provide the fetus with the essential nutrients, and they also help the mother have better blood circulation.
However, after consuming grapes, you should avoid drinking plenty of water. Also, you do not consume grapes with milk and seafood because this can cause abdominal pain, diarrhea and vomiting. After consuming grapes, you have to clean your teeth to avoid tooth erosion.
18. Black Raisins
In regard to learning how to treat anemia at home, using black raisins may be a great solution for you. Raisins are a great source of essential nutrients including sodium, calcium, potassium, fiber, protein and iron. About 100g serving of these dried grapes can offer 1.88mg of iron.
Directions:
Firstly, soak 8-15 raisins in ½ cup of water overnight
The next morning, add 1 tsp. of honey and consume it
19. Bottle Gourd Soup
One of the best treatments for how to treat anemia in adults and babies during pregnancy that has been used by anemia patients is using bottle gourd soup. This soup can help cure anemia caused by nutritional deficiencies. And, if you want to make this soup at home, you can follow the instructions below:
Directions:
Firstly, take 2 glasses of water in a pan
Cut a bottle gourd in pieces and place them in the pan
Add a cup of chopped spinach and beetroot to this water.
Bring it to a boil until the vegetables become soft.
Then, take out the soup and consume it daily.
20. Salmon
Salmon is rich in essential vitamins, minerals and unsaturated fatty acids, making it one of the best foods in the world. For the anemic patient, salmon is one of the best foods that should not be ignored because it can contain up to 0.7% iron. Salmon is often eaten raw, so you should opt for a clean food source. Each person should only eat 140- 560g of salmon a week. Pregnant women should not eat over 280g a week.
21. Seafood
Seafood is high in zinc, zinc, vitamin B12 and amino acids that help increase the red blood cell production; therefore, this is a great food source for anemic patients. In seafood, oysters are the richest source of iron with about 13mg of in 85g oysters. Next, shrimp, crabs, mussels, and mackerel are also other great options. Moreover, the seafood is also rich in vitamin B12. We all know that the vitamin B12 deficiency is also a cause of anemia.
Despite of being very nutritious, the seafood also comes with a few health risks. Therefore, when choosing seafood as a anemia treatment, you need to take note the following things:
Do not steam or boil frozen seafood.
Do not drink beer and consume seafood at the same time
Do not drink tea and eat fruits after eating seafood.
Do not consume seafood combined with vitamin C-rich foods
Do not consume seafood that is dead or has been processed for long time.
22. How To Treat Anemia – Pumpkin
When it comes to learning how to treat anemia at home, you should remember that ripe pumpkin can work wonders thanks to its high contents of catechin, carotenes, zinc and iron. You can use pumpkins in many delicious dishes. However, when consuming pumpkin, you need to take note:
Do not store cooked pumpkin in the freezer
Just consume pumpkin once or twice a week
People suffering from gastrointestinal disorders should limit their intake of pumpkin.
23. Cereals
This remedy is one of the best home remedies for anemia. Cereals are among healthy food groups, they are guaranteed to be non-weight gain and age-appropriate. Also, you do not forget that cereals because they are rich in iron and carbohydrates, which are necessary for healthy body. Also, cereals offer iron, healthy fats as well as vitamins to help with the functioning of muscle groups, thereby reducing the risk of anemia caused by nutritional deficiencies. If you suffer from anemia and need to take iron supplements, the cereals will be your right choice.
24. Egg
This is another natural treatment for how to treat anemia at home. Chicken eggs contain many essential nutrients such as vitamin D, A, B1, and B12. Besides, chicken eggs consist of lecithin, which help regulate cholesterol and simultaneously remove cholesterol from your body.
Although eating eggs is very good for health, many people do not know how to eat them properly. Children should consume eggs carefully, depending on their age. Adults should only consume 3-4 eggs per week. For pregnant people, they should not consume eggs too much. Besides, it is also not good for you to eat raw eggs. Instead, it is best to consume boiled eggs to make sure that all of the nutrients such as lipids, protein, vitamins and minerals are lost at least.
25. Potatoes
Other great ways on how to treat anemia during pregnancy must include using potatoes. Potatoes are rich in iron, which are necessary for the healthy body. About 100g of potatoes offers up to 3.2mg of iron. You can use potatoes frequently in your cooking, such as steamed, stir-fried or boiled. You should not use the fries because it can have more saturated fat from the oil.
26. How To Treat Anemia – Carrots
Carrots contain the large amount of beta-carotene, which is good for eyes and body. Besides, the high contents of vitamins and minerals such as folic acid, iron, calcium, potassium, phosphorus and magnesium in carrots are also very good for our body. These nutrients help promote metabolism and proper blood circulation.
27. Dark Green Vegetables
Dark green vegetables are rich in iron and vitamins A, C, K, making them a great home remedy for anemia. You can choose any of the following veggies to treat anemia:
Broccoli: It is rich in fiber and iron, which helps improve the hemoglobin levels in the blood. Besides, broccoli also contains vitamins A, C and magnesium
Celery: It is effective in reducing the heat in the body. Besides, it is also high in amino acids, zinc and iron and essential vitamins that help improve appetite, improve the nervous system, prevent insomnia and increase blood circulation.
28. Beef
Beef contains many essential nutrients like vitamin B6, B12, zinc, protein, and magnesium. Besides, beef is also rich in iron, which is responsible for transporting oxygen to the muscles, making your body have full of energy. The only thing you need to do is to consume beef in moderation to provide your body with enough nutrients. Generally, a normal person should only consume less than 300-500g of beef weekly.
29. Beans
Beans, such as red beans, black beans and green beans, have high content of iron. Also, they are high in molybdenum, which is essential for iron absorption. Nonetheless, beans also have phytic acid, which can negatively affect the absorption of iron. In order to reduce the effect of phytic acid, you can soak beans in a bowl of warm water overnight before using.
There are other great ways on how to treat anemia at home that we will mention in this article. Therefore, you should keep both of your eyes on this interesting article and then try to apply one or more of these remedies for good.
30. Strawberries And Raspberries
To treat anemia, you can consider including strawberries and raspberries in your diet plan. Both of the strawberries and raspberries are rich in antioxidants, folate, fiber, zinc and vitamin C, so they can help strengthen the immune system and prevent anemia. Actually, these fruits are known as great remedies on how to treat anemia in adults and babies at home that you should not look down, yet try to make use for good.
31. Ash Gourd
According to a study about ash gourd benefits [4], ash gourd has been used as a traditional medicine to treat many medical conditions. Containing calcium, iron, phosphorus, zinc and vitamin C, ash gourd can be used to cure the weakness caused by anemia. There are a few simple ways to use ash gourd to cure your anemia.
Method 1:
Take 1 tsp. of ash gourd powder with a glass of buttermilk
Reapply this treatment once per day
Method 2:
Firstly, peel 1kg of ash gourd and then remove the soft pulp along with the seeds
Cut the ash gourd into a few 1-2 inch pieces.
Next, make tiny holes in these pieces with the help of a fork
Add enough water to a pan and bring it to a boil
Then, add the ash gourd pieces to the boiling water and wait for about 5 minutes.
Take out the gourd pieces and then drain out the excess water.
Add 700g of sugar to the gourd pieces and cook them together for 30 minutes.
When the sugar dissolves, reduce heat and keep cooking gourds in sugar syrup on medium heat.
Keep stirring until the sugar syrup becomes a consistency
After that, leave the sweetened ash gourd pieces for about 7 hours before placing them on a strainer so that the sweet is dry and extra syrup is drained.
Consume 1-2 ash gourd pieces daily to treat anemia
32. Whole Grains, Nuts And Legumes
Whole grains, nuts and legumes are great food sources of iron and folic acid. Here are some tips that you need to take note when consuming these foods:
Consume legumes such as kidney beans, green peas, lima beans, pinto beans and chick peas.
Consume pulses and wholegrain cereals
Consume nuts such as almonds, peanuts and walnuts.
33. Yellow Dock
Yellow dock can be used to prevent and treat anemia caused by iron deficiency. Although yellow dock is not rich in iron, it can help increase iron absorption by the body. This means that this herb cannot cure anemia by itself, but when combined with other herbs that have high contents of iron and other necessary nutrients, this herb can work wonders
Directions:
Firstly, take 5-6 cups of water in a pot.
Add 1 tsp. each of yellow dock root, stinging nettle herb, Chinese Angelica root, peony root, and red clover to the pot.
Simmer it for about 30-40 minutes while keeping the pot covered
Then, add 2-3 tbsp. molasses to that decoction.
Have a cup of this herbal decoction 3 times per day.
Note: If you feel that this herbal decoction is too strong, add some water and honey to the decoction before having it.
34. Warm Lemon Water
Citrus fruits like lemon are rich in vitamin C, which helps prevent and treat anemia. You can start your new day with a cup of warm lemon water added some honey. Actually, this simple home remedy is considered as one of the greatest ways on how to treat anemia in adults and babies at home that you should try out!
35. How To Treat Anemia – Drumsticks
Here is the last way on how to treat anemia in adults and babies at home that we want to mention in this article and want all of my readers who are struggling with anemia symptoms to apply for good. A steamed drumstick sambar will help you treat anemia caused by nutrient deficiencies. In case you find difficult to cook this vegetable, you can simply extract its juice and then gulp it down.
Apart from home remedies for anemia as we mentioned above, you can apply some of the following tips:
Be exposed to early morning sunlight for about 10 minutes on a daily basis.
Take a warm water bath combined with some Epsom salt several times a week.
Exercise regularly to fight fatigue and increase muscle mass.
Consume manganese- rich foods such as legumes, whole grains, eggs, nuts and pineapple.
Consume foods that is rich in potassium [5] such as bananas, broccoli, vegetables, sunflower seeds, kiwi, whole grains, dried fruits, etc.
After reading this interesting article, we hope that you can get some necessary information to struggle with anemia symptoms at home. If you have any concerns about these remedies or you know other effective ways on how to treat anemia during pregnancy, remember to write to us in the comment section below. We will try to reply to you as soon as possible.
Diet Plan Foods For Health Pregnancy
Share this Story
Previous Post38 Home Remedies for Stomach Ache & Bloating in Infants, Babies, & AdultsNext Post 17 Tips How to Stop Cravings by Eating the Foods Your Body Really Wants
Related Posts
20 Tips How to Make Detox Water for Skin & Weight Loss at Home
October 31, 2018
15 Tips How to Reduce Overweight and Obesity Naturally after Delivery in a Week
October 31, 2018
Let’s Discover 11 Simple Tips for Better Sexual Health in the New Year
October 21, 2018
Top 12 Things Most Doctors Do Not Tell You About Sexual Health
October 20, 2018
Top 10 Simple Tips for Sexual Health and Sex Advice for Christmas
October 19, 2018
Sexual Healthcare for Men – Top 7 Facts that You Should Check out!
October 16, 2018
15 Important Things a Doctor Wants Women to Know about Their Sexual Health
October 16, 2018
13 Most Googled Sexual Health Questions and Answers You Should Know
October 14, 2018
Top 17 Simple Tips How to Increase Blood Flow to Penis Naturally
October 12, 2018
Let’s Discover Top 21 Secrets Sexual Health Nurses Will Never Tell You
October 9, 2018
Sexual Health Information for Teens – Top 14 Tips for Teenagers
October 6, 2018
27 Tips How to Treat Edema in Face, Hands, Arms, Feet, Legs, & Knee Naturally
October 5, 2018
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Popular Posts
Top 22 Best Beauty Tips for Men Facial and Body Skin
February 21st, 2017
Try 18 Power Tips How to Make Your Penis Bigger Naturally at Home right NOW!
December 13th, 2017
Top 34 Tips On How To Improve Skin Naturally With Oils
February 8th, 2017
20 Best Homemade Face Masks for Blackheads and Acne Breakouts
May 11th, 2017
10 Best Tips on How to Get Dimples Naturally for Adults and Babies
May 25th, 2017
Recent Posts
23 Tips How to Get Rid of Frizzy Hair Fast Naturally for Men & Women
November 5th, 2018
8 Best Natural Homemade Cleansers for Oily Skin and Large Pores
October 31st, 2018
18 Tips How to Use Apple Cider Vinegar for Blackheads and Whiteheads Treatment
October 31st, 2018
20 Tips How to Make Detox Water for Skin & Weight Loss at Home
October 31st, 2018
15 Tips How to Reduce Overweight and Obesity Naturally after Delivery in a Week
October 31st, 2018
Related Posts
15 Tips How to Reduce Overweight and Obesity Naturally after Delivery in a Week
October 31, 2018
10 Tips How to Whiten Yellow Teeth from Smoking Fast Overnight Naturally
October 30, 2018
17 Tips on How to Put Baby to Sleep in Crib Fast after Feeding at Night
October 30, 2018
27 Tips How to Treat Edema in Face, Hands, Arms, Feet, Legs, & Knee Naturally
October 5, 2018
15 Best Workable Natural Home Remedies for Pilonidal Cysts that Worth Trying!
September 30, 2018
19 Best Ayurvedic Home Remedies for Painful Urination with Blood
September 30, 2018
13 Tips How to Remove Age Spots on Face, Hands, Arms, & Legs Naturally
September 30, 2018
16 Tips How to Treat Back Pain after a Fall, while Pregnant, & During Periods
September 30, 2018
Tags
Back Pain Beauty Advice Body Skin Care Diabetes Diet Plan Facial Skin Care Facial Skin Issues Fitness & Exercises Foods For Health Foods For Kids hair Hair & Scalp Issues Hair Care Hair Growth Hair Loss Hair Masks & Nutrients heart Kidney Health Kid’s Health Mental Health Men’s Health natural remedies nutr Nutrition Facts Nutrition For Beauty pain Pregnancy Recipes Sexual Health Skin Care Skin Disorders Skin Tightening Skin Whitening stress weight Weight Loss Women's Health Yoga
Copyright 2015-2019 HealthyGuide.com | All Rights Reserved
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok