Is there any truth in the advice that you should feed a cold and starve a fever? - BabyCenter India
Advertisement
Log in Sign up
Baby
All Baby Newborn care Bonding with your baby Daily care Breastfeeding Growth and development Baby health Vaccines and immunisation Colic and crying Injuries and accidents Baby illnesses and conditions Teething and dental care Mosquito borne diseases
Coughs, colds and flu
Digestion problems Eyes and ears Rashes and skin conditions Allergies and asthma Health problems from birth Caring for your sick baby Safety and first aid Baby sleep Shopping for your baby Formula feeding Starting baby food Baby calendar Is it safe? Is it normal? Babycare: is it true...? New dads Seasonal Care Baby games and play Your premature baby Twins and more Baby slideshows Baby videos
See less
Advertisement
Community groups
BabyCenter photo contest Birth Clubs Birth stories My baby journal Babies Baby names See all baby groups
Home Baby Baby health Coughs, colds and flu
Question
Is there any truth in the advice that you should feed a cold and starve a fever?
Answer
The BabyCenter India editorial team
Our panel of health writers.
There may be a grain of truth to this saying, backed up by common sense.
Fevers tend not to last very long, no more than a day or two. When you have a fever, you often don’t feel like eating and don’t have a big appetite. Colds, on the other hand, can last for a week or longer, so if you feel like eating but don’t eat, you could be left feeling very weak and unwell.
In one very small study, researchers found that eating boosts the immune response that attacks cold viruses. They also found that fasting stimulates the response that attacks bacterial infections. These infections cause many fevers.
However, it is hard to tell whether fevers are caused by a bacterial or viral infection. Many fevers, caused by the flu for example, are caused by a virus and not bacteria, so the evidence doesn’t exactly fit in with the theory. Also, the study was tiny, involving only six volunteers.
Later studies on mice suggest that there may be a scientific basis for “feeding” diseases like colds and flu that are caused by viruses, as well as for “starving” certain fever-inducing conditions caused by bacteria. But the study needs to be replicated in humans before we can say this is the case. So at the moment we have very little evidence either way.
If your child is hungry, don’t deny her food, even if she is unwell. The best advice is to always follow your child's appetite and cues. A sick child needs food for strength to fight the infection. But, don’t force a child who's not hungry to eat, as it may cause vomiting and diarrhoea. Just make sure she drinks plenty of fluids, to prevent dehydration.
Reviewed by Dr Saroja Balan, BabyCenter India's expert paediatrician.
Read more on:
Will steaming help my baby's blocked nose? How do I give her a steam?
Is it true that my child's immunity is weak if she catches a cold often?
Can my baby still have her vaccinations if she has a cough or cold?
Last reviewed November 2017
References
Huen SC, Luan HH, Yu S, et al. 2016. Opposing effects of fasting metabolism on tissue tolerance in bacterial and viral inflammation. Cell 8;166:1-14.
IAP Mumbai. 2015. FAQs on Seasonal Influenza (including A(H1N1) pdm09 aka 'Swine Flu. INDIAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS MUMBAI
NICE CKS. 2016. Common cold. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, Clinical Knowledge Summaries.
van den Brink GR, van den Boogaardt DE, van Deventer SJ, et al. 2002. Feed a cold, starve a fever? Clinical and diagnostic laboratory immunology. 1;9(1):182-3.
Show references Hide references
Track your baby’s development
It looks like you’re in the United States.
Register on babycenter.com instead.
Join now to receive free weekly newsletters tracking your baby’s development and yours throughout your pregnancy.
Enter your due date or child's birthday
dd12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031 mmJanFebMarAprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovDec yyyy20202019201820172016201520142013201220112010
Trying to conceive?
Enter your email address
Join now!
Privacy policy & terms
Comments
Log in or sign up to post a comment!
Laks6
25/12/14
QEe
Report violation
Advertisement
Join BabyCenter
Sign up to receive free emails and track your baby's development.
Join now!
You might also like
14 worst foods for baby: photos
How will I know if my baby's fever is due to the heat or an illness?
Top cold and flu myths - and the facts on keeping your child healthy
My baby has lost his appetite because of the heat. What can I do?
Childhood diseases and their vaccinations
Related topics
Babycare: is it true...?
Feeding your baby well
Caring for your sick baby
Most popular in Baby
Breastfeeding at night
10 reasons babies cry
Baby boy's growth chart: 0 to 12 months
Baby girl's growth chart: 0 to 12 months
First food recipes
Month-by-month baby development
Traditional ways to increase breastmilk supply
How to make baby's head round
Baby's stool: what's normal?
7 signs your child loves you
Community
TOP RESOURCES
Birth Clubs
Pregnancy forums
Parenting forums
Family life
Regional groups
Online Antenatal Classes
Photo contests
POPULAR GROUPS
Trying for a baby
Pregnancy
Birth stories
Baby names
Baby (0 - 12 months)
Breastfeeding
First time mums
Toddler (1 - 3 years)
See all in Community
Getting pregnant
TOP RESOURCES
How to conceive a baby
Ovulation calculator
How your cycle works
Stopping contraception
How long will it take to get pregnant?
9 steps to get pregnant fast
How soon can I take a pregnancy test?
What age gap is best between babies?
Top 10 signs of pregnancy
POPULAR TOPICS
Preparing for pregnancy
Baby making
Trying for a baby
Your diet and fertility
Fertility problems
Infertility treatments
See all in Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
TOP RESOURCES
Due date calculator
How big is your baby?
Diet plans timester by trimester
11 steps to a healthy pregnancy
Symptoms you shouldn't ignore
Sex in pregnancy
Baby name finder
POPULAR TOPICS
Early pregnancy
Fetal development week by week
Pregnancy health
Pregnancy diet and weight gain
Your baby's movements
Is it normal?
Baby name ideas
Labour and delivery
See all in Pregnancy
Baby
TOP RESOURCES
10 reasons babies cry
Foods to increase breastmilk
Best massage oils
Milestone chart (1 - 6 months)
Baby poo: what's normal?
Sleeping through the night
Starting solid foods: an overview
POPULAR TOPICS
Newborn care
Breastfeeding
Milestones
Baby's growth and weight
Vaccinations
Starting solid foods
Baby health
Baby sleep
See all in Baby
Toddler
TOP RESOURCES
11 ways to boost development
Milestone charts
Toddler meal plans
How to avoid tantrums
Toilet training: what works
Teaching respect
Toddlers and TV
Preparing for preschool
POPULAR TOPICS
Toddler nutrition
Development and growth
Teething
Toilet training
Teaching good behaviour
Toddler sleep
Games and play
See all in Toddler
Life as a parent
TOP RESOURCES
Recovering from a vaginal birth
Stitches and bruising after birth
Benefits of postnatal massage
10 ways to get more sleep
Sex after birth
Diet for healthy weight loss
Symptoms you shouldn't ignore
Postnatal urine leaks
POPULAR TOPICS
You after the birth
Your first 40 days
Recovery myths & truths
Postnatal fitness
Work and childcare
Life as a mum
Life as a dad
See all in Life as a Parent
हिंदी
TOP RESOURCES
शीघ्र गर्भवती होने के उपाय
गर्भवती होने में कितना समय लगता है?
गर्भावस्था के इन लक्षणों को न करें अनदेखा
शिशु की हलचल (बेबी मूवमेंट)
गर्भावस्था के दौरान संभोग (सेक्स)
स्तनपान करवाने की बेहतर मुद्राएं
बचपन की बीमारियां और उनके टीके
POPULAR TOPICS
गर्भधारण के प्रयास
क्या मैं गर्भवती हूं?
आपकी गर्भावस्था - सप्ताह दर सप्ताह
गर्भावस्था में आहार
शिशु का जन्म
मातृत्व के पहले 40 दिन
महीने दर महीने शिशु विकास
स्तनपान
See all in Hindi
Regional languages
TOP RESOURCES
ગર્ભાવસ્થા: ૩જો મહિનો
கர்ப்பம்: மாதம் 5
ਗਰਭ ਅਵਸਥਾ: ਮਹੀਨਾ 9
మీ చిన్నారి
बाळ: ६ महिन्यांचे
শিশু: 9 মাস বয়েস
ಮಗು: 1-ವರ್ಷದಲ್ಲಿ
POPULAR TOPICS
বাঙালি: বেবিসেন্টার এর পক্ষ থেকে দেওয়া অভিজ্ঞ তথ্য
मराठी: बेबीसेंटर कडून तज्ज्ञ माहिती
தமிழ்: லிருந்து நிபுணர் விவரங்கள் பேபி சென்டர்
ಕನ್ನಡ: ಬೇಬಿ ಸೆಂಟರ್ ನಿಂದ ತಜ್ಞರ ಮಾಹಿರಿ
తెలుగు: బేబీసెంటెర్ నుండి నిపుణుల సమాచారం
ગુજરાતી: બેબીસેન્ટર માંથી નિષ્ણાત માહિતી
ਪੰਜਾਬੀ: ਬੇਬੀਕੇਂਟਰ ਤੋਂ ਮਾਹਰ ਜਾਣਕਾਰੀ
اردو: بیبی سینٹر سے ماہر معلومات
See all in Regional languages
Video
TOP VIDEOS
आपकी गर्भावस्था - सप्ताह १-९
9 remedies for morning sickness
Inside pregnancy: weeks 21 - 27
How to help your baby be born
प्रसव और शिशु का जन्म
How to do tummy time with your baby
VIDEO COLLECTIONS
Pregnancy care
Inside pregnancy
गर्भस्थ शिशु की झलक
Pregnancy complaints
Prenatal yoga
Preparing for birth
Postnatal exercises
Baby care
Baby massage
See all in Video
Premium Sponsor
Premium Sponsor
ABOUT BABYCENTER INDIA
About us
Careers
Advertise with us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
GET HELP
Help Center
Contact us
Community Guidelines
Email Subscriptions
Account Details
Family Information
OTHER SITES
BabyCenter US
BabyCenter en Español
Arabia
Australia
Brazil
Canada
France
Germany
Malaysia
UK
Connect with us
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resource, delivered via email, and website.
Join now
Your BabyCenter team
We subscribe to the HONcode principles of the Health On the Net Foundation. Verify here.
All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2019 All rights reserved.
This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a doctor or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use.
This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use.
Support for your parenting journey. Delivered to your inbox.
My Baby This Week Newsletter
Keep up with your baby’s development with personalised weekly newsletters.
The BabyCenter Bulletin
Get the latest parenting news, plus expert advice and real-world wisdom.
Special Offers from Our Partners
Receive discounts, deals and parenting information from BabyCenter’s partners.