Home Remedies for Cold | Healthcare-Online
Healthcare-Online
Health Information, Just for Your Health.
Home
Exercise & Fitness
Beauty Tips
Digestive System
Pain Management
Drugs
Home >
Cold, Flue & Cough >
Home Remedies for Cold
Home Remedies for Cold
Everyone gets affected with the common cold. This is a nuisance and most often, leaves you feeling extremely discomforted. The common cold is an infection of the upper respiratory tract, usually caused by a virus. It results in a sore throat, runny nose, and a cough. Other symptoms of common cold include congestion, body aches, mild headache, sneezing, low-grade fever, watery eyes, etc. There are several cold remedies that can be considered for fast recovery.
Home Remedies for Cold
It is always beneficial considering home remedies for cold rather than medical attention especially if it does not cause severe discomfort.
1. Drink Plenty of Hot Fluids
Hot fluids help break up congestion, prevent dehydration, and moisten the throat. Drinking 8 – 10 ounces of water daily and other fluids such as herbal drinks and ginger ale is also recommended. Hot fluids help with nasal congestion and soothe the throat.
2. Inhale Steam
Steam inhalation is beneficial for congestion. Breathe in hot steam through the nose for best benefits. Steamy showers do the same as inhaling steam. They decongest the nose and moisten the nasal passages.
Watch the following video for a clear instruction of steaming as one of the most effective cold remedies:
3. Apply Hot Compresses
A hot compress can work wonders on your sinuses. You can either purchase a reusable hot pack at the drugstore or heat a damp washcloth for 30 seconds in the microwave.
4. Salt Water Gargle
This is one of the best cold remedies. The best gargling solution is warm, salt water. This can bring relief, although temporarily, to a sore throat. Dissolve ½ teaspoon salt in 8 ounces of warm water and gargle twice daily. The irritation in the throat can be remedied with tea containing tannin. Another solution to gargling is adding one tablespoon of raspberry leaves to two cups of hot water and mixing with one teaspoon of honey.
5. Take Supplements
Supplements such as Vitamin C and herbal medication such as Echinacea and goldenseal can provide a modicum of relief from the common cold.
6. Have Chicken Soup
Chicken soup works in two ways to help relieve the symptoms of a common cold. It acts as an anti-inflammatory agent and, although temporarily, speeds up the movement of mucus.
7. Use a Humidifier
A humidifier can keep your home moist which prevents viruses from thriving. However, make sure the humidifier is cleaned properly as mould, fungi and bacteria can accumulate and cause other unnecessary problems with unclean humidifiers.
8. Try Some Spicy Foods
Spicy foods are excellent foods sources for loosening the mucus stuck in the nose and throat. Capsaicin in hot peppers is similar to an ingredient found in many over-the-counter cough syrups.
9. Irrigate Your Nose
Add ¼ teaspoon salt and ¼ teaspoon baking soda to 8 ounces warm water. Gently squirt this solution into the nose using a bulb syringe. Repeat a few times. This is an excellent method of removing virus and bacteria particles from the nose and again one of the most commonly used home remedies for cold.
10. Rest and Warm Yourself
Resting your body when coming down with a cold enables the body to build up its immunity to the virus. The battle between the body and the virus can tax the body. Therefore, resting and keeping warm is essential among all cold remedies.
Similar Topics:
Flu Symptoms
Home Remedies for Runny Nose
When Is a Cold Contagious?
Same Category:
Popular Cold Remedies That Do Not Work
Flu Symptoms
When Is a Cold Contagious?
Categories:
Exercise & Fitness
Beauty Tips
Digestive System
Pain Management
Drugs
Food & Nutrition
Women's Health
Ear, Nose &Throat
Pregnancy
genetics
Metabolic Problems
Miscellaneous
Men's Health
Bone, Joint & Muscle
Brain & Nerves
Oral Health
Endocrine System
Allergy
Blood & Heart
Cold, Flue & Cough
Mental Health
Infections
Injuries & Poisoning
Skin, Hair & Nails
Children's Health
Cancer
Addiction
Relationships
Orthopedics
Tests and Procedures
Immune system
Respiratory System
Kidneys & Urinary System
Sleep Disorders
Pet
Eye Health
Related Tags:
cold
Home
CopyRight © WWW.HEALTHCARE-ONLINE.ORG. Last Updated 24 April, 2019.