Achilles Tendon Brace for Running - Help My Foot Pain
Skip to content
Home
Foot Health
Reviews
About
Disclamer
Home
Foot Health
Reviews
About
Disclamer
Achilles Tendon Brace for Running
April 9, 2019 June 5, 2018 by Kyle
Running and Achilles Tendon Soreness
So you love to run, but your Achilles Tendon is bothering you and maybe you have Achilles Tendonitis, you need an Achilles Tendon Brace for Running. A brace will help support your problematic Achilles Tendon.
We reviewed 4 different braces to see which Achilles tendon brace for running is the best. We chose the Cho-Pat Achilles Tendon Strap as the best Achilles tendon brace for running. The Cho-Pat Achilles Tendon Strap was the best all-round performer, by supporting the Achilles as well as helping to lessen any pain.
Achilles Tendonitis
The Achilles tendon is the largest tendon in the human body. It connects your heel bone to your calf muscles and is used when walking, running, and jumping. Achilles tendonitis occurs when the Achilles tendon becomes inflamed or aggravated. Achilles tendonitis occurs in the middle area of the tendon which is slightly above the heel, and typically affects athletes and younger individuals.
Achilles tendonitis can also occur in anyone, even people who are not active and occurs on the lower portion of the heel. It’s common for this tendon to get injured. It can be mild or moderate and feel like a burning pain or stiffness in that part of your leg. If the pain is severe, your Achilles tendon may be partially torn or completely ruptured.
I tend to fall into the second group these days. My achilles tendonitis usually hurts in the lower portion my heal and migrates from foot to foot depending on if I have been doing yard work or walking around my office.
What are the qualities of a good Achilles Tendon Brace for Running
A good brace will have many good qualities which are important to a runner with an Achilles injury or is suffering from Achilles tendonitis. Here are a few that we think are most important:
Adjustability
You need to be able to adjust the brace so that it fits the foot correctly as you engage in your exercise, in this case running. Being able to adjust brace will allow you to feel secure yet flexible while you are running.
Compression
A good Achilles tendon brace will have good compression. Compression is key to the recovery process and to help against further injury. Compression will guide the stabilization of the joints. This will help with the reduction of swelling and bruises. Also allowing good blood circulation to the area which will help in the healing process.
Comfort
Running can be a difficult activity. If you have a sore Achilles tendon, you will want the brace to be comfortable for those short jogs or longer running sessions.
Image
Title
Price
Prime
Buy
Cho-Pat Achilles Tendon Strap Buy Now
CROSSTRAP Achilles Strap by MDUB Buy Now
PowerLix Ankle Brace Compression Support Sleeve No Prime Logo Buy Now
Prices accurate as of:
Achilles Tendon Brace for Running In Depth
Name: Cho-Pat Achilles Tendon Strap
Specs:
The brace comes in 3 different sizes and two colors. Made in the USA.
Features:
Firm yet comfortable compression
Adjustable strap for max effectiveness
Stays in place
Helps reduce stress by gently lifting the heel
Name: CROSSTRAP Achilles Strap by MDUB
Specs:
The brace comes in 3 different sizes and two colors. Made with a neoprene blend.
Features:
Firm yet comfortable compression
Adjustable Cross strap creates more pressure on the sides and back of Achilles
Light and soft
Universal sizing
The brace can be used for other injuries such as shin splints, jumpers knee, and Patella Tendonitis
Name: Ankle Support Brace by ASOONYUM
Specs:
It’s a one size fits most brace. The brace is made of neoprene and has dual adjustable velcro straps.
Features:
Adjustable double straps offer strong ankle stabilization
Neoprene provides properly generated compression to reduce injury and swelling
One size fits most is good for men and women
Good for post-surgery recovery.
Name: PowerLix Ankle Brace Compression Support Sleeve
Specs:
Brace comes in 4 sizes and 2 colors. Made of tight-fitting breathable compression fabric.
Features:
Apply even pressure across the Achilles tendon to provide support and pain relief
Compression to help with joint stability and blood circulation
All day long wearability helps promote healing and recovery
What do People think about the top 5 Achilles Tendon Brace for Running
Name: Cho-Pat Achilles Tendon Strap
People like that the brace was designed in America with the Mayo Clinic
Most felt that it helped in recovery and running
Some thought the fit was small so they needed to go up a size
Most felt that it helped with relief from the Achilles tendon pain
Name: CROSSTRAP Achilles Strap by MDUB
Most felt the brace was good support for Achilles injuries
People felt like it was comfortable to wear will exercising and day to day activities
Some felt the brace could not be adjusted correctly causing looseness while using it.
A few people noted that the brace’s durability was not as good as some of the other braces in this category.
Name: Ankle Support Brace by ASOONYUM
Most agree that the brace is good for supporting the ankle and Achilles tendon.
People felt the that the one size fits most was nice and could fit most people without measurement.
Some felt the quality was lacking and the straps broke off.
Some felt the one size fit all was not correct and believe the brace was either too small for men and too big for women.
Name: PowerLix Ankle Brace Compression Support Sleeve
People appear to agree that this brace helps with ankle support and compression.
Most like the number of sizes and colors.
Some said the support was only moderate and would be good for lower degree injuries
Some felt that the sizing of the brace was a little small.
Which One Should You Get?
So which brace should you get? Each of the four braces we reviewed was pretty good at supporting the Achilles. Helping make you feel more stable in your day-to-day activities. If you are searching for the Best Achilles Tendon Brace for Running you want a brace that has:
Adjustability
Compression
Comfort
In this case, you couldn’t go wrong with any of these picks, but in our opinion, the Best Achilles Tendon Brace for Running was the Cho-Pat Achilles Tendon Strap . We just felt it met each of the criteria that are important for an Achilles tendon brace to have. If you are having Achilles tendon pain, it is important to see a doctor for a checkup. You deserve to feel better and get back to your day-to-day activities. With the right care and treatment plan, you will be back on health feet in no time.
Cho-Pat Achilles Tendon Strap
MEDICALLY PROVEN - Developed in cooperation with the Mayo Clinic, the patented strap is widely used by many sports medicine professionals who recognize it as an effective addition to the traditional treatment procedures for Achilles Tendonitis
PROVIDES EFFECTIVE RELIEF - Decreases tensile forces placed upon the Achilles tendon & promotes an early heel rise which helps reduce stress placed on the tendon
ADJUSTABLE WITH CONSISTENT SUPPORT - Firm, yet provides comfortable compression. Comfort straps provide a perfect fit while staying in place
IDEAL FOR ATHLETES - Running, football, jumping, basketball, volleyball, soccer, & track
MADE IN U.S.A.
View on Amazon
Prices/Images/Reviews pulled from the Amazon Product Advertising API on:
Product prices and availability are accurate as of the date/time indicated and are subject to change. Any price and availability information displayed on the respective Amazon site that you are redirected to at the time of purchase will apply to the purchase of this product.
Other resources:
If you have an Achilles tendon injury check out Best brace for Achilles tendon injury
If you have Achilles tendonitis you might want go over and read Best Ankle Brace for Achilles Tendonitis
Have you heard of KT Tape, you might want to check out this article KT Tape for Plantar Fasciitis Review . I have personally used KT Tape to help my Achilles Tendonitis, and seems to have helped greatly.
Remeber RICE .
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Related
Categories ReviewsTags achilles, achilles brace, achilles tendon brace for running, running	Post navigation
KT Tape for Plantar Fasciitis Review
Best Foot Massager for Plantar Fasciitis
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name Email Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Product Highlight
Best Walking Boot for Plantar Fasciitis
Learn more
Recent Posts
Rigid Ankle Braces for Maximum Support
Best Rigid Ankle Brace
Alternative Crutches Help Ease the Pain
Alternative to Crutches for Foot Injury
Massaging Your Way Out of Foot Pain
Follow Me
Facebook
Pinterest
Disclaimer
HelpMyFootPain is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, and as an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases. Amazon Associates is an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites
© 2019 Help My Foot Pain • Powered by GeneratePress
Home
Reviews
Foot Health
About
Disclamer
Close