front Archives - Windhorse Naturopathic Clinic
Windhorse Naturopathic Clinic
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Our Doctors and Staff
Appointments, Directions, Contact Info
Specialty Services
Infrared Sauna
Colon Hydrotherapy
front
Colon Hydrotherapy, An Alternative Choice for Colonoscopy Preparation
Posted on November 5, 2018 November 5, 2018 by Emily Maiella
Usually, colonoscopy screening has you fasting for 24 hours, and drinking a vast amount of liquid laxatives the night before your test. This is typically not everyones’s favorite day. However, there is a complementary method specifically designed to prepare your colon for a colonoscopy! Colon Hydrotherapy involves gentle infusions of warm water into […]
Weekly Colon Hydrotherapy Wisdom
Posted on October 17, 2018 October 17, 2018 by Emily Maiella
Let talk about Peristalsis, Serotonin and SSRI’s…. Peristalsis is the wave-like action of the smooth muscles within your gastrointestinal tract. This wave helps to move food down through your digestive tract, and prevents food from coming back up. It’s a beautiful event that your body does for you. Well, why is mine not working? Boost […]
Now Accepting NEW Primary Care Patients!
Posted on September 7, 2018 October 15, 2018 by Emily Maiella
Dr. Laila Tomsovic is now accepting new primary care patients contracted with Vermont Medicaid, Cigna and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Vermont.
Colon Hydrotherapy and Detox Programs now Offered!
Posted on May 17, 2017 May 23, 2017 by Emily Maiella
We are excited to announce that the Windhorse Naturopathic has added a state of the art, FDA-regulated, Colon Hydropathy machine, operated by Kimberly Rankin, CMT. Kimberly and the staff at the clinic offer guided detoxification and colon cleansing, in a comfortable and relaxed setting. See our website for details!
Tick Bite Protocol
Posted on March 6, 2016 March 6, 2016 by Emily Maiella
1. Promptly remove with tweezers or tick spoon. Pull the tick out perpendicularly to the skin. Do not aggravate the tick. Pull gently and swiftly. Do not apply Vaseline or any other agent (including lighting it on fire) prior to removal. However, you may apply some antibacterial ointment to the area after removal.
Pages
Patient Forms
Lyme Disease
Articles and Handouts
Updates & Useful
Colon Hydrotherapy, An Alternative Choice for Colonoscopy Preparation
November 5, 2018
Usually, colonoscopy screening has you fasting for 24 hours, and drinking a vast amount of liquid laxatives the night before your test. This is typically not everyones’s favorite day. However, there is a complementary …Read More »
Weekly Colon Hydrotherapy Wisdom
October 17, 2018
Let talk about Peristalsis, Serotonin and SSRI’s…. Peristalsis is the wave-like action of the smooth muscles within your gastrointestinal tract. This wave helps to move food down through your digestive tract, and prevents food from …Read More »
Now Accepting NEW Primary Care Patients!
October 15, 2018
Dr. Laila Tomsovic is now accepting new primary care patients contracted with Vermont Medicaid, Cigna and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Vermont.Read More »
Colon Hydrotherapy and Detox Programs now Offered!
May 23, 2017
We are excited to announce that the Windhorse Naturopathic has added a state of the art, FDA-regulated, Colon Hydropathy machine, operated by Kimberly Rankin, CMT. Kimberly and the staff at the clinic offer guided detoxification …Read More »
Tick Bite Protocol
March 6, 2016
1. Promptly remove with tweezers or tick spoon. Pull the tick out perpendicularly to the skin. Do not aggravate the tick. Pull gently and swiftly. Do not apply Vaseline or any other agent (including lighting …Read More »
Patient Portal
Patient Portal
©2017 WIndhorse Naturopathic Inc., Brattleboro, VT