How to Effectively Remove Scars From the Legs | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Skin Care
Scars
How to Effectively Remove Scars From the Legs
Heather Topham Wood
About the Author:
Heather Topham Wood
Heather Topham Wood is a seasoned writer whose work has appeared in numerous publications, including USA Today, Gadgetell, Feel Rich and Step in Style. Heather is a published novelist with six Amazon bestsellers and a contract through Crescent Moon Press. She holds a bachelor's degree in English from TCNJ.
View Full Profile
Scars on the legs can be difficult to hide, especially during the summer months. You may feel self-conscious about wearing shorts or swimwear if scars appear on the legs. For minor scars, you can use home remedies to get rid of them or at least reduce their appearance. However, severe keloid and hypertropic scarring need to be removed through medical intervention.
Close-up of a doctor using a laser to remove scars from a woman's leg. (Image: ElenaChervyakova/iStock/Getty Images)
Step 1
Try an over-the-counter scar removal product. There are creams available that can help get rid of scarring you may have on the legs. One popular brand is Mederma. Apply a small amount of the topical ointment to the scar. After several weeks of use, you should notice a reduction in the appearance of the scar.
Step 2
Use a lotion containg vitamin E. Vitamin E is a common ingredient in scar removal products. Apply a lotion to the leg scars every day. As an example, you can try Palmer's Cocoa Butter with Vitamin E. The lotion aids in moisturizing the skin to reduce the appearance of scars.
Step 3
Make an appointment with a dermatologist or plastic surgeon to discuss options to remove scars on the legs, if home treatment is ineffective. During your initial consultation, the doctor examines the scar and discusses the risks and benefits of each treatment option.
Step 4
Undergo medical therapy to remove leg scars. Steroid injections may be first recommended to help flatten the appearance of the scar. Filler injections are used on sunken scars. Surgical excision, dermabrasion and laser resurfacing are techniques that can also remove scars on the legs. During surgical excision, the scar on the leg is cut from the leg. Dermabrasion resurfaces the skin of the leg to decrease the size of the scar. Laser resurfacing uses concentrated light energy to remove layers of the skin that house the scar.
Things You'll Need
Scar removal ointment
Vitamin E lotion
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Medline Plus: Scars
Cleveland Clinic: Scars
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Permanently Remove Hair on the Legs
2
The Calories in a Turkey Leg
3
How to Get Rid of Cellulite on the Legs Fast
4
How to Get Rid of Leg Acne
5
How to Broil or Bake a Leg of Chicken
6
How to Bake a Turkey Leg
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.