7 First Aid Mistakes You've Been Making That Actually Make It Worse
Toggle navigation
Search
Go!
Trending
Celebrity
Did You Know
Food
Shared Deals
Shop
About Us
About Us
Our Values
Careers
Terms of Service
DMCA
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Disclosures
facebook
pinterest
instagram
twitter
youtube
snapchat
Health | Did You Know
7 First Aid Mistakes You've Been Making That Hurt More Than They Help
By Tanya | Aug 22, 2018
Flickr-KOMNews
facebook
Toggle navigation
facebook
pinterest
twitter
google plus
When you get a minor injury, you might think you know what to do about it. But here's the thing, a lot of us have been doing our basic first aid all wrong.
Whether it's the tricks our grandma taught us, or what they used to do in school, it turns out that they weren't always doing what was actually the best option, even though they thought it was.
There are a few things you've been doing all this time that have probably been detrimental to your recovery. Here are the first aid myths we've all been believing.
MYTH: Lean your head back when you have a nosebleed
Pixabay - Mojpe
We've all done it to try and stop the blood from dripping out of your nose, but it's actually really bad.
Doing this will cause the blood to drip back down your throat and can make you choke or get blood in your stomach.
What to do instead:
Instead of leaning back, lean forward while you pinch the bridge of your nose. Most nosebleeds should stop within ten minutes, if not, head to the ER after packing it with a tampon.
Pinching the bridge of the nose should help slow the blood flow, but even though it's kind of gross, it's better to have the blood drip forward than back!
MYTH: Put something in a seizing person's mouth to stop them from biting their tongue
Flickr - Media Digest
There is a rumor that when someone is having a seizure you should try to put a wallet or belt in their mouth to clamp their teeth down on, but that's super dangerous.
They won't be able to bit off their tongue during an epileptic fit, even if they do bite it a little bit. But the strain you cause from forcing their mouth open or depending on what you put in their mouth can cause a lot of issues for their teeth.
What to do instead:
Instead of blocking their mouth at all, try to make sure their are no obstructions in the way and try to put something soft under their head to keep them safe from a concussion. Make sure someone calls 911, and if the seizure stops before the emergency services arrive, turn them on their side.
MYTH: Putting ice or butter on a burn
Flickr - Maria Gall
I've heard this one countless times, put butter on a burn and it'll stop stinging. Well, as it turns out, putting any kind of home remedies can actually trap the heat inside the burn and make it worse.
As for ice, the goal is to get your skin back to its usual temperature, and using ice will make it too cold, too quickly, and can be damaging.
What to do instead:
Run the burn under cool water for several minutes before you do anything else. After that, you can dress it with gauze before seeking medical care if it's serious enough. If it's a minor burn, you can apply antibiotic ointment after a little while, but don't rush it.
MYTH: If you cut the tip of your finger off, putting it in ice will save it
Pixabay
While it's partially true, the important thing is HOW you put it on ice. Say you're chopping veggies and slice off the tip of your finger, don't just throw it in a container full of ice.
What to do instead:
Instead, wrap the severed piece in gauze and place it in a watertight bag (like a Ziplock) before putting it on ice. That way, it's not going to get all the bacteria from the water embedded in it before it can be reattached.
MYTH: Wash out a tooth that was knocked out
Toshiyuki IMAI - Flickr
If you've been unlucky enough to loose one of your adult teeth, you know how annoying it is. But here's the thing, while you might think that washing it off is your best course of action, it's actually the wrong call.
What to do instead:
Instead of rinsing the tooth with water, put it in a cup of milk and head over to your nearest dentist as soon as you can. If you get there soon enough, there's a chance they can reattach the tooth if it's preserved properly.
MYTH: Use heat to treat a sprain
Esther Max - Flickr
While you might think that applying heat to what often feels like a strained muscle might help, it's actually going to do the opposite of what you want it to.
What to do instead:
Sprains are very different from strains, because while strains can be soothed by heat, sprains are actually made worse by heat. It'll actually make a sprain swell even more.
MYTH: If someone is bleeding you should always make a tourniquet
New York National Guard - Flickr
You always see characters in movies using a belt or shirt to cut off the circulation to a wound, but in reality, that can cause more harm than good.
What to do instead:
Instead of risking damage to the surrounding blood vessels, apply pressure with gauze instead of cutting off circulation completely. Bandage it up and elevate it while you seek medical attention.
Have you ever made any of these first aid mistakes?
Source - Reader's Digest / Brightside / Good Housekeeping / Newsweek
Tanya
http://www.throwbacks.com
twitter
Tanya has been writing for Shared for two years. She spends too much time thinking about dogs, Marvel movies, and ice cream. You can reach me at tanya@shared.com
Here at Shared we are putting emphasis on accuracy. Learn more about our standards and ethics policy here, and please report factual errors to corrections@shared.com
Related Articles
Trending | News | Weird
Man Urges Everyone To Wear Flip Flops After Suffering Second-Degree Burns
By Moojan | Jun 19, 2018
Wavy
Temperatures are rising so fast that your body doesn't have enough time to adapt to the changes. In Phoenix, Arizona right now, it's hot enough to make scrambled eggs on a concrete pavement during mid-day. If cooking eggs on the ground was sanitary, I would definitely do it to save on energy costs. On a hot day, there are a lot of places you'd expect to be scorching. For example, the metal part of your
Read More →
Life Hacks | Did You Know
10 Winter Driving Tips to Keep You Safe This Winter
By Emma | Jan 17, 2018
CK Law Review
This Winter has been the craziest we have seen in a long time. There is snow in states where there usually isn't, and even more snow in places that there usually is. No matter how much or how little snow there is on the ground, it is extremely important to take extreme caution when driving anywhere in the snow.Here's a list of 10 tips for driving in inclement weather conditions. 1. Avoid using cruise
Read More →
Did You Know | Shared Deals
Do you want to think clearer and be more productive? Try this!
By Mike | Apr 18, 2019
- It's a No-Brainer: Stimulate your brain, be more productive and think clearer with PlatoWork!- Developed by a team of neuroscientists from Denmark- It's safe, easy to use and connects with your smartphone- You can can get on board now by backing their IndieGogo CampaignEveryone routinely experiences brain fatigue and sometimes even a cup of coffee can't shake the feeling. You’re at work or studying and your brain just hits a mental wall.
Read More →
Health | Did You Know | News | Trending
Woman Feels No Pain Due To Rare Genetic Mutation
By Emma C | Apr 04, 2019
Sustaining a physical injury is never a good time. We don't like feeling pain, so we avoid injuries because they're nasty, uncomfortable things that make us late for dinner. Still, pain serves an important purpose that we rarely think about. Pain is a conversation our brains have with our bodies to let us know when to slow down, see a doctor, or something along those lines.But, injuries happen. About 22% of slip and fall
Read More →
Travel | Did You Know
Wilderness Safety: How to Have a Safe and Fun Camping Trip With Your Family and Dogs
By Emma C | Apr 01, 2019
Camping is one of the most popular and most fun family activities in the United States. Whether you're going across the country to a warmer area for a week-long camping trip or you're simply spending a night out in the woods behind your home, there is nothing like letting go of technology and relaxing outdoors. Americans love camping, but it's important that everyone is fully aware of how to stay safe while in the wilderness.
Read More →
Life Hacks | Family | Health | Did You Know
How to Furnish Your Home With Eco-Friendly, Low-Allergen Decor
By Emma C | Mar 27, 2019
Although today's consumer looks for convenience in the products and services they buy, they also want to make a difference in the world. According to a 2018 Architectural Digest report that cited data from West Elm, nearly "85% of millennials seek out responsibly sourced product." What's more, consumers may be more sensitive -- literally -- to the materials they use in their homes. Approximately 25 million Americans currently suffer from asthma, while allergies impact 50
Read More →
Popular
Trending
Breaking: Massive Fire At The Notre Dame Cathedral In Paris
By Emma C 3 days ago
Trending
We've Finally Got An Update On Harry And Meghan's Baby
By Donna 7 days ago
Trending
Jessa Duggar Shares Funny Prediction About Her Unborn Baby
By Donna 11 days ago
Trending
Sandra Oh Talks About Possible Return To "Grey's Anatomy"
By Donna 15 days ago
About Us DMCA Removal Privacy Policy Careers Connect with us Terms of Service
Shared.com © 2016 All Rights Reserved.