How to remove a tick safely – Caudwell LymeCo Charity
Skip to content
Caudwell LymeCo Charity
Fighting Lyme and Associated Diseases
Menu
Home
About Us
About Caudwell LymeCo Charity
Who We Are
How we Make a Difference
Donate & Support
DONATE NOW
Why Donate?
LifeLyme Membership
Lyme Awareness Month
Lymewalks 2019
The Bracelet Challenge
How can I get involved?
Thank You
Lyme Disease Info
Diagnosis, treatment & FAQ
Lyme Disease Children’s Treatment Dosages
Lyme Disease Key Facts and Statistics
Lyme Awareness & Education Talks
O’Tom Tick Twister Offer
Leaflets
Teaching resources
News
Contact
Patient Helpdesk
Media Contact
How to remove a tick safely
Instructions
1 . Do NOT DELAY removing the tick. Prompt removal reduces the risk of Lyme disease.
The longer ticks are attached, the higher the risk of catching Lyme disease.
2 . Use a tick remover tool or narrow, pointed tweezers if possible.
Never use blunt eyebrow tweezers. If you have no alternative, use long fingernails or scrape the tick off sideways using a credit card. This will leave the feeding parts embedded, but is less dangerous than risking Lyme disease.
3 . Lift straight upwards, pulling firmly and steadily. Do not squeeze the tick’s body.
If you don’t manage to get the feeding parts out, the bite could go septic but this is not Lyme disease.
4 . Disinfect the bite area and wash your hands with soap.
5. DO NOT put any substance on the tick.
Putting vaseline, nail varnish or any other substance on a tick, or distressing it in any way while feeding, will make it more likely to regurgitate Lyme disease bacteria into your body.
How do I remove a tick using tweezers?
You will need very narrow, pointed tweezers. Square-ended eyebrow tweezers are not suitable at all.
Close the tips around the tick’s feeding parts, underneath the body of the tick. Do NOT squeeze the body of the tick.
Lift the tick away from the skin vertically and intact. Pull, don’t yank.
Clean the area with alcohol disinfectant.
Suitable forceps or tweezers are used by dentists and you can buy them from Ebay or Amazon. They are called “cotton swab tweezers”. Only buy a pair with tips which taper into sharp points.
Watch this video for a demonstration of correct tick removal using tweezers:
How do I remove a tick using a tick tool?
Tick removers, sold online or from a pharmacy or vet, have various forms.
Whichever tick remover tool you buy, read the instruction for that particular tool carefully to make sure you know how to use it correctly.
Twisting tool
The O’Tom tick twister has undergone recent development and is now suitable for humans as well as pets.
They provide tools of two sizes – one for adult ticks and one for nypmh ticks. You may need a smaller, sharper tool for particularly small nymph ticks in early stages of development.
The instructions are to slide the tool beneath the tick and then rotate as if unscrewing the tick.
They also come as handy clip packs which you can attach to your clothing or rucksacks for ease of use.
For a special offer available to Caudwell LymeCo supporters, visit our Tick Twister page.
Slot tools
Some tools have a slot which you slide under the tick, to then prise the tool away from the skin. This includes the Lifesystems safecard.
Lassoo tools
Some tools have a tiny lassoo which you loop around the tick, and then pull it out. This includes the Trix Tick lassoo.
Claw tools
Some tools have claws which can be spread out and then closed together next to the skin, around the tick’s feeding parts. This includes the Care Plus Tick Out tool.
BEWARE of misinformation about tick removal online!
DO NOT do any of the following: burn the tick, smother the tick in Vaseline, rub around it with a cotton bud, squeeze the tick, stick tape over it, try to pull it out with ordinary eyebrow tweezers, or do anything to it while it is attached and feeding other than removing it as described above. Distressing a feeding tick will make it more likely to regurgitate Lyme disease bacteria into your body.
Sources and Further Information
“Tick bite prevention and tick removal” British Medical Journal Clinical Review
“Evaluation of Five Popular Methods for Tick Removal” Glen R. Needham
“The application of petroleum jelly, fingernail polish, 70% isopropyl alcohol, or a hot kitchen match failed to induce detachment of adult American dog ticks”
“It is recommended that the tick be grasped as close to the skin as possible with curved forceps; if these are not available, use tweezers or protected fingers. Pull straight up with steady even pressure.”
“Effect of Tick Removal on Transmission of Borrelia burgdorferi and Ehrlichia phagocytophila by Ixodes scapularis Nymphs” Franka des Vignes et al
“Risk of Infection with Borrelia burgdorferi sense lato for a Host in Relation to the Duration of Nymphal Ixodes ricinus Feeding and the Method of Tick Removal” O. Kahl et al
“All gerbils with ticks removed >- 47 hrs post-attachment were found to be infected. After 16.7 hrs as well as after 28.9 hrs of tick feeding, approximately 50% of the gerbils had acquired a transmissible infection, thus Bb-transmission to a host may even occur in the early phases of I. ricinus feeding.”
“Evaluation of three commercial tick removal tools” Richard L. Stewart at al
“Nymphal ticks were consistently removed more successfully with commercial tools when compared with tweezers but with more difficulty than adults were removed.”
But contrast this with:
“Evaluation of methods of tick removal in human ixodidiasis” Oteo JA et al
“With regard to the type of removal method and the development of complications, only three patients who had ticks pulled with tweezers experienced complications compared with 23 patients who used other methods (p = 0.0058). With regard to specific complications (LB and/or spotted fever) and/or development of B. burgdorferi or R. conorii infection significant differences were also observed when tweezers were used for removal of ticks compared with other tick removal methods (p < 0.05). CONCLUSION: The removal of ticks with tweezers significantly protects from the development of complications and infection by tick-borne microorganisms.”
DISCLAIMER: Caudwell LymeCo charity shares public domain information, which it believes to be reliable, in good faith. It should never replace the advice of a qualified physician with a license to practise medicine. If you believe any information on this website to be incorrect, you are invited to contact the charity using the Contact page.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Skype (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
SEARCH THIS SITE
Search for:
Follow Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
WANT UPDATES?
Sign me up!
LYME DISEASE INFORMATION
WHERE WE ARE
Caudwell LymeCo Charity
Broughton Hall
Broughton, Nr. Eccleshall
Staffordshire
ST21 6NS
Registered charity no: 1169342
Address
Caudwell LymeCo
The Coach House
Broughton Hall
Broughton, nr. Eccleshall
Staffordshire
ST21 6NS
UK
01630 620523
Mon - Fri, 9am - 5pm
Follow Us
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Caudwell LymeCo Charity
Registered charity no. 1169342
Caudwell LymeCo Charity was founded (1.) To promote the health of sufferers of Lyme disease and associated diseases and medical conditions in the UK and beyond (2.) To advance the education of the general public in all areas relating to Lyme disease and associated diseases by raising awareness, providing information and educational materials and disseminating research (3.) To promote, sustain and increase individual and collective knowledge and understanding on the subject of Lyme disease and associated diseases and medical conditions amongst medical professionals, healthcare providers and the scientific community.
News
Comments by Lyme disease patients on the NICE guideline
NHS Quality Standard for Lyme disease at Second Stage
LymeCo Survey Results: Is the NICE Guideline being followed?
What to do if you still feel ill after your Lyme disease treatment has finished
Case Study – patient shares rare symptoms of Lyme disease
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.