Migraine Headache and General Neurology News | Foods to Eat for Migraines | Purath Headache & Neurology Greenfield, Wisconsin
414.837.5656
414.837.5688
info@drtracipurath.com
Log in to
HOME
ABOUT US
HEADACHE TYPES
Migraines
Migraine with Aura
Migraine without Aura
Acephalgic or "Silent Migraine"
Abdominal Migraine
Basilar Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Ocular Migraine
Status Migraine
Transformed Migraine
Cluster Headaches
Sinus Headaches
Tension Headaches
Chronic Headaches
SYMPTOMS
TREATMENT OPTIONS
FAQ
SUCCESS STORIES
TESTIMONIALS
NEWS
CONTACT
Employment Opportunities
Download Patient Forms
News
Migraine Triggering Foods
More...
FAQ's
What are nerve blocks?
What is a rebound headache? What causes it, and how can I treat it?
More...
Foods to Eat for Migraines
Dr. Traci Purath understands headaches are a debilitating disease and your well-being is her number one focus. Traci’s has years of neurological experience providing patients with successful preventative measures and headache treatment options custom tailored to each individual patient. There are an ample amount of theories on the causes and cures for migraines headaches. The foods we eat and the foods we neglect play a significant role in migraine frequency and severity. Dr. Traci Purath develops a comprehensive migraine treatment plan for her patients, sometimes incorporating a customized diet plan. Here are a few guidelines on wise food choices which may reduce your migraine frequency or severity.
Vitamin B for Migraines
Vitamin B for migraines is found effective amongst migraine sufferers. Vitamin B (Riboflavin) protects cells from oxidative damage and is involved in energy production. When consumed correctly, Vitamin B has been known to reduce migraine headache frequency, naturally. Vitamin B can be absorbed through a vitamin supplement or through vitamin enriched foods including:
Liver
Beef
Lamb
Whole grains
Yogurt
Low-fat milk
Eggs
Almonds
Broccoli
Spinach
Magnesium for Migraine Prevention
Magnesium for migraines is another successful and natural source for preventing migraine headaches. Magnesium relaxes the nerves and muscles and transmits nerve impulses throughout the brain. Magnesium also prevents nerves from overexcitement. Overexcited nerves are one of many migraine triggers. The body does not produce magnesium and it must be absorbed through a supplement or magnesium enriched foods which include:
Pumpkins seeds
Spinach
Swiss
Sunflower seeds
Alaskan salmon
Soy beans
Black Beans
Drink Water to Relieve Migraines
Drinking plenty of water is a crucial in the prevention of migraine headaches. Dehydration is a common trigger for migraine headaches and drinking water regularly is essential for your body to function and rid itself of toxins. Drinking plain water is the best way to hydrate and eliminate excessive sugar or calorie intake.
Healthy Fats
Including healthy fats in your diet can aid in the prevention of inflammation which is a leading cause for migraine headaches. Healthy fats are found in omega-3 fatty oils which can be absorbed through a number of foods. Omega-3 fatty oils can be found in the following foods:
Olive oil
Eggs
Salmon
Walnuts
Flax seed
Combining a healthy diet and other healthy lifestyle choices will play a major role in finding migraine headache pain relief. Dr. Traci Purath draws from years of experience to develop a comprehensive migraine treatment plan including preventative measures based around your symptoms and lifestyle. Dr. Traci Purath’s vision of going above and beyond for her patients is now a reality with Purath Headache & Neurology, S.C.
Contact top Wisconsin headache and migraine specialist, Dr. Traci Purath and learn how feeling better IS possible.
HOME
ABOUT US
TESTIMONIALS
SUCCESS STORIES
FAQ
SYMPTOMS
TREATMENT OPTIONS
NEWS
CONTACT
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
DOWNLOAD PATIENT FORMS
Follow us on
414.837.5656
info@drtracipurath.com
Greenfield Clinic7701 W. Barnard Avenue Greenfield, WI 53220-4223
Copyright © 2019 Purath Headache & Neurology