Imitrex, Imitrex Side Effects, Imitrex Information
Text Size
Toll Free Tel:1-877-888-DRUG - Contact Us
How To Order
New Order
Refill Order
FAQ
Drug
Search
Alphabetical List A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
Rx Drug Search
OTC Drug Search
Member login
Lost your password?
New member sign up
Shopping
Cart
Item USD
Sub Total : $0.00
Place your mouse over each cart item to see full description.
Home
- Drug Categories
- About Us
- Contact Us
Chemical Name: Sumatriptan
Please select Dosage and Quantity
Product Manufacturer Country Dosage Quantity Price($USD)
Imitrex 2 Nasal-Spray per Pack GSK Canada 5 mg 1 $55.00
Imitrex 2 x 0.5ml STAT DOSE Cartridges GSK Canada 6 mg/0.5 ml 1 $179.00
Imitrex STAT DOSE Starter Kit (with 2 x 0.5ml Cartridges) GSK Canada 6 mg/0.5 ml 1 $189.00
Imitrex 5 x 0.5ml Injection Vials GSK Canada 6 mg/0.5 ml 1 $349.00
Imitrex 2 Nasal-Spray per Pack GSK Canada 20 mg 1 $59.00
Imitrex (Limited Stock) Brand Turkey 100 mg 6 $55.00
Imitrex GSK Canada 100 mg 6 $159.00
Imitrex Aspen Australia 100 mg 6 $159.00
Imitrex Aspen Australia 100 mg 12 $289.00
Imitrex (Limited Stock) Brand Turkey 100 mg 12 $95.00
Imitrex GSK Canada 100 mg 12 $309.00
Imitrex Aspen Australia 100 mg 30 $495.00
Sumatriptan Generic India 25 mg 15 $188.00
Sumatriptan Generic India 25 mg 30 $295.00
Sumatriptan Generic Canada 50 mg 18 $55.00
Sumatriptan Generic Canada 50 mg 24 $69.00
Sumatriptan Generic United Kingdom 50 mg 24 $245.00
Sumatriptan Generic Canada 50 mg 30 $79.00
Sumatriptan Generic Canada 100 mg 12 $85.00
Sumatriptan Generic Canada 100 mg 18 $95.00
Sumatriptan Generic Canada 100 mg 24 $105.00
Sumatriptan Generic United Kingdom 100 mg 24 $175.00
Sumatriptan Generic Canada 100 mg 30 $115.00
Imitrex Information:
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is used for the acute treatment of migraine attacks. Imitrex (Sumatriptan) does not prevent or reduce the number of migraine attacks you experience, but will help relieve them as they occur. The symptoms of migraines may be due to temporary swelling of blood vessels in the head and Imitrex (Sumatriptan) reduces the size of these blood vessels. Each tablet contains the active ingredient Sumatriptan, which is a selective 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtype agonist. Each Imitrex tablet for oral administration contains 35, 70, or 140mg of Sumatriptan succinate equivalent to 25, 50, or 100mg of Sumatriptan, respectively. Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is not intended for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine. Imitrex (Sumatriptan) should not be taken by anyone who has suffered or is suffering from ischemic cardiac, cerebrovascular, or peripheral vascular syndromes. Ischemaic cardiac syndromes include angina pectoris of any type, all forms of myocardial infarction, and silent myocardial ischemia. Cerbrovascular syndromes include strokes of any type and peripheral vascular diseases include ischemic bowel disease. .
Imitrex Side Effects:
Imitrex (sumatriptan) IS NOT INTENDED to prevent or reduce the number of migraine attacks that you experience. IF YOU HAVE A HEADACHE THAT IS DIFFERENT than your usual migraine attacks, check with your doctor before using Imitrex (sumatriptan). BEFORE YOU BEGIN USING Imitrex (sumatriptan), give your doctor and pharmacist a list of all prescription and non-prescription medicines that you are using to treat and prevent migraine attacks. DO NOT USE ERGOT-CONTAINING MEDICINES within 24 hours of using this medicine otherwise you may experience Imitre side effects. If you have questions about which medicines contain ergot, ask your doctor or pharmacist. BEFORE USING IMITREX ALSO TELL YOUR DOCTOR if you have chest pains, heart disease, shortness of breath, irregular heartbeats, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or diabetes. Also tell your doctor if you smoke, if you have had a heart attack, if you have liver or kidney disease, are post-menopausal, or have had any seizures. Keep your doctor informed if you develop any Imitrex side effects while you are taking this medicine. Imitrex side effects MAY CAUSE DIZZINESS. Using this medicine alone, with other medicines, or with alcohol may result in Imitrex side effects like lessening your ability to drive or to perform other potentially dangerous tasks. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have questions about which medicines can cause dizziness. FOR WOMEN: IF YOU PLAN ON BECOMING PREGNANT, discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medicine during pregnancy. Imitrex (sumatriptan) IS EXCRETED IN BREAST MILK. IF YOU ARE OR WILL BE BREAST-FEEDING while you are using Imitrex, check with your doctor or pharmacist to discuss the risks of Imitrex side effects to your baby. Imitrex side effects, that may go away during treatment, include nausea, vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness, or feeling sick. If they Imitrex side effects or are bothersome, check with your doctor.
Imitrex Information: Imitrex (sumatriptan) IS NOT INTENDED to prevent or reduce the number of migraine attacks that you experience. IF YOU HAVE A HEADACHE THAT IS DIFFERENT than your usual migraine attacks, check with your doctor before using this medicine. BEFORE YOU BEGIN USING THIS MEDICINE, give your doctor and pharmacist a list of all prescription and non-prescription medicines that you are using to treat and prevent migraine attacks. DO NOT USE ERGOT-CONTAINING MEDICINES within 24 hours of using this medicine. If you want to know Imitrex Information about which medicines contain ergot, ask your doctor or pharmacist. BEFORE USING Imitrex (sumatriptan) ALSO TELL YOUR DOCTOR if you have chest pains, heart disease, shortness of breath, irregular heartbeats, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or diabetes. Also tell your doctor if you smoke, if you have had a heart attack, if you have liver or kidney disease, are post-menopausal, or have had any seizures. Keep your doctor informed if you develop any of these conditions while you are taking this medicine. THIS MEDICINE MAY CAUSE DIZZINESS. Using this medicine alone, with other medicines, or with alcohol may lessen your ability to drive or to perform other potentially dangerous tasks. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you have questions about which medicines can cause dizziness. FOR WOMEN: IF YOU PLAN ON BECOMING PREGNANT, discuss with your doctor the benefits and risks of using this medicine during pregnancy. Imitrex (sumatriptan) IS EXCRETED IN BREAST MILK. IF YOU ARE OR WILL BE BREAST-FEEDING while you are using this medicine, check with your doctor or pharmacist to discuss the risks to your baby.
The generic alternative is not manufactured by the company that makes the brand product.
All prices are in US dollars.
The content on this page has been supplied to MediSave.ca by an independent third party contracted to provide information for our website. MediSave.ca relies on these third parties to create and maintain this information and cannot guarantee the medical efficacy, accuracy or reliability of the information that has been provided to us. If you require any advice or information about the drugs on this page, a medical condition or treatment advice, you should always speak to a health professional. Please note that not all products, including any referenced in this page, are shipped by our affiliated Canadian Pharmacy. We affiliate with other dispensaries that ship product to our customers from the following jurisdictions: Canada, Singapore, New Zealand, Turkey, Mauritius, India, and United Kingdom. The items in your order maybe shipped from any of the above jurisdictions. The products are sourced from various countries as well as those listed above. Rest assured, we only affiliate with our authorized dispensaries that procure product through reliable sources.
Back to Main Drug Information Page
Home |
About Us |
Drug Categories |
How to Order |
Now Order |
Refill Order |
Contact Us |
F.A.Q. |
Policies |
Articles |
Drug Articles |
Sitemap
Copyright © 2003-2019 MediSave (by Farmacia/Candrug). All rights reserved.