About the Birth Control Pill (for Parents) - Vidant Medical Center
[Skip to Content]
For Residents & Fellows
For Health Professionals
For Employees
About Vidant
Send Us A Message
Events
News Room
Volunteer
Donate
Home
Find it Fast
Pay Your Bill
Maynard Children's Hospital
Referral and Contact Information
For patients and families
Our physicians
Services
Programs
Units
Testimonials
Support Maynard Children's Hospital
Accreditations and memberships
Career opportunities
For Parents
Home
Parents Home
Allergy Center
A to Z Dictionary
Asthma Center
Cerebral Palsy Center
Cancer Center
Flu Center
Diabetes Center
Heart Health
Food Allergy Center
Preventing Premature Birth
Homework Help Center
Pregnancy & Newborn Center
Play & Learn Center
Nutrition & Fitness Center
Summer Safety
Sports Medicine Center
First Aid & Safety
Doctors & Hospitals
Growth & Development
Diseases & Conditions
Emotions & Behavior
General Health
Infections
Q&A
School & Family Life
Recipes
Videos
Para Padres
For Kids
Home
Kids Home
Asthma Center
Cancer Center
Diabetes Center
Heart Center
Homework Center
Nutrition & Fitness Center
Relax & Unwind Center
Stay Safe Center
Feelings
Health Problems
Health Problems of Grown-Ups
How the Body Works
Illnesses & Injuries
Kids' Medical Dictionary
Movies & More
Getting Help
Personal Questions
Puberty & Growing Up
Q&A
Recipes & Cooking
Staying Healthy
Videos
My Body
Staying Safe
Para Niños
For Teens
Home
Teens Home
Asthma Center
Be Your Best Self Center
Cancer Center
Concussion Center
Diabetes Center
Flu Center
Homework Help Center
Managing Your Medical Care
Managing Your Weight
Nutrition & Fitness Center
Stress & Coping Center
Sports Center
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Alcohol
Infections
Personal Stories
Expert Answers (Q&A)
Recipes
School & Work
Sexual Health
Safety & First Aid
Videos
Your Body
Your Mind
Para Adolescentes
Parents
Search KidsHealth library
About the Birth Control Pill
What's in this article?
What Are Birth Control Pills?
How Does the Pill Work?
How Is the Pill Taken?
How Well Does the Pill Work?
Protection Against STDs
Possible Side Effects
Who Uses Birth Control Pills?
Where Are Birth Control Pills Available?
How Much Do Birth Control Pills Cost?
or getting an STD.
Discussing these issues like any other health topics — not as something dirty or embarrassing — makes it more likely that your kids will come to you with any questions and problems. As awkward as it can be, answer questions honestly. And if you don't know something, it's OK to say so, then find out and report back.
If you have questions about how to talk with your kids about sex, ask your doctor. Lots of parents find this tough to tackle, and a doctor may offer some helpful advice.
What Are Birth Control Pills?
The birth control pill (also called "the Pill") is a daily pill that usually contains the hormones estrogen and progesterone, and is taken to prevent pregnancy.
How Does the Pill Work?
Most birth control pills are "combination pills" with a mix of the hormones estrogen and progesterone to prevent ovulation (the release of an egg during the monthly cycle). A female cannot get pregnant if she doesn't ovulate because there is no egg to be fertilized.
The Pill also works by thickening the mucus around the cervix, which makes it difficult for sperm to enter the uterus and reach any eggs that may have been released. The hormones in the Pill can also sometimes affect the lining of the uterus, making it difficult for an egg to attach to the wall of the uterus.
How Is the Pill Taken?
Most combination pills come in either a 21-day pack or a 28-day pack. One hormone pill is taken each day at about the same time for 21 days. Depending on the pack, the birth control pills are either stopped for 7 days or a pill that contains no hormones is taken for 7 days. During the week that a woman is taking no pills or pills that don't contain hormones, she has her period. Some women prefer the schedule in which pills are taken every day of the month because it helps keep them in the habit of taking a pill every day.
Also available is a combination pill that reduces the frequency of a woman's period by supplying a hormone pill for 12 weeks and then inactive pills for 7 days. This reduces the number of periods to one every 3 months instead of one every month.
Another kind of pill that may change the number of monthly periods is the low-dose progesterone pill, sometimes called the mini-pill. This differs from other birth control pills in that it only contains one type of hormone — progesterone — rather than a combination of estrogen and progesterone. It changes the cervical mucus and the lining of the uterus, and sometimes by affects ovulation. It may be slightly less effective than the combination pills at preventing pregnancy.
The mini-pill is taken every day without a break. A girl who is taking the mini-pill may have no period at all or she may have irregular periods. For the mini-pill to work, it must be taken at the same time every day, without missing any doses.
Every type of birth control pill works best when it is taken every single day at the same time of day, regardless of whether a female is going to have sex. This is especially important with progesterone-only pills. It's very important that your daughter not take anyone else's pills. If pills are skipped or forgotten, she is not protected against pregnancy and she will need a backup form of birth control, such as condoms, or she will need to stop having sex for a while.
For the first 7 days of taking the Pill, a girl should use a second form of contraception, such as condoms, to prevent pregnancy. After 7 days, the Pill should work alone to prevent pregnancy. This timing can vary based on the type of Pill and when a girl starts taking it — your daughter should talk about it with her doctor. Also, it's important to continue using condoms to protect against STDs.
continue
Protection Against STDs
The birth control pill does not protect against STDs. Couples having sex must always use condoms along with the Pill to protect against STDs.
Abstinence (not having sex) is the only method that always prevents pregnancy and STDs.
Possible Side Effects
The Pill is a safe and effective method of birth control. Most young women who take the Pill have none to very few side effects.
Smoking cigarettes and using the Pill can increase a girl's risk of certain side effects, which is why health professionals advise girls who use the Pill not to smoke. Side effects that some women have while on the Pill include:
irregular menstrual bleeding (more common with the mini-pill)
nausea, headaches, dizziness, and breast tenderness
mood changes
blood clots (rare in women under 35 who do not smoke)
Some of these side effects improve over the first 3 months on the Pill. When a girl has side effects that are bothersome or don't get better, a doctor may prescribe a different brand of the Pill.
The Pill also has some side effects that many young women enjoy. It usually makes periods lighter, reduces cramps, and is often prescribed for women who have menstrual problems. Taking the combination Pill can improve acne, and some doctors prescribe it for this purpose. Combination birth control pills have also been found to protect against some forms of breast disease, anemia, ovarian cysts, and ovarian and endometrial cancers.
previouscontinue
When your daughter returns to the doctor in a few months, her blood pressure will be checked and she'll be asked about any problems. After that, girls who are having sex should get routine exams every 6 months to a year, or as recommended.
How Much Do Birth Control Pills Cost?
The Pill usually costs between $0–$50 a month, depending on the type. Many health and family planning clinics (such as Planned Parenthood) sell birth control pills for less. And birth control pills and doctor visits are covered by many health insurance plans.
Reviewed by: Rupal Christine Gupta, MD
Date reviewed: January 2017
previous
1 • 2 • 3
for Teens
for Parents
MORE ON THIS TOPIC
Sexual Development
About Birth Control: What Parents Need to Know
STDs
Questions and Answers About Sex
Should Girls Who Aren't Sexually Active Be Vaccinated Against HPV?
Your Daughter's First Gynecology Visit
Birth Control Methods: How Well Do They Work?
Can Birth Control Help With Cramps?
Do You Need a Pelvic Exam to Get Birth Control?
How Can I Get on the Pill Without Telling My Parents?
How Can I Get the Pill if I Don't Have a Family Doctor?
Birth Control Pill
About Birth Control
Print
Send to a Friend
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy & Terms of Use
Copyright
Note: All information is for educational purposes only. For specific medical advice, diagnoses, and treatment, consult your doctor.
© 1995- KidsHealth® All rights reserved.
Images provided by The Nemours Foundation, iStock, Getty Images, Veer, Shutterstock, and Clipart.com.
Home
Careers
Quality Care
For Health Professionals
For Employees
For Non-Employees
For Clinical Students
For Vendors
Contact
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Notice of Privacy Practices English
Notice of Privacy Practices Spanish
Copyright © Vidant Health. All Rights Reserved.
Find A Location
Hospital Locations
Vidant Beaufort Hospital
Vidant Bertie Hospital
Vidant Chowan Hospital
Vidant Duplin Hospital
Vidant Edgecombe Hospital
Vidant Medical Center
Vidant Pungo Hospital
Vidant Roanoke-Chowan Hospital
The Outer Banks Hospital
Albemarle Health
Clinical Locations
Vidant Children's Hospital
Community Care Plan
East Carolina Heart Institute
Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation
Vidant Home Health & Hospice
Minor Emergency Department
Vidant Pain Management Centers
Patient Testing Center
Rehabilitation Center
Inpatient Hospice
Vidant Sleep Centers
SurgiCenter
Vidant Medical Group Practices
Vidant Wellness Centers
Vidant Wound Healing Centers
Support Facilities
Cashiers Office
Employment
Foundation
Quality Care
Patient Care at Vidant
Patient Experience
Quality
Safety
Our Hospitals
Our Optimal Care Measures
Our Prevention Measures
Careers
Careers
Health Careers
View Job Listings
Physician and Provider Opportunities