Antifungal Cream For Feet | Antifungal Cream For Foot Fungus
Overview
Shampoo
Cream
Tablet
Media
Blog
Contact
Our Blog
antifungal foot cream
Best Antifungal Cream For Foot Fungus
January 17, 2019 0
Are you particular about your foot care? Do you think you take precautions to ensure that your health is good and effective? You know there are different types of health problems that should be taken into consideration.
If you have fungal in your foot, make sure that you start using antifungal foot cream. There is no point of avoiding it. What is the point if fungal is getting all over the place? Well, it is really common to get a fungal infection on your toes or feet. Most of the fungal infections are triggered by dermatophytes, an ailment -causing fungus that rises on body surfaces like hair, skin, and nails.
Talking about athlete’s foot, the most prevalent foot fungus flourishes in sweaty, warm places like the insides of the athletic shoes that are how it got its name. However, foot fungus can grow in manifold environments, natural and man-made, as long as there is so much of moisture where fungi can increase. These include shared areas at the pools or gyms, soil, and grass, or even those shared items like socks, shoes, or towels from household members who are undergoing infection.
Is it contagious?
Unfortunately, athlete’s foot is really contagious and the fungus can effortlessly spread to the toenails and toes, triggering infections. There are more than three million instances of toenail fungus every year. Not all the toenail infections are from athlete’s foot or even that from a fungus; a few are triggered by mold or yeast. These are much tougher to cure than fungal infections. But you don’t have to worry if you are using the best antifungal foot cream you would get rid of this infection in no time.
How does an athlete’s foot look like?
Athlete’s foot looks as a flaking red rash on the sides or bottoms of the feet often escorted by dry, itching or cracked skin, stinging, and even odor. You can also experience moist, raw skin between the toes. Though athlete’s foot is somewhat easy to treat with anti-fungal creams or sprays, this foot fungus is quite transmissible and might easily spread to the toenails. The point is you have to start using a right cream or spray the moment you feel that your foot is going to have a fungal infection.
Toenail fungal
You might find a small white or yellow spot on the tip of the toenail and that too especially the big toe. As the infection grows, the toenail can turn out to be yellow, brittle and even crumbly and dense and uneven-looking. In worst fungal infections, the toenail even separates from the nail bed. It is something called onychosis. As fungal infections advances, the nail beds can be tender to the touch and somewhat painful. If you have it doesn’t avoid it and does something about that. You can start applying Ketomac cream in India and it would work wonders for you.
So, when are you going to have that cream for your fungal issue? It is time that you treat it effectively and safely.
antifungal foot cream
best antifungal foot cream
Ketomac cream in India
admin
Leave a Reply Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Name *
Email *
Website
Please enter an answer in digits:
five × one =
Post Comment
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
previousBest Anti Fungal Cream for Skin Rash
nextBest Ketoconazole Cream for Acne In India
Recent Posts
March 29, 2019
Best Antifungal Nail Cream in India
March 27, 2019
Best Anti-Dandruff Hair Shampoo
March 26, 2019
Fungal Infection Treatment Cream
Categories
anti dandruff shampoo
Antifungal Cream
antifungal foot cream
Cream For Babies Face
dandruff control shampoo
Dandruff Treatment Shampoo
dry dandruff shampoo
Hair Care Tips
hair fall
Hair Texture
Increase Hair
ketoconazole cream
Ketomac Cream
ketomac shampoo in hindi
Ketomac Shampoo Price
Medicated Anti Dandruff Shampoo
oily hair
Shampoo
Skin Cream
Uncategorized
Archives
Archives Select Month March 2019 8 February 2019 10 January 2019 12 December 2018 10 November 2018 5 October 2018 7 September 2018 11 August 2018 10 July 2018 10 June 2018 4 May 2018 2 April 2018 1
Ketomac Shampoo contains Ketoconazole, a broad-spectrum synthetic antifungal agent in a concentration of 2% in an aqueous suspension.
Main Menu
Home
Overview
FAQ
Contact & Location
Corporate Office
232-33-34, Sector 34-A,
Chandigarh – 160034, India
Phone : +91 (0)172 499 1500
Phone : +91 (0)172 301 3000
Email : info@torquepharma.com
Facebook Feed
#Meditation #Health #Healthy #Fun #Ketomac ... See MoreSee Less
Photo
View on Facebook
© COPYRIGHT 2019 TORQUE PHARMACEUTICALS PVT. LTD. - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Overview
Shampoo
Cream
Tablet
Media
Blog
Contact