Croup: Symptoms and Treatment
It looks like you have javascript turned off. This Croup: Symptoms and Treatment page on EmpowHER Women's Health works best with javascript enabled in your browser.
Toggle navigation
Women's Health & Wellness
Get HER Health News
Would You Consider Biphasic Sleep?
courtneysunday
Sleep Disorders
Log in | Register
Health A-Z
Bones & Joints
Breast Cancer
Cancer
Diabetes
Ears, Nose & Throat
Financial Health
Healthy Eating
Menopause
Menstrual Cycle
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sex & Relationships
Sexual Health
Skin, Hair & Nails
Sleep Disorders
HER Health Questions
Ask a Health Question
HER Health Stories
Post your Health Story
HER Health News
HER Healthy Living
HER Health Hubs
HER Health Communities
Featured Tools
Advocacy Checklists
HER Podcast
HER Health Meter
SkinSAFE
Home
>
Conditions
>
Ears, Nose & Throat
>
Croup
>
Croup: Symptoms and Treatment
Croup: Symptoms and Treatment
By MC Kelby HERWriter
Average Select ratingPoorFairAverageGoodExcellent
Rate This
`
0 comments View Comments
Print
Text Size
Photo: Getty Images
According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the croup is breathing difficulty accompanied by a barking cough. Also, the NIH states ʺcroup, which is swelling around the vocal cords, is common in infants and children and can have a variety of causes.ʺ
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) states ʺchildren are most likely to get croup between 3 months and 5 years of age.ʺ Croup is most common in the fall and winter months.
Croup is contagious and transferred from someone who is infected. The transfer of croup may occur from the hand or from tiny air droplets. The croup can last between three to seven days, and the worst at night time.
This Article
Vote Improved My Health 0
Vote Changed My Life
Vote Saved My Life
Adults are rarely infected with croup. However, if your child has viral croup, you may catch a cold.
There are two types of croup: viral and spasmodic. The most common type of croup is viral. The windpipe and voice box are infected with the viral croup.
Spasmodic croup is caused by allergies or reflux from the stomach. Spasmodic comes on very suddenly. You will not have a fever with spasmodic croup. Spasmodic croup may recur frequently.
According to the NIH and AAP websites, croup symptoms include:
•	Mild cold symptoms
•	Hoarse voice
•	Low grade fever
•	The Croup Cough
•	Labored breathing
•	Stridor (a harsh, crowing noise made during inspiration)
The croup cough is very distinct. Some medical experts refer to it as a "seal bark". The first one to two nights of the croup cough are severe. The cough can last up to one week. Contact your doctor, if the cough last more than one week.
The main danger of croup is stridor. In rare and severe cases of croup, the airway may swell and close, leaving the patient unable to breathe. If this occurs, you must go to the emergency room immediately.
According to the AAP, some cases of croup can be treated at home. The following treatment is recommended:
•	A 15-20 minute bathroom steam
o	Close the door to the bathroom
o	Turn the shower on the hottest setting
o	Allow the bathroom steam up
o	Sit in the steamy bathroom for with 15 to 20 minutes
•	Repeat if necessary
•	A cold water vaporizer
•	Humidifier
1
2
Next >
>>
More on This
Teething Medications Pose Danger to Baby, FDA Says
Croup: Symptoms, Causes and Risks
The Facts about Croup
Sex with an Uncircumcised Man
Add a CommentComments
There are no comments yet. Be the first one and get the conversation started!
Do you really want to post anonymously?
Are You a Member? Log InConnect your comment to your member profile. It only takes a second!
Not a Member? Join Now!You'lll be automatically notified when someone else comments on your post.
Tell us what you think Write your comment here *
Leave this field blank
Receive email notifications of new comments Email Addresss
Sign me up for EmpowHER Updates
What code is in the image? *
Enter the characters shown in the image.
By submitting this form, you agree to EmpowHER's terms of service and privacy policy
Empowered
MC Kelby HERWriter View Profile Send Message
We value and respect our HERWriters' experiences, but everyone is different. Many of our writers are speaking from personal experience, and what's worked for them may not work for you. Their articles are not a substitute for medical advice, although we hope you can gain knowledge from their insight.
Tags:
Croup
Parenting
Prevention Centers
Croup
Get Email Updates
Definition & Overview
Prevention
Causes & Risks
Symptoms & Diagnosis
Treatments
News & Opinion
Community & Groups
Related Topics
Ears, Nose & Throat
Create a Group
Get the conversation going by starting a group
Croup Guide
Supporter
SusanC HERWriter Guide
Have a question? We're here to help. Ask the Community.
ASK
Health Newsletter
Receive the latest and greatest in women's health and wellness from EmpowHER - for free!
Improved
5909 Health
Changed
3687 Lives
Saved
3485 Lives
0 lives impacted in the last 24 hrs Learn More
ASK A Health Question
POST Info, Tips and Stories
Company
About HER
Press
Advertise
Policies
Feedback
My Account
Log in
Register
Get Email Updates
Subscribe
Follow HER
All content is Copyright © 2019 HER Inc. dba EmpowHER unless otherwise noted. All Rights Reserved. EmpowHER does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. View more info
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.