Sinusitis Help Forum - Build immunity against sinusitis
sinusitis help forum - Build immunity against sinusitis
Build immunity against sinusitis
Question: I AM a 23-year-old female. What is the cure for sinusitis ? I have been taking cod liver oil, vitamin C, and Horseradish and Garlic supplements for the past four month. Will it cure my sinusitis or only lessen the virus ?
??	Avoid dust, pollen, fur, dirt and some dairy products that may trigger sinusitis.
Sinuvil Natural Sinusitis Remedy
Natural Sinusitis Remedy that treats sinus infection.
Formulated to Help Support:
Relieve sinus inflamation
Relieve sinus pressure and pain
Solve the causes of sinus problems
Naturally relieve pain and fever
Boost your immune system
Help you to regain your sense of smell
Unblock blocked nasal passages
Great Product
It is said that around 30 per cent of all people suffer from sinusitis or sinus infection at least once each year. Sinuses are little air pockets inside the skull bones. They are located to either side of the nose, behind and in between the eyes, in the forehead, and behind the head. Sinuses contain mucus that drains into the nasal passageways through pin holes in the sinuses.
Recent research has found that a new group of sugars called glyconutrients could represent the next frontier in building a robust immune system. Eight of these essential sugars have already been discovered. They play a major role in the some of the body's most fundamental chemical processes, and also have a role in keeping the human immune system in perfect order.
Consuming glyconutrients through natural dietary supplements could go a long way in regulating histamine-induced disorders and allergies, and in preventing sinus infections.
Allergy, repeated attacks of acute sinusitis or inadequate treatment of acute sinusitis combined with nasal obstruction cause a chronic sinusitis (long-standing). Acute (short-lived) sinusitis is caused by nasal infection in which the sinuses become blocked by the common cold or by any feverish respiratory illness such as influenza. Other than that, acute sinusitis may also be caused by a dental abscess, a fracture of bone in the face or sudden pressure change.
Good immunity is the basic way to fight against sinusitis, and lessen the allergy and virus that contribute to it. Consider taking zinc supplement containing vitamin C as they are useful to boost or strengthen immune system. The recommended daily dosage for the zinc is 15mg. Echinachea is known to enhance body's immune system by stimulating the body's natural defence mechanisms by stimulating the production of macrophages, the white blood cells that eat foreign particles. It also has anti-viral and natural antibiotic properties.
Preventive Remedies to Avoid Sinus ??	Vitamin A rich diet This includes mango tomato, papaya, whole milk and egg yolk. All these type of foods create healthy mucous membrane.
Horseradish and Garlic are also encouraged supplements for those having chronic sinusitis. They are effective in treating throat and upper respiratory tract infections. Horseradish produces volatile oil that works as nasal and bronchial dilator. Simultaneously, it helps to clear stuffy nose or sinuses. Turmeric is also a strong anti-inflammatory agent that is useful for treating nasal congestion problems.
??	Humidification This involves inhaling thru a hot steam bowl or vaporizer for 2-3 times a day. Adding up eucalyptus oil is advisable with steam inhalation. One can also undergo hot shower bath. Cold mist machines can also be used inside the bedroom to moisture the place.
??	External applications Hot and cold compresses can be applied to pain areas of the body. Another way is to apply paste of basil/cinnamon/ ginger with water or milk in the forehead. The abovementioned ways are more effective if sore nostrils are being pressed or rubbed.
Diet-wise, you should avoid common food allergens such as milk, eggs, corn, and peanut butter, caffeinated and sugared drink. Ensure that your place is dust-free and clean. Adhere to a well-balanced diet, regular exercise, eight glasses of water daily and adequate rest. Include lots of fresh fruits and vegetables in the daily diet.
About the author:
www.medical-explorer.co
m
Side effects: large amount may cause nausea, heartburn or indigestion ??	Saline Solution This solution is a mixture of salt and water. A pinch of baking soda can be added. Another variation is the use of Neti pot, a teapot for nasal irrigation. There are videos available that can guide people about properly doing this. Nasal irrigations would result to a few coughing since fluids are drained in the throat.
Frontal acute sinusitis brings fever, forehead pain, nasal discharge or postnasal drip. Also the person feels better if it has the head upright. In acute maxillary sinusitis the pain appears when the head is upright and the patient feels better if the head is in a reclining position. This type of sinusitis affects one or both of the cheekbones, causing pain, redness and swallowing of the cheekbone; nasal discharge is also present; pain occurs also around the eye and the upper teeth.
How: Pound fresh raw garlic and eat or mix with soups. Result: Sinus membranes are conditioned. Side effects: Excessive garlic intake may cause headache, diarrhea, may worsen heartburn and cause few allergies.
When the sinus infection refuses to respond to medication, Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery (FESS) is the most efficient treatment. Prevention is always better than cure. Stop smoking, because smoking is one of the chief stimulants of sinusitis (sinus infection). Take an oral decongestant or a short course of nasal spray decongestant, especially before air travel. Drink plenty of fluids, so the nasal discharge remains thin, and use antihistamines for controlling allergy attacks. Allergy testing can also increase tolerance towards allergy inducing substances. An allergic reaction is an unnecessary, and even dangerous, immune response that should be prevented. Antihistamines counteract these immunological inconsistencies. One of the factors that cause our immune system to go awry is the increasing presence of toxins in the environment. These toxins also touch off allergy attacks in the body.
In chronic sphenoid sinusitis, the infection of the sinuses gives a general headache. Even though rarely, untreated, sinusitis can lead to serious complications like the spread of the infection in the body.
Acute sphenoid sinusitis has the following symptoms: fever, terrible pain when lying back and bending forward, on top of the head and in the forehead area. Also nasal discharge is present. If pressure extents to the brain, visual problems might install.
The chronic ethmoid sinusitis (affects the bridge of the nose and the base of the nose between the eyes). Nasal discharge and congestion are most of the time present, sore throat, bad breath appear in this case too, and the pain occurs when wearing glasses and in the late morning.
Save 40% Off The Retail Price
What People Said About Sinuvil Sinusitis Treatment
"every morning i had a green discharge from my nose. i felt so tired, i couldn't even go to work. i just felt so desparate. after just 4 days on sinuvil i felt like a brand new person." Nick from NY
??	Cumin Seeds This involves the use of black cumin seeds. It comes from the Nigella sativa plant. How: Wrap a few black cumin seeds in a thin and soft cloth. Inhale for about 6-8 times. Or roast cumin and ground. When powdered, mix with 200ml honey and take it with a spoon.
Acute ethmoid sinusitis causes symptoms like: pain near the base of the nose, between the eyes, one side of the nose or around the inner corner of the eyes; headaches, nasal discharge and congestion. The pain gets worse if the head is upright and when coughing.
A sinus infection happens when the paranasal sinuses on either side of the nose get inflamed. This happens during a cold or an allergy attack, when more histamines are produced in the paranasal sinuses. The inflammation blocks the narrow passageways, making the mucus collect there. This collected mucus soon becomes a breeding ground for bacteria. That's how a sinus infection begins.
How: Boil 1 teaspoon of Fenugreek leaves in 1 cup of water. Drink while warm. Result: It shortens fever period and induces perspiration. Side effects: diarrhea, gas, not advisable for pregnant women and those with allergy in peanuts.
How: Drop 1/8 to ¼ cup ACV in a 16 oz of water and drink. Or simultaneously, take 2 Tablespoon of ACV with 8 oz of water Results: It helps to thin the mucous
Whenever sinusitis attacks, here are some of the most popular, easy to prepare natural home remedies: ??	Apple Cider Vinegar( ACV) This solution can be taken daily or as soon as one experiences colds or allergy
How: Melt 1 tablespoon of table salt in 2 cups of water. While lying down, drop one ounce of solution to the congested nostril with the nose dropper. Tilt head slowly at about 45 degrees and continue to make 10 to 20 drops.
In the air there are numerous bacteria and when breathing we inhale them. If the cilia filter is malfunctioning, these bacteria can get blocked in the sinus cavities and produce an infection. Therefore we must know how to recognize this type of infection in order to treat it well. Some general symptoms of sinus infection are: headaches, fatigue, facial and upper jaw pains, and tenderness of the sinus area, sore throat, cough, colored nasal drainage, bad breath and swollen eye lids.
This involves intake of small doses of garlic and onion daily. This helps to loosen up sinus congestion. Garlic is an antibacterial remedy. One can also eat jalapeno peppers or horseradish.
There are different types of sinus and the symptoms might differ when each one is affected; the symptoms differ also for acute and chronic sinusitis.
In chronic frontal sinusitis, the forehead pain is generally constant and low-graded, and at a check-up sinus damage is present. Chronic maxillary sinusitis brings constant pain in the upper teeth, below the eyes the patient can feel pressure, and cough that gets worse during the night.
The best natural home solutions to cure sinusitis are usually natural products found at home. These products can be used to prevent further complications of sinusitis.
Therefore, infection of sinusitis travels from the mouth, nose and throat along the mucous membrane lining. A person, who is suffering from sinusitis, may experience severe headache over the affected sinus area and the nose may be blocked on the affected side.
Result: Sinus drains or flushes down to throat. Side effects: mild cases of allergic reactions ??	Fenugreek Solution This includes the use of fenugreek leaves. It is an old medicinal plant which works as an expectorant. Other tea solutions also include sage, fennel or anise.
Answer : SINUSITIS refers to an inflammation of the mucous membrane that lines the sinus of the skull. Sinus is a cavity that is usually filled with air or blood. Sinuses are located close to the nasal cavities and also near the ear.
Result: It relieves condition when inhaled. Side effects: It is not advisable for pregnant, lactating women and diabetic patients. ??	Garlic and Onion Remedy (pungent)
The body produces histamines during allergic reactions. Histamines are neuro-transmitter chemicals. Though histamines are always present in our body, an allergy attack causes more histamines to be released at the site of the allergy attack. When a mosquito bites, for example, histamines are released at the area of the bite making the skin there turn red and itchy. When histamines are released, they cause inflammation and constriction of the muscles. The symptoms of a sinus infection begin with headache, facial pain, nasal congestion, fever, green or yellow discharge, a heavy face feeling, etc. The infection usually lasts for three weeks or more.
Structural problems such as deviated septum, nasal polyps, etc. are conducive to a sinus infection. The cure for sinusitis is steam inhalation, nasal irrigation, hot fluids such as tea or chicken soup, and plenty of rest. Aspirin or paracetamol tablets and decongestants are some of the medicines commonly prescribed for sinus infections. If the symptoms continue for more than 48 hours, the pateint should be started on antibiotics or nasal steroids. If you don't treat the sinus infection pretty early, it could even cause bronchitis and pneumonia and damage the sinuses and cheekbones. You would then have to go for nasal surgery to repair the damage.
For more resources on Gall Bladder or especially about gall bladder symptoms please visit http://www.gall-bladder-guide.com/gall-bladder-symptoms.htm
??	Juices This includes carrot and cucumber juices with spinach or beet mixed with a 500ml juice. This comprises 100ml beet, 100ml cucumber plus 300 ml carrot. Or use a mixture of 200ml spinach with 300ml carrot juice. Ripe grape juice is also advisable.
About The Author:
Lisa Hyde-Barrett, a registered nurse and wellness advocate, understands the relationship between good nutrition and good health. She's become passionate about the new research behind sugars, specifically glyconutritional products. Read more about these at http://www.eight-sugars.com Learn more about sinus infection at http://www.deadly-health-myths.com/sinus_infection.html
Learn More about Natural Sinusitis Remedy
Bad Breath - Does Sinus Have Anything To Do With Bad Breath?
Many individuals tend to think that sinuses have nothing to do with bad breath but they are wrong. There is a link between sinuses and bad odors which usually come from the back of the throat and tongue areas. In fact, there are two main conditions that end up causing bad breath from the back of the throat. They are sinusitis and tonsillitis, each affecting our breath in a similar...
Sinusitis Remedy - How to Treat Sinus Infection With Natural Way
Sinusitis is one of the five most common ailments in the United States-between thirty and fifty million people suffer from it each year. Sinusitis is caused by an inflammation or infection of one or all of your para-nasal sinuses (hollow cavities of the bones of the skull around the nose and behind the eyes). Sinusitis can cause headaches, tenderness and aching in your face, and it can make...
Effective Treatment For Sinus Infection
There are various effective treatments for sinus infection but before we venture into the form of treatment, a fundamental understanding of sinusitis is essential. Basically, it is the inflammation of the sinus cavities that can result from viral, fungus or bacterial infection as well as environmental and allergic reaction. It can be caused by structural deformities too. Para nasal sinuses are...
Sinus Infection Treatment - How Sinus Infection Can Be Treated
When the air cavities with in the nasal passage gets inflamed such situation is known as Sinusitis. Sinusitis is one of the most widespread conditions that causes problem to people throughout their lives. It mainly arises when environmental pollutions bother the nasal passages. Sinusitis can also be due to other irritants irritants, such as chemicals or the over use of the nasal sprays. Sinusitis...
sinusitis helps | sinusitis help forum | sinusitis herb | sinusitis help | sinusitis help book |
(c) 2019 sinusitisrelief.info
Contact Us | About Us | Privacy Policy | RSS Feed | sinusitis help forum