Standardized music therapy with and without acclimatization, to improve EEG data acquisition in young children with and without disability.
BioPortfolio
Biotech, Healthcare and Medical Resources
BioPortfolio
Menu
Loading
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology Track topics Track topics important to you
World Biotech and Healthcare News
Published Research
Market Reports
Channels
Clinical Trials
Drugs
Corporations
Advertisement
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology
Track topics on Twitter Track topics that are important to you
Printed From BioPortfolio.com
Standardized music therapy with and without acclimatization, to improve EEG data acquisition in young children with and without disability.
08:00 EDT 6th April 2019 | BioPortfolio
Home » Topics » Mergers & Acquisitions » Research » Standardized music therapy with and without acclimatization, to improve EEG data acquisition in young children with and without disability.
Summary of "Standardized music therapy with and without acclimatization, to improve EEG data acquisition in young children with and without disability."
In young children, EEG data acquisition during stimulation tasks is difficult due to anxiety, movement and behaviorally-related interruptions, especially in those with disabilities.
Affiliation
Journal Details
This article was published in the following journal.
Name: Journal of neuroscience methods
ISSN: 1872-678X
Pages:
Links
PubMed Source: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30965072
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jneumeth.2019.02.013
PubMed Articles [24818 Associated PubMed Articles listed on BioPortfolio]
The use of Music Therapy in the treatment of Mental Illness and the enhancement of Societal Wellbeing.
Music Therapy can be broadly described as the use of Music in a therapeutic context in order to help improve mental health. Music Therapy does not simply imply the playing of music to patients, relaxi...
Effects of music therapy on major depressive disorder: A study of prefrontal hemodynamic functions using fNIRS.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a recurrent, chronic mental illness. While music therapy has been established as an effective treatment for MDD patients, the effects of this therapy on brain functi...
The effect of music therapy sessions on the interactions between children and their parents and how to measure it, with reference to attachment theory.
Music therapy and attachment is an expanding field and the number of studies addressing the theoretical work is slowly growing. There are both qualitative and quantitative approaches to studying the e...
Psychedelics and music: neuroscience and therapeutic implications.
From the beginning of therapeutic research with psychedelics, music listening has been consistently used as a method to guide or support therapeutic experiences during the acute effects of psychedelic...
How Music Impacts Visual Attention Training in Schizophrenia: A Pilot Study.
Music has been demonstrated to improve cognitive test performance in neuropsychiatric populations. However, the impact of music on cognitive training effects, and the importance of music preference, h...
Clinical Trials [8325 Associated Clinical Trials listed on BioPortfolio]
Effects of Music Therapy on Huntington's Disease
The purpose of this study is primarily to assess the ability of a music therapy program to improve holistically the psychological, somatic, and social symptoms of patients with Huntington ...
Music Therapy for Patients Being Weaned From Mechanical Ventilation
The purpose of the study is to determine whether Music Therapy interventions can be used as supportive therapy for patients undergoing weaning from mechanical ventilation. The music will s...
Music Therapy in Methodist Homes: a Study Investigating the Impact of a Music Therapy Programme
The study is a cluster randomised control trial, which aims to investigate the effectiveness of music therapy in minimising Behavioural and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD) in old...
The Use of Music for Neonates Post-Cardiac Surgery
The purpose of this study is to explore the feasibility of implementing nurse-led music therapy in a cohort of neonates admitted to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit (CICU) post congenital h...
Music as a Perioperative Therapy in Breast Cancer Patients
Music has often been used in hospitals as a therapy but there is a limited amount of research looking at how music actually affects the different molecules in the body, such as cortisol (a...
Medical and Biotech [MESH] Definitions
Music Therapy
The use of music as an adjunctive therapy in the treatment of neurological, mental, or behavioral disorders.
Data Compression
Information application based on a variety of coding methods to minimize the amount of data to be stored, retrieved, or transmitted. Data compression can be applied to various forms of data, such as images and signals. It is used to reduce costs and increase efficiency in the maintenance of large volumes of data.
Standardized Nursing Terminology
Standardized terms used in the nursing field (e.g., NURSING INFORMATICS).
Acclimatization
Adaptation to a new environment or to a change in the old.
Medication Therapy Management
Assistance in managing and monitoring drug therapy for patients receiving treatment for cancer or chronic conditions such as asthma and diabetes, consulting with patients and their families on the proper use of medication; conducting wellness and disease prevention programs to improve public health; overseeing medication use in a variety of settings.
Advertisement
Quick Links
Advanced Search | Login | Subscribe | RSS
Quick Search
Advertisement
Advertisement
Relevant Topics
Mergers & Acquisitions
Commercial and market reports on mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, medical device and life-science industries. Mergers and acquisitions (abbreviated M&A;) is an aspect of corporate strategy, corporate finance and manageme...
Pediatrics
Pediatrics is the general medicine of childhood. Because of the developmental processes (psychological and physical) of childhood, the involvement of parents, and the social management of conditions at home and at school, pediatrics is a specialty. With ...
Mental Health
Adhd Anorexia Depression Dyslexia Mental Health Psychiatry Schizophrenia Stress Mental health, although not being as obvious as physical health, is very important, causing great unhappiness to those affected, causing add...
PubMed Database Quicklinks
Search PubMed Journal Article Database
Latest PubMed Articles
PubMed Journal List
Popular PubMed Articles
Recent Journal Article Searches
Searches Linking to this Article
BioPortfolio Limited
About Us
Contact Us
Social Media
Twitter (200+ Accounts)
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Publish Content
Publish
Publish Your Press Release
Advertise
Agreements
Agreements
Medical Disclaimer
Privacy
Tools
MyBioPortfolio
RSS
Help
FAQs
Sitemaps
XML Sitemap
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here.
The information provided by BioPortfolio.com is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. The BioPortfolio site is sponsored BioPortfolio Limited with offices at Stafford House, 10 Prince of Wales Road, Dorchester, DT1 1PW, England. If you are a legal copyright holder or a designated agent for such and you believe a post on this website falls outside the boundaries of “Fair Use” and legitimately infringes on your or your client's copyright we may be contacted concerning copyright matters here: Contact BioPortfolio.
All rights reserved. All other trademarks recognized. Copyright © 1997-2019 BioPortfolio Limited. Site developed by Alacrify Ltd.