Folic Acid Improves Memory By Five Years
Home
US
World
Politics
Business/Finance
Technology
Health
More Topics
Education
Literature
Self-help
Science
Home » Folic Acid Improves Memory By Five Years
TITLE
Folic Acid Improves Memory By Five Years
PUB. DATE
August 2005
SOURCE
Environmental Nutrition;Aug2005, Vol. 28 Issue 8, p1
SOURCE TYPE
Periodical
DOC. TYPE
Article
ABSTRACT
Focuses on the potential of folic acid to slow the cognitive decline that occurs normally with old age. Ability to mentally process information and displaying the memory skills of people five years younger; Reduction in blood levels of homocysteine; Connection of high homocysteine levels to cognitive decline.
ACCESSION #
17807405
Related Articles
Folate--the brain's friend or foe? A. M. // Prevention;Dec2005, Vol. 57 Issue 12, p38
This article focuses on folate and the news that it could be harmful to the brain. A new study suggests that folate, in large amounts, may contribute to mental decline. Several other studies suggest that folate in high doses slowed loss of memory and helped decrease the risk of Alzheimer's...
Folic Acid Improves Cognitive Function. Dye, Dayna // Life Extension;Apr2007, Vol. 13 Issue 4, p19
The article reports on the improvement of cognitive function in older adults by supplementing with folic acid in the U.S. According to findings published in the "Lancet," in those people who received folic acid, serum folate increased more than fivefold and plasma total homocysteine decreased 26...
Vitamin B12, Folic Acid, and the Prevention of Dementia. Clarke, Robert // New England Journal of Medicine;6/29/2006, Vol. 354 Issue 26, p2817
The author discusses the link between Vitamin B12, folic acid and the prevention of dementia. He describes the prevalence of dementia in the U.S. He details a study which examined the effects of homocysteine-lowering vitamin supplements on the on cognitive function of healthy elderly people. The...
Daily folic acid supplementation for 3 years improved cognitive function in older persons: COMMENTARY. Bogaisky, Michael; Leipzig, Rosanne M. // ACP Journal Club;May/Jun2007, Vol. 146 Issue 3, p71
The author comments on a study which examines whether daily folic acid supplementation for 3 years in older persons can improve cognitive function. He claimed that several factors in the study, such as small effect size and strict inclusion criteria, limit the relevance and generalizability of...
Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase 677C>T and Methionine Synthase 2756A>G Mutations: No Impact on Survival, Cognitive Functioning, or Cognitive Decline in Nonagenarians. Bathum, Lise; Von Bornemann Hjelmborg, Jacob; Christiansen, Lene; McGue, Matt; Jeune, Bernard; Christensen, Kaare // Journals of Gerontology Series A: Biological Sciences & Medical ;Feb2007, Vol. 62 Issue 2, p196
Background. Several reports have shown an association between homocysteine, cognitive functioning, and survival among the oldest-old. Two common polymorphisms in the genes coding for methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR 677C>T) and methionine synthase (MTR 2756A>G) have an impact on plasma...
Hyperhomocysteinemia, Low Folate, and Vitamin B12Deficiency in Elderly Living at Home and Care Residences: A Comparative Study. Gharaibeh, Mohammad Y. // Laboratory Medicine;Jul2010, Vol. 41 Issue 7, p410
BACKGROUND: Serum levels of homocysteine (Hcy), folate, and vitamin B12in healthy elderly persons living at home (EH) and care residences (ER) were evaluated in subjects from Jordan. METHODS: Homocysteine, folate, and vitamin B12serum levels were measured using commercially available kits....
Foods that fortify memory. McVeigh, Gloria // Prevention;Nov2006, Vol. 58 Issue 11, p73
The article suggests foods that could be used to increase memory. Scientists have found that high-fiber foods such as whole grains could help your memory by preventing diabetes. People who consumed omega-3 fats compared with fat from dairy foods were less likely to develop severe memory loss as...
Folic Acid May Improve Thinking Skills. // Psychiatric Annals;Mar2007, Vol. 37 Issue 3, p160
The article reports on the benefits of folic acid dietary supplements to cognitive skills that usually dwindle with normal aging based on a Dutch study published in the periodical "The Lancet." The participants who orally took 800 Âµg of folic acid or a placebo all had higher levels of...
Folate, But Not Homocysteine, Predicts the Risk of Fracture in Elderly Persons. Ravaglia, Giovanni; Forti, Paola; Maioli, Fabiola; Servadei, Lucia; Martelli, Mabel; Brunetti, Nicoletta; Bastagli, Luciana; Cucinotta, Domenico; Mariani, Erminia // Journals of Gerontology Series A: Biological Sciences & Medical ;Nov2005, Vol. 60 Issue 11, p1458
Background. Recent prospective studies reported that increased plasma homocysteine levels are an independent predictor of osteoporotic fracture in elderly persons. These studies, however, did not take into account folate and vitamin B12, which are the major nutritional determinants of...
Share
More
Read the Article
Courtesy of NEW JERSEY STATE LIBRARY
Sorry, but this item is not currently available from your library.
Read similar articles courtesy of your library
Try another library?
Sign out of this library
Other Topics
Afghanistan
AIDS / HIV
Alternative Energy Exploration
Arctic Drilling
Bank Bailout
Blogging
Border Walls
Bullying in Schools
Campaign Finance Reform
Carbon Offsetting
Economic Stimulus Package
Endangered Species
Executive Pay
Global Warming
Globalization
Gun Control
Immigration Restrictions
Intelligent Design
Iraq War
Israel & the Palestinians
Literacy
Medicare
North Korea
Nuclear Power
Obesity
Pirates
Sex Education in Schools
Social Networking Sites
Stem Cell Research
Universal Health Care
Vegetarianism
War on Terror
Are You A Librarian?
Are You A Publisher?
About EBSCO
What is EBSCOhost Connection?
How it works
FAQ
Contact EBSCO
TODAYS'S POPULAR TOPICS
Border Walls
Campaign Finance Reform
Sex Education in Schools
Bullying in Schools
Alternative Energy Exploration
Globalization
Carbon Offsetting
Arctic Drilling
Gun Control
Literacy
TODAY'S MOST READ ESSAYS
History of Government Spending
An Overview of Relations Between Israel and Palestine
Current Immigration Laws in the U.S.
Overview of the Gun Control Debate
History of Nuclear Energy Production
History of Immigration Laws in the U.S.
History of Literacy
An Overview of Social Networking Websites
History of the Intelligent Design Theory
Current Situation in the Afghan War
TODAY'S POPULAR ARTICLES
Geely's safety, technology investments pay off.
Mac OS X Server.
ISACA CYBERSECURITY NEXUS TOOLS HELP CYBER PROS.
Insight: Case Study - Scholl gets YouTube star to sell foot file.
Goon Shows, Ragtime, and the Blues: RACE, URBAN CULTURE, AND THE NATURALIST VISION IN PAUL LAURENCE DUNBAR'S THE SPORT OF THE GODS.
Metal Center News 2009 Directory of Toll Processors.
Strategic Control and Innovation In Large Multiproduct Firms.
GLOBAL AUTOMOTIVE METALCASTING.
Japanese Hansatsu.
BBC News.
© 2019 by EBSCO Publishing. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use