Acetaminophen for Arthritis Not Working? Consider Natural Supplements
Home
ARTHRITIS SUPPLEMENTS
Arthritis Supplements
Three Arthritis Products
Chronic Pain
Joint Pain Relief
Best Glucosamine
Gout Supplements
SUPPLEMENTS ARE NOT EQUAL
Find Best Company
Find Best Supplements
Best Supplement Quality
INDUSTRY SAFETY ISSUES
Supplement Problems
Tainted Supplements
Supplement Risks
Supplement Recalls
Weak Safety Rules
CHRONIC PAINKILLER USE DANGERS
Drug Side Effects
Adverse Drug Events
NSAIDs Side Effects
Ibuprofen's Painful News
ARTHRITIS TYPES
100 Arthritis Types
Osteoarthritis Most Common
Rheumatoid Arthritis Pain
Rheumatoid Arthritis Research
Knee Arthritis
Back Arthritis
Hand Arthritis
Hip Arthritis
HELPFUL PAIN RELIEF
Pain Relief Cream
Vitamin D & Arthritis
Fish Oil Fights Inflammation
Best Alfalfa Supplement
Beware Probiotics Quality
Natural Stress Relief
OTHER NATURAL SOLUTIONS
Knee Pain
Back Pain
Elbow Pain Relief
Natural Back Relief
Natural Pain Relief
Natural Vitamins
Arthritis Treatments
Glucosamine Benefits
Best Fish Oil Suppl
Herbal Pain Relief
Arthritis Symptoms
Lupus Supplements
Fish Oil Supplements
Best Fish Oil
Anti Aging Frontier
Anti Aging Secrets
Juvenile RA
Switch from Acetaminophen for Arthritis
To Natural Supplements for Chronic Pain
Is your acetaminophen for arthritis not working? Do you have everyday pain issues? Do non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) hurt your stomach or cause bleeding?
If your answer is yes to any or all of these questions, consider switching to natural herbal supplements for chronic issues of pain, stiffness and joint swelling. Premium non-pharmaceutical supplements can safely provide equal or better long-term arthritis relief without the harmful side effects of drugs.
If you’re like me, you are probably leery of trusting the performance and safety of natural products. There are numerous natural products advertised as a substitute for acetaminophen for arthritis and they all sound good--so how do you know you can trust the manufcturer?
A number of years ago, to help me find a supplement manufacturer to trust, I drafted a list of 30 questions concerning standards of excellence to help me measure the quality of different supplement companies.
The answers to the 30 questions led me to the industry leader founded in 1956.
The science behind each of their products is second to none. They have an obsession for purity, potency and quality. They operate more like a pharmaceutical company than a dietary supplement manufacturer. They prove the efficacy of their products through clinical studies even though the industry does not require efficacy to market supplements. Their product philosophy is described as Nature: Pure and Effective; Science: Innovative and Proven.
In 2003 their scientists created three natural products that could complement or replace acetaminophen for arthritis and joint sufferers. One is a pain relief supplement in tablet form. Another is a tableted joint health product containing glucosamine. The third is an analgesic menthol pain cream. Together, that are referred to as The Pain Trio.
3 factors in choosing supplement replacement for acetaminophen for arthritis
Boiled down, these are the three most important factors when choosing a dietary supplement:
Science behind the product
The safety of the product
Efficacy of the product (will it get into the bloodstream and work!)
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not require a supplement manufacturer to clinically test its product prior to marketing. Dietary supplements are considered to be foods, not drugs.
The marketplace is flooded with supplements that promise all kinds of benefits, but have no scientific backup and no proven power to produce an effect.
When it comes to your health, you want to be sure you’re buying high quality natural products that work in your body and are not a waste of money.
Acetaminophen for arthritis (Tylenol) intended for temporary mild pain
Acetaminophen for arthritis (e.g., TYLENOL® Arthritis Pain, in 650 mg caplets or gelcaps--basically a double dose of regular 325 mg Tylenol) -- temporarily relieves minor pain of arthritis. Its label states that TYLENOL® Arthritis Pain has a bi-layer design—with one layer that dissolves quickly and another layer that releases medicine over time for up to 8 hours of relief.
The product won’t irritate your stomach the way that NSAIDs like aspirin or even ibuprofen.
According to the manufacturer, doctors recommend Tylenol for osteoarthritis (OA) pain more than any other brand of pain reliever.
Acetaminophen, ibuprofen and aspirin among most frequently used drugs
Ibuprofen, acetaminophen, and aspirin are among the most frequently used drugs in the United States, and their use by people with arthritis is substantially higher than among the general public, according to the Arthritis Foundation.
Acetaminophen, an analgesic used to ease pain, is among the most used drugs for many forms of arthritis. Unlike NSAIDs, which target both pain and inflammation, analgesics are designed purely for pain relief. Because of its low cost, effectiveness and safety, rheumatologists recommend acetaminophen as a first-line option against osteoarthritis pain.
The amount of aspirin needed to control inflammation from arthritis is quite high and can cause stomach side effects, bleeding in particular.
Most clinical guidelines recommend the use of acetaminophen for arthritis treatment of mild-to-moderate symptoms of osteoarthritis, and only recommend the use of NSAIDs after acetaminophen failure. This recommendation is based on the efficacy of acetaminophen for mild pain and its relatively benign side-effect profile (when used as directed), compared with NSAIDS.
Lack of efficacy of acetaminophen for arthritis of knee, per studies
A 2003 study, Lack of Efficacy of Acetaminophen in Treating Symptomatic Knee Osteoarthritis, published in the Archives of Internal Medicine, a bi-monthly professional medical journal published by the American Medical Association (AMA), concluded: "The comparative efficacy of APAP (acetaminophen) and NSAIDs for the symptomatic treatment of OA tends to favor NSAIDS.”
In a January 25, 2006 Cochrane database of systematic reviews study, Acetaminophen for Osteoarthritis the authors concluded from the evidence that NSAIDs are superior to acetaminophen for improving knee and hip pain in people with osteoarthritis, especially for moderate to severe levels of pain. Patients taking traditional NSAIDS were more likely to experience an adverse GI event (19% of patients in the traditional NSAID group versus 13% in the acetaminophen group).
A March 2010 study in the American Journal of Managed Care, The Role of Acetaminophen in the Treatment of Osteoarthritis, concluded that the comparative efficacy of acetaminophen for arthritis and NSAIDS favors NSAIDS, “although this appears to be an effect of greater efficacy in patients with more severe symptoms.” The study showed acetaminophen with a low rate of adverse events (AE) and that the rate of AE was “much higher with NSAIDS.”
Acetaminophen overdose causes irreversible Injury to the liver and death
Accidental acetaminophen overdose was implicated in 1500 deaths in the past decade, more than any other over-the-counter pain reliever, according to ProPublica.org, citing data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Association of Poison Control Centers.
In addition, inadvertently taking too much acetaminophen sends as many as 78,000 Americans to the emergency room and results in 33,000 hospitalizations a year, federal data shows. It is also the nation’s leading cause of acute liver failure, according to data from an ongoing study funded by the National Institutes for Health.
A 2013 report, Tylenol Overdose Risk Is Staggering; Acetaminophen Safeguards Remain Insufficient, by Dominique Mosbergen, Huffington Post, quoting sources ProPublica and public radio's This American Life, called Tylenol "the deadliest over-the-counter pain reliever on the U.S. market, but its dangers are being overlooked by members of the public and health officials."
While acetaminophen side effects are rare when taken as directed, toxicity from overdose is a real issue, especially from chronic long-term use. The principal hazard of acetaminophen toxicity is the potential to cause serious adverse drug events (ADEs), including fatally destroying the liver at about 2.5 times the recommended daily dose, and in some cases smaller doses.
Drug ineffectiveness, side effects makes switching to supplements easy choice
The combination of acetaminophen for arthritis ineffectiveness (especially for moderate to extreme pain) and the gastrointestinal side effects of NSAIDs, present a logical option for trying natural supplements. Many people have already made that choice.
Updated January 30, 2015, the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM), an arm of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), published an analysis, Many Older People Use Both Prescription Drugs and Dietary Supplements of 3,070 people aged 75 and older. Key discoveries:
Nearly 75% of the participants took at least one prescription drug and one dietary supplement.
Approximately 33% used three or more prescription drugs and three or more supplements.
10% combined five or more prescription drugs with five or more dietary supplements.
Individuals using prescribed NSAIDs, thyroid drugs, and estrogens were more likely to use dietary supplements.
Individuals who used prescription drugs for high blood pressure and diabetes were less likely to use dietary supplements.
The researchers concluded that there are a substantial number of older adults who take multiple prescription drugs as well as multiple dietary supplements. Therefore, they recommend that patients discuss dietary supplement use with their health care providers.
In addition, the researchers emphasized the need for further investigations to better define the clinical importance of interactions between drugs and supplements.
Dietary supplements are often preferred over drugs by the patient when drugs are causing side effects such as gastrointestinal pain, bleeding, discomfort, ulcers, etc. For most people, plant-based supplements have little or no side effects. Many other patients try dietary supplements because they're dissatisfied with the symptom relief they are receiving from drugs.
Dietary Supplements Are Not Equal—Find the Best Natural Health Products
Okay. Let’s say you’re dissatisfied with acetaminophen for arthritis, or with NSAIDs, and you’re willing to try something natural.
With dietary supplements, you get what you pay for—too low in cost usually translate to lower quality. Always look for trusted brands that have been around for some time.
The best supplements provide highest quality availability for your cells. High potency, verifiably tested ingredients produced by companies that clinically test for efficacy provide the best value.
The vast majority of supplements on the market have no clinical testing--why should they? It's costly and not required by the FDA for the dietary supplement industry.
My husband and I have used pharmaceutical grade vitamins and safe herbal supplements from the "company with a conscience" for nearly 30 years. They’ve invested more than $250 million in
clinical testing, research and development and have over 135 published studies, 100 of which are in peer-reviewed scientific journals—more than any other nutritional company! The active ingredients on all of their natural products’ labels are guaranteed for safety and efficacy. Why are they different? They guarantee that product purity and potency will remain intact from the manufacturing plant, to the warehouse, to your cupboard, to your bloodstream with every bottle they make.
We’ve used their three pain relief products (featured at the end of this report) since they were introduced in 2003, which have >greatly relieved our osteoarthritis symptoms. We no longer take acetaminophen for arthritis or pain killing drugs of any kind.
A personal testimony using natural supplements for arthritis
Previously, my husband and I tried acetaminophen for our arthritis symptoms with ineffective results. Taking over-the-counter NSAIDs provided a little better relief, but were discontinued because I am sensitive to the drug side effects of NSAIDs.
After extensively researching natural remedies for arthritis, we discovered three unique products that:
provide long-lasting pain relief
protect joints and
help rebuild joint tissue and cartilage to relieve arthritis symptoms
Over time, these natural remedies for arthritis have dramatically:
improved flexibility of motion (my neck, my husband's knees and now his shoulder)
reduced inflammation
reduced stiffness
eliminated swelling
reduced or eliminated pain to help us lead a more comfortable life.
Acetaminophen for arthritis not working? Here are three featured supplements
In our experience, it’s possible to free yourself completely (or cut back substantially) from pain relief drugs by switching to three featured products shown below. The bold links will take you without obligation to the manufacturer's product pages for information and prices; the ingredient links below provide additional ingredient background information:
A Complex for Pain Relief with Boswellia and Safflower Oil
(In our opinion, this complex of natural ingredients does a better job than that of acetaminophen for arthritis or NSAIDs)
When the boswellia herb and oil from the safflower are used in combination, it creates a potent, natural arthritis remedy without accompanying gastrointestinal side effects or liver toxicity issues. In studies, the two ingredients are more effective when combined than they are separately.
Boswellia extract is a very potent 5 Lox inhibitor. The safflower extract contains a potent ingredient that is a very selective Cox 2 inhibitor. Therefore, this pain relief complex is effective against both the 5 Lox and Cox 2 pain pathways--both of the major pathways--which is the only product on the market of its kind. Its formulation and synergy is so unique that its patented.
Advanced Joint Health Complex with Glucosamine and Boswellia
Clinical studies indicate that glucosamine hydrochloride is most effective when arthritis symptoms are moderate to severe. Glucosamine has the ability to rebuild cartilage for joint health and comfortable movement. Formulated with the addition of clinically proven boswellia, a potent pain inhibitor, this joint health complex is clinically-proven faster relief in as few as 5 days as it lubricates and cushions joints to provide enhanced mobility and range of motion.
Muscle & Joint Pain Relief Cream with soothing menthol
This topical menthol analgesic provides temporary relief (up to four hours).
This soothing joint and muscle pain relief cream distinguished itself in two ways: it's applied where it hurts, and it works in minutes. It provides temporary relief from minor joint and muscle pain, including arthritis pain, back aches, sports injuries, sore muscles, and more. It is so fast, soothing, and effective, you'll want one for your medicine cabinet, purse, and gym bag, too! This non-greasy, fast-absorbing, deeply penetrating cream contains a proprietary blend of natural ingredients that targets the source of discomfort and provides quick relief by improving blood circulation in the affected area.
If you could achieve the relief you need safely, without total reliance on acetaminophen for arthritis or NSAID drugs, wouldn’t it be worth a try? Their 100% guarantee is the best in the business. You have nothing to lose.
Click this link to see why 'beyond organic" is important to you.
Click this link to access their Health Science Health Resource page, including their Complete Research Archive.
Acetaminophen for Arthritis Disclaimer: Health statements on this acetaminophen for arthritis page have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Acetaminophen Side Effects. Safe when taken as directed, acetaminophen side effects from overuse include acute liver toxicity, and a “sharp increase in serious adverse events, including death”, per ISMP’s QuarterWatch report November 4, 2010. Click here for more information
Arthritis Products 3 safe natural products scientifically designed to fight pain and reduce dependency on pharmaceutical medicines. Each unique for rapid relief and joint health …. Click here for details
Find Best Company. 30 questions concerning standards of excellence help find the best dietary supplement company. One company stands out with 90 published studies in prestigious medical journals, the gold standard for natural health products. Click here for more information
Natural Arthritis Pain Relief. Millions choosing herbal supplements when conventional treatments such as acetaminophen for arthritis are of concern or haven’t provided acceptable results. How to find the best pain relief….Click here for more
Herbal Pain Relief. In the last twenty years in the United States, the public has become increasingly dissatisfied with the cost and side effect risks of prescription medications. This, combined with an interest in returning to natural or organic remedies, has... Click here for background on herbal medicine
Chronic Pain Relief Naturally. Natural treatments not only relieve chronic pain, they can help the body rebuild. An estimated 50 million Americans are aggravated by the frustration of chronic pain. Click here for more information
Joint Pain Relief. Wouldn't it be great if you could have a drug-free future with no harmful side effects and have complete control over your joint pain? It's not a dream--all of this is possible.... Click here for more on natural joint pain relief
Osteoarthritis Relief. Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis. It affects joints of the knees, hips, fingers, lower spine and neck. Click here for more on osteoarthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis Relief. Many of the natural or herbal supplements for osteoarthritis are also recommended for rheumatoid arthritis. Click here for RA natural treatment options
Return from Acetaminophen for Arthritis to Arthritis-Relief-Naturally Home Page
Health statements have not been evaluated by the Food & Drug Administration. This site is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Copyright 2008 Arthritis-Relief-Naturally.com Shaklee Authorized Distributor
SBI!