Starve a Cold and Feed a Fever | Author DC Gilbert
Author DC Gilbert
Search
Primary Menu
Skip to content
Home
Books
About DC Gilbert
Events & Announcements
Contact
Search for:
Helpful Tidbits
Starve a Cold and Feed a Fever
February 25, 2019 5 Comments
Or, is it Feed a cold and starve a fever?
I was never quite sure which it was. And, since I have spent the last few days battling a cold, or maybe the flu, I decided to check. It seems starving is never correct! A well-balanced diet can help you stay healthy and defeat either a cold or a fever! How about that? This is really good new for me because I hate to starve!
Other possible remedies
I was certainly relieved to read I did not have to starve to beat whatever it is I am dealing with. But, being a bit bored, I still looked for a few other possible cold remedies. I came across a few others that might be worth trying … or not.
The Naval Cure (I like this one)
An author friend of mine, D (Joe) Guy, who writes fascinating tales of of romance, love and tragedy with an Italian twist is a retired Navy man. He told me they had a sure-fire cure for any cold in the Navy. You just get a bottle of good whiskey, some honey and some lemons. Then you throw away the honey and the lemons and drink the whiskey!
Cold Wet Socks?
This one did not sound very appealing to me, but many people claim it does work. All you do is soak your feet in hot water for about three minutes. Next, you wet a pair of cotton anklet socks with cold water and put them on. Then, you put thick wool socks on over those and go to bed.
Supposedly, while you sleep, the blood vessels in your cold feet will constrict and push good nutrients up to your organs to help fight the infection. Then, as your feet start to adjust and warm up, your blood vessels will dilate and help send all the “junk” from your organs into your bloodstream, allowing your body to remove it naturally.
Not sure I want to try this one, but hey … who knows? MindBodyGreen.com
Get Down to Your Local Chipotle
Chili peppers, it seems, are what you need when you have a cold. I might be willing to try this one since I don’t have to starve and I do like spicy food!
ABCNews claims this works because chilis contain a compound called capsaicin which is an irritant as well as the thing that makes them spicy.
I guess, if you are all stuffed up, it does kind of make sense to eat something that will make your nose run and your eyes water. So, have some hot wings, spicy chili, some Korean BBQ, or hot Mexican dish. Or, maybe some chili powder in your tea or brownies. Chilis are nature’s remedy for congestion.
Okay then!
I tried the Naval Cure and I now feel a little better. Therefore, I am done with the whole cold-battling thing. I may have one more snort and then crawl off to bed.
Check out my other interesting blog posts by clicking here!
And remember, my two really awesome books for sale on amazon.com. Both are available in Kindle and paperback and both are getting great reviews! Serpents Underfoot (A Military Action Thriller) and Adirondack Bear Tales (True Life Adirondack Bear Encounters). I would be honored to have you read one or both of them. Remember to let me know what you think.
Rate this:
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Reddit
Tumblr
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Pocket
Telegram
WhatsApp
Skype
Like this:
Like Loading...
Adirondack Bear TalesAdirondack State ParkAdviceBloggingChilisCold RemediesFeverHumorSerpents UnderfootUS Navy
Post navigation
Previous PostPareto’s Rule and Isshin-ryu KarateNext PostTwitter Marketing for Aspiring Authors
5 thoughts on “Starve a Cold and Feed a Fever”
equipsblog says:
February 25, 2019 at 7:11 PM
Hope you feel better soon. Did you try the old Grandmother’s remedy of chicken soup?
Reply
DC Gilbert says:
February 25, 2019 at 8:34 PM
I am not sure that one works on me anymore. I eat chicken soup a lot so I think the medicinal value has worn off. 😉
Reply
Stephen C says:
February 26, 2019 at 3:59 AM
Hey DC, I thought all navy guys drank rum? but I guess if it comes out off a barrel and is over 10 years old then just about anything, full bottle of course, will help with most illness!!
Reply
DC Gilbert says:
February 26, 2019 at 7:27 AM
Hey Stephen, Yep. At the very least, you forget about being ill for awhile!
Reply
Stephen C says:
February 26, 2019 at 7:40 AM
with you all the way DC…….
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Blog Stats
131,786 hits
Follow Blog via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,057 other followers
Sign me up!
Top Posts & Pages
Water: How Important is it to You?
Award Winning Author Gives Serpents Underfoot Five Stars!
Starve a Cold and Feed a Fever
A guide to positive life transformation!
Honey, That Sweet Golden Liquid
Posts I Like
The Final Combat Mission - 15… on Pacific Paratrooper
Lieutenant Colonel Dick Cole,… on Pacific Paratrooper
Where Two Worlds Overlap on e-Quips
Reporting From the Front on Pacific Paratrooper
Type 4 Ceramic Grenades on Pacific Paratrooper
Patriot Warrior Favorites
Black Rifle Coffee
DC Gilbert – Author
Knoxville Writers Guild
North Carolina Writers Network
Pacific Paratrooper
Serpents Underfoot Fan Page
RSS Feeds
RSS - Posts
RSS - Comments
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Check out Serpents Underfoot and Adirondack Bear Tales on Amazon.com
A WordPress.com Website.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: