Children May Have Cholesterol Problems, Too
Skip to Content
health.am
Cardiology Basics
Signs and Symptoms
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Diagnostic testing
Dyspnea
Palpitations
Bradycardias
Physical Examination
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Cardiac Catheterization and Angiography
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Signs
MI Symptoms
MI Treatment
Cardiac Biomarkers, CK - Creatine Kinase
MI Warning Signs
Who's at Risk
MI Treatment
MI Prevention
Postinfarction Management
MI Complications
High Blood Pressure
Etiology & Classification
- Essential Hypertension
- Secondary Hypertension
- Systemic Hypertension
Symptoms and signs
Hypertension Diagnosis
Drug Therapy
Special Considerations
Hypertension Complications
Hypertensive Urgencies & Emergencies
Hypertension in children
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Coronary Heart Disease
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Primary & Secondary Prevention
Angina Pectoris
Differential Diagnosis
Prognosis
Treatment
Unstable Angina
Chronic stable angina pectoris
Guidelines
Pharmacologic Therapy
What Is Angina
Acute coronary syndromes
Acute Myocardial Infarction
Complications
Treatment
Postinfarction Management
Arrhythmias
Mechanisms of Arrhythmias
Supraventricular Arrhythmias
- Atrial Fibrillation
- Atrial Flutter
Ventricular Arrhythmias
High Cholesterol
LDL and HDL cholesterol
What Is High Blood Cholesterol?
Too much cholesterol
Foods to avoid
Risk Factors
Cholesterol Lowering Medications
Measuring blood cholesterol
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
A blood cholesterol-lowering diet
Sample Menus
Treating High Blood Cholesterol
What are LDL and HDL cholesterol?
Lower your blood cholesterol
Lifestyle changes
Looking for High blood cholesterol
Cardiovascular Disease
Acute Heart Failure
Acute Pericarditis
Acute Rheumatic fever
The Cardiomyopathies
Myocarditis & the Cardiomyopathies
Rheumatic Heart Disease
Cardiac Failure
Pulmonary Heart Disease (Cor Pulmonale)
Patent Ductus Arteriosus
Pericardial Effusion
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension
Traumatic Heart Disease
What is Atherosclerosis?
What Is Coronary Artery Disease?
Valvular Heart Disease
- Aortic Stenosis
- Mitral Stenosis
- Pulmonary Stenosis
- Tricuspid Stenosis
- Mitral regurgitation
- Aortic Regurgitation
Congenital heart disease
Pulmonary Stenosis
Coarctation of the Aorta
Atrial Septal Defect and patent foramen ovale
Ventricular Septal Defect
Patent ductus arteriosus
Acute Pericarditis
Constrictive Pericarditis
Pericardial Effusion
Global Burden of Cardiovascular Diseases
In recent years, the dominance of chronic diseases as major contributors to total global mortality has emerged and has been previously described in detail elsewhere. By 2005, the total number of cardiovascular disease (CVD) deaths (mainly coronary heart disease, stroke, and rheumatic heart disease) had increased globally to 17.5 million from 14.4 million in 1990. Of these, 7.6 million were attributed to coronary heart disease and 5.7 million to stroke. More than 80 percent of the deaths occurred in low and middle income countries (WHO, 2009e).
Based on 2007 to 2010 data, 33% of US adults ≥ 20 years of age have hypertension. This represents ~ 78 million US adults with hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension is similar for men and women. African American adults have among the highest prevalence of hypertension (44%) in the world.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Heart Diseases
High Blood Pressure
Good vs. Bad Cholesterol
Hypertension Classification, Epidemiology ...
Secondary Hypertension
High Blood cholesterol news |
Children May Have Cholesterol Problems, Too
Feb 05, 2008 Viewed: 715
High cholesterol levels are not just found in adults. Children may have High cholesterol, too, even without being overweight. Over years, cholesterol overload has similar hazards as in adults – clogged arteries and injury to the heart.
The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia recommends that children, starting at age two years, should have a complete cholesterol profile checked after an overnight fasting if they have a family history of High cholesterol or of early heart disease, in line with similar recommendations from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Heart Association. Those who do not have a family history but have other risk factors for early heart disease, such as overweight, high blood pressure, diabetes, smoking, poor diet, and sedentary lifestyle should also be screened.
“Although the most common reasons for High cholesterol are poor diet, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise, some apparently healthy children inherit High cholesterol levels from their parents,” said Julie Brothers, M.D., medical director of the Lipid Heart Clinic at The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. “Overall, we’ve noticed an increase in children’s cholesterol levels the past several years and this is a disturbing trend.”
Children with a family history of High cholesterol or early heart disease, even if they have normal weight, should be routinely screened, as they may have a genetic predisposition for excess cholesterol levels – familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). These children have high levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), also called “bad cholesterol,” beginning at birth, which can lead to early thickening of the artery walls, premature cardiovascular disease and an increased risk of early heart attack.
Familial hypercholesterolemia is underestimated in the community and in pediatric primary care practices. Children with FH have no symptoms or signs of their condition and often do not fit the profile of someone who is at risk; they usually have a normal weight and a healthy lifestyle and diet. However, in addition to a family history of High cholesterol, they usually have a family history of early heart disease. Children with a parent, grandparent, sibling, aunt, or uncle with High cholesterol or who has suffered a cardiac event before the age of 55 should be routinely monitored.
Children who are overweight or obese should also have their cholesterol levels routinely screened by pediatric healthcare professionals, as this also places them at increased risk of developing early heart disease.
It is important to differentiate between obese children with High cholesterol and those with FH, which is not traditionally associated with obesity; however, with the obesity epidemic, many children with FH now also are overweight or obese.
“Cholesterol levels in children who are obese usually respond well to diet and lifestyle modifications, whereas children with FH often need medications in addition to diet and exercise,” added Dr. Brothers.
Modifications to diet and increased physical activity are the first-line treatments for children identified with raised cholesterol levels. Another option is putting a child on statin therapy, which is a lifetime commitment.
The Lipid Heart Clinic at The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia evaluates and treats children and adolescents who have high levels of lipids (fats) in their blood. Elevated lipids put young people at risk for heart disease later in life.
The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia was founded in 1855 as the nation’s first pediatric hospital. Through its long-standing commitment to providing exceptional patient care, training new generations of pediatric healthcare professionals and pioneering major research initiatives, Children’s Hospital has fostered many discoveries that have benefited children worldwide. Its pediatric research program is among the largest in the country, ranking third in National Institutes of Health funding. In addition, its unique family-centered care and public service programs have brought the 430-bed hospital recognition as a leading advocate for children and adolescents.
Source: Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia
Provided by ArmMed Media
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Cholesterol Headlines
Cholesterol levels vary by season, get worse in…
Early statin therapy helps kids with inherited…
A mother’s high cholesterol before pregnancy…
When it comes to the good cholesterol, fitness…
Unnecessary repeat cholesterol tests common: study
Specialized treatment helps cholesterol patients…
Researchers Find New Way to Clear Cholesterol…
Cholesterol buildup links atherosclerosis and…
Merck CEO says jury out on raising good cholesterol
FDA OKs Drug for Rare Lipid Disorder
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
Cholesterol Topics
HDL Cholesterol
Scientists develop new research mice to help understand…
Study Finds Association Between Low Cholesterol Levels and…
PDAs, More Education Help Doctors Follow Cholesterol Treatment…
Monounsaturated fats boost “good” cholesterol
High cholesterol levels affect mobilization of cells from…
Monthly shots of Amgen drug slash cholesterol up to 66 percent
Two Popular Statins Go Generic, Paving Way for Savings
Genetically-Caused Low HDL Cholesterol Not Linked With Higher…
FDA OKs Drug for Rare Lipid Disorder
Skipping Breakfast may actually cause health problems
High Blood Pressure
Tight Blood Pressure Control Not Enough to Temper Kidney…
Study Shows Key Protein Helps Control Blood Pressure
Prevalence of cocaine use in ED patients with severe hypertension
Fermented milk drink reduces high blood pressure
Research shows a daily does of beetroot juice can beat high…
Positive Influence of Religion and Spirituality on Blood…
Taking Blood Pressure Meds Depends on Family, Access to…
High fructose diet may contribute to high blood pressure
Salt restriction improves blood pressure in blacks
Elderly with high blood pressure less likely to get lifestyle…
Heart Disease
Coronary artery disease tests prompt patients toward healthier…
Improved lifestyle led to decreased cholesterol and less…
Emerging vascular risk factors in women: Any differences…
Study shows minorities had lower risk of coronary heart…
In pursuit of the causes of cardiac hypertrophy
New research offers reassurance over multiple artery procedures…
Study finds tree nut consumption may lower risk of cardiovascular…
Heart CT scans outperform stress tests in spotting clogged…
Worldwide shift in heart medication delivery required: Study
Male and female hearts don’t grow old the same way
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved