Best Ankle Brace for Achilles Tendonitis - Help My Foot Pain
Skip to content
Home
Foot Health
Reviews
About
Disclamer
Home
Foot Health
Reviews
About
Disclamer
Best Ankle Brace for Achilles Tendonitis
April 9, 2019 June 4, 2018 by Kyle
Achilles Tendonitis
The Achilles tendon is the largest tendon in the human body. It connects your heel bone to your calf muscles and is used when walking, running, and jumping. Achilles tendonitis occurs when the Achilles tendon becomes inflamed or aggravated. Achilles tendonitis occurs in the middle area of the tendon which is slightly above the heel, and typically affects athletes and younger individuals.
Achilles tendonitis can also occur in anyone, even people who are not active and occurs on the lower portion of the heel. For more information, check out this post on Achilles tendonitis.
Best Ankle Brace for Achilles Tendonitis
So you have achilles tendonitis, now what? You more than likely should take a look at getting a brace. A brace will provide compression and support to help with your Achilles tendonitis. So what is the best ankle brace for Achilles tendonitis? We reviewed several braces and we believe the Bauerfeind AchilloTrain, was the best brace we tested. I felt this brace provided the best of both worlds by providing support as well as providing a messaging effect to stop swelling and bruising.
Key Features of the Best Ankle Brace for Achilles Tendonitis
Compression
A good Achilles tendon brace will have good compression. Compression is key to the recovery process and to help against further injury. Compression will guide the stabilization of the joints. This will help with the reduction of swelling and bruises. Also allowing good blood circulation to the area which will help in the healing process.
Breathability
Breathability is key in any brace. Especially when it comes to braces being worn around the foot/ankle area. Often these braces are worn under a sock and with shoes on. It is key to have a fabric that is breathable that wicks away moisture, keeping the foot dry and comfortable.
Heel Support
A key factor in rehabbing you Achilles is to keep the tension off of the Achilles tendon. A good brace will include some type of heel assist in the brace, either an insertable heel wedge or some type of wedge that is built into the brace itself.
Durability
Being that the brace will be on your foot/ankle area, the brace needs to be durable and hold up to continued use. The brace needs to be made of quality fabrics that will not prematurely wear. The best braces should be durable enough to wear daily while the healing process continues which could last up to six weeks.
Image
Title
Price
Prime
Buy
Bauerfeind AchilloTrain Buy Now
Corflex Achimed Achilles Support X Buy Now
Levamed Ankle Support X Buy Now
Senteq Ankle Brace Buy Now
Bauerfeind Sports Ankle Support Dynamic Buy Now
Prices accurate as of:
Best Ankle Brace for Achilles Tendon Injury In Depth
Name: Bauerfeind AchilloTrain
Specs:
The brace comes in three different colors. and 6 sizes. It is made from a breathable train active knit. Two viscoelastic pads are integrated into the fabric. It is highly elastic for easy on/off wear.
Features:
Anatomical optimal shape
Made of Breathable Materials
Helps promote circulation via compression
Name: Corflex Achimed Achilles Support
Specs:
The brace comes in 3 different colors, and 7 Sizes. The brace is made out of polyimide, polyester, and elastane. The fabric has two silicon inlays that are integrated into the fabric. The brace is designed to be worn in comfort all day.
Features:
Massage effect due to integrated silicone pads -> reduction of swellings (edema, hematomas)
Compression → Guidance and stabilization of the joints
The optional, insertable heel wedges reduce painful tension on the Achilles tendon
Name: Levamed Ankle Support
Specs:
The brace comes in 6 sizes and 5 colors. The brace is made out of compression fabric with silicone inserts. The brace also has silicone inserts.
Features:
Anatomically tailored support with silicone pads
Very elastic, breathable and moisture-transporting fabric
Specially knitted comfort-zone over the instep prevents constriction and pressure areas
Name: Senteq Ankle Brace
Specs:
The brace comes in two sizes medium and large. The brace comes in only one color. The brace features a lacing and velcro closure. It is designed to be worn with shoes.
Features:
Stabilize weak ankles to prevent sprains, strains and other injuries while maximizing comfort
For the treatment of pain related to sprains, strains, arthritis and excessive muscle and joint movement
Adjustable cross tension straps for added stabilization and support, Breathable material, Fits left or right.
Name: Bauerfeind Sports Ankle Support Dynamic
Specs:
The brace comes in 6 sizes and two colors. It is made of highly elastic fabric for regulated compression. It is durable and easy to clean.
Features:
Slim design
The specially knit fabric is breathable and durable
Designed to promote mobility not restrict it
What People Think
Name: Bauerfeind AchilloTrain
People tend to love the quality of this brace, and think that is a good value.
Most people who have bought this brace think that you make sure you get the correct measurement of your foot so the brace fits correctly.
Some people thought that the brace didn’t fit well within some shoes, making them feel that the foot was being forced inward.
Name: Corflex Achimed Achilles Support
People seem to love the support the brace provides.
Most people who have bought this brace think that you make sure you get the correct measurement of your foot so the brace fits correctly.
Most believe as I did that the product is superior in constructions and quality.
Name: Levamed Ankle Support
People liked that it was easy to get on and off.
Most thought that is was easy to wear and was supportive while conducting athletic activities.
Most thought it made a big difference in the level of pain experienced when walking.
Name: Senteq Ankle Brace
Most thought it was very affordable when compared to other braces.
People thought it provided good support and foot ankle alignment.
People thought it was easy to put on and take off, though some thought it took a little while to get used the lacing/velcro system.
Name: Bauerfeind Sports Ankle Support Dynamic
People thought the brace was excellent quality for the price.
Most thought the construction and fit were nice.
People felt the fabric worked well and was very breathable.
Some thought it wasn’t as supportive if you have had a serious injury.
Which One Should You Get?
So which brace should you get? Each of the five braces we reviewed was pretty good at supporting the Achilles. Helping make you feel more stable in your day-to-day activities. If you are searching for the Best Ankle Brace for Achilles Tendonitis you want a brace that is:
Supportive
Provides Compression
Is easy to get on and off
It is made of a breathable material
Well made and durable
In this case, you couldn’t go wrong with any of these picks, but in our opinion, the Best Ankle Brace for Achilles Tendonitis was the Bauerfeind AchilloTrain . We just felt it met each of the criteria that are important for an Achilles tendon brace to have. If you are having achilles tendon pain, it is important to see a doctor for a checkup. You deserve to feel better and get back to your day-to-day activities. With the right care and treatment plan, you will be back on healthy feet in no time.
Bauerfeind AchilloTrain
New knitting concept: improved stretch, breathability and moisture dissipation for effective compression and excellent wearing comfort
Anatomically contoured active knitted support
Integrated anatomically contoured viscoelastic pad
A removable heel wedge integrated into the support
A separate heel cushion provided for the unaffected leg to offset the length difference
View on Amazon
Prices/Images/Reviews pulled from the Amazon Product Advertising API on:
Product prices and availability are accurate as of the date/time indicated and are subject to change. Any price and availability information displayed on the respective Amazon site that you are redirected to at the time of purchase will apply to the purchase of this product.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Related
Categories ReviewsTags achilles, achilles brace, achilles tendonitis, best ankle brace for achilles tendonitis	Post navigation
Best Brace for Achilles Tendon Injury
KT Tape for Plantar Fasciitis Review
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name Email Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Product Highlight
Best Walking Boot for Plantar Fasciitis
Learn more
Recent Posts
Rigid Ankle Braces for Maximum Support
Best Rigid Ankle Brace
Alternative Crutches Help Ease the Pain
Alternative to Crutches for Foot Injury
Massaging Your Way Out of Foot Pain
Follow Me
Facebook
Pinterest
Disclaimer
HelpMyFootPain is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, and as an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases. Amazon Associates is an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites
© 2019 Help My Foot Pain • Powered by GeneratePress
Home
Reviews
Foot Health
About
Disclamer
Close