exercise | Vita Sciences
Healthier Lives Through Science. ™
Welcome to Vita Sciences
Register Login View Cart
1-877-212-7282
Home
About VitaSciences
Creams
Capsules
Patches
Powders
Blog
Contact Us
Tag Archives: exercise
A plant-based diet may help treat diabetes
March 6, 2019 alternative medicine, antioxidant, brain health, cardiovascular, cognitive function, diabetes, diabetes medicine, digestion, exercise, gut health, Health, Health News, heart health, insulin, medication, medicine, Mental Health, supplements, weight lossCardiovascular health, Diabetes, exercise, gut health, heart health, mental health, nutrition, plant-based diet, weight lossStaci
If you’ve ever tried to eat healthy, which I’m sure most of us have, then you may have been told to eat more vegetables. This is a tried and true statement that is vital to every healthy lifestyle. This is because plant-based foods like fruits and vegetables are full of gut-healthy fiber and antioxidants. In turn, this helps to lower your risk of chronic diseases like heart disease and diabetes. That is why it may not be surprising that a recent study shows that a plant-based diet may help diabetes treatment.
What is a plant-based diet?
There are several ways you may view a plant-based diet. And you don’t have to be a vegetarian or vegan to reap the benefits of this eating plan. In fact, the definition of a plant-based diet is a group of eating habits that avoid eating most or all animal products and support mostly intake of fruits, vegetables, legumes, seeds, whole grains and nuts. Therefore, all you have to do is include a plant-based food to each meal or snack time. So try to pick a variety of colors of plant-based foods to reap the benefits of the vast array of antioxidants.
Plant-based diet research
There is a lot of research supporting the benefits of a plant-based diet. Research shows that such a diet can help improve mental health, heart health, quality of life, HbA1c levels, and body weight. It can also help people manage their diabetes. It’s thought that these health benefits stem from the antioxidants in produce that help improve gut health and decrease oxidative stress and related inflammation. Also, plant-based foods provide a ton of nutrients like fiber, potassium, magnesium, folate, iron, and vitamins A and C.
A recent study looked at how the vegan diet may help those with diabetes. Researchers looked at the effects of vegetable-based foods on health versus animal-based foods. For sixteen weeks, 20 people with type 2 diabetes were fed either veggie-based burgers or meat-based burgers.
Study results show that the tofu burgers enhanced post-meal insulin secretion more than the meat burger. This means that after meals, blood glucose levels did not rise as much in those on the plant-based diet. Also, the vegan meal improved beta-cell function, which produces, holds, and releases insulin. This is important since diabetes usually damages the beta-cell function in those who have the condition. Therefore, this study shows that a plant-based diet could help those with diabetes control their condition.
Other ways to help control diabetes
Besides eating a plant-based diet, there are other things you can add to your healthy lifestyle to help control diabetes.
Stay active: Exercise can help increase how sensitive insulin is and can help the body use blood glucose better for energy. Therefore, be sure to move as much as you can each day. This can be walking, cleaning house, walking around the market, or aerobics, to name a few. Every step counts, so just because you can’t work out at the gym, that doesn’t mean you can’t find other ways to stay active and control your blood glucose levels.
Take medications: Many people with type 2 diabetes benefit from taking daily medications that help lower blood glucose levels. Some people may also have to take insulin to assist with diabetes treatment. Your diabetes healthcare team will look at your health history and current health status to find the medicine regimen that will work best for you.
Add a daily supplement: A supplement like Glucarex by Vita Sciences can help control blood glucose levels naturally. Glucarex contains compounds like chromium, alpha lipoic acid, and cinnamon that can support healthy weight, metabolism, and blood glucose levels.
See your doctor often: If you have a chronic disease like diabetes, it’s vital to visit your doctor more than once a year. During these visits, have your labs checked and have your medicines adjusted if needed. This can help you stay on top of your diabetes and lower risk of complications.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD of LighttrackNutrition.com
References:
Hever, J., & Cronise, R. J. (2017). “Plant-based nutrition for healthcare professionals: implementing diet as a primary modality in the prevention and treatment of chronic disease.” Journal of geriatric cardiology : JGC, 14(5), 355-368.
Kahleova, H., et al. (2019) “A Plant-Based Meal Stimulates Incretin and Insulin Secretion More Than an Energy- and Macronutrient-Matched Standard Meal in Type 2 Diabetes: A Randomized Crossover Study.” Nutrients, 11(3): 486.
Kerley C. P. (2018). “A Review of Plant-based Diets to Prevent and Treat Heart Failure.” Cardiac failure review, 4(1), 54-61.
McMacken, M., & Shah, S. (2017). “A plant-based diet for the prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes.” Journal of geriatric cardiology : JGC, 14(5), 342-354.
Toumpanakis, A., Turnbull, T., & Alba-Barba, I. (2018). “Effectiveness of plant-based diets in promoting well-being in the management of type 2 diabetes: a systematic review.” BMJ open diabetes research & care, 6(1), e000534.
Move more to fight depression …and diabetes
January 30, 2019 alternative medicine, anxiety, cardiovascular, cognitive function, depression, diabetes, diabetes medicine, exercise, headache, Health, Health News, heart health, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, Diabetes, exercise, heart health, mental healthStaci
When most people start an exercise program, they may be trying to do one of a few things. Most people move more to lose weight, some exercise to gain muscle, and some just want to tone up. However, the benefit from exercise that most may not think of is improved mood. A recent study shows that moving more each day may have prevent depressive symptoms. Not to mention, that research also shows that preventing or improving such symptoms can help improve health outcomes in those with diabetes.
What is depression?
Depression is a mood disorder that can greatly impact daily life. It can make daily activities seem impossible by impacting the way you feel, think, sleep, eat, and work. There are various forms of depression such as persistent depressive disorder, which involves symptoms lasting two years or more.
On the other hand, there are forms of depression that occur as a result of certain environmental changes such as in climate like with seasonal affective disorder, or after pregnancy like with postpartum depression. Some people with depression may also experience other serious mood symptoms like with bipolar disorder or psychotic depression.
No matter what type of depression a person may have, they all share certain serious symptoms for more than two weeks at a time that may include:
persistent “empty” mood or sad feelings
irritability
hopelessness
loss of interest in hobbies or daily activities
decreased energy or fatigue
restlessness
moving or talking more slowly
difficulty concentrating
trouble sleeping or eating
digestive problems or headaches without a medical cause
thoughts of death or suicide
Not everyone with depression experiences every symptom. However, if you have a few of these symptoms and you feel that daily life has become hard to handle, then it may be time to reach out to a healthcare professional for help.
Antidepressant medications and psychotherapy, like talk therapy are typical primary treatments for depression. However, if these treatments alone are not helping all of your symptoms, then there are some other things you can try. Experts suggest asking for help from a trusted friend, family member, or counselor as well as taking steps to take part in your community for social support.
Another treatment option is to join a study through the National Institutes of Health where new treatments will be tested. If you need help now, then reach out to someone today for advice through one of the resources found on this website. Exercise can also be something you can do now to help improve your depressive symptoms.
Exercise and depression research
The American Heart Association suggests that most adults exercise at least 150 minutes a week. This means that for most days of the week, you should move at least thirty minutes a day. This doesn’t have to be all at once, but can be a few minutes at a time. And this exercise should be at a moderate pace. Therefore, if you walk briskly for a few minutes here and there for a total of thirty minutes a day, then you can keep your heart strong. Not only that, but you can also keep your mind healthy too.
A recent study shows that exercise may help improve depressive symptoms. This study looked at data from over 600000 adults. Study results show that there is a protective relationship between exercise and risk for major depressive disorder. And what makes this finding stronger is that this data was taken from actual measured movement, not self-reported exercise. Therefore, experts suggest that exercise could be an effective adjunct strategy to help treat and prevent depressive symptoms.
Exercise and diabetes research
If you exercise to help improve your depressive symptoms, you could also help improve your diabetes risk. Experts report that depressive symptoms correlate strongly with a risk of incident diabetes. A study of data from the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) looked at whether positive behavior could help lower risk of type 2 diabetes in postmenopausal women.
The study looked at data from over 100000 women over 14 years. Study results show that those who were the most optimistic had a 12-percent lower risk of developing diabetes versus those in the lowest quartile of optimism. Also, those who showed more hostile and negative behaviors, were at higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Therefore, prevention strategies to help target such negative mood and personality traits may help lower risk of type 2 diabetes in these persons.
Take home message
If you suffer from depression, then there are many steps you can take to help improve your quality of life. The first step is to ask for help. I know this is not an easy ask, but there are many resources out there where people want to help you take back your life.
And if you have diabetes, it may be worth it to be screened for depression to see if such strategies listed above may help you not only feel better in your mind, but also help improve your diabetes symptoms.
Changes in diet such as consuming more antioxidant-rich foods and taking supplements such as Elevia by Vita Sciences may also help. Elevia contains GABA and 5-HTP to help calm your mind and boost serotonin levels. This could be another tool in your belt to help you improve your depressive symptoms and start feeling better inside and out.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD
References:
American Heart Association (last reviewed April 18, 2018) “American Heart Association Recommendations for Physical Activity in Adults and Kids.”
Choi KW, Chen C, Stein MB, et al. (Published online January 23, 2019) “Assessment of Bidirectional Relationships Between Physical Activity and Depression Among Adults: A 2-Sample Mendelian Randomization Study.” JAMA Psychiatry, doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2018.4175
National Institute of Mental Health (February 2018) “Depression.”
Sandoiu, A. (January 27, 2019) “Diabetes: How optimism may influence your risk.” Medical News Today, https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324297.php
A team approach may help diabetes health and your relationships
January 16, 2019 diabetes, diabetes medicine, exercise, fiber, Health, Health News, heart health, Mental Health, stressCardiovascular health, Diabetes, exercise, heart health, mental health, weight lossStaci
Diabetes can be a difficult condition to tackle on your own. The diet changes, doctor’s appointments, blood glucose checks, and other lifestyle changes that come along with treatment can be overwhelming. Also, in some cases weight loss may be recommended as part of treatment which can be more stressful. Therefore, you may not know where to begin. And in turn, you may be afraid you’re going to fail and make your condition worse. However, a recent study shows that taking a team approach to diabetes treatment may lead to better health outcomes.
What is diabetes?
Diabetes is a condition that occurs when the body either does not produce any or enough insulin, or your body is having trouble using the insulin it has. Insulin helps the body use glucose as energy. Therefore, when someone has the condition, the blood often contains more glucose than it should. This is because the insulin is either not present or not able to use the glucose for energy very well.
There are two major types of the condition. Type 1, which is often diagnosed in children, involves an autoimmune reaction. This reaction stops the body from making insulin. Therefore, people who have this type have to take insulin injections every day to survive.
On the other hand, type 2 can be diagnosed at any age, but is mostly seen in adults. This type occurs when the body can’t use insulin well. In turn, the glucose levels in the blood are difficult to control.
Common treatment options
Treatment options will depend on the type of diabetes you have. For those with type 1, you will need to take insulin every day in the form of an injection or through an insulin pump. However, for those with type 2, weight loss along with healthy eating and exercise is just as important as medication treatment. Furthermore, if someone has prediabetes, which is borderline type 2, these lifestyle changes can prevent a person from developing the full-blown condition.
Other parts of type 2 treatments may include non-insulin medications. These medications help your blood glucose from becoming too high after you eat. Regardless of what type of diabetes you have, you will likely have to check your blood glucose levels often.
This is because it will help you and your healthcare provider to keep track of your progress. It will also help your doctor figure out how much insulin or other medications you need to control your blood glucose levels. And for some people, they may have to check their blood glucose levels multiple times a day.
Team approach to treatment
Diabetes treatment involves a lot of different lifestyle changes that can be overwhelming for anyone. Therefore, a recent study looked at the impact of a team approach to treatment.
Researchers looked at the effect of couples calls on health outcomes. The couples calls involved ten calls focusing on partner communication, collaboration, and support. Each couple had one partner with type 2 diabetes. This intervention was compared with those that received individual calls or diabetes education calls.
Study results show that those who received couples calls had:
greater reductions in diabetes distress
higher increases in marital satisfaction (at four and eight months)
some improvements in diastolic blood pressure.
Researchers found that “involved partners benefited emotionally” and also felt better about their relationship. This is because the challenges of the disease brought an opportunity for them to work together to deal with the challenges.
Summary
Diet, exercise, medications, and blood glucose testing are all necessary for optimal diabetes treatment. But it goes without saying that having a support system through your journey can be very helpful as well. Also, you could benefit from a supplement like Glucarex by Vita Sciences. Glucarex contains ingredients like chromium, cinnamon, and alpha lipoic acid that can promote weight loss, improved metabolism, and healthier blood glucose levels. Here’s to improved health this new year and for years to come.
References:
Centers for Disease Control (June 1, 2017) “About Diabetes.”
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (November 2016) “Insulin, Medicines, & Other Diabetes Treatments.”
Physician’s Briefing (January 14, 2019) “Couples Intervention May Aid Partners of Diabetes Patients.”
Is there a link between diabetes and depression?
November 6, 2018 cardiovascular, cognitive function, diabetes, diabetes medicine, digestion, exercise, gut health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stroke, supplementsBrain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, Diabetes, exercise, gut health, heart healthStaci
Depression on its own can be a very challenging condition to deal with. This diagnosis not only affects the mind, but can affect the body as well. It can make everyday tasks difficult to deal with such as sleeping, working, and even eating. Because of the effect of depression on eating behaviors, weight gain or loss can occur through appetite changes unrelated to diet. Not only that, but because of the many lifestyle changes that come with a diabetes diagnosis, depression is seen two to three times more often in such patients than those without diabetes. A recent study looked at how diet and exercise factors can affect the relationship between depression and metabolic syndrome.
What is depression?
We all may feel depressed from time to time. However, a diagnosis of depression is a chronic display of such feelings that can affect daily life, relationships, and can cause both psychological and physical symptoms. If the following symptoms occur for two weeks or more, then you should see a doctor for possible diagnosis and treatment of depression.
Feeling sad or having a depressed mood
Loss of interest in activities once enjoyed
Changes in appetite
Weight loss or gain unrelated to dieting
Trouble sleeping or sleeping too much
Loss of energy or increased fatigue
Slowed movements and speech
Feeling worthless or guilty
Difficulty concentrating or making decisions
Thoughts of death or suicide
Conditions related to the thyroid, nutrient deficiencies, or tumors of the brain can mimic symptoms of depression. Therefore, such underlying causes should be ruled out by a qualified healthcare provider.
Metabolic syndrome and depression
Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that can increase a person’s risk of chronic diseases like diabetes and stroke.
A waist circumference of more than 35 inches for women and 40 inches for men
A triglyceride level of 150 mg/dL or higher
An HDL cholesterol level of less than 50 mg/dL for women and less than 40 mg/dL for men
A blood pressure of 130/85 mmHg or higher
A fasting blood sugar level of 100 mg/dL or higher
Research shows that there is a relationship between those with depression and metabolic syndrome. A recent study looked at this relationship to see what exactly is causing it. Researchers looked at data from over 64,000 adults. Study results show that those with depression are highly linked to a high fat, high sugar diet regimen and low levels of physical activity.
Researchers suggest that diet and exercise may link depression and metabolic syndrome. However, they also state that inflammation and genetic factors have a greater causal link between the two conditions. Inflammation can develop as a result of the stress on the brain due to depression that may cause an imbalance in gut microbiome. This link is a theory known as the gut-brain axis. This in turn, could cause inflammation in the body that could increase risk of chronic diseases like heat disease and diabetes.
How to lower risk of metabolic syndrome
Besides diet and exercise, you can use the tips below to help lower your risk of metabolic syndrome.
Add more fruit and vegetables to your diet: More fruits and vegetables means more antioxidants. And more antioxidants in your diet means more anti-inflammatory power. In turn, you can help reduce inflammation in your body by adding more colorful fiber sources to your plate at each meal.
Move more: Exercising at least 30 minutes a day for most days of the week can help you manage your weight. It can also help you manage stress and strengthen your heart. All of these factors can help reduce inflammation in your body and lower chronic disease risk.
Stop smoking or never start: Smoking can constrict blood vessels and in turn can increase heart disease risk. Therefore, if you already smoke, visit Smokefree.gov to quit. If you have never started smoking, then don’t. Your body will thank you.
Take a daily supplement: If you are deficient in nutrients, then this could put you at risk for conditions like depression that have an inflammatory link. Certain supplements can also help you gain better control over your blood glucose levels too. Glucarex by Vita Sciences is one such supplement that uses chromium, alpha lipoic acid, and cinnamon to help support weight loss, metabolism, and blood glucose levels.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD
References:
American Psychiatric Association (January 2017) “What is Depression?” Physician Review By: Ranna Parekh, M.D., M.P.H.
Matta J, Hoertel N, Kesse-Guyot E, et al. (2019) Diet and physical activity in the association between depression and metabolic syndrome: Constances study. J Affect Disord., 244:25-32.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (accessed November 6, 2018) “Metabolic Syndrome.”
Lower stroke risk with healthy living
October 30, 2018 alternative medicine, antioxidant, blood pressure, Blood pressure, brain health, cardiovascular, cognitive function, exercise, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, l-arginine, medication, medicine, obesity, stress, stroke, supplementsBrain health, Cardiovascular health, Diabetes, exercise, heart health, hypertension, strokeStaci
It may seem like common sense that living a healthier lifestyle can lower your disease risk. but what exactly is a healthier lifestyle? With so much information on health and wellness in the media, it can be hard to know what healthy really is. From low carb to keto to fasting, each diet plan claims to be the best and healthiest. However, the healthiest eating regimen is going to be the one that makes your unique body feel its best and that you can stick with for the long term. Not to mention, that being healthy is about more than just diet. Staying active, managing stress, and sleeping well enough are just some behaviors that affect health. Recent research shows that leading a healthier lifestyle can reduce your stroke risk and in turn improve your quality of life.
What is stroke?
A stroke occurs when something blocks blood flow to the brain, or when a blood vessel in the brain bursts. As a result, part of the brain can become damage or die. This can lead to brain damage, disability, or death. Therefore, it is important to know if you are at risk for stroke. And if you are, it is important to know what you can do to lower your risk. This is because the brain is vital for such functions as thinking, feeling, breathing, and digestion. So to take care of your whole body health, you need to take care of your brain. And for brain health, you need to take care of your body in many ways. This is where healthy living comes in.
Stroke risk and healthy living
A 7-year research study looked at the impact of different lifestyle measures on stroke risk. Also, researchers looked at 90 gene variants in this group of over 300,000 people to determine their stroke risk. The stroke rate was 35-percent higher for those with a higher gene score versus one with a lower score. And when researchers looked at lifestyle factors, those who were healthier had a 66-percent lower risk of stroke than those who had an unhealthy lifestyle. In this study, those considered to have a healthy lifestyle were those that:
did not smoke.
were not overweight.
engaged in regular exercise.
consumed a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and fish.
Furthermore, those who had a high genetic score and were considered unhealthy had a stroke risk score nearly double than that of those with the lowest scores and healthiest lifestyles.
Ways you can live your healthiest life
Besides eating right, staying active, and not smoking, there are several other things you can do to stay your healthiest.
Sleep enough each night: Research shows that short or too long sleep patterns as well as insomnia with short sleep patterns, can increase risk of stroke. Therefore, be sure to find a happy balance in your sleep time. the National Sleep Foundation recommends that most adults sleep seven to nine hours each night. If you find you are having trouble sleeping, it may be helpful to visit your doctor for treatment. They could recommend a sleep study done to identify any health issues that could be disturbing your sleep.
Manage stress: Stress affects all of us to some degree. However, too much stress can have an impact on your heart health. Therefore, be sure to manage your stress with some relaxation breathing, meditation, yoga, or talking to a counselor each week.
Visit your doctor regularly: It’s important to visit your doctor at least once a year to check your numbers. Your numbers include cholesterol, triglycerides, blood glucose levels, blood pressure, and body weight. These numbers can help identify any heart health risk factors you may have. The earlier you find such risk factors, the earlier you can receive treatment and prevent your risk of stroke.
Take supplements when necessary: If you are lacking certain vitamins or minerals in your diet, you may need a supplement such as a multivitamin or fish oil. This can help your body receive the antioxidants you need to fight oxidative stress and lower chronic disease risk factors. One such supplement is Circova by Vita Sciences. Circova contains ingredients like L-arginine, niacin, and hawthorne to help promote improved blood flow and blood pressure.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD
References:
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (May 3, 2018) “About Stroke.”
HealthDay (October 25, 2018) “Does Stroke Run in Your Family? Healthy Living Lowers the Risk.”
Koo, D. L., Nam, H., Thomas, R. J., & Yun, C. H. (2018). Sleep Disturbances as a Risk Factor for Stroke. Journal of stroke, 20(1), 12-32.
Meschia, J.F., et al. (2014) “Guidelines for the Primary Prevention of Stroke.” Stroke, 45(12): 3754-3832.
National Sleep Foundation (accessed October 30, 2018) “National Sleep Foundation Recommends New Sleep Times.”
Could diabetes increase risk of osteoporosis?
October 10, 2018 alternative medicine, antioxidant, arthritis, back pain, bone health, calcium, diabetes, diabetes medicine, exercise, Health, Health News, heart health, joint pain, medication, medicine, osteoporosis, vitamin D, vitamin deficiency, Vitamin Deficiency Risk Factorsarthritis, calcium, Cardiovascular health, Diabetes, exercise, Osteoporosis, vitamin DStaci
If you have diabetes, you may or may not know that you are at higher risk for heart disease than those who don’t have diabetes. However, in addition to heart disease, you could also be at risk for bone health issues. This risk was discovered in a recent study that found those with diabetes were at higher risk for osteoporosis than those without diabetes. Therefore, this finding warrants further research on this risk. And in turn, standard diabetes diet and supplement treatments may need to be revised to account for this higher risk.
What is osteoporosis?
Osteoporosis is a condition that causes bone loss. It often occurs without any symptoms. Therefore, you may not know you have the condition until you fall and break a bone. The bone loss related to osteoporosis can be caused by the body losing too much bone, not making enough bone, or both.
Literally, osteoporosis means “porous bone” which describes the honeycomb-like bone structure in those with the conditions. These spaces in the bone make it less dense, weaker, and more likely to break. It may be beneficial if you are 50 years of age or older, to get a bone density test.
Height loss or curving of the spine may be serious symptoms of osetoporosis. Therefore, if you have such symptoms and have not yet been diagnose with osteoporosis, you should visit your doctor right away. If diganosed, treatment will likely include vitamin D and calcium supplements, an exercise program, and medications.
You may be at risk for osteoporosis if you have:
certain autoimmune conditions like rheumatoid arthritis
certain cancers like breast or prostate cancer
digestive conditions like inflammatory bowel disease or celiac disease
a history of weight loss surgery
liver disease
and eating disorder
certain thyroid or hormone-related conditions
You may also be at risk for osteoporosis if you take certain medications such as:
certain heartburn medicines like Nexium®, Prevacid® and Prilosec®
some antidepressants like Lexapro®, Prozac® and Zoloft®
steroids
certain diabetes medicines like thiazolidinediones
Osteoporosis and Diabetes
Using data from the 2013 Danish National Health Survey, researchers looked at the connection between bone health conditions and other health factors. This analysis found that those people with diabetes were one-third more likely to have osteoarthritis than those without diabetes. These same people were also more likely to have bone related conditions like rheumatoid arthritis and osteoporosis.
Likely related to such bone conditions, those with diabetes were more nearly 30-percent more likely to have back, shoulder, and neck pain as well. Researchers suggest that the link between bone health and diabetes may be inflammation. Diabetes is an inflammatory condition as is arthritis. Therefore, those with one condition may have an increased risk of developing other inflammation-related conditions. This research warrants further research on this connection of inflammatory health conditions.
Ways to help your bone health
If you feel you may be more at risk for bone health conditions, read below for ways you can help improve your bone health.
Consume plenty of calcium: Calcium is used in many parts of the body such as helping blood clot and muscles to contract. And when the body does not have enough calcium to do these things, it takes the calcium from the bones. Over time, this can make the bones weak. Therefore, be sure to have plenty of calcium in your daily diet. Foods high in calcium include milk, yogurt, fortified breakfast cereals and juices, as well as leafy greens like kale and spinach.
Go outside every once in while: Vitamin D is also known as the sunshine vitamin since the body can absorb it from the sun. This vitamin helps the body absorb calcium, so it is very important to bone health. Therefore, be sure to get outside at least 10-15 minutes a day with some of your arms, legs, and face showing. During the winter, consume plenty of fatty fish like salmon, eggs, mushrooms, and fortified dairy products for vitamin D. Ask your doctor to have your vitamin D levels checked each year and take a daily supplement if your levels are low.
Stay active: Exercise is great for not only keeping blood glucose levels stable if you have diabetes, but it is also good for bone health. Weight-bearing exercises like walking, hiking, jogging, dancing, and weight training are good for strengthening bones. Be sure to engage in some sort of physical activity most days of the week. You should engage in strength training such as weight exercises or resistance training at least 2 times a week.
Eat a plant-based diet: Not only does a plant-based diet contain calcium-rich leafy greens, but is also antioxidant-rich. Antioxidants can reduce the inflammation that can lead to oxidative stress and increased chronic disease risk. Therefore, eat plenty of colorful fruits and vegetables at every meal and snack.
Take a bone health supplement: If you are having trouble consuming enough calcium and vitamin D, a supplement may be for you. Find a supplement that combines calcium and vitamin D, or take them separate. One such supplement is Osteovent by Vita Sciences. Osteovent contains 400IU vitamin D3 and 1000mg calcium along with other important bone health nutrients like magnesium as well as antioxidants like vitamin C and bromelain.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD
References:
National Osteoporosis Foundation (accessed October 10, 2018) “What is osteoporosis and what causes it?”
National Osteoporosis Foundation (accessed October 10, 2018) “Calcium/Vitamin D.”
NIH Osteoporosis and Related Bone Diseases National Resource Center (February 2017) “Osteoporosis Overview.”
Can cardio exercise boost metabolism better than strength training?
August 29, 2018 alternative medicine, bone health, cardiovascular, exercise, Health, Health News, heart health, weight lossCardiovascular health, exercise, heart health, weight lossStaci
Any kind of movement is good for health. Studies have shown time and again that sitting is bad for health. But, is one kind of exercise better than the other when it comes to weight loss? This is a controversial topic since some studies show that strength training can keep calories burning long after your workout. However, a recent study has shown that cardio exercise may actually be better than strength training in boosting metabolism.
Cardio exercise versus strength training
Cardio exercise, or aerobic activity, is a type of exercise that gets your heart rate up. It gets you to breathe faster and deeper, in turn getting more oxygen in your blood. Cardio exercise is best known for improving the overall health of your heart and lungs. Experts recommend that you engage in some cardio exercise for at least 30 minutes a day for most days of the week.
Types of cardio exercises include walking, running, cycling, swimming, team sports, and dancing, to name a few. Cardio exercises are known for burning more calories per minute than strength training and is also great for stress management. Not to mention that cardio training can help reduce risk of chronic diseases like heart disease and diabetes.
On the other hand, strength training exercises aim to increase your bone and muscle strength. Examples of such exercises include free weight exercises or resistance training like push-ups, to name a few.
Research has found that strength training can help you burn an additional 25-percent of calories you burned during your workout even after you have finished your workout. Therefore, if you burn 100 calories during your strength training workout, then you will burn an additional 25 calories in the hours after your workout for a total of 125 calories burned.
Typically, it is recommended to balance out your fitness routine with both cardio and strength training exercises. This will ensure you can reap the benefits of both types of exercises.
Cardio for faster metabolism
Recent research looked at the effects of cardio and strength training exercises on certain health markers. Two groups of people had either a 60-minute cardio or 60-minute strength training workout to complete. After the workout, their blood was tested for lactic acid, blood sugar, bile, and hormone levels. Study results show that those who did the cardio exercise had higher levels of the hormone FGF21. This hormone plays a role in boosting metabolism. Those who did the cardio workout had tripled their FGF21 level from baseline, while those who did strength training saw no increase.
Other ways to boost metabolism
Besides boosting your cardio routine, there are other small changes you can make to your lifestyle to speed up your metabolism.
Spice up your diet: Research shows that capsaicin, the active component of chili peppers, can increase calorie burning by 50 calories a day.
Take a metabolism boosting supplement: Sometimes a supplement that supports the thyroid may help boost metabolism. An example of this is Thyradol by Vita Sciences. Thyradol contains ashwagandha that helps enhance levels of the thyroid hormone T4. You should contact your healthcare provider before starting any new supplement.
Eat more harder to digest foods: Foods that are more complex in their structure can help the body burn more calories during digestion. This is called diet-induced thermogenesis. Foods higher in fiber and protein are examples of such foods. Foods that are more refined, like processed carbohydrates, will not have this same effect. Therefore, aim for eating lots of complex carbohydrates like high fiber fruits and vegetables that have a 20-percent thermic effect. This means that for every 100 calories of these foods you eat, your body will use 20 calories to break down and digest these foods. Aim for at least 2 cups of fruits and vegetables each day. Also, be sure to consume plenty of protein from animal and/or plant-based sources., which have a 30-percent thermic effect.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
References:
Healthline (accessed August 29, 2018) “Metabolism Boosters: Weight Loss Fact or Fiction?”
Mayo Clinic (August 10, 2017) “Fitness training: elements of a well-rounded routine.”
Petter, O. (August 25, 2018) “Cardio Boosts Metabolism More Than Strength Training , Study Claims.”
Plosser, L. (accessed August 29, 2018) “Cardio vs. Strength Training: Which One is Most Effective?”
Williams, J. (October 3, 2017) “How Many Calories Does Digestion Use Up?”
Could it be that men have weight loss faster than women?
August 8, 2018 antioxidant, diabetes, exercise, fiber, Health News, obesity, supplements, weight lossDiabetes, exercise, weight, weight lossStaci
Sometimes it may seem that over the same period of time, on the same diet and exercise regimen, that men lose weight quicker than women. Some say that men have more muscle mass, so their metabolism is higher. Others say that it has to do with hormones. So, what is the real reason behind this phenomenon, and is it even a real phenomenon? A recent study found that men with prediabetes lost significantly more weight over eight weeks than women with prediabetes. Let’s explore why this may be.
What is prediabetes?
Those with prediabetes have a higher than normal blood glucose level. However, they are not at the point where their blood glucose status qualifies as diabetes. A diagnosis like this might be scary, but it can be a good thing. When you are given a diagnosis of prediabetes, there is a chance to reverse your risk of diabetes by changing lifestyle factors. With the guidance of a qualified health professional, you can tweak your diet and increase your physical activity to help you lose weight and lower your blood glucose levels.
In most cases, after such a diagnosis, you will be asked to come back for a retest of your blood glucose labs in 3 to 6 months to make sure everything is moving in the right direction. Some doctors may put you on medications such as metformin to help with this if diet and exercise alone is not helping.
Men weight loss faster than women?
A recent study of 2000 overweight men and women with prediabetes looked at the effects of a low-calorie diet. After eight weeks, the men in the study lost significantly more weight than women and had larger reductions in their metabolic score, which is a marker for diabetes. In addition, the men had greater loss of fat mass and lower heart rate after eight weeks on the diet. However, women did have the upper hand on some health markers. In fact, women had a larger reduction in hip circumference, lean body mass, and pulse pressure than men.
Researchers suggest that it is clear that men benefited more from this low calorie diet than women. However, longer term studies will need to be done to figure out exactly why. Theories suggest that women may have a harder time losing weight since they store fat more easily than men. Also, women have less muscle mass than men, which can affect metabolism. Finally, women are more prone than men to yo-yo dieting, which can negatively affect long-term weight loss success.
Strategies for weight loss
Just because the weight loss odds seem to be against women, that does not mean that successful long-term weight loss is impossible. Follow the strategies to help you lose weight, no matter your gender.
Eat enough fiber each day. Only one in ten Americans eat the minimum recommended amount of fruits and vegetables daily. This low fiber intake can impact digestive health, heart health, and overall quality of the diet. Fruits and veggies also contain antioxidants that can help lower risk of chronic diseases like diabetes and heart disease by reducing oxidative stress and related cell damage. Therefore, be sure to get plenty of veggies and fruits in your meals and snacks. You can add spinach or tomatoes to your eggs for breakfast, or throw in fruit and veggies into a morning smoothie. For meals, grab some frozen veggies that you can steam in less than 10-15 minutes, depending on the veggie. For snacks, crunch on some baby carrots and apple slices, or enjoy some berries or grapes.
Move more each day. Many of us have jobs that require sitting for most of the day. Therefore, make it a point to take the stairs, take a walk during lunch if you can, and/or make time in the evening to take a walk after dinner or take an aerobics class at your local community center. Every step will help you burn more calories, keep your heart strong, and help you lose weight.
Try a supplement regimen. Low vitamin D, B12, or iron can affect your health status, and in turn impact energy levels and weight loss. You should have your labs tested to see if you may have a nutrient deficiency. Also, if you have prediabetes, a supplement like Glucarex may help as well. Glucarex by Vita Sciences contains chromium, alpha lipoic acid, and cinnamon, which can support healthy weight loss metabolism, and blood glucose levels.
Surround yourself with support. Long-term weight loss success is often seen in those with social support systems in place. Whether you engage your family in more healthy meals, have family walks, have a weight loss buddy at work, or join a support group, support can make the difficult act of losing weight a little easier. Not only that, but support can help you stay accountable and on track with your goals. Also, having a qualified healthcare team of doctors and dietitians can help you stay on the right path to health.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
References:
Asian News International (August 8, 2018) “Low calorie diet, men tend to lose more weight than women.”
Centers for Disease Control (November 16, 2017) “Only 1 in 10 Adults Get Enough Fruits or Vegetables.”
Joslin Diabetes Center (accessed August 8, 2018) “Diet Strategies for Women with Diabetes: Why Some Work and Some Don’t.”
Mayo Clinic (August 2, 2017) “Prediabetes.”
Could exercise reduce inflammation in the body?
June 27, 2018 alternative medicine, antioxidant, cardiovascular, exercise, gut health, Health News, obesity, probiotic, probiotics, supplementsCardiovascular health, exercise, gut health, heart health, obesity, weight lossStaci
Whether you walk, run, swim, cycle, or dance, exercise is a great way to keep your heart in tip top shape. Exercise is also recommended for weight loss, controlling blood glucose levels, and even for helping reduce stress by releasing endorphins. Recent research has shown that exercise may also be good for reducing inflammation in the body, and in turn reducing your risk for many chronic diseases.
Inflammation and oxidative stress
Inflammation is the body’s response to injury or infection that results in redness, swelling, and painful. It is part of the body’s immune response to such foreign bodies or substances. Inflammation can lead to oxidative stress, which can damage cells and in turn increase risk of chronic disease states.
Exercise and Inflammation
A recent study in the Journal of Physiology looked at the impact of exercise on the health of obese individuals. Inflammation has been linked to many obesity-related conditions such as diabetes and heart disease. Therefore, exercise therapy to reduce weight and improve heart health may reduce such inflammation.
A group of young, obese adults participated in a six-week exercise program that involved three 60-minute bicycling or treadmill-running sessions each week. Blood samples taken at the start and end of the study. These samples reveal that the exercise regimen produced a decline in stem cells that create the blood cells responsible for inflammation. This study shows promise that exercise may help obese individuals to reduce risk of chronic disease as well as others with inflammatory disease status. However, further study of the effects of blood changes on energy consumption, fat storage, and other inflammatory conditions is warranted.
Other ways to decrease inflammation
Besides exercise, inflammation can be reduced in the body in various ways. Oxidative stress, which is linked to inflammation, can be reduced by diet changes and improvements in gut health as well. Here are some ways you can reduce inflammation through your daily intake.
Plant-based diets have shown to decrease inflammation. A 2016 study found that a plant-based diet can help reduce levels of the inflammatory marker C-reactive protein in the body. Research suggests that plant-based foods such as fruits, vegetables, and nuts contain antioxidants that help reduce oxidative stress in the body. Therefore, be sure to add in plant-based foods in your diet at each meal to help reduce inflammation in the body.
Stay as natural as possible in your diet. Try to consume mostly whole plant-based foods versus processed foods so you can get the full antioxidant benefit. In addition, additives and preservatives in processed foods may increase oxidative stress in the body.
Quit smoking or don’t start. Smoking of any kind can introduce chemicals into the body that can cause oxidative stress. Not to mention that smoking can increase blood pressure and heart disease risk by constricting blood vessels.
Reduce pollutant and other stress exposure. Staying out in the sun for too long without protective clothing or mineral-based sunscreen can increase oxidative damage to cells. Also, exposure to pollutants such as car exhaust, industrial smoke, and other chemical-based substances can increase oxidative stress. Therefore, try to reduce your exposure to such things to decrease inflammation in the body.
Probiotics may help decrease inflammation. More and more research shows that taking probiotics daily can help reduce oxidative stress in the body. Different probiotic strains can have different impacts on health. However, many probiotic strains have proven to possess ant-inflammatory qualities. Inflammatory conditions like acne and eczema, inflammatory bowel disease, and high cholesterol can improve with probiotic use. An example of a probiotic with a diverse array of strains is Biovia 30 by Vita Sciences which contains 30 billion colony forming units (CFU) to help promote digestive health. Therefore, consider adding a probiotic to your daily routine to help improve your overall health inside and out.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Biswas, S.K. (2016) “Does the Interdependence between Oxidative Stress and Inflammation Explain the Antioxidant Paradox?” Hindawi Publishing Corporation, Volume 2016, Article ID 5698931, 9pp.
Bjorklund, MD, G. and Chirumbolo, Ph.D., S. (January 2017) “Role of oxidative stress and antioxidants in daily nutrition and human health.”
Eichelmann, F., Schwingshackl, L., Fedirko, V., and Aleksandrova, K. (November 2016) “Effect of plant-based diets on obesity-related inflammatory profiles: a systematic review and meta-analysis of intervention trials.” Obesity Reviews, 17(11): 1067-1079.
Nagpal, R., et al. (2012) “Probiotics, their health benefits and applications for developing healthier foods: a review.”
National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (accessed June 26, 2018) “Probiotics: In Depth.”
NIH News in Health (May 2017) “Keeping Your Gut in Health.”
Preidt, R. (June 20, 2018) “Exercise May Ease Inflammation Tied to Obesity.” HealthDay.
The Top 5 Ways to Lower Your Heart Disease Risk
June 20, 2018 alternative medicine, antioxidant, blood pressure, Blood pressure, cardiovascular, diabetes, diabetes medicine, exercise, fiber, Health News, healthy fats, heart health, high cholesterol, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, medication, medicine, obesity, stress, stroke, weight loss, yogablood pressure, Cardiovascular health, Diabetes, exercise, heart disease, heart health, hypertension, weight lossStaci
Heart disease is the leading cause of death for men and women in the United States. It accounts for one in four deaths each year. However, yo can prevent heart disease by changing some lifestyle factors to lower your risk. Risk factors of heart disease include poor diet, physical inactivity, being overweight or obese, being a smoker, and having diabetes. Fortunately, by working to change a few things in your daily routine, you can lower your risk of heart disease. Here are the top five things you can do today to lower your risk of heart disease.
Stop smoking or don’t start. Smoking can constrict your blood vessels and make it hard for oxygen-rich blood to get to your heart. In turn, this can raise your blood pressure and increase your risk of a heart attack or stroke. According to the Centers for Disease Control, the percentage of smokers in the United States is at its lowest. However, there are still about 14-percent of Americans, or about 30 million people, who are still smoking. More and more young people are vaping instead of smoking, but experts worry that this is just another way for people to get addicted to nicotine. Therefore, no matter if its a cigarette, e-cigarette, or vaping device, stop smoking for your heart health. Contact Smokefree.gov to speak to an expert to help provide advice and resources to quit.
Eat a more balanced diet. I’m sure you have been told time and time again to eat more fruits and vegetables. However, the fiber-rich quality and antioxidants in such foods can help reduce oxidative stress in the body, which can lower risk of chronic disease like heart disease and diabetes. Therefore, include fruits and vegetables with every meal, in a variety of colors to provide you with a diverse array of nutrients. Also, balance out your veggies with lean proteins like chicken, fish, nuts, seeds, and/or low-fat dairy products. Stick to mostly whole, minimally processed foods to avoid unnecessary salt, sugar, and preservatives.
Be more active. Try to move more each day to keep your heart strong. Walking, gardening, swimming, biking, or aerobics are some examples of ways you can incorporate some movement in your day. Try to get at least 30 minutes of activity at least 5 days a week. You can split this exercise into small segments of 5 and 10 minutes throughout the day if you need to for any reason.
Manage stress. Stress can lead to poor sleep, high blood pressure, and lack of motivation to eat healthy or exercise. Therefore, stress can have a domino effect on your entire health status if not managed properly. If you feel you are unable to manage your stress, try talking with someone. A counselor or therapist can help you figure out strategies to manage your stress. You can also try yoga, meditation, relaxation breathing, and/or acupuncture to help you manage your stress and in turn lower your heart disease risk.
Visit your healthcare provider regularly. Whether you have a history or family history of heart disease or not, you should visit your doctor regularly. You should have labs done at least once a year to check your cholesterol, blood pressure, etc. This is because life can change a lot in a year, and you can find yourself stuck in unhealthy lifestyle habits without even noticing unless an abnormal or high lab finding alerts you to it. Therefore, visit your doctor regularly, and even more often if you do have a history of heart disease, diabetes, or other chronic disease.
Take your health journey one step at a time. In addition to the steps listed, you can also try adding supplements to your routine if you feel there are any nutrient gaps in your diet. Try a heart healthy supplement like Presura or a multivitamin like Zestia by Vita Sciences. Changing your lifestyle may not be easy. However, the improvements in your quality of life you will be rewarded with will be worth it.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Associated Press (June 19, 2018) “Smoking Hits New Low Among U.S. Adults.”
American Heart Association (updated May 17, 2018) “The American Heart Association’s Diet and Lifestyle Recommendations.”
Centers for Disease Control (November 28, 2017) “Heart Disease Facts.”
Posts navigation
← Older posts
Search
Search the blog with this form:
Special Offers
Sign-up for Email Offers with this form:
Subscribe
Tags
Tags Select Category Aging (20) alternative medicine (66) antioxidant (31) anxiety (17) arthritis (7) ashwagandha (3) back pain (5) blood pressure (40) Blood pressure (50) bone health (11) Boost energy! (23) brain health (28) breakfast (12) calcium (7) cardiovascular (56) chondroitin (2) Chronic Pain (11) coffee (2) cognitive function (30) depression (14) diabetes (41) diabetes medicine (17) digestion (26) exercise (40) eye health (6) Fertility and Pregnancy (2) fiber (39) garlic (2) Gastrointestinal (GI) Disorders (6) glaucoma (3) gut health (22) Hair, Skin, and Nails (3) hawthorn (2) headache (3) Health (77) Health News (110) healthy fats (21) heart health (70) Help for Tinnitus (4) herbs (1) high cholesterol (13) hydration (11) hypercholesterolemia (14) hypertension (53) Hypothyroidism (2) insulin (8) joint pain (8) l-arginine (1) medication (39) medicine (39) memory (10) menopause (2) Mental Health (28) migraine (2) Migraine Headaches (12) Neuropathy (14) niacin (2) obesity (34) omega-3 (2) osteoporosis (2) pain (3) Pernicious Anemia (PA) (1) probiotic (11) probiotics (11) retinopathy (2) Sciatica (2) stress (40) stroke (18) supplements (56) unemployment (3) unsaturated fat (7) vision (6) vitamin A (1) vitamin A deficiency (1) Vitamin B12 Benefits (4) Vitamin B12 Deficiency (10) vitamin D (8) vitamin deficiency (8) Vitamin Deficiency Risk Factors (9) water (12) weight loss (34) women’s health (4) yoga (4)
Recent Posts
Could eating breakfast could lower your heart disease risk? April 24, 2019
Reduce carbs at breakfast to lower blood sugar April 17, 2019
Improve your diet, extend your life April 10, 2019
Add nuts to your diet for better brain health April 4, 2019
Could weight loss help lower risk of migraine? March 27, 2019
Could sugary drinks reduce life expectancy? March 20, 2019
Could your yo-yo diet lifestyle be hurting your heart? March 12, 2019
A plant-based diet may help treat diabetes March 6, 2019
Could too much fat in your diet harm your gut health? February 27, 2019
Could preventing or treating hypertension protect your mind? February 20, 2019
Could eating processed foods increase risk of death? February 13, 2019
Heart Health Month: How to protect yourself from heart attack February 6, 2019
Move more to fight depression …and diabetes January 30, 2019
Could fish oil lower your risk of stroke? January 24, 2019
A team approach may help diabetes health and your relationships January 16, 2019
Eat less red meat in your diet for better heart health this new year January 8, 2019
Could sleep help you meet your New Year’s weight loss goals? January 2, 2019
Could a Mediterranean diet improve your brain health? December 27, 2018
Drinking less alcohol could help weight loss goals this new year December 18, 2018
Do you have good metabolism? If not, try this December 12, 2018
Products
Migravent
B12 Patch
Nervex
Maxasorb B12 Cream
Maxasorb D3 Cream
Maxasorb Melatonin Cream
Nurenza
About Us
Company History
Practitioners
Wholesale
Quality Assurance
Help
Terms and Conditions
Product Index
Category Index
Store Locator
Copyright © 2016 Vita Sciences / All rights reserved. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.