Heal yourself at home with these everyday health hacks - Health HQ
Home
ADF Community
Health
Wellness
Move & Nourish
Your Insurance
Member Updates
Home
ADF Community
Health
Wellness
Move & Nourish
Your Insurance
Member Updates
Search for:
Heal yourself at home with these everyday health hacks
By Defence Health • Aug 31, 2018
Whether you’re running around in the backyard with the kids or preparing a meal in the kitchen, minor injuries are a common occurrence around the home. But not every accident requires a trip to the doctor’s surgery.
A few simple first aid techniques are all you need to avoid wasting hours in the waiting room.
Getting it right
It’s easy to get confused about the right treatment option, especially when it comes to issues such as strains, scrapes and burns.
Choosing the appropriate treatment for the injury and applying it correctly will kick-start the healing process and ensure you’re not doing more harm than good.
Here are a few common injuries you might come across and what you can do to help heal yourself at home.
Muscle strains
A muscle strain occurs when the fibres in a muscle are stretched or torn, usually due to overuse, fatigue or being pushed beyond its capabilities. Strains can occur in any muscle, although they are most common in the lower back and legs.
While serious strains should be seen by a doctor, a mild strain can be successfully treated at home by utilising the RICE principles: rest, ice, compression and elevation.
Rest the injured muscle and apply ice to the area as soon as possible to reduce swelling. Ice should be applied for no more than 15 minutes each time and repeated every two hours.
Wrapping the muscle with a compression bandage and elevating the injured area can also help reduce swelling.
Heat should not be applied to strained muscles – especially within the first 48 hours after injury. Tip: ice is for fresh injuries, and heat works best on aching joints, stiff muscles or muscle spasm.
Cuts and grazes
Whether it’s from the slip of the knife while chopping up vegetables or a fall on the concrete while playing outside, the sight of blood can make some people pretty squeamish. But that doesn’t mean they can’t treat those small cuts and grazes quickly and easily at home.
Ensure your hands are washed and dried to prevent the potential spread of infection.
Apply mild pressure to the wound with a clean cloth to stem the flow of blood then rinse the site with running water to remove any dirt or other foreign matter. Dry thoroughly and cover the area with a Band-Aid or bandage. Ensure the dressing remains clean and dry and change it at least once a day to aid the healing process. Once the wound has closed over the dressing can be removed completely.
Burns
There are countless old wives tales and home remedies for treating mild burns, such as covering it with butter or rubbing it with a potato, however the reality is that most of these will actually do more harm than good.
While urgent medical assistance should be sought for serious burns, small first-degree burns that affect only the outer layer of the skin can be treated successfully at home. Place the affected area under cool running water for up to 20 minutes, but don’t apply ice, ointments or burns creams. You should also remove any clothing or jewellery near the burn if it is not stuck to it and is easy to do so. Most small burns should heal within two weeks, however if blisters develop refrain from popping them and instead seek medical advice.
Home first aid can be a quick and effective treatment for many injuries, however if you’re in doubt always seek medical assistance.
Category: Family • Health • Wellness
Tags: Health • Illness • stay healthy • support • Wellbeing
Like it? Share with your friends.
Article by: Defence Health
Stay updated
Subscribe to Health HQ for the latest updates direct to your inbox each month!
First name Email I am a Defence Health member
Defence Health
We see things a little differently to most. Our members aren't numbers or names, they're just like family. And family always comes first. That's why we're not for profit and why your wellbeing is what matters most.
For the last 60 years, providing genuine care, support and expertise to the Defence community has seen us grow into a family of over 200,000.
Created with you in mind, Health HQ is just another way that we are committed to your wellbeing.
Articles you may like
Signaller Silas the ANZAC, artist and adventurer in Gallipoli posted on Apr 17, 2019
The Anzac biscuit – traditional & healthy recipes posted on Apr 14, 2016
What’s the difference between a physiotherapist, an accredited exercise physiologist, an osteopath, and a chiropractor? posted on Nov 23, 2016
Dream a little dream – what’s really going on in my dreams? posted on Mar 27, 2019
What is a panic attack – and where do I go for help? posted on Mar 27, 2019
Remedial massage versus relaxation massage posted on Feb 28, 2019
A physio’s top 5 exercises for a strong core posted on Mar 27, 2019
Going to hospital in an emergency posted on Apr 14, 2016
Managing the cost of orthodontics posted on May 24, 2016
What’s involved in major dental treatment? posted on Jan 8, 2017
Categories
ADF Community
Family
Health
Move & Nourish
Uncategorized
Wellness
Your Insurance
Defence Health
We see things a little differently to most. Our members aren't numbers or names, they're just like family. And family always comes first. That's why we're not for profit and why your wellbeing is what matters most...
Read more
Tags
active ADF anxiety baby behaviour beyond blue brain brain health children Chronic Disease dental network dentist depression diabetes diet Exercise extras cover family fitness Health health cover health insurance health management health programs healthy snacks heart disease hospital cover Illness keep fit mental health motivation newborn new dad nutrition outdoors pregnancy private hospital public hospital sport stay healthy stress support waiting list Wellbeing wellness
Recent Posts
Signaller Silas the ANZAC, artist and adventurer in Gallipoli
Dream a little dream – what’s really going on in my dreams?
What is a panic attack – and where do I go for help?
A physio’s top 5 exercises for a strong core
Incorporate more steps into your day
Connect
Subscribe to stay in touch
Connect with us on Facebook
1800 335 425
Mon-Thurs 8.30am – 8:00pm
Fri 8:30am – 6:00pm AEDT
defencehealth.com.au
Let us know your thoughts on Health HQ
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Security
Terms of Use
©2019 Defence Health Ltd
ABN 80 008 629 481 AFSL 313890
Stay updated
Subscribe to Health HQ for the latest updates direct to your inbox each month. Please click here to view Facebook giveaway terms & conditions.
First name Email I am a Defence Health member