5-HTP Supplements in Migraine Headache Health
icon-circle-arrow-up icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
5-HTP for Migraine Prevention
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Migraines
Treatment
Symptoms
Types
Causes & Risk Factors
Prevention
Living With
Related Conditions
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Brain & Nervous System Migraines Treatment
5-HTP for Migraine Prevention
How 5-HTP May Help Your Headaches and What to Watch Out For
Print
By Teri Robert
Updated March 28, 2019
Show Article Table of Contents
Serotonin and Migraines What Is 5-HTP? Research
Dosage Side Effects and Safety
View All
Back To Top
More in Migraines
Treatment
Symptoms
Types
Causes & Risk Factors
Prevention
Living With
Related Conditions
A supplement called 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), or oxitriptan, has been considered among one of the alternative treatments for headaches and migraines. The body converts this substance to 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), also known as serotonin, a neurotransmitter that mediates mood and pain.
Serotonin, Migraines, and Headaches
Low serotonin levels are typically found in those with depression, but migraineurs and people with chronic headache disorders can have low serotonin levels too— both during and in between attacks. It isn't quite clear why migraines and serotonin are related. The most popular theory is that a deficit in serotonin makes a person hypersensitive to pain.
Because of this association, several methods of augmenting serotonin activity in the brain are commonly used to prevent migraines and to treat acute episodes.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs): SSRIs are a category of prescription antidepressants that prolong the action of serotonin in the brain. They are often taken on a daily basis to prevent migraine attacks.
Triptans: A group of powerful prescription medications, triptans work by binding to serotonin receptors, imitating their action. They are used to stop severe migraine attacks.
Complementary and alternative therapy (CAM): Some of the natural methods that have been found effective for migraine prevention include acupuncture, meditation, and exercise. These are all believed to produce their anti-migraine effect by increasing serotonin levels.
What Is 5-HTP?
5-HTP is an amino acid produced by the human body from the essential amino acid L-tryptophan, which must be obtained through your diet. L-tryptophan can be found in foods like seeds, soybeans, turkey, and cheese. Enzymes naturally convert L-tryptophan into 5-HTP and then convert 5-HTP into 5-HT.
5-HTP supplements are made from the plant Griffonia simplicifolia, a West African medicinal plant. This supplement has been used for depression, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and as an aid for weight loss, but there is no strong evidence to show that it is beneficial.
When considering 5-HTP or any natural supplement, it's important to understand that these products are chemicals. If you are taking them because they could be powerful enough to achieve a positive effect on your health, keep in mind that they can be strong enough to produce negative effects as well.
Research on 5-HTP for Migraines
It is not clear whether 5-HTP supplements are beneficial for migraines or other types of headaches. Overall, there is limited research; some studies suggest that it helps, and others fail to show any effect.
A research experiment using rats showed that 5-HTP supplementation helped prevent estrogen-associated changes in the brain that are consistent with migraine with aura. This suggests that 5-HTP may exert its action by reducing the effects of migraine triggers.
5-HTP was used in two siblings with a rare type of migraine that is associated with stroke-like symptoms called hemiplegic migraine. A published report described an improvement of their symptoms in response to 5-HTP.
A report that used a large database to evaluate migraine prevention in children found that 5-HTP did not have any impact in reducing the frequency of episodes.
Dosage
Migraine studies use a dose of 5-HTP ranging between 25 mg per day to 200 mg per day for adults. There are no well-established or recommended doses for this supplement at this time, but it's important to note that higher doses are associated with side effects and drug interactions.
This supplement is not recommended for children.
Side Effects and Safety
5-HTP has been associated with several side effects, including:
Nausea
Bloating
Flatulence
Loose stools or diarrhea
Drug Interactions
5-HTP may interact with certain medications, including carbidopa, which is used to treat Parkinson's disease. It can also interact with triptans, SSRIs, and monamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs, another category of antidepressants).
Medications That Interact With 5-HTP Supplements
Contaminant Concern
Tryptophan and 5-HTP supplements can be contaminated with a naturally occurring component, 4,5-tryptophan-dione, a neurotoxin also described as Peak X. Muscle aches, cramps, and fevers can result from the inflammatory effects of Peak X. Long term effects can include muscle and nerve damage.
Because this chemical is a byproduct of a chemical reaction rather than an impurity or a pollutant, it can be found in supplements even when their preparation is done under sanitary conditions.
It is vital that you discuss taking any supplements with your doctor or pharmacist to ensure they are safe for you and do not interact with your other medications.
Remember, dietary and herbal supplements have not undergone the same scrutiny and testing as over-the-counter and prescription medications, which means that studies proving their effectiveness and their safety are limited or have not been done.
A Word From Verywell
Supplements and natural treatments can be appealing, particularly if they do not have side effects. Indeed, natural treatments have been found effective for a number of conditions. There is evidence that magnesium supplements may reduce the frequency and severity of migraine attacks. At the current time, however, it isn't clear whether 5-HTP is beneficial for migraines or not.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you live your healthiest life.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Chauvel V, Multon S, Schoenen J. Estrogen-dependent effects of 5-hydroxytryptophan on cortical spreading depression in rat: Modelling the serotonin-ovarian hormone interaction in migraine aura. Cephalalgia. 2018 Mar;38(3):427-436. doi: 10.1177/0333102417690891. Epub 2017 Feb 1.
Horvath GA, Selby K, Poskitt K, Hyland K, Waters PJ, Coulter-Mackie M, Stockler-Ipsiroglu SG. Hemiplegic migraine, seizures, progressive spastic paraparesis, mood disorder, and coma in siblings with low systemic serotonin. Cephalalgia. 2011 Nov;31(15):1580-6. doi: 10.1177/0333102411420584. Epub 2011 Oct 19.
Victor S, Ryan SW. Drugs for preventing migraine headaches in children. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2003;(4):CD002761.
5-Hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) Information | Mount Sinai - New York. Mount Sinai Health System. https://www.mountsinai.org/health-library/supplement/5-hydroxytryptophan-5-htp. Published 2019.
Continue Reading
Article
Can Supplements Prevent My Child's Migraines?
Article
When You Have IBS and Migraine Headaches at the Same Time
Article
What to Know About Triptans and Migraines
Article
Can Maxalt Medication Help With Your Migraines?
Article
If You're Depressed and Have Migraines, Will Celexa Help Both?
Article
The Role Your Genes Play in Your Migraine Headaches
Article
These 4 Supplements Can Help Prevent Adult Migraines
Article
Medications You Can Take to Gain Control Over Migraines
Article
What Medication Should You Take for Your Chronic Headaches?
Article
Treating Headache May Differ in People With Multiple Sclerosis
Article
Migraines (and Their Treatment) Can Cause Complications
Article
What To Expect When Taking a Beta-Blocker for Migraine
Article
What Can I Take Over-the-Counter for My Headache or Migraine?
Article
Propranolol: A Blood Pressure Medication That May Prevent Migraines
Article
Can Verapamil Prevent Migraines?
Article
Having Headaches During Your Period? You May Have Menstrual Migraines
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more