Starve a Cold, Feed a Fever? | Clem & Thyme Nutrition
ABOUT US
EVENTS
BLOG
FAQ
CONTACT US
NUTRITION & WELLNESS
Individuals
Organizations
Healthcare Providers
Order Supplements
CULINARY & WORKSHOPS
Cooking Instruction
Workshops
Gardening & Canning
Meal Plans
Frozen Meals
KEEPING UP WITH CLEM&THYME
Events
Blog
Contact Us
CSA – Patchwork Gardens
Safer Beauty Products
BOOK APPOINTMENT
Starve a Cold, Feed a Fever?
Unfortunately, I’ve been fighting an annoying cold for a few days… and I need to get better by tomorrow. Why you ask… well it’s my best friend’s WEDDDING!!!!!!!! 🙂
All I wanna do is cuddle up, under my warm blankets and stuff chocolate down my throat…or possibly drown in a bathtub of orange juice and chicken noodle soup. How healthy, huh? 🙁
As I was dreaming of chocolate, I wondered… Is is true you should starve a cold? feed a fever? After investigating… the answer is no. Denise Snyder, a nutrition scientist and clinical trials manager at the Duke University School of Nursing said “I think it was always pretty much dismissed as folklore.”
SO… what are the best ways to fight a cold?
Antioxidants: Foods high in Vitamin C, Vitamin E and beta carotene help remove free radicals (evil molecules that wreck havoc on our immune systems). Bright colored fruits and veggies are the easiest way to get in your daily antioxidants.
Bioflavonoids, Glutathione, Phytochemicals: These nutrients help improve our immune function, blocking pesky infections; found in all plants (fruits, veggies, whole grains, nuts)
Yogurt: The beneficial bacteria in yogurt may stimulate production of immune system substances that fight disease
Drinking plenty of fluids: Staying properly hydratedhelps keep our secretions thinner and allows us to get the sickness out of our system quicker, alleviating symptoms such as a cough or nasal drainage
Get plenty of rest: When our bodies are adequately rested, we fight off illness better. zzzzzzz.
Foods high in zinc: Zinc is a vital nutrient, needed to fight infection and repair tissues. Foods high in zinc: eggs, meats, nuts, seafood, seeds, wheat germ, and whole grains
Protein: Needed to build and repair body tissues and fight viral and bacterial infections
Chicken Noodle Soup: Along with fluids, hot soup thins our mucus membranes, which helps clear nasal congestion
Hopefully I feel better tomorrow, so I can party hardy for Lauren’s big day. Happy weekend, readers! 🙂
Resources:
WebMD: Starve a Cold, Feed a Fever
Duke Health: Myth or Fact: Feed a Cold, Starve a Fever
Related posts
May 6, 2017
What Katie Ate on Friday
Read more
July 9, 2016
Mom of Two & Meal Planning 101
Read more
February 14, 2016
What I Ate Friday!
Read more
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Website
4359 E. ENON ROAD YELLOW SPRINGS, OH
P 937.206.1131 • F 937.917.8048
© Clem&Thyme Nutrition. All Rights Reserved.
Thanks to Shout It Out Design
ABOUT US
EVENTS
BLOG
FAQ
CONTACT US