Hip Osteoarthritis - Physiopedia
Search
Search
Search
Toggle navigation
pPhysiopedia
pPhysiopedia
About
News
Contribute
Courses
Shop
Contact
Donate
Login
pPhysiopedia
About
News
Contribute
Courses
Shop
Contact
Donate
p o +
Contents
Editors
Categories
Share
Cite
Contents loading...
Editors loading...
Categories loading...
When refering to evidence in academic writing, you should always try to reference the primary (original) source. That is usually the journal article where the information was first stated. In most cases Physiopedia articles are a secondary source and so should not be used as references. Physiopedia articles are best used to find the original sources of information (see the references list at the bottom of the article).
If you believe that this Physiopedia article is the primary source for the information you are refering to, you can use the button below to access a related citation statement.
Cite article
Hip Osteoarthritis
Jump to:navigation, search
Original Editor - Eric Robertson, Kim Presiaux
Top Contributors - Kim Presiaux, Dorien De Strijcker, Davy Duverger, Leana Louw and Johnathan Fahrner
Contents
1 Definition/Description
2 Clinically relevant anatomy
3 Epidemiology & etiology
3.1 Prevalence
3.2 Primary osteoarthritis
3.3 Secondary osteoarthritis
3.4 Risk factors
4 Characteristics/Clinical Presentation
5 Differential diagnosis[14]
6 Diagnostic procedures
6.1 Physical examination
6.2 Special investigations
7 Outcome measures
8 Medical management
8.1 Primary prevention
8.2 Pharmacological management
8.3 Surgical intervention
8.3.1 Total hip replacement
8.3.2 Hip resurfacing
8.3.3 Hip osteotomy
8.3.4 Joint preserving surgery
9 Physiotherapy management
9.1 Education
9.2 Assistive devices
9.3 Exercise therapy
9.4 Manual therapy
10 Resources
11 Clinical bottom line
12 References
Definition/Description
Osteoarthritis is a degenerative condition as a result of mechanical overload in a weight bearing joint.[1] Hip osteoarthritis mainly affects the articular cartilage, as well as causing changes to the subcondral bone, synovium, ligaments and capsule.[2] This degeneration lead to loss of joint space, which can potentially be symptomatic.[2] It is one of the top 15 contributors of global disability.[3] Hip osteoarthritis is prevalent in 10% of people above 65, where 50% of these cases are symptomatic.[4] The hip is defined as the second most painful joint (after the knee) as a result of osteoarthritis according to a Italian study.[5]
Clinically relevant anatomy
For detailed information, see the hip anatomy page.
Epidemiology & etiology
Prevalence
Hip osteoarthritis is prevalent in 10% of people above 65, where 50% of these cases are symptomatic.[4] Research suggest that there are a 25% risk of developing hip osteoarthritis for people who live to the age of 85,[1]
Primary osteoarthritis
Mostly caused by abnormality of the articular cartilage, but can also be a secondary result of developmental changes and abnormalities such as femeroacetbular impingement.[6] Abnormalities normally include acetabular displasia. Pistol grip deformities are seen in some cases, mostly linked with slipped upper femoral epiphysis. Although seen as a specific condition, it is often linked with metabolic abnormalities.[7]
Secondary osteoarthritis
Secondary osteoarthritis is caused by predisposing anatomic abnormalities such as developmental or congenital deformities.[6][8]
Risk factors
Previous hip trauma (causing injury or fracture) - mostly resulting in unilateral hip osteoarthritis
Primary inflammatory arthritis (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis)
Joint morphology
Genetics
Congenital and developmental hip disease (e.g. congenital hip dislocation, Perthe's disease, slipped upper femoral epiphysis, developmental hip dysplasia)
Subchondral bone defects
Obesity - mostly resulting in bilateral hip osteoarthritis
Occupation causing excessive strain on hips (e.g. manual labor causing repeated loading)
Increase in age
Gender (female > male)
Sport (higher impact sport at a younger age can cause increase in articular cartilage strength, where low impact sport do not change the composition of the cartilage)
Menopause
Metabolic diseases and acromegaly
Sedentary lifestyle
Femoroacetabular impingement
Avascular necrosis
Ethnicity - 80-90% less prevalent in the Asian population when compared to the Caucasian population in the USA
Diet - low Vitamin D, C and K levels
[1][4][9][10]
Characteristics/Clinical Presentation
Signs & symptoms:[10][11][12][13]
Pain:
Progressively increasing
Aggravated - movement; when hip is loaded wrong or too long; cold weather
Eased with continuous movement
Commonly in groin/thigh, radiating to buttocks or knee
End-stage: Constant pain, night pain
Stiffness:
Morning stiffness with end-stage osteoarthritis, usually eased with movement (<1 hour)
"Locking" of hip movement
Decreased range of motion - leading to joint contractures and muscle atrophy
Crepitis with movement
Gait abnormalities - short limb gait, antalgic gait, trendelenburg gait, stiff hip gait
Leg length discrepancy
Local inflammation
Differential diagnosis[14]
Muscle contusion
Muscle strains - gluteus and adductors
Athletic pubalgia
Piriformis syndrome
Hamstring syndrome
Inflammatory disorders
Snapping hip syndrome
Hip bursitis
Arthritis
Septic arthritis of the hip
Avascular necrosis
Labral tears
Hip fractures
Hip dislocations
Tumors
Chondral defect
Ligamentus teres injury
Sciatica
Nerve irritation (especially obturator & lateral femoral cutaneous)
Joint capsule disorders
Inguinal ligament strain
Diagnostic procedures
Hip osteoarthritis can be diagnosed by a combination of the findings from a history and physical examination. The most used criteria in the diagnosis of hip osteoarthritis are those from the
American College of Rheumatology:.[1][15]
Clinical criteria A
Hip pain
Hip internal rotation <15°
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) ≤45mm/h OR hip flexion ≤115° if ESR not available
Clinical criteria B
Hip pain
Pain with hip internal rotation
Morning stiffness ≤1 hour
>50 years
Clinical plus radiographic criteria
Hip pain
Two of the following:
ESR <20mm/h
Osteophytes on hip x-rays
Joint space narrowing on x-rays
Sutlive et al. published a list of variables for detecting hip osteoarthritis in patients with unilateral hip pain. If there are 3/5 variables present, the chance of having OA is 68%. With 4-5/5 the chance increases to 91%. The variables are positive when there’s pain or a limited range of motion in the tests.[16] The five variables are:
Flexion
Internal rotation
Scour test: external and internal rotation in abduction and adduction of the hip.
Patrick’s or FABER test: flexion,abduction and external rotation of the hip.
Hip flexion test
[17]
Physical examination
A consultation with an orthopaedic surgeon would include the following:[10][11][12] (Also see the page for hip examination)
Observation
Subjective interview:
Complaints of pain, deformity, stiffness and/or limp
Previous history linked to hip pain (congenital or childhood problems, previous trauma)
Physical examination:
Standing
Trendelenberg test
Gait
Supine (including leg length)
Objective observation (posture, deformities, muscle atrophy)
Palpation:
Tenderness at the hip
Pain and sensitivity over greater trochanter
Range of motion:
Early signs of hip osteoarthritis is limited abduction and rotation. As the disease progresses, flexion, extension and adduction becomes more difficult.
Normally painful at end of available range of motion
Crepitis with movement
Special investigations
X-ray: Hip osteoarthritis
Hip osteoarthritis can be diagnosed by clinical presentation only, but special investigation (e.g. x-rays) are vital to monitor the progression of the disease.
X-rays: Findings include joint space narrowing, marginal osteophytes, subchondral sclerosis, and bone cysts.[18] This is normally the first investigation done that aids in the diagnosis of hip osteoarthritis.
MRI: More effective in detecting early change in the bone structure, such as focal cartilage defects and bone marrow lesions in the subchondral bone.[15]
CT scan
Bone scan: Aids in assessing the condition of soft tissue and bone of the hip
[10]
Outcome measures
Patient acceptable symptom state (PASS)
Visual analogue scale (VAS)
Hip disability and osteoarthritis outcome score (HOOS)
Western Ontario and McMaster universities osteoarthritis index (WOMAC)
Harris hip score
Oxford hip score (OHS)
Algofunctional index (AFI)
Intermittent and constant osteoarthritis pain index (ICOAP)
Lequesne index
6 Minute Walking Test
Timed up and go test
Patients specific complaints list (PSC)
SF-36
Fear Avoidance Belief Score
International Hip Outcome Tool
Ibadan Knee/Hip Osteoarthritis Outcome Measure
Medical management
Medical management of hip osteoarthritis focuses on treating the symptoms. Effective disease-modifying interventions have not been estabilished yet, thus a major focus should be on primary prevention strategies.[1] The optimal management of hip osteoarthritis consists of a combination of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical treatment modalities. It is also important to take the patient's wishes and expectations into consideration.
Primary prevention
Patient education - especially in primary health care
Muscle strengthening
Joint preserving surgery prior to onset of hip osteoarthritis/early in disease process
Modification of risk factors:
Weight control
Switching from high-impact to low-impact activities
Minimization of pain aggravating activities
[1][10]
Pharmacological management
Symptom-relief drugs:
Treatment of choice: Paracetamol
NSAIDs:
Low doses and duration due to side effects
To be used for patients not responding well to paracetamol
Patients with high risk of developing gastrointestinal side effects: Non-selective NSAID together with a gastroprotective agent OR selective COX-r inhibitor
Duloxetine - works on central nervous system to inhibit pain
Opioids:
Tramadol (non-narcotic opioid)
Can be used in combination with paracetamol
Alternative if not NSAIDS and COX-2 inhibitors are not effective or contraindicated
Intra-articular injections:
Corticosteroids
Consider when patients are having flare-ups and is not responding to paracetamol and NSAIDs.
Platelet-rich plasma (evidence still lacking)
Hyaluronic acid - Evidence still lacking for effectiveness in the management of hip osteoarthritis
Disease-modifying osteoarthritis drugs (research on this topic still ongoing)
[1][19]
Surgical intervention
Total hip replacement
Total hip replacement
90% of total hip replacements are done as a result of end-stage hip osteoarthritis. It is a successful orthopaedic procedure in the treatment of hip osteoarthritis, when conservative management has failed and is highly effective at relieving symptoms.
Hip resurfacing
This is normally done for the younger, more active population with painful dysplasia and deformities.
Hip osteotomy
An osteotomy is preformed to realign the hip joint to lessen pressure. This is not a common in the treatment of osteoarthritis.
Joint preserving surgery
Arthroscopic debridement
Surgical dislocation with offset reconstruction
[1][19]
Physiotherapy management
Physiotherapy plays in major role in the management of patients with hip osteoarthritis, with special focus on pain management and functional adaptions. Patient-specific exercise programmes has shown to decrease pain and improve function in hip osteoarthritis.[1][15] A biopsychosocial approach to the management of hip osteoarthritis leads to patients experiencing less anxiety, even though the condition may not always improve.[15] It is important to consider the rest of the multidisciplinary team as well. Dietitians, occupational therapists and psychologists can play an important part in the management of hip osteoarthritis.
Education
Pathology and disease process
Role of physiotherapy and expected outcomes of physiotherapy interventions
Importance of weight reduction (combination of diet and exercise)
Self-management of pain:
Use of modalities such as heat and ice
Relaxation techniques
Coping strategies
Exercise
[1][10][19]
Assistive devices
Mobility assistive devices like walking sticks/canes, crutches, or walking frames can improve mobility and independence of the patient. Occupational therapy also plays a role here, as they often also assists the patients with functional assistive devices like a long-handled reacher to pick up low-lying things, which will helps to avoid movements that may cause pain.
Exercise therapy
Exercise therapy is an effective treatment modality for hip osteoarthrosis.[15] Specific exercises can increase range of motion and flexibility, as well as strengthen the muscles of the hip and leg. Physiotherapists work together with the patient to develop an individualized, customized exercise program that meets the needs and lifestyle of the patient.[15][19] The benefits of exercise can assist the patients in their self-management of hip osteoarthritis.
Hydrotherapy is effective in the management of hip osteoarthritis. The combination of buoyancy and the reduction of gravity greatly assists patients that are struggling to weight-bear as a result of the pain from the hip osteoarthritis.[19]
A study on a 6 week education and exercise programme has shown significant and sustained improvements in pain and disability on patients wait-listed for joint replacement surgery. Further positive results included improvements in function, knowledge and psycho-social aspects.[20] Clinical trials further suggest that it can postpone the need of total hip replacement surgery.[19]
Manual therapy
A range of manual therapies is used in the treatment of hip osteoarthritis:[15]
Soft tissue techniques and stretches
Mobilization of accessory and physiological movements
Manipulation
Research is inconclusive on the effect of manual therapy in the treatment of hip osteoarthritis.[1] The immediate effect of a manual therapy, specifically joint mobilization decrease pain and improve hip range of motion, especially in the elderly population. Joint mobilization might reduce pain, might ‘provide a stretching effect on the joint capsules and muscles, thus restoring normal arthrokinematics or may induce pain inhibition and improved motor control’ and might reduce kinesiophobia.[21]
Resources
Patient workbook on "living with osteoarthritis"
Clinical bottom line
Management of hip osteoarthritis varies according to the severity of the condition. A combination of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical modalities is recommended for the optimal management of the condition. Physiotherapy plays an important role in customized exercise programmes for patients living with hip osteoarthritis.
References
↑ 1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 1.10 Murphy NJ, Eyles JP, Hunter DJ. Hip osteoarthritis: Etiopathogenesis and implications for management. Advances in therapy 2016;33(11):1921-46.
↑ 2.0 2.1 Cooper C, Javaid MK, Arden N. Epidemiology of osteoarthritis. In: Atlas of Osteoarthritis. Tarporley: Springer Healthcare, 2014. p22.
↑ Cross M, Smith E, Hoy, Nolte S, Ackerman I, Fransen M, Bridgett L, Williams S, Guillemin F, Hill CL, Laslett LL, Jones G, Cicuttini F, Osborne R, Vos T, Buchbinder R, Woolf A, March L. The global burden of hip and knee osteoarthritis: estimates from the Global Burden of Disease 2010 study. Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases 2014;73:1323-1330.
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 Nüesch E, Dieppe P, Reichenbach S, Williams S, Iff S, Jüni P. All cause and disease specific mortality in patients with knee or hip osteoarthritis: population based cohort study. Bmj 2011;342:1165.
↑ Cimmino MA, Sarzi-Puttini P, Scarpa R, Caporali R, Parazzini F, Zaninelli A, Marcolongo R. Clinical presentation of osteoarthritis in general practice: determinants of pain in Italian patients in the AMICA study. Seminars in arthritis and rheumatism 2005;35(1):17-23).
↑ 6.0 6.1 Ganz R, Leunig M, Leunig-Ganz K, Harris WH. The etiology of osteoarthritis of the hip. Clinical orthopaedics and related research 2008;466(2):264-72.
↑ Harris WH. Etiology of osteoarthritis of the hip. Clinical orthopaedics and related research 1986; 213:20-33.
↑ Hoaglund FT, Steinbach LS. Primary osteoarthritis of the hip: Etiology and epidemiology. Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons 2001;9(5):320-7.
↑ Reginister J-Y, Pelletier J-P, Martel-Pelletier J, Henrotin Y, editors. Osteoarthritis: Clinical and experimental aspects. Berlin: Springer, 1999.
↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 10.4 10.5 American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. Diseases and conditions: Osteoarthritis of the hip.https://orthoinfo.aaos.org/en/diseases--conditions/osteoarthritis-of-the-hip (accessed 14/07/2018).
↑ 11.0 11.1 Crielaard JM, Dequeker J, Famaey JP, Franchimong P, Gritten CH., Huaux JP. Osteoartrose. Brussels: Drukkerij Lichtert, 1985.
↑ 12.0 12.1 Walters J, editor. Orthopaedics - A guide for practitioners. 4th Edition. Cape Town: University of Cape Town, 2010.
↑ Kim C, Nevitt MC, Niu J, Clancy MM, Lane NE, Link TM, Vlad S, Tolstykh I, Jungmann PM, Felson DT, Guermazi A.. Association of hip pain with radiographic evidence of hip osteoarthritis: Diagnostic test study. BMJ. 2015;351:5983.
↑ Fernandez M, Wall P, O’Donnell J, Griffin D. Hip pain in young adults. Aust Fam Physician. 2014;43(4):205–9.
↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 15.3 15.4 15.5 15.6 Bennell K. Physiotherapy management of hip osteoarthritis. J Physiother. 2013; 59(3):145–157.
↑ Sutlive TG, Lopez HP, Schnitker DE, Yawn SE, Halle RJ, Mansfield LT et al. Development of a clinical prediction rule for diagnosing hip osteoarthritis in individuals with unilateral hip pain. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther. 2008;38(9):542-50.
↑ Physiotutors. Cluster of Sutlive | Hip Osteoarthritis Diagnostic Cluster. Available from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8xrDWgIUMO4
↑ Brandt CD. Diagnosis and non-surgical management of osteoarthritis. USA: Professional Communications, Inc. 2010.
↑ 19.0 19.1 19.2 19.3 19.4 19.5 Zhang W, Doherty M, Arden N, Bannwarth B, Bijlsma J, Gunther KP, Hauselmann HJ, Herrero-Beaumont G, Jordan K, Kaklamanis P, Leeb B. EULAR evidence based recommendations for the management of hip osteoarthritis: Report of a task force of the EULAR Standing Committee for International Clinical Studies Including Therapeutics (ESCISIT). Annals of the rheumatic diseases 2005;64(5):669-81.
↑ Saw MM. The effects of a six-week physiotherapist-led exercise and education intervention in patients with osteoarthritis, awaiting an arthroplasty in the South Africa [dissertation]. Cape Town: University of Cape Town. 2015.
↑ Beselga C, Neto F, Alburquerque-Sendín F, Hall T, Oliveira-Campelo N. Immediate effects of hip mobilization with movement in patients with hip osteoarthritis: A randomised controlled trial. Man Ther. 2016;22:80-5.
Retrieved from "https://www.physio-pedia.com/index.php?title=Hip_Osteoarthritis&oldid=204288"
Categories:
Older People/Geriatrics
Osteoarthritis
Anatomy
The content on or accessible through Physiopedia is for informational purposes only. Physiopedia is not a substitute for professional advice or expert medical services from a qualified healthcare provider. Read more
pPhysiopedia
oPhysiospot
+Physioplus
Physiopedia
About
News
Courses
Contribute
Contact
Content
Articles
Categories
Presentations
Research
Projects
Legal
Disclaimer
Terms
Privacy
Cookies
Licensing
Physiopedia is a registered charity in the UK, no. 1173185
Back to top