Christian Stress Management: Music Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Pages
Home
Start Here
Newsletter
Shop
Advertise
Free Christian Counseling
Donate
About
Contact
ChristianStressManagement@gmail.com
Music Therapy for Dealing with Depression
Music Therapy for Dealing with Depression
The following are some of the ways music therapy is used for treating depression:
Listening to Music
Medical research suggests that music can decrease blood pressure and heart rates as well as help patients dealing with depression.
Therefore spend at least 30 minutes everyday listening to your favorite music genre regardless of whether it is classical or Christian.
To learn more read Dealing with Depression Holistically which teaches how to treat depression naturally with:
* Aromatherapy
* Art therapy
* Christian Bible therapy
* Chromotherapy
* Dance therapy
* Diet therapy
* Eco-therapy
* Exercise therapy
* Herbal therapy
* Home decor therapy
* Music therapy
* Phototherapy
* Relaxation therapy
* Self-Care therapy
* Self-Psychotherapy
* Social therapy
* Talk therapy
* Vitamin therapy
* Writing therapy
Bookmark this post:
I'm reading: Music Therapy for Dealing with Depression ~
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Favorite Posts
We Are Not Ignorant of the His Devices 2 Corinthians 2:11
How to Fight for your Health with Bible Verses
How to Fight Infertility with Bible Verses
Connect with Us
Pinterest
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
YouTube
Bloglovin
.
Search our Blog
Subscribe to our Newsletter to Get our Blog Posts and Special Offers
* indicates required
First Name
Email Address *
Search our Blog
Subscribe to our Newsletter
* indicates required
First Name
Email Address *
Pin with Us
Visit AlmasiHealth's profile on Pinterest.
Follow Us
Tweets by @AlmasiHealth
@christianstressmanagement
Like Us
Love Us
Follow us with bloglovin
Translate
Popular Posts
The Best Christian Movies for Easter
Christian Movies as Easter Gifts The best Christian movies for Easter make awesome presents since they teach valuable ...
Christian Book of the Month: Christian Time Management
Our Christian Book of the Month is Christian Time Management. Christian Time Management u ses Bible examples teac h y o u how to mana...
How to Fight for your Health with Bible Verses
How to Fight for your Health with Bible Verses Regardless of whether your health is constantly under atta...
Goal Setting Quotes from the Bible
Motivational goal setting quotes from the Bible that you can confess and meditate on to help you achieve your goal include: ...
Christian Author Book Blog Tour: Christian Affirmations and Meditations
This blog post is part of the Christian Author Book Blog Tour for Christian Affirmations and Meditations by Dr. Miriam Kinai. Bo...
How to Overcome Confusion
How to overcome confusion is part of our Dealing with the Devices of the Devil Series and has been adapted from the book W...
The Christian Guide to Claiming God's Promises for Your Finances
Claiming God's Promises for Finances The following are some of the Promises of God for financial prosperity: Ho...
Psalm 91 Devotional
He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. 2 I wil...
The Best Christian Books
The following are reviews of some of the best Christian books in my humble opinion (IMHO). I have read some of these...
Bible Verses to Overcome Laziness
How to Overcome Laziness Bible Verses How to overcome laziness Bible verses include: A. Characteristics of a lazy person Bib...
Pin Our Blog Posts
code
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, Who comforts us in all our tribulations so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. (2 Corinthians 1:3-6) Jehovah Nissi