Health Benefits of Yogurt | Curd Benefits | Steadyrun
Steadyrun Learn and Educate Yourself
Home
About Us
Health Tips
Fruits
Vegetables
Dried Fruits
Nutrients
Foods
Liquids
Plants
Home Remedies
Others
Difference and Comparison
Educational Resources
Similarities Between the Two Things
General Science
Advantages
Lab Experiments
Physics Experiment
Puzzles
SEO Tips
Finance and Insurance
Wallpapers
Contact Us
Home » Health » Health Benefits of Yogurt
Health Benefits of Yogurt
Posted on September 9, 2015 / Posted by Jeniffer Fleming
Cow milk is one of the most common sources to prepare Yogurt. However, it can also be created using water buffalo, goats, ewes, mares, camels, and yaks. Yogurt (also spelled yoghurt), is one of the most popular fermented dairy products in the world, made by adding live bacteria to milk. Eaters will get a dose of animal protein (about 9 grams per 6-ounce serving), plus several other nutrients of dairy foods, like calcium, vitamin B-2, vitamin B-12, potassium, and magnesium. Here on this page, we will see some of the useful health benefits of Yogurt.
In India, yoghurt and honey are known as “the food of the gods” and are a part of festivals and offerings.
Health Benefits of Yogurt / Health Benefits of Curd
Lowers Risk of High Blood Pressure
Consuming fat-free and low-fat yogurt may help lower your risk of developing high blood pressure. Special proteins in dairy regulate BP. Also, high levels of calcium, magnesium, and potassium contribute to the blood pressure-lowering effect.
Rich in Minerals and Vitamins
Yogurt is also very healthy as a part of the daily diet. It is a good source of calcium, phosphorus, riboflavin-vitamin B2, iodine, vitamin B12, pantothenic acid-vitamin B5, zinc, potassium, protein, and molybdenum.
Boost Immune System
Yogurt is also high in probiotics that can help a person live longer. The bacteria can also help boost the immune system.
As an Ingredient
You can eat as a snack, in preparing dips, as an ingredient in soups, sauces, and desserts.
Relieves in Stomach Ailments
Yogurt is also a good option for people who suffer from stomach ailments, such as diarrhea.
Useful for Weight Loss
Consumption of low-fat yogurt can also aid in weight loss and may help to prevent osteoporosis. Adequate nutrition plays a major role in the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis, and the micronutrients of greatest importance are calcium and vitamin-D.
Discourage Vaginal Infections
Yogurt With Active Cultures May Discourage Vaginal Infections. Even though most of the women had poor blood sugar control. Throughout the study, the vaginal pH (a measure of acidity or basicity) of the group eating yogurt with active cultures drops from 6.0 to 4.0 (normal pH is 4.0-4.5). These women also reported a decrease in candida infections. The women eating the yogurt without active cultures remained at pH 6.0.
Feel Fuller
Yogurt May Help You Feel Fuller.
Next
Tags: Health
About Author: Jeniffer Fleming
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Your comments are valuable to us. Please fill free to write us about your experience on the topic. This will encourage our editors and help us to make our content more better and explanatory.
More Topics
Removing Pain with Seated Twist
Difference between Vitamins and Minerals
Effective Office Yoga Techniques for Back Pain
Copyright © Steadyrun.com
Sitemap
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter