Lavender Oil and Burns
Home
Lavender Blog
Health
Baths
Lavender oil
Carrier Oils
Growing lavender
Crafts
Cooking
Home Uses
Dogs
History
Site map
Disclaimer
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Lavender Oil and Burns
Lavender oil and burns have a long history. A French chemist Rene Maurice Gattefosse in the early 1900 was working in his lab and burned his hand severely. He then stuck his hand in a nearby container of lavender oil. He discovered his hand not only stopped hurting, it healed faster and didn't scar.
There are 3 types of burns.
First degree burns affect the outer part of your skin and your skin is red and hurts (for example a sunburn).
A second degree burn is worse and you may have blistering and more pain. This also affects the first layer of skin and may affect the underlying skin. If it covers a large area or is on your hands and face, you may want to seek medical help. Please use your judgement.
Third degree burns are very bad, they can be from fire, electrical, chemical, or whatever. The outer layer of skin is gone and depending on how bad the burn is, the tissue and muscle may be destroyed. The skin may be red, yellow, white, or black and leathery. Sometimes there's little pain due to the nerve endings being destroyed. Always get medical emergency help with a third degree burn! Never put oil on a bad burn, it just makes it worse. Don't try to treat the injury yourself, don't remove the clothing if it's stuck to the skin, and don't apply water or ice on the burn.
If it's a chemical burn you need to act as quick as possible, because the chemicals will just continue to burn the skin. A wet chemical needs to be flushed off of the skin. remove the clothes that have chemicals on it, and get that person washed off, use a hose, lake, shower, buckets of water, whatever you can do to get the chemicals off of him/her. Do this for at least 1/2 hour. Hopefully you had someone call 911 right away. And please protect yourself so you don't get the chemical on yourself. A dry chemical burn should be brushed off the skin. Always do so gently so you don't cause more damage. And protect yourself from getting the chemical on you. Don't self help third degree burns.
First degree and some second degree burns can be self helped. For burns and scalds, hold the burned area under cool or tepid water or apply cool or tepid compress with 8 to 10 drops of lavender on it. Never use ice on a burn, because the skin is already injured and fragile. Also take off rings, watches, ect. from the burned area. Lavender actually helps fight infections, lessens blistering and scarring, promotes healing and helps to relax you. Now that's what I call magic in a bottle!
If the burn is from hot tar, wax, or melted plastic, you may need to try ice on the substance to harden it enough so you can take it off of your skin.
Add some lavender to aloe, aloe juice or aloe gel and apply this to your burn. About 10 drops or more to 1/2 cup aloe. This makes a wonderful healing combination. Apply often, hourly if needed to help reduce the pain and help it heal.
I often get burns in the kitchen from steam or touching a hot pan. When I do I thing lavender oil and burns. Lavender works so well for this kind of burn that when I burn myself, I normally run it under cool water a couple of minutes and then grab the bottle of lavender essential oil and apply it neat even before I think of the aloe plant. It really does work! I've tried this more often then I'd like to admit.
Lavender is now being used in some hospitals to treat burns.
For larger areas you can mist the skin with lavender water or lavender in distilled water, or apply neat. If you need a dressing on it, cover it with a sterile gauze with a few drops of lavender on it and change this every few hours.
Always watch for infections with burns. This is another reason that I like lavender on burns, it has antibiotic qualities.
Lavender has even been used for radiation therapy burns. Isn't nature amazing? Be well :)
Return from Lavender Oil and Burns to Uses for Lavender Essential oil
Copyright 2006-2010 Joys-of-Lavender.com Click here to read our privacy policy
SBI!