Scar Removal Product - Removing Scars - Vitamin E Scar Healing
Menu
Home
Safe Products
Top Skincare for 2018
Natural Remedies
Education
Why Do You Have Sensitive Skin?
What are Safe Cosmetics?
Myths About Hypoallergenic Products
Why Natural Skin Care May Not Help
Hypersensitive to Everything?
Natural Beauty
Safe Skin Lightening
Natural Facelift
Mineral Makeup
Scar Healing
Hair Removal
Products I Use
Sensitive Skincare
Homemade
Home Skincare Remedies
Natural Beauty Recipes
Homemade Body Cleansing
Natural Hair Dye
Natural Health
Skin Conditions
Acne
Eczema
Rosacea
Aging skin
Psoriasis
Hives
Boils and Cysts
Dermatitis
Heat Rash
Skin Rash Diagnosis
Pictures of Rashes
Allergies
Hair Dye Allergies
Fragrance Allergies
Allergies to All Kinds of Things!
Resources
Sensitive Skin Blog
My Podcast
Sensitive Living
Forums
Advertise
Scar Removal Product
The Challenge of Removing Scars
When You Have Sensitive Skin
Are you a person with sensitive skin looking for a safe scar removal product? Scarring healing is a real challenge when most products cause your skin to break out!
These natural tips for removing scars can show you which products to avoid, and how to find safer ways of removing scars.
Whether you’ve just had surgery. are recovering from a bad outbreak of acne, or have incurred an unexpected injury, there is a good chance you have a scar on some area of your body that you’d like to see reduced or eliminated.
Scarring healing can be a real dilemma for those of us who have to be careful of what we put on our skin! If you have sensitive skin, you know first hand how some products can be irritating to your skin, causing itchiness, redness, or even a full-blown rash. How can you avoid these potential problems and still find an effective way of removing scars?
The Challenge of Using Scar Removal Products
Although there are several recommendations for over-the-counter and prescriptions for scar removal products available on the market today, many of these contain ingredients that can cause rashes and skin irritation.
A lot of people don’t realize that many commonly used chemicals that are added to personal care and skin care products can irritate your skin. Even topical creams for skin rashes can contain irritants and allergens.
For example, did you know that artificial fragrances, which are added to most skin care products, including scar fade creams, are highly allergenic, and that they actually have a potent effect on your brain and nervous system?
Yes, sensitive people can actually feel this when they are exposed to a perfume product. Symptoms include dizziness, nausea and a funny feeling in the head.
Other common ingredients in many scar removal products are parabens such as methylparaben, propylparaben and butylparaben which are used as preservatives.
In small doses, many do not notice the effects of these chemicals, but some people with sensitive skin can experience skin rashes,irritation of the eyes and lungs or even more serious problems related to the brain and nervous system.
These effects are documented by more scientific studies each year, and so those of us with sensitive skin are wise to avoid these ingredients.
A few other things to look for in the ingredient list that may cause skin irritation include alcohol, propylene glycol, formaldehyde-based preservatives, aluminum, mineral oil, and triclosan. This isn’t the entire list of possible irritants, but it’s a good place to start.
Although the effects of many of these skin care ingredients on sensitive skin are not yet widely known, more and more people are learning about the importance of using safe cosmetics and skin care products.
In addition to all these challenges, it is not yet clear whether many of these scar removal products really work!
Removing Scars Naturally
So, if many of the common scar removal products on the market aren’t always the best choices for those of us with sensitive skin, then what is?
It's possible to reduce the appearance of your scar without a scar removal product by using safe home remedies. The ingredients are most likely already in your home, so try these before opting for a prescription or over-the-counter product for reducing or removing your scar.
As I always recommend, please do a skin test first even with a homemade skincare recipe, as each of our bodies is unique and even simple foods, herbs or essential can cause allergic reactions, depending on your physiology.
Apply these first to the inside of your elbow or behind your ear. That way if you're going to have a reaction to something, it is much better to deal with it someplace that is not directly on your face!
Lemon Juice - Fresh lemon juice contains Vitamin C which researchers have found does help to fade scars and improve their healing. It also contains natural alpha hydroxy acids which help the skin to naturally exfoliate.
Honey – It isn’t just for biscuits! :-) Honey naturally contains antiseptic properties and is excellent for nourishing and retaining skin’s moisture. For facial scars, try using a honey-based mask a few times a week to reduce the appearance of the scar.
There is a special kind of honey that is higher in medicinal properties called Manuka honey, which researchers have found has a whole host of impressive health benefits. Honey is affordable and kind to sensitive skin too, so it’s a winner all around!
Aloe Vera – Apply the juice or aloe vera gel to your scar directly. Aloe Vera juice is natural bleach and has been attributed to eliminating the appearance of a scar completely.
Cucumbers – How many times have you seen cucumber slices on the eyes of the ladies lounging in the spa? LOL, well if you're like me, you don't get to the spa very often, but I certainly see the pictures!! :-)
Cucumber paste can reduce skin inflammation and also help reduce scar depth. You can grind up a cucumber in the blender or food processor and apply immediately while you relax for a few minutes.
Olive oil or almond oil – These are easily obtained at your local grocery store or health food store, and naturally support the skins self healing mechanisms to to reduce or eliminate scars. For best results use pure, organic, cold pressed oils.
Gentle Massage - If your scars are due to surgery or an injury, gentle massage has been shown to help reduce the appearance of scars and to prevent the unfortunate thickening that occurs
What is the difference between a product purchased at the store and a home remedy? Natural ingredients used on the skin work to heal the scar from the inside outward, so it’s not simply a "surface" healing, but rather a whole healing of the scar that occurs.
Vitamin E for Scar Healing?
Although current research does not yet indicate that Vitamin E works for removing scars, many people believe that it does and will apply the contents of a vitamin E capsule to their scars. Some say that it works well, others do not notice a difference.
Some researchers have found that almost a third of people they studied developed skin irritation from using vitamin E. It is not clear whether the studies use natural sourced vitamin E which is known as d-alpha-tocopherol, or whether synthetic Vitmain E was used, which is known as dl-alpha-tocopherol.
Because it is not yet clear whether vitamin E is effective, always do a skin test first before using it as a natural scar removal product.
Skincare Products for Scar Removal
There are two skincare product lines for sensitive skin that I have personal experience with, that contain ingredients which I've found helpful in removing scars and helping skin to heal itself.
One is the Cleure Facial Pack which contains botanical free, hypoallergenic products that gently help the skin to heal. This product line is especially useful for acne or any kind of inflammatory skin problem, and the Toner contains a gentle form of Alpha Hydroxy Acids which do not cause skin irritation, but which do provide scar healing benefits.
The other product line we've found that provides some powerful scar healing and scar removal properties is a natural skin care line that uses a very potent natural antioxidant found in a rare fruit. This product line has given me some very dramatic results, and it is not sold in stores. You can get more information at our wholesale skin care products page.
What About Silicone Scar Removal?
You’ve probably been told to try the new silicone scar removal products now on the market. These are silicone sheets you can cut and apply directly to your scars, and many people have found them effective.
These new products are said to completely remove scars and are supposed to be safe, however, there isn’t enough information at this time to definitively say whether or not they’re safe for those with sensitive skin or who are prone to allergies and reactions to chemicals.
It may be wise to try these home remedies first before trying any other products to see how your skin responds. You may not even have to consider anything else!
Scars Healing Tips for Your Whole Body
Our free eBook Clear ANY Skin Problem Naturally has a five step natural beauty program that can help your whole body to become more radiant and healthy. These tips will maximize your body's ability to heal from scars. You can get a copy of the book right here!
Home > Scarring Healing > Scar Removal Product
New! Comments
Share your thoughts about what you just read! Leave me a comment in the box below.
Follow @mysskincare
Welcome!
search engine by freefind
Recent Articles
New Safe Sensitive Skincare and Bodycare Finds
Jul 10, 18 05:19 PM
Here are some of my latest new safe sensitive skincare and body care finds including the benefits of oxygen for your skin!
Read More
Understanding and Treating Petechial Rash
Jul 08, 18 03:31 PM
Petechial rash is easy to identify, in some cases may need immediate medical attention.
Read More
New Sensitive Skin Leave-In Hair Mist
Jun 19, 18 12:00 AM
Finally, a fragrance free, hypoallegenic spray in hair conditioner that conditions without that greasy look! I've been looking for one for ages, and my favorite sensitive skincare line has just added…
Read More
search engine by freefind
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Copyright © 2009 - 2019 by MySensitiveSkinCare.com All rights reserved worldwide This site is created with love and SBI