Anxiety | baumsnaturalfoods
baumsnaturalfoods
Just another WordPress.com site
About
About us
Wellness is what Baums Natural Foods is all about. Our number one priority is to educate our customers about their health concerns and to provide a more natural alternative to better health. At Baum's we strive to keep our customers informed with the best and most current health knowledge available.
Find Us
Baum's Natural Foods Website
Facebook
Twitter
Yelp
YouTube
Follow us via Google
Follow us via RSS
RSS - Posts
Follow us via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 96 other followers
Sign me up!
Twitter Updates
This Saturday! https://t.co/S8xDpWW0wn 1 month ago
Baums Natural Foods on #Google search.google.com/local/posts?q=… 5 months ago
We've moved our Munster #BaumsNaturalFoods store to Highland just down a couple blocks on 45thSt. 2130 45th St. in… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… 7 months ago
@SenatorFischer Please vote NO on Sen Grassley's CBD amendment. He is ill-informed on the many benefits of CBD. 10 months ago
@ChuckGrassley Help Us Block Sen. Grassley's Anti-Hemp, Anti-Farmer Amendment… twitter.com/i/web/status/1… 10 months ago
Follow @baumsvitamins
Search this blog
Categories
Allergies (3)
Alzheimer's Disease (2)
Amino Acids (7)
Antioxidants (7)
Anxiety (3)
Bone and Joint Health (10)
Brain (7)
Cancer (2)
Cleansing (6)
Contests (1)
Detoxification (1)
Digestion (10)
Hair Skin Nails (6)
Heart (11)
Herbs (6)
Hormones (2)
Immune System (14)
Inflammation (6)
Pets (1)
Probiotics (3)
Shop Local (4)
Uncategorized (23)
Vitamins (11)
Weightloss (13)
Wellness Center (3)
Archives
December 2013 (3)
October 2013 (1)
June 2013 (1)
April 2013 (1)
March 2013 (1)
February 2013 (2)
January 2013 (4)
December 2012 (4)
November 2012 (5)
October 2012 (4)
September 2012 (4)
August 2012 (6)
July 2012 (4)
June 2012 (5)
May 2012 (4)
April 2012 (2)
March 2012 (6)
February 2012 (3)
January 2012 (2)
December 2011 (3)
November 2011 (3)
October 2011 (2)
September 2011 (2)
Archive for ‘Anxiety’
|
December 6, 2013
Holiday Stress? Not This Year!
Between deadlines, holiday shopping budgets, crowded stores, long lines, and the odd family dust-up, stress is pretty much a given this time of year. But even if it feels like your stress is insurmountable, managing it is possible—and it’s easier than you probably think.
This increased stress manifests in all sorts of emotional and physical ways, from sadness and lack of motivation to headaches and muscle tension. More than half of the Americans surveyed also reported fatigue and lying awake at night, and 60 percent reported irritability or anger.
Supplements can also help you deal with stress, and magnesium is the top stress-buster! It is estimated that 70 percent of U.S. citizens are deficient in magnesium, which could be one reason why so many people have difficulty dealing with stress.
B-complex vitamins are also a good idea, as they help boost production of serotonin and other “feel good” chemicals in the brain.
Other options include Holy Basil, which helps reduce cortisol levels (stress hormones that make you store fat), and Licorice Root or Siberian Ginseng tinctures or supplements to offer adrenal support. Strong adrenals keep your energy levels high!
L-Theanine is a wonderful supplement to use when you are feeling frazzled. L-Theanine is a compound found in green and black tea that has a wonderfully calming effect on the brain without making you feel dopey or drowsy. You can take it during the daytime or at night to help stop your mind from going a mile-a-minute. While it won’t make you sleepy, it will help you settle down so you can go to sleep.
As stress piles up this holiday season and you start to feel pulled in 20 different directions, don’t forget to take a few minutes for yourself each day. It’s important to unwind and relax so that you don’t end up sick through the holidays. That’s no fun for anyone!
Pick up what you need at you favorite Baums store today and enjoy yourself this holiday season!
*These statements have not been evaluated by the food and drug administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Advertisements
Posted in Anxiety, Herbs, Vitamins | Leave a Comment »
Tags: b-complex, baum's, healing, herbs, holy basil, Indiana, l-theanine, licorice, megnesium, Merrillville, Munster, natural, remedy, siberian ginseng, St. John, stress, supplements, vitamins, wellness
December 20, 2012
Are You Feeling a Bit Stressed Out?
We have the perfect thing for you! If you haven’t tried L-theanine, you’re missing out on one of nature’s most effective anti-anxiety remedies that is safe to use without unwanted side effects! You’ll feel calmer but you won’t be tired or foggy-headed! In fact, it helps you to think more clearly.
Read all about it, then come and get it!
L-theanine and Relaxation
Research on human volunteers has demonstrated that L-theanine creates a sense of relaxation approximately 30-40 minutes after you take it. L-theanine directly stimulates the production of alpha brain waves, creating a state of deep relaxation and mental alertness similar to what is achieved through meditation.
L-theanine and Depression
L-theanine has a significant effect on the release or reduction of neurotransmitters like dopamine and serotonin, resulting in improved memory and learning ability. L-theanine may also influence emotions due to its effects on the increased release of dopamine. Dopamine is a vital neurotransmitter. Too little or too much can cause wide-ranging problems from mood disorders to Parkinson’s disease. Your body produces it in sufficient quantities, but sometimes lifestyle factors interfere and your brain might need a little help. When your body’s level of dopamine is on target, you are happy. You can process pleasure, think clearly, you are motivated and have the desire to accomplish things.
L-theanine and Stress and Anxiety
Stress and anxiety are debilitating conditions that upset the balance of our hormones leading to a loss of our well-being, performance, and even lifespan. Stress impairs the immune system, leaving us vulnerable to opportunistic infections, and can cause depression. People under stress can mitigate many of the harmful effects of stress with L-theanine.
L-theanine Does Not Cause Drowsiness
One of the greatest benefits of L-theanine is that you can use it without becoming sedated in the process. L-theanine doesn’t make one drowsy, nor does it promote sleep because this amino acid does not produce theta waves in the brain. It is in many sleep formulas though, to promote relaxation so that you can fall asleep more easily. It helps quiet the mind.
L-theanine is most effective in the range of 100-200 mg on an empty stomach, with the effect being felt within 30 minutes and lasting for 8-10 hours. FDA recommends a maximum dose of 1200 mg daily, although the reason for this limit is not clear, due to its well documented safety.
BE READY for all the stress being thrown your way! Stop in to Baums and try a sample of L-Theanine and enjoy your day! Don’t forget Baums brand L-theanine is 20% off this month!
*These statements have not been evaluated by the food and drug administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Posted in Amino Acids, Anxiety, Uncategorized | Leave a Comment »
Tags: anxiety, baum's, depression, healing, herbs, Indiana, insomnia, l-theanine, Merrillville, Munster, natural, remedy, sleep, St. John, stress, supplements, vitamins, wellness
December 6, 2012
Stay calm throughout the holidays with GABA
What is GABA?
GABA (Gamma amino butyric acid) is one of the non-essential amino acids that is synthesized in the brain from another amino acid, Glutamic acid. In the brain it acts as a neurotransmitter (chemical messenger that transmits signals from one cell to another) that works efficiently for calming your mood and reducing anxiety. It also plays an important role in improving brain function. This amino acid not only shows soothing effects on the brain but also slows down the heart rate and regulates breathing. It also acts as a sleep inducing agent. In your brain, if the level of GABA declines you will become anxious and uneasy. GABA can help you to relax. Reduced secretion of GABA in the brain may also lead to a number of neurological problems such as sleep disorders and epilepsy/seizures.
GABA has the ability to reduce the over stimulation of brain cells, inducing relaxation and relieving nervous tension.
Health benefits of GABA
Anti-Stress agent
During a stressful situation, it can help the brain function by blocking the stress related messages that are reaching the brain, hence it can be useful in decreasing emotional stress and hypertension. GABA can also be beneficial in reducing the symptoms of hopelessness.
GABA supplementation has shown to have positive calming effects there by reducing stress and aggravation.
Your Brain’s Natural Calming Agent:
GABA is the natural calming agent in the brain that helps to promote a good nights sleep as well as improving sleep quality. GABA is also effective in reducing mood swings in females during the menstrual cycle and helpful for easing depression.
Stimulating growth Hormone secretion
GABA has been used to enhance the secretion of growth hormone from the pituitary gland (master gland of the body that affects most of the hormones). Since human growth hormone is involved in fat metabolism, its deficiency causes accumulation of fat around the hips and waist. Another problem associated with a low level of growth hormone is reduced thinking capability. In these conditions GABA indirectly improves physical and mental performance as well as decreases body fat by increasing the level of growth hormone.
Functions in different health problems
This amino acid can suppress the activity of brain cells so it may be effective in treatment of certain over stimulated brain disorders such as attention deficit disorder and epilepsy.
Deficiencies in GABA can also lead to:
Anxiety symptoms
Irritability
Headaches
Hypertension
Lower sex drive
Depression
Increase your GABA
The best way to get GABA is through supplementation. It can be taken in its pure amino acid form or can produced in the brain by L-Theanine. While it is possible to increase the body’s GABA supply through food sources, usually this is not enough to see any positive effects.
Which GABA supplement is the best?
Many companies offer GABA supplements, but which one is the best? Many of these products contain too much or too little GABA, require too many pills, are too expensive, or are of poor quality.
Natural Factors PharmaGABA supplies 100mg of pure GABA in a delicious chewable wafer. The product was formulated by Dr. Micheal Murray, one of the world’s leading authorities on natural medicine.
Baum’s Natural Foods carries Natural Factors products including PharmaGABA. Visit one of our three locations and find out more about PharmaGABA today!
*These statements have not been evaluated by the food and drug administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Posted in Amino Acids, Anxiety | Leave a Comment »
Tags: anxiety, baum's, depression, GABA, headaches, healing, herbs, hypertension, Indiana, Merrillville, Munster, natural, remedy, St. John, stress, supplements, vitamins, wellness
|
Tags
allergies Alzheimer’s anxiety baum's bloating blood pressure blood sugar cancer cholesterol depression diet Dr. Oz energy enzymes fish oil gas GERD healing heart disease herbs high blood pressure immune Indiana indigestion infection inflammation Merrillville Munster natural Omega 3 osteoporosis probiotics protein remedy selenium St. John stress supplements toxins vitamin D vitamins weightloss wellness whey yeast
Calendar
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Dec
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Archives
December 2013
October 2013
June 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
Blogroll
Baum's Natural Foods Website
Discuss
Facebook
Get Inspired
Get Polling
Get Support
Learn WordPress.com
Theme Showcase
Twitter
WordPress Planet
WordPress.com News
Yelp
YouTube
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy