Hip Osteoarthritis | Sports Medicine Information
Guide to Sports Medicine
Hip Osteoarthritis
What is osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis is a condition which commonly affects older people; it limits the range of movement and decreases the looseness of the joints. The most commonly affected joints include the hips, shoulders and knees; the movement of the hands and toes may also be limited by the onset of osteoarthritis.
Symptoms of osteoarthritis
The most common symptoms include a limited range of movement in the affected joint, stiffness, swelling and localised pain. Pain usually intensifies as the joints are used increasingly; this means people with osteoarthritis often experience heightened pain in the evenings. Some people may also develop bony growths; this is especially common in osteoarthritis of the toes and hands.
Hip osteoarthritis
Hip osteoarthritis usually results from old age, obesity or a joint injury. Hip joint injuries may be caused by high impact accidents or sports injuries which occur as a result of repeated movements or prolonged exercise on hard surfaces. Repeated actions can cause cartilage to wear down over time meaning bones grind together; this is painful and affects the movement of the joint. Commonly, osteoarthritis has a gradual onset meaning an individual’s condition worsens over time. Research has shown that professional sports players are more likely to suffer from osteoarthritis, particularly in the knee and hip joints, in later life; this link was particularly strong in rugby and football players.
Effects of hip osteoarthritis
As with other forms of the condition, hip osteoarthritis often causes swelling, stiffness and pain; the range of movement will also be reduced; in serious cases, people with the condition may not be able to walk without assistance.
Treating hip osteoarthritis
Treatment for hip osteoarthritis generally targets the symptoms, as there is no cure for the condition. Exercises and specific stretches can often help to improve movement around the joint, while medication can ease pain and reduce swelling. Exercises that may help osteoarthritis of the hip include static cycling, using an exercise bike and water-based therapy which includes doing a number of specially designed exercises in water. Gentle stretching and mild exercises that target increasing the flexibility of the joint will also help. Many experts recommend physiotherapy or osteopathy to help sufferers of osteoarthritis. In extreme cases, surgery may be carried out, which may involve fitting a prosthetic joint; this is common with hip joints in the elderly, but is considered a last resort in most cases.
Preventing osteoarthritis
Generally, the chances of getting osteoarthritis can be reduced by eating healthily and exercising regularly; this will maintain a healthy and stable weight and ensure a good level of general fitness and flexibility as well as keeping the joints loose and the muscles toned.
Find a Sports Injury Clinic
Clinic Type
- OR -
Location
Latest Articles
How can I avoid a sports injury
The Warm Up
Common Sports with Common Injuries
Common treatments for sports injuries
Sprains
Sprained / ‘Twisted’ Ankle
Pulled Muscle
Muscle Cramps
Frozen Shoulder
Tennis Elbow
Shin Splints
Achilles Tendonitis
Runner’s Knee
Lower Back Strain
Foot Arch Strain & Pain
Invisalign
Chiropractic
Anterior Knee Pain
Hyphema (Blood in the Eye)
Skull Fracture
Osgood-Schlatter disease
Concussion
Stress Fracture
Osteopathy
Physiotherapy
Spondylolisthesis
Plantar Fasciitis
Knee pain
Iliotibial band pain
Big toe joint pain
Heel pain
Back Pain
Cuts and Abrasions
Dental damage
Groin Pain and Strain
Hamstring Strain
Knee Joint Injury
Nose Injury
Headaches and head knocks
Rotator Cuff injuries
Shoulder Injury
Golf Elbow
Joint Sprain
Muscle Strain
Neck Pain
Tenosynovitis
Acromioclavicular Joint (ACJ) Injuries
Hip Osteoarthritis
Joint pain
RSI - Repetitive Strain Injuries
Fractures
Boot-stud injuries
Knee damage twisting
Ankle injuries
Overuse Injuries
Football Injuries
Skiing Injuries
Running Injuries
Judo Injuries
Tennis Injuries
Swimming Injuries
Rugby Injuries
Golf Injuries
Cricket Injuries
Athletic Injuries
Cycling Injuries
Gymnastics Injuries
Causes of Sports Injuries
Sports Injury Treatment
Sports Physicians
Sports massage
Sports Injury Prevention
Sports Cream Overdose
Post Operative Rehabilitation
Sports and Nutrition
Performance Coaching
Alcohol and Physical Performance
Sports Training
Athletic Trainers
Sports Injury Testing and Diagnosing
Headache
Facial injuries
Elbow Injuries
Neck Injuries
Shoulder Instability
Muscular Injuries
Wrist Injuries
Root compression of nerve
Stress fracture of pars interarticularis
Fractured tibia and fibula
Gastrocnemius/soleus strain
Sever’s lesion
Foot Injuries
Knee Injuries
Buttock Pain
Dealing with chronic muscle pain and injury
Home
About Us
Sports Medicine
Sports Injuries
Latest News
Find a Clinic
Contact Us
Home | About Us | Sports Medicine | Sports Injuries | Latest News | Find a Clinic | Contact Us
2009 © Sports Medicine