Health Tips From The Professor Does Vitamin D Help Prevent Asthma Attacks? - Health Tips From The Professor
About
Experts
Readers Say
Resources
Videos
Past Issues
21. Apr 2019
HomePrevent Asthma AttacksDoes Vitamin D Help Prevent Asthma Attacks?
Does Vitamin D Help Prevent Asthma Attacks?
Written by Dr. Steve Chaney on October 25, 2016 . Posted in Prevent Asthma Attacks, Vitamin D, Vitamins and Health
Author: Dr. Stephen Chaney
What do the experts say about vitamin D helping to prevent asthma attacks? You’ve seen the headlines. Vitamin D is no longer just for healthy bones. It has become the latest “miracle” nutrient. If you believe everything you read, vitamin D can prevent or cure everything from multiple sclerosis to diabetes, heart disease, and cancer. Unfortunately, the evidence for many of those claims is weak.
However, the effect of vitamin D on the severity of asthma symptoms appears to be an exception. That relationship appears to be on much more solid ground.
A review published last year(S.K. Bantz et al, Annals of Pediatrics and Child Health, 3: pii: 1032, 2015) concluded “We emphasize that all children, especially those who are asthmatic, should be assessed to ensure adequate intake or supplementation with at least the minimum recommended doses of vitamin D. The simple intervention of vitamin D supplementation may provide significant clinical improvement in atopic disease, especially asthma.” [Note: Atopic disease refers to diseases characterized by a hyperallergenic response, such as eczema, hay fever, and asthma.]
That was followed by the recent publication of a Cochrane Review that concluded “Vitamin D is likely to offer protection against severe asthma attacks”. To understand the significance of that statement you need to understand that this is not just another clinical study or another review. Cochrane Reviews are conducted by an international group of experts and are considered the “Gold Standard” for evidence-based medicine.
You may remember that famous commercial: “When E.F. Hutton speaks, people listen.” In this case: “When Cochrane Reviews speak, doctors listen.”
Let’s look briefly at how the review was conducted, and then examine exactly what the review said, and what it didn’t say.
Does Vitamin D Help Prevent Asthma Attacks?
One of the characteristics of Cochrane Reviews that set them apart from many of the other reviews that you find in the literature is that they include only the highest quality clinical studies in their analysis. This is one of the things that gives them such credibility.
This particular Cochrane Review included seven trials involving a total of 435 children and two trials involving a total of 658 adults. Most trial participants had mild to moderate asthma. The duration of the trials ranged from four to 12 months. All studies were placebo controlled and used close to RDA recommended doses of vitamin D.
The results were pretty clear cut:
Vitamin D supplementation reduced the average number of severe asthma attacks requiring treatment with oral steroids by 36%. This conclusion was based on 3 high-quality studies involving 680 participants. Here, these studies clearly show vitamin D does help prevent asthma attacks.
Vitamin D supplementation reduced the number of acute asthma attacks requiring emergency room visits and/or hospitalizations by 50%. This conclusion was based on 7 high-quality studies with 963 participants. These studies also show vitamin D helps prevent asthma attacks.
None of the studies reported any severe adverse effects from vitamin D supplementation. (Compare that with all warnings associated with those ads for asthma medications you see on TV.)
However, they did not see any effect of vitamin D supplementation on day-to-day asthma symptoms.
What Does This Study Mean For You?
This study strongly suggests that vitamin D supplementation in the RDA range (600 IU for ages 1-70 and 800 IU for adults over 70) significantly reduces the risk of severe asthma attacks requiring steroids or hospitalization. Thus, if you or your child have asthma, vitamin D supplementation in the RDA range just makes sense.
However, this study also suggest that vitamin D is not a panacea that will make all asthma symptoms disappear.
Also, even Cochrane Reviews have limitations.
None of the studies included in this review looked at vitamin D status prior to the study. We simply don’t know whether vitamin D supplementation might be effective at reducing day-to-day asthma symptoms in individuals who were vitamin D deficient.
The studies included in this review did not include asthma sufferers with severe symptoms. Again, we don’t know whether vitamin D supplementation might make day-to-day symptoms more tolerable and easily controlled for people with severe asthma symptoms
One final thought: Blood levels of 25-hydroxy-vitamin D are the best indicators of vitamin D status. For reasons that we don’t understand, not everyone consuming RDA levels of vitamin D ends up with optimal levels (50-75 nmoles/L). For that reason, it is a good idea to get your blood levels of 25-hydroxy-vitamin D tested as part of your annual physical exam.
If you are already getting RDA levels of vitamin D and your 25-hydroxy-vitamin D levels are not in the optimal range, you may want to supplement with extra vitamin D. Just be sure to monitor your 25-hydroxy-vitamin D levels on a regular basis to make sure they don’t exceed the optimal range.
So, according to the Cochrane Review, vitamin D does help prevent asthma attacks.
The Bottom Line
A recent Cochrane Review concluded that vitamin D supplementation in the RDA range (600 IU for ages 1-70 and 800 IU for adults over 70) significantly reduces the risk of severe asthma attacks requiring steroids or hospitalization in both children and adults. This is significant because Cochrane Reviews are considered the Gold Standard for evidence-based medicine.
Thus, if you or your child have asthma, vitamin D supplementation in the RDA range just makes sense.
However, blood levels of 25-hydroxy-vitamin D are the best measure of vitamin status, and not everyone consuming RDA levels of vitamin D ends up with optimal levels (50-75 nmoles/L). If you are already getting RDA levels of vitamin D in your diet and your 25-hydroxy-vitamin D levels are not in the optimal range, you may want to supplement with extra vitamin D. Just be sure to monitor your 25-hydroxy-vitamin D levels on a regular basis to make sure they don’t exceed the optimal range.
This Cochrane Review did not find any effect of vitamin D supplementation on day-to-day asthma symptoms.
However, even Cochrane Reviews have limitations.
None of the studies included in this review looked at vitamin D status prior to the study. We simply don’t know whether vitamin D supplementation might be effective at reducing day-to-day asthma symptoms in individuals who were vitamin D deficient.
The studies included in this review did not include asthma sufferers with severe symptoms. Again, we don’t know whether vitamin D supplementation might make day-to-day symptoms more tolerable and easily controlled for people with severe asthma symptoms
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This information is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
Trackback from your site.
Leave a comment
Recent Videos From Dr. Steve Chaney
READ THE ARTICLE
READ THE ARTICLE
Latest Article
Groin Pain Relief
Posted April 16, 2019 by Dr. Steve Chaney
What Is The Pectineus Muscle And Why Is It Important?
Author: Julie Donnelly, LMT –The Pain Relief Expert
Editor: Dr. Steve Chaney
Spring Is In The Air
I remember as a child we sang “Though April showers may come your way…they bring the flowers that bloom in May…”
Of course, here in Florida we are blessed with flowers all year, but there’s still a lovely feeling that happens in Spring. It’s still cool enough most days to go out running, and the humidity is still low. Traffic will soon be easing up as our friends from the north start their trek back home, and daylight savings time is giving us more time to get to the beach for sunset. Lovely!
Fun Facts About Spring….
The earliest known use of the term “spring cleaning” was in 1857
The word “spring” has been used for the season since the 16th century
The first day of spring is called the vernal equinox
On the first day of spring, the sunrise and sunset are about 12 hours apart everywhere on earth
Spring fever isn’t just a saying. Experts say the body changes due to the temperature and can cause an upset in your health.
The actual start of spring varies from March 19th to the 21st, but it is commonly celebrated on the 21st.
Do you like to garden? Now is the perfect time to get your gardens planted so you’ll have home grown veggies for the entire summer. For me, it’s also a great time to do some spring cleaning and get the house in order before the summer closes all the windows and the air conditioning becomes our indoor relief.
But these activities can also cause a strain on muscles, so don’t forget to take care of yourself. If you put too much strain on muscles you haven’t used all winter, you can develop problems and need groin pain relief.
A Tiny Muscle Can Cause Groin Pain
Lately I’ve had several clients come in because of groin pain that has their medical practitioners stumped. Their symptoms are varied, but most complain that it feels like they hit their pubic bone with a rubber mallet. Ouch!
One client loves to ride her horse, but the pain had prevented that for several weeks. Another was considering selling the motorcycle that she and her husband love because she just can’t sit on it anymore.
Several years ago, I had a male client tell me that he had this same pain and he was told it could be his prostrate causing the issue. Fortunately, that wasn’t he problem at all.
The muscle that caused all these problems, and a lot more, is the Pectineus.
The Pectineus muscle originates on your pubic bone and inserts into the very top of your inner thigh bone (femur).
You can see the Pectineus and surrounding muscles more clearly by going to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pectineus_muscle
Most muscles have more than one function, and this is true for the Pectineus. The function we’ll look at today is called adduction. It brings your leg in toward midline. If you think of a soccer player kicking the ball with the inside of his ankle, it was the Pectineus that helped draw his leg in so he could do the shot.
Each of my clients had pain while trying to bring their leg out so they could sit on their horse, or on their motorcycle. The tight muscle was pulling on their pubic bone and causing a severe strain.
This muscle is easier to have someone else treat it for you because of its location but give it a try and see if you can locate & treat it yourself.
Groin Pain Relief
The picture to the left is showing an athlete self-treating her adductors. These muscles, and the Pectineus muscle, all originate at the same point on the pubic bone. The picture is showing her massaging the middle of the adductors.
To reach the Pectineus, move the ball all the way up to the crease in your leg. You can do the treatment with a ball, but because of the size of the muscle and its location, it’s easier to do it with your fingertips.
Sit as this athlete is sitting, and even bring your opposite leg up so your foot is flat on the floor. For example, in this picture, the athlete would bring her right leg up so her right foot is on the floor, and then lean a bit further onto her left hip. That opens up the area so she can reach a bit easier into the muscle while using her fingertips.
Press into the muscle, being careful to feel for a pulse, and moving if you feel one. If the Pectineus is in spasm, you’ll know it immediately when you press on it. If it’s not in spasm, you won’t be able to find it at all.
Remember to stay within your pain tolerance level, this isn’t a “no pain, no gain” situation. Never go deeper than what feels tender, but not so much that you want to faint. Hold the pressure for 15 seconds. Then let up on the pressure, but keep your fingers in the same place.
Repeat this movement several times. Each time it will hurt less, and eventually it won’t hurt at all. That’s when the muscle has completely released, and you will have relief from the pain.
It’s as simple as that!
Why stay in pain when it’s so easy to find the muscular source of the problem and eliminate it?
Treat Yourself to Pain-Free Living (https://julstromethod.com/product/treat-yourself-to-pain-free-living-hardcopy/). It is filled with over 100 pictures and descriptions proven to show you how to find and self-treat muscle spasms from head to foot!
Join the 1000’s of people worldwide who have discovered that tight muscles were the true source of pains they thought were from arthritis, fibromyalgia, and other serious conditions. You have nothing to lose, and everything to gain by releasing tight muscles.
Treat Yourself to Pain-Free Living is your step-by-step guide to pain relief!
Wishing you well,
Julie Donnelly
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This information is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
About The Author
Julie Donnelly is a Deep Muscle Massage Therapist with 20 years of experience specializing in the treatment of chronic joint pain and sports injuries. She has worked extensively with elite athletes and patients who have been unsuccessful at finding relief through the more conventional therapies.
She has been widely published, both on – and off – line, in magazines, newsletters, and newspapers around the country. She is also often chosen to speak at national conventions, medical schools, and health facilities nationwide.
Are You Confused By Conflicting Nutrition Information?
If so, this book is for you For more information
CLICK HERE
Subscribe To Our Newsletter
And Get 2 Free eBooks
The 3 Things
Every Successful Diet
Must Do
Plus...The Dangers of
Sports Supplements
Plus... Receive Our
FREE Newsletter
*indicates required
Recent Posts
Groin Pain Relief
Colon Cancer Prevention
Are Heart Attacks Increasing in Young Women?
What is the Flexitarian Diet?
Biceps Pain Caused by a Tiny Muscle
Meet The Experts
Terms Of Service
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Sitemap
Health Tips From The Professor ®
© Copyright 2011 - 2019 All Rights Reserved
The statements in these articles have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This information is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Any Health Care changes should be made only after consulting with your Doctor and licensed Health Care Advisor.
Disclaimer: At Health Tips from the Professor, we only recommend products that we’ve either personally checked out ourselves, or that come from people we know and trust. For doing so, we may receive a commission.
NOTE: If URLs do not appear as live links in your e-mail program, please cut and paste the full URL into the location or address field of your browser.
UA-43257393-1