Music therapy | definition of music therapy by Medical dictionary
Music therapy | definition of music therapy by Medical dictionary
https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/music+therapy
Printer Friendly
Dictionary, Encyclopedia and Thesaurus - The Free Dictionary 11,508,882,924 visitors served
Search / Page tools
TheFreeDictionary
Google
?
Keyboard
Word / Article
Starts with
Ends with
Text
A
A
A
A
Language:
EnglishEspañolDeutschFrançaisItalianoالعربية中文简体PolskiPortuguêsNederlandsNorskΕλληνικήРусскийTürkçeאנגלית
Twitter
Get our app
Flashcards ?
My bookmarks ?
+ Add current page to bookmarks
Register Log in
Sign up with one click:
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Yahoo
Get
our app
Dictionary
Thesaurus
Medical
Dictionary
Legal
Dictionary
Financial
Dictionary
Acronyms
Idioms
Encyclopedia
Wikipedia
Encyclopedia
Tools
A
A
A
A
Language:
EnglishEspañolDeutschFrançaisItalianoالعربية中文简体PolskiPortuguêsNederlandsNorskΕλληνικήРусскийTürkçeאנגלית
Mobile Apps:
apple
android
For surfers:
Free toolbar & extensions
Word of the Day
Help
For webmasters:
Free content
Linking
Lookup box
Close
music therapy
Also found in: Dictionary, Thesaurus, Legal, Acronyms, Encyclopedia, Wikipedia.
Music Therapy
Definition
Music therapy is a technique of complementary medicine that uses music prescribed in a skilled manner by trained therapists. Programs are designed to help patients overcome physical, emotional, intellectual, and social challenges. Applications range from improving the well being of geriatric patients in nursing homes to lowering the stress level and pain of women in labor. Music therapy is used in many settings, including schools, rehabilitation centers, hospitals, hospice, nursing homes, community centers, and sometimes even in the home.
Purpose
Music can be beneficial for anyone. Although it can be used therapeutically for people who have physical, emotional, social, or cognitive deficits, even those who are healthy can use music to relax, reduce stress, improve mood, or to accompany exercise. There are no potentially harmful or toxic effects. Music therapists help their patients achieve a number of goals through music, including improvement of communication, academic strengths, attention span, and motor skills. They may also assist with behavioral therapy and pain management.
Physical effects
Brain function physically changes in response to music. The rhythm can guide the body into breathing in slower, deeper patterns that have a calming effect. Heart rate and blood pressure are also responsive to the types of music that are listened to. The speed of the heartbeat tends to speed or slow depending on the volume and speed of the auditory stimulus. Louder and faster noises tend to raise both heart rate and blood pressure; slower, softer, and more regular tones produce the opposite result. Music can also relieve muscle tension and improve motor skills. It is often used to help rebuild physical patterning skills in rehabilitation clinics. Levels of endorphins, natural pain relievers, are increased while listening to music, and levels of stress hormones are decreased. This latter effect may partially explain the ability of music to improve immune function. A 1993 study at Michigan State University showed that even 15 minutes of exposure to music could increase interleukin-1 levels, a consequence which also heightens immunity.
Mental effects
Depending on the type and style of sound, music can either sharpen mental acuity or assist in relaxation. Memory and learning can be enhanced, and this used with good results in children with learning disabilities. This effect may also be partially due to increased concentration that many people have while listening to music. Better productivity is another outcome of an improved ability to concentrate. The term "Mozart effect" was coined after a study showed that college students performed better on math problems when listening to classical music.
Emotional effects
The ability of music to influence human emotion is well known, and is used extensively by moviemakers. A variety of musical moods may be used to create feelings of calmness, tension, excitement, or romance. Lullabies have long been popular for soothing babies to sleep. Music can also be used to express emotion nonverbally, which can be a very valuable therapeutic tool in some settings.
Description
Origins
Music has been used throughout human history to express and affect human emotion. In biblical accounts, King Saul was reportedly soothed by David's harp music, and the ancient Greeks expressed thoughts about music having healing effects as well. Many cultures are steeped in musical traditions. It can change mood, have stimulant or sedative effects, and alter physiologic processes such as heart rate and breathing. The apparent health benefits of music to patients in Veterans Administration hospitals following World War II lead to it being studied and formalized as a complementary healing practice. Musicians were hired to continue working in the hospitals. Degrees in music therapy became available in the late 1940s, and in 1950, the first professional association of music therapists was formed in the United States. The National Association of Music Therapy merged with the American Association of Music Therapy in 1998 to become the American Music Therapy Association.
Goals
Music is used to form a relationship with the patient. The music therapist sets goals on an individual basis, depending on the reasons for treatment, and selects specific activities and exercises to help the patient progress. Objectives may include development of communication, cognitive, motor, emotional, and social skills. Some of the techniques used to achieve this are singing, listening, instrumental music, composition, creative movement, guided imagery, and other methods as appropriate. Other disciplines may be integrated as well, such as dance, art, and psychology. Patients may develop musical abilities as a result of therapy, but this is not a major concern. The primary aim is to improve the patient's ability to function.
Techniques
Learning to play an instrument is an excellent musical activity to develop motor skills in individuals with developmental delays, brain injuries, or other motor impairment. It is also an exercise in impulse control and group cooperation. Creative movement is another activity that can help to improve coordination, as well as strength, balance, and gait. Improvisation facilitates the nonverbal expression of emotion. It encourages socialization and communication about feelings as well. Singing develops articulation, rhythm, and breath control. Remembering lyrics and melody is an exercise in sequencing for stroke victims and others who may be intellectually impaired. Composition of words and music is one avenue available to assist the patient in working through fears and negative feelings. Listening is an excellent way to practice attending and remembering. It may also make the patient aware of memories and emotions that need to be acknowledged and perhaps talked about. Singing and discussion is a similar method, which is used with some patient populations to encourage dialogue. Guided Imagery and Music (GIM) is a very popular technique developed by music therapist Helen Bonny. Listening to music is used as a path to invoke emotions, picture, and symbols from the patient. This is a bridge to the exploration and expression of feelings.
Music and children
The sensory stimulation and playful nature of music can help to develop a child's ability to express emotion, communicate, and develop rhythmic movement. There is also some evidence to show that speech and language skills can be improved through the stimulation of both hemispheres of the brain. Just as with adults, appropriately selected music can decrease stress, anxiety, and pain. Music therapy in a hospital environment with those who are sick, preparing for surgery, or recovering postoperatively is appropriate and beneficial. Children can also experience improved self-esteem through musical activities that allow them to succeed.
Newborns may enjoy an even greater benefit of music. Those who are premature experience more rapid weight gain and hospital discharge than their peers who are not exposed to music. There is also anecdotal evidence of improved cognitive function.
Music and rehabilitation
Patients with brain damage from stroke, traumatic brain injury, or other neurologic conditions have been shown to exhibit significant improvement as a result of music therapy. This is theorized to be partially the result of entrainment, which is the synchronization of movement with the rhythm of the music. Consistent practice leads to gains in motor skill ability and efficiency. Cognitive processes and language skills often benefit from appropriate musical intervention.
Music and the elderly
The geriatric population can be particularly prone to anxiety and depression, particularly in nursing home residents. Chronic diseases causing pain are also not uncommon in this setting. Music is an excellent outlet to provide enjoyment, relaxation, relief from pain, and an opportunity to socialize and reminisce about music that has had special importance to the individual. It can have a striking effect on patients with Alzheimer's disease, even sometimes allowing them to focus and become responsive for a time. Music has also been observed to decrease the agitation that is so common with this disease. One study shows that elderly people who play a musical instrument are more physically and emotionally fit as they age than their nonmusical peers are.
Music and the mentally ill
Music can be an effective tool for the mentally or emotionally ill. Autism is one disorder that has been particularly researched. Music therapy has enabled some autistic children to relate to others and have improved learning skills. Substance abuse, schizophrenia, paranoia, and disorders of personality, anxiety, and affect are all conditions that may be benefited by music therapy. In these groups, participation and social interaction are promoted through music. Reality orientation is improved. Patients are helped to develop coping skills, reduce stress, and express their feelings.
Music and hospice
Pain, anxiety, and depression are major concerns with patients who are terminally ill, whether they are in hospice or not. Music can provide some relief from pain, through release of endorphins and promotion of relaxation. It can also provide an opportunity for the patient to reminisce and talk about the fears that are associated with death and dying. Music may help regulate the rapid breathing of a patient who is anxious, and soothe the mind. The Chalice of Repose project, headquartered at St. Patrick Hospital in Missoula, Montana, is one organization that attends and nurtures dying patients through the use of music, in a practice they called music-thanatology by developer Therese Schroeder-Sheker. Practitioners in this program work to relieve suffering through music prescribed for the individual patient.
Music and labor
Research has proven that mothers require less pharmaceutical pain relief during labor if they make use of music. Using music that is familiar and associated with positive imagery is the most helpful. During early labor, this will promote relaxation. Maternal movement is helpful to get the baby into a proper birthing position and dilate the cervix. Enjoying some "music to move by" can encourage the mother to stay active for as long as possible during labor. The rhythmic auditory stimulation may also prompt the body to release endorphins, which are a natural form of pain relief. Many women select different styles of music for each stage of labor, with a more intense, or faster piece feeling like a natural accompaniment to the more difficult parts of labor. Instrumental music is often preferred.
Precautions
Patients making use of music therapy should not discontinue medications or therapies prescribed by other health providers without prior consultation.
Research and general acceptance
There is little disagreement among physicians that music can be of some benefit for patients, although the extent to which it can have physical effects is not as well acknowledged in the medical community. Research has shown that listening to music can decrease anxiety, pain, and recovery time. There is also good data for the specific subpopulations discussed. A therapist referral can be made through the AMTA.
Resources
Organizations
American Music Therapy Association, Inc. 8455 Colesville Road, Suite 1000 Silver Spring, ML 20910. (301) 589-3300. http://www.musictherapy.org.
Chalice of Repose Project at St. Patrick Hospital. 312 East Pine Street, Missoula, MT 59802. (406) 329-2810. Fax: (406) 329-5614. 〈http://www.saintpatrick.org/chalice/〉.
Key terms
Entrainment — The patterning of body processes and movements to the rhythm of music
Physiologic — Characteristic of normal, healthy functioning
therapy
[ther´ah-pe]
treatment.
activity therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the prescription of and assistance with specific physical, cognitive, social, and spiritual activities to increase the range, frequency, or duration of an individual's (or group's) activity.
aerosol therapy see aerosol therapy.
animal-assisted therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the purposeful use of animals to provide affection, attention, diversion, and relaxation.
anticoagulant therapy see anticoagulant therapy.
antineoplastic therapy see antineoplastic therapy.
antiplatelet therapy the use of platelet inhibitors such as aspirin, dipyridamole, or sulfinpyrazone, to inhibit platelet adhesion or aggregation and so prevent thrombosis, alter the course of atherosclerosis, or prolong vascular graft patency.
art therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as facilitation of communication through drawings or other art forms.
aversion therapy (aversive therapy) a form of behavior therapy that uses aversive conditioning, pairing undesirable behavior or symptoms with unpleasant stimulation in order to reduce or eliminate the behavior of symptoms. The term is sometimes used synonymously with aversive conditioning.
behavior therapy see behavior therapy.
carbon dioxide–oxygen therapy see carbon dioxide–oxygen therapy.
chest physical therapy see under physical therapy.
client-centered therapy a form of psychotherapy in which the emphasis is on the patient's self-discovery, interpretation, conflict resolution, and reorganization of values and life approach, which are enabled by the warm, nondirective, unconditionally accepting support of the therapist, who reflects and clarifies the patient's discoveries.
cognitive therapy (cognitive-behavioral therapy) a directive form of psychotherapy based on the theory that emotional problems result from distorted attitudes and ways of thinking that can be corrected. Using techniques drawn in part from behavior therapy, the therapist actively seeks to guide the patient in altering or revising negative or erroneous perceptions and attitudes.
collapse therapy a formerly common treatment for pulmonary tuberculosis in which the diseased lung was collapsed in order to immobilize it and allow it to rest. pneumonolysis and thoracoplasty are methods still sometimes used to collapse a lung and allow access during thoracic surgery.
combined modality therapy treatment of cancer using two or more types of therapy, such as with chemoradiotherapy. Called also multimodality therapy.
compression therapy treatment of venous insufficiency, varicose veins, or venous ulceration of the lower limbs by having the patient wear compressing garments such as support hose.
continuous renal replacement therapy hemodialysis or hemofiltration done 24 hours a day for an extended period, usually in a critically ill patient.
convulsive therapy treatment of mental disorders, primarily depression, by induction of convulsions. The type almost universally used now is electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), in which the convulsions are induced by electric current. In the past, drugs were sometimes used.
couples therapy marital t.
diet therapy treatment of disease by regulation of the diet.
electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) (electroshock therapy) see electroconvulsive therapy.
endocrine therapy treatment of disease by means of hormones; called also hormonal or hormone therapy.
estrogen replacement therapy administration of an estrogen to treat estrogen deficiency, such as that occurring after menopause; there are a number of indications, including the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis and coronary artery disease, and the prevention and treatment of vasomotor symptoms such as hot flashes and of thinning of the skin and vaginal epithelium, atrophic vaginitis, and vulvar atrophy. In women with a uterus, a progestational agent is usually included to prevent endometrial hyperplasia. Called also hormone replacement therapy.
exercise therapy: ambulation in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as promotion of and assistance with walking to maintain or restore autonomic and voluntary body functions during treatment and recovery from illness or injury.
exercise therapy: balance in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as use of specific activities, postures, and movements to maintain, enhance, or restore balance.
exercise therapy: joint mobility in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the use of active or passive body movement to maintain or restore joint flexibility.
exercise therapy: muscle control in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the use of specific activity or exercise protocols to enhance or restore controlled body movement.
family therapy
1. group therapy of the members of a family, exploring and improving family relationships and processes, understanding and modifying home influences that contribute to mental disorder in one or more family members, and improving communication and collective, constructive methods of problem-solving.
2. in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as assisting family members to move their family toward a more productive way of living.
gold therapy chrysotherapy.
group therapy see group therapy.
helium-oxygen therapy see helium-oxygen therapy.
hemodialysis therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as management of extracorporeal passage of the patient's blood through a hemodialyzer. See also hemodialysis.
hemofiltration therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as cleansing of acutely ill patient's blood via a hemofilter controlled by the patient's hydrostatic pressure. See also hemofiltration.
highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) the aggressive use of extremely potent antiretroviral agents in the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus infection.
hormonal therapy (hormone therapy) endocrine therapy.
hormone replacement therapy the administration of hormones to correct a deficiency; usually used to denote estrogen replacement therapy occurring after menopause.
host modulating therapy efforts to control periodontal disease by directly targeting the host response; an example is the use of drugs that do this, such as sub-antimicrobial doses of doxycycline, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, or bisphosphonates.
humidification therapy (humidity therapy) the therapeutic use of air supersaturated with water to prevent or correct a moisture deficit in the respiratory tract; see also humidity therapy.
immunosuppressive therapy therapeutic immunosuppression.
inhalation therapy the term formerly used for respiratory care (def. 3).
intravenous therapy (IV therapy) in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as administration and monitoring of intravenous infusions of fluids and medications.
leech therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the application of medicinal leeches to help drain replanted or transplanted tissue engorged with venous blood.
marital therapy a type of family therapy aimed at understanding and treating one or both members of a couple in the context of a distressed relationship, but not necessarily addressing the discordant relationship itself. In the past, the term has also been used in a narrower sense to mean what is defined as marriage therapy, but that is increasingly considered a subset of marital therapy. Called also couples therapy.
marriage therapy a subset of marital therapy that focuses specifically on the bond of marriage between two people, enhancing and preserving it.
milieu therapy
1. treatment, usually in a psychiatric treatment center, that emphasizes the provision of an environment and activities appropriate to the patient's emotional and interpersonal needs.
2. in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the use of people, resources, and events in the patient's immediate environment to promote optimal psychosocial functioning.
multimodality therapy combined modality therapy.
music therapy
1. the use of music to effect positive changes in the psychological, physical, cognitive, or social functioning of individuals with health or educational problems. Music therapy is used for a wide variety of conditions, including mental disorders, developmental and learning disabilities, Alzheimer's disease and other conditions related to aging, brain injury, substance abuse, and physical disability. It is also used for the management of acute and chronic pain and for the reduction of stress.
2. in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as using music to help achieve a specific change in behavior or feeling.
neoadjuvant therapy in single-agent therapy or combined modality therapy for cancer, initial use of one modality, such as chemotherapy or radiotherapy, to decrease tumor burden prior to use of another modality, usually surgery.
nutrition therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as administration of food and fluids to support metabolic processes of a patient who is malnourished or at high risk for becoming malnourished. See also nutrition.
occupational therapy see occupational therapy.
optometric vision therapy a treatment plan prescribed to correct or improve specific dysfunctions of the vision system; it includes, but is not limited to, the treatment of strabismus (turned eye), other dysfunctions of binocularity (eye teaming), amblyopia (lazy eye), accommodation (eye focusing), ocular motor function (general eye movement ability), and visual-motor and visual-perceptual abilities.
oral rehydration therapy (ORT) oral administration of a solution of electrolytes and carbohydrates in the treatment of dehydration.
oxygen therapy see oxygen therapy.
peritoneal dialysis therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as administration and monitoring of dialysis solution into and out of the peritoneal cavity. See also peritoneal dialysis.
physical therapy see physical therapy.
play therapy see play therapy.
pulp canal therapy root canal therapy.
PUVA therapy [psoralen + ultraviolet A], a form of photochemotherapy for skin disorders such as psoriasis and vitiligo; oral psoralen administration is followed two hours later by exposure to ultraviolet a radiation.
radiation therapy see radiation therapy.
recreation therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the purposeful use of recreation to promote relaxation and enhancement of social skills.
reminiscence therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as using the recall of past events, feelings, and thoughts to facilitate pleasure, quality of life, or adaptation to present circumstances.
renal replacement therapy therapy such as hemodialysis or transplantation that takes the place of nonfunctioning kidneys. See also continuous renal replacement therapy.
replacement therapy treatment to replace deficient formation or loss of body products by administration of the natural body products or synthetic substitutes. See also replacement. Called also substitution therapy.
respiratory therapy respiratory care.
root canal therapy that aspect of endodontics dealing with the treatment of diseases of the dental pulp, consisting of partial (pulpotomy) or complete (pulpectomy) extirpation of the diseased pulp, cleaning and sterilization of the empty root canal, enlarging and shaping the canal to receive sealing material, and obturation of the canal with a nonirritating hermetic sealing agent. Called also pulp canal therapy.
shock therapy obsolete term for convulsive therapy.
simple relaxation therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the use of techniques to encourage and elicit relaxation for the purpose of decreasing undesirable signs and symptoms such as pain, muscle tension, or anxiety.
speech therapy the use of special techniques for correction of speech disorders.
substitution therapy replacement therapy.
swallowing therapy in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as facilitating swallowing and preventing complications of impaired swallowing.
thrombolytic therapy the administration of drugs for thrombolysis (dissolution of a thrombus in an artery), to reduce the size of occlusion and thereby reduce damage to muscular tissue; the coronary artery is a commonly used site. Agents commonly used are streptokinase and tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA).
thyroid replacement therapy treatment of hypothyroidism by administration of thyroxine, usually in the form of levothyroxine sodium. Called also thyrotherapy.
ultraviolet therapy see ultraviolet therapy.
music therapy1
Etymology: Gk, mousike, music, therapeia, treatment
a form of adjunctive psychotherapy in which music is used as a means of recreation and communication, especially with autistic children, and as a means to elevate the mood of depressed and psychotic patients. It is used to effect positive changes in the psychological, physical, cognitive, or social functioning of individuals with health or educational problems and used for a wide variety of indications, including mental disorders, developmental and learning disabilities, neurological disabilities, and the management of pain or stress.
music therapy2
a nursing intervention from the Nursing Interventions Classification (NIC) defined as using music to help achieve a specific change in behavior, feeling, or physiology. See also Nursing Interventions Classification.
The use of music as an interventional and expressive therapy. The term refers to both an allied health profession and a field of research which studies correlations between the process of clinical therapy and biomusicology, musical acoustics, music theory, psychoacoustics and comparative musicology
music therapy
Music-facilitated psychoeducational strategy Psychology The use of music as an interventional modality. See Guided Imagery and Music, New Age music, Noxious music, Sedative music, Sensory therapy, Stimulative music. Cf Art therapy, Color therapy, Dance therapy, Play therapy, Recreational therapy.
music ther·a·py
, musicotherapy (myū'zik thār'ă-pē, myū'zik-ō-thār'ă-pē)
An adjunctive treatment of mental disorders by means of music.
Want to thank TFD for its existence? Tell a friend about us, add a link to this page, or visit the webmaster's page for free fun content.
Link to this page:
<a href="https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/music+therapy">music therapy</a>
Facebook
Twitter
Feedback
Flashcards & Bookmarks ?
Please log in or register to use Flashcards and Bookmarks. You can also log in with
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Yahoo
Flashcards ?
My bookmarks ?
+ Add current page to bookmarks
TheFreeDictionary presents:
Write what you mean clearly and correctly.
Mentioned in ?
activity therapy
adjunctive psychotherapy
advanced certified music therapist
aerosol therapy
alternative medicine
American Music Therapy Association
AMTA
animal-assisted therapy
anticoagulant therapy
antiplatelet therapy
art therapy
aversion therapy
behavior therapy
behaviorism
bereavement
body awareness
certified music therapist
choriocarcinoma
client-centered therapy
References in periodicals archive ?
Our vision as a charity is a world where music therapy is available to all those who need it, and with this centre we have just taken a significant step forward to making that vision a reality.
Groundbreaking by stars is music to charity's ears
Development and efficacy of music therapy techniques within palliative care.
Brian Schreck and the preliminary effects of music therapy cardiography/ Brian Schreck et les effets preliminaires de la musicotherapie chez les cardiaques
Music therapy is considered a related service under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and can also be documented in an Individualized Education Program (IEP).
All grades: music therapy: A powerful tool for students with special needs
After a few years, El-Gidawi introduced the use of music therapy in treating blind and autistic children.
Music Therapy: An international treatment or a fairytale?
The implementation of music therapy into kindergartens in Romania requires an analysis of the costs which a music therapist have to support and the way in which he can earn his living.
Social and economic effects of music therapy
Richardson noted that music therapy's ability to help people regain speaking abilities was put in the spotlight when ABC News' "Nightline" reported that music therapy, along with speech and other therapies, was helping Sen.
Music therapists master instruments of healing for diverse clients
In another study by Aldrige, Schmid, Kaeder, Schmidt and Ostermann [1], they studied the effect of music therapy on MS patient which showed that it causes decrease in depression, anxiety and tiredness and also increase in self-esteem and self-acceptance of the patients.
The effectiveness of music therapy on depression, anxiety and self-esteem of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS)
Can't beat ITISAAC Flynn enjoys singing and playing drums in music therapy classes
MUSIC TO MY EARS; AUTISM AWARENESS DAY; After five year wait mum hears son speak for first time; Music to my ears
I remembered my college professor suggesting music therapy as a career.
A journey to music therapy
Aigen's strong Nordoff Robbins music therapy background was evident when music therapy was aligned with "music-making" (p.
Aigen, K. S. (2014). The study of music therapy: Current issues and concepts
Further research has shown that music therapy has a much greater effect on memory care residents than other activities such as scrapbooks or aromatherapy.
Fang of the soud: music therapy programs rean into the silent corridors where those with dementia dwell
While music therapy is not new to mental health settings, there are few registered music therapists working in this area in New Zealand.
Reaching patients through music: music therapy at an acute mental health inpatient unit allows people to express themselves in a safe, undemanding way
Medical browser ?
▲
musculus tibiofascialis anterior
musculus trigoni vesicae urinariae superficialis
musculus triticeoglossus
musculus uvulae
musculus ventricularis
musculus viscerum
Muse
MUSE classification
museinol
mush bite
mushbite
mushroom
Mushroom Deformity
Mushroom Grower’s Lung
mushroom grower's lung
Mushroom Lesion
mushroom of foam
mushroom poisoning
mushroom worker's lung
mushrooming
mushroom-worker's lung
mushy chick disease
MUSIC
music therapist
music therapist–board certified
music therapy
musical agraphia
musical alexia
musical ear syndrome
musical murmur
Musician’s Wart
musician's cramp
musician's earplugs
musicians' overuse syndrome
musician's wart
musicians, medical problems of
musicogenic
musicogenic epilepsy
musicomania
musicotherapy
musk
musk ox
musken sensoclonic reaction
Musket Shot Water
muskrat
musky storksbill
Muslim slaughter
Musophaga
musophagid
musophobia
mussel
▼
Full browser ?
▲
Music Teachers' Association of New South Wales
Music Teachers' National Association
Music Teaching in Professional Practice
Music Tech Magazine
Music Technology in Music Education
Music Technology Learning Center
Music Technology, Recording and Editing Techniques
Music television
Music television
Music Television 2
Music Television for Latin America
Music Television Networks Europe
Music That Isn't Bad
Music That Matters
music theater
Music Theater International
Music theatre
Music Theatre of Wenatchee
Music theory
Music Theory and Composition
Music Theory Online
Music Theory Society
Music Theory Society of New York State
Music Theory Society of the Mid-Atlantic
Music Theory Southeast
Music therapist
Music therapist
Music Therapist Board Certified
Music Therapist-Board Certified
music therapist–board certified
music therapy
Music Therapy Assessment Tool
Music Therapy Association of British Columbia
Music Therapy Association of Northridge
Music Therapy Association of Ontario
Music Therapy for Auditory Training
Music Through the Night
Music Time Learning Center
Music Time Sound File
music titles
music to (one's) ears
music to (someone's) ears
music to ears
music to ears
music to ears
music to ears
music to her ears
music to his ears
Music to Kill To
music to my ears
music to one's ears
music to our ears
music to someone's ears
music to their ears
Music To Watch Girls By
music to your ears
Music Together of Greater Richmond
Music Tour Managers Association
Music Transfer Document
Music Under Fire
Music Under New York
▼
Facebook Share
Twitter
CITE
Site: Follow:
Facebook
Twitter
Rss
Mail
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Mail
Open / Close
More from Medical Dictionary
Mobile Apps
Apple
Android
Kindle
Windows
Windows Phone
Free Tools
For surfers:
Free toolbar & extensions
Word of the Day
Word Finder
Help
For webmasters:
Free content
Linking
Lookup box
Terms of Use
Privacy policy
Feedback
Advertise with Us
Copyright © 2003-2019 Farlex, Inc
Disclaimer
All content on this website, including dictionary, thesaurus, literature, geography, and other reference data is for informational purposes only. This information should not be considered complete, up to date, and is not intended to be used in place of a visit, consultation, or advice of a legal, medical, or any other professional.