Hazelnut Oil for Skin: 9 Benefits and Uses
Newsletter
9 Reasons to Use Hazelnut Oil for Your Skin
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN on February 1, 2018 — Written by Lindsay Ross-Hazel
Sensitive skin
Hydrate
Moisturize
Astringent
Collagen
Scars
Fine lines
Sun damage
Hyperpigmentation
How to use
Side effects and risks
Takeaway
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
What is hazelnut oil?
Hazelnut oil is liquid extracted from a hazelnut by a machine called a press. It’s commonly used for cooking and in salad dressings. It’s also used for hair care and as a carrier oil for aromatherapy or massage oils.
But hazelnut oil can also be used as a skin care product. It’s loaded with skin-nourishing vitamins and essential fatty acids that help protect skin against sun damage, boost collagen production, and more.
Keep reading to learn more about how hazelnut can benefit your skin and how to add it to your skincare routine.
1. It’s safe for sensitive skin
In most cases, hazelnut oil is safe for people with sensitive skin. Although it’s an astringent (more on that below), it’s different from the alcohol-based astringents you often see in the skin care aisle.
Alcohol-based astringents can be harsh and can dry out or irritate your skin. Hazelnut oil is a natural, alcohol-free astringent that doesn’t usually cause irritation.
2. It’s hydrating
The high vitamin E and fatty acid content in hazelnut oil can help in the outermost layer of the skin. By keeping skin hydrated, vitamin E also helps improve skin elasticity, making it look firm and supple.
3. It’s moisturizing
Hazelnut oil’s fatty acids and vitamin E also make it an . These ingredients help create a natural oil barrier that helps your skin retain water and avoid drying out.
4. It can be used as an astringent
Hazelnut oil contains tannins, which are powerful antioxidants. The tannins in hazelnut oil that can help dry oily skin, cleanse and shrink pores, and remove bacteria.
5. It helps boosts collagen production
Collagen is an essential protein that holds your bones, organs, and tendons together. It gives your skin structure and elasticity. Our skin produces less collagen as we age, but vitamin E can help. It enables collagen production by .
6. It helps reduce the appearance of scars
Applying products high in vitamin E to your skin may help reduce the appearance of scars, but the research is inconclusive.
In one study, children with surgical scars who applied vitamin E to their skin three times a day didn’t develop keloids (extra scar tissue) over their wounds.
However, another study found that vitamin E produced no better results than a petroleum-based ointment. One-third of the people who had used vitamin E also developed an itchy rash called contact dermatitis.
7. It may help reduce the appearance of fine lines
The vitamin E in hazelnut oil may also help reduce the appearance of fine lines.
Vitamin E is an important antioxidant for skin care because it helps as well as helps the outer layer of skin .
However, suggests that products combining vitamin E and C are more effective at fighting signs of aging than products with only vitamin E. Hazelnut oil doesn’t contain vitamin C.
But hazelnut oil alone may help with photoaging: research that fatty acids, like those in hazelnut oil, could also help reduce the appearance of fine lines or wrinkles caused by sun exposure.
8. It helps protect against sun damage
Sunlight creates free radicals, which harm your cells and lead to signs of aging in your skin. Vitamin E helps protect your body by and from sun damage.
9. It helps reduce hyperpigmentation
Hyperpigmentation is a condition that causes skin to darken. It can affect small or large areas of your skin.
Hyperpigmentation can be caused by several factors, including:
acne
sun damage
pregnancy
taking certain birth control pills
injuries to the skin
Hazelnut oil is rich in vitamin E, and suggests that vitamin E can reduce hyperpigmentation. However, more research is needed to truly determine its efficacy.
How to use hazelnut oil
You can apply hazelnut oil to your skin on its own or combine it with other oils. You can also use it as a base if you make your own lotions or creams.
Make sure you do a skin patch test before you do a full application. To do this:
Rub a dime-sized amount of oil into the inside of your forearm.
Cover the area with a bandage and wait 24 hours.
If you experience irritation, rinse your forearm thoroughly and don’t use the oil again. If the irritation is severe, call your doctor.
If you don’t notice any inflammation or irritation within 24 hours, hazelnut oil should be safe for you to apply elsewhere.
Once the oil has passed your patch test, you can apply it:
Cover your face or other area of skin with a hot, damp washcloth for about 20 seconds.
Remove the washcloth and massage about 1/2 teaspoon of hazelnut oil into your skin. You can use more or less if desired.
Let the oil sit for 30 seconds.
Use a hot, damp washcloth to gently wipe it off.
This process cleanses your face and also removes most types of makeup. You can use hazelnut oil as you would any other cleanser, either in the morning or at night, or both. If using at night, use the oil before putting on any night creams.
Popular hazelnut oils available on Amazon include:
Dr. Adorable Organic, Pure, Expeller-Pressed Hazelnut Oil
Liquid Gold Pure, Organic Hazelnut Oil
Plant Therapy Hazelnut Carrier Oil
Edens Garden Carrier Hazelnut Oil
For most people, hazelnut oil is safe to use daily. However, keep reading to learn about possible risks and side effects.
Possible side effects and risks
Research is limited on the possible side effects and risks of using hazelnut oil for skin care.
The American College of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology recommends that people who are allergic to tree nuts (like hazelnuts) avoid tree nut oils or any products containing them.
Even if you aren’t allergic to tree nuts, it’s a good idea to check for an allergic reaction before using hazelnut oil. An easy way to do this is with a patch test on your skin, as described above.
Hazelnut oil is rich in vitamin E, which is considered safe for most people. However, getting too much of it through your diet, supplements, or by using it on your skin could be harmful to your health.
Too much vitamin E can cause:
fatigue
weakness
nausea
blurred vision
gas
diarrhea
If you’re concerned about your vitamin E intake, talk to your doctor before you start using hazelnut oil.
You should also talk to your doctor before use if you take an oral blood-thinning medicine. Too much vitamin E could increase the medication’s effects, ultimately leading to increased bleeding and longer clotting times.
The bottom line
Using hazelnut oil on your skin could provide many benefits, from smoothing and hydrating your skin to protecting against sun damage.
Hazelnut oil is generally considered gentle and safe, but check with your doctor before using it if you’re concerned about any health risks.
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN on February 1, 2018 — Written by Lindsay Ross-Hazel
related stories
The 5 Best Oils for Your Skin
Is Coconut Oil Good for Your Skin?
Why Science Says Hyaluronic Acid Is the Holy Grail to Wrinkle-Free
Youthful Hydration
Dermarolling Is the Prickly Time Machine That’ll Erase Your Scars and Stretch Marks
READ THIS NEXT
The 5 Best Oils for Your Skin
Medically reviewed by Catherine Hannan, MD
Traditional lotions not doing the trick? Try one of these oils packed with antioxidants and vitamins to help your skin look and feel better.
READ MORE
Is Coconut Oil Good for Your Skin?
Written by Rachael Link, MS, RD
Coconut oil is a type of fat that has many health benefits. This article looks at the evidence to determine whether coconut oil is also good for your…
READ MORE
Why Science Says Hyaluronic Acid Is the Holy Grail to Wrinkle-Free
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Hyaluronic acid may be the answer to wrinkle-free skin but not all varieties are equal. Here's what you need to know about this magic ingredient.
READ MORE
Youthful Hydration
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
Dermarolling, aka microneedling, is the art of erasing unwanted acne scars, wrinkles, and stretch marks. See how to do it right, to avoid bad side…
READ MORE
Dermarolling Is the Prickly Time Machine That’ll Erase Your Scars and Stretch Marks
Take our skin type quiz and learn how to build the best routine for healthy skin. Find out what works for acne, scars, and more.
READ MORE
A Guide to Taking Care of Your Skin
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, APRN
There's a popular belief that rubbing vitamin E oil onto your acne scars can help them heal quickly, and reduce their visibility. Ointments and creams…
READ MORE
The Best Skin Care Blogs of 2019
There's no magic fountain of youth or a perfect solution for breakouts and less-than-pristine skin. But there are skin care blogs that can answer your…
READ MORE
5 Assumptions About Acne That’re Total BS
We looked into the most common and hurtful myths surrounding acne and other skin issues and debunked them with science-backed info.
READ MORE
8 All-Natural Ingredients That Work for Eye Puffiness and Wrinkles
Medically reviewed by Carissa Stephens, RN, CCRN, CPN
Some skin care experts and savvy DIYers have nailed down recipes to homemade eye creams - and in this case, the science stacks up.
READ MORE
I Tried a Sound Bath for the First Time. Here’s What Happened
Medically reviewed by Carissa Stephens, RN, CCRN, CPN
Sound baths use bowls, gongs, and other instruments with the intention of the sound vibrations shifting our brain into a more relaxed state. Here's…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 142822 Client Version: cdb63dc652210437a373a364814a92be03920246 Build Number: 26560