Duct Tape for Corn & Wart Removal | Healthfully
x
healthfully
Search Glass
Diseases and Injuries
Family Health
Nutrition
Weight Management
Appearance
Home Remedies for Removal of Plantar Warts
How Does Corn Removal Work?
How to Remove Corns & Bring Skin Color Back
How to Use Dr. Scholl's Freeze Away Wart Remover
Potato Peels & Plantar Warts
How to Make Snowboarding Wax
Duct Tape for Corn & Wart Removal
By Samantha Volz
Related Articles
Home Remedies for Removal of Plantar Warts
How Does Corn Removal Work?
How to Remove Corns & Bring Skin Color Back
How to Use Dr. Scholl's Freeze Away Wart Remover
Corns and warts can be extremely embarrassing to deal with, and yet thousands do it everyday. Medicinal treatments for these annoying and sometimes painful conditions can get very pricey, and while the wart will eventually go away on its own, it can often take a very long time. Thankfully, you probably have a wart and corn remover in your closet right now. Duct tape can remove these growths.
Treatment
Cover the wart or corn with a piece of duct tape, leaving at least 1/2 inch overlap all around. Keep the duct tape in place for six days. Replace the tape if it falls off or loosens its grip. Remove the duct tape after six days and file away the dead parts of the wart or corn with an emery board, pumice stone or even sandpaper. Repeat this application until the blemish is gone.
Speed up wart removal by applying an over-the-counter wart remover before you go to bed. Cover the medicated wart with duct tape overnight. Remove the next morning and repeat each night until the wart is gone.
Why it Works
Duct tape seals effectively and keeps away dirt, germs, bacteria and other things that slow the healing process. It is also possible that the trauma your skin suffers from lack of air and ripping the tape off activates your body's immune system, which promotes healing.
Applying duct tape after an over-the-counter treatment ensures that the medicine stays on the wart, as opposed to evaporating or being rubbed off on your sheets while you sleep.
The stickiness of duct tape also contributes to its healing power. Each time you pull the duct tape off of your skin, it removes dead skin cells from the wart or corn, which gradually reduces its size.
Advantages
Cost is the biggest advantage of duct tape. In December 2009, Dr. Scholl's liquid wart remover was available at Drugstore.com for $9.49. A box of Dr. Scholl's One Step Corn Removers was $6.49. A roll of duct tape at DuctTapeFashion.com cost $4.54, and you're unlikely to have to buy another roll of tape before the wart or corn is gone.
Duct tape also does not contain any chemicals that can irritate or damage sensitive skin around warts or corns.
Disadvantages
Removing warts with duct tape takes a very long time. While some medicines can cause discomfort or irritation, often they can remove a wart in one to two weeks. To remove a wart completely with duct tape, you must apply it to the affected area for about six weeks.
Skin beneath the duct tape can become red and soggy during treatment, because it is not exposed to clean, fresh air. If you experience irritation or discomfort, leave the duct tape off for a few days, then return to using the duct tape until the wart or corn is gone.
Video of the Day
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
Brought to you by LIVESTRONG
References
Dr. Dave and Dee: Wart Removal with Duct Tape
OctaneCreative.com: Duct Tape is HMO on a Roll
Journal of Young Investigators: Treating Warts
About the Author
Samantha Volz has been involved in journalistic and informative writing for over eight years. She holds a bachelor's degree in English literature from Lycoming College, Williamsport, Pennsylvania, with a minor in European history. In college she was editor-in-chief of the student newspaper and completed a professional internship with the "Williamsport Sun-Gazette," serving as a full-time reporter. She resides in Horsham, Pennsylvania.
More Related Articles
How to Heal Redness After Taking Out a Blackhead
Does Corn on the Cob Provide All of the Essential Amino Acids?
How to Treat Fiberglass Irritated Skin
Related Articles
How to Make Snowboarding Wax
Read More
Neosporin for Scar Removal
Read More
Get Fit!
Try our healthfully BMI and weight loss calculator!
An Easy Way to Crack Whole Corn
Read More
How to Restore the Sun-Damaged Plastic on a Motorcycle
Read More
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the HEALTHFULLY.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on HEALTHFULLY.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. HEALTHFULLY.COM does not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the website.