Folic Acid – Page 2 – Nature's Vitamins
Skip to content
All Natural Supplements Proudly Made in the USA
(949) 770-3079
FacebookTwitterPinterestInstagram
My Account
account
Nature's Vitamins
A family owned high quality vitamin and supplement store
Home
About
Shop
Viva Vitamins
Blog
Contact Us
$0.000
No products in the cart.
Subtotal: $0.00
View Cart Checkout
Home
About
Shop
Viva Vitamins
Blog
Contact Us
Category Archives: Folic Acid
You are here:
Home
Category "Folic Acid"
(Page 2)
Prenatal Folic Acid Could Benefit Children’s Psychological Development
Brain, brain health, Folic AcidBy developer May 13, 2017
A new study finds that supplementation with Folic Acid has beneficial effects on the psychological development of children if taken during the first trimester and beyond. 39 women participated in this randomized controlled trial. 22 of the participating mothers supplemented with folic acid throughout their pregnancy while the remaining 17 only supplemented with folic acid…
Could Folic Acid Decrease Dementia Risk?
Brain, brain health, Dementia, Folic AcidBy developer December 31, 2016
Research suggests daily supplementation with folic acid may reduce the risk of having dementia in populations with low levels of this B vitamin and no program to fortify the diet with this nutraceutical. Data from over 1,300 participants was analyzed. Face to face interviews were done at the beginning of this study, the Three-City Study,…
Folic Acid Fortification Linked to Lower Heart Defect Rates
cardiovascular, Cardiovascular Health, Congenital Heart Disease, Folic Acid, VitaminsBy developer September 3, 2016
According to new research, foods fortified with the B vitamin folic acid have been found to reduce the number of babies born with abnormalities of the heart by 11%. In this study data from a population based cohort study of almost 6,000,000 live births and stillbirths, which included late-pregnancy terminations, delivered after a gestation period…
12
© 2016 Earth Wise Nutrition. All Rights Reserved.
Shipping Policy
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Website Design by Web Casa Design
footer
Go to Top