Effect of high-dose iron supplements on fractional zinc absorption and status in pregnant women - UEA Digital Repository
A-Z Index
Text Size A A A
High ContrastNormal Contrast
University of East Anglia - UEA
Home
About Us
10 Reasons to Choose Us
A - Z Index
Accommodation
Campus Life
Getting to UEA
Video Prospectus
Courses
Undergraduate
Postgraduate Taught
Postgraduate Research
Get Course Information and a Prospectus
International Pre-Entry and Foundation
Learning Shop
Short Courses
Part-time Study
Professional Development Courses
Schools
Faculty of Arts and Humanities
Faculty of Health
Faculty of Science
Faculty of Social Sciences
INTO University of East Anglia
UEA London
Research
Research Assessment Exercise
Research Performance Rankings
Research Collaborations
Norwich Research Park
Research Governance and Policies
Schools of Study
RS Connections
Business
Business Home
Working with our Academics & Staff
Working with our Students & Graduates
Accessing our Innovations & Ideas
Innovation with impact
Using our Facilities
Training & Development
Research & Funding
Contact Us
Case Studies
Staff (REE Intranet)
Services
Administration
Facilities
Staff Services
Student Services
News/Events
Events Diary
News & Media
Sainsbury Centre
Sports Park
Students' Union
Contact Us
UEA Digital Repository
UEA Digital Repository
About
Policies
FAQ
Browse by Year
Browse by School
Browse by Research Group
Browse by UEA Author
Search
Login
Effect of high-dose iron supplements on fractional zinc absorption and status in pregnant women
Tools
Tools
Tools
RDF+XML BibTeX RDF+N-Triples JSON RefWorks Dublin Core OAI-ORE Resource Map (Atom Format) Simple Metadata Refer METS OAI-ORE Resource Map (RDF Format) HTML Citation ASCII Citation OpenURL ContextObject EndNote MODS OpenURL ContextObject in Span DIDL EP3 XML Reference Manager RDF+N3 Eprints Application Profile
Harvey, Linda J, Dainty, Jack R, Hollands, Wendy J, Bull, Victoria J, Hoogewerff, Jurian A, Foxall, Robert J, McAnena, Liadhan, Strain, J J and Fairweather-Tait, Susan J (2007) Effect of high-dose iron supplements on fractional zinc absorption and status in pregnant women. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 85 (1). pp. 131-136. ISSN 0002-9165
Full text not available from this repository. (Request a copy)
Abstract
Background: Women have an increased risk of iron deficiency during pregnancy because of the demands of the developing fetus. Iron supplements are commonly advocated as a prophylactic treatment and are generally taken with meals to reduce side effects, but iron can interfere with the absorption of zinc. Objective: The aim was to determine the effect of consuming an iron supplement (100 mg Fe/d as ferrous gluconate) with meals from 16 wk gestation to term on zinc status and absorption. Design: Stable-isotope techniques were used to measure zinc status (exchangeable zinc pool, EZP) and fractional zinc absorption (FZA) in early and late pregnancy from a meal consumed at a different time from that of iron supplement or placebo consumption in 6 women given iron supplements and 7 given a placebo. Results: FZA increased during pregnancy, independent of iron supplementation. FZA was significantly higher (P < 0.001) at week 34 than at weeks 16 and 24, and urinary zinc excretion was higher at week 34 than at week 16 (P = 0.02). The size of the EZP remained unchanged throughout pregnancy and was unaffected by iron supplementation. The iron status of iron-supplemented women was higher than that of the placebo group. Conclusions: In iron-replete pregnant women who consumed a Western diet, no detectable adverse effects on zinc metabolism were observed after ingestion of 100 mg Fe/d. An increase in the efficiency of zinc absorption was observed during late pregnancy.
Item Type:
Article
Faculty \ School:
Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences > Norwich Medical School
?? MED-01 ??
Faculty of Science > School of Chemistry
University of East Anglia > Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences > Research Groups > Nutrition
Related URLs:
http://ajcn.nutrition.org/content/85/1/1...
Depositing User:
Pure Connector
Date Deposited:
29 Jul 2014 13:24
Last Modified:
25 Jul 2018 09:48
URI:
https://ueaeprints.uea.ac.uk/id/eprint/49138
DOI:
10.1093/ajcn/85.1.131
Actions (login required)
View Item
© UEA 2009.
All rights reserved.
University of East Anglia, Norwich, NR4 7TJ, UK.
Telephone: +44 (0) 1603 456161
Accessibility Statement
Legal Statements