Asthma Treatment and Symptoms
Home
Conditions
Treatments
Medications
Other
Fitness
Nutrition
Anatomy
Travel/Destinations
From the West
From the East
Other Topics
Conditions
A
Asthma
Asthma Treatment and Symptoms Bronchial Asthma
Information
Pictures
Products
Asthma (AZ-muh) is a chronic disease that affects your airways, which are the tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs. If you have asthma, the inside walls of your airways are inflamed (swollen). The inflammation (IN-fla-MAY-shun) makes the airways very sensitive, and they tend to react strongly to things to which you are allergic or find irritating. When the airways react, they get narrower and less air flows through to your lung tissues. This causes symptoms like wheezing (a whistling sound when you breathe), coughing, chest tightness, and trouble breathing.
GoldBamboo
Asthma is a disease of the respiratory system in which the airways constric ...
Wikipedia - [full article]
Related Topics
Acute lymphocytic leukemia
Acute mountain sickness
Acute upper airway obstruction
Allergic conjunctivitis
Allergic rhinitis
Allergy
Asbestos
Aspergillosis
Asthma - pediatric
more...
From the WEST scientific·clinical
From the EAST traditional·alternative
Asthma treatment is generally a combination of avoiding things that bring on your asthma symptoms or make symptoms worse, and using asthma medicines.
There are two main types of medicines for asthma:
1. Quick Relief medicines give rapid, short-term treatment and are taken when you have worsening asthma symptoms that can lead to asthma episodes or attacks. You will feel the effects of these medicines within minutes.
2. Long-term Control medicines are taken every day, usually over long periods of time, to control chronic symptoms and to prevent asthma episodes or attacks. You will feel the full effects of these medicines after taking them for a few weeks. People with persistent asthma need long-term control medicines.
Yoga & Relaxation Techniques - Breathing exercises used in yoga have been found to help some people with asthma control breathing and relieve stress, a common asthma trigger.
Buteyko technique - The Buteyko technique is a system of breathing exercises and behavioral changes intended to improve health by changing the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide in exhaled air.
Diet - Restricting dairy products and sugar has reportedly helped some children with asthma.
Acupuncture - Some people with asthma have found that acupuncture can significantly reduce asthma attacks and improve lung function.
Biofeedback - Learning to increase the amount of air inhaled has reduced fear and anxiety during an asthma attack for some asthmatics.
Herbal Medicines - Herbal medicines have proven effective for some asthmatics.
Related Treatments
Acupuncture
Ayurveda
Biofeedback
Chiropractic
Herbal Medicine
Homeopathy
Hypnotherapy
Integrative medicine
Massage
Mind-Body Medicine
Naturopathy
Nutrition
Nutritional Medicine
Osteopathy
Relaxation techniques
Traditional Chinese Medicine
Related Medications
Acetylcysteine
Albuterol
Albuterol Inhaler
Albuterol Nebulizer Solution
Albuterol Oral Syrup
Albuterol Oral Tablets
Alpha-Linolenic Acid (ALA)
Aspirin
Asthma Medications
Beclomethasone Oral Inhalation
beta 2 agonists
Beta-Carotene
Bifidobacterium
Bronchodilators
Budesonide
Budesonide Inhalation Solution
Coenzyme Q10
Corticosteriod Medications
Cromolyn Inhaler
Cromolyn Sodium
Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA)
Eicosapentaenoic Acid (EPA)
Flaxseed
Flunisolide Oral Inhalation
Fluticasone and Salmeterol Oral Inhalati...
Fluticasone Inhalation Aerosol
Fluticasone Powder for Oral Inhalation
Formoterol
Ipratropium
Isoproterenol Oral Inhalation
Leukotriene Antagonist
Levalbuterol
Magnesium
Metaproterenol Inhalation
Metaproterenol Oral
Montelukast
Nedocromil Oral Inhalation
Omalizumab
Pirbuterol Acetate Oral Inhalation
Prednisone
Quercetin
Regular Insulin
Rid
Salmeterol Aerosol Inhalation
Salmeterol Powder Inhalation
Selenium
Steroids, Inhaled
Terbutaline Inhaler
Terbutaline Oral
Theophylline
Triamcinolone Oral Inhalation
Vitamin B6 (Pyridoxine)
Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid)
Zafirlukast
Zileuton
Related Medications
Aloe
Ephedra
European Goldenrod
Feverfew
Ginkgo Biloba
Indian Tobacco
Marshmallow
Panax Ginseng
Red Clover
Wild Yam
Related Other Topics
Dietary Fats
Potassium
Related Other Topics
Tai Chi
Yoga
Asthma Articles
A Time to Heal: Chronotherapy Tunes In to Body's Rhythms
... by Isadora Stehlin How our bodies marshal defenses against disease depends on many factors, such as age, gender and genetics. Recently, the role of our bodies' biological rhythms in fighting disea...
[full article...]
Asthma Symptoms
1-2 of 12 more...
Infection as an Asthma Trigger
... When you have asthma, any infection – a cold, virus, flu – can affect the lungs causing inflammation and bronchconstriction. It is important to take measures to stay healthy and be aware of any lung s...
Source: Cleveland Clinic
full article...
Nut Allergies
... Allergic reaction to nuts can progress rapidly to anaphylaxis. Peanut allergy is responsible for more fatalities than any other type of allergy. If you suffer from a nut allergy, strictly avoiding nut...
Source: Cleveland Clinic
full article...
Asthma Prevention
1-2 of 2
Prevention
... The best way to prevent asthma attacks is to identify and avoid indoor and outdoor allergens and irritants. That''s easier said than done because thousands of outdoor allergens and irritants — r...
Source: MayoClinic
full article...
Prevention
... The best way to prevent asthma attacks is to identify and avoid indoor and outdoor allergens and irritants. That''s easier said than done because thousands of outdoor allergens and irritants — r...
Source: MayoClinic
full article...
Asthma Treatment
1-2 of 6 more...
GERD and Asthma
... It is estimated that more than 75 percent of patients with asthma also experience gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). People with asthma are twice as likely to have GERD as those people who do not...
Source: Cleveland Clinic
full article...
How to Use Your Diskus Dry Powder Inhaler (DPI)
... Some asthma medications can be taken in the form of a dry powder using a small, hand-held device called a dry powder inhaler (DPI). Dry powder inhalers deliver medication to the lungs as you inhale th...
Source: Cleveland Clinic
full article...
Asthma Support
1-2 of 3 more...
Coping skills
... Asthma presents many physical challenges, but it can also cause other kinds of distress. You may sometimes become frustrated, angry or depressed because you need to cut back on your usual activities, ...
Source: MayoClinic
full article...
Stress and Asthma
... Stress is a common asthma trigger. Stress and anxiety sometimes make you feel short of breath and may cause your asthma symptoms to become worse. You cannot avoid stress; it is part of daily life. How...
Source: Cleveland Clinic
full article...
Asthma Other
1-2 of 31 more...
Daily Asthma Diary
... By monitoring their symptoms and practicing self-management, people who have asthma can live free of asthma symptoms. An important part of learning to control asthma is keeping a daily asthma diary. T...
Source: Cleveland Clinic
full article...
Sharing Knowledge, Sharing Support With Shared Medical Appointments
... A new trend in health care takes the traditional one-on-one office visit to a different level, offering patients the chance to participate in medical appointments shared with other patients. In this ...
Source: Cleveland Clinic
full article...
Asthma Treatment
1-2 of 13 more...
Asthma
... About ten million Americans suffer the wheezing, chest tightness, and breathing difficulty that typifies asthma. Doctors call it an episodic disease because in most asthmatics acute attacks alternate ...
Source: HealthWorld
full article...
Childhood Asthma
... A lot of children get asthma. Most children grow out of it after they are teenagers. Children under 4 years old hardly ever get asthma. These are all symptoms of asthma: Wheezing Tight feeling in the ...
Source: HealthWorld
full article...
Asthma Other
1-2 of 2
A Time to Heal: Chronotherapy Tunes In to Body''s Rhythms
... by Isadora Stehlin How our bodies marshal defenses against disease depends on many factors, such as age, gender and genetics. Recently, the role of our bodies' biological rhythms in fighting disea...
Source: U.S. Food and Drug Administration
full article...
Asthma
... The wheeze of asthma is caused by contraction of the muscular walls of the small breathing tubes in the lung. The narrowed air tube creates a ''turbulent'' air flow and therefore causes a wheeze, or w...
Source: HealthWorld
full article...
Asthma Articles
Allergy and Asthma Resources
... AIR FILTERING DEVICES Environmental Protection Agency Ariel Rios Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 (202) 272-0167 http://www.epa.gov ALLERGIC SKIN DISEASES National Institute ...
[full article...]
Allergy Statistics
... Each year more than 50 million Americans suffer from allergic diseases[1]. Allergies are the 6th leading cause of chronic disease in the United States, costing the health care system $18 billion annua...
[full article...]
Asthma
... Asthma (AZ-muh) is a chronic disease that affects your airways, which are the tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs. If you have asthma, the inside walls of your airways are inflamed (swollen)...
[full article...]
Controlling Asthma
... by Ken Flieger Think of someone--a child or an adult--racked by uncontrolled coughing. With a heaving, distended chest, neck muscles straining, and eyes showing alarm verging on panic, the person can ...
[full article...]
Food Allergy and Intolerances
... Food allergies or food intolerances affect nearly everyone at some point. People often have an unpleasant reaction to something they ate and wonder if they have a food allergy. One out of three people...
[full article...]
Genes and Disease: Asthma
... Asthma affects more than 5% of the population of the US, including children. It is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways characterized by coughing, shortness of breath, and chest tightness. A...
[full article...]
How to Create a Dust-Free Bedroom
... If you are dust-sensitive, especially if you have allergies and/or asthma, you can reduce some of your misery by creating a "dust-free" bedroom. Dust may contain molds, fibers, and dander from dogs, c...
[full article...]
Preguntas frecuentes acerca del asma
... El asma es una enfermedad crónica de los pulmones. Su asma puede ser ligera o grave. Si tiene asma es posible que tenga tos fuerte, sibilancias, una sensación de presión en el pecho y dificultad al re...
[full article...]
Resources
A Peak Flow Meter (Cleveland Clinic)
A Time to Heal: Chronotherapy Tunes In to Body's Rhythms (U.S. Food and Drug Administration)
Asthma Information
Asthma Symptoms
Asthma Prevention
Asthma Treatment
Asthma Support
Asthma Other
Asthma Related Topics
Asthma Articles
Asthma Organizations
Asthma Resources
Asthma News
Asthma Clinical Trials
Asthma Pictures
Asthma Products
(e.g. zip code or by region)
Common Treatments
Acne Treatment
ADHD Treatment
Allergy Treatment
Alzheimer's Treatment
Anemia Treatment
Arthritis Treatment
Asthma Treatment
Bipolar Disorder Treatment
Bird Flu Treatment
Bladder Cancer Treatment
Bladder Control Treatment
Blood Pressure Treatment
Brain Tumor Treatment
Breast Cancer Treatment
Bronchitis Treatment
Cancer Treatment
Cancer Alternative Treatment
Cataract Treatment
Cirrhosis Treatment
Colitis Treatment
Colon Cancer Treatment
Common Cold Treatment
Conjunctivitis Treatment
Constipation Treatment
Crohn's Disease Treatment
Cystic Fibrosis Treatment
Depression Treatment
Dermatitis Treatment
Diabetes Treatment
Edema Treatment
Epilepsy Treatment
Erectile Dysfunction Treatment
Fibromyalgia Treatment
GERD Treatment
Glaucoma Treatment
Gout Treatment
Hay Fever Treatment
Headache Treatment
Heart Disease Treatment
Hepatitis Treatment
High Blood Pressure Treatment
High Cholesterol Treatment
Hives Treatment
Hypertension Treatment
Hypoglycemia Treatment
IBS Treatment
Impotence Treatment
Indigestion Treatment
Infertility Treatment
Influenza Treatment
Insomnia Treatment
Lactose Intolerance Treatment
Leukemia Treatment
Lung Cancer Treatment
Lyme Disease Treatment
Macular Degeneration Treatment
Menopause Treatment
Migraine Treatment
Osteoarthritis Treatment
Osteoporosis Treatment
Pancreatic Cancer Treatment
PMS Treatment
Pneumonia Treatment
Prostate Diseases Treatment
Restless Leg Treatment
Rheumatoid Arthritis Treatment
Sepsis Treatment
Sinusitis Treatment
Skin Cancer Treatment
Sleep Apnea Treatment
Snoring Treatment
Stroke Treatment
Testicular Cancer Treatment
Get in Touch
[ Disclaimer: The information on GoldBamboo for any particular treatment, medicine, drug, or herbal product might be missing or incomplete, and should never be used as a single source of knowledge. GoldBamboo generally has links to authoritative sites displayed toward the bottom of each topic page under the heading "Resources". ]
Follow Us
Copyright 2004-2017. GoldBamboo.com All Rights Reserved.
About
Sitemap
Contact