Home Remedies for Anemia
Follow Us:
Give tips on holistic health.
Home Remedies for Anemia
This article has a bunch of home remedies for anemia that you'll find exceptionally helpful and simple to follow too. Go through them and make your blood healthier!
Sujata Iyer
Last Updated: Jun 3, 2018
Anemia is a condition that is brought on due to the reduction in the level of red blood cells within the body. When this happens, the hemoglobin content goes down, which in turn reduces the supply of oxygen to the lungs and from there to the entire body. Needless to say, it is a relatively serious, not to mention common disorder which needs to be treated soon. Fortunately, there are quite a few home remedies for anemia, some of which have been mentioned in this Buzzle article. These will help you to fight the disorder and its symptoms.
Disclaimer: This Buzzle article is for informative purposes only, and should not be used as a replacement for expert medical advice.
Dietary Remedies for Anemia
An anemic person's diet is of utmost importance when it comes to helping to fight the disorder. We have compiled some of the best home remedies for anemia that you can simply carry out to help increase the potency of the red blood cells in your blood.
Vitamin B12
The deficiency of Vitamin B12 is one of the major causes of anemia. Hence, introduction of Vitamin B12 into the blood stream is one of the best remedies for anemia. You must increase the intake of animal meat, especially kidney and liver meat, in your diet. You may consume B12 supplements if you do not eat meat.
Greens
Another major inclusion in your diet which helps to increase the iron content in your blood, and in turn increases the production of red blood cells is that of green leafy vegetables like spinach, lettuce, fenugreek, etc. Include them in your food or eat them raw, your choice!
Herbs
Herbs are not to be left behind in helping to cope with an anemic blood stream. Consume a teaspoon of the tincture of yellow dock root, thrice a day or a teaspoon of dandelion leaf extract thrice a day to increase the hemoglobin count in your blood. Dong quai is another herb that can help with this.
Fruits, Nuts and Vegetables
Apart from the greens, there are ample number of fruits, nuts and vegetables that will not only help to increase the iron content in your blood, but will also help provide nourishment to your body while they're at it. Some foods high in iron are apples, squash, beets, almonds, dates, sesame, carrots, radish, celery, black grapes, plums, strawberries, etc.
Avoid
Where there are certain do's, there's always a list of don'ts. In the case of anemia, you should avoid the intake of tea, coffee, or any kind of caffeine as much as you can. They inhibit the absorption of iron and hence, impede the creation of new red blood cells.
Other Home Remedies
Here we have for you some of the things that you can do to complement the stringent dietary intake that you may be advised by your physician. They're fairly simple and can easily be carried out on a daily basis.
Iron Utensils
If you can manage it, try to cook in iron utensils, using iron ladles and skillets. Believe it or not, this does help to increase the level of iron in your food, and in turn in your blood.
Two Cold Showers
This one you can manage for sure. It has been observed that taking cold water baths, twice a day helps in increasing blood circulation, and thus, increasing the formation of newer blood cells. So, have two cold showers daily.
Sunbathing
Once in a while, indulge yourself to a refreshing and rejuvenating sunbath. It will not only give you a glorious tan, but it will also help to hasten the formation of new red blood cells in your body.
Epsom Salt Bath
Another thing that you can do to help speed up the production of red blood cells in your blood is to have a bath with Epsom salt in the water. Do this once a week, and lay in the tub for about 10 minutes.
Exercise and Massage
You can also indulge in simple exercises like walking and breathing exercises, along with a regular body massage to stimulate the body to produce more red blood cells.
These home remedies for anemia will surely come in handy, if you're looking to do something besides eating right for your condition. Remember, these are supplementary things that you can do. Concentrate on your diet and follow the suggestions of your doctor strictly before taking on any kind of treatment on your own.
Share This
Foods High in Iron for Anemia
Vegetables High in Iron
Chyawanprash as a Memory Booster
Health Benefits of Chyawanprash
Know How Chyawanprash is Your Immune System's Best Companion
Chyawanprash: The Secret to Healthy Weight Loss
Chyawanprash- The Best Remedy for Cough and Cold
Chyawanprash FAQs Answered
Chyawanprash: An Essential "Supplement" for Yogis
Rose Water Benefits
Neem Oil Benefits
Health Benefits of Turmeric
Himalayan Salt Benefits
Home Remedies for Removing Skin Moles
Chinese Massage Therapy
Red Tea Benefits
Clove Oil Uses
Camphor Uses
Peppermint Tea Benefits
Energy Bracelets - Do They Work?
Itchy Throat Remedy
Epsom Salt Substitutes
Natural Colon Cleansing Recipes
Back Massage Pressure Points
Headache Relief Pressure Points
Upset Stomach Remedies
Natural Cough Suppressant
Home Remedies for Lower Back Pain
Cherry Juice Benefits
Stomach Gas Remedies
Facts on Honey and Cinnamon
Sea Salt Benefits
©2019. All rights reserved.
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service