The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Depression |
Patricia Robinson, PhD
Home |
Vita |
Books |
Contact
« Treating Depression in Primary Care: A Guide for Primary Care and Behavioral Health Providers
Behavioral Consultation and Primary Care: A Guide to Integrating Services »
The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Depression
By pr_admin | Published: August 14, 2011
Strosahl, K. D. & Robinson, P.J. (2008)
Oakland, CA: New Harbinger
Reader Targets
Social Workers, Counselors, Family Therapists, Psychologists, Physicians, Nurse Practitioners, Physician Assistants, Nurses
Description
The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Depression is a self-help book for people who are struggling with symptoms of depression. Unlike the dozens of books that try to help readers “overcome” or “put an end to” depression, this book helps patients use symptoms of depression to jump-start their lives. The basic idea is that depression symptoms are often realistic signals that something in life needs to change. Learning to understand and interpret these signals is much more important than finding out how to simply make them go away. The real impact of depression is that it leads people into a cycle of avoiding problems that may help in small ways in the short term but only make the situation worse in the long run. This workbook uses techniques from Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) to offer a new approach to depression—one that helps people live a productive life by accepting difficult feelings and pursuing meaningful action.
The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Depression is a workbook that comes with a CD recording of experiential exercises presented and forms used in case examples in the book. Readers may use the book alone or with the support of a health care provider. The book also provides a practical curriculum for psychoeducational classes, and a class session guide is provided below.
About My Co-Author
Kirk D. Strosahl, Ph.D., is a co-founder of acceptance and commitment therapy and an internationally recognized expert on managing depression and suicidal behavior. Strosahl has practiced as a psychologist for more than twenty-eight years, working with depressed patients in both mental health and primary care settings. He is coauthor of several books, including Acceptance and Commitment Therapy: An Experiential Approach to Behavior Change. Strosahl currently lives and operates a vineyard in central Washington.
Acknowledgements / Awards / Review
The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Depression received a “Self-Help Merit Award” from the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapy at the 2010 annual conference in San Francisco, CA.
Table of Contents
Introduction: A New Perspective on Depression
A Different Perspective
What If Controlling Your Depression Is Not the Goal?
What If the Goal Is To Feel What You Feel and Pursue a Life Worth Living
A Little About Acceptance and Commitment Therapy
The Two Worlds of Depression
ACT Fosters Acceptance
ACT Fosters a Mindful Lifestyle
ACT Focuses on Valued Actions
The Goal of ACT: Psychological Flexibility
A Mantra: Accept, Choose, Take Action
The ACT-On Depression Approach
How to Use This Book
Rally Your Social Support
A Little Story
SECTION I: CREATING A CONTEXT FOR CHANGE (4)
1. Getting Your Feet on the Ground: Depression Isn’t What You Think It Is
The ACT Perspective
The Meaning of Depression
Depressive Experiences
Myths about Depression
Myth 1: Depression Is Abnormal
Myth 2: Depression Is an Inevitable Response to Life Stress
Myth 3: Depression Is about Experiencing Emotions
Myth 4: Depression Is a Biological Illness
Myth 5: Medicine is the Best Treatment for Depression
Myth 6: Depression is Something You Have
Trading Illusions for Actions
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
2. Pathways Into and Out of Depression
Pathways into Depression: Triggering Events
Dealing with Loss
Coping with Trauma
Health Problems
Pathways into Depression: Control Your Mood, Loose Control of Your Life
Pathways into Depression: The Sirens
The First Siren Song: Emotional Avoidance
The Second Siren Song: Fusion
Pathways into Depression: Hidden Benefits
Pathways Out of Depression: Three Roads to Vitality
Route 1: Acceptance Versus Rejection of Unwanted, Internal Experiences
Route 2: Intentional Versus Auto-Pilot Lifestyle
Route 3: Approach Versus Avoidance Orientation to Problem Solving
The Fuel of Psychological Flexibility
Pathways Out of Depression: Dare to Imagine
Exercise: Imagine A Better Future
Debriefing
Today’s Dreams Can Become Tomorrow’s Reality!
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
3. Depression Experiences: Taking Inventory
Depressive Behaviors in Three Areas of Living
Exercise: Inventory of Health, Relationships, Work and Play
Coping Strategies: Part of the Solution or Part of the Problem
Short- Vs. Long-Run Results
A Paradox
What Works and What Doesn’t Work
Exercise: Inventory of Short- Versus Long-Run Results
Does Depression Protect You?
Exercise: Depression Risk Inventory
Exercise: Depression and Avoidance Inventory
Are Depression Behaviors a Choice?
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
4. The Depression Trap: Control Your Depression or Control Your Life
Understanding Emotions and How They Work
Emotions Are A Form of Intelligence
The Culture of Feel-Goodism
The Costs of Feel-Goodism
The Song of the First Siren: Emotional Avoidance
The Depression Trap
Snap! Trying to Control the Way You Feel Is the Problem
Snap! Mental Events Are Uncontrollable
Snap! Mental Events Become Bigger When You Try to Suppress Them
Exercise: Learning to Spot the Depression Trap
Exercise: Avoidance and Suppression
When Managing Your Mood is the Goal, Managing Your Life is Impossible
Emotional Control Behaviors: Decreasing Positive Activities
Emotional Control Behaviors: Avoiding Personal Problems
Emotional Control Behaviors: De-Normalizing Normal Activities
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
5. Understand Your Mind, Trust Your Experience
The Song of the Second Siren: Fusion
The Uncarved Block
How Your Mind Is Carved Up
Rule Governed Behavior
Relational Frames
The Diectic Frame
Caution: Relational Frames at Work
Programming is Automatic and Resists Change
Programming Controls Behavior Outside of Awareness
Exercise: Revealing the Brittle Shell
Exercise: Cracking the Shell
Learning to Mind
Reactive Mind and Wise Mind
Reactive Mind
Wise Mind: The Companion of Reactive Mind
Which Will You Trust? Reactive Mind or Wise Mind
When Your Mind is Incompetent, Hold It Softly
Workability: Learning to Use Wise Mind
Workability Is About Results
Workability Is A Process Not An Outcome
Workability Plays No Favorites
Exercise: The Workability Yardstick
Exercise: When Life Was Working Better
Exercise: Workability Analysis
Staring Into Darkness
Exercise: In a Hole
Creative Hopelessness
To Dig or Not to Dig?
An Alternative to Digging
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
SECTION II: STEPPING OUT OF DEPRESSION AND INTO A VITAL LIFE
6. Step One: Define Your Values Compass
ACT: A Values-Based Approach
Accepting the Uncertainty of Change
Values Are the Fuel
The Cost of Values Vacancy
How Values Get Lost in the Shuffle of Living
Values and Depression
Exercise: Stranded on a Deserted Island
Exercise: Write Your Epitaph
Exercise: Aim For The Bull’s Eye
Health
Relationships
Work and Play Behaviors
Amy’s Journey to a Vital Life
Be Gentle With Yourself
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
7. Step Two: Accept What You Cannot Change
Acceptance As a Lifestyle Goal
What Can Be Controlled and What Must Be Accepted
Exercise: What Can’t Be Changed . . .
. . . Must Be Accepted
Unwanted Private Events Are Not Toxic
What Acceptance Is . . . and Is Not
Acceptance Is Not Resignation
Acceptance Does Not Mean You Have Failed
Acceptance Is Not Tolerating Personal Pain
Acceptance Is Allowing
Excessive Suffering
Exercise: Sorting Out the Excess
Willingness: An Alternative To Avoidance
Willingness Is Not Wanting Pain
Exericse: Suffering and Willingness Plan
Willingness, Depression, and Vitality
Exericse: Willingness, Depression, and Vitality Diary
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
8. Step Three: Become a Mind Watcher
Rule Following: The Arch Enemy of Acceptance
Your Mind is Phishing You
Phishing for Fusion Phish
Signs You Are Being Phised
Exercise: Phishing Lures
How Fusion Begets Fusion
Mind: A Tantrum-Throwing Child
Exercise: Railroad Crossing
Exercise: Off the Track
Exercise: Thank Your Mind
Example: Helen’s Responses
Exercise: Then And There, When And If
Example: Helen’s Responses
Exercise: Take Your Mind for a Walk
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
9. Step Four: Get to Know the Right and Wrong Trap
The Pull of Reactive Mind
Having Thoughts, Holding Thoughts, And Buying Thoughts
Are You a Thought Buyer?
Rules About Life
Exercise: Favorite Life Sayings
Exercise: True-False Test on Reality
Four Poison Pills: How your Evaluations Make You Suffer
Right and Wrong
Good and Bad
Fair and Unfair
Responsibility and Blame
Exercise: Poison Pills
Description Versus Evaluation
Evaluation: Going Beyond Description
Why Do People Commit Suicide?
Exercise: Observe Your Evaluations
Study An Object
Study A Person
Study An Event
Caring
Notice Your Evaluations, Choose What You Care About
Exercise: What Do You Care About?
Example: Gloria
Gloria’s Journey to a Vital Life
Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
10. Step Five: Learn That Sense Making Doesn’t Make Sense
Sense-Making
Reason Giving
The Illusion Of Cause And Effect
Reasons Maintain Social Control
Reasons Are Easily Programmed
The Myth Of Emotions As Reasons
Exercise: Look At Your Reasons
The Unworkable Change Agenda
The Cart And The Horse
So, What’s Not To Like About Reasons
Pre-Conscious Bias
The Depressive Skew
Exercise: Play With Review
Bottom Line: Be Aware of and Weary of Reasons
Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
11. Step 6: Hold Your Story Line Lightly
Your Story Line: The Perfect Storm Of Sense-Making
How Story Lines Work
The Problem With Remembering The Past
Rumination And Memory Suppression
Autobiographical Memory Deficits
Exercise: Spin the Story Wheel
Exercise: Write Your Autobiography
Exercise: Deconstruct Your Autobiography
Exercise: Re-Write Your Autobiography
How Many Stories Do You Have
Four Poison Story Lines
Victimization
Silent Martyrdom
Self-Imposed Exile
Righteous Indignation
The Fatal Flaw
Exercise: Your Fatal Flaw
Time For A Thank You Note
Gary’s Journey to a Vital Life
Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
12. Step Six: Be Present
The Longest Trip
Mindfulness
Benefits Of Mindfulness
Increased Willingness And Acceptance
Decreased Rumination
Increased Mental Efficiency
Living With Greater Awareness
Healthy Forms of Self Experience
Observer Self
Silent Self
Expanding The Observer Self
Exercise: Where Do You Live?
Exercise: Mindful Eating
Exercise: The Breath of Life
Exercise: Peel An Orange
Exercise: Choose Every Step
Exercise: Reveille
Expanding The Silent Self
The Mind Is No Mirror
Exercise: Consciousness Is No Thing
Example: Ted’s Experience
Exercise: Inside And Outside
Exercise: Consciousness Is No Thing
Exercise: Moonrise Mountain
Example: Leslie’s Experience
Exercise: The You That Is Left Behind
Wise Mind And Vital Living
Exercise: Mystery, History, Gift
Health
Relationships
Work And Play
Example: Charlie’s Experience
Health
Relationships
Work And Play
Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
13. Step Eight: Create A Life Vision and Plan
What Is A Life Vision?
Exercise: Vision Plateau
From A Life Vision To A Life Plan
Exercise: Life Vision To Life Plan
Examples Of Vision And Values Statements
Health
Relationships
Engagement In Work And Play Activities
Questions for the Life Vision to Life Plan Exercise
Vision and Mystery: The Willingness To Plan Flexibly
Exercise: “Yes and . . .”
Planning a Vital Life
Exercise: The Life Plan
Life Plan: Health
Life Plan: Relationships
Life Plan: Work
Life Plan: Play
Life Plan Summary Worksheet
Example: Ruth’s Life Plan
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview: Mystery and Planning
14. Step Eight: Make Commitments, Keep Commitments
The C in Acceptance and Commitment Therapy
What Is A Commitment?
Committed Action As A Choice
Committed Action Is Consistent With Your Values
Exercise: Qualities Of Committed Action
Committed Action Is A Process, Not An Outcome
Committed Action Is Never Perfect
Exercise: Committed Action In The Presence of Barriers
Exercise: Making Contact
Hidden Barriers To Committed Action
Confidence The Feeling Versus Confident Action
Trauma And Forgiveness
I’ve Wasted My Life
Dealing With Failed Commitments
Can’t Versus Won’t
Re-Committ
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview: Mystery and Planning
SECTION III: A COMMITMENT TO VITALITY
15. Maintaining Your Life Direction (34)
Life Is A Marathon, Not A Sprint
The Honeymoon Trap
Reactive Mind Is A Relentless Phisher
Turning Your Mind On What Works
Developing Habits For Vital Living
The ACT Habit
Developing An ACT Lifestyle
Exercise: Favorite ACT Habits
Exercise: My Practice Plan
Exercise: My Rewards
Exercise: Expanding My Habits
Exercise: A Plan For Reviewing Results
Monitoring Depression Compression Experiences
Life Challenges: Nothing To Control
Exercise: Identify Risk Situations
Exercise: Monitor Depressive Behaviors
Exercise: Depression Prevention Planning
Spring Into ACTion
Developing Intention
Exercise: Take A Hike
Express Your Attitude
Be True To Yourself
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Sneak Preview
16. Give and Take Support
Create A Circle Of Support
What Is Competent Social Support?
Exercise: Like-Minded People
Find A Vitality Partner
I Don’t Want To Be A Burden
Humiliation And Burden
Under-Asking
Exercise: Identify And Ask
Exercise: Set A Time And Place
Exercise: A Letter To Yourself
Enlist Support From Professionals
Exercise: A Letter To Your Doctor (or Therapist)
Nationwide Resources
The Secrets to ACT On
The Coach Says
Appendices
References
CD: Forms List
CD: List of Audio Clips
Class Session Guide
The Mindfulness and Acceptance Class: A Course about Vitality
The following are session guides for Therapists to use to structure a series of 9 classes for patients suffering from symptoms of depression. The guides reference The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Depression and the CD packaged with the book (Strosahl and Robinson, 2008).
Class Class Agenda
Class One: Understanding the Depression Trap (Chapters 1-4) 0-5: Introductions5-15: Myths about Depression (Chapter 1) (lecture / discussion)15-25: Pathways into and out of Depression (Chapter 2) (lecture / discussion)25-35: Exercise: Complete “Imagine a Better Future” (see CD for form), share results with a partner35-40: Write quote at beginning of Chapter 3 on white board and facilitate a discussion40-55: Exercise: Complete “Inventory of Health, Relationship, Work, and Play Behaviors” (see CD for form); assist participants with scoring as they complete
55-60: Provide a preview of next class: Looking at how short term solutions work in the long run, understanding how emotions work
Class Two: Short Term Solutions, How Emotions Work (Chapters 1-4) 0-5: Introductions, any thoughts about last class?5-10: Short-term and long-term solutions, summary of “Judy” on page 50 (lecture / discussion)10-20: Exercise: Complete “Inventory of Short-Term vs. Long-Term Results” (see CD for form)25-35: Discuss Results of Exercise35-40: Exercise: Complete “Depression Risk Inventory” (print from page 54) and discuss with partner40-50: Brief lecture / discussion concerning How Emotions Work and Why Avoidance Doesn’t(Chapter 4)
50-55: Assign optional homework: Complete “Depression and Avoidance Inventory” (see CD for form)
55-60: Provide a preview of next class: The Problems with Language, The Reactive and Wise Mind, Learning to look at what works
Class Three: Language, Reactive vs. Wise Mind, Workability (Chapter 5) 05: Introductions, any thoughts about last class?5-15: Brief lecture about why it’s best to understand your mind and trust your experience, introduce fusion and how programming controls behavior outside of our awareness15-25: Exercise: Play “Cracking the Shell of Language” (use CD to play recording), discuss25-35: Brief lecture on reactive mind and wise mind (pp. 83-85) (If possible, write qualities of wise mind and reactive mind on white board before class to facilitate discussion, see p. 84).35-45: Introduce concept of workability (pp. 87-89) (If possible, write qualities of low workability and high workability on white board before class to facilitate discussion, see p. 89)45-55: Exercise: Complete “When Life Was Working Better” (see CD for form) and discuss with partner
55-60: Assign optional homework: Complete “Workability Analysis” (see CD for form) to see what the reactive mind and the wise mind say about a couple of troubling situations you experience this week; Provide a preview of next class: Step 1 (of 9) for moving out of depression and into a meaningful life.
Class Four: Define Your Values Compass (Chapter 6) 0-5: Introductions, any thoughts about last class5-15: Brief lecture about values (chapter 6)15-35: Exercise: Play “Stranded” (see CD) and for recording, ask participants to use a blank sheet of paper to record responses to questions listed on pp. 106-107, as you read them at a slow pace allowing participants adequate time to think through their responses, debrief35-45: Exercise: Complete “Write Your Epitaph” (participants can write response on bottom of page used for “Stranded” exercise)45-55: Introduce bull’s eye concept (pp. 109-116) and assign optional homework: Complete Exercise: “Aim for the Bull’s Eye” (see CD for form)55-60: Provide preview of next class: Acceptance
Class Five: Accept What You Cannot Change (Chapter 7) 05: Introductions, any thoughts about last class5-30: Brief lecture on acceptance, excessive suffering, and willingness, give example of Bill (p. 132)30-45: Introduce Exercise: “Willingness, Depression, and Vitality Diary”, ask participants to complete day 1 of form in reference to prior day and day 2 in reference to current day and then to discuss with a partner45-55 Facilitate group discussion of exercise, perhaps review the workability yardstick from class three (on p. 89).55-60: Preview of next class: Mind Watching
Class Six: Become a Mind Watcher (Chapter 8) 05: Introductions, any thoughts about last class5-15: Brief lecture about rule following, being phished by your mind15-20: Exercise: Complete “Phishing Lures” (see CD for form), discuss with partner20-30: Exercise: Play “Railroad Crossing”, debrief30-4: Exercise: Play “Down the Track”, debrief, talk about the idea of “thanking your mind” (p. 150)40-50: Exercise “Take Your Mind For a Walk” (5 minutes for each partner)
50-55: Debrief and introduce optional homework assignment: Complete Exercise “There and Then, If and When Worksheet” (see CD for form)
55-60: Provide preview of next class: The Trap of Right-Wrong Thinking
Class Seven: Get to Know the Right-and-Wrong Trap (Chapter 9) 05: Introductions, any thoughts about last class?5-15: Brief lecture about reactive mind, buying thoughts, rules about living, implicit world view15-30: Exercise: Complete “Favorite Life Sayings” (see CD and “Rules about Life” (see CD for form), discuss with partner30-40: Brief lecture on 4 poison pills (write 4 pill types on white board before class), description and evaluation40-50: Exercise: Read “Observe Your Evaluations” exercise to participants, facilitate discussion 50-55: Brief pep talk regarding noticing your evaluations and choosing what you care about (p. 170)
55-60: No homework this week; Provide preview of next class: The problem with sense-making
Class Eight: Learn that Sense Making Doesn’t Make Sense (Chapter 10) 05: Introductions, any thoughts about last class?5-15: Brief lecture about sense-making, reason-giving, the illusion of cause and effect, etc.15-25: Complete Exercise “Look At Your Reasons” (read exercise on p. 180) and facilitate a group discussion25-35: Brief lecture on reason giving and depression35-55: Complete Exercise: “Play with Reasons” (see CD for form)55-60: No homework; Provide preview of next class: Your Story or Stories
Class Nine: Hold Your Story Line Lightly (Chapter 11) 05: Introductions, any thoughts about last class?5-15: Brief lecture on story lines, problems with memories15-30: Complete Exercise: The Life Story Wheel” (see CD for form)30-45: Complete Exercise: “Write Your Autobiography” (see CD for form) (encourage participants to write 3 paragraphs in 10 minutes)45-55: Introduce Exercise: “Deconstruct Your Autobiography” (see CD for form), provide example of Gary for participants), assign this as homework, as well as optional “Rewrite Your Autobiography” Exercise (see p. 202)55-60: Introduce common story lines (victimization, silent martyrdom, etc.) and provide a preview of next class: being present
Class Ten: Be Present (Chapter 12) 05: Introductions, any thoughts about last class?5-10: Brief lecture on mindfulness and benefits of mindfulness, healthy forms of self experience (If possible, draw diagram on p. 213 on white board before class), introduce idea of developing the Observer Self10-30: Complete Exercise: “Where Do You Live” (see CD for recording and form)30-35: Brief lecture on developing the silent self35-55: Complete Exercise “ Moonrise Mountain” (see CD for audio recording)55-60: No homework assignment; provide preview of next class, how to create a life vision
Class Eleven: Create a Life Vision and Plan (Chapter 13) 0-5: Introductions, any thoughts about last class?5-10: Brief lecture on life vision and then introduce exercise10-35: Complete Exercise: Vision Plateau (play recording on CD and then read debriefing questions on p. 240, encouraging participants to use a blank piece of paper to record their responses to the debriefing questions)35-45: Brief lecture on using the life vision to create a life plan45-55: Introduce the “Life Vision and Values Statements Worksheet” (provide copies from original on p. 244), ask participants to choose one area to work on in class and to discuss with a partner55-60: Assign homework of completing the Life Vision and Values Statement Plan started in class, provide preview of next class: making commitments.
Class Twelve: Make and Keep Commitments (Chapter 14, 15) 0-5: Introductions, any thoughts about last class?5-15: Brief lecture on commitments and continuing with committed actions in the face of barriers15-35: Complete Exercise: “Making Contact” (play recording on CD), discuss with partner, group35-45: Brief discussion about hidden barriers to keeping commitments and dealing with failed commitments, recommitment45-55: Introduce idea of developing habits for vital living and assign optional homework assignments: Exercises: “Favorite ACT Habits” (see CD for form) and “Expand Your ACT Habits” (see CD for form)55-60: Provide preview of next and last class: Living a Vital Life Style. Also, you might introduce the idea that people could bring food to the next class, as part of the graduation experience
Class Thirteen: Living a Vital Life Style (Chapters 15, 16) 0-5: Ask participants to share results of homework with a partner5-10: Brief lecture concerning the importance of staying aware and of offering and taking support to / from like-minded people10-20: Complete Exercise: “Identify Your Risk Situations”, discuss with partner (see CD for form)20-30: Complete Exercise: “Create A Depression Prevention Plan” (see CD for form)30-40: Brief lecture concerning a vitality partner and enlisting support from professionals40-60: Party time: Allow participants to share food (if that was planned), during last 5 minutes, go around the circle and allow each person to make a simple commitment statement (e.g., I commit to showing that I care about other people; I commit to being playful)
Bookmark the permalink.
« Treating Depression in Primary Care: A Guide for Primary Care and Behavioral Health Providers
Behavioral Consultation and Primary Care: A Guide to Integrating Services »
What’s New
Summer Update
Hello, colleagues. I am putting my feet on U.S. soil for the first time in a month today. My trip to Europe included visits with […]
» Read More...
Patricia’s Books
Real Behavior Change in Primary Care
Real Behavior Change in Primary Care has two main goals. The book provides health care providers with (1) fast, effective tools for working with both routine and challenging patients, and (2) tools to treat their own frustrations that are leading to burnout at increasingly alarming rates. The book offers a template for providers to use to apply principles of contextual behavioral science (in particular, Acceptance and Commitment Therapy or ACT) and a pocket guide to assist with quick identification of brief techniques tailored to fit the typically short primary care visit.
» Read more...
Behavioral Consultation and Primary Care: A Guide to Integrating Services
Behavioral Consultation and Primary Care provides an overview of the primary care behavioral health model of integration. It begins with a review of the literature pertinent to why primary health care needs to be reconfigured. The reader learns about the primary care milieu and the roles and responsibilities of various primary care staff members.
» Read more...
The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Depression
The Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Depression is a self-help book for people who are struggling with symptoms of depression. Unlike the dozens of books that try to help readers “overcome” or “put an end to” depression, this book helps patients use symptoms of depression to jump-start their lives.
» Read more...
Treating Depression in Primary Care: A Guide for Primary Care and Behavioral Health Providers
Treating Depression in Primary Care is a guide for primary care providers and behavioral health providers to use to improve care to depressed primary care patients. It provides detailed instructions on how primary care providers and behavioral health providers can work together in an integrated model to improve processes and outcomes with this large group of patients.
» Read more...
Living Life Well: New Strategies for Hard Times
LIving Life WellLiving Life Well is a brief workbook for people who want to improve their quality of life and their ability to work with emotional difficulties. Readers learn seven strategies and apply them to develop more skills. The strategies were tested in a randomized control study with patients with symptoms of depression and found to improve patient’s rates of applying the strategies as well as symptoms of depression.
» Read more...
Home |
Books |
Contact |
Future Plans |
Vita |
Consultation & Training
Website by TrickleUp Web Design<!--
Powered by WordPress.
Built on the Thematic Theme Framework. -->