C-Section Scar Treatment | InviCible Scars
Advanced Treatment for Scars and Dark Spots
developed by a leading plastic surgeon
Home
Faq
Press
Contact us
Buy Now
3 Easy Steps
Compare Scar Treatments
Compare Treatments
Clinical Studies
Ingredient Comparison Chart
Scar Therapy Safety
What’s in your Scar Cream?
Ingredients to Look For
Aloe Vera
Dimethicone Silicone
Essential Fatty Acids
Licorice
Vitamin C
Ingredients to Avoid
Hydroquinone
Kojic Acid
Preservatives & Fragrances
Vitamin E
Testimonials
Testimonials
Customers
Medical Professionals
Results
Results
Before & After Photos
How InviCible Works
Our Clinical Results
Blog
About us
Our Mission
C-Section Scar Treatment
While there is no perfect C-section scar treatment that will fade your scar completely there are things you can do that will make a big difference: take care of your scar correctly and pick the right scar therapy.
First off, massage, massage, massage. This helps soften up the scar. Wait until the sutures (or staples) are removed. Start massaging fairly firmly once your C-section scar heals sufficiently. Massage older scars even more firmly.
Some women find it easier to massage with a lotion or cream. Picking the right product essentially kills two birds with one stone: it makes massaging easier and also helps improve scar appearance at the same time. As for which scar therapy to choose… there are very few that are actually backed by scientific studies.
Studies show the following improve healing and scar appearance:
1) Stable vitamin C
2) Silicone
3) Natural plant extracts like aloe vera and licorice
Both vitamin C and silicone help healthy collagen production that is essential for optimal scar healing. Vitamin C also works very well for decreasing the red or brown hyper-pigmentation seen with a lot of scars. Silicone also decreases the production of abnormal collagen that can cause thick, raised scars (which can lead to hypertrophic and keloid scars). Silicone softens scars by normalizing the alignment of new collagen fibers.
If you choose a vitamin C product ensure that it contains a “stable” vitamin C. Most forms of vitamin C used in skin care products are unstable and quickly turn brown after opening the container. This is a sign that the vitamin C has oxidized and therefore no longer works. We recommend you avoid products that are brown to begin with as many manufacturers color the cream brown to disguise the oxidation of unstable vitamin C.
In terms of natural options, aloe vera accelerates wound healing, decreases inflammation, stimulates new skin growth through amino acids, and promotes healing in the deepest skin layers. Licorice extract is also a strong anti-inflammatory, accelerates skin renewal, and lightens the hyper-pigmentation seen with some scars. Interestingly, licorice also boosts the scar-lightening effects of vitamin C so the two should be used together whenever possible.
InviCible combines all these beneficial ingredients in one easy to use, non-greasy formula.
InviCible is also hypoallergenic as it does not contain common skin irritants like preservatives (such as parabens) and fragrances.
Due to its superior safety profile, InviCible has won the National Parenting Center Seal of Approval and was also voted a Champion in The Compact for Safe Cosmetics by Skin Deep.
Please visit our photo gallery to view our C-section scar before and after pictures.
Order our scar cream on Amazon.
Comments are closed.
Results
See Our Studies
See the results of our Clinical Studies
See Before and Afters
View Images of real results!
Testimonials
I used InviCible after undergoing a breast reduction. I applied it religiously (3 jars, but I had a lot of area... Read More
After dealing with acne for years I was left with dark spots on my chin. I heard about InviCible from a... Read More
Home
About us
Buy Now
Buy Wholesale
FAQ
Media
Newsletter
Contact us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
GDPR Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Sitemap
Get Rid of Scars
Acne Scars
Burns
C-Section
Dark Scars
Face Scars
Hypertrophic Scars
New or Old Scars
Surgery
Scar Healing
How Does InviCible Work?
Improve How Your Scars Heal
Plastic Surgery Scars
Breast Surgery
Facelift
Tummy Tuck
Skin Treatments
Chemical Peels
Skin Resurfacing
Tattoo Scars
Get Rid of Dark Spots
Melasma
Skin Spots/Age Spots
Uneven Skin Tone
Compare Scar Treatments
Ingredient Comparison Chart
Clinical Studies
What's In Your Scar Cream?
Scar Therapy Safety
Ingredients to Look For
Dimethicone Silicone
ProBiosyn-4
Vitamin C
Ingredients to Avoid
Bleaching Agents
Preseratives & Fragrances
Vitamin E
Testimonials
Consumers
Medical Professionals
Results
Before & After Photos
Studies
© Copyright 2019 InviCible Scars
Website Design by Imagemme
Email: weloveourcustomers@inviciblescars.com
X