Lotions, Potions, And A Hat: A Plastic Surgeon's Scar Management Plan
<# if ( data._snippetResult['content'] ) { #> {{{ data._snippetResult['content'].value }}} <# } #>
{{{ data._highlightResult.name.value }}}
Search for experts, reviews, and advice.
Type keyword to search.
Treatments Doctors
charlotte's book
Find A Specialist In Your City
Cosmetic Doctor
Wellness Practitioner
Esthetician + Spa
Home
Skincare
Aesthetics + Medical Beauty
Health + Wellness
Columns
Shop
Ask CB
LIST YOUR PRACTICE
Sign Up Now
Follow Us
charlotte's book
Directory
Cosmetic Doctor
Wellness Practitioner
Esthetician + Spa
Treatments
Acne
Body Contouring
Chemical Peels
Dermal Fillers And Line Erasers
Facials & Add-Ons
Hair
Health, Wellness & Holistic
Light & Laser
Skin Cancer Prevention
Skin Tightening
Surgical Procedures
SIGN IN
JOIN
LIST YOUR PRACTICE
Popular Tags
Beauty File Series
Breasts
Cosmetic Treatment
Cosmetic Surgery
Dermatology
Injectables + Fillers
Interviews
Light + Laser
We Tried It
Expert Posts
aesthetics
Body
Buyer Beware
Cosmetic Surgery
Cosmetic Treatment
Face
Hair
Injectables + Fillers
Light + Laser
We Tried It
skincare
Acne
Aging
Celebrity
Complexion
Expert Q/A
Natural + Holistic
Products
Sun Care
wellness
Fitness
In The Kitchen
Nutrition + Diet
Travel + Spa
Vitamins + Supplements
Wellbeing
Women's Health
charlotte's book
Find A Doctor Research A Treatment Read The Blog
Face
Lotions, Potions, And A Hat: A Plastic Surgeon’s Scar Management Plan
by Sophie Bartsich MD, FACS, Plastic Surgeon
Read More From This Author Request Consultation
Published:
April 5, 2017
Any time you cut through skin, you will end up with a scar. Scars are the body’s way of gluing tissue back together. They happen to everyone, and they are there forever. Sometimes patients ask me if their scars can be removed down the road, “if [they] get plastic surgery.” Unfortunately, there is no magical scar eraser, but there are ways to minimize scarring, and end up with the best cosmetic result possible.
Scars And Aging — Factors Beyond Our Control
A big part of how your scar will turn out depends on age. As you can imagine, younger people will heal wounds better than older ones. Babies in the womb actually demonstrate scarless healing, by mechanisms we don’t completely understand. As a general rule, the same injury in a small child as compared with an adult will have a very different outcome. Part of this may be due to the impact that growing tissues have on wound healing, and all the chemical signals and structural remodeling that go along with it. The rest of it remains a mystery, but a very real phenomenon.
Another important element of scarring is where on the body the scar is located. The same skin on the same person will behave very differently depending on whether it is part of the face or on the back. Skin thickness, color, and sun exposure all come into play. As a general rule, a scar on your back will rarely ever look as good as a scar on your face. The good news is that the face gives us the most leeway; and face scars usually heal very well in the long-run.
But an even greater factor in wound healing is your genetic makeup. If you are someone who heals wounds well, then this will always serve in your favor. That being said, there are many things that could happen to a wound that would give you a less than ideal result, but your body’s natural ability to smooth things out is a huge player in the scar-care game.
Routine Healing — A Longterm Process
With the exception of problem healing like keloids or hypertrophy, most wounds go through the same long process in order to form a scar. It takes about a year and a half to two years for a scar to be fully mature, so don’t expect to look at your scar three months after it first started and see a nearly invisible line. These things take time. That is another reason why it is usually not a great idea to revise, or re-do, a scar very early on in the healing process. You may have ended up with a great-looking scar if you had waited a bit longer, and repeating the cut just starts you back at square one. Ultimately, scar tissue will try to flatten and soften on its own over time, and it will usually regain most of its original strength as well. It is during this long phase of scar maturation that you have the opportunity to intervene and maximize the scar’s potential, or make it look as good as you possibly can. And much as with most things in life, an ounce of prevention is really the only way to get where you want to go.
S-c-a-r-s Therapy — A Helpful Acronym
So you have a fresh new scar, and you are ready to do whatever it takes to make it look as good as possible. What do you put on it? How do you protect it? There are so many lotions and potions out there, it’s hard to know what works. The short answer is: not much does. But the good news is that there are a few simple principles, and a few technologies that can make a difference in making that mark fade from view.
“S”un. The number one factor in scar darkening is sun exposure. Over the course of its maturation, a scar will pick up sun pigment differently than normal tissue. Instead of tanning and then fading, it will pick up color slowly but continuously, in a pretty much irreversible manner. The color will be different than a regular tan, and its lasting power will overcome most other efforts to minimize the scar. In other words, even if you do everything else that you can to overpower it, a scar will usually be much more obvious in the long run if it was exposed to the sun in its early phases. Sunblock therapy is the most important element in cosmetic scar healing, and I recommend daily sunblock for almost all healing wounds, rain or shine.
“C” There is a lot of speculation and some science around vitamin therapy for wound healing. Most people believe that vitamin E holds the answer, and the more you smother on your scar the better it will be. This is a huge scar management myth. The truth is that, in large amounts, vitamin E actually hurts wound healing. Vitamin C, on the other hand, has some anti-oxidant properties that can help with wound management and even anti-aging. It has a mild effect on reversing sun damage, and is a key element to anyone’s diet. I usually recommend vitamin C creams in the later phases of scar management, or as a treatment for the after-effects.
“A”cupressure, or targeted massage, is a key element in scar management. Unsightly scars usually have either a pigment problem or a texture problem. Massage is the trick for the texture part of the issue. During that year and a half that the scar is maturing, it is continuously changing its structure. Routine massage can tell the scar what to do, or how to remodel itself. It can suggest “flatten” or “smooth,” leaving a much more regular texture to the scar. Massage can also help loosen scars that are stuck down to deeper layers, or those that won’t allow the skin to move the way it should. Massage therapy should be performed daily for several months in a row to maximize its benefit. Using a lotion or cream is optimal to help slide over the skin and hydrate the tissues below.
“R”epair. If your scar is the result of surgery or a cut, having it repaired properly is a key to success. The layers of the skin must be lined up in the just the right way, with no tension and using the right materials, to start you off on the right foot. Many emergency room physicians can perform a straightforward laceration repair, but a properly credentialed plastic surgeon is your best bet for short and long-term management toward the best-looking scar you can get.
“S”ilicone. One of the only scientifically proven materials that can help scars fade is silicone gel. Silicone gel contains properties that help the skin fibers lay down straighter so that the scar looks more uniform. This translates into a smoother and less visible mark. Silicone therapy is the basis of many well-known scar treatment creams, and the evidence is there to back it up. Many scar creams also contain other components like vitamin E and aloe, fillers than can ultimately interfere with the main ingredient. You generally should look for a product that is basically just the silicone gel, without all the noise around it.
My Preferred Scar Treatment Recipe
When I tell my patients that they will have a scar, they sometimes ask me why. “Isn’t this plastic surgery?” they ask. While scars are unavoidable, it is often possible to make them fade so much that they can barely get noticed. A good repair followed by the right bandage is the first step. Good nutrition is also important, and stopping smoking is required. After the first few weeks, the recipe is simple: sunblock in the morning and silicone gel at night every day for 10-12 weeks, followed by daily sunblock therapy for the rest of the year. Long-term darkening can be treated with skin bleaching creams (although they have some known toxicity) or lasers, but the best treatment is to prevent that pigment from getting in there in the first place. If you weren’t able to follow through with these recommendations or you did but the scar still looks bad after your year and half of maturation, there are rare cases where cutting it out and starting all over can be the answer.
Whatever you decide to do for your scar, make sure you communicate with your provider. Remember that anything you put on your scar is relevant, even if it’s a homemade potion that you don’t consider to be a “medication.” I have seen patients take a beautiful wound and turn it into chopped steak by rubbing everything from calendula oil to “frog” lotion on it, because someone told them it would work. Less is more when it comes to making scars look their best. Slow, continuous pressure, and the discipline of a focused routine will help translate your expert’s recommendations into scar success.
Photo: The one and only Padma Lakshmi, who makes scars look gorgeous.
READ MORE
For each scar, a different approach: here’s a look at treating acne scars.
Dr. Sophie Bartsich also wrote about why there’s no such thing as the standard “B” cup, and what subtle adjustments your modern, rugged man might get.
FIND BEAUTY AND WELLNESS EXPERTS
Learn more about Dr. Sophie Bartsich. Read client reviews, book sessions, and get expert advice. Only the best cosmetic doctors, skincare gurus, nutritionists, fitness and wellness professionals make it into our book.
See other articles related to
Expert Post plastic surgery
Sophie Bartsich MD, FACS, Plastic Surgeon
New York City based Plastic surgeon Dr. Sophie Bartsich specializes in aesthetic and reconstructive surgery. Her areas of expertise concern the female silhouette, especially breast enhancement, body contouring and chin liposuction.
Show Comments +
Facebook Conversations
Comments
You May Also Like
Body
Breast Lifts: What They Can (And Can’t) Do For You
Body
Labiaplasty: What It Is, What It Can Do, And Why It’s So Popular
Body
Breast Lift, Implants, Or Both: Which Is Right For You?
Nutrition + Diet
Model Trainer Heather Marr’s Best Nutrition Tips For Getting Your Pre-Summer Body Back
Body
Déjà Vu: Silicone Breast Implants Have A Complicated History, But Are They Safe Now?
Face
The New Vbeam Prima Is Here (Rosacea Sufferers Rejoice!)
Skincare
The Best Ways To Protect Your Skin From Pollution
Aging
Eyelid Rejuvenation Treatments For Under-Eye Bags, Droopy Upper Eyelids, And Dark Circles
Buyer Beware
How To Find The Best Plastic Surgeon For You
Get your
Weekly Fix
of Honest Beauty
from Real Experts
Sign Up
By clicking this link you accept our web terms of use, privacy, and cookie policy.
#charlottesbook
find a specialist in your city.
Enter
On The Regular
Injectables + Fillers
Why I Use A Cannula Needle When I Inject Restylane Lyft, A Hyaluronic Acid-Based Filler
As a dermatologist, my priority is the safety and comfort of my patients. That means I’m always on the lookout for new technologies and techniques that provide a more comfortable treatment experience. Read more
My Beauty File
My Beauty File: Lorena Garcia, Founder of Bloguettes And Majka
With a love for wellness, business, and empowering women, Lorena Garcia is an entrepreneur and co-founder of not one, but two successful companies. In 2014, Lorena launched Arizona-based Bloguettes, a creative strategy and design studio that works with businesses on their branding and content. Read more
Ingredient Check
Ingredient Check: Adaptogens Are Showing Up Everywhere
Every once in awhile, a particular ingredient (edible or otherwise) gets a ton of press and starts appearing in everything from drinks to lotions. Why? Read more
Connect With Us
charlotte's book
Atlanta
Austin
Boston
Chicago
Dallas
Denver
Los Angeles
Miami
New York
Orange County
Phoenix
San Francisco
London
Online
Find Experts
List Your Practice
Contributor Guidelines
Credential Code
Advertise
The Company
About Us
Founder Story
Press
Built By Watkajtys
My account
Log In
Join
What We Offer
Find A Doctor
Find A Wellness Practitioner
Find Skin + Spa
Cosmetic Treatment Resource
Search By Concerns
Ask A CB Expert
Shop Our Picks
Editorial
Our Contributors
Medical Beauty
Skin
Wellness
Vitamins + Supplements
Nutrition + Diet
Product Reviews
POV
Interviews