Best Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Surgical Scars At Home
Home
Reviews
Creams
Scar Removal
Acne Scars
Medical Disclaimer
Contact Us
Best Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Surgical Scars At Home
By Sophia D
Simply put, a scar is a mark that is left on the skin when it didn’t heal completely and fibrous connective tissue has developed after an injury. Every scar is different, and its severity and appearance depends on many factors, such as:
Location of the wound on the body
Age
Size and depth of the wound
Color of the skin
The most common scars are caused by acne. Stretch marks are a type of scar that is common among people who have had severe weight loss and pregnant women. Fortunately, several home treatments can help improve the appearance of scars. These are some of the most popular and effective ones –
Contents
1 Coconut Oil
2 Vitamin C
3 Chamomile
4 Lavender Oil
5 Vitamin E
6 Aloe Vera
Coconut Oil
Coconut oil is full of medium-chain fatty acids that stimulate collagen production. Skin that is treated with virgin coconut oil forms new blood vessels faster, which also helps to make scars fade.
You can use the oil by itself, or combine with other ingredients to make it more effective. For example, combining it with baking soda can exfoliate and remove dead skin cells. Coconut oil and turmeric are a great combination that can kill bacteria that cause acne and accelerate the skin’s healing process.
Vitamin C
Vitamin C is an antioxidant. This means that it protects the skin by limiting the number of free radicals that are produced, which can damage the skin cells.
It is is used to treat sun damage and dark spots because it can brighten the skin. This is perfect to get rid of the redness that is common around scars. This ingredient also plays a vital part in the synthesis of collagen and can help wounds heal faster.
Many topical ointments contain vitamin C. If your wound has healed, you can also use lemon or orange juice applied gently on your skin. Keep in mind that you must keep the treated area away from the sun since it makes the skin more sensitive to the UV rays and it can get burnt easily.
Chamomile
Chamomile also contains a good amount of antioxidants. Drinking chamomile tea is recommended for people who suffer from acne, and adding honey and lemon can increase its benefits.
Powdered leaves of chamomile, when rubbed on acne scars, can improve their appearance and make them fade away. If you have pimples, putting a cold bag of tea can reduce the redness and swelling.
Lavender Oil
Ever heard of René-Maurice Gattefossé? He was a French chemist who once burned his hand during an experiment and plunged it into a nearby tub of lavender essential oil. He was surprised to see how his skin healed with very little scarring, and thanks to him the properties of lavender oil as a great way to treat scars was discovered.
Using lavender essential oil helps to regenerate both new and old scar tissue and reduce its redness. And best of all, it smells amazing.
Vitamin E
Vitamin E, when used on the skin, can be used to treat new and old scars. There are many ointments that have this vitamin, but you can also use it as an oil or in a vitamin capsule.
Vitamin E is not an antibacterial, and it cannot kill fungus, so before applying it make sure the area is clean. Put some vitamin on a cotton swab and gently dab it on the scar or wound.
Aloe Vera
Aloe Vera is used as an anti-inflammatory agent that can treat skin irritations. It can also help repair any damaged skin cells while protecting the newer ones. Since it penetrates into the skin, it acts as a moisturizer and can increase the amount of collagen produced, which promotes healing.
You can mix equal quantities of lemon and aloe Vera to increase its effectiveness. Just apply the mixture on the scars, let it rest for a few minutes, and wash off with lukewarm water.
Summary
Article Name
Best Home Remedies To Get Rid Of Surgical Scars At Home
Description
Frustrated with the prohibitive costs of treatments to get rid of your surgical scars? This list of home remedies might just be the solution you've been looking for.
Author
Sophia D
Publisher Name
Best Scar Cream
Publisher Logo
Comments
Related Posts
Does Revitol Scar Cream Work? Detailed Review and Analysis
Home Remedies To Prevent Stretch Marks Before A Pregnancy
The 5 Best Natural Remedies For Injury Scars And Marks
Like Us On Facebook!
Best Scar Creams
Recent Posts
Home Remedies To Prevent Stretch Marks Before A Pregnancy
Kelo-Cote Advanced Formula Scar Gel Review
Where To Buy Revitol Scar Cream Cheap?
ScarAway Silicone Scar Sheets Review – How Effective Is it?
Scarguard MD Review – Does This Scar Removal Gel Work?
Inexpensive Alternatives To Scar Removal Creams
Top Treatments For Keloid Scar Removal
Sophia D's Best Scar Creams Copyright © 2019