Natural Home Remedies for Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis
How to Be Healthy on Health Cave
Sitemap
News
Natural Home Remedies for Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis
What is juvenile rheumatoid arthritis? Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) or simply known as Juvenile Arthritis or Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis, is an autoimmune disease attacking young people below the age 16. It is not known what actually causes the body’s own immune system to attack itself but there are theories that it may have some genetic influence or previous viral infection has triggered it. JRA is characterized by joint inflammation, pain and stiffness. The body parts affected mostly are the wrists, fingers and knee. The more joints affected, the more severe the JRA, the more painful it would be for the child.
How is juvenile rheumatoid arthritis treated? The goal of managing JRA includes pain reduction, maintaining normal joint function and managing symptoms. There is a variety of options for treating Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis, which include pharmacological and nonpharmacological interventions. Sometimes, a surgical option is needed if the two previous treatments do not work successfully.
Are there simple home remedies for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis? Yes, indeed. These are the non pharmacological interventions that could help provide immediate pain relief. Among these non-drug treatment options, the following natural home remedies for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis are very easy to remember and to apply.
Well-balanced diet – Nutrition is one of the most important home remedies for juvenile arthritis. A diet full of vitamins, calcium and minerals helps maintain stronger and flexible joints. Children with arthritis often have poor appetite. Parents and caregivers should give careful attention on this since having a nutritious diet will improve their condition from the inside. Having a balanced diet will also help maintain the child’s weight since taking in of steroid medications tend to increase their appetite way too much, thereby making them overweight.
Heat & cold packs application – Heat application can cause vasodilatation while cold packs application can cause vasoconstriction. Both can be beneficial for pain relief. When heat therapy is used, it helps relaxes sore muscles and eases still joints. The vasodilatation effect causes blood to move to those specific areas to help increase the flexibility of the muscles. Cold therapy, on the other hand, is ideal for relieving throbbing, burning, and excruciating pain.
Aromatherapy massage – Massage can help relieve tension and the use of aromatic scented body oils can create a sensation that is soothing to the body. Aromatherapy makes use of scented plant-based oils such as lavender, eucalyptus, citrus/lemon, virgin coconut oil (VCO), and the like, during a healing massage. Massage therapy is part of the essential home remedies for aching body parts and can be an ideal solution for throbbing arthritic pain. Massage is also ideal for relaxation and clarity of the mind. Use slow kneading smooth flowing style to promote relaxation, improve range of motion of limbs and joints and improves circulation giving an overall general feeling of relaxation and well-being.
Regular exercise – Getting a regular exercise will help the child become more flexible and it will promote stronger bones and healthier toned muscles. Exercise can promote circulation and improves body mechanics as well. Keep the child active and encourage him to run with you, ride the bicycle with you and play outdoor sports together. This will not only improve his bodily functions but creates a general feeling of well-bring as parent and child engages in fun activities together.
Category: Disease and Conditions
Tags: arthritis, arthritis exercise, arthritis home remedies, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis
Copyright © 2010 All Rights Reserved. How to Be Healthy on Health Cave