Rogaine
Share:
eMedTV Login
eMedTV Home
TOPIC HOME
HEALTH CHANNELS
HEALTH TOPICS A-Z
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
Men Home > Rogaine
Rogaine is a nonprescription medication used to help stimulate hair growth in men and women. Although it is not a cure for baldness, the medicine can help inactive hair follicles to enter into an active growth phase. The medicine comes in the form of a liquid and a foam, and is applied directly on the scalp twice daily. Potential side effects may include a dry, flaky, and itchy scalp.
What Is Rogaine?
Rogaine® (minoxidil) is an over-the-counter (OTC) medication used in the treatment of male and female pattern baldness, a condition medically known as androgenetic alopecia. It is applied directly on the scalp to stimulate hair growth.
Minoxidil, the active ingredient in Rogaine, is also available as an oral tablet (Loniten®), which is used to treat severe hypertension (high blood pressure). Although these medications contain the same active ingredient, they are not the same medication. Loniten should not be used to promote hair growth, as it may cause serious and potentially dangerous side effects. This article applies only to minoxidil formulations that are applied directly on the scalp.
(Click Rogaine Uses for more information on this topic, including possible off-label uses.)
Who Makes This Medication?
Brand-name Rogaine is made by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products. Generic versions are made by various manufacturers.
How Does Rogaine Work?
It is not exactly known how this medication works to cause hair growth. It is thought that the medication stimulates resting hair follicles to enter into an active growth phase and, therefore, grow hair. Rogaine may open the blood vessels around the hair follicles, allowing more blood to flow to the follicles. It could also directly stimulate and enlarge the hair follicles.
ARTICLE CONTINUES: PAGE 2
Pages:
1234Next >>
Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD
Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD;
Last updated/reviewed:
List of references (click here):
Men's Rogaine Extra Strength [package label]. New Brunswick, NJ: Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products;2010 July.
Rogaine Web site. Available at http://www.rogaine.com/. Accessed February 1, 2011.
Rogaine. Drug Facts and Comparisons. Drug Facts and Comparisons 4.0 [online]. 2011. Available from Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. Accessed February 1, 2011.
National Library of Medicine (US). Hazardous Substances Data Bank (HSDB). NLM Web site. Available at: http://toxnet.nlm.nih.gov/cgi-bin/sis/htmlgen?HSDB. Accessed February 1, 2011.
Food and Drug Administration, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Electronic orange book: approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations. FDA Web site. Available at: http://www.fda.gov/cder/ob/. Accessed February 2, 2011.
National Library of Medicine (US). Drugs and Lactation Database (LactMED). NLM Web site. Available at: http://toxnet.nlm.nih.gov/cgi-bin/sis/htmlgen?LACT. Accessed February 1, 2011.
Rogaine. In DRUGDEX System. Thomson Reuters (Healthcare), Inc. Available at: http://www.thomsonhc.com. Accessed January 31, 2011.
Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
Rogaine
Rogaine Side Effects
Rogaine Uses
Does Rogaine Work?
Rogaine Dosage
Rogaine Drug Interactions
Rogaine Warnings and Precautions
Rogaine Overdose
Rogaine and Pregnancy
Rogaine and Breastfeeding
Generic Rogaine
Rogaine for Women
Topics
Hair Loss
Impotence
Low Testosterone
Men's Health
Peyronie's Disease
Skin
Testes
Medications
Acamprosate
Alfuzosin
AndroGel
Avanafil
Axiron
Biotin
Diclofenac Patch
Doxazosin XL
Dutasteride
Dutasteride/Tamsulosin
Epimedium
Finasteride
Finasteride (Propecia)
Finasteride (Proscar)
Fortesta
Ifex
Megestrol
Methitest
Methyltestosterone
Myoplex
Naftin
Orally Disintegrating Vardenafil
Propecia
Robaxin
Rogaine
Sildenafil Citrate
Silodosin
Striant
Tadalafil
Tamsulosin
Testim
Testopel
Testosterone Cypionate
Testosterone Enanthate
Testosterone Patch
Testred
Tribulus Terrestris
Vardenafil
VigRX Plus
Quicklinks
Impotence
Impotence Treatment
Peyronie's
Propecia
Finasteride
Tadalafil
Sildenafil Citrate
Vardenafil
Tamsulosin
Biotin
AndroGel
Robaxin
Rogaine
Testim
Related Channels
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Disease
Prostate
Prostate Cancer
Insomnia
Diabetes
Depression
Arthritis
eMedTV Links
Exit Mobile View
Terms of Use
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
About eMedTV
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2006-2019 Clinaero, Inc.
eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind. Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with their own physician. Click Terms of Use for more information.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.