Benefits Dates To Treat Anemia - Healthy T1ps
Healthy tips
Healthy T1ps - Is A Web page that discusses about how to live healthy by using ingredients sourced from nature and simple tips about healthy living
☰
Home (current)
Healthy T1ps
Alternative Medicine
Fruit
Animals
Vegetable
Search
Benefits Dates To Treat Anemia - Healthy T1ps
.... ...
The Amazing Health Benefits Of Dates To Treat Anemia - Healthy T1ps
Have you ever felt the symptoms of fatigue, shortness of hunting, frequent headaches, insomnia and a pale face? Maybe you are experiencing anemia. Anemia is a condition where the body is deficient in red blood cells. Functioning red blood cells circulate in the oxygen and nutrients to the cells along the cell body. Therefore, patients with anemia look pale and tired easily.
Anemia can be caused by several things, such as bleeding, menstruation, pregnancy, iron deficiency, and disorders of the body's systems. Uniquely patients with anemia caused by deficiency of iron intake usually show behavioral abnormalities that would like to eat paper, soil or objects that do not have the nutrients your body needs. This condition is called pica.
Health Benefits Of Dates To Trear Anemia (Herbal Medicine)
Anemia due to iron deficiency can be avoided by getting used to eating foods with high iron content. Examples of foods that contain iron include:
Red meat
Seafood
Green vegetables such as spinach and beans
Benefits Dates To Treat Anemia - Healthy T1ps
Dates (Date Palm) is a type of palm plants which are found in the Middle East. Since the first date palm fruit known as the exclusive hands of the Indonesian people who perform the pilgrimage. But now the date is easy to find in Indonesia. Dates have a high enough caloric content. 100 grams of dates has more calories around 900-1100 kJ depending on the type and place of its planting.
Read Also :
Benefits of Ginger and Lemon To Diet - Healthy T1ps
Benefits Leaves Orange Lemon For Health - Healthy T1ps
Dates are very suitable to be consumed by people with anemia. Some of the benefits of dates are:
provide power
Patients with anemia often feel tired and underpowered. This is due to a lack of red blood cells so that the nutrients are absorbed by the body can not be distributed optimally. Try to eat five dates. Dates energy contained 5 equivalent to 130 kJ. Not only shorter digestive processes, the energy produced can be immediately released so the body will not feel weak.
Has a high iron content
The cause of anemia one of which is due to iron deficiency. Iron is the main substance in the formation of hemoglobin in red blood cells. Hemoglobin is what can bind with oxygen and nutrients to be circulated in the body. Consumption of dates 3-5 eggs a day can help the body meet the iron intake so as to cell red blood cells can be produced.
Recomended Article :
10 Passion Fruit Benefits For Health - Healthy t1ps
9 Benefits Of Longan Fruit For Health - Healthy T1ps
Important for bone health and bone marrow
Besides rich in iron, dates are also rich in other minerals such as potassium, calcium, and phosphorus. Mineral minerals are very good for the health of human bone and bone marrow. Red blood cells produced in the bone marrow, especially in the red bone marrow in the bones of the pipe. By meeting the required nutrients and the bone marrow, the production of red blood cells tdak will be disrupted.
Preventing anemia in pregnant women
Pregnant and lactating women tend to experience symptoms of anemia. Naturally, because the nutrients are absorbed by the body is also used for the development of the fetus. Dates help prevent anemia in pregnant women by providing high energy and stimulates the production of red blood cells in the body of pregnant women. As a result, the mother's body will not nutrient deficiency as well.
Read Also :
7 Benefits of Pomfret Fish for Pregnant Women - healthy t1ps
6 Benefits of Eggs For Pregnant Women and Fetus - healthy t1ps
It should be noted that the consumption of dates per day should not be too much. Hyperglycemia and diabetes is a risk that must be faced when excessive eating dates daily.
Bagikan di Facebook
Bagikan diTwitter
Bagikan di Google+
#medicinal Fruit
#Natural Alternative Medicine
Related with : Benefits Dates To Treat Anemia - Healthy T1ps
Please Enable JavaScript!
Mohon Aktifkan Javascript![ Enable JavaScript ]
Popular Posts
Benefits Soursop Leaf Men and Women For Fertility - Healthy T1ps
Benefits Soursop Leaf Men and Women For Fertility - Healthy T1ps Pregnancy is one of the most awaited moment by a married couple in the...
22 Benefits of Swallowing Sperm Men for Men and Women - healthy t1ps
Benefits and efficacy of Swallowing Sperm For Women and Adverse effects Swallowing Sperm - healthy t1ps -Swallowing sperm can make the youn...
13 Benefits of Boiled Bananas for Health - Healthy T1ps
Top 13 Benefits of Boiled Bananas for Health - Healthy T1ps Bananas do have a variety of content that is very beneficial for the health ...
34 Benefits Of Kedondong For Body Health - Healthy T1ps
34 Benefits Of Spondias dulcis (Kedondong) For Body Health - Healthy T1ps Spondias dulcis (Kedondong) is a tree-shaped fruit plant that ...
11 Benefits of Banana Root For Health - Healthy T1ps
The Amazing Of Health Benefits of Banana Root For Health - Healthy T1PS You must be familiar with the banana. Yellow fruit is very popula...
Labels
Animals
Cancer
Diabets
Fish
Flower
Health Education
Health Tips
Health Tips For Women
Healthy Diet
healthy food
Juice
meat
medicinal Fruit
Medicinal plants
mushroom
Natural Alternative Medicine
Pregnant
seafood for health
Sex education
Skin And Beauty
Technology News
Vegetable
Powered by Blogger.
Sitemap
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
2016 dankedev.com | Published by FLYTemplate