Metaglossary.com - Definitions for "iron deficiency anemia"
About us
Define
Definitions for "Iron deficiency anemia"
Keywords: anemia, hemoglobin, inadequate, fatigue, pale
Related Terms: Iron, Anaemia, Anemia, Anemic, Iron requirement, Iron-deficiency anemia, Hemolytic anemia, Megaloblastic anemia, Polycythemia, Hemolytic, Iron deficiency, Hemoglobin, Hemolytic disease, Rbc, Haemolysis, Erythrocytosis, Macrocytic anemia, Hemolysis, Haemoglobin, Megaloblast, Pernicious anemia, Mean corpuscular hemoglobin, Mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, Mchc, Red blood cell count, Sickle cell, Thalassaemia, Erythrocytes, Sickle cell anemia, Red blood cells, Hematocrit, Sickle-cell anemia, Thalassemia, Reticulocytes, Autoimmune hemolytic anemia, Methemoglobinemia, Megaloblastic anemia / pernicious anemia, Erythrocyte, Haematocrit, Sideroblastic anemia, Sickle cell disease, Red cells, Hct, Hemoglobinopathy, Oxyhemoglobin, Heme iron, Blood doping, Red blood cell, Hba1c
the most common type of anemia. It is the lack of iron in the blood, which is necessary to make hemoglobin.
vet.osu.edu
A condition caused by low hemoglobin levels because of blood loss, leading to fatigue and lack of energy.
allaboutbleeding.com
the lack of iron in the blood, which is necessary to make hemoglobin, the part of blood that distributes oxygen from the lungs to tissues in the body.
chkd.org
a form of anemia due to lack of iron in the diet or to iron loss as a result of chronic bleeding
wordnet.princeton.edu
The most common known form of nutritional disorder in the world, iron deficiency results in anemia because iron is necessary to make hemoglobin, key molecule in red blood cells responsible for the transport of oxygen. In iron deficiency anemia, the red cells appear abnormal and are unusually small (microcytic) and pale (hypochromic). The pallor of the red cells reflects their low hemoglobin content. See the entire definition of Iron deficiency anemia
medicinenet.com
a form of anemia caused by inadequate supply of iron for synthesis of hemoglobin
wps.prenhall.com
Anemia that occurs after the body has been low in iron or lost a lot of blood (such as in women who have heavy menstrual periods). Iron deficiency is often related to an inadequate diet. Iron is found in meat and poultry, egg yolks, and, to a lesser extent, green leafy vegetables; dried fruits, beans, and peas; and whole grain and enriched cereals and breads. Vitamin C helps the body absorb iron. Foods rich in vitamin C, are citrus fruits, strawberries, mustard greens, cauliflower, and green peppers.
anemia.org
Anemia caused by inadequate supplies of iron need to synthesize the hemoglobin. It is characterized by paleness, fatigue and lethargy. Blood tests include evaluation of the hemoglobin, hematocrit, transferrin and serum iron.
babypartner.com
For a discussion of iron deficiency more broadly, see the Wikipedia article iron deficiency.
en.wikipedia.org
View 6 more results
© All Rights Reserved - Patent Pending | Another site by Seraph
Privacy statement | Terms of use