Ankle Sprain: Causes, Symptoms, and Diagnosis
Newsletter
Ankle Sprain
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD, specialty in orthopedics, on December 13, 2017 — Written by the Healthline Editorial Team
Causes
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatment
Outlook
Prevention
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
What is an ankle sprain?
An ankle sprain is an injury to the tough bands of tissue (ligaments) that surround and connect the bones of the leg to the foot. The injury typically happens when you accidentally twist or turn your ankle in an awkward way. This can stretch or tear the ligaments that hold your ankle bones and joints together.
All ligaments have a specific range of motion and boundaries that allow them to keep the joints stabilized. When ligaments surrounding the ankle are pushed past these boundaries, it causes a sprain. Sprained ankles most commonly involve injuries to the ligaments on the outside of the ankle.
You should call your doctor right away if you sprain your ankle. Your doctor can determine the severity of the injury and recommend a proper course of treatment. It can take several weeks or months for a sprained ankle to heal completely.
What causes an ankle sprain?
An ankle sprain often occurs when the foot suddenly twists or rolls, forcing the ankle joint out of its normal position. During physical activity, the ankle may twist inward as a result of sudden or unexpected movement. This causes one or more ligaments around the ankle to stretch or tear.
Some swelling or bruising can occur as a result of these tears. You may also feel pain or discomfort when you place weight on the affected area. Tendons, cartilage, and blood vessels might also be damaged due to the sprain.
Ankle sprains can happen to anyone at any age. Participating in sports, walking on uneven surfaces, or even wearing inappropriate footwear can all cause this type of injury.
What are the symptoms of an ankle sprain?
You may have a sprained ankle if you notice the following symptoms in the ankle:
swelling
tenderness
bruising
pain
inability to put weight on the affected ankle
skin discoloration
stiffness
The ankle can sustain many different types of injuries. It’s important to see your doctor when you’re experiencing problems with your ankle. Your doctor can determine whether the injury is a sprain or something more severe.
How is an ankle sprain diagnosed?
Your doctor will perform a physical exam to determine which ligaments have been torn. During the exam, your doctor may move your ankle joint in various ways to check your range of motion.
Imaging tests, such as X-rays, may also be ordered to rule out a bone fracture. An MRI may be done if your doctor suspects a fracture, a serious injury to the ligaments, or damage to the surface of the ankle joint. The MRI test uses a strong magnetic field and radio waves to create detailed images of the body. This allows your doctor to make a proper diagnosis.
How is an ankle sprain treated?
Treating a sprained ankle promotes recovery and prevents further discomfort. It’s important not to put weight on the injured area while you’re recovering from an ankle sprain.
Home treatments
You may be able to treat mild sprains at home. Recommended home care treatments include:
using elastic bandages (such as an ACE bandage) to wrap your ankle, but not too tightly
wearing a brace to support your ankle
using crutches, if needed
elevating your foot with pillows as necessary to reduce swelling
taking ibuprofen (such as Advil) or acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) to manage pain
getting plenty of rest and not putting weight on your ankle
It’s also helpful to apply ice to the injured area as soon as you can to reduce swelling. On the first day, you should apply ice every 20 to 30 minutes, three to four times per day. Afterward, apply ice every three to four hours for the next two days.
Your doctor may tell you to stay off of your injured ankle until the pain subsides. For mild sprains, this may take a week to 10 days, while more severe sprains may take up to several weeks to heal.
Shop for elastic bandages.
Surgery
Surgery for sprained ankles is rare. It may be performed when the damage to the ligaments is severe and there is evidence of instability, or when the injury doesn’t improve with nonsurgical treatment. Surgical options include:
Arthroscopy: During an arthroscopy, a surgeon looks inside the joint to see if there are any loose fragments of bone or cartilage.
Reconstruction: For reconstruction surgery, a surgeon will repair the torn ligament with stitches. They may also use other ligaments or tendons around the foot or ankle to repair the damaged ligaments.
The type of surgery needed will depend on the severity of your ankle sprain and your activity level. After surgery, rehabilitation is an important part of the recovery process. You’ll need to attend regular follow-up appointments with your doctor and complete physical therapy exercises to regain motion and strengthen the muscle about the ankle. Depending on the extent of your ankle sprain and the type of surgery, rehabilitation can take weeks or months.
What is the long-term outlook for someone with an ankle sprain?
In most cases, an ankle sprain isn’t very serious and will completely heal with proper treatment. The amount of time required for a full recovery will depend on the severity of the sprain. Most ankle sprains take a few weeks to fully heal. A more severe sprain may take months.
Although pain and swelling will eventually go away, your injured ankle may not be as stable as your unaffected ankle. Your doctor may suggest certain exercises to help strengthen the muscle about the ankle. However, you shouldn’t proceed with exercises until your doctor has told you to do so.
How can I prevent an ankle sprain?
You can lower your risk for future sprains by:
wrapping the affected ankle in an elastic bandage
wearing a brace, if necessary
performing strengthening exercises
avoiding high heels
warming up before exercising
wearing sturdy, quality footwear
paying attention to surfaces you’re walking on
slowing or stopping activities when you feel fatigued
Call your doctor right away if you think you’ve sprained your ankle again. When left untreated, an ankle sprain can lead to long-term pain and instability in the ankle.
Shop for ankle braces.
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD, specialty in orthopedics, on December 13, 2017 — Written by the Healthline Editorial Team
related stories
Swollen Ankle and Leg
8 Ankle Stretches to Try at Home
Is It a Sprain or a Strain? Tips for Identification
Why Do I Have Pain on Top of My Foot?
Ankle Disorders: Causes, Symptoms, and Diagnosis
READ THIS NEXT
Swollen Ankle and Leg
Medically reviewed by Gregory Minnis, DPT
The ankles and legs are common sites of swelling because of gravity’s effect on the fluids in your body. However, fluid retention is not the only…
READ MORE
8 Ankle Stretches to Try at Home
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
If you deal with ankle stiffness or pain, there are many stretches that can help. Here are eight different stretches that you can try at home.
READ MORE
Is It a Sprain or a Strain? Tips for Identification
Medically reviewed by Katie Mena, MD
Sprains and strains share many common symptoms, but they are different conditions. Learn more about them.
READ MORE
Why Do I Have Pain on Top of My Foot?
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Sometimes, you may feel mild or severe pain on the top of your foot. Since our feet carry our entire body weight all day long, it's not much of a…
READ MORE
Ankle Disorders: Causes, Symptoms, and Diagnosis
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Your ankle helps to balance and stabilize your body. It’s made up of bones that are supported with muscles and ligaments. Ankle disorders can result…
READ MORE
Achilles Tendonitis
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Achilles tendonitis occurs when the tendon that attaches the calf muscles to the heel becomes painful or inflamed. Common causes include exercising…
READ MORE
Ankle Pain: Isolated Symptom, or Sign of Arthritis?
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Assess the symptoms of post-traumatic and rheumatoid ankle arthritis. Learn how these conditions are diagnosed and what your treatment options are.
READ MORE
6 Early Symptoms of Osteoarthritis (OA): Pain, Tenderness, and More
Medically reviewed by Gregory Minnis, DPT
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a form of degenerative joint pain. Learn the early signs, such as pain and tenderness, stiffness, and loss of flexibility.
READ MORE
Stretches to Relieve Peroneal Tendonitis
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
Peroneal tendonitis is a common injury for runners and for those doing other activities that require repetitive motion. These stretches will help…
READ MORE
What Is Soft-Tissue Mobilization Therapy?
Medically reviewed by University of Illinois-Chicago, College of Medicine
Soft tissue injuries can affect your muscles, tendons, and other tissues. Learn how mobilization therapy may help relieve sprains, strains, and other…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 17803 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877