Evening Primrose Oil Has Many Uses Beyond Just Starting Labor Or Rid Your Acne – HEALTHY LIVING ONLINE
Skip to navigation Skip to content Menu
Search for:
THE BLOG
ABOUT US
OUR HERBAL LIBRARY
Herbs A – H
Herbs I – Q
Herbs R – Z
THE BLOG
ABOUT US
OUR HERBAL LIBRARY
Herbs A – H
Herbs I – Q
Herbs R – Z
Search for:
$0.00 0 items
Search for:
Posted on July 19, 2014 February 14, 2015
Evening Primrose Oil Has Many Uses Beyond Just Starting Labor Or Rid Your Acne
Written by
Tom Aagesen
Posted in
Nutrition For A Healthy Living
Tagged
evening primrose oil, evening primrose oil acne, evening primrose oil amazon, evening primrose oil benefits, evening primrose oil for labor, evening primrose oil uses, evening primrose oil walmart
Comments
Leave a comment
Evening primrose (or oenothera) is a genus of herbaceous flowering plants native to America. Also known as suncups and sundrops, the evening primrose is a beauty with its bright yellow, pink, or white cups or goblets. The flowers open during the day and has a wonderful fragrant. The evening primrose fruit are elongated capsules filled with small black seed that contains the oil.
What Is Evening Primrose Oil Good For?
The evening primrose oil is used for skin disorders such as psoriasis, eczema, and acne. But it’s way more to it, as it’s also used for:
rheumatoid arthritis.
osteoporosis.
Raynaud’s disease.
multiple sclerosis.
cancer.
high cholesterol level.
heart disease.
Alzheimer’s disease.
leg pain due to blockage of the blood vessels.
alcoholism.
and schizophrenia.
Women also use the herb when pregnant to prevent:
high blood pressure or eclampsia.
shortening labor.
starting labor.
and preventing late deliveries.
It is also use for:
PMS or premenstrual syndrome.
breast pain.
endometriosis.
and symptoms of menopausal such as hot flashes.
An Australian study found that the use of evening primrose oil improved the symptoms in children with ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder).
What Are The Nutritional Content Of Evening Primrose Oil?
Evening primrose seeds have very high levels of the essential fatty acid known as gamma-linolenic-acid (or GLA for short), also known as omega 6. The oil contains up to 15% of this gamma-linolenic acid and 70% linolenic acid, which then the body turns into GLA.
Where To Buy Evening Primrose Oil
Various oils and soft gels are easily available online, so when in need for evening primrose oil, Amazon and Walmart both should have them in stock. Below are samples of products that contain evening primrose:
EFA Gold Evening Primrose – that guarantees to contain 10% gamma-linolenic acid or GLA from non-GMO seeds.
100% Pure Evening Primrose Oil
Source Naturals Evening Primrose Oil 500mg – formulations with potent bio-active nutrients.
[DEAL_OF_THE_DAY]
Photo by lowjumpingfrog | Creative Commons
Post navigation
Previous post: 13 Things Eucalyptus Oil Can Help Treat. I Use It For #5 Myself…
Next post: Increased Sex Drive! Relief From Snakebites! What Is Fennel???
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
© Healthylivingonline.co | All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Powered by GRUNDERMEDIA
My Account
Search
Search for:
Search
0
THE BLOG
ABOUT US
OUR HERBAL LIBRARY
Herbs A – H
Herbs I – Q
Herbs R – Z
Back