Nutritional Comparison Between Figs & Dates | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Nutrition Facts
Nutritional Comparison Between Figs & Dates
Jill Corleone, RDN, LD
About the Author:
Jill Corleone, RDN, LD
Jill Corleone is a registered dietitian and health coach who has been writing and lecturing on diet and health for more than 15 years. Her work has been featured on the Huffington Post, Diabetes Self-Management and in the book "Noninvasive Mechanical Ventilation," edited by John R. Bach, M.D. Corleone holds a Bachelor of Science in nutrition.
View Full Profile
When trying to improve the quality of your diet, you can't go wrong eating fruits. They are rich in essential nutrients, and making them a regular part of your diet may help lower your risk of heart disease and cancer. Figs and dates are no exception. While both are a good source of a number of nutrients you need for health and wellness, dried figs may be a slightly better choice if you're looking to maximize the nutrition of every bite.
Gram Per Gram, Figs Are Lower in Calories
Figs are lower in calories than dates. A 100-gram serving of figs contains 249 calories, while the same serving of dates contains 277 calories. Most Americans eat more calories than they need, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. While an extra 30 calories may not seem like much, an extra 30 calories every day for a year can lead to a 3-pound weight gain.
Which Has More Fiber
In addition to being lower in calories, figs are also a better source of fiber. A 100-gram serving of figs contains almost 10 grams of fiber, while the same serving of dates contains almost 7 grams. Americans average about 15 grams of fiber a day, according to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, but they need 25 to 38 grams per day. Foods high in fiber help with appetite control, which allows you to better manage weight. Eating higher-fiber foods might also lower your risk of chronic illness.
Minerally Speaking, Figs Win Again
Figs are also a better source of minerals, including calcium, iron and zinc. Figs have more than twice the amount of calcium and iron as dates. Calcium is important for bone health, and iron carries oxygen throughout your body. While figs are a better source of zinc than dates, the difference is not as remarkable as calcium and iron. You need zinc to help fight colds and heal wounds. Dates are a slightly better source of potassium than figs. Potassium is a mineral that helps your body maintain fluid balance.
The Exception: Dates Better Source of Some Vitamins
When it comes to vitamins, dates are a better source of folate and vitamin A. Folate is a B vitamin that is necessary for proper cell division and is important to women of childbearing age because it prevents birth defects. Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin that supports normal growth and development, as well as immune health. Figs, however, are a better source of the blood-clotting vitamin K than dates.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
U.S. Department of Agriculture: ChooseMyPlate.gov: Fruits: Why Is It Important to Eat Fruit?
U.S. Department of Agriculture: National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference: Dates, Medjool
U.S. Department of Agriculture: National Nutrient Database for Standard Reference: Figs, Dried, Uncooked
U.S. Department of Agriculture: 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans: Chapter 2 -- Balancing Calories to Manage Weight
FamilyDoctor.org: What It Takes to Lose Weight
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: Health Implications of Dietary Fiber
Kids Health: Minerals
Office of Dietary Supplements: Folate
Office of Dietary Supplements: Vitamin A
MedlinePlus: Vitamin K
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
The Nutritional Value and Glycemic Index of Dried Fruit
2
Are Dates Good for Weight Loss?
3
Are Dates Fattening?
4
Are Dates Healthy During a Pregnancy?
5
Benefit of Fresh Figs
6
The Nutrition Profile for Calimyrna Figs
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.