Using Natural Herbs to Destroy Fungus
&rtrif; Home
&rtrif; Top Products
&rtrif; Product Reviews
&rtrif; Important Articles
&rtrif; Athlete’s Foot Report Review Process
&rtrif; Contact Us
Home
Top Products
Product Reviews
Important Articles
Athlete’s Foot Report Review Process
Contact Us
MENU
×
Share
Using Natural Herbs to Destroy Fungus
By Linda Sowers*
Overview
Infections that come from fungi usually signify poor hygiene, misuse of antibiotics, and lack of immunity. Candida species such as Candida albicans are the major causes of most fungal infections. Fungi, as well as yeast varieties, usually grow in moist and warm parts of your body. The most affected areas include the armpits, feet, and genitalia. Fungal infections that are confined to one area can move to other parts and threaten the life of the infected person. Antifungal drugs can eliminate the infection, but they may cause gastrointestinal tract and liver irritations. Different natural herbs can treat fungal infections without causing any undesired effects. Consult a physician before using herbs to treat any condition.
Garlic Cloves
Ancient Greeks viewed garlic as an important health booster. This is because the herb has great antimicrobial characteristics. Raw garlic has the ability to destroy different fungal infections like candida. The herb is readily available and affordable. Its antifungal properties resemble those of allicin, a chemical that can destroy fungi while protecting the useful bacteria found in the intestines.
The herb can be used by rubbing it on peripheral fungal infections. It can also be consumed raw or as unscented capsules.
Coconut Oil
This powerful antifungal agent has the power to stimulate the bowels and flush out unnecessary microbes from your body. The major ingredients of this natural herb are caprylic acid and lauric acid. Both components are fatty acids. They play a major role in preventing yeast and fungal overgrowth. You can take coconut oil orally or use it on your skin. It is also used in vaginal douching. It is also an effective skin moisturizer.
Melaleuca Oil
This type of oil is an extract of tea tree. Asians have been using this herb as a disinfectant. It can be used for both internal and peripheral infections. The oil has antimicrobial properties that help in deterring or killing bacteria, fungi, and viruses. It is also an effective treatment for vaginal infections. For vaginal use, soak tampons with the oil or use it for douching. Melaleuca oil is also an excellent choice for nail bed fungal infections.
Oregano Oil
This herb is a product of oregano leaves. It has strong antimicrobial properties. You must dilute it before use because in produces strong stinging feelings. The active ingredients in this herb include thymol and carvacrol. The latter ingredient has antifungal properties. It can destroy candida infections and infections that affect the nails and skin.
Goldenseal
Goldenseal roots have disinfectant properties. People have been using it to cure burns and minor cuts. The herb has also proven to be effective in treating internal fungal and viral infections. It is commonly used to boost other powerful antimicrobials.
Goldenseal creams can be applied to the infected areas directly. You can also take this herb as capsules.
Olive Tree Extracts
Ancient Greeks acknowledged olive trees as important sources of health. Olive leaf extracts and oil contain oleuropein, a chemical with powerful antifungal properties. This chemical does not kill yeast or fungi, but it reduces their population by disrupting their reproductive cycles. It can also reduce and regulate blood sugars, helping to starve fungi and yeast.
Do you want to find an effective Athlete's Foot treatment? Check out our top rated Athlete's Foot products
GOOD TO KNOW All About Athlete's Foot
Top Athlete's Foot Treatments
Our Contributors
Andrew Rosenberg
26 posts
Bryan Levesque
25 posts
Linda Sowers
40 posts
Nora Lennon
7 posts
Athlete's Foot News
Reducing the Risk of Athlete’s Foot Infection or Reinfection
by Bryan Levesque | Oct 14, 2018
Are You Genetically Inclined to Get Athlete’s Foot?
by Linda Sowers | Sep 06, 2018
The Best Treatments for Fungal Foot
by Bryan Levesque | Aug 26, 2018
Home Treatments for Foot Fungus
by Linda Sowers | Aug 16, 2018
What Are the Causes and Treatments of Athlete’s Foot?
by Andrew Rosenberg | May 28, 2018
Top Picks
Hongo Cura Review
by Bryan Levesque | Aug 11, 2018
Elite Sportz Equipment Foot and Shoe Odor Spray Review
by Linda Sowers | Jul 18, 2018
Athletol Review
by Nora Lennon | May 20, 2018
Scholl’s Advanced Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
by Linda Sowers | May 15, 2018
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
by Linda Sowers | May 04, 2018
All About Athlete’s Foot
This site is dedicated to providing you with the best information regarding athlete’s foot. Also known as ringworm of the foot, tinea pedum, moccasin foot and tinea pedis, we aim to provide the most comprehensive resource available about athlete’s foot and how to effectively treat it.
We provide you with impartial, up-to-the-minute information regarding this very common infection, which affects many individuals. Athlete’s Foot spreads quickly, so understanding its causes and what preventative measures you can take will help eradicate this uncomfortable condition, once and for all.
You May Also Be Interested In...
Appropriate Medications for Soothing Itching Feet
Overview Many factors such as medical conditions lead to itchy feet. Based on the available information from books, the common ...
The Causes of Fungus on Toenails and Foot
Several factors contribute to the development of fungus on toenails and foot. Fungal infections that occur on toenails mainly ...
Oral Drugs for Foot Fungus
Introduction The fungus that affects the feet is also called athlete’s foot. This infection usually causes a burning or itching ...
Home Remedies for Shoe Odor
Overview Several factors including fungal infections like athlete’s foot and hyperhidrosis may cause foot odor. Persons with ...
* Results will differ for each individual, depending on existing health factors, lifestyle and physical condition. The information contained on this site is for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for medical advice provided by your doctor or physician. The information, we provide should not be used for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. Testimonials and results contained are reflective of the typical examples consumers experienced and may not be an implication of future results for you. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.
© Copyright 2019
Contact Us
Important Articles
Athlete’s Foot Report Review Process
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions