DUPIXENT® Injection Instructions | DUPIXENT® (dupilumab)
Patient Prescribing Information
Patient Prescribing Information
Prescribing Information
Instructions for Use - 200mg
Instructions for Use - 300mg
Healthcare Professionals
For U.S. Residents Only
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic
Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 12-17)
Other Condition
What is Atopic
Dermatitis?
Disease Education
Eczema Check-in
About
DUPIXENT
How DUPIXENT Works
How DUPIXENT May Help
How DUPIXENT Is Taken
DUPIXENT
Support
DUPIXENT MyWay®
Sign Up
Copay Card
DUPIXENT Pricing Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Glossary
Patient
Experiences
Patient Stories
Healthcare Professionals
How DUPIXENT is Taken
Debbie
DUPIXENT MyWay®
Patient Ambassador,
on DUPIXENT Individual results may vary.
"I had learned over the
years that if I didn't advocate
for myself, no one would...
It was clear to me that I needed
to explore additional
treatment options."
Home
Home
About DUPIXENT
How DUPIXENT is Taken
DUPIXENT is Administered by Injection
DUPIXENT is a form of medicine called a biologic, and taken by injection under the
skin (subcutaneous). The recommended dose of DUPIXENT for adults is an initial two injections (600 mg)
under the skin at different injection sites. After that, it is taken as one 300 mg injection
every other week at different injection sites. DUPIXENT can be used
with or without topical corticosteroids.
Use DUPIXENT exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider. Prior to taking
DUPIXENT, talk to your healthcare provider and see the detailed Instructions for Use
that comes with DUPIXENT for information on how to prepare and inject DUPIXENT
and how to properly store and throw away used DUPIXENT pre-filled syringes.
Download Instructions for Use PDF 234 KB
How to Self-Inject DUPIXENT
If your healthcare provider decides that you or your caregiver can give the injections of DUPIXENT, you or your caregiver should receive training on the right way to prepare and inject DUPIXENT. Do not try to inject DUPIXENT until you have been shown the right way by your healthcare provider.
Watch the video below for supplemental information on how to use and dispose of DUPIXENT.
Transcript
Hi there. I’m Laura.
Today I’m going to show you how to properly self-inject a dose of DUPIXENT (dupilumab).
You’ve already learned how to self-inject with your healthcare provider.
I’m here to guide your first at-home experience.
When I first started self-injections, I found syringes really intimidating. I’ve gotten better at the process since then, so I want to share those steps with you today.
I’ll show you: what supplies to gather, how to prep the injection area, and how to inject the dose and discard your used syringe.
If you haven’t yet read the instructions for use located in your treatment packaging, pause the video and take a look.
I found it helpful to understand the plunger, syringe body, and needle cap before handling the syringe itself.
Contact your healthcare provider or the DUPIXENT MyWay Hotline with any questions.
It’s time for me to take my DUPIXENT injection. Feel free to watch me and follow along as I self-inject.
Take your medication out of the refrigerator. Never freeze your syringe.
Remove the syringe by holding the middle of the syringe body.
Do not use the syringe if it has been dropped on a hard surface or is damaged.
Do not pull off the needle cap or touch the plunger rod until you are ready to inject.
Do not pull back on the plunger rod at any time.
Keep DUPIXENT syringes and all medicines out of the reach of children.
If you have an unused syringe, return it to the refrigerator in the original carton to protect it from light.
Your DUPIXENT pre-filled syringe may appear different than what I am using in this video, based on the prescribed dose. If you have questions about the dosage prescribed to you, please contact your healthcare provider.
Check the label to make sure the medication inside is correct and the expiration date has not passed. If it isn’t right, contact your pharmacy.
You may see an air bubble, this is normal. Do not try to get rid of any air bubbles.
The liquid inside should be clear, and colorless to pale yellow.
Do not use the syringe if the liquid is discolored or cloudy, or if it contains visible flakes or particles. Throw away, dispose of, the used DUPIXENT single-dose pre-filled syringe right away after use.
If you have any questions about whether the syringe is okay to use, please call the DUPIXENT MyWay Hotline, or your healthcare provider.
Lay the syringe on a flat surface and let it naturally warm to room temperature.
The recommended warming time for the 200mg syringe is 30 minutes, and for the 300mg syringe, it's 45 minutes.
Do not heat the syringe.
Do not put the syringe into direct sunlight.
Do not keep DUPIXENT at room temperature for more than 14 days. Throw away, dispose of, any syringe that has been left at room temperature for longer than 14 days.
Do not shake the syringe.
While you wait, gather the additional materials necessary to self-inject.
You need one cotton ball or gauze, one alcohol wipe, and a puncture resistant Sharps Disposal Container.
If you don’t have a Sharps Disposal Container, call a DUPIXENT MyWay representative to request a complimentary Sharps Disposal Container.
Now, take your supplies to an area where you can sit comfortably.
When you are ready to get started, wash your hands thoroughly.
Choose your injection site. Both the stomach and thigh are acceptable, except for the two inches around your belly button.
If a caregiver gives you the injection, the outer area of the upper arm is also an option. The person giving the injection should follow the same preparation procedure.
Be sure to choose a different site each time you inject DUPIXENT.
Do not inject through clothes.
Do not inject into skin that is tender, damaged or is bruised or scarred.
Clean your skin with the alcohol wipe.
Do not touch the injection site again or blow on it before the injection. Let your skin dry before injection.
Hold the DUPIXENT syringe in the middle of the Syringe Body with the Needle pointing away from you and carefully remove the cap from the syringe.
Do not use if the needle cap is missing or not securely attached.
Do not put the needle cap back on.
Do not touch the needle. Inject the medicine right away after removing the Needle cap.
Pinch a fold of skin at the injection site. Pinching your skin helps the medicine go into a fatty layer, just below the skin, and not into the muscle.
Take a deep breath.
Continue to pinch, as you insert the needle completely at about a 45° angle.
Relax your pinch.
Push the plunger down slowly and steadily as far as it will go, until the syringe is empty.
You will feel some resistance. This is normal.
Lift your thumb to release the Plunger Rod until the Needle is covered by the Needle Shield and then remove the Syringe from the injection site.
Lightly press a cotton ball or gauze on the injection site if you see any blood. Do not put the Needle Cap back on.
Do not rub your skin after the injection.
You can also cover the site with a bandage.
Put your used Needles, DUPIXENT Syringes, and Needle Caps in a FDA-cleared Sharps Disposal Container right away after Use.
Do not dispose of needles, DUPIXENT Syringes, and Needle Caps in your household trash.
Follow your local guidelines and ask your healthcare provider for the appropriate way to dispose of the container once it is full.
Do not recycle your used Sharps Disposal Container.
Do not reuse the syringe.
If you would like to practice before doing the actual injection and you have received the DUPIXENT training kit from your doctor's office, you can practice the 45° injection angle with your training syringe and the angle aid, and you could always watch the video again.
Remember, do not use the angle-aid to administer an actual injection.
Be sure to keep track of your injection date and site.
Thank you for joining me today. Remember, you can re-watch this video as often as you like to refresh your memory.
Contact your healthcare provider or the DUPIXENT MyWay Hotline with any questions or concerns.
Self-Injection Instructions
Administering DUPIXENT yourself may seem intimidating, but following the instructions below will help reinforce the steps your healthcare provider showed you. Remember, Do not try to inject DUPIXENT until you have been shown the right way by your healthcare provider.
Previous
Show all 13 Steps Show Fewer Steps
Next
Previous
Remove
Remove the DUPIXENT Syringe from the carton by holding the middle of the Syringe Body.
Do not pull off the Needle Cap until you are ready to inject.
Do not use the DUPIXENT Syringe if it has been dropped on a hard surface or damaged.
Prepare
Ensure you have the following:
DUPIXENT Pre-filled Syringe
1 alcohol wipe*
1 cotton ball or gauze*
Sharps Disposal Container* (See Step 13)
* Items not included in the carton
Check
When you receive your DUPIXENT Syringes, always check to see that:
You have the correct medicine and dose.
The expiration date on the Single-Dose Pre-filled Syringe has not passed.
Do not use the DUPIXENT Syringe if the expiration date has passed.
Inspect
Look at the medicine through the Viewing Window on the DUPIXENT Syringe: Check to see if the liquid is clear and colorless to pale yellow.
Note: You may see an air bubble, this is normal.
Do not use the DUPIXENT Syringe if the liquid is discolored or cloudy, or if it contains visible flakes or particles.
Wait 45 minutes
Lay the DUPIXENT Syringe on a flat surface and let it naturally warm to room temperature for at least 45 minutes.
Do not heat the DUPIXENT Syringe.
Do not put the DUPIXENT Syringe into direct sunlight.
Do not keep DUPIXENT Syringes at room temperature for more than 14 days. Throw away (dispose of) any DUPIXENT Syringes that have been left at room temperature for longer than 14 days.
Choose your injection site
You can inject into your thigh or stomach, except for the 2 inches (5 cm) around your belly button (navel).
If a caregiver injects your dose, they can also use the outer area of the upper arm.
Choose a different site each time you inject DUPIXENT.
Do not inject into skin that is tender, damaged, bruised or scarred.
Clean
Wash your hands.
Clean the injection site with an alcohol wipe.
Let your skin dry before injecting.
Do not touch the injection site again or blow on it before the injection.
Remove Needle Cap
Hold the DUPIXENT Syringe in the middle of the Syringe Body with the Needle pointing away from you and pull off the Needle Cap.
Do not put the Needle Cap back on.
Do not touch the Needle.
Inject your medicine right away after removing the Needle Cap.
Pinch
Pinch a fold of skin at the injection site (thigh or stomach, except 2 inches around your belly button, or outer area of the upper arm if injected by your caregiver). The figure on the right shows an example of pinching a fold of skin on your stomach.
Insert
Insert the Needle completely into the fold of the skin at about a 45-degree angle.
Push
Relax the pinch.
Push the Plunger Rod down slowly and steadily as far as it will go, until the DUPIXENT Syringe is empty.
Note: You will feel some resistance. This is normal.
Release and Remove
Lift your thumb to release the Plunger Rod until the Needle is covered by the Needle Shield and then remove the Syringe from the injection site.
Lightly press a cotton ball or gauze on the injection site if you see any blood.
Do not put the Needle Cap back on.
Do not rub your skin after the injection.
Dispose
Put your used Needles, DUPIXENT Syringes, and Needle Caps in an FDA-cleared sharps disposal container right away after use.
Do not dispose of (throw away) Needles, DUPIXENT Syringes, and Needle Caps in your household trash.
If you do not have a FDA-cleared sharps disposal container, you may use a household container that is:
Made of a heavy-duty plastic,
Can be closed with a tight-fitting, puncture-resistant lid, without sharps being able to come out,
Upright and stable during use,
Leak-resistant, and
Properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container
When your sharps disposal container is almost full, you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container. There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used Needles and Syringes.
For more information about safe sharps disposal and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in, go to the FDA’s website at: http://www.fda.gov/safesharpsdisposal.
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this. Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container.
Do not put the Needle Cap back on.
Show Fewer Steps
Next 2 Steps
Connect With a Specialist Who Treats Eczema
Use this tool to easily find nearby specialists with experience in treating adults with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis).
Find an Eczema Specialist on Healthgrades.
Sanofi US and Regeneron do not endorse or recommend any particular physician, and search results do not include a comprehensive list of doctors in your area.
DUPIXENT MyWay® Copay Card
Learn more about the copay card and if you may be eligible to pay $0/month for DUPIXENT.
Learn More
Sign Up
Would you like help covering out-of-pocket copays? There might be a way that we can help with the DUPIXENT MyWay Copay Card.
See If You Qualify
Important Safety Information and Indication
Do not use if you are allergic to dupilumab or to any of the ingredients in DUPIXENT®.
Before using DUPIXENT, tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions, including if you:
have eye problems
have a parasitic (helminth) infection
are taking oral, topical, or inhaled corticosteroid medicines. Do not stop taking your corticosteroid medicines unless instructed by your healthcare provider. This may cause other symptoms that were controlled by the corticosteroid medicine to come back.
are scheduled to receive any vaccinations. You should not receive a “live vaccine” if you are treated with DUPIXENT.
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known whether DUPIXENT will harm your unborn baby.
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. It is not known whether DUPIXENT passes into your breast milk.
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements. If you are taking asthma medicines, do not change or stop your asthma medicine without talking to your healthcare provider.
DUPIXENT can cause serious side effects, including:
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity), including a severe reaction known as anaphylaxis. Stop using DUPIXENT and tell your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you get any of the following symptoms: breathing problems, fever, general ill feeling, swollen lymph nodes, swelling of the face, mouth and tongue, hives, itching, fainting, dizziness, feeling lightheaded (low blood pressure), joint pain, or skin rash.
Eye problems. Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worsening eye problems, including eye pain or changes in vision.
The most common side effects include injection site reactions, eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching, pain in the throat (oropharyngeal pain) and cold sores in your mouth or on your lips.
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. These are not all the possible side effects of DUPIXENT. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Use DUPIXENT exactly as prescribed. DUPIXENT is given as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection). If your healthcare provider decides that you or a caregiver can give DUPIXENT injections, you or your caregiver should receive training on the right way to prepare and inject DUPIXENT. Do not try to inject DUPIXENT until you have been shown the right way by your healthcare provider. In adolescents 12 years of age and older, it is recommended that DUPIXENT be administered by or under supervision of an adult.
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information including Patient Information.
Indication
DUPIXENT is a prescription medicine used to treat people 12 years and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 12 years of age.
Site Map
Legal Disclaimer Information
Privacy Policy
Questions or comments?
Contact Sanofi US or call 1‑844‑643‑7346
to contact Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
© 2019 Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DUPIXENT® is a registered trademark of Sanofi.
Sanofi US is hosting this website on behalf of Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
×
This DUPIXENT® (dupilumab) website is for U.S. healthcare professionals only. Click "continue" only if you are a U.S. healthcare professional.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
Are you sure you want to leave?
Please note: By clicking on this link, you will be leaving this Sanofi-hosted US website and going to another, entirely independent website. Sanoﬁ US and Regeneron provide these links as a service to its website visitors and users; however, they take no responsibility for the information on any website but their own.
US-DAD-13323(7)
Cancel
Continue
×
You are about to leave sanofi site for U.S.
Sanofi US does not review the information contained on this website and/or database for content, accuracy or completeness. Use of and access to this information is subject to the terms, limitations and conditions set by the website and/or database producer.
This site might not comply with the regulatory requirements of US
Cancel
Continue
×
You are moving to an Unbranded site
Cancel
Continue
US-DAD-13323(7) Last Update: March 2019