Treating Depression with Exercise - Melissa Welby, MD
Skip to content
Menu and widgets
Contact : 203-906-6294
Home
About
Specializations
Resources
Mental Health Bookstore
Blog
FAQ
Contact
Treating Depression with Exercise
Posted on March 15, 2018 September 20, 2018 Author Melissa WelbyCategories Blog, DepressionTags depression, Depression Treatment, exercise
Exercise isn’t just about physical fitness. It also benefits your mental health! Research supports the link between depression and exercise. Even 1 hour of exercise per week can be effective in helping you overcome depression. Learn how to increase your chance of success by treating depression with exercise and set yourself up for brighter days ahead. Get started and work to overcome depression today!
I am going to break this topic into 3 posts:
This 1st post discusses the benefits of treating depression with exercise and why it’s important even if you start an antidepressant.
The 2nd post will help you set achievable goals that will increase your chance to feel positive and get started with your plan.
In the 3rd post, we will discuss how to maintain your goals with 3 tips to make it easier to stay on track exercising to overcome depression.
Exercise to treat depression
Exercise to Treat Depression
Do you need to be convinced exercising will be worth the effort it takes to get started? When you are depressed, everything feels harder to do. Energy seems like it is in short supply and needs to be rationed. Using exercise to treat depression may feel like the complete opposite of saving your energy, but exercise will rejuvenate you and help you heal. Staying in bed depletes your energy and keeps you from feeling better.
Research Studies about Depression and Exercise:
There are many research studies supporting the benefits of, and the relation between, depression and exercise.
This “study involved 946 patients with mild to moderate depression who were assigned to undergo either yoga or stretching, moderate aerobic exercise, or vigorous aerobic experience. Patients were encouraged to participate in three exercise sessions a week, but most only attended about one per week, Dr. Hallgren pointed out.”
“At the end of 12 weeks, Dr. Hallgren and colleagues found that the severity of depression was significantly lower among patients who participated in any one of the exercise interventions compared to those who received usual care, and that the benefits of exercise were seen regardless of how intensely the patients exercised.”
“Furthermore, the benefits of exercise on depression were maintained 12 months after baseline assessment, despite suboptimal adherence.”
More Research About Depression and Exercise:
Reviewing a vast amount of literature this comprehensive study supports the efficacy of exercise in the treatment of depression. They discuss the potential reasons why exercise interventions are helpful.
Preventative Effects of Exercise on Depression:
This study is a bit different from the others that look at how exercise can help people overcome depression and is about the preventative effects of exercise on depression. They followed 22,564 healthy individuals in Norway for 9-13 years and reassessed their health at the end of the study. Those who exercised 1-2 hours per week had a 44% decreased odds ratio of becoming depressed. That is a huge effect from minimal exercise! A large number of new cases of depression (the author estimated 12% of cases in this study) could be prevented if all adults exercised for 1 or more hours per week.
“Most of the protective effect of exercise is realized with relatively low levels of exercise, with no indication of any additional benefit beyond 1 hour of exercise each week,” the investigators note.
“The protective effect was seen equally across all groups, regardless of the intensity of exercise that was undertaken or the gender or age of the participants,” they add.
“The results of this study indicate that relatively modest increases in the overall amount of time spent exercising per week may be able to prevent a substantial number of new cases of depression,” they conclude.
There is a lot of overlap between depression and anxiety. Exercise can also benefit your anxiety. Read this study on anxiety and exercise if you would like to know more.
Treating Depression With Exercise: Important even if you are starting medication
Exercise to Treat Depression
Medication is often a necessary treatment for depression. It is (unfortunately) common for a person with depression to respond to medication with a partial recovery. This means that symptoms have improved but are not completely gone. The goal is to have a complete recovery. Often medication cannot do it alone and needs augmentation with other interventions.
Medications also take time to help. Antidepressants can take 3-5 weeks before they start to kick in. Anything that you can do to keep yourself busy while adding positive, healthy, and nurturing things to your life will help you get through this period of time.
Treating Depression: Additional coping mechanisms
Exercise is one important tool to help you fully conquer depression and stay on a more positive path. There are other essential self-care tools to help you recover from depression:
Eat properly and nourish your body with healthy food
Avoid alcohol or drugs. Remember, alcohol is a DEPRESSANT! It will make depression worse and make it harder to recover. If you are taking an antidepressant and drinking a depressant (alcohol) the antidepressant may be less effective.
Get adequate rest. Give your body time to restore itself.
Take care of yourself by getting out of pajamas, brushing teeth and hair, and getting out of the house every day.
Therapy can be extremely important, and for some people even more important than taking medication. Therapy will help to address thinking patterns that can get you stuck. Without addressing these negative cognitive patterns it may be more difficult to completely recover.
Start to shift negative thinking patterns by using mantras. Read this post to get started: 30 Healing Mantras for Depression
Add as many healthy coping tools to your life as you can to help you recover fully. These tools can decrease the chances that you will fall back into a depression and will help you get out of the current episode quicker.
If you are having trouble sleeping (common with depression) I have written some other posts you may find helpful. It is extremely important to address insomnia as you recover from your depression.
Coffee Before Bedtime
The Truth About Alcohol and Sleep
Can’t Sleep? Back to Basics
8 Great Options to Treat Insomnia (Without Medication)
Treating Depression: The see-saw of life
Think of the effects of depression on life like a playground see-saw that is stuck down from the heavy load. Extra effort has to be put into adding positive weight to the other side to bring you back up. Little by little, each piece of self-care added will inch the see-saw back to a more balanced and neutral position. Exercise is one important tool that will help you bring back balance and fight off the negative pull of depression.
Now that you understand why treating depression with exercise is important, make sure to read the next 2 posts to learn more about how to get started on the path to recovery and how to maintain motivation.
Exercise and Depression: How to get started when you want to stay in bed
3 Tips for Exercise: How to stay motivated when depressed
Interested in reading more about how to overcome depression?
Visit my Mental Health Bookstore for recommended books about depression and other mental health topics.
Books to help you overcome depression:
Products from Amazon.com
-32%
Mind Over Mood, Second Edition: Change How You Feel by Changing the Way You Think
Price: $18.32
Was: $26.95
-27%
Thoughts and Feelings: Taking Control of Your Moods and Your Life
Price: $18.85
Was: $25.95
-22%
The Upward Spiral: Using Neuroscience to Reverse the Course of Depression, One Small Change at a Time
Price: $14.04
Was: $17.95
-43%
You Are a Badass®: How to Stop Doubting Your Greatness and Start Living an Awesome Life
Price: $9.19
Was: $16.00
-29%
ACT Made Simple: An Easy-To-Read Primer on Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (The New Harbinger Made Simple Series)
Price: $28.32
Was: $39.95
‹ ›
8 Facts About Antidepressant Side Effects
Worried about having side effects on an antidepressant? Want to know what to expect when starting one? Signup here to go right to the link!
Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription.
There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.
First Name
Email Address
We use this field to detect spam bots. If you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer.
Get 8 Facts About Antidepressant Side Effects
We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time. Powered by ConvertKit
Please follow and like us:
Posted on March 15, 2018 September 20, 2018 Author Melissa WelbyCategories Blog, DepressionTags depression, Depression Treatment, exercise
2 thoughts on “Treating Depression with Exercise”
Dr. Renee says:
March 20, 2018 at 8:58 pm
This is a great article and I look forward to the series. I will reference this and share with many to encourage them to MOVE!!
Melissa Welby says:
March 21, 2018 at 3:52 am
I’m glad you found it helpful!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
About Me
Dr. Melissa Welby, Psychiatrist, shares her reflections on various topics related to psychiatry and overall well-being.
Concerned you or a loved one may have ADHD?
Take this free ADHD symptom test to help you recognize the signs and symptoms of Adult ADHD Click here
Recent Posts
How are you at regulating emotions? Learn essential emotional regulation skills from children.
Effects of Antidepressant Medications: How Do You Know if it is Working?
26 Symptoms of Adult ADHD: Can You Relate?
Can Adults get ADHD? 5 Reasons why diagnosing ADHD in adults is legitimate
Esketamine (Spravato) for Treatment-Resistant Depression: Will it Live Up to Expectations?
Don't miss another post!
Subscribe to get our latest content by email.
Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription.
There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.
First Name
Email Address
We use this field to detect spam bots. If you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer.
Subscribe
We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time. Powered by ConvertKit
Categories
Addiction
ADHD
Anxiety
Bipolar Disorder
Blog
Depression
General Medicine
Insomnia
LGBTQ
Psychosis
Resilience
Write a Guest Post?
Have an inspirational story of recovery or educational topic that will help others learn more about mental health and well-being? Contact me if you are interested in writing a guest post!
The 5 Best Apps for ADHD
Make life with ADHD easier with these 5 apps. Improve focus and motivation, gain daily habits, and task management to help you stay on track. Enter your email to get them delivered straight to you!
Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription.
There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.
First Name
Email Address
We use this field to detect spam bots. If you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer.
Get your free list of apps!
We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time. Powered by ConvertKit
Amazon Affiliate Disclaimer:
Some of the posts on this site contain affiliate links to Amazon. Dr. Melissa Welby is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. Amazon offers a small commission on products sold through their affiliate links. The prices you pay through these links are the same as you would pay going to Amazon directly.
Your purchases via the Amazon affiliation links help support the upkeep and maintenance of this blog. Any product I recommend on this site I believe to be a helpful quality resource and is not recommended because I am an Amazon affiliate.
DISCLAIMER:
The data contained on this site is for informational purpose only and does not constitute medical advice. Using, accessing and/or browsing the site and/or providing personal or medical information to Dr. Welby does not create a physician-patient relationship between you and Dr. Welby. Nothing contained in the site is intended to create a physician-patient relationship, and should not replace the services and medical advice of your personal physician.
You should not rely on anything contained in this site to make medical decisions, and you should consult a physician licensed in your state in all matters relating to your health. You hereby agree that you shall not make any health or medical related decision based in whole or in part on anything contained in the site.
Web Design by Antelope Web © 2017 Melissa Welby, MD - All rights reserved.
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Accept Cookies!