How To Get Rid Of Stretch Marks Fast | Home Remedies
Menu
Nutrition
Healthy Foods And Recipes
Nutrients And Supplements
Unhealthy Foods
Weight Loss
Diet Plans
Pills And Supplements
Procedures And Medication
Weight Loss Basics
Weight Loss Foods
Mental Health
Addictions
Disorders
Psychology
Self-Improvement
Remedies
Conditions
Home Remedies
OTC Remedies
Skin Care
Acne
Basic Skin Care
Conditions And Remedies
Skin Rejuvenation
Hair Care
Basic Hair Care
Hair Growth
Hair Loss
Hair Treatments
Health News
Home
>
Skin Care
>
Conditions And Remedies
>
How To Get Rid Of Stretch Marks Fast | Home Remedies
How To Get Rid Of Stretch Marks Fast | Home Remedies
Elizabeth Williams, B.Sc, CCD Conditions And Remedies, Skin Care
If you have stretch marks on abdomen, hips, butts, thighs or breasts, it is surely going to take the sheen out of your physical charm and beauty. However, you need not be vexed and worried over the matter.
Fortunately, there are several regular treatments, prescription medicines, home remedies and natural remedies that can effectively diminish the stretch marks over a period of time.
In this article, we are going to discuss how to get rid of stretch marks fast with simple remedies and regular skin care regimen.
What Are Stretch Marks?
Stretch marks are lines or long patches formed on the surface of the skin. These lines usually appear in white, red, purple or a lighter hue different from the original skin complexion of the person [1,2].
Stretch marks, also known as striae, are a form of scarring on the skin. Their length, breadth, and pattern can vary according to body size and skin texture of the person.
Their appearance and visibility will gradually diminish over time but rarely do they disappear totally.
Striae mostly appear on the abdominal wall, buttocks, thighs, breasts, hips, upper arms and flank [3].
How Are Stretch Marks Formed?
The elastin fibers in the dermis layer of the skin that makes the skin firm and elastic. It is the elastin fiber that produces the nutrient called collagen that gives a particular hue to the skin.
When the skin gets overstretched the dermis layer (lies between the epidermis and hypodermis) gets torn and this can cause disruption in the production of collagen [4,5].
If the skin is stretched beyond its elasticity limits, the skin is unable to get back to its original position due to lack of collagen. This results in the formation of scars (stretch marks) on the skin.
Common Reasons For Stretch Marks
Stretch marks are caused by any changes in the body that cause fast and prolonged expansion in any particular area of the body.
Pregnancy tops the list of reasons for stretch marks. Ninety percent of pregnant women will get stretch marks around their abdomen, hips, and thighs.
Common reasons for stretch marks are:
Pregnancy
Rapid growth such as puberty
Hormonal changes
Weightlifting
Overweight
Rapid weight loss
Obesity
Unhealthy diet
Muscle growth
Prolonged intake of corticosteroids
Use of steroid-containing skin creams or ointment
Different Types Of Stretch Marks
Stretch marks usually have light shades of white, red or pink colors. They appear as zig-zag lines, patches, crinkled or irregular lines of different length and breadth.
Here are a few different types of stretch marks:
Distension Stretch Marks or Albicant Lines: Distension scar marks are those usually happen to obese people and pregnant women who rapidly lose weight. Albicant lines can also be caused by pathological conditions like ascites and renal syndrome. These kinds of stretch marks usually appear on breasts, chest, and abdomen.
Dark, Red, Purple or Purpuric Stretch Marks: These marks occur due to regular consumption of pharmaceutical
Puberty Stretch Marks: It is the type of stretch marks causes a sudden spurt in body growth caused by hormonal changes during puberty. These marks usually appear on the hips, breasts, back, lower and upper extremities. These are mostly purple or red in color.
Rapid Muscle Growth: Stretch marks can develop on persons who rapidly gain muscle mass through bodybuilding programs. These marks appear on triceps, biceps, and shoulder muscles of the body builder. Intake of steroids for muscle growth can also result in these kinds of scar marks.
Prescription Medicines And Regular Treatments For Getting Rid Of Stretch Marks
Most people do not have patience and trust in relying on natural remedies for stretch marks reduction.
There is a wide spectrum of regular treatments and prescription medicines available for scar removal. Most of them help slightly reduce or conceal the appearance but none of them can completely remove them except surgical procedures and laser therapies.
Stretch marks disappear on its own in course of time except in some people who get stubborn stretch marks that last for life.
Here are some of the best prescription treatments for stretch marks removal:
1. Retin-A:
According to a study from the University of Michigan, subjects who used a retinoic acid cream (Retin-A) on new stretch marks experienced a noticeable reduction in stretch marks.
Retin-A is aids in boosting collagen production which gives elasticity skin without tears and scarring.
There several anti-scar products like Retin-A, Tazorac, Renova, Differin or others that contain retinoic acid. This product is not to be used by a pregnant or breastfeeding woman.
2. Tretinoin:
According to a recent research finding, Tretinoin can produce a significant effect in stretch marks reduction. The active ingredients in it are Retin-A and Renova. It is strictly not recommended for a pregnant or breastfeeding woman.
3. Glycolic Acid:
This acid is beneficial for improving the collagen production which helps prevent and reduce the marks on the skin caused by stretching. It belongs to the family of alpha-hydroxy acid (AHA) which is commonly used in chemical skin peels.
Glycolic acid is safe to use during pregnancy but does not expose to the direct sunshine after applying this acid.
4. Moisturizer:
Excessive dryness of the skin reduces the elasticity of the skin and increases wrinkles and stretch marks on the skin. Applying moisturizing lotions or creams improves the elasticity and enhances the healthy texture of the skin.
Using herbal moisturizing cream on the skin is recommended for natural hydration of the skin.
Moistening creams are effective for preventing or removing the new stretch marks. They may not work for getting rid of the old scars and marks on the skin.
You can prepare a natural moisturizing lotion by mixing equal parts of olive oil, wheat germ oil, and aloe vera.
5. Peels:
Chemical peels are popularly used mainstream treatment stretch marks. Trichloroacetic acid (TCA) peels is said to have significant results in the reduction of scars caused by skin stretching. About 20% TCA is the recommended dosage for chemical skin peels under the supervision of a well-qualified dermatologist.
TCA skin peel is superior to AHA or BHA peels because of its better ability in stimulating collagen and elastin for managing the stretch scars on the skin.
6. Laser Therapy:
Some of the study reviews suggest that using Intense Pulsed Light (IPL) and Pulsed Dye Laser (PDL) treatments emitting 585 nanometers (nm) of light effectively manage stretch marks. A minimum of 5 sessions of laser therapy is required for a noticeable improvement in stretch mark reduction. Using a pulsed dye laser set at 585-nm is best for reducing the new stretch marks and a fractional laser treatment is suitable for old stretch marks.
7. Abdominoplasty:
A sure way to get rid of stretch mark is the surgical method. A tummy tuck procedure removes excess skin and fat around the stomach while tightening the abdominal wall.
By removing the sagging or loose skin in abdominal area would also make the stretch marks to go along with it.
Abdominoplasty is expensive; the cost of it may run between $4000 and $20,000 in the US. Life-threatening risks and complications can arise from a tummy tuck.
8. Vitamin E Oil:
Vitamin E oil is a popular treatment for stretch marks reduction. However, one of the recent studies say that it is not effective for all; it was shown to have a moderate effectiveness only in women who have been pregnant already before.
9. Vitamin C Supplement:
Some of the dermatologists suggest that daily intake of 500 mg of Vitamin C supplement may help in reducing stretch marks. As another method, you can use a topical glycolic acid along with Vitamin C.
Natural Remedies For Stretch Marks Reduction
If you have the patience and time, natural remedies are the safest bet for getting rid of stretch marks. Here are some of the best natural and herbal remedies that have proven effect in reducing stretch marks on the skin.
1. Aloe Vera
According to a study review published in the Indian Journal of Dermatology, “Aloe stimulates fibroblast which produces the collagen and elastin fibers making the skin more elastic and less wrinkled.”
The vital enzymes, vitamins, minerals, and fatty acids found in aloe vera will help in the faster healing of stretch marks. Its plant collagen content will improve the skin’s elasticity.
Regular application of Aloe vera gel on the scarred area helps to manage stretch marks.
You can directly apply the pure aloe vera gel on the affected area.
Another effective method is to mix aloe vera gel, vitamin E oil (from capsule) and cocoa butter in a small bowl into a paste. Apply this mixture daily once till the stretch marks have faded away.
2. Castor Oil
Ricinus Communis (Castor) seed oil is known for the many good benefits it has for skin and hair. It contains skin-repairing antioxidants and Vitamin E.
It is also popularly used in ingredient in some of the natural remedies for wrinkles, moles, age spots, dark spots, pimples, blackheads, fine lines and stretch marks.
Regularly applying pure castor oil on skin area with stretch scars will reduce their appearance. Heat the oil first at a moderate temperature and then massage it in a circular motion for 5 to 10 minutes on the affected area.
Alternatively, you can also use a mixture of aloe vera gel and castor oil for managing stretch or scar marks.
Repeat the treatment daily once for minimum 45 days or more for best results.
3. Lemon Juice
Lemon juice is commonly used a natural remedy for treating a number of skin problems. It acts as an anti-aging remedy and can remove wrinkles, stretch marks, scars and blackheads [6].
Citric acid and malic acid contained in lemon are effective for lessening the stretch marks.
Slice a lemon into two equal halves and gently run the cut open side of the lemon on the stretch marks in a circulation motion for a few minutes. Let the lemon juice gradually sink down into the epidermis of the skin. After 15 minutes you can rinse the lemon juice treated area with lukewarm water. Repeat the treatment twice a day for 1 or 2 months to get rid of the stretch scars.
Using a mixture of cucumber and lemon juices is found to be still more effective for treating scars.
4. Alfalfa
Alfalfa plant has extensive root system which enables the plant to absorb a large variety of nutrients from the soil.
Leaves of the Alfalfa plant contain essential Vitamins like the B complex, A, D, E and K. Alfalfa is also rich in niacin, biotin, iron, folic acid, magnesium, phosphorous, calcium, and potassium.
It is beneficial for scars and stretch marks reduction because the amino acids present in it improve the elasticity and texture of the skin.
Protein and Vitamins E and K in Alfalfa leaf nourish the skin.
Take a teaspoon of alfalfa leaves’ powder and add to it a few drops of chamomile oil to form a smooth paste.
Gently massage the alfalfa paste on the stretch marks or scars affected areas of the skin. Repeat the treatment daily once for a month to see the significant results in reducing the scars or marks on the skin.
5. Egg Whites
Egg whites contain excellent quality proteins and amino acids that help to improve the elasticity and overall health of the skin.
“If you are looking for an all-natural solution for treating acne, fine lines and wrinkles, and dull, dry skin, then you might want to consider using an egg white mask”, says a report published in The Dermatology Review.
Get a two home-grown hen’s eggs and whip the whites with the help of forks.
After cleansing the affected scared skin and apply the egg whites with a makeup brush.
After 20 minutes, rinse away the egg-white from the skin and apply olive oil to keep the skin moisturized. Repeat this treatment daily for minimum 30 to 60 days to get rid of the stretch marks.
6. Olive Oil
Olive oil is an excellent natural moisturizer for skin which also supplies nutrients and antioxidants for improving stretch marks and scars on the skin.
Use extra virgin olive oil to daily massage the scarred skin; this help moisturizes and reduces the scar marks over a period.
The fatty acids and Vitamins A, D and E present in the oil greatly nourish and improve the overall health and elasticity of the skin.
7. Essential Oils
Using a blend of essential oils for massaging the skin is beneficial in managing scars and stretch marks on the skin.
A few of the recent studies also have reported the effects of EOs in stretch marks reduction especially those appear after pregnancy or fast weight loss.
It is always good to use a blend of two or more essential oil diluted in carrier oils like coconut or olive oil.
Most effective EOs for skin care are Lavender, Rose, Geranium, Frankincense, Myrrh and Helichrysum.
Rosehip oil is lightweight, non-greasy oil full of essential fatty acids that improve skin strength and elasticity.
For best results, repeat the essential oils’ treatments daily for a month to see a noticeable improvement in stretch marks reduction.
Tip For Stretch Marks Removal
Stretch marks are not completely removable in short period except through skin correction surgeries or laser therapies.
With good care and proper nourishment of the skin, it is easy to reduce the visibility of stretch marks over a long period. It might take a year or two to make them visibly disappear.
Here are a few skin care tips and preventive methods to manage stretch marks:
Eat nutritious diet that contains skin vitamins and nutrients;
Use sunscreen cream with SPF 60; tanning with higher SPF protection can reduce the visibility of stretch marks.
Doing muscle building exercises can tighten the skin to conceal the stretch lines.
Use bio-oils for stretch and scar marks reduction.
Go for laser therapies for faster reduction of stretch marks.
Moisturize the skin regularly with Vaseline or other such creams.
Stretch marks keep reappearing with changes in body shape and size; it is not worth doing complicated procedures like tummy tuck for getting rid of stretch marks.
Conceal the stretch marks by wearing suitable clothes or light cosmetics.
Reduce or maintain body weight to prevent or remove stretch marks.
Keep your body well hydrated by drinking 8 to 12 glasses of water daily.
Do regular skin massages with olive, castor or coconut oils.
Use cosmetic camouflage (make-up) is available over-the-counter at pharmacies.
Warnings On Stretch Marks Treatments
Some people become excessively worried about the appearance of stretch marks and scars. They try to use every possible treatment to get rid of scars caused by stretching of the skin.
While you try out different treatments for scar or stretch marks, here are a few reminders and warning worth noting:
Avoid treatments for stretch marks during pregnancy and breastfeeding period.
Be sure of the ingredients used in natural remedies that you use; some of them may cause adverse effects on skin and health.
Always consult a dermatologist before you use any of the prescription medicines or over the counter products for skin care.
Keep your expectations realistic; stretch marks are permanent in nature.
Some treatments may cause allergic reactions or burns on the skin; immediately consult a dermatologist if any such things happen.
Allow the stretch marks to naturally fade away over a long period instead of rushing with harsh treatments.
The Bottom Line
Stretch marks do occur to most women especially after the childbirth. Obesity and fast weight loss are also major reasons for stretch marks.
Nobody likes to have stretch lines one abdomen, hips, butts, thighs or breasts; all prefer to get rid of stretch scars in some way or other.
However, don’t be over worried about little scars and marks on the skin. Do not fall for ad hypes or false promises of stretch mark creams!
Some of the natural remedies like castor oil, lemon juice, olive oil, or alfalfa can help you get rid of stretch marks gradually and naturally.
Prescription medicines like Retin-A, tretinoin, or Glycolic acid are proven remedies of stretch marks reduction though they may cause minor adverse health issues for some.
There are also proven medical procedures like laser treatments or TCA peels work great for getting rid of stretch marks.
Sharing is caring!
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Recent Posts
Does Phen375 Work For Weight Loss? An In-depth Review
CoQ10 Weight Loss, Benefits, Dosage And Side Effects
Apple Cider Vinegar Pills | Diet & Weight Loss Benefits
9 Weight Loss Smoothies’ Recipes For Fat Burning
9 Intermittent Fasting Benefits For Health And Weight Loss
Content
Nutrition
Healthy Foods And Recipes
Nutrients And Supplements
Unhealthy Foods
Weight Loss
Diet Plans
Pills And Supplements
Procedures And Medication
Weight Loss Basics
Weight Loss Foods
Mental Health
Addictions
Disorders
Psychology
Self-Improvement
Remedies
Conditions
Home Remedies
OTC Remedies
Skin Care
Acne
Basic Skin Care
Conditions And Remedies
Skin Rejuvenation
Hair Care
Basic Hair Care
Hair Growth
Hair Loss
Hair Treatments
Health News
Inside AHM
About
Archive
Contact
Disclaimer
Legal Policy
Privacy Policy
Popular Posts
Borderline Personality Disorder Criteria For Diagnosis – DSM-5
Magnesium and Weight Loss, Dosage, Dietary Source, Side Effects
Does Magnesium for Constipation Work? (Magnesium Citrate)
How Long Does Oxycodone Stay In Your System, Urine, Blood
Authority Health Magazine – A Research Journal Of Better Health Copyright © 2019. All rights reserved.
The content on this website is intended for informational and educational purposes only. Consult a doctor for medical advice, treatment or diagnosis. Natural remedies shared on this website do not have enough scientific backing to prove their efficacy in healing or preventing diseases.