☆Great Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil☆ - mossPink ~shibazakura~
Toggle navigation
MY PAGE
Make Up
Skin Care
Hair&Nail
Aging Care
Life Style
Home
Life Style
food
☆Great Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil☆
2016年12月3日 Update
☆Great Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil☆
Tweet
41 view Favorite 0
Have You Ever Drunk Evening Primrose Oil ?
via www.google.com.au
Evening primrose oil has been called the most sensational preventive discovery since vitamin C. It contains the pain relieving compound phenylalanine and is increasingly being used to treat chronic headaches. It is currently being studied all over the world as a treatment for aging problems, alcoholism, acne, heart disease, hyperactivity in children, symptoms of menopause, multiple sclerosis, weight control, obesity, PMS and schizophrenia. It has so many preventive and therapeutic qualities that it has become a standard part of recommendations of many herbalist for maintaining youth and preventing disease.
via Evening Primrose Oil Benefits & Information (Oenothera Biennis)
Combat damage from multiple sclerosis
via www.google.com.au
The abundant supply of essential fatty acids in evening primrose oil may be valuable in minimizing the inflammation associated with this progressive nerve disorder. The fatty acids may also contribute to healthy nerve development when taken over time.
via Evening Primrose Oil Benefits & Information (Oenothera Biennis)
Evening primrose oil for menopause and premenstrual syndrome
via www.google.com.au
Hot flashes experienced by women going through the menopause have a number of non-hormonal treatment options but evening primrose oil does not offer evidence of effect1 - the one clinical trial before 2006 found no difference compared with placebo.
via Evening Primrose Oil: Uses, Benefits and Side Effects - Medical News Today
Evening primrose oil for osteoporosis
via www.google.com.au
Evening primrose oil has been taken with fish oil and calcium by older people with osteoporosis and the combination seemed to decrease bone loss and increase bone density.1
More research is needed to determine the role evening primrose oil itself might play independently of the other supplements.
via Evening Primrose Oil: Uses, Benefits and Side Effects - Medical News Today
Reduce the symptoms of eczema
via www.google.com.au
In some cases, eczema develops when the body has problems converting dietary fats into GLA. Getting supplemental GLA from evening primrose oil may therefore be helpful. Some studies indicate that this oil can outperform a placebo in relieving eczema-related inflammation, as well as the itching, oozing, and flaking associated with this condition. By taking GLA, eczema sufferers may tolerate reduced doses of steroid creams and drugs, many of which cause unpleasant side effects.
via Evening Primrose Oil Benefits & Information (Oenothera Biennis)
36 records
1
2
3
Related Articles Also popular this article
What is Ayurvedic Soaps? Benefits, How to use
Nami♡ | 86 view
☆Olive leaf benefits☆ You should take olive leaf supplements
Nami♡ | 63 view
☆Amazing benefits of Rooibos tea☆
Nami♡ | 35 view
"Tea Tree Oil Numerous Benefits"
Nami♡ | 49 view
The power of "Polyphenols"
Nami♡ | 48 view
Keywords of this article Find articles from keyword
great (4) oil (3) primrose (1) evening (1) benefits (20)
Curator of this article
Nami♡
Nami♡
Weekly Ranking
foodpopular article
1
☆5 Best Manuka Honey of 2016☆
Nami♡ | 128 view
2
Better Eating Habits in New Year? Here are Clean Eating Challenge You Can Try 2017
yokapon | 157 view
3
Cocoa Powder for Weight Loss!? Beauty and Health Benefits of Cocoa Powder
yokapon | 67 view
4
Valentine's day is getting coming!! Do you know how Dark Chocolate is good for your skin and health?
Nami♡ | 41 view
5
Valentine's Day is Almost There! Try These Healthy Valentine's Day Sweet Recipes!
yokapon | 34 view
Featured Articles
Articles of current interest
Popular Keywords
Keyword that is currently a hot topic
About mossPink ~shibazakura~
We provide the latest information and products to women of the world.
Management Company
Contact
Privacy & Policy
Terms of Use
mossPink ~shibazakura~ | We provide the latest information and products to women of the world.
Copyright © mossPink ~shibazakura~