Herbal Supplements Better Than Drugs for Migraine - Mt. Vernon, WA Chiropractor - Rindal Chiropractic Clinic
Rindal Chiropractic Clinic, P.S.
Dr. Steven M. Rindal & Dr. Tracy D. Rindal
(360) 424-1066
Home
Services We Provide
Specific Spinal and Extra Spinal Adjustments
Gonstead Method
Spine and Extremity Radiographs
How We Help
Conditions We See at This Clinic
Auto Injuries
Back Pain After Auto Injury
Whiplash
Work Injuries
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Work Injuries and Chiropractic
Sports Injuries
Neck Pain
Headache and Migraine
Dizziness and Vertigo
Back Pain
Arthritis
Back Pain and Chiropractic
Sciatic and Disc Herniation
Spinal Degeneration
Hip and Joint Pain
Knee and Leg Pain
Pediatric Care
Fibromyalgia
Wellness
About Chiropractic
Chiropractic for Kids
Chiropractic for Seniors
Exercise
Nutrition
Pregnancy and Chiropractic
Massage Therapy
About Us
The Rindal Clinic
About Dr. Steven M. Rindal
About Dr. Tracy D. Rindal
Location
Office Hours
Contact Us
Appointments
Contact Billing Dept.
Contact Dr. Steven Rindal
Contact Dr. Tracy Rindal
Home Services We Provide – Specific Spinal and Extra Spinal Adjustments –– Gonstead Method – Spine and Extremity Radiographs How We Help – Conditions We See at This Clinic – Auto Injuries –– Back Pain After Auto Injury –– Whiplash – Work Injuries –– Carpal Tunnel Syndrome –– Work Injuries and Chiropractic – Sports Injuries – Neck Pain – Headache and Migraine – Dizziness and Vertigo – Back Pain –– Arthritis –– Back Pain and Chiropractic –– Sciatic and Disc Herniation –– Spinal Degeneration – Hip and Joint Pain – Knee and Leg Pain – Pediatric Care – Fibromyalgia – Wellness –– About Chiropractic –– Chiropractic for Kids –– Chiropractic for Seniors –– Exercise –– Nutrition –– Pregnancy and Chiropractic – Massage Therapy About Us – The Rindal Clinic – About Dr. Steven M. Rindal – About Dr. Tracy D. Rindal – Location – Office Hours Contact Us – Appointments – Contact Billing Dept. – Contact Dr. Steven Rindal – Contact Dr. Tracy Rindal
Herbal Supplements Better Than Drugs for Migraine
New research has revealed that butterbur, a natural herbal supplement, may be better at preventing migraines than several commonly-prescribed non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (frequently called NSAIDs).
Researchers analyzed 49 studies on migraine treatments performed from 1999 to 2009. They then rated the various treatments on their ability to prevent migraines. The research was part of new set of guidelines for treating migraines developed by the American Headache Society and the American Academy of Neurology.
The researchers concluded that among natural and over-the-counter preventative treatments, herbal supplements of butterbur were the most effective for preventing migraines. Taking supplements containing magnesium, feverfew, and riboflavin were also shown to be as effective as some drugs at preventing migraine occurrences. The researchers rated these supplements, along with NSAIDS like ibuprofen and naproxen, “probably effective” for preventing migraines.
Many treatments are available for migraine prevention. However, few patients actually take them. The journal Neurology has published research showing that while 38 percent of migraine sufferers would benefit from preventive medication, but only 3-13% use it. As a result, the American Academy of Neurology has placed a new emphasis on preventing in their new guidelines.
Preventive medications are taken daily to reduce the severity and frequency of migraines. Many of these treatments are available without a prescription. However, Stephen Silberstein of the AAN
says patients should consult their doctors to determine correct dosage to control their migraines. This can change, since migraines can become better or worse over time. Chiropractic care and regular exercise are two additional natural treatments that have been shown to reduce the severity and frequency of migraines.
Photo by Adam KR via Creative Commons.
References
Holland S, Silberstein S, Freitag F, et al. Evidence-based guideline update: NSAIDs and other complementary treatments for episodic migraine prevention in adults: Report of the quality standards subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the American Headache Society. Neurology 2012; 78 (17): 1346-1353.
Lipton RB, Bigal ME, Diamond M, Freitag F, et al. Migraine prevalence, disease burden, and the need for preventive therapy. Neurology 2007; 68(5): 343– 349.
New guidelines: treatments can help prevent migraine. American Academy of Neurology. Press Release. April 23, 2012. Accessed May 30,2012. http://www.aan.com/press/index.cfm?fuseaction=release.view&release=1062.
Contact Us
Send us a message.
Name
Email
Submit
Make an Appointment
Videos
Chiropractic
Location
3D Spine
929 E College Way
Mount Vernon, WA 98273
(360) 424-1066
About Us
About Us
Location and Hours
Contact Us
More Info
About Chiropractic
Request an Appointment
Disclaimer - Privacy - Copyright
©2019
Powered by ChiroHosting
Home
Contact Billing
Appointments
Call our office at (360) 424-1066 for an appointment today!