Evening Primrose Oil | Healing Oils and Capsules | Suncokret - Zdraviji način ishrane
Skip to main content
eng
srp
024/534-485
Terms and Conditions
Log in
Your shopping cart is empty.
Products
Recipes
About us
Contact
Products
Sale
Cold Pressed and Virgin Oils
Vinegars
Seed and Nut Butters
Seed Bars
Diabetic Bars
Bars with Fruit
Organic Products
Crackers
Healing Oils and Capsules
Personal Care
Protein Flour and Seeds
Gift Packages
TOP products
Peanut Butter
275,00 RSD
Flaxseed Oil
256,00 RSD
Virgin Pumpkin Seed Oil
969,00 RSD
Pumpkin Seed Butter
467,00 RSD
Hemp Seed Oil
605,00 RSD
Evening Primrose Oil
SKU:
301090010
Price: 401,00 RSD
Package
30ml
Quantity
Select ratingGive Ulje noćurka (30ml) 1/6Give Ulje noćurka (30ml) 2/6Give Ulje noćurka (30ml) 3/6Give Ulje noćurka (30ml) 4/6Give Ulje noćurka (30ml) 5/6Give Ulje noćurka (30ml) 6/6
Average: 5.4 (25 votes)
Ask us
Evening primrose oil is obtained from its cold-pressed ripe seeds. In this process, the oil retains all the pharmacological elements found in the seeds. The most important pharmacological active ingredients in this oil are first and foremost the polyunsaturated fatty acids, linoleic and gamma-linolenic and up to 8% saturated fatty acids. Gamma-linolenic acid is one of the essential fatty acids, which means that the body cannot produce it alone. Because of the crucial role that these fatty acids have in the creation of cell membranes, more specificallyin ensuring the normal functioning of the cardiovascular system, brain, retina, bile and other organs, they need to be taken in through food in sufficient quantities. Essential fatty acids are well known for many of their beneficial effects. Among other,they provide protection against heart disease, brain haemorrhage, hypertension, and obesity. The World Health Organization considers essential fatty acids so important that their proposed requirement of unsaturated fatty acids for adults is 3% of daily calorie intake and 5% for nursing mothers and children.
It has been scientifically proven that in some conditions, such as: premenstrual syndrome, eczema, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, malignant diseases, elevated cholesterol levels, viral infections, there is a disturbance of the enzyme system that is responsible for the generation of anti-inflammatory agents (the prostaglandines). In such cases, by an additional intake of evening primrose oil, we may supply our body with GLA and restore the balance of the enzyme system. Thanks to its anti-inflammatory properties, the evening primrose oil stimulatesthe skin regeneration in case of minor injuries and burns. Since it reduces the trans-epidermal water loss, it is also beneficial formature skin.
The scientific research have proven that the evening primrose:
• helps with menopausal problems
• relieves premenstrual symptoms
• has the beneficial effect on women's reproductive health
• helps in wound healing (especially for diabetics)
• helps with and reduces the risk of cardiovascular diseases
• reduces the incidence of blood clot formation
• helps in the treatment of eczema and dermatitis
• provides additional support in the treatment of diabetic neuropathy
• helps in the treatment of osteoporosis
• relieves the symptoms of mastalgia
• regulates body weight
• it is beneficial in the care of mature skin
Ingredients: 100% of cold pressed evening primrose seed.
Application:
Oral use: the evening primrose oil is taken preventively, 25 drops once a day, or 25 drops 3 times a day, as a therapy.
External use: it is applied on skin, to the affected areas.
The daily dose should not be exceeded.
The product should not be consumed by persons who are sensitive to its ingredients, small children, pregnant and lactating women.
Its long-term use has shown no contraindications.
Package:
30ml
Similar products
Pomegranate Oil Organic
30ml
Despite of its reputation of the medicinal plant in the Middle and Far East since ancient times, pomegranate has only recently arisen the interest of scientists around the world, but to such an extent that only in the last decade, hundreds of papers on healing properties of the pomegranate juice and oil have been published.
523,00 RSD
Add to cart
Pomegranate Fermented Juice Extract capsule
22,5g
Despite of its reputation of the medicinal plant in the Middle and Far East since ancient times, pomegranate has only recently arisen the interest of scientists around the world, but to such an extent that only in the last decade, hundreds of papers on healing properties of the pomegranate juice and oil have been published.
684,00 RSD
Add to cart
Cold Pressed Pumpkin seed oil
200ml
Vegetable oils have an important role in human nutrition, principally because of the essential fatty acids and specific ingredients that are minor in their content, but still immensely important for a high-quality nutrition.
790,00 RSD
Add to cart
Black Cumin Seed Oil
30ml
Black cumin ranks among the most popular herbs in the history of medicine. In ancient civilizations, it was used to improve digestion and in the treatment of colds, headaches, infections and toothache. Black cumin seeds were even found in pharaoh Tutankhamun’s tomb for use in the "afterlife".
296,00 RSD
Add to cart
Grape Seed Extract capsule
22,5g
The medicinal and nutritive value of grapes has been known for thousands of years. There is a growing interest among the scientific community for the polyphenolic properties of compounds originating from grapes, bearing in mind the numerous testimonies of their beneficial effect on human health.
855,00 RSD
Add to cart
Newsletter
Signup to our mailing list for special offers, new products, and some other useful information.
E-mail *
Leave this field blank
Follow us
In harmony with nature since 1989.