Top 12 Reasons Every Woman Should Be Taking Selenium Supplements - MiTCH FiT
Exercise Plans
Group PT
Swag Shop
Tees
Tanks
Joggers
Sweatshirts
Hats
Swagpack
Blog
About
Login
Mitch Fit Blog
The Beauty of Selenium Supplements
10/22/2017
0 Comments
By: Victoria Northington
Christopher Newport University Senior | Biology Major
​Selenium. A trace element that is essential to our growth and development. Selenium may be small, but it battles many degenerative diseases throughout our entire lives. More recently, this molecule has been studied for its anti-cancer mechanisms. Researchers have found that “selenium favorably modulates gene expression to suppress a protein involved in tumor onset, growth, and metastasis” (Stokel, 2017).
There are three forms of selenium that have shown the most potential in reducing cancer symptoms in aging patients. Sadly, there is still no cure for cancer, but we can try to start preventing it with natural remedies. Now that is something to celebrate! ​
​Being that it is Breast Cancer Awareness Month, it only seems fitting to discuss the positive effects that this amazing element can have on breast cancer. Many breast cancer patients carry the mutated form of the BRCA1 gene. This mutation causes chromosomal breaks and has been linked to the formation of breast cancer. Recently, it has been found that Selenium can protect against “oxidation and enhancing nucleotide excision repair” (Krsnjavi & Beker, 2012). To test this theory, researchers conducted a study where women with the BRCA1 gene mutation were given selenium for 3 months. Results showed that chromosomal breaks reduced back to normal! Thus, the risk of developing breast cancer was lowered significantly.
In many breast cancer patients, blood levels of selenium have been found to be extremely low. Lower than the level of normal healthy patients. What is interesting is that the selenium is not simply lacking in these patients, but it has been redirected! In cases where cancerous tissue was studied, it was found that nearly 85% of selenium concentration that was normally found in the blood, was now in the tissue. Scientist determined that this was a defense mechanism of the element. In response cancerous cells, Selenium moves towards the mutated area and activates antioxidants, such as glutathione, to fight against the carcinogenic process (Krsnjavi & Beker, 2012).
As indicated before, there are three main forms of selenium that have shown significant cancer fighting abilities. They are sodium selenite, L-selenomethionine, and selenium-methyl L-selenocysteine. All forms of this element impact our bodies a little differently. However, they are complimentary to one another and effectively promote expression of important proteins that are involved in cancer suppression and prevention (Stokel, 2017).
Here are 12 ways that these forms of selenium work together to fight cancer cells and inhibit them from turning into full-blown tumors.
Selenium compounds regulate lipoxygenases. These are enzymes that promote cancer growth through the use of inflammatory molecules.
It directly reduces oxidative stress. The less stress, the less free radical damage to chromosomes and DNA sequences.
Selenium protects the seleno-proteins that are responsible for antioxidant-recycling
Selenium compounds remove cancer-inducing metals from the blood stream.
It induces a protective phase over liver enzymes. This helps to neutralize any organic carcinogenic toxins that pass through the toxins.
It shuts down of the replication cycle of cancer cells that is required for the formation of tumors and masses.
Selenium inhibits DNA alterations which could lead to cancerous mutations.
They begin the process of apoptosis in cancerous cells. Apoptosis is programmed cell death in cells that are considered infectious, foreign, or abnormal.
Selenium inactivates the transcription factors needed to continue growth and development of cancerous cells.
It enhances the immune system so that cancerous cells can be detected and destroyed more readily.
Downregulation of sex hormone receptors that are used by certain cancers to sustain their growth.
Selenium limits the effects of tumor invasion and metastasis.
*Citation (Stokel, 2017)
Collectively, these 12 mechanisms can effectively protect against cancer formation, and it doesn’t stop here! New discoveries are made regularly. Who knows that else we may find out about selenium in just a couple years.
Citation:
Krsnjavi, H., & Beker, D. (2012, June 2). Linking Selenium Deficiency to Breast Cancer. Retrieved October 22, 2017, from http://www.breastcancerchoices.org/selenium.html
Stokel, K. (2017). Selenium: What Forms Protect Against Cancer? Retrieved October 22, 2017, from http://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2012/ss/selenium-protect-against-cancer/page-01
0 Comments
Leave a Reply.
Mitchell Northington
Your Personal Trainer
NASM CPT & PES
​Need help reaching your fitness goal?
Start today
Archives
December 2018
March 2018
January 2018
October 2017
September 2017
August 2017
July 2017
January 2017
November 2016
September 2016
Categories
All
Alcohol
Cardio
Cheat Meals
Children's Health
Confidence
Fitness
Healthy Lifestyle
Lean Muscle
Life
Motivation
Nutrition
Paleo
Resistance Training
Self-Image
Sleep
Women
Women's Health
RSS Feed
Share, email, & connect!
Results Disclaimer | Terms and Conditions | Privacy Policy
Telephone
1.804.451.1362
Email
support@mitchfit.net
Copyright © 2018 Mitch Fit, All rights reserved.
Exercise Plans
Group PT
Swag Shop
Tees
Tanks
Joggers
Sweatshirts
Hats
Swagpack
Blog
About
Login