Hair Loss in Men Articles: Baldness Cures, Causes of Hair Loss, Vitamins
Toggle Navigation
Biotin
Castor Oil
Coconut Oil
Finasteride (Propecia)
Foods
Minoxidil (Rogaine)
Viviscal
About
Hair Growth Pills The Free Guide to Vitamins for Growing Hair
Category: Hair Loss in Men
Hair loss in men is much more common than hair loss in women. It is said to affect the majority of men over the age of 30. It is also very prevalent in men over the age of 21. You might be surprised to learn just how young it begins to affect men. However, the good news is that it can be treated. In this hair loss for men section of the Hair Growth Pills website we will get to the bottom of this problem. We will offer a wealth of solutions to help you cure it.
Hair loss can be a difficult thing to deal with. However, there are a number of cures out there that you can try. These will be discussed in this section and they will cover everything from medications and supplements, to simple vitamins and foods. There is so much you can do and hair loss is often just a symptom of a lack of care and attention. So, snap back into shape and do something about that baldness!
Receding Hair in Men: What is it and How to Cure It
Receding Hair in Men: What is it and How to Cure It
By Hair Growth | April 24, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
If there is anything a man hates more about aging than a beer gut, grey hair and that noise you begin to make when you stand-up, it’s a receding hairline. Receding hair in men is not attractive by any stretch of the imagination. There are people who will find you attractive if you are bald. There are people who will happily ignore bald spots, thinning hair and damaged hair, as well as grey hair. But when it comes to a receding hairline, no one finds it attractive.
To make matters worse, receding hair in men is very common. It’s something that most men will experience at one point in their lives. Most of the time it happens when they are older, but for many men it happens at a young age and it’s hard to take.
It’s not all bad though. There are things you can to to limit the damage done by a receding hairline. The trick is to make sure that you start early enough. When you do that then you can avoid this issue setting in at a later date and branding you as an unattractive, hairless monster.
Receding Hair in Men: What is it?
A receding hairline is where the front of the hairline recedes, often creating an “M” shape. This begins with a simple recession. Before long, the M shape forms and if nothing is done to stop it then all of the hair on top of the head will begin to thin or fall out. At this point, a comb-over is often applied, which is another way of saying, “I give up”, as well as, “I don’t own a mirror” (find some better styles in our Hairstyles for Balding Men article).
This issue can be caused by a number of factors. Bald spots and other hair loss is often caused by alopecia, but with receding hair in men the main culprit is genetics. Simply put, if your father suffered from the condition early on, then there is a good chance you’ll start to see the same issue develop at an equally young age.
Hormones also play a role, as does stress, diet and a number of environmental factors. In some cases, there is very little you can do to stop it completely, but you can slow it down. In most cases, there is something you can do to stop it and there may even be something you can do to reverse it.
Receding Hair in Men: How to Stop it
So, let’s imagine that you are worried about a receding hairline. What can you do to stop it? If you get in early enough, when the signs first begin to show or even before they start to show, then there is a lot you can do. If not, and if it has already started to recede, there is still something that can be done to slow the process down, including:
Healthy Lifestyle
A vitamin deficiency can cause hair loss. Not only that, but an excess of fat, processed foods and everything else that is bad for you can lead to receding hair in men. It sounds crazy, but it’s true. There are dozens of vitamins and minerals that are involved in the hair growth process, and there are also many substances that can inhibit it.
As an example, Biotin and other B Vitamins are used by your body to trigger the hair growth process. Things like amino acids are essentially the building blocks of your cells, including your hair, while a lack of zinc can cause your hair to fall out. All of this goes someway to explaining how important vitamins and minerals are and how imperative it is to have a healthy diet if you want to have a healthy hairline.
Water is also important. Hydration can work wonders for your scalp and your hair. It can limit dandruff, it can stop your hair from splitting and breaking.
So, drink plenty of water, eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, and make sure you avoid all of the things you know you shouldn’t be eating and drinking. That applies to cigarettes and alcohol as well, as these are toxic for your body and your hair.
Hairstyles
One of the causes of receding hair in men that may surprise you is your hairstyle. If you wear a tight weave, a tight ponytail or any other tight hairstyle then you are pulling your hair away from the hairline and damaging the follicles. The longer it stays in this position the more damage you are doing.
The same goes for wearing a cap all of the time, especially if that cap is tight around your head. You are pressing it tight to your skin, you’re keeping the air away from your hair and you’re letting all of that sweat build-up.
You’d be much better off just shaving your hair completely than putting your hair in a ponytail. Because while you wouldn’t have any hair to speak of for a short while, it would grow back, while the ponytail would damage the hair follicles, putting the under constantly stress and messing with the hair growth rate cycle.
Stress-Free
Stress is also a major cause of receding hair in men. Stress can mess with your hormones, which in turn can damage your hair and your hair line. The angrier you are, the more stressed you are and the less rest you get, the more damage you are going to do.
Of course, it’s not easy to live a stress-free life, especially if you’re the sort of person who gets wound up easily. But there are things you can do to help. Try exercising. Try yoga. Meditate. Create more time for play and spend less time working. A little less stress can go a very long way.
In fact, not only can it help with your hairline, but it may even prolong your life.
Chemical-Free
A lot of the damage we do to our hair is done almost intentionally via the use of hair dyes and other toxic products. We acknowledge that they are not healthy, but for the sake of beauty and vanity, we ignore them and just hope for the best.
If you want to avoid receding hair in men then you need to try and keep harmful chemicals, including bleach and dyes, away from your hair. There is no need to worry about synthetic shampoos and conditioners, as for the most part these are okay. Just avoid the really harmful stuff.
Receding Hair in Men: How to Cure It
Unfortunately, there isn’t much you can do to cure a receding hair line. The follicles have basically stopped growing hair, and because it’s not the result of alopecia and other common conditions, it’s often very difficult to turn it around.
Don’t give up just yet though as there can be some solutions that can help you to grow hair where there was none before.
Medications
The first thing you should do is try either Minoxidil or Finasteride. Do not take them both together. Just choose one, try it, and if it doesn’t quite hit the mark then try the other one. With Finasteride you will benefit more if you are older and as a young man it’s not really a medication you should be taking or one that you will be prescribed.
Minoxidil is a different story though. This can be used by many people and it is actually prescribed to help with hair growth. Just make sure that you give it plenty of time to work (up to 6 months) and that you follow the instructions to the letter. The reason this treatment fails, more often than not, is because the instructions are ignored.
PRP
We have discussed this radical treatment in our PRP Hair Loss guide. It involves drawing blood from you, processing this blood and then injecting it into your scalp. This has been shown to work and while it sounds a little barbaric, it’s actually very safe.
The problem is, it’s quite expensive and you need a professional to perform the treatment. The fact that it involves injections is off-putting for many, but if you can get over this then it’s a treatment that’s worth considering.
Transplants
If you can commit to the PRP treatment but don’t think it’s going to be effective, then a hair transplant may be better suited. This is often a little more expensive, but it also worked every time, without fail. They will take hair from the back of your neck (your hair above this will flop down to cover the hair that has been removed) and they will implant this into your hairline.
This is a treatment that has been used by many celebs, as discussed in our Famous Bald Celebrities article. It’s not cheap, it’s not completely safe, it hurts a little and it takes a long time to recover. But all in all, it’s possibly the most effective way to treat receding hair in men.
Olaplex Treatment: Hair Treatment Reviews and Other Info
Olaplex Treatment: Hair Treatment Reviews and Other Info
By Hair Growth | April 16, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Olaplex hair treatment seems to be a pretty big deal in the beauty industry right now. It is getting a lot of press and it seems that beauty bloggers just can’t shut up about it. We’ve been fairly quiet on that front. But in this article we’re going to offer our opinions on Olaplex treatment, answering the following questions that have been put to us by our readers over the last few weeks:
What is Olaplex Hair Treatment?
Does Olaplex Work?
Is Olaplex Safe?
What are the Olaplex Ingredients?
Olaplex Hair Treatment
Olaplex is a revolutionary kind of hair treatment, or at least that’s what the marketing says. And the marketing has done a pretty good job here. They have opted for a very clean and simple look on the label, which is why it has earned the moniker of the “Apple of haircare” amongst our editors and reviewers. This works though and it conveys the the message that this is a premium product, one that is clinically sound, scientifically proven and is definitely not snake oil.
Use this Keranique link to save $65 on your order of this bestselling hair treatment product courtesy of HairGrowthPills.
That’s a lot for a simple branding to convey, but trust us, it works. Somehow.
But what about the product itself? Well, there is a good chance you will have heard the hype about Olaplex hair treatment. Much like Wild Hair Growth Oil, it seems to be the “in” thing right now. Everyone is talking about it and there are countless positive reviews out there. A lot of this is, again, down to the marketing of the product and the fact that the company sent out a flood of samples prior to its launch, making sure that all major beauty sites covered it.
To be fair, we’re a little late to the party. Although, that might have something to do with the fact that we never received sample (Olaplex marketers, take not). Still, we have finally gotten around to offering our opinion on Olaplex hair treatment and that’s what this guide is all about.
What Does Olaplex Treatment Do?
Firstly it’s worth noting that Olaplex treatment is not designed to help you grow hair or to limit hair loss. The goal of this product is to repair damaged hair, which is something that many sufferers of hair loss also struggle with. The stronger your hair is, the less likely it is to fall out or break off, so in a way it can help with hair loss.
It is endorsed by many celebrities, including Kim Kardashian (who admittedly doesn’t have the highest standard when it comes to snoring products). It is available as a kit, known as a “At Home” kit. Inside you will find three bottles, the Olaplex No1, Olaplex No2 and Olaplex No3. These all form part of a three-stage treatment process.
The goal of the Olaplex hair treatment kit is to to strengthen and protect, and it seems to be a pretty good job of this. The problem is, you have to pay for that, and the full kit can set you back a pretty penny. In fact, single bottles of Olaplex No3 are currently selling for around $30, and that’s far from the complete package.
Olaplex Bleach
Olaplex hair treatment is particularly helpful when it comes to protecting hair during a bleaching. It is also said to be very effective at conditioning the hair of people who regularly bleach. That’s because regular bleaching and coloring can damage your hair, weakening it and even causing breakage. By using a product like this you are adding some strength back into it, or at least that’s the theory.
It’s not just for bleached hair though. You can also get some use out of Olaplex treatment if you have thinning hair or hair that has been weakened through certain hairstyles, as discussed on our Causes of Hair Loss in Men and Causes Hair Loss in Women pages.
Olaplex Ingredients
Make no mistake about it, Olaplex is not a natural product and the ingredient list makes for some very dull, and occasionally scary, reading. There is nothing here that isn’t FDA approved and there are also plenty of ingredients that you will find in other shampoos. But the fact that it is not a natural product is likely to put many people off.
There are a great number of natural hair loss products on the market. This industry has been led to believe that chemicals used in certain shampoos can actually cause hair loss (something no doubt worsened by scandals such as the WEN Hair Loss case) and while that is not really the case, there may be some truth to it. That’s why companies often go out of their way to make there products natural and to ensure they can label it as such.
Olaplex treatment has not done that, but then again, this is not a hair loss product and there seems to be more of a willingness to accept chemical-containing products in the shampoo and conditioner sector.
You can see a full list of Olaplex ingredients here.
Is Olaplex Safe?
Olaplex treatment should be safe. The only real issue you will face is if you are allergic to the ingredients used. You can see a list of these in the section above, which we advise you check before placing an order. In such cases the symptoms will include skin rashes, itchiness, burns and flaky scalp. Of course, there can also be many more serious conditions, but in all honesty the same applies to most shampoos and conditioners. In regards to safety there is nothing that much different here.
Olaplex Reviews: The Good
There are many good reviews out there for Olaplex. It received plenty of praise from top beauty sites and bloggers and for the most part, we agree with them. This product works, there is no doubt about that. It is also easy to apply and has a smell that is pleasant. It also works and we noted that our hair really did feel stronger after a few weeks. That’s not the most scientific of tests, but it’s still a positive.
It’s worth noting that we have no affiliation with this product and we weren’t even given any freebies (the travesty!) so we are by no means obliged to give them a positive review. Speaking of which, it isn’t all good. Below we will discuss some Olaplex bad reviews, offering our own opinions about the negative aspects of Olaplex hair treatment.
Olaplex Bad Reviews
One of the issues that we have with this product, and one of the issues that many users have with it, is that it’s very expensive. It is one of the most expensive we have reviewed here on Hair Growth Pills. It is considered to be a premium product and is sold in many top salons and stores. It’s expensive because it can be expensive—it’s all part of the brand.
People know it’s a premium product because of the labelling, the endorsements and the pricing. It helps to maintain that ideal and it also gets them a few extra dollars in their pocket. From the point of view of people who operate on a tight budget, however, it’s just not viable. If you’re used to spending a few dollars on a bottle of shampoo and if you reject the notion of things like Minoxidil because it’s too expensive, then you will likely run a mile when you see the price tag of Olaplex hair treatment.
Chemotherapy Hair Loss (Timeline, Treatment, Causes, Prevention)
Chemotherapy Hair Loss (Timeline, Treatment, Causes, Prevention)
By Hair Growth | April 11, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Chemotherapy hair loss is unlike any other and it must be treated as such. This is not a time when you should really be focusing on hair loss and there are clearly other more important things to worry about. But it’s still not exactly pleasant and it’s something that can drag a cancer sufferer’s self-esteem down, making life even more difficult than it already is and seriously lowering their mood at a time when it is already low.
So, chemotherapy hair loss is still something that needs to be discussed. And while it’s not something that can be treated or stopped, there are solutions. We will look at them in this article. We’ll tell you what to prepare for and what to do when it happens. We’ll also aim to answer the following questions:
Does Chemotherapy Always Cause Hair Loss?
How Soon After Chemotherapy Will Hair Grow Back?
What is the Chemotherapy Hair Loss Timeline?
Which Chemotherapy Drugs Cause Hair Loss?
Is There a Treatment for Chemotherapy Hair Loss?
Why Does Chemotherapy Cause Hair Loss?
Cancer is essentially a rapidly growing cell that has mutated and is growing out of control without resistance from your body. The chemotherapy drugs stop these cells by attacking them. However, they are not selective. They attack all rapidly growing cells, including the healthy ones. This is essentially what hair cells are. They are constantly growing, constantly evolving, and these drugs attack them.
So, chemotherapy hair loss is not just just limited to the head, it happens all over the body. In most cases, someone about to go through chemotherapy will shave their head in advance. This is done to ensure that they don’t go through the traumatic experience of having one’s hair fall out in clumps, or waking up to find a pillow full of hair. It is also done to stop the hair from falling out in patches, leaving uneven clumps of hair in place.
Which Chemotherapy Medication Causes Hair Loss?
Not all chemotherapy drugs cause hair loss. Many of them will do it it some extent, but some are worse than others. If this is something you are worried about then you should discuss it with your doctor. However, you shouldn’t avoid one type of medication simply because you are concerned about hair loss. As discussed below, your hair will grow back in time, and it’s okay going a little bald for a few months if it means doing all you can to beat this horrible disease.
To learn more about hair loss causes, and to discover the many other issues that you can face, read our articles on hair loss in men and hair loss in women.
Chemotherapy Hair Loss Timeline
So, how soon after chemotherapy will your hair grow back? Well, it depends on the medication, but it will typically begin between 2 and 4 weeks after you start treatment. This is a slow onset, but chemotherapy hair loss can be quite dramatic when it happens. So, you may want to consider shaving your head after a week or two. If you wait until the first strands of hair begin to fall out then you may be in for a shock before you get the chance to shave.
After it has fallen out your scalp may also be very tender, which is why it is important to shave it off beforehand as opposed to shaving it off afterwards when nothing but clumps have been left. Six months after treatment has finish there should be few to no signs of chemotherapy hair loss and you should have a full head of hair back. It’s not unusual for hair to grow back in a different way or even as a different color. It might be straighter, it might be curlier. It could be white or it could have lost all of the white that you had.
This change is one of the most unusual aspects of chemotherapy hair loss and of this treatment on the whole. In some cases patients are pleasantly surprised to discover that they have the hair they have already wanted.
Treatment for Hair Loss after Chemotherapy
Once the treatment has finished then it may take a few weeks before the hair begins to grow back. At this point you may be prescribed certain hair regrowth treatments by a doctor, such as minoxidil or finasteride.
Again, this is something you should discuss with your doctor as it may not be suitable for you. If nothing else then you should be able to take some vitamins and supplements. These can help you to support your hair follicles and strengthen your scalp. And because they are naturally sourced vitamins they can also help to improve your overall wellbeing, which is essential when you have just put yourself through such an ordeal.
Preventing Chemotherapy Hair Loss
Unfortunately there is no way to stop chemotherapy hair loss, nor is there a way to limit it. Even if you were to take hair growth drugs during treatment, which is not advised, they just wouldn’t be strong enough to stop the hair loss from taking place.
This is a difficult time for anyone to go through, but with a little patience and with a little inner strength, it’s one that you can get through safely and with your health intact. You may want to purchase a weave or toupee in order to help with your confidence, especially if you have always been very particular about your hair. It will lessen the shock factor and may help to keep your spirits up.
Chemotherapy and Permanent Hair Loss
The good news is that chemotherapy hair loss is rarely permanent. The drugs attack the cells during the course of treatment but basically leave them alone afterwards. So, providing no damage has been done, those cells will continue to work and will continue to grow healthy, strong hair. There are many ways you can speed it up if you feel it is too slow and there are also ways to fix any issues that might arise.
Of course, if you were bald or balding to begin with, then don’t expect to regain a full head of hair after the chemotherapy has finished.
Male Pattern Baldness: What is it and How to Cure it
Male Pattern Baldness: What is it and How to Cure it
By Hair Growth | April 7, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Male Pattern Baldness is very common, with a large number of men experiencing symptoms before they turn 21, and with the vast majority suffering before they hit their 40th birthday. It’s something that is seen as unavoidable, yet something we have grown to hate. Men don’t like it and try their best to cover it up, and you’d be hard pressed to find anyone who found it attractive.
So, just what is Male Pattern Baldness, what can cause it, and what can you do to stop it?
What Doesn’t Cause Male Pattern Baldness
There are a number of causes of Male Pattern Baldness, but there are also many myths out there. Some old wives tales suggest that you can go bald by repeatedly running your hand through your hair or combing it too much. This likely comes from assertive mothers who became annoyed at their slightly narcissistic sons and tried to scare them away from the mirror.
But it’s just not true. Unless you happen to have asbestos fingers that is, in which case you have more serious things to worry about. There is also a myth that warns against wearing a baseball cap too much. This likely comes from the fact that the majority of old men that wear baseball caps have Male Pattern Baldness. But they wear caps because of the baldness, not the other way around.
It is true that repeated damage can cause hair loss. This is something we have discussed in our Causes of Hair Loss in Men article. However, you need to be fixing it into some pretty tight and complicated hairstyles in order for this to happen, and a simple baseball cap won’t do any harm.
What Does Cause Male Pattern Baldness
One of the main causes of Male Pattern Baldness is genetics. So, you should be blaming your father and not your baseball cap. Your father’s hair and you grandfather’s hair is actually a good indicator of whether or not you will experience baldness.
If they both had thick and long hair late into their lives and you are balding early, then there is a good chance that something else is at fault. There are a number of other causes. These can include stress, medication, diet, smoking, alcohol, drugs and a sensitivity to DHT, which can also cause problems with your prostate.
Infections such as parasites can also cause hair loss, as can lyme disease and alopecia, which is an immune disorder. For some problems there are immediately obvious causes and ones that can be easily fixed. For others, it’s much harder to find a cause and nearly impossible to cure it.
Is There a Male Pattern Baldness Cure?
The important thing to know is that there is no cure for Male Pattern Baldness. No amount of supplements or vitamins can fix this problem. However, there are products that can slow it down, products that can stop it at its source and help you to maintain the hair that you have. One such product is Minoxidil for Men, which is applied direct to the scalp and has shown to be effective in the majority of users; and Finasteride, which also goes by the brand name Propecia and works by reducing the levels of DHT in the body.
There are many hair growth vitamins such as Biotin that can help, and you can also create homemade formulas from substances such as Castor Oil, Coconut Oil and more. These probably won’t trigger any kind of hair growth and they are definitely not cures. However, they can help to limit hair loss and at the least they can also help to strengthen the hair that you have. Think of them as very potent and useful shampoos that have the added bonus of potentially triggering hair growth and you can’t go wrong.
There is an actual cure for Male Pattern Baldness that doesn’t involve tablets or shampoos and that’s a hair transplant. This works by taking hair from one place and grafting it onto another. It basically replaces dead hair follicles with living ones and it can restore your lost hair and ensure that it grows back and keeps growing. However, it’s not cheap and surgery should never be a snap decision, even if it is a simple procedure.
Tips for Curing Male Pattern Baldness
There are a few important things to bear in mind regardless of which product you use and how bad your hair loss is:
The Sooner You Start, The Better: If you start using hair growth products as soon as you start to experience hair loss, then you can make sure that you lose very little hair from that point on. Many men began using Propecia when they were in their 40s and have gone on to maintain full heads of hair well into their 70s. There is even a rumor that Donald Trump used the drug, which might explain why he has so much hair despite his age.
There is Always Hope: Don’t give up just because you have already lost a lot of hair. There’s always something worth saving. You may have a blasé attitude now, but in 5 years when the hair you have now goes you will regret not trying to salvage it. Using hair growth treatments can help to maintain the hair you have and to make it thicker and stronger. That’s always worth having.
Keep Using: If you use products like Minoxidil for a few months and experience some results, don’t stop and assume you’ll be okay in the long run. If you stop, then the hair loss with continue. Minoxidil and products like it essentially halt the hair loss process, but as soon as you take that block away, then it will continue.
Stack-up: There are many products that you can use together. You can create concoctions from oils like omega 3 and omega 6 and still take products like Finasteride, for instance. However, you need to be very careful with this. It is not advise that you take Rogaine and Propecia together. You should also keep an eye out for shampoos that contain these ingredients. For example, Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment contains 2% Minoxidil, which means there is no need to take it with other Minoxidil products or with any other products that cause contraindications.
Haircuts and Hairstyles for Balding Men (Avoiding the Comb-over)
Haircuts and Hairstyles for Balding Men (Avoiding the Comb-over)
By Hair Growth | April 6, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
The only thing worse than losing your hair is having to resort to the comb-over. This dreaded hairstyle was probably the hairstyle of choice for your grandfather and great uncle, but only because your grandmother and great aunt were too embarrassed to tell them they looked stupid.
These days, thankfully, older men have realized just how stupid the comb-over looks and they try to avoid it. There are still some out there who think they can pull it off, but once you start thinking that way then there is no hope for you or your hair. For the rest of us, there are other, better options.
So, if you are suffering from hair loss (see our article on Causes of Hair Loss in Men to learn more) and you want to do something about it that doesn’t look like you’ve been caught in an aggressive storm, then read on. In this guide we’ll look at hairstyles for balding men and haircuts for balding men.
Note that this article is “hairstyles for balding men” and not “hairstyles for bald men”, because if its the latter you’re looking for then we’re afraid your only options are a spit and a polish. If you’re not quite there yet, but think you’re getting there, read up on Minoxidil for Men, Best Hair Loss Solutions and Vitamins for Hair Growth. In the mean-time, you will also want to try some of these hairstyles for balding men.
Mohawk
It may seem counterintuitive, but if you shave the sides of your hair and let the top grow, it will look like a natural haircut, not to mention a great one. And if you keep the mohawk fairly short then you won’t look like a punk from the 1980’s either. Mohawks are very much in these days and they are a great way to disguise your balding hair.
Obviously, if you don’t have hair on the top of your head then it’s not going to be possible. But this is a great hairstyle for balding men if your hair is receding. For most men, that seems to be the case. The hair grows on the sides but not on the top. This is where the comb-over comes in, but trust us: the mohawk is much better.
Spiky Haircut
If you spike your hair and then comb it forward so that the spikes are facing in front of you, then you can disguise a receding hairline. The spikes on the top-centre will edge forward and make your hair look longer and thicker, while the spikes on the sides will cover the patches left either side. It’s not going to be complete cover, but it will sit over most of your hairline.
The spiky style is one of the better hairstyles for balding men, but obviously it only works if you still have substantial hair on top and some hair on the sides, otherwise you don’t have much to play with.
Pompadour
This 1950s hairstyle is making a comeback and it is a great haircut for balding men. There is so much you can do with it, all depending on the length and the thickness of you hair. And the best part is that most pompadour styles will help you to cover up bald patches and receding hair lines.
It’s essentially a form of a comb-over, but it’s not tacky, it’s not desperate, and even 60 years later, it still looks cool.
Coloring and Beards
Often, the best hairstyles for balding men don’t involve styling the hair at all. If you go big on the beard, or if you color you hair, then you can draw the eye away from your receding hairline and your bald patches. If it’s really bad, it will still be there, but that’s where a little manipulation and a little styling comes into play. The rest is all down to your beard or your color of your hair.
So, try adding some blonde streaks in black hair or black streaks in blonde hair. Make it red or blue. Grow out your bead, color it, style it. There is a lot you can do for your balding head without actually styling or cutting your hair. If you’re struggling to grow your beard then just take a look at our Beard Growth Products page. You may also want to style your eyebrows, adding a little color. It’s not easy to make this work, but because it’s so close to your hairline, if you can draw attention to the eyebrows then you can detract it from your scalp.
Let It Grow
One of the things that the above hairstyles for balding men have in common is that they all require you to have some hair to play with. These days the trend for men with hair loss is to simply shave everything and to keep it short. This is the modern equivalent of the comb-over, but like the aforementioned crime to hairstyling, it just doesn’t work. At best it makes you look like you’re desperately trying to cover up baldness, at worst it make you look like a thug. If you want to shave it off completely then go for it, but leaving any hair there just won’t work.
The best thing to do is to let your hair grow. You will have to put up with your receding hairline showing in the first few weeks, but after that you will have more to play with. When you have longer hair on the sides and top you can create most of the hairstyles above. You can also let it grow into medium or shoulder length hair, at which point that receding hairline is completely covered.
So, let it grow and see what you can do with it when it does grow. If all else fails just pretend this is the 1980s and you’re in a heavy metal band. After all, it works for Iron Maiden—they are 60+, and when was the last time you saw a bald spot?
Hair Transplant: Costs, Process, Before and After
Hair Transplant: Costs, Process, Before and After
By Hair Growth | April 5, 2017 | Comments 1 comment
We have covered a great number of hair loss treatments on this site and more than once we have said that a hair transplant is one of the most effective. It is the only one that works every time and the only one that actively works to regrow hair, as opposed to simply stopping hair loss.
But just how effective is a hair transplant? In this guide we aim to answer all of the questions that you have about hair transplants, questions that have been put to us over the last few months. These include the following, all of which have bene answered in full below:
What Should I Expect with a Hair Transplant?
How Long Does a Hair Transplant Take to Heal?
Where do they Take the Hair From?
How Much Does a Hair Transplant Cost?
Is It Worth It?
Is it Safe?
What is a Hair Transplant?
Simply put, a hair transplant involves taking hair from one place and surgically implanting it into your scalp. They take the actual hair follicles, which means that the hair will grow like it should.
There are two types of transplant, known as Follicular Unit Strip Surgery and Follicle Unit Extraction. These are often shortened to FUSS and FUE respectably. With FUSS, a strip of skin is taken as a graft; with FUE, hairs are taken one by one.
Where do They Take Hair From?
There is a misconception that the hair is taken from the backside. This is perhaps the fault of the tabloids, who can’t resist writing articles about celebrities covering their heads in hair that was once on their backsides. The headlines practically write themselves.
However, they need to cut the hair out, which means the place will be tender to the touch and will need time to heal. You need to sit on your buttocks, so this is not ideal. Instead, the hair is often taken from the actual scalp, but at the back so that the hair easily falls over it. It can also be taken from the leg.
What Can I Expect from the Procedure?
The procedure should take place in a doctor’s surgery, as opposed to a hospital. Firstly, your scalp will be cleaned and numbed via an injection. The graft will then be taken and the hair follicles will be added to your scalp in the places previously chosen. To add the follicles, small slits are made and they are inserted into place.
This is a laborious process and it can take up to 10 hours to complete, depending on the number of hairs being added.
How Long Does it Take to Heal from a Hair Transplant?
Your scalp will be very tender after the surgery. It also won’t be very pretty to look at. You will probably be prescribed pain meds to get through the pain and will be told to rest up and wear bandages. You may be given anti-inflammatory drugs as well to keep potential swelling to a minimum.
A few weeks after the surgery, the hair that was transplanted will have fallen out. From there the new hair will begin to grow into place. It will take a few months for this to grow in fully, which is why many patients are told to use products like Minoxidil as they wait. Typically, within a year all patients will be able to style their hair as they see fit, with no visible signs of a transplant having taken place.
How Much Does a Hair Transplant Cost?
The costs differ depending on the amount of hair that needs to be transplanted and the person that you choose to do it. There are many specialists out there that offer this service and the prices can be competitive as a result. But if you choose a well known and respected physician then you’re obviously going to pay a premium.
If you are on limited budget then you can look around and get the job done for as little as $3,000, providing you don’t need a full head of hair to be transplanted. Just make sure you check that they are accredited and licensed. You may also want to read some reviews on them beforehand. Any doctor worth their degree in this day and age will have reviews online.
The price can go as high as $20,000, so it pays to do your research. You can also ask for a discount and try to negotiate a deal. You have more chance of doing this if you’re working with a self-employed physician, as opposed to one working for an organization.
Will my Insurance Cover a Hair Transplant?
Unfortunately, no. There might be some companies and policies out there that do, but we haven’t seen them. It is not life threatening, it is not a health issue.
Is a Hair Transplant Safe?
There are always risks associated with surgery. This is minor surgery, but there are still some potential problems. Infection is one of the biggest, which is why many doctors will prescribe a course of antibiotics after the surgery, making sure that if there is an infection, it will be cured before it displays any symptoms.
As with all surgery, scarring is also a possibility. Your hair may grow-in strange. You may experience some visible scarring on the front or the top of your head. You may experience problems with the graft area and you may also experience some inflammation, both on the head and around the graft area, which is where the anti-inflammatory drugs come in.
Again, all of this is rare, but it’s something that needs to be considered before you jump head-first (quite literally) into this procedure. These days we are often too quick to volunteer our bodies for surgeries that we deem to be quick, easy and safe ways to get the look we want. But they are not miracle cures and things can go wrong.
You should discuss these issues with your doctor during the consultation, which will happen prior to the surgery and prior to any agreements being made. They should provide an unbiased perspective on the procedure. They should be honest and upfront with you. This can be essential for someone going through this procedure as it’s important for them to understand the potential risks, while also understanding just how rare such risks are.
Bald Actors and Other Famous Bald People (Who, Why and How)
Bald Actors and Other Famous Bald People (Who, Why and How)
By Hair Growth | April 4, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
We recently put our questions about bald actors, bald celebrities and other famous bald people to readers of Hair Growth Pills, and we were surprised with the results. It seems that many of you have a thing for bald men and there are even many men who have a thing for bald women. What’s more, many more of you use and some bald men as role models to help you feel good about your own hair loss, while others are simply wondering if a certain actor is bald or wears a toupee.
We asked a group of readers to give us their top 5 questions about bald actors and bald celebrities and we have created a list in which we answer the best ones. These questions, which are answered in full below, are:
Is Britney Spears Still Bald?
Is John Travolta Bald?
Does Donald Trump Wear a Wig?
Is Jimmy Fallon Bald?
Is Jon Cryer Bald?
Does Jude Law Wear a Wig?
Is Ben Affleck Bald?
As you can see, there seems to be a certain preoccupation with baldness. But we get that, and the purpose of the questions were to focus on hair and hair loss. So, with no further adieu, let’s begin answering your questions on bald actors, bald celebrities and famous bad people in general:
Is Britney Spears Still Bald?
There is a rumor that Britney Spears went bald and stayed bald. The conspiracy says that she currently wears a wig and it goes to great trouble to prove this. The truth is that she probably wears extensions, but she’s not bald and it’s not wig.
Like many women, it’s likely she has done some damage to her hair over time. We discussed these issues in our article on Causes of Hair Loss in Women. So, some hair extensions may not go amiss. But she’s not bald underneath. She simply shaved her head during a breakdown and then let it all grow back.
Thankfully, she seems happy, healthy and back to her old self now, and we for one are very happy for her.
Is John Travolta Bald?
Pictured: Not John Travolta, but a man you guys tell us that you much prefer to look at.
John Travolta is almost certainly bald. There are many images of the Saturday Night Fever star without hair, and there are also images of him with a full head of hair taken in the same year. His hair isn’t quite as grand as it was when he starred in the classic disco film that made his name, but it isn’t that far off. And when you consider what it looks like underneath the wig, it’s quite an improvement.
There seem to be many things in Travolta’s life that he isn’t forthcoming about. For an actor, he hides a lot and this is perfectly fine. But whether he admits this one or not, it’s fairly clear. This is one bald actor that can’t hide his baldness.
Is Donald Trump Bald?
Believe it or not (and we’re sure you won’t) that is not a wig. We know that it looks like one, but it’s not. Think about it this way: would someone that rich and that powerful really choose to have a wig like that? He may not have the best taste in the world, but he would have to be blind to choose a wing that looks an anemic mop.
Not that we think it’s entirely a bad thing, because once you realize that that’s his own hair, it begins to look impressive. After all, how many other men his age do you know with so much hair? So, if it’s not a wig, then what is his secret?
Well, the secret has actually been discussed on this site already: it’s Finasteride. It has been revealed that he has used this drug for years to counteract prostate problems. And as we have discussed many times before, one of the other benefits of Propecia (the brand name) is that it also limits hair loss. So, if you’re on it during a point in your life when you would usually be losing hair, then your hair will remain strong and long.
Many men take this drug when they have already started to lose a lot of hair, but Donald Trump got in there good and early and has a lot of hair to show for it.It’s like dipping into the fountain of youth when you’re still in your prime, as opposed to when you’re old and wrinkly.
Is Jon Cryer Bald?
Jon Cryer has admitted to having problems with his hair, once calling a full head of hair he had in a movie an, “Elaborate Illusion.” According to Cryer, he has very few hairs on his head and the rest ids essentially “painted on”.
This is backed-up by images of Cryer out and about, in which you can see that he has very little hair on the top of his head and also has a receding hairline.
Is Ben Affleck Bald?
This is one we have seen a lot of and one we have been asked many times: does Ben Affleck wear a toupee? This rumor has existed for some time and it does seem to have some truth to it. He did have a receding hairline of sorts and there have been bald patches on occasion, however, these have all but disappeared recently.
That’s not to say that he wears a wig though. It’s more likely that Ben has suffered from hair loss issues in the past and has since used products like Minoxidil for Men or has had a hair transplant to cover it. These are commonplace and many bald actors have resorted to them. Unless he magically grew back his hair, then he probably did as well.
Is Jude Law Bald?
Jude Law is another actor to have suffered from severe hair loss. He had a very noticeable receding hairline very early on in his life and by the time he was in his early thirties this had receded nearly to the middle of his head. However, in recent years this seems to have vanished.
This suggests that Jude Law has had a hair transplant, much like Ben Affleck. This is further evidenced by the fact that he went through a period of constantly wearing hats. It’s likely that these were used to cover up his hairline and then to hide the hair transplant.
However, there is something else at play because he has gone through this transformation twice. After the first time, his hair had receded again within a year and it was as bad as it had always been. But just a year later, there was very little recession at all.
It’s more likely that he used a topical solution or hair loss concealer. In any case, it has clearly worked for him.
Is Jimmy Fallon Bald?
There is a running joke, often perpetuated by the man himself, that Jimmy Fallon wears a toupee. It could be an outright joke, or he could be riffing on the true. It’s hard to say as there are no confirmations out there. However, it is clear that he has a receding hairline and as this is still evident, it is unlikely that he wears a toupee. After all, why would be buy a wig that intentionally made him look like he had a receding hairline?
Bald Actors and Famous Bald People
There are many more bald actors out there that you have told us you like and admire. One of the bald actors that most of you mentioned was Patrick Stewart. His charm, his kind nature and his good looks make him one of your favorite famous bald people, it seems. Bruce Willis is also a big role model for many bald men. He is one of the most famous bald actors in the world.
Ben Kingsley, Michael Jordan and Samuel L. Jackson are other bald actors and famous bald people that inspire you. Many women also have a thing for Sean Connery. Maybe it’s the accent.
Lyme Disease Hair Loss (Causes, Treatments, Hair Growth Solutions)
Lyme Disease Hair Loss (Causes, Treatments, Hair Growth Solutions)
By Hair Growth | March 30, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Looking for information on Lyme Disease and hair loss? Then you have come to the right place. Here on Hair Growth Pills we focus on both the causes and the cures; in this guide we’re going to turn the spotlight on this horrible disease.
Lyme Disease has been in the global spotlight for the last few years. A number of celebrities have talked about their struggles with this disease. That has thrust it into the mainstream, with many people now beginning to understand what it is, what it can do and how damaging it can be. Because of the connections between Lyme Disease and hair loss, it’s something that we have also decided that there is a desperate need to cover.
Lyme Disease and hair loss go hand in hand. Many sufferers of this disease have experienced it and it is one of the many damaging and upsetting symptoms. So, let’s take a look at Lyme Disease in full as we ask why are Lyme Disease and hair loss so closely linked and what can you do about it if you experience it?
What is Lyme Disease?
Lyme Disease is caused by a bacteria, which is transmitted via a tick. This tick carries the bacteria and then passes it to humans. The tick in question is the backlogged deer tick, which is the most common tick in the United States and is typically present in long grass. The disease causes all kinds of unpleasant symptoms and while it can be treated with a short course of antibiotics, some people with the disorder experience symptoms for the rest of their lives.
It is a very difficult disease to diagnose and typically presents with symptoms that include fever, headaches and fatigue. One of the side effects of this disease is hair loss, and it’s one of the most unpleasant. Because while it’s not dangerous or life threatening, it can be very difficult for the patient and can damage their confidence.
Lyme Disease and Hair Loss: The Causes
While we know that Lyme Disease and hair loss go hand in hand, we don’t really know how the disease triggers hair loss. It can make the hair dry and brittle. It can make it fall out in clumps. All of this way know, but medical professionals have yet to determine just what the reasons behind this are.
Some suggest that it could be the result of a build-up of toxins. As discussed on our Causes of Hair Loss in Women and our Causes of Hair Loss in Men articles, bad nutrition can play a huge role in hair loss. There are vitamins out there that can play a role in keeping your hair strong, shiny and intact, and a lack of them can have the opposite effect. So, there is a chance that Lyme Disease and hair loss could be the result of the disease damaging the way that the body processes vitamins.
It could also be related to stress, it could be related to the treatment, and to the way the bacteria responds to it. It could even be a combination of all of these things.
Lyme Disease and Hair Loss: The Cures
While the cause of hair loss in Lyme Disease is not quite clear, the ways that you can counteract it and regrow your hair is a little clearer. The first thing you should look to do is to make sure you are eating well, consuming the right vitamins and minerals and that you are avoiding stress. Take a look at our Best Hair Vitamins and our Vitamins for Hair Growth articles to find out what you should be consuming.
You can also try some supplements and shampoos. Some of these, like Keranique Hair Regrowth Treatment, contain medications that are designed to speed-up the hair growing process. There are also medications such as Finasteride, which also goes by he name “Propecia”. However, these can cause side effects and if you are recovering from this disease then you may be more exposed to them than you would usually be.
One of the best things you can do is look into some simple, safe hair growth remedies. We have discussed these many times already, but to give you a quick rundown take a look at the next section.
How to Regrow Hair After Lyme Disease
Here are some treatments that are typically used to regrow hair on your eyelashes and eyebrows, and can also be adapted for your scalp:
Aloe Vera Gel and Castor Oil: We love castor oil here on Hair Growth Pills. It is loaded with essential oils and Vitamin E. It has some anti-fungal properties as well. By adding it to the aloe vera gel you are creating a substance that can easily be rubbed on your scalp and you are also benefiting from those soothing effects.
Olive Oil: You can also add this to the aloe vera gel, or just apply it directly. Olive oil is a great lubricant and it is also full of healthy fats and vitamins. It is a natural and safe way to cleanse and soothe and may be able to help with hair growth. It is already being prescribed to treat skin conditions and have been used to clear ear wax blockages for many years.
Lemon Peel: This may sound like an odd inclusion, but it does work. If you create your own lemon peel mixture by adding the peel to olive oil and letting it sit, you can create a substance that is sticky, gloopy and perfect for rubbing on your hair. It will soothe and strengthen.
Coconut Oil: Another favorite of ours, this is popular with many users worldwide. It has found a place in countless kitchens and medicine cabinets. You can apply it directly, leaving it in and then washing it out hours later. The results should be instant, but they will increase over time. The coconut oil will nourish and protect. It will keep damaged hair away from the stresses of the outside world, allowing it time to grow back to normal.
Further Help with Lyme Disease
Looking for more information about this horrible disease and all of the damage that it can do? Then make sure you checkout the following links. These don’t focus on Lyme Disease and hair loss as we have done in this guide. Instead, they discuss the disease in more detail. They will point you towards ways that you can receive help and treatment in the United States and further afield.
Knowledge is essential and in this article we have hopefully helped you with that. But having support and guidance is also just as important and these links should be able to fill in the gaps that we have left:
Resources for Lyme Disease Support
CDC: Where better to learn about the symptoms of a disease than the Center for Disease Control? They have warned about this illness many times over the years. They are now working hard to bring down the numbers of sufferers, while helping those who have been unfortunate enough to catch the disease.
Gov.UK: Do you live in the United Kingdom? If so, then this page can help. It can point you in the right direction and allow you to seek help from the NHS. This is not as much of problem in the UK as it is in the US. But many people still catch it. What’s more, because the health service isn’t as used to dealing with it, they may be oblivious when you report the symptoms to them. So, make sure you are informed about your own symptoms so that you can keep them informed as well.
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases: This organization has a full guide devoted to Lyme Disease. It covers all symptoms (including hair loss) and helping with each and every one of them.
MedicinePlus: Another great resource, this one focuses on the available treatments for Lyme Disease. They are not as focused on hair loss and hair conditioning as we are in this article. But they encompass everything. And after all, as big of a problem as hair loss is, it’s far from the worst thing that can happen when you contract this disease.
Minoxidil for Men (Minoxidil Beard, Results, Rogaine, Side Effects,)
Minoxidil for Men (Minoxidil Beard, Results, Rogaine, Side Effects,)
By Hair Growth | March 29, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Minoxidil is an FDA approved medication that is prescribed for use in the treatment of alopecia, a form of hair loss. It is applied topically and can help with hair loss on the head and the face. Minoxidil for Men, also known by brand names like Men’s Rogaine and Rogaine for Men, is a formulation of this medication that is designed to be used by men.
In this article we will look at Minoxidil for Men in full, covering everything from results and application, to side effects and more. If you’re thinking about using Rogaine for Men or any of the generic formulas, then this is the article for you. If you’re female, then check with our Minoxidil for Women article instead.
The goal of this guide is to answer the following questions, all of which are asked on a regular basis by our readers, and the answers will be addressed here:
Can I use Minoxidil on my Beard?
How Long Before Minoxidil Begins to Work?
Why Does Minoxidil Not Work for Me?
Is Minoxidil Safe for Men?
Minoxidil for Men: How to Use
To use Men’s Rogaine or a generic formula of Men’s Minoxidil, you just need to follow the instructions on the packaging. Typically, this will involve washing your hair, applying the product and then repeating this process a set number of times a day and for a set number of months. We can’t give you the instructions here simply because they differ from product to protect. However, they will all include detailed instructions, as well as a leaflet that describes potential problems that you might encounter; the length of time that it might take for you to notice results; and what you should do if you make a mistake.
There are many formulas that use this substance and they go by many names. Rogaine for Men is one of the most popular, but there are also generic version of Men’s Minoxidil that can be bought either under other brand names like Keranique Hair Growth Treatment, or as simple, affordable solutions from Walmart, Costco and other major stores.
The application, the amount of times you need to apply it and the length of time you need to wait will depend on the brand, the concentration (Minoxidil 2% or Minoxidil 5%, for instance) and any other active ingredients that are present. So, make sure you always read those instructions and make sure you follow them to the letter.
Minoxidil for Men: Does it Work?
It does work for some men. There is no denying that. However, it doesn’t work all of the time for every single man that tries it. Rogaine for Men is something that can be very hit and miss. After all, if that wasn’t the case then there would be very few bald men in the world. They would all be taking some form of Minoxidil for Men, they would all be experiencing positive results and they’d all be walking around with a big mane of hair.
Unfortunately for those men, that’s just not the case.
The reason it works for some men and not for others is not entirely clear. The cause of baldness may have something to do with it (read our guide on Causes of Hair Loss in Men to learn more). Sometimes, there is just no hope, as sad as it is to say. The majority of failed treatments are the result of people just not following the instructions.
In many cases, they use it for a few weeks, don’t see the results they expect or want, and then give up. Some may even wait for couple months before thinking they have been throwing their money away and then giving up. Others may not be applying it correctly, washing it off too soon, or using something that stops the drug from working.
If you follow the directions to the letter, as mentioned above, then you are giving Minoxidil for Men every chance to work. It might still not work, of course. But your chances certainly increase when you use it properly and you give it plenty of time to show some results.
Minoxidil Beard?
We get asked this a lot: Can I use Minoxidil on my beard? The simple answer is yes. In fact, many users have used Minoxidil for Men to grow their beard. It helps to speed up the process. It helps to give the the beard they want without needing to wait countless months for it. In our Beard Growth and Beard Products articles we discussed many products that you can use that are 100% safe. Minoxidil for Men is not one of those, but it is certainly effective.
To use Minoxidil on your beard you should first wash your face and then start applying small drops of Minoxidil for Men to the area. Once you have finished, make sure your wash your hands thoroughly. You don’t want to end up with hairy hands.
You will need to use less on your face than you would on your head. In fact, many users of Rogaine for Men have seen results with as little as 0.5ml. This is a very small amount and means that you can stretch your formula for many months. As a result, it’s much cheaper, and because you’re using a smaller amount you may also be reducing the potential for side effects.
Of course, when you start showing off your new beard to your fully-bearded friends, you might want to omit the fact that you used Rogaine for Men to get there. Let them think that you grew it with your own manliness and then bathe in the glory of their bearded appreciation.
Minoxidil for Men: Side Effects
So, just what are the side effects for this medication? Well, many of them are actually the result of an allergic reaction, which is a very rare occurrence to say the least. If you have a reaction to it then you may experience everything from a rash to chest pains and swelling of the extremities. There are other side effects though, including:
Trouble Sleeping
Dry Skin
Headaches
Temporary Hair Loss
Overeating
Add the many side effect of allergic reactions to that list and it’s fair to say that Minoxidil for Men is not safe, at least not 100%. However, it’s important to note that these side effects are rare. The majority of users will not experience any side effects at all. In fact, the main complaint has nothing to do with side effects and everything to do with the Rogaine for Men formula not working as they thought it would.
That’s something that you have to consider; it’s a risk that you have to take. Because whether you are using Minoxidil on your beard or you head, there is a good chance that it just won’t work. If that is the case then you have just wasted a small fortune on something that didn’t do anything for you.
You might think that’s a small price to pay for the chance at getting that full head of hair or that full beard. You might think that it’s just not worth it. That’s up to you to decide. Just make sure that you don’t half-ass it. The worst thing you can do is invest big, try it for a couple months and then stop. Trust us when we say that the results probably won’t show at that point and that you need to give it time.
So, make a note of when you started, pay close attention to the bald patches that you are looking to fix; take pictures, take notes, follow instructions and then see where you are in 6 months. If nothing has happened by that point then you can start thinking that you have just wasted your money.
Best Hair Loss Solutions (Baldness Cures, Hair Growth, Eyebrows, Eyelashes)
Best Hair Loss Solutions (Baldness Cures, Hair Growth, Eyebrows, Eyelashes)
By Hair Growth | March 28, 2017 | Comments 0 Comment
Suffering from hair loss? Worried that this is the beginning of a long, difficult and depressing process that ends up with you losing all of you hair? Don’t worry, because there might be something that you can do about it. In this article we will try to help you out as we look at the best hair loss solutions available to both men and women.
FDA Approved Medication
If you are a man, then you can safely use a product that goes by the name “Finasteride” or the brand name “Propecia”. This works by reducing the amount of DHT in your body. This is the chemical that attacks your hair follicles and stops them from growing hair. By limiting the amount of DHT in your body, you can limit the amount of hair loss you experience.
This is easily one of the best hair loss solutions for men, but it has not been approved for women. There are issues with birth defects and potential hormonal problems, so women should avoid it. There is an FDA approved medication for females though and that’s Minoxidil. This is a topical solution that works over the course of many months and can help to ease hair lost through alopecia and female pattern baldness.
To learn more about this, pay a visit to our Minoxidil for Women page. You should also take a peek at our Keranique Hair Growth Treatment Page. This is a shampoo that contains 2% Minoxidil, the main active ingredient.
Vitamins and Minerals
Your hair loss may be the result of a vitamin or mineral deficiency. Therefore, one of the best hair loss solutions for you is to simply discover what this deficiency is and then make sure you get enough of that vitamin/mineral going forward.
If you are not getting enough iron, then your hair will suffer. The same may apply to Vitamin D. However, the vitamin that causes the most problems when you don’t get enough of it is zinc. This can actually cause hair loss, so if you are not consuming adequate amounts, your hair will begin to fall out. It will also become brittle and prone to breaking.
In our Best Hair Vitamins article and our Hair Growth Vitamins articles we also discuss how extra amounts of certain vitamins can work wonders for your hair. These are also discussed in our Foods for Hair Loss page, where we discuss how you can get these vitamins in their natural source.
Simply put, if you get a complete vitamin profile every day, then you are drastically increasing your chances of experiencing hair growth. A good diet and a good vitamin profit is therefore one of the very best hair loss solutions for both men and women.
Supplements
There are hair growth supplements out there and many of these can help. However, most of them just contain a bundle of vitamins and minerals that you pay over the odds for. Manufacturers basically add simple hair loss vitamins into one tablet, give it a fancy name and design, market it like crazy, and then hope you pay inflated prices for it.
If you break the ingredients down and buy them separately, some of the highest priced supplements will cost you just a tenth of their retail price. However, there are others that use rarer ingredients and specialist formulas. Such is the case with Viviscal. Typically, we would be dismissive of such products. However, this actually seems to work. Reviews are very good and the majority of people who use it seem to experience some kind of hair growth, making this one of the best hair loss solutions by far.
It might not work for you, of course. But the same can be said for everything out there. The good news is that this is relatively safe and if it doesn’t work, the only thing you have lost is a few dollars. The price is a issue that many will not be able to get over. So, it all depends on your budget and on how desperate you are. Don’t worry though as there are other options. Our list of the best hair loss solutions is not yet over.
Better Care
We’re not going to judge you for your routine, but if you are experiencing hair loss then there is a good chance you are doing something wrong. At the very least there is a chance that you could do something better. One of the best hair loss solutions is to stop the hair from being damaged or from falling out in the first place.
For this, you need to understand what the cause might be. So, be sure to check with our Causes of Hair Loss in Women and Causes of Hair Loss in Men articles. You might be able to find a cause that you can undo. For instance, if it’s hormonal, then a simple course of medication can fix it; if it’s pregnancy related, then it’s just a matter of time; if it’s related to hairstyles, then find a new style!
We’re always quick to look for an easy fix. We would rather take a magic pill and have our issues go away than work hard at getting them fixed. However, in many cases it just takes a little care and attention and the problem will resolve without the risk of side effects and without incurring a great expense.
Home Remedies
And finally for our list of best hair loss solutions, there are ways that you can speed up hair growth at home. You can use everything from castor oil to coconut oil and more to help. These are topical solutions that you apply direct to the source of the problem. They work in a number of ways depending on the ingredient, but typically they attack microbes that are limiting growth; they provide nourishment to your hair; and they soothe the scalp.
We have countless articles on DIY Hair Growth here on Hair Growth Pills, so take a look around and see if you can find anything to your liking. Just remember that these don’t work for all causes of hair loss. And if the cause is an infection, then you might be doing more harm than good by applying a product to the source of hair loss.
Posts navigation
NEWER POSTS
OLDER POSTS
Search for:
Search
Categories
Baldness Cures
Beard Growth
Dandruff
Gray Hair
Grow Your Eyebrows
Grow your Eyelashes
Hair Growth Supplements
Hair Growth Vitamins
Hair Loss in Children
Hair Loss in Men
Hair Loss in Women
Hair Tools
Mustache Growth
Uncategorized
Recent Posts
6 Amazing Stats you Didn’t Know About Hair
The Future of Regenerative and Restorative Medicine for Hair and Skin
Medications that Can Cause Sudden Hair Loss
Legal Cases Brought Against Haircare Supplements and Companies
How Much Can you Make as a Hair Stylist (Jobs in Haircare)
Directory | Terms | Privacy Policy | Contact Us
© 2019 Hair Growth Pills
{{{ success_message.replace("{name}", optin_name) }}}
<# if(elements.indexOf("image") !== -1){ #>
<# } #> <# if(optin_title || optin_message){ #>
<# if(optin_title){ #>
{{optin_title}}
<# } #> <# if(optin_message){ #>
{{{optin_message}}}
<# } #>
<# } #>
<# if( has_args ){ #>
<# _.each(module_fields, function(field, key){ #>
{{field.placeholder}}
<# }); #>
<# } else { #> <# _.each(module_fields, function(field, key){ #>
{{field.placeholder}}
<# }); #>
{{cta_button}}
<# } #>
<# } #> <# } #>
<# if( typeof group !== "undefined" && group.type !== "hidden" ){ #> <# if(group.type === "dropdown"){ #>
Please select an interest <# _.each(group.interests, function(interest, id){ #> {{interest.label}} <# }); #>
<# } #> <# if(group.type === "checkboxes"){ #>
<# _.each(group.interests, function(interest, id){ var unique = _.uniqueId(interest.value); #>
{{interest.label}}
<# }); #>
<# } #> <# if(group.type === "radio"){ #>
<# _.each(group.interests, function(interest, id){ var unique = _.uniqueId(interest.value); #>
{{interest.label}}
<# }); #>
<# } #> <# } #>
{{cta_button}}