Dealing with Male Pattern Baldness
Hairloss Blog
Dealing with Male Pattern Baldness
Male pattern baldness is a type of genetic hair loss that afflicts millions of men throughout the world. This hair loss can begin to develop at almost any age past puberty, from 16 to 70. By age 50, over half of the male population has male pattern baldness. Dealing with hair loss is especially difficult for young men.
While no one enjoys losing their hair, men in their teens, twenties and thirties can feel absolutely devastated when they realize that they are losing their hair. The way a person feels about himself, his level of confidence and self-esteem, is often largely affected by the way he feels about his physical appearance. This article contains advice to help any man who is dealing with male pattern baldness.There are only two treatments that have proved to be medically effective at treating male pattern baldness. These are the medications Finasteride (Propecia) and Minoxidil (Rogaine).
Finasteride, an oral medication to be taken daily, is available with a doctor’s prescription. Finasteride slows down or stops male pattern baldness in a majority of the men who take the drug, and some men experience significant hair regrowth while on the medication. Finasteride is much better at maintaining hair growth than it is at encouraging hair regrowth, so any man who suffers from male pattern baldness and wants to keep his hair should start taking the medication at the moment that he notices his hair falling out.
Minoxidil, unlike Finasteride, is a topical liquid that is applied to the scalp. Minoxidil may be applied twice per day, once in the morning and once in the evening. Avoid letting Minoxidil drip onto areas of your body other than your scalp, because it may cause unwanted hair growth. Minoxidil is not a miracle drug, so don’t expect to grow back all of your hair if you are completely bald, but it is one of the only treatments proven to help fight male pattern baldness.
Hair transplant surgery involves removing hairs from the back of the head, which is not affected by male pattern baldness, and applying them to balding areas. Hair transplant surgery is risky because, although in some cases it looks good, in other cases it appears very unnatural. A poor quality hair transplant is worse than being bald. Anyone considering hair transplant surgery should conduct research and find a highly qualified doctor with lots of recommendations. Study a doctor’s work and, if possible, meet with patients. Remember, getting hair transplants is a very serious decision. Even if the surgery goes well, it leaves permanent scarring.
If medical treatments are unable to grow hair back, hair systems and toupees are options. In the past, hair systems looked very unnatural, but today they can be almost undetectable. Many actors wear hair pieces. The nice thing about hair pieces is that, unlike hair transplants, they do not have to be permanent. If you get tired of wearing a piece, you can simply stop wearing it. The negative aspect of a hair piece is that it takes commitment and effort to keep your hair looking natural, and it is not cheap.Use the info gained from this article to win the fight against male pattern baldness. Good Luck!
Categorized: Men
← Five Hair Loss Prevention Tips You Need To Know
Prevent Hair Loss By Maintaining A Healthy Scalp →
Latest
Popular
Comments
Tags
Subscribe
Tips and Tricks to Help Avoid Hair Loss Today
You Can Tackle Hair Loss Naturally
Six Ways To Prevent Hair Loss
Hair Loss Remedies
Seven Helpful Hair Care Tips
Solid Tips For A Self Esteem Boost During Hair Loss
Excellent Methods Of Combating Hair Loss
Tips and Tricks to Help Avoid Hair Loss Today
Four Tips You Can Use To Combat Hair Loss
Avoiding Further Hair Loss What to Do
Dealing With Female Hair Loss
Hair Loss Tips
Five Hair Loss Prevention Tips You Need To Know
Dealing with Male Pattern Baldness
Stay up to date
Subscribe to the RSS feed
Subscribe to the feed via email
Categories
Men
Prevention
Remedies
Tips
Treatment
Women
Home
About
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© 2019 Hairloss Blog. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy · Disclosure Policy · Sitemap
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy