Breathing Techniques to Improve Lung Capacity - Allergy Asthma Blog
ALLERGY
ALLERGY TREATMENT
ASTHMA
ASTHMA TREATMENT
LIVING WITH ASTHMA
ALLERGY ASTHMA
More
AIRBORNE ALLERGIES
CHILDHOOD ASTHMA
FOOD ALLERGIES
PET ALLERGIES
Search
Home
Contact
Allergy Asthma Blog
ALLERGY
ALLERGY TREATMENT
ASTHMA
ASTHMA TREATMENT
LIVING WITH ASTHMA
ALLERGY ASTHMA
More
AIRBORNE ALLERGIES
CHILDHOOD ASTHMA
FOOD ALLERGIES
PET ALLERGIES
Home ASTHMA Breathing Techniques to Improve Lung Capacity
Breathing Techniques to Improve Lung Capacity
Share on Facebook
Tweet on Twitter
There are many breathing techniques which can increase and improve the lung capacity and volume. This will help you to store more air in lungs, increase the rate of oxygen transport in the lung tissue, you will not actually increase performance, but you would not deliver more oxygen to the working muscle faster.
Why to try breathing techniques?
Many people are benefited by practicing breathing techniques; experts have found that asthma patients have a tendency to breathe more quickly than non-asthma patients. Breathing exercises will help asthma patients to avoid and reduce potential attacks by encouraging shallower, more controlled breathing. Breathing exercise will also help them to become relaxed, more mindful the way they breathe all the times. By following these exercises you can reduce the asthma symptoms.
Develop better lung capacity with these Breathing techniques
Discussed below are the top 6 techniques, which can improve the lung capacity for asthma patients.
1. Diaphragmatic breathing
Diaphragmatic breathing is simple and basic technique which maximizes the air distribution in your lungs. Diaphragmatic breathing is also called as belly breathing. To perform this breathing exercise, lie on your back or sit in a comfortable position. Inhale slowly through your nose, by pushing your abdomen out. Exhale with your abdomen, by pulling inwards. Exhalation should be twice or more than the inhalation.
2. Buteyko breathing
To perform this sit upright, relax belly muscles and chest. Close your eyes and look up. Breathe slowly and shallow through the nose gently. Exhale very slowly until there is no air left in lungs. Hold the breath as long as you can and then return to gentle or normal breathing. Buteyko breathing technique will help you to control asthma symptoms. It reduces the rate of breathing, increase the overall volume of air taken with each breath and it also increases lung capacity.
3. Papworth Method
Similar to diaphragmatic and buteyko breathing method, but this technique is more effective for asthma patients. It works well for those that who frequently triggered by rapid breathing. But this technique will not be beneficial for those who have severe asthma, colds, allergies or any other illnesses.
4. Physical movement exercises
Physical movement exercise, as the name suggests the technique combines physical elements and breathing exercise. While doing any physical activity, focus on posture, relax, remove tension from all the muscles, concentrate on your breath and belly.
5. Yoga
Many studies have proven that regular practice of yoga can reduced asthma symptoms. While performing yoga concentrate on your breathing. Yoga is excellent for relaxation, fitness, improves lung capacity and manages asthma. Start learning basic pranayama breathing techniques and practice them regularly. Before joining yoga classes, consult your doctor and practice under the guidance of yoga instructor.
6. Pursed Lip Technique
Pursed lip technique helps to release air that is been trapped in the lungs. To perform this exercise, sit in a comfortable position or lie on your back. Inhale slowly through your nose and exhale through your lips that are pursed (pose similar to whistling).
Combination of proper medical care, medications and breathing exercises can drastically improve your ability of your lungs. Start following these techniques, from today!
More Resources:
The Top 10 Safest US Cities For Allergies
TAGS
asthma
breathing exercises
buteyko breathing
SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
tweet
Mounica
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Amazing 8 Herbs which Treat Asthma Naturally
How to Manage Acute Asthma
5 Breathing Exercises for COPD
Top 10 Asthma Inhaler Mistakes
Top 10 Essential oils for Asthma
Natural and Effective Home Remedies for Bronchitis
8 Powerful Anti-Asthma Foods
6 Tips to Manage Cold Weather Asthma
Herbs and Ayurvedic Home Remedies for Asthma
LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply
Please enter your comment!
Please enter your name here
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
Please enter an answer in digits:
14 + 10 =
Latest
All that You Need to Know About Childhood Asthma
Treating Asthma With Honey
Is It A Normal Cough Or An Allergy?
All About ANAPHYLAXIS
How to Decor your Home for Allergy Free
Top 6 Tips to Relieve Dust Allergies
Contact
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
© Allergy Asthma Zone 2018 • All rights reserved.
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();
Edit with Live CSS