Does exercise help depression? | Patient
TOPICS
HEALTH INFO
Child Health
Heart Health
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin Conditions
Travel Vaccinations
Treatment and Medication
Women's Health
View all categories
CATEGORIES
Bones and Joints
Cancer
Diabetes
Digestive Health
Eye Care
Healthy Living
Infections
Signs and Symptoms
View all categories
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
TREATMENT
MEDICINES AND DRUGS
Nervous System
Heart Disease
Infections
Inflammation
Painkillers
Skin Conditions
Muscle Pain
Eye Care
View all Medicines and Drugs
TREATMENT FOR
Migraine
Infection
Heart Disease
Depression
Epilepsy
Type 2 Diabetes
Bacterial Vaginosis
Dementia
View all Treatments
RESOURCES
TOOLS AND TESTS
BMI Calculator
Pregnancy Due Date Calculator
STI Tests
Screening Tests
Blood Tests
Liver Function Tests
Am I Pregnant?
Am I Depressed?
View all Tools
EXPLORE
Latest Features
Health Videos
About Us
Authors
Recipes
Quizzes
Try our Symptom Checker Got any other symptoms?
PROFESSIONAL
PRO ARTICLES
Bronchiolitis
Osmolality
Haemorrhagic Fevers
Relapsing Fever
Abdominal Pain in Children
Subdural Haematoma
Obesity in Adults
Depression
View all Pro Articles
MEDICAL CALCULATORS
PHQ-9
GAD-7
6CIT
GPCOG
AUDIT
CAGE
View all Medical Calculators
Upgrade to Patient Pro Medical Professional?
Community
Login / Register
Login / Register
Patient Access
Search
Health Info
Depression
Features
Save Saved
Print
Share
Email this article
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on LinkedIn
Actions
Send Feedback
Manage Notes
Can exercise really help with depression?
Authored by Abi Millar Published on: 8:30 AM 09-Apr-19
Reviewed by Dr Sarah Jarvis MBE Reading time: 5 min read
If you're dealing with depression or anxiety, you're probably aware of the recommendation to be more active. With our minds and bodies powerfully connected, physical activity can have an immediate impact on a person's overall sense of well-being.
This is due in part to changes that take place in the brain during exercise. The so-called 'runner's high' is caused by a potent cocktail of hormones - possibly including a neurotransmitter called anandamide, from the Sanskrit word for 'bliss'. On top of this, staying active is likely to boost self-esteem, serve as a distraction from negative thought spirals, and improve your quality of sleep.
Of course, exercise is no more a 'cure' for mental health problems than it is for physical ones. However, many people find that physical activity is an essential part of managing their condition.
"If you're more active there's good evidence to suggest that at most ages, for both men and women, there's a trend towards lower rates of depression," says Stephen Buckley, head of information for Mind. "In fact one study has found that by increasing your activity levels from doing nothing, to exercising at least three times a week, you can reduce your risk of depression by up to 30%."
Find an activity you like
Unfortunately, many people with depression and anxiety can face extra hurdles to getting active. For instance, you may lack confidence, or struggle with motivation. Some people take medication that drains their energy levels, while others have accompanying physical conditions that limit what they can do. On top of this, tiredness is a major feature of depression. And while exercise can, counter-intuitively, reduce tiredness, that isn't always much help for someone struggling getting out the door.
It can feel like a catch-22 situation - you need a mental boost to start exercising, but you need to exercise to get that mental boost.
For this reason, it's particularly crucial to find an activity you like and can stick to, even when it's challenging. In our Patient survey of 281 healthcare professionals, doctors said they'd recommend a wide variety of exercises for people with depression and anxiety, reflecting how personal this decision can be.
At the top of the list were gymnastics/dance/Zumba (recommended by 69% of doctors), followed by cycling (69%) and yoga/Pilates (68%). The least recommended exercises were skiing/snowboarding (43%), skateboarding/rollerblading (42%) and rugby (38%).
"It is interesting that the GPs surveyed seem to favour activities like cycling and Zumba," says Buckley. "Perhaps this is because both are flexible activities, which can be done alone or in a group, and either in a formal setting (with an instructor) or just for fun. It's clear, however, that more research is needed to help us understand if some forms of physical activity have greater benefits than others for people with mental health problems."
As he points out, while all types of exercises can bring mental health benefits, different people will gel with different activities. Mind has an online quiz in collaboration with Sport England, which suggests some possibilities and may help you feel more positive about getting started.
"A team sport might be best for you if you value a strong social element, or if you find your depression is draining your motivation. If, on the other hand, you find being with others a struggle, an activity like running might work better," he says. "Don't feel that you have to stick at something that's not working for you. There are hundreds of activities you can do and you're much more likely to keep doing it if it's fun."
Our picks for Can exercise really help with depression?
View all
Will taking antidepressants really lead to weight gain?
If you've decided to seek help for depression, and have been prescribed antidepressant drugs, ch...
4min
Will taking antidepressants really lead to weight gain?
4min
How to look after your mental health this winter
7min
What to do if you feel lonely
7min
On your bike
Cycling, which was the second most recommended activity in our survey, may be particularly advisable because it involves spending time in nature. Research has found that exercising can be as effective as antidepressants in treating mild to moderate depression - above all when you exercise outdoors.
"This recommendation from doctors adds to comprehensive evidence that there is a clear and direct link between physical activity and good mental health," says Dr Ruth Anderson, Great Britain Cycling Team lead psychologist. "Getting out on a bike for just a relatively short period of time is a fantastic way to combat the stress of everyday life and enhance your psychological well-being."
The mind-body connection
Yoga and Pilates, third on our list, are often classed as mind-body exercises, meaning they are good for both your physical and your mental health.
"The mindfulness of the movements, the breathing and the relaxation techniques are great for anyone suffering from anxiety, depression or stress," says Lynne Robinson, founder and director of Body Control Pilates and author of The Pilates Bible and Pilates for Life. "The mind and body are reunited through movement. You can work out in a safe, supportive, social environment - classes are not competitive and, most important of all, they are fun!"
Consider the risks
Unfortunately, people with mental health problems are at greater risk of developing physical health problems too (often due to having a poor diet, smoking or drinking too much). This means staying active is crucial. As Buckley explains, there is no wrong time to start exercising as long as you are physically able, with the caveat that you consider any risks.
"For example, you might be taking medication, experience anxiety or panic attacks, or be at risk of over-exercising," he says. "With this in mind it's worth taking real care when planning what type of activities you try and what routine you want to draw up. You can get additional advice on this from your GP or through sources of trustworthy advice like the Mind website."
Visit our forums
Head over to Patient's forums to seek support and advice from our friendly community.
Join the discussion
Related Information
How to support someone with depression
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT)
Do holidays help or hinder depression?
Agoraphobia
Can exercise really help with depression?
5 minutes reading time 09-Apr-19
Will taking antidepressants really lead to weight gain?
4 minutes reading time 27-Mar-19
How to look after your mental health this winter
7 minutes reading time 29-Jan-19
Hi, new here.So I registered here to find some advice about my constant dizziness. It started a couple of weeks ago when I used to get dizzy and felt like I'm on a Boat, it went away pretty quickly...
dondelon
Join the discussion on the forums
Health Tools
Feeling unwell?
Assess your symptoms online with our free symptom checker.
Start symptom checker
Disclaimer: This article is for information only and should not be used for the diagnosis or treatment of medical conditions. Patient Platform Limited has used all reasonable care in compiling the information but make no warranty as to its accuracy. Consult a doctor or other health care professional for diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions. For details see our conditions.
Health Information
Medicine directory
Community
Symptom Checker
Medical professionals
About us
Authors
Contact us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Advertise with us
Our clinical information is certified to meet NHS England's Information Standard.
Read more
Health information you can trust
Patient aims to help the world proactively manage its healthcare, supplying evidence-based information on a wide range of medical and health topics to patients and health professionals.
© Patient Platform Limited. Registered in England and Wales. All rights reserved. Patient does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Registered number: 10004395 Registered office: Rawdon House, Green Lane, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7BY. Patient is a UK registered trade mark.
Connect with us
twitter
facebook
youtube
pinterest
instagram
close
Patient.info uses cookies to improve your experience and deliver personalised advertising.
By using this site you agree to our use of cookies. You can opt out at any time or find out more by reading our cookie policy.
Accept
newnav-downnewnav-up