Tamanu Oil Benefits for Your Skin and Hair
icon-circle-arrow-up icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Tamanu Oil Benefits for Your Skin and Hair
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Holistic Health
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Aromatherapy & Essential Oils
Massage Therapy
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Holistic Health Herbal Medicine
Tamanu Oil Benefits for Your Skin and Hair
Print
By Cathy Wong | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated March 17, 2019
Show Article Table of Contents
Uses Benefits Side Effects and Safety
Where to Find It Alternatives
View All
Back To Top
Kazuo Ogawa/Getty Images
More in Holistic Health
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Aromatherapy & Essential Oils
Massage Therapy
Extracted from the nuts of an evergreen tree called Calophyllum inophyllum, tamanu oil is a remedy long used in Polynesia and Southeast Asia on the face, hair, and skin for conditions such as acne, psoriasis, and scars.
Uses
Said to reduce inflammation and destroy bacteria, tamanu oil is used topically on the skin and hair.
Tamanu oil is also touted as a remedy for the following conditions:
Acne
Athlete's foot
Dark spots
Dry skin
Eczema
Hair loss
Psoriasis
Rosacea
Sunburn
Since tamanu oil is said to alleviate pain, the oil is also used topically to relieve the pain caused by conditions like sciatica, cold sores, and shingles.
Some proponents also claim that tamanu oil can help aid in the regeneration of skin. For this reason, tamanu oil is thought to help reduce the appearance of stretch marks and scars like acne scars and keloid scars.
In addition, tamanu oil is said to promote the healing of burns, blisters, cuts, and scrapes. Some people also use tamanu oil to soothe insect bites.
Benefits
So far, research on the health effects of tamanu oil is limited. In preliminary studies, researchers have found that tamanu oil contains calophyllolide (a substance known to possess anti-inflammatory properties) and delta-tocotrienol (a form of vitamin E), as well as a number of antioxidants.
Tamanu oil has properties that moisturize your skin. Because it is rich in fatty acids, the oil acts as a barrier on the skin, locking moisture in.
Tamanu oil is often suggested for scar healing. Although it would make sense that applying an antioxidant-rich oil might help with the inflammatory changes that are part of the wound healing process, there is a lack of research (and even studies on the more established oils, like vitamin E, have had mixed results).
Side Effects and Safety
Although tamanu oil is generally considered safe when it is used topically, it may trigger allergic reactions in some individuals. If you experience itching, redness, irritation, or other adverse effects when using tamanu oil, stop using the product immediately.
People with tree nut allergy should avoid tamanu oil, as the oil is pressed from the nut of the Calophyllum inophyllum tree.
If you have a wound, proper wound care can help to reduce scars and prevent infection. Large, deep, or infected wounds should be treated immediately by a healthcare professional.
Where to Find It
Widely available for purchase online, tamanu oil is sold in many natural-foods stores. Some oil products are 100 percent tamanu oil while others are diluted with different oils such as olive oil.
In addition, tamanu oil is used as an ingredient in a variety of personal-care products, including lotions, serums, and moisturizers. Tamanu is found in many creams said to reduce the appearance of stretch marks and scars.
Alternatives
Many other natural products may provide benefits similar to the purported effects of tamanu oil. For instance, sea buckthorn oil (a substance that contains essential fatty acids and vitamin E) has been found to promote wound healing and treat eczema when applied topically. Meanwhile, neem oil (also rich in fatty acids, such as oleic acid and linoleic acid) may help treat bacterial infections and protect against insect bites.
Natural products commonly touted for their skin-improving benefits also include argan oil, an oil rich in antioxidants and essential fatty acids, rosehip oil, an oil derived from the rosehip plant and often used for scars including acne scars, tea tree oil, coconut oil, emu oil, and DMAE.
Oils rich in omega-3 fatty acids taken in supplement form include fish oil, flaxseed oil, cod liver oil, krill oil, and DHA. Other essential fatty acids, such as the gamma-linolenic acids (GLA), borage seed oil, and evening primrose oil, are often recommended.
A Word From Verywell
While tamanu oil won't cure any condition, it may help keep your skin and hair moisturized (by locking moisture in) and ease dryness, irritation, and itching.
If you have a skin condition or scar, it's a good idea to speak to your primary care provider or dermatologist before using tamanu oil to see if it's right for you.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
When used safely and carefully, many alternative treatments can make a wonderful addition to your health. Sign up to learn more about popular uses of holistic health and how to properly approach alternative treatments.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Dweck AC, Meadows T. Tamanu (Calophyllum inophyllum) - the African, Asian, Polynesian and Pacific Panacea. Int J Cosmet Sci. 2002 Dec;24(6):341-8.
Crane S, Aurore G, Joseph H, Mouloungui Z, Bourgeois P. Composition of fatty acids triacylglycerols and unsaponifiable matter in Calophyllum calaba L. oil from Guadeloupe. Phytochemistry. 2005 Aug;66(15):1825-31.
Tanaydin V, Conings J, Malyar M, van der Hulst R, van der Lei B. The Role of Topical Vitamin E in Scar Management: A Systematic Review. Aesthet Surg J. 2016 Sep;36(8):959-65.
Continue Reading
Article
The Positives and Negatives of Argan Oil for Body and Health
Article
Can Amla Oil Help Your Hair Grow Faster?
Article
What Are the Health Benefits of Jojoba?
Article
Lemongrass Essential Oil Health Benefits, Uses, and Side Effects
Article
Health Benefits of Neem Oil
Article
Health Benefits of Black Seed Oil
Article
Is Moringa Really a Miracle Food?
Article
Lemon Essential Oil Common Uses and Side Effects
Article
Health Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil
Article
Can Emu Oil Improve Your Hair, Skin, or Health?
Article
Borage Oil for Better Hair, Skin, and Joints?
Article
Is Ahiflower Oil the New Fish Oil?
Article
The Benefits of the Tropical Fruit Baobab
List
Try These Different Ways You Can Use Coconut Oil in Your Everyday Life
Article
The Benefits of Patchouli Essential Oil
Article
Health Benefits of Rose Essential Oil
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more