Hips | Real Time Pain Relief
Skip to main content
Retail Orders $75 or more get Free Shipping and a Free Gift
Log in
Create account
(0) Items
English
English Spanish
Shop
Pain Relief Products
ORIGINAL Pain Relief
MAXX Pain Relief
GENTLE Pain Relief
HEMP Oil Plus Pain Relief
VEGAN Pain Relief
FOOT Pain Relief
HAND Pain Relief
DAILY Relief Lotion
SPORTS Cream
PAIN Relieving Bath Bombs
LIP Balm
Specialty Products
Face Creams
Daily Moisturizer Cream
Restoring Night Cream
Supplements
Blend 22
Joint Support
Rejuvenate for Men
Rejuvenate for Women
Skin Care
Eczema Relief
Anti-Itch
Skin Rescue
Pet Formula
News & Info
Reviews
Updates
Tips
Top Lists
Press
Locator
Wholesale
Contact
You are here
Home / 5 Areas of the Body That Can Be Affected by Osteoarthritis / Hips
Hips
Hips
27 Jan
Hips
0 Comment(s)
Just like those with Osteoarthritis in the knees, when it is in the hips, it can be very painful and lead to debilitation. Stiffness and pain may be felt around the groin, inner thigh, and buttocks region and can even create pain in the knee area. Besides good ol’ fashioned rest and relaxation, there are other options to naturally treat Osteoarthritis in the hips. Supplements such as glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate are known to improve the symptoms of Osteoarthritis as well as Vitamins D, C, and E. Topical analgesics can reduce swelling and pain in the joints, some even contain glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate, or other anti-inflammatory ingredients. Applying cold and hot applications can help ease your symptoms. If you have a lot of swelling in the hip joints, apply ice to combat this. If your joints feel sore or achy, apply heat to the area. You can use heating pads or blankets, hot water bottles, a warm bath, and even warm towels to reduce stiffness in the area. As mentioned earlier, heat can provide more blood flow to the area, which provides more oxygen and other nutrients. Hip exercises are a great way to build strength in the hip muscles, which will then provide support for the joints. Beneficial exercises include walking, light jogging, stationary bicycling, yoga, tai chi, and water exercises. Water exercises are a great way for Osteoarthritis sufferers to strengthen muscles because, while the body is submerged in water, 50% of the pressure is relieved from the joints and the impact on the joints is reduced by 75%. These statistics make water exercise one of the best ways to strengthen muscles, prevent damage from Osteoarthritis, and also ease the pain that you may already experience. Speak with your doctor before beginning any exercise regimen, and if at any time you feel more amounts of pain during the exercise, immediately stop. Make sure you start slow with any exercise routine and work your way up to more intermediate levels.
‹ Low Back/Spine up Neck ›
Log in or register to post comments
Shopping cart
Your shopping cart is empty.
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIALS
What they say about Real Time Pain Relief
Just loving RTPR lotion for my back, legs, feet, outersides of my breast during period cramps times it always give me pain relief.
5
Average: 5 (1 vote)
Alexis H. - Nassau, United States Minor Outlying Islands
I make hard candy and one day i had it all over the counter and so i thought if i used my steam cleaner it would resolve it and not thinking i put my hand on the counter where the candy was it hurt so bad i almost passed out from the pain.
0
No votes yet
Chana Adams - Byesville, Ohio
Due to my work in the restaurant industry, I have been suffering from terrible plantar fasciitis.
5
Average: 5 (1 vote)
Cherish Hoban - Maryville, Tennessee
I received a sample of RTPR and I have a pinched nerve in my hip. If I stand too long, I have severe pain in my hip and running down my leg.
5
Average: 5 (1 vote)
Deborah H - Lorenzo, Texas
I am very skeptical about this kind of thing. We found this being sold from a booth at the flea market. Yony's (my husband) back has been bothering him pretty bad. He wanted to try it and the guy had samples so we took some samples.
5
Average: 5 (1 vote)
Shannon - Mobile, Alabama
Since I've start RTPR my hands are doing so much better. I have RA and believe me i hurt all the time. With RTPR i can do more than i was able to before.
5
Average: 5 (1 vote)
Tallie Fine - Huntsville, Texas
Submit Testimonial View All Testimonials
STAY IN TOUCH
We are always available for you. You can call us or submit a support ticket and we will get back to you!
Or, you can check us out on our social media pages. We want to hear from you!
Support Ticket
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service & Refund Policy
facebook.com/realtimepainrelief
twitter.com/realtimerelief
877-787-7180
P.O. Box 798 Cabot, AR 72023
Copyright © 2015 RTPR LLC. All Rights Reserved