Combo treatment relieves migraine, painful periods | health.am
Skip to Content
health.am
Pregnancy calendar
Your First Prenatal Visit
Pre-pregnancy Health Check
Pregnancy Week by Week
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
Pregnancy FAQ
Symptoms of Pregnancy
Diet for a Healthy Pregnancy
Foods to Avoid
Nutrition in Pregnancy
The skin in pregnancy
Diagnosis of pregnancy
Teen Pregnancy
Urinary Incontinence
Overview
Urge Urinary Incontinence
Mixed Incontinence
Bypass Incontinence
Overflow Incontinence
Stress Urinary Incontinence
Disorders During Pregnancy
Disorders During Pregnancy
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
- Preeclampsia
- Eclampsia
- Chronic Hypertension
Diabetes Mellitus and Pregnancy
- Type 1 Diabetes
- Type 2 Diabetes
- Gestational Diabetes
Postpartum Depression
Neurologic Disorders
Medical conditions complicating pregnancy
Facts About Ovulation
In Vitro Fertilization
Home Pregnancy Tests
Are You Ovulating?
Infertility Diagnosis
Secondary Infertility
Facts On Infertility
Hi-Tech Solutions for Infertility
Treating Infertility With Herbs
Acupuncture and Infertility
Birthing Alternatives
- Home Birth
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Pediatric and Adolescent Gynecology
Contraception for Adolescents
Delayed Puberty
Menstrual Irregularities
Adolescent Dysmenorrhea
Ovarian Masses
Breast Diseases
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Chronic Pelvic Pain
Ovarian Cysts
Precocious Puberty
Vulvo-Vaginal Disorders
Endometriosis
Premenstrual Syndrome
Dysmenorrhea
Vaginitis
Cervicitis
Cervical Polyps
Genital Prolapse
Uterine Prolapse
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
Menopausal Syndrome
Contraception
Infertility
Cancer Topics
Gynecologic Cancers
Cervical Cancer
Endometrial Cancer
Symptoms, Signs, and Diagnosis
Ovarian Cancer
Incidence and Epidemiology
Etiology and Pathology
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
Classification and Pathology
Cervical Cancer
Prognosis and Treatment
Ureteral & Renal Pelvic Cancers
Fallopian Tube Cancer
Renal Pelvic Cancers
Vaginal Cancer
Risk Factors
Vulvar Cancer
Cancer of the Vulva
Symptoms, Signs, and Diagnosis
Uterine Cancer
Breast cancer
Breast Cancer Overview
Breast Cancer in the elderly
Early Detection
Incidence & Risk Factors
Breast cancer news
Breast anatomy and development
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Urinary Incontinence
Contraception for Adolescents
Pediatric and Adolescent Gynecology
Gynecology news |
Combo treatment relieves migraine, painful periods
Jun 24, 2009 Viewed: 638
For women who suffer from menstrual migraines, menstrual cramps (dysmenorrhea) and other menstrual symptoms, combination therapy with sumatriptan plus naproxen may provide rapid and sustained pain relief, the results of two controlled trials indicate.
The studies also show that sumatriptan-naproxen is well tolerated, relieves nonpainful menstrual symptoms (bloating, tiredness, irritability) and reduces the need for rescue medication.
“Sumatriptan-naproxen may be targeting pathophysiologic mechanisms inherent both to migraine and dysmenorrhea,” according to Dr. Lisa K. Mannix from Headache Associates, West Chester, Ohio and colleagues.
Sumatriptan is a migraine drug sold under the trade name Imitrex. It belongs to a drug class called selective serotonin receptor agonists and works by narrowing blood vessels in the head and stopping pain signals from being sent to the brain.
Naproxen is an over-the-counter nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that works by stopping the body’s production of a substance that triggers pain, fever and inflammation. Naproxen is sold under the trade name Aleve, Anaprox and several others.
In the current issue of the journal Obstetrics and Gynecology, the researchers describe two studies in which women with menstrual migraine and dysmenorrhea were randomly assigned to headache treatment during the mild pain phase (within 1 hour of onset) with sumatriptan 85 milligrams and naproxen sodium 500 mg in a single-fixed dose formulation, or they were assigned to treatment with placebo. There were 311 women in study 1 and 310 in study 2.
The researchers report that sumatriptan-naproxen was statistically superior to placebo in both studies for 2-hour pain-free response (the study’s primary end point), which was maintained up to 48 hours.
With sumatriptan-naproxen, 2-hour pain-free rates were 42 percent and 52 percent in study 1 and study 2, respectively, versus 23 percent and 22 percent with placebo.
Two- to 24-hour pain-free rates with sumatriptan-naproxen were 29 percent in study 1 (versus 18 percent with placebo) and 38 percent in study 2 (versus 10 percent with placebo).
Pain-free rates with sumatriptan-naproxen through 48 hours were 26 percent and 28 percent in study 1 and 2, respectively, compared with 17 percent and 8 percent with placebo.
These data, Mannix and colleagues say, suggest that sumatriptan-naproxen provides both early and sustained pain relief in at least 25 percent of women with these two painful conditions.
No serious adverse events were noted in either study. Nausea and dizziness were the most frequently reported adverse events, both of which are commonly reported in migraine patients as well as in previous studies of sumatriptan-naproxen, the team notes.
SOURCE: Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 2009.
Provided by ArmMed Media
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Gynecology Headlines
Research shows efficacy of steroid use in late…
Salt intake appears to have little impact on bone…
Taming hot flashes without hormones: What works,…
24-hour OBs, midwives lead to less C-sections
Hysterectomy can be safely combined with cosmetic…
Women undergoing fertility treatment can succeed…
Data mining DNA for polycystic ovary syndrome…
The global cost of unsafe abortion
C-sections could influence babies’ ability…
Umbilical cord ‘milking’ improves…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
Gynecology And Obstetrics
Gynecologic oncology
Gynecologic Cancers
Cervical Cancer
Endometrial Cancer
Vaginal Cancer
Ovarian Cancer
Uterine Cancer
Breast cancer overview
Carcinoma of the Fallopian Tube
Cancer of the Vulva
Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors
Adolescent Girl
Adolescent Dysmenorrhea Etiology
Clinical Importance of Menstrual Irregularities
Non-Classic Adrenal Hyperplasia
Non-Tumoral Acquired Organic Lesions of CNS
Delayed Puberty Epidemiological Aspects
The Physiological Hyperandrogenism of Puberty
Adolescent Dysmenorrhea
Oligomenorrhea
Adolescent Dysmenorrhea Treatment
Neisseria gonorrhoeae
Urinary Incontinence
Which Pelvic Floor Symptoms Are Most Common After Childbirth?
Mixed Incontinence
Which Stages of Childbirth Affect the Pelvic Floor?
Checklist for a Healthy Pelvic Floor Before & After…
How Can I Prepare My Pelvic Floor, To Avoid Problems After…
Hysterectomy: A Risk Factor for Urinary Incontinence?
Why Not Request a Cesarean Delivery, to Prevent Incontinence?
Hysterectomy and risk of stress-urinary-incontinence surgery:…
Managing Urinary Incontinence
How is the Vaginal Opening Affected by Childbirth –…
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved