13 Essential Oils for Sinus Infection, Congestion, & Headaches - NaturallyDaily
Naturally Daily
Home
Essential Oil
Food
Remedies
No Result
View All Result
Home
Essential Oil
Food
Remedies
No Result
View All Result
Naturally Daily
No Result
View All Result
Home » Featured » 13 Essential Oils for Sinus Infection, Congestion, & Headaches
13 Essential Oils for Sinus Infection, Congestion, & Headaches
by Naturally Daily Team
7 months ago
in Featured, Remedies
Do you have painful headaches or facial pain with a runny nose that wouldn’t just go away?
If so, then there’s a possibility that you’re suffering from a sinus infection.
Sinusitis is the inflammation of your sinuses due to some allergen or bacteria entering your body.
Believe it or not, in America alone, about 35 million people suffer from a sinus infection or sinusitis at least once a year.
Sinuses are empty air-filled spaces inside the skull, and it could be life-threatening, if not treated quickly.
Acute sinusitis may last for 2 to 4 weeks. The conventional treatment of sinus infection includes antibiotics, decongestants, and painkillers by such medicines can bring about various side effects. (1)
Using essential oils for sinus infections and allergies are a popular form of home remedies that you may try safely.
In this article, you’ll learn some essential oil remedies to unblock your sinuses, naturally!
These are home remedies with maximum effects and no risk factors.
Inside you’ll learn:
More about sinusitis
Best essential oils for treating a sinus infection
Bonus! my personal favorite essential oil remedy for sinusitis
Various ways to use these essential oils
RELATED: 20 Essential Oils for Cough, Sore Throat and, Congestion
Getting to Know More About Sinusitis
Sinuses are empty air-filled spaces inside the skull. They have a channel to the nasal cavities with soft tissues and thin lined mucus membranes.
People with a weak immune system have higher chances of developing bacterial or fungal sinus infection [1].
A common cold or allergy can infect you with bacteria or virus and clog your nasal passage with fluids. This, in turn, can lead to swelling of the mucous membranes and tissues in the sinuses. Thus, you can have a sinus infection. (2)
The following are the symptoms of sinus infection: (3)
Congestion of nose
A runny and stuffy nose
Loss of the sense of smell
Yellow discharge from nose
A persistent cold and cough
Sinus headache
Sinus pressure around your face and nose
Fever and fatigue
The following are the causes of sinusitis: (4)
A common cold
Nasal Polyps or growths inside nasal cavities
Narrow sinus drainage ducts
Poor immune system
Top 13 Essential Oils for Sinus Infection Relief
Essential oils are volatile compounds from leaves, flowers, and fruits of certain plants. People also call them aromatic or ethereal oil, because they are the essence of individual plants.
Essential oils are rich with antimicrobial, fungicidal, antiviral and anti-inflammatory properties.
No wonder people have been using them as antidotes to all kinds of ailments for centuries. (5)
Essential oils are a great alternative to over-the-counter medications in treating a sinus infection.
Let’s learn about some top essential oils and how to use them to heal sinusitis.
1. Tea Tree Oil
Tea tree essential oil is popular for curing fungal and bacterial infections. This herbal oil is distilled from the tea tree plant. It has a pale yellow color and mothball-like odor. (6)
The antiseptic and anti-bacterial components of tea tree oil are ideal for the cure of sinusitis, coughs, chest congestion, congested nose and cold and flu.
You can inhale its steam by adding a few drops of hot water or use it like a warm bath.
Steps to follow:
Dilute some tea tree oil with a little bit of carrier oil in the ratio 2:4. You can use either almond or coconut oil.
Dab your finger in the oil solution and apply it beneath your nose. You can massage it into the sinuses too.
Rub a few drops of the solution on your forehead to relieve a sinus headache.
Repeat the process twice a day to loosen the congestion and avoid infection.
RELATED: 12 Incredible Health Benefits of Tea Tree Oil (Backed by Evidence)
2. Lavender Oil
Lavender oil is well known for a host of therapeutic properties. This favorite herbal oil comes from the evergreen foliage- Lavender, grown in Northern Africa.
This sweet-scented herbal oil is rich in anti-inflammatory, antifungal, antidepressant, antiseptic and antimicrobial properties.
These can efficiently clear the congested sinuses, relieve pain and fight off the infection.
You can inhale lavender oil to get rid of a sinus headache and clean the phlegm formed in your lungs. (7)
You can have a message with this oil, add it to your hot bath or use it as a hot compress. It will relieve you from coughs, nasal congestion, throat infection and other forms of respiratory disorders.
Below you have a steam therapy with lavender essential oil to treat a sinus infection.
Steps to follow:
Pour two cups of boiling water into a bowl.
Mix 7-8 drops of lavender oil with the water.
Cover your head with a towel as your face stands directly above the hot steam from the bowl.
Repeat the process twice a day to thin out the congestion and clear the airways.
Alternatively, mix 10-15 drops of lavender oil with your bathing water and dip in for 15 minutes. It will relax your muscles and senses and help you breathe comfortably.
RELATED: 11 Health Benefits of Lavender Oil That You Should Know
3. Pine Oil
Pine essential oil comes from the steam distillation of the foliage of pine tree. It provides a wide range of health wellness.
The antibacterial and antiseptic properties inherent in this refreshing herbal oil help to relieve sinusitis.
Its potent decongestant effect resolves respiratory difficulties that come with a sinus infection. It’s a tonic for aches and pains as well.
Steps to follow:
You can apply a few drops directly to your nasal passages and rub on both sides of your nose
It will help to unclog the mucus and phlegm of a sinus infection
4. Eucalyptus Oil
Eucalyptus essential oil has an extensive history of healing some respiratory and skin disorders in English history. Eucalyptus essential oil comes from the therapeutic eucalyptus plant or Tasmanian blue gum.
The leaves of the tree are steam distilled to extract the highly potent medicinal oil.
The high expectorant value of eucalyptus oil is especially beneficial for relieving cold, flu, sinus infection, and other respiratory problems. The herbal oil has antimicrobial effects on the microorganisms that may cause flu and other infection in the body. Let’s get to know how to use eucalyptus oil to treat sinus infection and congestion.
Steps to follow:
Pour ten drops of the oil in a diffuser and diffuse the oil into your room environment all night to soothe sinus pressure.
Alternatively, mix the oil with steamy hot water, cover your head with a towel and inhale the aroma deeply to ease sinus infections and cold.
5. Peppermint Oil
Peppermint oil comes from peppermint plants and is well known for its cooling menthol fragrance.
The organic compound-menthol makes it the ideal decongestant for treating clogged up airways, body pains, and coughs.
If you inhale it through a vaporizer, it helps to clear up the phlegm in your respiratory tract. The rosmarinic acid found in this herbal oil can also curb asthma and tuberculosis (8).
A peppermint steam therapy is the best way to deal with a sinus infection.
You should follow the directions given below.
Steps to follow:
Put in a few droplets of peppermint oil to some steaming hot water.
Covering your head with a towel, breathe in the steam.
Do this twice a day to remove congestion and promote draining.
RELATED: 12 Uses and Health Benefits of Peppermint Oil
6. Rosemary Oil
The sacred rosemary plant has a set of health benefits and culinary uses. The citrus fragrant rosemary essential oil comes from this celebrated lavender-like plant.
The study shows, rosemary oil has all the essential therapeutic properties to treat sinusitis.
The antiseptic and antimicrobial properties of rosemary oil can ward off sinus infections (9).
Steps to follow:
Blend four drops of rosemary oil with four drops of peppermint oil and make a solution
Massage your temple and sinuses to relieve headaches and nasal congestion
RELATED: 13 Health Benefits and Uses of Rosemary Oil (Backed by Evidence)
7. Clove Oil
Clove is a fragrant spice mostly used in Indian and Chinese cuisine. Over the centuries clove has been a natural anesthetic to relieve toothaches and fight bad breath.
The evergreen clove tree gives us this heavenly clove oil.
This oil is a vital ingredient in aromatherapy because of its all-around health benefits. It has versatile use in pharmaceutical and skin care industry.
Clove bud oil has antiseptic, antifungal, antimicrobial and aphrodisiac properties. This spicy and warming herbal oil is effective to relieve the congested sinuses and heal sinusitis. (10)
Steps to follow:
You can use clove essential oil without diluting it.
Take a few drops and rub directly on the sides of your nose and sinuses.
Alternatively, you can add clove oil to a diffuser for treating a chronic sinus infection.
8. Oregano Oil
Oregano essential oil comes from the dried wild oregano flowers and leaves. This therapeutic oil has a spicy aroma and golden color.
Carvacrol and thymol in oregano oil are two powerful anti-microbial properties to relieve sinusitis.
Massage and hot steam therapy are some popular methods to get the best out of this therapeutic oil for a sinus infection. (11)
Steps to follow:
Add a little bit of oregano oil to some hot steamy water in a bowl.
Cover your head with a towel and make sure to keep the steam inside.
Make sure your eyes are closed shut as you breathe-in this aromatic steam for a few minutes.
Do this twice daily and clear your nasal passages and treat the infection.
9. Sweet Basil Oil
Basil is one of the common herbs in our kitchen garden. People use this herb for all sorts of home remedies. This foliage is responsible for producing our well-known herb, Basil leaves. (12)
This spicy and sweet-scented oil is enriched with antibiotic, analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties.
It can clear congestion in your sinuses and ease your acute sinus headaches.
It also combats throat infection, fatigues, and body aches.
Steps to follow:
You can add ten drops of basil essential oil to a vaporizer. You’ll feel relief from sinus congestion or headaches in less than 10 minutes.
For quick relief from sinus pressure in your face, inhale this oil deeply from the bottle itself
RELATED: 10 No-Fail Home Remedies for Sinus Headaches & How to Use Them
10. Lemon Oil
Lemon is the storehouse of vitamin C, and people hail it as a cure-all fruit. Even the peel of lemon is remarkable. Lemon essential oil originates from the evaporative oil glands of lemon peels.
The potent anti-inflammatory components of lemon oil ease coughs and sore throat. This citrus-scented herbal oil is full of antioxidants to cure swollen glands, pains, sinus infection and respiratory difficulties. (14)
Steps to follow:
Rub a few drops of lemon essential oil on your nose and around sinuses
Inhale the oil deeply from the bottle to clear the clogged up nasal passages
Mix 7-8 drops of lemon essential oil with steaming hot water to do a steam therapy
RELATED: 10 Ways Lemon Oil Can Benefit your Health
11. Geranium Oil
Geranium essential oil is popular oil in aromatherapy for relieving some respiratory disorders. The aromatic oil comes from the stems and leaves of the geranium plants through the steam distillation process. The chief therapeutic components of the oil are alpha-pinene, menthone, linalool, myrcene, and so forth.
This complex composition of the herbal oil makes geranium oil potent source of antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and expectorant values.
Geranium oil can break down the accumulated phlegm on the respiratory tract and help you breathe easily during a sinus infection.
Steps to follow:
Take a couple of drops of the oil and apply them on the nasal entrance on either side
As you breathe, the oil will get absorbed and provide you with instant ease from the sinus pressure
Alternatively, you can place a couple of drops of the oil on a fresh handkerchief and breathe in the aroma
Repeat the treatment twice or thrice daily to get rid of a sinus infection
RELATED: 13 Easy Ways to Get Rid of Phlegm
12. Cedarwood Oil
Cedarwood essential oil is best known for treating the excessive amount of mucus produced due to sinus infection or inflammation.
The cedar wood tree is known for its antioxidant properties and research has shown that it also has pain killing and antiseptic effect.
Cedarwood essential oil, extracted from the leaves of cedar wood, helps to fight against inflammation and bacteria in the respiratory system by loosening phlegm and mucus caused by sinus.
Apart from its anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial properties, this essential oil is also known for its antiviral, antifungal, antispasmodic, sedative, tonic, and diuretic properties as well that can be used daily to treat inflammation, congestion, and other respiratory issues.
Steps to follow:
Take three two to three drops of cedarwood essential oil along with two to three drops of eucalyptus essential oil and rub into your chest as needed
By breathing in the aroma of the oils will provide relief from coughing
Alternatively, you could add this blend to your room diffuser
Repeat the treatment twice or thrice a day to observe a drastic reduction in the duration of the symptoms caused by sinus
13. Thyme Oil
Thyme oil comes from the evergreen herb-thyme belonging to the mint family. Its healing properties are anti-rheumatic, antibacterial and calming components.
There are over 300 varieties of thyme like herbs. Oil produced from each of them has different chemical properties and therapeutic benefits. Some may irritate your skin. (13)
Make sure to read the label before picking up your thyme oil. Oil from thyme linalool of France is the safest and potent agent for sinus congestion.
Steps to follow:
Add a little bit of thyme essential oil to the hot water for an ultimate steam therapy. It works like magic to dissolve sinus congestion and treat an infection.
Massage and inhalation can help relieve the headaches and sinus pressure around your face.
My Personal Favorite Essential Oil Remedy for Sinus Infection (Steam Therapy)
Combining some of the essential oils, you can make a powerful blend to beat sinusitis. You can follow the recipe that I prefer, every time I am down with a sinus infection.
You’ll need:
Thyme essential oil two drops
Peppermint essential oil three drops
Rosemary essential oil three drops
Steps to follow:
Boil water and pour it into a 5 cm deep bowl
Add all the essential oils of the recipe to the steamy water and stir well
Lean over it while draping a towel over your head and the bowl
Close your eyes and breathe the steam in through your nose and mouth
Keep inhaling as long as the water is hot and steamy
You may reheat the water for another course.
How to Use Essential Oils for Treating a Sinus Infection
Humidifier
A humidifier can add moisture to the air and help to clear your sinus congestion. Add 25-30 drops of your preferred essential oil into the humidifier before you go to sleep. A moisture-filled air with anti-inflammatory properties can give you a speedy recovery from sinusitis.
Diffuser
An essential oil diffuser works very much like a humidifier. However, it is more portable and works best in a smaller area. If you want to treat your sinusitis via diffuser; add 4-6 drops of your choicest essential oil with ½ cup of water into it. Turn on the diffuser and breathe in deeply for the maximum relief.
Bath
Nothing can be more relaxing than an essential oil bath. It can give you a wholesome relief from clogged up congestion, headaches, and fatigues that are associated with a sinus infection.
Add at least ten drops of your preferred essential oil to your hot bathing water. Soak yourself in it for 20 minutes to get rid of sinusitis.
Oral Consumption
The FDA has recommended only fennel essential oil for a limited consumption to treat sinusitis.
You can mix two drops of fennel oil with raw honey and consume the mixture for treating nasal congestion and infection.
Some Q&A
What are the best essential oils for treating a sinus infection?
Peppermint essential oil, lemon essential oil, rosemary essential oil, and lavender essential oils are the top highly recommended essential oils for treating a sinus infection.
How can we use essential oils for children?
The best essential oil for children is the tea tree essential oil. You can mix a drop of tea tree essential oil with a carrier oil such as coconut oil and use a cotton swab, gently dab the mixture on the baby’s nostrils. You can add this mixture before sleeping or after a bath. You could also use eucalyptus essential oil for congestion by adding three to four drops of the oil to the tub. This will help your baby to fight the infection as your baby breathes in the vapors of the essential oil.
What is better to use a humidifier or a diffuser?
Many people avoid using a humidifier as a humidifier prevents essential oils from easily being inhaled or absorbed by the body, and sometimes the heat in a steamed humidifier can damage the therapeutic properties of the oil. So, using a diffuser is a better option as it works great by breaking the oils in fine, minute particles by using cold air which in turn helps the essential oils to retain its potency.
Can I use essential oils for my dog with a sinus infection?
Yes, essential oils can be used for dogs suffering from rhinitis (inflammation of an animal’s nose) and sinusitis. In both cases, mucus discharge occurs. To treat dogs with such medical conditions, essential oils such as lavender, lemon, and peppermint oil can be used.
Bottom Line
Not being able to breathe through your nose properly can be a tiring and miserable experience.
Sinusitis does the same thing to you. Thankfully, your new knowledge about the essential oil for sinus infection remedies will help you deal with it. Keep essential oils by your side, and sinus infection will be at bay.
Let us know how any of these essential oil remedies might have helped you. Share your healing experience in the comment section below.
READ NEXT: 13 Efffective Ways to Get Rid of Cold That’ll Work
Pin37
Share4
Tweet
41 Shares
Previous Post
19 Effective Ways to Get Rid of Pinkeye
Next Post
15 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Herpes and How to Use Them
Naturally Daily Team
Naturally Daily Team is a group of expert researchers, writers, editors, and medical reviewers . We create high quality contents on natural health and wellness topics. You can learn more about us in our "Meet the Team" page.
Related Posts
Remedies
Pumpkin Seed Oil for Hair Fall Control: Does It Actually Work?
by Naturally Daily Team
April 16, 2019
0
Pumpkin seed oil is a vegetable oil that has gained popularity because of its healthy fats and benefits. Also known...
Read more
Remedies
How to get Coconut Oil Out of Hair
by Naturally Daily Team
April 16, 2019
0
Massaging your scalp with coconut oil is an effective method to have healthy and lustrous hair. Coconut oil contains...
Read more
Remedies
7 Substitutes for Rice Vinegar: Which One to Choose?
by Naturally Daily Team
April 2, 2019
0
Rice vinegar is a staple ingredient in Asian cuisine. It is a type of vinegar made from fermented rice. There...
Read more
Remedies
How to Get Rid of a Bruise Fast: 15 Home Remedies and Tips
by Naturally Daily Team
April 2, 2019
0
Bruises are often the results of injury or nutrient deficiencies. Skin injuries cause breaking down of blood vessels of the...
Read more
Beauty
15 Tamanu Oil Benefits and Uses with Potential Side Effects
by Naturally Daily Team
April 1, 2019
0
What is Tamanu Oil? Tamanu oil comes from the nut-like fruits of Tamanu or Calophyllum inophyllum tree. This leafy, 25-30...
Read more
Next Post
15 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Herpes and How to Use Them
15 Ways to Get Rid of MRSA Naturally
21 Simple Ways to Get Rid of Period Cramps (& How to Use Them)
RELATED
Essential Oil
Remedies
Essential Oils for OCD: Do They Really Work?
April 18, 2019
7 Sake Substitutes for Cooking That You Can Try
April 18, 2019
Essential Oils for Fibroids: Are They Safe?
April 17, 2019
Tsuga Essential Oil: 8 Potential Benefits, Uses, and Side Effects
April 17, 2019
Pumpkin Seed Oil for Hair Fall Control: Does It Actually Work?
April 16, 2019
How to get Coconut Oil Out of Hair
April 16, 2019
8 Ghee Substitutes for Frying, Roasting, & Many More
April 15, 2019
Essential Oils for Wasp Sting: How Effective?
April 15, 2019
Essential Oils for Bone Spurs: Choose The Right One for You
April 15, 2019
Blue Tansy Essential Oil: Benefits, Uses, & Side Effects
April 14, 2019
About
Privacy & Policy
Medical Disclaimer
Affiliate Disclosure
Terms and Conditions
Contact
© 2016 - 2018 Naturally Daily LLC. All rights reserved.
Naturally Daily does not provide medical advice or treatment. See Medical Disclaimer.
We provide trustworthy natural health, wellness and beauty contents for you. Reviewed by doctors, medical professionals, certified nutritionists, certified aromatherapist, and certified dietitian. Please talk to your doctor for treatment or diagnosis.
Owned and managed by Dot Digital Publishing LLC.
Home
Essential Oil
Food
Remedies
© 2016 - 2018 Naturally Daily LLC. All rights reserved.
Naturally Daily does not provide medical advice or treatment. See Medical Disclaimer.
We provide trustworthy natural health, wellness and beauty contents for you. Reviewed by doctors, medical professionals, certified nutritionists, certified aromatherapist, and certified dietitian. Please talk to your doctor for treatment or diagnosis.
Owned and managed by Dot Digital Publishing LLC.