Yoga improves the symptoms of asthma - HealthVeda
Toggle navigation
Sexual Health
Weight Loss
Yoga & Meditation
Ayurveda
Beauty & Skin
Diseases
Food & Nutrition
Healthy-Recipes
Mens Health
Yoga improves the symptoms of asthma
The deep breathing process of yoga improves the condition of asthma patients.It provides great relief from the symptoms of asthma.Asthma is a chronic disease which is controlled by regular medication advised by the doctors.There are different yoga poses that helps in improving and controlling the breadth stability of the patients suffering from asthma.
American College of sports Medicine had shown in the study that with regular practise of yoga ,the symptoms of the asthmatic patients are improved by 50%.People suffering from asthma have serious inflammation in the lungs which restrict the exchange of airways.Yoga regulates the breathing patterns and improves the function of lungs.
The yoga poses to control asthma are:
1)Cobra yoga- Any time if you feel like relieving the tension and stress and clearing your airways, face upwards in a dog pose and take deep breaths.
2)Bow yoga- Lie down on your chest and roll your leg upwards holding the ankles with both hands in upward position.Inhale and exhale slowly and be relaxed.
3)Bridge yoga- Breath out and push upwards from your tail bone and inner thighs.Hold your ankles with your arms without putting any pressure on the neck.
4)Cow yoga- Bent on your knees and hands down in sync with your shoulders.Breathe in relaxing your stomach and breathe out while you return.
5)Wheel yoga- It is to tone the back, arms and legs.Lie flat on your back,raise the knees and bring your heels towards your buttock, breathe in and bend the arms over your head and breathe out while your return to normal position.
Before practising any of the yoga poses it is necessary for asthma patients to talk to their healtha advisories. Yoga poses for asthma helps in decreasing the chronic pain, relieves the stress problem, improves flexibility, strength, and tone muscles.
“The information present here is for general purpose please consult your doctor before taking any medication/therapy”
Yoga & Meditation asthma treatment. permalink.
Post navigation
Coconut oil health benefits;beauty & health tips
Woman’s health;healthy pregnancy care tips
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Join Us & Stay Healthy
Email Address
Search Health Veda
Search for:
Recommends
Products from Amazon.in
‹ ›
Home
About
Disclaimer
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
All content unless stated otherwise belongs to HealthVeda© ( 2010-2017 )