Myths about Treating Burn Injuries | The Law Offices of Barry G. Doyle, P.C.
The Law Offices of Barry G. Doyle, P.C.
Chicago Illinois Accident Lawyers
Call us: (312) 263-1080
Home
About
Attorney Barry G. Doyle
Free Info
Library
Blog
Video
FAQs
Practice Areas
Auto Accident
Slip And Fall Accident
Work Related Personal Injury
Wrongful Death Lawsuits
Construction Accidents
Motorcycle Crashes
Trucking Accidents
Dog Bite Attacks
Lawsuits and Claims Against the CTA
Train Accidents
Federal Employers Liability Act (FELA)
Medical Malpractice
Prescription Medication Errors | Pharmacist Malpractice
Dangerous Defective Products Suits
Dangerous Children’s Products
Dangerous Prescription Medications
Dangerous Medical Devices and Equipment
What Our Clients Say
Case Results
Contact
Myths about Treating Burn Injuries
Blog Post by Barry G. Doyle
Burn injuries are all too common in the United States, and are a frequent result of accidents, including car accidents. You would think that because burn injuries occur so frequently, there would be no confusion as to how to treat them. Unfortunately, some myths persist about how to properly address burn injuries.The Right Way to Treat Burn InjuriesIf you or a loved one suffers a minor burn, here are the correct steps to take.
Place the affected area under cool running water for 5 to 15 minutes. You can also immerse the skin in cool water if you choose.
Bandage the area with loose-fitting gauze.
Take over-the-counter pain reliever to reduce pain and discomfort.
If the burn causes severe blistering, you should seek immediate medical attention.Common Burn Injury MythsChalk it up to the persistence of “old wives’ tales,” but several long-standing myths about the treatment of burn injuries may actually do more harm than good:
Applying ice to a burn. Ice is so cold that it can actually “burn” or further damage the wound.
Applying butter or oil to a burn. These substances actually trap heat in the skin instead of cooling it, which could lead to infection.
Breaking burn blisters. This does not speed healing to the burned area; rather, it leaves the skin more vulnerable to infection.
Doctors May Believe the MythsYou might think that medical personnel are well-versed in proper burn injury treatments, but that isn’t always the case. According to a recent survey of physicians, one in three doctors believed that ice was indeed a proper treatment for burns.If you believe that your burn injury was not treated properly by medical personnel, you may wish to contact a Chicago burn injury lawyer. For more information about burn injuries and how they occur, visit our library. Hiring a Chicago Burn Injury AttorneyWith serious medical issues such as burn injuries, it’s always best to consult a medical professional to help with diagnosis and treatment. During this time, recovering from your injuries should be your main focus, not dealing with insurance adjusters and escalating medical bills. Retaining the legal services of a Chicago burn injury attorney can help you focus on getting better while your attorney deals with the insurance companies on your behalf.A Chicago burn injury attorney at the Law Offices of Barry G. Doyle, P.C. will help you monitor your medical expenses and work toward a settlement to cover all of the treatments you need to get your life back on track. Contact us today for a free case evaluation – (312) 263-1080.
Thank you for reading.
Contact Us
Submit
by FormLift
Please Wait...
Success!
Something is wrong with your submission.
Practice Areas
Auto Accident
Slip And Fall Accidents
Work Related Personal Injury
Wrongful Death
Construction Accidents
New Free Book
Myths & Mistakes: How Illinois Accident Victims Wreck Their Own Personal Injury Cases
Get the book
What our clients are saying
I would highly recommend Barry to anyone seeking an attorney.
—John
I would absolutely, unequivocally say that Barry Doyle is a top injury attorney.
—Cedric McL.
Barry took the time to make me feel that my case and my feelings were important to him. He’s not your typical attorney.
—Pam
Read more testimonials
Call us:
(312) 263-1080
Locations
Chicago, IL
10 South LaSalle Street, Suite 710
Chicago, IL 60603
Phone: (312) 263-1080
Get Directions
Orland Park, IL
15255 S. 94th Avenue, 5th Floor
Orland Park, IL 60462
Phone: (312) 263-1080
Get Directions
Email Us
Submit
by FormLift
Please Wait...
Success!
Something is wrong with your submission.
© 2019 The Law Offices of Barry G. Doyle, P.C., All Rights Reserved, Reproduced with Permission Privacy Policy