What's the best way to treat a minor burn?
Sign In
Subscribe
Subscribe
Sign In
Search
Find Article Topics By First Letter
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Find Articles By Year
View all issues
Sign In/Create Account
A A
Home
Current Issue
All Issues
Customer Service
FAQ
Sign In
Subscribe
A A
Search
June 01, 2017
What's the best way to treat a minor burn?
Q: What's the best way to treat a minor burn?
A: Minor burns that are treatable at home include:
First-degree burns — A first-degree burn involves only the top layer of skin (epidermis), and signs and symptoms include red skin that may be mildly swollen and painful to touch.
Second-degree burns no larger than 2 inches in diameter — A second-degree burn involves the first two layers of skin (epidermis and dermis). Signs and symptoms include pain, swelling, intensely reddened skin, blistering and a splotchy appearance.
For these types of burns, promptly follow these steps:
With a burn caused by a chemical, make sure the chemical or any clothing or jewelry in contact with the chemical is removed. If possible, use gloves so that you don't get burned elsewhere or so that someone helping you doesn't get burned.
Put the burn under cool running water long enough to reduce pain, which may take about 10 to 15 minutes. If running water isn't available, you can immerse the burn in cool water or apply a cool, wet compress. Don't put ice directly on the burn.
Dry the area with a clean cloth and apply a sterile, lightly wrapped bandage. Don't apply ointments or butter to a burn, as these can hold heat in the skin — causing further damage — in addition to increasing the risk of infection.
If needed, take nonprescription pain medications for pain relief.
Don't break blisters if...
Subscriber Content
Interested in full access to articles like this and more?
Subscribe SIGN IN
View all our subscriber benefits
Home
Current Issue
All Issues
Customer Service
FAQ
About Us
Mayo Clinic Health Letter
200 First St. S.W.
Rochester, MN 55905
Any use of this site consititutes your agreement to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy links below.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
© 1998 - 2019 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. All rights reserved.
Not yet a subscriber?
To access the paid content on this site, please subscribe to Mayo Clinic Health Letter. You will be redirected to Mayo Clinic Marketplace to complete your order.
If you are already a subscriber, please enter your account number and zip/postal code on the next page.
Subscribe Already a subscriber?
Welcome to the new Mayo Clinic Health Letter – Online Edition
Our registration process has changed. Please create and activate a new account for Mayo Clinic online services by following these steps:
Click on the "Create Your Account" link.
Enter your profile information and submit.
Check your email and click on the activation link provided.
If you already have a Mayo Clinic account, simply sign in with your user name and password.
CONTINUE
We were unable to verify your subscription status.
Please subscribe or contact customer service.
Call: 1-800-333-9037
Email: customerservice@mayopublications.com
Subscribe Already a subscriber? I have an access code
Your subscription is due to expire soon!
Please renew your subscription now to continue receiving online access.
Renew
Subscribe to Mayo Clinic Health Letter
You will be redirected to Mayo Clinic Marketplace to complete your order.
Continue