The Benefits of Magnesium Citrate Supplements | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Supplements
The Benefits of Magnesium Citrate Supplements
Don Amerman
About the Author:
Don Amerman
Don Amerman has spent his entire professional career in the editorial field. For many years he was an editor and writer for The Journal of Commerce. Since 1996 he has been freelancing full-time, writing for a large number of print and online publishers including Gale Group, Charles Scribner’s Sons, Greenwood Publishing, Rock Hill Works and others.
Magnesium citrate is a compound of magnesium carbonate and citric acid that is marketed as a supplement to treat magnesium deficiency. Your body requires the mineral to function efficiently. The University of Maryland Medical Center recommends magnesium citrate as one of the more readily absorbable supplementary forms of this key mineral. In larger doses, magnesium citrate also acts as a laxative. Magnesium may interfere with certain medications such as heart medicines, antacids, antibiotics and some diabetes medications. Consult your doctor before you self-treat with magnesium citrate or any other supplement.
Magnesium citrate is found in citrus fruit. (Image: Дарья Петренко/iStock/Getty Images)
Maintains Healthy Magnesium Levels
Magnesium is a very important mineral in the human body. (Image: Edi_Eco/iStock/Getty Images)
The Office of Dietary Supplements, or ODS, a branch of the National Institutes of Health, says magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in your body. Roughly half of the body’s magnesium is in bones and teeth, while the other half resides in the cells of body tissues and organs. The mineral plays a central role in more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body, maintaining normal nerve and muscle function, supporting a healthy immune system and keeping your heart beat steady. Magnesium also plays a part in protein synthesis and energy metabolism and helps regulate blood pressure and blood glucose levels. Magnesium deficiencies are uncommon but can occur if your diet contains low levels of foods rich in the mineral or if you are suffering from certain medical conditions, most notably intestinal disorders that cause vital nutrients to be flushed from your body. Adult women should consume between 310 and 320 milligrams per day, while men should consume between 410 and 420 milligrams per day.
Helps Relieve Migraines
Magnesium may help to relieve migraines. (Image: Image Source White/Image Source/Getty Images)
A team of Turkish researchers conducted a small-scale clinical study to evaluate the efficacy of magnesium citrate in the treatment of migraine without aura, which is the most common form of migraine. The team assembled a group of 40 patients, each of whom experienced an average of two to five migraine attacks monthly. Thirty patients received oral doses of 600 milligrams magnesium citrate daily for a three-month treatment period; the other 10 patients got placebo. Patients who received magnesium citrate reported a significant decrease in the frequency and intensity of migraine attacks, compared with those in the placebo group. Researchers published their findings in the June 2008 issue of “Magnesium Research.”
Eases Nighttime Leg Cramps
Magnesium may help to relieve nighttime leg cramps. (Image: monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images)
Researchers in the Department of Geriatric Medicine at England’s Keele University conducted a study to assess the effectiveness of magnesium citrate as a treatment for nocturnal leg cramps. The conventional treatment for such cramps is quinine, which has a number of unpleasant side effects. The study team recruited volunteers who regularly experienced leg cramps. Researchers started one group of volunteers on placebo and later switched them to daily supplements of magnesium citrate containing the equivalent of 300 milligrams of magnesium. This group reported a median number of nine cramps while on placebo and only five on magnesium citrate. In an article published in the May 2002 issue of “Medical Science Monitor,” researchers said their findings indicate magnesium may be effective in treating leg cramps and urged further study.
Bowel-cleansing Properties
Ask your doctor is you should supplement with magnesium citrate. (Image: AndreyPopov/iStock/Getty Images)
Radiologists at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health compared the effectiveness of magnesium citrate and sodium phosphate in cleansing the bowel prior to computed tomographic, or CT, colonography. Although both substances were equally effective in colonic cleansing, the magnesium citrate achieved fluid attenuation values that were closer to optimal. Researchers published their findings in the January 2010 issue of “Radiology.”
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
University of Maryland Medical Center: Magnesium
Office of Dietary Supplements: Dietary Supplement Fact Sheet: Magnesium
Magnesium Research: The Effects of Magnesium Prophylaxis in Migraine Without Aura
Medical Science Monitor: Randomised, Cross-over, Placebo Controlled Trial of Magnesium Citrate in the Treatment of Chronic, Persistent Leg Cramps
Radiology: Bowel Preparation for CT Colonography: Blinded Comparison of Magnesium Citrate and Sodium Phosphate for Catharsis
Medline Plus: Magnesium
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
What Are the Health Benefits of Magnesium Carbonate?
2
Magnesium Dosage & Weight Loss
3
Pros & Cons of Magnesium Supplements
4
Potassium, Magnesium & the Menstrual Cycle
5
What Is Magnesium Aspartate?
6
Signs and Symptoms of Too Much Magnesium
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.