Can evening primrose oil induce labor? Safety and use
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Can evening primrose oil help induce labor?
Last reviewed	 Mon 1 October 2018	 Last reviewed	Mon 1 Oct 2018
By Zawn Villines
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
What is evening primrose oil?
Can it induce labor?
Safety
Other natural ways to induce labor
Summary
Some people use evening primrose oil as a natural remedy for inducing labor. But does it work, and is it safe?
The final weeks of pregnancy can be difficult. Backaches, sleepless nights, exhaustion, and a desire to finally hold the baby can all inspire people to seek help from natural remedies.
Lots of people advocate the use of evening primrose oil as a natural remedy for inducing labor. As a result, it is difficult to spend time on pregnancy forums without seeing a recommendation for its use.
Though anecdotes from friends, internet forums, and natural health gurus may promise that evening primrose oil can start the process of labor, scientists and doctors are not so sure. According to a 2018 clinical trial, there is no clear evidence that evening primrose oil can induce labor.
In this article, we look at how people use evening primrose oil for inducing labor, what the research says, and other natural methods that may help.
What is evening primrose oil?
Many forums recommend evening primrose oil as a natural remedy to induce labor.
Evening primrose oil comes from the evening primrose plant, known as Oenothera biennis. It is native to North America and Europe, and the plant's yellow blossoms open at night.
Evening primrose oil is a popular folk remedy. Traditional societies and practitioners of herbal medicine have used this oil to help with many health concerns, including breast pain, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), eczema, and the symptoms of menopause.
Researchers have conducted some studies on the health benefits of evening primrose oil. So far, there is no high-quality evidence to support its use.
Can evening primrose oil help to induce labor?
In folk medicine, pregnancy support groups, and online chat rooms, many people claim that evening primrose oil can start labor, either by inducing contractions or helping to soften and thin the cervix.
Some people may find that this method works for them, but scientific research has not shown that evening primrose oil has any substantial effect on how quickly someone goes into labor. More research is needed to know for sure if evening primrose oil works.
Some research studies have looked at the effects of evening primrose oil during labor, with the following results:
A 2012 literature review found no evidence that evening primrose oil helped to induce labor. According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), evening primrose oil may even increase pregnancy complications.
A 2018 randomized clinical trial followed 40 women who used evening primrose oil and 40 who used a placebo. The researchers found no differences between the groups in the length of labor, or in the number of complications.
A 2016 study found that evening primrose oil, combined with vitamin D, might improve symptoms of gestational diabetes. It is unclear how this may work. More research that compares using evening primrose oil with standard treatments could help women decide which treatment option is right for them.
The current body of research suggests that more evidence is needed before people use evening primrose oil as a natural labor induction option.
Why and how do doctors induce labor?
In this article, we take a look at the ways people can induce labor, including natural methods and medical techniques.
Read now
Is evening primrose oil safe to use?
Evening primrose oil may be unsafe for birth via cesarean delivery.
The NIH state that evening primrose oil may increase the risk of bleeding in people who are taking a blood-thinning medication called warfarin. This could mean it also increases the risk of hemorrhage during birth. It could also endanger people who give birth via cesarean delivery.
No formal studies have assessed what dosage, if any, is safe during pregnancy or breastfeeding. This means that even if evening primrose oil does improve pregnancy or labor outcomes, there are no current guidelines about how much people should use for an effective dose.
Though evening primrose oil may be safe for most women, there is no evidence to suggest that anyone needs to use this natural remedy. There are other methods to induce labor, and those who have gestational diabetes may find greater relief from more mainstream treatments, such as dietary changes and insulin therapy.
Other natural ways to induce labor
It is important to speak with a doctor or midwife before trying to induce labor.
People can try various natural remedies in the last stages of pregnancy to help induce labor. Many traditional remedies have not yet been tested scientifically, so their effectiveness is not yet known.
However, any drug, food, or herbal remedy a woman uses to induce labor can affect the baby. It is therefore essential to look at a range of research and talk to a doctor or midwife before trying to induce labor.
Some natural strategies that may help induce labor include:
Nipple stimulation: Nipple stimulation, either with the hands, as part of foreplay with a partner, or using a breast pump, may help to induce labor. Stimulating the nipples or breasts releases oxytocin, which plays a vital role in labor. A 2015 study suggests that nipple stimulation could reduce the length of each stage of labor.
Having sex: Limited research suggests sex or orgasms may induce labor, or at least improve childbirth outcomes. The results of a small-scale 2014 study indicate that some Cameroonian women who had sex late in pregnancy had better birth outcomes.
Traditional remedies for which the evidence is limited or contradictory include:
herbal remedies, such as red raspberry leaf tea
specific foods, such as spicy food or sushi
exercise
acupuncture
aromatherapy with specific herbal preparations
Castor oil, like evening primrose oil, may not be effective. A 2012 literature review suggests it may increase the risk of complications. According to the same report, blue cohosh may also be harmful.
Summary
Herbal remedies, such as evening primrose oil, can be a tempting option for women who want a safe and speedy labor, especially if they want to avoid surgical birth or medical interventions.
But natural remedies can be just as risky as taking medications. They are also less well-tested, and the government does not control quality or regulate herbal supplements. There is little reason for women to choose evening primrose oil, particularly when safer options are available.
Further research may shed more light on the safety and effectiveness of evening primrose oil. Until such research becomes available, people should be cautious.
Doctors and midwives will be able to help women decide which natural and medical remedies to try when aiming to induce labor.
Related coverage
What to know about membrane stripping Membrane stripping is a method of inducing labor. During the procedure, a doctor will use a gloved hand to sweep inside the cervix. This releases natural chemicals that help soften the cervix. It is generally very safe and can increase the likelihood of spontaneous labor. Learn more about membrane stripping here. Read now
What to know about Foley bulb induction A Foley bulb induction is when a doctor inserts a small balloon into the cervix to help it dilate faster. Foley bulb induction is one of many ways to induce labor. There are few side effects and the procedure is safe for most women. Learn more about the procedure, benefits, and risks. Read now
How can people speed up dilation? When the cervix dilates to a certain extent, this is one sign that a baby is ready to be born. Dilation is usually gradual, and there are many ways to encourage it, including sexual stimulation, laughing, and using an exercise ball. In this article, learn how to promote dilation before and during labor. Read now
Does nipple stimulation help to induce labor? Many people believe that stimulating the nipples can help to induce labor. Nipple stimulation causes the release of a hormone that triggers uterine contractions. However, there is no scientific evidence to show that this leads to true labor. Learn about nipple stimulation and other home remedies to induce labor here. Read now
Cervical dilation through the stages of labor Between the early stages of labor to the point of delivery, the cervix opens up from a tight, closed hole to an opening the size of a large bagel. With the aid of a cervix dilation chart, we take a look at what these cervix sizes look like. The article also looks at what people can expect at each stage of labor. Read now
email email
print
share share
Pregnancy / Obstetrics
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Mon 1 October 2018.
Visit our Pregnancy / Obstetrics category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Pregnancy / Obstetrics.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Bovbjerg, M. L., Evenson, K. R., Bradley, C., & Thorp, J. M. (2014, Summer). What started your labor? Responses from mothers in the third pregnancy, infection, and nutrition study. The Journal of Perinatal Education, 23(3), 155–164. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4210668/
Demirel, G., & Guler, H. (2015, October). The effect of uterine and nipple stimulation on induction with oxytocin and the labor process. Worldviews on Evidence-Based Nursing, 12(5), 273–280. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26444882
Evening primrose oil. (2016, November 30). Retrieved from https://nccih.nih.gov/health/eveningprimrose
Foumane, P., Mboudou, E. T., Sama, J. D., Baba, S., Mbatsogo, B. A., & Ngwana, L. (2014, September). Sexual activity during pregnancy and prognosis of labor in Cameroonian women: A cohort study [Abstract]. The Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine, 27(13), 1305–1308. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24134484
Hall, H. G., Mckenna, L. G., & Griffiths, D. L. (2012, September). Complementary and alternative medicine for induction of labour. Women and Birth, 25(3), 142–148. Retrieved from https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S187151921100028X
Jamilian, M., Karamali, M., Taghizadeh, M., Sharifi. N., Jafari, Z., Memarzadeh, M. R., … Asemi, Z. (2016, March). Vitamin D and evening primrose oil administration improve glycemia and lipid profiles in women with gestational diabetes [Abstract]. Lipids, 51(3), 349-356. Retrieved from https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11745-016-4123-3
Kalati, M., Kashanian, M., Jahdi, F., Naseri, M., Haghani, H., & Sheikhansari, N. (2019, February 9). Evening primrose oil and labour, is it effective? A randomised clinical trial [Abstract]. Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 38(4), 488–492. Retrieved from https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/01443615.2017.1386165?journalCode=ijog20
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Villines, Zawn. "Can evening primrose oil help induce labor?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 1 Oct. 2018. Web.
19 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323216.php>
APA
Villines, Z. (2018, October 1). "Can evening primrose oil help induce labor?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323216.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Could this brain stimulation technique reverse memory decline?
New research examines the effect of a noninvasive brain stimulation technique called transcranial magnetic stimulation on age-related memory decline.
Seaweed extract may help design new drugs
Drug resistance is a large and growing problem. On the hunt for fresh sources of drugs, scientists have turned to the seaweed in underwater forests.
Popular in: Pregnancy / Obstetrics
What are the signs of having a girl?
Which fruits should you eat during pregnancy?
What to expect at 5 days past ovulation (DPO)
What do different colors of discharge mean in pregnancy?
Early pregnancy symptoms by days past ovulation (DPO)
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323216.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);