Athlete's Foot, Fungal Infections and Treatments Available
Home > Foot, Hand & Nail Hygiene > Athlete's Foot, Fungal Infections and Treatments Available
Athlete's Foot, Fungal Infections and Treatments Available
By: Jo Johnson - Updated: 24 Aug 2014 | *Discuss
Tweet
Athlete’s foot is a fungal infection of the feet. Sometimes called ringworm (though there are no actual worms present) it can affect anyone, though is more common in teenagers and young adults. Definite incidence rates are difficult to determine as GP’s are often unaware of who has had athlete’s foot so auditing of this condition is tricky.
It is a highly contagious disorder and can be transmitted from either direct or indirect contact, and cross infection of both feet is highly likely.
Occasionally athlete’s foot can be passed onto the hands and present with the same symptoms of itchiness, redness and sometimes a rash between the toes.
Treatments
Using towels that are kept separate from anyone else’s, wash and dry the feet twice a day, paying particular attention to thorough drying techniques.
Many supermarkets and chemists stock a variety of creams, sprays and powders that treat athlete’s foot, with all products containing anti-fungal ingredients that aim to kill the fungal spores. Many will require constant treatment for up to six weeks, so please persevere.
It is very important to remember to wash your hands thoroughly after applying the lotions, to avoid transmitting the infection to other areas of the body; again use a separate towel.
Some creams may contain steroids which should be avoided for treatment of young children, those who are pregnant or breast-feeding without prior consultation with your GP. If you have an existing illness that has decreased your immune or circulatory systems, or if you have diabetes (especially uncontrolled), it is very important to treat quickly to prevent deterioration of the health of the feet.
Complementary therapy may prove useful as experts suggest a footbath containing a few drops of tea tree or geranium oil may help treat this condition.
If these treatments do not seem to be working, please seek advice from your GP as oral anti-fungal medications may be required, or there may be another cause for the symptoms.
Prevention of Athlete’s Foot
Always ensure that you dry between your toes after bathing or showering as fungal infections thrive on small, warm and moist areas.
Keep other aspects of personal hygiene up-to-date by changing socks at least once a day, changing bed-linen at appropriate intervals and by keeping toe nails short and clean.
Try to avoid the prolonged wearing of tight shoes, especially those that are made of synthetic materials as this increases the risk of developing athlete’s foot.
Avoid walking in bare feet around swimming pools and the like, as these environments are a huge source of fungal infections as they provide a perfect setting for fungal spore growth.
Take your shoes off when you can and allow them to rest, relax and dry out by permitting the circulation of air. Spend time with bare feet when possible, so long as there is no risk of infection from others in the household.
If a fellow housemate is known to have athlete’s foot, never share towels, flannels, socks or shoes with them until you know they are free of all infection.
If you are the sufferer of athlete’s foot, prevent further infections by treating promptly as bacteria will enjoy the environment of the fungal infection and breed quickly causing a different infection.
Previous Page
Next Page
You might also like...
Fungal Nail Infection
Hand Washing
Smelly Feet
The Importance of Foot Care
Treating and Preventing Dry Skin
Share Your Story, Join the Discussion or Seek Advice..
Thank you for the information. It was very helpful.
Kim Dunlap - 24-Aug-14 @ 8:57 PM
Share Your Story, Join the Discussion or Seek Advice...
Title:
Miss Ms Mrs Mr Dr Rev'd Prof. Other
(never shown)
Firstname:
(never shown)
Surname:
(never shown)
Email:
(never shown)
Nickname:
(shown)
Comment:
Validate:
Enter word:
Ask Our Experts
Teenager Has Bad Hygiene Habits: How Can I Help Him?
Cleanliness
Body Odour
Care of Body Piercings
Conditions Affecting Personal Hygiene Maintenance
Hygiene When Travelling
Washing and Bathing
Eye & Ear Hygiene
Combating Itchy Ears
Conjunctivitis
Correct Ear Cleaning
Ear Canal Irrigation
Ear Candle Therapy
Ear Care and Wax Build Up
General Eye Care
How to Maintain Healthy Ears
What is Glue Ear?
Foot, Hand & Nail Hygiene
Athlete's Foot, Fungal Infections and Treatments Available
Foot Care: Chiropody
Fungal Nail Infection
Hand Washing
Nail Care and Hygiene
Smelly Feet
The Importance of Foot Care
Treating and Preventing Dry Skin
Genital Hygiene
Coping With Trimethylamine: Fish Malodour Syndrome
Fungal Infection: Thrush
Maintaining Genital Hygiene
Menstrual Hygiene
Sexually Transmitted Diseases and Illnesses
Urinary Tract Infections
Head & Hair Hygiene
Dealing with Dandruff
Greasy Hair
Hair and Scalp Care
Hair Removal
How to Keep Dreadlocks in Healthy Condition
How to Maintain Healthy Hair When Travelling
How to Treat Folliculitis
How to Treat Head Lice
Hygiene and Hair Loss
Scalp Care for Bald Heads
Hygiene & Animals
How to Clean Your Pet's Ears
How to Ensure Your Pet Stays Healthy and Clean
Hygiene and Exotic Pets
Keeping a Pet Health Check-up Diary
Petting Zoos and Hygiene
Teaching Your Children Animal Hygiene
The Importance of Hygiene Around Pets
Hygiene & Health
Hygiene and Hospitalisation
Infection Control
Personal Hygiene and Head Colds
Personal Hygiene and Surgical Procedures
Preventing Scabies
Worms
Wound Care
Hygiene Basics
Personal Care Using Natural Products
Personal Hygiene and Food Preparation
Personal Hygiene Using Green Products
The Importance of Good Personal Hygiene
What is Personal Hygiene?
Kids & Personal Hygiene
Caring for Baby Dry Scalp
Combating Poor Hygiene in Teens
Hygiene and Potty Training
Importance of Good Hygiene in Children
Infant & Newborn Hygiene
Oral Hygiene and Infants
Personal Hygiene and Threadworms
Teaching Children About Hygiene
Kitchen Hygiene
How to Prevent Salmonella
Hygiene Tips When Food Recycling
Raw Food Hygiene
Oral Hygiene
Bad Breath
Dental Cavities
General Oral Care
Gingivitis
The Importance of Regular Dental Check Ups For Oral Hygiene
Skin & Hygiene
Is Skin Bleaching Safe?
Managing and Preventing Eczema
Preventing Acne
Psoriasis
The Benefits of Exfoliation
Treating Acne
Treating and Preventing Dry Skin
Your Skin Care Routine-Can Your Skin Be Too Clean?
Surgical Hygiene
Assisting a Dependent Person with Their Hygiene Needs
Condensation and Damp Prevention
Dealing With Powdery Mildew
Hair Removal for the Surgical Patient
Hygiene Issues for the Debilitated Patient
Kitchen Mould: Prevention and Removal
Maintaining your Dignity Whilst in Hospital
Post-operative Hygiene and Wound Care
Pre-operative Hygiene
Preventing a Post-surgical Infection
Removing Mildew from Furnishings
Site Information
About Our Site
Contact Us
Cookies Policy
Disclaimer Notice
Discussions Guidelines
Guidelines for Submitting Comments
IP & Copyright Notice
Link To Us
RSS News Feed
Tell Us Your Story
Terms of Use and Privacy Notice
Use Our Content
Readers Comments