Physical Therapy for Hip Osteoarthritis Video | Arthritis-Health
Skip to main content
Spine-health.com Sports-health.com
Arthritis Types
Living with Arthritis
Treatment
Surgery
Forums
Arthritis Types
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Bursitis
Fibromyalgia
General Arthritis
Gout
Juvenile Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
Polymyalgia Rheumatica
Pseudogout
Psoriatic Arthritis
Reactive Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Living with Arthritis
Chronic Pain
Coping with Fatigue
Managing Depression
Treatment
Alternative Treatments
Arthritis Specialists
Diet and Nutrition
Exercise
Injections
Joint Aspiration
Medications
Surgery
Hip Surgery
Knee Surgery
Shoulder Surgery
Forums
All Forums
Alternative Treatments Forum
Chronic Pain Forum
Exercises Forum
Medications Forum
Osteoarthritis Forum
Rheumatoid Arthritis Forum
Surgery Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find an Arthritis Center
Videos
Free Newsletters
You are here
Video
Physical Therapy for Hip Osteoarthritis Video
Physical Therapy for Hip Osteoarthritis Video
The goal of physical therapy for treating hip osteoarthritis is to reduce the pressure that causes the pain and inflammation in the hip joints by strengthening and stretching the surrounding muscles. Apart from the changing the biomechanics, a physical therapy program may also include passive modalities that aim toward treating the joint inflammation.
share pin it Subscribe
Video presented by Grant Cooper, MD
This video accompanies the article: What Is Hip Osteoarthritis?.
Video Transcript
There are two major components to treating hip osteoarthritis. The first is taking away the inflammation from the joint to alleviate the pain; the other is to make sure we address the biomechanics to take the pressure off the hip so that the inflammation does not return. This generally begins with exercise – with physical therapy, with stretching, with strengthening. We’re looking at the entire kinetic chain, making sure that if the person hyperpronates in their feet – if they have flat feet, that gets corrected with either a custom or over-the-counter orthotic.
We’re looking at the entire gait cycle to make sure that the biomechanics are as good as possible. Along the way with physical therapy and exercises, sometimes we give oral medications in order to help with the pain of osteoarthritis. It is not going to fix the hip osteoarthritis, but it can help alleviate the symptoms while we’re going about addressing the biomechanics. Within physical therapy, there are a number of passive modalities like ultrasound, soft tissue massage, and TENS units, which help to alleviate the symptoms in the moment and also ideally help to alleviate some of the inflammation in the joint.
An Arthritis-health.com Video
Video presented by Grant Cooper, MD
Editor's Top Picks
Weight Loss for Hip Osteoarthritis Video
Video: Should I Exercise Through Joint Pain?
Exercising with Arthritis
What Is Osteoarthritis?
Hip Pain and Arthritis
Video: What Helps and What Worsens Hip Arthritis Pain?
advertisement
Treatment Topics
Treatment
Alternative Treatments
Exercise
Injections
Joint Aspiration
Specialists
advertisement
Health Information (Sponsored)
Arthritis Resources
Become a Doctor Member
Glossary
Image Gallery
Find a Joint Pain Specialist
Find an Arthritis Center
Sign up for our Newsletter
About Arthritis-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Spine-health
Sports-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Arthritis-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding arthritis and arthritis related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
version.2019.01.051-2019.01.019