World Hair Research» Blog Archive » About Selenium
World Hair Research
Searching for truth all over the world! Hair loss is not just a cosmetic issue!
« About Spirulina
Intro to Hypothyroidism Symptoms and Treatment »
About Selenium
Selenium and Methylselenocysteine
Selenium is an essential trace mineral that is essential for life. It is also a toxic metal when consumed in excess. Selenium is required to activate various key enzymes, including the antioxidant glutathione peroxidase, the metabolic enzyme thioredoxin reductase, and the thyroid-hormone-activating enzyme iodothyronine deiodinase. Food sources of selenium include brazil nuts, yeast, whole grains and seafood. Selenium content of food is dependent on selenium content in the soil and both are highly variable.
Selenium: The Anticancer Mineral
Epidemological studies recognized a connection between cancer incidence and low levels of selenium in the blood as early as 1969. Researchers noted that breast cancer rates were low in areas where selenium levels in the soil and food were high and high in areas where selenium levels were low. The same correlation was found between death rates and selenium levels. Similar correlations were subsequently found in animal studies.
Helps in treatment and prevention of dandruff. Necessary for healthy hair and nails. May also increase the elastic youthfulness of the skin and be helpful in removing age spots. When ingested in the natural algae form of selenomethionine, skin cancer incidence from ultraviolet light may also be reduced.
Selenium (Se) is an essential trace element that functions as a component of enzymes involved in antioxidant protection and thyroid hormone metabolism. In several intra- and extra-cellular glutathione peroxidases, iodothyronine 5н-deiodinases, and in thioredoxin reductase, selenium is located at the active centers as the selenoamino acid, selenocysteine (SeCYS). At least two other proteins of unknown function also contain SeCYS. Although SeCYS is an important dietary form, it is not directly incorporated into these specific selenium-proteins; instead, a co-translational process yields tRNA-bound SeCYS. In contrast, selenium as seleno-methionine is incorporated non-specifically into many proteins, as it competes with methionine in general protein synthesis. Therefore, tissues often contain both specific, as well as the nonspecific, selenium-containing proteins when both SeCYS and selenomethionine are consumed, as found in many foods.
IMPORTANCE: A major antioxidant nutrient, protects cell membranes and prevents free radical generation thereby decreasing the risk of cancer and disease of the heart and blood vessels. Medical surveys show that increased selenium intake decreases the risk of breast, colon, lung and prostate cancer. Selenium also preserves tissue elasticity; slows down the aging and hardening of tissues through oxidation; helps in the treatment and prevention of dandruff.
Deficiencies: Selenium deprivation reduces activities of the selenium-dependent enzymes. The signs in animals depend upon vitamin E status and appear only when both nutrients are limiting. They vary according to species. For example, selenium- and vitamin E-deficient animals show myopathies of skeletal (e.g., sheep, cow, horse), cardiac (pig) or smooth (dog, cow) muscle; hepatic necrosis (rat, pig); increased capillary permeability (chicken); or pancreatic acinar degeneration (chicken). Characteristic signs of selenium deficiency have not been described in humans, but very low selenium status is a factor in the etiologies of a juvenile cardiomyopathy (Keshan Disease) and a chondrodystrophy (Kashin-Beck Disease) that occur in selenium-deficient regions of China. May result in premature aging, heart disease, dandruff, loose skin.
Diet recommendations: The Recommended Dietary Allowances are in µg/day: 0-0.5 yrs, 10; 0.5-1.0 yrs, 15; 1-6 yrs, 20; 7-10 yrs, 30; males 11-14 yrs, 40; females 11-14 yrs, 45; males and females 15-18 yrs, 50; adult males, 70; adult females, 55; pregnancy, 65; and lactation, 75.
Food sources: The most important sources in American diets are meats, fish and grains. Brazil nuts can have relatively high selenium concentrations. Foods of low protein content, including most fruits and vegetables, provide little selenium. Food selenium is absorbed with efficiencies of 60-80%; the greatest factor affecting the utilization of food selenium is its chemical form.
In humans, it has been observed that a 200 mcg daily supplement given for four years led to a significant reduction in cancer deaths and reduction in the incidence of prostate, lung, colorectal and some types of skin cancer. The control group received 85 mcg per day in their diet. It has also been observed that the known selenoenzymes are saturated with 90 mcg daily of selenium. This indicates that an additional anticancer mechanism is in play in addition to the antioxidant activity of selenium.
Selenium and heart disease
Epidemiological data suggests an association between lower antioxidant intake and a greater incidence of heart disease. Evidence also suggests that oxidative stress from free radicals may promote heart disease. It is the oxidized form of low-density lipoproteins (LDL) that promotes plaque build-up in coronary arteries. Selenium is one of a group of antioxidants that may help limit the oxidation of LDL cholesterol and thereby help to prevent coronary artery disease.
Selenium and Arthritis
Epidemiological data indicates that individuals with rheumatoid arthritis have reduced selenium levels in their blood. The body’s immune system naturally makes free radicals that can help destroy invading organisms and damaged tissue, but that can also harm healthy tissue. Selenium, as an antioxidant, may help to relieve symptoms of arthritis by controlling levels of free radicals.
Recommended Daily Intake of Selenium:
The Institute of Medicine has established a Recommended Dietary Intake for selenium. The RDA is the average daily intake that the Institutes of Medicine believe is sufficient for the nutrition needs of approximately 97% of the population.
* Children 1-3 years – 20 mcg
* Children 4-8 years – 30 mcg
* Children 9-13 years – 40 mcg
* Males 14-18 – 55 mcg
* Females 14-18 – 55 mcg
* Males 19+ – 55 mcg
* Females 19+ – 55 mcg
* Males 50+ – 55 mcg
* Females 50+ – 55 mcg
* Pregnant females – 60 mcg
* Lactating females – 70 mcg
The Institute of Medicine has also established upper tolerable intake levels for selenium. Those levels are established for supplements that carry a risk of toxicity at high levels. While selenium toxicity is rare, there is a condition called selenosis that results from excessive levels of selenium in the blood. The established upper levels for selenium are:
* Children 1-3 y – 90 mcg
* Children 4- 8 – 150 mcg
* Children 9-13 – 280 mcg
* Males 14-18 – 400 mcg
* Females 14-18 – 400 mcg
* Males 19+ – 400 mcg
* Females 19+ – 400 mcg
Symptoms of Selenium Deficiency:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
An automatic insert of some related ads:
Thanks for your patronage. Article continues below:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
People in areas where the soil is depleted of selenium may be at risk of selenium deficiency. Individuals with absorption issues and certain disease states like AIDS may be deficient in selenium as well. The symptoms of selenium deficiency include hypothyroidism, a weakened immune system and heart disease.
Selenium Toxicity
Selenium toxicity is characterized by dermatologic lesions; selenotic animals and humans develop brittle hair and nails/hooves. Sporadic cases of selenium-poisoning have been reported involving industrial or accidental exposures to selenium-compounds. In certain rural Chinese communities chronic intakes of very high amounts (several milligrams per day) of selenium were linked to skin, hair and nail abnormalities which disappeared upon resuming regular selenium intakes. Selenium has been identified as the cause of birth deformities in migratory wildfowl in a wetland area (Kesterson Reservoir, CA) which receives selenium-enriched irrigation wastewater. This case involved the biological amplification of selenium by aquatic plants which were important in the diet of affected animals. The Reference Dose (RfD) set by the Environmental Protection Agency is 5 µg/kg body weight/day or 350 µg/day for a 70 kg individual. This intake is regarded as having no significant risk of a deleterious effect over a lifetime of exposure.
Researchers observed that the most powerful selenium anticancer effects often occurred at doses not far below the potentially toxic doses. This led to the study of the biochemistry of selenium’s anticancer action in more detail, in an attempt to surmount the potential toxicity problem.
Researchers have noted that organic forms of selenium are toxic at levels in the vicinity of 3,500 micrograms (3.5 milligrams) daily while Inorganic forms of selenium may be toxic at 900 mcg per day. Researchers have also noted that the various peoples around the world routinely get 400 to 600 mcg selenium from their diet, and Greenlanders may ingest as much as 1,300 mcg daily, without apparent ill effects. It has been observed that selenium (as high selenium yeast) is safe at both 200 and 400 mcg/day levels, even when taken for years.
Different Forms of Selenium
Inorganic forms of selenium such as sodium selenite have proven more effective at fighting cancer than the commonly used organic form, selenomethionine, yet selenomethionine was more effective at increasing selenium tissue levels and glutathione peroxidase activity. Because cells cannot distinguish selenomethionine from the essential amino acid methionine, some selenomethionine becames incorporated into general body proteins, increasing tissue selenium levels.
Selenomethionine general proteins have no anticancer activity while sodium selenite is more frequently metabolized to the toxic metabolite hydrogen selenide (H2Se). Hydrogen selenide does have anticancer effects but it is more toxic than selenomethionine. Its primary mode of killing cancer cells (and at high levels, normal cells) is through the process of cell necrosis. Cell necrosis provokes inflammation and may kill healthy cells along with cancer cells.
More recent anticancer research has focused on the compound Methyselenocysteine. Methyselenocysteine is found naturally in some vegetables including garlic, brassicas, leeks, and onions, especially when these are grown in high selenium soil. Methylselenocysteine is easily converted to methylselenol which has been demonstrated to be an effective anticancer form of selenium. Rather than killing cancer cells by necrosis, methylselenol kills cancer cells through apoptosis. Apoptosis is a orderly process of cellular self-destruction that does not provoke inflammatory responses. Methylselenol is also known to inhibit angiogenesis in beginning cancer tumors. Angiogenesis, the creation of new blood vessels, is necessary for cancer cells to grow into a tumor.
Methylselenocysteine does not accumulate in the body and is considered to be non-toxic.
Selenium and Methylselenocysteine Dosage
The RDA (Recommended Dietary Allowance) has been set at 55 mcg. for an adult. This is the intake level required to avoid manifesting obvious defeciency disorders and symptoms. The selenoenzymes have optimum selenium levels at around 90 mcg per day. For cancer prevention, doses of 200 to 400 mcg of methylselenocysteine are generally considered safe without medical supervision. Nutritionally-oriented physicians may use as much as 900 to 2,000 mcg selenium from methylselenocysteine daily as part of a comprehensive cancer treatment protocol.
Selenium Drug Interactions
Certain medications may interact with Selenium. Consult with your physician and pharmacist if taking medication and before taking more than an RDA dosage of selenium. Look up your medications in the Physician’s Desk Reference and check for interactions listed there.
Selenium – 200 mcg/day, as selenomethionine, 1 tablet (8 cents/day)
Bound to cysteine in place of sulfur and called the “21st amino acid,” selenocysteine is the active site in some 35 proteins. Glutathione peroxidase, which contains four selenium atoms, plays a major role in free radical defense. Plasma selenoprotein P protects endothelial cells against damage, and epithelial selenoprotein protects prostratic secretory cells from developing carcinoma. People deficient in selenium have an increased risk of cancer. Selenium prevents cancer through a variety of mechanisms, which include antioxidant protection, enhanced immune surveillance, suppression of angiogenesis, regulation of cell proliferation, enhancement of apoptosis (cell death), and inhibition of tumor cell invasion. See my article on selenium titled “The Moon Goddess’ Role in Human Health.”
--------------------------------------------
An automatic insert of a related ad:
Thanks for your patronage.
--------------------------------------------
If you enjoyed this article you may enjoy these as well
Trace elements content and hormonal profiles in women with androgenetic alopecia
Selenium Supplements
About Lithium
Green / White Tea Extracts Supplements
Cilantro Supplements
Broccoli Supplements
Sulforaphane Supplements (BroccoMax)
Resveratrol Supplements
Curcumin Supplements
Acetyl L-Carnitine Supplements
R-Lipoid Acid Supplements
Vitamin K2 Supplements
Vitamin B3 Supplements
Vitamin D3 Supplements
Vitamin C Supplements
Magnesium Supplements
Where to Buy Supplements
Iodine Supplements
Ginseng Supplements
Ecklonia Cava Supplements
Tags: Minerals, Products, Selenium, Supplements, Trace Minerals
This entry was posted on Sunday, January 16th, 2011 at 9:42 pm and is filed under ABC's, Products, Selenium, Supplementation.	You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed. You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
Leave a Reply
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
If you are HUMAN please answer this:
9 − = four
Savings Coupon
Save $5 on your first order of vitamins and supplements (and 1000s of health products) at iHerb.com! Use this coupon code: ZAG620
Search
Search for:
Keywords
Androgens Blood Pressure Cardiovascular Causes of Alopecia Copper Diabetes Diet Dihydrotestosterone DHT Female Hair Loss Female Pattern Baldness Gluten Hair Hair Loss Scale High Glycemic Hormones Hypertension Hypothyroidism IGF-1 IGFBP-3 Inflammation Insulin resistance Iodine Magnesium Male Pattern Baldness Methylation Minerals Oils Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Products Reactive Oxygen Species ROS Salt Scales Sea Salt Selenium Sodium Chloride Sugar Supplements Tests Thyroid Topicals Toxins Vitamin D Wheat Zinc
Main Pages
About
Archived Documents
Articles
Cited Studies
How to Use this Website
Mission Statement
My Regimen
Stopping Hair Loss
Supplementation
Recent Articles
Hyland’s Bioplasma Tablets – Reviews
Personal Log – Nov 24, 2012
Restrictions on Food Supplements are Based on Misinformation
Personal Log – Oct 9, 2012
Personal Log – Aug 3 2012
Personal Log – Dec 15, 2011
Contact Me
The Human Unit
But, What if I Fail?
A Curse or a Blessing?
Polygenetic and Poly-etc..
Why Me, but Not Taylor Smith?
Optimal Health
GMO Foods
Are “Frankenfoods” Really All that Scary?
Study: Androgenetic alopecia in children: report of 20 cases.
Why You Need More Vitamin D. A Lot More.
Study: Cure of alopecia areata after eradication of Helicobacter pylori: A new association?
Study: The impact of common micronutrient deficiencies on iodine and thyroid metabolism: the evidence from human studies.
Study: Treatment effects of intradermal botulinum toxin type A injection on alopecia areata
Study: Finasteride in the treatment of men with androgenetic alopecia. Finasteride Male Pattern Hair Loss Study Group
Guideline for Diagnostic Evaluation in Androgenetic Alopecia in Men, Women and Adolescents
Study: Photographic documentation of hair growth in androgenetic alopecia.
Study: Male Pattern Baldness: classification and Incidence – by NORWOOD, O’TAR T. MD
Study: Treatment of Male Pattern Baldness with Botulinum Toxin: A Pilot Study
Selenium and the control of thyroid hormone metabolism.
Study: Effects of combined iodine and selenium deficiency on thyroid hormone metabolism in rats
Study: The impact of iron and selenium deficiencies on iodine and thyroid metabolism: biochemistry and relevance to public health.
On Mice Studies
Study: Fat maintenance is a predictor of the murine lifespan response to dietary restriction
Article Categories
ABC's (124)
Absorption / Digestion (6)
Acetyl L-Carnitine (1)
Acne (1)
Adrenals (3)
Allergies (4)
Amino Acids (1)
Androgens (10)
Antibiotics (2)
Apple Cider Vinegar ACV (1)
Archived (74)
Aromatherapy (1)
Artichoke (1)
Astragalus (1)
Autoimmune (1)
Bacteria (1)
Betaine HCl (2)
Black Cohosh (1)
Blood Circulation (1)
Blood Pressure (10)
Brewers Yeast (2)
Broccoli (1)
Calcium (4)
Cancer (5)
Carbohydrates (2)
Cardiovascular Disease (8)
Causes (5)
Cayenne Pepper (1)
Chaste Tree (1)
Chlorella (2)
Cholesterol (1)
Choline (1)
Cilantro (2)
Circulation (1)
Civilized Dysfunction (9)
Clots / Stroke (1)
Coconut (2)
Cod Liver Oil (1)
Colloidal Silver (CS) (2)
Copper (4)
Cortisol (1)
Curcumin (1)
Dairy (6)
Dandelion (1)
Dental / Oral Health (1)
Dessicated Liver (1)
Detoxification (3)
Diet (39)
DMSO (1)
Earthing (3)
Echinacea (1)
Ecklonia Cava (1)
Emotions (1)
Enemas (1)
Enzymes (4)
Essential Oils (2)
Exercise (3)
Fake Foods (2)
Fats (6)
Fermented Foods (5)
Folate (3)
Free Radicals (1)
Fungal (1)
Genetics / Inheritance (4)
Ghee (1)
GI Tract (1)
Ginger Root (1)
Ginkgo (1)
Ginseng (1)
GLA (1)
Glucose (5)
Gluten (6)
Glycemic Index (3)
GMO (2)
Grains / Cereal / Breads (4)
Green Tea (1)
Hair Scales / Charts (3)
Herbs (3)
Heredity (2)
Hormones (18)
Hyperinsulinemia (1)
Hypertension (15)
IGF / IGFBP (7)
Immune System (1)
Inflammation (13)
Insulin (18)
Iodine (14)
Iron (3)
Just for Fun (1)
Knowledge (10)
Krill Oil (2)
Lactose (1)
Lecithin (1)
Lithium (1)
Liver Support (2)
Livotrit (1)
Luteolin (1)
Magnesium (9)
Manganese (1)
Meat / Poultry (3)
Metabolic Syndrome (3)
Methylation (5)
Milk thistle (1)
Minerals (6)
N-Acetyl Cysteine (2)
Oxidative Stress (1)
Oxygen O2 (1)
Patents (1)
Pathogens (2)
Persistent Organic Pollutants (1)
Personal Log (4)
Pharmaceuticals (7)
Phosphate (1)
Phosphorus (1)
Plants / Herbs / Roots (1)
Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (3)
Potassium (4)
Prickly Ash Bark (1)
Probiotics (6)
Products (34)
Prostaglandins (1)
Prostate Health (1)
Protein (2)
R-Lipoid Acid (1)
Real Food (4)
Resveratrol (1)
Rosemary (1)
Royal Jelly (3)
Salt (15)
Saw Palmetto (1)
Scalp Massage (4)
Scalp Parasites (2)
Selenium (9)
Sexual Activity (2)
Sodium (11)
Sourdough (3)
Soy (1)
Spirulina (1)
Studies (56)
Sugar (3)
Sulforaphane (2)
Supplementation (49)
Sweets (6)
Taurine (1)
Tea (5)
Testing (2)
Thyroid (8)
Tincures (1)
Tocotrienols (1)
Topicals (7)
Toxins (10)
Traditional Chinese Medicine (5)
Traditional Diets (7)
Trimethylglycine (1)
Uncategorized (5)
Understand Medical Research (4)
Viruses (1)
Vitamin A (3)
Vitamin B12 – Cobalamin (1)
Vitamin B3 – Niacin (2)
Vitamin B5 – Pantothenic Acid (2)
Vitamin B6 – Pyridoxine (1)
Vitamin B7 – Biotin (3)
Vitamin B9 – Folic Acid (3)
Vitamin C (5)
Vitamin D (8)
Vitamin K2 (3)
Wheat (3)
Words of Wisdom (2)
Yarrow (1)
Yeast (2)
Zinc (5)
Recent Comments
hairloss in men and women on Edgar Cayce’s Hair Loss Remedies – Pt. 1 – Crude Oil, Castor Oil etc.
click here on Free-IGF-1 lowers SHBG | Acne, Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, Hyperinsulinemia and Diet
recommended dosage of milk thistle on DMSO + Lithium Pharmaceutical Patent
pilates on The Best Probiotic Products
Tips for Clean Skin on Grounding or Earthing and Holistic Health
World Hair Research powered by WordPress | minimalism by www.genaehr.com
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS).
Disclaimer: I must say this: The information presented herein is for informational purposes only. Consult your doctor, practitioner, and/or pharmacist for any health problem and before using any supplements, making dietary changes, or before making any changes in prescribed medications.
All posts are strictly opinions meant to foster debate, education, comment, teaching, scholarship and research under the "fair use doctrine" in Section 107 of U.S. Code Title 17. No statement of fact is made and/or should be implied. Please verify all the articles on this site for yourself. The Information found here should in no way to be construed as medical advice. If You have a health issue please consult your professional medical provider. Everything here is the authors own personal opinion as reported by authors based on their personal perception and interpretation as a part of authors freedom of speech. Nothing reported here should be taken as medical advice, diagnosis or prescription; medical advice should only be taken from your health care provider. Consume the information found on this web site under your own responsibility. Please, do your own research; reach your own conclusions, and take personal responsibility and personal control of your health.