Music therapy for schizophrenia or schizophrenia-like disorders | Cochrane
Jump to navigation
Language:
English
Deutsch
Español
Français
Hrvatski
日本語
Bahasa Malaysia
Português
Русский
简体中文
繁體中文
More languages available
Show fewer languages
Media
Contact us
Community
My Account
Cochrane
Trusted evidence.
Informed decisions.
Better health.
Enter terms
Music therapy for schizophrenia or schizophrenia-like disorders
Review Question
What are the effects of providing music therapy or adding music therapy to treatment for people with schizophrenia or schizophrenia-like disorders?
Background
Characteristics of schizophrenia and schizophrenia-like disorders are disordered thoughts, feelings, beliefs and perceptions. People with schizophrenia often have two main types of symptoms: the acute symptoms of hearing voices or seeing things (hallucinations) and strange beliefs (delusions), and chronic symptoms such as low mood/depression, social withdrawal, and memory problems. Music therapy is a therapeutic approach that uses music experiences to help people with serious mental disorders improve their emotional and relational competencies and addresses issues that they may not be able to using words alone.
Searching for evidence
We ran electronic searches up to January 2015 for trials randomising people with schizophrenia or schizophrenia-like disorders to receive music therapy or standard care. We found and checked 176 potential studies.
Evidence found
Eighteen trials with a total of 1215 participants met the review requirements and provided useful data.
The evidence currently available is of low to moderate quality. The results of these studies suggest that music therapy improves global state and may also improve mental state, functioning, and quality of life if a sufficient number of music therapy sessions are provided.
Conclusions
Music therapy seems to help people with schizophrenia but further research is needed to confirm the positive effects found in this review. This research should especially address the long-term effects of music therapy, the quality of music therapy provided and measure outcomes relevant to music therapy.
Authors' conclusions:
Moderate- to low-quality evidence suggests that music therapy as an addition to standard care improves the global state, mental state (including negative and general symptoms), social functioning, and quality of life of people with schizophrenia or schizophrenia-like disorders. However, effects were inconsistent across studies and depended on the number of music therapy sessions as well as the quality of the music therapy provided. Further research should especially address the long-term effects of music therapy, dose-response relationships, as well as the relevance of outcome measures in relation to music therapy.
Read the full abstract...
Background:
Music therapy is a therapeutic approach that uses musical interaction as a means of communication and expression. Within the area of serious mental disorders, the aim of the therapy is to help people improve their emotional and relational competencies, and address issues they may not be able to using words alone.
Objectives:
To review the effects of music therapy, or music therapy added to standard care, compared with placebo therapy, standard care or no treatment for people with serious mental disorders such as schizophrenia.
Search strategy:
We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group’s Trials Study-Based Register (December 2010 and 15 January, 2015) and supplemented this by contacting relevant study authors, handsearching of music therapy journals and manual searches of reference lists.
Selection criteria:
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared music therapy with standard care, placebo therapy, or no treatment.
Data collection and analysis:
Review authors independently selected, quality assessed and data extracted studies. We excluded data where more than 30% of participants in any group were lost to follow-up. We synthesised non-skewed continuous endpoint data from valid scales using a standardised mean difference (SMD). We employed a fixed-effect model for all analyses. If statistical heterogeneity was found, we examined treatment dosage (i.e. number of therapy sessions) and treatment approach as possible sources of heterogeneity.
Main results:
Ten new studies have been added to this update; 18 studies with a total 1215 participants are now included. These examined effects of music therapy over the short, medium, and long-term, with treatment dosage varying from seven to 240 sessions. Overall, most information is from studies at low or unclear risk of bias
A positive effect on global state was found for music therapy compared to standard care (medium term, 2 RCTs, n = 133, RR 0.38 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.24 to 0.59, low-quality evidence, number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome NNTB 2, 95% CI 2 to 4). No binary data were available for other outcomes. Medium-term continuous data identified good effects for music therapy on negative symptoms using the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (3 RCTs, n = 177, SMD - 0.55 95% CI -0.87 to -0.24, low-quality evidence). General mental state endpoint scores on the Positive and Negative Symptoms Scale were better for music therapy (2 RCTs, n = 159, SMD -0.97 95% CI -1.31 to -0.63, low-quality evidence), as were average endpoint scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (1 RCT, n = 70, SMD -1.25 95% CI -1.77 to -0.73, moderate-quality evidence). Medium-term average endpoint scores using the Global Assessment of Functioning showed no effect for music therapy on general functioning (2 RCTs, n = 118, SMD -0.19 CI -0.56 to 0.18, moderate-quality evidence). However, positive effects for music therapy were found for both social functioning (Social Disability Screening Schedule scores; 2 RCTs, n = 160, SMD -0.72 95% CI -1.04 to -0.40), and quality of life (General Well-Being Schedule scores: 1 RCT, n = 72, SMD 1.82 95% CI 1.27 to 2.38, moderate-quality evidence). There were no data available for adverse effects, service use, engagement with services, or cost.
You may also be interested in:
Art therapy for schizophrenia or schizophrenia-like illnesses
Drama therapy for schizophrenia or schizophrenia-like illnesses
Dance therapy for schizophrenia
Hypnosis for schizophrenia
Can changing antipsychotic medication improve side effects like increases in weight, blood sugar and cholesterol?
Health topics:
Complementary & alternative medicine > Mental health > Schizophrenia & psychosis
Mental health > Schizophrenia & psychosis > Therapy
Published:
29 May 2017
Authors:
Geretsegger M, Mössler KA, Bieleninik Ł, Chen X, Heldal T, Gold C
Primary Review Group:
Schizophrenia Group
See the full Review on
the Cochrane Library
►
Related content
Evidently Cochrane
Bringing harmony to the hospital: music as therapy
Print
PDF
Citation
Geretsegger M, Mössler KA, Bieleninik Ł, Chen X, Heldal T, Gold C. Music therapy for people with schizophrenia and schizophrenia-like disorders. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2017, Issue 5. Art. No.: CD004025. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004025.pub4
Who is talking about this article?
Our health evidence - how can it help you?
Our evidence
About us
Join Cochrane
News and jobs
Cochrane Library
►
Our funders and partners
◄
►
See more
Cochrane
About Cochrane
Cochrane.org
Who we are
Get involved
Consumer Network
Partners
Colloquium
In the news
Publications
Cochrane Library
Library homepage
Cochrane Reviews (CDSR)
Trials (CENTRAL)
Cochrane Clinical Answers
Cochrane Library App
Journal Club
Podcasts
Community
Community
Archie log-in
Training and support
Methods
Software
Jobs and opportunities
Contact us
General enquiries
Cochrane Library support
Chief Executive Officer
Editor in Chief
Cochrane Groups
Media
Trusted evidence.
Informed decisions.
Better health.
Copyright © 2019 The Cochrane Collaboration
Index | Disclaimer | Privacy | Cookie policy
We use cookies to improve your experience on our site. OK More information