Exercise Today and Boost Your Moods | Anxiety Relief Techniques
Anxiety Relief Techniques
Home
Blog
About
Contact
Anxiety
Anxiety Attack
Anxiety Medication
Anxiety Relief
Anxiety Symptoms
Anxiety Therapy
Anxiety Treatment
Anxiety Diet
Vitamins and Minerals
Anxiety Disorders
ADD / ADHD
Agoraphobia
Driving Fear
Flying Fear
Generalized Anxiety Disorder
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder
Social Anxiety
Anxiety Remedies
Anxiety Help Programs
Child Anxiety
Child Anxiety Treatment
Depression
Depression Symptoms
Depression Treatment
Panic Attacks
Panic Attack Treatments
Stress
Stress Management
Stress Relief
Supplements
ProVanax – Natural Anxiety Supplement
Home Anxiety Anxiety Relief Exercise Today and Boost Your Moods
Exercise Today and Boost Your Moods
by Jennifer Johnson 2 Comments
Contents
1 Get Exercising and Get Happy
2 Your Endorphins
2.1 Exercise Fights Anxiety And Depression
2.2 Exercise Will Improve Your Self-Esteem
Get Exercising and Get Happy
Did you know that exercising can actually boost your moods and make you feel happier? Anxiety and depression is certainly helped if not overcome with regular exercise. There are also other benefits too of course! It will help you with any excess body weight, plus regular exercise and other fitness activities are great for your heart and circulation.
Most fitness experts will tell you that a brief and brisk half hour walk immediately makes you more alert and intense physical activity of any kind actually stimulates your serotonin and dopamine levels which cause you to feel happier and more at ease.
Of course, there are the self-esteem benefits which make you feel good about yourself when you look in the mirror and see how all your hard work is paying off. The key to becoming happier is regular exercise and dedication to your fitness routine. This includes ensuring you are drinking lots of water throughout the day, and changing your lifestyle to include a healthy diet.
Your Endorphins
Getting fit can make you happier and it all has to do with your endorphins. These wonderful little natural mood boosters actually talk to your brain, and help reduce your perception of anxiety.
Your endorphins are released in great quantities when you exercise for an extended period of time. Have you ever experienced a euphoric feeling after an intense workout? Long-distance runners call it the “runner’s high”. This is due to the massive release of endorphins in your body, which drastically and quickly cause a happier and healthier outlook.
Have you ever exercised and felt good in any other activity? Yes, making love is one of those euphoric exercises.
Subscribe to Receive This Free Guide!
Receive my newsletter with my own anxiety relief tips and instant access to this eBook as a gift! I've learned how to manage my own anxiety issues...and I share what I do in my newsletter! I hope you'll join me!
Submit
We take your privacy seriously and we do not spam! You can unsubscribe at anytime! See our privacy policy here.
Exercise Fights Anxiety And Depression
When you’re depressed, your ability to process information will slow down significantly. This can cause memory problems, as well as difficulty with making decisions and concentrating. If you’re suffering from mild depression, then exercise may be all that you need in order to fight this disorder.
The reason why exercise is known for fighting anxiety and depression is because it will increase your body’s production of feel-good brain chemicals – dopamine and serotonin. These chemicals are crucial if you want to experience happiness.
Produced in your spinal cord, brain and other parts of your body, these chemical good guys also act as sedatives. However, unlike chemical sedatives your natural mood boosters don’t give you an unhealthy addiction! Therefore exercise is excellent for flooding your body with these miraculous stress relievers.
Exercise Will Improve Your Self-Esteem
Having low self-esteem can lead to anxiety, depression and stress. It can also have a negative impact on your work or academic performance. In order to live a happy life, your self-esteem needs to be high. Thankfully, exercise is known to impact self-esteem positively in people of all ages.
A review of 113 different studies was published in the Journal of Sports and Exercise Psychology showed that your self-esteem is likely to change for the better if you exercise regularly.
Plus if you regularly exercise you will feel better about yourself, either with your appearance or your self-esteem will improve.
It can help erase feelings of depression and is great for lowering anxiety and reducing stress.
Your sleep patterns will also improve.
Your outlook on life is always better when you feel good about yourself, and the chemical process already hardwired into your physical makeup ensures that you feel happy and energized after a workout.
If you knew that getting fit and losing weight would help your heart, lower your blood pressure and improve your strength and body tone would you start today? Now that you understand your body is chemically aligned to make you happier when you exercise, you have just one more great reason to start a regular fitness program.
If you tend to lose your calm or let your emotions control you often, then you should consider working out regularly. According to a study conducted by the Department of Psychology of the Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia, you can decrease emotional stress and increase emotional control just by exercising regularly.
If you already do any type of exercise, what do you do? Do you walk or swim? Play a sport or go to the gym? Please let me know in the comments below. I would love to hear what you do to feel happy and how you boost your moods!
You may find these articles interesting too!
Child Anxiety Disorders and Helpful Tips
18
What Causes Depression and How Does It Develop?
18
Causes and Symptoms of Depression In Men
18
Symptoms, Causes and Treatments of Seasonal Affective Disorder
18
Exercise Outdoors To Ease Depression Symptoms
18
Why Does Exercise Reduce Depression?
18
Good Foods and Nutrition For Your Brain Health
18
Understanding Your Endorphins and Your Moods
18
Are Your Hormones Causing Severe PMS and Anxiety?
18
Do You Have Anxiety and Heart Palpitations?
18
Vitamin B6 or Pyridoxine Benefits – Depression and Moods
18
Anxiety and Stress and Our Neurotransmitters
18
Affiliate Disclosure
My website contains affiliate links, which means if you purchase any products mentioned in my articles, I may receive a commission. If you do, thank you!
Filed Under: Anxiety Relief Tagged: Dopamine, Dopamine and Serotonin, Serotonin
About Jennifer Johnson
I suffered with social anxiety and stress for years. I discovered what my triggers were and learned to control them. Hopefully some of the natural anxiety relief techniques I have tried, will also be your solution.
Follow me on: Twitter · G+ Jennifer · G+ Health Solutions · Pinterest
Comments
David Rivers says
May 18, 2014 at 12:59 am
I can vouch for the importance of exercise. It’s especially important for agoraphobics. When Jennifer talks about eating well, sleeping well, and exercising well, the last one is crucial because it helps with the other two. If you get a great workout, you get hungry and you sleep better.
Reply
Jennifer Johnson says
May 18, 2014 at 7:26 am
Exactly David! This is one cycle that is good to get into…it is not a ‘vicious cycle’ or habit. Eat, sleep, exercise and be happy…a great routine to beat the moody blues and improve overall health at the same time.
Reply
Speak Your Mind Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
Website
Jennifer Johnson
Your Anxiety Questions Answered Personally
I know everyone's anxiety levels and past traumatic experiences are all different and no two people are the same. That is why there is no one 'fix' … [Ask Jennifer...]
Affiliate Disclosure
I am an affiliate for products mentioned on my website. I may earn a commission if you make a purchase through my link.
Follow Me
Email
Facebook
Google+
Pinterest
Twitter
Anxiety Relief Techniques
Search our Website
Anxiety Categories
Anxiety Categories Select Category ADD / ADHD Agoraphobia Anxiety Anxiety Attack Anxiety Diet Anxiety Disorders Anxiety Help Programs Anxiety Medication Anxiety Relief Anxiety Remedies Anxiety Symptoms Anxiety Therapy Anxiety Treatment Child Anxiety Child Anxiety Treatment Depression Depression Symptoms Depression Treatment Driving Fear Flying Fear Generalized Anxiety Disorder Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Other Panic Attack Treatments Panic Attacks Social Anxiety Stress Stress Management Stress Relief Supplements Vitamins and Minerals
Natural Anxiety Supplement
Anxiety and Depression
Anxiety and Depression
Anxiety Attack Relief
Child Anxiety Natural Treatments
How To Stop Anxiety Attacks
Living With Depression
Natural Anxiety Relief
Natural Remedies For Anxiety
Natural Supplements For Anxiety
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Medicines
Overcoming Social Anxiety
Panic and Anxiety Attacks Journal
Treatments For Anxiety and Depression
Natural Supplements For Anxiety
Natural Supplements For Anxiety Relief If you prefer herbal treatments, there are natural … [Read More...]
Anxiety Help
The Linden Method Review
Does The Linden Method Eliminate Anxiety? Many of my friends recommend this program too! You can read their real reviews below. If you don't know, … [Read More...]
Anxiety Help Programs
The Linden Method Review
Does The Linden Method Eliminate Anxiety? Many of my friends recommend this program too! You can read their real reviews below. If you don't know, … [Read Article...]
Mental Health
Dopamine and Serotonin Levels
Natural ADHD Symptom Relief
Natural Remedies For Mood Swings
Resources
WebMD Mental Health
HelpGuide.org
MayoClinic.com
Anxiety Diet
If you have anxiety and depression, you know it stems from our mind, our thoughts, beliefs and fears. The brain is the central driving force to our … [Read Article...]
Follow Me
Email
Facebook
Google+
Pinterest
Twitter
Anxiety and Stress Relief
Vitamins and Minerals
Vitamin B6 or Pyridoxine Benefits – Depression and Moods
Importance of Vitamin B6 for Depression and Moods Many people with anxiety and depression find taking a Vitamin B complex very helpful, however it is … [Read More...]
Latest Articles
Child Anxiety Disorders and Helpful Tips
Medical Conditions May Cause Depression in Seniors
Are You Depressed? How Can You Tell?
What Causes Depression and How Does It Develop?
Causes and Symptoms of Depression In Men
Top
This website is not intended to provide medical or professional advice of any kind. I do not have a medical degree.
I have social anxiety and over the years I have learned to manage my own anxiety through natural anxiety relief techniques.
All products mentioned on this website I am an affiliate for and I may earn a commission if you purchase.
Privacy Policy · Disclaimer & Disclosure · Terms of Use · Legal Notices · Contact
General Data Protection & Privacy Policy: This website uses cookies, forms, tracking, and marketing tools to process data from our visitors. The collected information is stored securely. The collected information is stored securely (often outside EU - and possibly including identifiable information). By using this website, you consent to the collection and use of such information as detailed in the Privacy Policy.
Copyright © 2019 · Jennifer Johnson · Natural Health Solutions · Anxiety Relief Techniques