ProHealth Pain Relief And Wellness :: Newsletter
If you need a more accessible version of this website, click this button on the right. Switch to Accessible Site
WARNING
You are using an outdated browser. Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience.
Close [x]
307-587-5591
Home
About Us
Meet Our Team
New Patient Center
Online Forms
What to Expect
Your First Visit
Health Resources
Payment Options
Services & Techniques
Tools to Improve Healing
Recipes
Contact Us
Events
Blog
Community Content
Newsletter Library
Video Exercises
Abs
Arms
Back
Chest
Hips
Ice/Heat Therapy
Legs
Neck
Shoulders
Wellness Lifestyle Tips
Change Unhealthy Habits
Read the Labels
Hall of Shame
Hall of Fame
Get Your Sleep
Quit Smoking
Love Others
Turn off the Television
Advanced Citizenry
Wellness Perspectives
Wellness Psychology
Choices & Decisions
Identity
Spirituality
Personality
Quality Of Life
Personal Growth
Prosperity Consciousness
Relationships
Aging & Longevity
Wellness Essentials
At Home
A Good Mattress
Cervical Pillow
At Work
Lumbar Support
Desk Chair
Headsets
Monitor Arm
Keyboard & Mouse Pads
What You Wear
Orthotics
Buy Good Shoes
A Back Saver Wallet
A Healthy Backpack
Exercise
BOSU/Disc
Core Trainer
Exercise Ball
Foam Roll
Power Plate
Resistance Bands/Weights
Personal Trainer
Videos, Books, & Internet
Wrist Metabolism Monitor
Nutrition
Essential Fatty Acids
Vitamins & Supplements
Greens
Protein
Detox
Healthy Thinking
Get Positive
Positive Affirmations
Relationships with Others
Relationship with Self
Relaxation Techniques
Control Your Breathing
Find Your Mantra
Muscle Relaxation
Soothing Sounds
Wellness4Kids
Printable Games & Puzzles
Wellness Coloring Book
Newsletter
Hip and Knee Security
Everyone knows someone who has undergone hip or knee replacement. These surgeries are no longer exclusively performed on older persons and are now not uncommon procedures for many patients with persistent, significant hip or knee pain. Problems that lead people to be willing to undergo joint replacement surgery include ongoing intolerable pain and loss of mobility. Good outcomes are generally associated with these procedures, but it is reasonable that most of us would far prefer to prevent the progression of a degenerative joint disorder and avoid the need for surgery.
Hip or knee joint replacement surgery is typically prescribed for osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease). Osteoarthritis involves thinning of protective joint cartilage, loss of sufficient lubrication of the joint by its synovial membrane, and painful inflammation. Osteoarthritis may occur years or decades after a significant joint injury, or osteoarthritis may be a long-term result of disuse, limited use, or otherwise insufficient physical activity.
As with most physical ailments, prevention is generally much more effective than is treatment. Prevention takes time, but the expenditure of time may be worth it compared to the amount of time expended later on in terms of visits to specialist physicians, laboratory tests and MRI studies, possible surgical procedures, and extensive recovery and rehabilitation. Prevention of osteoarthritis is the best policy from every point of view.
Some things just happen, of course, and a minority of osteoarthritis cases will get worse regardless of the measures taken. But, overall, various forms of exercise as well as visits to the chiropractor’s office have been consistently shown to substantially benefit people with osteoarthritis of the knee or hip. Effective exercise programs include walking, running, and biking. Any or all of these are appropriate in most circumstances. Aquatic exercise, such as swimming or water aerobics, is also of great benefit in the treatment of knee or hip osteoarthritis.
Additionally, core exercises are an important part of any comprehensive exercise program, especially when a primary objective is to slow or prevent osteoarthritis. Core exercises help stabilize and strengthen weight-bearing structures such as your lower back and pelvis, removing significant mechanical loads from other weight-bearing joints such as the hip and knee. Redistributing mechanical stresses away from your hips and knees through exercise and regular chiropractic care helps these joints to function more optimally and retain peak levels of performance, hopefully, far into the future.
Although these preventive activities take time, the return on investment is high. The benefits extend far beyond protection of your hips and knees. Your exercise routines improve cardiovascular fitness, increase restful sleep, enhance your posture, and add an extra bounce to your step. By engaging in a consistent program of vigorous physical activity, you're helping to increase your long-term health and well-being, and by extension, that of your family as well.
Fransen M, et al: Exercise for osteoarthritis of the knee. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015 Jan 9;1:CD004376. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD004376.pub3
Bartels EM, et al: Aquatic exercise for the treatment of knee and hip osteoarthritis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Mar 23;3:CD005523. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD005523.pub3
Rivera CE: Core and Lumbopelvic Stabilization in Runners. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am 27(1):319-337, 2016
THIS ---->https://3075875591com.chiromatrixbase.com/index.php
Featured Services
Services
We strive to provide complete care for our patients. Learn more about all the services we provide.
Make An Appointment
We will do our best to accommodate your busy schedule. Schedule an appointment today!
Online Forms
Our patient forms are available online so they can be completed in the convenience of your own home or office.
Office Hours
Day
Morning
Afternoon
Monday 8:30 - 12 2 - 6
Tuesday 2 - 6
Wednesday 8 - 12 2 - 6
Thursday 8- 12 2 - 6
Friday Closed
Saturday Closed
Sunday Closed
Day
Morning
Afternoon
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
8:30 - 12 8 - 12 8- 12 Closed Closed Closed
2 - 6 2 - 6 2 - 6 2 - 6
Print Page
Send To Friend
Email Us
Request Appointment
Zoom: A A A
Newsletter Sign Up
First Name:
Email:
Interests: Backaches & Sciatica
Headaches & Neck Pain
Wellness Topics
Diet & Nutrition
Exercise & Fitness
Women's Health Issues
Children's Health Issues
Stress Management
Doctor's Announcements
Contact
Facebook
1708 Stampede Ave, Suite C Cody, WY 82414
307-587-5591
Get Directions
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Client Admin | Refresh | Top
Copyright ©2019 MH Sub I, LLC dba iMatrix.
All Rights Reserved. Chiropractor Website By ChiroMatrix