September 2018 - Brooks Plastic Surgery
954-501-0505
Call Today
Home
Procedures
Migraines
Pediatric
Cosmetic
Reconstructive
Microblading
Coolsculpting
Meet Dr Brooks
Blog
FAQs
Contact Us

Archive for month: September, 2018
You are here: Home / Blog / Logos / 2018 / September
✎
7 Wrinkle-Free Uses for Botox
27 Sep 2018/0 Comments/in Blog /by Kiran
When Botox first broke through into the mainstream, people debated its validity and the pros and cons of the purified form of botulinum, a neurotoxin, which at the time many deemed unnecessary and unsafe for use. In the medical world, the growing trend towards using Botox sparked many new ideas and studies that prove its effectiveness as a minimally invasive treatment method.
Botox has evolved beyond banishing wrinkles – check out our list of surprising uses for Botox to learn more and see if this injection could provide you with a modern treatment for your health issues.
Excessive Underarm Sweating
A discovery was made while treating patients suffering from facial spasms. The patients showed signs of decreased sweating over the course of their treatment. Researchers at Allergan and other centers began considering this as a possible treatment for a condition called axillary hyperhidrosis, in which sufferers sweat excessively and uncontrollably. The FDA has approved this treatment and it is now also used to treat the sweating of the hands and feet.
Depression
Though the FDA has not approved the use of Botox as treatment for depression, a study was conducted and showed promising results. The concept of using Botox as treatment for depression is based on the idea that facial muscles send signals to the brain that reinforce emotions. Botox treatments interfere with this cycle.
Crossed Eyes
Strabismus, or crossed eyes, is defined as eyes that do not line up at the same direction. This is one of the first medical conditions to get FDA approval for Botox treatments.
Premature Ejaculation
It is thought that injecting Botox into the penis may relax the muscle which in turn would delay ejaculation, though tests are still ongoing. Allergan currently holds a patent for erectile dysfunction, believing Botox could relieve this issue too. A third party clinical trial is being conducted before any definitive claims are made, but things are looking promising.
Neck Spasms
In 2000, Botox was approved for treating cervical dystonia, a condition characterized by a misalignment of the head and severe neck pain as a result. Given that Botox for cosmetic use on the face wasn’t approved until 2002, it is clear that Botox does work as a pain reliever in its original use. It is thought that the success of Botox on migraines works in a similar way, inhibiting pain signals from the brain, rather the contracting muscles and tension itself like medical professionals had previously thought.
Painful Sex
Similar to neck spasms, the uncomfortable muscle spasms women experience during sex due to movements of the pelvic floor or contractions of the vagina can lead to discomfort, embarrassment as well as a higher number of oral and UTI infections. Botox is used to stop the contractions. Doctors at The Cleveland Clinic have found some women need an injection every 6 months while others only need one every couple of years to keep the issue at bay long-term.
Abnormal Heartbeats
Research is ongoing as to whether Botox should be used as a therapy to prevent abnormal heartbeats following open heart surgery, an unpleasant side effect of the procedure that occurs in some patients. Now that Botox has been tried and tested for almost thirty years, drug producer Allergan is confident of its safety and is looking at its potential for cardiac applications.
It seems that the future for Botox is as bright as it is diverse and in time we should see Botox being commonly used as a treatment for a wide range of health concerns. If you’re suffering from any of the conditions listed above, call us today to learn more and book your consultation!
✎
A Breakdown On Reconstructive Surgery
27 Sep 2018/0 Comments/in Blog /by Kiran
With the American Society of Plastic Surgeons now estimating that 1 million procedures are being performed each year, it’s worth knowing about the different options available and what they can do to help you and those you know change their bodies and their lives.
The Different Types Of Reconstructive Surgery
Hand and Foot Surgeries: These procedures cover a vast number of different surgeries to alleviate ongoing problems, remove cancers and anomalies such as webbed extremities or extra digits, helping to improve function and physical appearance. Reconstructive surgery is now also being used to treat repetitive strain injuries like carpal tunnel.
Flap/Microsurgeries: This kind of procedure is used to replace and reform parts of the body affected by injury and disease and is often used on cancer patients.
Wound Care: One of the areas reconstructive surgery has excelled in is wound care, using skin and other fibrous grafts for patients who have suffered severe burns, cuts or sores following an injury or accident.
Facial Surgeries: Procedures performed to correct facial deformities, such as cleft lip or palate. Reconstruction following trauma or even to correct breathing and sinus issues such as snoring and persistent infections.
Breast Reduction Or Reconstruction: Perhaps the most-well known type of reconstructive surgery available today, offering a new lease on life for women following breast cancer and a mastectomy. A similar reconstruction of the chest wall is also available for men. Both men and women sometimes undergo a breast reduction if they’re experiencing chronic back pain or other health issues related to their breast size.
Getting An Evaluation For Reconstructive Surgery
Each surgery is different and each person has their own unique story and reason for wanting to undergo reconstructive surgery. The standard assessment a plastic surgeon does involves taking a full medical history and often an examination for them to get a clearer picture before making any recommendations.
After this, your surgeon will be able to advise on the best course of action and the expected outcome of the surgery should you wish to go through with it. Your medical history and current health play a big part in determining your options and your surgeon is there to help you understand the process while working to get as close as possible to the look you hope to achieve.
Insurance and Reconstructive Surgeries
Thanks to advancements in plastics over the years, society has come to recognize the value and importance of reconstructive surgery. This has led many insurance providers to cover reconstructive surgeries. If you’re experiencing an issue and you want your insurer to consider your case, be sure to have your surgeon and any other relevant doctors write to them formally showcasing details of your case to influence their decision.
Reconstructive surgery is now more accessible than ever and plays a vital role in the positive mental health and wellbeing of patients who’ve fought disease or recovered from an injury or accident and these procedures are often an important part of their rehabilitation, restoring both a sense of hope and normality.
At Brooks Plastic Surgery, we are trained in all types of reconstructive surgeries. Visit our site here: http://brooksplasticsurgery.com/procedures/ or call us today to learn more and book your consultation!
✎
Botox Shows Signs of Becoming a Possible Treatment Option for Depression Symptoms
27 Sep 2018/0 Comments/in Blog /by Kiran
Most of us first heard of Botox when it started being used as a cosmetic procedure to help people alleviate wrinkles and fine lines for a more youthful appearance. Over the years, Botox has been tried and tested with positive effect to treat a range of medical conditions. Thanks to a surge in modern methods to manage mental health conditions, Botox is also proving to be an effective treatment for depression.
Studies and Results
Tests were conducted at the Hannover Medical School in Germany where participants received an injection into multiple areas of the face. Focusing on the parts of the face that trigger emotion has shown a significant reduction in the symptoms of depression.
The study’s chief investigator Tillman Kruger spoke about the treatment at the 2014 American Psychiatric Association annual conference stating that our emotions are exhibited when our facial muscles contract and this sends feedback signals to the brain, which reinforces both our moods and behavior. By treating the facial muscles with Botox, the cycle is interrupted which helps to balance out the messages the brain is receiving.
Sufferers of major depression note improvement following injections to the frown lines above the nose and between the eyebrows. In another trial by Kruger and his associate, Dr. Axel Wollmer at the Asklepios Clinic in Hamburg, 30 patients with severe depression that has been treatment resistant were broken into two groups, with some given the Botox injections while others were given a placebo with saline. Six weeks after one injection the group who had received Botox reported a 47% reduction in the symptoms of their depression compared with just 9.2% in the placebo group. The improvements in symptoms at the end of the trail were even larger when other tools were used to measure subjects’ depression symptoms. Two other non-related depression studies that have used Botox found similar results to Kruger’s.
Botox: A Modern Mental Health Treatment
These findings only strengthen the validity of Botox as a therapeutic method of treating depression. Botox offers a simple solution in a modern world that is becoming fast aware of the mental health issues such as chronic depression and the side effects and issues that can come with taking antidepressants and other prescribed medications. These results pave the way for Botox to be trialed in treating other psychiatric disorders, too.
While it is still early days for Botox in terms of application and widespread success, many practitioners and patients alike understand that rolling out new treatment methods are critical to health going forward and in time it will be interesting to see how many insurers and practices utilize Botox for treating depression. At present, the cost of Botox is high but at least where depression is concerned it takes far fewer Botox treatments to see long lasting results. This is likely encouraging for a lot of people suffering from major depression, who may choose to try the treatment. With nothing but positive feedback so far, it seems like Botox for treating depression may be a solution where the benefits far outweigh the costs.
Call us today to schedule your Botox consultation!
✎
Preparing Your Child for Craniofacial Surgery
27 Sep 2018/0 Comments/in Blog /by Kiran
At the surgical appointments prior to your child’s surgery, your surgeon is likely to have a few pointers on how to prepare them for their craniofacial surgery from spending time with them and getting to know their personality. The most important thing to remember is that your child having surgery young minimizes their pain, discomfort and any social anxieties they may begin to feel with age having a craniofacial abnormality.
To help you feel ready for the day of the operation, we’ve written a short guide of points below which has always proven successful in pediatric patients at Brooks Plastic Surgery. We want both you and your child to feel one hundred percent comfortable about the upcoming procedure and are happy to discuss this at length with you along with post-op and aftercare details to put your mind at ease.
How to Prepare Your Child
Many children benefit from being told about the procedure early on with no real-time estimate put in place or in relation to themselves. This helps them to understand how things work. The nursing staff and Dr. Brooks are more than happy to show how things work and give tours of facilities you’ll use during your stay.
It’s best to wait until just a few days before the surgery to mention it properly to your child. Younger children don’t yet have a grasp on longer periods of time and there’s no need to worry or stress them unnecessarily by telling them of something that is still months away.
However, in older children it’s better to be as honest and open as possible and this will begin at the consultation and appointment stages of your visits to our clinic. This gives them a long period in which to get used to the idea and ask questions. Such questions as the specifics of the procedure, what happens after, how long they stay in the hospital, all the way through to their personal items and what food they’ll eat can be points of concern for some children.
The biggest fears and stresses for children come from the uncertainty of anesthesia and pain, frankly this is still quite an uncomfortable feeling for most adults too. Explaining that the staff and your child’s surgeons are experts in their field and they will provide medicine to stop pains and help them wake up feeling better is far easier to bring up, rather than to get tied up in the fact it may hurt. This is more likely to upset your child, especially if he or she is younger, so it’s usually better to avoid negative statements and phrasing things in an age-appropriate way.
At Brooks Plastic Surgery, we understand every child is different and it is up to you as a parent what you think your child can and can’t comprehend. We are here to support you, advise and care for you and your family during the procedure and through the aftercare procedure.
A parent, guardian or family member is always welcome to stay close by during a pediatric hospital stay and we try to be accommodating in visiting hours to fit around work schedules and other commitments. All our staff are trained to care and deal with children and they try to make the environment as fun and as caring as possible. Call us today for your consultation!
✎
Relieving Migraine Headaches with Botox Injections: How Does It Work?
27 Sep 2018/0 Comments/in Blog /by Kiran
Botox was approved by FDA for treatment of migraines a few years ago, following success with two case study groups. At present, Botox is still the only prophylactic therapy approved as a treatment for chronic migraines.
Research and Findings of Botox Application For Migraines
Some doctors and medical professionals are still unsure exactly how Botox used for migraines works – originally many believed it relieved the tight muscles around the scalp. However, findings from studies showed that the muscles in the head, forehead and neck are actually contracted when the participants were experiencing a migraine attack.
It is also common for sufferers to rub their forehead, temples and neck during an attack which often provides some temporary relief. Many patients reported that they felt an improvement in their migraines in the areas Botox had been injected, but yet still felt pain and discomfort in the top of the head.
There aren’t any muscles in the top of the head, which goes against the initial school of thought regarding the action of Botox. While injections are not usually administered to the top of the head for this reason, for sufferers who experience residual pain in this area, the studies found that their pain dispersed when Botox was injected.
More recent research also proves that Botox is in an analgesic that offers direct pain relief. This at least explains what relieves the symptoms of chronic migraines. There have been many other reports from general practitioners who have suggested that Botox is successful in treating other chronic pain conditions like shingles and trigeminal neuralgia too.
How Botox Relieves Migraines
Botox helps relieve migraines by reducing the level of pain signals sent to the brain. Chronic migraines are more than just headaches caused by tension, they are in fact a brain disorder, so with the pain messages being blocked, the brain does not become stressed and so migraine episodes are decreased. Many patients report that following Botox injections, even when they feel the start of a migraine attack coming on, this treatment stops them from occurring.
If you or someone you know experiences chronic migraines, it’s worth considering Botox as a possible treatment method. It’s worth noting that Botox can take some time to become effective at blocking the pain messages that cause migraines long-term. Those who see the best results have to get injections for 6-9 months before they can conclusively see a significant reduction in the number of migraines they have – that’s at least 2-3 sessions. Following a patient’s first Botox application, many applicants noted around two fewer headaches a month. This might not seem a big difference but for those living in chronic pain debilitated by the onset of migraines, any relief is often considered a bonus. It is thought that it can take 10-14 days for Botox to become active and begin to intercept pain signals.
When nothing else has worked to ease and inhibit the symptoms of chronic migraines, Botox offers a quick and easy alternative to traditional medicines, with a session only taking around 15 minutes to complete. At Brooks Plastic Surgery, our primary concern is your health and comfort, if you think you might be interested in trying Botox for your migraines, don’t hesitate to get in touch with us!
✎
Surgical Hope for Migraine Headache Sufferers
27 Sep 2018/0 Comments/in Blog /by Kiran
It’s Monday and you’ve just clocked in to start your shift for work. You take your seat at your desk and smile. This is the first time in two weeks that you’ve experience three consecutive days of relief. Then without any warning, it happens again. The aggravating unwanted guest comes back to visit. You hate when it comes, because you never know how long it’s staying. That unwanted guest is a migraine headache. If you are like most people you’ve tried medicine to get rid of your annoying painful migraine such as: Excedrin, Aleve, Tylenol, etc. Nothing seems to help get rid of the migraine for long. If you feel hopeless, then rest assured that there is another option: Migraine Headache Surgery.
What Is Migraine Headache Surgery?
Since the early 1900’s, physicians and surgeons have studied the link between migraine headaches and the human body. Through those studies, they found several nerves that migraines target in the anatomy. Those nerves affect areas located: above the eyebrows, behind the eyes, and in the back of the neck. Migraine surgery simply decompresses those peripheral sensory nerves. There are two types of surgeries: nerve release and pain blocking. Nerve release (the most common form of surgery) is the removal of tissue or cartilage to take pressure off the nerve. Without the pressure provoking the nerve, you can be free from migraines permanently. Pain blocking (the least common method) is procedure where surgeons place neurostimulators under the skin to reverse the pain signal sent to the brain. Nerve blocking is not a permanent fix, but can last up to a few months. No matter which method of migraine surgery is used, both can help you get rid of that “unwanted guest”.
Reaping the Benefits
Even though both surgical methods will help those who suffer get relief from a migraine headache, the thought of going through surgery can still be a little daunting for most. However, migraine surgery typically only lasts about one to two hours. The recovery process takes one to two weeks, and after that, the relief is long-lasting. The goal post-surgery is to allow the patient to resume to their normal life, without having to deal with migraines.
Where to Go for Help
Since this surgical procedure is growing more and more popular, there are a lot of places who are skilled in cosmetic surgery and plastic surgery that can help! One well known place is Brooks Plastic Surgery. Here Dr. Christopher Brooks, a South Florida cosmetic surgeon, strives to provide long term relief to his patients. Needless to say, you will be in good hands at Brooks Plastic Surgery.
Hope at Last
Everyone deserves to live a life free from repetitive throbbing headaches. So, if you are tired of your “unwanted guest” paying you a visit whenever it feels like it and exhausted from trying different medications that only give short term relief, then this surgical operation may be the best decision for you. Remember, you have the right to long term comfort! And at Brooks Plastic Surgery, we can help! Learn more about our migraine surgery procedure and call us today to schedule your consultation!
✎
What Exactly Is CoolSculpting and What Can It Do For Me?
27 Sep 2018/0 Comments/in Blog /by Kiran
You may or may not have heard of CoolSculpting, the popular non-invasive fat reduction technique that can help you visibly reduce your unwanted and unsightly fat. The technique, devised by a partnership between Harvard University and Massachusetts General Hospital, uses cooling technology to eliminate fat cells.
With no surgery and little to no recovery time needed after a treatment session, could this be the cosmetic fat reduction treatment the world has been waiting for? At Brooks Plastic Surgery, our experienced medical team is pleased to be experienced in CoolSculpting to help you achieve the body you’ve been dreaming of. Read below for more information about the new treatment and what it could do for you.
How Does CoolSculpting Work?
Many people try to beat the bulge but no matter how many strict diets they try or the numerous hardcore fitness regimes, a stubborn layer of fat seems to remain or their body regardless. To understand how CoolSculpting works, it’s about understanding the science. It might seem like magic but fat cells actually freeze at higher temperatures than surrounding temperatures. This makes CoolSculpting the perfect ode to stubborn fat, by specifically targeting cells beneath the skin and freezing them at a cool enough temperature to cause them to die naturally, a process now known as cryolipolysis.
Did you know your fat cells crystallize faster than normal cells? The natural process helps to protect the body making sure there is no damage to your nerves, surrounding organs and tissues or your skin. Once treated, your fat cells begin to shrink and die. Your own metabolism, no matter how sluggish it seems, can easily break down your fat cells once they’ve been cooled. This is actually how people achieve a more toned and sculpted physique over time.
The speed and intensity of the CoolSculpting treatment is able to target fat cells at a far higher ratio than can be achieved through natural methods, which is why the improvements are clearly visible after just one CoolSculpting session.
CoolSculpting: The Benefits
The benefits of CoolSculpting aren’t just cosmetic, with the true reduction in your fat cells, you won’t be piling on the pounds again anytime soon, which is something many have come to expect when they begin to pay less attention to their diet or exercise routines. With CoolSculpting you banish your fat for good! And with the process being so minimally invasive, you have to wonder long it will be before people are choosing this method over more traditional fat reduction surgeries.
With each session the number of fat cells you need targeted will decrease – on average most clients see a reduction of about 20%. But unlike other fat reducing treatments, with each CoolSculpting treatment, your body becomes more sculpted. The treatment itself lasts around an hour and most patients do not find it uncomfortable, at most some report a dull pressure and an initial blast of cold air.
Here at Brooks, we were skeptical at first, how could this truly be a pain-free procedure? But given that some clients happily work and even go to sleep during their sessions, it looks like this might finally be the fat reduction treatment that really does do what it promises without having to undergo surgery!
Call us today to schedule your CoolSculpting consultation!
Pages
Blog
Contact
Coolsculpting
Cosmetic
FAQs
Meet Dr Brooks
Microblading
Migraines
Pediatric
PediatricPlasticSurgery
Plastic Surgery
Press
Privacy Policy
Procedures
Reconstructive
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Testimonials
Testimonials
ZO Skin Health
Categories
Blog
press
Archive
January 2019
September 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
March 2018
February 2018
November 2017
October 2017
September 2017
May 2017
April 2016
March 2016
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
© Copyright 2008-2019 - Brooks Plastic Surgery
Home
Procedures
Blog
Testimonials
FAQs
Contact
Press
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
↑