What to Do When Your Toddler Has a Fever | MyHealthKC
Locations
Login
Home
Find a Doctor
View My Matches
About Us
Resources
Blog
In order to show you doctors that match your needs, we need to know a little about you first…
Let's Get Started
Already a registered user? Log in.
What to Do When Your Toddler Has a Fever
Doctor Q&A
March 6, 2018
We all know that a fever is a common occurrence among toddlers, but although it’s common, when it happens to your child (and it will), you’ll want your questions answered… and fast.
Your first question:
How can I break the fever?
The answer is a bit complicated. Because a fever is a result of something else going on in the body, you can’t force it away unless you can resolve the underlying issue.
And although treating a fever is more for your child’s comfort than it is to “break it,” there are some things you can do to manage a fever.
Will it help to medicate my child?
Tylenol or Advil can reduce a fever, and both are appropriate for toddlers.
Aspirin should NEVER be given to children of any age.
**Note pertaining to infants: Ibuprofen can ONLY be used for children OVER 6 MONTHS of age.
Am I supposed to starve a fever or feed a fever?
This age-old question is not as relevant as this basic answer:
THE IMPORTANT THING IS HYDRATION.
When kids have a fever and aren’t feeling well, they will likely not be interested in eating, which is fine for short periods of time.
But it is extremely important for them to stay well-hydrated. Your number-one job is to encourage fluids, giving small sips frequently and monitoring for signs of dehydration. Try offering:
Small sips of water
Diluted juice
An electrolyte solution, such a Pedialyte
Ensure that your child is urinating every six to eight hours.
What else should I do?
Follow these tips:
Place your child in a tepid (slightly warm) bath. Using a sponge or washcloth to spread water over the trunk, arms and legs may be soothing and help bring the fever down.
Keep your home at a comfortable, cool temperature. A fan may help keep the cool air moving as well.
Dress your child in a light amount of clothing.
If your child has a highly contagious disease, e.g., influenza or chicken pox, keep him/her away from others.
When should I seek help?
Generally, if the fever is due to a virus, it could last three to five days and will go away naturally.
Beyond three to five days, if your child is still having fevers, you should seek the advice of a doctor. If there is a complicating bacterial process, an antibiotic will be prescribed. In rare cases, there are some non-infectious causes of fevers, such as autoimmune diseases or malignancy.
If your child is very drowsy or very irritable, has a stiff neck or severe headache, has a problem with his/her immune system, or shows signs of dehydration (dry mouth, not crying tears, or not urinating at least every six to eight hours), he/she should be seen.
**Note pertaining to infants: If your child is less than 3 months old, evaluation by a medical professional is warranted for a fever greater than 100.4 F.
What are the risks of leaving a fever untreated?
If your child has a history of febrile seizures, it is important to treat the fever.
Otherwise, supporting him/her through a viral process with fluids, encouraged rest and careful monitoring will help prevent complications.
To have your child evaluated, call AdventHealth Medical Group Primary Care – Internal Medicine & Pediatrics at (913) 373-2230.
Find a Doctor
View My Matches
About Us
Resources
Blog
Get health & wellness tips in your inbox.Sign Up
AdventHealth Shawnee Mission
9100 W 74th Street
Shawnee Mission, KS 66204
913-676-2000
Questions? Email Us
Copyright 2019 AdventHealth Shawnee MissionPRIVACYHealth Equity