Herbal Supplements Better Than Drugs for Migraine - Redondo Beach, CA Chiropractor - Goodlife Chiropractic
(310) 543-7779
Home
About Us
Dr. Dave
Dr. Amanda
Dr Tyler
Patient Reviews
Network
Our Services
Physical Therapy
Massage Therapy
Lunch N Learn Workshops
Corporate Wellness
KLaser Class IV Cold Laser Therapy
Hockey Players
How We Help
Auto Injuries
Back Pain After Auto Injury
Whiplash
Back Pain
Arthritis
Back Pain and Chiropractic
Sciatic and Disc Herniation
Spinal Degeneration
Neck Pain
Headache and Migraine
Hip and Joint Pain
Work Injuries
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Work Injuries and Chiropractic
Sports Injuries
Dizziness and Vertigo
Fibromyalgia
Knee and Leg Pain
Wellness
About Chiropractic
Chiropractic for Kids
Chiropractic for Seniors
Exercise
Nutrition
Pregnancy and Chiropractic
Blog
Location
Contact Us
Email the Doctor
Home About Us – Dr. Dave – Dr. Amanda – Dr Tyler – Patient Reviews – Network Our Services – Physical Therapy – Massage Therapy – Lunch N Learn Workshops – Corporate Wellness – KLaser Class IV Cold Laser Therapy – Hockey Players How We Help – Auto Injuries –– Back Pain After Auto Injury –– Whiplash – Back Pain –– Arthritis –– Back Pain and Chiropractic –– Sciatic and Disc Herniation –– Spinal Degeneration – Neck Pain – Headache and Migraine – Hip and Joint Pain – Work Injuries –– Carpal Tunnel Syndrome –– Work Injuries and Chiropractic – Sports Injuries – Dizziness and Vertigo – Fibromyalgia – Knee and Leg Pain Wellness – About Chiropractic – Chiropractic for Kids – Chiropractic for Seniors – Exercise – Nutrition – Pregnancy and Chiropractic Blog Location Contact Us – Email the Doctor
Herbal Supplements Better Than Drugs for Migraine
New research has revealed that butterbur, a natural herbal supplement, may be better at preventing migraines than several commonly-prescribed non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (frequently called NSAIDs).
Researchers analyzed 49 studies on migraine treatments performed from 1999 to 2009. They then rated the various treatments on their ability to prevent migraines. The research was part of new set of guidelines for treating migraines developed by the American Headache Society and the American Academy of Neurology.
The researchers concluded that among natural and over-the-counter preventative treatments, herbal supplements of butterbur were the most effective for preventing migraines. Taking supplements containing magnesium, feverfew, and riboflavin were also shown to be as effective as some drugs at preventing migraine occurrences. The researchers rated these supplements, along with NSAIDS like ibuprofen and naproxen, “probably effective” for preventing migraines.
Many treatments are available for migraine prevention. However, few patients actually take them. The journal Neurology has published research showing that while 38 percent of migraine sufferers would benefit from preventive medication, but only 3-13% use it. As a result, the American Academy of Neurology has placed a new emphasis on preventing in their new guidelines.
Preventive medications are taken daily to reduce the severity and frequency of migraines. Many of these treatments are available without a prescription. However, Stephen Silberstein of the AAN
says patients should consult their doctors to determine correct dosage to control their migraines. This can change, since migraines can become better or worse over time. Chiropractic care and regular exercise are two additional natural treatments that have been shown to reduce the severity and frequency of migraines.
Photo by Adam KR via Creative Commons.
References
Holland S, Silberstein S, Freitag F, et al. Evidence-based guideline update: NSAIDs and other complementary treatments for episodic migraine prevention in adults: Report of the quality standards subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the American Headache Society. Neurology 2012; 78 (17): 1346-1353.
Lipton RB, Bigal ME, Diamond M, Freitag F, et al. Migraine prevalence, disease burden, and the need for preventive therapy. Neurology 2007; 68(5): 343– 349.
New guidelines: treatments can help prevent migraine. American Academy of Neurology. Press Release. April 23, 2012. Accessed May 30,2012. http://www.aan.com/press/index.cfm?fuseaction=release.view&release=1062.
Contact Us
Send us a message.
Name
Email
Submit
Make an Appointment
Chiropractic
Location
Videos
3D Spine
About Us
About Us
Location and Hours
Contact Us
More Info
About Chiropractic
Conditions We Treat
1300 S. Pacific Coast Hwy
Redondo Beach, CA 90277
(310) 543-7779
©2019
Powered by ChiroHosting
Home
Contact Us
Call our office at (310) 543-7779 for an appointment today!