My Medical Mantra - Vitamin D can help treat drug-resistant TB, reveals UK study
Friend on Facebook Follow on Twitter Add to Google+ Circle Subscribe by Email Subscribe to RSS
मराठी
Search
×
Search in Site
To search in site, type your keyword and hit enter
Close
HOME
CII Health Conclave
Did You Know?
Diet Mantra
Doctors Speak
Featured
Fitness Mantra
Human Interest
Medical Miracles
Medical Technology
Off Beat
Our initiatives
Picture Gallery
Social Causes
Survivor Stories
Top Stories
uncategory
Video
What’s New?
yoga
...
Our initiatives
Off Beat
Opinion Poll
Resident Diary
Social Causes
Survivor Stories
• How to prevent suicidal thoughts? • Just 6 hours of sleep loss increases diabetes risk • 5 home remedies to help deal with bee stings
Vitamin D can help treat drug-resistant TB, reveals UK study
By Team MMM on February 7, 2019
The World Health Organization estimates that 10.0 million people developed active tuberculosis in 2017, and that 1.6 million people died of this disease
Share on Facebook Follow on Facebook Add to Google+ Connect on Linked in Subscribe by Email Print This Post
According to a study of 1,850 patients receiving antibiotic treatment led by Queen Mary University of London. Vitamin D has been found to speed up the clearance of tuberculosis (TB) bacteria from the lungs of people affected with multi-drug resistant TB.
Multi-drug resistant (MDR) TB is caused by bacteria that are resistant to treatment with at least two of the most powerful first-line anti-TB drugs, causing around 500,000 cases and 150,000 deaths per year worldwide. Existing antibiotic treatments for MDR TB are lengthy, costly and often toxic due to their serious side effects.
The findings add to a growing list of health benefits of vitamin D.
While vitamin D is best known for its effects on bone health, previous studies by Queen Mary researchers have revealed its role in protecting against colds, flu, asthma attacks, and last month, that it can protect COPD patients from deadly lung attacks.
Lead researcher Professor Adrian Martineau from Queen Mary University of London, stated, “Multi-drug resistant TB is on the rise globally. It’s notoriously difficult to treat, and it carries a much worse prognosis than standard TB.”
Martineau added, “Our study raises the possibility that vitamin D, which is very safe and inexpensive, could benefit this hard-to-treat group of patients by taking a novel approach to their treatment. By adding vitamin D to antibiotic treatment, we can boost the immune system to help the body to clear TB bugs, rather than relying on antibiotics on their own to kill the bacteria directly.”
He further added, “This is a novel approach, as it contrasts with the conventional tactic of developing new antibiotics in an attempt to ‘keep up’ with the emergence of drug-resistant bacteria, an arms race that is proving hard for us to win.”
Vitamin D has shown potential in boosting the immune system, but randomised controlled trials of vitamin D in TB treatment have yielded conflicting results.
In the new study, published in European Respiratory Journal, the research team pooled data from 1,850 TB patients who took part in clinical trials of vitamin D in eight countries (the UK, Pakistan, Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Mongolia, Republic of Georgia and Guinea Bissau).
They then ran an analysis to see whether there were particular groups of patients who responded better to vitamin D than others.
When added to antibiotic treatment, vitamin D was found to accelerate TB clearance specifically in patients with MDR TB, even though no acceleration of TB clearance was seen when looking at the entire study population as a whole.
The vitamin D supplementation was also found to be safe at the doses administered, with no links to serious adverse events.
The researchers say these results illustrate the potential for so-called ‘host-directed therapies,’ which are treatments that boost the immune system, to improve outcomes in patients with drug-resistant bacterial infections.
Source: Medical Xpress
Also Read :- B vitamins may have ‘protective effect’ against air pollution, but it has its limitations
anti-tuberculosis drugs, antibiotic treatment, antibiotics, asthma attacks, bone health, clinical trials, colds, COPD patients, flu, health benefits of vitamin D, London, MDR TB patients, MDR-TB, multi drug resistant TB, Multi-drug resistant (MDR) TB, Queen Mary University, TB, tuberculosis, vitamin D, World Health Organization
Also Read
3 diet changes to help lower cholesterol levels
Lack of sleep in teens interlinked with high blood pressure
Smoking just one cigarette a day can harm your heart
Enforce strict ban on E-cigarettes, FDA writes to drug inspectors
Vitamin D improves weight gain and overall development in malnourished kids
About us
Contact us
Glossary
News Letter
Organ Donation Awareness Contest 2017
Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
Website disclaimer
© 2019, ↑ My Medical Mantra
×
Subscribe
SUBSCRIBE HERE TO
.......... ..........
GET YOUR HEALTH NEWS
*Invalid email address.
Subscribe
Close