Burn Treatment: Types, First Aid and When to Go to the Hospital
Toggle navigation
Family
Pregnancy
Infants & Toddlers
Children
Teens
Caregivers
Food
Nutrition
Recipes
Wellness
Aging Well
Fitness
Mental Health
Prevention
Safety
Sleep
Smoking
Weight Management
Health Topics
Allergies
Bone & Joint
Brain & Memory
Breakthroughs
Cancer
Cold & Flu
Diabetes
Digestive
Ear, Nose & Throat
Eye
Heart & Vascular
Men’s Health
Oral Care
Women’s Health
Search
Toggle navigation
Prevention
May 8, 2017
What to know about burn injuries
by My Southern Health
Ice and folk remedies like butter are not helpful in burn first-aid. Follow this advice and know when to seek treatment.
Burns can be scary and tricky to assess. Here’s what to keep in mind if you or a loved one are faced with a burn.
Types of burns
A burn is damage to the skin caused by heat, flame, hot liquids or chemicals. There are three types or degrees of burns.
Superficial or 1st degree burns are damage to the top layer of skin, usually causing redness and pain like a sunburn.
Partial thickness or 2nd degree burns are damage to the deeper layers of skin, usually causing blisters and pain. The wounds should be pink or red under the blisters.
Full thickness or 3rd degree burns are damage to the entire thickness of skin, including nerves and blood vessels. The skin may be black (charred), brown or white.
First aid for burns
Flush the burn area with low-pressure, running cool water.
Don’t apply ice. It can be too harsh for burned skin and cause tissue damage.
Folk remedies such as applying butter do not help the healing process and may increase the risk of infection if the burn is severe.
Cool water (not cold) alone or a very mild soap can be used to gently clean the area.
Keep the burned area clean and dry as it heals. The area can be covered with a light bandage, if needed. A small amount of an over-the-counter ointment can be applied to keep the bandage from sticking to the skin.
When to go to the hospital for a burn
A burn covers a large area, especially if blistering occurs.
There is extreme pain or loss of sensation.
Burns occur to face, eyes, hands or feet.
A burn involves chemicals or electricity.
There is smoke inhalation.
A burn does not appear to be healing well.
Signs and symptoms of infection
You should check your burn daily for signs and symptoms of infection. Symptoms include:
Increased redness around the burns (including areas that were not burned).
Increased pain.
Foul-smelling drainage.
Fever.
Increased swelling.
Source: The Vanderbilt Burn Center
Safety, Skin
Subscribe to our newsletter to receive updates, and our free, downloadable Family Emergency Evacuation Plan.
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
2 thoughts on “What to know about burn injuries”
Anthony Hinrichs says:
May 9, 2017 at 12:02 am
Although very good info, the article does not tell what the usual treatment for burns is.
Reply
My Southern Health says:
May 23, 2017 at 3:24 pm
Hello, Anthony – the post contains first aid for burns; more serious cases as mentioned here should be seen by a medical professional for treatment. I hope that helps. – Linda
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
Sign up for updates
Sign up for updates on My Southern Health
×
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
Related posts
Spring cleaning? Make sure to properly dispose of medications
The toll of reckless driving, a personal story
One family’s story: the price of distracted driving
4 tips for back care in these warm, sunny months
How to stop severe bleeding: What to do in an emergency
Follow Us
About Us
Privacy Policy
For Media
Sitemap
Copyright © 2019 My Southern Health. All rights reserved.