Treating a Painful Achilles Tendon
Skip to main content
Spine-health.com Arthritis-health.com
Sports Injuries
Treatment
Forums
Sports Injuries
Ankle and Foot
Elbow
General
Groin
Hand and Wrist
Head and Neck
Hip
Knee
Leg
Shoulder
Running
Treatment
Ankle and Foot Injury Treatment
Elbow Injury Treatment
Groin Injury Treatment
Hand and Wrist Injury Treatment
Head Injury Treatment
Hip Injury Treatment
Knee Injury Treatment
Leg Injury Treatment
Regenerative Medicine
Shoulder Injury Treatment
Sports and Exercise Injury Treatment
Stress Fracture Treatment
Forums
All Forums
Arm and Shoulder Forum
Foot and Ankle Forum
Head and Neck Forum
Leg and Knee Forum
Surgery Forum
Training Regimen Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find a Sports Medicine Center
Videos
Free Newsletters
You are here
Treatment
Ankle And Foot Injury Treatment
Treating a Painful Achilles Tendon
Treating a Painful Achilles Tendon
share pin it Newsletters
By Gabriella Ode, MD
Updated: 02/29/2016
|
Peer Reviewed
The recommended treatments attempt to control inflammation if it is present, minimize stress on the Achilles tendon, and promote healing.
Initial treatments for Achilles tendonitis, tendinosis and other tendon problems include:
Rest. Depending on the severity of the injury, the doctor may recommend full or partial rest. If partial rest is assigned, athletes may be advised to modify their training schedules or training-intensity levels.
Change playing surface. Some doctors advise athletes to use softer playing surfaces. For example, most experts believe jogging on a synthetic soft track instead of concrete sidewalks will put less stress on an Achilles tendon and other joint structures.
Article continues below
Change of footwear. Everyone, particularly athletes, is advised to pick shoes that offer both support and comfort.
Ice. Ice baths, ice massages, or cold compresses may be recommended to reduce pain and inflammation in the Achilles tendon. Patients may use ice treatments for 10 to 20 minutes following activity.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as aspirin, ibuprofen (e.g. Motrin, Advil), naproxen (e.g. Aleve, Naprosyn), and cox-2 inhibitors (e.g. Celebrex).
Orthotic devices. Achilles straps, heel lifts, and other orthotic devices can be worn during the day. Orthotics may minimize stress-load on the tendon as well as ensure proper shoe fit and wear.
Night splints. Worn while sleeping, night splints provide a prolonged stretch to the Achilles tendon.
Bracing or casting. A temporary brace or walking cast (a “boot”) can keep the ankle from moving, giving the Achilles tendon time to heal.
Transdermal nitroglycerin patches. Daily application of transdermal nitroglycerin patches has been reported to be helpful in some more severe cases of Achilles tendinopathy.10 These patches may be sold under the names Minitran, Nitrek, Nitro TD Patch-A, and Nitro-Dur.
Physical therapy. A licensed physical therapist may use one or more of the following treatments, each of which attempt to reduce pain, improve the body’s ability to heal, or both.
In This Article:
Achilles Tendonitis and Tendon Injuries
Achilles Tendon Conditions Signs and Symptoms
Causes and Risk Factors for Achilles Tendon Damage
Diagnosing Achilles Pain
Treating a Painful Achilles Tendon
Injections and Surgery to Treat Achilles Pain
Stretching and eccentric strengthening exercises improve ankle stability.
Cross-friction massage (deep pressure applied against the tissue grain) stimulates blood flow and improves mobility.
Therapeutic ultrasound stimulates the Achilles tendon and surrounding muscles with high-frequency sound waves.
Iontophoresis, uses a mild electrical current to administer an anti-inflammatory medicine through healthy skin and into the Achilles tendon. (This treatment may be recommended to people who can't tolerate injections or want to avoid injections.)
Cold Level Laser Therapy, also called low level laser therapy, uses specific wavelengths of light to accelerate the tendon healing process.11
Extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) is a non-invasive procedure that uses high-energy shockwave impulses to help facilitate the healing process in damaged tendon tissue. There is growing evidence of its effectiveness but it is primarily utilized when all other conservative treatment options have failed.12 Low-energy ESWT can be performed by a therapist, but high energy ESWT can cause pain and is performed as an outpatient procedure using local or regional anesthesia.
While heat therapy is frequently recommended for treating other types of musculoskeletal injuries, using heat to treat of Achilles pain is usually discouraged.
References:
Tsai WC, Tang FT, Hsu CC, et al. Ibuprofen inhibition of tendon cell proliferation and upregulation of the cyclin kinase inhibitor. J Orthopedic Resear. 2004. 22(3): 586–591. doi: 10.1016/j.orthres.2003.10.014.
Bjordal JM, Lopes-Martins RA, Joensen J, et al. A systematic review with procedural assessments and meta-analysis of Low Level Laser Therapy in lateral elbow tendinopathy (tennis elbow). BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders. 2008;9:75. doi:10.1186/1471-2474-9-75.
Uquillas CA, Guss MS, Ryan DJ, Jazrawi LM, Strauss EJ. Everything Achilles: Knowledge Update and Current Concepts in Management: AAOS Exhibit Selection. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2015 Jul 15;97(14):1187-95. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.O.00002. Review. PubMed PMID: 26178893.
Next Page: Injections and Surgery to Treat Achilles Pain
Pages:
1
2
3
4
5
6
Editor's Top Picks
Video: How to Make an Ice Massage Applicator
Video: How to Make 5 Quick and Easy Ice Packs
Common Running Injuries: Pain in the Ankle or Back of the Heel
What Is the Difference Between Tendonitis, Tendinosis, and Tendinopathy?
Pros and Cons of Using PRP for Tendon Injuries
Video: How to Make a Gel Ice Pack
Ankle and Foot Injury Treatment Topics
Ankle and Foot Injury Treatment
Achilles Tendon Treatment
Ankle Sprain/Strain Treatment
Plantar Fasciitis Treatment
Turf Toe Treatment
advertisement
advertisement
Latest
Top Videos
Featured Articles
Wrist Tendonitis: An Overview
Symptoms of Wrist Tendonitis
Risk Factors and Causes of Wrist Tendonitis
Diagnosing Wrist Tendonitis
Treating Wrist Tendonitis Without Surgery
Snapping Hip Syndrome Treatment Video
Learn the treatment options for a snapping hip accompanied by pain.
Treatment for Knee Meniscus Tear Video
This video details the types of treatment for a knee meniscus tear.
Video: How to Make a Moist Heat Pack
Learn to make a moist heat pack with common household items.
Achilles Tendonitis and Tendon Injuries
What Is the Difference Between Tendonitis, Tendinosis, and Tendinopathy?
What You Need to Know About Runner’s Knee
Jumper’s Knee vs. Runner’s Knee
Exercise Ball Workout for Beginners
Advanced Exercise Ball Program for Runners and Athletes
advertisement
Health Information (Sponsored)
Sports Resources
Become a Doctor Member
Glossary
Find a Sports Medicine Center
Find a Sports Injury Specialist
Sign up for our Newsletter
About Sports-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Spine-health
Arthritis-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Sports-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding sports and sports related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
version.2019.01.051-2019.01.018