Using Exercise to Manage Depression - Major Depression Resource Center - Everyday Health
Search
Log in My Profile
Your Profile
Following Topics
Saved Items
Newsletters
Tools
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Settings
Logout
Subscribe Menu
Main Menu
Conditions
Atrial Fibrillation
Cold and Flu
Depression
Heart Failure
High Cholesterol
Multiple Sclerosis
Psoriasis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Ulcerative Colitis
View All
Drugs A-Z
Symptom Checker
Healthy Living
Fitness
Food & Nutrition
Sex & Relationships
Sleep
View All
Health Tools
Calorie Counter
Drugs A-Z
Meal Planner
My Daily Crohn's
My Daily RA
My Daily Diabetes
Recipes
Symptom Checker
Subscribe to Newsletters
clear
Explore Everyday Health
Health A-Z
Drugs
Healthy Living
Food
Everyday Solutions are created by Everyday Health on behalf of our partners. More Information
Content in this special section was created or selected by the Everyday Health editorial team and is funded by an advertising sponsor. The content is subject to Everyday Health’s editorial standards for accuracy, objectivity, and balance. The sponsor does not edit or influence the content but may suggest the general topic area.
Using Exercise to Manage Depression
By Diana Rodriguez
Reviewed by Pat F. Bass III, MD, MPH
A regular exercise routine can help relieve stress and depression. But first you'll need to find the energy to get started.
There are many ways to manage depression. Therapy and medication are often the mainstays of depression treatment, but simple lifestyle changes, particularly developing and maintaining a regular exercise routine, can benefit people with depression and improve stress management.
How an Exercise Routine Helps Depression
There's little doubt that exercise can be very effective in managing the symptoms of depression — research backs it up, says Erik Nelson, MD, a psychiatrist and assistant professor of clinical psychiatry at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine in Ohio.
For mild depression, studies show that "exercise can be very helpful in eliminating symptoms for some people," says Dr. Nelson. "For people with more significant depression, it may not work completely on its own, but can be part of a regimen of treatments." Exercise can certainly enhance the effects of medication or therapy, he adds.
Experts don't know exactly how exercise eases stress and depression, Nelson says, but studies suggest it causes biological changes in the brain. It may be that a physiological response to stress, which can worsen depression symptoms, is improved with exercise. Following an exercise routine can also bolster self-esteem, which is important for someone dealing with depression. "Psychologically, it helps people feel better about themselves," says Nelson.
Starting an Exercise Routine
Many people struggle to find the energy to exercise. For someone with depression, committing to an exercise routine can be even tougher, since a lack of motivation and low energy levels are classic symptoms of depression.
"It's a paradox — something that could really help, but is hard sometimes for people to initiate," says Nelson. However, people with depression can develop a successful exercise routine.
Try these tips to find the motivation and energy to start and maintain an exercise routine:
Consider exercise part of your treatment. You can ask your doctor or therapist for ideas to make exercise an integral component of your prescribed plan and get advice for sticking with it.
Work out with company. Finding a workout buddy or joining an exercise program can be a great motivator, Nelson says. Since people with depression tend to withdraw socially, the social interaction will provide an additional benefit.
Start slowly and work your way up. Recognizing your fitness level and setting small, realistic goals is very important for keeping a positive attitude about exercise. Trying to do too much too soon — and being unsuccessful — can be a huge step backward for people with depression. It can "feed into the depression," Nelson says, whereas gradually building your strength and reaching your goals can create a sense of satisfaction.
Do what you can. Experts recommend exercising between four and six days per week for a minimum of 30 minutes each day. If that seems unrealistic for you, start with shorter workout sessions, or work out fewer days. Every step you take and every minute you exercise will benefit your mind and body.
Find an activity you enjoy. Yoga and other mind-body exercises are great for people with depression because they work the body while focusing and calming the mind. You can also try playing sports, swimming, hiking, or going for a walk in pleasant surroundings. If you choose an activity that you look forward to, exercising won't be a chore.
Once you've started an exercise routine, you've overcome a big hurdle. But you have to keep it up to maintain the benefits. Even when your depression symptoms are well-managed, Nelson says, a regular exercise routine will help keep depressive episodes at bay.
Last Updated: 5/6/2010
Wellness inspired. Wellness enabled.
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Feedback
Contact Us
Editorial Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
About Us
Newsletters
Health News
Our Sponsors
Editorial Policy
Feedback
Careers
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Statement
Contact Us
More From Ziff Davis: Computer Shopper ExtremeTech Geek AskMen IGN Offers.com Speedtest.net TechBargains Toolbox What to Expect MedPage Today PCMag
© 1996-2019 Ziff Davis, LLC. Everyday Health is among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.