The Practice of Music Therapy: Its Benefits | rapsite.nl
Toggle navigation
This is an archived version.
+31 20 808 1143
Toggle navigation
Home
Career
The Choice to Be A Musician and its Risks
Being A Musician: A Case for Creativity
Music Production
Music Production
Music Production: Is it Always Worth It?
Music Therapy
Music as Therapy
The Practice of Music Therapy
Disadvantages of Music Therapy
Listening to Music Everyday
Dreaming of Becoming a Music Producer?
Write for Us
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Write for Us
Home
The Practice of Music Therapy: Its Benefits
Those who have gone through (or are going through) certain levels of stress and weariness need to know that all hope is not lost for them. If you consult any tech blog that deals with over all health and wellness, you’re bound to discover that there are many therapeutic solutions all waiting for you to try them out. Instead of just lounging around the internet and allowing yourself to simply be among the many website visitors, it’s best to be more proactive and try out, say, music therapy. Music therapy has several benefits, and you’ll find them below.
Benefits of Music Therapy
Listening to music alone can be therapeutic, actually.
Music therapy may refer to playing a musical instrument, singing, or just listening to songs. The expressive arts therapy has the purpose of maintaining and even improving the overall wellness of individuals. During and after each session, they will feel how their psychological, physical, and social well-being are enhanced. In the succeeding paragraphs, you will find several benefits of music therapy.
It improves the symptoms of depression. Many victims of depression don’t even seek treatment, unfortunately. Because music improves mood, reduces blood pressure, and lowers the respiratory rate, it is an effective solution to alleviate depression, anxiety, and other mood disorders.
Music improves symptoms of autism. Patients with developmental issues within communication and social interaction should follow music therapy. Many autism patients are interested in playing or singing. A great pro is that it helps them increase focus and attention, improve communication and social behaviors, and alleviate the anxiety issues.
Listening to music will enhance fetal development. Apart from helping the child to be more responsive to music after birth, the therapy reduces heart rate, increases the feeding rates, helps the fetus gain weight, and induces them in a deeper sleep. Lullabies, live sound, and even played songs on devices will influence positive neonatal behavior and decrease the stress faced by parents when caring for a premature baby.
Try It Out
In the end, the last word shall still come from you. It matters that you can actually really decide to take your own health into your own hands and take charge of yourself. Who knows, you might end up feeling better, just by listening to your favorite songs.
Related Posts:
No Related Posts
What others say about “The Practice of Music Therapy: Its Benefits” ? (0 Comments)
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Kirsten Fulghum
Kirsten Fulghum is a full-time music producer who does a lot of writing on the side. Her favorite music genres are rhythm and blues, electronic dance music, and A LOT of jazz. She was kicked out of a band when she was in high school, causing her to pursue music production instead. Today, she can honestly say that that was her best decision.
Quick Links
Home
Music Production
Music Therapy
Advertise
Write for Us
Address:
Weteringschans, 1017 XD Amsterdam, Netherlands
+31 20 808 1143
Recommeded Sites
IAmAmsterdam
DutchNews
AmsterdamToday
© rapsite.nl Archived Site Version
Contact Us