Magnetic Wrist Straps & Copper Bracelets Do Not Relieve Arthritic Pain | The 3 Monkeys Guide to Health
Home
About
Archives
Contact
Links
The 3 Monkeys Guide to Health
Feeds:
Posts
Comments
« It’s Not Your Imagination, It Actually Tastes Like Carbonation
Medical Marijuana & The Justice Department »
Magnetic Wrist Straps & Copper Bracelets Do Not Relieve Arthritic Pain
October 18, 2009 by 3healthymonkeys
It is a well known phenomenon that when people are in pain, the hustlers and quacks come crawling out from under their rocks to take advantage of the situation. They take advantage of the associative principle, which is that if Y happens after X it is plausible that X caused Y. Since many sufferers of arthritis have pain that comes and goes, a non-scientist may credit the copper bracelet or magnetic wrist wrap with having played a role in reducing the pain in their aching joints.
We refuse to link to any web sites promoting such nonsense, but a quick Google search can turn up many examples of sites selling those items. Some of them babble at length with pages and pages of pseudoscience interwoven with endorsements from satisfied customers.
Here is what they do not tell you: there is no scientific basis for making the claim that a copper bracelet or magnetic wrist strap can cure arthritis or even relieve the pain temporarily. A theoretical framework does not even exist to explain how such a phenomenon can work.
If you have not already done so, we recommend reading The Power of Imagination for a good background on placebos and the placebo effect.
Stewart Richmond, a Research Fellow in the Department of Health Sciences at the University of York led a randomized, placebo controlled study on the effects copper bracelets and magnetic wrist straps have on pain management.
The trial involved 45 people aged 50 or over, who were all diagnosed as suffering from osteoarthritis. Each participant wore four devices in a random order over a 16-week period – two wrist straps with differing levels of magnetism, a demagnetised wrist strap and a copper bracelet.
We guarantee none of the web sites selling this nonsense make any reference to the results of the study:
“This is the first randomised controlled trial to indicate that copper bracelets are ineffective for relieving arthritis pain.”“It appears that any perceived benefit obtained from wearing a magnetic or copper bracelet can be attributed to psychological placebo effects. People tend to buy them when they are in a lot of pain, then when the pain eases off over time they attribute this to the device. However, our findings suggest that such devices have no real advantage over placebo wrist straps that are not magnetic and do not contain copper.
“Although their use is generally harmless, people with osteoarthritis should be especially cautious about spending large sums of money on magnet therapy. Magnets removed from disused speakers are much cheaper, but you would first have to believe that they could work.”
We consider swindling old and sick people out of a big chunk of their hard earned money to be a cause of harm. This may be complete quackery but it is also big business.
Magnet therapy is a rapidly growing industry, with annual worldwide sales of therapeutic devices incorporating permanent magnets worth up to $4 billion US.
Conclusion: Copper bracelets and magnetic wrist straps do not work for relieving pain.
Source
Advertisements
Share this:
Reddit
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Posted in General | Tagged Arthritis, Pain |
3 Monkeys Search
Search for:
3 Monkeys Recent Posts
Happy Thanksgiving!
A Second Skin For A Second Chance
Does Sugar Shorten Lifespan?
The 3 Monkeys Guide To Health On Facebook
Diet Sodas: Bad For Your Kidneys
Pages
About
Archives
Contact
Links
3 Monkeys Archive
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
Blogroll
3 Monkeys | Digg
3 Monkeys | Facebook
3 Monkeys | LinkedIn
3 Monkeys | Reddit
3 Monkeys | Technorati
3 Monkeys | Twitter
BugMeNot | Bypass Compulsory Registration
Instapundit
Little Green Footballs
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
3 Monkeys Tag Cloud
Acai Berry Aging Alcohol Allergies Amblyopia Anthropology Arthritis Autoimmune Disorders Babies Big Pharma Binge Drinking Biology BioTech Book Review Brain Breast Cancer Cancer Celiac Disease Chemotherapy College Dental Care Diabetes Diet & Nutrition Drugs Education Evolution Exercise Fitness Fluorouracil Games Green Tea H1N1 Swine Flu Happiness Healthcare Health Food Hospitals Intelligence Irony Jet Lag Lazy Eye Learning Legislation Longevity Love & Sex Macular Degeneration Marriage Maternal Care Mayo Clinic Medicine Mediterranean Diet Men's Health Mental Health Movie Review NanoTech Neural Interface Obesity Pain Parenting Politics Prostate Cancer Psychology Quackery Quit Smoking Research Resveratrol Skin Cancer Sleep Smoking Stem Cells Swine Flu Tobacco Universal Health Care VA Vitamin D Women's Health
Twitter Updates
Error: Twitter did not respond. Please wait a few minutes and refresh this page.
Advertisements
Blog at WordPress.com.
WPThemes.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: