Minoxidil For Hair Loss - Superdrug™ Online Doctor
Superdrug.com
Sign in to your Account->
RegisterRegister
Excellent 9.3/10
Trustpilot
Please see our contact and delivery pages for info
about delivery times and contact hours over Easter
Search
Press for menu
Search
Sign in to your Account
Home
Men's Health Men's Health
Erectile Dysfunction »
Viagra
Viagra Connect
Sildenafil
Cialis
Tadalafil
Levitra
Spedra
More...
New
Testosterone Tests And Treatment »
Testosterone Test Kit
Premature Ejaculation »
Priligy
EMLA Cream
Hair Loss Treatment »
Propecia
Finasteride
Regaine For Men
More...
New
Thrush Treatment For Men »
Clotrimazole
Men's Health Clinic »
Women's Health Women's Health
Contraceptive Pill »
Yasmin
Microgynon
Cilest
More...
New
Hormone Replacement Therapy »
Vagifem
Tibolone
Menopause Test Kit
More...
Cystitis Treatment »
Nitrofurantoin / MacroBid
Morning After Pill »
Levonelle
EllaOne
Bacterial Vaginosis Treatment »
Metronidazole
Period Delay »
Utovlan
Facial Hair Removal Cream »
Hair Loss In Women »
Regaine For Women
Nourkrin Woman
Alpecin Shampoo
New
Thrush Treatment »
Canesten Cream
Canesten Combi
Canesten Duo
Women's Health Clinic »
Sexual Health Sexual Health
STI Treatments »
Chlamydia Treatment
Gonorrhea Treatment
Genital Herpes
Genital Warts
Trichomoniasis Treatment New
STI Test Kits »
Chlamydia Gonorrhea Test Kit
Chlamydia Test Kit
Syphilis Test Kit
Extended STI Test Kit
HIV Test
STI Test Kit For Women
Photo Assessment
STI Medications »
Aciclovir
Aldara
Condyline
Doxycycline
Warticon
Valaciclovir
Sexual Health Clinic »
New Services New Services
New Services »
Hormone Replacement Therapy
Pill Quick Start
Psoriasis Treatment
Thrush Treatment For Women
Thrush Treatment For Men
Type 2 Diabetes Treatment
Eczema Treatment
Vitamin D Levels
Trichomoniasis Treatment
Testosterone Tests And Treatment
New Test Kits »
Thyroid Function Test Kits
Vitamin D Level Test Kits
Cholesterol Level Test Kits
Diabetes Test Kits
Menopause Test Kits
Syphilis Test Kit
Testosterone Test Kit
Travel Travel
Malaria Tablets »
Malarone
Generic Malarone
Doxycycline
Period Delay »
Utovlan
Jet Lag »
Circadin
Traveller's Diarrhoea »
Visit a travel clinic »
Rabies Vaccination
Yellow Fever Vaccination
Hepatitis B Vaccination
More Vaccinations
All Treatments All Treatments
Help & Contact Register Help & Contact
About Online Doctor »
Delivery & Returns
Order & Collect
Reviews
How Our Service Works »
FAQ
Contact Us
A Brand You Can Trust
Your medication is dispensed by a registered Superdrug pharmacy
FIND OUT MORE
Save Time & Embarrassment
Get the medication you need quickly without having to visit your GP
FIND OUT MORE
Security & Confidentiality
We put patient security safety first to give you complete peace of mind
FIND OUT MORE
FREE Fast Delivery
FREE standard delivery or collect from a local store after just 3 hours
FIND OUT MORE
A Brand You Can Trust
With over 900 stores across the UK and Republic of Ireland, Superdrug is a household name you can trust.
All medication is dispensed by a licensed Superdrug pharmacy.
Your prescription will be issued by one of our in-house doctors who are all UK registered with the General Medical Council.
Your information is kept in the strictest of confidence.
See All Online Doctor Services
Close
Save Time & Embarrassment
Our fast, convenient service is extremely straight forward and you don't need to visit a doctor to use it.
Select your preferred treatment
You'll complete a short online health assessment and select your preferred treatment. If you're unsure, our in-house GPs can also recommend the best treatment for you.
Our in-house GP prescribes appropriate treatment
Our doctors will review your order, issue your prescription and pass it straight to the Superdrug pharmacists to be dispensed
Delivered to your door or collect from store
Free Standard delivery is included and next day delivery starts at just £3.99.
OR you can collect from any Superdrug store with a pharmacy after just 3 hours.
See All Online Doctor Services
Close
Security & Confidentiality
We take precautions that other online providers don't,
in order to provide you with a convenient and discreet service.
Most of our doctors and staff are based in our headquarters in London, some other members of the team work remotely. The access to your data is restricted on a “need-to know” basis and available via VPN only to ensure optimum security.
Your information are hosted on AWS and Rackspace servers in the EU, both ISO 27001 compliant and submitted to the strictest security requirements.
UK based customer call centres - in case you ever need to contact us.
Medicines and goods delivered in discreet packaging.
See All Online Doctor Services
Close
FREE Fast Delivery
Orders placed before 4pm will be dispatched (or ready to collect in store) the same day.
Discreet Packaging
All of your medication will be delivered in plain, unlabeled packaging.
A signature will be required but it does not have to be the patient.
See All Online Doctor Services
Close
Home
»
Hair Loss Treatment
»
Minoxidil
What is Minoxidil?
What is Minoxidil?
"If no hair regrowth is seen after using the product for six months, you should stop using it. You may need to see your doctor to talk about what may be causing your hair loss." - Dr Louisa Draper
"If no hair regrowth is seen after using the product for six months, you should stop using it. You may need to see your doctor to talk about what may be causing your hair loss."
Dr Louisa Draper
View Hair Loss Treatments For Men	View Hair Loss Treatments For Women
Minoxidil is the active ingredient in products such as Regaine, that treat hair loss in men and women. It was first used in tablet form as a medicine to treat hypertension. Used in a lotion or foam, topical Minoxidil promotes hair growth in both men and women who have gradual hair loss (thinning hair) at the top of the head. It is not used to treat receding hairlines. It is a vasodilator, which means that it dilates blood vessels.
Minoxidil is not recommended for sudden, unexplained or patchy hair loss. It is also not suitable for women who have lost hair after having a baby.
View Hair Loss Treatments For Men	View Hair Loss Treatments For Women
Contents
How does Minoxidil treat hair loss?
How effective is it?
Can men use Minoxidil?
Is Minoxidil available for women?
Does Minoxidil cause side effects?
How is it used?
What other treatments are there?
How does Minoxidil treat hair loss?
It is not known exactly how Minoxidil works to stimulate hair growth, but it may be that the dilation of blood vessels in the scalp caused by application of the solution improves the function of hair follicles and promote the growth of new hair.
Minoxidil is usually used for at least four months before hair regrowth can be seen, so results aren’t immediate. This is because hair takes a while to grow back. Everyone has their own rate of hair growth and the treatment must be used consistently for the best chance of seeing results. The first hair regrowth will probably feel fine and soft, but should gain the same appearance and thickness of the rest of your hair as treatment continues.
If no hair regrowth is seen after using the product for six months, you should stop using it. You may need to see your doctor to talk about what may be causing your hair loss.
Back to top
Back to top
How effective is it?
In men
Two studies into Regaine for men, using a 5% solution of minoxidil, were conducted in Germany. Men in both studies applied the solution twice a day. One year-long study of 984 men with hereditary hair loss found the product to be very effective in 15.9% and effective in 47.8% of patients for stimulating hair growth.
The second study tested a 5% solution of minoxidil on 743 men with male hereditary hair loss. The study lasted for four months. It was rated by 7.5% of the men as very effective and 55% of the men as effective at stimulating hair growth. 74.2% of men also reported an increase in hair thickness.
In women
Women with female pattern hair loss (also known as androgenetic alopecia) can use Regaine for women, a Minoxidil solution at a 2% concentration.
A 32-week study into the effectiveness of a 2% Minoxidil solution in treating female pattern hair loss reported positive results. 60% of the patients in the 2% minoxidil group reported new hair growth compared with 40% of the patients in the placebo group.
Back to top
Back to top
Can men use Minoxidil?
Minoxidil can be used by men with male pattern baldness. It is suitable for men over the age of 18 who are experiencing hair loss and may stop hair loss and/or stimulate the growth of new hairs. It must be used twice a day for at least four months for any results to be seen. If no results are seen after six months of continuous treatment, you should stop using Minoxidil.
Back to top
Back to top
Is Minoxidil available for women?
Minoxidil solution at a 2% concentration is available for women with female pattern hair loss. This product is lower than in strength than the 5% solution recommended for men with hair loss. The reason for this is because a higher concentration of Minoxidil can also cause unwanted hair growth on other areas of the face and body in women. It is not recommended for pregnant or breastfeeding women, or for women planning on becoming pregnant.
Back to top
Back to top
Does Minoxidil cause side effects?
In common with all medications, Minoxidil can cause side effects. Some people may experience no side effects.
Common side effects include:
itching
irritation or redness in the treated area
additional unwanted hair growth elsewhere on the body
Rare side effects include:
burning of the scalp
increased hair loss
soreness at the hair roots
inflammation of the hair root
skin reddening
facial swelling
Minoxidil can be absorbed into the skin and cause severe side effects, although this is rare. Stop using Minoxidil and get medical help straight away if you experience any of the following severe side effects:
severe allergic reaction - characterised by itching, rash, hives, swelling of the mouth, lips, tongue or face, difficulty breathing, a feeling of tightness in the chest
swelling of hands, feet, or lower legs
dizziness
fainting
pain in the chest
fast or irregular heartbeat
breathing problems (especially when lying down)
numbness or tingling of hands, feet, or face
vision changes including blurred vision
Back to top
Back to top
How is it used?
For men:
Minoxidil foam and minoxidil solution are topical treatments, which means that you apply them to the area that you want to treat.
Minoxidil must be used as directed by your doctor. Always check the label for instructions on the correct dosage. Don’t use more or more often than you’ve been directed to do as this could increase the chances of absorption into the skin and resulting side effects.
This is how to apply minoxidil:
ensure your hair and scalp are dry before application
use the applicator provided to apply the solution to the area of the scalp being treated only
wash your hands immediately after application
allow the treated area to dry for two to four hours
be careful not to allow Minoxidil to get on to any other parts of your body or surfaces such as pillows
don’t wash your hair, go swimming, or allow your hair to get wet in the rain for at least four hours after using Minoxidil
if you miss an application, apply it as soon as possible after you remember
don’t use a double dose of Minoxidil
For women:
Minoxidil can be used in the same way as for men, please see above. The difference is that the solution will contain a lower percentage of Minoxidil compared to the men’s product.
Back to top
Back to top
What other treatments are there?
Propecia (finasteride) for men is an oral alternative used to treat male pattern baldness. It is a tablet available on prescription only. Propecia may improve hair growth within a few months. Propecia is not suitable for use by women.
Nourkrin is an alternative treatment to Minoxidil for women. It is a ‘natural’ hair supplement in tablet form, also available as a shampoo and lotion. It is a food supplement containing a marine protein extract which is promoted as supplying your body with the nutrients needed to promote hair growth.
Back to top
Back to top
Related Hair Loss Treatments
Alpecin Shampoo
Propecia
Dutasteride
Finasteride Tablets
View more
Further Reading on Hair Loss Treatments
Male Pattern Hair Loss
Causes Of Hair Loss
Stop Hair Loss
What are the best products for hair loss?
Side Effects Of Propecia
Receding Hair Line
Hair Loss Shampoo
Finasteride Side Effects
Hair Transplant - What does it cost?
Thinning Hair - Causes and Treatment
Alopecia Areata
Do hair loss supplements and vitamins work?
Can stress lead to hair loss?
DHT Blockers
Thyroid problems and hair loss
How To Get Thicker Hair By Improving Your Health
View more
Popular Articles
Perceptions of Perfection Part II: Men
Losing your hair but not your mojo
Frisky After 40
Sexual dry spells
The State of Erections
Avoiding Awkward Sex
View more
Online Doctor Services
Erectile Dysfunction
Contraceptive Pill
Morning After Pill
Chlamydia Treatment
Hair Loss
Health Clinics
About the Online Doctor
How It Works
Delivery and Returns
Order & Collect
Legal & Regulatory
Contact Us
Trustpilot Reviews
Superdrug.com
Superdrug Online Doctor Ireland
Store Locator
Press Centre
Superdrug Today
Superdrug Views
We're here Mon - Thur, 8am to 7pm, Fri, 8am - 6pm, Sat, 9am to 5pm
Call us on 0203 5880 293
Privacy and Cookie Policy
Terms & Conditions
View All Services