Best Foot Brace 2018 - apexhealthandcare.com
About
Contact
Affiliate Disclosure
Main menu
Home
Supports and Braces
Knee Sleeves
Ankle Support Products & Devices
Back
Wrist & Thumb
Hand & Finger
Shoulder
Arm & Elbow
Foot Braces, Foot Compression Sleeves & Support for your Feet
Leg & Groin
Neck
Hip
Health Devices
Digital Scales
Blood Pressure Monitors
Pulse Oximeters
Thermometers
Stethoscopes
Physical Therapy
Balance
Massagers
Grip Strengtheners
Tens Unit
Pedal Exercisers
Mobility
Canes
Wheelchairs
Knee Walkers
Footcare
Orthotics & Insoles
Plantar Fasciitis Splints
Living Aids
Dexterity Aids
Home
Foot
Best Foot Brace 2018
Previous
/ Next
Best Foot Brace 2018
Regardless of whether you’ve just had surgery on your feet or you’ve simply had an unfortunate accident on the football field, a good foot brace is an essential part of every home medical kit. A good one will not only help with foot pain and heel pain, but it will provide support to help you put weight on the foot, hold everything in place to allow the healing to occur properly, and most importantly, guard against further damage.
There are many different kinds of foot support out there, ranging from very lightweight gel supports to full on aircast ankle brace, so in order to help you find the best brace for your condition, we’ve put together this handy guide showing of some of the best foot and ankle supports on the market.
Why use a Foot Brace?
A good foot support can be very helpful in a number of circumstances. For one, if you have suffered a foot injury or a bad sprain, it can help you heal quicker by adding compression to the affected area and also holding your foot in a healthy position so that you won’t do any more damage. Or if you have just had surgery on your foot or ankle, your doctor will probably advise you to wear a foot splint for the same reasons. Also, these braces can help reduce the pain and discomfort caused by a number of orthotics conditions, such as plantar fasciitis, foot drop, flat foot, heel spurs, hairline fractures and more.
We strongly recommend that you always consult with a medical professional to decide what kind of brace you should use and how long you should use it for.
Always remember that a brace’s should be used temporarily in order to aid with healing. They are not a quick fix for pain and should not be worn all the time, for if you do, foot braces may actually do more damage than good as your muscles may become accustomed to the extra support and grow weaker.
Top 16 Foot Braces
Zenith Foot Brace
Whatever the source of your pain may be, from injury, strain, fractures or conditions like arthritis, you can say goodbye to a lot of your woes with the great foot support. Even within just a matter of a month or two, you’ll start to feel a lot better after wearing this for some of the time every day. This superior ankle support helps with sprains, strains and arthritic pain. It is also ideal for wearing to prevent sporting injuries as well as unexpected acute injuries. It is a bit more sturdy then some of the compression sleeves as it has angular reinforcement straps and the lace-up front wrap around your ankle to stabilize tendons and joints, giving you extra stability.
You’ll be glad to hear that this is also very durable and long-lasting, as this foot splint is made of high-quality neoprene and nylon compounds in order to give your poor foot and ankle the best breath ability and mobility while wearing. Also, the seams are double stitched for durability to make sure that you won’t have to buy another foot splint for many many years to come.
Another great thing about the Zenith foot supports is that they come in varying sizes, from S-L, so that feet and ankles of all different shapes and sizes can find a brace that will fit them well. So you will be comfortable and won’t have to suffer with an ill fitting splint.
United Surgical Fracture Boot
This heavy duty brace comes in sizes from XS to X-Large, and it has been specially designed to help you keep up with your day to day activities as you recover from injury or surgery. It is made of molded plastic with strong steel supports to protect your foot from further damage and also hold everything in the right place to allow you to heal as fast as possible.
If you have suffered a severe sprain or a fracture, this will help a lot, and its cushioned insoles will lessen the impact of walking on your heels.
Sleeve Stars Plantar Fasciitis Brace
Improve blood circulation and ease the pain from heel spurs, Achilles heel, Plantar Fasciitis and more with this discreet yet highly effective compression sock. Whether you need to wear it for a few weeks to recover from an injury or just slip it on every know and again when you go jogging, this premium foot support will protect and relieve pain.
The adjustable;e strap lets you tighten or loosen this with ease, and its high-quality fibers will quickly absorb sweat to leave your feet dry and relatively odor free. It also comes with a free compression strap, for good measure.
Plantar Fasciitis Splint By Vive
This heavy duty foot brace reduces pain and inflammation due to plantar fasciitis, drop foot and Achilles tendonitis by gently stretching the plantar fascia while holding the foot in a neutral position. This foot splint can be worn through the night so your feet will feel wonderful first thing in the morning and help you get out of bed without that nagging pain.
All of this would mean nothing if it wasn’t comfortable, but thankfully its hard exterior is matched by its soft interior. The splint features comfortable padding with a breathable soft lined foam which prevents skin irritation, blisters and abrasions.
Foots Love Arch Foot Support
Help ease arch pain with this small yet very effective foot strap plantar fasciitis brace. This arch compression sleeve easily slips on your foot and can be worn with socks and shoes without any discomfort, and they can be worn all day or through the night.
This comes as a pack of two straps, so this is great value for money of you suffer from arch pain on both feet, or someone else in your family would like to use the other one.
Bunion Corrector Foot Brace
This high-tech and very sci fi looking foot splint will help correct your toe position and relieve the pain cause by bunions by gently moving and holding your toes into their proper position.
It is made of high-end nano materials and anti-allergic fibers in order to feel soft and smooth on your skin as it corrects your foot posture and helps ease the discomfort of bunions. This is definitely a top of the range product
Bunion Splint by Vive
Help straighten out your toes and correct your foot posture with this corrector brace pad which will help with bunions, Hallux Valgus and crooked toes. The compression will help increase blood flow and keep down swelling as the aluminium brace gently applies pressure in order to realign your big toe and help cure that bunion.
This only comes in one size, but it is fully adjustable, and the manufacturers are confident that its one size will fit most feet.
Vive Plantar Fasciitis Night Splint
Get rid of that nasty foot pain and inflammation with this great brace. It works by supporting a neutral foot position, helping ease the symptoms of plantar fasciitis, drop foot and Achilles tendonitis. The splint is to be worn throughout the night to alleviate painful first steps in the morning, and it does so by gently stretching the muscles as you sleep. It also comes with a handy foot massage ball for extra pain relief.
With its three wide adjustable straps, the latex-free foot splint is perfect for both both men and women. The straps have a sturdy fastener to make sure the brace won’t slip off or twist during the night. And, as you’ll be sleeping in it, it has extra soft padding to make sure you don’t lose and Zs while its on. Also, hopefully it bounce right off your partner just in case you kick them in your sleep. As you can wear it on either foot, this is a very versatile night brace, and if you have aching feet first thing in the moring, this might help you get that spring back in your step.
PowerLix Plantar Fasciitis Foot Socks
The PowerLix ankle braces will work wonders for your feet, as they apply even pressure across your ankle joint to give you the ultimate pain relief from a variety of ailments including plantar fasciitis, arthritis, sprains, swelling, tendonitis, muscle fatigue, and other ankle pain. With this great foot sleeve, you’ll be apply to heal from injury and get extra protection in order to make sure it never happens again.
Although sizes can often be a bother with other foot braces, with the Powerlix it doesn’t matter if you’ve got huge ankles or really small ones, as their Special knitted technical design can match all different shapes and sizes, and the comfortable and breathable fabric feels so soft and silky you could even wear it all day long, and they are great at absorbing sweat to keep your feet feeling fresh.
If you’re looking to get some support and pain relief but don’t want to compromise on mobility and range of movement, this might be just what you want.
Foot Sleeve
We all know how much it sucks to be on the sidelines with a nasty foot injury, but this foot sleeve will help improve blood circulation and ease the pain from heel spurs, Achilles heel, Plantar Fasciitis, and a lot of other foot conditions, helping you get back to 100% as soon as possible. This differs from other brace as it has an extra compression strap that supports your foot and ankle in order to help you prevent further injury while also helping to deal with inflammation.
One of the great things about this brace is that you can easily slip it under your socks, helping you keep everything discreet and making sure your colleagues don’t know. Also, if anyone sees it at the gym, they’ll probably think its just a part of your fashionable sports wear. Soon everyone at the sports club will want one!
The manufacturer offers a 100% money back guarantee in this, so they must be confident in their product.
Plantar Fasciitis Compression Sock
Bounce back from injury and get help with a number of different foot conditions with this great little foot sleeve. This Ankle support has crisscross reinforcement straps to give you sturdy and durable support & stabilization on the ankle tendons and joints. This means that the risk of re-injury or further strain is dramatically minimized. It will also promote blood circulation, and its gentle compression can give you effective pain relief for plantar fasciitis, arthritis, sprains, swelling, tendonitis, and muscle fatigue among others
As this is going to be on your feet for quite some time, you’ll be happy to know that it is woven from soft breathable elastic and moisture wicking fabrics, so they’ll keep your feet cool and comfortable and let moisture evaporate quickly, leaving your feet as dry as they can be in the compression sleeve . Best of all, anyone can wear this as it is form-fitting and anti-slide, so it will slip in your shoes comfortably if you need to wear them.
This ankle support will be great for those with sports injuries who are working their way back to the tennis court or the football field.
BraceAbility Foot Splint
If you’ve had the misfortune to suffer a fracture or break in your feet recently, this chunky brace will help you with conditions as diverse as a broken toe, metatarsal fracture, stress fracture, sprain, post bunion surgery, or any other type of toe, foot, or even an ankle injury that require you to immobilize the joint while you heal, but with this on you can still walk about and keep mobile
This will keep you very comfortable with its deluxe foam lining, making you feel like your foot is being cuddled, and its open toe design will let the air in and keep everything feeling breathable and cool. Might not be great if it rains though. However, the rigid polymer plastic reinforced shell will definitely keep you protected from any bumps or knocks.
What we love most about this one is that it has easily adjustable medical-grade Velcro straps that will let this brace be adjusted to fit any size of foot, as long as it belongs to a human being. Get this if you’ve recently broken your toe.
Mars Wellness Plantar Fasciitis Posterior Night Splint
This great night splint will be a great help to those who unfortunately suffer from Plantar Fasciitis and Achilles Tendonitis, and can also help you with a number of other conditions as well. This lightweight plantar fasciitis night brace has been specially designed to assist by keeping the your ankle in the neutral position as you sleep overnight, passively stretching the calf and plantar fascia while you catch some Zs. This gentle methods of stretching reduces the muscle contracture, inflammation, and associated pain and more.
The lightweight yet firm shell is sturdy and breathable, and you can help make it feel good and fitting by adjusting its three padded straps and buckles, yet you can be sure that it will immobilize the ankle joint. As you know, your feet can give off a lot of sweat and grime, so you’ll be pleased to know that this has a a washable Lycra covering over its padding that gives your skin maximum comfort.
If you don;t mind wearing something that looks like a prop from a sci fi film, this wonderful foot brace will be like a little angel helping your feet while you sleep.
Orthomen Drop Foot Brace
For those poor souls who unfortunately suffer from problems with the condition known as drop foot, we’;ve got just the thing for you. This foot splint has been specially designed for you, and it is constructed from Injection-molded polypropylene in order to ensure that it is lightweight. It helps the condition by providing a dorsiflexion assist to correct foot drop while walking, and its variable thickness throughout provides thickness and strength on the parts that really needed it while cutting down on bulk in others
Best of all, you can easily trim this down with household scissors in order to make it fit into your shoes and work properly for you. Those whith drop foot should check this brace out – it might be just what you need to help improve your walking.
Aircast Foot Brace
It might look like part of a robot’s leg, but in fact this is a foot splint is actually designed for foot and ankle injuries. It comes in a whole set of different sizes and models, with some of them better for shorter wearers, and others specially destined for those who suffer from diabetes and more. SO no matter what your condition may be, there’s a good chance that this model will have a solution that suits you.
This foot brace has a removable cast, and it won’t limit the mobility you need for your day-to-day activities while recovering from injury, although you might not be doing any back flips while wearing it. It will, however, give you the amazing protection and pneumatic support through its semi rigid shell, for stable fractures of the foot and ankle, severe ankle sprains, soft tissue injuries, chronic conditions including plantar fasciitis, metatarsal fractures, forefoot and midfoot injuries, bunionectomies and post-operative use.
Whats really great about this splint is that it promotes normal walking and gait while wearing it, and it has all the padding you need to stay comfortable but it won’t restrict your movement too much. It can also be worn on either the right or left foot, making it very versatile.
Ice Therapy Foot support
If you’ve just buckled your ankle, then you can now ice down your ankle in style with this amazing compression foot sleeve. Simply pop the gel pack in the freezer, then put it in the brace and get it on your ankle for some instant and effective pain relief and help in controlling the swelling that comes with sprains and strains. And if hat isn’t enough, this crazy design also has an air pump built into the sock in order to let you add in some air compression too. As you know, compression promotes healing by improving circulation.
This is a one fits all size product, and you can easily wear it under your socks and shoes without it making a mess. This will be a great help for sprains, sports injuries, rehab, arthritis, achilles tendonitis, planar fasciitis and muscle tensions and fatigues, and you can always leave it in your gym bag just in case.
Considerations
How long to wear a foot brace – If you are wearing it to recover from an injury, usually it will take somewhere between 2 to 6 weeks in total, but this can be longer depending on the severity of your injury. If you are wearing it to cope with a condition like heel drop, your physician will advise when and how to long to wear the brace for. However, if you’ve got a night brace, these are usually safe to wear throughout the night, although your doctor or physio therapist will be able to give you the best advice on this.
Sizes – If you’re in a lot of pain,l you may be very eager to get a brace as soon as possible, but please hold back on the temptation to hit ‘buy now’ and make sure that you’re brace will fit your foot size. Some of these braces and sleeves are of the ‘one size fits all variety’, where as some of them will have different size options corresponding to different shoe sizes. Make sure you check before buying in order to avoid disappointment and having to wait longer while you send off for a replacement.
Socks and insoles – if you are wearing a heavy foot support, you may need to wear special padded socks or insoles. Please check the product description to see if this is necessary.
Weight – some foot supports are not recommended for people over a certain wait. Please check the product description to see if this applies to the brace you are considering buying.
Write a Reply or Comment:
Cancel Reply
Comment * :
Name * : Email * :
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Social
Copyright © 2018 Apex Health & Care.
Back to top