FAQ's
ASKthesafetyman.com 1-800-277-2267
Home About Us My Training Account Help
Training Cart
(Your training cart is empty)
Site Safety Program
FAQ's
Knowledge Base
About
Contact Us
CPR Training
CPR Training Options
Baby Shower Gift Certificates
Is CPR Training Really Necessary?
Forklift Training
Forklift Training
Is Forklift Training Necessary?
CPR Fundraising
CPR Fundraising
Corporate Training
Contracts
Low Monthly Cost
Extensive Training
Best Training Option for Large Companies
Saves Money
Flexible Training
OSHA Compliant
Onsite or In Our Classrooms
Conference & Workshop Discounts
Register Now!
Join our mailing list!
You are here:Home > FAQ's
We found 0 results matching your criteria.
Good Samaritan Laws and Consent
QUESTION: My workplace deals with children. Do I need to get consent from a child to give care?
ANSWER: No. Implied consent applies to children who obviously need emergency help when a parent or guardian is not present.
QUESTION: Does the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act affect me when giving first aid care?
ANSWER: Records and information of emergency care are considered confidential and must not be shared with anyone other than emergency medical services personnel or others as designated in your company or organization’s written policy. Specific questions should be addressed to your company’s human resources department.
Preventing Disease Transmission
QUESTION: What is considered “contaminated by blood?”
ANSWER: Materials contaminated by blood include:
Items that when compressed release blood in a liquid or semi-liquid state;
Items caked with blood that will, or may, release the blood when handled.
QUESTION: How do I dispose of contaminated materials if my workplace does not have a biohazard container?
ANSWER: If there is no biohazard container available, a double-lined plastic bag may be used. Your workplace health and safety officer or the local health department should be contacted regarding procedures and regulations for disposal.
QUESTION: What happens to the biohazard container after contaminated materials have been disposed of?
ANSWER: Your workplace should have a plan in place to properly dispose of contaminated material. Some workplaces work with their local medical facility, public health unit or another contracting agency for disposal of the containers. For additional information, contact your workplace health and safety officer or OSHA.
QUESTION: Can HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, be spread by touching a person?
ANSWER: No. HIV cannot be spread by touching a person’s unbroken skin. HIV is known to be transmitted only through exposure to infected blood, semen, vaginal secretions and breast milk.
QUESTION: How is the Hepatitis B virus (HBV) transmitted?
ANSWER: It is more often transmitted through unprotected direct or indirect contact with infected blood. Hepatitis B is not transmitted by casual contact, such as shaking hands, or by indirect contact with objects like drinking fountains or telephones.
QUESTION: How is the Hepatitis C virus (HCV) transmitted?
ANSWER: Hepatitis C is transmitted primarily by direct contact with human blood, through sexual contact and from mother to child at birth. Groups at risk include those who:
Have been notified that they received blood from a donor who later tested positive for hepatitis C;
Have ever injected illegal drugs, even if they only experimented once or a few times many years ago;
Received a blood transfusion or solid organ transplant before July 1992;
Received a blood product for clotting problems that was produced by 1987;
Have ever been on long-term kidney dialysis;
Have evidence of liver disease (e.g., persistently abnormal ALT levels);
Are healthcare workers who have been exposed to HCV-positive blood on the job (e.g., needle sticks or splashes to the eye);
Are children born to HCV-positive mothers.
QUESTION: Do I have to worry about all body fluids, even saliva and tears?
ANSWER: Yes. Even though there is a decreased risk of transmission of infectious materials in saliva and tears, precautions should be taken whenever there is contact with a person’s body fluids.
QUESTION: Are diapers contaminated material?
ANSWER: No, unless there is the presence of blood. Ensure that you always wash your hands after changing an infant’s diaper. Consult your local health department or childcare regulatory agency for specific guidance.
Emergency Action Steps
QUESTION: How can I cope with the emotional aspects of giving care to someone in an emergency?
ANSWER: Being involved in the rescue of another person can cause a wide range of feelings. These feelings are normal. It also is important to know that talking about your feelings is helpful in coping with the stress of responding to someone in an emergency situation. You may wish to talk with family members or consult with your human resources department about your company’s employee assistance program, your personal physician, primary care provider or clergy for counseling or referral to a professional.
QUESTION: If I am checking the scene for safety, what other dangerous situations may prevent me from reaching the person?
ANSWER: Some scenes may be unsafe for obvious reasons such as fire, smoke-filled spaces or traffic. You should also avoid going into areas that require special training and equipment such as respirators or self-contained breathing apparatus. This includes a poisonous gas environment, possible explosive environment such as natural gas or propane, collapsed or partially collapsed structures and confined areas with no ventilation or fresh air.
Rescue Breaths for Adult
QUESTION: What if an adult vomits while the responder is giving rescue breaths?
ANSWER: Gently turn the adult on his or her side, maintaining head, neck and back alignment and use a finger to sweep out the mouth. After clearing the mouth, turn the adult onto his or her back, reposition the airway and resume giving rescue breaths.
QUESTION: Why is it important not to blow too hard or too fast when giving rescue breaths:
ANSWER: Because air can be forced into the person’s stomach, causing him or her to vomit and inhale it into the lungs.
QUESTION: How much air should I blow when giving rescue breaths?
ANSWER: Just enough to make the chest clearly rise.
Checking an Unconscious Person
QUESTION: How long should I pause between the initial 2 rescue breaths?
ANSWER: You should pause just long enough to take in air to give the second breath.
QUESTION: What if a person is just barely conscious and is groggy or confused:
ANSWER: A person who is barely conscious and groggy or confused may have a life-threatening illness or injury. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number. Stay with the person and monitor his or her condition until advanced medical care arrives.
Checking a Conscious Person
QUESTION: Why is it important to ask the conscious person questions that EMS personnel will ask anyway?
ANSWER: A person’s condition may worsen, and he or she may be unconscious by the time EMS personnel arrive. The person’s answers to your questions may provide valuable information that would otherwise be unavailable.
Conscious Choking—Adult
QUESTION: What should I do if a conscious choking adult becomes unconscious?
ANSWER: If the person becomes unconscious, carefully help the person to the floor. Then check for an object in the mouth. If the object is visible, remove it with a finger. Whether or not an object is removed, begin using a modified CPR technique for an unconscious choking person.
QUESTION: Should I call 9-1-1 for a conscious choking person?
ANSWER: Yes. Even if the object does come out, there is a chance that tissue in the person’s airway may swell and cause further complications. If the object does not come out, the person may become unconscious and need additional care.
QUESTION: What if I am alone and choking?
ANSWER: Call 9-11 or the local emergency number, even if you cannot speak, and do not hang up the phone. You can give yourself abdominal thrusts. Lean over a firm object, such as the back of a chair or a railing, and press your abdomen against it. Avoid a sharp edge or corner that might hurt you.
QUESTION: Why should I give a combination of back blows and abdominal thrusts to a conscious adult who is choking?
ANSWER: Based on the 2010 Consensus on Science for CPR and Emergency Cardiovascular Care, a combination of back blows and abdominal thrusts is more effective in clearing an obstructed airway than a single technique.
QUESTION: What if the choking person is pregnant, too large to reach around or in a wheelchair and cannot stand?
ANSWER: If a person is pregnant, too large for you to stand behind and reach around his or her abdomen or in a wheelchair, give chest thrusts. To give chest thrusts, make a fist with one hand and grab your fist with the other hand, place the thumb side of your fist on the center of the person’s breastbone and give quick thrusts into the chest.
QUESTION: What if a person choking is much shorter than I am?
ANSWER: You may have to adjust and get down on one knee to give back blows and abdominal thrusts.
Conscious Choking—Child
QUESTION: Why should I give a combination of back blows and abdominal thrust to a conscious child who is choking?
ANSWER: Based on the 2010 Consensus on Science for CPR and Emergency Cardiovascular Care, a combination of back blows and abdominal thrusts is more effective in clearing an obstructed airway than a single technique.
QUESTION: What should I do if a conscious choking child becomes unconscious?
ANSWER: If the child becomes unconscious, carefully help the child to the floor. Then check for an object in the mouth. If the object is visible, remove it with a finger. Whether or not an object is removed, begin using a modified CPR technique for an unconscious choking child.
QUESTION: Should I call 9-1-1 for a conscious choking child?
ANSWER: Yes. Even if the object does come out, there is a chance that tissue in the person’s airway may swell and cause further complications. If the object does not come out, the person may become unconscious and need additional care.
QUESTION: How hard should I perform abdominal thrusts on a child?
ANSWER: You should thrust hard enough to produce an artificial cough that will dislodge the object.
QUESTION: What should I do if a conscious choking infant becomes unconscious?
ANSWER: If the infant becomes unconscious, carefully place the infant on a firm flat surface. Then check for an object in the mouth. If the object is visible, remove it with a small finger. Whether or not an object is removed, begin using a modified CPR technique for an unconscious choking infant.
QUESTION: Should I call 9-1-1 for a conscious choking infant?
ANSWER: Yes. Even if the object does come out, there is a chance that tissue in the person’s airway may swell and cause further complications. If the object does not come out, the person may become unconscious and need additional care.
Rescue Breathing—Child
QUESTION: What if a child vomits while the responder performs rescue breathing?
ANSWER: Gently turn the child on his or her side, maintaining head, neck and back alignment and use a finger to sweep out the mouth. After clearing the mouth, turn the child onto his or her back, reposition the airway and resume rescue breathing.
QUESTION: Why does tilting the head farther back in a child or infant cause the airway to become blocked?
ANSWER: Children have less developed cartilage in the windpipe, which may easily collapse if the neck is flexed or tilted too far back.
QUESTION: Why is it important not to blow too hard or too fast when giving rescue breaths?
ANSWER: Because air can be forced into the child’s stomach, causing him or her to vomit and inhale it into the lungs.
Rescue Breathing—Infant
QUESTION: What if an infant vomits while the responder performs rescue breathing?
ANSWER: Gently turn the infant on his or her side, maintaining head, neck and back alignment and use a finger to sweep out the mouth. After clearing the mouth, turn the infant onto his or her back, reposition the airway and resume rescue breathing.
QUESTION: What if it appears that an infant has been underwater for an extended period of time?
ANSWER: Immediately call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number. An infant who has been submerged should always receive care, even if it has been a prolonged period of time since initial immersion. Infants who drown in cold water have been successfully revived even after prolonged periods of submission.
QUESTION: Why does tilting the head farther back in a child or infant cause airway to become blocked?
ANSWER: Children have less developed cartilage in the windpipe, which may easily collapse if the neck is flexed or tilted too far back.
QUESTION: Why is it important not to blow too hard or too fast when giving rescue breaths?
ANSWER: Because air can be forced into the child or infant’s stomach, causing him or her to vomit and inhale or aspirate it into the lungs.
QUESTION: How much air should I blow when giving rescue breaths?
ANSWER: Just enough to make the chest clearly rise.
QUESTION: What is the infant recovery position?
ANSWER: An infant recovery position is similar to the position in which you place a child or adult.
Cardiac Emergencies
QUESTION: What if a victim uses nitroglycerin?
ANSWER: Help a conscious victim take any prescribed nitroglycerin for a known heart condition.
QUESTION: I’ve heard that if I’m having a heart attack, I should try cough CPR?
ANSWER: There is insufficient scientific evidence supporting self-initiated CPR, also known as cough CPR. Focus on recognizing the signals of a heart attack and calling 9-1-1 immediately.
QUESTION: If I suspect I am having a heart attack, should I take aspirin?
ANSWER: Call9-1-1 or the local emergency number first. Ask your doctor if it’s okay for you to take aspirin in this situation. Never delay calling 911!
CPR—Adult
QUESTION: What do I do if I get tired while performing CPR?
ANSWER: If one responder gets tired while waiting for emergency medical services to arrive, he or she may ask for help from another trained responder to take over beginning with chest compressions and breaths.
QUESTION: What if a second responder is not available?
ANSWER: If you are the only trained responder, continue CPR until the person’s signs of life return, you are too tired to continue, EMS personnel arrive and take over or the scene becomes unsafe.
QUESTION: Should my hand position be different when giving compressions for a pregnant woman?
ANSWER: Yes. Place your hands slightly higher on the chest (toward the victim’s head).
QUESTION: If I am doing chest compressions and I hear bones cracking, should I stop?
ANSWER: Ribs may be broken during CPR. Continue doing CPR, but quickly check your hand position and the depth of compressions to be sure you are doing the compressions properly. Sometimes the sound you hear is not bones cracking but the cartilage separating. For a person whose heart has stopped, the benefits of CPR outweigh the risks, even when bones break.
QUESTION: What if I am unwilling or unable to give both rescue breaths and chest compressions?
ANSWER: If you are unable and unwilling to give both rescue breaths and chest compressions, it is better to give chest compressions than to do nothing at all. Once you start to help, do not stop until:
The person’s signs of life return;
Another trained responder or EMS personnel arrive and take over;
You are too tired to continue;
The scene becomes unsafe.
QUESTION: When CPR is required, do I need to bare the chest?
ANSWER: If you use an AED, the chest must be bare. Otherwise, if you can give effective compressions, you do not need to bare the chest. If clothing interferes with your ability to locate the correct position or give effective compressions, then you should remove or loosen enough clothing to allow effective compressions.
CPR—Child
QUESTION: What do I do if I get tired while performing CPR?
ANSWER: If one responder gets tired while waiting for EMS to arrive, he or she may ask for help from another trained responder to take over beginning with chest compressions and breaths.
QUESTION: What if a second responder is not available?
ANSWER: If you are the only trained responder, continue CPR until the child’s signs of life return, you are too tired to continue, EMS personnel arrive and take over or the scene becomes unsafe.
QUESTION: What if I am unwilling or unable to give both rescue breaths and chest compressions:
ANSWER: If you are unable and unwilling to give both rescue breaths and chest compressions, it is better to give chest compressions than to do nothing at all. Once you start to help, do not stop until:
The person’s signs of life return;
Another trained responder or EMS personnel arrive and take over;
You are too tired to continue;
The scene becomes unsafe.
Always be sure that 9-1-1 or the local emergency number has been called. Consult a legal expert in your community to determine your legal responsibilities in emergency situations where you would have a duty to respond.
QUESTION: What is commotio cordis?
ANSWER: The National Athletic Trainers Association states that commotio cordis is a condition caused by a blow to the chest, directly over the heart that occurs between heart contractions. The blunt force causes a lethal abnormal heart rhythm.
QUESTION: What if I am unwilling or unable to give both rescue breaths and chest compressions?
ANSWER: If you are unable or unwilling to give both rescue breaths and chest compressions, it is better to give chest compressions than to do nothing at all. Once you start to help, do not stop until:
The infant’s signs of life return;
Another trained responder or EMS personnel arrive and take over;
You are too exhausted to continue;
The scene becomes unsafe.
Always be sure that 9-1-1 or the local emergency number has been called. Consult a legal expert in your community to determine your legal responsibilities in emergency situations where you would have a duty to respond.
QUESTION: What if a second responder is not available to assist in CPR?
ANSWER: If you are the only trained responder, continue CPR until the infant’s signs of life return, you are too tired to continue, EMS personnel arrive and take over or the scene becomes unsafe.
Unconscious Choking—Adult
QUESTION: What if the object does not come out?
ANSWER: Continue cycles of 30 chest compressions, foreign object check and / or removal and 2 rescue breaths until the object is removed and the chest clearly rises with rescue breaths, you are able to get breaths in, the person starts breathing on his or her own or EMS personnel arrive and take over.
QUESTION: What happens if the object comes out but the person is still not breathing?
ANSWER: Once an object is removed, be sure to give 2 rescue breaths to verify that the airway is open and clear. Then check for signs of life. Also, make sure that 9-1-1 or the local emergency number has been called. If there are no signs of life, begin CPR. Continue giving care until EMS personnel arrive and take over.
Unconscious Choking—Child
QUESTION: What happens if the object does not come out?
ANSWER: Continue cycles of 30 chest compressions, foreign object check and / or removal and 2 rescue breaths until the object is removed and the chest clearly rises with rescue breaths, you can get air into the child and see the chest rise, the child starts breathing on his or her own or emergency medical services personnel arrive and take over.
QUESTION: What happens if the object comes out but the child is still not breathing?
ANSWER: Once an object is removed, be sure to give 2 rescue breaths to verify that the airway is open and clear. Then check for signs of life, including a pulse. Also, make sure that 9-1-1 or the local emergency number has been called. If the child is not breathing, but has a pulse, begin rescue breathing. If there are no signs of life, including pulse, begin CPR. Continue giving care until EMS personnel arrive and take over.
Unconscious Choking—Infant
QUESTION: What if the object does not come out?
ANSWER: Continue cycles of 30 chest compressions, foreign object check and / or removal and 2 rescue breaths until the object is removed and the chest clearly rises with rescue breaths, you can get air into the infant and see the chest rise, the infant starts breathing on his or her own or emergency medical services personnel arrive and take over.
QUESTION: What happens if the object comes out but the infant is still not breathing?
ANSWER: Once an object is removed, be sure to give 2 rescue breaths to verify that the airway is open and clear. Then check for signs of life, including a pulse. Also, make sure that 9-1-1 or the local emergency number has been called. If the infant is not breathing, but has a pulse, begin rescue breathing. If there are no signs of life, including pulse, begin CPR. Continue giving care until EMS personnel arrive and take over.
AED—Adult
QUESTION: If the location of the pads on the chest is reversed, will the AED still work?
ANSWER: Yes, if the placement of the pads is reversed, the AED will still work.
QUESTION: Should the pads be removed and / or the AED turned off if the AED prompts, “No shock advised, continue CPR” or something similar?
ANSWER: No, the pads should not be removed nor should the AED be turned off. It is possible that the AED will tell you that additional shocks are needed.
QUESTION: Are there any special considerations when placing electrode pads on a female?
ANSWER: If the female is wearing a bra, remove it before placing on the electrodes pads. Place one electrode pad on the female’s upper right chest and one on the lower left side, under the female’s left breast.
QUESTION: Do AEDs need regular maintenance.
ANSWER: Yes. All AED’s need to be maintained on a regular basis. Maintenance includes checking and changing batteries, electrode cables and pads. Always follow the manufacturer’s instructions for maintenance of the AED at your worksite.
QUESTION: Can AEDs be used safely in the rain and snow?
ANSWER: Yes. It is safe to use AEDs in all weather conditions. However, if at all possible, move the person to a shelter to protect him or her from inclement weather. If the person is lying in water, move him or her to a relatively dry area before using the AED. In wet weather, be sure to wipe the person’s chest dry before placing the electrode pads. Different AEDs are more or less resistant to exposure to water—check with your manufacturer’s instructions for specific information about the AED at your worksite or in your schools and community.
QUESTION: Can I defibrillate someone who has a pacemaker or an implantable device?
ANSWER: Yes. If visible, or you know that the person has an implanted device, do not place the defibrillation pads directly over the implanted device. This may interfere with the delivery of the shock. Adjust pad placement if necessary and continue to follow the established protocol.
QUESTION: Should an AED be used on an infant?
ANSWER: The International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation advisory statement does not currently support a recommendation for or against the use of AED’s on children under 1 year of age because there is insufficient evidence regarding their effectiveness. Always follow local protocols and medical direction.
AED—Child
QUESTION: If the location of the pads on the chest is reversed, will the AED still work?
ANSWER: Yes, if the placement of the pads is reversed, the AED will still work correctly.
QUESTION: Should an AED be used on an infant who shows no signs of life?
ANSWER: The International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation advisory statement does not currently support a recommendation for or against the use of AED’s on children under 1 year of age because there is insufficient evidence as to its effectiveness. Always follow local protocols and medical direction.
Controlling Bleeding
QUESTION: If no sterile or clean dressings are available, what other materials could I use to cover a bleeding wound?
ANSWER: Other materials, such as a washcloth, towels and articles of clothing, can be used to cover a bleeding wound. Materials that are clean and absorbent are best. Do not use paper towels, tissues, cotton balls or other material that can tear easily.
QUESTION: What if I do not have any clean, running tap water to irrigate a minor wound?
ANSWER: You can use any source of clean water to irrigate a minor wound.
QUESTION: If disposable gloves are not available, should I still give care to someone who is bleeding severely?
ANSWER: Although the risk of disease transmission is low, it exists, and therefore this should be a personal decision. Wearing gloves is recommended, but you may choose to give care without them. You could use other materials, such as bulky dressing. A barrier should be used to limit your contact with the person’s blood. If conscious and able, the person can assist in applying direct pressure to the wound with his or her other hand. Avoid touching your face and other parts of your body when giving care. Always wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after giving care. If gloves were unavailable and you gave care in a workplace emergency situation, report the situation to your supervisor as possible exposure to infectious diseases.
QUESTION: How do I know if a wound needs stitches?
ANSWER: Stitches are often needed when the edges of the skin do not fall together, when the wound is over 1 inch long or when the wound would leave an obvious scar, such as on the face. Control the bleeding and have the person seek advanced medical care.
QUESTION: Should a tourniquet be used to control bleeding?
ANSWER: No. You can control virtually all bleeding you might encounter using continuous direct pressure. Even amputated limbs often do not bleed heavily because the force of the injury causes blood vessels to collapse and close, limiting the bleeding. For many years, experts in first aid have cautioned that using tourniquets is a last resort, when the decision is made to sacrifice a limb in order to save a life. If you find a tourniquet put on by someone else, do not loosen or release it. Only medical personnel should loosen and release tourniquets.
QUESTION: Why do we no longer use pressure points or elevation to stop bleeding?
ANSWER: More emphasis is being placed on direct pressure as the most effective method of controlling external bleeding. The scientific evidence does not support use of pressure points or elevation to control external bleeding.
QUESTION: How do I care for a nosebleed?
ANSWER: Have the person sit and lean slightly forward. Pinch the nose together for about 10 minutes. Apply an ice pack to the bridge of the nose. If bleeding does not stop, apply pressure on the upper lip just beneath the nose and seek advanced medical care if the bleeding persists or recurs or if the person says it is the result of high blood pressure.
QUESTION: Can I use a reusable cold pack if I do not have an ice pack on a soft tissue injury?
ANSWER: Ice is preferred. Reusable gel packs are not as effective in reducing swelling in a soft tissue injury.
Burns
QUESTION: Should I put cold water on an electrical burn?
ANSWER: Yes, care for electrical burns is the same as care for thermal burns, cold running water.
QUESTION: Can I put ointment or other medications on a burn?
ANSWER: No. Do not put any kind of ointment or gel on anything other than a very minor burn. Ointments do not relieve pain and can also seal in heat. Do not use home remedies, such as butter or petroleum jelly, which can cause infection, on a burn. Water is best to cool the burn and reduce pain.
QUESTION: Is it better to use ice or ice water on a burn rather than tap water:
ANSWER: No. Do not use ice or ice water except on small superficial (minor) burns, such as a finger burned from touching a hot stove. If applying ice or ice water, apply ice for no more than 10 minutes. Ice or ice water applied over large areas can cause body heat loss and hypothermia.
QUESTION: If the person’s clothing is burned onto him or her, should I try to remove it?
ANSWER: No, do not try to remove any clothing that is sticking to the person because you could further expose the wound to infection.
Muscle, Bone and Joint Injuries
QUESTION: Why don’t we cover the fracture side with bandages when splinting a fracture?
ANSWER: Excessive pressure applied to a fracture site can complicate the injury. It is unnecessary to cover a fracture unless there is bleeding.
QUESTION: How do you control bleeding when it is associated with an open fracture:
ANSWER: Apply dressings and light pressure around the area of the open wound to control bleeding. Do not move the injured area.
Head, Neck and Back Injuries
QUESTION: If I suspect that a person has a head, neck or back injury and the person starts to vomit, what should I do?
ANSWER: If the person begins to vomit, position him or her onto one side to keep the airway clear. To minimize movement of the person’s head, neck and back, two responders should place the person in this position, if possible. One responder should help move the person while the other keeps the head, neck and back in line.
Splinting
QUESTION: Why is it better to leave the person’s shoe on when splinting an ankle?
ANSWER: The shoe can act as a splint and minimize swelling. Also, removing the shoe may require manipulating the ankle and should only be done by medical professionals.
Fainting
QUESTION: What type of care do I give for someone who has fainted?
ANSWER: Position the person on a flat surface. If possible, elevate the person’s legs 8 to 12 inches. Monitor the person’s breathing and consciousness. Loosen any restrictive clothing. Do not give the person anything to eat or drink. Do not splash water on the person or slap their face. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number.
Diabetic Emergency
QUESTION: Should I give sugar to someone who is having a diabetic emergency?
ANSWER: Yes. If the person is fully conscious and able to swallow, give sugar in the form of glucose paste, glucose tablets, granulated sugar, sugar cubes, candy, juice, non-diet soda or syrup. DO NOT give liquids or food to a person who is not fully conscious and unable to swallow.
QUESTION: How do I recognize if someone is a diabetic has too much sugar which is known as hyperglycemia or not enough sugar which is known as hypoglycemia?
ANSWER: The signals for the two conditions are similar. The first aid care given is the same for both conditions. If the problem is hypoglycemia, the person’s condition can get worse rapidly and administering sugar can improve the person’s condition. If the person’s condition is hyperglycemia, the condition will get gradually worse. Giving a form of sugar will not speed up the deterioration significantly. If the person is conscious and able to swallow, there is time to get medical care if the condition does not improve quickly.
Seizures
QUESTION: Should I try to hold down someone who is having a seizure?
ANSWER: No. Do not try to hold down a person who is having a seizure. Your primary care objective is to protect the person from any further injury. Keep the person from striking any nearby objects and keep their airway open.
QUESTION: When should I call EMS for someone having a seizure?
ANSWER: While most seizures are not life threatening, call EMS if the seizure lasts more than 5 minutes, the seizure recurs, the person is pregnant or diabetic or the person becomes injured or shows other life-threatening conditions.
QUESTION: Should I put something in a person’s mouth to keep them from biting his or her tongue?
ANSWER: No. Do not place anything in the person’s mouth or between his or her teeth. Placing an object in the person’s mouth is ineffective because most tongue biting occurs at the beginning of a seizure and trying to place an object in the mouth may cause mouth injuries or aspiration. By placing an object in a victim’s mouth, you may become injured.
QUESTION: What is a febrile seizure?
ANSWER: Febrile seizures are most common in children under the age of 5 and can be triggered by infections of the ear, throat or digestive system when an infant or child runs a rectal temperature of over 102 degrees F, which typically rises very suddenly.
Stoke
QUESTION: What are the risk factors for stroke?
ANSWER: Risk factors for stroke are similar to those for heart disease. The most important risk factors for stroke that can be controlled are high blood pressure, diabetes and smoking.
QUESTION: Is there any treatment for stroke?
ANSWER: Today, medical treatments are available that can reduce or even prevent the long-term effects of a stroke. It is vital to give these treatments as soon as possible after a stroke has occurred. The emphasis should be on calling 9-1-1 or the local emergency number immediately if you suspect that someone is having a stroke.
Poisoning
QUESTION: Should I try to induce vomiting if a person has ingested a poison?
ANSWER: No. You should call 9-1-1 or the national Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222. The operator will know the proper actions that should be taken, depending on the type of poison that was ingested.
QUESTION: Should I give a person who ingested a poison water or milk to drink?
ANSWER: No. Do not give anything by mouth unless advised by a medical professional or the Poison Control Center.
QUESTION: Should I give a person who ingested a poison activated charcoal?
ANSWER: No. Do not give anything by mouth unless advised by a medical professional or the Poison Control Center.
QUESTION: What care should I give to someone who has trouble breathing due to an allergic reaction?
ANSWER: The person may be experiencing a type of severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. Call 9-1-1 or the local emergency number immediately, place the person in a comfortable position for breathing and comfort and reassure the person until EMS arrives and takes over. In some cases, you may need to assist the person in using his or her epinephrine kit.
Shock
QUESTION: Should I give a person who is showing signs of shock something to eat or drink?
ANSWER: No. Do not give the person anything to eat or drink, even though he or she is likely to be thirsty. The person’s condition may be severe enough to require surgery, in which case it is better if the stomach is empty.
Heat-Related Emergencies
QUESTION: Can a heat-related emergency occur on a cold day?
ANSWER: Yes. If a person has been exercising or performing a stress-related activity that may cause the body to lose fluids.
QUESTION: Should you give a sports drink to a person who is suffering from heat cramps or heat exhaustion?
ANSWER: It’s okay to give a person experiencing heat cramps or heat exhaustion small amounts of a sports drink, as long as he or she is conscious and able to swallow. However, cool water can also be given.
Cold-Related Emergencies
QUESTION: Should you rub a frostbitten body part to warm it up?
ANSWER: No. Never rub a body part that may be frostbitten. Rubbing can cause extensive, painful soft tissue damage. Do not attempt to re-warm the frostbitten area if there is a chance that it might re-freeze or if you are close to a medical facility.
QUESTION: Should I give fluids to drink that contain alcohol or caffeine to a person who is in a cold environment?
ANSWER: Alcohol and caffeine interferes with the body’s normal response to cold and makes a person more susceptible to hypothermia.
If your interested in CPR fundraising programs in the Temecula, Murrieta, Riverside, Fallbrook, San Diego, Oceanside, Carlsbad, Corona, Lake Elsinore or Riverside areas, no problem, visit www.CPRfundraising.com or call us at 1-800-CPR-CAMP. Classroom, onsite and online training programs available.
Askthesafetyman.com's online CPR certification programs follow national guidelines set by the American Heart Association (AHA), and the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR). Askthesafetyman.com is not associated, affiliated, sponsored, or endorsed by, the Heart & Stroke Foundation, the American Heart Association (AHA), the American Red Cross (ARC), the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) or OSHA and unless otherwise specified no affiliation or endorsement is implied. All logos and trademarks are the sole property of their respective owners.
Sign Up for Our Newsletter:
About Us
Company Info
Contact Us
Fundraising Registration
My Training Account
View Training Cart
Sign-In
Order Status
Products
Category Index
Course Index
Helpful Info
Shipping and Returns
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Copyright © www.ASKthesafetyman.com. All Rights Reserved.
Built with Volusion