B vitamins protect brain from dementia - Nutrition & Healing
Skip to content
Primary Menu
Nutrition & Healing
Official Site
Search for:
Close Menu
Home
Search for:
Categories
Blog
Post
Recent Posts
Online Business Opportunities
The Key Ways For A New Investor To Learn About The Stock Index Trading”.
How To Utilize Video Marketing To Increment Revenue For Small Businesses?
Why should you consider automated trading systems to supplement your income?
Crypto currency trading with bots – the good and bad about it
B vitamins protect brain from dementia
Vitamin cocktail leaves dementia in the dust
As I’ve gotten along in years, I’ve been forced to face two unpleasant truths — I don’t appear to be getting any smarter or better looking. And it seemed like the minute those first strands of gray started creeping around my temples, the old “senior moments” started flaring up.
Some mornings, I have a better chance of finding the lost ark than where I placed my keys — and if you offered me a penny for my thoughts, you’d have a right to expect change.
I don’t just want you to live long, friend — I want you to live well. And keeping your brain healthy is essential to maintaining the quality of life we all deserve as we age.
Now, thanks to an amazing new breakthrough from Oxford University, a simple vitamin cocktail may be all you need to keep your brain razor sharp as you age and ward off the ravages of dementia and Alzheimer’s disease FOREVER!
In fact, three simple vitamins could work together like a well-oiled machine to offer your brain up to 90% protection against the most common cause of dementia!
Here’s the scoop. Researchers tracked 156 people over the age of 70 who were suffering from mild memory loss and high levels of homocysteine — a protein that shrinks your brain and can lead to devastating cognitive decline, such as dementia.
The research volunteers ate balanced diets, exercised regularly, and consumed a daily cocktail of vitamins B6, B12, and folic acid.
The results weren’t just impressive. The head of the Imaging Genetics Center at UCLA’s School of Medicine said they were the most amazing brain scans he had ever seen! People who took the daily combo of B6, B12, and folic acid had a whopping 90% less brain shrinkage than folks who took a placebo.
Let’s put that into some context — previous research had shown that other lifestyle changes like reducing alcohol consumption or dropping excess weight resulted in an already impressive 25% less brain shrinkage. This vitamin cocktail of B6, B12, and folic acid appears to be 350% more effective!
(B vitamins aren’t the only way to beat homocysteine. One food found in the produce aisle has been found to be surprisingly effective at lowering levels.)
If you’re anxious to give this vitamin cocktail a go, a quick word of caution on folic acid. You can find it cheaply in any store that sells supplements, but it still may be no bargain. That’s because, as you age, folic acid might not do your brain a darn bit of good. That’s why Dr. Wright has been recommending folate over folic acid for years.
You see, human cells can’t use folic acid, and we depend on our livers to convert it to all the folate our brains need to stay sharp. But as we age, our bodies become less efficient at converting folic acid to folate — and some folks can’t convert folic acid to folate at all. So you’re better off incorporating folate into your vitamin regimen, instead of folic acid.
Our Creator may have given us two eyes, two ears, two lungs, and two kidneys, friend, but he only gave us one brain — and you need to do everything you can to keep your noggin in tip-top shape. Talk with your doctor about giving this safe, natural vitamin remedy a try, and see if you just might be able to leave dementia in the dust for good!
Sources:
Vitamin B Alzheimer’s: Can Inexpensive Supplements Delay Dementia?: (isciencetimes.com)
More than 187,000 people recently learned about…
Type II diabetes wiped out by the “spice miracle”
The FDA’s plan to regulate cherry pie!?
Sugar: The good, the bad, and the ugly
November 13, 2013 May 2, 2018 David Chavez
Post navigation
← Calcarea carbonica may reduce tumor size
Kava relieves anxiety symptoms and boosts libido →
Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Isola by WordPress.com.