How to Make Scar Cream | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Skin Care
Scars
How to Make Scar Cream
Lynette Hingle
About the Author:
Lynette Hingle
Based in Louisiana, Lynette Hingle has been a writer since 2007. She specializes in topics related to health, fitness and travel. Hingle holds a Bachelor of Arts in mass communication and journalism from Southeastern Louisiana University.
View Full Profile
If you have a scar on your face or body that is robbing you of your self confidence and self esteem, you can try a home recipe for scar cream in an effort to fade the scar. However, home remedies for scars are anecdotal, based on the experiences of others who have successfully used them to reduce their own scars, so there is no guarantee that the home treatments will work for your condition. Therefore, you should see your doctor for advice on prescription or over-the-counter treatments.
Vitamin E Oil
Step 1
Pour the contents of one Vitamin E capsule, or 1/4 tsp. of liquid Vitamin E, into a small bowl.
Step 2
Massage the Vitamin E oil onto your scar a little at a time, until you have used all of the oil in the bowl.
Step 3
Repeat Vitamin E oil treatment one to two times per day until you achieve desired results.
Fenugreek Solution
Step 1
Add 2 tbsp. of fenugreek seeds, available from health food stores and online herbal suppliers, to 4 oz. boiling water.
Step 2
Boil fenugreek seeds in water for five to seven minutes, remove from heat, and allow to cool to room temperature.
Step 3
Apply fenugreek solution to affected area two to three times per day until you achieve desired results.
Fuller's Earth
Step 1
Mix 1 tbsp. fuller's earth, available from online clay or herbal retailers or from local health food stores, with 1/2 tsp. each lime juice and rosewater. Rosewater is also available online and at health food stores.
Step 2
Apply the paste to scars and let sit for 30 to 45 minutes, then wash off.
Step 3
Repeat fuller's earth scar home recipe one to two times per day until you achieve desired results.
Onion Juice and Olive Oil Scar Remedy
Step 1
Place about 1/4 cup of freshly diced onions into a blender, blend on low until onions liquefy, and pour the onion juice into a small bowl.
Step 2
Add 1 tbsp. olive oil to onion juice and stir thoroughly.
Step 3
Apply the mixture to affected areas and leave on for 20 to 30 minutes, then rinse off with cool water.
Step 4
Repeat onion juice and olive oil remedy one to two times per day.
Oat and Cream Remedy
Step 1
Mix 2 tbsp. each sour cream and plain yogurt in a mixing bowl.
Step 2
Add 1 tbsp. of plain, uncooked yogurt to mixture and stir thoroughly.
Step 3
Apply paste to affected area and leave on for 15 to 20 minutes, then wash off with cool water.
Step 4
Repeat oat and cream remedy one to two times per day.
Things You'll Need
Vitamin E capsule or oil
Small bowl
Fenugreek seeds
Boiling water
Fuller's earth clay
Lime Juice
Rosewater
Onion
Olive oil
Sour cream
Plain yogurt
Warning
Stop using any homemade scar cream immediately if you experience any skin irritation, and see your doctor to determine alternate treatments.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Planet Green Discovery: Onions Prevent Scarring
Mother Nature: Scarring
Home Remedies Guide: Scarring
Natural Home Remedies: Scars
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Lighten Stretch Marks
2
Home Remedies for Large Pores on Face
3
How to Lighten Burn Scars
4
Rose Hips Benefits
5
How to Remove Scars With Homeopathic Creams
6
How to Treat Scars After Surgery
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.