Vitiligo Treatment: 16 Natural Ways to Improve Pigmentation - Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe
Search for:
About Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe
Search for:
Health
Allergies
Brain Health
Cancer
Children’s Health
Diabetes
Gut Health
Heart Health
Hormones
Mental Health
Skin Health
Symptoms
Treatments
Weight Loss
Nutrition
Fruit
Grains
Herbs & Spices
Mushrooms
Probiotics
Protein
Supplements
Vegetables
Vitamins & Minerals
Diets
Fasting
Gluten-Free
Low-Carb
Ketogenic
Mediterranean Diet
Paleo
Plant-Based
Vegan
Vegetarian
Recipes
Gluten-Free
Ketogenic
Low-Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Essential Oils
DIY Remedies
Body Care
Cleaning
Hair Care
Oral Health
Skin and Beauty
Fitness
Anatomy
Injury & Rehab
News & Tips
Running
Workouts
Yoga
Shop
Top Sellers
Supplements
Essential Oils
View All
About Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe on Facebook Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest Dr. Axe on RSS
Dr. Axe > Health > Skin Health
Fact Checked
×
This Dr. Axe content is medically reviewed or fact checked to ensure factually accurate information.
With strict editorial sourcing guidelines, we only link to academic research institutions, reputable media sites and, when research is available, medically peer-reviewed studies. Note that the numbers in parentheses (1, 2, etc.) are clickable links to these studies.
The information in our articles is NOT intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice.
×
This article is based on scientific evidence, written by experts and fact checked by our trained editorial staff. Note that the numbers in parentheses (1, 2, etc.) are clickable links to medically peer-reviewed studies.
Our team includes licensed nutritionists and dietitians, certified health education specialists, as well as certified strength and conditioning specialists, personal trainers and corrective exercise specialists. Our team aims to be not only thorough with its research, but also objective and unbiased.
The information in our articles is NOT intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice.
Vitiligo Treatment: 16 Natural Ways to Improve Pigmentation
By Kathleen McCoy, BS
August 1, 2017
Dr. Axe on Facebook 181 Dr. Axe on Twitter 18 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 70 Share on Email Print Article
Somewhere between 0.5 percent and 2.0 percent of the global population has vitiligo, a disorder that affects pigmentation of the skin. With this condition, the cells that make the skin’s pigment, called melanocytes, are destroyed. This results in white blotchy patches, and vitiligo treatment can take quite a while to work.
For some, vitiligo may occur on the face, neck or hands, causing a dramatic and traumatizing change in appearance. For others, it may strike mucous membranes like the mouth, nose and genitals, as well as the retinas. If a patch appears on an area with hair growth, the hair will turn white or very light gray. (1)
While researchers have not pinpointed a universal cause, autoimmune disorders seem to be the most prevalent vitiligo cause; however, a deficiency in certain vitamins and minerals, as well as exposure to some industrial chemicals, also can cause this disorder.
Finding the right vitiligo treatment therapy takes time; even the most common conventional treatments can take weeks, months, or even years before appearance improves. Conventional vitiligo treatment such as topical creams, light therapy, photochemotherapy, permanent depigmentation treatments of healthy skin, surgery, and cosmetics are often prescribed. And they all come with some significant adverse side effects.
Research continues. Currently, there are over 75 studies listed on clinicaltrials.gov looking for answers and solutions to this disfiguring condition. As vitiligo often causes severe emotional distress, self-consciousness, anxiety and depression, counseling and support group participation is highly recommended.
What Is Vitiligo?
Vitiligo is a pigmentation disorder where melanocytes, the cells responsible for providing the color of our skin, hair, and eyes, are destroyed. The result is white patches of skin intermingling with normal skin tones. It may resemble the random pattern and patchiness of a severe sunburn when the skin peels.
Often, if affects more visible areas like the face, neck, hands, elbows, knees and feet. But, it can appear anywhere on the body. Vitiligo is not contagious and it’s non-infectious; however, it may have hereditary or genetic markers. Researchers are still examining causes, risk factors and effective treatments.
There are three recognized types of vitiligo:
Generalized Vitiligo. White patches of skin progress symmetrically on both sides of the body, affecting the same body parts at the same time.
Segmental Vitiligo. Typically appears in younger children where the white patches appear only on one side of the body.
Localized Vitiligo. The white patches appear in one or two areas of the body, progress and spread for a short period of time, and then stop.
Vitiligo Signs & Symptoms
The hallmark of vitiligo is white patchy areas of skin; however, other areas of the body may be affected too: (2)
Premature whitening or graying on the scalp
White or gray eyelashes or eyebrows
Whitening of a beard
Loss of color in the mucous membranes
Loss of color in the retinas
Vitiligo Causes & Risk Factors
Autoimmune diseases including Addison’s disease, thyroid disease, pernicious anemia and diabetes are believed to be root vitiligo causes. (3) However, some studies indicate people diagnosed with this condition are often deficient in certain vitamins like B12, folic acid, copper and zinc.
Additionally, heredity and genetics may also play a part in this condition, as do stress, severe sunburns, and exposure to some chemicals. In some cases, immunotherapy for melanoma and other skin cancers may cause vitiligo. However, researchers note that this is a good sign that the cancer treatment is working. (4)
In Ayurveda practice, where vitiligo has been identified for over 2,000 years, it is often referred to as “white leprosy.” Vitiligo causes include consumption of contradictory foods, eating too much grain, curd, fish, or sour substances, and a variety of other physical and emotional traits. (5)
Conventional Vitiligo Treatment
As this condition is not infectious nor is it contagious, conventional vitiligo treatments work to restore the skin color, or even-out the overall tone of the skin. However, results are unpredictable and, according to the Mayo Clinic, have serious side effects. In addition, it may take weeks, months or over a year to see results and judge the effectiveness of the chosen treatment. The most common conventional treatments include: (6)
1. Makeup and Dyes. These compounds conceal the discoloration temporarily. They are temporary and must be reapplied often. There are a few relatively new products that are waterproof and are designed specifically for vitiligo sufferers. One application may last as long as four or five days.
2. Corticosteroid Creams. A dermatologist may prescribe a corticosteroid cream soon after diagnosis, which is when it tends to work best. However, results are often not seen for several months or up to a year. A common side effect is thinning of the skin, and in some individuals corticosteroid creams may cause streaks or lines that may become permanent.
3. Tacrolimus or Pimecrolimus Ointments. These ointments are a conventional vitiligo treatment commonly prescribed for individuals with small areas of depigmentation. While research indicates that they may cause fewer side effects than corticosteroid creams, the FDA warns that these drugs are possibly linked to lymphoma and skin cancer. The long-term safety is just not known, and the FDA recommends the use of this drug only if no other medications are working. (7)
4. Psoralen and Light Therapy. PUVA therapy was initially developed to treat psoriasis and is now often prescribed for treating vitiligo. The combination of oral medication in addition to exposure to UVA may help repigmentation of the white patches caused by vitiligo. Multiple sessions are necessary and in some cases treatments may be required three times a week for up to a year. As there is a relationship between UVA exposure and certain types of skin cancers, making an educated decision about this therapy is vital. (8)
5. Depigmenting Agents. If the white patches are widespread, and other treatments have failed, a dermatologist may recommend depigmenting unaffected areas, lightening them to match or blend with the discolored areas. This vitiligo treatment is often done once or twice a day for nine months or longer, and the end result will be permanent. When considering this traditional treatment, it is important to understand that permanent depigmentation may result in extreme sensitivity to sunlight.
6. Surgery. When other vitiligo treatments have failed, skin grafting, blister grafting, and tattooing may be recommended. These are significant surgeries and side effects for these procedures can be serious including permanent scarring, a cobblestone appearance and infection. The trauma of the surgery may even cause additional patches of vitiligo. (9)
7. JAK Inhibitors. Down the road, JAK Inhibitors, now only approved by the FDA for rheumatoid arthritis and certain bone marrow disorders, may be used to treat vitiligo, alopecia, and atopic dermatitis. Large-scale clinical trials are necessary to determine safety and efficacy for the FDA to approve this treatment. (10)
Vitiligo Treatment: 16 Natural Options
The best types of vitiligo treatment — whether conventional or natural — all take time to work. Some individuals may see results in weeks, while for other treatments it may take nine months, a year or longer.
1. Needling. Skin needling is showing some promise as a leading vitiligo natural treatment. In fact, Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, is currently recruiting participants for a randomized control trial to assess the efficacy of needling in the repigmentation of vitiligo. Earlier studies show promise in needling, particularly when the condition has stabilized and is unresponsive to other treatment protocols. (11, 12)
Needling is a process in which a trained professional uses a medical-grade roller fitted with 200 or more fine surgical needles on the skin. Currently, needling is most commonly used to stimulate collagen and elastin production, promote scar and stretch mark reduction. (13) As there is a risk for infection, finding a qualified practitioner is vital.
2. Vitamin B12 and Folic Acid. A two-year study conducted at University Hospital in Sweden found that over half of the participants in the trial experienced repigmentation when combining vitamin B12, folic acid, and sun exposure. The spread of vitiligo stopped in 64 percent of patients. Researchers note that the areas that received direct sunlight showed the most improvement. (14)
Adding a variety of vitamin B12 rich foods and folate-rich foods is recommended. Vitamin B12 is essential for those with vitiligo as it may help prevent depression, a common side effect of a vitiligo diagnosis. Folate is essential for overall health and wellness as it lowers the risk of heart disease, may prevent certain types of cancer, and is essential for healthy pregnancies.
3. Zinc. Another common deficiency found in those with this condition is zinc. Zinc supports a healthy immune system, fights cancer, fights diabetes (an autoimmune condition commonly associated with vitiligo), supports proper nutrient absorption, and helps repair and heal muscles, tissues and bones.
4. Copper. While researchers disagree on whether copper deficiency causes vitiligo or is a result of vitiligo, adding copper-rich foods to your diet may be beneficial. (15) In Ayurveda practice, water is often kept in a copper vessel overnight prior to drinking. It is believed that copper stimulates the melanocytes into action, increasing melanin and repigmenting the skin.
5. Beta Carotene. For overall skin health, carotenoids are imperative. Beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene and zeaxanthin are found in great tasting foods like sweet potatoes, carrots, kale and tomatoes. Beta-carotene is associated with anticancer properties, lutein and zeaxanthin with eye health and lycopene with lower risk for prostate cancer. In addition, these powerful carotenoids may help lower inflammation, promote eye health, and protect the skin from damage, including melanoma. (16)
6. Aloe Vera. Long used for skin health, aloe vera also supports healthy immune system response. This powerful plant contains essential antioxidant vitamins needed when fighting vitiligo, including vitamins A, C, B12, and folic acid. It also contains essential minerals, including copper, calcium, chromium, zinc and others that may support repigmentation of the skin, making it a vital treatment for vitiligo.
7. Vitamin C. Like folic acid and vitamin B12, many vitiligo patients are also deficient in vitamin C. Vitamin C deficiency is more common than many believe and for vitiligo patients, it is essential to help slow cell damage, fight free radicals, and to build the collagen necessary for healthy bones, joints, ligaments and skin. The best way to get the vitamin C you need is to eat fresh, organic fruits and vegetables. But, citrus fruits may not be the best choice for those with vitiligo as they may reduce pigmentation in some people.
8. Vitamin D. Many people with vitiligo are sensitive to the sun and some of the conventional treatments can cause a severe sensitivity to the sun. Because of this, incorporating plenty of vitamin D-rich foods into the diet is vital, and supplementation may be necessary. The best sources include cod liver oil; wild fish including sardines, salmon, mackerel and tuna; and raw milk, eggs and mushrooms.
9. Yoga. Stress, depression and anxiety are common with this condition. Practicing yoga a couple of times a week can help ease these side effects and improve mental focus and attitude. Yoga improves GABA levels, reducing anxiety and lessening depression symptoms naturally. (17)
10. Foods to Avoid. Any foods that irritate your digestive tract, cause a sensitivity or discomfort, or that you are allergic to, should be avoided. Foods that have been shown to cause problems in some vitiligo patients include:
Citrus fruits
Fish
Meat
Tomato
Pickles
Grapes
Carbonated drinks
Processed foods
Artificial sweeteners
Pomegranate
Gooseberries
Fruit Juices
Alcohol
Of course, your “avoid list” must be tailored to your specific conditions and how your body reacts to individual foods. Wild-caught fish, grass-fed beef and lamb, and tomatoes may benefit some people while hurting others.
11. Foods to Enjoy
Green leafy vegetables like kale, spinach, Swiss chard and Brussel sprouts
Beets
Carrots
Radishes
Dates
Figs
Chickpeas
Wild-caught fish
Grass-fed beef and liver
Cottage Cheese
Nutritional yeast
Lentils
Almonds
Dark chocolate
Blackstrap molasses
Asparagus
Mushrooms
Raw dairy
12. Gingko Biloba. A study published in the journal International Society for Complementary Medicine Research found that gingko biloba can cause repigmentation. In this study, participants were given 60 milligrams, twice a day for twelve weeks. At least 25 percent of the participants achieved a “clinically significant improvement” and 30 percent achieved repigmentation. (18, 19)
In addition to helping with the repigmentation, gingko biloba is known to aid in depression, anxiety and panic attacks. Gingko biloba is considered safe; however, it may interfere with anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents; talk to your physician about all supplements, particularly before any type of surgery or after a trauma.
13. Stay Hydrated. Skin health is dependent on hydration levels. It is imperative to drink plenty of fresh, clean water throughout the day. If you want to follow Ayurveda practice, keep it in a copper container for 24 hours before drinking. In addition, adding coconut water to your diet can help balance electrolytes, lower blood pressure, and reduce stress.
14. Turmeric and Mustard Oil. Topical application of a mixture of turmeric powder and mustard oil may result in positive changes in the pigment of the skin. Simply mix a couple of tablespoons of a high-quality turmeric powder with just enough mustard oil to make a paste. Apply to desired areas, and leave on a minimum of 20 minutes before rinsing with warm water. Do this twice a day for at least two weeks. Be mindful that turmeric will stain clothing, so be careful!
15. Clothing. Avoid clothing with elastic or tight clothing that restricts circulation as it might lead to a vitiligo patch. In addition, protect the skin from the sun and artificial sources of UV light with protective clothing or a broad-spectrum sunscreen. Watch skin reactions to plastic, rubber and even leather as these can cause vitiligo in some people.
16. Stress Management. One of the most important vitiligo treatments is to manage stress. Our minds play a crucial part in healing, and the more stress we have, the harder it is for our bodies to heal. In addition to yoga, massage, meditation, regular exercise, talk therapy and support groups should be incorporated. For young children and teens afflicted with vitiligo, it is imperative that emotional support and talk therapy is given as much (or more) consideration as traditional treatments; bullying is common, often resulting in low self-esteem, depression and withdrawal.
Precautions
Vitiligo sufferers may have an increased risk of developing hearing loss, eye problems, sunburn, skin cancer and social or psychological distress.
Many conventional treatments have serious side effects; talk about all potential side effects with your doctor.
Final Thoughts on Vitiligo Treatment
Conventional vitiligo treatment and natural vitiligo treatment may take weeks, months or even years to work.
Vitiligo is believed to be caused by autoimmune disorders, but may also be a result of certain vitamin and mineral deficiencies.
Exposure to industrial chemicals, stress and a severe sunburn may trigger vitiligo.
People treated for skin cancer with immunotherapy may develop vitiligo.
Depigmentation of the skin can lead to severe emotional and mental health problems, including anxiety, depression, and withdrawal from social circles. Seek support from groups including the American Vitiligo Research Foundation, National Vitiligo Foundation, and Vitiligo Support.
Read Next: Rosacea Treatment: 6 Natural Ways to Treat Your Skin
Get FREE Access!
Dr. Josh Axe is on a mission to provide you and your family with the highest quality nutrition tips and healthy recipes in the world...Sign up to get VIP access to his eBooks and valuable weekly health tips for FREE!
Free eBook to boost
metabolism & healing
30 Gluten-Free Recipes
& detox juicing guide
Shopping Guide &
premium newsletter
Your Best Email *
Ad
Popular Posts
All Time
This Week
1 Salt Water Flush Recipe
2 How to Get Rid of Bags Under the Eyes: 13 Easy, Natural Ways
3 Secret Detox Drink Recipe (A Natural Detox Drink Recipe)
4 Top 12 Natural Home Remedies for UTI
5 16 Soothing Strep Throat Home Remedies
1 Secret Detox Drink Recipe (A Natural Detox Drink Recipe)
2 Top 12 Natural Home Remedies for UTI
3 How to Get Rid of Bags Under the Eyes: 13 Easy, Natural Ways
4 16 Soothing Strep Throat Home Remedies
5 Salt Water Flush Recipe
More Health
Dr. Axe on Facebook 22 Dr. Axe on Twitter 22 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 22 Share on Email Print Article 66
Bradykinin: A Polypeptide that Regulates Blood Pressure
Do you know that hypertension was one of the earliest recorded medical ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 690 Dr. Axe on Twitter 14 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 25 Share on Email Print Article 729
Mammograms Do Not Find All Breast Cancers
Breast cancer now affects about 1 in 8 U.S. women at some point ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 1176 Dr. Axe on Twitter 35 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 546 Share on Email Print Article 1.8K
Biofeedback Therapy: A Proven Treatment for 16+ Medical Conditions
Various forms of biofeedback therapy — performed using certain muscle relaxation, breath and ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 913 Dr. Axe on Twitter 9 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 22 Share on Email Print Article 944
What Is Fatty Liver Disease? 5 Dietary Steps to Get Rid of It
In the U.S., it’s estimated that fatty liver disease affects 20 to 40 ...
Read More
View All
Most Popular Health
All Time
This Week
1What Is Fatty Liver Disease? 5 Dietary Steps to Get Rid of It
2Hay Fever: 9 Natural Ways to Treat Seasonal Allergy Symptoms
3Detox Your Liver: Try My 6-Step Liver Cleanse
47 Steps to Balance Hormones Naturally
59 Candida Symptoms & 3 Steps to Treat Them
1Natural Diarrhea Treatment: How to Stop Diarrhea Fast
29 Candida Symptoms & 3 Steps to Treat Them
3Detox Your Liver: Try My 6-Step Liver Cleanse
4How to Get Rid of Herpes Symptoms Naturally
57 Steps to Balance Hormones Naturally
Let's Be Friends
Dr. Axe on Facebook 2.8M
Likes
Dr. Axe on Youtube 1.6M
Subscribers
Dr. Axe on Pinterest 435.4K
Followers
Follow us:
Dr. Axe on Facebook Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest Dr. Axe on RSS
Get Free Access
Want to lose weight, use new natural remedies or recipes, or get stronger?
I'm interested in... Healing Foods Natural Remedies Healthy Recipes Fitness/ Metabolism All of the Above
Register
Yes, sign me up for marketing emails from Dr. Axe. For more information on how we use your information, check out our Privacy Policy. You can change your mind anytime by unsubscribing.
Inside Dr. Axe
About Us
Contact
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
Stores We Love
Program Login
Article Topics
Bone Broth
Collagen
Essential Oils
Leaky Gut
Keto Diet
Omega 3s
Probiotics
Medical Disclaimer
This content is strictly the opinion of Dr. Josh Axe and is for informational and educational purposes only. It is not intended to provide medical advice or to take the place of medical advice or treatment from a personal physician. All readers/viewers of this content are advised to consult their doctors or qualified health professionals regarding specific health questions. Neither Dr. Axe nor the publisher of this content takes responsibility for possible health consequences of any person or persons reading or following the information in this educational content. All viewers of this content, especially those taking prescription or over-the-counter medications, should consult their physicians before beginning any nutrition, supplement or lifestyle program.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Affiliate Disclosure
DMCA Policy
Careers
© 2019 Dr. Axe. All Rights Reserved.