Dr. Mark Zuccolo Therapy & Counseling Depression
Counseling
Individual Counseling
Addiction (Non Chemical)
Anger Management
Change Management
Emotional Regulation
Emotional Intelligence
Emotional Trauma or PTSD
EMDR Treatment
Family of Origin
Grief and Loss
Guilt and Shame
Life History and Life Crisis
Masculinity, Fatherhood
Meaning and Motivation
Relationship Problems
Attachment in Relationships
Spiritual Integration
Work and Career
Couples Counseling
Dating, Cohabiting, Engaged Couples
Married Couples
Separating, Divorcing Couples
Spiritual Integration
FAQs About Counseling
Does talking really help?
Psychotherapy
Addiction (Non Chemical)
Adjustment Disorders
Adults & Childhood Abuse
Anxiety Disorders
OCD
Attention Deficit Disorder
Bipolar Disorder
Borderline Personality Disorder
Complicated Grief
Depression Disorders
Sleep Problems
Stress Disorders
Posttraumatic Stress
EMDR Treatment
FAQs About Psychotherapy With CBT
Does talking really help?
Spiritual Integration
Coaching
Consulting
Christian-owned Business
Family-owned Business
Client Resources
Ask Dr. Z
Book Resources
OTC Dietary Supplements
Research Papers
Telehealth With Dr. Z
Video Resources
New Client
(678) 554-5632
Search
Menu
Depressive Disorders
You are here: Home / Psychotherapy / Depressive Disorders
Depression has a very high incidence in all strata of society and affects the functioning and well-being of people of all ages, socio-economic status, and gender. Psychotherapy, and more specifically Cognitive Behavioral Therapy ( What is CBT? ), has been proven very effective in treating depressive disorders.
Get Help With Depression
To make an appointment with Dr. Z, call (678) 554-5632 or fill out the online appointment request. We can go over your current situation, identify the ways in which the symptoms of depression are affecting your life and that of your loved ones, or how current conflicts or low functioning are impairing important relationships. We will put some dimensions to the problem, and identify your current resources that may be applied toward meaningful and lasting change. If additional resources and skills are needed, we will treat your severe symptoms of depression with CBT and help you feel stronger and increase your ability to choose the most appropriate response to each situation. Treating depression with CBT it’s proven to be effective, and has helped many people who had a variety of different symptoms and challenges. Call and make your appointment today and we can get started!
About Light Therapy
Light therapy is a way to treat seasonal affective disorder (SAD) and certain other conditions by exposure to artificial light. SAD is a type of depression that occurs at a certain time each year, usually in the fall or winter. During light therapy, you sit or work near a device called a light therapy box. The box gives off bright light that mimics natural outdoor light. Light therapy is thought to affect brain chemicals linked to mood and sleep, easing SAD symptoms. Using a light therapy box may also help with other types of depression, sleep disorders and other conditions. Light therapy is also known as bright light therapy or phototherapy. (Mayo Clinic)
Try this light box by Verilux: HappyLight Full-Size 10,000-lux Light Therapy Energy Lamp which is available at an affordable price from Amazon. Click here to buy directly from Amazon.
Manufacturer information: Safe, natural spectrum light therapy in a practical, compact size. Provides 10,000 Lux, UV blocked bright white light therapy recommended by professionals. Customizes to your personal preference for light intensity with high or low settings, includes two easy to install no glare lenses for high energy or comfort. Broad surface area emits more light per square inch for efficient light therapy sessions. Light therapy at the right time of day can help improve your mood and reset your circadian rhythm to improve sleep.
Major Depressive Disorder Diagnostic Criteria
A. Five (or more) of the following symptoms have been present during the same 2-week period and represent a change from previous functioning: at least one of the symptoms is either (1) depressed mood or (2) loss of interest or pleasure.
Depressed mood most of the day, nearly every day, as indicated by either subjective report (e.g., feels sad, empty, hopeless) or observation made by others (e.g., appears tearful). (Note: In children and adolescents, can be irritable mood.)
Markedly diminished interest or pleasure in all, or almost all, activities most of the day, nearly every day (as indicated by either subjective account or observation).
Significant weight loss when not dieting or weight gain (e.g., a change of more than 5% of body weight in a month), or decrease or increase in appetite nearly every day. (Note: In children, consider failure to make expected weight gain.)
Insomnia or hypersomnia nearly every day.
Psychomotor agitation or retardation nearly every day (observable by others, not merely subjective feelings of restlessness or being slowed down).
Fatigue or loss of energy nearly every day.
Feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt (which may be delusional) nearly every day (not merely self-reproach or guilt about being sick).
Diminished ability to think or concentrate, or indecisiveness, nearly every day (either by subjective account or as observed by others).
Recurrent thoughts of death (not just fear of dying), recurrent suicidal ideation without a specific plan, or a suicide attempt or a specific plan for committing suicide.
B. The symptoms cause clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning.
C. The episode is not attributable to the physiological effects of a substance or to another medical condition.
Note: Criteria A-C represent a major depressive episode.
Note: Responses to a significant loss (e.g., bereavement, financial ruin, losses from a natural disaster, a serious medical illness or disability) may include the feelings of intense sadness, rumination about the loss, insomnia, poor appetite, and weight loss noted in Criterion A, which may resemble a depressive episode. Although such symptoms may be understandable or considered appropriate to the loss, the presence of a major depressive episode in addition to the normal response to a significant loss should also be carefully considered. This decision inevitably requires the exercise of clinical judgment based on the individual’s history and the cultural norms for the expression of distress in the context of loss.
D. The occurrence of the major depressive episode is not better explained by schizoaffective disorder, schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder, delusional disorder, or other specified and unspecified schizophrenia spectrum and other psychotic disorders.
E. There has never been a manic episode or a hypomanic episode.
Note: This exclusion does not apply if all of the manic-like or hypomanic-like episodes are substance-related.
Most Recommended OTC Supplement: SAM-E
Try the product by Pure Encapsulations: SAM-e (S-Adenosylmethionine) Supplement which is available at a very good price from Amazon. Click here to buy it directly from Amazon.
SAMe is a chemical found naturally in the body. It is sold in the United States as a dietary supplement. Research shows that SAM-e might be helpful for depression. SAM-e has good evidence as a treatment for osteoarthritis pain. Studies have found that oral SAM-e can be as effective as NSAID painkillers, such as ibuprofen and Celebrex. SAM-e takes longer to act than drugs do, but it has fewer side effects than NSAIDs. SAM-e has been used to treat depression for many years. Recommended daily: 400-1600 mg. This over-the-counter product may be useful as a supplement to cognitive behavioral therapy to help reduce depression symptoms. To make an appointment for cognitive behavioral therapy with Dr. Z click here. See FDA/FTC Notice about dietary supplements and more choices here.
What is Depression?
The criterion symptoms for major depressive disorder must be present nearly every day to be considered present, with the exception of weight change and suicidal ideation. Depressed mood must be present for most of the day, in addition to being present nearly every day. Often insomnia or fatigue is the presenting complaint, and failure to probe for accompanying depressive symptoms will result in underdiagnosis. Sadness may be denied at first but may be elicited through interview or inferred from facial expression and demeanor. With individuals who focus on a somatic complaint, clinicians should determine whether the distress from that complaint is associated with specific depressive symptoms. Fatigue and sleep disturbance are present in a high proportion of cases; psychomotor disturbances are much less common but are indicative of greater overall severity, as is the presence of delusional or near-delusional guilt. The essential feature of a major depressive episode is a period of at least 2 weeks during which there is either depressed mood or the loss of interest or pleasure in nearly all activities (Criterion A). In children and adolescents, the mood may be irritable rather than sad. The individual must also experience at least four additional symptoms drawn from a list that includes changes in appetite or weight, sleep, and psychomotor activity; decreased energy; feelings of worthlessness or guilt; difficulty thinking, concentrating, or making decisions; or recurrent thoughts of death or suicidal ideation or suicide plans or attempts. To count toward a major depressive episode, a symptom must either be newly present or must have clearly worsened compared with the person’s pre-episode status. The symptoms must persist for most of the day, nearly every day, for at least 2 consecutive weeks. The episode must be accompanied by clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. For some individuals with milder episodes, functioning may appear to be normal but requires markedly increased effort.–American Psychiatric Association. (2013). Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders: DSM-5. Washington, D.C: American Psychiatric Association.
Major types of depressive disorders:
Disruptive Mood Dysregulation Disorder
Major Depressive Disorder
Single episode
Recurrent episode
Persistent Depressive Disorder (Dysthymia)
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder
Substance/Medication-Induced Depressive Disorder
Depressive Disorder Due to Another Medical Condition
Other Specified Depressive Disorder
Unspecified Depressive Disorder
Dr. Mark R. Zuccolo | PhD, LMFT
Bellagio Psychotherapeutics
A division of Stresshacker LLC
Counseling, psychotherapy, behavioral coaching and behavioral consulting with individuals and couples in Alpharetta, Johns Creek, Milton, Cumming, Buford, Suwanee, Duluth, Sandy Springs, Marietta, Roswell, and surrounding areas.
Office:
Bellagio Psychotherapeutics
5755 North Point Parkway
Suite 33
Alpharetta, Georgia 30022
Quick Links:
Fees and Policies
Map and Directions
Appointment Request
© Copyright - Dr. Mark Zuccolo
Scroll to top