Long-Term Safety of Treximet (Sumatriptan/Naproxen Sodium) for Migraine in Adolescents - Tabular View - ClinicalTrials.gov
Hide glossary
Glossary
Study record managers: refer to the Data Element Definitions if submitting registration or results information.
Search for terms
x
Skip to Main Content
×
Find Studies
New Search
Advanced Search
See Studies by Topic
See Studies on Map
How to Search
How to Use Search Results
How to Find Results of Studies
How to Read a Study Record
About Studies
Learn About Studies
Other Sites About Studies
Glossary of Common Site Terms
Submit Studies
Why Should I Register and Submit Results?
FDAAA 801 and the Final Rule
How to Apply for an Account
How to Register Your Study
How to Edit Your Study Record
How to Submit Your Results
Frequently Asked Questions
Support Materials
Training Materials
Resources
Selected Publications
Clinical Alerts and Advisories
RSS Feeds
Trends, Charts, and Maps
Downloading Content for Analysis
About Site
What's New
ClinicalTrials.gov Background
About the Results Database
History, Policies, and Laws
Media/Press Resources
Linking to This Site
Terms and Conditions
Disclaimer
Find Studies
New Search
Advanced Search
See Studies by Topic
See Studies on Map
How to Search
How to Use Search Results
How to Find Results of Studies
How to Read a Study Record
About Studies
Learn About Studies
Other Sites About Studies
Glossary of Common Site Terms
Submit Studies
Why Should I Register and Submit Results?
FDAAA 801 and the Final Rule
How to Apply for an Account
How to Register Your Study
How to Edit Your Study Record
How to Submit Your Results
Frequently Asked Questions
Support Materials
Training Materials
Resources
Selected Publications
Clinical Alerts and Advisories
RSS Feeds
Trends, Charts, and Maps
Downloading Content for Analysis
About Site
What's New
ClinicalTrials.gov Background
About the Results Database
History, Policies, and Laws
Media/Press Resources
Linking to This Site
Terms and Conditions
Disclaimer
Home
Search Results
Study Record Detail
Saved Studies
Save this study
Warning
You have reached the maximum number of saved studies (100).
Please remove one or more studies before adding more.
Long-Term Safety of Treximet (Sumatriptan/Naproxen Sodium) for Migraine in Adolescents
The safety and scientific validity of this study is the responsibility of the study sponsor and investigators. Listing a study does not mean it has been evaluated by the U.S. Federal Government. Read our disclaimer for details.
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00488514
Recruitment Status : Completed
First Posted : June 20, 2007
Results First Posted : September 6, 2010
Last Update Posted : May 18, 2017
Sponsor:
GlaxoSmithKline
Information provided by (Responsible Party):
GlaxoSmithKline
Study Details
Tabular View
Study Results
Disclaimer
How to Read a Study Record
Tracking Information
First Submitted Date ICMJE
June 18, 2007
First Posted Date ICMJE
June 20, 2007
Results First Submitted Date ICMJE
August 6, 2010
Results First Posted Date ICMJE
September 6, 2010
Last Update Posted Date
May 18, 2017
Study Start Date ICMJE
July 13, 2007
Actual Primary Completion Date
August 1, 2009 (Final data collection date for primary outcome measure)
Current Primary Outcome Measures ICMJE
(submitted: August 6, 2010)
Number of Participants With the Indicated Drug-related Adverse Events [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of participants with a drug-related adverse event (AE). Frequency threshold for reporting a drug-related AE: >=2% participants recorded as having at least one occurrence of a reported drug-related AE.
Original Primary Outcome Measures ICMJE
(submitted: June 19, 2007)
Safety data (adverse events, laboratory and ECG changes, and vital signs) will be summarized. Data will be collected at Screen, every 3 months, through 12 months.
Change History
Complete list of historical versions of study NCT00488514 on ClinicalTrials.gov Archive Site
Current Secondary Outcome Measures ICMJE
(submitted: March 17, 2011)
Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event Categorized by Severity [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of participants with at least one mild (an event that is easily tolerated by the participant, causing minimal discomfort and not interfering with everyday activities), moderate (an event that is sufficiently discomforting to interfere with normal everyday activities), or severe adverse event (an event that prevents normal everyday activities) was recorded.
Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event Categorized Over Time [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of participants with an adverse event occurring in either the first six months of the study (months 0-6; <=194 days) or the second six months of the study (months 6-12; =>194 days until end of study) was recorded.
Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event Categorized by Participant Age [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of participants with any adverse event by age group (12-14 and 15-17 years) is recorded.
Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event Categorized by Participant Race [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of participants with any adverse event was categorized by race. The category "Other" captures : American Indian or Alaskan Native; Asian, Native Hawaiian, or Other Pacific Islander; African American/African Heritage and Asian; African American/African Heritage and White; and American Indian or Alaskan Native and White.
Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event Categorized by Participant Gender [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of participants with adverse events by gender is recorded.
Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event That Occurred Within 3 or 5 Days of the First Dose of the Combination Tablet [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of participants with adverse events that occurred within 3 or 5 days of their first dose of the Combination Tablet was recorded.
Number of Tablets Taken, After Which at Least One Adverse Event Occurred Within 3 or 5 Days of Dosing With That Combination Tablet [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of events that occurred within 3 or 5 days of dosing with the combination tablet on a per tablet basis. A total of 8413, 5876, and 9989 tablets were taken by the 6 Month Completer, 12 Month Completer, and the Safety Populations, respectively.
Number of Participants With Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT), Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST), Creatinine, Potassium, and Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN) Values of Interest That Shifted From Normal at Baseline to Abnormal at the End of Study Visit [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
A shift from "normal to low," for example, indicates that a value was normal at baseline but low at the end of study visit. The value ranges were determined by the central laboratory. Reference ranges: ALT, 12 years old (y): 0-45 Units/liter (U/L), >13 y: 0-48 U/L; AST, 12 y: 0-42 U/L, >13 y 0-42 U/L; creatinine, 12 y: 27-88 micromoles/liter (UMOL/L), >13 y: 44-124 UMOL/L; potassium, 12 y: 3.5-5.5 millimoles/liter (MMOL/L), >13 y: 3.5-5.3 MMOL/L; BUN, 12-17 y: 24-101 milligrams (mg)/deciliter (dL).
Number of Participants With Hematocrit and Hemoglobin Values of Interest That Shifted From Normal at Baseline to Abnormal at the End of Study Visit [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
A shift from "normal to low," for example, indicates that a value was normal at baseline but low at the end of study visit. The value ranges were determined by the central laboratory. Reference ranges: hemoglobin, 12-17 years old (y): 120-160 grams (g)/L; hematocrit (expressed as the percentage of blood occupied by red blood cells), 12-17 y: 0.360-0.490.
Mean Height for All Study Participants at the Indicated Time Points [ Time Frame: Screening and Months 3, 6, 9, and 12 ]
Mean Weight for All Study Participants at the Indicated Time Points [ Time Frame: Screening and Months 3, 6, 9, and 12 ]
Mean Body Mass Index (BMI) for All Study Participants at the Indicated Time Points [ Time Frame: Screening and Months 3, 6, 9, and 12 ]
BMI = (Weight in kilograms)/(height in centimeters/100)^2
Mean Blood Pressure for All Study Participants at the Indicated Time Points [ Time Frame: Screening and Months 3, 6, 9, and 12 ]
At each visit, a participant&apos;s blood pressure was taken three times. The average of the three readings was then calculated for each participant at each visit (mean blood pressure). The outcome measure represents the average of the mean blood pressure of all of the study participants. SBP, systolic blood pressure; DBP, diastolic blood pressure.
Mean Heart Rate for All Study Participants at the Indicated Time Points [ Time Frame: Screening and Months 3, 6, 9, and 12 ]
A sitting heart rate was measured once for each participant at each visit.
Number of Participants With Abnormal Electrocardiogram Findings at Screening and at the Final Visit as Assessed by the Investigator [ Time Frame: Screening and Final Visit (up to Month 12) ]
The number of participants with an electrocardiogram (ECG) status of normal, abnormal, clinically significant (CS), or not clinically significant (NCS), as determined by the Investigator, was reported. Specific definitions of ECG categorizations were not provided; investigators were expected to apply reasonable standards of clinical judgment. Normal, all ECG parameters within accepted normal ranges; abnormal, ECG finding(s) outside of normal ranges; CS, ECG with a CS abnormality that meets exclusion criteria; NCS, ECG with an abnormality not CS or meeting exclusion criteria per investigator.
Number of Treated Migraine Attacks [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of migraine attacks eligible for evaluation, not associated with rescue medication use, or prohibited medications, was summarized. Rescue medication was additional medication taken within 24 hours of Combination Tablet. Prohibited medications: ergot, opioid, barbiturate, 5-HT1 agonist, long-acting non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), short-acting NSAID-containing compound, analgesic, anti-emetic, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, St. John&apos;s Wort, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, Angiotensin II receptor blockers, anti-coagulant, anti-platelet.
Number of Treated Attacks Classified as Migraine Pain-Free (MPF) Within 24 Hours of Dosing With the Combination Tablet [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of migraine attacks eligible for evaluation, not associated with rescue medication use, and not associated with either rescue medication use or prohibited medications were counted. Migraine Pain Free was defined as the migraine attack ending <= 24 hours after the participant was dosed with the Combination Tablet.
Number of Treated Attacks Classified as Migraine Pain-Free (MPF) Within 4 Hours of Dosing With a Combination Tablet [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of migraine attacks eligible for evaluation, not associated with rescue medication use, and not associated with either rescue medication use or prohibited medications were counted. Migraine Pain Free was defined as the migraine attack ending <= 4 hours after the participant was dosed with the Combination Tablet.
Number of Treated Attacks Classified as Migraine Pain-Free Within 4 Hours That Were Also Pain Free Within 2 Hours of Dosing With the Combination Tablet [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of migraine attacks eligible for evaluation, not associated with rescue medication use, and not associated with either rescue medication use or prohibited medications were counted. Migraine Pain Free was defined as the migraine attack ending <= 4 hours after the participant was dosed with the Combination Tablet.
Average Number of Headaches, Migraine Attacks, and Treated Migraine Attacks Per Month [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The average number of headaches (non-migraine and migraine attacks), migraine attacks, and treated migraine attacks per month was calculated for each participant, based on their time in the study. The outcome measure represents the average of the mean number of the headaches, migraine headaches, and treated migraines per month of the study participants in the 6 Month, 12 Month, and ITT Populations. A treated attack is defined as a migraine treated with the Combination Tablet.
Number of Total Migraines Headaches and Migraines Treated With the Combination Tablet [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The total number of migraine headaches and the number of migraine headaches treated with the Combination Tablet during the study were summarized.
Number of Migraine Attacks Rated With the Indicated Pain Severity [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of migraine attacks treated at the mild, moderate, or severe intensity were counted. Pain severity was assessed by participants based on a scale of 0-3: 0=no pain, 1=mild, 2= moderate, 3=severe.
Number of Treated Migraine Attacks With Photophobia, Phonophobia, Nausea, Neck Pain, Sinus Pain, and Vomiting [ Time Frame: Baseline through End of Study (up to Month 12) ]
The number of treated migraine attacks with the reported migraine-associated symptoms of photophobia, phonophobia, nausea, neck pain, sinus pain, and vomiting were counted. Photophobia: sensitivity to light; phonophobia: sensitivity to sound.
Mean Change From Baseline in the Migraine Specific Quality of Life (QOL) Questionnaire for Adolescents (MSQ-A) Score at Months 3, 6, 9, and 12 [ Time Frame: Baseline and Months 3, 6, 9, and 12 ]
The MSQ-A consists of 14 items measuring how migraines affect QOL: Role Function (RF)-Restrictive (items 1-7) and RF-Preventative (items 8-11), examining the degree to which performance of daily activities is limited or interrupted, respectively, by migraine; RF-Emotional (items 12-14, examining frustration/helplessness due to migraine). Dimensions (dim.) are scored independently. The 14 items are reverse coded onto a 1-6 scale; dim. are then created by summing specific item scores and transforming raw total score onto a 0-100 scale. For each dim., higher scores indicate better health status.
Number of Participants Categorized by Response to Each of the 3 Global Satisfaction Questions From the Patient Perception Migraine Questionnaire-Revised (PPMQ-R) at the Screening Visit [ Time Frame: Screening ]
The PPMQ-R is a fully validated 32-item questionnaire assessing participant satisfaction with acute migraine medication and includes 3 questions that assess satisfaction with respect to efficacy, side effects, and overall satisfaction (i.e., How effective the medication is overall, side effects of the medication, overall satisfaction with the medication). Each item is rated on a 7-point scale ranging from "very satisfied" (1) to "very dissatisfied" (7).
Number of Participants Categorized by Response to Each of the 3 Global Satisfaction Questions From the Patient Perception Migraine Questionaire-Revised (PPMQ-R) at Month 12 [ Time Frame: End of Study/Month 12 ]
The PPMQ-R is a fully validated 32-item questionnaire assessing participant satisfaction with acute migraine medication and includes 3 questions that assess satisfaction with respect to efficacy, side effects, and overall satisfaction (i.e., How effective the medication is overall, side effects of the medication, overall satisfaction with the medication). Each item is rated on a 7-point scale ranging from "very satisfied" (1) to "very dissatisfied" (7).
Original Secondary Outcome Measures ICMJE
(submitted: June 19, 2007)
Efficacy and migraine symptomatology will be secondary. Data will collected daily.
Current Other Pre-specified Outcome Measures
Not Provided
Original Other Pre-specified Outcome Measures
Not Provided
Descriptive Information
Brief Title ICMJE
Long-Term Safety of Treximet (Sumatriptan/Naproxen Sodium) for Migraine in Adolescents
Official Title ICMJE
Study TXA107977, a Long-Term Safety Study of a Combination Product Containing Sumatriptan Succinate and Naproxen Sodium for the Treatment of Migraine in Adolescents
Brief Summary
This study was designed to determine long-term safety of TREXIMET (sumatriptan/naproxen sodium) in adolescents for the acute treatment of migraine.
Detailed Description
This study was designed to determine long-term safety of TREXIMET (sumatriptan/naproxen sodium) in adolescents (aged 12 to 17 years) for the acute treatment of migraine.
Study Type ICMJE
Interventional
Study Phase ICMJE
Phase 3
Study Design ICMJE
Allocation: Non-Randomized
Intervention Model: Single Group Assignment
Masking: None (Open Label)
Primary Purpose: Treatment
Condition ICMJE
Migraine Disorders
Intervention ICMJE
Drug: Combination Tablet of Treximet (sumatriptan/naproxen sodium)
Combination Tablet of Treximet(sumatriptan/naproxen sodium)
Other Name: Combination Product (sumatriptan succinate / naproxen sodium)
Study Arms ICMJE
Active Drug
Combination Tablet of Treximet (sumatriptan/naproxen sodium)
Intervention: Drug: Combination Tablet of Treximet (sumatriptan/naproxen sodium)
Publications *
McDonald SA, Hershey AD, Pearlman E, Lewis D, Winner PK, Rothner D, Linder SL, Runken MC, Richard NE, Derosier FJ. Long-term evaluation of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium for the acute treatment of migraine in adolescents. Headache. 2011 Oct;51(9):1374-87. doi: 10.1111/j.1526-4610.2011.01965.x. Epub 2011 Jul 28.
* Includes publications given by the data provider as well as publications identified by ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier (NCT Number) in Medline.
Recruitment Information
Recruitment Status ICMJE
Completed
Actual Enrollment ICMJE
(submitted: January 28, 2010)
656
Original Estimated Enrollment ICMJE
(submitted: June 19, 2007)
650
Actual Study Completion Date ICMJE
August 20, 2009
Actual Primary Completion Date
August 1, 2009 (Final data collection date for primary outcome measure)
Eligibility Criteria ICMJE
Inclusion Criteria:
Subject is between 12 and 17 years old at the Screening visit.
If subject is female, she must have a negative urine pregnancy test at screening, does not plan to become pregnant during the course of the study and agrees to use an acceptable method of birth control (i.e., a method with a failure rate <1% or abstinence) if she is/becomes sexually active.
Subject has migraine with or without aura (2004 ICHD-II criteria).
Subject has history suggestive of typical migraine attacks with duration of about 2 or more hours (untreated, or unsuccessfully treated).
Subject has at least 2, but not more than 8, migraine attacks per month in each of the 2 months prior to the Screening visit.
Subject has at least a 6-month history of moderate to severe migraine attacks, sufficient to establish a definitive diagnosis of migraine.
Subject is able to distinguish migraine from other headaches (e.g., tension-type headaches).
Subject and subject's parent or legal guardian are willing and able to provide informed consent prior to entry into this treatment phase of the study.
Subject and subject's parent or legal guardian are able to read and write English or Spanish.
Subject is able to understand and complete the electronic device to report treatment information.
Exclusion Criteria:
Subject is < 75 pounds (33.3kg).
Subject has ≥15 headache days per month in total, retinal (ICHD-II 1.4), basilar (ICHD-II 1.26) or hemiplegic migraine (ICHD-II 1.25), or secondary headaches.
Subject, in the investigator's opinion, is likely to have unrecognized cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease (See Appendix 1, section 11.1).
Subject has uncontrolled hypertension (See Appendix 2, section 11.2) or is taking any angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker.
Subject has a history of congenital heart disease, cardiac arrhythmias requiring medication, or a history of a clinically significant electrocardiogram abnormality that, in the investigator's opinion, contraindicates participation in this study.
Subject has evidence or history of any ischemic vascular diseases including: ischemic heart disease, ischemic abdominal syndromes, peripheral vascular disease or Raynaud's Syndrome, or signs/symptoms consistent with any of the above.
Subject has evidence or history of central nervous system pathology including stroke and/or transient ischemic attacks (TIAs), epilepsy or structural brain lesions which lower the convulsive threshold; or has been treated with an antiepileptic drug for seizure control within 5 years prior to screening.
Subject has a history of impaired hepatic or renal function that, in the investigator's opinion, contraindicates participation in this study.
Subject has hypersensitivity, allergy, intolerance, or contraindication to the use of any triptan, NSAID or aspirin (including all sumatriptan and naproxen preparations) or has nasal polyps and asthma.
Subject is currently taking, or has taken in the previous three months, a migraine prophylactic medication containing methysergide or dihydroergotamine; or is taking a medication that is not stabilized (i.e., change of dose within the past 2 months) for either chronic or intermittent migraine prophylaxis or for a co-morbid condition that is not stabilized.
Subject has a recent history of regular use of opioids or barbiturates for treatment of his/her migraine headache and/or other non-migraine pain. Regular use is defined as an average of 4 days per month over the last 6 months.
Subject has taken, or plans to take, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), including herbal preparations containing St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum), anytime within the 2 weeks prior to screening through 2 weeks post final study treatment.
Subject history of any bleeding disorder or is currently taking any anti-coagulant or any antiplatelet agent.
Subject has evidence or history of any gastrointestinal surgery or GI ulceration or perforation in the past six months, gastrointestinal bleeding in the past year; or evidence or history of inflammatory bowel disease.
Subject tests positive for illicit substances on toxicology screen, or has evidence of alcohol or substance abuse within the last year, or any concurrent medical or psychiatric condition which, in the investigator's judgment, will likely interfere with the study conduct, subject cooperation, or evaluation and interpretation of the study results, or which otherwise contraindicates participation in this clinical trial.
Subject has participated in an investigational drug trial within the previous 4 weeks or plans to participate in another study at any time during this study.
Sex/Gender ICMJE
Sexes Eligible for Study: All
Ages ICMJE
12 Years to 17 Years (Child)
Accepts Healthy Volunteers ICMJE
No
Contacts ICMJE
Contact information is only displayed when the study is recruiting subjects
Listed Location Countries ICMJE
United States
Removed Location Countries
Administrative Information
NCT Number ICMJE
NCT00488514
Other Study ID Numbers ICMJE
TXA107977
Has Data Monitoring Committee
No
U.S. FDA-regulated Product
Not Provided
IPD Sharing Statement ICMJE
Plan to Share IPD: Yes
Plan Description: Patient-level data for this study will be made available through www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com following the timelines and process described on this site.
Responsible Party
GlaxoSmithKline
Study Sponsor ICMJE
GlaxoSmithKline
Collaborators ICMJE
Not Provided
Investigators ICMJE
Study Director: GSK Clinical Trials GlaxoSmithKline
PRS Account
GlaxoSmithKline
Verification Date
October 2016
ICMJE Data element required by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors and the World Health Organization ICTRP
To Top
For Patients and Families
For Researchers
For Study Record Managers
Home
RSS Feeds
Site Map
Terms and Conditions
Disclaimer
Customer Support
Copyright
Privacy
Accessibility
Viewers and Players
Freedom of Information Act
USA.gov
U.S. National Library of Medicine
U.S. National Institutes of Health
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services