Colds and flu Q&A - Healthy Food Guide
Oops! It appears that you have disabled your Javascript. In order for you to see this page as it is meant to appear, we ask that you please re-enable your Javascript!
Home
Favourites
Recipes
Shop
Checkout
Contact us
Lost your password?
Create an account
Navigation
Advice
Ask the experts
Recipes
All Recipes
BakingHundreds of easy baking recipes with a healthier twist that still taste great. We have the classics such as chocolate cake, muffins and brownies, as well as reduced sugar and raw treats – all with a healthier spin.
BeefHundreds of delicious and healthy beef recipes – find your favorites.
ChickenEveryone loves chicken – here are hundreds of our most delicious and healthy chicken recipes. All are tried and tested for your satisfaction. Enjoy!
Dairy freeCutting dairy out of your diet for health reasons or because you’re vegan doesn’t have to be a chore. Healthy Food Guide has an extensive collection of healthy dairy-free recipes to make the transition easy and delicious.
Diabetes-friendlyHaving type 2 diabetes, or pre-diabetes, doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy amazing food! Here are hundreds of healthy and delicious type-2 diabetes-friendly recipes.
Family favouritesIt can be hard pleasing everyone when it comes to family meals but these recipes stand up to the pickiest of eaters. Have them asking for seconds with these nutritious and satisfying dishes from our family favourite’s collection.
FishFish, fish the family dish! Healthy and delicious too!
Gluten freeBrowse hundreds of gluten-free recipes. Easy and healthy gluten free meals, delicious cakes and desserts.
Kids in the kitchenHere are fun recipes created especially for children to make. To be served with lots of laughs.
LambOur most delicious lamb recipes, made with a healthy twist
Low FODMAPFor sufferers of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) a low FODMAP diet can significantly improve symptoms. Healthy Food Guide has a collection of FODMAP-friendly recipes so you can look after your IBS without struggling to find things you can eat. For more low FODMAP recipe ideas see our recipe filter for recipes that can easily be made into a low FODMAP options.
Meals for oneMeals for one can be easy, delicious and healthy. Try these!
Ready in 20 minutesWhen you need something to eat fast but don’t want to settle for nutritionally deficient convenience food, try one of these quick and easy recipes. You’ll have exactly what you need in just 20 minutes.
SoupsNutritious, soothing, flavourful soup recipes to suit everyone – from hearty meat-based soups to tasty broths and creamy vegetable soups Healthy Food Guide has it all.
VeganWhether you’re new to veganism, trying to add more vegetables to your diet, or cooking for a vegan friend, Healthy Food Guide has a fabulous range of vegan recipes, so you can love your animal friends and be healthy.
VegetarianFresh, inspiring and healthy vegetarian recipes to help you maintain a balanced diet while living meat free. Our vegetarian recipes are full of goodness and perfect for vegetarians and people wanting to enjoy a meal without meat.
Work lunchesIt can be a challenge to eat healthy at work, however these recipes are specifically designed to be very quick, healthy and convenient. Give them a try and notice the difference.
Videos
My workplace
Allergies and intolerances
Cancer advice
Exercise motivation
How to look after your heart
Healthy weight starts here
My family’s health
Mental wellbeing and resilience
Men’s health
Manage your diabetes
New ideas for work lunches and snacks
Quick and easy dinner ideas
Special diets/meat free diets
Staying healthy as we age
Tired and stressed?
Tips to reduce cholesterol
Women’s health
Where to get help
Shop
About us |
Issue lookup |
Favourites
| Subs options
Search for:
Recipes Advice All
Exercise
« Food and nutrients »
Alcohol
Beverages
Breads, cereals
Calcium
Carbohydrates, grains
Chocolate
Dairy products
Eggs
Fast food
Fats
Fibre
Fruit, vegetables
Herbs, spices
Iron
Legumes, pulses
Meat, seafood
Nuts, seeds
Oils
Omega-3
Organic
Pasta, rice and noodles
Probiotics, prebiotics
Protein
Salt, sodium
Soy
Sugar
Vitamins, minerals
« Health and medical »
Allergies, intolerances
Appetite
Asthma
Body fat
Brain, cognition
Cancer
Cholesterol
Diabetes
Energy
Eyesight
Gastrointestinal
Glycaemic Index
Heart
Immunity
Inside your body
Low weight
Measuring health
Metabolism
Migraines
Obesity
Oral health
Osteoporosis, bone health
Health blogs
Kick-start plan
« Life stage »
Babies' health
Children's health
Family health
Men's health
Pregnancy
Seniors' health
Teenagers' health
Women's health
« Resources »
Calculators
Charts and diaries
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise and fitness
FODMAP toolkit
Guides and planners
Weight-loss tools
« Lifestyle and environment »
Additives
Christmas
Community initiatives
Cooking
Eating out
Eating well at work
Entertaining
Food safety
Gardening
Holidays, travel
Myths
School lunches
Skin, sun, hair, nails
Sleep
Sustainability
Vegetarianism
News
Psychology, behaviour
Schools
Stress and mental well-being
« Weight loss »
Advice
Fad diets
Health assessments
Weight-loss programmes
Workplace wellbeing
SHARE
ADVICE
Colds and flu Q&A
Subscribe Now!
Subscribe now in to enjoy this feature
Favs List
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
PRINT
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
Nutritionist Rose Carr answers common questions about winter ills.
Have I got a cold or the flu? How can I tell?
The flu is more severe than a cold which is presumably why some people always insist they have the flu and not ‘just a cold’. Both conditions are caused by viruses and let’s face it, neither is pleasant.
It’s not too hard to tell the difference between a cold and the flu. With a cold you generally start with a sore throat and a few sniffles. While you can get a mild fever at the start of a cold, more often you won’t. Over the first few days the odd sneeze becomes more frequent, the runny nose more abundant, the mucus tends to gets thicker and there is often an annoying cough before symptoms finally taper off again. The whole process can take a couple of days or a couple of weeks – there is no knowing.
On the other hand, the flu is more likely to knock you over and send you to bed. The first symptom can be the chills, a headache, or an aching body. You’ll have a 38?C or more fever in the first few days at least. You may not get the full range of cold-like symptoms, but there’ll be one or two. You’re also likely to be pretty lethargic and even when you are recovering from the flu your energy levels may be sapped for a while.
Should I still go to work and ‘soldier on’, or rest up in bed?
While there are plenty of cold and flu tablets available to help suppress the symptoms, if you have the flu, you may find you can’t get out of bed, at least for a day or two while you have a high fever. Rest is advisable.
In some workplaces soldiering on is encouraged, and with a cold you usually can, but especially in the early days you need to consider how productive you will be and whether you can avoid passing it on to your workmates.
Colds and flu are most contagious in the first few days and can continue to be contagious for up to a week or so. Scrupulous hygiene is the way to prevent spreading a cold or flu virus. Wash hands regularly with soap and water and dry them well, or use a hand sanitiser. Make sure you always cover coughs and sneezes with a tissue, then bin used tissues.
Is it true you should ‘feed a cold and starve a fever’?
No. A fever speeds up the metabolism – so even though you may be resting, your body needs energy and nutrients from food to help fight the illness. When you have a cold you may find you have less appetite, especially if you are all blocked up and can’t smell your food.
What can I eat and drink to help a speedy recovery?
Once you’ve come down with a cold or flu, what you eat and drink may help you feel better, but it won’t necessarily shorten the duration.
Fluids are the most important. If you have a fever you’re more prone to dehydration and you also want to keep the lining of your nose and throat passages moist and the mucus fluid. Warm fluids – such as the traditional chicken soup or lemon and honey drink – as well as spicy foods, can all help to clear nasal passages. Herbal teas, juice, water and other soups help keep fluids up, but limit or avoid caffeinated drinks and alcohol, which can be dehydrating.
Food depends very much on what you can cope with eating, but go for nutrient-dense foods such as porridge, fruit smoothies or vegetable soup. If you can eat a full meal, all the better.
Should I go to the gym and ‘sweat it out’?
Not if you have a fever! Your pulse rate and temperature are already raised so you don’t want to increase them by exercising. Exercise is also not advised if you have chest congestion or a hacking cough.
If your cold symptoms are above the neck, exercise is fine. Researchers have found lung capacity of people with a cold is just the same as when they’re well and exercising doesn’t feel any more strenuous. You may even feel better for clearing the nasal passages, but there’s no evidence it will have any effect on the duration of the cold.
Always listen to your body and if your symptoms get worse when you exercise, give it a rest.
What about prevention – is there anything I can do?
When it comes to colds and flu, prevention is the best cure. An adequate intake of a whole range of vitamins and minerals is essential for the optimal functioning of your immune system, and the best source of that is food because you will get all the protective phytochemicals as well. A varied diet including plenty of vegetables and fruit is still your best defence.
High levels of stress and a lack of good quality sleep can also affect your immunity and make you more vulnerable to colds and flu. One of the best ways to keep stress at bay is regular exercise, which, happily, will help you sleep as well.
Should I take vitamin C, echinacea, zinc or other supplements to help me get over my cold?
The jury is out on this, but here’s what we’ve found:
Vitamin C
A few studies on marathon runners, skiers and soldiers on a sub-arctic exercise have found vitamin C can help prevent colds. Other studies have shown that if you’re not going to be subject to severe physical or cold stress, then taking vitamin C won’t have any effect on how many colds you catch. On the other hand, some studies have found taking high doses of vitamin C before the onset of a cold reduced their duration and severity. Pooling these studies, it’s estimated on average this might mean 11 days each year with a cold rather than 12 days for adults; and for under-12s who experience more colds it could mean 24 days with a cold each year rather than 28 days. In studies where high doses of vitamin C were started after cold symptoms began, there was no consistent effect on either the duration or severity of symptoms. The different effects may depend on how much vitamin C is in our usual diet, so we recommend regularly including foods rich in vitamin C such as kiwifruit, capsicum, broccoli, cauliflower, blackcurrants and citrus fruit.
Garlic
There is laboratory evidence that garlic has antibacterial and antiviral properties but there are few studies on garlic’s effect on colds. In one study, people who took a garlic supplement every day for three months had fewer colds than those taking a placebo and the duration of their colds was also less. While we can’t conclude too much from just one study, using garlic in cooking is surely good for us.
Echinacea
Preparations from some parts of this plant may help treat a cold. There’s some evidence that preparations from the aerial parts of Echinacea purpurea may be effective in the early treatment of colds for adults. Results are inconsistent but it seems if you are going to use echinacea, it is best to start as soon as you feel a cold coming on when it may help lessen the severity and duration. You could take it as a preventative, as it won’t do any harm, but no one can yet say whether or not it works.
Zinc
The jury’s still out on zinc as a cold remedy. One of the difficulties with zinc is that it has a distinct, unpleasant taste, so it is difficult to do ‘blind’ trials. If you choose to use zinc, be careful, as doses above 30mg can have adverse effects. You can get plenty of zinc in your normal diet by including foods such as seafood (especially oysters), meat and poultry, milk and dairy products, tofu, silver beet, whole grain bread and other whole grains.
Did you know?
Research has found the flu vaccine is less efficient in older people but regular exercise can improve its effect.
Immunity can be reduced for a while after vigorous exercise. You’re more susceptible to getting an upper respiratory tract infection after running a marathon than after going for a walk around the block.
Author: Rose Carr
Healthy Food Guide
First published: Jul 2010
Last updated: April 3 2017
Last science review: September 27 2016
Ready to put your health first?
Subscribe here
© Healthy Life Media LimitedAll rights reservedReproduction without permission prohibited
workplace.healthyfood.com
colds, fever, flu, winter
Free newsletter
Get the latest recipes, health news, expert nutrition tips & more…
Email*
Phone
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Your privacy is important to us
More Advice
ADVICE
Can any foods beat colds and flu?
BLOG
Should we feed a cold and starve a...
ADVICE
Beat colds and flu
ADVICE
Six everyday foods to increase immunity
ADVICE
Immune-boosting foods
Expert advice
Allergies, intolerances
Anxiety
Ask the experts
Asthma
Babies’ health
Children’s health
Cholesterol
Coeliac Disease
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise
FODMAPs toolkit
Fussy eaters
Men’s health
PCOS
Pregnancy
Resources
Sleep
Stress and mental well-being
Weight loss
Women’s health
Healthy recipes
Baking
Beef
Chicken
Dairy free
Diabetes-friendly
Family favourites
Fish
Gluten free
High fibre
Kids in the kitchen
Lamb
Low FODMAP
Meals for one
Pork
Ready in 20 min
Slow cooker
Soups
Vegan
Vegetarian
Work lunches
About us
About Healthy Food Guide
Contact us
FAQs
Help with this website
Help your school be healthier!
How to use our website
Inspire workplace wellbeing
Media appearances
Media kit and Advertising
Our recipes explained
Our team
Privacy policy
Research
References
Suggestions, questions or comments
Terms of use
© 2019 Healthy Food Guide. All Rights Reserved.
Please log in
This page requires a healthyfood.com account. Please create one below, or sign in if you already have one.
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise.
Already have a login?
Need an account?
+ Register
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
{{formAction == 'login' ? "Log in here to continue" : "Enjoying Healthy Food Guide?" }}
{{formAction == 'login' ? "" : "You've seen 3 free recipes, articles or videos." }}
Register for your free account below to see 3 more, and then 6 free per month OR log in here if you already have an account.
Need an account? Register
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise. See Terms of use.
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
You need a digital subscription to continue
Join thousands of others discovering how easy it is to eat well and feel great:
enjoy unlimited access to thousands of quick & healthy meals
save recipes to your own personal favorites folder
get evidence-based & expert nutrition advice you can trust
money back guarantee for any unused portion of a subscription
Log in here to continue
Subscribe today for just US$1/month {{ (signIn ? "CANCEL" : "SIGN IN") }}
X
{{ contentNotIncluded('company') }} has not subscribed to {{ contentNotIncluded('contentType') }}.
Ask your librarian to subscribe to this service next year. Alternatively, use a home network and buy a digital subscription—just $1/week...
Go back