Powered by My Surgery Website
Translate this page
This website uses cookies to function correctly.
You may delete cookies at any time but doing so may result in some parts of the site not working correctly.
Quick Links
Latest News
Search
The Whiteley Surgery
Tel: 01489 881982
The Whiteley Surgery Yew Tree Drive Whiteley Fareham, PO15 7LB
01489 881982
Home
News
Opening Times
Opening Hours
When We Are Closed
GP Extended Access
Prescriptions
Repeat Prescriptions
Prescriptions Fees
Pharmacies
Repeat Request
Appointments
Appointments
Cancelling Appointments
Home Visits
Doctor Appointments
Same Day Access
E-Consult
New Patients
Registration
Register Online
Non-English Speakers
Non-English Speakers
Our Services
Nurse Led Clinics
Non-NHS Services
Travel Information
Core Services
Test Results
Hepatitis B information
Staff
Doctors
Nursing Team
Practice Team
Yew Tree Clinic
Yew Tree Clinic
Counselling/Psychotherapy
ActiveStep Podiatry
Weight Management Service
Jonathan Clark Physiotherapy
Contact Details
Vacancies
Job Vacancies
Have your say
Patient Group
Patient Participation Group
Patient Group - Sign up form
Survey Results/Minutes/Archived Results
NAPP PPG Bulletins
Survey Report
Friend & Family Test
Friend & Family Results
Noticeboard
Out of Hours
On weekdays between the hours of 6.30pm and 8.00am, and all day and night at weekends and on bank holidays, services are commissioned by Fareham & Gosport Clinical Commissioning Group. If you wish to see an emergency doctor, phone the new NHS service on 111
Test Results
If any tests are taken, it is your responsibility to telephone the surgery for the results. Please only telephone between 1.00pm and 3.00pm. If you wish to discuss the results, please request a routine telephone conversation with your GP or Nurse.
Cancelling your Appointment
If you are unable to attend an appointment with one of the doctors or nurses, please telephone The Whiteley Surgery on 01489 881982.
Extended Hours
Please note: That with effect from 1 January 2015, our extended hours will change to a Monday evening. The alternate Saturday mornings will remain unchanged. Please ask Reception for further details if required.
Friends and Family Test
From 1 December there will be an opportunity to undertake a survey called the ‘Friends and Family Test’. Information and forms will be available within the surgery, alternatively you can submit the survey via our website. Just click the link on the right hand side of the front screen ‘Friends and Family Survey’ under the ‘Have your say’ section.
Opening Times
Appointments
Prescriptions
Contact Us
Minor Illness
Get the Right Treatment
Get the Right Treatment
Every year, millions of us visit our GP with minor health problems that can be easily resolved without a doctor's appointment.
It is estimated that every year, 50 million visits to the GP are made for minor ailments such as coughs and colds, mild eczema, and athlete's foot. By visiting your pharmacy instead, you could save yourself time and trouble.
Self-care
Keeping a well stocked medicine cabinet at home can help you treat many minor ailments. Colds, coughs, indigestion and many other minor complaints can all be treated with medicines that are available over the counter.
Your pharmacist can advise on what you might find useful to keep in your medicine cabinet. Always follow the instructions on the medicine label and consult your doctor if the illness continues or becomes more severe.
Your Local Pharmacist
Pharmacists offer professional free health advice at any time - you don't need an appointment. From coughs and colds to aches and pains, they can give you expert help on everyday illnesses. They can answer questions about prescribed and over-the-counter medicines. Your local Pharmacist can also advise on healthy eating.
Pharmacists can also advise on health eating, obesity and giving up smoking. Some pharmacists have private areas where you can talk in confidence. They may suggest you visit your GP for more serious symptoms. It is possible to purchase many medicines from the chemist without a prescription. Watch this short video on how you can get the most out of your local pharmacy
NHS Walk-In Centres
NHS Walk-In Centres offer convenient access to a range of NHS services for patients based in England only. You can receive treatment for many ailments including:
infection and rashes,
fractures and lacerations,
emergency contraception and advice,
stomach upsets,
cuts and bruises, or
burns and strains.
NHS Walk In Centres treat around 3m patients a year and have proved to be a successful complementary service to traditional GP and A&E services. Some centres offer access to doctors as well as nurses. However, they are not designed for treating long-term conditions or immediately life-threatening problems.
Accident & Emergency (A&E)
Major A&E departments assess and treat patients who have serious injuries or illnesses. Generally, you should visit A&E or call 999 for emergencies, such as:
loss of consciousness,
pain that is not relieved by simple analgesia,
acute confused state,
persistent, severe chest pain, or
breathing difficulties.
If you're injured or seriously ill, you should go, or be taken, to A&E. If an ambulance is needed you can call 999, the emergency phone number in the UK. You can also dial 112, which is the equivalent for the European Union.
Major A&E departments offer access 365 days a year and usually open 24 hours a day. Be aware that not all hospitals have an A&E department.
Diarrhoea
Diarrhoea
Acute diarrhoea is usually caused by a viral or bacterial infection and affects almost everyone from time to time. A common cause in both children and adults is gastroenteritis, an infection of the bowel.
Bouts of diarrhoea in adults may also be brought on by anxiety or drinking too much coffee or alcohol. Diarrhoea may also be a side effect of a medication
NHS Choices
Symptoms, causes, treatment and information
Macmillan Cancer Support
Diarrhoea as a result of cancer treatments
These links all come from trusted resources but if you are unsure about these or any other medical matters please contact your doctor or pharmacist for advice.
Diarrhoea and Vomiting
There are two common causes for this illness - food poisoning and viral infections which can be passed from person to person and are very infectious. Careful hand washing will reduce the risk of transmission. In the majority of cases the illness will settle by itself within 2-3 days.
It is very important to replace lost fluid, initially with small frequent sips of clear fluid. An oral rehydration solution e.g. Dioralyte may be useful and can be brought from the chemist.
Babies are at most risk from dehydration and you should seek advise from your Doctor if vomiting continues for more than 24 hours.
First Aid
First Aid - MP3 Downloads
To save them on your computer, right-click on any of the links below and then click 'Save Target As..." . Click on any of the links below to play the audio files:
Burns - Explains the immediate treatment for burns and scalds.
Fits - How to deal with fits (convulsions/seizures) in adults and young children.
Wounds - Immediate actions for wounds, bleeding, and bleeding associated with fractures.
Unconscious patient who is breathing - How to deal with an unrousable patient who IS breathing (includes recovery position)
CPR for adults - Adults who have collapsed, unrousable and NOT breathing.
CPR for babies - Babies who are unrousable and NOT breathing.
Collapsed patient in detail - Explains the complete scenario including checks for breathing, circulation, etc.
These files have been prepared by Sussex Ambulance Service and comply with European Resuscitation Council Guidelines.
Other Links
British Red Cross - First Aid Tips
Simple, straightforward and easy to understand first aid tips
St Johns Ambulance
St John Ambulance believes that everyone should learn at least the basic first aid techniques.
These links all come from trusted resources but if you are unsure about these or any other medical matters please contact your doctor or pharmacist for advice.
Coughs & Colds
Coughs & Colds
A cold is a mild viral infection of the nose, throat, sinuses and upper airways. It can cause nasal stuffiness, a runny nose, sneezing, a sore throat and a cough. Usually it's a self-limiting infection – this means it gets better by itself without the need for treatment.
On average, adults have two to five colds each year and school-age children can have up to eight colds a year. Adults who come into contact with children tend to get more colds. This is because children usually carry more of the virus, for longer.
In the UK, you’re more likely to get a cold during the winter months although the reasons why aren’t fully understood at present.
Treatment of a cold
For most people, a cold will get better on its own within a week of the symptoms starting without any specific treatment. However, there are treatments that can help to ease your symptoms and make you feel more comfortable. These are available from your pharmacy, which means that you can treat yourself, rather than needing to see your GP.
There is no cure for colds. Antibiotics, which treat infections caused by bacteria, don't work on cold viruses.
Self-help
There are a number of self-help measures that may help to ease the symptoms of a cold.
Drinking enough fluids to prevent dehydration.
Steam inhalations with menthol, salt water nasal sprays or drops may be helpful.
Vapour rubs may help relieve symptoms for children.
Hot drinks (particularly with lemon), hot soups and spicy foods can help to ease irritation and pain in your throat.
Sucking sweets or lozenges which contain menthol or eucalyptus may sooth your throat.
Gargling with salt water may help a sore throat.
You should try to make sure you get enough rest if you have a cold. It’s not usually necessary to stay off work or school.
Colds & Flu
A factsheet on the causes, symptoms, treatment & prevention of colds & the flu
NHS Choices - is it the common cold or the flu?
Colds and flu can share some of the same symptoms (sneezing, coughing, sore throat) but are caused by different viruses, and flu can be much more serious. Find out
Factsheet - Common Cold
Information about the diagnosis, treatment and symptoms of the common cold
Burns & Scalds
An external burn is damage to the skin's tissues. Burns can be vary painful, and can cause:
redness on the skin,
blisters (pockets of fluid that form on the skin), or
charred (black) skin.
Burns can be caused by:
direct contact with something hot, such as fire,
radiated heat from an external source, such as the sun,
certain chemicals,
electricity, or
friction (when an object or surface rubs against something else).
A scald is a burn that is caused by hot liquid or steam. Scalds are managed in the same way as burns.
First aid for burns
First aid advice for burns and scalds caused by heat, such as flames, is outlined below.
Stop the burning process as soon as possible. This may mean removing the person from the area, dousing flames with water or smothering flames with a blanket. Do not put yourself at risk of getting burnt as well.
Remove any clothing or jewellery near the burnt area of skin, but do not attempt to remove anything that is stuck to the burnt skin because this could cause more damage.
Cool the burn with cool or tepid (lukewarm) water for 10-30 minutes, ideally within 20 minutes of the injury occurring. Never use ice, iced water or any creams or greasy substances, such as butter.
Make sure that the person keeps warm, using a blanket or layers of clothing (avoiding the injured area). This is to prevent hypothermia occurring, when a person’s body temperature drops below 35°C (95°F). This is a risk if you are cooling a large burnt area, particularly in children and the elderly.
Cover the burn with cling film in a layer over the burn, rather than by wrapping it around a limb. A clean, clear plastic bag can be used for burns on your hand.
The pain from a burn can be treated with paracetamol or ibuprofen. Always check the manufacturer’s instructions when using over-the-counter (OTC) medication. Children under 16 years of age should not be given aspirin.
Once you have taken these steps, you will need to decide whether further medical treatment is necessary. See NHS Choices for more details for advice about what to do next.
Back Pain
The anatomy of the spine is very complex and has to support the whole weight of your body. It is therefore not surprising that poor posture, bad lifting habits, obesity and so on, can put strain on your back muscles and cause pain.
Common backache can be eased by taking pain killers and gentle exercise. The old fashioned remedy of taking to your bed and not moving can actually make the pain worse.
To avoid back pain, you must reduce excess stresses and strains on your back and ensure that your back is strong and supple. If you have persistent, recurring bouts of back pain, the following advice may be useful:
Lose any excess weight
Practise the Alexander technique.
Wear flat shoes with cushioned soles, as these can reduce the stress on your back.
Avoid sudden movements or muscle strain.
Try and reduce any stress, anxiety and tension.
If the pain persists for more than a few days, or spreads to the legs (sciatica) consult your Doctor.
More about back pain - NHS Choices
Chicken Pox
Chickenpox is a mild but highly infectious condition caused by a virus called the varicella-zoster virus (varicella is the medical name for chickenpox). It causes an itchy rash that blisters and then crusts over. There is no cure for chickenpox, and the virus usually clears up by itself without any treatment. However, there are some steps you can take to ease the symptoms. Children usually do not need to consult a Doctor.
Itching may be eased a little by calamine lotion and cool baths.
The most infectious period is from 2 or 3 days before the rash appears until the last spots have scabbed over. Children may then return to school.
More chicken pox treatments - NHS Choices
Chicken pox in adults however, can be a more serious infection.
Headlice
This is a common condition and usually presents as an itchy scalp. Treatment shampoos and lotions can be bought from the chemist. Non chemical methods of control (wet combing) are also available. Your pharmacist or practice nurse can advise and teach you how to do this.
Don't worry, headlice are not a reflection of your personal hygiene, they prefer a clean head !
Nosebleeds
Nosebleeds are fairly common, particularly in children, and can usually be easily treated at home. The medical name for a nosebleed is epistaxis.
How do nosebleeds occur?
The inside of the nose is full of tiny blood vessels which can start bleeding if they are disturbed. This usually happens as the result of a minor injury that is caused by picking, or blowing, your nose.
Nosebleeds can also occur if the mucous membrane (the moist lining) inside the nose dries out and becomes crusty. This can be the result of an infection, cold weather, or the drying effect of central heating. The mucous membrane becomes inflamed (red and swollen) or cracked (the skin splits open) making it more likely to bleed, particularly if picked, or disturbed by a minor bump.
Sit in a chair (leaning forward with your mouth open) and pinch your nose just below the bone for approximately 10 minutes, by which time the bleeding should have stopped. Try to avoid blowing your nose as you may dislodge the clot and cause further bleeding.
Further Information
GP Earnings
Text Message Reminders
General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR
New 111 Out of Hours Service
CQC STATUS
FIT NOTE INFORMATION
Minor Injury Unit - Gosport War Memorial
Community Action Fareham
Hampshire Health Record/Summary Care Record
SAME DAY ACCESS SERVICE
Useful Contacts
Care Data
Carers Direct
How We Use Your Data
NHS Choices
Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG)
SELF-HELP
GP Extended Access
Patient Advice
Depression Questionnaire
Pre Travel Questionnaire
Your Health
Family Health
Long Term Conditions
Minor Illness
Copyright 2006 - 2019 My Surgery Website | Privacy & Usage | Edit | Staff Home | Site Map | Accessibility | Site T&C's | Service T&C's