17 Natural Home Remedies For Minor Burns Pain On Face, Hand & Arm
facebookpinterestgoogleplyoutubefeed
Home Remedies
Home Remedies Index
Skin Care
How To
Superfoods
DIY Recipes
News & Facts
Go
Search and hit
< Prev Post 19 Home Remedies For Sun Poisoning Rash & Blisters On Lips & Face
Next Post > 20 Quick & Natural Home Remedies For Gallbladder Pain Relief
0 Shares
 0
 0

 0
0 Shares




Home Remedies
360 216
17 Natural Home Remedies For Minor Burns Pain On Face, Hand & Arm
Home
Home Remedies
Written by True Remedies
August 6, 2018
True Remedies
FacebookGoogleTwitter
0 Comments
Contents
What Are Minor Burns?
Common Causes
Signs And Symptoms
When To Call A Doctor?
Home Remedies For Minor Burns
1. Cold Compress
2. Potatoes
3. Aloe Vera
4. Coconut Oil
5. Honey
Minor burns are the first-degree burns and happen after accidentally touching to a hot stove, hair straightener or curling iron. This type of burn involves the top layer of skin and makes the affected areas painful and red. They can develop painful blisters and scars unless treated promptly. Most cases of minor burns could be treated right at home, but it is crucial to acknowledge what to do. Fortunately, this article will reveal to you some fundamental information about minor burns and natural but effective home remedies for minor burns pain on face, hand and arm. Just take a few minutes to read the entire article!
What Are Minor Burns?
We are sure that suffering from minor burns is common among us. Minor burns are defined as the burns affecting the first layer of our skin. It also causes redness as well as pain. Simply, it is understood as the least severe level of burn among different types of burns.
What Are The Causes Of Minor Burns?
There are a number of factors causing minor burns. In general, most minor burns are caused by our routine activities, such as doing household work, doing laundry, etc.
The cause of minor burns is associated with the types of burns.
Heat burns
Heat burns are caused by flames. For example, you touch a hot pot, use the fire, touch an iron accidently, etc.
Cold burns
Cold burns are caused by the frozen things, such as ice, frozen fruits, etc.
Electrical burns
Electrical burns are the burns caused by electrical source. For instance, you can suffer from electrical burns if you touch an oven.
Chemical burns
Chemical burns are caused by some kinds of foods, such as peppers, chili, etc.
What Are Symptoms Of Minor Burns?
The symptoms of minor burns are upon the type and level of the burns.
As to the least severe burn, you will pass the symptoms, such as light pain, redness, and swollen area.
It is important to know how many types of burns are so that you can decide whether you can apply natural remedies or go to see a doctor right away. In fact, there are 3 types of burns. They are first-degree, second-degree and third-degree burns. Upon different types of burns, the symptoms are different, accordingly.
First-degree burns
First-degree burns are defined as the burns affecting the top layer of the skin only. This is the least severe one among the types of burn. If you suffer from first-degree burns, you can experience the following symptoms:
Feeling painful.
Being sensitive when being touch.
Being swollen.
Having red skin.
Second-degree burns
Second-degree burns are the ones affecting not only the top layer but also the deeper ones. The burning areas are also painful, swollen and red. They turn white if you press them with your fingers. In addition, there are blisters appearing. The second-degree burns can leave scar after the healing.
Third-degree burns
This is the worst one. It can affect the deepest layer of the skin, including the fat, muscle and even your bone. If you suffer from third-degree burns, the affected areas are so painful, swollen. Plus, these areas do not turn white when being pressed. You also have to face the problems related to breath.
When To Call A Doctor?
Depending on how severe a burn is, it might be possible to handle at home. Many serious burns need professional medical attention. If your child has a minor burn, you should visit his/her pediatrician for determining its severity. At this case, they will look at the burn to check how deep and large it is and what possible signs of infection are (like pus, swelling or oozing).
In case you have minor burns, you should call your doctor if your problematic area gets infected or very painful. Burns on some specific areas might require special attention of a doctor. Such burns might heal slower than the burns on other body areas. Those areas include the face, hands, groin, and feet. If you notice signs of infection like redness, increased pain, pus or oozing, swelling, fever, red streak originating from burns, and swollen lymph nodes, then call your doctor instantly.
If you accidently get a minor burn, you should firstly identify the degree of the burn. Then, if you burns are minor, you can apply some of home remedies for minor burns mentioned in our article. Feel free to read thoroughly our article on TrueRemedies.com. However, if you see no improvement, it is time for you to go to see your doctor.
Top 14 Effective Home Remedies For Minor Burns Pain On Face, Hand & Arm
1. Cold Compress
Cold compress or cold water is listed as among the simplest home remedies for minor burns on face, hand and arm. Applying cold water will help to reduce the heat of your burning areas, preventing the injury from becoming worse [1]. However, do not use ice cubes for this method because ice may restrict the blood flow to the skin, further damaging tissues.
We recommend you some effective ways of applying cold water to treat minor burns:
Method 1:
Take a clean cloth.
Put them in a bowl of cold water.
Remove it out of the bowl.
Compress it on your minor burns.
Do this process several times every day.
Method 2:
Prepare a glass of cold water.
Pour it over your affected skin.
Do this process for 15 minutes.
2. Home Remedies For Minor Burns – Potatoes
You can also utilize raw potatoes for reducing the annoying symptoms of your minor burns. It is not surprising that potatoes are a huge source of nutrients, including vitamins, essential minerals, etc. In particular, potatoes contain a number of water and minerals, such as potassium, calcium, and iron. Potatoes are one of the vegetable owning a great number of vitamins, including vitamin A, vitamin P, vitamin C, etc. Potatoes are so good at curing minor burns because potatoes contain their strong anti-irritating. In addition, it can give a hand in soothing your minor burns. You will feel better and less painful after applying this process.
Here is the simple instruction for you:
Method 1:
Take a potato.
Remove its peel.
Use a knife to chop them into small slices.
Put a slice on your burn.
Method 2:
Take a potato.
Remove its peel.
Chop them into small slices.
Put them in a blender.
Blend it to form a paste.
Apply the paste on your burning area.
Let it stay on for 20 minutes.
3. Aloe Vera
Aloe vera is also another natural solution among effective home remedies for minor burns. As we all know, the gel of this plant is very good for treating a lot of skin problems. It works so well to reduce the symptoms of minor burns thanks to its healing power. Other properties making aloe vera an ideal solution and preventative measure for burns include antioxidant, antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties. You can use either freshly extracted aloe vera gel or store-bought gel to get good results [2].
Follow these guidelines to combat against minor burns:
Method 1:
Take an aloe vera leaf.
Use a knife to let it open.
Extract the gel.
Rub the gel on your affected areas.
Method 2:
Take an aloe vera leaf.
Use a knife to open it.
Extract its gel.
Pour the gel in a cup.
Add a teaspoon of turmeric power to the cup.
Mix them well.
Apply the mixture on your burning areas.
Method 3:
Apply some moisturize which contains aloe vera extract to the affected area.
Method 4:
Take some aloe vera leaves.
Wash them carefully.
Put them in a bowl.
Add some water to it.
Boil the water.
Remove the heat when the water boils for a few minutes.
Strain the liquid.
Pour the liquid in a tub.
Add enough warm water to the tub.
Soak yourselves in the tub for 15 minutes.
Note: Do not use aloe vera gel for the burns which are open.
Learn more: 19 Ways How To Get Rid Of Fever Blisters On Lips & In Mouth Fast
4. Home Remedies For Minor Burns – Coconut Oil
The mixture between coconut oil and some lemon juice can bring you one of the best home remedies for minor burns. As you know, coconut oil has a large amount of vitamin E and some fatty acids such as lauric acid, caprylic acid, etc. Therefore, this kind of oil owns strong power to fight bacteria, not to mention the anti-fungal, antibacterial properties and plenty of antioxidants found in it [3] [4].
Here is the instruction for you:
Take a small amount of coconut oil.
Pour it in a cup.
Add some drops of lemon juice to the cup.
Mix them well.
Apply the mixture on the burning skin.
5. Honey
We have to admit that honey is an excellent ingredient for our body. It can help us to treat a number of health diseases, such as preventing heart disease and some cancers, reducing cough, healing burns as well as wounds, soothing a sore throat, etc. Honey is also a wonderful ingredient for curing minor burns because it can help to disinfect wounds and heal the burning areas. It is because honey has a strong power to fight bacteria and inflammation. It has a natural pH level which is inhospitable to harmful bacteria. If applied topically, it could kill off existing infection or bacteria lingering on your skin. Moreover, honey also helps cool down the burn, relieve pain and prevent forming scars after the recovery [5].
You can follow the instruction below:
Take a small amount of honey.
Put it on a bandage.
Put the bandage to the burning area.
6. Home Remedies For Minor Burns – Black Tea
Black tea is a favorite beverage all around the world. According to a survey, 8 out of 10 people drink it every day. It becomes a favorite drink because of the ability to prevent some kinds of cancers thanks to its antioxidants. In addition, black tea can greatly reduce the pain owing to the tannic acid, which draws heat from the burns to lessen their pain [6] [7].
It can be used in several ways as below:
Method 1:
Take 3 tea bags.
Put them in a bow of warm water.
Let them steep for 5 minutes.
Let the tea cool down naturally.
Strain the tea.
Put a clean towel in the tea.
Put it over your burning area.
Method 2:
Pour 4 cups of boiling water in a large bowl.
Put 3 bags of black tea in it.
Then, add some mint leaves to the bowl.
Allow the mixture to steep for 10 minutes.
Strain the tea.
Let it cool down naturally.
Next, dab the tea on your burning skin.
7. Apple Cider Vinegar
Apple cider vinegar is also one of excellent home remedies for minor burns that you can utilize. It is may be a favorite spice in most families. You can use either apple cider vinegar or white vinegar to reduce the burns because they have the same benefits to your minor burns. Containing the astringent property, vinegar can greatly contribute to fighting minor burns and prevent inflammation. Besides, its acetic acid, which is a component of aspirin, could help relieve pain, inflammation and itching of a burn [8].
All you need to do to use apple cider vinegar for minor burn relief is:
Take a small amount of vinegar (either white one or apple cider vinegar).
Pour them in a cup of water to dilute it.
Use the mixture to wash the affected area.
Then, dip a clean towel in the mixture.
Put it on the burning area.
Change a new cloth several times every day.
8. Home Remedies For Minor Burns – Lavender Essential Oil
Being a good ingredient for manufacturing perfumes, lavender oil is also used to combat against minor burns dueto its painkilling effect. There is linalyl acetate along with beta-caryophyllene, which empowers lavender oil the ability to relieve pain and work against inflammation. These properties combine together to make lavender oil effective in preventing the affected areas from forming scars [9].
There are several ways of using lavender essential oil to treat this kind of problem:
Method 1:
Pour 2 cups of clean water in a bowl.
Also pour some drops of lavender essential oils in it.
Take a clean towel.
Put it in the oil.
Then, put it on the affected area for a few times.
Method 2:
Pour 2 teaspoons of honey in a cup.
Add some drops of lavender essential oils.
Mix them well.
Apply the mixture on the burning several times every day.
9. Tea Tree Oil
Known for the powerful anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antiseptic properties, tea tree oil can help relieve pain and swelling accompanied by minor burns quickly [10]. However, this essential oil is not suitable for sensitive skin if used in the pure form, so you had better dilute it with carrier oil like olive or coconut oil prior to application.
Apply 2-3 drops of tea tree oil on your affected area using a cotton pad
Repeat this method twice per day or more to harness its benefits
10. Home Remedies For Minor Burns – Peppermint Oil
When it comes to home remedies for minor burns using oils, peppermint oil is highly recommended due to its richness of methol. Menthol gives this essential oil the cooling effect, not to mention anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties. Therefore, peppermint oil could eliminate swelling and pain associated with the burn [11].
You just need to take the following steps:
Pour 2-3 drops of peppermint oil onto a cotton pad
Apply it to your burn 3 times per day or more
11. Plantain Leaves
Plantain leaves can be another ingredient that you can use in this situation. The leaves of the plantain plant contain plenty of minerals, such as copper, calcium, fiber, and some vitamins, including vitamin A, vitamin K. Furthermore, this plant is rich in phytochemicals, such as phenols, tannins which are the excellent antioxidants for reducing the inflammation. As a result, plantain leaves are commonly used to fight minor burns thanks to its strong ability to combat against inflammation as well as microbes.
You need to follow the following steps:
Take several plantain leaves.
Wash them carefully.
Put them in a blender to get a paste.
Put the paste on the burning.
Take a clean towel to cover the burning.
Change to a new paste once it dries.
12. Home Remedies For Minor Burns – Onion Juice
Not many people like the taste of onion. Some people even hate peeling its peel because it can irritate our eyes when it gets in the eyes. However, onion is approved to own a number of medical benefits. There are several kinds of onions, such as white onions, sweet onions, red onions, yellow onions, green onions, etc. However, they are all go good for our health because it has a number of fibers, vitamins and essential minerals, such as calcium, potassium, etc. For example, onions can prevent some kinds of certain cancers, keep our heart healthy, reducing the level of the blood sugar, alleviating inflammation and some allergies.
Moreover, owing to some special compounds, such as sulfur and quercetin which are good to reduce the pain caused by minor burns, onion juice is a wonderful remedy for burns. It helps the burns to recover from quickly.
The things you need to do is very simple:
Take an onion.
Remove its peel.
Cut it into small slices.
Squeeze the juice on the affected skin.
Do this process a few times every day.
13. Oatmeal
Oatmeal is not only a healthy cereal but also one of powerful home remedies for minor burns on face, hand, and arm. Playing as a natural exfoliating ingredient, the cereal is considered so excellent to remove dead skin cells, keep the skin well-moisturized. In addition, its skin-soothing action can help reduce inflammation and alleviate your temptation to scratch the affected area. Also, it works well to push up the healing process of your minor burns thanks to its plenty of nutrients and vitamins, especially vitamin E and useful acids [12].
Here is the simple instruction on how to utilize oatmeal for treating slight burns:
Prepare a cup of ground oatmeal.
Pour it in a basin.
Add some warm water.
Mix them well.
Put your affected areas in the mixture for half an hour.
Put the area out of the basin.
Let it dry to keep the coating of the mixture on your burning area.
Let it stay on for a few minutes.
Wash off with clean water.
Need to use a new bandage thrice every day.
Also read: 27 Tips On How To Remove Sun Tan From Face, Neck, Arms & Legs
14. Home Remedies For Minor Burns – Baking Soda
Baking soda is well-known for a number of benefits, such as reducing insect bites, balancing the level of acid in your stomach, playing the role of a natural exfoliator, etc. Baking soda is effective in reducing the annoying symptoms of your minor burns, particularly sunburns. You can try using baking soda to combat against your minor burns [13].
All you need to do is:
Take a small amount of baking soda powder.
Pour the powder in a bowl.
Then, add a sufficient amount of water to form a paste.
Apply the paste on your burns.
Let it dry naturally.
Wash it off with clean water.
Do this remedy once every day.
15. Tomatoes
Tomatoes are considered the good solution for burns because these fruits own strong power to cool down your burn. You may not feel strange when potatoes are commonly used by women for treating scars and dark spots on their skin because potatoes have their strong ability to lighten skin. They are also beneficial in curing minor burns. More specifically, applying the juice of tomatoes can help your burns heal quickly. It will lower the temperature of your burns, pushing up the healing process.
Apart from the benefits to treating minor burns, tomatoes are so effective in removing the dead cell tissues. Besides, it can have a number of other benefits to our skin, such as brightening your skin thanks to its huge amount of vitamin C, exfoliating the dead skin, etc.
Here is all what you need to do:
Take a fresh tomato.
Wash it thoroughly.
Cut it into thin slices.
Put the slice on your burning area.
Let it sit on for several minutes.
Then, let it dry naturally.
16. Home Remedies For Minor Burns – Aluminum Foil
Aluminum foil is considered as one of common home remedies for minor burns. It works so well to reduce the symptoms of your burns as well as push up the healing process.
We will show you the way how to apply aluminum foil for curing your minor burns:
Pour cold water through your burning area.
Put aluminum foil to the affected area.
17. Yellow Mustard
The seeds of mustard are loaded with a counter-irritant compound named allyl isothiocyanate which could ease pain and boost blood circulation to the problematic area [14].
You just need to follow these steps to take advantage of yellow mustard for minor burn relief:
Mix yellow mustard and water as the ratio of 1:1/2 to create a good paste
Apply this paste over your burned areas
Repeat this routine 3 times per day
Home Remedies For Minor Burns – What To Avoid
Besides applying the home remedies above to heal the burns, there are some things that you should avoid so that your affected area can be healed quickly.
1. Butter
Butter is the first one that you should avoid if you are suffering from minor burns. It is believed that butter can worsen your burning area. It can be a good place for bacteria to grow, which affects your burning area.
2. Egg whites
Egg whites are ranked in the list of avoidable things when you have minor burns because they can cause you allergy.
3. Toothpaste
Some people apply toothpaste right away when they have burns. However, it is an absolutely wrong way. Toothpaste can irritate your burning area, creating favorable conditions for bacteria’s growth.
4. Ice
The next thing you should avoid is ice. Ice can make your burns irritated as well as make you suffer from cold burn in some cases.
Home Remedies For Minor Burns – First- Aid- Kit For Burn Treatment
As you know how important the first steps of treating a burn is. If you handle incorrectly, you can make your burns become worse. In this section, we will suggest you some of the steps to handle a burn, in generally [15] [16].
The step 1: Get rid of the burn source.
When you are burned accidentally, the first and the top thing you need to do is to get rid of the burn source right away. For instance, if you are burned by an iron, quickly turn off the iron and get away from it. You are in cold burns, it is a good idea to put your burns in lukewarm water.
The step 2: Identify which type of burn your burn is.
In order to find the best remedy for your burn, it is very important to know what type of burn your burn is. If your burn is only the first-degree burn, you can apply some natural remedies listed above, including compressing with cold water, applying aloe vera gel or some potato slices, etc.
If your affected skin belongs to the second and the third-degree, you should go to see a doctor for medical treatment.
You can know how to realize your burn is the first-degree burn, the second-degree or third- degree one based on the section III of this article.
The step 3: Cool your burn
After evaluating your burn type, the next thing you need to do is to make your affected area cool. This step will reduce the heat of the affected skin. You can put the affected areas beneath a tap of cool water for 20 minutes. You also can use a clean cloth with cool water to put on the affected area.
The step 4: Clean your burn.
After cooling your burn, cleaning it is the next important step. Gently wash the affected burn with some soap. Then, wash off with cool water. Dry the affected area with a clean cloth.
Home Remedies For Minor Burns – Preventative Measures
The majority cases of first-degree burns could be prevented if one takes the proper precautions. The following tips will help you prevent minor burns in advance:
Keep the hot cooking pots on the back burners and the handles are turned toward the stovetop’s center in order to prevent any accidents. Make sure that you watch your kids in the kitchen.
Wear sunscreen or with a SPF of 30 or even higher to prevent possible sunburn.
Check your hot-water tank to make sure that it is maximally at 1200F to prevent burns.
Unplug the appliances which are not in use.
Place the electrical cords in which your kid could not reach them.
Use childproof covers to cover the exposed electrical sockets within your home.
Our article above provides you the effective home remedies for minor burns that you can easily apply at home. Is our article about home remedies for minor burns useful for you? We are sure that you can easily use them at because of the simple instructions on how to prepare the remedies. If there are any concerns about the remedies mentioned in our article of “17 Natural Home Remedies For Minor Burns Pain On Face, Hand And Arm” presented in Home Remedies Category. Please don’t hesitate to leave your comments and ideas. We will try to give the feedback to you as soon as possible.
Beauty Issues
Pain
Skin Disorders
Related Articles
You May Like This
13 Beauty & Health Benefits Of Papaya Fruit & Nutritional Value
24 Easy Home Remedies For Bad Cough In Babies, Toddler, Adults
24 Natural & Effective Home Remedies For Anal Warts Treatment
List Of 12 Worst Fruits To Avoid During Pregnancy
16 Ordinary & Common Things You Should Never Put On Your Face
24 Natural Tips On How To Get Rid Of Diarrhea Overnight
Also on TrueRemedies.com
17 Natural & Quick DIY Home Remedies For Dry Hands And Feet
10 Best Natural Moisturizers For Dry Skin On Face And Body
56 Ways How To Get Rid Of Pimples Overnight Fast & Naturally
16 Tips On Best Makeup For Oily Skin Prone To Acne With Large Pores
29 Tips How To Get Rid Of Head Lice Eggs Fast Naturally At Home
26 Tips How To Get Rid Of Jock Itch On Scrotum Fast & Naturally
17 Tips How To Treat Bruised Ribs From A Fall Or Coughing Fast
18 Natural Home Remedies For Hangnails Pain On Fingers & Toes
20 Ways How To Straighten Spine Posture Naturally At Home
24 Best Kept Japanese Skin Care Secrets And Routines
0 Comments Join the Conversation →
[fbcomments]
Sponsored by Google
facebookpinterestgoogleplyoutubefeed
POPULAR ON SOCIAL
0
Shares
29 Natural Home Remedies For Breast Enlargement & Firmness
0
Shares
18 Natural Home Remedies For Cavities In Teeth
0
Shares
Top 23 Natural Home Remedies For Diarrhea In Infants & Adults
0
Shares
15 Natural Home Remedies For Hypothyroidism Symptom Treatment
0
Shares
20 Natural Home Remedies For Overactive Bladder (OAB) Syndrome
0
Shares
10 Natural Home Remedies For Belching And Bloating
View more in
TRENDING THIS MONTH!
18 Natural Home Remedies For Cavities In Teeth
36 Effective Home Remedies For Lactose Intolerance Pain & Attack
15 Best Natural Home Remedies For Anal Itching
25 Natural Home Remedies For Fibromyalgia Pain Relief
23 Best Home Remedies For Cellulitis Infection On Legs
26 Best Home Remedies For Frequent Urination & Burning At Night
WHAT’S NEWS
11 Home Remedies For Tooth Infection, Toothache And Swelling
10 Best Home Remedies For Bacterial Infection In Throat & Mouth
10 Best Home Remedies To Reduce Body Heat In Babies & Adults
32 Natural Home Remedies For Depression, Anger & Stress Symptoms
27 Natural Home Remedies For Fleas And Ticks In Puppies & Dogs
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE
25 Natural Home Remedies For Snoring At Night In Adults
34 Natural Home Remedies For Ulcers In Mouth And Throat
10 Effective Home Remedies For Sore Muscles And Pain
22 Natural Home Remedies For Dry Skin On Face And Body
26 Home Remedies For Bronchitis In Babies And Adults
15 Effective Home Remedies For Infant Cough And Sore Throat
20 Natural Home Remedies For Pressure Ulcers (Bed Sores) Relief
20 Natural Home Remedies For Snake Bite On Humans
10 Home Remedies For Shingles Pain On Scalp, Back, Eyelid & Legs
26 Natural Home Remedies For Spider Bites On Face, Neck & Arms
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Home Remedies Index
Contact
TrueRemedies.com is a rich source of the truest and most effective home remedies to date, together with advice on handling various health and beauty related problems.
TRUEREMEDIES
. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Popular
Latest Posts
1
Home Remedies
18 Natural Home Remedies For Cavities In Teeth
1
Home Remedies
36 Effective Home Remedies For Lactose Intolerance Pain & Attack
1
Home Remedies
15 Best Natural Home Remedies For Anal Itching
Home Remedies
11 Home Remedies For Tooth Infection, Toothache And Swelling
Home Remedies
10 Best Home Remedies For Bacterial Infection In Throat & Mouth
Home Remedies
10 Best Home Remedies To Reduce Body Heat In Babies & Adults
Acne
Aging-Associated Diseases
Animal Attacks
Anti-aging
Autoimmune Diseases
Bacterial Infections
Beauty Issues
Bodybuilding
Body Issues
Dental Health
Digestive Health
Dry Skin
Eye Health
Hair Care
Hair Loss
Headaches
Infectious
Inflammations
Joint
Kidney
Mental Health
Nail
Nerve Health
Nose
Nutrition
Pain
Pregnancy
Respiratory
Respiratory Health
Sexual Conditions
Skin Disorders
Stomach Issues
Throat
Women's Health
TrueRemedies.com is a rich source of the truest and most effective home remedies to date, together with advice on handling various health and beauty related problems.
TRUEREMEDIES
. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
↑
TrueRemedies.com does not give any medical advice. The remedies, tips and tricks specified here are solely for the informational purpose. Consult your health care expert or doctor before trying any home remedies.