Blog - Quixoticpixel.com
Skip to content
Quixoticpixel.com
Welcome To Quixoticpixel.com
Home
Blog
Blog & Latest News
Privacy Policy
How To Treat Burns – First Aid Treatment for Thermal Burns
July 9, 2018	No Comments Shahrukh
How To Treat Burns
Most burns are not medical emergencies and can be treated easily. Burns that cause the skin to be red, painful and swell are called superficial burns. Usually, they are caused by heat, such as fire, steam, hot surfaces or a hot liquid.
1. Stop Burning Immediately
Put out the fire or stop the person’s contact with hot liquid, steam, or other material.
Help the person “stop, drop, and roll” to smother flames.
Remove smoldering material from the person.
Remove hot or burned clothing. If clothing sticks to skin, cut or tear around it.
2. Remove Constrictive Clothing Immediately
Take off jewelry, belts, and tight clothing. Burns can swell quickly.
Then take the following steps:
For First-Degree Burns (Affecting Top Layer of Skin)
1. Cool Burn
Hold burned skin under cool (not cold) running water or immerse in cool water until the pain subsides.
Use compresses if running water isn’t available.
2. Protect Burn
Cover with sterile, non-adhesive bandage or clean cloth.
Do not apply butter or ointments, which can cause infection.
3. Treat Pain
Give over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen ( Advil, Motrin ), acetaminophen (Tylenol ), or naproxen (Aleve).
4. When to See a Doctor
Seek medical help if:
You see signs of infection, like increased pain, redness, swelling, fever, or oozing.
The person needs tetanus or booster shot, depending on the date of the last injection. The tetanus booster should be given every 10 years.
The burn blister is larger than two inches or oozes.
Redness and pain last more than a few hours.
Pain worsens.
The Treatment for Superficial Burns caused by Heat
1) Stop the burning! Get the person away from the source of the burn.
2) Use plenty of cold running water to help control pain.
3) Cover the burn loosely with sterile dressing. This is not like bandaging for bleeding – keep it loose.
Most of the time, it’s that simple. But sometimes a burn is more severe.
Call 911 or get to a hospital immediately for these conditions
1) Skin that is burned to a brown or black color or if the tissue underneath appears to be white.
2) Burns to the airway. Burns around the mouth or nose can be very serious. It may be accompanied by trouble breathing.
3) Burns from electricity and explosions. These types of burns carry additional risks such as airway and cardiac damage.
Chemical Burn
For chemical burns, run an excessive amount of water over the burned area. The idea is to flush the chemical off the skin. However, if you have any doubt about your ability to treat a chemical burn, call 911 or seek professional medical help immediately.
Burns that cause open weeping blisters can be treated at home if the burned area is very small. The general rule is that if the burn is bigger than a quarter on a child and bigger than a silver dollar on an adult, seek medical help.
Additional Considerations For Burns
Burns to the hands, feet, genitals, head, and neck are the most serious.
Children younger than 5 and people over 60 are more susceptible to the effects of burns.
If burn blisters, don’t try to drain the blister. This increases your chance of infection.
Do not try to remove clothes that are burned into the skin.
There is no need to put ointments on a burn unless a healthcare provider tells you to do so.
You can apply ice to a small superficial burn to cool the area for pain management, but do not put the ice directly on the skin. Use a barrier between the ice and your skin. Do not use ice for more than 10 minutes continuously. Skin tissue can be damaged by excessive treatment with ice. It is also possible to lower a person’s body temperature too much with excessive ice treatment.
Do not put butter on a burn. It’s an old home remedy that is a bad idea. Yes, it can reduce pain because the burn isn’t exposed to air, but the salt desiccates the burned tissues. Butter also retains heat in tissues and can make the burn worse.
Consider taking an American Heart Association or Red Cross first aid class to learn more about burns and to have a chance to practice treating burns.
How to Perform First Aid and Emergency Treatment Instructions
July 9, 2018	No Comments Shahrukh
What is First Aid?
First aid is the aid which is given before getting the medical aid from Hospital. First Aid includes CPR, and first aid depends on the type of the disease or injury that the victim is suffering from.
Serious Bleeding
Once sliced my arm open carving a few weeks after knee surgery with a whole lot of painkillers, which, if you didn’t know, thin your blood.
I slipped, sliced my arm open, and had blood pouring all over the garage floor.
I covered the wound with my hand (it’s my own blood anyways), stood up on the leg I was not supposed to stand upon, walked to the garage door and said in a calm and collected voice “Mom, I need you to come here. Grab my first aid kit, and I need you to drive me to the hospital.”
I had her help me put on a bandage, and we went to the hospital.
When we went in, the nurse on call took off the bandage and his eyes widened when he saw the blood pour out onto the floor. I turned my head and said, “I told you it was bleeding.”
Broken Ankles
Yeah, I hike and climb a lot, so broken, strained, and sprained ankles are commonplace. Sigh.
I once broke my foot, splinted it, and had someone carry me out. Easy peasy. I’ve got a high pain tolerance
Broken Wrist
I once broke my wrist, splinted it up, and left it be. Never went to the doctor, because I thought it was a sprain.
A few years later I got an X-Ray on my hand, and the doctor asked when I had broken my wrist before. He complimented the doctor on healing it very well.
Turns out that “doctor” was a teenage boy.
Low Blood Sugar
My father, who I hike and camp with often, is diabetic (Type One), and as a result, often has low blood sugar.
It is my job to recognize and treat it when he doesn’t. Low Blood Sugar can do that to you, and make you cranky.
Spinal Isolation
I once came across someone who had fallen from a ladder, and I kept him still, prevented shock, and talked to him until the EMTs arrived. In the end, he was fine and did not have a broken back, but better safe than sorry.
Difficulty Breathing
I have been at a party once when someone was having a difficult time breathing. They were having an infection and did not have an inhaler or anything. I helped keep them calm and breathing until we loaded them into a car and brought them home for their antibiotics.
First Aid Kit
First aid kit has the same content that we’ve carried on the fire truck. Items to handle almost every type of true life-threatening first aid emergency. You should be able to safely perform CPR, control severe Bleeding, manage Shock, treat serious Burns, stabilize Broken Bones, along with minor first aid emergencies.
There are only 15 key items necessary for you to be able to provide first aid care for minor and serious first aid emergencies. These are:
4×4 Gauze Pads. Use for minor to moderate wounds or bleeding. Watch my video on how to stop and control bleeding here.
5×9 Trauma Dressing. Use for severe bleeding or large wounds.
Thermal Blankets. Use for victims who are in shock to keep them warm (unconscious or unresponsive).
Watch my video on how to treat shock here.
2×6 Burn Gel Dressing. In a case of burns, apply this Gel Dressing to the burned area. Watch my video on how to treat burns here.
Cold Packs. Use for treating bumps, bruises, muscle aches and swelling. Place gauze over skin prior to applying a cold pack.
Triangular Bandage. This is a versatile dressing. It can be used to support an injured limb or extremity, secure a splint, as a pressure dressing to control bleeding, or to secure an arm that has a splint on it.
Antiseptic Wipes. These wipes are alcohol-free, so it’s safe for cleaning out small injuries such as scrapes, cuts and abrasions and even minor burns before sticking on a bandage. Watch my video on how to clean wounds here.
Cardboard Splint. Used to stabilize fractured limbs to prevent further damage or complications.
Gauze Rolls. Use to secure dressings on wounds, burns or a fracture.
First Aid Tape. For securing first aid dressing, bandage, and splint. Find the ones that are waterproof and easy to tear off.
Band-Aids. Used for minor wounds.
Paramedic Scissors. Use to cut gauze. Remove clothing, or cutting your own dressings.
Antimicrobial Wipes. For the rescuer’s safety when they become exposed to body fluids, these wipes contain alcohol, so they should NEVER be used on wounds. Read my post why you shouldn’t use alcohol on wounds.
Vinyl Gloves. For the rescuer’s safety, to protect you from body fluids.
First Aid For Choking
1. If its mild choking encourages the person to keep coughing & clear the blockage.
2. Ask the person to spit out the object if it’s there in the mouth.
3. Give up to 5 sharp back blows between the shoulder blades.
4. If back blows don’t work, then give up to Chest thrusts, by wrapping both the arms up to chest level.
5. Continue by altering back blows & chest thrusts & keep checking their breath.
6. Never use a finger to remove the object or sweep unless you can see the object in the person’s mouth.
Malaria Treatment – Malaria Causes, Symptoms & Prevention
July 9, 2018	No Comments Shahrukh
Malaria Treatment
The recent rainy weather is the favorable environment for the growth of mosquito, which subsequently leads to many other diseases, notably malaria. Although there has been no specific medical malaria treatment. You can prevent them by having good hygiene, consuming various types of foods for a healthy immunity.
I highly recommend a nutritious diet for eliminating the risk of malaria. The list below includes the “should eat” foods for a better protection from this dangerous disease:
1. Ginger
One of the common and well-known treatments for malaria is ginger. Ginger can easily access a large number of tropical regions and serve as a powerful decoction to strengthen the immunity and aid in recovering the process from being infected. Both ginger and its own active ingredients act as the anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial agents in the body that allow it to become one of the most natural and effective home remedies for malaria.
How to apply:
Chop the ginger into small slices.
Add three tablespoon of raisins.
Boil the decoction in a cup of water till it reduces to half of the amount.
Let it cool and drink the decoction.
2. Cinnamon
Cinnamon is widely known as another impressive help on how to treat malaria naturally. It deals with malaria symptoms, including a headache, fever, and diarrhea. Cinnamon, which is loaded with a cinnamaldehyde, anti – inflammatory properties, has been associated with a decrease in malaria painful symptoms.
How to apply:
Add powdered cinnamon to honey and pepper powder in equal amounts.
Boil the solution in a glass of water.
Consume this solution regularly.
3. Lime and Lemon
Grabbing lime and lemon is considered as one of the valuable helps on how to treat malaria naturally. It can help reduce malaria fever.
How to apply:
Add a few drops of lime to the juice extracted from a lemon.
Place the mixture in a cup of water before drinking.
4. Alum
Before used as another effective help on how to treat malaria naturally, alum needs to be prepared in dried, powered and roasted form. You can consume one teaspoon of this powder 4 hours before of an expected fever and a half of teaspoon 2 hours after the fever attack. This treatment aids in reducing the symptoms of malaria naturally that cause discomfort to most people.
They are among wonderful foods for inhibiting malaria. You can visit the page Authority Remedies to discover more about the definition of malaria. Its symptoms, causes as well as many other awesome foods for this disease.
Wish you all healthy!
How To Cure Acne Naturally – Best Treatment And Remedies
July 9, 2018	No Comments Shahrukh
How to Cure Acne Naturally: Lifestyle Factors
How to cure acne naturally? It is possible, as is minimizing acne scars. Read below to learn more about easy, natural home remedies and treatment for acne.
1. Get Enough Sleep
Yes, the phrase, “get your beauty rest” is actually good advice. Stress is one of the biggest causes of acne, and sleep is one of the best natural stress relievers around.
When we sleep, healing happens, and at the same time, it’s a great time to apply a home remedy and let it get it to work on eliminating toxins that can cause acne. The Psychiatric Clinics of North America reports that stress is a factor affecting all organs. Though it’s easy to forget, the skin is an organ. In fact, it’s your largest organ! Getting plenty of rest can help reduce acne-associated stress.
2. Change Your Diet
Eliminating sugar, drinking plenty of water and getting your omega-3 foods can to make a difference. Too much sugar can cause insulin spikes, which can create inflammation in the skin and clog up the pores. Water, conversely, hydrates, and it seems we cannot get enough of it. Make sure to get at least half your body weight in ounces every day.
The hydrated skin provides the right moisture and balances the skin needs to thrive. Additionally, water helps flush out toxins, something we need on a daily basis. And those omega-3s are pretty awesome at providing a reduction in inflammation. Wild-caught salmon is one of my favorite sources, in addition to sardines, walnuts, flaxseed oil and almonds.
3. Get Daily Exercise
Exercise not only helps you with fitness, but it can help reduce acne-prone skin irritations. That’s right, add its use on how to get rid of pimples to the list of exercise benefits. Exercise offers stress relief while getting the blood circulating. This blood-pumping activity sends oxygen to your skin cells, which helps remove dead cells from the body.
4. Cleanse and Exfoliate
Clean skin is a pretty obvious need for an acne-free face and body. You want to make sure you use the right cleaning methods and exfoliate gently. I always look for pure options, such as Castile soap. Castile soap offers a gentle way to cleanse using plant-based ingredients, such as olive oil.
How To Cure Acne Using Clindamycin Phosphate Gel
Clindamycin gel is very effective and helps to treat acne and pimples within 3–4 days. You can also use the combination of adapalene and clindamycin for best results.
See here:-
Use a faceclin Gel. It’s a combination of Nicotinamide and Clindamycin that helps to treat acne and pimples.
At night time, you can use Deriva CMS cream. It helps to reduce spots and acne marks.
1. Honey and Lemon Juice
Mix equal amounts of honey and lemon juice – preferably a tablespoon each – and apply this mixture to the affected areas, including the marks left out by pimples. Do not apply to the aggravated areas as this may cause a severe burning sensation. Leave it for about 10 minutes and rinse off with water. Do this 5-6 times a week for effective results.
2. Fresh Mint Leaves
Purchase or pick fresh mint leaves and grind them to a rough paste form. Now, squeeze the mint juice out of this paste and apply it generously all over your face, ensuring that you concentrate more on scars. Leave it for 15-20 minutes before washing off with water. You can repeat this process for 4-5 days a week.
3. Garlic
You can either cut a big clove of garlic into two pieces or crush it to extract the juice. Now, if you’re using cut garlic pieces- just apply the cut end of the garlic on the pimples, allowing the juice to stick on the face for at least five minutes. Wash off using warm water. Repeat this process several times a day. Follow the routine until the pimples vanish altogether.
4. Neem Leaves
Neem leaves are an excellent natural remedy for treating pimples. Make a paste of fresh neem leaves and apply on the affected areas. Leave it for about 20 minutes or till it dries up. Rinse off with cool water. This not only helps to reduce outbreaks of acne and pimples but also revives dull skin and adds a glow to the face.
5. Potato
Apply potato juice/slice directly on your pimples and leave it for about five to 10 minutes. Rinse off with water. You can also use tomato juice using the same procedure.
Search for:
Recent Posts
How To Treat Burns – First Aid Treatment for Thermal Burns
How to Perform First Aid and Emergency Treatment Instructions
Malaria Treatment – Malaria Causes, Symptoms & Prevention
How To Cure Acne Naturally – Best Treatment And Remedies
Categories
Recent Blogs
About Us
Structure personal participate in ethics training as part of our best practices program and each employee is provided with a skillset that help them makes the best decisions.
Recent Posts
How To Treat Burns – First Aid Treatment for Thermal Burns
How to Perform First Aid and Emergency Treatment Instructions
Malaria Treatment – Malaria Causes, Symptoms & Prevention
How To Cure Acne Naturally – Best Treatment And Remedies
Powered by WordPress. Theme: Remedial by Webulous Themes