InviCible Scar Therapy | Effective, Safe Therapy For Scars, Dark Spots
Advanced Treatment for Scars and Dark Spots
developed by a leading plastic surgeon
Home
Faq
Press
Contact us
Buy Now
3 Easy Steps
Compare Scar Treatments
Compare Treatments
Clinical Studies
Ingredient Comparison Chart
Scar Therapy Safety
What’s in your Scar Cream?
Ingredients to Look For
Aloe Vera
Dimethicone Silicone
Essential Fatty Acids
Licorice
Vitamin C
Ingredients to Avoid
Hydroquinone
Kojic Acid
Preservatives & Fragrances
Vitamin E
Testimonials
Testimonials
Customers
Medical Professionals
Results
Results
Before & After Photos
How InviCible Works
Our Clinical Results
Blog
About us
Our Mission
IS YOUR SCAR THERAPY SAFE?
Common scar therapy and skin care ingredients include vitamin E, hydroquinone, kojic acid, preservatives, and fragrances. Multiple studies have questioned the safety of some of these ingredients and as a result, more and more people are becoming concerned about the potentially harmful substances they apply on their skin.
InviCible is effective, hypoallergenic and does not contain any unsafe or controversial ingredients. It is also NOT tested on animals.
Due to its superior safety profile, InviCible has won the National Parenting Center Seal of Approval and was also voted a Champion in The Compact for Safe Cosmetics by Skin Deep.
Ingredients you may want to avoid in your scar therapy:
VITAMIN E
Vitamin E is a popular ingredient in skin care products because it is a very powerful anti-oxidant. However, studies show that in up to 90% of cases, vitamin E fails to improve, or even worsens scars. People seeing any improvement in their scars after using vitamin E are likely only seeing the benefits of moisturizing the scar. Vitamin E also causes contact dermatitis (redness, itching, swelling and flaking) in up to 33% of users. For these reasons, American dermatologists 1 and Canadian pediatricians 2 recommend NOT using vitamin E on scars.
HYDROQUINONE
Though hydroquinone is an effective agent to lighten scars, it is not sold in some countries3 because of its long-term use dangers. Hydroquinone can lead to a condition called ochronosis, even at its over-the-counter strength (2%). This is permanent hyperpigmentation with sooty darkening of the skin. Ochronosis may also cause loss of skin elasticity and impaired wound healing. Other side effects include contact dermatitis (rash, redness, itching and flaking) and nail discoloration. Some researchers have questioned whether hydroquinone and related compounds may cause cancer. As a result of these fears, hydroquinone is only available by prescription in Europe and it is highly regulated in Asia. Texas authorities recently passed a ruling that disallows shipping of 4% hydroquinone products in the state. The skin-lightening effects of hydroquinone decrease with prolonged use and with sun exposure.
InviCible does not contain hydroquinone.
KOJIC ACID
Like hydroquinone, kojic acid is effective in lightening dark scars, brown spots and even melasma. Unfortunately, some studies suggest that skin exposed to kojic acid on a regular basis becomes more sensitive. Skin sensitization is bad because it can lead to allergic contact dermatitis. Like hydroquinone, kojic acid does not improve any other aspect of the scar other than the dark pigment.
InviCible does not contain kojic acid.
PRESERVATIVES, PARABENS, FRAGRANCES
Synthetic preservatives like parabens are commonly used in all kinds of personal skin care products. Preservatives prevent the growth of bacteria in products with high water content. They discourage bacterial growth and reduce the risk of infection. However, they also have a serious downside:
“Allergy to preservatives is one of the main reasons for contact eczema caused by cosmetics. As development and elicitation of contact allergy is dose dependent, the over preservation of cosmetics potentially leads to increased incidences of contact allergy,” says Dr. Lundov, a prominent researcher.
There are about 50 approved preservatives to keep cosmetic products “bacteria-free”, but the market is dominated by just a handful: parabens, formaldehyde, formaldehyde releasers, metylchloroisothiazolinone, and methylisothiazolinone. That is bad news, since these chemicals may be among the most irritating preservatives.
“Approximately 6% of the general population has a cosmetic-related contact allergy mainly caused by preservatives and fragrances,” says Dr. Lundov, and allergies to formaldehyde are as high as 9%4.
Most people know that parabens can cause allergic skin reactions. Recent research also suggests a possible association with breast cancer after finding high paraben content in breast cancer cells5. The National Cancer Institute has rubbished these claims but the general public continues to have safety concerns. Many people are now calling for the re-evaluation of their use in cosmetic products. For this reason, InviCible does not contain any parabens.
InviCible is water-free and does not need preservatives. It also avoids all fragrances.
InviCible is a hypoallergenic, safe scar therapy as it avoids Vitamin E, hydroquinone, kojic acid, preservatives, fragrances and other potential skin irritants like petroleum, alcohol and mineral oil.
Please visit our photo gallery to view our before and after pictures.
Order our scar cream on Amazon.
References:
1. Zurada JM, Kriegel D, Davis IC. Topical treatments for hypertrophic scars. J Am Acad Dermatol 2006 Dec;55(6):1024-31.
2. Khoosal D, Goldman RD. Vitamin E for treating children’s scars. Does it help reduce scarring? Can Fam Physician 2006 Jul;52:855-6.
3. Kooyers TJ, Westerhof W. Toxicological aspects and health risks associated with hydroquinone in skin bleaching formula. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2004 Apr 17;148(16):768-71
4. Lundov MD, Moesby L, Zachariae C, et al. Contamination versus preservation of cosmetics: a review on legislation, usage, infections, and contact allergy. Contact Dermatitis 2009 Feb;60(2):70-8.
5. Darbre PD, Aljarrah A, Miller WR, Coldham NG, Sauer MJ, Pope GS. Concentrations of parabens in human breast tumours. J Appl Toxicol. 2004 Jan-Feb;24(1):5-13
Comments are closed.
Results
See Our Studies
See the results of our Clinical Studies
See Before and Afters
View Images of real results!
Testimonials
My derm took one look at me and said she is recommending this to every acne patient. I'm serious. I was... Read More
The red is completely gone now and I honestly am astounded. Didn't think it would work on such an old scar.... Read More
Home
About us
Buy Now
Buy Wholesale
FAQ
Media
Newsletter
Contact us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
GDPR Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Sitemap
Get Rid of Scars
Acne Scars
Burns
C-Section
Dark Scars
Face Scars
Hypertrophic Scars
New or Old Scars
Surgery
Scar Healing
How Does InviCible Work?
Improve How Your Scars Heal
Plastic Surgery Scars
Breast Surgery
Facelift
Tummy Tuck
Skin Treatments
Chemical Peels
Skin Resurfacing
Tattoo Scars
Get Rid of Dark Spots
Melasma
Skin Spots/Age Spots
Uneven Skin Tone
Compare Scar Treatments
Ingredient Comparison Chart
Clinical Studies
What's In Your Scar Cream?
Scar Therapy Safety
Ingredients to Look For
Dimethicone Silicone
ProBiosyn-4
Vitamin C
Ingredients to Avoid
Bleaching Agents
Preseratives & Fragrances
Vitamin E
Testimonials
Consumers
Medical Professionals
Results
Before & After Photos
Studies
© Copyright 2019 InviCible Scars
Website Design by Imagemme
Email: weloveourcustomers@inviciblescars.com
X