Croup: Is Croup Contagious?
MENU
Search
Pregnancy
Parenting
Food
Health
Style
Home
Love
DIY
Community
Pregnancy
Trying to Conceive
Your Pregnancy
Baby Names
Pregnancy In the News
Pregnancy Health
Parenting
babies
Toddlers
Preschoolers
Big Kids
Family Fun Activities
Mom Confessions
Parenting In the News
Food
Baby Food
Starting Solids
Breakfast
Lunch
Dinner
Drinks
Under 30 Minutes
Dessert
Birthday Cake
Vegetarian
Gluten Free
Snacks
Holiday
Cooking with Kids
Health
Your Health
Nutrition
Fitness
Children’s Health
Style
Fashion
Beauty
Maternity
Kid Style
Home
Mom Squad
Parties
Home Decor
Cleaning & Organization
Green Living
Family Vacations
Gardening
Pets
Tech
Love
Married Life
Relationship Advice
Date Night Ideas
Sex
Single & Dating
DIY
Crafts for Kids
DIY Holiday Crafts
DIY for Home
DIY Crafts for Mom
Community
Our Sister Sites
Follow Us
FACEBOOK
TWITTER
INSTAGRAM
PINTEREST
G+
Search
Health
Health - Children's Health
Is Croup Contagious? Plus, How To Get Rid Of This Nasty Cough
by Deena Blanchard, MD
As a pediatrician, I get a lot of questions about croup. Parents wonder: Is croup contagious? What are the symptoms? What does the cough sound like? These are all important questions, because croup in babies and little kids is common. And here’s the thing: With a little bit of info, you can help your croupy kid feel better — and keep croup from spreading to others. Here, I break down everything you need to know about croup.
Is croup contagious?
Yes. Croup, which is caused by a variety of different viruses, most commonly the para-influenza virus, is very contagious. Children can spread the illness for three days after it starts and until they’ve been fever-free for 24 hours.
How is it spread?
Croup is spread through contact with respiratory secretions from coughing and sneezing (think someone with croup coughs or sneezes without covering their mouth — common since it’s little kids we’re talking about — and then others breathe the germs in).
What does croup cough sound like?
It is a dry cough that sounds like a seal barking. Even though croup is typically mild, there are times when you should call your child’s doctor (see below).
What symptoms should you watch for?
The distinct cough. It will come on suddenly and be worse at night. The cough will sound dry for about 3 to 4 days and then will often transition to a wet sounding cough that can last up to 10 days. Additionally, children with croup may have:
Fever
Nasal congestion
Runny nose
Hoarseness
Sore throat
High-pitched sound when inhaling (known medically as stridor), in younger children
Painful cough (in older children)
Who is most likely to get it, and when?
Children ages 3 months to 3 years are most likely to get croup. It is most common in fall and winter.
How is croup treated?
Since croup is caused by a virus, you have to wait it out. However, there are things you can do to help your child feel better. Having her breathe in steam is very helpful. Turn on the shower and get the bathroom really steamy and then sit in the bathroom (not the hot shower) for 15 to 20 minutes. In some cases, alternating steam with cool air either from an open window or the freezer can be helpful as well. Acetaminophen or ibuprofen will help reduce fever and discomfort. Additionally, make sure your child stays hydrated. If you hear a high-pitched sound when your child cries or coughs, see your pediatrician; she can prescribe a short course of oral steroids to help reduce the swelling in the airway and make breathing more comfortable and safer.
When should you call the doctor?
Call your pediatrician anytime you have questions or concerns about your child’s health. Additionally, you should call the doctor if your child has the following symptoms:
A high-pitched sound with cough, crying, or exertion
Fever lasting more than three days
Appears to be sucking in, in the area between the ribs or the collar bone
Call 911 immediately if you notice any of these symptoms:
Difficulty breathing or turning pale or blue with coughing
Drooling or difficulty swallowing call 911
A high-pitched sound when breathing while calm
If your child has had multiple episodes of croup, ask your pediatrician about seeing a pediatric ear, nose, and throat specialist.
SHARE ON FACEBOOK
SHARE ON PINTEREST
How to Deal with Stinky Kids, From Body Odor to Bad BreathHow To Take The First Steps to Clean Living and Easy Swaps You Can Make to Start Today
Related Articles
Beach Babies: How to Train Your Little One to Love the Beach
by Sarah Cottrell
https:sarahcottrellfreelance
Four Ways to Cope With the Postpartum Baby Blues
by Sarah Cottrell
https:sarahcottrellfreelance
Why I Let My Son Have Sleepovers
by Meryll Diane Sanano
Passover Coconut Macaroon Recipe
by Karen Biton-Cohen
kabcphotography.wordpress
About the author
Deena Blanchard, MD
Deena Blanchard, MD, is a pediatrician and partner with Premier Pediatrics, in New York City. She also serves as a pediatric expert for Ella’s Kitchen. Dr. Blanchard completed her Masters of Public Health at Temple University with a focus on health education before attending Medical School at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and completing her residency at the Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital of Columbia Presbyterian. She was awarded Physician of the Year by Columbia Presbyterian and is also the recipient of Alpha Omega Alpha and The American Women’s Association Glascow Rubin Achievement Award. Dr. Blanchard enjoys sharing her expertise and experience as a pediatrician and a mom with the families she works with, as well as through her contributions to Momtastic, Big City Moms, and The Stir by Café Mom. She lives in New York City with her husband and three sons.
Read more about Deena Blanchard, MD articles...
Momtastic
Momtastic.com is a property of TotallyHer Media, LLC, an Evolve Media, LLC. company.© 2017 All rights reserved.
Privacy
Terms
About
Advertise
AdChoices
AdChoices
facebook
twitter
pinterest
gplus
tumblr
Copy Link
Pingdom String
monitoring_string = "b24acb040fb2d2813c89008839b3fd6a"monitoring_string = "886fac40cab09d6eb355eb6d60349d3c"
Google+ String
Google+