My Blog - Vallejo, CA Foot Doctor
Vallejo Foot and Ankle Clinic
blog
Facebook
(707) 643-3687
Toggle navigation
(707) 643-3687
Home
Staff
Office
Services
New Patients
Contact Us
Patient Education
Educational Videos
My Blog
Dealing With Athlete's Foot
By PAUL D. WEINER, DPM
January 15, 2019
Category: Foot Conditions
Tags: Athlete's Foot
Athlete's foot is one of the most common fungal infections of the skin and is frequently seen in our office. Whether you've had it or not, it's important to understand how you can avoid and treat this highly contagious infection if you do contract it.
The fungus that causes athlete's foot thrives in damp, moist environments and often grows in warm, humid climates, such as locker rooms, showers and public pools; hence the name "athlete's foot. " This infection can itch and burn causing the skin on your feet and between your toes to crack and peel.
Tips For avoiding Athlete's Foot:
Keep your feet dry, allowing them to air out as much as possible
Wear socks that draw moisture away from your feet and change them frequently if you perspire heavily
Wear light, well-ventilated shoes
Alternate pairs of shoes, allowing time for your shoes to dry each day
Always wear waterproof shoes in public areas, such as pools, locker rooms, or communal showers
Never borrow shoes due to the risk of spreading a fungal infection
Treatment
A mild case of athlete's foot will generally clear up on its own with over-the-counter antifungal creams and sprays. But since re-infection is common due to its contagious nature, many people require prescribed anti-fungal medication to effectively treat the infection. Generally, it's always best to consult with your podiatrist before choosing a treatment.
Mild cases of athlete's foot can turn severe and even cause a serious bacterial infection. If you notice your rash has become increasingly red, swollen and painful or you develop blisters and sores, call our office right away. Athlete's foot left untreated could eventually spread to other body parts and infect other people around you.
With the right treatment, you'll be cured of your athlete's foot in no time, which means the sooner you can enjoy the activities you love without pain and irritation!
0 Comment(s) Permalink
What is a Crush Injury?
By PAUL D. WEINER, DPM
January 10, 2019
Category: Foot Care
Tags: Crush Crush Injury
What is a Crush Injury?
Have a foot crush injury? A crush injury occurs when pressure or force is put on a body part. A foot crush injury may cause pain, swelling, and sometimes bruising. A foot crush injury may take from a few days to a few weeks to heal. If you have a foot crush injury, you should see a podiatrist. Podiatrists diagnose and treat foot and ankle conditions and injuries. Read on to learn more about foot crush injuries.
Overview- A crush injury is an injury that occurs when a body part sustains intense pressure. Minor crush injuries can be caused by dropping a heavy object on a foot. However, major crush injuries, such as those sustained in vehicle accidents, can cause serious problems. Such an injury can cause a number of issues, including pain, swelling, bruising, bleeding, laceration, fracture, and nerve injury. A crush injury can also cause compartment syndrome, which is a dangerous condition caused by pressure buildup from swelling of tissues or internal bleeding.
Causes- The primary causes of foot crush injuries include heavy falling objects, vehicles rolling over the foot, and injuries from industrial manufacturing equipment. Crush injuries are common on farms. The most serious cases occur in agriculture where heavy machinery is used and people become trapped in them or under them. This form of injury is common after some form of trauma from a deliberate attack or following a natural disaster.
Diagnosis- A proper diagnosis is key to treating a foot crush injury. Your podiatrist can accurately assess your situation and help you make the right treatment decisions for the best possible outcome. Your doctor will start with a physical exam, with attention given to the areas of complaint. Your podiatrist may take X-rays and other forms of imaging, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computerized tomography (CT).
Treatment- Firstly, any wounds that are present will need to be cleaned and bandaged to prevent infection. Treatments for a foot crush injury may also include medication, casting, kinesiology taping, ice and heat, physical therapy, or surgery. Often more than one of these treatments are used. Crush injuries of the foot are very serious. Potentially devastating complications can occur if these injuries are underestimated or mismanaged.
A foot crush injury can affect your day-to-day activities and make your life miserable. Whether your goal is getting back to the work, the gym, hobbies, or just enjoying life, a podiatrist can help. If you want to feel better and live well, find a podiatrist near you and schedule an appointment.
0 Comment(s) Permalink
Treating a Sprained Ankle
By PAUL D. WEINER, DPM
December 18, 2018
Category: Foot Care
Tags: Sprained Ankle
An ankle sprain occurs when the foot rolls or twists to the point where a ligament inside stretches beyond its normal capacity. Ankle sprains are extremely common, with an estimated 25,000 sprains happening in the United States every day. Athletes and people who work outdoors or on uneven surfaces are at a higher risk for spraining their ankle. Regular wear of high-heeled shoes is also a risk factor.
Sprained ankles are diagnosed by degree; that is, the severity of the sprain and the symptoms it produces. Grade 1 sprains are the mildest, with minimal swelling and tenderness due to a slight ligament tear. Usually, Grade 1 sprains still allow for weight to be put on the ankle. Grade 2 sprains have a more significant injury to the ligament and, while walking may still be possible, it is painful. Grade 3 sprains are diagnosed when the affected ligament has sustained a complete tear and the ankle cannot bear weight. Grade 3 sprains typically display obvious bruising and swelling around the ankle.
The grade of an ankle sprain will determine the treatment. The tried-and-true RICE method - rest, ice, compression, and elevation - is usually sufficient for Grade 1 sprains. Refraining from walking, keeping the ankle elevated for the first two days, stabilizing the ankle with a compression dressing, and applying ice to reduce swelling helps the sprain resolve within 2 to 4 weeks. Grade 2 sprains also respond well to RICE treatment, although healing typically takes longer and a firmer immobilization device, like a splint, is typically recommended. Grade 3 sprains often require similar treatment used for ankle fractures; a cast or brace may be needed and surgery may be considered for some patients.
To ensure proper healing, it is important to follow the recommendations of your podiatrist. Attempting to return to normal activity too soon could result in a repeat injury or permanent ankle instability.
0 Comment(s) Permalink
What is Sesamoiditis?
By PAUL D. WEINER, DPM
December 07, 2018
Category: Foot Care
Tags: Sesamoid Sesamoiditis
What is Sesamoiditis?
Sesamoids are small bones that are only connected to tendons or surrounded in muscle. This only appears in a few places in the body, one of which is the foot. Two very tiny sesamoids are found in the underside of the foot near the big toe. One is on the outer side of the foot and the other bone is close to the middle of the foot. This structure provides a smooth surface for the tendons to slide over, which helps the tendons move muscles. They help with weight bearing and also help to elevate the bones of the big toe. So now that you know what sesamoids are, you might be wondering what sesamoiditis is and what its symptoms are.
Sesamoiditis
Just like any other bone, sesamoids can unfortunately fracture. The tendons surrounding the sesamoids may also become irritated or inflamed and this is what sesamoiditis is. Sesamoiditis is also a form of tendonitis and is a common condition among ballerinas, runners, and baseball catchers due to the pressure that is constantly placed on their feet.
Symptoms of Sesamoiditis
Symptoms of Sesamoiditis may include:
Pain under the big toe or ball of the foot
Swelling and/or bruising
Difficulty in bending and straightening the big toe
Treating Sesamoiditis
Treatments include:
Resting and stopping any activity that could be causing pain and inflammation
Anti-inflammatories, such as ibuprofen and aspirin only after consulting your physician
Icing the sole of the foot
Wearing soft-soled and low-heeled shoes
Cushioning inserts in the shoes
If symptoms persist after treatments, you may need to wear a removable brace for 4-6 weeks to help the bones heal. Call your podiatrist today to ask any questions about sesamoiditis and get on your way to pain-free feet once again!
0 Comment(s) Permalink
How To Prevent Ingrown Toenails
By PAUL D. WEINER, DPM
November 20, 2018
Category: Foot Care
Tags: Ingrown Toenail
Ingrown toenails may begin mildly but can quickly go from bad to worse. This frustrating and painful condition can affect anyone and cause significant issues. Unlike other foot-related conditions, which are often due to genetics or underlying conditions, ingrown toenails are almost always preventable and often come from lifestyle choices like the type of shoes you wear or the way you trim your toenails.
Do I have an ingrown toenail?
Ingrown toenails are easy to spot if you know what to look for. The nail begins to grow inward, curling in on one or both sides of the toenail and digging into the skin. An ingrown nail may begin with mild pain and discomfort and end up advancing quickly, producing symptoms like severe pain, difficulty walking, or even infection — which produces its own set of symptoms such as pus drainage or fever.
How can I prevent an ingrown toenail?
Preventing an ingrown toenail often boils down to the way you trim your nails and care for your feet. Always cut the nail straight across the top and never round off the corners to ensure that the nail grows straight. Wearing too-tight or narrow shoes which place pressure onto the toe can also contribute an ingrown toenail. Additionally, always keep your feet dry and clean and wear fresh socks daily.
Treating Ingrown Toenails
There are home remedies that may help stop the pain caused by ingrown toenails, such as soaking the foot in a warm foot bath and wearing better fitting footwear. Your podiatrist may be able to prescribe antibiotics to help avoid infection. In some cases, surgery by your podiatrist may be necessary. It's important to consult your doctor to see which method is best for you.
If you think you have an ingrown toenail or need help learning to better prevent them, a podiatrist can help you determine the best plan to healthier feet. Consulting with your foot doctor at regular foot examinations can help ensure that your feet stay healthy and pain-free for years to come.
0 Comment(s) Permalink
Newer Posts (5) Older Posts (7)
This website includes materials that are protected by copyright, or other proprietary rights. Transmission or reproduction of protected items beyond that allowed by fair use, as defined in the copyright laws, requires the written permission of the copyright owners.
Subscribe to our RSS Feed
Archive:
2019
April (1)
Ways a Podiatrist Can Help You
March (2)
Treatment for Minor Foot Injuries
Is Plantar Fasciitis Causing Your Heel Pain?
February (2)
What Are Corns?
What is Achilles Tendonitis?
January (2)
Dealing With Athlete's Foot
What is a Crush Injury?
2018
December (2)
Treating a Sprained Ankle
What is Sesamoiditis?
November (2)
How To Prevent Ingrown Toenails
Treating Toenail Fungus
October (2)
What Causes Warts?
Treating Heel Spurs
September (1)
Types of Custom Orthotics
August (3)
Caring For Arthritic Feet
What Could Be Causing Poor Circulation in My Feet?
What to Do When You Keep Getting Blisters
Tags
Blister (1)
Poor Circulation (1)
Arthritis (1)
Custom Orthotics (1)
Foot Pain (1)
Heel Spurs (1)
Foot Care (1)
Warts (1)
Toenail Fungus (1)
Ingrown Toenail (1)
Sesamoid (1)
Sesamoiditis (1)
Sprained Ankle (1)
Crush (1)
Crush Injury (1)
Athlete's Foot (1)
Achilles Tendonitis (1)
Corns (1)
Heel Pain (1)
Plantar Fasciitis (2)
Foot Injuries (1)
Ingrown toenails (1)
Diabetic foot care (1)
Categories:
Foot Care (13)
Foot Conditions (4)
Diabetic Care
Bunions
Orthotics
Ingrown Nails
Neuromas
Patient Education
What is a Podiatrist?
When To Call a Doctor
Foot Anatomy
Overview of Foot and Ankle Problems
Basic Foot Care Guidelines
Foot Problems
General Statistics
Achilles Problems
Achilles Tendonitis
Peroneal Tendon Dislocation/Dysfunction
Xanthomas of the Achilles Tendon
Ankle Problems
Ankle Sprain
Chronic Lateral Ankle Pain
Osteochondritis
Arch and Ball Problems
Capsulitis
Flat Feet (over pronation)
Metatarsalgia (foot pain in ball)
Plantar Fibromas (lumps in the arch of the foot)
Sesamoiditis
Common Foot Injuries
Ankle Sprain Injuries
Broken Ankle
Fractures
Osteochondritis (stiff ankle)
Osteochondromas
Shin Splints
Sports Injuries
Deformities
Amniotic Band Syndrome
Bunions
Claw Toe
Clubfoot
Dysplasia (Epiphysealis Hemimelica)
Enchondroma
Flat Feet
Gordon Syndrome
Haglund's Deformity
Hallux Limitus (Stiff Big Toe Joint)
Hallux Rigidus (Stiff Big Toe)
Hallux Varus
Hammertoes
Jackson-Weiss Syndrome
Mallet Toes
Metatarsalgia
Osteomyelitis (Bone Infections)
Overlapping or Underlapping Toes
Peroneal Tendon Dislocation/Dysfunction
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction
Sesamoiditis
Spurs
Tarsal Coalition
Diabetes and Your Feet
Diseases of the Foot
Arthritis
Cancer
Charcot Foot
Freiberg's Disease
Gout
Kaposi's Sarcoma (AIDS related)
Kohler's Disease
Maffucci's Syndrome
Ollier's Disease
Raynaud's Disease
Sever's Disease
Sever's Disease
Fungus Problems
Common Fungal Problems
Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis)
Fungal Nails
Heel Problems
Haglund's Deformity
Heel Callus
Heel Fissures
Plantar Fasciitis (heel spur)
Nail Problems
Black Toenails
Ingrown Toenails
Nail Fungus
Skin Problems
Allergies
Athlete's Foot (tinea pedis)
Blisters
Burning Feet
Calluses
Corns
Cysts
Frostbite
Fungus
Gangrene
Lesions
Psoriasis
Smelly Feet and Foot Odor
Swelling
Ulcers
Warts
Toe Problems
Bunions
Claw Toe
Digital Deformity
Hallux Limitus (stiff big toe joint)
Hallux Rigidis (rigid big toe)
Hallux Varus
Hammertoes
Intoeing
Overlapping, Underlapping Toes
Subungal Exotosis (bone spur under toenail)
Turf Toe
Vascular/Nerve Problems
Acrocyanosis
Alcoholic Neuropathy
Chilblains (cold feet)
Erythromelalgia
Ischemic Foot
Neuroma
Spasms
Venous Stasis
Medical Care
Diagnostic Procedures
Computed Tomography
MRI
Ultrasound
X-Rays
Orthotics
Pain Management
General Information and Tips
Pain Management for Specific Conditions
Surgical Procedures
General Information
Achilles Surgery
Ankle Surgery
Arthritis Surgery
Arthroscopy
Bunion Surgery
Cyst Removal
Flatfoot Correction
Hammertoe Surgery
Heel Surgery
Metatarsal Surgery
Nerve Surgery (Neuroma)
Toe Surgery
Therapies
Athlete's Foot Treatment
Cryotherapy
Extracorporeal Shock Wave
Iontophoresis
Physical Therapy
Neurolysis
Fitness and Your Feet
General Information About Fitness and Your Feet
Aerobics
Fitness And Your Feet
Sports and Your Feet
Baseball
Basketball
Cycling
Golf
Jogging and Running
Tennis
Stretching
Walking and Your Feet
Work Footwear
Foot Care
Basic Foot Care Guidelines
Athletic Foot Care
Blisters
Children's Feet
Corns and Calluses
Diabetic Foot Care
Foot Care For Seniors
Foot Self-Exam
Pedicures
Self-Assessment Quiz
Women's Feet
High Heels
Stockings?
Pregnancy
Women Over 65
Your Feet at Work
Bunion Prevention
Burning Feet
Fungus Problems
Athlete's Foot
Common Fungal Problems
Fungal Nails
Other Tips
Prevention
Ingrown Nails
Osteoporosis
Foot Odor and Smelly Feet
Prevention
Treating Foot Odor
Shoes
Anatomy of a Shoe
Athletic Shoe Guidelines
Children's Shoes
Corrective and Prescription Shoes
What To Look For
Getting a Proper Fit
Men's Shoes
Women's Shoes
Your Footprint
Wear Patterns
Links
Government
Associations/Groups
Online Resources
(707) 643-3687
480 Redwood St Suite 10 Vallejo, CA 94590-2950
blog
Facebook
Copyright © MH Sub I, LLC dba Officite
Disclaimer
Patient Privacy
Site Map