Top 10 Best Scar Lightening Cream Reviews (Updated: 2019)
Acne
Anti-Aging
Skin Lightening
Skin Lightening October 4, 2016
Top 10 Best Scar Lightening Cream Reviews
While battle scars may be revered as badges of honor, more often they are seen as pesky marks of childhood sports, clumsy falls, and other juvenile play that we would rather not be reminded of. Ranging from pale pink to very visible brown, scars can come in all forms and colors coupled with varying degrees of frustration. While post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation tends to fade over time, it can still take as much as several years to become unnoticeable.
Don’t despair, though. Luckily, today we have effective scar cream options and other treatments on our disposal. You can even improve skin tone with skin lightening creams.
Just as acne scar lightening creams effectively combat different types of acne scars, scar fading creams adjusted for other types of scars exist.
If you want to jumpstart the process of fading that pesky scar, you can now choose between the best scar lightening creams to make it a thing of the past. Take a look at our top scar removal cream reviews below to find your favorites.
Amaira Advanced Scar Vanishing Cream with Marine Botanicals
Wondering how to lighten scars fast? One answer is to start treating as early as possible. Here’s the superior fast-acting scar cream to start using in the early stage. A scientifically-proven, award-winning formula, the Amara Scar Vanishing cream will prevent deep scars, but also help reduce other skin imperfections caused by losing or gaining weight and aging.
This product can practically vanish new scars and it visibly fades old scars, as well as blemishes, fine lines and wrinkles, stretch marks, and cellulite in 6 weeks, tops. Some users report they have noticed results even only after 2 weeks of consistent use! It actively heals the affected skin, visibly changing its appearance towards a more glowing and healthy-looking complexion. Combine it with other methods of evening out skin tone for wow-ing results.
This meticulously-developed formula incorporates organic natural ingredients. Full of antioxidants, it works both ways: on the one hand, it supports your skin in its natural regenerative processes by stimulating collagen production for instance. That’s why it’s good to use it as soon as possible after the damage. On the other hand, it lightens skin to make the scar tissue invisible as it blends with the color of the healthy skin surrounding it.
The formula is actually scientifically proven to work. It improves collagen production by 50% and the production of laminin, the substance which holds the cells together in healthy cell tissue, by 49%!
The Amaira Scar Vanishing cream works on all skin types! I’m usually cautious of such claims and prefer creams tailored to a specific skin type. However, in this case, the positive user reviews come from people with such different experiences and skin types. Part of the reason is that the formula incorporates strong moisturizing properties to deeply nourish the skin and make it soft and supple, making it one of the best scar removal creams for the face. As we know, all skin types need moisturizing!
While most effective when used fast after the damage, this is the best scar removal cream for old scars we have tested lately. Some of the users’ comments describe in detail how it has helped visibly reduce the appearance of old scars.
The manufacturer also recommends the cream in treating a variety of scars such as breast implant scars, burn scars, C-section and hysterectomy scars, body-piercing scars and other skin damage. All in all, this definitely sounds like a top scar lightening cream.
User reviews are mainly positive, with people reporting finally losing stretch marks and scars they’ve been carrying since childhood.
SEE BEST PRICE
Misumi Clear Skin Salicylic Cleanser
Certainly the best way to fight scars is to prevent them from appearing or becoming deeper. One of the best ways to keep skin scar-free is to stimulate cell renewal by exfoliation. This is why we’re adding a review of a top-notch exfoliating cleanser that’ll keep your skin healthy and scar free. The Misumi anti-aging cleansing cream is completely safe to use on newly formed scar tissue.
If you were wondering how to lighten scars fast, this is for you. To help your skin speed up its natural fading of scars you should address cell turnover. Cell turnover is the natural process in which the skin produces new cells to replace old dead skin cells which shed and go. Exfoliation increases cell turnover leading to better, healthier looking skin. This is the main principle behind dermatological skin-resurfacing techniques used for scar removal.
The Misumi cleanser combines glycolic, lactic, and salicylic acid, offering comprehensive exfoliation. The three main natural active ingredients offer a three-fold effect: the glycolic acid deep cleanses and exfoliates, the lactic acid (also found in milk) stimulates collagen production and moisturizes, and the salicylic acid is super effective in treating acne and reducing skin redness and irritations.
Practically, the mix effectively removes dead cells and excess oil from the skin surface allowing new cells to form. As a result, you get rid of skin dullness and get your skin’s natural glow back. With time, consistent stimulation of skin cell renewal will support your skin’s own healing of shallow scars, speeding it up.
The Misumi cleanser is specifically tailored for the face and for oily, acne-prone skin. It’s oil-free and works in synergy with the skin’s natural functions, without harsh chemicals to strip your skin from its natural oils and lead to dryness.
The plenty of positive user reviews confirm our experience and the claims made by the manufacturer. It’s a top-tier formula to help keep acne-prone skin in check, boost collagen synthesis and smoothen skin imperfections gradually by offering healthy exfoliation and promoting cell regeneration. A 60-day money back guarantee will help you decide to try it.
SEE BEST PRICE
Mederma PM Intensive Overnight Scar Cream
Get it for $15
The original Mederma cream is one of the most popular scar removal creams, but they’ve decided to push it further with a more concentrated overnight formulation as a welcome addition to their product line. While the old formula came in a gel form, this one is a thicker scar cream with a fresh and addicting scent. It’s specifically meant to use it before you go to bed since it works in tandem with the skin’s natural regeneration process that happens while you sleep.
Despite the thick creamy consistency, it's still a great scar treatment cream for the face since it's non-comedogenic and won’t cause pimples or clog pores. In terms of active ingredients, it lists dimethicone, a silicone that works to protect the skin against irritants. In addition, it also has traces of copper peptide, antioxidants, and collagen to speed up the lightening process.
The best time to start using the Mederma scar cream is when a new skin layer starts covering the scar (applying it to an open wound won’t help at all). This time comes typically about three weeks after the damage was done. While the company promises visible results in as little as 14 days, it still takes about 2-3 months to make scars completely disappear. It's like a bleaching cream for scars.
If you scrounge around for reviews of this product, you will run into enthusiastic paragraphs touting the magical effects of Mederma - that's 'cause it works on everything: from slight abrasions and severe acne scars to surgery scars. The most important part to make sure you get the desired effect is the consistency of application. Still need convincing that this product is worth the investment? They offer a no-questions-asked return policy. Read what users have to say!
SEE BEST PRICE
Body Merry’s Super Shield Scar Gel
Get it for $25
Aside from simply scar lightening, Body Merry’s Scar Gel also has the unique claim of flattening the particularly gruesome hypertrophic scars that are bumpy, raised, and keloidal. Such more severe scars usually follow from bad acne but can appear due to other reasons too. Combine this cream with a more invasive dermatological treatment such as chemical peels, if you opted for one of those.
In terms of active ingredients, it focuses on natural and restorative components such as Sea Kelp, Kakadu Plum, and Quercetin. Despite the effectiveness, the naturally-derived ingredients work well on sensitive skin as they’re gentle and well-suited for it.
When you first use it, one of the most appealing factors is the lightweight and colorless formulation. It is a mixture of cream and gel, which absorbs easily without any trace of the sticky, uncomfortable feeling that most medicated scar treatments have, making it one of the top scar creams for facial skin.
One thing to note is the strong cocoa butter scent that takes some getting used to, but it’s a small tradeoff considering the lauded efficacy of this product.
An added bonus: the relief to know that this product has been manufactured with cruelty-free practices. Upon buying, it comes with a 90-day money back guarantee so you have nothing to lose but that unsightly scar. Read what users have to say!
SEE BEST PRICE
ScarFade Scar Treatment Gel
Get it for $35
One of the most praised scar-lightening treatments by the medical community is Scarfade. It consists of a bevy of safe medical grade silicones that works by reducing the secretion of collagen (which are the building blocks of scar tissue) around the affected area. This is done through the regulation of certain growth hormones (specifically TGF and FGF) to reduce the size and pigmentation of existing scars.
Scarfade comes in a pleasant, gel-like texture, and dries down to a nearly invisible finish - in fact, you can even use this as a primer under makeup.
They originally designed it as a product for the treatment of the super tricky to cure hypertrophic and keloid scars. This additionally serves to attest of its effectiveness.
Aside from scars, it’s also effective in reducing the appearance of burns and even surgical incisions. To maximize effectivity, the makers of this product recommend twice a day application for a period of 12 to 16 weeks.
It’s more effective on relatively newer scars from no more than two years, the reason being that older scars already have a tougher scar tissue formed around them. However, some users vouch for the effect it has over more prolonged scarring. This versatile scar cream can be used for everyone in the family, including children and those with sensitive skin. Read what users have to say!
SEE BEST PRICE
PFB Vanish + Chromabright
Get it for $22
For a majority of women with coarse body hair, ingrown hair is a permanent source of discomfort and scarring. This product is formulated specifically for scars caused by hair removal, whether through plucking, shaving, or even laser hair removal.
It provides chemical exfoliation through the alpha and beta hydroxy acids in the formulation. What’s unique about this scar treatment, is its formulation that has been created to penetrate the skin barrier for quicker and more effective skin lightening (no more dark armpits - yay!). Since it has additional antibacterial properties, it also works to combat acne and lessen oil and sebum production on the face.
Additionally, the product is fortified with Chromabright, which works to even out skin tone and reduce age spots, hyperpigmentation and skin discoloration throughout the body.
For an optimal effect, it’s best to apply this to skin starting from two days before you get your hair removed, continue using until after the hair removal process to lessen the likelihood of skin darkening.
Extra points come for the super easy roll-on application! You can easily add it to your daily skincare regimen without losing too much precious time. Read what users have to say!
SEE BEST PRICE
Scarology 3-Step Scar Treatment System
Get it for $69
For a more comprehensive routine on scar removal, it’s tough to beat the doctor-recommended Scarology 3-Step Scar Treatment. In the kit, you'll find three products that serve specific purposes. You start off with the Natural Fruit Acid Exfoliator to add to your morning routine, which you massage in for up to 3 minutes, and rinse off. You then top it off with the second product - the Ultimate Scar Cream.
Before you go to bed, it is recommended to re-apply the Ultimate Scar Cream to jumpstart the skin healing process while you sleep. After applying the cream, you will use the third product in the kit, the Silicone Scar Sheet, an adhesive that aids in the compression and nourishment of the skin for faster scar removal. These sticker patches are designed to be extra flexible and comfortable so they don’t get in the way of your beauty rest.
While the product’s website doesn’t specify the exact ingredients used in the products, the doctors who formulated this gel explain that the four key ingredients used are available for over-the-counter treatments. Said ingredients have multiple effects, reducing redness and inflammation, lightening, healing the scar through moisture and hydration, and even some positive effects on the immune system.
This product was formulated to heal all kinds of scars and it’s safe for use by all members of the family. In terms of usage, you can start applying it as soon as the wound has closed, and a scar starts to form. You might be able to see visible effects in as little as three days! The company still recommends usage for up to three months or even a whole year for complete scar removal.
It’s interesting to note, that one of the unique selling points of this product is that it’s the only one on the market that solidly claims to have an effect in reducing scars formed years back.
Like the majority of scar treatment products available online, this one comes with a guaranteed money back and free returns policy too. Read what users have to say!
SEE BEST PRICE
Meraz Puerauty Naturals Scar Gel
Get it for $14
A cost-effective, versatile solution for scars caused by a wide range of culprits.
This scar gel has been lauded by user reviewers as effective in diminishing the appearance of scars caused by a dozen different conditions: anything from serious acne scars, surgery, and C-section to moderate scars from mole removal, piercings or even scars caused by stitches. What’s more, this gel also works on burn scars and discoloration on a larger skin area.
The Meraz Pureauty Naturals scar gel boasts only cosmetic-grade natural ingredients, including organic Aloe, comfrey root, and calendula extract. All of them proven in their therapeutic effectiveness, these natural ingredients work gently on your skin to make it smooth and supple. As a powerful moisturizer, Aloe makes sure not to dry out your skin with this cream. At the same time, the scientifically-proven calendula extract stimulates collagen production and also contributes to keeping your skin moisturized.
Thanks to the formula based on natural ingredients only, this product is suitable for sensitive skin. People who often have allergic reactions to cosmetic products have said they were able to use this gel without any problems. The 90-day money back guarantee surely helps you decide to try it.
Start with consistent daily application from early on, right after the skin damage has occurred. The gel will help your skin reduce the formation of scar tissue. The gel consistency is perfect - you can forget you’ve applied something to your skin as it absorbs fast and it isn’t sticky.
As is usually the case with OTC creams formulated from natural ingredients, they may take time to produce visible results. Don’t expect overnight dramatic changes with this product. Most users report they waited from two to several weeks to get the results. However, your patience will pay off since the skin improvements will last. Read what users have to say!
SEE BEST PRICE
Skintensive Fragile Skin Moisturizer
Get it for $25
I don’t know if the fact that this cream’s developers graduated from Harvard is what makes the bruise and scar fading moisturizer that successful in particular. While I’d be inclined to see this piece of information as a marketing trick, the great results this product has shown are undeniably the real deal.
From its conception to its realization, this product pledges a fully organic make-up to its organic-loving customers. If you’re like me, you used to connect organic cosmetics more with “slow results, but in tune with the skin’s natural processes”, while chemical products were more like “fast, but unsustainable results”. Well, we’re all in for a surprise.
Today’s fast-growing, research-backed science into the use of organic, plant-based ingredients in cosmetic products has skyrocketed. More and more amazingly effective natural-based creams are hitting the market every day.
Skintensive’s goal aligns to this: they produce fully organic and natural but very effective creams. And on their quest, a simple plant comes their way: Arnica. A member of the sunflower family, this miracle plant is a really effective agent in skin care with its potent antioxidant action.
The cream combines the power of organic Arnica with another champion of scar removal skin care, Retynil, a Vitamin A derivative. What’s best: it uses coconut oil as a base! It’s further rich in Vitamins C and E that help maintain youthful skin, effectively fighting premature aging.
The way this product works is by and large determined by its formula that’s successfully addressed sun damage. It helps with skin itchiness and dryness.
A word on its perfect consistency is in order. Usually, organic-only skin care products tend to be very greasy and end up being comedogenic. Not this cream. It’s light and it absorbs quickly.
Where the Harvard training comes in handy, the two founders of this company managed to marry scientific research with a rigorous devotion to organic skincare. The result is really worth a try.
SEE BEST PRICE
Pharma Clinix Scar Repairex Ultra
Get it for $86
Last but not least, here’s some heavy duty stuff for you. Wondering how to get rid of acne scars naturally? Well, this cream combines natural ingredients focused specifically on treating acne scars and keloids.
What’s more, the cream specifically works on old and severe scars. This is what probably explains the hefty price tag. User reviews by patients, dermatologists, and even plastic surgeons found it effective in reducing the appearance of stubborn scars from several years back!
That being said, it doesn’t mean you cannot use this product to treat recent or currently forming scars. Along the way, it works to soothe inflammation and diminish itching thus promoting healing.
A word of caution here: The cream won’t treat the so-called “ice-pick” scars, referring to any type of scar that looks like indentations or holes in the skin. In fact, these cannot be treated with a cream at all. You should refer to a dermatologist to propose surgical techniques, such as dermabrasion to help you with these.
The way it works its miracle is by improving cell turnover. It helps your skin cells to regenerate faster and this way it successfully races, so to say, against the formation of scar tissue. It also works to deeply nourish your skin and make it smoother.
Now, don’t expect both miracles and overnight miracles. As with many other skin-related “overnight results” claims, this comes down to nothing more than cheap marketing tricks. Luckily for Pharma Clinix, the successful British company maintains a high level of professionalism and steers clear of such strategies. They never promise you fast results, but results will come.
So, the average waiting time before you can tell visible results seems to range between 3 and 5 months. Battling scars isn’t an easy process. Arm yourself with patience and discipline to fade scars permanently and in tune with your body.
This undoubtedly seems like a high-quality product. Its website even cites a study which showed a “60% reduction in scarring” among the trial participants over a period of three months.
It seems to be worth the money, but you should be the one judging that. If you have some money to invest in scar removal, this seems like a legit option to go for to vanish those old, embarrassing scars.
SEE BEST PRICE
Note on all reviews: Since I mainly used a small sample for trial purposes, I cannot guarantee the time needed for visible results. I did assess, though, consistency and texture, as well as provided valuable information to the reader on the relevant thematic topics.
acne scar lightening cream best scar removal cream for old scars fade scars permanently how to get rid of acne scars naturally how to lighten scars fast mederma cream mederma scar cream scar cream scar fading cream scar fading creams scar lightening cream scar removal cream scar removal cream for face skin lightening cream Top scar removal cream reviews top scar removal creams types of acne scars
Next Article
5 Simple, Effective Ways to Lighten Skin (And How to Use Them)
Recent Posts
April 1, 2019
Vitamin E Oil For Acne
April 1, 2019
Apple Cider For Skin
March 27, 2019
Dairy-free Diet for Acne
March 27, 2019
Morning Skincare Routine to Reduce Acne
Acne
Anti-Aging
Skin Lightening
© 2018 SkinLightSkinBright. All rights reserved
Categories
Acne 30
Anti-Aging 5
Skin Lightening 62
Posts
April 1, 2019
Vitamin E Oil For Acne
April 1, 2019
Apple Cider For Skin
March 27, 2019
Dairy-free Diet for Acne
March 27, 2019
Morning Skincare Routine to Reduce Acne
March 25, 2019
How to Get Younger Skin