Fermented milk products may have anti-hypertensive effects | Feedstuffs
https://www.feedstuffs.com/sites/all/themes/penton_subtheme_feedstuffs/images/logos/footer.png
Informa
Feedstuffs is part of the Informa Markets Division of Informa PLC
Informa PLC
About us
Investor relations
Talent
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Quotes
Weather
Animal Nutrition and Health 360
Subscribe
Vitamin Innovation Center
More
Search
Register
Log In
Register
Log In
News
Policy
Business
Commentary
Markets
Grains & Ingredients
Livestock & Poultry
Nutrition & Health
Beef Nutrition/Health
Dairy Nutrition/Health
Poultry Nutrition/Health
Swine Nutrition/Health
Career Center
Feedstuffs Foodlink
Home>Feedstuffs - Industry Insider - Dairy
Recent
This Week in Agribusiness, April 20, 2019
Apr 20, 2019
WHO pulls support for EAT-Lancet event
Apr 19, 2019
ITC report shows nominal gains for ag under USMCA
Apr 19, 2019
Dairy & specialty livestock markets, 4/19/2019
Apr 19, 2019
Fermented milk products may have anti-hypertensive effects
Potential health benefits of functional foods based on new lactic acid bacteria offer opportunities for food developers.
May 24, 2016
Over the past decade, interest has been rising in fermented dairy foods that promote health and could potentially prevent diseases such as hypertension (high blood pressure).
Functional dairy products that lower blood pressure and heart rate may offer consumers an effective alternative to anti-hypertensive drugs, if their effectiveness can be demonstrated, according to investigators that prepared a review article in the Journal of Dairy Science on the scientific basis of reported claims and identified opportunities for developing products based on new lactic acid bacteria.
Globally, hypertension affects more than 1 billion people, according to the World Health Organization. It is also an important risk factor for developing other cardiovascular diseases, stroke, renal failure, cerebrovascular accidents and many other medical complications. Although hypertension can be treated with drugs, these often involve significant side effects; therefore, scientists are seeking out food substances that can help reduce or prevent hypertension.
"Fermented milk has been promoted as a non-pharmacological treatment for hypertension, mainly because of the lack of undesirable side effects, but as yet, there is insufficient evidence to support this, according to the European Food Safety Authority," explained lead investigator Dr. Belinda Vallejo-Córdoba of the Center for Food Research & Development in Sonora, Mexico. "The most studied bioactive peptides derived from dairy proteins are anti-hypertensive peptides; however, existing studies need to be evaluated before a health claim may be associated with products. With this in mind, we have carefully reviewed in vitro, in vivo and clinical studies of fermented milk containing anti-hypertensive peptides."
The team of investigators established that the most common strategy to select fermented milks with anti-hypertensive potential was to identify angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitory peptides by in vitro studies. However, they observed that some strains inhibiting ACE activity in vitro did not reduce blood pressure in rats. They evaluated 13 studies with spontaneously hypertensive rats and seven randomized controlled clinical trials in which an anti-hypertensive effect was demonstrated. Most were based on Lactobacillus helveticus.
Scientifically proven health claims and the acquisition of exclusivity rights for using novel food ingredients in functional food products have been observed as a critical factor in the ultimate success of these food products in the market. The investigators noted that several fermented milk products already on the market attribute their anti-hypertensive effect to the bioactive peptides present in the fermented milk and draw attention to the fact that some of these commercial products possess intellectual property rights. However, they pointed out that these products may also contain minerals such as potassium and calcium, which may have a positive effect on blood pressure.
"Although much research related to anti-hypertensive peptides has already been done, there is a great need for exploration of new lactic acid bacteria that possess the ability to generate this bioactivity as well as good technological properties for the production of fermented dairy products. As commercial fermented milks with anti-hypertensive effects are scarce and most of the current products are based on L. helveticus, there is a great opportunity here," Vallejo-Cordoba said.
The investigators recommended that future studies include in vitro lactic acid bacteria screening for ACE-inhibitory effects, in vivo studies with spontaneously hypertensive rats and clinical trials to test the efficacy of the fermented milk product.
"It is also important to develop the regulatory legislation that allows the introduction of health claims for functional dairy foods, especially in countries where this subject is underdeveloped," Vallejo-Cordoba concluded.
0 comments
Hide comments
Comment *
Switch to plain text editor
More information about text formats
Text format CommentsPlain text
Comments
Allowed HTML tags: <em> <strong> <blockquote> <br> <p>
Plain text
No HTML tags allowed.
Web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically.
Lines and paragraphs break automatically.
PublishLog in or register to comment
Save
Leave this field blank
Related
Assess silage results to improve quality
Aug 02, 2016
Harnessing data for healthier dairy cows
Jun 23, 2016
Journal of Dairy Science adds two new article collections
Jun 01, 2016
New pasteurization, homogenization technology developed
May 06, 2016
Load More
Next Article
Previous Article
About
Contact Us
Advertise
Subscribe
Newsletters
Leadership
Marketing Solutions
The Farm Progress Network
Sitemap
Follow us:
Copyright © 2019. All rights reserved. Informa Markets, a trading division of Informa PLC.
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use