Ghia Site2
Ghia Site2
Iron rich foods or foods high in iron are recommended to overcome iron deficiency and anemea. How much iron you need daily? You should eat foods with high content of iron if you are anemic (low haemoglobin).
A list of foods with iron is given on this page.
Iron
Iron is an essential for the formation of haemoglobin. The iron in haemoglobin combines with oxygen and transports it through the blood to all parts of the body. Anemia is a result of iron deficiency. As a result of anemia , the patient have symptoms of tiredness, lack of stamina, headaches, insomnia, breathlessness, and loss of appetite. These symptoms or signs show an iron deficiency.
Vegetables like broccoli and bok choy are rich in iron. These vegetables are high iron and also high in vitamin C , which increases absorption of their iron content. The presence of vitamin C in these vegetables help absorb iron.
Iron Absorption By Body
The iron absorption by body depends on the form of the iron. The iron from animal sources, known as heme iron, is absorbed easily by the body. The iron found in vegetable sources, known as non-heme iron, is less available to the body. The amount of iron absorbed from vegetarian foods is around 1 - 10% , while it is 10 - 20% from animal foods. Eating of iron rich foods removes iron deficiency.
Good Enhancer Foods for Iron Absorption: Combinations of foods such as beans and tomato or tofu and broccoli result in good iron absorp tion. In general vegetables such as broccoli, brussels sprouts, capsicums, potato, tomato, etc. and fruits such as cantaloupe, grapefruit, strawberries, orange, etc. enhance the iron absorption.
Foods Not Good (Inhibitors) For Iron Absorption: Avoid the following foods in combination with high iron foods as they inhibit the iron absorption: Tea, coffee, chard, etc.
Daily Iron Requirement
Iron Level: The RDA for iron is 10 mg/day for adult men and for post-menopausal women and 15 mg/day for pre-menopausal women. These amount of iron are considered good for health. The daily requirement of iron is very easily met with vegetarian diets. For example, 1 cup of cooked spinach contains 3 mg, 1 cup of tofu contains 13.2 mg and 1 cup cooked lentils give 6.4 mg of iron.
The requirement of iron in the following table is given in terms of Reference Nutrient Intake (RNI), the amount of iron which is enough for at least 97% of the population.
Age RNI (mg) Age RNI (mg)
0 to 3 months 1.7 Men 11 - 18 yrs 11.3
4 to 6 months 4.3 Men 19 + yrs 8.7
7 to 12 months 7.8 Women 11 - 49 yrs 14.8
1 to 3 yrs 6.9 Women 50 + yrs 8.7
4 to 6 yrs 6.1
7 to 10 yrs 8.7
You can plan your daily meals to take in the amount of iron recommended in the above table.
If you have iron deficiency, and you are advised to take iron supplements, then you should keep in mind that iron supplements may be fatal for adults when taken in doses of 200-250 mg/kg from body weight. The upper limit for iron as recommended by the Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine is approximately 45 mg daily for adults.
List of Iron in Foods : Vegetarian Iron Rich Foods
Iron mg
Iron in Breads, cereals, and grains
Bran flakes, 1 cup 11.0
Oatmeal, 1 packet 6.3
Pasta, 1 cup, cooked 1.7
Samolina, Cream of wheat, 1/2 cup cooked 5.5
Wheat germ, 2 tablespoon 1.2
Whole wheat bread, 1 slice 0.9
White bread, 1 slice 0.7
Iron in Vegetables (1/2 cup cooked)
Sea vegetables 18.1-
42.0
Swiss chard 2
Turnip greens 1.6
Sweet potatoes, canned 1.7
Turnip greens 1.6
Pumpkin, cooked 1.7
Potato, baked with skin 1.7
Turnip greens 1.6
Prune juice, 4 oz 1.5
Spinach cooked 1.5
Beet greens cooked 1.4
Potato, 1 large 1.4
Bok choy cooked 0.7
Peas, cooked 0.65
Green beans, cooked 0.60
Tomato juice 0.6
Broccoli, cooked 0.55
Watermelon, 1/8 medium 0.5
Iron in Legumes (1/2 cup cooked)
Lentils 3.2
Black eye beans 2.6
Navy beans 2.5
Pinto beans 2.2
Lima beans 2.2
Kidney beans Rajmah 1.5
Chick peas (200 g) 6.2
Iron in Soy foods (1/2 cup cooked)
Tofu 6.6
Soybeans 4.4
Tempeh 1.8
Soy milk 0.9
Iron in Nuts/Seeds (2 Tablespoon)
Pumpkin seeds 2.5
Figs, dried, 5 2.0
Dried apricot, 5 1.6
Almond, 1/4 cup 1.3
Tahini 1.2
Sesame 1.2
Sunflower seeds 1.2
Cashew nuts 1.0
Iron in Non-Vegetarian Foods
(Heme Iron Sources) (100 g)
Clams, steamed 22
Clams, cooked 8.5
Oysters, cooked 8.5
Oysters, raw 5.4
Chicken liver, cooked 8.5
Beef liver, cooked 6.3
Beef, roasted 3.5
Ground beef, cooked 2.2
Lamb beef, cooked 2.2
Turkey, white meat 1.6
Sources:
USDA Nutrient Data Base for Standard Reference, Release 12, 1998.
Pennington J. Bowe's and Church's Food Values of Portions Commonly Used. 16th ed. Lippincott-Raven; 1994.
US Dept of Agriculture: 1988: Publication No. HNIS/PT-103.
US Dept of Agriculture; 1986. Agriculture Handbook No. 8-16.
From the above table you can chose foods high in iron.
Following is a list of foods that provide 8 mg or more of iron per 100 gms of the food.
Cereals & Grains: Bajra, Rice flakes
Pulses & Beans: Cow pea, Lobia (black-eye beans), Lentils, Soyabean
Vegetables: Beetroot greens, Mint, Parsley, Turnip greens
Spices: Turmeric (Haldi)
Fruits: Dried dates, Watermelon, Raisins
Fish and Red meats
Iron in Animal Sources : Heme Iron
Beef Liver, Chicken Liver, Clams, Mussels, Oysters, Pork Liver, Sardines, Shrimp and Turkey are good in iron content.
Gia Home
Gia websites click here
Gia
Garbage Enzymes Photo
Maps
Aloe Vera
Growing dragon fruits in the containers
How to Grow Dragon Fruit
How to grow dragon fruits
How to grow potato
How to Guide for Rotating Crops in the Vegetable
How to guide for Harvesting Vegetables
How to Harvest Peas
How to Grow Peas From a Seed
How to Presprout Pea Seeds
How to Rotate Crops to Improve the Soil in a Garde
How to Build Raised Beds for Planting
How to Solarize Soil
How to Prevent Soilborne Disease
How to Make a Twig Composter
How to Rid Your Home of Flies
How to Grow Grapes
How to Build A Grape Arbor
How to Easily Build an Arbor
How to Make Grape Arbors
How to build a sturdy grape arbor
How to Build a Grapevine Arbor
Homemade Hydroponics
Hydroponics
How Do Hydroponic Gardening Systems Work
The Benefits of Gardening the Hydroponic Way
Keep Your Food Safe From Deadly Pesticides
Hydroponic Theory
Getting the garden ready by Shift Gears
The Benefits of Using Hydroponics
How to Set Up a Hydroponic Aquaponic Indoor Grow
Growing Fruits Using Hydroponics
Gardening Products
How to Grow Persimmon Trees
How to Identify Male Persimmon Trees
How to Start Persimmon Trees
How to Select a Persimmon
How to Harvest Eat and Prepare Persimmon Fruit
How to Make Honey Persimmon Jelly
How to Make Grandma s Persimmon Cookies
How to Make Persimmon Bread
How to Fertilize Persimmon Trees
How to Harvest and Store Persimmons
Growing Mangoes
PROPAGATING DECIDUOUS AND EVERGREEN SHRUBS TREES
How to propagate trees from cuttings
How to propagate and care for your mango tree Part
Propagating Olive Trees
All About Carnivorous Plants Propagating
Hydroponic Lettuce
Hydroponic Onion
Vegetable and Fruit Gardening How to Grow Onions
Growing Vegetables by Seed Propagation
Fire and Spice Growing Hydroponic Chiles
How to Grow Chili Peppers in Hydroponics
Planting Potato
How To Grow Potatoes and How to Prepare Potatoes
How to Build a Small Hydroponics Tomato Grower
How to Build a Tomato Cage
Home Composting
Organic Materials Management
The Blood Gas Theory
Roasting Cashew Nuts
Introduction and life cycle of Cashew nuts
Separation of cashew nuts
Health Benefits of Pomelo 70
Improve Your Health with Goji Berries
Health Benefits of Lime
Health Benefits of Pomelo
Vegetables and Fruits for all ages
How is Dry Ice Made
How to Get a Flat Stomach in a Week 3 Easy Steps
Secrets on How to Get a Flat Stomach in One Week
Benefits Of Custard Apple
Benefits Of Sweet Potato
Benefits Of Chives
Stone Healing Quality Guide
Crystal and Gemstone Therapy
Health Benefits of Star Fruit
Health Benefits of Carrot
Health Benefits of Papaya
Health Benefits of Pineapple
Health Benefits of Soybean
Health Benefits of Spinach
Health Benefits of Avocado
Health Benefits of Kelp or Seaweed
Health Benefits of Onion
Health Benefits of Apple
Experience the Health Benefits of Sesame
Benefits Of Sesame Seeds
Sesame seeds
Health Benefits of Pomegranate Juice
22 Facts About Pomegranates
Can You Eat Pomegranate Seeds
How to Juice a Pomegranate
How Many Calories in Pomegranate
Pomegranates Have Many Health Benefits
Health Benefits of Cucumber
Pomegranates an amazingly healthy fruit
Six Horrifying Parasites
EATING RAW FISH THE DANGERS
Human Parasites in Raw Fish
Foods for Anemia
By Tommy Fassbender on September 18th 2008 Food
Anemia Cure with Natural Food By Dev Sri Platinum
Iron rich foods
Foods to Treat Anemia
How to Make Your Own Alkaline Drinking Water Read
How to Build Your Own Alkaline Water Ionizer
Food Side Effects Possible Negative Consequences
Strawberries Growing Fresh Strawberries
History of Strawberries
The Best Time to Plant Strawberries By Kenny Leone
Maqui Berry Fruit
Planting Pomegranate Trees
How to do budding plants
How To Graft Plants
Grafting and Budding Nursery Crop Plants
Grafting Techniques For Greenhouse Tomatoes
Grafting Plants How to Graft a Plant
Plant Grafting Technique
What Are The Tree Grafting Techniques
How to Play the Treble Clef Lines Note
How to Play the Bass Clef Lines Notes on the Piano
How to Read Notes Below the Bass Clef
How to Read the Notes Above the Treble Clef
This chart is awesome Everyone can use it
World's 50 most delicious foods
food
Top 10 Foods Highest in Vitamin B12 Cobalamin
9 Foods Rich in Vitamin B6
The healthy Foods
How to Best Absorb Vitamin E Supplements
5 Key Ingredients for Better Nutrient Absorption
10 Health Benefits of Ginger
Discover the Benefits Of Ginger
Learn the Health Benefits of Ginger for a Great Im
What Causes a Weak Immune System and Cancer Cell G
how to write a feasibility study
The Elements of a Good Feasibility Study
Feasibility-Study-Techniques
Onions are Beneficial for Your Health
Benefits Of Onion
The Health Benefits of Onion
How to Open a Watch Back
Energizer Watch Battery Replacement Guide
Fresh and Frozen Seafood Selecting and Serving it
Deed of Absolute Sale
Difference Between Iron and Steel
IRON AND STEEL
Beware of fake banana leaf meals
Tips How to Develop Film
Tamarind nutrition facts
Healthy herbs nutrition facts
Vegetable nutrition facts
Nuts nutrition facts
Healthy spices nutrition facts
Fruit nutrition facts
Phytonutrients in the diet
Kangkong
5 Swamp Cabbage or KangKong Health Benefits and It
Make a Free Website with Yola.