BBC Two - Trust Me, I'm a Doctor, Series 3, Episode 3 - How should I get rid of a verruca or wart?
Homepage
Accessibility links
Skip to content
Accessibility Help
BBC Account
Notifications
Home
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
CBBC
CBeebies
Food
Bitesize
Earth
Arts
Make It Digital
Taster
Local
Tomorrow's World
TV
Radio
Menu
Search
Search the BBC
Search the BBC
BBC Two
Trust Me, I'm a Doctor
Home
Episodes
Clips
Presenters
Issues covered in the programme
Send us your health questions
Main content
How should I get rid of a verruca or wart?
Ask around your friends or colleagues if anyone has a wart, and those who will admit to it will be rare. A verruca? Maybe a few will confess – although more likely to a past affliction as a child (and they are indeed more common in children). But despite our embarrassment about these patches of thickened skin, the truth is that virtually all of us will have one at some point in our lives.
Warts and verrucas are the same thing – and are caused by various strains of the human papilloma virus (there are over 100 strains, and there’s pretty much no avoiding getting at least one of them through such things as shared changing rooms). So, when you get one, how do you get rid of it?
Well, the plain truth is that two thirds of the time they will just disappear within 2 years, as your body eventually recognises and deals with the infection. But if you don’t fancy waiting that long (or you’re one of the unlucky remaining one third), you’re faced with some options. There are plenty of ‘wart clinics’ ready to freeze your wart or verruca with liquid nitrogen – but this can damage the surrounding skin and the evidence for its effectiveness turns out to be surprisingly slim. Chemists also sell similar home treatments. But there have been three relatively small trials of something more outlandish-sounding: duct tape. And in one of them, duct tape clearly outperformed freezing as a way to get rid of warts (the other two trials showed no statistical difference).
So, we asked you to help us find out whether using duct tape on warts or verrucas was actually helpful.
Several hundred of you put this technique to the test and got in touch to let us know how you got on and now the numbers have been crunched and the results are in...
The average wart reduction over 28 days was 1.3mm, which is a 25% reduction.
57% reported a reduction, 28% reported no change and 15% reported an increase.
Bigger warts shrank more: by an extra 0.3mm for every extra 1mm at the start.
Older warts shrank less: by 0.2mm less for each category of duration (0-3 months, 4-6 months, 7-9 months, 10-12 months, 1-2 years, more than 2 years).
Compared to other forms of wart treatment, or to doing nothing, these results are pretty good! And duct tape is relatively cheap and easy to use at home, so you might want to give it a go.
Thanks to everyone who sent us results, and to Prof Martin Bland who analysed them. We’re no longer collecting data but if you want to try using the duct tape technique on your warts of verrucas you can follow these instructions:-
How to treat your wart or verruca using duct tape
The first step is to cut a piece of duct tape roughly the same size as your wart. Then stick it on top and keep it on for six days. If it falls off, cut and stick on a new piece.
You must enable JavaScript to play content
On the morning of the 7th day, take off the duct tape, soak the wart in warm water and file off the dead skin with a pumice stone or emory board. Then leave the duct tape off for the rest of the day and night and reapply it the following morning. If you have trouble keeping the tape on, try sticking a plaster over the top of the duct tape.
Keep doing this for four weeks. The key is to keep the tape on your wart for six days at a time, followed by a break of one day. And every time the tape is taken off, remember to file away the dead skin from the surface.
Issues covered in series 3
Could beer actually make your barbeque healthier?
View Could beer actually make your barbeque healthier?
The big brain-maintenance experiment
View The big brain-maintenance experiment
Do herbal supplements contain what they say on the label?
View Do herbal supplements contain what they say on the label?
Could aromatherapy actually affect my memory?
View Could aromatherapy actually affect my memory?
How can I avoid getting dementia?
View How can I avoid getting dementia?
Can a simple injection of stem cells repair damaged backs?
View Can a simple injection of stem cells repair damaged backs?
How do I recognise a Deep Vein Thrombosis?
View How do I recognise a Deep Vein Thrombosis?
How do I cure cramp?
View How do I cure cramp?
What’s the best way to clean out my ears?
View What’s the best way to clean out my ears?
Can being overweight ever be good for you?
View Can being overweight ever be good for you?
Are my wash products damaging my skin?
View Are my wash products damaging my skin?
The big cholesterol-busting experiment
View The big cholesterol-busting experiment
How do I stop snoring?
View How do I stop snoring?
Are my shoes damaging my body?
View Are my shoes damaging my body?
How can I cure my hiccups?
View How can I cure my hiccups?
How can I spot the symptoms of Lyme Disease?
View How can I spot the symptoms of Lyme Disease?
Can a home DNA test kit help me lose weight?
View Can a home DNA test kit help me lose weight?
What does a faecal transplant do?
View What does a faecal transplant do?
How can I avoid getting heart disease?
View How can I avoid getting heart disease?
Which oils are best to cook with?
View Which oils are best to cook with?
The Big Craving-Beating Experiment
View The Big Craving-Beating Experiment
How should I get rid of a verruca or wart?
View How should I get rid of a verruca or wart?
Is Manuka honey worth the money?
View Is Manuka honey worth the money?
Can erasing memories cure addiction?
View Can erasing memories cure addiction?
Is organic food better for me?
View Is organic food better for me?
How to spot the signs of a stroke before it happens
View How to spot the signs of a stroke before it happens
How can I avoid getting cancer?
View How can I avoid getting cancer?
Could viral immunotherapy be a revolution in cancer treatment?
View Could viral immunotherapy be a revolution in cancer treatment?
Is paracetamol bad for me?
View Is paracetamol bad for me?
Issues covered in series 4
How should I get rid of a verruca or wart?
View How should I get rid of a verruca or wart?
Will protein supplements help me put on more muscle?
View Will protein supplements help me put on more muscle?
Can I get stronger without going to the gym?
View Can I get stronger without going to the gym?
The big experiment: how can I get my body to burn more fat, without doing more exercise?
View The big experiment: how can I get my body to burn more fat, without doing more exercise?
Are ‘antioxidant-rich’ products good for me?
View Are ‘antioxidant-rich’ products good for me?
Could bionic eyes help the blind to see again?
View Could bionic eyes help the blind to see again?
How much is too much body fat?
View How much is too much body fat?
Is it safe to reheat leftovers?
View Is it safe to reheat leftovers?
What’s actually in sports drinks?
View What’s actually in sports drinks?
The big experiment: could I lose fat just by changing my meal times?
View The big experiment: could I lose fat just by changing my meal times?
Are artificial sweeteners bad for me?
View Are artificial sweeteners bad for me?
Is eating in the evenings bad for me?
View Is eating in the evenings bad for me?
Are perfumed products bad for me?
View Are perfumed products bad for me?
Is there a cure for nut allergies?
View Is there a cure for nut allergies?
How much is too much alcohol?
View How much is too much alcohol?
How do I treat someone having an allergic reaction?
View How do I treat someone having an allergic reaction?
How do I get rid of dandruff?
View How do I get rid of dandruff?
Does microwaving food make it less healthy?
View Does microwaving food make it less healthy?
Can WD40 cure psoriasis?
View Can WD40 cure psoriasis?
Can I avoid, or treat, arthritis?
View Can I avoid, or treat, arthritis?
What is sepsis and how can I spot it?
View What is sepsis and how can I spot it?
Is olive oil really good for me?
View Is olive oil really good for me?
Is meat good or bad for me?
View Is meat good or bad for me?
Are beards unhygienic?
View Are beards unhygienic?
Are oils ‘rich in polyunsaturates’ or ‘rich in monounsaturates’ good for me?
View Are oils ‘rich in polyunsaturates’ or ‘rich in monounsaturates’ good for me?
How do I treat a mouth ulcer?
View How do I treat a mouth ulcer?
What can I do about tinnitus?
View What can I do about tinnitus?
What should I not eat or drink when I’m taking medication?
View What should I not eat or drink when I’m taking medication?
Why do some people put on weight and not others – and can we change it?
View Why do some people put on weight and not others – and can we change it?
How can I sleep better if I’m stressed or getting older?
View How can I sleep better if I’m stressed or getting older?
Will kudzu supplement pills make me drink less alcohol?
View Will kudzu supplement pills make me drink less alcohol?
Can my scales ever be wrong?
View Can my scales ever be wrong?
Which is better – running on a treadmill or outdoors?
View Which is better – running on a treadmill or outdoors?
How much is too much... exercise?
View How much is too much... exercise?
Can rearranging my kitchen help me lose weight?
View Can rearranging my kitchen help me lose weight?
The big motivation experiment
View The big motivation experiment
How can I make myself buy healthier food whilst shopping?
View How can I make myself buy healthier food whilst shopping?
Should I use paracetamol for my back pain?
View Should I use paracetamol for my back pain?
Related Content
You may also like
View all
Similar programmes
By genre:
Factual > Health & Wellbeing
Home
Schedule
TV Guide
recommend
Explore the BBC
Home
News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
CBBC
CBeebies
Food
Bitesize
Earth
Arts
Make It Digital
Taster
Local
Tomorrow's World
TV
Radio
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Copyright © 2019 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.