Control High Blood Pressure with this Nutrition-rich Fruit Smoothie
Heal Beau
Home
Beauty
Skin Care
Hair Care
Reviews
Health
Fitness
Home Remedies
Lifestyle
Parenting
DIY Ideas
Events
About
Disclaimer
Contact
Work with Us
Home
Beauty
Skin Care
Hair Care
Reviews
Health
Fitness
Home Remedies
Lifestyle
Parenting
DIY Ideas
Events
Fitness
0
Fruit Smoothie to control High Blood Pressure
by Shobana · Published March 14, 2017 · Updated March 16, 2017
High blood pressure can put your health and quality of life in great danger if left uncontrolled or undetected. It can lead to heart attack, stroke, heart failure, kidney disease or failure, vision loss and what not! Drinking and smoking practices (even passive smoking) are considered as one of the main reasons to develop high blood pressure. A Very high population is suffering from stress these days. They don’t get proper time to do physical activities. They don’t eat healthy foods and eating junk food leads to obesity. These small things add up and cause high blood pressure. Healthy drinks like fruit smoothie can be a good remedy to control blood pressure.
Studies suggest that eating potassium, calcium, and magnesium rich foods help people with high blood pressure control it effectively. Experts recommend having a balanced nutritious diet and a healthy lifestyle for controlling blood pressure. Also, high blood pressure can be controlled by restricting high sodium intake, eating more low-fat protein sources, limiting alcohol consumption, cutting back on caffeine, and most importantly, living a stress-free life. All of these will contribute to have a healthy life and fight against high blood pressure.
If you are suffering from high blood pressure then you must try this healthy potassium-packed smoothie to control your high blood pressure. You can try this fruit smoothie even if you don’t have high blood pressure because it’s tasty and refreshing too. This smoothie also has other health benefits because of its nutrition value.
How to make Fruit Smoothie
Ingredients
Skimmed milk – ½ cup
Low-fat yogurt – ½ cup
Sliced Strawberries – ½ cup
Banana – 1
Kiwi – 1
Ground flaxseeds – 1 tbsp
Garden cress (optional)
Directions
Pour half cup of skimmed milk into a blender.
Add a half cup of low-fat yogurt and sliced strawberries.
Slice and add one banana into it.
Add some pieces of peeled kiwi.
Now add a spoonful of ground flax seeds.
Blend the mixture well for a couple of minutes.
Optionally, you can also chop and add some garden cress and blend the mixture again.
Now the fruit smoothie is ready and you can pour it into a glass and serve chilled.
Health Benefits
We would be using skimmed milk which is an excellent source of calcium. Unlike higher-fat milk, skimmed milk has a very low-fat value which is a plus point. Low-fat yogurt is indeed a healthy food to eat when you’ve high blood pressure. Experts advise increasing low-fat sources.
Strawberry is a very delicious fruit. It’s rich in natural compounds called flavonoids. Some studies show that consuming this might prevent hypertension and help to reduce high blood pressure to some extent. Strawberries are easy to add to your diet as well.
We would be adding Kiwi in this smoothie which is a super fruit. It is a high source of Vitamin C, which works as an antioxidant. Kiwi also helps to neutralize free radicals and relax the blood vessel walls. It also works as a diuretic to remove excess sodium and water from the body. Moreover, it is also loaded with vitamins and minerals such as Vitamins A, B6, B12, E, and potassium, calcium, iron, and magnesium. These collectively contribute to the proper functioning of the body such as blood circulation through the vessels, iron absorption for healthy bones and teeth, fight stress, good vision, etc. Kiwi has a very high level of potassium, 312 mg per 100 grams, which helps in maintaining blood pressure whereas magnesium helps in the nerve and muscle functions.
Bananas are a great way to add potassium to your diet. And potassium is a good way to help to reduce high blood pressure.
Having foods that are rich in the mineral is always a better option than taking its supplement. Try out this potassium-rich fruit smoothie and share us how your experience was.
Liked it!!!! Take a moment to Share:
Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Tweet
Pin1
Share5
+11
7 Shares
Like this:
Like Loading...
Tags: bananablood pressureflavonoidsfruit smoothiehealth drinkskiwiskimmed milkstrawberryyogurt
Shobana
A freelance content writer who got into blogging out of passion. A loving soul, a happy bird flying beyond horizons to reach the unreachable.
You may also like...
0
Beauty Benefits of Bananas for Skin care and Hair Care
May 25, 2016
by Shobana · Published May 25, 2016
1
Skin Brightening Face Packs
November 29, 2016
by Kavi Bala · Published November 29, 2016 · Last modified January 11, 2017
0
8 Foods That Heal Pancreas
October 24, 2016
by Heal-beau · Published October 24, 2016
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Currently you have JavaScript disabled. In order to post comments, please make sure JavaScript and Cookies are enabled, and reload the page. Click here for instructions on how to enable JavaScript in your browser.
Follow:
Like Us on Facebook
Healbeau Creations on Youtube
Follow us on Pinterest
Popular Archive
Beauty / Skin Care
Beauty Benefits Of Ice Cubes For Skin
11 Apr, 2019
Beauty / Skin Care
Hydrating Face Masks For Summer
3 Apr, 2019
Hair Care
DIY Bentonite Clay Hair Mask for Silky and Shiny Hair
21 Mar, 2019
Top Posts & Pages
Benefits of Jathikai or Nutmeg
Health benefits of Nungu or Ice Apple
How to get the Bhringraj Benefits for Hair
Health Tit Bits
Surprising Benefits of Kavuni Arisi (Black Rice)
Water Washed Ghee for Skin Care
Orange Tea for Weight Loss
Blogmint
Self Improvement from SelfGrowth.com
Self Improvement from SelfGrowth.com- - SelfGrowth.com is the most complete guide to information about Self Improvement on the Internet.
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Mar
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
RSS - Posts
RSS - Comments
Recent Comments
Lisa on Cosmetics You Should Keep in Your Purse
Vasuki on 7 Signs to know Body Suffers from Dehydration
vani on Walnut Shells Powder Hair Color Paste to Dye Hair
aakash on Home Remedies for Mosquito Bites
siddharth on How GM Diet Plan Works?
About
Disclaimer
Contact
Work with Us
healbeau.in @ 2017
Powered by - Designed with the Hueman theme
%d bloggers like this: