Skin Effects From Palmer's Cocoa Butter | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Fashion, Style and Personal Care
Beauty
Beauty Basics
Skin Effects From Palmer's Cocoa Butter
Eshe Asale
About the Author:
Eshe Asale
Eshe Asale is a holistic massage therapist who began writing in 1995 with articles appearing on various websites and in "Iqra" newspaper and the "Between Love, Hope and Fear" anthology. She holds a massage therapy certificate from Lourdes Institute, a Master of Arts in media studies/communications from Goldsmiths University and a Bachelor of Arts in writing and publishing/film studies from Middlesex University.
When you want to pamper and protect your skin, you'll need a product that has a moisturizing formula with healing properties. Palmer's Cocoa butter is made from fatty extracts of cocoa beans and is rich in vitamin E, natural antioxidants and other vitamins and minerals. Regular use of Palmers Cocoa Butter can improve the condition and texture of your skin, leaving it smooth and soft to the touch.
A woman is rubbing lotion into her shoulder. (Image: Jupiterimages, Brand X Pictures/Stockbyte/Getty Images)
Properties
Cocoa butter contains the substance cocoa mass polyphenol, or CMP. According to a 2000 article on Botanical.com, CMP hastens the production of the immuno globulin E IgE, a group of antibodies that exacerbate dermatitis and asthma symptoms. Cocoa butter melts at body temperature and is easily absorbed into the layers of your skin. It retains its freshness for a long time having a shelf life of three years.
Heals Scars
Palmer's Cocoa Butter may help heal and reduce the appearance of scars, although there is no clinical evidence to support this. Massaging your skin on a regular basis can break down excess collagen and scar tissue. Using cocoa butter to massage may be beneficial as it contains vitamin E, which is known to help fade scars. Before applying cocoa butter, make sure you cleanse and exfoliate your skin. This will help remove dead cells and prepare your skin for the nourishing massage. Regular use may enhance your skin's appearance, leaving it smooth, clear and blemish-free.
Prevents Stretch Marks
Stretch marks can occur in pregnant women, the overweight, body builders, and adolescents experiencing growth spurts. Although cocoa butter does not remove stretch marks, it is said to prevent them from forming. Cocoa butter melts at body temperature, penetrating the dermis, where stretch marks develop. The vitamin E contained helps keep skin supple, so when stretched, it is able to retain its elasticity. A 2009 New York Times article highlighted a study published in 2008 by a team of dermatologists and obstetricians examining the success rate of cocoa butter in reducing stretch marks. A randomly selected group of pregnant women were given cocoa butter and a placebo to use. No difference in the women using the placebo or cocoa butter was found after months.
Hydrates Dry Skin
The emollient qualities contained in Palmer's Cocoa Butter moisturize, soothe and soften dry skin. The rich cocoa butter formula can be used to lubricate extra dry areas of your body, such as your knees, elbows and feet. Regular use evens out the skin tone by blending dark unsightly marks to make your skin glow with radiance. Palmer's Cocoa Butter does not provide protection from the sun, so make sure you use a sunscreen when needed. It comes in a variety of forms, including oil, lotion, body butter and lip balm.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Botanical.com: Cacao
The New York Times: Really? The Claim: Cocoa Butter Can Remove Stretch Marks
Vitamin Stuff.com: Cocoa Butter
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Cocoa Butter Vs. Aloe Vera
2
The Effects of Cocoa Butter on African American Skin
3
How to Use African Shea Butter
4
Palmers Cocoa Butter Ingredients
5
How to Make A Home Hair and Scalp Treatment Using Oil & Shea Butter
6
Bio Oil Scar Treatments for Hyperpigmentation
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.