Disappointing News on Vitamin E and Selenium - The New York Times
Sections
Home
Search
Skip to content
The New York Times
Well | Disappointing News on Vitamin E and Selenium
Search
Subscribe Now
Log In
0
Settings
Close search
Site Search Navigation
Search NYTimes.com
Clear this text input
Go
Loading...
See next articles
See previous articles
Site Navigation
Site Mobile Navigation
Supported by
Search
Disappointing News on Vitamin E and Selenium
By Tara Parker-Pope
October 28, 2008 2:45 pm October 28, 2008 2:45 pm
A major trial studying whether simple nutritional supplements could lower a man’s risk for prostate cancer has ended amidst worries that the treatments may do more harm than good.
The SELECT trial, which stands for the Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial, was studying whether selenium and vitamin E, either alone or in combination, could lower a man’s risk for prostate cancer. More than 35,000 men were taking part, making it one of the largest and best studies of a vitamin or supplement.
But the National Cancer Institute announced Monday that the trial, which was scheduled to end in 2011 after seven years, is being halted early. A review of the data shows no benefit in using the supplements to prevent prostate cancer. In addition, slightly more users of vitamin E were getting prostate cancer, and slightly more selenium-only users were developing diabetes.
The findings are a major setback in the effort to prevent prostate cancer, which is diagnosed in about 200,000 men in the United States each year. While most men diagnosed with the disease are cured, treatments can be debilitating, rendering men incontinent and impotent.
“We were hoping something simple like this would be helpful, but it wasn’t,” said Dr. Eric Klein, national study coordinator for SELECT and vice chairman of the Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute at the Cleveland Clinic. “Everyone believes things that are natural are good for you. That’s not always the case.”
The study results are particularly disappointing because the evidence suggesting a benefit had been so promising. An earlier trial of beta carotene and vitamin E use in smokers had produced disappointing results: the smokers receiving beta carotene had a higher risk of cancer. But the data also showed that vitamin E users had one-third the risk for prostate cancer. Another study of selenium and skin cancer also showed the supplement group had higher rates of skin cancer — but that study also suggested a 50 percent lower risk for prostate cancer among selenium users.
But neither of those studies was designed to directly measure prostate cancer risk. That means a number of variables, such as the men’s age, how they were screened and their family histories, could have influenced the results. Because the SELECT study was a randomized controlled clinical trial, it presents a truer picture of the real effects of the supplements on prostate cancer risk.
While the SELECT results are disappointing, the study shows how important it is that vitamins and supplements be well studied before consumers use them as preventative agents, Dr. Klein notes. In recent years, several major studies of vitamins and supplements have produced disappointing results, showing that the treatment didn’t help and sometimes appeared to cause harm.
“We asked a scientific question, and we had a hypothesis about these agents,” Dr. Klein said. “It’s a great trial. Men were equally randomized, compliance rates were incredibly high. The agents simply don’t work to prevent prostate cancer.”
The trends for higher prostate cancer rates and diabetes among the vitamin E and selenium users aren’t statistically significant and could be due to chance. However the men in the study will continue to be monitored to determine any additional effects.
The dose being studied in SELECT was 200 micrograms of selenium and 400 international units of vitamin E. By comparison, most multivitamins contain about 50 micrograms of selenium and 30 to 200 international units of vitamin E. To learn more about the trial, go to the National Cancer Institute’s Web site.
Comments are no longer being accepted.
staypuftman October 28, 2008 · 3:04 pm
Vitamins need to be taken in very specific amounts and combinations in order to be effective. Super dosing has been shown to do little. Did this study take that into account?
Dave M October 28, 2008 · 3:41 pm
Truth is never disappointing.
FROM TPP — True, but the lack of options for preventing prostate cancer — and our continuous over-treatment of men diagnosed with the disease — is.
Greg October 28, 2008 · 4:30 pm
While it is disappointing that Vit D and selenium have not proven to be of statistically significant benefit in treatment of prostate cancer, I think it is encouraging that a large, randomized, controlled trial like this is being conducted on these agents in the first place. Too often these products get hawked by snake oil salesman as the ‘cure for what ails ya,” and an unscientific public may have difficulty in knowing how to separate good scientific data from unscientific opinion or, worse, somebody trying to sell them something. So while it’s sad that we didn’t get a response for prostate cancer from Vit D and selenium, I’d still like to congratulate the authors on science well done.
Eric in Oregon October 28, 2008 · 4:44 pm
A random trial, in which no selective criteria (except for sex) is used, serves a useful statistical function. But if participants are selected for what are believed to be predispositions toward prostate cancer, such as family history, body mass index, and exposure to smoking, alcohol, diet lipids etc., and then a blind study with placebos put in place, then a more telling, and different result may be observed.
Robert C. October 28, 2008 · 4:45 pm
I have Crohn’s Disease and I was hopeful that vitamins & supplements like Vitamin E & Selenium would prove to be beneficial. The reputation of anti-oxidants has been quite high and given my Inflammatory Bowel Disease, I really wanted to be able to take a pill that offered such alleged benefits. This news is disappointing but this is why solid science is so important to our health and well-being. We have found that many of these anti-oxidants and other nutritional supplements are actually harmful in many cases. While some people may continue to take these pills on faith, I prefer to know the facts and alter my medical treatment based on evidence based science. It is a shame that our culture does not embrace this worldview more while science continues to be given short shrift rather than supported to the fullest extent possible.
mauisurfer October 28, 2008 · 4:46 pm
Selenium is present in varying amounts in foods grown in different locations. AND:
It has been well known for a long time that selenium was vital in small dosage, and potentially unhealthy in large dosage.
So we need to know what “background” amount of selenium these people actually had from their normal food intake. I happen to live in an area where there is little or no selenium in locally grown food, and I eat a lot of locally grown food. So I would suspect that a selenium supplement would do more good for me (and less harm) than for someone else living elsewhere.
I seriously question the value of this study without any concurrent evaluation of the subjects’ actual diet.
Nick Lento October 28, 2008 · 4:47 pm
Here’s a general prediction.
Over the next 50 years, studies will show that people who restricted caloric intake, regularly supplemented their diets with high quality supplements, ate organic foods whenever possible, avoided red meat, exercised, had a happy family/social/sex life and drank lots of really clean water lived lot’s longer than folks who didn’t….and the years that were added will have turned out to be highly healthy functional years.
These studies that pick at pieces of the puzzle are the opposite of wholistic.
No doubt that the drug industry and the rest of the medical industrial complex that continues to profit off of the status quo will continue to fund studies that will continue to “pooh pooh” anything that isn’t a drug or surgery.
Time will tell.
FROM TPP — I’m always amazed that people continue to profess the value of a vitamin or supplement treatment despite obvious evidence to the contrary
Chris October 28, 2008 · 4:49 pm
What’s often disappointing is that studies like these will often be overlooked, or outright ignored, by the people who would most benefit from the research. People want to believe that there is a simple thing they can do to prevent what is a very complex disease and, often times, this desire overwhelms logic and reason. The result is that despite the evidence people will continue to use unproven supplements to combat life threatening diseases.
guillaume fontaine de la tour dauterive October 28, 2008 · 4:54 pm
I wonder why exactly the study was discontinued. It was designed to run for seven years – is it the case that half of the planned duration was sufficient to determine that there was not going to be any great effect? Anyway, I will continue to eat prostate prophylactic stew (cabbage, tomatoes, carrots, collards, inter alia), and keep my fingers crossed.
FROM TPP — The trends were in the opposite direction — for harm, so the safety monitoring board decided to stop it.
Lisa Survillas October 28, 2008 · 4:59 pm
You should check into studies about the benefits of Resveratrol and Ellagic Acid on Prostate Cancer as well as many others. I have a product with many testamonies about how it has helped so many people and includes these two VERY powerful antioxidants!
Heron October 28, 2008 · 5:05 pm
Hm. I wonder if the vitamin company advertising a vitamin for men with selenium “for prostate health” will change its formula and/or its ads.
rmh October 28, 2008 · 5:09 pm
Robert C — try low-dose Naltrexone. It’s been a miracle for my IBS, and there was a good study on Crohn’s and Naltrexone that you can read about here: //www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/44162.php
Mike October 28, 2008 · 5:15 pm
#1: You have to look at what the study was designed to answer: does supplementation of Vitamin E or selenium prevent prostate cancer. The answer is not according to this well designed trial. Yes, vitamins are important in small doses but that is not what this trial is trying to answer.
#4: There were placebo arms in this trial. There were 4 arms: Arm One had 2 placebos, Arm Two had selenium and a placebo, Arm Three had Vitamin E and placebo, and Arm Four had Vitamin E and selenium. The participants were equally randomized so even if they were at increased risk of prostate cancer for the reasons you cited, the fact that they were randomized should
# 6: Doesn’t really matter what the background was and I’m not sure if they looked into it. Remember, selenium wasn’t actually shown to be harmful at all, i.e. the increased rate of cancer was not statistically significant so I wouldn’t worry about that. The answer we do have is that for the population studied (a general grouping of men), selenium supplementation does not prevent prostate cancer. Selenium might do good for you, although there isn’t strong evidence to suggest that the “good” would be a reduction in prostate cancer.
I agree with above posts. I think it is great that large trials such as these are taking a closer look at vitamins and “herbal/natural” treatments.” Too many lay people believe that “natural” = good and “pharmaceutical” = bad. Everything and anything we ingest is a “drug” that can potentially harm us, including vitamins and natural/organic/herbals.
Miles Gloriosus October 28, 2008 · 5:24 pm
(( obvious evidence to the contrary ))
Ms. Parker-Pope’s bio paragraph on the Web site does not say anything about her educational or career background in science or medicine. That’s obviously relevant to her ability to assess the merits of studies such as the one she cites today.
I, for one, would appreciate learning about that.
FROM TPP — I’m a journalist who has been writing about health for 10 years. But that’s not what is relevant. What matters are the credentials of the people behind the research. The SELECT study is among the most credible studies of a vitamin or supplement ever performed.
Joshua Lane October 28, 2008 · 5:31 pm
My question is what form of selenium, at what potency was used for this study? Animal studies have been conducted to evaluate the effects of higher levels of selenium on experimental carcinogenesis using chemical, viral, and transplantable tumor models. Two thirds of these studies found that high levels of selenium reduced the development of tumors at least moderately (14-35% compared to controls) and in most cases , significantly ( by more than 35%)(Whanger 1998)
Research suggests that selenium acts as an immunologic response modifier, normalizing every component of the immune system (Ferencik et al. 2003; Arthur et al.003)
What type of vitamin E was used in the study? Did the form used contain Tocotrienols? When vitamin E was isolated from plant oils, the term tocopherols was used to name the initial four compounds that shared similar structures.
It is important to note there are four additional compounds related to tocopherols- called tocotrienols- that are less widely distributed in nature. Tocotrienols produce powerful anticancer properties, and studies have confirmed tocotrienol activitry is much stronger than that of tocopherols. (Schwenke et al. 2002)
Mike October 28, 2008 · 5:35 pm
Nick Lento: You can’t design a study that looks at the whole picture very easily as it will be impossible to tell what did what. Per your hypothetical situation, it might be the organic foods or the vitamins or the exercise or the clean water or caloric restriction. Maybe some of the above, maybe all. The most powerful studies analyze one component of a question because it is the only way to determine causality. This was a very powerful study, well designed, with randomization and placebos. It did not show any benefits from Vitamin E.
Andrew Leibowitz, M.D. October 28, 2008 · 5:40 pm
Whenever studies determine that a commonly held belief is incorrect, persons determined to hold the belief near and dear will always find ways to criticize well thought out investigations. The very fact that no major positive effect was found alone should dissuade these persons from insisting their beliefs are correct, but, alas, even this does not occur.
Even worse, these persons insist there is some government-industry-pharmaceutical company conspiracy behind these studies. It does not matter whether it is Vitamin A (which increases the risk of cancer in several studies performed thus far), Vitamin C (which has never shown any benefit versus placebo in hundreds of studies), glucosamine (which was one of the first compounds investigated by a new NIH branch of complementary and alternative therapies), or Vitamin E.
In fact, after spending over 25 million dollars and performing more than 10 large randomized controlled trials, the NIH branch devoted to complementary and alternative therapies has shown no benefit from every therapy thus studied – which also happened to be the ones that had the most promise.
Next time Dr. Weil is on a talk show or infomercial, I hope someone asks him how many studies he has performed that were randomized, double blinded and placebo controlled. The answer is none. He can push tumeric, vitamin E etc all he wants, but he is an ill informed snake oil salesman cloaked in the guise of a new age physician.
aaron r October 28, 2008 · 5:41 pm
ok, i’ve been taking vitamin e as a supplement for years, and the multi that i use has selenium. i’m a 50+ male. is there reason to stop taking these supplements? am i making myself more likely to develop disease by using them regularly?
FROM TPP — Look at the doses you are taking and compare them to the last graf in the story. I doubt you are taking anywhere near the levels used in the study. The real question, however, is why are you taking them at all? I understand the multivitamin, but is there some additional reason you are taking additional Vitamin E? Even Berkeley, which discovered vitamin E, no longer recommends taking it as an additional supplement.
Jeffrey Kreisberg October 28, 2008 · 5:41 pm
Another instance where clinical trials trumps hunches. I believe there are vitamin companies who claim they help prostate health because they contain selenium. Visit, //www.takingcontrolofyourhealthcare.com. Dr. Kreisberg
Robert Baldwin October 28, 2008 · 5:42 pm
Nick Lento:
You’re 100% right, but the trouble is health problems tend to hit people who can’t get all those element pulled together and when they do it becomes harder to establish them. You can’t just pull a family out of thin air.
The moral can also be stated along the lines of: “Stay on the shiny side while you can, so you will be strong enough to get though when bad things happen.”
But if you can’t get on the shiny side to begin with your chances don’t look so good. Life is like that.
Marc Joseph October 28, 2008 · 5:43 pm
Is it possible that the form of vitamin E supplement used in the study affected its results?
The trial used a synthetic supplement form of vitamin E (dl-alpha-tocopherol), rather than the more effectively utilized natural (d-alpha tocopherol) form.:
//www.cancer.gov/newscenter/pressreleases/SELECTQandA
Additionally, alpha tocopherol represents only one of the many forms of vitamin E. Some research suggests that the gamma-tocopherol form of vitamin E may be important in human health and have unique benefits relevant to cancer prevention. Supplementing only with alpha-tocopherol may actually deplete the body of gamma-tocopherol:
Gamma-Tocopherol, the major form of vitamin E in the US diet, deserves more attention
//www.ajcn.org/cgi/content/full/74/6/714
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Vol. 74, No. 6, 714-722, December 2001
Broad-based, high gamma-tocopherol vitamin E supplements have been widely available for years.
Was this trial truly “great”?
Marc Joseph, MS
//www.MarcJosephNutrition.com
Donald October 28, 2008 · 6:01 pm
Re #7–There is absolutely no proof whatsoever that any diet is ‘better’ than another in terms of Life Expectancy and Quality of Life. None whatsoever!
The Healthy Librarian October 28, 2008 · 6:01 pm
2 thoughts come to mind regarding the results of this study.
1. Vitamin/mineral trials by their very nature isolate & reduce the benefits of health-giving anti-oxidant whole foods to single nutrients. This is a mistake.
I recently heard Dr. Christopher Gardner, the Director of Nutrition Studies at the Stanford Prevention Research Center, explain that the recent failure of a trial to reduce heart attack risk by supplementing with folic acid (to reduce homocysteine) came as no surprise to him.
According to Gardner, you can’t extract one nutrient from a food & expect miracles. Eating beans, greens & citrus (high in folic acid), leading a healthy lifestyle, & exercising might have had more positive results. However, such a trial would have to run for 40 years, because that’s how long it takes to develop a chronic disease, like cancer, heart disease & diabetes. Not a practical trial.
2. Dr. Walter Willett, the prominent Harvard nutritionist & epidemiologist notes that it can take many years for nutritional benefits to show up. In the Physician’s Health Study, one of the longest running randomized studies, the cognitive/memory benefits of beta-carotene suupplements did not show up after even 12 years.
It took 18 years of taking the supplements for the brain benefits to show up!
Diseases like cancer & heart disease are years in the making. It’s unlikely that benefits of single vitamins will show up after a few years, in men who may have already had years of less than healthful living, and perhaps have already started the disease process.
Perhaps the better evidence is looking at epidemiologic and large population studies like “The China Study”.
We’d all like to just take a few pills & stay healthy. I doubt that will ever happen.
//www.happyhealthylonglife.com/
jack October 28, 2008 · 6:04 pm
This study goes to show that not all that is “natural’ is good. By the same token, there are many drugs that are not good.
We can’t continue to base our dietary choices on whether we love or hate pharmaceutical companies or health food advocates.
We have to understand that the type of study that was done here, though not perfect, is the best available.
Such studies are the ONLY way to judge whether a particular vitamin or drug is safe and effective.
The sooner we, the public, has a rudimentary understanding of the power of such well-controlled studies, the sooner we can make better choices.
nutrocon October 28, 2008 · 6:12 pm
The NIH wasted 114 million on this study because:
1) They used synthetic vitamin E (dl) instead of natural (d) alpha tocopherol. It has long been known in the supplement industry that synthetic vitamin E is very poorly absorbed.
2) Vitamin E supplements should only be taken if in mixed tocopherol form (alpha, beta, gamma, and delta), not alpha tocopherol alone.
3) Selenium is solely a complementary nutrient for a prostate prevention protocol. It will not do not do the trick by itself.
What's Next
Loading...
Previous Post
The New Infidelity
Next Post
Panel Rebukes F.D.A. on Plastic Safety
Ask Well
Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts.
Your Questions | All »
Ask Well
Can You Safely Lose Weight While Breast-Feeding?
The Checkup
As Boys Get Fatter, Parents Worry One Body Part Is Too Small
Sign Up for the Running Email
Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon.
campaign: %%CAMP%% -- %%CAMP_UID%%, creative: %%ADID%% -- %%AD_UID%%, page: %%PAGE%%, targetedPage: %%TARGETEDPAGE%%, position: %%POS%%
Times Health
Most E-mailed
Follow Well on
Twitter
Facebook
Advertisement
© 2017 The New York Times Company
Contact Us
Work With Us
Advertise
Your Ad Choices
Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Site Map
Help
Site Feedback
Subscriptions