The 8 Best OTC Pain Relievers of 2019
icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
The 8 Best OTC Pain Relievers of 2019
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Chronic Pain
Living With
Diagnosis
Treatment
Types
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Chronic Pain Living With
The 8 Best OTC Pain Relievers of 2019
Nix aches and more with these drugstore solutions
Print
By Julie Evans
Updated March 04, 2019
More in Chronic Pain
Living With
Diagnosis
Treatment
Types
Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.
First Look
Best Overall Pain Reliever: Tylenol Extra Strength at Amazon
"These extra-strength caplets are a tried-and-true staple that customers swear by."
Best Back Pain Reliever: Aleve at Target
"Targets inflammation, often a contributing factor to back pain. It also is highly recommended for back pain associated with arthritis."
Best for Headaches: Excedrin Extra Strength Caplets at Amazon
"Contains not only aspirin and acetaminophen, but also caffeine to help hit your headache with a powerful combination."
Best for Menstrual Cramps: Pamprin Maximum Strength at Amazon
"Contains a combination of three ingredients, including an antihistamine, a diuretic, and a pain reliever."
Best for Muscle Pain: Advil Liqui-Gels at Amazon
"It helps not just with pain and fever, but inflammation too."
Tooth Pain Reliever: Orajel Maximum Strength at Amazon
"Contains a combination of benzocaine and menthol to help soothe the area."
Best for Joint Pain: Biofreeze Pain Relief Gel for Arthritis at Amazon
"A combination of menthol and herbs such as camphor, aloe, green tea, lemon balm and vitamin E."
Best Migraine Reliever: Excedrin Migraine Geltabs at Amazon
"I may also help with the other side effects of migraines including nausea and sensitivity to light and sound."
Our Top Picks
1
Best Overall Pain Reliever: Tylenol Extra Strength Caplets
Courtesy of Amazon
Buy on Amazon
If you have just one pain reliever in your medicine cabinet, it’s hard to go wrong with Tylenol. While it comes in a variety of formulas and formats, these extra-strength caplets are a tried-and-true staple that customers swear by and doctors recommend. Each caplet contains 500mg of acetaminophen, which is designed to reduce fever and treat minor aches and pains.
Tylenol tends to be easier on the stomach than NSAIDs. However, it’s important to note the warnings regarding alcohol as acetaminophen can cause liver complications. It’s also not your go-to for pain associated with swelling. For everything else though, including headaches, backaches and beyond, it’s hard to beat.
2
Best Back Pain Reliever: Aleve Naproxen Caplets - Naproxen Sodium (NSAID)
Buy on AmazonBuy on TargetBuy on Walmart
When it comes to back pain, Aleve has your back. Because it’s a NSAID, it targets inflammation, which is often a contributing factor to back pain. It also is highly recommended for back pain associated with arthritis. One caplet promises relief for up to 12 hours which means fewer pills to pop. The primary ingredient is Naxopren, a powerful pain reliever. The downside to NSAIDs such as Aleve, however, is that they can cause stomach irritation in some people. Make sure to follow the product guidelines and talk to your doctor if you experience any discomfort.
Beyond your back, Aleve can also be used to treat menstrual cramps, toothaches and more. Loyal customers say their medicine cabinet shelves are never without it.
3
Best Pain Reliever for Headaches: Excedrin Extra Strength Caplets
Buy on Amazon
When it comes to hammering headache pain, customers say nothing provides relief more quickly and more effectively than Excedrin Extra Strength. It contains not only aspirin and acetaminophen, but also caffeine (about as much as one cup of coffee) to help hit your headache with a powerful combination that can provide relief in as little as 15 minutes.
A staple in medicine cabinets for decades, customers say the triple combination works like nothing else when it comes to headaches. Some do note, however, that it’s not the best choice to take at night as the caffeine can interfere with sleep.
4
Best Pain Reliever for Menstrual Cramps: Pamprin Maximum Strength
Buy on Amazon
Periods can be a pain, quite literally. Fortunately, Pamprin can help ease a host of unpleasant side effects that come with them, including stomach cramps, backaches, headaches, and irritability. It may even help stave off those pounds that seem to pack on each month due to water retention and bloating.
Pamprin contains a combination of three ingredients, including an antihistamine, a diuretic, and a pain reliever, and it promises to make your period at least a bit less painful all around. Women swear by Pamprin and say they can’t live without it.​
5
Best Pain Reliever for Muscle Pain: Advil Liqui-Gels (160 Count) Pain Reliever
Courtesy of Amazon
Buy on AmazonBuy on WalmartBuy on Target
Exercise is fantastic for our bodies and leads to overall improved well being. However, it can also lead to muscle pain. When your muscles have reached their max threshold, Advil can help. Touted as the number-one-selling pain reliever in the world, it’s an NSAID, so it helps not just with pain and fever, but inflammation too.
Loyal customers swear by Advil and say it works quickly and the liquid-gels are easy to swallow. Beyond muscle aches, it also works well to alleviate headaches and reduce fevers.
6
Tooth Pain Reliever: Orajel Maximum Strength Gel Oral Pain Reliever, 0.42 Oz
Buy on Amazon
When tooth pain strikes, seeing a dentist is your best bet, but until then, Orajel can help. You apply it right to the sore spot in your mouth for relief of minor pain. It contains a combination of benzocaine and menthol to help soothe the area and make your wait for that dentist appointment more bearable.
While this formula is recommended for adults and children ages 2 and older, Orajel also makes formulas for babies and those adorable gummy smiles that are teething.
Customers say the gel is easy to apply and works quickly, however, the results aren’t long lasting and may be best used along with another pain medication such as acetaminophen or an NSAID if the pain is intense.
7
Best Pain Reliever for Joint Pain: Biofreeze Pain Relief Gel for Arthritis
Buy on Amazon
Achy joints are a pain unlike any other, as they cry out with each movement you make. Biofreeze promises to quiet those cries with its gel formula that contains a combination of menthol and herbs such as camphor, aloe, green tea, lemon balm and vitamin E.
Whether your joints ache from age, weather, arthritis, over-exertion or just because this roll-on gel may help provide temporary relief without the need for prescription drugs. You simply roll it on and it starts to work. It also comes in a spray-on formula if you prefer.
Customers rave about this product, saying it’s effective in relieving everything from chronic pain to occasional soreness. While the menthol smell isn’t everyone’s favorite, most customers say it’s worth it for the relief it provides.
8
Best Migraine Pain Reliever: Excedrin Migraine Geltabs for Migraine Pain Relief
Buy on AmazonBuy on Walmart
Most migraine treatments require a prescription, but Excedrin Migraine is the first over-the-counter version approved by the FDA. Beyond providing relief from the pain, it may also help with the other side effects of migraines including nausea and sensitivity to light and sound.
It also contains a triple threat of acetaminophen, aspirin, and caffeine, and it’s designed to work quickly — and effectively on migraines.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you reach your 2019 goals.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Continue Reading
Article
How Do You Choose the Right OTC Pain Medication?
Article
NSAIDs Are a Popular Form of Treatment for Many Types of Chronic Pain
Article
Consider Pain-Relief Patches if Your Pain Is Out of Control
Article
Is Ibuprofen Safe for Chronic Pain?
Article
Can Aspirin Give You Adverse Side Effects?
Article
We've All Experienced Somatic Pain in Our Lives
Article
What Herbs Can You Take for Natural Pain Relief?
Article
A Closer Look at Prescription Pain Medications
Article
Types of Opioids Used to for Chronic Pain Relief
Article
The 5 Types of Medications to Treat Chronic Pain
Article
What's the Difference Between Somatic and Visceral Pain?
Article
Can Acupuncture Help With Chronic Pain Relief?
Article
Learn When to Use Heat and When to Use Cold for Your Aches and Pains
Article
How to Recognize Visceral Pain
List
Ways to Treat Your Chronic Pain at Home
Article
When Your Pain Doesn't Go Away After Hernia Surgery
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more