Alzheimer's disease
Home
US
World
Politics
Business/Finance
Technology
Health
More Topics
Education
Literature
Self-help
Science
Home » Alzheimer's disease
TITLE
Alzheimer's disease
PUB. DATE
November 2010
SOURCE
Pulse;11/3/2010, Vol. 70 Issue 33, p26
SOURCE TYPE
Periodical
DOC. TYPE
Article
ABSTRACT
In this article the authors present tips and suggestions for tackling Alzheimer's disease in older people. They suggest for checking any physical abnormality in the patients and screening blood for FBC, biochemistry, folic acid and vitamin 12 and thyroid function of the patients. They also suggest the use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors as they appear to reduce the decline in cognitive ability at three years.
ACCESSION #
59174201
Related Articles
Daily folic acid supplementation for 3 years improved cognitive function in older persons: COMMENTARY. Bogaisky, Michael; Leipzig, Rosanne M. // ACP Journal Club;May/Jun2007, Vol. 146 Issue 3, p71
The author comments on a study which examines whether daily folic acid supplementation for 3 years in older persons can improve cognitive function. He claimed that several factors in the study, such as small effect size and strict inclusion criteria, limit the relevance and generalizability of...
Folic Acid Improves Cognitive Function. Dye, Dayna // Life Extension;Apr2007, Vol. 13 Issue 4, p19
The article reports on the improvement of cognitive function in older adults by supplementing with folic acid in the U.S. According to findings published in the "Lancet," in those people who received folic acid, serum folate increased more than fivefold and plasma total homocysteine decreased 26...
Slow cognitive decline may mask Alzheimer's disease. Moberly, Tom // GP: General Practitioner;8/15/2012, p9
The article reports on the study conducted by U.S. researchers regarding the association of the cognitive decline in older people to Alzheimer's disease.
Folate may lower Alzheimer's risk. // Geriatrics;Oct2005, Vol. 60 Issue 10, p11
Discusses research being done on the role of folate intake in the risk reduction for Alzheimer's disease. Reference to a study by Maria Corrada and colleagues, published in the July 2005 issue of the journal "Alzheimer's & Dementia"; Comparison of the nutrient intake of older patients; Vitamins...
Take B or Not Take B. // ELDR Magazine;Spring2008, p21
The article focuses on the result of studies conducted on folic acid or vitamin B-9. According to the author, the studies show that folic acid is important to elders, because it can make their memories function better. The author adds that it can also lessen the risk of stroke, and elder people...
Spaced Retrieval Effects in Older Adults with Mild Alzheimer's Disease. Seon-hwa Ban; Seong-Sook Jun // Korean Journal of Adult Nursing;Aug2012, Vol. 24 Issue 4, p398
Purpose: The purpose of this study was to develop spaced retrieval training as a nursing intervention for patients having an mild alzheimer's disease and to determine the effects of the program on their memory and cognitive function across training sessions. Methods: A non-equivalent control...
STARI KRALJ V IZGNANSTVU -- Å½IVLJENJE Z ALZHEIMERJEVO BOLEZNIJO. Valenčak, Slavica // Kakovostna Starost;2012, Vol. 15 Issue 4, p50
No abstract available.
Olfactory Deficits Across the Cognitive Decline Continuum. Hughes, Debra // Neurology Reviews;Aug2007, Vol. 15 Issue 8, p62
The article presents a study which investigates the correlation between olfactory deficits and the increased incidence of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) which is a precursor to Alzheimer's disease. The study included 589 community-dwelling older adults who did not have cognitive impairment. The...
One for the scrapbooks. // Healthy Years;Nov2015, Vol. 12 Issue 11, p3
The article offers tips on creating a scrapbook to enhance memory and mood in people with Alzheimer's disease and dementia. The use of the scrapbook as a creative exercise to help active seniors preserve cognitive function is explained. Start-up recommendations in creating the scrapbook...
Share
More
Read the Article
Courtesy of THE LIBRARY OF VIRGINIA
Sorry, but this item is not currently available from your library.
Read similar articles courtesy of your library
Try another library?
Sign out of this library
Other Topics
Afghanistan
AIDS / HIV
Alternative Energy Exploration
Arctic Drilling
Bank Bailout
Blogging
Border Walls
Bullying in Schools
Campaign Finance Reform
Carbon Offsetting
Economic Stimulus Package
Endangered Species
Executive Pay
Global Warming
Globalization
Gun Control
Immigration Restrictions
Intelligent Design
Iraq War
Israel & the Palestinians
Literacy
Medicare
North Korea
Nuclear Power
Obesity
Pirates
Sex Education in Schools
Social Networking Sites
Stem Cell Research
Universal Health Care
Vegetarianism
War on Terror
Are You A Librarian?
Are You A Publisher?
About EBSCO
What is EBSCOhost Connection?
How it works
FAQ
Contact EBSCO
TODAYS'S POPULAR TOPICS
Social Networking Sites
Carbon Offsetting
Literacy
Medicare
Blogging
Bullying in Schools
Globalization
North Korea
Campaign Finance Reform
AIDS / HIV
TODAY'S MOST READ ESSAYS
An Overview of Relations Between Israel and Palestine
History of Pirates and Piracy
An Overview of Obesity in the U.S.
History of Border Walls in the U.S. and Around the World
History and Origin of HIV/AIDS
Overview of the Gun Control Debate
An Overview of Social Networking Websites
An Overview of Nuclear Power Plants
History of Nuclear Energy Production
Current Situation in the Afghan War
TODAY'S POPULAR ARTICLES
Mac OS X Server.
Japanese Hansatsu.
Insight: Case Study - Scholl gets YouTube star to sell foot file.
ISACA CYBERSECURITY NEXUS TOOLS HELP CYBER PROS.
Forming the Performers: How Christians Can Use Canon Sense to Bring Us to Our (Theodramatic) Senses.
No holidays for dealers.
Dealers unimpressed by revamped BSE.
Deal of the month: Sinopec.
reviews in brief.
XXX,OOO.
© 2019 by EBSCO Publishing. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use