Anemia Causes, Symptoms & Home Remedies for Natural Cure
Fogut
Home
Health
Women’s Health
Fitness
Contact
Search for:
Anemia Causes, Symptoms & Home Remedies for Natural Cure
Posted on July 6, 2017 April 21, 2018 Updated on 21 April, 2018 by fogut
Anemia is a disease (iron deficiency) in which hemoglobin or count of red blood cells are less than normal. A patient who suffers from anemia is being called as anemic. It is most commonly occurs due to iron deficiency.
Contents
Causes of Anemia
Massive Blood Loss
Iron Deficiency
Chronic Disease
Anemia Due to Pregnancy
Nutritional Deficiency Anemia
Anemia Related to Kidney Disease
Pernicious Anemia
Sickle Cell Anemia
Major Symptoms of Anemia
Natural Home Remedies to Get Rid of Anemia
Intake Vitamin C
Superfoods
Seafood
Peanut butter
Eggs
Tomatoes
Whole Grain Bread
Beetroot
Honey
Nuts
Soybeans
Pomegranate
Spinach
Molasses and Dried Fruits
Yogurt with Turmeric
Drink more Water and Juices
Causes of Anemia
Numerous pathological conditions can cause anemia. Following are the common causes of anemia-
Massive Blood Loss
Massive blood loss due to periods (menstrual cycle) or injury may cause anemia. Blood loss is the primary or common cause of anemia. When blood loss excessively the body jerks water from tissue outside the bloodstream in a result to remain the blood vessels filled.
You may feel dizzy or weak due to excessive bleeding.
If blood gradually loses, you may feel exhausted, drowsy or sleepy in this condition.
Sometimes, this type of condition requires iron supplements and transfusions.
Some tests like urine, blood, and stool are needed to determine the cause of bleeding.
Iron Deficiency
Iron deficiency anemia is when the level hemoglobin in our body is less than normal. It is the standard category of anemia. Iron deficiency usually take place when your body has a lack of mineral iron. It occurs because of heavy bleeding, digestive issues, and poor diet and blood donations. When your body lacks iron, you may feel tiredness, drowsiness, and weakness. You may undoubtedly experience some common symptoms of iron deficiency-
Extreme tiredness.
The problem in breathing.
Chest pain.
Fast heartbeat.
Brittle nails.
Swelling in eyes.
Cold hands and feet.
Soreness in the tongue.
Chronic Disease
Chronic disease or chronic inflammation is a type of anemia. Chronic disease of anemia can contain with various hidden disorders including chronic diseases such as inflammation disease, cancer, and kidney disease, autoimmune and definite infections. Chronic disease is usually very light you may not observe or experience any signs and symptoms. Usually, common symptoms may occur, which include-
Headache.
Neutral skin (pale).
Shortness of breath.
Tiredness.
Anemia Due to Pregnancy
After pregnancy, your body releases more blood to strengthen the growth of the child. In this condition or stage, your body requires iron supplements, vitamins, and other nutrients to increase the quantity of red blood cells or hemoglobin. Having a slight anemia during pregnancy is common. Remember, if your body lacks iron and vitamins then it may cause severe anemia. Some general symptoms of anemia, you recognize at the time of pregnancy.
The problem in concentrating.
A severe headache.
Dizziness.
Weakness.
Faintness.
Rapid breathing.
Yellowish nails, skin, and eyes.
Nutritional Deficiency Anemia
Nutritional or vitamin deficiency is a type of anemia. When your body lacks vitamins and nutrients, It results in less number of red blood cells in your body. Nutritional deficiency may be harmful to the large extent. You might have observed some common symptoms of nutritional deficiency anemia-
Unstable movements.
Muscle pain.
Fatigue body.
Weight loss.
Numbness.
Changes in personality.
Anemia Related to Kidney Disease
Anemia associated with kidney disease occurs when your body has less hemoglobin than normal. It usually happens when your kidneys do not work satisfactorily and not helping your body in producing hemoglobin it requires. Anemia is the major or most common side effect of chronic kidney disease. Some major causes of anemia with chronic kidney disease-
Chronic bleeding.
Hypothyroidism
Lack of iron and vitamins.
Hemolysis.
Malignancy.
Aluminum toxicity.
Bone marrow infiltration.
Chronic infections.
Hyperparathyroidism.
Pernicious Anemia
In many cases, Pernicious anemia occurs when the body has autoimmune problems. It is the anemia which may lead to death. Pernicious anemia can help properly. It may also affect nervous system as well. PA can also take place in thyroid disorders or may be already present. Pernicious anemia has significant signs and symptoms-
The problem in walking.
Impaired urination.
Muscle weakness.
Clumsiness.
Chronic inflammation.
Body pain and weakness in muscles.
Dizziness.
Sickle Cell Anemia
Sickle cell anemia to increase as sickle cell disease. It help when the set of blood disorder inherited from parents genes. It usually changes the shape of red blood cells. It is a genetic disease; a patient may be heterozygous or homozygous. You may have experienced certain symptoms of sickle cell anemia.
Pain in bones and muscles.
Sudden chest pain.
Blood in urine or dark yellow urine.
Delayed puberty.
Dehydration
Dizziness and fatigue.
Abnormal breakdown of hemoglobin.
Yellowish skin, eyes, and nails.
Major Symptoms of Anemia
Following are the major symptoms of anemia which often experienced by an anemic-
Regular palpitations.
Lack of energy.
Constant fatigue.
Dullness in eyes and skin.
Feeling weak every time.
Being moody.
Natural Home Remedies to Get Rid of Anemia
Consume healthy vitamins, nutrients, proteins, carbohydrates, which helps to produce red blood cells in your body. There are some natural remedies to enhance or make red blood cells in your body or to get rid of anemia.
Intake Vitamin C
Anemia usually weakens or destroy the immune system. You may be likely to suffer from inflammation diseases and infections. Consume necessary amount of vitamin C foods to overcome anemia. It helps to absorb iron. You should intake orange and lemon juices which contain the maximum amount of iron. These juices enhance hemoglobin as well as immune system.
Superfoods
Consume an adequate amount of fresh green vegetables that helps to combat anemia. Consume excessive amount of healthy super foods like seafood, peanut butter, eggs, meat, honey, whole grain bread, tomatoes, beetroot, nuts, spinach, dark chocolates, dry fruits, molasses, soybean, pomegranate and red meat.
Seafood
Generally, seafood has a significant amount of iron. You must eat fish like salmon and tuna which helps you to speedily repair cells. It also cures inflammatory diseases and iron deficiency.
Peanut butter
Consume food which contains peanut butter with orange juice each morning. You can also make sandwiches with peanut butter.
Eggs
Eggs usually contain omega-3 fatty acid. They are also an excellent package of antioxidants, vitamins, and proteins help to replace those vitamins lost at the time of anemia. Consume eggs with orange juice helps to strengthen joints, bones, and muscles.
Tomatoes
Drink a glass of tomato juice daily in the morning or consume at least one tomato to enhance the power of your body that helps to increase the level of iron.
Whole Grain Bread
Whole grain bread consists of iron and many other nutrients. A slice of bread may help to fulfill 6% need of iron every day. It also boosts the energy level as well.
Beetroot
Eat beetroot with salad or drink a glass of beetroot juice every morning. Beetroot helps to reactivate red blood cells in our body. It also purifies blood as well.
Honey
Honey is a perfect package of copper and magnesium. It increases the number of red blood cells. You need to add one tablespoon of honey in lemon juice and drink it every day in the morning to overcome anemia.
Nuts
Genuinely, pistachio and apricot nuts contain an amount of iron. Eat these nuts daily in the morning to boost up an iron level in your body. Eat them as a breakfast or after a snack.
Soybeans
All the beans have an enormous amount of iron. You just need to immerse beans in warm water for the whole night so as to lessen the content of compound which hinders the level of iron. Usually, Soybean is the one that contains a considerable amount of iron which helps to boost up an iron level in our body.
Pomegranate
Pomegranate is the best fruit which helps to reactivate red blood cells (RBCs) and also purifies blood as well. It usually helps to cure dizziness, weakness, tiredness, yellowish skin, eyes and nails. Consume pomegranate or pomegranate juice in breakfast daily.
Spinach
Spinach is green vegetable help to fulfill the need of iron in the body. It also boosts up the immune system. Soak spinach with water and consume it as salad or else prepare soup and drink it every day.
Molasses and Dried Fruits
Molasses contains loads of iron. It helps to cure the iron deficiency. Dried fruits like dates, peaches, apricots, raisins contain an enormous amount of iron and vitamins C which enhance energy level and immune system as well. It also cures the iron deficiency.
Yogurt with Turmeric
Yogurt and turmeric are beneficial to overcome yellowish skin, eyes, and nails (Kapha- type anemia). Make a mixture of yogurt and turmeric, consume that mixture every morning and after. This remedy will help to reduce paleness in your skin, eyes, and nails.
While anaemia can be mild, it can cause weakness, light-headedness,dizziness and heart palpitations. Learn more about anaemia related health conditions at MyMed.com.
Drink more Water and Juices
Drink purified water and fresh juices to boost energy level or to increase blood flow. Drinking water and juices helps to reduce dehydration and iron deficiency. Mainly beetroot and pomegranate juices helps to produce hemoglobin or red blood cells in body. Pomegranate and beetroot are healthy juices that contains zinc, copper, iron, magnesium, and potassium to increase blood flow. It also purifies the blood. Consume both the juices regularly to feel energetic and more active.
In this content, we share all the valuable information about anemia. This content will make you aware of causes, signs, symptoms, and remedies of anemia disease. Taking up with these home remedies can help you to overcome anemia disease easily with no side effects.
Posted in Health
Related Posts
Home Remedies for Osteoporosis
Home Remedies for Pregnancy Rhinitis
Remedies to Get Rid of Pimple On Lips
Health Benefits of Spirulina
How to Fight Stress, Anxiety & Depression Naturally
Home Remedies to Treat an Earache Naturally
Latest Posts
Know How You Assert A Part Of Yourself When You Dress
Why you Should not Trust Instagram’s Fitness Images?
How having good Household Items can Keep you Happy?
What Role do Clean Houses Play in our Health?
Why is staying Healthy so Complicated?
Top Posts
Types of Thick White Discharge
Home Remedies for Abortion
Get to Know How to Enlarge Penis Naturally at Home
Some Natural Methods to Grow Taller Fast
Clear Watery Discharge: Everything You Need to Know About
Copyright © 2017 – 2018 Fogut Media. All rights reserved. Our website content does not intend to replace medical consultation. You must see yourself a doctor for identification of the nature of an illness. Privacy Policy.
Privacy & Cookies: The website uses cookies to give you better experience. By using this website you are agree to our cookies & privacy policy. To know more visit here: Privacy Policy
About Us
Write for Us
Careers
Advertise with Us
Contact
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Terms of Use
Html Sitemap
XML Sitemap
© 2019 Fogut. All Rights Reserved. |
Home
Health
Women’s Health
Fitness
Contact
X
X