Papamoa Pines :: What is Croup ?
Toggle navigation
Papamoa Pines
Our Services
Our Team
Vaccination Centre
News
Resource Centre
Contact Us
Domain Road Clinic
Palm Springs Clinic
What is Croup ?
Resource Centre
June 13, 2016
Infants and toddlers between 6 months and 3 years of age are at most risk of getting croup – but children who are younger or older can also get it.
Children with croup can become seriously ill.
If your child has croup, they’ll probably have the symptoms of a cold for a few days, then develop a seal-like barky cough, hoarseness and noisy breathing.
Croup usually lasts for 5–6 days and is more common in colder weather.
Many children who come in contact with the viruses that cause croup will not get croup, but will just have symptoms of a cold.
There are 2 types of croup: viral and spasmodic.
Viral croup
This begins with a cold that develops into a barky cough.
The child’s airway will swell, making breathing noisy and more difficult.
Your child may have a temperature as high as 40°C.
The greatest danger is if your child’s windpipe swells so much that they cannot breathe.
Spasmodic croup
This type of croup causes spasms that occur during the night and early morning.
Epiglottitis
This is a form of croup caused by Haemophilus influenzae (Hib). It is now rare due to immunisation, but can be very serious. It may look similar to croup, but the child may look unwell and feverish.
Your child will wake up, gasping for breath, within a few hours of going to bed.
During the spasms, you’ll hear hoarseness and a barky cough.
You might also hear a rasping noise (called ‘stridor’) when your child breathes in.
The spasms usually don’t occur during the day – and your child may seem better in their breathing and hoarseness during the day as well.
When croup is serious
Take your child to the nearest emergency department or call 111 immediately if:
they seem to be struggling to breathe (worse than the noisy breathing)
they appear extremely anxious or frightened, or look blue
they’re dribbling and cannot swallow
they cannot speak
their chest sinks in when trying to breathe in
they make a whistling or crowing sound while breathing in.
Self care
If your child is upset, cuddle them in your lap and try to keep them calm (reading them a story might help). If they’re upset, it can make their breathing worse.
If it’s cold outside, open a window or door so your child can breathe the cold air – make sure they’re dressed warmly so they don’t get chilled.
If they have a sore throat, give them a cool drink to sip on – this can help soothe the throat.
You can give your child paracetamol if they’re in pain or are miserable with fever. Make sure to follow the dosage instructions on the package – taking more than the recommended dose is dangerous.
Keep your child calm and don’t panic. If your child has serious croup and needs to go to hospital, it is safest to go by ambulance.
Call Healthline 0800 611 116 if you are unsure what you should do.
Note: We no longer recommend using steam for croup – there is no evidence it actually helps, and in some cases children have been badly burned by the hot water.
How croup spreads
Croup is contagious (catching) for 4–6 days, until the fever settles.
It spreads through the air when people with croup sneeze or cough.
Immunisation against Haemophilus influenzae (Hib) significantly reduces the risk of epiglottitis.
Keep your child at home and away from other children and adults if they’re coughing or sneezing.
Your child can return to day care or school after the fever is gone and they’re feeling better.
Back to Resource Centre
Scan your skin
Paracetamol calculator
WORKPLACE DRUG TESTING CLINIC
Drug Information
2016 Travel Questionnaire
Appointments
What is Croup ?
Dengue fever Alert - BALI
General Childhood Conditions
What is MEASLES
Immunisation
Management of a sore Throat
Cornerstone Accreditation
Antibiotic Resistance
Gluten Sensitive?
Allergies?
Cultural Awareness
Coronary heart disease
PROSTATE CANCER
Meningoccocal Disease
OPENING HOURS
53 Domain Road, Papamoa
Monday - Friday 8.00AM to 5.00PM
Saturday 9.00AM to 12.00PM - appointments to be booked on day only
Sunday Closed
PH +64 7 542 2450
Fax +64 7 542 2456
info@papamoapines.co.nz
Papamoa Pines, Palm Springs
3 Palm Springs Boulevard, Papamoa
Monday - Friday 8.00AM to 5.00PM
Saturday - Sunday Closed
PH + 64 7 2811 406
Fax + 64 7 2811 408
adminpsprings@pappines.co.nz
HEADLINES
travel clinic FAQ
February 22, 2017
Scan your skin
February 27, 2017
Welcome Dr Liam Tranter
July 25, 2018
NEED AN APPOINTMENT?
To make an appointment simply select which clinic you prefer, and use the contact details on the left.
Or if you prefer you can use one of our online contact forms, just click here for Domain Road or click here for Palm Springs
If you require after hours treatment please call Accident and Healthcare on 577 0010
The Fine Print
Here are some quick links to our terms and conditions for the use of our website, if you have any questions or need any further information please do not hesitate to contact us.
Health Information Privacy Policy
Website Terms of Use
Website Privacy Policy
© 2019 Papamoa Pines. All Rights Reserved.