What home remedies can help with a runny nose?
Home || Contact Us || Help Registering and Participating || Disclaimer
Please Note: THIS FORUM IS PATIENT MODERATED AND IS NOT CONNECTED TO ANY CLINIC OR DOCTOR. IF YOU WISH TO CONTACT A CERTAIN DOCTOR OR CLINIC, PLEASE LOOK IN THE ASK THE DOCTOR SECTION FOR DOCTOR OR CLINIC PHONE NUMBERS AND EMAIL ADDRESSES.
SeaChange now offers CBD Oil
Barbara and Jeannine's Book
Bea Luis Memorial
Register
Help
Remember Me?
What's New?
Articles
Forum
New Posts
FAQ
Calendar
Community
Groups
Forum Actions
Mark Forums Read
Quick Links
Today's Posts
View Site Leaders
Blogs
Advanced Search
Forum
Other Forums
Off the topic
What home remedies can help with a runny nose?
If this is your first visit, be sure to check out the FAQ by clicking the link above. You may have to register before you can post: click the register link above to proceed. To start viewing messages, select the forum that you want to visit from the selection below.
Results 1 to 1 of 1
Thread: What home remedies can help with a runny nose?
Thread Tools
Show Printable Version
Search Thread
Advanced Search
Display
Linear Mode
Switch to Hybrid Mode
Switch to Threaded Mode
02-22-2018, 02:46 PM #1
barbara
View Profile
View Forum Posts
Private Message
View Blog Entries
View Articles
Pioneer Founding member
Join Date
May 2007
Posts
13,180
Blog Entries
5
What home remedies can help with a runny nose?
Medical News Today
22 February 2018 By Dan Wessels	Reviewed by Stacy Sampson, DO
A runny nose can be one of the most annoying symptoms of the common cold. Thankfully, there are several natural and home remedies to try.
In this article, we look at the following ways to stop a runny nose:
hot drinks
hot steam inhalation
hot baths
neti pots
capsaicin
We also look at the evidence supporting these remedies and list some tips for coping with a runny nose.
Five ways to stop a runny nose
1. Having a hot drink
A hot drink may help a runny nose caused by a cold.
A hot drink is a traditional, well-known remedy for a cold. In fact, there is some science to back up this home treatment.
A 2009 study published in Rhinology found that drinking a hot beverage helped to reduce the symptoms of a cold.
The study noted that the effect might be mainly psychological, but it also identified a physical reaction. The hot drink stimulated a nerve linked to the oral and nasal cavities, which may explain the relief of cold symptoms.
2. Hot steam inhalations
There are different ways to perform a hot steam inhalation, but the basic idea is the same. A person adds herbs or essential oils to hot water, leans over the water, and breathes in the steam.
A 2015 study published in the Journal of Dental and Medical Sciences looked at ways steam inhalations containing various additives helped to treat symptoms of the common cold.
The study found that symptoms improved faster, and more effectively, with inhalations than without.
3. A hot bath
A person can likely get some of the benefits of steam inhalation while soaking in a hot bath.
Resting in a hot bath will naturally lead to inhaling some steam, while also helping to relax the muscles of the body.
4. Neti pots
A neti pot is a more complicated method of relieving a runny nose, although studies have show it may be effective.
A neti pot is a device that looks like a small teapot. People use it to flush out the nose and sinuses.
To use a neti pot, a person should lean over the sink, tilt their head sideways, and pour water from the pot into one nostril until the pot is empty.
If done right, the water will be released from the opposite nostril. The person should then refill the pot and repeat the process on the other side.
Neti pots may seem like a strange concept, and they are a bit messier than nasal sprays. However, they can be effective at clearing up a runny nose. Various brands are available to purchase online.
A 2009 study in The Journal of Family Practice found that "large-volume, low-pressure irrigation," such as that achieved using a neti pot, was more effective than nasal spray at improving the investigated nasal sinusitis symptoms, including a runny nose.
5. Chili nasal spray or spicy food
A 2016 review published in Current Allergy and Asthma Reports found that nasal spray containing capsaicin — the compound that gives chili peppers their heat — could effectively treat non-allergic rhinitis. This condition causes a runny nose, among other symptoms.
Spicy food can initially make a runny nose worse. However, the authors noted that capsaicin is unique among natural irritants because the mild irritation it causes is followed by a long-lasting period during which symptoms significantly improve.
While capsaicin nasal spray has proven effective, people are not advised to make their own at home, using chili powder. Tested brands are available to purchase online.
A person with a runny nose may also benefit from eating the spiciest food they can handle. The runny nose is likely to get worse during the meal, but any sinus congestion may improve shortly after the meal is finished.
Tips for coping with a runny nose
Soft, moisturizing tissues may help to relieve pain caused by raw skin around the nose.
The following are some straightforward tips to help clear up a runny nose and make the whole experience less unpleasant:
Use soft, essential oil-infused tissues. One of the most irritating parts of having a runny nose is rubbing the skin raw by continually wiping it. Using extra-soft, essential oil-infused tissues may soothe raw skin and prevent further irritation. These tissues are also available online.
Use the most effective remedies just before bed. Sleep is essential for mood and overall health, not least when recovering from a cold. Use the most effective treatments at bedtime, to ensure a restful night.
Focus on relaxing at home until the problem clears up. It might be hard to enjoy a social event while feeling self-conscious about a runny nose. Viewing the symptom as a reason to stay home and focus on recovery can be helpful.
When to see a doctor
A runny nose is typically not a medical emergency. However, it can be a symptom of certain chronic or acute conditions, such as a sinus infection or rhinitis.
If a runny nose does not begin to improve after a few days, it may be a good idea to consult a doctor, especially if the person is also experiencing flu-like symptoms.
First treatment in 2007. Pioneering ever since.
Barbara
Reply With Quote
Quick Navigation Off the topic Top
Site Areas
Settings
Private Messages
Subscriptions
Who's Online
Search Forums
Forums Home
Forums
In the Spotlight
Meeting Hall
Lobby - Introductions
Patient Reviews
General Discussion
Your Submitted Comments on "The Niche" & Other Venues Not Posted by Site Administrator
International Cellular Medicine Society (ICMS) News Archive
Caregivers
Diseases / Stem Cell Treatments
Pulmonary Disease
Cardiac/Stroke issues
Orthopedics
Neurological Disease
Cerebral Palsy
Autism
Multiple Sclerosis
ALS
Spinal Cord Injuries
Parkinsonism
Alzheimer's
Charcot Marie Tooth Disorder
Cancers
Other Issues and Diseases also treated with Stem Cells
General Stem Cell Discussion
Consultation Corner
Ask the Doctor
Diet and Nutrition
Press Releases - News Stories
Research News
New Products - New Therapies
Legislation - Regulation
Clinical Trials
News Bazaar
Company posted information/promotional materials/Press Releases
Other Forums
Support and Announcements
Forum usage 101
Off the topic
« Previous Thread | Next Thread »
Posting Permissions
You may not post new threads
You may not post replies
You may not post attachments
You may not edit your posts
BB code is On
Smilies are On
[IMG] code is On
[VIDEO] code is On
HTML code is Off
Forum Rules
Copyright 2007 - 2011 Stem Cell Pioneers
-- vB4 Default Style -- Default Mobile Style
Contact Us
Stem Cell Pioneers
Archive
Top
All times are GMT -6. The time now is 10:09 AM.
Powered by vBulletin® Version 4.2.5
Copyright © 2019 vBulletin Solutions Inc. All rights reserved.
Stem Cell Pioneers