What Are the Benefits of Zinc for Women? | Healthy Eating | SF Gate
SFGate
Healthy Eating
by Demand Media
News
Sports
Business
A&E
Food
Living
Travel
Columns
More
Less
Cars
Jobs
Real Estate
Find&Save
Skip to main content.
Healthy Eating
Diet
Weight Management
by Leaf Group
Healthy Eating
Diet
Weight Management
What Are the Benefits of Zinc for Women?
Written by Erin Coleman, R.D., L.D.; Updated December 12, 2018
What Are the Benefits of Zinc for Women?
Related Articles
1 Role of Zinc in Sex Hormones
2 How Much Zinc for an Adult Female?
3 Can a Man Benefit From Large Daily Doses of Zinc?
4 Zinc Requirements for Men Over Age 60
Zinc is an essential mineral that women require on a daily basis to stay healthy. Although zinc is needed in small amounts, a zinc deficiency can cause some serious and unpleasant side effects – like hair loss, problems with your sense of taste and smell or poor wound healing. Good sources of zinc include red meat, chicken, seafood, dairy products, legumes and nuts. According to the Office of Dietary Supplements, women need 8 milligrams of zinc each day; 11 milligrams if they are pregnant and 12 milligrams of zinc daily if they are breastfeeding.
Immune Booster
Getting recommended amounts of zinc each day can help women keep their immune systems strong. Eating too little zinc can impair immune function -- making you more likely to get sick -- and delay wound healing. If you don’t regularly eat zinc-rich foods, ask your doctor about taking a zinc supplement; most multivitamin supplements contain zinc.
Protein Synthesis
Your body uses zinc to make proteins. This means zinc plays a key role in building and maintaining lean muscle mass. In fact, a zinc deficiency can cause a poor appetite and unintentional weight loss. Keeping up with your daily zinc requirements will help you look and feel your best, and when coupled with a regular exercise program can help you achieve – or maintain – a toned, defined figure.
Healthy Babies
Zinc is a key nutrient during pregnancy, essential for proper growth and development in a fetus. Unfortunately, many women of childbearing age are deficient in zinc. Meeting your zinc requirements means you have a slightly lower risk of delivering a preterm baby, according to a review published in a 2015 edition of the “Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews.”
Strong Bones
Getting a daily dose of zinc may help prevent osteoporosis in women, especially those who have gone through menopause. MedlinePlus reports that low zinc intakes in women are linked to lower bone density, and taking zinc supplements may help decrease bone loss in postmenopausal women. A 2016 review of studies on zinc and bone density in men and women with osteoporosis by the The Cochrane Collaboration confirms these findings. The group reports that zinc supplements for 12 to 18 months significantly improved bone density in the lumbar spine and hip.
References (7)
MedlinePlus: Zinc in Diet
Office of Dietary Supplements: Zinc
PubMed Health: Zinc Supplementation for Improving Pregnancy and Infant Outcome
MedlinePlus: Zinc
Journal of International Medical Research: Magnesium, Zinc and Copper Status in Osteoporotic, Osteopenic and Normal Post-Menopausal Women
Cochrane Library: Zinc Supplementation for Improving Pregnancy and Infant Outcome
Cochrane Library: Treatment for Osteoporosis in People With ß-Thalassaemia
About the Author
Erin Coleman is a registered and licensed dietitian. She also holds a Bachelor of Science in dietetics and has extensive experience working as a health writer and health educator. Her articles are published on various health, nutrition and fitness websites.
bibliography-icon icon for annotation tool Cite this Article
Choose Citation Style
MLA
APA
Chicago (B)
Coleman,, Erin. "What Are the Benefits of Zinc for Women?" Healthy Eating | SF Gate, http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/benefits-zinc-women-7995.html. 12 December 2018.
Coleman,, Erin. (2018, December 12). What Are the Benefits of Zinc for Women? Healthy Eating | SF Gate. Retrieved from http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/benefits-zinc-women-7995.html
Coleman,, Erin. "What Are the Benefits of Zinc for Women?" last modified December 12, 2018. http://healthyeating.sfgate.com/benefits-zinc-women-7995.html
Copy Citation
Note: Depending on which text editor you're pasting into, you might have to add the italics to the site name.
Related Articles
How Much Zinc Should a Guy Have Daily?
How Much Zinc a Day?
Zinc When Nursing
Is an Iron Supplement Bad for You?
What Is the Mineral Zinc Good For?
What Is the Supplement Zinc Good For?
More Articles
A High Zinc Diet
Should the Supplement Zinc Be Given to Teenagers?
How Much Zinc Is Too Much for Humans?
Is Too Much Zinc Bad for You?
Natural Sources of Zinc for Men
What Does a Lot of Zinc Do to You?
Return to top ➡
About
Contact
Connect
Subscribe
Privacy Notice Your California Privacy Rights Interest Based Ads Terms of Use Our Company The Press: Guide to Wine Country Green State: Cannabis Culture Careers Advertising
Customer Service Newsroom Contacts
Sign up for Email Alerts Facebook Twitter Pinterest Google Instagram
SFChronicle.com App e-edition The Chronicle Archives Subscription Offers Store Subscriber Services
Copyright 2018 Hearst Newspapers, LLC