Light Therapy | Light Therapy Review
Light Therapy Review
Red light therapy, light therapy products, light therapy reviews
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Home/
Archives /
Light Therapy
Archives For Light Therapy
How Light Therapy Can Get You Through Daylight Savings
What is Daylight Savings Time?
Daylight Savings Time, commonly referred to as daylight savings, is the practice of setting clocks forward one hour in the summer and then one hour back again in the fall. A simple way to remember the practice is summed up in the phrase, “spring forward, fall back.” If you grew up in a hemisphere that practices Daylight Savings, this is nothing new. However, fewer than 40% of countries in the world practice Daylight Savings. The practice occurs so that we can supposedly make better use of natural daylight but the difference in light is most recognizable in areas that are a specific distance from the equator. While we understand the concept, our brain’s usually do not.
Once you set your clocks back in the fall, it is very easy for your circadian rhythm to get thrown off. It’s pretty difficult to feel balanced and energized when the sun sets at 4:30 pm. Our brains are very perceptive when it comes to sunlight. Darkness means more melatonin being released. This can be a slippery slope.
How Can Light Therapy Help?
Being affected by seasonal changes such as Daylight Savings Time is a condition called Seasonal Affective Disorder, or SAD. As we mentioned earlier, our brains are extremely sensitive when it comes to light. More than most people recognize, actually.
The symptoms of Seasonal Affective Disorder Include:
Irritability
Tiredness or low energy
Problems getting along with other people
Hypersensitivity to rejection
Heavy, “leaden” feeling in the arms or legs
Oversleeping
Appetite changes, especially a craving for foods high in carbs
Weight gain
Depression
Trouble sleeping (Insomnia)
Weight loss
Poor appetite
Agitation or anxiety
(Symptoms lists from MayoClinic.org)
Seasonal Affective Disorder is often shoved under the rug and called the “winter blues.” But why suffer when you could change it? Light therapy is the magical cure! Well, it’s not really magic – but it works so well it kind of feels that way! Light therapy practices such as the use of a light box can help keep your circadian rhythm in sync with the world around you.
What Is Your First Step?
People suffering from SAD have a couple options for treatment when it comes to light therapy. One option is a light box. A light box provides a measured amount of light through fluorescent bulbs or panels. The light intensity is typically between 2,500 to 10,000 lux. The amount of light is different depending on what you deem necessary for your treatment. Typically, the amount of light would be equal to that of the amount of sunlight you are exposed to on a nice spring day. The light box helps regulate the internal clock in your mind, keeping your brain on track and your energy level high. The light box is typically small to medium sized, easy to carry, and fairly portable, depending on the seriousness of the depression. People undergoing the treatment set aside around 30 minutes a day, sometimes twice a day, and sit 12 to 24 inches away from the light box. You would then carry on with whatever you choose. You can read, knit, write, eat, talk on the phone, etc, while being careful not to look directly into the light.
For people who have trouble waking up in the morning, have not seen results with light therapy boxes, or want to combine two methods, dawn/dusk simulators are recommended. The devices have proven effective for people with mild to severe symptoms. The dawn/dusk simulator helps mimic the ideal lighting and darkness occurring outdoors. For example, if you have trouble waking up in the morning, the simulator can be set to slowly turn on at 8 a.m., or whatever time you choose. A bright light will appear in your bedroom, typically on a bedside table. The simulator leaves you feeling refreshed and ready for the day. Another scenario would be helping keep your biological clock on time by mimicking light throughout your day and then shutting down at the accurate outdoors time.
Daylight Savings Time is the number one trigger for Seasonal Affective Disorder. It’s a serious condition and can have a major effect your quality of life. Embrace light therapy. Change the stigma of daylight savings time!
Posted on December 16, 2017	In Daylight Savings Time, Depression, Insomnia, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Seasonal Affective Disorder, Sunlight
Finding New Uses for Light Therapy
When it comes to using light therapy as a form of treatment, it’s best to not rule anything out. Anything is possible – the sky seems to be the limit! While light therapy is most commonly used for two things – Seasonal Affective Disorder and skin conditions (such as acne) the options really do seem to endless and everything is being studied. If something as simple as light therapy could improve your quality of life, why wouldn’t you give it a go?
Light Therapy Has Always Existed…
Way back in the early 20th century, doctors moved patients’ beds to sunny balconies as a form of treatment for psoriasis and rickets. Did you know that in 1903, a physician named Niels Finsen won the Nobel Prize for inventing a giant lamp that treats skin tuberculosis, also known as Lupus? And back in the 1920s, athletes taking part in the Olympics bathed beneath UV rays before they raced in order to boost their performance.
These experts knew that the sun and man-made versions of light worked, but they were quickly pushed out of the market and replaced with electronics and medicine. While much of this push came from the fear of skin cancer due to the sun and lights, phototherapy has greatly improved in the last decade and that is no longer a concern.
Light therapy is finally regaining popularity and making it’s way into people’s homes all over the world as a harm-free, all natural form of treatment for a wide array of conditions! Consumers in the U.K. actually spent over $300 million on light therapy is 2016. How remarkable is that? Future Market Insights predicts the global market to grow nearly 5% annually in the next decade. This is just the beginning!
How It Works…
Just like plants going through photosynthesis, people have a reaction to light — an actual, scientifically proven, chemical reaction to light. Medscape published an article this year about the potential that light therapy has. In the article on its website, writer Lisa Marshall explains just how this chemical reaction to light works:
“When particles of light hit the skin, they’re absorbed by light-sensitive molecules inside cells, which kick-start a response. That response varies, depending on the wavelength, or color, of light and where it’s used.
For instance, when longer wavelength or visibly ‘red’ light hits the skin, it nudges mitochondria (the cell’s powerhouses) to make energy more efficiently and boost production of healing anti-inflammatories or disease-fighting antioxidants. The light is a ‘very mild form of stress that activates protective mechanisms in the cells,’ says Michael Hamblin, who’s a principal investigator at the Wellman Center for Photomedicine
If the light comes through the eye, it stimulates nerves that lead from the retina to the brain. That influences production of neurotransmitters like serotonin and dopamine, which affect mood, explains Raymond Lam, MD, a researcher from the department of psychiatry at the University of British Columbia. Shorter wavelength or visibly “blue” light is very good at making
you wakeful. When it enters the eye, it hinders production of melatonin, which helps with sleep.” (medscape.com)
New Uses…
Light therapy is very commonly marketed in magazines, on websites, with retailers, etc., as a useful form of treatment for conditions such as insomnia, Seasonal Affective Disorder, acne, wrinkles, more serious skin conditions, and more. But what else can this light do? That’s what we’re here to tell you about!
Skepticism is high when it comes to using light therapy for serious diseases, but Hamblin, who we discussed above, has been studying light therapy for 30 years and he is confident that with the right doses, wavelengths, and techniques, light therapy can treat disorders such as chronic pain, dementia, specific forms of cancer, severe migraines, and so much more!
What we’re trying to get to here is that if you are struggling with a physical or mental condition, discuss light therapy with your doctor. You may be able to solve your problems with an inexpensive, harm-free, non-invasive form of treatment in the comfort of your home. Does it get any better than that?
Posted on December 16, 2017	In Experiments, Light Therapy, Studies, Uncategorized
Light Therapy : Switching From Tanning Beds to Red Light Therapy!
Tanning beds are commonly associated with anti-aging and skin rejuvenation. However, when it comes to long term effects, tanning beds are not the way to go! While they may help clear some acne, promote energy, and makes you feel tan and young, they also promote skin cancer, wrinkles and fine lines. Red light therapy can help you with anti-aging and skin rejuvenation in a harm-free and natural way that actually reduces wrinkles and fine lines, treats acne, promotes energy and vibrant skin, and so much more! Plus, red light therapy can treat chronic pain and symptoms related to it! Red Light Therapy may be the new magical elixir…except this actually works.
Red Light Therapy For Cosmetic Purposes…
Red Light Therapy devices can be used to help slow down our natural cosmetic aging. Treatment can reduce fine lines and wrinkles while also tightening and firming the skin. Proper treatment can ridf age spots and hyper pigmentation, which usually occurs on the face, neck, and hands. There’s no need for face lifts when you can go the natural route. Red Light Therapy can also diminish blemishes and red spots, along with acne. Thought you could never get rid of those blackheads around your nose? Or those zits that keep showing up around your chin? How about those scars that acne left you with? Regularly scheduled treatment can help you say goodbye to those.
Red Light Therapy For Severe Conditions…
Medications always come with a large slew of side effects and everyone reacts differently. Red Light Therapy has proven to have few to no side affects while effectively treating serious conditions that people struggle with every day.
Proper light treatment can be used to treat skin problems you thought you would never get to say adios to. For example, burns and scars. Over time, Red Light Therapy can treat your skin and bring it back to its once undamaged self. It can also help with more serious conditions such as Rosacea, Eczema, Athlete’s Foot, Psoriasis, and more. If you are currently taking medication for any of these conditions or similar ones, it may be worth discussing Red Light Therapy with your doctor and finding a better option for your body.
Red Light Therapy For Pain…
It probably goes without asking, but who wants to take pain killers every day? They’re dangerous and make your stomach a wreck. An even better question: who can lead a happy life when living with chronic pain? The answer is no one.
Red Light Therapy is very commonly used for pain relief. It’s used in doctor’s offices all over. Athletes swear by it, chiropractor’s praise it, and it’ll be hard to find someone with a negative opinion on the matter. It’s gentle, drug-free, non-invasive, and 100% awesome. In most cases, it has proven extremely effective in reducing pains and aches. In some cases, Red Light Therapy has actually totally eliminated aches and pains.
Red Light Therapy can treat herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
Forms Of Red Light Therapy…
Red Light Therapy can be used in a few different forms. The first decision that needs to be made is whether treatment is preferred at home or not. This answer can rely on the severity of the condition, budget, or what is being treated on the body.
If possible, it will be easier and more cost effective to perform light therapy treatments at home. Doctor’s office light therapy sessions can be expensive as well as difficult to work into a daily schedule. If Red Light Therapy treatments are done at home, you can do them at your own convenience, have a one-time cost, and be performed as many times as deemed necessary. There are hand held devices that are great for treating acne. There are also pads and wraps that are great for muscle and joint relief. If space isn’t an issue, there are large panels that can be used to treat a vast area on the body.
Tanning salons have recently undergone major criticism, making them frowned upon and practically irrelevant in the past few years. The salons have caught up with the times and many of them have been replacing the bulbs in their tanning beds with proper Red Light Therapy bulbs. If you are looking for an all over body treatment, this may be a good option for you. It won’t be very cost effective, but lying on a bed once a week for a set amount of time could help reduce body acne, cellulite, wrinkles, etc. It can also help with aching muscles, severe conditions such as Fibromyalgia, arthritis, and more.
How It Works…
According to JustLuxe, a lifestyle and wellness website…
“Red light easily penetrates the skin, boosts circulation and brings more blood and nutrients to the area. It also stimulates vital collagen and elastin production. Collagen helps plump the skin, while elastin firms the skin. The red light is energizing and repairing damaged cells, stimulating collagen and elastin and giving the skin back its youthful look. Home devices for skin rejuvenation typically use visible red light at a wavelength of 660nm – That penetrates tissue to a depth of about 8-10 mm – Making it more beneficial for treating problems close to the surface of the skin.” (JustLuxe.com)
As for chronic pain and muscle and joint relief, infrared light is always used. This form of light penetrates deeper into the body and repairs cell components. The light also increases the production of endorphins. This blocks the chemicals that transmit pain. If you’re using an at-home treatment, the infrared light typically penetrates the skin at 880 nanometers at a depth of 30-40 millimeters. Devices or beds in doctors’ offices will likely be stronger because they can be more controlled.
A Word From The Experts…
“Penetrating red light is possibly the fundamental anti-stress factor for all organisms. The chronic deficiency of such light is, I think, the best explanation for the deterioration which occurs with aging.” –Ray Peat
“The important biological effects of red light were known even back in the 19th century, yet very few of the biologists seem to know about those findings nowadays. The knowledge of the physiological effects of light is mainly limited to blue light’s effects on circadian rhythm, yet the importance of red and near-infrared light is probably a more important topic for the public health. The general therapeutic usefulness of red light reminds me of the therapeutic uses of thyroid hormone, the topic about which I’ve written before. This connection is actually quite logical, considering that thyroid hormone also increases Cox activity, by increasing the cardiolipin concentration in the mitochondria.[76,77] Time will tell whether various treatments based on red and near-infrared light will gain popularity in the near future. But they should, because the study results are thoroughly so positive.” -Vladmir Heiskanen
Posted on August 30, 2017	In Chronic Pain, Color Light Therapy, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Light Therapy, Pain, Red Light Therapy, Skin Rejuvenation, Skin Treatments
New Light Therapy Device : The Valkee Human Charger LED Headset
Light therapy is new, innovative, harm-free, environmentally friendly and pretty much any other positive adjective you can think of. It is used by people all over the world and we really just can’t get enough of it. So when we find a new device, we just want to tell everyone about it! The Value HumanCharger LED Headset is blowing our minds right now and we can’t wait to tell you all about it. But before we get too deep, let’s get into the details of light therapy so you can really understand how the device works. Let’s dig in!!
Light Therapy:
Light therapy is a natural form of therapy that can treat a wide array of conditions and disorders through the healing power of light. With patience and an open mind, light therapy can change your life. It can be used to treat mental disorders such as seasonal affective disorder, depression, insomnia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. It is also used to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin rejuvenation, scar healing, chronic pain, joint and muscle pain, wound healing, and beyond.
How It Works:
The main concept of light therapy refers to using a form of artificial light, such as a light box or lamp, which mimics natural outdoor light. The use of artificial light affects the brain’s chemicals, such as serotonin, which are linked to mood and sleep. Light therapy also targets the same brain structures that anti-depressants are meant to target. This makes the potential endless for this all natural, drug-free, harm-free, cost-effective therapy!
Light therapy and our biological clock go hand-in-hand. Our body’s biological clock keeps our body rhythms and sleep-wake cycles in sync with the earth’s light-day cycles. Our biological clock, often referred to as our circadian rhythm, is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the hypothalamus, the hormone control center of the brain. Our biology is controlled by four neurotransmitters – dopamine, norepinephrine, glutamate, and GABA. These neurotransmitters are chemicals that enable function within our brain.
When our eyes are exposed to light, this part of our brain is activated and production of melatonin, a sleep hormone, is reduced. Reducing the production of melatonin in our brains allows for a stable increase of seratonin, the hormone that keeps us awake and gives us energy. Exposing our eyes to light also releases a wide array of hormones for other mental functions and affects our body’s temperature.
“Human beings evolved under the day-night cycle. It is the natural time-keeper that sets our biological clocks within our brains and organs throughout the body.”
-Richard Schwartz, MD, associate clinical professor of psychiatry, Harvard Medical School
We are more linked with the earth, the sun, and the moon than people in the medical field lead us to believe. Our brains are extremely susceptible to light, the weather, and the natural cycles of the earth. Strangely, we are programmed to cycle naturally every 24.2 hours. However, because we are so linked to the earth’s rhythms and our exposure to light on a daily basis, our cycle changes. We are so closely linked to the earth that it’s important to understand first and foremost, how our brains work in sync with the world around us.
The Valkee HumanCharger LED Headset:
The HumanCharger by Valkee does exactly what is sounds like. It charges humans! The light therapy device is a small hand held device with ear buds and its main intention is to treat symptoms that arise from seasonal affective disorder, jet lag, insomnia, depression, and other mental disorders. For many people the device has been effective in boosting energy levels, promoting a happier mood, aiding with sleep, promoting focus, and more!
The device is small, about the size of an iPod nano. The earbuds actually pump UV free blue-enriched white light into your ear canals. The little LEDs built into the tips of ear buds shine light directly into the canals which promotes the positive effects we mentioned! Crazy, right? No music coming out of these ear buds!
“HumanCharger has a unique and patented mechanism of action which stimulates the photosensitive proteins on the surface of the brain using a calibrated white light that passes through the ear canals. When these photosensitive areas of the brain are activated by HumanCharger, chemical compounds (Serotonin, Dopamine, and Noradrenaline) are released. The outcome: boosted energy levels, uplifted mood, and enhanced performance.”
(The-Gadgeteer.com)
Valkee HumanCharger Jetlag Headset
Amazon for $218.98
(Comes in black or white)
In The Box:
HumanCharger Main Unit
LED set earplugs
Ears tips in multiple sizes
Micro USB charging cable
How to guide
Posted on August 30, 2017	In Devices, Insomnia, Jetlag, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Seasonal Affective Disorder
Best Light Therapy Devices For A College Dorm
August is here, which means school is right around the corner! Sorry if we made you sad with that one. Whether you’re just starting college or you’re going back in the fall, we’re sure you know and understand how teeny tiny college dorm rooms can be. Packing your entire life into a 10 x 10 room is no joke and depending on what kind of light therapy device you use or want to start using, space is something to consider! We have compiled a list of some of our favorite light therapy devices that are perfect for small spaces. Whether you are trying to fight your acne, kick psoriasis’s butt, saying goodbye to rosacea, improve your mood, boost your energy, or anything else you can think of…we’ve got you covered.
Himalayan Salt Lamp:
Amazon for $36.00
Not only are Himalayan salt lamps a beautiful and a wonderful addition to any dorm room…they are also a form of light therapy. A genius, highly effective and scientifically incredible form of light therapy. Think we’re fans?
Natural Living Ideas said it best when sharing with their readers why they love Himalayan salt lamps so much. The website reads, “You don’t know what you’re missing if you’ve never owned a Himalayan salt lamp. It’s like having an open window – a softly glowing natural source of fresh, clean air – on your desk, in your living room, next to the bed, or anywhere you choose to put it.” (naturallivingideas.com)
The lamps have a wide range of benefits and we can’t understand why anyone wouldn’t want one! They treat Seasonal Affective Disorder, boost energy, mood, and concentration levels, cleanse and deodorize the air, reduce asthma and allergy symptoms, ease coughing, neutralize electromagnetic radiation, and reduce static electricity in the air. Oh and they’re one of the most environmentally friendly light sources on the market!
Lumie Bodyclock Wake-Up Light:
Amazon for $115.00
This sunrise and sunset simulator mimics the outdoor light and it’s timing with the day. You can set an alarm for the simulator to turn itself on and off in tune with your brain’s internal clock. For example, set the alarm to occur every day at 8 o’clock in the morning. The simulator will begin to mimic the sunrise inside your bedroom. This allows you to feel rested and ready for the day, waking up with the sun. The same goes for sunset. The “sun” can slowly begin to set as your day begins to wind down. It can also be used as just an alarm clock, an FM radio, and many other extra audio options. This product is highly rated and reviewed, having proved over and over to help keep your internal clock in check. The best part? It’s small! It’s perfect for the bedside table in any college dorm room.
Skin Care Options – LA Goodwind PH-1 Facial Massager Portable:
Amazon for $73.99
When it comes to skin care, it’s easy to buy every product, every cream, every device, and every extract on the market. Thanks to light therapy, you really only need one good device and a moisturizer. The LA Goodwind Facial Massager is small and portable and the perfect skin care treatment for any college student! It comes with three different heads — red, blue, and yellow — which makes your options endless! The red photon light will help you moisturize, reduce wrinkles and fine lines, restore elasticity, regenerate skin cells, and over all rejuvenate your skin. The blue photon light will fight acne, fade any scarring, reduce inflammation, kill bacteria in your pores, and lift and firm your skin. The yellow photon light improves dull skin tones, fades dark spots, and leaves your skin bright and pure! We weren’t kidding – your options are endless! The handheld device also includes a charging dock and protective goggles.
Posted on August 30, 2017	In Acne, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Products, Seasonal Affective Disorder, Skin Rejuvenation, Skin Treatments, Small Space, Travel
How To Use Light Therapy – Only The Facts!
As you can most likely tell by now, we’re very much into light therapy. We’re strong believers in the theory that it can treat just about anything that you don’t want in your mind or body. Light therapy is commonly used for a wide array of conditions and disorders, from cancer, to depression, to acne. Because the scope of what light therapy can treat is quite large, there are many different forms of treatment. There are many different devices, schedules, and factors to consider before beginning treatment. We have narrowed all of these factors down to 3 key elements: duration, timing, and intensity. These elements will exist regardless of the condition or disorder that you are attempting to treat – so listen close!
The duration of the light therapy treatments refers to how long the treatment is conducted and the scheduling of it. This can range from once a week for two months all the way to five days a week for a year depending on the condition. The timing of the light therapy treatment refers to how long the treatment is conducted. For example, sitting in front of light box for 30 minutes, or keeping a body wrap around the back for 15 minutes. The intensity of light therapy treatments refers to the power of the light therapy device being used. For example, using a light box with 10,000 lux in order to treat seasonal depression. When these three key elements are accurately combined, the world of light therapy will open up to you. The treatment’s potential will be endless and you will find yourself on a path to a happier and healthier life.
Determining These Three Key Elements…
Light Boxes & Depression:
Seasonal Affective Disorder is a form of depression that occurs each year during the fall and winter. The depression occurs due to the lack of sunlight as well as day light savings. These tough months can seriously affect our circadian rhythm, which is the internal clock inside our brains. Normal depression, which can occurs during any of the 12 months of the year, is also very sensitive to light. Using a light box in a situation such as this has been proven extremely effective. If someone is struggling with Seasonal Affective Disorder, a light box will lift their mood and remind their brain what time of day it is in order to keep mood levels high. If someone is struggling with depression, a light box can help by effectively elevating the chemicals in the brain that make us feel low.
After much research, the ideal light boxes have been created to fit individual’s lifestyles. Light boxes come in all different shapes and sizes as well as different intensity levels. The method of treatment may vary depending on the severity of the seasonal depression as well as the device being used. The stronger the light, the less time should be spent in front of the light box. Most people use light boxes for a minimum of 30 minutes each morning. A morning treatment can start your day off right and keep your body’s internal clock in check. However, some people don’t have time in the morning and choose to do the treatment at a different time. This is okay, too. The more effectively you can fit the treatment into your schedule, the more you will benefit from it. Below is a list of light sources and how much light we receive indoors versus outdoors. Also, note that lux is a standard unit of light flow.
Bright moonlight – 1 lux
Candle light at 20 cm – 10-15 lux
Street light – 10-20 lux
Normal living room lighting – 100 lux
Office fluorescent light – 300-500 lux
Sunlight, 1 hour before sunset – 1000 lux
Daylight, cloudy sky – 5000 lux
Daylight, clear sky – 10,000-20.000 lux
Bright sunlight – 20,000-100,000 lux
Outdoors on a sunny day is 50-100 times brighter than office or room lighting.
(List borrowed from PsychEducation.Org)
With that being said, most light boxes are around 10,000 lux. It’s important to keep cost in mind as well. The higher intensity of the device, the more expensive it is going to be. However, if Seasonal Affective Disorder or depression are controlling your life, cost becomes less important, don’t you think?
Dawn simulators have also been proven extremely effective in scenarios such Seasonal Affective Disorder and depression and they are noticeably cheaper than light boxes. A dawn simulator mimics the sunrise and sunset in your home through a small lamp. A timer must be set and when it’s time for you to start waking up, the simulator will turn on, mimicking the sunrise. This can be left on throughout the day and then slowly shut off as your day winds down. Most people only use the simulator to wake up, acting as an alarm clock. But for people working from home or spending a lot of time in their home during the fall and winter months, it may be effective and helpful to leave the simulator on throughout the day.
Light Boxes & Other Mood Disorders:
Light boxes and dawn simulators are also extremely effective when it comes to mood disorders such as insomnia and jet lag. Seasonal changes, depression, medications, and stress, can all trigger insomnia. And for people who travel a lot for work or pleasure, jet lag can quickly control your life.
Using a dawn simulator for both of these conditions can be extremely effective. If you’re struggling with insomnia, a dawn simulator will help you wake up and go to sleep at appropriate times, helping create a proper sleep schedule and breaking insomnia. Also, because insomnia is also a side effect of depression, you could kill two birds with one stone. Using a light box could help, too. It could elevate your mood, thus decreasing your stress levels, ultimately letting you fall asleep.
A dawn simulator can help fight off jet lag by keeping your body’s internal clock, or circadian rhythm in check. The simulator will help remind your brain the time of day and get you back to normal. A light box could definitely be effective too, if it is used in the morning. It will keep your brain in sync with the day, put a smile on your face and a glow on your skin.
Light Therapy Devices & Cosmetic Conditions:
Light therapy devices are commonly used to fight acne, slow down the cosmetic aging process, and even reverse hair loss. Handheld devices are typically used for acne and usually use either red or blue light. The device uses infrared lighting to penetrate into the pores on the skin to kill the bacteria that creates acne. The devices can also reduce the inflammation on the skin. This process can be done at home or in a dermatologist’s office. However, at-home treatments are going to be far less expensive. The devices are typically held to the skin for 10 minutes increments and the light is commonly between 400 and 1,000 nanometers in intensity.
Anti-aging is one of the most popular benefits of light therapy. Red light therapy is commonly use for skin rejuvenation. Treatments can reduce wrinkles, minimize fine lines, reduce cellulite markings, and leave you with a young and healthy glow. Handheld devices, similar or the same as the ones use for acne, can help achieve all of these goals. Red light therapy beds are also extremely common. Similar to a tanning bed, the person undergoing the treatment would lie in the bed for a certain amount of time on a set schedule. Typically 15 to 30 minutes one to several times a week.
Hair loss is treated with red light therapy as well. Whether the hair loss is due to old age, pattern baldness, stress, or a skin condition, red light is known to help. The patient will either use a handheld device or a light panel and set a schedule for themselves. The intensity is the same at the options discussed above.
Of course, for all of these things, reading instructions and taking your personal condition into account before beginning treatment will give you the best results.
Light Therapy Devices & Severe Skin Conditions:
Light therapy can help with more serious conditions, such as rosacea, eczema, athlete’s foot, psoriasis, and more. If you are currently taking medication for any of these conditions or similar ones, it may be worth discussing red light therapy with your doctor and finding a better option for your body. The treatments won’t take over your life and can be easily fit into your daily routine.
Red light therapy is used for just about all of these conditions. The same devices discussed above are used for these skin conditions. Blue light therapy is now being used to treat certain types of skin cancers and it is remarkable. A solution is put onto the skin and then blue light is applied to the cancerous areas. The light penetrates through to the skin, killing the cancerous matter.
As discussed before, depending on the severity and exact circumstance of the condition, the treatment’s length and intensity levels differ. These treatments, aside from skin cancer, can be done at home or at a doctor’s office.
Light Therapy & Pain:
Red light therapy is commonly used by athletes for pain management. Red light can treat aches and pains, reduce muscle and joint pain, help manage chronic pain, speed up the healing process for a wide array of injuries, and much more. Red light therapy beds, as discussed above, are commonly used for all of these conditions. Body wraps that use red infrared light are used as well and are much easier to fit to your lifestyle.
Starting A Treatment Plan…
As with all major lifestyle changes regarding your health, it is always important to first consult with a doctor who knows your history. The next step is to choose whether to do the treatments at home or in a doctor’s office. If possible, at-home treatments are usually the best route. Not only are they far less expensive, it is also easier to manage your time around the treatments if you only have to worry about your own schedule. It’s important to choose the right light therapy device. If it doesn’t fit your needs or schedule, you will never use it!
And lastly, but most importantly, keep an open mind. Light therapy is a natural form of therapy. If your mind is open and you stick to a schedule, light therapy can seriously be life changing. The treatment will not heal you over night, but if you are dedicated, you can witness wonders.
Posted on March 27, 2017	In Acne, Chronic Pain, Depression, Insomnia, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Seasonal Affective Disorder
Light Therapy & Healthy Skin
It’s that time of the year when our skin just can’t quite figure out what’s going on. At the start of your week it’s warm and sunny – your face is soaking up all that vitamin D. The sun makes you feel rejuvenated, youthful, and is actually providing you with physical benefits such as clearing acne. Then Wednesday rolls around and it’s freezing again, your skin couldn’t possibly absorb any more moisturizer, and your lips actually hurt to touch. By Friday it’s pouring rain, your makeup is running down your cheeks, and your acne is here to stay. This time of year is far from easy on our skin.
The key to perfect, acne and blemish free skin is consistency and health awareness. Eat well, wash your face every night, frequently change your pillow case, get plenty of vitamin D, then repeat. It’s hard to naturally find the right balance between all of these necessities, let alone actually add all of them to your daily routine. It’s okay to seek some extra help. Light therapy is that helping hand that anyone struggling with acne needs!
What Is Light Therapy?
Light Therapy is the process of using different forms of light to help reduce and/or treat a wide array of conditions and disorders. Dermatologists have been using light therapy on their patients for awhile now. And now, thanks to the convenience of new light therapy products, you can also use the treatment at home. During these tough winter months, light therapy can save your skin. It’s easy to use, harm-free, cost effective, and will keep your skin feeling and looking healthy and youthful! Light therapy has been taking down acne one pimply face at a time and showing winter who’s boss.
Light Therapy & Acne:
We all deal with them, those not so pretty blemishes on our cheeks, our noses, our foreheads, our backs, and other unfortunate places. Acne is a skin condition that occurs when hair follies plug with oil and dead skin cells. The bothersome condition results in pimples, blackheads, and bumps. It’s honestly a pretty difficult condition to conquer. Some people can lay off the greasy potato chips, change their pillow cases every single morning, and still end up with zits on their foreheads. Some people can apply all of the expensive creams in the world, try every homeopathic treatment, read every Pinterest article about how to get rid of their zits, and they will still struggle. Some people deal with terrible side effects with acne medications, or they just can’t afford to keep getting it refilled! This is where light therapy can kick acne right out of your life.
Exposing your skin to different forms of light therapy can help kill the bacteria in and on your skin that causes redness and swelling from acne. Using a form of Light Therapy will not be a quick kill for your zits. It will not just zap them away like a laser does. Instead, the treatment kills the bacteria that causes acne and reduces the amount of oil-producing glands on your skin. This gives your skin a chance to recover by itself, without harming or damaging it for the long run. Depending on what is needed and wanted, the treatment will either be using red light, blue light, or a combination of the two.
What We’ve Learned From The Sun:
If you’ve ever gone on vacation somewhere sunny and warm, or you spend a lot of time outdoors in the summer, you’ll notice the effect the sun has on your skin. Not only are you nice and naturally tan, but it can treat acne and reduce the blemishes on your skin. The red and blue wavelengths of sunlight are what really do the trick. They’re not always visible, and let’s face it, not all of us are lucky enough to live in paradise! We can’t all get natural acne treatments sitting on the beach every day! Sometimes we need a little help. For long term benefits, and for most of us who have to deal with seasonal changes, Light Therapy really does the trick. Light Therapy helps mimic the sun, but actually does a better job due to the fact that you can target the exact light that you want. Meaning you can choose red light, blue light, or both!
Red Light vs. Blue Light:
Red light and blue light each have different effects on the skin, both providing lots of benefits. Even more so when they’re combined!
Facing Acne, a website dedicated to helping people get the clear skin they desire, has a wonderful article explaining light therapy and its effects on acne. The article summarizes the differences between red light and blue light. The website explains,
“Red light reaches deep into the skin and activates hemoglobin. Red light treatment cuts off just enough of the blood supply of oil-producing sebaceous glands that pores don’t get quite as oily. Blue light penetrates pores and kills acne bacteria—but not all the pore’s acne bacteria. There are always some acne bacteria in the sebaceous gland that can’t be reached by blue light.” (FacingAcne.com)
“There are specific wavelengths of visible light that kill acne bacteria. Visible blue light from the sun (in the frequency range of approximately 415 nm) that shines into pores can activate light-sensitive chemicals called porphyrins that are found in the outer cell membranes of the bacteria that cause acne. When these chemicals begin to vibrate in sync with solar energy, they rupture the outer lining of the bacterium. The contents of the bacterial cell begin to leak out, and the bacterium dies within 48 hours.
“Visible red light from the sun has a complementary benefit in treating acne. Solar rays in the frequency range of approximately 650 nanometers reach deeper into the skin, down to the level of the sebocytes that produce the oil that sometimes clogs pores.
“The red rays of the sun are absorbed by red compounds in the skin. They primarily heat up hemoglobin. Ordinary light shining on the surface of the skin, however, only reaches to the depth of the oil glands, and does not cauterize the blood vessels in the skin. The effects of red light on oil-producing glands are temporary, and they begin producing large amounts of oil again a week or two after treatment.” (FacingAcne.com)
Don’t Forget…
It is also important to note that drying out your skin is very easy to do. And dry skin does not mean healthy skin. So when it comes to light therapy, more treatment does not mean better results. Drying or burning your skin by keeping your face too close to your lamp or wand does not improve your skin. Also, using light therapy as your only form of skin treatment will not fix your problems. Light Therapy should always be combined with other methods for the best results. For example, be sure to keep your skin clean, watch what you eat, properly moisturize, change your sheets and pillowcases when necessary, etc.
Are You Sold?
Light Therapy started becoming popular as a way to treat and cure acne when highly intense medicines such as Accutane and Retin-A were given a whole slew of restrictions from the government. Due to the lack of negative effects that Light Therapy has on the body, dermatologists hopped right on board, no longer being afraid of putting their patient’s health on the line. Now instead of prescribing medications or acne, you can now receive in office treatments from your dermatologist. But don’t forget, you can treat yourself at home as well. Blue light and red light therapy devices to use at home or while you’re at a spa have become extremely popular and easy to find.
There are lower cost options such as handheld led lamps for your face or other problem areas. These help heat the oil under your pores so that blackheads can pop out. But there are also higher end devices that have proven to be much more effect. You will not see instant results from any product that you purchase or use at a spa, but being consistent and knowing what you’re doing will go a long way.
Project E Beauty LED Colors Photo Rejuvenation Kit – Facial Beauty Care Massager
Amazon for $54.99
The LED Light Therapy Skin System for Beautiful Skin uses multiple forms of light therapy to target skin conditions. This device is at a slightly higher price point, but you get more for your buck. This skin care package includes three detachable light heads which can be changed according to what your skin requires. The device is hand held, cordless when in use and charges with the included cord. The device is designed to give you a 30 minute treatment per charge and has a built in timer to let you know when your treatments, which are typically 10 minutes long, are finished. The LED Light Therapy Skin Care System has wonderful reviews for treating acne. It can also tighten the skin on your face and body and reduce fine lines and wrinkles.
Don’t let the winter months control the health of your skin! Your skin is craving light therapy. It’s time to jump on board!
Posted on February 22, 2017	In Acne, Light Therapy, Products, Skin Treatments
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
Acne is the one condition that almost anyone, regardless of age, gender, or race, can relate to. We’ve all dealt with it, but have we all conquered it? Light therapy is helping men and women all over the world do just that. Conquer it!
What Is Acne?
Pretty simple question, right? We all know what acne is. It’s those bright red zits that always showed up at the most inopportune times when you were 16. It’s those pestering black heads all across your nose that you can never seem to squeeze out. It’s those patches of red spots showing up on your cheeks when you feel far too old for it. We can all define acne, I’m sure. But why does our skin react the way it does?
Acne is an extremely common skin condition. According to HealthLine, a popular website dedicated to explaining medical conditions and the intricate details of them. In the Symptom Checker section of the website, HealthLine explains just what acne is.
“Acne occurs when the pores on your skin become blocked with oil, dead skin, or bacteria. Each pore on your skin is the opening to a follicle. The follicle is made up of a hair and a sebaceous (oil) gland. The oil gland releases sebum (oil), which travels up the hair, out of the pore, and onto your skin. The sebum keeps your skin lubricated and soft. If you develop acne, this may be because of one or more problems in this lubrication process. These possible causes include:
too much oil or sebum is being produced by the follicle
dead skin cells are accumulating in the pore
bacteria has built up in the pore
An overabundance of oil, a pore clogged by dead skin cells, and bacteria all contribute to the development of pimples. A zit appears when the bacteria grows in the clogged pore and the oil is unable to escape.”
(HealthLine.com)
If your skin is constantly being affected by your pores being plugged, you may be struggling with acne. And no, you’re not unusual if you’re 40 years old and have acne. Acne can affect people of all ages. From young children just entering puberty, to residents in nursing homes. Life isn’t like the movies and sometimes you just get acne.
What Causes Acne?
Acne can be caused by a wide array of things. Hormonal changes, such as puberty or pregnancy can cause temporary acne. Certain medications can increase the risk as well. Birth control pills and corticosteroids are just a couple examples. Diet also plays a major role in developing acne. Unhealthy diets, diets high in refined sugars, and diets high carbohydrates such as bread and chips make the body more susceptible.
People assume that they’re just not washing their face enough, or they need a new face cream, but most of the time that’s not the case. Hey, maybe washing your face did the trick. But for most people, that’s just not the case. Most people need some medical treatment without the crazy costs.
Light Therapy & Acne
Light therapy has been clinically proven by dermatologists for over a decade to treat mild to moderate acne. While treatments can be conducted in doctor’s and dermatologist’s offices, the newest invention is light therapy at home! At home light therapy devices are cost effective, easy to fit into your schedule, and let you be in control! Neutrogena has created a light therapy mask specifically designed to treat acne on men and women. The Neutrogena Light Mask is reinventing how we treat acne at home!
Light therapy kicks acne’s butt with the help of red and blue lights. The two major factors that contribute to acne are bacteria and inflammation. The blue light from the mask kills the acne causing bacteria while the red light penetrates deep into the skin to reduce inflammation. Pretty simple, right? Plus the treatments are convenient and easy! After washing your face, put the mask on, press the activate button, and sit and relax for 10 minutes. The mask should be added into your daily health regime and you’ll start to see results in as little as one week! As long as you stick to a schedule, the Neutrogena Light Mask can completely rejuvenate your skin! You’ll feel and look better than ever.
We love the Neutrogena Light Mask for more than just the fact that it treats acne. The mask comes with a long list of benefits…
100% UV free
Chemical free
FDA cleared
Cost effective
Convenient
Treatments don’t take long
Small and portable
Extremely effective
Creates healthy and youthful glow
A word from the users…
Neutrogena collected reviews from Light Mask users who shared their opinions on Twitter. They then decided to share the reviews on their website. We’ve decided to share some of them with you, just so you can listen to someone besides us, too!
“My skin felt soft, clearer, and less oily than usual. Lightweight and comfortable…very easy to use!”
-Kris1410
“This light therapy mask has been a major game changer in my skin care! It targets the issues within our skin that need more deep, gentle care.”
-LailaB
“My skin feels and looks amazing… I recommend this completely!”
-MarieAntoinette
“Got rid of troubled acne… more than happy with my results as my skin is now clearer than ever before.”
-fan.girl.much.
What do you think? Is it time to buy yourself a Neutrogena Light Mask? Remember, it’s never too late!
Posted on February 20, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Light Therapy, Products, Red Light Therapy
How Light Therapy Works!
What It Is…
Light therapy is a natural form of therapy that can treat a wide array of conditions and disorders through the power of light. With patience, dedication, and a schedule that fits your lifestyle, light therapy can make you feel at the top of your game at all times!
Light therapy can be used to treat mental disorders such as seasonal affective disorder, depression, insomnia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. It is also used to treat physical conditions such as acne, skin rejuvenation, scar healing, chronic pain, joint and muscle pain, wound healing, and so much more. In this article, we are going to discuss how light therapy treats mental disorders. Light can cure your depression?! What?!
How It Works…
The main concept of light therapy is using a form of artificial light, such as a light box or lamp, which mimics natural outdoor light. The use of artificial light affects the brains chemicals, such as serotonin, which are linked to mood and sleep. Light therapy also targets the same brain structures that anti-depressants are meant to target. This opens up a whole new world for this all natural, drug-free, harm-free, cost-effective therapy!
Light therapy and our biological clock go hand in hand. Our body’s biological clock keeps our body rhythms and sleep-wake cycles in sync with the earth’s light-day cycles. Our biological clock, often referred to as our circadian rhythm, is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the hypothalamus, the brain’s hormone control center. It’s controlled by four neurotransmitters – dopamine, norepinephrine, glutamate, and GABA. These neurotransmitters are chemicals that enable function within our brain.
When our eyes are exposed to light, this part of our brain is activated and production of melatonin, a sleep hormone, is reduced. Reducing the production of melatonin in our brains allows a stable increase of seratonin, the hormone that keeps us awake and gives us energy. Exposing our eyes to light also releases a wide array of hormones for other mental functions and affects our body’s temperature.
“Human beings evolved under the day-night cycle. It is the natural time-keeper that sets our biological clocks within our brains and organs throughout the body.”
-Richard Schwartz, MD, associate clinical professor of psychiatry,Harvard Medical School
We are more linked with the earth than most people would like to believe. Our brains are extremely susceptible to light, the weather, and the natural cycles of the earth. Strangely, we are programmed to cycle naturally every 24.2 hours. However, because we are so linked to the earth’s rhythms and our exposure to light on a daily basis, our cycle changes. We are closely linked to the earth and that’s important to understand first and foremost when it comes to light therapy.
Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD):
Light therapy is used to treat Seasonal Affective Disorder, or SAD, most commonly in the fall and winter months. When the sun begins to set way too early and/or there is very little sunlight throughout the day at all, it is very easy for SAD to creep in and take over your life. Being exposed to bright light for a set amount of time each day can help treat or reduce the symptoms of SAD.
Depression:
Just like Seasonal Affective Disorder, choosing a strict daily light therapy schedule is the best way to see results when it comes to treating or reducing the symptoms of depression. The main goal of light therapy in regards to depression treatment is to reduce the production of melatonin while increasing the production of seratonin. More seratonin = happy mind!
Insomnia:
The more bright light that is received during the day, especially earlier on in the day, the more likely we are to produce an adequate amount of melatonin at night. More bright light also reduces the brain’s sensitivity to small light exposure in the night time.
Bipolar Disorder:
Light therapy is not a 100% proven treatment for Bipolar Disorder, but it is on the radar and being used by many patients. Since one of the main symptoms of Bipolar Disorder is depression, light therapy is an extremely viable treatment plan. Plus it can reduce patient’s medicinal intake which is great due to the fact that bipolar medications often have awful side effects.
Best Brands for Mental Health Light Therapy…
Northern Light Technology
Nature Bright
Philips
Verilux
Posted on February 18, 2017	In Depression, Insomnia, Jetlag, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Seasonal Affective Disorder
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Light therapy is a form of all natural therapy that is changing lives around the world. During the basic and most common form of light therapy, patients sit near a special lamp that emits bright light for a set amount of time on a daily schedule. This artificial lighting is meant to mimic natural outdoor light with the goal of affecting the body’s internal clock. Our internal clocks, or circadian rhythms, regulate the way our brains react to energy during the daytime, sleep during the nighttime, and when our bodies become hungry. Melatonin, a sleep hormone, is naturally released in our brains at night when our internal clock is off. Serotonin, our mood altering hormone that provides us with energy, is supposed to be consistently being released throughout the day, while our internal clock is on and active. However, due to factors such as work schedules, seasonal changes, mental disorders, sleeping problems, and more, it is very easy for our circadian rhythms to be thrown off. This is where light therapy saves us!
Since our circadian rhythms are greatly influenced by natural every day environmental factors such as the sunrise and sunset, light therapy is a wonderful way to make sure our bodies are releasing melatonin and serotonin at the correct times. Doing so can treat mental disorders such as depression and seasonal affective disorder, increase energy and happiness levels, improve skin conditions, and so much more!
As with any medical practice, there is a long list of myths that follow light therapy around. We’re here to share some myths with you and provide you with the facts. Let’s get down to it.
Myth #1: All Light Therapy Is The Same
While we’ve been noting light therapy for mental conditions in this article, there are many different forms of light therapy. Aside from standard bright light treatments, there are also red, blue, and green light therapy devices. These devices can treat skin conditions such as psoriasis and acne. They are also wildly successful at rejuvenating the skin, reducing wrinkles and fine lines, and making you feel like your sixteen year old self again! Red light is also used for muscle and joint pain, wound healing, chronic pain, and more. Don’t stop at bright light, all of the colors are wonderful!
Myth #2: Light Therapy Is Only Used For Depression
It’s true, light therapy is most commonly used to treat Seasonal Affective Disorder and other forms of depression. However, light therapy has endless potential for our mental and emotional well being. It can also treat sleep disorders, dementia, bipolar disorder, jet lag, and more. Assuming that light therapy is only good for one thing is just silly!
Myth #3: So I Just Stare Into A Light Bulb For Hours?
Wrong! It’s easy to assume that light therapy treatments consist of sitting in front of light bulbs and waiting for the magic to happen. But in actuality, treatment sessions typically don’t last longer than 30 minutes a day. The sessions are easy to fit into your daily routine and most devices allow you to do other activities to pass the time or multitask. Try reading a book, knitting, or eating a meal while sitting in front of your light therapy device!
Also, you wouldn’t stare into the light – so take note of that. A light therapy device usually emits light that is 100 times brighter than most indoor lighting, since the treatments are intense and succinct, so you definitely don’t want to be staring into that bulb!
Myth #4: There Are No Side Effects!
It’s always important to talk with a doctor before starting any new medical treatment. Just because light is natural and we can’t necessarily feel treatment sessions when they’re occurring doesn’t mean that they are 100% harmless. Light therapy can have a negative effect on those with sensitive skin and eyes. It can also cause eye straining, headaches, nausea, or irritability. Most of these side effects are mild and short term, however it is still important to monitor the usage of your light therapy device and consider any personal conditions –such as bipolar disorder or a severe skin condition — before beginning treatment – for example
It’s easy to make assumptions about things that are not normal or common. Light therapy is a world changing treatment that deserves all of the praise and credit you can give it! Make no assumptions about light therapy, don’t believe the myths, and know your facts. If you follow these words, you will end up thanking us! We promise.
Posted on February 17, 2017	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Chronic Pain, Color Light Therapy, Depression, Infrared Red Light Therapy, Insomnia, Jetlag, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Pain, Red Light Therapy, Seasonal Affective Disorder
Older
Features
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Recent Posts
How Light Therapy Can Get You Through Daylight Savings
Finding New Uses for Light Therapy
Light Therapy : Switching From Tanning Beds to Red Light Therapy!
New Light Therapy Device : The Valkee Human Charger LED Headset
Best Light Therapy Devices For A College Dorm
How To Use Light Therapy – Only The Facts!
Light Therapy & Healthy Skin
Creating A Light Therapy Home…
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
How Light Therapy Works!
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Understanding and Appreciating Vitamin D
What Everyone Needs To Know About Light Therapy
Light Therapy is Boosting Libido in Men!
Recent Comments
Archives
December 2017
August 2017
March 2017
February 2017
November 2016
September 2016
August 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
Categories
Acne
Blue Light Therapy
Celebrities
Children
Chronic Pain
Color Light Therapy
Daylight Savings Time
Depression
Devices
Experiments
Hair Loss
Infrared Red Light Therapy
Insomnia
Jetlag
Libido
Light Therapy
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pain
Products
Psoriasis
Red Light Therapy
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Skin Rejuvenation
Skin Treatments
Small Space
Studies
Sunlight
Top 10's
Travel
Uncategorized
Vitamin D
Weight Loss
Wound Healing
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
© 2019 Light Therapy Review — foundly by Foundly