Can Selenium Lower Risk of Advanced Prostate Cancer?
Follow Us On
Sign Up For Free Newsletter
Menu
Health Conditions
AIDS INFORMATION
ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE INFORMATION
BONE AND JOINT INFORMATION
CANCER INFORMATION
CARDIOVASCULAR HEALTH INFORMATION
CAREGIVING INFORMATION
CIRCULATORY SYSTEM INFORMATION
CLINICAL TRIALS INFORMATION
COGNITIVE HEALTH INFORMATION
COSMETIC INFORMATION
DENTAL AND ORAL INFORMATION
DIABETES INFORMATION
» View All »
HealthDay Video
HealthDay TV
HealthDay TV en Español
HealthDay Living
Wellness Library
HealthDay en Español
Physician&apos;s Briefing
License Our News
Follow Us On
Sign Up For Free Newsletter
Can Selenium Lower Risk of Advanced Prostate Cancer?
Study found men with higher levels of mineral were 60 percent less likely to develop disease
Please note: This article was published more than one year ago. The facts and conclusions presented may have since changed and may no longer be accurate. And "More information" links may no longer work. Questions about personal health should always be referred to a physician or other health care professional.
En Español
By Amanda Gardner
HealthDay Reporter
TUESDAY, April 9, 2013 (HealthDay News) -- Men who have higher levels of the mineral known as selenium may also face a lower risk of developing advanced prostate cancer, new research suggests.
The authors of the study said the mineral -- found in foods such as Brazil nuts, in supplements and in foods grown in selenium-rich soil -- might one day offer a way to reduce prostate cancer risk in men.
"There is very little evidence on modifiable prostate cancer risk factors," said study author Milan Geybels. "Any compound that would prevent the incidence of advanced prostate cancer would have a substantial impact on public health."
Geybels, who is a doctoral candidate in cancer epidemiology at Maastricht University in Maastricht, the Netherlands, was scheduled to present the findings Tuesday at the annual meeting of the American Association of Cancer Research, in Washington, D.C. Data and conclusions presented at medical meetings typically are considered preliminary until published in a peer-reviewed journal.
Still, the findings should not be construed as an endorsement of selenium supplements, experts warned.
"At this point, I wouldn't recommend that all men run out and buy a bottle of selenium to take," said Dr. Elise Cook, an associate professor of clinical cancer prevention at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.
Too much selenium can be toxic, resulting in skin problems, and may even be associated with an increased risk of diabetes, Cook said. Getting selenium from dietary sources, however, shouldn't be a problem.
Cancer researchers have been interested in the supposed benefits of selenium on prostate cancer for years, until results from a large trial several years ago showed that selenium, taken either alone or with vitamin E, did not prevent prostate cancer.
"Before that, selenium supplements had been flying off the shelves," said Dr. Alexander Kutikov, an associate professor of urologic oncology at Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia. "Enthusiasm [for selenium] was really dampened by that trial."
But that study looked at men with normal selenium levels when they entered the trial, and it did not focus on a specific type of prostate cancer. This latest study looked only at men who were deficient in selenium and tracked only cases of advanced prostate cancer, which is linked with a poor prognosis.
Among a group of almost 60,000 men aged 55 to 69 at the beginning of the study, the researchers found that men with the highest selenium levels, as measured in toenail clippings, had more than a 60 percent reduced risk for advanced prostate cancer.
Selenium levels in toenail clippings indicate long-term selenium intake, the researchers noted. The large trial from several years ago measured blood levels of the mineral, which reflects only recent exposure.
Still, the study is "hypothesis-generating at best," Kutikov said. Although the findings suggested an association between selenium levels and advanced prostate cancer risk, they did not prove a cause-and-effect link.
Geybels said the results could point the way to another trial assessing risk for advanced prostate cancer in men with low selenium levels.
More information
The U.S. National Cancer Institute has more on prostate cancer.
SOURCES: Milan Geybels, M.Sc., doctoral candidate, cancer epidemiology, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands; Elise Cook, M.D., associate professor, clinical cancer prevention, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston; Alexander Kutikov, M.D., associate professor, urologic oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia; April 9, 2013, presentation, American Association of Cancer Research annual meeting, Washington, D.C.
Last Updated: Apr 9, 2013
Copyright © 2013 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
Gen Xers in Despair?
Related Articles
HPV Vaccine Driving Down Cervical Pre-Cancer Rates
Weekly Infusion May Be Effective, Easier HIV Therapy
Scientists Bring Pig's Brain, Dead 4 Hours, Back to 'Cellular Activity'
With Weeks to Live, Many Cancer Patients Try Useless Treatments
Home
HealthDay TV
Wellness Library
HealthDay en Español
Privacy Policy
Physician&apos;s Briefing
License Our News
About HealthDay
Ad Policy
Contact Us
Copyright ©2019 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
Legal Statement
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.