L-Theanine: Benefits, Side Effects, Usage, And More
mindbodygreen
Navigation
Main Navigation
mbg integrative health mbg_health
L-Theanine: Everything You Need To Know About This Plant-Based Powerhouse
practices revitalize
icon_account Log in
My Account
Saved Articles
Practices
Mastery
Gift Purchases
Contact Support
Log Out
icon_bag
Your cart is empty.
Our online classes and training programs allow you to learn from experts from anywhere in the world.
Explore Classes
icon_search
Subcategory Navigation
mindfulness
health
food
movement
beauty
home
social good
parenting
more Caret_white
planet
relationships
lifestyle
mbg
Integrative Health
integrative health
L-Theanine: Everything You Need To Know About This Plant-Based Powerhouse
Facebook Pinterest Twitter SMS
Group 8 Created with Sketch. Group 8 Created with Sketch.
Group 7 Created with Sketch. Group 9 Created with Sketch. Group 10 Created with Sketch. Group 11 Created with Sketch. Group 7 Created with Sketch. Email Created with Sketch. Group 4 Created with Sketch. Group 9 Created with Sketch. Group 10 Created with Sketch. Group 11 Created with Sketch.
By Klara Mudge
Photo by Nataša Mandić
Pinterest
Share on: Facebook Pinterest Twitter SMS
Share on: Group 7 Created with Sketch. Group 9 Created with Sketch. Group 10 Created with Sketch. Group 11 Created with Sketch. Group 7 Created with Sketch. Email Created with Sketch. Group 4 Created with Sketch. Group 9 Created with Sketch. Group 10 Created with Sketch. Group 11 Created with Sketch.
Have we found and isolated the secret ingredient that gives tea its powerfully calming-yet-focused effect?
L- theanine might be the closest thing we’ve got so far to meditation in a capsule. The traditional therapeutic use of green tea dates back to China 4,700 years ago, and the Japanese regard tea so highly they’ve created a ceremony for it and a separate teahouse in which to serve it. Thich Nhat Hanh, the Zen master and global spiritual leader, describes tea drinking as a spiritual, meditative act: "Tea is an act complete in its simplicity... This is the act of life, in one pure moment, and in this act, the truth of the world suddenly becomes revealed: all the complexity, pain, drama of life is a pretense, invented in our minds for no good purpose..."
Today, drinking tea still symbolizes psychological calm and contentment for most, and now science is starting to explain the physiological reasons and mechanisms behind these effects. Several scientific publications including clinical and epidemiological studies are beginning to back up the health benefits of both black and green teas, with particular focus on L-theanine—a calming amino acid found to promote alpha-wave brain production, an index of wakeful relaxation similar to that experienced during and directly after meditation. Here's all you need to know about nature's powerful relaxant.
What is L-theanine? More than just "umami," it turns out.
L- theanine is a neurologically active organic compound present almost solely in the green tea plant (Camellia sinensis, and certain other species of Camellia) with the exception of a kind of edible mushroom (the bay boletes). L-theanine is the main component responsible for the exotic savory taste of green tea known as "umami."
Within around 30 minutes of consumption, L-theanine crosses the blood-brain barrier, where it appears to smooth out brain waves, without flattening them as visualized on an EEG and improving cognition in humans in interesting ways.
L-theanine promotes alpha waves—the same brain bandwidth seen during the deepest states of meditation.
L-theanine has been shown to significantly increase alpha waves and promote relaxation without drowsiness or sedation, making it an ideal mental state for, well, most things.
Alpha brain-wave production also happens during deep meditation, when sensory inputs are minimized and the mind is generally clear of unwanted thoughts or distractions. Interestingly, stimulating alpha waves has also been shown to boost creativity and alleviate depression.
Photo: Nataša Mandić
Pinterest
Article continues below
L-theanine has been shown to boost attention and working memory.
Green tea consumption appeared to enhance performance on a test of working memory by increasing connectivity between frontal and parietal brain regions during working memory processing. This is a fascinating discovery because activity in the frontal region of the brain is correlated to executive function, while the parietal region handles sensory input. L- theanine has a similar chemical structure to glutamate, which is a neurotransmitter related to memory.
L-theanine might reduce or slow cognitive decline.
Because of its antagonistic effects on glutamate receptors and how it affects overall cognition, L-theanine seems to have neuroprotective and cognitive-enhancing abilities. Researchers observed that elderly individuals who consumed green tea powder enriched with L-theanine (47.5 mg theanine per day) had reduced cognitive decline, compared to the placebo group. Other preliminary studies show promise for L-theanine as an agent to prevent and treat Alzheimer’s disease.
L-theanine may improve mood.
By helping to improve the production of the inhibitory relaxing neurotransmitter GABA, L-theanine plays a key role in mood support. GABA is important for nervous system function, often used as a natural supplement to ease anxiety, promote sleep, and improve mood. L-theanine has also been shown to have a similar boosting effect on dopamine as well as serotonin levels in the brain; although, so far only in animal neurochemistry studies, so more research is warranted.
Article continues below
Related Class
mbg-black_classes $59.99
The Ultimate Guide To Inflammation
With Dr. Amy Shah
L-theanine might help improve the symptoms of schizophrenia.
L-theanine has also been the subject of human studies in patients with schizophrenia. It has so far demonstrated reductions in anxiety and general symptoms of psychopathology as well as sleep quality, since it's known to block glutamate receptors and stabilizing excitatory stimuli in the brain.
L-theanine increases resilience to acute stress and balances out sympathetic nervous activation.
There are several studies detailing that L-theanine supplementation prevents the abrupt rise in blood pressure and reduces salivary immunoglobulin A (s-IgA)—responses usually associated with stressful situations. Not only does L-theanine reduce feelings of anxiety and stress in the first place, but it also attenuates the effects of a high-stress response right after the fact!
Photo: Nataša Mandić
Pinterest
Article continues below
L-theanine can improve sleep quality (including for children with ADHD).
Not surprisingly, L-theanine has been shown to help sleep in a number of ways, including promoting relaxation pre-bedtime (with the added bonus of not inducing the drowsy sedation often associated with other sleep aids or anxiolytics). Researchers in Japan gave volunteers 200 mg of L-theanine daily and recorded their sleep patterns on wearable sleep devices. Sleep quality, recovery from exhaustion, and refreshed feelings were all enhanced by L-theanine.
There’s evidence that L-theanine may help improve sleep quality in children with (ADHD). A study examined the effects of L-theanine on the sleep of boys ages 8 through 12 and found that the supplement worked safely and effectively (at a dose of 400 mg daily) to improve the quality of their sleep.
How to take L-theanine.
As much as possible, eat your way calm and get your daily dose of L-theanine through diet first, as a functional food/beverage, in the form of tea!
L-theanine is available in green, black, and white teas, with green tea containing the most L-theanine (hello, matcha everything!). Green tea contains small amounts of caffeine but, if you can tolerate it, has the added bonus of containing healthy catechins and flavonols that offer further overall health-protective benefits.
The L-theanine content of tea varies considerably, with estimates around 1 to 2 percent of the dry weight of leaves and a single cup of tea containing around 25 to 60 mg of L-theanine. Data indicates that L-theanine, at "realistic dietary levels" as low as 50 mg has a significant mental effect (on alertness or arousal).
Some ideas to get L-theanine in on the regular:
Just regular high-quality green tea, with or without a squeeze and slice of fresh lemon
Green tea blended with MCT oil (Tibetan-inspired butter tea, anyone?)
Green iced tea infused with berries, lemon, cucumber, and mint
Matcha latte
Matcha chia pudding
Article continues below
Supplementation, safety, and typical dose:
L-theanine is generally well-tolerated by healthy adults, for whom typical doses range between 100 and 400 milligrams for specific conditions.
L-theanine may lower blood pressure and thus could interfere with blood pressure medications/supplements, as well as with stimulating agents, including supplements that contain caffeine. As always, consult your doctor or integrative or functional medicine practitioner before you begin taking a supplement or make any changes to your existing medication and supplement routine. Together you can go over any possible interactions/side effects and find the kind, dose, and brand that’s best for you depending on your unique current health profile.
When considering a supplement, try to find out as much as you can about regulation, quality, and sourcing as well as bioavailability.
Possible side effects of L-theanine:
L-theanine appears to be remarkably safe with no observed adverse effects recorded in human studies so far. In animal research, L-theanine appears to be safe even at very high doses (4000 mg/kg bw/day was the highest dose tested). Still, it's always a good idea to talk to your doctor first because everyone's reactions to foods, supplements, and medications are different, and ever-changing depending on several individual factors. L-Theanine has been safely consumed by humans in the form of tea for many thousands of years, with no recorded significant side effects, so your best bet might be getting it in the traditional way—in the form of organic green tea.
Curious to learn about CoQ10? Here's everything you wanted to know about the super antioxidant.
And are you ready to learn more about how to unlock the power of food to heal your body, prevent disease & achieve optimal health? Register now for our FREE Functional Nutrition Webinar with Kelly LeVeque.
#brain #functional nutrition #green tea
Klara Mudge
Klara is a nutritionist, health coach and writer trained in functional medicine and neuro-linguistic programming (NLP). Born and raised in Namibia in Southern Africa, Klara has lived...
Related Posts
Integrative Health
integrative health
I Wore Amber Glasses Every Night For A Week; Here’s How It Changed My Sleep
Stephanie Eckelkamp
Integrative Health
integrative health
5 Wellness Products Longevity Expert Dan Buettner Recommends To All
Dan Buettner
Integrative Health
integrative health
The Weird Reason You Could Start Losing Hair On The Keto Diet
Stephanie Eckelkamp
Popular Stories
Can You Eat Too Much Avocado?
Am I Doing My Kegel Exercises Correctly?
Are Nightshades Actually Bad For You?
The Plant Paradox: Dr. Steven Gundry's New Book Explains How Lectins Can Harm Your Health
14 Signs Someone Is A Narcissist
Sites We Love
https://www.mindbodygreen.com/articles/l-theanine-everything-you-need-to-know-about-this-plant-based-powerhouse
Popular Stories
Can You Eat Too Much Avocado?
Am I Doing My Kegel Exercises Correctly?
Are Nightshades Actually Bad For You?
The Plant Paradox: Dr. Steven Gundry's New Book Explains How Lectins Can Harm Your Health
14 Signs Someone Is A Narcissist
Picks For You
SPONSORED CONTENT
10 Women Saving The Planet, In Honor Of Earth Month
Emma Loewe
Home
icon_lifestyle-home
How Tech Can Help You Create A Smarter, More Sustainable Home
Laurence Carr
Recipes
icon recipes
Registered Dietitians Share 6 Unexpected Ways To Eat Frozen Peas For Every Meal
Stephanie Eckelkamp
mbg
Functional Nutrition Webinar
Food is Medicine
Food has the power to create a happier and healthier world. Celebrity Nutritionist Kelly LeVeque will show you how.
Get Free Access Now Loading next article...
Save item To Select a folder + Add New Folder
Folder Name
Your article and new folder have been saved!
Send This Article To Your Friends
From*
To* Separate email addresses by commas
mindbodygreen
About Us
Contact
Write For Us
Jobs
Advertise
Collective
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
YouTube
Terms of Sale
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Ad Choices
icon_lifestyle-home
icon_mindfulness-meditation
icon_health-mental-health
icon_movement-routines
icon_relationships-friendships
icon_planet-off-the-grid
icon food trends
Rise with us daily
Email Address
Sign up
You are now subscribed
Be on the lookout for a welcome email in your inbox!