postpartum depression therapy Archives - Running in Triangles
Skip to content
Running in Triangles
surviving motherhood with three kids
Menu
Home
About
Let’s Work Together!
Privacy Policy
Resources & Recommendations
All Blog Posts
Postpartum Depression
Free Postpartum Depression Resources
10 Questions About Postpartum Depression 2019
Postpartum Depression Guest Post Series 2018
Self Care
Fashion For Moms
Endometriosis
Sleep Deprivation
Pregnancy + Birth
Precipitous Labor
Hyperemesis Gravidarum
Breastfeeding
Tag: postpartum depression therapy
Gifts for Mothers with Postpartum Depression
Holidays can be difficult to celebrate for a woman suffering from postpartum depression. What should be happy days spent making memories, instead reminds her of the pain and shortcomings she’s felt since becoming a mother.
When shopping for a gift for a mother with postpartum depression, look for something that is considerate of her condition. Not all gifts are appropriate for a woman who feels guilty or unworthy of being a mother.
Here are some ideas for gifts for mothers with postpartum depression.
*This post contains affiliate links which means that if you click on one of these links and buy a product, I may earn a small commission at no additional cost to you. Rest assured that I only recommend products that I love from companies that I trust.
A Personalized Necklace
GracePersonalized on Etsy
A necklace with her children’s names engraved on it will remind her of who she’s doing all of this for in the first place.
A beautiful option is this fingerprint necklace from GracePersonalized on Etsy. Having a necklace that contains her child’s fingerprint, hand or footprints will remind her that she created an entire unique person.
But the kids aren’t the only things keeping her going. I like this lovebirds necklace from MenuetDesigns on Etsy because it speaks volumes of how important a strong support system is.
[For more ways to offer support, read: 14 Ways to Help a Mother with Postpartum Depression]
Something That Won’t Die
DIY Succulent Terrarium Kit from NimusSucculentShop on Etsy
Cut flowers wilt and die and there’s nothing she can do about it. Get her something that she can watch grow and blossom. Growing something will bring her a sense of pride. So instead of flowers, get her a potted plant or a terrarium. Gardening or growing indoor plants is an excellent form of self-care as well and can become something that not only keeps her mind distracted, but brightens up her living area as well.
If she doesn’t have a green-thumb, get her a book about gardening instead. There are also foolproof ready-made herb gardens available.
Matching Mommy & Me Outfits
ByMissSally on Etsy
Bonding with baby can be tough for a mother with postpartum depression. Matching t-shirts, outfits or hats might seem cheesy, but it can make her feel more connected to baby and remind her of the special connection they share.
Monthly Subscription Box
In the category of gifts for a mother with postpartum depression, monthly subscription boxes should be at the top the list! Chances are, she doesn’t want to go out and shop for herself. Even some of the basic necessities she needs become less of a priority for her. Having something delivered to her door is a wonderful surprise that she can look forward to each month.
Here are a few that I would recommend for a mother with postpartum depression:
The Mommy Mailbox – a box full of things designed specifically to brighten up a mom’s day!
Blume – Formerly known as Ellebox. This is the ultimate self-care subscription box! Mothers with postpartum depression can dread “that time of the month” especially because they haven’t had to deal with it during their pregnancy (and possibly longer if they were breastfeeding) so it becomes just one more thing they need to handle. The addition of the mood swings and cramping can become overbearing for someone who’s already suffering so much. Take the stress out of it with this monthly subscription box that includes organic pads and tampons, specially formulated cramp oil, acne and face washes and more!
InstaCandy – who doesn’t love candy? Getting a box of candy delivered to your door every month is sure to brighten up the darkest of days.
Like the idea of a delivered box full of goodies but not ready to commit to a monthly subscription? Check out the Pampered Mommy Box! Their “Best of” Box is full of surprise goodies valued over $100!
A Customized Photo Book
Mixbook.com
Photos can have a lot of meaning for a woman with postpartum depression. Looking back at pictures of happier times can be an excellent way to relieve stress and help keep her connected to those memories. Creating a photo book filled with pictures of baby can also help to connect her to her child and reduce some of the guilt that often comes along with missing out on those first few months.
A photo book is sure to be something she will cherish long after she has recovered from the darkness of postpartum depression.
You can create fully customized photo books and/or prints at Mixbook.com.
Self-Care Products
Kathy Ireland Pink Sherpa Robe – Zulily
It goes without saying that self-care is SO important for moms to keep up good mental health. This category of gifts offers such a wide variety of choices, depending on what’s most important to the mother in your life.
A robe, bath bombs, spa sets, or a massage system are all great gifts for her to use on a daily basis to make sure that she’s getting in regular self-care.
The best self-care gifts for a mother with postpartum depression are things that she can use regularly, don’t consume too much of her precious time, and can help her relax and take care of herself.
If you want to really want to give her the gift of self-care, then splurge on a spa day! Click here to purchase a Spa Finder Gift Card that she can use at thousands of different locations. It’s available to print or e-mail so it makes a great last-minute gift too!
[Related Reading: Self Care Tips for Battling Postpartum Depression]
Aromatherapy
Mom’s Essential Kit from Rocky Mountain Oils
Essential oils and aromatherapy can have a big impact on a mother with postpartum depression. This kit from Rocky Mountain Oils has everything a mother needs to incorporate essential oils into her life. You can also purchase a beautiful diffuser so that she can turn her space into a haven of aromatherapy.
A Personal Assistant
Amazon.com
You know what mothers with postpartum depression REALLY want? A personal assistant…
The Amazon Echo smart speaker connects to “Alexa” a voice-based personal assistant.
The best part is that Alexa will respond to anyone’s voice, as long as they call her by name. So older kids who ask a million questions a day or want to hear their favorite song over and over again – can now ask Alexa instead of Mom.
Alexa can also look things up online, tell jokes, keep notes, make lists and reminders, play music and make phone calls – all completely hands free! It’s one of the best gifts for a mother with postpartum depression who is suffering from a severe case of foggy brain!
Journaling Equipment
Indigo.ca
Writing about postpartum depression is one of the best therapies available. It’s a great way to get all those dark feelings out of the brain and onto paper. A journal is a great gift option for a mother who needs to express her feelings.
Bullet journals are the latest trend right now. You can eve find printable bullet journal kits on Etsy to create a one of a kind personalized gift.
[Related Reading: The Postpartum Depression Guest Post Series]
Adult Coloring Books
Indigo.ca
There’s a huge difference between coloring with the kids, and coloring by yourself. I, myself, have recently jumped on the adult coloring book train, and it’s an incredible way to release stress and shut off the brain for a few moments.
There are adult coloring books everywhere these days so you’re sure to find one that suits the mom you’re shopping for. My favorite ones are the patterns or the inspirational quotes, but there are also ones with swears for the moms who really need to let it all out.
The Gift of Music
inmusicwetrust.co.uk
Music is an excellent form of therapy for mothers with postpartum depression. It’s a way to keep the mind distracted from intrusive thoughts and can stimulate all kinds of emotions. Soothing music can help a mother to relax or calm down when she’s feeling angry or anxious. Uplifting music is a great way to make her feel happier when she’s feeling down.
There are so many different ways that you can give a mother the gift of music. You can make her a playlist, get her a subscription to Spotify or buy her concert tickets to her favorite artist, just to name a few. And if you truly want to support the benefits of music for mental health, then consider purchasing some products that support a good cause, like those from In Music We Trust.
.
Remember: One of the best gifts for mothers with postpartum depression is your love, support and understanding…
.
Author Vanessa RapisardaPosted on April 16, 2018 March 8, 2019 Categories Holidays, Postpartum Depression, Self CareTags adult coloring books, adult coloring books for postpartum depression, amazon alexa, amazon alexa gift for mom, amazon echo, amazon echo review, aromatherapy, aromatherapy diffusers, baby books, best site for photo albums, best subscription boxes for gift giving, best subscription boxes for moms, bullet journal, bullet journal gift, bullet journalling, create a photo album, diffuser jewelry, essential oil diffusers, gift guide, gift ideas for moms, gift ideas for moms with PPD, gift ideas for mothers, gift ideas for postpartum, gifts for moms with postpartum depression, how to deal with postpartum depression, in music we trust, matching outfits for mom and baby, mixbook, mixbook coupon code, mommy mailbox, mother and son matching outfits, Mother's Day, mother's day gift guide, music therapy for mental health, music therapy for postpartum depression, personal assistant for mom, personalized family necklace, photo books, postpartum depression on Mother's Day, postpartum depression therapy, self care and postpartum depression, self care gifts for moms, stitch fix, stress relief with adult coloring books, subscription box giftLeave a comment on Gifts for Mothers with Postpartum Depression
Adrienne’s Postpartum Depression Story
Continue reading “Adrienne’s Postpartum Depression Story”
Author Vanessa RapisardaPosted on February 13, 2018 April 8, 2019 Categories Postpartum Depression Guest PostsTags baby blues or postpartum depression, colic and postpartum depression, does grief cause postpartum depression, how to help a mother with PPD, losing a loved one after childbirth, PND, postnatal depression, postpartum depression and death, postpartum depression and grief, postpartum depression therapy, postpartum depression treatment, PPD, self care for postpartum depressionLeave a comment on Adrienne’s Postpartum Depression Story
Search for:
Search
Newest Posts!
Why You Should Never Give a New Mom Unsolicited Advice April 22, 2019
12 Mother’s Day Gifts That Will Encourage Self Care April 15, 2019
Why All Moms Need To Spend A Day At Thermëa April 8, 2019
My Tweets
Home
About
Let’s Work Together!
Privacy Policy
Resources & Recommendations
All Blog Posts
Postpartum Depression
Free Postpartum Depression Resources
10 Questions About Postpartum Depression 2019
Postpartum Depression Guest Post Series 2018
Self Care
Fashion For Moms
Endometriosis
Sleep Deprivation
Pregnancy + Birth
Precipitous Labor
Hyperemesis Gravidarum
Breastfeeding
Running in Triangles Privacy Policy	Proudly powered by WordPress
Regular e-mails filled with information and support to help mothers manage their mental health. Plus get instant access to a library filled with FREE workbooks, printables, discounts and more!
Your information will *never* be shared or sold to a 3rd party.