Minoxidil for Beard Growth (2019): Safety, Results & Side Effects - Beard Styles
Skip to content
♛ HOME
Popular
SHOP NOW
Beard Oil
TREND
Beard Styles
real man
MORE
About us
Terms of Service
Contact us
Privacy Policy and Disclaimer
Search for:
Home
2018
December
minoxidil beard
Minoxidil for Beard Growth (2019): Safety, Results & Side Effects
minoxidil beard December 26, 2018 March 22, 2019
Minoxidil for Beard Growth (2019): Safety, Results & Side Effects
Minoxidil is a medicine used to regrow hair & Beard and to treat loss of hair. This product is marketed under different trade names such as Amexidil, Avogain, Mintop, Rogaine, etc. Minoxidil can be sprayed, frozen on the scalp or taken orally for hair regrowth without a prescription.
What is Minoxidil
Minoxidil is a potassium channel opener that causes cell membrane hyperpolarization. Minoxidil is believed to enlarge the blood vessels and open the potassium channels to reach the hair follicles with more oxygen, blood, and nutrients. This can lead to the shedding of the hair follicles in their telogen phase, which is a new anagen phase are then replaced by thicker hair.
Minoxidil is found to be effective in treating hair loss and regrowth of the hair. The FDA has actually approved the medicine to treat baldness in men. Minoxidil under the trade name ” Rogaine ” is considered beneficial for male patients with baldness because the hair grows moderately to densely on the head crown. Although it doesn’t work for everyone, it was found in a study that approximately 39 percent of men with baldness found it effective for their hair to grow.
How Minoxidil Works
Minoxidil works by widening the diameter of the hair follicle, causing thicker hair and by prolonging the aging phase of hair growth, leading to longer and higher strands of hair. It slows the replication process essentially. In Accordance to ” Fitzpatrick’s Dermatology in General Medicine, ” studies show that ” up to 60% of men show improvement in vertex balding… with a mean hair density increase of 10% to 12%. ”
Minoxidil for Beard ( Safety, Side Effects, Results & Use )
As my experience shows, I used many beard oils, you have little chance of getting your vellus hair, you would have a lot of time to grow your first vellus hair and it will take a lot longer. I expect that 1 year more beards will grow with beard oil. It is meaningful because beard oil using natural ingredients compared to minoxidil is a chemical drug that would absorb your body effectively.
Side effects: In the second week your skin may dry a little, but you can use oil to moisturize your skin every day. It can make your heart beat more quickly, but the chance is small, it really depends on others. But I can say it really pays to see the result one day
Result: I ‘m still using minoxidil, and it’s the third month now. And since I can see my vellus hair growing and spreading around my neck, my lower chin, and my mustache. Even hard it’s not terminal hair but the progress is really good (compared to beard oil I’d used about 9+months) and I think I can wait until the next 2 – 3 months to see my thick beard terminal hair* (the default is 6 months to grow your thick beard terminal hair)
Also Read: How Long does it take to Grow a Beard
How to Trim a Beard – Beard Styles
How to Fix Patchy Beards and get Full Beards (2019)
How to Take Minoxidil
The initial recommended dose of Minoxidil tablets is 5 mg taken in a single daily dose. The effective dose range is usually between 10 and 40 mg daily. With guanethidine, Minoxidil can interact. Other medications may interact with minoxidil. Tell your doctor about all medicines, vitamins, minerals, herbal products and over-the-counter medicines prescribed by other doctors.
Minoxidil Side Effects
new or worsening chest pain;
chest pain spreading to your jaw or shoulder;
fast or pounding heartbeats;
swelling in your legs, ankles, or feet;
rapid weight gain, particularly in your face and midsection;
shortness of breath;
a light-headed feeling, like you, might pass out;
fluid build-up within the lungs–pain once you breathe, feeling in need of breath whereas lying down, wheezing, winded for breath, cough with foamy mucus; or
severe skin reaction–fever, raw throat, swelling in your face or tongue, burning in your eyes, skin pain, followed by red or purple roseola that spreads (especially within the face or higher body) and causes blistering and peeling.
More Side Effects
Burning, stinging or redness may occur at the application site. If any of these effects persist or deteriorate, contact your pharmacist or doctor promptly. If your doctor has directed you to use this medicine, remember that he or she has determined that the benefit is greater than the risk of side effects for you. Many people who use this drug have no serious side effects.
This drug can rarely be absorbed by the skin and cause side effects. Stop using this medication and tell your doctor immediately if you have any serious side effects, such as unwanted facial/body hair, dizziness, rapid/irregular heartbeat, fainting, chest pain, swelling of hands/feet, unusual weight gain, fatigue, difficulty breathing, especially when lying down.
A very serious hypersensitivity to the present drug is rare. Nevertheless, get medical help immediately if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including rash, itching/swelling ( especially face /tongue/throat), severe dizziness, difficulty breathing.
This is not a whole list of getable side effects. If you notice different effects unlisted higher than, contact your doctor or pill pusher.
In the US – Call your doctor for the medical recommendation regarding aspect effects.
You may report aspect effects to the office at 1-800-FDA-1088 or at computer network.fda.gov/medwatch.
In North American country – decision your doctor for the medical recommendation regarding aspect effects.
You may report aspect effects to Health North American country at 1-866-234-2345.
Overdose of Minoxidil
If swallowed, this medicine may be harmful. If someone has overdosed and has severe symptoms such as discharge or breathing problems, call 911. Call a poison control center immediately, otherwise. US residents may call at 1 – 800-222-1222 their local poison control center. Residents of Canada can call a provincial poison control center.
The overdose symptoms may include dizziness, somnolence, fainting, flushing.
At last, we do not recommend you to use such chemical products to grow Beard. But if you wish to Buy you can Buy it on Amazon
Men’s Rogaine 5% Minoxidil
Post navigation
Which is the Best Beard Trimmer (2019)
50 Hottest Hunk Mustache Styles Collection (2019)
Popular Post
BEST SELLER
Categories
bald men with beards
beard cheek line
Beard Gallery
Beard Styles
beard styles for men
Beard without mustache
best beard trimmer
Chinstrap beard
Goatee beard styles
How Long does it take to Grow a Beard
How to Trim a Beard
long full beard styles
minoxidil beard
Mustache Styles
neckbeard
patchy beard
short beard styles
should i shave my neck when growing a beard
Van Dyke Beard
Shop Merchandise
Twinlab Certified
Related
» Trendy in Fashion
» Popular Styles
» Long Beard Styles
» Hunk Mustache Styles
» Bald with Beard
Email: [email protected]
Website hits
VISIT OUR SHOP
» Beard Styles Originals
» Lifetime Satisfaction Guarantee
» Free Shipping
» Secure Payments
Beard Styles 2019 | Home of Beard Styles, Oil, Grooming Care
Copyright © 2019 | BEARD STYLES
StyleBlog by Themebeez