21 DIY Home Remedies for Anemia - HealthRemediesforLife.com
HealthRemediesforLife.com
Health
Remedies
Home Remedies
Natural Remedies
Traditional Medicine
Weight Loss
Beauty
Recipes
Healthy Food
General
Menu
Home » Featured Articles » 21 DIY Home Remedies for Anemia
21 DIY Home Remedies for Anemia
Anemia is a nutritional deficiency caused by lack of iron, folic acid and vitamin B12, which leads to a low red blood cell count and low blood oxygen levels. Symptoms include fatigue, headache, dizziness, cold hands and feet, chest pain, memory problems, low blood pressure and hair loss, among many others. Anemia has many causes, including blood loss (during menstruation in women), reducing the level of erythropoietin (a hormone produced by the kidneys), pregnancy, poor diet and leukemia.
Certain types of anemia, such as hemolytic anemia, sickle cell anemia and sideroblastic anemia, are not caused by nutritional deficiencies, but because of a malfunction in the body. These types require professional treatment, so check with your doctor to find out which type you have before starting a home treatment.
If you are suffering from a simple nutritional deficiency, there are many ways you can treat anemia at home, using natural and safe, affordable cures. Ready to find out what they are? Let’s start!
Home Remedies for anemia:
These are the effective natural remedies that increases the count of red blood cells.
1. Spinach
Spinach is rich in fiber, calcium, iron, beta-carotene, and vitamins A, B9, E and C. Boil ½ cup spinach in 1 cup of water and add your favorite seasonings. This simple soup contains 3.2 mg of iron (which is 20% of the recommended daily allowance for women). Be sure not to boil the spinach for more than 3 minutes as the leaves lose oxalic acid aids in the absorption of iron. Also try the two recipes below.
Process 1:
Chop spinach, broccoli, watercress, kale, and celery.
Mix with your favorite dressing and eating or increase red blood cell count.
Process 2:
Add 2 teaspoons of raw honey, organic juice to a glass of organic spinach.
Drink once a day for at least 40 days to get rid of anemia.
2. Blackstrap Molasses
Molasses is rich in iron, folic acid (a natural source of folic acid) and vitamin B complex, all which help increase the number of red blood cells. Molasses has a low glycemic index, so this treatment is good for diabetics.
Process 1:
Mix 2 teaspoons molasses and 2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar 1 cup water.
daily drink.
Process 2:
Mix 1 tablespoon molasses 1 cup hot milk.
Drinking once or twice a day.
is also good for pregnant women and nursing mothers.
3. Beets and apple juice
Apples are rich in iron and beet contains folic acid, fiber and potassium. Eating 2 apples and 2 beet. Peel beets contains the highest concentration of nutrients. Cook beets in the oven and roast in the oven with the peel. Now you can remove the peel and eat with the peel.
Process:
Mix 1 cup organic apple juice with a cup of organic beet juice, and stir in 2 teaspoons of honey.
drink twice a day to increase hemoglobin levels in the blood.
4. Parsley
Parsley is rich in iron, folic acid and vitamin C. Half cup fresh parsley contains about 5.5 mg of iron. It is rich in vitamin C, which helps the body absorb iron very quickly. Use it in soups, stews, sandwiches and salads, and tea try the recipe below.
Process:
Put fresh or dried parsley in a bowl.
Pour in 2 cups hot water.
Let stand for 5 minutes.
Strain, add 1 teaspoon honey and drink.
drink 2-3 times a day.
5. sesame seeds
black sesame seeds contain lots of iron.
Process:
Soak 1 teaspoon sesame seeds in water for 3 hours.
Grind the soaked seeds to make a paste.
Mix with 1 tablespoon of honey.
eat twice a day.
You can also stir the pasta in a cup of milk and drink it.
6. dates
One hundred grams of dates contain about 0.90 mg of iron. Dates are also rich in magnesium, calcium, manganese and copper. Copper is very important for the production of red blood cells
Process:
2 dried dates Soaking overnight in milk.
Eat dates and drinking the milk first thing in the morning on an empty stomach.
Do this 3-4 times a week.
If you do not like soaked dates, dried and still eat with a cup of milk.
If you are lactose intolerant, soak the dates in hot water for 3 hours instead of milk.
Eat dates and drinking water.
Related Post: 12 DIY Home Remedies for Nail Fungus
7. Tomatoes
Tomatoes are rich in lycopene and vitamin C, which helps the body absorb iron and prevent anemia.
Process:
Eat 2 fresh tomatoes, raw in salads and sandwiches every day.
or drinking a glass of tomato juice a day.
If you do not like tomato juice, try mixing it with apple juice.
8. Granada
Granada contains protein, fiber, carbohydrates, fats and natural sugars, as well as iron and calcium. Also contains magnesium, potassium, copper, and many essential vitamins. Drink juice and eat organic Granada Granada seeds a day, and try out the recipes below.
Process 1:
Add ¼ teaspoon cinnamon and ½ teaspoon of honey to your juice Granada.
daily drink with breakfast.
Process 2:
Mix 2 teaspoons Granada seed powder in a glass of milk.
Drink twice daily.
9. Bottle pumpkin soup
Bottle gourd contains iron and folic acid that increases the production of red blood cells.
Process:
Chop 1 bottle of pumpkin, ½ cup sugar beet, and 1 cup of spinach.
Pour water into a pot and place on stove over medium heat.
boil them in water for a few minutes, covering with a lid, or until the pumpkin pieces are soft.
Season to taste, remove from heat and eat.
have this day for a month to strengthen the immune system.
10. Raisins
raisins are an excellent source of sodium, calcium, potassium, fiber, iron and protein. 100 g of raisins contain about 1.88 mg of iron. Eat raisins every day, and if not fond of the taste, then try to remedy.
Process:
10-15 Soak raisins ½ cup of water overnight.
mix
The next morning with 1 teaspoon of raw honey, which is also rich in iron.
11. Honey
Honey is a rich source of iron, copper and manganese. It helps increase red blood cell count and hemoglobin production. Eating raw, organic honey on toast, pancakes and waffles, mix in your favorite tea, use in Asian recipes or grilling, and try the recipe below.
Process:
Mix 1 tablespoon honey, lemon juice and apple cider vinegar.
Consume this mixture daily.
12. legumes, whole grains, nuts and
For those who do not eat meat, whole grains, nuts and legumes beans and lentils-are a great source of iron and folic acid. Be sure to eat a well balanced diet and follow the tips below to ensure that your body absorbs the iron you need from these sources.
Process:
Eat beans, lima beans, pinto beans, chickpeas and green peas.
Eat nuts, almonds and peanuts. 1/2 cup walnuts provides 3.75 mg of iron.
Eat whole grain cereals.
Eat fresh fruits and vegetables containing vitamin C as these help to iron digestive system process.
Avoid tea, coffee and cocoa. Polyphenols inhibit iron absorption.
13. Fenugreek
fenugreek leaves and seeds are good sources of iron. They treat and prevent anemia by increasing red blood cell counts. Add the fenugreek leaves to soups and salads, and follow the recipe below.
Process:
Add 2 tsp fenugreek seeds and a pinch of salt in 1 cup of rice and cooking.
eat once a day.
Repeat for 2-3 weeks.
14. Dry Black Currant
dried black currant has tons of iron and vitamin C, which aids in the absorption of iron, which increases the count RBC and hemoglobin.
Process:
10.12 Soaking dry in water overnight blackcurrant.
eat them before breakfast every morning.
15. Banana
Bananas are rich in iron and stimulate the production of hemoglobin and other enzymes essential for red blood cell production. They are also a good source of magnesium that helps in the synthesis of hemoglobin.
Process:
Eat fresh bananas every day, and sweeten with 1 tablespoon honey for a more pleasant taste.
Coma 2 times a day.
16. Beets
beet contains a lot of iron and fiber, calcium, sulfur and potassium. It helps increase oxygen levels in blood and red blood cell count. Eating beets in salads and follow the recipe below.
Process 1:
In a blender, mix 1 beet, ½ piece of cooked sweet potatoes, carrots and 3 until smooth.
Eat every day.
Process 2:
Blend 1 ripe banana with 1 tablespoon juice of Indian gooseberry.
Stir well and eat 3 times a day.
17. Ash gourd
ash gourd, alias white pumpkin, winter melon, winter squash or pumpkin wax contains iron, calcium, riboflavin, phosphorus, thiamin, vitamin C and niacin.
Related Post: 16 DIY Home Remedies for Plugged Ears
Process 1:
Peel 1 kg of winter melon, remove seeds and cut into 1-inch pieces.
Meter small holes in each piece with a toothpick.
Pour water into a bowl and boil for a few minutes.
Now add pumpkin pieces, cover with a lid and simmer for 5 minutes, but the pieces should not be too soft.
drain the water and add 3 ½ cups sugar pieces.
30 minutes cooked over low heat until sugar syrup forms.
cover and let stand overnight.
Eat 2 pieces per day.
You can store about a month to 45 days this.
Process 2:
Dry ash gourd fruit and leaves.
was ground into a powder.
Mix 1 teaspoon pumpkin ash powder in a glass of buttermilk.
daily drink.
You can find this fruit easily in any store or any Chinese or ayurvedic health stores.
18. Yellow Dock Herbal and mincing
yellow dock root helps the body absorb iron more efficiently. Mixing with iron-rich herbs count increases red blood cells.
Ingredients:
1 teaspoon yellow dock root
1 teaspoon nettle
1 teaspoon root peony
1 teaspoon Dang Gui
2-3 tablespoons of molasses
1 teaspoon red clover
5-6 cups of water
Process:
Add all ingredients except molasses to a large pot.
Bring to a boil, reduce heat, simmer over low heat 30-45 minutes.
cover while simmering for the liquid does not reduce but stir every few minutes.
Remove from heat and add the molasses.
daily drink.
Add water and honey if it is too strong.
19. Wheat germ Tonic
wheat germ is a part of the wheat kernel obtained by processed and refined flour. Wheat germ contains iron, zinc, and other nutrients that treat anemia. This is beneficial for vegetarians.
Ingredients:
1 tablespoon wheat germ
1 tablespoon blackstrap molasses
yeast
1 tablespoon beer
canola oil 1 tablespoon
orange juice ½ cup
Process:
A blender, mix all ingredients until smooth.
Drink 3 times a day to get rid of anemia.
20. Liver
Dietary iron comes from two sources: animals and plants. The human body tends to absorb iron from fish, poultry and meat more easily than iron from plant (about 15-35% more). Depending on what type of eating liver, which can provide 16-85% of the recommended daily allowance of iron. The liver is also a rich source of vitamins B and vitamin B12, copper, zinc, and phosphorus. Try to eat local, organic meat, grass fed that has not been treated with antibiotics or hormones.
21. Balanced Diet
A balanced diet is essential for the treatment of anemia. Follow these tips to make sure you get enough iron and your body can properly absorb.
Eat foods high in iron such as liver, molasses, figs, whole grains, seafood, almonds, beans, oysters, eggs, rice, grapes, poultry, yams and raisins food.
Eat foods high in potassium such as bananas, some vegetables, nuts, whole grains, sunflower seeds, kiwi and broccoli food.
eat foods rich in manganese, such as whole grains, nuts, pineapple, vegetables and eggs.
eat foods rich in vitamin C, such as citrus, tomatoes and chives.
eat foods with folic acid, such as mushrooms, beans, green leafy vegetables, beans and black-eyed peas.
Get plenty of fiber.
drink plenty of water.
Avoid caffeinated drinks and soft drinks.
Other tips for Prevention and Treatment of anemia:
Cook food in an iron pot to preserve nutrients.
Mix approximately 60 ml of fresh juice soul with 25 ml of honey and drink daily.
05.07 Soak almonds in water overnight, peel and eat in the morning before breakfast.
sunbathing in moderation.
Take cold baths several times a week to increase blood circulation.
promote good circulation to get full-body massages with natural oils such as olive oil, mustard oil and coconut oil.
Taking Epsom salt baths.
Soak 3-4 figs in water overnight and eat in the morning.
05.07 Mix black peppers in about 200 ml of milk and boil in a pot of iron for 5 minutes, then drink.
Exercise regularly.
Practice yoga, meditation and deep breathing to reduce stress and increase circulation.
The above solutions for anemia are natural and safe. If your anemia does not improve, consult a health care professional. Have you tried any of these methods? Let us know what worked best for you!
->
You May Also Like :
Share on: Facebook Google+ Pinterest Reddit Digg LinkedIn Del.icio.us
You may also like
5 Ways To Spring Clean Your Body with Food
Spring is coming! A moment of birth and growth. In Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), which is associated with liver and the wood element. As spring clean
Ginger for Motion Sickness
Motion sickness or travel sickness is generally the queasy feeling you get during the trip either by car, train, boat or plane rides or attractions. It
Natural Remedies for Poison Oak Using Oatmeal
poison ivy or sumac eruptions are very terrible and embarrassing to have. Nearly half of the US population suffer with it at least once in their
Apple Cider Vinegar for Constipation
Apple cider vinegar is a type of vinegar squeezing the liquid from the apples. It has been used to cure various health and beauty with its
Advert & Popular Posts
The Indian Diet Plan to Lose Weight
How to Treat Acne Quickly with Green Tea
22 DIY Home Remedies for Weight Loss
Recent Search
motion4oh
tamil auntykalai opathu eppadi picture
epic mycenturahealth or/mch/billing/guestpay
auntyai correct pannuvadhu eppadi
tamil auntykalai opathu eppadi vedios
unripe pineapple health benifit
kahulugan ng isda sa panaginip
vasambu for face in tamil
settlerspkb
where is the sheet number on a map found ssd1
who should i give my love to my mother mp3 download
parent7qi
Discuss the interdependence of the components of wellness
kannina noho mane maddu in kannada
urad dal side effects
Sitemap
Contact
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
DMCA Notice & Policy
Copyright © 2019 HealthRemediesforLife.com.
==[Click 2x to CLOSE X]==
Trending Posts!
The Indian Diet Plan to Lose Weight 300 views