Oral Medications for Athlete's Foot
Sign Up | Doctor Login Search
Research News
Athlete's Foot Products
#1 Top Pick
Subscribe Now
Home
Athlete’s Foot Information
Top 5 Athlete’s Foot Treatments
Product Reviews
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
Oral Medications for Athlete’s Foot
Athlete’s foot is caused by a fungal or bacterial infection. Symptoms include dry skin, blisters, itching, peeling or flaky skin, or a burning sensation between your toes. Usually, these are treated with an anti-fungal lotion, but for more serious cases you may need to take an oral medication. Some of these medications include:
Itraconazole
This medication is most often proscribed for oral fungal infections, including infections in the mouth, throat, and lungs. However, it is also used to treat infections in toe and fingernails. Your doctor may prescribe it to you as a liquid, capsule, or tablet, but whatever the form, you need to take the medicine exactly as it is prescribed.
There are possible side effects with Itraconazole. These include a skin rash, headaches, stomach pain, itching, dizziness, constipation, or diarrhea. The effects will normally go away in less than five days, but you need to contact your doctor immediately if they go on for longer or become severe. If you have any of these more dangerous side effects, you need to contact your doctor right away. These include dark colored urine, swelling, extreme weight gain in a short period of time, a change in stool color, fever, nausea, shortness of breath, hearing problems, pain while urinating, or a yellowing of the eyes or skin.
Make sure that you tell your doctor what other medications you are taking because prescriptions containing ergonavine, cisapride, midazolam, lovastatin, and quinidine can negatively interact with itraconazole.
Fluconazole
This medication is like itraconazole in that it is usually used to treat internal infections like those occurring in the stomach, mouth, throat, organs, and vagina. In fact, it is used primarily to cure yeast infections. It will be prescribed as a tablet or liquid and must be taken every day. As with itraconazole, there are a number of side effects that will usually go away after a couple days, including heartburn, stomach pain, diarrhea, or a change in the way food tastes.
If you have any of these serious side effects, you need to call your doctor right away. These dangerous signs include poor appetite, bruising or bleeding, difficulty swallowing or breathing, a yellow tint in the eyes or skin, a rash, or seizures. Again, because of negative drug interactions, you need to inform your doctor of all the medications you take. The ones that are particularly bad to take with fluconazole include zidovudine, terfenadine, stall, rifampin, valproic acid, and warfarin. If you are on any of these, your doctor may change the dose of fluconazole accordingly.
Terbinafine
Finally, the drug most commonly used to treat athlete’s foot or other fungal infections on the finger or toenails is terbinafine.
Your doctor will prescribe this in the form of a tablet that you need to take every day for 3 months. As with all medications, there may be side effects. The ones generally associated with terbinafine include hives, rash, itching, and stomach pain. If they do not go away after a few weeks, you need to contact your doctor. If you experience any of these dangerous side effects, you need to contact your doctor right away. These include a severe rash, sore throat, fever, dark urine, a change in stool color, a sore throat, vomiting, or extreme fatigue.
Top 5 Athlete's Foot Treatments for 2019
TOP 5
ATHLETE'S FOOT Treatments
#1
Learn More
#2
Learn More
#3
Learn More
#4
Learn More
#5
Learn More
Athlete's Foot Clear
Naturasil
Healing Natural Oils
Forces of Nature
DeSensua
1 2 3 4 5
Price (1 bottle)
Price (6 bottles) *Best Value $49.95
$139.80 $31.30
$169.00 $29.95
$161.73 $34.85
$188.00 $23.99
$129.55
Overall Rating 99.30% 82.20% 79.40% 74.80% 66.30%
Effectiveness
Speed of Results Extremely Fast Good Average Slow Slow
Quality of Ingredients Premium Good Good Average Average
Customer Satisfaction Evaluation 99.10% 80% 75% 74% 65%
Safety Evaluation Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use
Customer Service Rating
Reorder Rate Highest Good Average Average Average
Return Policy Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Unopened Only
Success Rate 99.20% 82% 73% 73% 62%
*The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the Editor. Results may vary from person to person and cannot be guaranteed.
Related Articles
Itchy Toes? What Can it Mean?
Mar-v-cide Disinfectant & Germicidal Spray Review
The Top 4 Foods for Combating Fungi
Canesten Clotrimazole Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
Fungal Infections on the Groin
Why Heels Crack
The Causes and Prevention of Ringworm
3 Ways to Identify Fungal Infections
Subscribe Now!
Join with thousands who are getting EXCLUSIVE CONTENT, videos, and deals
you won't find anywhere else.
Our Top 5 Picks
Editor's Choice
Click Here
NEW ARTICLES
Anti Fungal Supplements
Anti Fungal Supplements Fungal skin infections are...
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch Jock itch (tinea cruris)...
Natural Remedies for a Fungal Skin Infection in a Child
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet Doug Kaufmann, the a...
Essential Oil: Citronella
Essential Oil: Citronella This is a kind of grass ...
HOT TOPICS
1
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano Oil. The ...
2
When You Need to Talk to a Doctor About Cracked Feet
3
Oral Medications for Athlete’s Foot
Oral medication can be taken, in severe cases......
4
Medical Treatment for Athlete’s Foot
In very rare cases, medical intervention may be neeeded...
PRODUCT REVIEWS
3M Cavilon Antifungal Cream 3390 Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
All Stop Medicated Skin Cream Review
This review of All Stop Medicated Skin C...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
Introduction The following is an in-dept...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
This review on Athlete’s Foot Clear pr...
Athlete’s Foot Killer Review
Written below is an in-depth product rev...
Athletol Review
The following is an in-depth review of t...
Au Kah Chuen Antifungal Lotion Review
This is a review of Antifungal Lotion, w...
Avon Foot Works Healthy Anti-fungal Powder Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Avon F...
Bayer Lotrimin AF Athlete’s Foot Deodorant Powder Spray Review
A lot of products for Athlete’s fo...
Baza Antifungal Moisture Barrier Antifungal Cream Review
This is a review of Moisture Barrier Ant...
Canesten Clotrimazole Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Canesten Clotrimazole Ath...
Clever Cultures For Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Clever Cultures For Athle...
Crawford Healthcare Cuplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Crawford Healthcare&...
Crystal Foot Deodorant Spray Review
This is a review of Foot Deodorant Spray...
Crystalline Salts Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
The following is a review for the Foot a...
CVS Athlete’s Foot Spray Review
This review of CVS Athlete’s Foot ...
Daktarin Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
Today we will take a look at the Daktari...
Deep Steep Deodorizing Foot Mist Review
This is a review of Deodorizing Foot Mis...
Derma E Tea Tree and E Oil Review
This is a review of Tea Tree and E Oil w...
Derman Antifungal Cream Review
In the following review you can find out...
Desenex Antifungal Spray Powder Review
If you want to find out everything there...
DeSensua Product Review
Introduction This is a review of Melaleu...
DG Health Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of DG Health Athlete’s...
Dr. Blaine’s Tineacide Anti-fungal Foot and Shoe Spray Review
Welcome to our review on Dr. Blaine’s ...
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete Foot Cream Review
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Fo...
Efficient Laboratories Hongo Killer Antifungal Spray Review
In this review, you can learn all there ...
Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream for Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream ...
Elite Sportz Equipment Foot and Shoe Odor Spray Review
This is a review of Elite Sportz Equipme...
Equate Athlete’s Foot Powder Spray Review
In this review, you can read about a pro...
Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream Review
If you want to find out all the details ...
Flexitol Medicated Foot Cream Review
In our in-depth review of Flexitol Medic...
Forces of Nature Review
Introduction This article is a review of...
Fungi Nail Toe and Foot Ointment Review
This review discusses the various factor...
FungiCure Anti-Fungal Liquid Gel Review
In this review, you can learn more about...
Gehwol Fusskraft Blue Review
This is a review of the product Fusskraf...
Generic Lotrimin Clotrimazole Anti-Fungal Cream USP Review
By reading this review you can find out ...
GoodSense Clotrimazole Foot Cream Review
This review for GoodSense Clotrimazole F...
Healing Natural Oils Product Review
Introduction This article reviews H-Athl...
Home Health Antifungal Lotion Review
The subject of this review is a product ...
Honga Cura Ointment Review
This review was written to give a compre...
Hydrozole Review
This is a review of Hydrozole. According...
Karite Gold Athlete’s Foot Review
This is a review of Karite Gold’s ...
Lafe’s Natural Body Care Foot Spray with Peppermint Oil Review
The following is a review of Foot Spray ...
Lamisil Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Lamisil Athlete’s F...
Mar-v-cide Disinfectant & Germicidal Spray Review
In this review, you can read about Mar-v...
Meijer Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Meijer Athlete’s Fo...
Mellowleaf Beauty Tea Tree Oil Review
Meadowleaf Beauty manufacturers their ow...
Micatin Antifungal Cream Review
This review of Micatin Antifungal Cream ...
Miracle of Aloe Foot Repair Review
This review of Miracle Foot Repair for D...
Monray Antiperspirant Foot Treatment Review
If you are interested in learning more a...
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot & Body Wash Review
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot ...
Naturally Fresh Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray which...
Naturasil Review
Product Claims: Naturasil claims to c...
NatureCare AF Anti-fungal Cream Review
This is our in-depth review of NatureCar...
Natureplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Natureplex Athlete&#...
Nordic Care Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray manuf...
NutriBiotic Natural Body and Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Natural Body and Foo...
Odor Eaters Antibacterial Foot and Sneaker Spray Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Odorex Foot And Shoe Deodoriser Review
This review of Odorex Foot And Shoe Deod...
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano...
PersonalCare Antifungal Powder Spray Review
If you wish to learn more about Persona...
Podosan Athlete’s Foot Treatment Review
Welcome to our Podosan Athlete’s Foot ...
Quantum Health Athlete’s Foot Cure Review
This detailed review is for the product,...
Remedy Antifungal Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Ring Guard Ringworm Cream Review
If you’d like to find out more abo...
Rite Aid Clotrimazole Cream Review
Welcome to our review of the anti-fungal...
Rocket Pure Natural Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
Welcome to our review of Rocket Pure Nat...
S.S.S. Company Tetterine Ointment Review
This is a review of Tetterine Ointment w...
Scholl Advance Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Scholl Advance Athlete...
Telia Oils Toe and Foot Review
This is a review of the Toe and Foot ant...
Thornton and Ross Mycota Review
This is a review of Thornton & Ross ...
Tineacide Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Tineacide Athlete’s Foo...
Ting Antifungal Spray Powder Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
Vertico Footwear Company Ped Powder Organic Foot Powder Review
In this review you will learn all there ...
Walgreens Clotrimazole Anti-fungal Cream Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Walgre...
Wise Ways Herbals Tea-Tree Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Tea-Tree Foot Powder...
Zeasorb Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Zeasorb Athlete’s F...
Zema Cream Review
In the following review you can learn mo...
Research News
Top Reviews
#1 Top Pick
About Us
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Athletefoot.org- All Rights Reserved.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
*Results for individuals will vary, depending on existing health factors, lifestyle and level of fitness. The information contained on this site is intended to educate only and is in no way, a substitute for medical advice that your doctor or healthcare provider can offer, with whom you should always consult with before making any dietary changes. Information within should not be used for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Testimonials on this site are based on the experiences of a few people and you may not have similar results. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.