What Is The Ideal Magnesium Dosage? (For All Uses)
NEWS
NOOTROPICS
5-HTP
Forskolin
Panax Ginseng
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
GABA
Phenibut
Adrafinil
Ginkgo Biloba
Phenylethylamine
Alpha Brain
Green Tea Extract
Phosphatidylserine
Alpha-GPC
Holy Basil
Piracetam
Alpha Lipoic Acid
Huperzine A
Pramiracetam
Aniracetam
Kava
PRL-8-53
Armodafinil
Kratom
Pterostilbene
Ashwagandha
L-Theanine
Racetams
Astaxanthin
L-Tyrosine
Reishi Mushroom
Bacopa Monnieri
Lemon Balm
Rhodiola Rosea
Centrophenoxine
Lion’s Mane
Semax
Chaga
Magnesium
Mind Lab Pro
Shilajit
CILTEP
Citicoline
Modafinil
St John’s Wort
Coluracetam
Modvigil
Sulbutiamine
CoQ10
Mucuna Pruriens
Curcumin
N-Acetyl L-Tyrosine
Tianeptine
DHEA
Noopept
Tongkat Ali
DMAE
Omega-3s
Valerian Root
Vinpocetine
Fasoracetam
OptiMind
Qualia
Fish Oil
SARMS
REVIEWS
1
What Is The Ideal Magnesium Dosage? (For All Uses)
It doesn’t matter what ails you – magnesium will make it better.
Magnesium is more than your average mineral. It helps maintain your DNA, RNA, regulates enzyme activity, and is necessary for energy production within cells.
Most Americans are deficient in magnesium, which can be dangerous. The recommended magnesium dosage daily for health varies slightly, depending on your age, sex and why you’re taking it.
What’s the Ideal Magnesium Dosage for Constipation?
Most forms of magnesium can be used to relieve constipation, but magnesium citrate has a high success rate.
It promotes peristalsis, the contraction, and relaxation of intestinal muscles, and pulls water into the intestines, making the stool softer.
The best magnesium dosage for constipation is 300 to 400 mg a day. A dosage of over 400 mg a day may cause diarrhea in the short-term and lead to kidney disease if taken for a prolonged period.
If you have chronic constipation, you may have a magnesium deficiency.
Instead of relying on magnesium citrate when you become constipated, make sure you eat leafy greens, whole grains, yogurt and other foods containing magnesium daily. This will avoid this discomfort.
The Best Magnesium Dosage for Sleep
Magnesium is called the “relaxation mineral” because it loosens tight muscles or a tight mindset (e.g. anxiety, depression). It actively relaxes constricted blood vessels and stiff muscles, like the leg cramps you get at night.
Melatonin is often cited as the go-to natural supplement sleep, but it comes with more cons than pros.
It will make you feel sleepy, but won’t help you fall asleep. Magnesium works on your muscles, relaxing you biological functions and helping you unwind.
In this video, Rick Gold of Gold Function Wellness talks about the importance of quality sleep, and how magnesium can help you get it.
Sleep series #1 Magnesium Citrate
Make sure you get at least 300 mg of magnesium a day. People who suffer from chronic insomnia can benefit from a higher dosage of between 400-1000 mg.
If you’re unable to get all of it from food, take a highly absorbent form of magnesium like magnesium orotate or magnesium citrate.
Quality sleep is one of the cornerstones of good health.
The Best Magnesium Dosage for Migraines
Research shows many migraine sufferers have low magnesium levels. By taking a magnesium supplement, you can reduce the number and intensity of headaches.
Magnesium relaxes blood vessels in the brain, boosts platelet function, and blocks Substance P and other pain-transmitting brain chemicals.
The American Headache Society’s “Headache Toolbox” recommends the use of magnesium to treat migraines and cluster headaches.
Magnesium oxide pills in doses of between 400-500 mg a day can help prevent brain signaling waves, which many migraine sufferers experience. Women who experience migraines during their menstrual periods can also get relief from a magnesium supplement.
The Ideal Magnesium Dosage for Anxiety
Magnesium is often overlooked as a natural treatment for mild to moderate anxiety. If you are constantly on edge, and even occasional stress sets your anxiety into full gear, a magnesium deficiency may be to blame.
Magnesium reduces cortisol, a stress hormone that contributes to anxiety, and stimulates the production of the relaxing brain chemical GABA. It’s one of the few nutrients capable of increasing your brain’s neuroplasticity and rewire it to think more calmly and efficiently.
The University of Michigan Health Center recommends a dose of between 600-900 mg of magnesium a day to treat mild anxiety. Alternatively, you can add a cup of Epsom salt (magnesium sulfate crystals) to your bath and soak for 15-20 minutes a day.
What’s A Safe and Effective Magnesium Dosage for Your Child?
The National Institute of Health recommends the following magnesium dosages for children:
Birth to 6 months: 30 mg
7 to 12 months: 75 mg
1 to 3 years: 80 mg
4 to 8 years: 130 mg
9 to 13 years: 240 mg
Like calcium, magnesium is essential for building strong bones and teeth. It promotes muscle contraction and nerve function and keeps kids calm and balanced.
Lack of magnesium in a child’s diet can lead to ADHD, irritability, nervousness and muscle cramps. Let’s face it; kids don’t like to eat their leafy green vegetables (which are loaded with magnesium), so you may need to give your child a chewable or liquid magnesium supplement instead.
The Safest Magnesium Dosage for Weight Loss
Magnesium’s calming effects help banish emotional eating, leaving you in a better mood to exercise or perform other tasks instead of binging on your favorite comfort food.
Lack of sleep, another cause of overeating, is remedied by getting the RDV of magnesium daily (310 mg for women under 30, 320 mg for women over 30).
Magnesium also helps reduce the bloating you experience during your period.
If you experience chronic constipation, it can add a few pounds to your frame. Stay regular by taking a magnesium supplement and eating more fruits, yogurt and veggies.
Magnesium also reduces the chance of developing metabolic syndrome, a condition that leads to a fat belly, high blood pressure, and diabetes.
Stay Fit and Healthy with Magnesium
According to the National Institute of Health, the recommended dosage for magnesium for the average person is 400 to 420 mg a day for men, and 310 to 320 mg for women.
If you can’t eat enough magnesium-rich food during the day, check out the following magnesium supplements. They’ll keep your body functioning at peak level, and help you control anxiety, migraines, insomnia and other health problems:
Natural Stacks MagTech
Onnit Key Minerals
Natural Rhythm Triple Calm Magnesium
Final Words
As you can see, magnesium has a lot of promising benefits for one’s health given that you take the ideal magnesium dosage.
Have you used magnesium to treat anxiety, migraines, poor sleep or other health problems? Let us know how it worked for you in the comment section.
Other Magnesium resources
Having Trouble Sleeping? Sleep Better with L-theanine!
9 L-Theanine Benefits That Go Far Beyond Anxiety
What are The Side Effects of L-Theanine?
L-Theanine Supplement For Anxiety: What Is The Best Brand?
How To Stack Caffeine and L-theanine for Relaxed Focus
Click Here to Leave a Comment Below 1 comments
Jan - January 19, 2019
Hello,
I am overdosing on magnesium information! I really only need to take a supplement because my labs say my Mag is on the low side. The APRN I see says to take a potassium supplement which turned out to be Mag oxide 500 mg. Because that’s all the little pharmacy had. Blood level still on low side last week. Said to double it. Well, think Milk of Magnesia! Nope. I now am going to take Mag glycinate but, don’t know what dose I should take. I just got 100 mg tabs. Please tell me what to do.
I’ve been everywhere looking for an answer and can’t find one. My APRN does not know anything about supplements. Just goes by lab results. She missed the stroke I had and only saw my potassium was low. That is good now with a supplement. I can’t get tested again for 3 months so, kinda want to get a good level in me til then. Btw, my blood level was 1.07 which on most tests is still normal range.
Is there a way to say what mg of glycinate would be equal or a bit better than 500mg of oxide? Truse me when I say I do not want to deal with her again on pretty much any issue. I’ve had to tell her myself that I shouldn’t take lasix or a BP diuretic because it would wreak(sp) havoc with my electrolytes. I do have HBP, stroke, afib, maybe minor things I can’t remember right now.
Can you please give me some feedback on glycinate dosage? I will be eternally grateful.
Best regards
Jan Emerson
Reply
Leave a reply:
Cancel Reply
Leave a Reply:
←Previous post Next post→
Nootropics News on Corpina
ModafinilStar Review: Look Elsewhere When Buying Modafinil Online
Duckdose Review and Comparison to ModafinilCat
Phenibut’s INSANE Benefits (and Brutally Awful Side Effects)
Uridine Supplement Stacks Help Repair Dopamine Receptors
Why (and How) Nootropics Bypass the Blood-Brain-Barrier
My name is Dan. I'm a research associate at Harvard and current father of two beautiful girls. I've bought tens of thousands of dollars of nootropics over the last few years. This site is my way of giving back to the nootropics community that's done so much for me. Every article on here is carefully researched and written by me. Leave a comment if you have any questions.
CORPINA’S MISSION
Our mission at Corpina is to inform the world about Nootropics and responsible Nootropic use. We hope you enjoy your stay here. Hit us up in the comments section or via email if you have any questions or comments. Affiliate Disclosure
DISCLAIMER
None of the statements made on Corpina have been reviewed by the FDA. Nothing you read on this website should be considered medical advice. Consult your doctor, and use common sense before doing anything that you think might have a lasting impact on your brain. Full Medical Disclaimer
Terms
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
About
Privacy Policy
Write For Us
Copyright © 2017 by Corpina Nootropics
Top
Do You Want
Discounts﻿ on Nootropics﻿﻿﻿﻿?﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿
YES, SEND ME THE COUPONS!
NO, I LIKE PAYING MORE.
x
Enter Your Email To Get Massive Discounts on The Best Nootropics
SEND ME THE COUPON CODES
x