Jarrow Formulas Theanine - Online Shop with Best Prices
VALUATE YOUR SHIPMENT
Delivery country Australia Austria Belarus Belgium Bolivia Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea, Republic of Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Mexico Monaco Netherlands New Zealand Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russian Federation San Marino Slovak Republic Slovenia South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey Ukraine United Kingdom United States
Zip code
City
Weight of your shipment To 5 kg To 10 kg To 30 kg To 50 kg To 70 kg To 90 kg
Go to calculation page
Data is transferred and analyzed by external vendors. The whole should not last more than 30 seconds.
Since 2005
You are currently:
Choose language:
Select currency: $ € £ zł
Dietary supplements
Need help?
Leave message
Log in US/en/USD 0
Log in
Forgot Password? Register
Use google account
You are currently Poland Germany United Kingdom Ireland Australia Austria Belarus Belgium Bolivia Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Greece Hungary Iceland Israel Italy Japan Korea, Republic of Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Mexico Monaco Netherlands New Zealand Norway Portugal Romania Russian Federation San Marino Slovak Republic Slovenia South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey Ukraine United States
Choose language:
Select currency: $ € £ zł
Since 2005
en
USD
Login/Register sales@mz-store.co.uk
Odżywki i suplementy
Search:
0 0.00 $
TOTAL
0.00 $
Products worthy of interest:
View Cart
Since 2005 sales@mz-store.co.uk 7767803657
My account 0.00 $
Dietary supplements
Amino Acids
Brain power
Creatine
Fat Loss
Health & Vitality
Proteins
Special products
Testosterone Boosters
Training boosters
Vitamins & Minerals
Single amino acids
Arginine
Cysteine
Glutamine
Glycine
Leucine
Lysine
Methionine
Ornithine
Phenylalanine
Proline
Tryptophan
Amino acid blends
Arginine + Citrulline
Arginine + Ornithine
BCAA + Glutamine
Glutamine + Taurine
Pure BCAA
Amino acid stacks
All-day amino acids
BCAA stacks
Essential Amino Acids (EAA)
Glutamine blends
Amino acids derivatives
Carnosine
HMB
Adaptogens
Ashwagandha
Bacopa monnieri
Ginkgo biloba
Gotu kola
Rhodiola rosea
Adaptogenic Mixes
Cholinergics
Alpha GPC
CDP-Choline
DMAE
Huperzine
Lecithin
Energy boosters
ALCAR
Caffeine
NIAGEN & NADH
Tyrosine & NALT
Psychostimulants
Promotion of neurotransmitters
Acetylcholine boosters
Dopamine boosters
GABA Boosters
Serotonin boosters
Multi boosters
Phosphatidylserine
L-Theanine
Nootropics
Neuroprotection
Single-ingredient creatine supplements
Creatine hydrochloride
Creatine malate
Creatine nitrate
Creatine phosphate
Creatine pyruvate
Magnesium creatine chelate
Kre-Alkalyn
Creatine orotate
Creatine monohydrate
Creatine stacks
Post-workout
Pre-workout
Universal pure creatine matrixes
Universal with additives
Creatine capsules
Creatine powder
Fat burners
Cortisol inhibitors
ECA stacks
Extreme fut burners
Fat burners for beginners
Fat burners with yohimbine
Non-Stimulant Fat Burners
T3 Boosters
Thermogenic Fat Burners
Transdermal fut burners
Appetite Suppressants
Chitosan & Dietary Fibre
Diabetic - Sugar Control
Diuretics
Healthy snacks
Ketogenic diet
Metabolic Accelerators
7-Keto Dhea
CLA & others
Fat Loss Support
Green Tea
L-Carnitine
Health Support
Antioxidants
Cordyceps and Reishi
Curcumin
Ginseng
Healthy Fatty Acids
Hemp oil CBD
Herbs
Holy basil
N-Acetyl Cysteine (NAC)
Omega-3
Vegetarian diet
Mitochondrial energy support
Probiotics
Multi-strain probiotics
Probiotics for children
Synbiotics
Targeted probiotics
Joint Support
Anti-inflammatory
Cissus
Collagen
Comprehensive Protection
Glucosamine & Chondroitin
Hyaluronic acid
MSM - organic sulfur
Shark Cartilage
Abnormal methylation
Adrenal recovery
Anti-Aging
Anti-allergic
Anti-stress
Better Mood
Better Sleep
Detoxification
Digestion Support
Healthy bones and teeth
Healthy bowel
Healthy cardiovascular system
Healthy Eyes
Healthy Hair & Nails
Healthy prostate
Healthy thyroid
Healthy Urinary System
Immune system boosters
Insulin sensitivity
Libido Increasers
Liver Support
Lowering cholesterol level
Lowering Cortisol Level
Menopause and female problems
Reduce Blood Pressure
Reduce Blood Sugar
Skin disorders
Milk proteins
Whey protein concentrate (WPC)
Whey protein isolate (WPI)
Whey protein hydrolysate (WPH)
Whey protein mixes
Micellar Casein
Casein Blends
ECO proteins (Grass-Fed)
Protein matrix
Whey protein + plant protein
Whey + animal protein
Whey protein + casein
Whey protein + milk protein
Protein multicomplexes
Slow Digesting Proteins
Proteins of plant origin
Hemp protein
Pea protein
Plant protein blends
Rice protein
Soy protein
Supplements for mass
Bulk - 50:50
Gainers 10-19% of protein
Gainers 20-29% of protein
Gainers 30-39% of protein
Meal Replacements
Percentage Amount of Protein
50-69% Protein
70-79% Protein
80-89% Protein
90%+ Protein
Animal proteins
Egg albumin
Animal protein blends
Beef Protein Isolate
Natural anabolics
Anabolic blends
Appetite enhancers
Ecdysterone and plant sterols
Epicatechin
Growth hormone stimulator
Insulin mimetics
Laxogenin
Non-hormonal anabolic agents
Prohormones
Aim: Mass and Size
Aim: Strength and Quality
Aim: Definition and Hardness
Arimistane
Epi-Andro
Epistane
Halodrol and Superdrol
Nandrolone derivatives (19-nor)
Testosterone derivatives (1-AD, 4-AD)
Prohormone stacks
SARMs
Ostarine and SARMs
MK-677 - booster GH/IGF-1
GW and endurance-enhancing agents
SARM stacks
Cycle support
Aphrodisiacs and herbs for potency
Mixes of Aphrodisiacs
Tribulus terrestris
Aromatase inhibitors
Complex Testo-Boosters
D-Aspartic Acid (DAA)
DHEA
DHT inhibitors (prostate support)
PCT (Post Cycle Therapy)
Pregnenolone
ZMA and microelements
Estrogen control
Carbohydrates
Carbo
Dextrose
Vitargo
Waxy Maize
NO boosters
Arginine
AAKG
Agmatine
Citrulline
Arginine + Citrulline
Muscle pump stacks
Performance
Beta-alanine
Caffeine
Performance stacks
Taurine
Pre-workouts
For advanced
For begginers
For women
With creatine
Without creatine
Without stimulants
Intra-workout boosters
Electrolytes
Energy gels
Energy stacks
Isotonics
Post-workout boosters
With creatine
Without creatine
Universal Boosters (pre & post workout)
Vitamins
Beta-carotene
Tocotrienols
Vitamin A
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Vitamin D3 & K2
Vitamin E
Vitamin K
Vitamin K2 MK-7
Minerals
Chelated minerals
Chromium
Zinc
Magnesium
Potassium
Selenium
Calcium
Iron
Trace minerals
Mineral complex
B-vitamins
B1 Thiamine
B2 Riboflavin
B3 Niacin
B4 Choline
B5 Pantothenic acid
B6 Pyridoxine
B7 Biotin
B8 Inositol
B9 Folic acid
B10 PABA
B12 Cobalamin
B-complex
Vitamin & Mineral complex
All-purpose
Enriched with additional ingredients
For men
For pregnant women
For women
Special forms of vitamins
Coenzymatic vitamins
Liposomal vitamins
Methylated vitamins
Vitamin-like substances
Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA)
Coenzyme Q10
Glutathione
PQQ
Clothing and accessories
Accessories
Martial Arts
Sportswear
Armbands
Other accessories
Pill Boxes
Shakers and bottles
Slimming belts
Stabilizing belts
Training Bags
Training belts and handles
Training gloves
Rash Guards
Shirts
Shorts and pants
Blouses & Jackets
Caps
Leggings
Pants
Shorts
T-shirt
Functional Food
Healthy fats
Calorie-free food
Dietary Fibre
Energy food
High-protein food
Meal additives
Meal replacements
Superfoods
Bread creams
Coconut products
Frying oils
MCT oils
Peanut butters and others
Unsaturated fats
Sauces and syrups
Sweeteners
Zero drinks
Energy bars
Energy gels
Sports drinks
Cookies and snacks
Edible insects
Protein bars
Brands
Recommended brands
Suggested brands
5% Nutrition
Activlab
Ai Sports Nutrition
Alter Medica
Animis
Apollo's Hegemony
Aps
Biotech Usa
Blackstone Labs
Body Attack
Brawn Nutrition
Bsn
Cbd Naturals
Chaos And Pain
Controlled Labs
Doctor's Best
Dorian Yates
Dr. Mercola
Dymatize
Finaflex
Fitness Authority
Gaspari Nutrition
Grenade
Hades's Hegemony
Hi-tec Nutrition
Hi-tech Pharmaceuticals
Jarrow Formulas
Keto Sports
Killer Labz
Lecheek Nutrition
Life Extension
MZ-STORE
Megabol
Mhp
Muscle Pharm
Muscletech
Natrol
Now Foods
Nutrend
Nutrex Research
Olimp
Optimum Nutrition
Peak
Performax Labs
Pharmabest
Pharmafreak
Prosupps
Quicksilver Scientific
Redcon1
San
Sanprobi
Scitec Nutrition
Scivation
Soncone
Source Naturals
Swanson
Syntrax
Tested Nutrition
Trec Nutrition
Universal Nutrition
Urx
Xxl Nutrition
Other companies...
Profiles
Choose Your goal
Strength & bodybuilding Endurance Diet & weight loss Mental enhancement Health & well-being
Newest
Promotions
Sale
Back to the stock
Exercises
Braverman test
Newest
Promotions
Sale
Back to the stock
Blog
Wikipedia of supplements
Exercises
Braverman test
Confirm or change your preferred country of delivery, language or currency. If you do this when logged in, your preferences will be remembered on your MZAccount. You can change them at any time by clicking the arrow at the top of the page.
save
delivery country Australia Austria Belarus Belgium Bolivia Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea, Republic of Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Mexico Monaco Netherlands New Zealand Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russian Federation San Marino Slovak Republic Slovenia South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey Ukraine United Kingdom United States
currency USD ($) EUR (€) GBP (£) PLN (zł)
language Polski English USA
Theanine
Introduces the state of relaxation without sleepiness
Protects the nerve cells
Facilitates learning processes
Widely used by students
Improves cognitive skills
Classified as a nootropic substance
Reduces the symptoms of stress
Generates the alpha brain waves
Jarrow Formulas Theanine 200 is a dietary supplement which contains 200 mg of L-theanine in a single capsule. This organic chemical compound occurs mainly in Chinese tea (Camellia sinensis) and it is known because of its ability to promote relaxation without the feeling of sleepiness, which very often occurs during the use of preparations which have a similar effect.
The influence of L-theanine on the brain
L-theanine reduces stress and anxiety mainly because it has some resemblance to the chemical brain indicator – glutamate, but it functions in the opposite direction. While glutamate is one of the most stimulating neurotransmitters, L-theanine can link with the same receptors and block glutamate's action. These properties can reduce the hyperactivity of the nervous system and they calm down, relax and minimize anxiety.
It is believed that L-theanine may show the action similar to glutamine, as it is its derivative and has resemblance to it. This also applies to the properties of the neurotransmitters to which glutamine is a precursor. This mainly regards GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid). There is some evidence that L-theanine may stimulate its production and, as we know, gamma-aminobutyric acid can inhibit the nervous system as well as shows sedative and anxiolytic properties.
In contrast to prescription-only anti-anxiety medicines, the use of L-theanine does not cause the feeling of sleepiness and does not weaken the motor functions. In fact, the studies in humans have demonstrated that L-theanine may slightly improve alertness and attention, in addition to its earlier mentioned sedative properties.
Especially interesting are the results of the research which showed that supplementation with L-theanine reduced rapid pressure increase, which some of us experience in stressful situations. Such dangerously high blood pressure and its rapid increase can cause arterial damages, mainly in the network of tiny brain vessels.
Support of cognitive skills and protection of the nervous system
There is a link between anxiety, response to stress and one of the most basic brain functions – maintaining cognitive skills. The latest studies indicate a potential role of L-theanine in promoting cognitive skills and preventing their loss.
Stress has a strong negative impact on the ability to think clearly and to make the best decisions. Physiologically, it has been demonstrated that psychological stress significantly reduces animal performance in the standard tests of learning and memory and increases the damage caused by free radicals and secretion of adrenaline. Application of L-theanine before the exposure of test subjects to the stress factor resulted in a reversion of impairment of cognitive skills as well as in a reduction of the levels of stress hormones and oxidative damages.
Strokes
Stroke is a result of a sudden blockage of blood flow (ischemia) to the brain. L-theanine may have the properties which will have a beneficial influence on the prevention of strokes and relieving the damage if they occur. There is some evidence which suggests that L-theanine may significantly improve the production of nitric oxide (NO) in the vascular endothelium of arteries. As we know, NO has an antispasmodic influence on smooth muscle cells of blood vessels and hence, on the blood pressure and the regulation of blood circulation.
Another mechanism of strokes prevention has been described by another study. It has been demonstrated that L-theanine decreased the expression of adhesion molecules to the walls of the vascular endothelium, by inhibiting cytokine TNF-alpha (tumour necrosis factor). Such an action is characterized by a reduction in the risk of clots, blockage and obstruction of the arteries which cause strokes.
L-theanine, applied to animals up to 12 hours after stroke, resulted in beneficial changes in protecting brain cells and reducing the size of the destroyed areas of the brain. Even a later treatment (24 h) improved neurological condition of the test subjects.
The future of L-theanine
The scientists are even more interested in the properties of L-theanine, which go beyond the calming effect. Over-stimulation of brain cells with glutamate is believed to be one of the factors of the development of neurodegenerative diseases. The possibility to block it makes the L-theanine remain a promising agent in neuroprotection and prevention of the nervous system diseases.
Although the deeper mechanisms are still under investigation, there is some evidence that L-theanine affects gene expression in the areas of the brain which are responsible for fear and aggression (amygdala) and memory (hippocampus). This can be helpful in integrating behavioural responses to stress and experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder and mood disorders.
To sum it all up, Jarrow Formulas Theanine 200 is especially recommended, due to its nootropic properties, for all people who are exposed to excessive mental and physical effort. It is also recommended for athletes whose disciplines require concentration and memory skills, and for those who suffer from disrupted regeneration, caused by chronic stress. The supplement can also be used by people in the periods of increased learning (during exams), and by those who intensively work mentally and for long periods (for example during major projects and works).
Out Of Stock
Main page
Brain power
Promotion of neurotransmitters
Since 2005
Add to Cart
Theanine 200 200mg 60 caps.
Jarrow Formulas
7.91 $
Theanine 200 200mg 60 caps.
EU Stock
Add to other stock
PROMOTION
features
Fat loss:
Concentration:
Health:
Our recomendation:
Short term:
2019-04-30
Old price: 24.26 $
7.91 $
1 szt.
Add to Cart
Add to wish list
- Delivery even day after tomorrow
- Foreign shippment from 5.60 $ Every 81.79 $ reduces shipping costs by 2.73 $
You have got questions about the product
sales@mz-store.co.uk
01709231594 (mon.-fri 900-1700)
Description
Directions for use
Manufacturer
Reviews (0)
Description
Introduces the state of relaxation without sleepiness
Protects the nerve cells
Facilitates learning processes
Widely used by students
Improves cognitive skills
Classified as a nootropic substance
Reduces the symptoms of stress
Generates the alpha brain waves
Jarrow Formulas Theanine 200 is a dietary supplement which contains 200 mg of L-theanine in a single capsule. This organic chemical compound occurs mainly in Chinese tea (Camellia sinensis) and it is known because of its ability to promote relaxation without the feeling of sleepiness, which very often occurs during the use of preparations which have a similar effect.
The influence of L-theanine on the brain
L-theanine reduces stress and anxiety mainly because it has some resemblance to the chemical brain indicator – glutamate, but it functions in the opposite direction. While glutamate is one of the most stimulating neurotransmitters, L-theanine can link with the same receptors and block glutamate's action. These properties can reduce the hyperactivity of the nervous system and they calm down, relax and minimize anxiety.
It is believed that L-theanine may show the action similar to glutamine, as it is its derivative and has resemblance to it. This also applies to the properties of the neurotransmitters to which glutamine is a precursor. This mainly regards GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid). There is some evidence that L-theanine may stimulate its production and, as we know, gamma-aminobutyric acid can inhibit the nervous system as well as shows sedative and anxiolytic properties.
In contrast to prescription-only anti-anxiety medicines, the use of L-theanine does not cause the feeling of sleepiness and does not weaken the motor functions. In fact, the studies in humans have demonstrated that L-theanine may slightly improve alertness and attention, in addition to its earlier mentioned sedative properties.
Especially interesting are the results of the research which showed that supplementation with L-theanine reduced rapid pressure increase, which some of us experience in stressful situations. Such dangerously high blood pressure and its rapid increase can cause arterial damages, mainly in the network of tiny brain vessels.
Support of cognitive skills and protection of the nervous system
There is a link between anxiety, response to stress and one of the most basic brain functions – maintaining cognitive skills. The latest studies indicate a potential role of L-theanine in promoting cognitive skills and preventing their loss.
Stress has a strong negative impact on the ability to think clearly and to make the best decisions. Physiologically, it has been demonstrated that psychological stress significantly reduces animal performance in the standard tests of learning and memory and increases the damage caused by free radicals and secretion of adrenaline. Application of L-theanine before the exposure of test subjects to the stress factor resulted in a reversion of impairment of cognitive skills as well as in a reduction of the levels of stress hormones and oxidative damages.
Strokes
Stroke is a result of a sudden blockage of blood flow (ischemia) to the brain. L-theanine may have the properties which will have a beneficial influence on the prevention of strokes and relieving the damage if they occur. There is some evidence which suggests that L-theanine may significantly improve the production of nitric oxide (NO) in the vascular endothelium of arteries. As we know, NO has an antispasmodic influence on smooth muscle cells of blood vessels and hence, on the blood pressure and the regulation of blood circulation.
Another mechanism of strokes prevention has been described by another study. It has been demonstrated that L-theanine decreased the expression of adhesion molecules to the walls of the vascular endothelium, by inhibiting cytokine TNF-alpha (tumour necrosis factor). Such an action is characterized by a reduction in the risk of clots, blockage and obstruction of the arteries which cause strokes.
L-theanine, applied to animals up to 12 hours after stroke, resulted in beneficial changes in protecting brain cells and reducing the size of the destroyed areas of the brain. Even a later treatment (24 h) improved neurological condition of the test subjects.
The future of L-theanine
The scientists are even more interested in the properties of L-theanine, which go beyond the calming effect. Over-stimulation of brain cells with glutamate is believed to be one of the factors of the development of neurodegenerative diseases. The possibility to block it makes the L-theanine remain a promising agent in neuroprotection and prevention of the nervous system diseases.
Although the deeper mechanisms are still under investigation, there is some evidence that L-theanine affects gene expression in the areas of the brain which are responsible for fear and aggression (amygdala) and memory (hippocampus). This can be helpful in integrating behavioural responses to stress and experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder and mood disorders.
To sum it all up, Jarrow Formulas Theanine 200 is especially recommended, due to its nootropic properties, for all people who are exposed to excessive mental and physical effort. It is also recommended for athletes whose disciplines require concentration and memory skills, and for those who suffer from disrupted regeneration, caused by chronic stress. The supplement can also be used by people in the periods of increased learning (during exams), and by those who intensively work mentally and for long periods (for example during major projects and works).
Directions for use
Dosage
1 capsule 1-2 times per day on an empty stomach with some water or juice.
RECOMMENDATIONS OF MUSCLE-ZONE EXPERTJakub kola
This product is recommended especially during intense mental effort. In addition, it has a beneficial effect on the body, when exposed to stress. Theanine has a sedative properties, but most likely does not cause sleepiness, so there are no major contraindications to be used during the day. This product can be combined with caffeine in order to increase the effect. The recommended daily dose of theanine is 100-200 mg (1-2 capsules) per day.
Manufacturer
Jarrow Formulas is a manufacturer of dietary supplements, located in Los Angeles. They offer and sell theri products successfully around the world. The company's mission reflects the motto, which they take on a daily basis in their business, "Superior Nutrition and Formulation".
Reviews (0)
There are no reviews for this product.
Write a review
Rating:
Add review
Composition
Composition
Container size: 60 capsulesServing size: 1 capsuleServings per container: 60
per 1 capsule
amount
%DV
L-Theanine 200 mg -
Other ingrednients
Cellulose, Magnesium Stearate (Vegetable Source) And Silicon Dioxide, Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (Capsule)
Similar products
Best to combine with
Similar products
5-HTP 100mg
Now Foods
from 18.81 $
Buy
L-Theanine
Now Foods
21.54 $
(1)
Buy
Best 5-HTP 100mg
Doctor's Best
from 18.81 $
Buy
L-Theanine Plus
Popular
Apollo's Hegemony
18.81 $
(8)
Buy
Pressure Optimizer
Jarrow Formulas
35.17 $
Buy
Day Starter
Source Naturals
16.08 $
Buy
Best to combine with
Evening Primrose
Jarrow Formulas
17.72 $
Suplement providing high quality evening primrose oil, a natural source of gamma-linolenic acid.
Buy
B-100
Now Foods
37.89 $
(1)
Supplement containing vitamin of the B group. counteracts the effects of deficiency of these vitamins.
Buy
Coenzyme Q10 25mg Children's Chewable Tablets
Kirkman
29.72 $
Coenzyme Q10 prepared specially for children. Delicious raspberry chewing tablets.
Buy
Butchers Broom
Source Naturals
24.26 $
Butcher's Broom is traditionally used for hemorrhoids and for symptoms of poor blood circulation.
Buy
Resveratrol
Trec
12.81 $
Preparation facilitates the removal of toxins from the body. Slows the aging process and strengthens the immun
Buy
Optimized Folate
Life Extension
21.54 $
5-MTHF is up to seven times more bioavailable than ordinary folic acid.
Buy
Add to Cart
Latest on blog
What is CLA and how does it work?
The usage of fat burners has always been a thing, no matter if you were a competitive player or an amateur who was just beginning his fight with the figure, a...
Read more
How to choose the best probiotics?
Under the term “probiotics”, there is a multitude of products that can be significantly different from each other. Choosing the right supplement can...
Read more
Choline – characteristics of individual forms
This nutrient is especially important for liver health, but it’s increasingly popular among people who want to support brain function. The supplement market...
Read more
Why is it recommended to eat more protein during a reduction diet?
Weight loss is one of the elements of building a sporty form that aims to reduce the fat level of the body. Most people who are trying to lose weight have...
Read more
What is a calorie deficit and how to calculate it?
Anyone who has ever been looking for information on weight loss has met with a calorie deficit. This is one of the absolute basics of proper weight loss, but...
Read more
L-Theanine – a non-protein amino acid with wide range of interesting properties
L-Theanine is an amino acid (amino acids are colloquially speaking ingredients that build all body proteins). An interesting fact is that L-Theanine is not a...
Read more
Sign up for our newsletter
And receive coupons, news, special offers and much more!
Customer service
help@mz-store.com
Complaints
001 844 530 3647
Consultations
consultations@mz-store.com
INFORMATION
Contact
FAQ
MZPoints program
Terms and delivery times
Payment forms
Delivery in Poland
Delivery in UK
Delivery in Germany
International shipping
Shipping cost calculator
On Instagram
MZ Catalog
MZCatalog - recommended dietitians
MZCatalog - recommended trainers
MZCatalog - recommended clubs
ABOUT
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Returns
Contact
INFORMATION
Contact
MZPoints program
Payment forms
Delivery in Poland
Delivery in UK
Delivery in Germany
International shipping
Shipping cost calculator
Help
FAQ
Terms and delivery times
Social Media
ABOUT
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Returns
JOB
Contact
wholesale
Registration
SHOPPING AS A GUEST
SHOPPING AS A REGISTERED USER
SHOPPING WITH MZPOINTS
MZ Supplements LTD
Unit 3 Enterprise Court,
Farfield Park Rotherham
South Yorkshire S63 5DB
United Kingdom UK GB273321324
Copyright © 2019 by MZ-STORE. All rights reserved.
MZ Supplements LTD
Unit 3 Enterprise Court Rotherham South Yorkshire S63 5DB
shop@mz-store.com +44 7767803657