The Effects of Stopping Exercise | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Diseases and Conditions
Drugs and Medications
Prescription Drugs
The Effects of Stopping Exercise
Kathryn Walsh
About the Author:
Kathryn Walsh
Cooking, travel and parenting are three of Kathryn Walsh's passions. She makes chicken nuggets during days nannying, whips up vegetarian feasts at night and road trips on weekends. Her work has appeared to The Syracuse Post-Standard and insider magazine. Walsh received a master's degree in journalism from Syracuse University.
View Full Profile
Skipping the gym one day isn't likely to have much effect on you, but abruptly halting your regular exercise routine can hurt both your body and your mind. If you've been sidelined by a medical condition or injury, talk to your doctor about ways you can stay fit without getting hurt. When the choice to exercise is up to you, try cutting back on workouts rather than cutting them out altogether.
A man is laying at home watching television. (Image: Allan Danahar/Digital Vision/Getty Images)
Muscles Shrink
Despite what some people might think, your muscles won't turn to fat once you stop exercising. They will, however, begin to shrink once you give up an exercise program. If you cut your caloric intake down to make up for not exercising, your muscles would simply get smaller while the overall size of your body would stay about the same. But if you keep eating the same amount you did while exercising, fat will build up and might cover the muscles, which might give the appearance that your formerly fit biceps have turned into flab.
Mood Changes
Psychologists and doctors have long touted the benefits of exercise in terms of improving mood. Exercising may cause your body to suppress chemicals that cause depression and release other chemicals that lessen depression. When you stop working out, you'll lose these benefits. You might also feel grumpy or suffer damage to your self-esteem if your weight starts to rise. Anytime you experience depression that disrupts your life or makes you consider harming yourself, contact your doctor.
Decreased Fitness Level
As your muscles shrink and you spend more time on the couch, your physical fitness level will drop. You might start to lose stamina, flexibility and energy within a few weeks of stopping regular exercise. Getting back to exercising can reverse these effects, but it might take time and effort. The length of time it will take you to get back to your previous fitness level depends on factors such as your weight, age and intensity of your workouts, according to the American Council on Exercise.
Withdrawal
If you're an occasional jogger, you aren't likely to experience withdrawal, but athletes and hardcore gym-goers who give up exercise might actually have symptoms similar to those of a recovering drug addict. According to the Counseling & Psychological Services department at the University of California, Santa Cruz, people who exercise heavily every day and use working out to deal with stress may experience withdrawal when they stop. You might notice changes in your sleep patterns, have difficulty concentrating or feel achy and sore.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
The New York Times: The Claim: Muscle Turns to Fat When You Stop Working Out; Anahad O'Connor
Harvard Health Publications: Exercise and Depression
American Council on Exercise: Jumping Back on the Fitness Bandwagon
University of California, Santa Cruz: Exercise for Enhanced Mood and Well-Being
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
8 Reasons Why Women Should Lift Weights
2
Will You Lose Weight if You Stop Drinking Diet Soda?
3
How to Lose Flabby Arms Fast
4
The Best Gym Exercises for Losing Arm Fat
5
Does Lack of Exercise Cause Heart Palpitations?
6
Exercise & Lack of Sleep
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.