How to Kill Ticks & Bedbugs | eHow
Discover
C
Home Decor & Repair
Crafts
Food & Drink
Garden
Fashion & Beauty
Holidays
U
Search U
eHow
Home
Housekeeping
House Cleaning
How to Kill Ticks & Bedbugs
How to Kill Ticks & Bedbugs
By Ross Glyn
eHow
Ross Glyn
 Pin
 Share
 Tweet
Share
 Email
Bed bugs and ticks are notoriously difficult to get rid of. However, the alternative is to simply allow them to infest your house and garden. You can take a step by step methodical approach to rid your home of these pesky creatures. A number of natural methods are available for getting rid of ticks and bed bugs, however, you may end up having to use insecticide in the end, which is the tried and tested method for removing the infestation.
Things You'll Need
Rubbing alcohol
Vaseline
Nail polish
Tweezers
Paper towel tubes
Cotton balls
Permethrin
Vacuum
Odorless insecticide spray
Insecticide dust
Video of the Day
Ticks
Dab a small amount of rubbing alcohol on the ticks. If the tick does not release after a few minutes, use a pair of tweezers to grasp the tick at the skin level and pull until the tick is removed. Do not pull the tick from the back end or apply heat to it. This can force disease organisms into the wound. Place the tick in an alcohol solution to kill it. Vaseline or nail polish can be substituted to coat the tick before removing it with tweezers. Ensure that the head of the tick is removed at the same time.
Fill a few paper towel tubes with cotton balls dipped in permethrin around your yard. Mice will attempt to nest in the tubes and any ticks on the mice will ingest the permethrin and die. The mice will be unaffected by the chemical.
Wash all bedding and clothes in hot water to eradicate ticks from your home. Steam clean rugs and sofas. Vacuum all floor areas.
Use crack and crevice pesticide applications and treat under the edges of rugs and furniture to kill indoor ticks. Fogging for ticks is ineffective.
Spray and dust kennels and outdoor resting areas using pesticides labeled for tick eradication treatment.
Bed Bugs
Thoroughly vacuum baseboards, beneath area rugs and between carpeting and walls for bed bugs. Make sure to change the vacuum bag outside.
Distribute a combination of odorless insecticide spray and insecticide dust over the areas vacuumed as well as mattresses and box springs. Use a general purpose spray, such as Suspend SC, which is water safe for fabrics, over all carpets and furniture. Use a solution such as Bedlam Insecticide on mattresses and stuffed toys. Dust any area small enough for bed bugs to enter and hide, including inside seams and joints of the bed frame.
Other People Are Reading
Natural Ingredients for a Solution to Kill Bed Bugs
How to Get Rid of Tiny Crawling Insects
Steam clean your floors and carpets if possible. Extreme heat is the best method for killing bed bugs.
Leave infested materials such as mattresses and linen out in the sun for a few hours. The heat of the sun can kill bed bugs and is a more natural method of eradication. However, insecticides are a more reliable solution.
References
Michigan State University: Ticks, Mites, Bedbugs and Lice
Pest Products: Bed Bug Elimination
Promoted By Zergnet
You May Also Like
Natural Bed Bug Repellent
You May Like
How to Kill Bed Bugs with a Zip Up King Size Mattress Protector
Infested With Ticks: How Do I Get Rid of Them?
How to Kill Roaches Fast With a Fogger
How to Control Tick Infestation on a Farm
How to Effectively & Naturally Kill Fly Maggots
How to Kill Bedbugs With Home Chemicals
M
Is DIY in your DNA? Become part of our maker community.
out of box
M
Free Four-Week Cleaning & Organizing Guide
And More DIY Tips & Tricks Each Week!
About eHow
Advertise
Contact Us
Connect with us
Terms of Use
Report Copyright
Ad Choices en-US
Privacy Policy
Mobile Privacy
leafgroup.com
© 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. / Leaf Group Lifestyle
leafgroup.com
© 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. / Leaf Group Lifestyle
About eHow
Advertise
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Report Copyright
Ad Choices en-US
How to by Topic
Mobile Privacy
Connect with us