Fever Reducing Tips | PM Pediatrics
Chattanooga, TN
Pay Online
About
Why Choose Us
Reviews
Insurance
Services
FAQ
Resources
Local Events
Promotions
Contact
Chattanooga, TN – Pay Online
Reserve my spot
Fever Reducing Tips
Friday, 19 January 2018 17:25
Fevers are a source of worry for many parents, though that shouldn’t always be the case. A fever works to fight off infections, but there are a few measures you can take to help increase your child’s comfort. While a fever is common, and will typically break on it’s own, it is important to notify your pediatrician if the fever persists or is over 102 in children over the age of 3.
Here are a few natural ways to reduce your child’s fever, while keeping them comfortable.
Place a cool, damp washcloth on your child’s forehead, wrists or groin. In these areas, blood vessels are close to the skin and can help to cool down the body.
Run a lukewarm bath for your child. As the water evaporates from the child’s skin, it will cool the body, in turn reducing the child’s temperature.
Cold fluids can not only aid in reducing the body’s temperature, but keep your child hydrated. Frozen ice pops make a great fever reducing treat.
Avoid using cold water or direct air to cool your feverish child. This can lead to shivering and further the raise the temperature.
If your child’s fever persists or their symptoms worsen, the after-hours pediatricians at PM Pediatrics are here to help.
Home Pre-Registration Employment Opportunities HIPAA Privacy Policy
Review Us
CONTACT
NEWS FEED
Emergency Room or Urgent Care
While urgent care clinics and emergency rooms can seem very similar, they have very different capabilities and come with very different price tags…
SERVICES HOURS
Open 7 days a week
Mon-Fri
5:00pm to 11:00pm
Sat-Sun
3:00pm to 11:00pm
Closed
July 4th, Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and New Year's Eve
NEWSLETTER
P: 423.648.NITE (6483)
Fax: 423.648.6497
2372 Lifestyle Way
Suite 152
Chattanooga, TN 37421
2019 © PM Pediatrics
Chattanooga Website Development by Riverworks Marketing Group
Site Map