Exercise for mental health and depression
Skip to main content
Toggle High Contrast icon
Toggle High Contrast icon
Flood
Support
Community resources
Health professional resources
Resources
Mental Health Topics
Connecting People
K10 Test for Depression
Discussion Forum
Find a Support Service
Veterans
Veterans Forum
K10 Test for Depression
Mental Health Resources
mHealth Platform
Find a Support Service
Blog
About Us
Order Promotional Materials
FAQ
My NQ
Connect
Online Counselling
Book a Counselling Session
Call 1300 059 625
Register or login
Email
Password
Login
Forgot Password
Exercise for improving your mood and mental health
April 2019
Positive change mindset: 5 ways to get back on track
Helping a mate open up about his problems
The (surprising) mental health benefits of singing
March 2019
8 self-care tips for when someone close is suicidal
Getting better at mastering anger
Why you should talk it out after divorce or separation
7 ways to cope during divorce and separation
Shift work and mental health
February 2019
What does a panic attack feel like?
NQ Connect support for flood-affected Queenslanders
What can I teach my kids about dealing with bullies?
Is anger a big part of your relationship?
2019
January 2019
6 steps towards a healthier relationship
The art of reaching out and reconnecting with friends
5 more common signs of anxiety
5 ways to ensure you stick to your New Year’s resolution
2018
December 2018
Do you experience any of these 5 signs of anxiety?
5 more survival tips for Christmas with the in-laws
How much do you really know about schizophrenia?
5 survival tips for Christmas with the in-laws
November 2018
How to get better at talking to your parents (and improve your relationship)
No mental health service in your area? You could call a counsellor instead (for free)
You need to take care of yourself after a suicide
Get involved in Movember 2018
October 2018
Tips for getting your work life balance back on track
A happy relationship (could help you live longer)
The 80-year study that asked: what really makes us happy?
Ideas for World Mental Health Day 2018
What is active listening and how can you be a better listener?
September 2018
10 ways to talk about mental health
Managing stress
World Suicide Prevention Day 2018: how to reduce suicide
Anger management tips and techniques
August 2018
What is mindfulness and how can it help?
What is a K10 depression test?
Stress in the workplace
How to become a better decision maker
Exercise and improving your mood and mental health
July 2018
Our modern obsession with constantly being happy
The effects of alcohol on the body
New mental health service for veterans
Recognising drug addiction
June 2018
Why is sleep so important for mental health?
What is wellness and mental wellbeing?
NQ Connect
03-Aug-2018
How does the health of people in northern Queensland compare to the rest of Australia?
Almost two in three of people in the region are overweight or obese, five per cent higher than the national average. Fewer than one in ten get their daily recommended intake of veggies. And one in six are daily smokers, two per cent higher than the Queensland average.[1]
The common answer to getting healthy is to get regular exercise. We all know that exercise is good for you because it improves your physical health. But did you know that exercise has been shown to help with mental health?
Mental health benefits of exercise
Many of us know from our own experiences that we feel better after exercising. Some experts think that one of the physiological benefits of exercise is in the way it changes our endorphin and serotonin levels. Endorphins can lift your mood while serotonin is a neurotransmitter that can regulate mood, appetite, digestion, memory and sleep. That said, even though most people agree that exercise does improve mood, there is still debate about exactly how exercise affects mood.
Exercise and depression
Does exercise help depression? While there is no definitive answer, several studies did specifically look at the relationship between exercise and depression. One 2017 international study led by the Black Dog Institute looked at the relationship between exercise and depression. It suggested that even one hour a week of exercise can protect against depression. The organisation analysed the exercise levels and depression symptoms of nearly 34,000 people and found that 12 per cent of depression cases could have been prevented with small amounts of exercise[2].
While referring to vigorous physical activity as “anti-depression exercises” may be a stretch, people diagnosed with severe depression may find that the effects of exercise may help alleviate depression symptoms alongside other treatments.
Additional benefits of exercise for mental health
There are other ways that exercise can help improve your mental health and wellbeing.
1) Exercise helps anxiety
It provides a healthy distraction to break a cycle of negative worries and thoughts.
2) Psychological benefits of exercise and being more optimistic
Regular exercise can provide positive mental health effects. For example, one study from the University of Queensland suggested that people who get regular exercise have higher levels of optimism. The exercise boosted the participants’ mood and tendency to look on the bright side.
3) Social benefits of exercise
Regular exercise can place you among other people, reducing loneliness and social isolation.
4) Exercise affects mood
It can help grow your self-esteem as you take control of your wellbeing.
5) Exercise and sleep
The effects of exercise can help you get a better night’s sleep. Like the overall link between exercise and depression, the exact relation between the two is still debated.
How much exercise is recommended?
For adults aged 18 to 64, the Department of Health recommends being active on most days of the week. The department suggests starting with two and a half hours of moderate physical activity a week and increasing it to five hours. Or one and a quarter hours of vigorous activity that increases to two and a half hours each week.
What is the best exercise for mental health?
The best exercise for mental health is… to do exercise… and then to keep doing regular exercise. If you aren’t doing any exercise at the moment and want to start, try doing a little and then steadily build up. It doesn’t have to be extremely vigorous. That’s because any physical activity is always better than doing nothing at all.
Need help? You can find support services in northern Queensland or complete a self-administered K10 test for depression and anxiety. You can also join the online mental health forum to talk with like-minded people.
[1] Northern Queensland PHN, Health Needs Assessment, June 2016. https://www.primaryhealth.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/NQPHN-Health-Needs-Assessment-June-2016.pdf. Accessed 03.08.2018.
[2] Exercise and the Prevention of Depression: Results of the HUNT Cohort Study. Samuel B. Harvey, F.R.A.N.Z.C.P., Ph.D., Simon Øverland, Ph.D., Stephani L. Hatch, Ph.D., Simon Wessely, F.R.C.Psych., M.D., Arnstein Mykletun, Ph.D., Matthew Hotopf, F.R.C.Psych., Ph.D.
You may also like
10 ways to talk about mental health
Talking about depression, anxiety and mental health is easier for some people than others. Here are 10 ways to start that conversation.
Learn More
Do you experience any of these 5 signs of anxiety?
Many people get ‘butterflies’ in their stomach before a stressful situation. Anxiety is when those negative feelings last for a long time, and the constant worry either doesn’t go away or begins for seemingly no reason.
Learn More
5 ways to ensure you stick to your New Year’s resolution
If you’re like most people, you probably have a New Year’s resolution up your sleeve. There’s also a high chance you won’t stick to it. Here are some tips to succeed.
Learn More
Get Help
Call Us
Online Chat
Video Chat
Sign up for our newsletter
Please leave this field empty.
Get the latest news and information
Thank you for your registration.
Close
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Contact Us
Acknowledgment
Follow Us
Funded by
Delivered by
Follow Us
Log Out
Privacy Policy
Acknowledgment
Contact Us