Aleve News
Home
About MedWorm
Health News
Specialties
Conditions
Cancers
Infec. Diseases
Procedures
Therapies
Nutrition
Drugs
Vaccines
Management
Training
Countries
any words all words exact phrase advanced  Advanced search can include the following:
• OR operator: |
• NOT operators: - OR !
• phrase search: "breast cancer"
• AND is implied so listing two words without another operator will search for records where both words are present.
• use () to group words together:
eg.(cancer|cancers)(cervical|cervix)!("Squamous cell carcinoma"|SCC)
will return records where either the words 'cancer' or 'cancers' are present, plus the words 'cervical' or 'cervix', but not the phrase 'squamous cell carcinoma' or 'SCC'.
• order operator: word1 << word2 << word3
eg. chronic << (leukemia|leukaemia)
here the word 'chronic' must come somewhere before either the work 'leukemia' or 'leukaemia'.
• search on a specific field using any of the following: @item_headline @item_description @source @author @tags
eg1. @item_headline "kidney cancer" @item_description (trial|trials)
this searches for the phrase 'kidney cancer' in the title as well as either the word 'trial' or 'trials' in description.
eg2. @(item_headline,item_description,tags) heart
this searches for items where the word 'heart' exists in all of the headline, description and tags fields.
eg3. @source "Journal of the American College of Cardiology"
this searches for items where "Journal of the American College of Cardiology" is listed as the source.
news research blogs podcasts video events funding alerts forums clinical trials
Aleve News This is an RSS file. You can use it to subscribe to this data in your favourite RSS reader or to display this data on your own website or blog.
News
Research
Blogs
Podcasts
Alerts
Clinical Trials
Forums
Pages: 1 2 3 4
Medical News Today: What to know about naproxen
This article provides an overview of naproxen, including how it works, its uses, dosages, and possible risks and side effects. (Source: Health News from Medical News Today)
Source: Health News from Medical News Today - April 9, 2019 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Pharmacy / Pharmacist Source Type: news
Prescription painkillers do more harm than good for back pain
(Natural News) From over-the-counter (OTC) painkillers like ibuprofen, naproxen, and aspirin to prescription drugs like tramadol, morphine, and hydrocodone, these meds are omnipresent in modern American life. They have become more widely used than tobacco, according to a Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration report. In 2015, more than 36 percent of Americans, aged 12... (Source: NaturalNews.com)
Source: NaturalNews.com - February 28, 2019 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
naproxen (Aleve, Anaprox, Naprelan, Naprosyn)
Title: naproxen (Aleve, Anaprox, Naprelan, Naprosyn)Category: MedicationsCreated: 12/31/1997 12:00:00 AMLast Editorial Review: 2/27/2019 12:00:00 AM (Source: MedicineNet Migraine General)
Source: MedicineNet Migraine General - February 27, 2019 Category: Neurology Source Type: news
Study reveals common painkillers are associated with heart attacks
(Natural News) Overuse of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are associated with a higher incidence of coronary health risks. Did you know that taking too much Motrin, Aleve, and Advil can put you at increased risk of having a heart attack? A new study warns against overuse of over-the-counter pain killers such as diclofenac, naproxen, and... (Source: NaturalNews.com)
Source: NaturalNews.com - February 25, 2019 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Aspirin vs. Aleve (Naproxen)
Title: Aspirin vs. Aleve (Naproxen)Category: MedicationsCreated: 1/25/2019 12:00:00 AMLast Editorial Review: 1/25/2019 12:00:00 AM (Source: MedicineNet Medications General)
Source: MedicineNet Medications General - January 25, 2019 Category: Drugs & Pharmacology Source Type: news
More effective than drugs: Indian Lycium alleviates symptoms of rheumatism
(Natural News) Most people take non-steroidal drugs (NSAIDs) like ibuprofen and naproxen to treat inflammatory diseases. What a lot don’t know is that these medications are harmful to the body. They are associated with potentially fatal side effects like bleeding, peptic ulcers, and increased permeability of the gastric mucosa. To protect patients from these consequences, many researchers are now... (Source: NaturalNews.com)
Source: NaturalNews.com - December 7, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Agreement with Gr ünenthal for rights to Nexium in Europe and Vimovo worldwide (ex-US)
AstraZeneca has agreed to divest the prescription medicine rights to Nexium (esomeprazole) in Europe, as well as the global rights (excluding the US and Japan) to Vimovo (naproxen/esomeprazole) to Grünenthal. The medicines are outside AstraZeneca's three main therapy areas of Oncology, Cardiovascular, Renal & Metabolism and Respiratory. (Source: World Pharma News)
Source: World Pharma News - October 30, 2018 Category: Pharmaceuticals Tags: Featured AstraZeneca Business and Industry Source Type: news
Evidence mounts linking aspirin to lower risk of ovarian cancer
(H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center& Research Institute) A new study found that women who reported taking a low-dose aspirin every day had a 23 percent lower risk of ovarian cancer compared to nonaspirin users. The research also found that women who were heavy users of nonaspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen (Advil) or naproxen (Aleve), over a long period of time had a higher risk of developing ovarian cancer. (Source: EurekAlert! - Cancer)
Source: EurekAlert! - Cancer - October 4, 2018 Category: Cancer & Oncology Source Type: news
Ibuprofen found to raise blood pressure in people with arthritis and cardiovascular issues
(Natural News) According to a study, “ibuprofen is associated with increased blood pressure and hypertension” compared to celecoxib given to patients who had osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis and increased risk of cardiovascular disease. The results from the PRECISION-ABPM (Prospective Randomized Evaluation of Celecoxib Integrated Safety versus Ibuprofen or Naproxen Ambulatory Blood Pressure Measurement) study revealed... (Source: NaturalNews.com)
Source: NaturalNews.com - September 20, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Medical News Today: Can you take Aleve and Tylenol together?
Aleve and Tylenol are over-the-counter brands of different pain medications. People frequently use them to treat mild complaints, such as headaches and sore throats. Aleve and Tylenol are safe to take together. However, alternating between the two is more likely to provide extended relief. Learn more here. (Source: Health News from Medical News Today)
Source: Health News from Medical News Today - August 21, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Pharmacy / Pharmacist Source Type: news
Taking NSAIDs Around Conception May Increase Risk Of Early Miscarriage
BOSTON (CBS) – A popular group of over-the-counter pain relievers could increase your risk of miscarriage even before you get pregnant. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) include ibuprofen, Motrin, Advil, and Aleve. They are medications that millions of people take every day for aches and pains and fever. A new study in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology looked at more than a thousand pregnant women and found that those who took NSAIDs around the time of conception were at a four-fold higher risk of having a miscarriage in the first eight weeks of pregnancy. These drugs inhibit the producti...
Source: WBZ-TV - Breaking News, Weather and Sports for Boston, Worcester and New Hampshire - June 21, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Authors: Health – CBS Boston Tags: Boston News Health Healthwatch Syndicated Local Dr. Mallika Marshall Local TV NSAIDs Source Type: news
Mayo Clinic Minute: What are NSAIDs?
When searching for over-the-counter pain relief, you've probably taken an NSAID medication, such as ibuprofen or naproxen. But what kind of pain does an NSAID treat best and are there risks of side effects? Jason Howland has more in this Mayo Clinic Minute. https://youtu.be/GyNKywndRuU Watch: The Mayo Clinic Minute Journalists: Broadcast-quality video pkg (1:00) is [...] (Source: News from Mayo Clinic)
Source: News from Mayo Clinic - May 16, 2018 Category: Databases & Libraries Source Type: news
Diclofenac May Boost MI Risk in Patients With Spondyloarthritis Diclofenac May Boost MI Risk in Patients With Spondyloarthritis
Risk of myocardial infarction (MI) is increased in patients with spondyloarthritis (SpA) who use the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) diclofenac but not in those who take naproxen, researchers say.Reuters Health Information (Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines)
Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines - May 7, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Medscape Today News Source Type: news
Better GI Safety With Celecoxib Plus Esomeprazole for Arthritis Pain Better GI Safety With Celecoxib Plus Esomeprazole for Arthritis Pain
Celecoxib has a better gastrointestinal safety profile in arthritis patients than ibuprofen or naproxen when all drugs are co-prescribed with esomeprazole, according to data from the PRECISION trial.Reuters Health Information (Source: Medscape Orthopaedics Headlines)
Source: Medscape Orthopaedics Headlines - May 3, 2018 Category: Orthopaedics Tags: Rheumatology News Source Type: news
New research ranks the effectiveness of nonsurgical treatments for knee osteoarthritis
(American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons) An estimated 45 percent of people are at risk of developing knee osteoarthritis (OA) in their lifetime. According to a network meta-analysis research article published in the May 1, 2018 issue of the Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (JAAOS), the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) naproxen was ranked most effective in individual knee OA treatment for improving both pain and function, and is considered a relatively safe and low-cost treatment method. (Source: EurekAlert! - Medicine and Health)
Source: EurekAlert! - Medicine and Health - May 1, 2018 Category: International Medicine & Public Health Source Type: news
FDA Panels Vote to Add Aspirin Warning to Naproxen Label FDA Panels Vote to Add Aspirin Warning to Naproxen Label
Two FDA panels voted to include a warning against concomitant aspirin use on the naproxen nonprescription Drug Facts label, and to make no such changes to the current ibuprofen label.Medscape Medical News (Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines)
Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines - April 26, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Rheumatology News Source Type: news
CV Safety of Celecoxib Similar to Naproxen, Ibuprofen: FDA Panels Say CV Safety of Celecoxib Similar to Naproxen, Ibuprofen: FDA Panels Say
Two FDA panels jointly voted by a large margin that the cardiovascular safety of celecoxib is comparable to naproxen and ibuprofen.Medscape Medical News (Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines)
Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines - April 26, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Rheumatology News Source Type: news
CV Safety of Celecoxib Similar to Naproxen, Ibuprofen, FDA Panels Say CV Safety of Celecoxib Similar to Naproxen, Ibuprofen, FDA Panels Say
Two FDA panels jointly voted by a large margin that the cardiovascular safety of celecoxib is comparable to naproxen and ibuprofen.Medscape Medical News (Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines)
Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines - April 26, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Rheumatology News Source Type: news
FDA Panel Gives Celecoxib Positive CV Safety Grade
(MedPage Today) -- Votes 15-5 that it is non-inferior to naproxen, ibuprofen (Source: MedPage Today Cardiovascular)
Source: MedPage Today Cardiovascular - April 25, 2018 Category: Cardiology Source Type: news
Diclofenac Raises MI Risk in Spondyloarthritis (CME/CE)
(MedPage Today) -- No special risk seen for naproxen (Source: MedPage Today Cardiovascular)
Source: MedPage Today Cardiovascular - April 25, 2018 Category: Cardiology Source Type: news
What to D.O.: When Ibuprofen Fails, Naproxen Isn't the Answer
No abstract available (Source: Emergency Medicine News)
Source: Emergency Medicine News - April 1, 2018 Category: Emergency Medicine Tags: What to D.O Source Type: news
Prescription pain relievers raise risk of irregular heartbeat, study shows
Cardiologist Dr. Tara Narula breaks down the study of prescription-strength NSAIDs like ibuprofen and naproxen (Source: Health News: CBSNews.com)
Source: Health News: CBSNews.com - March 21, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Aleve (naproxen) vs. Celebrex (celecoxib)
Title: Aleve (naproxen) vs. Celebrex (celecoxib)Category: MedicationsCreated: 2/16/2018 12:00:00 AMLast Editorial Review: 2/16/2018 12:00:00 AM (Source: MedicineNet Chronic Pain General)
Source: MedicineNet Chronic Pain General - February 16, 2018 Category: Anesthesiology Source Type: news
Nearly one out of five NSAID users exceed daily limit
(Boston University School of Medicine) Chances are you or someone you know has used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) within the last month. NSAIDs, such as Advil (ibuprofen), Aleve (naproxen) and Celebrex, are among the most commonly used medicines in the US. Now, for the first time, researchers have found that 15 percent of adult ibuprofen users exceed the maximum recommended dose of ibuprofen or other NSAIDs in a one-week period. (Source: EurekAlert! - Medicine and Health)
Source: EurekAlert! - Medicine and Health - January 26, 2018 Category: International Medicine & Public Health Source Type: news
Magno-Humphries Laboratories, Inc., Issues Voluntary Nationwide Recall of Basic Drugs Brand of Senna Laxative Due to Mislabeling
Tigard, OR, Magno-Humphries Laboratories, Inc., is voluntarily recalling one lot of Basic Drugs Brand of Senna Laxative tablets, 8.6mg Sennosides to the consumer level due to a customer complaint that their bottle labeled as Senna Laxative actually contained Basic Drugs Brand of Naproxen Sodium 220mg. Naproxen Sodium 220mg tablet is used as a pain reliever and is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). (Source: Food and Drug Administration)
Source: Food and Drug Administration - January 22, 2018 Category: Food Science Source Type: news
PRECISION: Aspirin Undermines Safety Profile of Celecoxib PRECISION: Aspirin Undermines Safety Profile of Celecoxib
Further analysis from PRECISION shows that although celecoxib may be safer than naproxen or ibuprofen, adding aspirin may undermine that safety advantage.Medscape Medical News (Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines)
Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines - December 4, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Cardiology News Source Type: news
FDA Drug Safety Communication: FDA strengthens warning that non-aspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause heart attacks or strokes
[FDA strengthens warning that non-aspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause heart attacks or strokes (FDA Drug Safety Communication). Based on FDA ’s comprehensive review of new safety information, the agency is requiring updates to the drug labels of all prescription NSAIDs. Widely used to treat pain and fever from many different long- and short-term medical conditions such as arthritis, menstrual cramps, headaches, colds, and the flu, NSAI Ds are available by prescription and OTC. Examples of NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, diclofenac, and celecoxib. (Source: FDA Center for Drug Evaluation...
Source: FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research - What's New - November 16, 2017 Category: Drugs & Pharmacology Source Type: news
African power plant relieves migraine
I treat a lot of different kinds of chronic pain at my clinic. The patients most desperate for relief are the migraine sufferers. If you get migraines, you know they can knock you out for days at a time. The World Health Organization says migraines are to blame for more lost years of healthy life than multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, ovarian cancer and tuberculosis combined.1 But mainstream medicine knows very little about the cause of migraines or how to treat them. Most doctors prescribe Imitrex. That’s a drug to help relieve headaches, pain, nausea, and sensitivity to light and sound. But Imitrex can actually ...
Source: Al Sears, MD Natural Remedies - October 5, 2017 Category: Complementary Medicine Authors: Randall Hall Tags: Brain Health Men's Health Women's Health Source Type: news
LAWSUIT: CVS Pharmacies accused of hiking up drug prices for those with insurance
(Natural News) Leading retail pharmacy chain, CVS, is being implicated in an overcharging scheme which used “clawbacks” to jack up prices for supposedly inexpensive generic drugs. According to the plaintiff, Megan Schultz, some of the “affected” prescriptions include lithium, naproxen, and zolpidem. Lawyers of Schultz have said that the public remains unaware of this repulsive... (Source: NaturalNews.com)
Source: NaturalNews.com - August 19, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Celecoxib May Be Safest Choice for Older, Chronic NSAID Users Celecoxib May Be Safest Choice for Older, Chronic NSAID Users
The risk of major non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) toxicity in older adults who take the drugs regularly is higher with naproxen and ibuprofen than with celecoxib, according to a new secondary analysis of PRECISION trial data.Reuters Health Information (Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines)
Source: Medscape Medical News Headlines - August 14, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Medscape Today News Source Type: news
Efficacy of Clarithromycin-Naproxen-Oseltamivir Combination in the Treatment of Patients Hospitalized for Influenza A(H3N2) Infection: An Open-label Randomized, Controlled, Phase IIb/III Trial
This study has led to a Practice Changing Update on DynaMed Plus. It found that clarithromycin plus naproxen plus oseltamivir for 2 days followed by oseltamivir for 3 days may reduce mortality compared to oseltamivir alone for 5 days in hospitalized older adults with influenza A (H3N2) and pneumonia (Source: Current Awareness Service for Health (CASH))
Source: Current Awareness Service for Health (CASH) - June 29, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Common painkillers such as ibuprofen and naproxen found to raise the risk of a heart attack within a week of use
(Natural News) A recent study published in the British Medical Journal revealed that some of the most commonly prescribed non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), otherwise known as painkillers, may significantly increase the odds of heart attack within a week or a month if high doses were taken. To carry out the study, a team of researchers pooled data... (Source: NaturalNews.com)
Source: NaturalNews.com - May 15, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
New warning for commonly used NSAID painkillers
A new study warns that the risk for heart attacks while taking painkillers known as NSAIDs can appear just days after use. These medications include common over-the-counter drugs like ibuprofen and naproxen. Dr. Jon LaPook reports. (Source: Health News: CBSNews.com)
Source: Health News: CBSNews.com - May 11, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Ibuprofen linked to increased risk of heart attacks
Conclusion This study is a useful addition to our knowledge about the links between NSAIDs and heart attack risk. The study suggests all commonly-used NSAIDs are linked to a similarly-raised risk of heart attacks, that the risk generally rises with the dose, and that it is highest in the first month of treatment. The researchers did a good job at taking account of potential confounding factors that could have affected the results. Even so, we don't know for sure that the NSAIDs were the direct cause of the problem. For example, if you are prescribed NSAIDs for a painful condition, and have a heart attack two weeks later, i...
Source: NHS News Feed - May 10, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Heart/lungs Medication Source Type: news
Common Painkillers Tied to Slight Rise in Heart Attack Risk
Over-the-counter drugs like Aleve and Advil linked to higher odds, researchers say (Source: WebMD Health)
Source: WebMD Health - May 10, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Common Painkillers Tied to Slight Rise in Heart Attack Risk
Over-the-counter drugs like Aleve and Advil linked to higher odds, researchers say Source: HealthDay Related MedlinePlus Pages: Heart Attack, Over-the-Counter Medicines, Pain Relievers (Source: MedlinePlus Health News)
Source: MedlinePlus Health News - May 10, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Common Painkillers Tied to Heart Attack Risk
Over-the-counter drugs like Aleve and Advil linked to higher odds, researchers say (Source: WebMD Health)
Source: WebMD Health - May 10, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Pain Relievers Tied to Immediate Heart Risks
The risk of having a heart attack rises within the first week of starting Nsaids, though the absolute risk remains small. (Source: NYT Health)
Source: NYT Health - May 10, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Authors: NICHOLAS BAKALAR Tags: Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Heart Aleve (Drug) Source Type: news
Common Painkillers Tied to Slight Rise in Heart Attack Risk
TUESDAY, May 9, 2017 -- Commonly used painkillers such as Motrin, Advil and Aleve might increase your risk for heart attack, even in the first week of use, a new study suggests. Overall, these drugs and others known as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory... (Source: Drugs.com - Daily MedNews)
Source: Drugs.com - Daily MedNews - May 9, 2017 Category: General Medicine Source Type: news
9 Surprising Reasons You Have A Headache
For Allure, by Cassie Shortsleeve. Headaches have a special kind of way of ruining even the best of days. And it seems just about anything (those super elegant candles you just splurged on, your aunt’s voice, that third glass of wine...) can cause finicky little beasts to start banging tambourines in your brain. If you feel like you have specific headache triggers, you probably do. Most headaches have them, but it can be difficult to pinpoint exactly what caused the paint to come on in the first place. “There are probably 1,000 causes of headaches,” says Mark W. Green M.D., director of headache and pain ...
Source: Healthy Living - The Huffington Post - April 17, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Patrick Stewart Reveals He Uses Marijuana Daily To Help With Arthritis Symptoms
Sir Patrick Stewart has opened up about his struggle with arthritis and how he turns to marijuana on a daily basis to combat its symptoms, according to a report from The Telegraph. The 76-year-old “X-Men” actor shined a light on his green regimen this week while endorsing the U.K.’s first program aimed at exploring the benefits of cannabis-based medicines. In a statement, the English actor called the cannabinoid biomedicine program out of Oxford University “an important step forward for Britain in a field of research that has for too long been held back by prejudice, fear and ignorance.” ...
Source: Healthy Living - The Huffington Post - March 16, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Patrick Stewart Reveals He Uses Marijuana Daily To Help With Arthritis Symptoms
Sir Patrick Stewart has opened up about his struggle with arthritis and how he turns to marijuana on a daily basis to combat its symptoms, according to a report from The Telegraph. The 76-year-old “X-Men” actor shined a light on his green regimen this week while endorsing the U.K.’s first program aimed at exploring the benefits of cannabis-based medicines. In a statement, the English actor called the cannabinoid biomedicine program out of Oxford University “an important step forward for Britain in a field of research that has for too long been held back by prejudice, fear and ignorance.” ...
Source: Science - The Huffington Post - March 16, 2017 Category: Science Source Type: news
Ibuprofen claimed to raise cardiac arrest risk by a third
Conclusion This study showed an association between taking ibuprofen or diclofenac and an increased risk of a cardiac arrest in the following 30 days, but no association was found with the other NSAIDs investigated. But this study does have its limitations: Although the researchers used the same people to avoid confounding variables, the same person will differ in certain aspects over time – for example, certain diseases may get better or worse, which might have affected the results. The study only looked at prescribed drugs and not over-the-counter drugs. In Denmark, ibuprofen was the only over-the-counter drug ...
Source: NHS News Feed - March 16, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Tags: Medication Heart/lungs Source Type: news
Doctors Have Been Treating Lower Back Pain All Wrong
This reporting is brought to you by HuffPost’s health and science platform, The Scope. Like us on Facebook and Twitter and tell us your story: scopestories@huffingtonpost.com. Sarah DiGiulio is The Huffington Post’s sleep reporter. You can contact her at sarah.digiulio@huffingtonpost.com. -- This feed and its contents are the property of The Huffington Post, and use is subject to our terms. It may be used for personal consumption, but may not be distributed on a website. (Source: Healthy Living - The Huffington Post)
Source: Healthy Living - The Huffington Post - February 18, 2017 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Doctors Have Been Treating Lower Back Pain All Wrong
This reporting is brought to you by HuffPost’s health and science platform, The Scope. Like us on Facebook and Twitter and tell us your story: scopestories@huffingtonpost.com. Sarah DiGiulio is The Huffington Post’s sleep reporter. You can contact her at sarah.digiulio@huffingtonpost.com. -- This feed and its contents are the property of The Huffington Post, and use is subject to our terms. It may be used for personal consumption, but may not be distributed on a website. (Source: Science - The Huffington Post)
Source: Science - The Huffington Post - February 18, 2017 Category: Science Source Type: news
Placebo and valium are equally effective for acute lower back pain in the ER
(American College of Emergency Physicians) Emergency patients treated with naproxen and placebo had outcomes as good as or better than patients treated with naproxen and diazepam (trade name Valium) for acute lower back pain, according to the results of a double-blind, randomized clinical trial published last week in Annals of Emergency Medicine ('Diazepam Is No Better Than Placebo When Added to Naproxen for Acute Low Back Pain'). (Source: EurekAlert! - Medicine and Health)
Source: EurekAlert! - Medicine and Health - February 16, 2017 Category: Global & Universal Source Type: news
Common Painkillers Don't Ease Back Pain, Study Finds
THURSDAY, Feb. 2, 2017 -- Painkillers like aspirin, Aleve and Advil don't help most people with back pain, a new review finds. The researchers estimated that only one in six people gained a benefit from taking these nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory... (Source: Drugs.com - Daily MedNews)
Source: Drugs.com - Daily MedNews - February 2, 2017 Category: Journals (General) Source Type: news
Celecoxib: Cardiovascular Risk No Worse Than That of Nonselective NSAIDs
NEW ORLEANS — The cardiovascular safety profile of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) celecoxib, a selective inhibitor of COX-2, is no worse than those of the nonselective NSAIDs naproxen and ibuprofen, according to a trial reported at the American Heart Association scientific sessions. (Source: Caring for the Ages)
Source: Caring for the Ages - January 31, 2017 Category: Health Management Authors: Susan London Source Type: news
Bad News for Naproxen in RA
(MedPage Today) -- PRECISION study gives boost to Celebrex for RA (but not OA) patients (Source: MedPage Today Geriatrics)
Source: MedPage Today Geriatrics - November 14, 2016 Category: Geriatrics Source Type: news
Pages: 1 2 3 4
MedWorm Privacy Policy Disclaimer Copyright © MedWorm 2006-2019