Pictures of Warts: Types, Treatments, Causes, and More
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Skin Problems and Treatments
Slideshows
Visual Guide to Warts
1 / 21
What Are They?
These small, noncancerous growths appear when your skin is infected with one of the many viruses of the human papillomavirus (HPV) family. The virus triggers extra cell growth, which makes the outer layer of skin thick and hard in that spot. While they can grow anywhere you have skin, you're more likely to get one on your hands or feet. The type of wart depends on where it is and what it looks like.
Swipe to advance
2 / 21
Who Gets Them?
Because each person's immune system responds differently to the virus, not everyone who comes in contact with HPV will get a wart. And if you cut or damage your skin in some way, it's easier for the virus to take hold. That's why people with chronic skin conditions, such as eczema, or who bite their nails or pick at hangnails are prone to getting warts.
Swipe to advance
3 / 21
Your Body Plays Defense
Kids and teens get more warts than adults because their immune systems haven't built up defenses against the many types of HPV. People with weakened immune systems -- like those with HIV or who are taking biologic drugs for conditions like RA, psoriasis, and IBD -- are also more susceptible to getting warts because their body may not be able to fight them off.
Swipe to advance
4 / 21
How They Spread
Warts are highly contagious and are mainly passed by direct skin contact, such as when you pick at your warts and then touch another area of your body. You can also spread them with things like towels or razors that have touched a wart on your body or on someone else's. Warts like moist and soft or injured skin.
Swipe to advance
5 / 21
Fairy Tales Are Wrong
You can touch or kiss all the frogs and toads you like because they won't give you warts.
Having a wart on your nose -- or anywhere else, for that matter -- doesn't make you a witch, either.
Swipe to advance
6 / 21
Common Warts
These flesh-colored growths are most often on the backs of hands, the fingers, the skin around nails, and the feet. They're small -- from the size of a pinhead to a pea -- and feel like rough, hard bumps. They may have black dots that look like seeds, which are really tiny blood clots. Typically they show up where the skin was broken, perhaps from biting your fingernails. (This can also transfer the virus from your hands to your face.)
Swipe to advance
7 / 21
Plantar Warts
Does it feel like you have pebbles in your shoe? Check the soles of your feet. These warts got their name because "plantar" means "of the sole" in Latin. Unlike other warts, the pressure from walking and standing makes them grow into your skin. You may have just one or a cluster (called mosaic warts). Because they're flat, tough, and thick, it's easy to confuse them with calluses. Look for black dots on the surface.
Swipe to advance
8 / 21
Flat Warts
The upside of these warts is that they're smaller (maybe 1/8 inch wide, the thickness of the cord that charges your phone) and smoother than other types. The downside? They tend to grow in large numbers -- often 20 to 100 at a time. Flat warts tend to appear on children's faces, men's beard areas, and women's legs.
Swipe to advance
9 / 21
Filiform Warts
These fast-growing warts look thread-like and spiky, sometimes like tiny brushes. Because they tend to grow on the face -- around your mouth, eyes, and nose -- they can be annoying, even though they don't usually hurt.
Swipe to advance
10 / 21
Genital Warts
As you might expect, you get these by having sex with someone who has them. They may look like small, scattered, skin-colored bumps or like a cluster of bumps similar to a little bit of cauliflower on your genitals. And they can spread, even if you can't see them. Don't try to get rid of genital warts yourself; they can be hard to treat.
Other types of HPV that could cause cancer may be passed sexually, too, including through oral and anal sex.
Swipe to advance
11 / 21
How Long They Last
Over time, your body will often build up a resistance and fight warts off. But it may take months or as many as 2 years for them to disappear. In adults, warts often stick around even longer, perhaps several years or more. Some warts won't ever go away. Doctors aren't sure why some do and others don't.
Swipe to advance
12 / 21
To Treat or Not to Treat?
Most warts are harmless, and you don't need to do anything -- unless, of course, they're painful or embarrassing. Waiting for warts to go away could backfire, though: A wart might get bigger, new warts may appear, or you could give them to someone else. The best treatment depends on your age and health and the type of wart. But there's no cure for HPV, so some of the virus might stay in your skin after the wart is gone and reappear later.
Swipe to advance
13 / 21
Peeling Products
Over-the-counter gels, liquids, and pads with salicylic acid work by peeling away the dead skin cells of the wart to gradually dissolve it. For better results, soak the wart in warm water, then gently sand it with a disposable emery board before you apply the product. Be sure to use a new emery board each time. Be patient -- it can take several months.
Swipe to advance
14 / 21
Duct Tape
Yes, you may be able to get a remedy for warts at the hardware store! Study results are mixed, but covering warts with duct tape may peel away layers of skin and irritate it to kick-start your immune system. Soak, sand, and put duct tape on the area (use silver stuff because it's stickier). Remove and re-do the process every 5-6 days until the wart is gone. If it works for you, the wart should be gone within 4 weeks.
Swipe to advance
15 / 21
When to See the Doctor
If you're not sure your skin growth is a wart (some skin cancers look like them), it doesn't get better with home treatment, it hurts, or you have a lot of them, check with your doctor. If you have diabetes or a weakened immune system, you should have a doctor take a look before you treat a wart yourself.
Swipe to advance
16 / 21
Cryosurgery
For adults and older children with common warts, your doctor will likely want to freeze them off with liquid nitrogen. (Because the nitrogen is so cold, it can cause a stabbing pain for a little while, which is why it's not used for small children.) You'll probably need more than one session. It works better when you follow up with a salicylic acid treatment after the area heals. Cryosurgery can cause light spots on people who have dark skin.
Swipe to advance
17 / 21
Cantharidin
"Painting" a wart with this liquid makes a blister form underneath it, lifting it off the skin. When the blister dries (after about a week), the wart comes off with the blistered skin. Cantharidin is often the way to treat young children because it doesn't hurt at first, though it may tingle, itch, burn, or swell a few hours later.
Swipe to advance
18 / 21
Burning and Cutting
Doctors may use one or both of these methods after they numb the area.
Electrosurgery burns the wart with an electric charge through the tip of a needle. It's good for common warts, filiform warts, and foot warts. Your doctor could also use a laser.
Curettage is scraping off the wart with a sharp knife or small, spoon-shaped tool. Another option is excision, slicing the wart off or cutting it out with a sharp blade.
Swipe to advance
19 / 21
Prescription Creams
For stubborn warts, peeling creams with glycolic acid, stronger salicylic acid, or tretinoin could do the trick. Diphencyprone (DCP) and imiquimod (Aldara) irritate your skin to encourage your immune system to go to work there. 5-Fluorouracil is a cancer medicine that may stop your body from making extra skin cells the same way it stops tumors from growing.
Swipe to advance
20 / 21
Injections
Your doctor may use a needle to put medicine into the wart to help get rid of it. Bleomycin, a cancer drug, may stop infected cells from making more. Interferon boosts your immune system to better fight the HPV, typically for genital warts.
These usually aren't the first things your doctor will try, and you may need to use salicylic acid or duct tape on your wart, too.
Swipe to advance
21 / 21
Stop the Spread
There's no way yet to prevent warts, but you can lower your chances of getting or spreading them:
Don't touch, pick, or scratch your warts, or touch someone else's.
Wash your hands after treating warts.
Keep foot warts dry.
Wear waterproof sandals or flip-flops in public showers, locker rooms, and around public pools.
Swipe to advance
Up Next
Next Slideshow Title
Skip Ad
1 / 21
Skip Ad
Sources | Medically Reviewed on 09/26/2017 Reviewed by Nayana Ambardekar, MD on September 26, 2017
IMAGES PROVIDED BY:
Thinkstock Photos
Thinkstock Photos
Getty Images
Thinkstock Photos
Thinkstock Photos
Thinkstock Photos
Science Source
Science Source
Science Source
Science Source
Thinkstock Photos
Thinkstock Photos
Thinkstock Photos
Thinkstock Photos
Thinkstock Photos
Getty Images
Science Source
Thinkstock
Thinkstock
Thinkstock
Thinkstock
SOURCES:
American Academy of Dermatology: "Warts: Overview," "Dermatologists share tips to treat common warts," "Where warts come from."
UpToDate: "Cutaneous warts (common, plantar, and flat warts)," "Patient education: Skin warts (Beyond the Basics)."
Mona Gohara, MD, clinical professor of dermatology, Yale School of Medicine.
Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care: "Warts: Overview."
JAMA Dermatology: "Witches and Warts."
Cleveland Clinic: "Plantar Warts."
FamilyDoctor.org: "Warts."
University Health Service, University of Southampton: "Curettage and shave excision of raised skin lesions."
DermNet New Zealand: "Bleomycin and the skin."
BMC Infectious Diseases: "Interferon for the treatment of genital warts: a systematic review."
Reviewed by Nayana Ambardekar, MD on September 26, 2017
This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information.
THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the WebMD Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911.
WebMD Slideshows
View our slideshows to learn more about your health.
Psoriasis 14 home remedies to try.
Rheumatoid Arthritis Is it the source of your aches?
Foods for Focus Eat these to help you stay on task.
Multiple Sclerosis Warning signs to watch out for.
Attention Killers What steals your concentration?
Cancer Does THIS cause cancer?
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.