Neck pain - Better Health Channel
Please enable JavaScript in order to get the best experience when using this site.
Site Navigation
Page Content
Menu
Caret
Health.vic
Victoria's hub for health services and business
DHHS
A gateway to the strategies, policies, programs and services delivered by the Department of Health & Human Services.
Seniors Online
Victorian government portal for older people, with information about government and community services and programs.
Show search toolbar
Contrast Sign Up Login
Search
Type a minimum of three characters then press UP or DOWN on the keyboard to navigate the autocompleted search results
Navigation
Home Close Menu
Conversation-Going-travelling
Conditions and treatments
Conditions and treatments
Allergies
Allergies
Allergic reaction to packaged food
Anxiety
Arthritis
Asthma
Behavioural conditions
Birth defects
Blood and blood vessels
Bones muscles and joints
Bones muscles and joints
Foot care - podiatrists
Brain and nerves
Cancer
Complementary and alternative care
Dementia
Healthy living
Healthy living
Alcohol
Babies and toddlers (0-3)
Children (4-12)
Drugs and addictive behaviours
Environmental health
Family Violence
Older people in hospital – Get well soon
Health checks
Healthy Eating
Healthy Eating
Nutrition for life
Healthy mind
Healthy pregnancy
Immunisation
Services and support
Services and support
Aged care services
Alcohol and drug services
LGBTI support
Carers, caring and respite care services
Child, family and relationship services
Disability services
Emergency, crisis and support services
End of life and palliative care services
Hospitals, surgery and procedures
Mental health services
Planning and coordinating healthcare
Pregnancy and birth services
A-Z
A-Z
Conditions and treatments
Healthy living
Services and support
Videos
Service profiles
Blog
Blog
Blog authors
Topics
Podcast
Podcast
Influenza - Dr Brett Sutton & Prof Kanta Subbarao
Trauma - Anne Leadbeater OAM & Dr Rob Gordon
template
Other sites
Health.vic DHHS Seniors Online
Sitemap
My Health Life
Facebook
Googleplus
Twitter
Youtube
Rss
Conditions and treatments
Healthy living
Services and support
A-Z
Blog
Podcast
Back to Bones muscles and joints
Home
Conditions and treatments
Bones muscles and joints
Neck pain
Neck pain
Share (show more)
Download PDF
Listen (show more)
Listen
More (show more)
Email
Print
Tags:
Bones muscles and joints
Bones muscles and joints - Back, neck and spine conditions
Arthritis
Arthritis - Understanding arthritis
Pain
Pain - Types of pain
Summary
The neck is highly mobile to allow us to see in all directions.
Strains from poor postures, trauma and arthritis are common causes of neck pain.
Treatments provided by physiotherapists, osteopaths, chiropractors or remedial masseurs can generally help neck pain.
The neck supports the head. It is made up of seven bones (vertebrae) stacked one on top of the other. The vertebrae are connected by two facet joints and a disc. The vertebrae are also bound together with ligaments. Muscles provide movement and vital support for all structures of the neck.
The neck is very mobile, to allow us to see in all directions. Strains from poor postures, trauma and degenerative diseases, such as arthritis, are the most common causes of neck pain. There is good evidence to show that exercise helps reduce these symptoms.
Treatment for neck pain
Neck pain can generally be successfully treated by physiotherapists, although there are other options such as osteopathy, chiropractic or remedial massage to consider. If you need short-term pain relief from medication, talk to your doctor or pharmacist.
Treatment depends on the cause, but may include:
information on how to look after your neck to prevent unnecessary strains from work and everyday activities
specific exercise programs to retrain and then strengthen the neck muscles
posture training exercises
passive joint mobilisation or manipulation
soft tissue massage
taping to guide correction of posture
relaxation therapy.
Poor postures and neck pain
Poor sitting or working postures commonly cause neck pain by putting extra strain on the joints and muscles. Sitting and working with the shoulders slouched and chin poking forward, such as when working for many hours on a computer, may strain the neck as may playing with devices with your head down for long periods of time.
Sleeping on your stomach with your head turned around to breathe may also be a strain on your neck.
Suggestions on how to prevent posture-related neck pain include:
Ensure your workstation is set up to help you sit in a good supported posture. When using a computer, ensure the screen is at a height so that your head is upright and the centre of the computer is viewed when you lower your eyes slightly.
Change your posture regularly when either sitting or standing. To do this, grow tall by rolling up from your pelvis. Then gently elongate the back of your neck and draw your shoulders back. Use no more than 10 per cent effort. Hold the position for 10 seconds and then relax.
Perform posture correction frequently while you are working (two to three times per hour). This exercise keeps tone in the supporting muscles of the neck.
Combat the tight or tired feeling of your neck by regularly performing the posture exercise.
Try not to sleep on your stomach, which may strain your neck.
Check whether your pillow is the right size for you. Choice of pillows is very individual – there is no one pillow that suits everyone. Check the distance between the side of your neck and your shoulder. That gives you an idea of the pillow height you need to keep your head and neck supported when you sleep on your side.
Move and exercise regularly to improve muscle tone and posture.
Osteoarthritis and neck pain
Osteoarthritis is a common type of arthritis that affects many people. Its incidence increases as we grow older. Osteoarthritis can result from:
previous joint injury
overuse
overweight (in cases of hip or knee osteoarthritis)
genetic predisposition (in some people).
Symptoms of osteoarthritis include pain and stiffness and weakening of the muscles. Commonly affected areas include the neck, lower back, hands, hip and knee. There is no cure for osteoarthritis, but it can be managed well with exercise. Keeping the joints mobile and the muscles strong are the best ways to manage osteoarthritis.
Osteoarthritis in the joints of the neck commonly results in local neck pain. If the upper joints of the neck are affected, the neck pain may develop into a headache as well.
Osteoarthritis may occasionally cause some irritation of the nerves as they exit the neck. If you experience shooting pains down your arm, or numbness or lack of power in your arm or hand, then see your doctor, as you may need further investigations, such as an x-ray.
You can manage neck pain related to osteoarthritis with:
advice and education on how to care for and self-manage your neck
pain management – speak to your doctor about taking pain relieving medication or using a heat pack to relieve neck pain
gentle active mobilisation exercises to maintain neck movement
gentle exercises focussing on retraining and maintaining muscle function
gentle soft-tissue and joint mobilisation
posture exercises
strengthening exercises.
Neck pain – whiplash
An injury to the neck due to a motor vehicle crash is often referred to as a whiplash injury. Typically, this occurs as a result of a rear-end collision and any structure of the neck might be strained.
Symptoms of whiplash
Common symptoms of a whiplash injury include neck pain, headache and neck stiffness. Some people may also feel unsteady or light headed. Recovery from whiplash depends on the individual and the extent of the injury, but can vary from a few weeks to months.
Early treatment for whiplash may include:
advice and education on how to care for and manage your neck to help recovery
pain-relieving or anti-inflammatory medication
gentle active mobilisation exercises
gentle exercises focussing on retraining muscle function
gentle soft-tissue and joint mobilisation
posture exercises
strengthening exercises
resumption of usual activities, as your neck tolerates.
Maintaining as many of your normal daily activities as you can is ideal, although modifications in the early stages may be necessary to assist in the recovery of your neck.
Be adaptable and remain positive. If pain is severe or persists or if you have unusual symptoms associated with the injury, further examination or investigation by a healthcare professional may be required.
Acute neck pain – wry neck
Wry neck is the term used to describe a condition where your neck temporarily becomes stiff and painful. It can occur at any age, but is more common in the teenage or young adult population. Turning your head to the side (generally one side more than the other) and looking up can produce an acute pain.
One or both sides of the neck may also go into spasm, and pain may be felt from the top of the neck down to the shoulder blade and even out to the top of the shoulder.
Causes of wry neck
There are many causes including:
sleeping in an awkward posture
a sudden flicking or jerking of the head
carrying heavy unbalanced loads – such as a suitcase
viral infection.
Treatment for wry neck
In most cases, if treated early, wry necks respond well to treatment in a few days. Heat and passive joint mobilisation can be used to loosen the neck joints and reduce the pain and muscle spasm.
In rare cases, particularly for people over 40, or very rarely in infants, wry neck can be caused by a medical condition. Your doctor or therapist can help with this diagnosis and give you a referral for appropriate care.
Self-care of wry neck
While you are recovering from wry neck:
avoid sitting or lying with your neck in an awkward position
avoid going out in the cold without being well wrapped up
keep moving your neck (as pain allows)
use a small heat pack (such as a wheat pack or similar) at home or at work for pain relief, or hot showers can help
keep warm.
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist about pain medication if your pain is severe.
Where to get help
Your GP (doctor)
Pharmacist
Physiotherapist
Australian Physiotherapy Association Tel. 1300 306 622
Musculoskeletal Australia National Help Line Tel. (03) 8531 8000 or 1800 263 265
Send us your feedback
Rate this website
Your comments
Questions
Your details
1/4 How would you rate this website?
Excellent
Good
Average
Fair
Poor
Next Submit Now Cancel
Send us your feedback
Rate this website
Your comments
Questions
Your details
Please note that we cannot answer personal medical queries.
If you are looking for health or medical advice we recommend that you:
talk to your doctor or pharmacist
dial triple zero (000) in an emergency
ring NURSE-ON-CALL Tel. 1300 60 60 24.
2/4 Your Comments
Tell us who you are Select an option Health consumer Health professional Others
Enter your comments below (optional)
Next Submit Now Cancel
Send us your feedback
Rate this website
Your comments
Questions
Your details
3/4 Questions
What are you here to do? Looking for information on Improving general health and wellbeing Better relationships A specific health condition and its treatment Children’s health Food, nutrition and healthy recipes Medication Exercise or fitness Others
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
Next Submit Now Cancel
Send us your feedback
Rate this website
Your comments
Questions
Your details
4/4 Your details
Postcode
Email Address
Submit Now Cancel
Send us your feedback
Thank you. Your feedback has been successfully sent.
More information
Bones muscles and joints
The following content is displayed as Tabs. Once you have activated a link navigate to the end of the list to view its associated content. The activated link is defined as Active Tab
Bone muscle and joint basics
Healthy bones muscles and joints
Bone and bone marrow conditions
Osteoporosis
Muscle conditions
Joint conditions
Hand and foot conditions
Back neck and spine conditions
Bone muscle and joint basics
Bone marrow
Bone marrow is the spongy tissue in the hollow centres of a person?s long bones and is the blood cell 'factory'...
Bones
The adult skeleton is made up of 206 bones, which provide the structure for our bodies...
Choosing the right shoe
The right footwear can help keep your feet healthy, make your physical activity easier and help keep your body safe from injury...
Growth hormone
Some athletes and bodybuilders wrongly believe that taking synthetic growth hormone will help build up their muscles...
Joints
A joint is the part of the body where two or more bones meet to allow movement...
Locomotor system
The skeleton and skeletal muscles work together to allow movement...
Muscles
There are about 600 muscles in the human body...
Healthy bones muscles and joints
10 tips for getting enough vitamin D
A balanced UV approach is required to ensure some sun exposure for vitamin D while minimising the risk of skin cancer...
10 tips for safe stretching
Make stretching part of your life ... 10 tips for safe stretching...
10 tips on how to eat more calcium
Reduce your intake of coffee, alcohol and soft drinks... 10 tips on how to eat more calcium...
Ageing - muscles bones and joints
Exercise can prevent age-related changes to muscles, bones and joints and can reverse these changes too...
Bone density testing
Most procedures that measure bone density are quick and pain-free...
Calcium
If you don't have enough calcium in your diet, your bones will eventually become weak and brittle...
Choosing the right shoe
The right footwear can help keep your feet healthy, make your physical activity easier and help keep your body safe from injury...
Posture
Bad habits such as slouching and inactivity cause muscle fatigue and tension that ultimately lead to poor posture...
Vitamin D
A balanced approach to sunlight exposure will help you get enough vitamin D while protecting against skin cancer...
Vitamin D - maintaining levels in winter (video)
Vitamin D is important for healthy bones, muscles and the nervous system...
Bone and bone marrow conditions
Acromegaly
Acromegaly is caused by an excess of growth hormone in adults, which causes the overgrowth of bones in the face, hands, feet and internal organs...
Amyloidosis
A person with amyloidosis produces aggregates of insoluble protein that cannot be eliminated from the body...
Bone cancer
Bone cancer is a rare form of cancer that is treated with chemotherapy, radiotherapy or hormone therapy...
Bone fractures
Common sites for bone fractures include the wrist, ankle and hip...
Fibrous dysplasia
Fibrous dysplasia causes abnormal growth or swelling of bone, but it is not a form of cancer...
Leukaemia
Most children and many adults with acute leukaemia can expect to be cured, while chronic leukaemia can be successfully managed...
McCune-Albright syndrome
The severity of symptoms or how a child with McCune-Albright syndrome will be affected throughout life is difficult to predict...
Multiple myeloma
Multiple myeloma is cancer of plasma cells in the bone marrow...
Osteomyelitis
Osteomyelitis means an infection of bone which can either be recent or longstanding...
Paget's disease of bone
Paget's disease of bone is a chronic condition that causes abnormal enlargement and weakening of bone...
Rib injuries
Rib injuries may include bruises, torn cartilage and bone fractures...
Rickets
Rickets is a preventable childhood bone disease caused by a lack of vitamin D...
Scoliosis
Scoliosis is an abnormal sideways curve of the spine...
Shin splints
'Shin splints' refers to pain felt anywhere along the shinbone from knee to ankle...
Treacher Collins syndrome
Treacher Collins syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects growth and development of the head, causing facial defects and hearing loss...
Osteoporosis
Menopause and osteoporosis
Regular weight-bearing exercise and maintaining a diet rich in calcium from childhood will help reduce bone loss at menopause...
Osteoporosis
A healthy, calcium-rich diet and regular physical activity throughout life can help prevent osteoporosis...
Osteoporosis and exercise
Exercise can reduce the risk of fractures resulting from osteoporosis by both slowing the rate of bone loss, and reducing the person?s risk of falling by building muscle strength and improving balance...
Osteoporosis in children
Osteoporosis in children is rare and usually caused by an underlying medical condition...
Osteoporosis in men
Up to 30 per cent of all fractures that occur in people with osteoporosis and osteopenia, occur in men...
Muscle conditions
Bell's palsy
The majority of people with Bell's palsy, around 90 per cent, will recover completely with time...
Helping a child with a disability with everyday activities
If you have a child with a disability you can help improve their communication and movement by encouraging them to take part in daily activities...
Multiple sclerosis (MS)
Multiple sclerosis is not contagious, but it is progressive and unpredictable...
Muscle cramp
A muscle cramp is an uncontrollable and painful spasm of a muscle...
Muscular dystrophy
People affected by muscular dystrophy have different degrees of independence, mobility and carer needs...
Myasthenia gravis
Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease that causes muscle weakness...
Polymyositis
Polymyositis is hard to diagnose and may be mistaken for muscular dystrophy...
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)
A child with spinal muscular atrophy type 1 rarely lives beyond three years of age...
Sprains and strains
It is important to get the correct treatment for a sprain or strain as soon as possible after the injury to help you recover quickly...
Joint conditions
Ankle sprains
Ankle sprain is a common sports injuries caused by overstretching and tearing the supporting ligaments...
Ankylosing spondylitis
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a type of inflammatory arthritis that targets the joints of the spine...
Arthritis explained
People can manage their arthritis using medication, physiotherapy, exercise and self management techniques...
Baker's cyst
Baker's cysts of the knee don't always require active treatment and sometimes will only require observation by the treating doctor...
Bursitis
Bursitis is often caused by overuse and the inflammation will continue unless the particular activity or movement is stopped...
Carpal tunnel syndrome
Carpal tunnel syndrome can be caused by repetitive hand movements, pregnancy and arthritis...
Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH)
Around 95 per cent of babies born with developmental dysplasia of the hip can be successfully treated...
Elbow pain
Elbow pain and can result from overuse in a range of sports or occupations...
Hip disorders
The hip joint is complicated to allow a wide range of motion while still supporting the weight of the body...
Knee injuries
Mild knee injuries may heal by themselves, but all injuries should be checked and diagnosed by a doctor or physiotherapist...
Osgood Schlatter syndrome
Osgood-Schlatter syndrome is a painful knee condition that affects adolescents...
Perthes' disease
Most children with Perthes' disease eventually recover, but it can take anywhere from two to five years...
Reactive arthritis
Reactive arthritis is a form of arthritis that occurs as a result of some bacterial infections...
Hand and foot conditions
Achilles tendonitis
People who run regularly seem to be susceptible to Achilles tendonitis...
Children's feet and shoes
A child learning to walk receives important sensory information from the soles of their feet, and shoes can make walking more difficult...
Choosing the right shoe
The right footwear can help keep your feet healthy, make your physical activity easier and help keep your body safe from injury...
Cysts - ganglion cysts
A ganglion cyst is the most common lump on the hand, and tends to target women between the ages of 20 and 40 years of age...
Diabetes - foot care
Good foot care and regular check-ups can help people with diabetes avoid foot problems...
Dupuytren's contracture
Dupuytren's contracture gradually causes clawing of the fingers as they are pulled towards the palm...
Feet - problems and treatments
Correctly fitted shoes help you avoid foot and leg pain or injury...
Foot care - podiatrists
Podiatrists can advise about how to choose the right shoes for your feet...
Foot odour - causes and cures
Even the most fastidiously clean people can suffer from foot odour...
Foot orthoses
People who have chronic foot or leg problems that interfere with their health may be prescribed orthoses by their podiatrist...
Foot problems - heel pain
The heel protects the structures of the foot, but heel pain is a common foot complaint...
Footwear for healthy feet
Wearing shoes that fit properly and support your feet is vital to avoid sore feet and to prevent or alleviate many common foot problems...
Left-handedness
If your child is naturally left-handed, don't try to force them to use their right hand...
Raynaud's phenomenon
Raynaud's phenomenon can be a sign of a more serious underlying condition, so see your doctor if you experience it...
Sever's disease
Sever's disease is a common cause of heel pain, particularly in the young and physically active...
Back neck and spine conditions
Back pain
Back pain is common. Some people will develop back pain that is persistent (lasts more than three months). There are many things that you can do to live well with back pain...
Back pain – disc problems
Most disc problems resolve without specific treatment...
Back pain in children
Children with back pain may grow into adults with chronic bad backs, so it is important to encourage sensible back care...
Living with persistent pain
Pain is our built-in alarm system. It makes us aware that something might be going wrong in our body. However, there are many things you can do to deal effectively with persistent pain...
Neck pain
Treatments like physiotherapy, osteopathy or remedial massage can generally help neck and shoulder pain...
Scoliosis
Scoliosis is an abnormal sideways curve of the spine...
Tendonitis
Most cases of tendonitis recover completely, but severe untreated tendonitis can lead to rupture of the tendon...
Treating persistent pain
Pain is our built-in alarm system. It makes us aware that something might be going wrong in our body. However, there are many things you can do to deal effectively with persistent pain...
When do I need to see my doctor about persistent pain?
Living with persistent pain isn’t easy. Your doctor can help you balance your pain, your treatment and hurdles you encounter in life...
Related Information
Arthritis
Arthritis occurs when joints or muscles become painful, stiff and swollen. Exercise, medication and supportive therapies can help manage symptoms...
Shoulder pain
Shoulder pain is common in our community. The good news is that with appropriate treatment pain will improve so you can get back to doing the things you enjoy...
Back pain
Back pain is common. Some people will develop back pain that is persistent (lasts more than three months). There are many things that you can do to live well with back pain...
Elbow pain
Elbow pain and can result from overuse in a range of sports or occupations...
Hip disorders
The hip joint is complicated to allow a wide range of motion while still supporting the weight of the body...
Home
Related information on other websites
Choosing Wisely Australia
Choosing Wisely Australia - Tests, treatments and procedures physiotherapists and consumers should question
Choosing Wisely Australia - Tests, treatments and procedures clinicians and consumers should question
Musculoskeletal Australia
NPS Medicinewise - Medicines Line 1300 633 424
Pain Australia
painHEALTH
TAC
Worksafe
The Pain Toolkit
TAC - Locate a health or service provider
TAC - Persistent pain
Worksafe - There’s a better place to recover from an injury
Worksafe - Return to work
Worksafe - Your health and safety guide to manual handling
Content Partner
This page has been produced in consultation with and approved by: Australian Physiotherapy Association
Last updated: February 2019
Content on this website is provided for information purposes only. Information about a therapy, service, product or treatment does not in any way endorse or support such therapy, service, product or treatment and is not intended to replace advice from your doctor or other registered health professional. The information and materials contained on this website are not intended to constitute a comprehensive guide concerning all aspects of the therapy, product or treatment described on the website. All users are urged to always seek advice from a registered health care professional for diagnosis and answers to their medical questions and to ascertain whether the particular therapy, service, product or treatment described on the website is suitable in their circumstances. The State of Victoria and the Department of Health & Human Services shall not bear any liability for reliance by any user on the materials contained on this website.
My Health Life helps you manage your health
With tools, information and recommendations tailored to you, it’s your personal and secure health dashboard.
Learn more
Medical Dictionary
Enter a search term
Search
Search for your topic using the Merriam Webster medical dictionary
Service Search
Service Search
Find services near you
Service: Select a service Aboriginal Health Clinic Aboriginal Health Worker Acupuncture Adolescent Mental Health Services Adult Mental Health Services Adult-community education Aged care assessment Aged Care information-referral Aged Care Transport Aged Residential Care Air ambulance Alexander technique therapy Anaesthesiology - Pain Medicine Aromatherapy Audiology Bereavement counselling Biorhythm services Blood donation Blood transport Bowen therapy Cancer Support Groups Cardiology Cardiothoracic surgery Carer support Case management for older persons Cemeteries & Fees Cemetery operation Child protection-child abuse report Childrens play programs Chinese herbal medicine Chiropractic Chronic Disease Management Clinical Genetics Clinical Pharmacology Community bus Community Cancer Services Community Hours Cranio-Sacral Therapy Cremation Crisis counselling Crisis-emergency accommodation Culturally tailored health promotion Culturally tailored support groups Death service information Delivered meals Deputising Service Dermatology Diabetes Educator Diagnostic Ultrasound Dietetics Disability advocacy Disability aids - equipment Disability Care Transport Disability case management Disability information-referral Disability support packages Disability supported accommodation Drug and-or alcohol counselling Drug and-or alcohol support groups Early childhood intervention Education information-referral Emergency Department Emergency medical Employment placement and-or support Endocrinology Endodontic Exercise Physiology Family day care Family planning Family Violence Family violence counselling Feldenkrais Financial assistance Financial counselling Financial information-advice Flying doctor service Food Relief-food-meals Food safety Foster care Friendly visiting Funeral services Gastroenterology Gastroenterology - Hepatology General dental General Mental Health Services General Practice/GP (doctor) General Practice-GP Generalist counselling Genetic counselling Geriatric medicine Gynaecological Oncology Gynaecology Health advocacy-Liaison service Health counselling Health information-referral Hearing aids - equipment Hepatology Higher education Holiday programs Home care-housekeeping assistance Home maintenance and repair Home Medicine Review Home Nursing Homelessness support Homoeopathy Hospital Hospital Services Housing information-referral Hydrotherapy Hypnotherapy Immunisation Immunology - Allergy Infectious diseases Inpatients Integrated Family Services Intensive care medicine Juvenile Justice Kindergarten-preschool Kinesiology Kinship Care Legal advocacy Legal information-advice-referral Library Long day child care Magnetic Resonance Imaging Magnetic therapy Martial arts Massage therapy Material aid Maternal - child health Maternity & Newborn Services Mediation Medical Oncology Medical Research Meditation Mental health advocacy Mental health information-referral Mental Health Services Migrant Health Clinic Music Therapy Myotherapy Naturopathy Needle - Syringe exchange Neonatology - Perinatology Nephrology Neurology Neurosurgery Nuclear Medicine Nurse lead Clinic Nurse Practitioner lead Clinic Nursing Nutrition Obstetrics Obstetrics - Gynaecology Occasional child care Occupational Medicine Occupational therapy Ophthalmology Optometry Oral medicine Oral surgery Orthodontic Orthopaedic surgery Osteopathy Outpatients Outreach Service Outside school hours care Paediatric Cardiology Paediatric Clinical Genetics Paediatric Clinical Pharmacology Paediatric Dentistry Paediatric Dermatology Paediatric Endocrinology Paediatric Haematology Paediatric Immunology Allergy Paediatric Infectious diseases Paediatric intensive care medicine Paediatric Medical Oncology Paediatric Medicine Paediatric Nephrology Paediatric Neurology Paediatric Nuclear Medicine Paediatric Rehabilitation Medicine Paediatric Rheumatology Paediatric Sleep Medicine Paediatric Surgery Paediatric Thoracic Medicine Palliative Medicine Pathology - Clinical Chemistry Pathology - General Pathology - Genetics Pathology - Haematology Pathology - Immunology Pathology - Microbiology Patient transport Periodontic Personal alarms-alerts Personal care for older persons Personal fitness training Pharmacy Physical activity group Physical activity programs Physical fitness testing Physiotherapy Pilates Placement Protection Planned activity groups Plastic - Reconstructive Surgery Playgroup Podiatry Primary education Problem gambling counselling Prosthetics - Orthotics Prosthodontic Psychiatry Psychology Public Health Medicine Public rental housing Quit program Radiation oncology Reflexology Refugee Health Clinic Rehabilitation Medicine Reiki Relationship counselling Relaxation therapy Respite care Rheumatology School nursing Secondary education Sexual assault counselling Sexual health Shiatsu Sleep Medicine Social Support Social Work Speech pathology-therapy Spiritual Counselling Sporting club Support groups Surgery - General Telephone Counselling Thoracic medicine Toy library Training - vocational education Translating Services Trauma counselling Urogynaecology Urology Vascular surgery Veterans Services Victims of crime counselling Victorian Cardiac Rehabilitation Directory Vocational Rehabilitation Western herbal medicine Womens Health Clinic Yoga Youth drop in-assistance-support
Location:
Type a minimum of three characters then press UP or DOWN on the keyboard to navigate the autocompleted search results
Use my location
Find a doctor
Need to find a doctor in your local area? Take a look at the general practitioners entry in our health service profiles.
see general practitioner
Recent Activity
73 people have watched a video today
Health topics
Conditions and treatments
Healthy living
Services and support
Explore
Recipes
Healthy pantry
Videos
Consumer medicine information
Multilingual health information - Health Translations Directory
About
About us
Accessibility
Content partners
Privacy
Terms of use
Contact us
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Page last reviewed: 31 Jan 2015
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au:443/health/conditionsandtreatments/neck-pain
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au:443/about/privacy
Privacy Statement
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au:443/about/terms-of-use
Copyright Notice
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au:443/about/terms-of-use
Disclaimer Notice
This web site is managed and authorised by the Department of Health & Human Services, State Government of Victoria, Australia
© Copyright State of Victoria 2018.
Back to Top