Complementary therapies | Asthma
Skip to content
Like most websites we use cookies to help us give you a better service. You can find out more about our cookie policy here.
Close message
Sign up to our newsletter
Health advice
Health advice
Understanding asthma
Asthma triggers
Asthma and your child
Diagnosing asthma
Manage your asthma
Inhalers, medicines and treatments
Asthma attacks
Severe asthma
Living with asthma
Asthma care in the NHS
Your stories
Resources
Research
Research
Our research for the future
Get involved in our research
Our scientists
Achievements from our research
Research strategy
For researchers
Support us
Support us
Donate now
Do your own fundraising
Take part in an event
Leave a gift in your will
Give in memory
Help with asthma research and information
Win prizes
Corporate support
Campaigns
About us
About us
Who we are
What we do
Our strategy
Annual report and accounts
Our governance and policies
Join us
Contact us
Media centre
Professionals
Professionals
Submit search
Donate
search Close
Submit search
Close hamburger
Complementary therapies
Complementary therapies including breathing retraining exercises, yoga, acupuncture and hypnotherapy.
If you've used a complementary treatment for your asthma, or if you fancy giving one a go, you're joining a growing number of people who have an interest in this area. Maybe you've read about various remedies for asthma on the internet or you know someone who swears by a treatment they've tried. But how do you know what's worth trying for your asthma and what's not? Here's the latest information...
Breathing retraining exercises
Mind and body
Air treatments
Food and supplements
Treatments such as the Buteyko Breathing Technique, yoga, acupuncture, homeopathy and hypnotherapy are usually referred to as complementary therapies not alternative therapies. This is because it's always best to use them alongside (to complement) your prescribed medicines not instead of them (as an alternative).
The trouble is, complementary therapies haven't been studied as much as conventional medicines, so there's not very much scientific evidence to show they work or that they're even safe.
Always check with your GP or asthma nurse before trying a new complementary therapy.
Never stop taking your usual asthma medicines unless your GP or asthma nurse advises you to do so. This is because stopping your asthma medicines can cause your asthma symptoms to get worse and increase your risk of having an asthma attack.
Breathing Retraining Exercises
Guidelines used by many healthcare professionals (BTS/SIGN 2014) for the management of asthma say that using breathing exercise programmes, such as the Buteyko Method or the Papworth Method, alongside your usual prescribed medicine may help to reduce asthma symptoms, reduce the amount of medicines needed and improve quality of life for some people.
New research by Professor Mike Thomas and the University of Southampton has shown that a programme of breathing exercises done at home using videos and a written booklet, can improve quality of life for some people with asthma as much as going to see a physiotherapist.
Find out more about the University of Southampton breathing retraining on the Breathing Freely website.
The Buteyko Breathing Technique
The Buteyko Breathing Technique (BBT), named after the Russian professor who developed it, is a system of breathing exercises and lifestyle recommendations about exercise, nutrition and sleeping. The Buteyko Breathing Association says BBT aims to reduce asthma symptoms by teaching people how to breathe slowly and gently through the nose rather than the mouth, which can dry out the airways and make them more sensitive. Some Buteyko teachers believe BBT works by raising carbon dioxide levels, which they believe can be low in people with asthma. There's no conclusive evidence to support this idea.
"The biggest difference for me is that I get fewer respiratory infections, and when I do get them they are usually less severe." Sandra Morison
The Buteyko Breathing Association is a non-profit organisation committed to improving the health of people with asthma and other breathing related problems. See www.buteykobreathing.org for more details.
The Papworth Method
Taught by physiotherapists to patients with asthma since the 1960s, The Papworth Method is a breathing and relaxation technique. It involves learning to breathe in a certain way using the nose and diaphragm (the main muscle you use to breathe you can feel it under your ribcage when you take breaths in and out) and developing breathing patterns to suit whatever activity you're doing. The teaching includes relaxation training and suggestions to help you fit the exercises into every life. At least five hours of training are recommended. Ask your GP or asthma nurse for details of what's available in your area.
Mind and body
There are lots of different holistic therapies around - in leisure centres, gyms, health clubs, wellbeing centres and spas. If you're planning to try any of them, speak to your GP or asthma nurse first.
Yoga
Yoga uses a variety of postures and breathing techniques to help increase flexibility and fitness, and to aid relaxation. An ancient Hindu practice, yoga is now popular with many Hollywood stars as well as millions of people all over the world.
Many yoga teachers teach breathing exercises. The latest BTS/SIGN guidelines on the management of asthma say there's currently not enough evidence on yoga breathing techniques to recommend them. But some studies have found that these exercises help people with asthma have fewer asthma attacks and to react less to certain triggers. It's also thought that practicing yoga helps people with asthma by reducing stress (which can be a trigger for asthma symptoms), but more research is needed to confirm this.
Yoga teacher Julia explains how yoga is helpful for asthma
After losing her sister to asthma and being diagnosed herself, Julia White began practising yoga to help manage her symptoms.
Video: Yoga teacher Julia explains how yoga is helpful for asthma
After losing her sister to asthma and being diagnosed herself, Julia White began practising yoga to help manage her symptoms.
Transcript for ‘Yoga teacher Julia explains how yoga is helpful for asthma’
0:00 I’m Julia White. I’m a yoga teacher and aromatherapist, and I specialise in teaching yoga to people with asthma.
0:06 When I was younger, growing up, my younger sister had asthma and it was managed,
0:11 but she used to get quite bad asthma attacks so either the doctor would be called out or she would be hospitalised.
0:17 And then, one day, she had an asthma attack. She was at home alone and she had to call the ambulance.
0:23 The ambulance came, they tried to revive her and they couldn’t so she died of an asthma attack at the age of seventeen.
0:28 At the age of thirty, I was then diagnosed with asthma myself.
0:33 Obviously, went to the doctor, got diagnosed, was given various inhalers, managed it that way,
0:39 but then realised I had to do something about it myself, as well as taking my medications.
0:46 And that’s when I decided to take a really hard look at my life and decided to train to become a yoga teacher.
0:54 The good thing about yoga is that anyone can do yoga. You know, yoga isn’t just an exercise.
0:59 The most important part for me is the breathing.
1:01 If you can connect with your breath, and move with your breath, then that’s essentially what yoga is.
1:09 And the other thing is the posture; because when we have asthma attacks, and you hunch and obviously,
1:16 if you are like this, it’s really hard to breathe properly because your chest and your diaphragm are really hunched over.
1:23 So, the other thing with yoga is the posture, so it helps open up the chest, which helps to open up the breathing.
1:30 So, if you’ve got asthma and you want to do yoga, then the first thing you need to do is, one, go to your GP and make sure your medications are up to date.
1:40 And then, the other thing you need to do is, wherever you do yoga, whether it’s at home or whether you’re going to a studio or class or whatever,
1:46 just make sure you have your blue reliever inhaler right next to you on your yoga mat.
1:50 And, lastly, you need to make sure that your written asthma action plan is up to date as well.
1:55 Five, ten minutes a day - it’s your space to become calm, to become relaxed, to practise some breathing, practise a few postures.
2:05 And just those five, ten minutes a day can make such a big difference to how you manage your asthma, and to your daily life.
Hypnotherapy
Hypnotherapy, also known as hypnosis, works by helping someone reach a very relaxed state where they are open to positive suggestions about how to think, feel or behave differently. Trials have shown that hypnotherapy may help muscle relaxation, which could help people with asthma. The latest BTS/SIGN guidelines on the management of asthma conclude that more research is needed, though.
Mindfulness
Mindfulness is a form of meditation, or mental training, where you focus on what’s happening inside your mind and body in the present moment. In theory it can be practised anywhere, at any time but the simplest way is to find a quiet place and sit with your eyes shut so you can pay full attention to your thoughts, feelings and the sensations in your body, including your breathing.
By taking time out to focus on yourself, regular mindfulness is thought to calm the mind and improve concentration. And it’s been found that regular practice might be good for people with asthma because of the stress-relieving benefits. If you choose to try mindfulness to complement your asthma care, the Mental Health Foundation offers an online learning course that you can do at your own pace.
Acupuncture
Based on ancient Chinese theories, acupuncture involves putting very fine needles into specific points on the body. This aims to encourage a healthy flow of the person's natural energy, or 'life force' around pathways in the body.
The latest BTS/SIGN guidelines on the management of asthma say that no long-term benefits have been proven and that more research is needed before acupuncture can be recommended.
If you choose to have acupuncture, make sure your acupuncturist is properly qualified and practises the treatment under safe and hygienic conditions. You can also check that they're registered with the British Acupuncture Council.
Air treatments
Salt rooms (speleotherapy) and salt pipes
Speleotherapy involves spending time in a salt mine or specially built salt room. Salt pipes are gadgets you use at home. Various claims have been made to explain why using these therapies to breathe in tiny salt particles can improve the symptoms of asthma. The latest BTS/SIGN guidelines on the management of asthma don't mention salt pipes or speleotherapy as there isn't any scientific evidence to show that either may help asthma.
Air Ionisers
The latest BTS/SIGN guidelines on the management of asthma states very clearly that air ionisers are not recommended for the treatment of asthma.
Food and supplements
Homeopathy
Homeopathy aims to trigger the body's self-healing response using very small doses of things that cause symptoms. Some studies have shown that homeopathy can be helpful for people with asthma, but the latest BTS/SIGN guidelines on the management of asthma says there isn't enough evidence to recommend homeopathy for people with asthma.
Dietary supplements
There are various small studies and theories to show that taking extra dietary supplements can help to reduce asthma symptoms. Vitamin C, vitamin E, selenium, magnesium and omega-3 fatty acids have all been under the spotlight, but the latest BTS/SIGN guidelines on the management of asthma says there isn't enough evidence to recommend any of them for people with asthma.
Herbal medicine
In herbal medicine, plants or parts of plants that contain active ingredients or chemicals are used to treat illness. Some studies have found that some herbal medicines can help reduce asthma symptoms. Although some herbs may be worth further investigation, the latest BTS/SIGN guidelines on the management of asthma says their effects are not yet fully understood and cannot be recommended for people with asthma.
If you're planning to try herbal medicine, it's very important to seek advice from your GP or asthma nurse first because some herbs have been shown to have serious side effects. The herbal medicine St John's Wort, for example, must not be used by anyone taking theophylline (a long-acting reliever treatment prescribed for some people with asthma) as it can reduce the effectiveness of the medicine and cause asthma symptoms to get worse.
A word of caution about royal jelly...
Royal jelly and propolis are both made by bees. There is evidence that taking royal jelly has caused very serious side effects in some people with asthma who have allergies. These have included asthma attacks, breathing difficulties, anaphylactic shock (a life-threatening allergic reaction) and even death. Although serious side effects from propolis have not been documented in the same way as for royal jelly, caution is advised because they are both from bees. Asthma UK recommends that people with asthma and allergies should not take royal jelly or propolis. If you're thinking about taking them we strongly suggest you discuss it with your GP or asthma nurse first.
You can find more useful information about complementary therapies at www.nhs.uk/livewell
Last updated March 2017
Next review due April 2019
Asthma UK Helpline Call the helpline on 0300 222 5800, 9am-5pm Mon-Fri.
Get email updates Sign up and receive news, tips and more
Help us to improve our website Fill out our short survey
Action plan How asthma action plans can help you stay well
Our helpline will close for Easter at 5pm on Thursday 18th April. It will reopen on Tuesday 23rd April at 9am.
During this period, if you’re having an asthma attack or cannot breathe normally, and your blue reliever inhaler isn’t helping, please call 999 for an ambulance. If you’re having other difficulties with your asthma, please contact your GP. Alternatively, if you live in England, Scotland or Wales you can also call 111.
Join the Big Asthma Bake Sale
Get involved this spring and order your free bake sale fundraising pack. Whether you’re a technical, messy or ‘fake it’ baker, getting involved is a piece of cake.
Get your free pack
Facebook
Twitter
Useful links
Jobs
Media Centre
Accessible information
Asthma UK is a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales No. 2422401
Registered charity in England and Wales No. 802364 and in Scotland No. SC039322
Address: Asthma UK, 18 Mansell Street, London E1 8AA
Cookies
Terms and conditions
Contact us
Privacy policy
Safeguarding policy
Copyright © Asthma UK 2019