Feed a cold, starve a fever? - Healthy Food Guide
Oops! It appears that you have disabled your Javascript. In order for you to see this page as it is meant to appear, we ask that you please re-enable your Javascript!
Home
Favourites
Recipes
Shop
Checkout
Contact us
Lost your password?
Create an account
Navigation
Expert advice
Ask the experts
Recipes
All Recipes
BakingHundreds of easy baking recipes with a healthier twist that still taste great. We have the classics such as chocolate cake, muffins and brownies, as well as reduced sugar and raw treats – all with a healthier spin.
BeefHundreds of delicious and healthy beef recipes – find your favorites.
ChickenEveryone loves chicken – here are hundreds of our most delicious and healthy chicken recipes. All are tried and tested for your satisfaction. Enjoy!
Dairy freeCutting dairy out of your diet for health reasons or because you’re vegan doesn’t have to be a chore. Healthy Food Guide has an extensive collection of healthy dairy-free recipes to make the transition easy and delicious.
Diabetes-friendlyHaving type 2 diabetes, or pre-diabetes, doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy amazing food! Here are hundreds of healthy and delicious type-2 diabetes-friendly recipes.
Family favouritesIt can be hard pleasing everyone when it comes to family meals but these recipes stand up to the pickiest of eaters. Have them asking for seconds with these nutritious and satisfying dishes from our family favourite’s collection.
FishFish, fish the family dish! Healthy and delicious too!
Gluten freeBrowse hundreds of gluten-free recipes. Easy and healthy gluten free meals, delicious cakes and desserts.
Kids in the kitchenHere are fun recipes created especially for children to make. To be served with lots of laughs.
LambOur most delicious lamb recipes, made with a healthy twist
Meals for oneWhen cooking for one, or two, meals can be easy, delicious and healthy. Try these!
Low FODMAPFor sufferers of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) a low FODMAP diet can significantly improve symptoms. Healthy Food Guide has a collection of FODMAP-friendly recipes so you can look after your IBS without struggling to find things you can eat. For more low FODMAP recipe ideas see our recipe filter for recipes that can easily be made into a low FODMAP options.
Ready in 20 minutesWhen you need something to eat fast but don’t want to settle for nutritionally deficient convenience food, try one of these quick and easy recipes. You’ll have exactly what you need in just 20 minutes.
SoupsNutritious, soothing, flavourful soup recipes to suit everyone – from hearty meat-based soups to tasty broths and creamy vegetable soups Healthy Food Guide has it all.
VeganWhether you’re new to veganism, trying to add more vegetables to your diet, or cooking for a vegan friend, Healthy Food Guide has a fabulous range of vegan recipes, so you can love your animal friends and be healthy.
VegetarianFresh, inspiring and healthy vegetarian recipes to help you maintain a balanced diet while living meat free. Our vegetarian recipes are full of goodness and perfect for vegetarians and people wanting to enjoy a meal without meat.
Work lunchesIt can be a challenge to eat healthy at work, however these recipes are specifically designed to be very quick, healthy and convenient. Give them a try and notice the difference.
Shopping
Videos
Win
Shop
About us |
Issue lookup |
Favourites
| Subs options
Search for:
Recipes Advice All
Exercise
« Food and nutrients »
Alcohol
Beverages
Breads, cereals
Calcium
Carbohydrates, grains
Chocolate
Dairy products
Eggs
Fast food
Fats
Fibre
Fruit, vegetables
Herbs, spices
Iron
Legumes, pulses
Meat, seafood
Nuts, seeds
Oils
Omega-3
Organic
Pasta, rice and noodles
Probiotics, prebiotics
Protein
Salt, sodium
Soy
Sugar
Vitamins, minerals
« Health and medical »
Allergies, intolerances
Appetite
Asthma
Body fat
Brain, cognition
Cancer
Cholesterol
Diabetes
Energy
Eyesight
Gastrointestinal
Glycaemic Index
Heart
Immunity
Inside your body
Low weight
Measuring health
Metabolism
Migraines
Obesity
Oral health
Osteoporosis, bone health
Health blogs
Kick-start plan
« Life stage »
Babies' health
Children's health
Family health
Men's health
Pregnancy
Seniors' health
Teenagers' health
Women's health
« Resources »
Calculators
Charts and diaries
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise and fitness
FODMAP toolkit
Guides and planners
Weight-loss tools
« Lifestyle and environment »
Additives
Christmas
Community initiatives
Cooking
Eating out
Eating well at work
Entertaining
Food safety
Gardening
Holidays, travel
Myths
School lunches
Skin, sun, hair, nails
Sleep
Sustainability
Vegetarianism
News
Psychology, behaviour
Schools
Stress and mental well-being
« Weight loss »
Advice
Fad diets
Health assessments
Weight-loss programmes
Workplace wellbeing
SHARE
ADVICE
Feed a cold, starve a fever?
Subscribe Now!
Subscribe now in to enjoy this feature
Favs List
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
PRINT
Share
Facebook
Pinterest
This old wives' tale harkens back to 16th-century England. We investigate whether there is any truth in it.
Danish researchers conducted a small study assessing how immune responses varied between well-fed versus 'fasted' healthy adults.
Eating the food stimulated a localised immune response more suited to fighting viral infections, whereas a lack of food stimulated a systemic response geared at fighting bacterial infections. This preliminary research supports the 'feed a cold, starve a fever' wisdom.
However, it's likely to be more relevant to fevers induced by bacterial infections, not the ones commonly associated with influenza (viral infections).
In the case of colds and flu, the best advice is still feed a cold, feed a fever!
Not hungry? Foods to tempt the waning or non-existent appetite
Although nutrition is important in maintaining energy levels and bolstering immunity, the appetite can be the first to go when sickness strikes.
A stuffed-up nose can make the usual favourites unsavoury by altering taste.
A sore throat may make dry, hard or crunchy foods unpalatable.
Chest congestion or a general lack of energy may make chewing seem like too much effort.
Everyone differs, but to start try blander foods that are soft or liquid, and nutrient-dense. Examples include vegetable-based or clear broth soups, stews, porridge with milk, fruit smoothies, custard, fruited jellies, and baked beans.
Keep foods and fluids nearby, and eat small meals and snacks throughout the day to help improve energy intake.
5 low-effort cooking ideas
Try these easy, nutritious ideas when energy's lagging and the appetite low:
Poached eggs on toast with a glass of OJ
Split pea and ham soup (or other ready-made soup) and a soft bread roll
Custard or creamed rice with fresh or tinned fruit and herbal lemon tea
Baked beans on toast with a mug of hot blackcurrant juice
Fruit smoothie made with kiwifruit, yoghurt and a sprinkle of wheat-germ
Author: Kristen Corselius White
Healthy Food Guide
First published: May 2007
Last updated: April 3 2017
Last science review: September 27 2016
Ready to put your health first?
Subscribe here
© Healthy Life Media LimitedAll rights reservedReproduction without permission prohibited
www.healthyfood.com
colds, fever, flu, immunity
Free newsletter
Get the latest recipes, health news, expert nutrition tips & more…
Email*
Email
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Your privacy is important to us
More Advice
ADVICE
Can any foods beat colds and flu?
BLOG
Should we feed a cold and starve a...
ADVICE
Beat colds and flu
ADVICE
Six everyday foods to increase immunity
ADVICE
Immune-boosting foods
Expert advice
Allergies, intolerances
Anxiety
Ask the experts
Asthma
Babies’ health
Children’s health
Cholesterol
Coeliac Disease
Diabetes toolkit
Exercise
FODMAPs toolkit
Fussy eaters
Men’s health
PCOS
Pregnancy
Resources
Sleep
Stress and mental well-being
Weight loss
Women’s health
Healthy recipes
Baking
Beef
Chicken
Dairy free
Diabetes-friendly
Family favourites
Fish
Gluten free
High fibre
Kids in the kitchen
Lamb
Low FODMAP
Meals for one
Pork
Ready in 20 min
Slow cooker
Soups
Vegan
Vegetarian
Work lunches
About us
About Healthy Food Guide
Contact us
FAQs
Help with this website
Help your school be healthier!
How to use our website
Inspire workplace wellbeing
Media appearances
Media kit and Advertising
Our recipes explained
Our team
Privacy policy
Research
References
Suggestions, questions or comments
Terms of use
© 2019 Healthy Food Guide. All Rights Reserved.
Please log in
This page requires a healthyfood.com account. Please create one below, or sign in if you already have one.
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise.
Already have a login?
Need an account?
+ Register
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
{{formAction == 'login' ? "Log in here to continue" : "Enjoying Healthy Food Guide?" }}
{{formAction == 'login' ? "" : "You've seen 3 free recipes, articles or videos." }}
Register for your free account below to see 3 more, and then 6 free per month OR log in here if you already have an account.
Need an account? Register
* We’ll never pass your email address to third parties, or send you spammy stuff, we promise. See Terms of use.
Thanks, you're good to go!
X
You need a digital subscription to continue
Join thousands of others discovering how easy it is to eat well and feel great:
enjoy unlimited access to thousands of quick & healthy meals
save recipes to your own personal favorites folder
get evidence-based & expert nutrition advice you can trust
money back guarantee for any unused portion of a subscription
Log in here to continue
Subscribe today for just US$1/month {{ (signIn ? "CANCEL" : "SIGN IN") }}
X
{{ contentNotIncluded('company') }} has not subscribed to {{ contentNotIncluded('contentType') }}.
Ask your librarian to subscribe to this service next year. Alternatively, use a home network and buy a digital subscription—just $1/week...
Go back