pregnancy supplements | babyMed.com
Skip to main content
Quizzes
Pregnancy Week By Week
Ovulation Calculator
Due Date Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
babyMed Guides
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
Tools & Calculators
Postpartum & Baby
Log In
Sign Up
Quizzes
Pregnancy Week By Week
Ovulation Calculator
Due Date Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
Subscribe
babyMed Guides
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
Tools & Calculators
Postpartum & Baby
Log In
Sign Up
Search
×
Search
Tags » pregnancy supplements
pregnancy supplements
Vitamin D Deficiency May Increase Risk of Schizophrenia
Deficiency in Vitamin D has been linked to various health problems and risks including bone mass loss in women. Researchers at the Queensland Brain Institute have now linked low levels of Vitamin D during pregnancy to an increased risk of schizophrenia. ... read more »
One-Third Pregnant Americans Deficient in Iodine
The American Academy of Pediatrics recently issued a policy statement that indicates one-third of all pregnant and breastfeeding women in the United States aren’t getting enough of iodine. ... read more »
Preconception Zinc Deficiency Disrupts Fetal Development
A diet rich in zinc is the subject of a recent study that showed how important this mineral is before pregnancy begins. ... read more »
Iron/Zinc Combination May be Beneficial for Pregnant Women
Some pregnant women receive iron supplements during pregnancy to treat or prevent anemia, but researchers in Ghana believe patients with anemia that do not respond to iron supplementation may benefit from supplemental zinc. ... read more »
Vitamin D Supplementation May Lower Autism Risk
People with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have less of the hormones attributed to social behavior: oxytocin, serotonin, and vasopressin. But vitamin D can stimulate the production of these hormones. ... read more »
Treating Pregnancy Anemia with Oral Iron Versus Iron Sucrose
IDA or iron deficiency anemia is common during pregnancy. Treating pregnant women with iron supplements is a viable option to reduce or cure the anemia and prevent negative side effects on the pregnancy, fetus and mother. ... read more »
Offspring Bone Health Not Affected by Maternal Vitamin D Intake
Based on information collected in the Children of the 90s study, maternal vitamin D intake has no impact on the bone health of offspring. The study, completed at the University of Bristol, included data collected from almost 4,000 mother/child pairs. ... read more »
Maternal Omega-3 Deficiency and Depression
DHA deficiency is thought to be associated with maternal depression. While DHA supplements could be used to treat the deficiency, there are reports that EPA is more effective at relieving depressive symptoms. ... read more »
Does Vitamin C Decrease Preterm Birth Risk?
Researchers from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill recently published a study in the American Journal of Perinatology on the impact of vitamin C supplementation on preterm birth rates. ... read more »
Vitamin D During Pregnancy Makes Kids’ Muscles Stronger
New research indicates a mother's exposure to vitamin D during pregnancy makes her children's muscles stronger. ... read more »
Is Neurodevelopment Affected by Iodine Intake?
In most developed countries, iodine intake is sufficiently managed with table salt intake. Researchers in the United Kingdom recently addressed the possibility that iodine deficiency could contribute to neurodevelopmental problems in offspring. ... read more »
Gluten Free for the Gluten Tolerant During Pregnancy?
Pregnant women may be missing out on important nutrients if they go 'G-free' gluten-free during pregnancy without getting the right advice. ... read more »
Not Enough Vitamin D Linked to Poor Pregnancy Outcome
According to researchers from the University of Calgary, insufficient vitamin D intake during pregnancy may be associated with gestational diabetes, reduced fetal growth and increased risk of C-section. ... read more »
PreNexa Prenatal Vitamins Added More DHA and Vitamin D
A pharmaceutical company, Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Inc., announced its introduction of a new formula for its prescription prenatal vitamins marketed under the registered trademark name PreNexa. ... read more »
Daily or Intermittent Iron Supplement During Pregnancy?
Iron deficiency is a potential health issue for many pregnant women. Iron supplements are often ordered to prevent or treat iron deficiency and/or anemia associated with iron deficiency. ... read more »
The Maternal and Fetal Effects of Iodine Supplements
The Thyroid Research Group in Cardiff, United Kingdom recently published a study in the European Journal of Endocrinology on the impact of iodine supplements on maternal and newborn health when iodine deficiency was diagnosed. ... read more »
Prenatal Supplements or Iron and Folic Acid Only?
A recent study looks at the value of the full-spectrum prenatal vitamin approach compared with that of iron and folic acid supplements exclusively. ... read more »
The Effects of Zinc and Selenium Levels on Neonates
Researchers from the Shanghai Institute for Pediatric Research were involved in a recent study published in the journal Neurotoxicology. The study focused on the impact of differing zinc and selenium levels on neonatal neurological development. ... read more »
Three Studies Say Multivitamins Do Not Provide Benefits
A large number of Americans take multivitamins in hopes of improving their health but three new studies, all released in the Annals of Internal Medicine on the same day, suggest these dietary supplements may not be helpful. ... read more »
Maternal Anemia Links to Asthma in Babies
"Early childhood wheezing and asthma are on the rise, [and] there is a link between anemic pregnant women and their children's wheezing and asthma." ... read more »
What is the Best Prenatal Vitamin During Pregnancy?
The best prenatal vitamin contains the right amount of all essential vitamins. ... read more »
Can Too Much Iron Hurt the Fetus?
Iron toxicity is mostly a problem for children, but the adult body will only utilize so much iron. ... read more »
Are There Any Vitamins I Should Not Take During Pregnancy?
While prenatal vitamins are a healthy regimen during pregnancy to ensure that you are getting adequate nutrients for you and your baby, there are certain vitamins that should be avoided during pregnancy. ... read more »
Are You Getting Enough Vitamin D This Year?
Very few studies exist that show the effects of high or low vitamin D levels on pregnancy, so it is not one of the vitamins that doctors urge women to take during gestation. ... read more »
Could Folic Acid Give Your Baby Asthma?
Folic acid has many benefits even outside of pregnancy, including lowering your risk of heart disease, stroke, and even some types of cancer. ... read more »
What Supplements Should You Be Taking?
I remember the first time I witnessed pregnancy first-hand. My sister found out she was pregnant, and we wanted to know all the details. There are a ton of supplements that women have to take, especially if they don’t get it in their everyday diet. ... read more »
Share:
Popular on Babymed
Sign Up for Fertility or Pregnancy Alerts!
Get Your Fertility 101 Course!
Due Date Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
Pregnancy & Fertility Guides
How to Get Pregnant Faster
Early Pregnancy Symptoms
Pregnancy Week by Week
From Our Sponsors
Meet Dr. Amos
Dr. Amos Grunebaum, MD, FACOG is a Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, and among the world's leading authorities on fertility and pregnancy. Dr. Amos has delivered more than 5,000 babies, and supervised more than 20,000 deliveries.
Only babyMed gets it right!
Read Dr. Amos' full bio.
About Us
Advertise With Us
Topics & Keywords
Acronyms
Help
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Site Map
Contact Us
© 2001-2019 BabyMed.com - All Rights Reserved.