Lib – the news network
Menu
the news network
Skip to content
Home
Personal thoughts
About
Body Building
Heaven & Hell testimonies
Links
Music
Videos
the news network
Skip to content
Home
Personal thoughts
About
Body Building
Heaven & Hell testimonies
Links
Music
Videos
Lib
May 26, 2017 May 31, 2017 Leave a comment #IllegallyHealed-0004AAlexallegedlyArchbishopîncancercannabiscellsChannelClassmatesCoexistscollegecourtCristinadebatesdiscussesdogsDrEATEffectiveEVERFoodforfromHeHealthHowIsIslamJonesKillingLegalLibLuciferiansManchesterMinnesotaMuslimNeverNewsPedophiliaPrayPurinaRemoveSanchezseesshouldSpainstudentsuedTellsThethoughtTicktotoxicwasWatermelonWe'llWithYou
Health News – Dr. Cristina Sanchez from Spain discusses how effective #Cannabis is in killing cancer cells
Dr. Cristina Sanchez from Spain discusses how effective #Cannabis is in killing cancer cells. She is baffled by the fact that the US labels cannabis as a Schedule I substance.
Source:
#IllegallyHealed
The Alex Jones Channel – Luciferians Pray For Manchester
The bombing in Manchester saw the usual outpouring of thoughts and prayers from celebrities. Notably, Ariana Grande herself, well known for her I hate America faux pas a couple of years ago. Regardless, her thoughts and prayers and those of the elite celebrity class are paramount to us little people.
The Watermelon You Should Never, Ever Eat
by DR. MERCOLA
Watermelon fields in eastern China are covered in exploded fruit. Farmers used growth chemicals to make their crops bigger, but ended up destroying them instead.
The farmers used the growth accelerator forchlorfenuron. Even the melons that survived tended to have fibrous, misshapen fruit with mostly white instead of black seeds.
MSNBC reports:
“Chinese regulations don’t forbid use of the substance. It is also allowed in the United States for use on kiwi fruit and grapes … About 20 farmers and 115 acres of watermelon around Danyang were affected … Farmers resorted to chopping up the fruit and feeding it to fish and pigs”.
This may sound like a joke, but it’s real alright. Seems the use of a chemical growth accelerator, forchlorfenuron, has been implicated in the widespread “exploding melon” phenomena.
How to Remove a Tick
With tick season here, prevent Lyme and other diseases with these vitally important tips
By Jeneen Interlandi
May 12, 2017
The Right Moves
If you find a tick, don’t panic! The CDC’s protocol for removing them is quite simple:
1. Use fine-tipped tweezers to grasp the tick as close to the skin’s surface as possible.
2. Once you have a firm grasp, pull upward with steady, even force. Don’t twist or jerk the tick as you may cause the mouth to break off and remain in the skin.
3. If you do accidentally break the tick in half, try removing the mouth with the tweezers. If you can’t, leave it alone and let the skin heal.
4. You can dispose of the tick in one of several ways: submerse it in alcohol; place it in a sealed bag or container; wrap it tightly in tape; or flush it down the toilet. (Never handle a tick with your bare fingers; pathogens called spirochetes can pass from the tick to you through even tiny breaks in your skin).
5. Once the tick is disposed of, thoroughly clean the bite area, and your hands, with rubbing alcohol, an iodine scrub, or soap and water.
6. Check the bite area for several weeks after removal; if you develop a rash there (or have a fever at any point in that time-frame), see a doctor about getting tested for Lyme and other tick-borne diseases.
What Not to Do
There is no shortage of alternative tick removal strategies to be found online. Most of those folk remedies have long since been debunked. A 1985 study in the journal Pediatrics compared several popular strategies (vaseline, nail polish, and a hot kitchen match) to the tweezers technique described above and found that none worked nearly as well.
Minnesota Archbishop Tells Court He Thought Pedophilia Was Legal
May 24, 2017 Baxter Dmitry
Pedophilia and child abuse is so widespread and normalized among Catholic priests that one archbishop did not even realize it was against the law, according to court documents.
Archbishop Robert Carlson, who is embroiled in a child sex cover up scandal, claims he didn’t know it was illegal for priests to have sex with children in the 1980s.
‘I’m not sure whether I knew it was a crime or not,’ Carlson responded. ‘I understand today it’s a crime.’
Archbishop Robert Carlson, who was chancellor of the Archdiocese of Minneapolis and St. Paul at the time, was deposed as part of a sexual abuse lawsuit in Minnesota involving the archdiocese and the Diocese of Winona.
When asked when he first realized it was a crime for an adult – including priests – to have sex with a child, Carlson, 69, shook his head.
‘I don’t remember,’ he testified
Purina Sued for Allegedly Killing 4,000 Dogs With ‘Toxic’ Food
For many dog owners, Purina was simply a cheap trusted dog food. Now, though, they’re realizing it may have cost their dogs their lives.
In particular, Nestle’s Purina Beneful dog food is currently facing a class action lawsuit, stating their dog food caused health issues and even death for thousands of family pets.
A little digging shows story after story off Beneful leading to internal damage for the pets that ate it.
Dogs fed Beneful developed such issues as incontinence, internal bleeding, liver damage, and seizures.
Two ingredients in particular may be to blame. First, propylene glycol, frequently banned in Europe, is similar to antifreeze – and isn’t something you want your dog eating. Second, improperly stored grains may have resulted in mycotoxins, which could cause the liver damage vets keep seeing in Beneful-fed dogs.
Given how meagerly dog food is regulated, and given industry’s normal practice of meeting the bare minimum, it seems quite likely that mycotoxins were present in much of the Beneful dog food.
So next time you go to buy dog food, skip the Beneful – and even if you already do, check the ingredients. Are you paying for animal byproducts, sugar, excessive grains, and preservatives? Is that really what you want your dog eating?
Instead, you could make your own dog food – simply mix raw, organic vegetables and organic, grass fed ground meat like beef or bison in a food processor.
You can use a variety of vegetables (no onions, though!) and also add extras like eggs or avocado.
Lib College Student Debates Muslim Classmates, Sees How Well Islam Coexists
May 24, 2017
College student Mashal Khan was attending Abdul Wali Kahn University, in Mardan, Pakistan, when he made the fatal mistake of believing that Islam allows critical thinking. After the journalism major politely expressed his liberal views, at least 10 offended Muslim students broke into his dormitory room and stripped, beat, shot, and threw his mutilated body from the building while shouting “Allahu Akbar,” Reuters and Newsweek report.
“The student has been brutally murdered by his fellow students,” said Niaz Saeed, a senior police official. “He was badly tortured after being shot at a close range… He was beaten with sticks, bricks, and hands,” Saeed said, adding that hundreds of people had been involved in the attack.
Khan had openly published his progressive views, which most Western liberals share, in a message in early March, according to The Blaze. Although the left-wing refutes the notion, Khan’s Muslim classmates proved that Islam prohibits freedom of expression, especially when it embodies such liberal values.
“If you are black or you are brown or you are gay or you are lesbian or you are Trans or you are introvert, Anyone that is treating you unkindly, It’s only because they are afraid or they have been taught to be afraid of how important you are. because being different means you make a difference. so f*** em….” Khan wrote on March 6.
Search for:
Follow the news network on WordPress.com
Recent Posts
The Occult: Shining Light on Satan’s Shadow June 29, 2018
Maximus Confese – An Exorcist Shares His Story – Fr. George Aquaro June 29, 2018
St Barnabas Orthodox Church of Costa Mesa. California – The Soul After Death – Fr George Aquaro June 29, 2018
Parintele Calistrat – Despre intristare si Sfintii Apostoli Petru si Pavel -Emisiune BZI Live editia 31 – 28 06 2018 June 29, 2018
Dumnezeu Te Iubește – MEDICINA ISIHASTA – RETETE PENTRU ALIMENTATIE SI SUFLET, ALE PREOTULUI GHELASIE GHEORGHE June 29, 2018
Top Posts & Pages
Josh Higham - Fake Smile || Spoken Word
Vaccine effects testimony - Ruth StLeger Hoffman has 40 years of pediatric nursing experience
Supreme Court Ruling: Vaccines are Unavoidably Unsafe
Just News - End Times Productions - The Illuminati Are About To Make Their Final Move. (2018-2019)
Vaccine News - New Study: Measles Virus Neutralizing Antibodies in Intravenous Immunoglobulins:is an Increase by Re-Vaccination of Plasma Donors possible?
Vaccine News - Study - Combining Childhood Vaccines at One Visit Is Not Safe
A pediatric nurse testimony about vaccines: "To anyone that I inadvertently hurt by giving a vaccine, believe me when I say, I did not know . . . "
Vaccine News - VaxXed Tour: Forrest and Dr. Suzanne on Genetics and Epigenetics
Spiritual News - Michael Chriswell - The Shocking Day Jesus Told Me He Didn't Know Me
Just News - ZEG TV HIDDEN FROM THE PUBLIC - Archaeological Discoveries That Are Way Too Controversial for Todays Scientists
Blog Stats
106,475 hits
Tags
- 6 15 53 : ? A about After AKJV An and Are As at Authorized Autism be biblegateway by Children Christ Corinthians David DEATH Documentary Dr E for from Full Hagin Health Hell His How injury Is Isaiah James JESUS just Kenneth King Music New News Not of old on one Personal PRAYING RT Spiritual study testimony that The this to Vaccination vaccine vaccines VAXXED Version Video What Why With World You Your în
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy