Herbal100 - Manuka Oil Treatment of skin fungal infection, athletes foot, diaper rash, sores, ring worm, eczema, and sunburn, sores, ring worm, eczema, and sunburn, aromatheraphy, antibacterial
Herbal 100
MANUKA
Home Page
Herbal Store
Order Manuka
Business Opportunity -what you've always wanted...
Real Products and Real Compensation!
Don't Be Without It This Summer!!
Great for Sunburn, Poison Ivy, Insect Bites, Athletes Foot, Rashes and MORE!!
The Traditional Uses of the Manuka Tree
Although it is only in the last decade that the Manuka tree has begun to be recognized and understood through science - the Maori people or, the indigenous people of New Zealand, have long known the strength and healing ability of the Manuka tree.
Manuka has been used to treat a range of skin problems including chronic sores, ring worm, eczema, and sunburn.
Use Manuka for Foot problems such as athlete's foot, fungal infections, nail bed infections, and foot odor. Others reported that a decoction of leaves were drank for urinary complaints and to reduce fever. The leaves were boiled in water and inhaled for head colds, blocked sinuses, hayfever, even bronchitis and asthma. Leaves and bark were boiled together, and the warm liquid was rubbed on stiff backs and rheumatic joints.
The leaves and young branches were put into vapor baths. (Manuka oil is also great for aromatherapy.) The crushed leaves were applied as a poultice for many skin diseases and were directly applied to wounds and deep gashes to enhance healing and reduce the risk of infection. The young shoots were chewed and swallowed for dysentery.
The bark, the sap, and the seed capsules of the Manuka were also used extensively for treating various ailments. See other uses for Manuka as you continue to read below.
Clearly, Manuka was an important medicinal plant, both to the Maori and to the early European settlers who, in the early years of settlement, depended on Maori knowledge of medicinal plants in treating their own illnesses.
Scientific Research
Although the Manuka tree had attracted scientific interest in the past, little had been found of real importance - until some manuka oil samples tested by Dr. Cooke of the Cawthron Institute - showed some remarkable results.
The Cawthron Institute research, conducted on behalf of the Company, showed that the oil produced from the Manuka trees, in the Te Araroa region of the East Cape, showed antimicrobial activity far greater than had been seen with other Manuka oil samples and greater than many other natural oils.
The testing showed Manuka Oil to be active against a wide range of micro-organisms that cause irritation and infection of the skin and body. Some of them, serious- such as MRSA (more commonly known as the H-bug) and other more common ones such as those that cause Athletes Foot. The Cawthron concluded that "Manuka Oil was 20 - 30 times more active than Australian Tea Tree Oil" for gram positive bacteria, and 5 -10 times more active for fungi. Further testing has confirmed that Manuka Oil is effective in combating bacteria including those associated with acne, as well as foot and body odor.
Effectiveness
Research found that not all Manuka Oils from New Zealand are biologically active. Only Manuka oil from the East Cape region of New Zealand contains high levels of "triketones", the naturally occurring chemical compound that provide the anti-bacterial and anti-fungicidal properties. All Manuka Oil is batch tested by Crop & Food Research to verify all Manawa Manuka oil products contain high levels of triketones to ensure their healing ability. Scientific testing undertaken by the Cawthron Institute and Crop & Food Research established that East Cape Manuka Oil is at least 15 times more effective than Australian Tea Tree Oil against-gram positive bacteria (Staphylococcus and streptococcus) including antibiotic resistant strains. It is also at least five times more effective than Australian Tea Tree Oil against some fungi, including those responsible for Athletes Foot.
Manuka Oil - 20-30 times more effective against bacteria than Tea Tree Oil. Use Manuka Oil on sunburn, skin rashes, acne, insect bites, Athlete's Foot, fungal infections, and sore muscles. Get Manuka oil, cream or soap. Manuka Oil in Aromatherapy. Manuka Oil is rapidly gaining popularity in the field of Aromatherapy .
APPLICATIONS
-Mild Sunburn- Apply cold water to remove heat and gently rub Manuka Cream into affected areas to help relieve stinging and later itching.
--Oily Skin and Pimples- Wash daily with Manuka Soap. Apply Pure Manuka Oil as a spot treatment for problem areas.
-Fungal infections, Athletes Foot & Nail Bed Infections- Apply a few drops of Pure Manuka Oil with a cotton ball, twice daily. Continue to apply for 5 days after visible signs of infection have gone.
-Skin Irritation, Chafing and Rashes- Wash regularly with Manuka Soap and apply Manuka Cream twice daily as required.
-Itching Scalp and Dandruff- Add 10 drops of Pure Manuka Oil to a normal amount of shampoo and massage into wet hair and scalp. Leave for five minutes before rinsing.
-Foot and Body Odor- Wash daily with Manuka Soap. For foot odor, rub Mild Manuka Oil or Manuka Cream into feet 3 times per week. Also protects against fungal infection.
-Cuts, Scratches and Abrasions-
Apply Pure Manuka Oil.
-Insect Bites and Stings- Apply Mild Manuka Oil or Manuka Cream to help relieve itching and inflammation and prevent infection.
-Fungal infections, Athletes Foot & Nail Bed Infections- Apply a few drops of Pure Manuka Oil with a cotton ball, twice daily. Continue to apply for 5 days after visible signs of infection have gone.
-Aching Muscles and Joints-
Massage Mild Manuka Oil into tired and aching muscles and joints.
Aromatherapy
Manuka Oil is rapidly gaining popularity in the field of Aromatherapy. Some aromatherapists believe that although the effectiveness of Manuka Oil as a bactericide and fungicide is dramatic- Manuka Oil has another side to it. A leading German Aromatherapist- Ruth von Braunschweig reports on the sensual, "feel good" side of Manuka Oil, stating it to be beneficial for people with over sensitive nervous systems and those who suffer from stress and anxiety. Stress and anxiety is a condition that most of us experience after a hard day or week with special problems. Aromatherapy is a great way to unwind and de-stress. Some have more serious stress and anxiety. Conditions that often manifest themselves in allergic reactions. If stress and anxiety are removed, often the problem will resolve itself, or allow other forms of medication to become more effective in its absence.
Aromatherapy is not intended to replace standard medical care, but is meant to complement it. Aromatherapy can offer an alternative choice to taking prescription or over-the-counter chemical drugs. Aromatherapy can offer practical benefit for a variety of common ailments or symptoms such as assisting with acne, skincare, cuts, wounds, bruises, inflammation, indigestion, haircare, personal hygiene, menstruation, and for providing mental and emotional assistance with such issues as stress, fatigue, anxiety, etc.
Jock Itch & Rashes
Jock itch, also known as Tinea cruris is a fungus infection of the skin in the groin. The warm, moist environment is an ideal place for the fungus to grow. Men are usually affected more often than women.
The fungus that most commonly causes jock itch is called Trichophyton rubrum. It can also cause fungal infections of the toes and body. The rash of jock itch starts in the groin fold usually on both sides. If the rash advances, it usually advances down the inner thigh. The advancing edge is redder and more raised than areas that have been infected longer. The advancing edge is usually scaly and very easily distinguished or well demarcated. The skin within the border turns a reddish-brown and loses much of its scale. Jock itch caused by T. rubrum does not involve the scrotum or penis. If those areas are involved, the most likely agent is Candida albicans, the same type of yeast that causes vaginal yeast infections.
The unique properties of Manuka oil have been shown in scientific analysis and trials to be very useful in a wide range of skin ailments and to be a very effective natural alternative to synthetic prescription formulas.
Cold Sores and Fever Blisters
Herpes simplex is commonly referred to as cold sores or fever blisters. It is a viral infection of the skin that may occur once or return again and again. When the virus is cleared from the skin by the immune system it hides in the nerves and is never completely removed from the body.
Herpes simplex begins as a group of small red watery blisters preceded by itching and burning of the area. The blisters begin to dry up after a few days and form a yellow crust. The crust then falls off and the redness slowly goes away. The whole process takes about 10-14 days, and scars rarely form. Some people experience just some itching or burning in the area while most people have no symptoms at all.
Herpes infections are very common. It is estimated that nine out of ten people have been exposed to herpes; people can be infected without knowing it. Unfortunately those who carry herpes can spread the disease without being aware of it.
Relief can be found with the use of Manuka oil.
The unique properties of Manuka oil have been shown in scientific analysis and trials to be very useful in a wide range of skin ailments and to be a very effective natural alternative to synthetic prescription formulas.
Diaper Rash & Chafing
Nearly all babies and toddlers in diapers will encounter a rash at some point; it is not through neglect by the parents, and not something to feel guilty about. Diaper rash can be caused by any number of things including friction, irritants, allergies, intertrigo, seborrhea, and psoriasis to name a few.
It can even be brought on by as little as changing the brand of baby soap.
Usually the rash will involve skin wetness, most frequently from urine which raises the pH level, makes the skin less cohesive and more permeable. This in turn makes the tender skin more prone to invasion from yeasts and bacteria.
The unique properties of Manuka oil have been shown in scientific analysis and trials to be very useful in a wide range of skin ailments including diaper and other rashes and to be a very effective natural alternative to synthetic prescription formulas.
Cuts, Scrapes & Abrasions
Cuts and scratches are part of every day for adults and children, and the first priority is to stop the bleeding if any, and to cleanse the area.
An open wound is an ideal place for harmful bacteria to invade the area and precautions should be taken immediately to eliminate the bacteria that are present and to prevent the opportunity for others to enter the area of the wound.
Manuka oil based creams are ideal for this sort of situation, as they are highly antibacterial and will promote rapid healing of the damaged area.
The unique properties of Manuka oil have been shown in scientific analysis and trials to be very useful in a wide range of skin ailments and to be a very effective natural alternative to synthetic prescription formulas.
Antifungal and Antibacterial
In particular the antibacterial and antifungal properties of Manuka oil have drawn the attention of medical practitioners as more and more people around the world have reported successful results from using these products.
Manuka oil extracted from plants growing in the wild in the East Cape region of New Zealand’s North Island is a specific triketone rich chemotype, and independent scientific studies have demonstrated that this oil is highly effective against gram positive bacteria and many forms of skin fungus conditions.
Australian Tea Tree oil has been recognized for years as being effective in controlling these organisms, but recent research has shown that the New Zealand East Cape chemotype Manuka oil to be up to 30 times more effective than Australian Tea Tree oil.
A user of Manuka Oil states that "Manuka Oil" is very effective for many skin problems. It strengthens the psyche and at the same time stabilizes the skin, it makes it more resistant, because it is relaxing for the skin nerves as well as cell activating and regenerating for the outer skin layers. The skin doesn't overreact constantly, - it doesn't come out in a rash so fast. Therefore Manuka is helpful for sensitive skin, especially itching, acne, badly healing skin, inclination to fungal infections, ulcers, bedsores and infections.
Use e-Coupon code 310 in the "Cust Box" next to the Manuka Products on the Herbal Order Form and SAVE Money on our SUMMER Specials!
Nobody "Plans" to get Sunburn, Poison Ivy, Insect Bites, or to Have other Skin Problems -- So Have these Products on Hand for when You Need Them!! (Which Maybe Soon!) You WILL Be Glad You Did!!
Manuka Cream, Oil & Soap !!
(Large 1 3/4 oz Manuka Cream, Large 2 3/5 oz Manuka Soap, Manuka Oil 1/3 fl. oz.)
Order Manuka - Product Order Page | Back to Home Page