B vitamins and omega fat ratio are critical to prevent Alzheimer's disease
Home
Youtube Channel
Webinars
Sponsor Store
Main Sponsor
Facebook
Twitter
Contact Us
Contact Us
Contact Us
Home
PAST CONFERENCE REPLAYS
2016 Full Conference Replays
Free sign-up for the 2018 Real Truth About Health Conference
News Stories
Sponsor Store
Short Conference Replays
Privacy Policy
Donation1
Start Here
Webinars
Audio Interviews
Donation
Donation (2)
Main Sponsor
Sponsor Store
Home
B vitamins and omega fat ratio are critical to prevent Alzheimer's disease
Administrator 70 Natural News- Health
(NaturalNews) Proper nutritional status, attained by consuming a healthy diet teamed with natural vitamins and minerals along with optimization of omega fat lipid ratios, can help to prevent cognitive decline associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Researchers studying the effects of nutrition at Oxford University in England found that daily supplementation with folic acid and vitamins B6 and B12 lowered levels of homocysteine, a known risk factor leading to decline in cognition and memory. Further evidence published in the journal Molecular Nutrition and Food Research explains that a disproportionate ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acids plays a crucial role in the development of AD in later life. Cellular nutritional saturation from diet and appropriate supplementation with B vitamins and omega-3 fats may provide the cornerstone to prevent this most feared memory-robbing disease.
Reporting in the International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, scientists examined the proposed link between elevated homocysteine levels and cognitive decline. Homocysteine has already been shown to dramatically increase the risk of heart disease and heart attack in prior studies. Researchers examined 266 people over the age of 70 with established mild cognitive impairment, and broke them into two groups. One group was supplemented with folic acid, vitamin B6 and B12, vitamin cofactors that lower homocysteine levels, while the second group received a placebo.
B Vitamin Supplementation Shown to Lower Homocysteine by 30% and to Slow Brain Atrophy
Brain wasting or atrophy is a common sign of cognitive impairment and is closely associated with Alzheimer's dementia. The rate of brain atrophy is increased by higher concentrations of homocysteine in the blood and brain tissue. Researchers examining the results of this study found that the group, which supplemented with B vitamins for a period of two years, experienced a 30% reduction in homocysteine levels. They found dramatic improvements in mental tests including global cognition and episodic memory (69% improvement in word recall memory) compared to the control group.
The standard American diet (SAD) includes large quantities of oxidized omega-6 fats from fried and processed foods when compared to omega-3 fat consumption (from fish, nuts and seeds). The ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acids ranges from 20:1 to as high as 50:1 (ideal range is no more than 4:1), creating a perpetual degree of inflammation throughout the body. Researchers have determined that this imbalance creates a disturbance in brain chemistry affecting neurotransmitter balance and electrical firing in the brain that sets the stage for amyloid tangles and cognitive decline.
Reestablishing omega fat homeostasis by balancing toward a 1:1 intake ratio and by correcting B vitamin nutritional deficiencies provide deep insight toward understanding and controlling the development of many forms of dementia including Alzheimer's disease. Most middle aged adults will want to include a high potency B vitamin supplement (preferably formulated from natural food sources) and to include omega-3 fats from diet or fish oil consumption to lower dementia risk factors.
Sources for this article include: http://www.nutraingredients.com/Research/New-review-backs-nutrient-modification-for-Alzheimer-s-prevention/ http://www.chemeurope.com/en/publications/276027/dietary-lipids-and-their-oxidized-products-in-alzheimer-s-disease.html http://www.nutraingredients.com/Research/B-vitamins-may-slow-cognitive-decline-Oxford-University-study/ http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/gps.2758/abstract
Read Full Article
Is FREE due to the generosity
of our sponsors.
Please support them with your
business and tell them that you
appreciate this.
Click to view by Product Category
Hippocrates Health Institute
www.hippocratesinst.org
Jaffe Brothers Natural Foods
www.organicfruitsandnuts.com
Eidon Ionic Minerals
www.eidon.com
Organic Food Bar
www.Organicfoodbar.com
Natures Fusions Essntial Oils
www.naturesfusions.com
BioElectric Shield Co
www.bioelectricshield.com
Anutra
www.Anutra.com
Jandi's
www.Jandis.com
Aloe Life
www.aloelife.com
Whole Body Wellness Concepts
www.Personalinfraredsauna.com
Foods Alive Plant-Based Health Foods
www.foodsalive.com
ADORAtherapy
www.Adoratherapy.com
Good Idea
www.Goodideadrinks.com
SanRe Organic Skinfood
www.Sanreorganic.com
Clinic Solutions
http:/www.Clinic-solutions-houston.com
Sproutman
www.Sproutman.com
Tribest Juicers, Blenders and Dehydrators
www.tribestlife.com
Berhan
www.Berhan.co
Jewels of the Forest
www.Shroomjerky.com
Love Some Tea
www.amazon.com/lovesometea
Northport Wellness Center
www.Northportwellnesscenter.com
Long Island Press
www.longislandpress.com
Early Morning Harvest
www.earlymorningharvest.com
Milk & Honey Granola
www.milkandhoneygranola.com
Match My Spirit
www.matchmyspirit.com
The Family Wellness Center
http:/www.NetworkWellnessCenter.com
Disclaimer:
The information and opinions expressed in this website and during our conferences include general discussions designed for educational purposes only. The information is not intended to substitute for medical advice or care. The opinions of our speakers and experts may not apply to you individually, and you should not use this information to diagnose or treat any health condition or illness without consulting your licensed physician first. Please consult a doctor with any questions or concerns you might have regarding your or your child's condition. TheRealTruthAboutHealthConference.com does not manufacture or distribute any commercial products, any reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or service by trade name, trademark manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply endorsement or recommendation by TheRealTruthAboutHealthConference.com.
HOME
Webinars
News Stories
Sponsor Store
Main Sponsor
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Newsletter Sign Up
© Copyright 2018 The Real Truth About Health Conference
×