Benefits of Music Therapy for MS - Multiple Sclerosis News Today
Skip to content
Home
Forums
MS Columns
Silver Linings
Engaging Thoughts
The MS Wire
Faith of the Mustard Seed
You’ve Got Some Nerves
Make Change Happen
Patiently Awakened
Making a Difference
A Life in Letters
MS in Moderation
Fall Down, Get Up Again
MS in Motion – A Column by Mike Knight
Categories
Social Clips
RRMS
SPMS
PPMS
Clinical Trials
National MS Society
About MS
What is MS?
MS Types
Clinically Isolated Syndrome (CIS)
Primary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis (PPMS)
Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis (RRMS)
Secondary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis (SPMS)
Autoimmune Disease
Prognosis and Life Expectancy
MS vs. ALS: How Do They Differ?
Statistics
Healthy Living
Physical Exercise
Diet & Nutrition
Swank Diet
McDougall Diet
Paleo Diet
Mediterranean Diet
Gluten-Free Diet
Foods to Eat and Avoid
Pseudobulbar Affect in Multiple Sclerosis
Symptoms
Dizziness and Vertigo
Early Signs
Fatigue
Flare-ups
Bladder Issues
Bladder Problems and MS
Bladder Infection
Bladder Spasms
Neurogenic Bladder
Urinary Retention
Neurogenic Detrusor Overactivity and MS
Overactive Bladder
Urinary Incontinence and MS
Bowel Incontinence
Depression
Pain
Dysesthesia
Heat Intolerance
Lhermitte’s sign
Sexual Dysfunctions
Spasticity
The MS hug
Uhthoff’s Syndrome
Vision Problems
Optic Neuritis in Multiple Sclerosis
Diagnosis
Guidelines for MS diagnosis: McDonald Criteria
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and MS Diagnosis
Evoked Potential (EP) Test and Multiple Sclerosis Diagnosis
Spinal Tap Test and Multiple Sclerosis Diagnosis
Therapies
Trackers
RMS Therapy Tracker
PMS Therapy Tracker
Manage MS Symptoms
Fatigue
Amantadine For Fatigue
Provigil (modafinil)
Prozac (fluoxetine)
Antivert (meclizine) for Vertigo and Dizziness
Bladder Dysfunction
Botox (onabotulinumtoxinA)
DDAVP Nasal Spray
Detrol (tolterodine)
Ditropan (oxybutynin) & Ditropan XL
Enablex (darifenacin)
Flomax (tamsulosin)
Hytrin (terazosin)
Minipress (prazosin)
Oxytrol (oxybutynin)
Propantheline
Sanctura (trospium chloride)
Tofranil (imipramine)
Vesicare (solifenacin succinate)
Bowel Dysfunction
Colace (docusate) for Constipation
Dulcolax (bisacodyl)
Enemeez (docusate stool softener laxative)
Fleet Enema (sodium phosphate) for Constipation
Metamucil (psyllium) for Constipation
Mineral Oil for Constipation
Phillips Milk of Magnesia (magnesium hydroxide) for Constipation
Sani-Supp Suppository (glycerin) for Constipation
Depression
Cymbalta (duloxetine hydrochloride) for Depression
Effexor XR (venlafaxine) for Depression
Nuedexta (dextromethorphan + quinidine) for PBA
Paxil (paroxetine) for Depression
Prozac (fluoxetine) for Depression
Wellbutrin (bupropion) for Depression
Zoloft (sertraline) for Depression
Infections
Cipro (ciprofloxacin) for UTIs
Hiprex (methenamine) for UTIs
Macrodantin (nitrofurantoin) for UTIs
Muscle Spasms
Dantrium (dantrolene)
Botox (onabotulinumtoxinA)
Gablofen (baclofen – intrathecal)
Klonopin – Rivotril – Syn-Clonazepam (clonazepam)
Lioresal (baclofen)
Nydrazid / Laniazid (isoniazid)
Valium (diazepam)
Zanaflex (tizanidine)
Pain
Amitriptyline for Pain Management
Atarax (hydroxyzine) for Itching and Burning
Deltasone (prednisone) for Relapse Management
Dilantin (phenytoin) for Pain Management
Klonopin (clonazepam) for Pain Management
Neurontin (gabapentin) for Pain Management
Pamelor; Aventyl (nortriptyline) for Pain Managemen
Pyridium (phenazopyridine) for UTI Pain
Tegetrol (carbamazepine) for Pain Management
Sexual Dysfunction
Cialis (tadalafil) for Erectile Dysfunction
MUSE (alprostadil) for Erectile Dysfunction
Levitra (vardenafil) for Erectile Dysfunction
Papaverine for Erectile Dysfunction
Viagra for Erectile Dysfunction & Female Sexual Arousal Disorder
Approved Treatments
AMPYRA
Aubagio
Avonex
Betaseron
Copaxone
Decadron
Gilenya
Extavia
Glatopa
Lemtrada
Mayzent
Novantrone
Tecfidera
Ocrevus
Rebif (interferon beta-1a)
Plegridy
Zinbryta (Daclizumab)
Solu-Medrol
Tysabri (Natalizumab)
RRMS Therapies
Stem Cell Therapy
aHSCT – Autologous Hemopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation in MS
Stem Cell Clinical Trials and MS
Mesenchymal Stem Cell (MSCT) Clinical Trials
Neuron Stem Cell (NSC) Clinical Trials
Different Types of Stem Cells
How are Stem Cells Regulated?
Experimental Treatments
ALKS 8700
AP-1
Midamor (Amiloride) for PPMS and SPMS
Amiselimod (MT-1303)
Anti-LINGO-1 / BIIB033 / Opicinumab
APD334
ATL1102
ATX-MS-1467
BN201
Cladribine
Dalazatide (Formerly ShK-186)
Dysport (abobotulinumtoxin A) for Overactive Bladder
CTP-354
GIFT-15
GLX1112
GNbAC1
Ibudilast (MN-166)
IkT-001Pro
Laquinimod (Nerventra, ABR-215062)
Lisinopril
Lipoic Acid
Masitinib (AB1010)
Minocycline
MD1003
MEDI-551
MIS416 for SPMS
NDC-1308
Ofatumumab (Arzerra)
Ozanimod (Formerly RPC1063)
PDA-001
Ponesimod
Raltegravir (isentress)
Raxone (Idebenone) for PPMS
Rituximab
RHB-104
rHIgM22
Riluzole for PPMS and SPMS
RPI-78M
RTL1000
Simvastatin for SPMS
Tcelna
Vatelizumab (GBR 500)
Vitamin D
Zenapax
Assistive Devices for Multiple Sclerosis
ReWalk for Multiple Sclerosis
SafeGait 360 Balance and Mobility Trainer
External Urethral Barrier
Search for:
Benefits of Music Therapy for MS
February 27, 2017 February 27, 2017
by Debi Wilson
In Columns, Faith of the Mustard Seed - a Column by Debi Wilson.
Music therapy has long been known for its healing powers — its use dates back to WWI, where it was used to help with the physical and emotional healing of the wounded. Music can also be of help to those of us with multiple sclerosis.
An article from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, titled “Music Therapy in Multiple Sclerosis” and written by Jenny Asparro who is studying music and neuroscience at St. Olaf College, recognizes that there are many benefits with music therapy. Beyond the obvious calming affects, it can also encourage body movements to a rhythmic beat, and can add many rewards to our lives.
Body movements that we use during the day are essential to keeping us active and independent. Adding repeated movements together with a melodic sound can improve coordination and concentration. Doing these repetitive actions can also affect endurance, and help create a more level walking gait.
.
Music activates movement, so that the thinking process is bypassed. It is a free action which eliminates overwhelming cognitive upheaval. I found this particular excerpt from Asparro’s article reassuring, “It is almost impossible to fully lose the ability to process music because, unlike speech, it involves so many areas of the brain.”
Another benefit of music is improved memory, which would be incredibly helpful to those of us experiencing memory loss. Even though we find it difficult to remember daily tasks, we still retain the ability to be taught and perform physical activities, such as playing musical instruments. These activities help to improve cognitive abilities.
Anxiety, depression and stress also can receive high benefits from listening to or performing music. It can help you to relax the mind and to deal with emotions you may have concerning your illness or life in general. Also beneficial are music therapy group sessions, since music activates emotions and social connections in the brain.
Verbal communication is another function that may benefit from music therapy. Words that are hard to verbalize can easily be communicated when put to music. According to Asparro, “Singing can also help with the breath support, pronunciation, and timing needed for speech.”
From my time working as an activity director, I have seen the incredible benefits that music therapy has on patients with disabilities. I have witnessed elderly dementia patients still able to kick and hit a ball to music in an exercise class. I have also seen music’s calming effect on children. Music benefits all ages, it is the universal language. Not only does it connect us to others, it also increases the healing power of our bodies — so relax and enjoy the music!
Note: Multiple Sclerosis News Today is strictly a news and information website about the disease. It does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. This content is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this website. The opinions expressed in this column are not those of Multiple Sclerosis News Today, or its parent company, BioNews Services, and are intended to spark discussion about issues pertaining to multiple sclerosis.
Print This Page
Tagged cognitive issues, exercise, multiple sclerosis, music, Music therapy, rhythm.
Post navigation
Previous: #ACTRIMS2017 – MS Patient’s Pick of the Week’s News
Next:Full Transcript of Interview with Genentech’s Medical Director, Peter Chin, on Ocrevus
3 comments
Cyndy Gardiner says:
March 6, 2017 at 11:06 AM
Music or sound therapy provides health benrfits from the vibratory tones of different notes as energy that heals. Benefits can be derived mentally, emotionally and physically. I found it to be one of the most beneficial blissful and productive Wholistic treatments for MS Ive yet to experience
Reply
Debi Wilson says:
March 8, 2017 at 11:53 AM
I totally agree Cyndy! Thanks for your comments!
Reply
smarty says:
March 24, 2017 at 2:36 PM
if you’re really interested in vibratory tones, check out A tuned to 432 hz rather than the usual 440 hz
Reply
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
Videos
Recent Posts
The DMT Decision: Tried and True or Shiny and New?
April 18, 2019
Oligodendrocyte Precursor Cells Disrupt Blood-brain Barrier, Trigger Brain Inflammation in MS, Study Shows
April 18, 2019
EMA Reviewing Safety Data for Lemtrada After Reports of Serious Treatment Side Effects
April 18, 2019
National MS Society Grants $24.4M to Fund 64 MS Research Projects
April 17, 2019
Create your own user feedback survey
Featured Posts
The Unlikely Warrior: Finding Purpose with SPMS
April 11, 2019
The Unplayable Piano
April 5, 2019
MS News
BioNews Services, LLC
3 W. Garden St.
Suite 354
Pensacola, FL 32502
Email: [email protected]
Phone: 1-800-936-1363
About MS News Today
Our Team
Our Guiding Ethics
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Advertise
Disable Notifications
Disclaimer:
Multiple Sclerosis News Today is strictly a news and information website about the disease. It does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. This content is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this website.
Copyright © 2013-2019 All rights reserved n