How to Soothe Cold Symptoms
Home
Sitemap
Contact Us
Home
Sitemap
Contact Us
How to Soothe Cold Symptoms
Home » Medical » How to Soothe Cold Symptoms
The cold is a very common infectious disease that infects millions of people each season, especially during the fall and winter. Do you have a runny nose and a sore throat? Then it’s no doubt that you’ve caught a cold. In winter we all have some small colds or flu that can be quite troublesome. Some of us turn to medication, others to natural remedies. Here are some winter health tips that you can follow in order to soothe cold symptoms.
Opt for a steam inhalation with lavender essential oil
Inhale the lavender steam to quickly clear the airway. The heat relieves congestion because it dilates blood vessels, accelerates the circulation and boosts the immune system. As a matter of fact, the steam has a beneficial effect on its own, the lavender simply enhances its powerful effect. Start by adding 5 drops of essential lavender oil in a hot bowl of water (lavender has antiseptic and anti-inflammatory properties that soothe nasal secretions). Inhale the steam for up to 15 minutes for two times throughout the day and once before going to bed.
Soothe your cold with eucalyptus oil
The eucalyptus effectively treats respiratory diseases, by combining the antitussive, expectorant and antiseptic effects. The medicinal properties of eucalyptus are due to eucalyptus. It acts directly on bronchial cells by enhancing the protective effect of mucus, a substance that coats irritated mucous membranes caused by the cold virus. Mix 15 to 20 drops of eucalyptus oil with 25 ml of vegetable oil and rub the mixture on your chest three times a day.
Salt water is a cure for common cold
Clean your nose with salt water to help cleansing the nasal passages. Otherwise, the germs go down into the bronchi and can cause bacterial infections of the airways. Begin by boiling one liter of water with a teaspoon of salt and let it cool. Using an eye dropper, instill salt water into the nostrils, keeping your head tilted back. Repeat for several times a day until you no longer experience any symptoms of cold.
Drink plenty of water
One of the best winter health tips is to stay hydrated. This involves not only the heavy use of moisturizers, but it also involves drinking a lot of liquids. It’s advisable to consume water while you have a cold, because water has the property to “clean” the body. This favors the elimination of toxins, bacteria and other viruses. As a rule, you should drink 1.5 liters of water a day. You can drink tea, consume vegetable soups and try other homemade recipes. Try spicy chicken soup! It helps clear the sinuses while promoting an antibacterial and antiviral activity. The hot soup seasoned with onion, garlic, peppers helps to soothe a cold. The combination of honey and lemon with a little hot water also helps relieve sore throat (other symptom of the common cold). These are powerful antiseptics which inhibit the reproduction of bacteria.
Install a humidifier in your home
One of the most efficient way in soothing a cold and relieving its symptoms is by installing a humidifier in your house. A low level of humidity leads to dry air, which is aggravating to people who experience a cold. Therefore, consider placing a humidifier in your room or office. After a short time, you will notice a major change: you actually breath more easy. This is due to the fact that the humidifier keeps you hydrated, thus preventing any unpleasant irritation caused by dry air. Moreover, a warm misty steam can break up the congestion in your chest.
More Posts
Hot tubs help your children deal with health issues
How to Protect Sensitive Skin During the Winter Time
3 Reasons People Are Riding the Cleansing Oil Train
Finding the Best Cure for Sleep Apnea
Useful Treatments for Psoriasis
Protect Your Health From Tap Water Contaminants with a Good Water Filter
Recent Posts
Curing Hangover Depression, the Healthy Way
The Difference between Alcohol Addiction and Drug Addiction
Trying to have a baby – coping with men infertility
Should healthcare companies collaborate with recruiters?
Doctor’s advice: organic food can increase your immune system
We Read
Medical Newborn News
Top Medical Baby Sites
Medical Job List
Home Medical Tips
Macro Medical News
Home
Sitemap
Contact Us
2019 - Powered by SunleafMedical.Com