Lastest Post — Cycling CME
Home
About Us
Why Cycling CME?
Who Are We?
CME Moderator & Faculty
Road Bike Italy Conference
CME Agenda 2019
Info/Itinerary 2019
Photos - Road Bike Italy
Road Bike Lancaster Pennsylvania
CME Agenda 2019
Info/Itinerary 2019
Photos - Road Bike Pennsylvania
Mountain Bike Western Colorado
CME Agenda 2019
Info/Itinerary 2019
Photos - Mtn Bike Colorado
General Info
Conference Cost & What's Included
Environment & Safety
FAQs
News and Views
Lastest Post
Archives of News and Views
Register
Contact Us
Home
About Us
Why Cycling CME?
Who Are We?
CME Moderator & Faculty
Road Bike Italy Conference
CME Agenda 2019
Info/Itinerary 2019
Photos - Road Bike Italy
Road Bike Lancaster Pennsylvania
CME Agenda 2019
Info/Itinerary 2019
Photos - Road Bike Pennsylvania
Mountain Bike Western Colorado
CME Agenda 2019
Info/Itinerary 2019
Photos - Mtn Bike Colorado
General Info
Conference Cost & What's Included
Environment & Safety
FAQs
News and Views
Lastest Post
Archives of News and Views
Register
Contact Us
A unique CME learning experience for Physicians, PA-C's, and other Medical Providers who love to bike
Active CME: Combining Continuing Medical Education (CME) and Bicycle Touring for the Healthcare Provider
Filtering by Tag: Healthy aging
What to do with my aching knee? Osteoarthritis!
March 10, 2019 / Mike Reeder
What to do with my arthritic knee?
A challenging area of clinical medicine is the treatment of aging. One of the most common areas that I dealt with related to aging was the degenerative knee. Osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the most common joint problems and a major cause of disability and medical costs to our health care systems. In addition, many studies and personal and clinical experience have shown that this has a significant effect on quality-of-life (QOL) measures.
Knee OA is one of the most common conditions of OA, which affects many as we age, causing pain, disability and restricting activity. Patients with OA of the knee can present in their 30’s with a history of knee trauma in high school or in their 70’s with no specific trauma history. Regardless of the age, this is often a frustrating problem for us as we age.
Education and tools for self-management are essential and important groundwork for everyone with OA of the knee. The understanding of the problem and process is often necessary to be able to progress further with treatment. The initial treatment for everyone with OA of the knee includes exercise. Numerous studies demonstrate the positive effect of any strengthening of the muscles around the knee with subsequent decrease in pain and increase in QOL. The exercises could include simple chair exercises, walking, t’ai chi or other specific leg strengthening exercises. A favorite of many patients, with access, is pool therapy – both swimming and water aerobics. Finding a way to move without increasing pain, while improving strength, is an essential part to treatment.
Multiple other interventions may be helpful and rarely harmful. These include weight management, various knee sleeves, knee braces, walking sticks and shoe inserts although these are very individual in patient response. Weight management is essential to decrease the mechanical stress but challenging for the overweight patient with a painful knee.
Pharmaceutical options include topical medications (capsaicin or NSAIDs), acetaminophen, COX-2 inhibitors, non-selective NSAIDs, Hyaluronic acid products, and intra-articular glucocorticoids. Each of these interventions have limited efficacy and potential side effects but can be helpful for varying time lengths in the treatment of symptoms.
A recent interesting review article (Xing 2017) on intra-articular platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injections prompted this discussion of non-surgical treatment of knee OA. Biological treatments can include PRP, stem cells and more targeted pharmacological therapy for OA, and disease-modifying osteoarthritis drugs (DMOADs). The use of biological treatments, like PRP, is interesting, but the literature is limited because of less than optimal study design and frequent bias. In addition, the clinical heterogeneity of the patient population is an important limitation. Patients with different ages, levels of OA, other comorbidities and BMI are often in the same studies, which limits the applicability of the study.
In theory, PRP is a concentrate of platelets, which assist tissue repair through growth factors, potentially to improve healing and decrease the inflammation in the knee. In their review, Xing et al used an unusual research model and combined several research tools/instruments to evaluate the risk of bias and the quality of the previous studies. This limited their study to two previous reviews because of the evidence for bias and heterogeneity of the studies. Their overall conclusion was they could recommend PRP for the knee with OA with relative confidencealthough they cannot recommend a particular PRP system. Given these results and the difficulty in studying this treatment, the appropriate use of PRP still needs to be determined.
As someone who has followed the studies of non-surgical treatment for knee OA with interest, OA of the knee remains a difficult problem. Overall, initial treatment should include strength training in a manner that does not increase pain or disability, the consideration of bracing/sleeves, weight management and limited/judicious use of pharmaceutical options after discussing with your physician. We will watch with interest as the data/research continues in regards to biologics in the future.
Cycling CME
Helpful References:
Bernad-Pineda M, et al. Quality of life in patients with knee and hip osteoarthritis. Rev Esp Cir Ortop Traumatol. 2014.
Buttgereit F, et al. Non-surgical management of knee osteoarthritis: where are we now and where do we need to go, RMD Open,2014.
Fransen M, et al. Exercise for osteoarthritis of the knee: A Cochrane systematic review. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 2015.
Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI), Non-Surgical Management of Knee Osteoarthritis Summary, 2014.
Xing, D., et al. Intra-articular platelet-rich plasma injections for knee osteoarthritis: An overview of systematic reviews and risk of bias considerations. International Journal of Rheumatic Diseases, 2017.
categories / Exercise, promoting exercise
tags / Osteoarthritis, Aging, Healthy aging, Biologics
Effects of Exercise on Disease and Disorders – Part 2 Exercise and the Brain
February 08, 2019 / Mike Reeder
One of my colleagues at the Colorado Mesa University Monfort Family Human Performance lab is Carmine Grieco, PhD, an exercise physiologist. It has been interesting to hear Carmine’s perspective on Exercise is Medicine, as he has been involved at the research level and is very interested in the effects of exercise on Type 2 Diabetes. Carmine and I wrote a four-part series for Personal Training Quarterly (PTQ) discussing the impact of exercise on chronic disease. For that series, we started with the impact of exercise on Type 2 Diabetes and then discussed exercise and the brain - that article is below. Clearly, exercise should play a critical role in the overall treatment plan for patients. (Please note: Patients with diabetes and any other chronic disease or condition should first discuss a change in exercise levels or habits with their medical provider)
Grieco CR and Reeder MT. (2016) Effects of Exercise on Disease and Disorders - Part 2 Exercise and the Brain. Personal Training Quarterly, 4(2).
Effects of Exercise on Disease and Disorders – Part 2
Exercise and the Brain
Carmine Grieco, PhD, CSCS, and Mike Reeder, DO
Preface
This article is the second in a 4-part series which will explore the impact of exercise on a variety of diseases and conditions. As fitness professionals we have a deep understanding of the positive effect exercise has on health and human performance. Despite the efficacy of exercise as both a preventive and treatment for a wide range of diseases and conditions, standard medical interventions (notably pharmaceuticals) remain the “go to” medical option for most individuals. In fact, recent estimates by the National Center for Health Statistics suggest that nearly 50% of the U.S. population have used a prescription drug within the last 30 days (1). The aim of this article series is to provide a context for understanding the efficacy of exercise as a therapeutic intervention and adjunct therapy with a comparison to commonly prescribed treatments.
Diseases and disorders affecting cognitive capability, such as depression and Alzheimer’s disease, are among the most common and costly in the United States (2). Exercise is a cost-effective treatment for cognitive disease and shows promise as an adjunctive or primary therapy, as well as means of prevention (3, 4, 5). The impact of exercise goes beyond treating disease and extends to enhancing cognitive performance as well. Therefore, in this second part of our 4-part series we will explore the efficacy of exercise on academic performance, Alzheimer’s disease and depression.
Physical Activity and Academic Performance
Evidence has demonstrated decreasing levels of physical activity and fitness in children with an associated increase in the incidence of obesity in youth (6, 7) In fact, there is evidence that as many as one in six children are obese (6). Obesity increases the risk of diabetes, high blood pressure, and cardiovascular disease, for all ages (8). In addition to short and long-term overall health consequences, there is strong evidence linking obesity with reduced cognitive and academic function (9).
The relationship between physical fitness/physical activity and academic achievement is robust and consistently positive (10, 11, 12, 13, and 14). Physical activity and fitness are associated with both acute and chronic improvements in cognitive function (11). In 1997, Etnier et al. published one of the earliest reviews showing the benefit of children’s physical activity (PA) on cognitive performance (12). The results of their evaluation of 134 studies suggested that both acute and chronic exercise benefited cognitive performance, although there were limitations secondary the cross-sectional and correlational design. During the last 15 years, there has been a significant increase in the literature looking at PA and learning in children. This literature has looked at brain structure and function as well as cognition. This includes cognitive control, which comprises working memory, goal-directed behavior involving inhibition, and mental flexibility; all important in the classroom (15).
Many of those early studies, showed that aerobic fitness in children was positively associated with academic performance and cognition (16, 17). Specifically, evidence showed that students with higher aerobic fitness demonstrate improved academic performance and achievement compared to their unfit counterparts (16, 18, 19). Interestingly, aerobic training seems to enhance neurotransmitters (20) and the production of brain derived neurotrophic factor or BDNF, which has been called the “Miracle-Gro” of the brain, by psychiatrist John Ratey (21).
For example, Donnelly et al. conducted a three-year study that involved 24 elementary schools and began with children in grades two and three and followed them for three years (10). The 24 elementary schools were divided into either control or intervention groups. The control group schools were already doing 60 min of PE classes weekly and they maintained that for the length of the study. The intervention group, also doing 60 minutes of PE class every week, added an additional 90 minutes of “in-class” activities scattered throughout the week. These were short bursts of activity of about 10 minutes each, which were conducted intermittently throughout the day, not in PE class, but in the regular classroom setting.
Academic achievement, as assessed by the Wechsler Individual Achievement Test, 2ndEdition (WIAT-II), improved significantly for the intervention group in math (~+8%), spelling (~+4%), and composite scores (~+5.5%), in comparison to the control group, which saw decreases in reading (~-2%), spelling (~-0.5%), and composite scores (~-0.5%), with only a modest increase in math scores (~+1%). This study provides two important insights. Firstly, despite the intervention group incorporating an additional 90 minutes of exercise into the school week, which reduced standard learning time, they achieved higher scores on a standardized test of academic achievement. Secondly, it also demonstrates that following the recommended guidelines promoting a minimum of 150 minutes of PA every week can actually improve academics.
More recent studies have looked at the importance of muscular fitness in cognition and learning. Muscular fitness demonstrates multiple health benefits for children including a reduced risk of metabolic and cardiovascular disease, improved bone health and decreased obesity. These factors point to enhanced cognition by themselves (22). A study of 1700 students looking at fitness factors, found that muscular strength and endurance were the most significant factors associated with academic achievement in all grades (13). More recently, Kao et al. showed the importance of muscular fitness and working memory, illustrating the importance of muscular strength and endurance on cognition in preadolescents (14).
The Naperville, Illinois school district is an often-used illustration of the benefits of exercise for students (23). Their physical education instructors changed from competitive team sports to movement based activity using heart rate monitors, along with other purposefully interactive activities. They found improvements in academic scores, lower levels of obesity, improved attendance and less behavioral problems associated with regular activity. This has been replicated in schools of different sizes and varied socioeconomic levels (13, 24). As an example, a large study involving the California school system explored the relationship of fitness and academics. The data illustrates a consistently positive relationship with fitness levels and scores in both math and reading achievement tests (24, 25). In addition, there is no evidence for a detrimental change from adding physical activity to the school day, even when taking time away from academic study (26).
More recently, there has been more consideration of the importance of “moving with thought” or an integrative exercise program, to enhance brain activity and cognitive benefit. These studies and programs are looking at what combination of exercise and cognitive activity will have the greatest impact; looking beyond running on the treadmill to interesting activities that promote brain activity (15, 27). An example is the improvement in executive function seen with traditional martial arts, such as Tae Kwon Do (28).
There is still much to learn about this exciting topic, such as the exact type and timing of exercise that imparts the greatest impact for learning in children and others. In addition to these academic benefits, children will enjoy many other health benefits from exercise and physical activity. Overall, there is clear evidence for the impact and importance of exercise, movement and fitness on the future health and academic success of children.
Alzheimer’s Diseas
The aging of the American population has brought special emphasis on the impact of dementia on society. Dementia is a broad term that describes memory loss and cognitive impairment that is severe enough to interfere with daily life. The development of dementia becomes a concern for many as we age and is a burden to the affected patients and families as well as our healthcare system. The most common form of dementia, Alzheimer’s disease (AD), affects over 5 million Americans and is the 6thleading cause of death in the U.S. Moreover, the number of Americans living with AD is growing and the prevalence is expected to triple by 2050 (29). Interestingly, cognitive decline and dementia incidence varies in populations. While there are relationships with genetic and environmental causes, there is increasing evidence that over 25% of cases of AD are related to risk factors that are modifiable, such as physical inactivity and diet (30).
While pharmaceuticals have no known neuroprotective effect on the prevention of dementia, there is mounting evidence for the benefit of long-term, regular exercise on cognition and decreasing the incidence and progression of dementia. The initial observational studies showed improvement in cognitive scores, information processing and executive function after primarily aerobic exercise (31). More recently, in senior women with mild cognitive impairment there is good evidence for improvement in working memory and executive function after resistance training (32, 33).
When looking at age-related cognitive changes, there appears to be several factors that promote a cognitive decline, such as systemic inflammation, change in blood supply and actual structural change or atrophy. Exercise has been shown to impact all three of these areas; by increasing blood supply, decreasing inflammation (34, 35) and apparently increasing the volume or structure of the brain. Exercise “turns on” cognitive development and neuroplasticity secondary to the ability of the brain to form new neurons and synapses and improving blood supply. Neurotrophic factors, such as the previously mentioned BDNF, are felt to combat age-related brain atrophy and possibly neurodegenerative diseases (31). BDNF has been shown to be decreased in the brains of patients with AD, but it appears to be released after exercise (31).
Additionally, Erickson et al. showed an increase in the size of the hippocampus volume in a group of older adults related to an increase in VO2max (36). Other studies have shown that the hippocampus, which is essential to new memory and learning, appears to be positively responsive to exercise. Another study by Colcombe et al. illustrated that other areas of the brain increased in volume with exercise as well, as they showed that exercise in previously sedentary adults who began exercising increased their grey matter, essential to processing information, by 32% (37). A much larger study by Defina, et al. objectively evaluated the fitness of men and women beginning in their 50’s and followed them over the next 25 years and found the most fit subjects decreased their chance of developing dementia by 36% (38). Looking at the diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment, a condition which significantly increases the risk of developing AD, Baker et al. showed that the non-pharmacologic intervention of aerobic exercise, improved executive control and cognition in older women at risk of cognitive decline (39). Dr. Baker and others continue to look at “Exercise as Medicine for the Brain” in the EXERT trial (Exercise in Adults with Mild Memory Problems) (40). They have seen positive results on memory, increased blood flow to the brain, improved brain volume and improvement in markers of AD in several small studies (40).
Unfortunately, there are no curative pharmaceutical treatments for dementia. Some medications have been shown to improve symptoms but their effectiveness wanes as the disease progresses. The medications include acetylcholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil (Aricept), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) blockers, such as memantine (Namenda) and other medications for the associated behavioral changes of dementia. The overall effectiveness of the medications appears modest but can be significant to the patients who can tolerate them. There are many clinical trials involving newer medications that may be able to impact these difficult diseases. Medications are a part of the successful care of patients with AD.
An integrative exercise program can address multiple domains of the brain as well as many areas of healthy aging. Overall, long-term physical activity simply improves the quality of life as we age. Therefore, it is imperative for fitness professionals to appreciate the many benefits of exercise and to encourage safe, enjoyable and interactive physical activity in people of all ages.
Depression
Depression is among the most common mood disorders and affects approximately 7.6% of Americans over the age of 12 annually (41). The first-line prescribed treatments for depression are psychotherapy, pharmaceutical antidepressants, or a combination of the two. Antidepressants are among the most frequently prescribed drugs in the U.S. and the rate of usage has increased significantly over the last 15 to 20 years, while psychotherapy rates have declined, indicating a shift toward pharmaceutical intervention for depressive disorders (42). For example, 6.8% of U.S. adults had used an antidepressant within the previous 30-day period in 1999/2000, while 2011/2012 data show a near doubling rate of use, which increased to 13% (43).
The American Psychiatric Association’s Practice Guideline for the Treatment of Patients with Major Depressive Disorderacknowledges both aerobic and resistance exercise confer “a modest improvement in mood symptoms for patients with major depressive disorder,” although exercise is not an initial suggested treatment modality (44). Nevertheless, the effect of exercise, particularly aerobic exercise, compares favorably to antidepressants.
Earlier work on the effect of exercise as a treatment for depression was promising. Blumenthal et al. randomized 156 older patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) to one of three groups: 1) aerobic exercise (thrice weekly exercise sessions at 70-85% of heart rate reserve, 2) Sertraline (Zoloft), a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI), or 3) a combined therapy group, in which patients received both Sertraline and aerobic exercise (45). Following 16 weeks of therapy all three groups experienced significant improvements in mood, with no statistically significant difference among groups. Based upon these findings the authors concluded that exercise is a viable treatment option for depression, achieving decreases in depression scores comparable with drug therapy
More recently, meta-analyses by Stathopoulou et al. and Rethorst et al. found large and significant effect sizes favoring exercise over either non-intervention (i.e. no treatment or waitlist control) or minimal intervention (placebo treatment, low-level exercise or health education) control groups in clinical populations diagnosed with depression (effect sizes of 1.42,and 1.07, respectively)(46, 47). While these meta-analyses (and others) have found a strong and consistent association between exercise and a positive mood-altering effect, the quality of randomized controlled trials investigating the effect of exercise as an antidepressant therapy have been called into question (48).
A meta-analysis published in 2016 sought to address these limitations and quantify the strength of existing evidence (49). Schuch et al. also reported a large mood-enhancing effect of exercise, with an effect size similar to that reported by Stathopoulou et al. and Rethorst et al. (1.11). The authors concluded that there is “robust evidence that exercise can be considered an evidence-based treatment for the management of depression.” Moreover, exercise therapy also compares favorably with psychotherapy for the treatment of depression. A recent meta-analysis by Cooney et al. concluded that exercise was equally effective as both psychotherapy and pharmacological treatment in reducing depression symptoms (50).
No organization has yet published a position statement regarding the appropriate duration, frequency, intensity or type of exercise necessary to achieve an antidepressant effect, however a recent meta-analysis by Rethorst and Trivedi provides evidence-based recommendations (47). Exercise prescription guidelines include:
Modality: Aerobic exercise is well represented in the literature for its antidepressant effect. Resistance training shows promise, however, there is a limited amount of research to date.
Frequency: A minimum of three sessions per week
Duration: 45-60 minutes per session.
Intensity: 50-85% of heart rate max for aerobic exercise. Resistance training should consist of both upper and lower body exercises for 3 sets of 8 repetitions at 80% of 1RM.
While more research is indicated to fully illuminate the effect of exercise on depression, as well as identifying the mechanisms through which exercise effects mood, the preponderance of evidence suggests that exercise is an efficacious mode of treatment. Both pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy play a fundamental role in the treatment of depression, nevertheless, it is becoming recognized and accepted that exercise can, and should, play a more prominent role in overall treatment of depressive disorders.
Conclusion
Exercise is an underutilized therapy for the treatment of cognitive diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease and depression. While exercise shows more promise for the prevention, rather than the treatment, of Alzheimer’s disease, exercise therapy compares favorably to the most common treatments of depression: psychotherapy and antidepressants. Moreover, there is mounting evidence that exercise exerts a positive effect on cognition in older adults, as well as demonstrating an ability to improve cognitive performance in children, as evidenced by improvements in standardized testing.
References
1. National Center for Health Statistics. Health, United States, 2015: With special feature on racial and ethnic health disparities. Hyattsville, MD. Retrieved December, 2016 from http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/hus/hus15.pdf#079.
2. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cognitive Impairment: A Call for Action, Now!
https://www.cdc.gov/aging/pdf/cognitive_impairment/cogimp_poilicy_final.pdf
Accessed 16 May, 2017.
3. Cai Y and Abrahamsom K. How exercise influences cognitive performance when mild cognitive impairment exists. Journal of Psychosocial Nursing 54(1): 25-35, 2016.
4. Cho J, Shin MK, Kim D, Lee I, Kim S, and Kang H. Treadmill running reverses cognitive declines due to Alzheimer disease. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise47(9): 1814-1824, 2015.
5. Ströhle A, Schmidt DK, Schultz F, Fricke N, Staden T, Hellweg R, Priller J, Rapp MA, and Rieckmann N. Drug and exercise treatment of Alzheimer disease and mild cognitive impairment” a systematic review and meta-analysis of effects on cognition in randomized controlled trials. The American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry23(12): 1234-1249, 2015.
6. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Prevalence of childhood Obesity in the United States, 2011-2014.
https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/data/childhood.html
Accessed on March, 20, 2017.
7. Raj M. Obesity and cardiovascular risk in children and adolescents. Indian Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism16(1): 13-19, 2012.
8. Strong, WB, Malina RM, Blimkie, CJ, et al. Evidence based physical activity for school-age youth. Journal of Pediatrics146(6):732-737, 2005.
9. Kamijo K, Khan N, Pontifex M, et al. The relation of adiposity to cognitive control and scholastic achievement in preadolescent children. Obesity20(12):2406-2411, 2012.
10. Donnelly JE, Greene JL, Gibson CA, Smith BK, Washburn RA, Sullivan DK, DuBose K, Mayo MS, Schmelzle KH, Ryan JJ, Jacobsen DJ, and Williams SL. Physical Activity across the Curriculum (PAAC): A randomized controlled trial to promote physical activity and diminish overweight and obesity in elementary school children. Preventive Medicine49(4): 336-341, 2009.
11. Connelly JE, Hillman CH, Castelli D, Etnier JL, Lee S, Tomporowski P, Lambourne K, and Szabo-Reed AN. Physical activity, fitness, cognitive function, and academic achievement in children: A systematic review. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise 48)6): 1197-1222, 2016.
12. Etnier JL, Salazar W, Landers DM, et al. The influence of physical fitness and exercise upon cognitive functioning: A meta-analysis. Journal of Sport and Exercise Physiology 19(3):249-277, 1997.
13. Coe DP, Peterson T, Blair C, Schutten MC, Peddie H. Physical fitness, academic achievement and socioeconomic status in school-aged youth. Journal of School Health; 83: 500-507, 2013.
14. Kao SC, Westfall DR, Parks AC, Pontifex MB, Hillman CH. Muscular and aerobic fitness, working memory, and academic achievement in children. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise49(3):500-508, 2016.
15. Diamond A. Effects of physical exercise on executive function: Going beyond simply moving to moving with thought. Ann Sports Med Res; 2(1):1011, 2015.
16. Hillman CH, Erickson KI, Kramer AF. Be smart, exercise your heart: exercise effects on brain and cognition. Nature Reviews Neuroscience9: 58-65, 2008.
17. Howie EK, Pate RR. Physical activity and academic achievement in children: A historical perspective. Journal of Sport and Health Science1: 160-169, 2012.
18. Hillman CH, Pontifex MB, Raine LB, et al. The effect of acute treadmill walking on cognitive control and academic achievement in preadolescent children. Neuroscience159(3): 1044-1054, 2009.
19. Pontifex MB, Scudder ES, Drollette ES, et al. Fit and vigilant: The relationship between poorer aerobic fitness and failures in sustained attention during preadolescence. Neuropsychology26(4): 407-413, 2012.
20. Maddock RJ, Casazza GA, Fernandez DH, Maddock MI. Acute modulation of cortical glutamate and GABA content by physical activity. Journal of Neuroscience36(8): 2449-2457, 2016.
21. John Ratey. Miracle-Gro for Brains.
http://johnratey.typepad.com/blog/2008/03/miracle-gro-for.html
Accessed 17 May, 2017.
22. Smith JJ, Eather N, Morgan PJ, et al. The health benefits of muscular fitness for children and adolescents: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Sports Med44(9):1209-1223, 2014.
23. Sattelmair J, Ratey JJ. Physically active play and cognition. An academic matter? American Journal of Play365-374, 2009.
24. Grissom, JB. Physical fitness and academic achievement. Journal of Exercise Physiology8(1): 11-25, 2005.
25. Singh S, McMahan S. An evaluation of the relationship between academic performance and physical fitness measures in California schools. California Journal of Health Promotion4(2):207-214, 2006.
26. Keely TJ, Fox KR. The impact of physical activity and fitness on academic achievement and cognitive performance in children. Int Rev Sports Exercise Physiology2(2): 198-214, 2009.
27. Myer GD, Faigenbaum AD, Edwards NM, et al. Sixty minutes of what? A developing brain perspective for activating children with an integrative exercise approach. Br J Sports Med; 2015.
28. Lakes, KD, Hoyt WT. Promoting self-regulation through school-based martial arts training. Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology25:283-302, 2004.
29. Alzheimer’s Association. 2017 Alzheimer’s Disease Facts and Figures. http://www.alz.org/facts/#quickFacts
Accessed on March, 20, 2017.
30. Norton, S., Matthews, F. E., Barnes, D., Yaffe, K., & Brayne, C. Potential for primary prevention of Alzheimer's disease: an analysis of population-based data. Lancet Neurology13(8), 788-794, 2014.
31. Ahlskog JE, Geda YE, Graff-Radford NR, Petersen RC. Physical exercise as a preventive or disease-modifying treatment of dementia and brain aging. Mayo Clinic Proceedings86(9):876-884, 2011.
32. Nagamatsu LS, Handy TC, Hsu CL, et al. Resistance training promotes cognitive and functional brain plasticity in seniors with probable mild cognitive impairment: A 6-month randomized controlled trial. Archives of Internal Medicine172(8): 666-668, 2012.
33. Smolarek AC, Ferreira LH, Mascarenhas LP, et al. The effects of strength training on cognitive performance in elderly women. Clinical Interventions in Aging11: 749-754, 2016.
34. Woods JA, Wilund KR, Martin SA, et al. Exercise, inflammation and aging. Aging and Disease3(1): 130-140, 2012.
35. You T, Arsenis NC, Disanzo BL, LaMonte MJ. Effects of exercise training on chronic inflammation in obesity. Sports Medicine43: 243-256, 2013.
36. Erickson KI, Prakash RS, Voss MW, et al. Aerobic fitness is associated with hippocampal volume in elderly humans. Hippocampus19(10):1030-1039, 2009.
37. Colcombe SJ, Erickson KI, Scalf PE, et al. Aerobic exercise training increases brain volume in aging humans. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci61:1166-1170, 2006.
38. DeFina LF, Willis BL, Radford NB, et al. The association between midlife cardiorespiratory fitness levels and later life dementia. Ann Intern Med158(3):162-168, 2013.
39. Baker LD, Frank LL, et al. Effects of aerobic exercise on mild cognitive impairment: A controlled trial. Arch Neurol67(1): 71-79, 2010.
40. National Institute on Aging. Exercise in Adults with Mild Memory Problems (EXERT).
https://www.nia.nih.gov/alzheimers/clinical-trials/exercise-adults-mild-memory-problems-exert
Accessed on 17 May, 2017.
41. National Center for Health Statistics. Depression in the U.S. Household Population, 2009-2012. https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/databriefs/db172.htm
Accessed 10 March, 2017.
42. Marcus SC and Olfson M. National trends in the treatment of depression from 1998 to 2007. Archives of General Psychiatry67(12): 1265-1273, 2010.
43. Kantor ED, Rehm CD, Haas JS, Chan AT, and Giovannucci EL. Trends in prescription drug use among adults in the United States from 1999 to 2012. Journal of the American Medical Association314(17): 1818-1831, 2015.
44. American Psychiatric Association. Practice Guidelines for the Treatment of Patients with Major Depressive Disorder, 2010.
https://psychiatryonline.org/pb/assets/raw/sitewide/practice_guidelines/guidelines/mdd.pdf
Accessed on 08 March, 2017.
45. Blumenthal JA, Babyak MA, Moore KA, Craighead E, Herman S, Khatri P, Waugh R, Napolitano MA, Forman LM, Applebaum M, Doraiswamy M, and Krishnan R. Effects of exercise training on older adults with major depression. Archives of Internal Medicine159(19): 2349-2356, 1999.
46. Stathopoulou G, Powers MB, Berry AC, Smits JAJ, and Otto MW. Exercise interventions for mental health: A quantitative and qualitative review. Clinical Psychology13(2): 179-193, 2006.
47. Rethorst CD and Trivedi MH. Evidence-based recommendations for the prescription of exercise for major depressive disorder. Journal of Psychiatric Practice19(3): 204-212, 2013.
48. Lawlor DA and Hopker SW. The effectiveness of exercise as an intervention in the management of depression: Systematic review and meta-regression analysis of randomized controlled trials. BMJ322(7289): 763-767, 2001.
49. Schuch FB, Vancampfort D, Richards J, Rosenbaum S, Ward PB, and Stubbs B. Exercise as a treatment for depression: a meta-analysis adjusting for publication bias. Journal of Psychiatric Research77: 42-51, 2016.
50. Cooney GM, Dwan K, Greig CA, Lawlor DA, Rimer J, Waugh FR, McMurdo M, and Mead GE. Exercise for depression. The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews12(9): 2013.
categories / promoting exercise, Exercise
tags / Exercise and the Brain, Exercise and cognition, Healthy aging
Newer / Older