Coping with Pain using Music
Skip to main content
Search This Blog
Chronic Pain Management at Home
Coping with Pain using Music
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
March 09, 2017
Music is often said to be a cure for the problems of the soul. In times of emotional duress people around the world turn to music to bask in the too familiar melodies of heartbreak or sadness that echo their inner turmoil.We also do this to celebrate and highlight the positive emotions in our lives. From birthday songs to first dances, music helps to shape our perception and influence our emotions.
By understanding the effect music can have on our emotions, we are able to utilize it to our best advantage. Research has suggested that this effect is something that can not only be felt emotionally but also physically in terms of pain management.
While the effects of music for psychiatric illnesses is well documented, it is important not to overlook the significant physical effects it can have on a person.
Music has been proven to help lower anxiety, blood pressure, depression, and distress caused by pain. Even more interesting, research has seen music can influence a patient’s perception of the intensity of their pain which can result in a drop in pain medicine required.
For those who suffer from chronic pain, music can drastically improve their quality of life. Whether it is jazz or classic rock, the calming effects of one’s favorite tunes can distract those in pain enough that the neurological impulses associated with pain are affected. If those who deal with chronic pain can understand and harness the positive power of music they will ultimately have the potential to use music to help treat their chronic pain.
What is it about music that sets it apart from other similar methods? While many turn to meditation and breathing techniques to deal with chronic pain, for those who need more guidance with focusing on something other than pain music can help.
Music provides a central point for the attention of the individual suffering with chronic pain. Those who meditate need to imagine their own point of focus such as the regularly prescribed dissociation techniques. While these work for many, some find it difficult to focus on something not tangible when dealing with pain. Music, while not physically tangible, is enough of a permeable entity that it can bridge the gap for those who struggle to focus on an imaginary image.
Moreover, while there have been lots of research on how the different genres of music can effect different areas within your brain. For instance, it is very popular to hear college professors tell their students to listen to classical music on low as they study because it helps with memory retention. In terms of dealing with chronic pain, however, there is no one genre of music. In fact, researchers have found that the individuals favorite music often is the best genre to listen to.
You might be wondering how this can be when so many other researchers have shown the power of particular genres in relation to brain activity. The reason why this is different is because music is acting as a relaxant which in term lowers the bodies stress so the pain lessens overall. Because the music is not looking to target any particular brain function but rather provide a tool to help the individual relax it needs to be a personal choice. So, if the individual experiencing the pain finds classic rock soothing or if they prefer pop hits it doesn’t matter as long as it is familiar music that they enjoy. This phenomenon is similarly seen in patients with dementia who, after listening to their favorite tunes, experience less distressed behavior than their peers who do not listen to music.
Skeptics abound question the legitimacy of music as part of a coping routine for chronic pain. Music therapy has quickly advanced into a well-respected and heavily studied area throughout academia. Like listening to music, actually participating in the playing of music can aid in the decrease of stress of an individual, once again allowing for an overall decrease in painwithin the person.
Like with many areas of study, there is still so much to be learned. As of now, the reason why music is such a powerful tool is because of the psychological effects it has on reducing stress. As we study and learn more about the different hows and whys of this occurrence, researchers will open the door to better direct and harness the powerful soothing balm of music. Until then those suffering from chronic pain would benefit from taking the time to listen to their favorite music as a stress relief throughout the day.
Chronic Pain Fibromyalgia Low Back Pain Neck Pain Pain Doctor Pain Medication
Get link
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Email
Other Apps
Comments
Post a Comment
Popular posts from this blog
What causes neck pain?
May 02, 2017
Neck pain, like headaches, is a common symptom that affects almost everyone at some point in their lifetime. The cause of neck pain can be simple or complex, acute or chronic. The good news is that in most cases, treatment and prevention is simple and effective.
What causes neck pain?
Neck pain can be anything from a sharp, gripping pain or a dull ache to a being unable to move your neck at all. The most common types of neck pain are aching or stiffness. This happens when the cervical spine becomes locked so that the movement of the spine stiffens like an old door hinge. The lack of movement within the spine causes the muscles around the neck and shoulders to tighten or in some cases weaken and it is this change that causes so much pain.
It isn’t just a tightening or locking of the muscles or spine that causes neck pain. There are a number of conditions or injuries that can cause either acute or chronic pain. The most common causes of neck pain include:
Spondylitis or inflammation …
Read more
EXERCISE FOR SCIATICA WITH LOWER BACK PAIN: WHAT’S THERE TO KNOW
May 08, 2017
If you’ve ever experienced sciatica and or with lower back pain then you will know it’s not as mild and in significant as most of us tend to believe. The truth is that one in 10 people suffer from either or both conditions globally. It’s even a bigger menace in the U.S. where an estimated eight out of 10 people ache from either or both conditions of pain. It’s the number one cause of high turn-over.
Sciatica, Lower Back Pain and Depression
Sciatica and lower back pains are also a major reason for opioids and other pain-killer addictions. This is because for a long time these drugs have been prescribed as the prime line of sciatica and lower back pain treatment. Depression is the other condition associated with sciatica and lower back pains. Patients with sciatica, lower back chronic pain, and depression are even at a greater risk of addiction.
This is why it’s important for you to rule out symptoms of depression before going for opioids and other pain-killer prescriptions out there…
Read more
The Benefits of Anti-Inflammatory Foods on Type II Diabetes
February 24, 2017
If you have been diagnosed with Type II Diabetes, then you know the toll that it takes on your body. The disease affects eyesight, organs like kidney, heart and lungs and damages nerve endings, which leads to increased stress levels and increased pain. When nerve endings are damaged, the ability to send signals throughout the body are decreased. The body is unable to feel pain and thus may not realize the severity of the pain on the body. This increased pain due to inflammation, can be relieved by regularly eating well, may be the anti-inflammatory diet but the importance of controlling blood sugar cannot be denied.
Physical Therapy
While there are many Type II Diabetic people who are monitoring their health through exercise and medication via pills or insulin, there are studies which show that eating healthy foods that help to increase serotonin levels can lead to decreased stress levels and more pain free days.
Complex carbohydrates are one great source of foods that will increase y…
Read more
Powered by Blogger
Theme images by Veronica Olson
Philip Reese
iACHE is a platform solution for the coordination of care in pain management and addiction disorders. These two conditions require long term and coordinated care that currently does not exist.
Visit profile
Archive
2017 21
May 7
April 3
March 5
Treating Osteoarthritis of the Knee
Osteoarthritis of the Knee
Healing Knee Injuries: Few Helpful Exercises
Coping with Pain using Music
Fibromyalgia is a Condition of Cerebral Dysfunctio...
February 6
Labels
Chronic Pain
Fibromyalgia
Ketogenic
Low Back Pain
Low carb state
Neck Pain
Pain Doctor
Pain Medication
Physical Therapy
weight loss
Weight loss diets
Show more Show less
Report Abuse