The Amazing Migraine Melting Smoothie – Healthagy – Find Clinical Studies for Diabetes, Hypertension and Skin Care.
FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedin
Home
All Health Topics
Mobile Health
Obesity
Migraines
Diabetes
Cholesterol
Allergies
The Amazing Migraine Melting Smoothie
Home/Migraines/The Amazing Migraine Melting Smoothie
Previous	Next
View Larger Image
The Amazing Migraine Melting Smoothie
Most of us have experienced a headache, but fewer have experienced a migraine. The intense, throbbing pain can be controlled and, in some cases, even prevented by maintaining a healthy diet.
There is an abundance of information available on the foods to avoid when suffering from migraines. For example, studies advise sufferers from consuming foods high in tyramine and phenylenthylamine (e.g. cheese and chocolate), nitrates rich foods like deli meats and sausage, foods with tannins (e.g. pears, apples and wine), citrus fruits – the list goes on . So what’s left?
A nutrient-rich green smoothie can house numerous health benefits in one flavor-packed sip. Chocked full with dark leafy greens, sweet fruit components and essential fatty acids, this nutrient power-house is full of foods on the migraine safe list!
Healthy fats like omega-3 fatty acid, found in additions such as flax seeds and avocado, are an important staple in your migraine-defensive diet. These healthy fats reduce inflammation in turn reducing frequency, duration and severity of headaches. Avocados also add a creamy component to your green smoothie.
Don’t skimp on your handful of spinach as this little green is packed with B vitamins, a helpful element in battling inflammation, and magnesium. Magnesium is an important, yet underestimated and powerful antidote in preventing and curing migraines. It relaxes our nerves and muscles helping to curb those sharp, throbbing attacks. Our bodies do not make magnesium therefore we rely on food and supplements to meet the required intake. Include foods into your diet with the highest dosages, such as dark leafy greens. Coconut water is also packed with magnesium as well as potassium while creating an instant energizer drink!
Fruits will satisfy your sweet tooth while easing inflammation. Sweeten up your smoothie and prevent the pain with some fresh or frozen, juicy strawberries! They are also chocked full of anti-oxidants and phytonutrients which can help stave off the stress-induced inflammation. Although bananas have been known to affect some sufferers, if you haven’t found this sweet fruit to be a trigger, add half a frozen banana for added magnesium and flavor! Blend these essential migraine minimizing ingredients into a simple, smooth drink to avert the attack while energizing your body and mind!
Ingredients:
1/2 Cup Coconut Water
1 1/4 Cups Strawberries
1 Handful Spinach
1/2 Avocado
1 teaspoon Ground Flax Seeds
Scoop of ice (optional)
Directions:
Blend together all ingredients until smooth. Yeah, pretty easy – drink and enjoy!
Enjoyed this article? Try reading these . . .
4 Ways To Stop Migraines Before They Start
Migraines: 3 Free Apps For That
5 Things To Know About Biofeedback for Migraines
healthagy-admin	2013-07-25T11:19:49-05:00	July 8th, 2013|Migraines|
Share This Story, Choose Your Platform!
FacebookTwitterLinkedinRedditTumblrGoogle+PinterestVkEmail
Related Posts
Permalink
Permalink
Permalink
Permalink
Permalink
Permalink
Permalink
Permalink
Permalink
All Health Topics
All Health Topics Select Category Allergies (16) Asthma (4) Athlete’s Foot (1) Blogs Worth Researching (1) Cholesterol (33) Cholesterol Diets (16) Cholesterol Information (21) Cholesterol Treatment (17) Clinical Research (3) Constipation (1) Diabetes – Type I & II (68) Diabetes Clinical Research (2) Diabetes Diets (28) Diabetes Information (44) Diabetes Treatment (23) Featured (61) Frequent Urination (1) Gastroenterology (5) Gout (9) Healthy Lifestyle (62) Hypertension (42) Hypertension Diets (16) Hypertension Information (21) Hypertension Treatment (18) Irritable Bowel Syndrome (2) Men’s Health (1) Mental Health (11) Migraines (28) Mobile Health (22) Obesity (26) Overactive Bladder (1) Skin Care (25) Smoking Cessation (13) Women’s Health (2)
Popular
Recent
Botox for Migraines: 6 Things You Need to Know
October 16th, 2012
Are E Cigarettes Safe?
June 26th, 2013
Vegetarians Have Lower Cholesterol, BP, Heart Disease Risk
February 7th, 2013
Most Effective Exercises for People With No Time To Exercise
May 17th, 2013
Is it Winter Dry Skin or Something More?
February 21st, 2014
Printable: Your Child’s Halloween Food Allergy Reminder
October 17th, 2014
6 Back to School Lunch Ideas for Kids
September 3rd, 2014
Safe Skincare for the Summer Months
July 25th, 2014
Clinical Research Studies: 6 Reasons Why You Should Sign Up
July 15th, 2014
The Exercise-Type II Diabetes Connection
April 26th, 2014
Copyright © 2016 Healthagy | All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Powered by udfd design
FacebookTwitterPinterestLinkedin