Healthy Snack Ideas to Improve Scar Appearance - Scars and Spots
Scars and Spots
Advanced Treatment for Scars and Dark Spots developed by a leading plastic surgeon
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
About INVICIBLE
Press
Subscribe
Buy NOW
April 20, 2019
Scars and Spots > Scar Healing Tips > Nutrition > Healthy Snack Ideas to Improve Scar Appearance
InviCible Scars August 18, 2015 2 Comments
Healthy Snack Ideas to Improve Scar Appearance
Healthy skin demands a healthy diet. To improve the appearance of scars, ensuring proper collagen distribution, the reduction of inflammation, and the softening of tissue, choose nutrient-rich foods.
Read More: Nutrition
Snack Time Suggestions: Choosing the Right Ingredients
Sodas and sweets make for a delightful treat. However, they don’t offer the fundamental nutrients needed to improve scars. Swap out those calorie-heavy snacks for ones infused with Vitamin C, Vitamin A, Vitamin E, and Zinc.
Vitamin C
Vitamin C is a water-soluble nutrient that strengthens the immune system and expedites the healing process, helping scar tissue fade. Physicians recommend a daily dose of 90 milligrams to ensure good health, and achieving this requires the right snacks:
Yellow Bell Peppers (341.3-mg per large pepper)
Golden Kiwi (64-mg per large fruit)
Strawberries (10.6-mg per large berry)
Oranges (69.7-mg per large orange)
Read More: Vitamin C
Vitamin A
Vitamin A is a retinal-infused compound that improves the texture of the skin. It accelerates cell development and generates greater elasticity. Physicians recommend a daily dose of 1500 micrograms, and individuals can reach this amount this with:
Carrots (7835-micrograms per large carrot)
Kale (17707-micrograms per cup)
Cantaloupe Melon (2334-micrograms per cup)
Tuna Fish (7141-micrograms per ounce)
Read More: Vitamin A
Vitamin E
Vitamin E is a fat-soluble nutrient. It counters the effects of free radicals, protecting skin from loss of hydration, decreases in elasticity, and oxidation. While Vitamin E does not improve the appearance of scars (whether applied topically or taken through diet or supplements), it is great for combating oxygen free radicals which can damage the skin, especially from sun exposure – and UV rays can permanently darken a scar. Physicians recommend a daily dose of 20 milligrams, and there are many ways to meet this number:
Almonds (7.3-mg per ounce)
Avocados (4.2-mg per cup)
Sunflower Seeds (10.2-mg per ounce)
Tofu (4.5-mg per ounce)
Read More: Vitamin E
Zinc
Zinc is a mineral that directly impacts the body’s immune system. It enhances cellular growth and dissolves carbohydrates (which provide key proteins during the tissue creation process). This decreases the rigidity of scars and reduces inflammation. Physicians recommend a daily dose of 15 milligrams, and there are many delicious ways to reach this goal:
Cashews (1.6-mg per ounce)
Dark Chocolate (5.9-mg per cup)
Mushrooms (1.4-mg per cup)
Mung Beans (0.6-mg per cup)
Read More: Zinc
Consider Supplements
Achieving a healthy lifestyle is not always possible, with individuals forever on the move and away from the kitchen. Choosing the right snacks proves challenging, and vitamin supplements are often needed to ensure balanced results.
These items deliver concentrated bursts of key minerals so that even the busiest individuals can maintain their diets and meet their intake goals. It also promotes the improved appearance of scars.
Read More: Vitamins
Substituting traditional snacks with vitamin-heavy foods provides immediate and long-lasting results. Make the change today!
Have a question about your scar? Leave us a comment and let us know! Be sure to subscribe to the Scars and Spots blog as well for further updates on this and similar topics.
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Get Rid of Scars, Nutrition, Scar Healing Tips Tagged: scar healing, scar healing nutrition
« Which is Better for Scars: Silicone Creams or Silicone Sheets?
How Long Does it Take to Get Rid of Scars? »
The information on this site is provided as an information resource only, and is not to be used or relied on for any diagnostic or treatment purposes. Please speak to your doctor to treat any medical condition. Information on this site is not intended to be patient education, does not create any patient-physician relationship, and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.
Comments
The information on this site is provided as an information resource only, and is not to be used or relied on for any diagnostic or treatment purposes. Please speak to your doctor to treat any medical condition. Information on this site is not intended to be patient education, does not create any patient-physician relationship, and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.
Min says:
September 19, 2015 at 4:12 am
hello, I’m a 39- old female who just got diagnosed with shingles recently. My scabs are begging to turn into dark red/ purplish markings. I also have myasthenia gravis which is an autoimmune disorder I think because of that, Heinz process would take longer than people with normal health level. Im not on any particular regime other than taking prescribed medicines. Nor am I on a special diet, so I’m wondering what kind of protocol should take to reduce scar. Plan is to regularly visit doctors for follow ups and take actions as needed or suggested. Medicines I’m taking for shingles see pretty heavy on my kidneys, so arrangement with a specialist is already set up for next several weeks
Thank you.
Reply
InviCible Scars says:
September 28, 2015 at 10:44 am
Hi Min, begin by using a scar therapy once your lesions have completely healed and optimize your diet for better wound healing.
Reply
Speak Your Mind Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
EMAIL NEWSLETTER
Sign up to receive our free monthly newsletter with tips and advice on how to treat dark spots and scars.
Enter your email address...
Subscribe to Scars and Spots
Enter your Email
Preview | Powered by FeedBlitz
Buy Now
See Our Studies
See the results of our Clinical Studies
See Before and Afters
View Images of real results!
Popular Posts
Can You Tattoo Over Scars?
How to Remove Dark Spots from Razor Bumps and Ingrown Hair
How Do You Soften Scar Tissue?
Why Does a Scar Turn White?
Are Second Degree Burn Scars Permanent?
How to Fade Shingles Scars
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bite Scars
Why Do Scars Itch?
Is a Red Scar a Permanent Scar?
Why Do Surgical Scars Itch?
Press
About INVICIBLE
InviCible has a superior safety profile and is also hypoallergenic. It contains NO hydroquinone, preservatives, fragrances, petroleum, mineral oil, or alcohol. It is not tested on animals.
Privacy Policy Cookie Policy
RECENT POSTS
Scar Cream Available Internationally on Amazon
Cosmetic Surgeon Red Flags You Should Not Ignore
Pediatric Sun Exposure – Tips from St. Jude to Protect Your Child
How to Get Rid of Scars Fast
How Long Does it Take a Hypertrophic Scar to Heal?
My Scar Won’t Stop Itching, Is This Normal?
SEARCH
Search Tags
Acne Scars Acne Tips Age Spots Breast Cancer Scars Breast Surgery Scars Burn Scars Chemical Peels C Section Scars Dark Scars Exercise Facelift Scars Face Scars Get Rid of Dark Spots Get Rid of Scars Hyperpigmentation Hypertrophic Scars InviCible Scars Reviews Keloid Scars Mastectomy Scars Melanoma Scars Melasma New or Old Scars Nutrition Plastic Surgery Scars Scar Healing Tips Skin Care Tips Skin Resurfacing Skin Spots Skin Treatments Sun Spots Surgery Scars Tummy Tuck Scars Uneven Skin Tone
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2019 · Streamline Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in