Burns | health.am
Skip to Content
health.am
Sections →
Mind and Body
Diet food and fitness
Weight Loss and Diet Plans
Fitness & Exercise
Oral Care
Health & Sex
Women's Health
Benign Breast Diseases
Breast Cancer
Hereditary Breast Cancers
Cervical Cancer
Ovarian Cancer
Pregnancy
Pregnancy calendar
Pregnancy FAQ
Teenage Pregnancy
Early Pregnancy Risks
Disorders During Pregnancy
Diabetes Mellitus and Pregnancy
Adolescent Gynecology
Delayed Puberty
Urinary Incontinence
Stress Urinary Incontinence
Menstrual Irregularities
Dysmenorrhea
Uterine Prolapse
Menopausal Syndrome
Contraception
Infertility
Eating Disorders
Obesity and Diabetes
Emotional Eating
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Men's Health
Basis of Sleep
Common Sleep Disorders
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Warning Signs
MI Prevention
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Acute Heart Failure
What is Atherosclerosis?
High Blood Pressure
Hypertension Symptoms & signs
LDL and HDL cholesterol
Foods to avoid
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
Lifestyle changes
Prostate Cancer
Bladder Cancer
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia
Testicular Cancer
Penis Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Carcinoma of the Anus
Fast Foods
Exercise and Weight Control
Diabetes Mellitus
Prevention of Clinical Diabetes
Diabetes Complications and Prevention
Male Infertility & Sexual Dysfunction
Premature Ejaculation
Sexually Transmitted Infections
Children's Health
Childhood Sleep Disorders
Sleepwalking Disorder
Pediatric & Adolescent Gynecology
Contraception for Adolescents
Delayed Puberty
Adolescent Dysmenorrhea
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Hypertension in children
Congenital heart disease
Childhood obesity
Pediatric Obesity Prevention
Binge Eating in Children
Aging Well
Successful aging
Exercise and age
Planning for Successful Aging
High Blood Pressure
Heart Attack Symptoms &Signs
Cardiac Failure
Exercise and age
Normal cognitive changes in aging
Normal Aging and Dementia
Short sleep, aging brain
Sleep speed brain aging
Breast Cancer in the elderly
Prostate Cancer
Prevention of Clinical Diabetes
Health Centers
Allergies
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Blood and Lymph Diseases
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
Women's Health
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Overweight and Obesity
Family and Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Why preventive care is important
Remember the old saying that "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure"? This can be especially true when it comes to preventive health care. Maintaining or improving your health is important - and a focus on regular preventive care, along with following the advice of your doctor, can help you stay healthy.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Breast Cancer
High Blood Pressure
Schizophrenia
Chest Pain
Cocaine abuse
Marijuana use in adults
Burns
Jan 16, 2005 Viewed: 418
Alternative names
Second degree burn; First degree burn; Third degree burn
Definition
There are three levels of burns:
First-degree burns affect only the outer layer of the skin. They cause pain, redness, and swelling.
Second-degree (partial thickness) burns affect both the outer and underlying layer of skin. They cause pain, redness, swelling, and blistering.
Third-degree (full thickness) burns extend into deeper tissues. They cause white or blackened, charred skin that may be numb.
Considerations
Before giving first aid, evaluate how extensively burned the person is and try to determine the depth of the most serious part of the burn. Then treat the entire burn accordingly. If in doubt, treat it as a severe burn.
By giving immediate first aid before professional medical help arrives, you can help lessen the severity of the burn. Prompt medical attention to serious burns can help prevent scarring, disability, and deformity. Burns on the face, hands, feet, and genitals can be particularly serious.
Children under age 4 and adults over age 60 have a higher chance of complications and death from severe burns.
In case of a fire, you and the others there are at risk for carbon monoxide poisoning. Anyone with symptoms of headache, numbness, weakness, or chest pain should be tested.
Causes
Burns can be caused by dry heat (like fire), wet heat (such as steam or hot liquids), radiation, friction, heated objects, the sun, electricity, or chemicals.
Thermal burns are the most common type. Thermal burns occur when hot metals, scalding liquids, steam, or flames come in contact with your skin. These are frequently the result of fires, automobile accidents, playing with matches, improperly stored gasoline, space heaters, and electrical malfunctions. Other causes include unsafe handling of firecrackers and kitchen accidents (such as a child climbing on top of a stove or grabbing a hot iron).
Burns to your airways can be caused by inhaling smoke, steam, superheated air, or toxic fumes, often in a poorly ventilated space.
Burns in children are sometimes traced to parental abuse.
Symptoms
Blisters
Pain (the degree of pain is not related to the severity of the burn - the most serious burns can be painless)
Peeling skin
Red skin
Shock (watch for pale and clammy skin, weakness, bluish lips and fingernails, and a drop in alertness)
Swelling
White or charred skin
Symptoms of an airway burn:
Charred mouth; burned lips
Burns on the head, face, or neck
Wheezing
Change in voice
Difficulty breathing; coughing
Singed nose hairs or eyebrows
Dark, carbon-stained mucus
First Aid
FOR MINOR BURNS
1. If the skin is unbroken, run cool water over the area of the burn or soak it in a cool water bath (not ice water). Keep the area submerged for at least 5 minutes. A clean, cold, wet towel will also help reduce pain.
2. Calm and reassure the person.
3. After flushing or soaking, cover the burn with a dry, sterile bandage or clean dressing.
4. Protect the burn from pressure and friction.
5. Over-the-counter ibuprofen or acetaminophen can help relieve pain and swelling. DO NOT give children under 12 aspirin. Once the skin has cooled, moisturizing lotion also can help.
6. Minor burns will usually heal without further treatment. However, if a second-degree burn covers an area more than 2 to 3 inches in diameter, or if it is located on the hands, feet, face, groin, buttocks, or a major joint, treat the burn as a major burn.
7. Make sure the person is up-to-date on tetanus immunization.
FOR MAJOR BURNS
1. If someone is on fire, tell the person to STOP, DROP, and ROLL. Wrap the person in thick material to smother the flames (a wool or cotton coat, rug, or blanket). Douse the person with water.
2. Call 911.
3. Make sure that the person is no longer in contact with smoldering materials. However, DO NOT remove burnt clothing that is stuck to the skin.
4. Make sure the person is breathing. If breathing has stopped, or if the person’s airway is blocked, open the airway. If necessary, begin rescue breathing and CPR.
5. Cover the burn area with a dry sterile bandage (if available) or clean cloth. A sheet will do if the burned area is large. DO NOT apply any ointments. Avoid breaking burn blisters.
6. If fingers or toes have been burned, separate them with dry, sterile, non-adhesive dressings.
7. Elevate the body part that is burned above the level of the heart. Protect the burnt area from pressure and friction.
8. Take steps to prevent shock. Lay the person flat, elevate the feet about 12 inches, and cover him or her with a coat or blanket. However, DO NOT place the person in this shock position if a head, neck, back, or leg injury is suspected or if it makes the person uncomfortable.
9. Continue to monitor the person’s vital signs until medical help arrives. This means pulse, rate of breathing, and blood pressure.
Do Not
DO NOT apply ointment, butter, ice, medications, cream, oil spray, or any household remedy to a severe burn.
DO NOT breathe, blow, or cough on the burn.
DO NOT disturb blistered or dead skin.
DO NOT remove clothing that is stuck to the skin.
DO NOT give the person anything by mouth, if there is a severe burn.
DO NOT immerse a severe burn in cold water. This can cause shock.
DO NOT place a pillow under the person’s head if there is an airway burn. This can close the airway.
Call immediately for emergency medical assistance if
Call 911 if:
The burn is extensive (the size of your palm or larger).
The burn is severe (third degree).
You aren’t sure how serious it is.
The burn is caused by chemicals or electricity.
The person shows signs of shock.
The person inhaled smoke.
Physical abuse is the known or suspected cause of the burn.
Call a doctor if your pain is still present after 48 hours.
Call immediately if signs of infection develop. These signs include increased pain, redness, swelling, drainage or pus from the burn, swollen lymph nodes, red streaks spreading from the burn, or fever.
Also call immediately if there are signs of dehydration: thirst, dry skin, dizziness, lightheadedness, or decreased urination. Children, elderly, and anyone with a weakened immune system (e.g., HIV) should be seen right away.
Prevention
To help prevent burns:
Install smoke alarms in your home. Check and change batteries regularly.
Teach children about fire safety and the hazards of matches and fireworks.
Keep children from climbing on top of a stove or grabbing hot items like irons and oven doors.
Turn pot handles toward the back of the stove so that children can’t grab them and they can’t be accidentaly knocked over.
Place fire extinguishers in key locations at home, work, and school.
Remove electrical cords from floors and keep them out of reach.
Know about and practice fire escape routes at home, work, and school.
Set temperature of water heater at 120 degrees or less.
Last revised: December 7, 2012
by Mamikon Bozoyan, M.D.
Medical Encyclopedia
A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z | 0-9
All ArmMed Media material is provided for information only and is neither advice nor a substitute for proper medical care. Consult a qualified healthcare professional who understands your particular history for individual concerns.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Headlines
Preventing child obesity in the next generation…
It’s time to consider propranolol as an…
How long should children play video games?
E-cigarette vapor does not cause oxidative stress…
Heavy hitters: Obesity rate soars among professional…
Rap1, a potential new target to treat obesity
Belief about nicotine content in cigarette may…
You Can Stop Feeling Bad About Eating Chocolate
Overweight and obese type 2 patients show improvements…
Researchers explore epigenetic influences of chronic…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
Most Read
Most Read
Marijuana use in adults
2009 H1N1 Influenza
Asthma
Top Proven Health Benefits of Fish Oil
Ectopic pregnancy
Successful aging: THE SECOND 50
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Avastin Eye Injection Treatment for Macular Degeneration
Hemorrhoids
New STELARA data show inhibition of joint destruction in…
Cancer News
UA Cancer Center team questions safety, efficacy of selenium…
Many adolescent girls with leukemia are not being screened…
Anti-tumor immunity identified with new ovarian cancer treatment…
Study examines survival outcomes after different lung cancer…
New strategy identified for treating acute myeloid leukemia
Saturated fatty acids linked to breast cancer in postmenopausal…
Study may help reassure women taking tamoxifen for breast…
High fruit intake during adolescence linked with lower breast…
Andrei Goga’s UCSF team finds new approaches to eradicate…
Study suggests testosterone therapy does not raise risk…
Mental News
Assisted dying for psychiatric disorders: Serious public…
PTSD linked to low levels of fat hormone
Clinicians need to screen ‘nicotine naive’ teenagers…
Post-traumatic stress disorder seen in many adults living…
ADHD medications associated with diminished bone health…
Antidepressant may improve cognitive symptoms in people…
Alcohol exposure during pregnancy affects multiple generations
Vulnerability to depression linked to noradrenaline
Gene study points towards therapies for common brain disorders
Diagnosing depression before it starts
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved