Fast Home Remedies for Cold and dry Cough during Pregnancy
Home
Health A-Z
Diet & Nutrition
Hair & Beauty
Pregnancy & Parenting
Mesothelioma Cancer
Homehome remedies for cough and coldFast Home Remedies for Cold and dry Cough during Pregnancy
Fast Home Remedies for Cold and dry Cough during Pregnancy
Admin
Is your nose running? Do you have a sore throat? And are you pregnant? If you are suffering from cold during pregnancy, it is not something you should be scared of, but you need to be careful and should act upon it. The immune system changes when a woman gets pregnant. You might suffer from cold and cough at some point of time during your pregnancy. However, the good news is that getting a cold does not affect your child in any way.
You may get tired and annoyed during pregnancy, especially when you are suffering from cold and cough. Doctors always recommend that certain medications should be avoided during pregnancy and this article will give you home remedies that will help you alleviate these symptoms. Make sure that you consult your doctor before taking any medications or alternative therapies.
Take Rest
Stay warm and take adequate rest as it will help your body direct its energy towards fighting the flu. Bed rest will help your body to normalise. During pregnancy, rest also helps keep the blood pressure under control and decrease stress.
Saline Drops
Saline drops soothe the inflamed nasal tissue besides loosening nasal mucus. To prepare at home, dissolve one-quarter teaspoon of salt in eight ounces of water, put in a clean dropper and dispense a few drops in each nostril. Blow your nose after 5 minutes. This procedure removes the virus particles from the nose considerably.
Steam
Warm, humid air is effective in cleansing the mucus. You can use a humidifier or merely inhale steam from a pot of boiling water. Moreover, steaming helps relax cough too.
Mentholated Chest Rubs
Rub a little dollop of these creams as the soothing vapours open the body’s air passageways by inducing the blood vessels to dilate.
Saltwater Gargles
Warm, salt-water gargles help by drawing out the mucus and reducing the painful swelling in the throat. Salt also quells the itching sensation in the throat.
Nasal Strips
These sticky tabs gently help to open up nasal passages so that you can breathe easier.
Drink Plenty of Water
It is essential to stay hydrated as some common cold symptoms such as sneezing and runny nose can cause slight dehydration. Avoid drinks with caffeine as they may dehydrate you.
Honey and Lemon
Hot water with honey and lemon can work miracles. Honey soothes your throat, and the vitamin C in the lemon boosts the immune system. Ginger juice helps relieve the pain.
Chicken Soup
Hot chicken soup with onions and vegetables can be both nutritious and refreshing.
Cough Lozenges
The menthol or eucalyptus in cough drops soothes the throat and unclogs the congestion.
Sleeping with the head elevated will help in sinus drainage and improved breathing. Blow your nose often and let the germ-carrying phlegm come out. It is essential to keep one nostril pressed while blowing gently through the other as this will prevent the mucus from entering your ear passages.
Though there are many safe home remedies for cold and cough during pregnancy, in case there is little relief, it is advised to seek medical help. Certain safe drugs can be prescribed by the doctor to ease out the pain and irritation.
Though there are a number of safe home remedies for cold and cough during pregnancy, in case there is little relief, it is advised to seek medical help. Certain safe drugs can be prescribed by the doctor to ease out the pain and irritation.
Tags
cold remedies common cold treatment dry cough in pregnancy dry cough remedies fast home remedy for dry cough home remedies for cold home remedies for cough and cold
Reactions
Facebook
Twitter
infolink
Social Plugin
Follow by Email
Get all latest content delivered straight to your inbox.
Popular Posts
Natural Home Remedies for Oily Skin Care
07:50
Recent Posts
3/recent/post-list
Tags
are diabetes curable
cold remedies
cure home health care
herbal remedies
holistic medicine remedies
Home Remedies
Categories
cold remedies 1
holistic medicine remedies 5
Home Remedies 19
Menu Footer Widget
Home
About
Contact Us
Developed by by TemplatesYard | Distributed by Blogger Themes
Powered by Blogger