New Eczema Drug Approved By The FDA | Health Clipboard | Newsradio 600 KOGO
Toggle navigation
San Diego's News & Information Station
Newsradio 600 KOGO - San Diego's News & Information Station
On-Air
Program Schedule San Diego's Morning News Cliff Notes on the News George Chamberlin Rush Limbaugh The Sean Hannity Show The DeMaio Report San Diego's Evening News Hour Ground Zero George Noory
News
San Diego News National News Health Clipboard Traffic Weird News Weather KOGO News File Political News Sports Kevin at the Movies
Podcasts
George Chamberlin Unlikely Candidates of 2020 Presidential Election The DeMaio Report KOGO at Night Community Connection Retire Right with Epstein & White SD Real Estate Now with Chris Heller Voice of San Diego
Connect
Listen on Smart Device Events Calendar Twitter Facebook Everything San Diego Newsletter Community Connection Adopt A Pet San Diego Contact Us
Contests
All Contests Contest Rules
More
On-Air
Program Schedule San Diego's Morning News Cliff Notes on the News George Chamberlin Rush Limbaugh The Sean Hannity Show The DeMaio Report San Diego's Evening News Hour Ground Zero George Noory
News
San Diego News National News Health Clipboard Traffic Weird News Weather KOGO News File Political News Sports Kevin at the Movies
Podcasts
George Chamberlin Unlikely Candidates of 2020 Presidential Election The DeMaio Report KOGO at Night Community Connection Retire Right with Epstein & White SD Real Estate Now with Chris Heller Voice of San Diego
Connect
Listen on Smart Device Events Calendar Twitter Facebook Everything San Diego Newsletter Community Connection Adopt A Pet San Diego Contact Us
Contests
All Contests Contest Rules
User Account Icon Created with sketchtool.
Log In
Sign Up
Settings
Log Out
Contact Icon Created with sketchtool.
Contact
Newsletter
Advertise on Newsradio 600 KOGO, Get Results
Health Clipboard
New Eczema Drug Approved By The FDA
posted by Marilyn Hyder - Mar 28, 2017
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved Dupixent (dupilumab) injection to treat adults with moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis).
Dupixent is intended for patients whose eczema is not controlled adequately by topical therapies, or those for whom topical therapies are not advisable. Dupixent can be used with or without topical corticosteroids.
Atopic dermatitis, a chronic inflammatory skin disease, is often referred to as "eczema," which is a general term for several types of inflammation of the skin. Atopic dermatitis is the most common of the many types of eczema; onset typically begins in childhood and can last through adulthood.
The cause of atopic dermatitis is a combination of genetic, immune and environmental factors. In atopic dermatitis, the skin develops red, scaly and crusted bumps, which are extremely itchy. Scratching leads to swelling, cracking, "weeping" clear fluid, and finally, coarsening and thickening of the skin.
The safety and efficacy of Dupixent were established in three placebo-controlled clinical trials with a total of 2,119 adult participants with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis not adequately controlled by topical medication(s). Overall, participants who received Dupixent achieved greater response, defined as clear or almost clear skin, and experienced a reduction in itch after 16 weeks of treatment.
Dupixent can cause side effects such as serious allergic reactions and eye problems, such as pink eye (conjunctivitis) and inflammation of the cornea (keratitis). If patients experience new or worsening eye symptoms such as redness, itching, pain or visual changes, they should consult a health care provider. The most common side effects include injection site reactions; cold sores in the mouth or on the lips; and eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching.
The safety and efficacy of Dupixent have not been established in the treatment of asthma. Patients who also have asthma should not adjust or stop their asthma treatment without talking to their physicians.
The FDA granted the approval of Dupixent to Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Photo Credit: Getty Images
Health Clipboard
Health news and discoveries in San Diego. Marilyn Hyder hosts weekdays on KOGO AM! Read more
Contact
Call 858-715-3350
Email MarilynHyder@iHeartMedia.com
Social
Terms of Use
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Sitemap
KOGO Public Inspection File
KOGO Political File
EEO Public File
iHeartRadio - Get the Free Radio App
Find a Podcast
Contest Rules
Advertise with Newsradio 600 KOGO, Get Results
Contact
San Diego's Breaking News Station, NewsRadio AM 600 KOGO featuring San Diego's Morning News with Ted and LaDona, Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, Carl DeMaio, Coast to Coast and Ground Zero..
© 2019 iHeartMedia, Inc.
title
Content Goes Here
ok