Magnesium | Migraine.com
Skip to Accessibility Tools Skip to Content Skip to Footer
Menu
SearchSearchCreated with Sketch.
GO
Community
Q&A
Stories
Forums
Member Search
Community Advocates
Holly Baddour
Bill Bartlett
Lisa Robin Benson
Nancy Harris Bonk
Alene Brennan
Gretchen Church
Kelly Crabb
Maria De Leon
Janet Geddis
Katie Golden
Sarah Hackley
Tonilyn Hornung
Marci Kallick
Joanna Kempner, PhD
Kyky Renee Knight
Khalid Moomand
Tom Picerno
Olivia Rehberger
Elizabeth Roberts-Zibbel
Jaime Sanders
Kerrie Smyres
Amanda Workman
Steven Workman
William B. Young, MD, FAHS
Editorial Team
Community Rules
Basics
What Is Migraine?
Migraine Statistics
Migraine Types
Abdominal Migraine
Acephalgic Migraine
Basilar-Type Migraine
Cyclic Migraine Syndrome
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Gastric Stasis Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Infantile Colic
Hormonal Migraine
Migraine Aura Without Pain
Migraine with Aura
Migraine with Brainstem Aura
Migraine with Typical Aura
Migraine Without Aura
Ocular Migraine
Retinal Migraine
Seasonal Migraine
Silent Migraine
Sinus Migraine
Stress Migraine
Tension Migraine
Vestibular Migraine
Migraine Diagnosis
Causes & Triggers
Migraine Causes
Migraine Triggers
Emotions & Stress
Environmental
Exercise
Food & Drinks
Hormonal Changes
Sexual Activity
Migraine Phases
Chronic Migraine
Exertion Headache
Hangover Headache
Hypertension Headache
Other Headache Types
Living with Migraine
Children & Teens
Disability
Applying for Disability
Family Medical Leave Act
ADA & the Workplace
Getting Help
Health Insurance
Insurance Denials
Insurance Limits
Prescription Drug Insurance
Quality of Life
Avoiding a Migraine
Sleep
Social Life
Work
Risk of Stroke
Transient Ischemic Attack
Women's Health & Migraine
Menstrual Headaches
Hormonal Changes
Migraine & Menopause
Infertility & Migraine
Migraine During Pregnancy
Migraine During Labor
Migraine After Childbirth
Symptoms
Aura
Diarrhea & Constipation
Difficulty Concentrating
Fatigue
Feeling Lightheaded
Fever
Food Cravings
Hives
Mood Changes
Nausea
Neck Pain
Numbness & Tingling
Pain on One Side of the Head
Puffy Eyelid
Sensitivity to Light
Sensitivity to Smells
Sensitivity to Sound
Throbbing Pain
Vertigo
Vision Changes
Weakness
Symptom Checker
Treatment
CGRP: A New Direction for Migraine Treatment
Complementary Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Therapy
Cold Therapy
Darkness & Rest
Exercise
Heat Therapy
Massage
Migraine Diet
Seeking Quiet
Yoga
Medication Relief
OTC Medicine
NSAIDs
Natural Remedies
Butterbur
Caffeine
Coenzyme Q10
Feverfew
Fish Oil
Flaxseed
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Magnesium
Medical Marijuana
Peppermint Oil
Potassium
Riboflavin
Tea
Valerian
Vitamins
Prescription Drugs
What are CGRPs?
Alsuma™ (Sumatriptan Injection)
Amerge®
Anticonvulsants
Axert®
Antidepressants
Beta Blockers
Botox®
Depakote®
Calcium Channel Blockers
Ergomar®
Fioricet®
Frova®
Imitrex®
Maxalt®
Narcotic Analgesics
Nasal Spray
Onzetra™
Propranolol
Relpax®
Sumavel®
Topiramate
Triptans
Treximet®
Trokendi XR™
Zecuity™
Zembrace®
Zomig®
Prevention Medications
Migraine Research
Clinical Trials 101
Mental Health & Migraine
Migraine Effects on Mental Health
Depression
Psychotherapy
Medications
Suicide Prevention
Complementary & Alternative Therapies
General Resources
Recovery from Mental Health Conditions
Myths & Misconceptions
Frequently Asked Questions
Special Sections
Register
Log In
SearchCreated with Sketch.
Search
Accessibility
A
A
A
T
T
T
T
Reset
Subscribe
Forums
Natural Remedies
Magnesium
SHARE
Email Created with Sketch.
Heart
By admin October 25, 2010 at 8:22 pm
Welcome to the Magnesium Forum
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg October 20, 2012 at 3:44 am
CORVID – Thank you for sharing that! Many Migraineurs are deficient in Magnesium. Maybe that was one of your main triggers. Congratulations on finding a wonderful and easy answer for yourself!
reply
By VTLauren August 27, 2014 at 1:52 pm
Has anyone read the book or articles by Dr. Russell Blaylock. Sounds like similiar diet suggestions in Healing Headaches (can’t think of author) but the elimination diet. What I wanted to know is if he’s right about using a specific brand of Magnesium. I think it’s Jigsaw Health Magnesium w/SRT. I guess it’s gradual release in your system. I also read something about powder form to use during an attack.
Anyone try these products and does the brand of Magnesium make a difference in it’s success in preventing migraine? I’m very interested. Thanks!
reply
By illinois247 January 26, 2013 at 4:58 am
Magnesium twice a day helped mine somewhat
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg January 26, 2013 at 5:52 am
illinois247 – It always strikes me as strange that this thread isn’t populated by several pages! Magnesium is easy to take, effective for many people in oral form, and for a huge number of people when given as an IV during a Migraine attack. Thanks for sharing that it was helpful to you. Maybe when we get more of these types of stories, Magnesium won’t be so easy to dismiss any longer…
reply
By illinois247 February 23, 2013 at 3:07 am
I just got the temporary implant and it’s working but before that the only relief I could get was magnesium and gatorade.
reply
By Gina March 9, 2013 at 11:33 pm
How long does it take to start working and how much should I take? I have had 5 migraines in the past 10 days. My doctor’s appt isn’t for 4 weeks. Imitrex isn’t helping. I am having trouble working and taking care of my children. Thanks in advance for any info you can give me! 🙂
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg March 10, 2013 at 11:10 pm
ginaflack – Response really varies from person to person. It can be a day or two, or a month or two. One great thing about Magnesium though, is that it is very unlikely to be harmful to you, especially if you are deficient in Magnesium. If you have trouble taking it orally, you can try taking a smaller dosage and utilizing epsom salts baths frequently. Epsom salts are magnesium salts that are easily absorbed through the skin. By bypassing the gut, it is much less likely you will have digestive upset as a side effect.
Hang in there… I hope your doctor will be able to offer you some other options that will be helpful to you.
reply
By illinois247 April 3, 2013 at 3:12 am
Didn’t know about the epsom salts good to know. My impalnt is helping but it doesnt stop all of them so still using the magnesium.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg April 6, 2013 at 3:23 am
illinois247 – I love my epsom salts! Hang in there. It may take some time for everything to start working together optimally. Do let us know how you’re doing, okay?!
reply
By Melissa April 24, 2013 at 5:25 pm
I take a magnesium supplement as well as using a topical magnesium oil. I’m not sure the oil has done much for my migraines but it does make me sleep better which in turn can help the migraines. Since starting magnesium my headaches seem to be less painful but it has not made the frequency end for me. I also take b-complex and b-2 supplements which migrainers are know to be deficient in.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg April 25, 2013 at 4:06 am
melissaatooker – I’m glad you’re using the oil too. Not many people know that even exists. It is often used for therapeutic massage.
One quick thing though, which is important to know – Migraineurs are not necessarily known to be deficient in B vitamins, and in fact taking them without keeping an eye on levels can create more problems than they might potentially solve. If you are deficient (which can easily be determined with testing) they might be helpful, but overdosing on specific B’s can be toxic. There are also side effects, such as increased light sensitivity that can occur with B2 supplementation. That said, B2 does have some research behind it that backs its use as a preventive. Just because it is a vitamin however, doesn’t mean it is automatically safe.
Have you had your vitamin levels tested recently?
I am currently doing weekly infusions of magnesium, B vitamins and others which we’d hoped would be helpful for my Migraines as well as my autoimmune issues. (I have been tested and do have malabsorption and resultant deficiencies) Unfortunately, it tends to trigger them. Migraine brains don’t like change and it seems this is just too much change for my brain to deal with at once. Usually mag is my go-to if I get an intractable or refractory attack. Right now, it’s not working for me. In fact, the infusions have been causing palps and some other issues that we’re hoping will go away as we go to bi-weekly infusions.
I hope to get more info on this from my headache specialist.
reply
By Shinetrue July 8, 2013 at 7:59 pm
I agree with your statement above- I am so lucky that I stumbled upon people talking about magnesium on another site. In january 2012, I noticed increased light sensitivity and my migraines became unpredictable (used to be once every 3 months). A few months after I seemed to stabilize (off birth control), I started experincing Tinittus constantly and migraines evry 3-4 days. After trying a few different types and reading “the magnesium solution for migraine headaches” (ebook) I found my answer. I do take B2 also and notice my energy levels drop if I do not take it. My cousin started taking magnesium for her Raynaud’s and it has helped her too. I have classic migraines w/ aura and dont see why doctor’s are not aware of the benefits of magnesium. It was a lifesaver for me.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg July 12, 2013 at 11:25 am
Shinetrue – Magnesium has many benefits, but like any other nutrient we put into our bodies, we need to be careful that we are balancing them all. Overdoing any one nutrient can set others off, and eventually we end up in trouble. This is why having a great, not just good diet is so important. Many of us don’t absorb our minerals and nutrients particularly well due to Migraine related gastric issues. This is one reason I agree with you – I wish more doctors understood the benefits of mag for Migraine. Maybe they would use it more frequently instead of labeling desperate Migraineurs as drug seekers. *sigh*
reply
By DElaine85 January 15, 2014 at 1:59 am
Magnesium helped me a bit, but I haven’t had a migraine in weeks since I started taking electrolyte supplements a couple times a day.
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg January 15, 2014 at 11:26 pm
DElaine85
For some, electrolytes can be helpful, however there are two things to consider. #1 most electrolyte supplements contain MSG and can in fact be triggers for some people. #2 using these supplements too often can overdo some electrolytes. Since many of these electrolytes help to control how our brains and nervous system work, this can eventually be a bad thing.
I’m super glad it seems to be working for you, but hopefully this additional information might help you in the future too 🙂
~Ellen
reply
By DElaine85 January 16, 2014 at 8:04 am
I would certainly hope that a person would be careful with anything they ingest considering that even water can potentially kill you if you drink a couple times the healthy amount of it…
As far as the MSG; I am curious if this would be a listed ingredient when present? Because if so, there is none in the one’s I am taking (Trace Minerals Research).
reply
By DElaine85 January 16, 2014 at 8:11 am
In fact, part of the reason I decided to give this a go was because I noticed that some of the biggest migraine triggers are related to hydration; MSG (a sodium) and Nitrates (often present in high protein foods which require large amounts of water for the body to process).
Also, many of the supplements that tend to help migraine pain often work by regulating blood vessel tension in the brain which is s technique, studies have found, that the body seems to use to attempt to regulate body fluid levels.
Whatever the case, it seems to working for me!
reply
By Ellen Schnakenberg January 18, 2014 at 11:22 pm
DElaine85
MSG is considered “natural” and as such there is almost no labeling rules for it. I wrote a couple posts that might help you find out if this is an issue for you.
It boils down to this I think: in your case, sports drinks seem to be helpful to you, whatever the reason. Sometimes we just don’t understand why. It could even be as simple as you’re staying hydrated, which can be a really important Migraine trigger all by itself! My comment was really made more for the thousands of other patients who will read your post and in desperation, give sports drinks a try without knowing what all triggers they might actually be exposing themselves to.
Here are those MSG info posts I encourage anyone with Migraine to read, research and try diligently to understand and make automatic before putting anything into or onto their bodies. (yep, MSG is also in cosmetics, shampoo etc.)
Migraine Triggers: How Do I Locate Hidden MSG Migraine Triggers? https://migraine.com/blog/locate-hidden-msg-migraine-triggers/
Migraine Triggers: MSG — Untangling this Hidden Migraine Trigger
https://migraine.com/blog/msg-untangling-this-hidden-migraine-trigger/
Someday, my dream is that the Migraine community has two things:
#1 An elimination of MSG in foods without clear and consistent warnings on labels, and NO HIDING.
#2 A list of common foods that are free of high glutamate levels (the only way you will really know if you’re eating something that may trigger you), and a list of those that knowingly or unknowingly include these problem checmicals.
~Ellen
reply
By rpigg August 6, 2014 at 2:06 pm
I am trying Magnesium cream to rub on my shoulders, neck, spine legs, feet, anywhere. A family member has cancer and got the cream from a cancer center in Arizona for extreme leg & feet cramps. It does help relax the muscles and with the migraine pain that is at the base of the skull. I have been diagnosed with chronic migraine. There is not a day I do not have some form of it.
My muscles are constantly tense in my whole body all the time. When I realize I am squeezing the muscles I tell myself to relax just to find I am doing it again. The only time I am completely relaxed is in meditation, and I can’t do that all the time.
My family member was told by the cancer center that you cannot take enough magnesium orally to do what the cream does. It can be compounded/made by any pharmacy if you can find one that will still do it. I am not sure if you need a prescription for it or not. The ingredients are “magnesium chloride 30% cream”.
reply
By Katie M. Golden August 8, 2014 at 4:43 pm Moderator
Rpigg,
Thanks for sharing, i’ve never heard of the magnesium cream before, but have used it orally for a long time. I’m going to look into it.
Like you, my neck and shoulders are always tense which contribute to my pain. Have you tried physical therapy? I also used a TENS unit to stimulate the muscles to get relief. Massages are great, but can get expensive. So I’m definitely going to ask my doc about this.
Thanks!
-Katie
reply
By Anthony October 6, 2014 at 2:14 am
Electrolyte supplements? I’ve never heard of this being used for migraine. I have chronic daily migraine and I’m willing to try anything! Where can I get this and what type should I be looking for? Thanks.
reply
By Tammy Rome October 23, 2014 at 9:14 pm
I use ElectroMix. It’s made by the same company that makes Emergen-C, but it’s not readily available. You’ll probably have to purchase it over the internet. It’s a lemon-lime powdered mix that you can add to water.
I also use SmartWater because it has electrolytes added to it.
Sports drinks just have too much sugar and salt for me to tolerate, but they do work in a pinch.
Tammy
reply
By Anthony October 25, 2014 at 2:58 am
Thanks for the info Tammy. Are you using this daily as a preventative or as needed as an abortive?
reply
By Tammy Rome October 25, 2014 at 2:15 pm
I use it as part of my overall healthy lifestyle, especially when it is hot and I’m going to be outside. It’s more of a “trigger avoidance” strategy by preventing my electrolytes from getting out of balance when I am in situations that put me at risk. I suppose you could use it daily if you are really sensitive to dehydration and electrolyte imbalances. I would certainly use it daily if I were an athlete or worked an active or outdoor job.
reply
By Blaine May 10, 2015 at 1:11 pm
For the last ~5 years I have been taking 400mg magnesium (from Costco) every evening and 100mg vitamin B2 (originally daily, the twice daily). This hasn’t really decreased the frequency of my migraines, but it has significantly decreased the severity.
reply
By icorvidae August 21, 2015 at 1:48 pm
Look into Magnesium Threonate. It’s a “new” formulation of magnesium that is highly absorbable. I bought the Life Extensions brand ($24/mo supply/Amazon.com). I also supplement with B-2 (400mg) and Ubiquinol (200mg) daily. 🙂
reply
By kyle August 24, 2015 at 1:00 pm
my wife gets migraines atleast once a day. she has been to doctors and she is on furocet and her doc says she can go on imitrex. she doesn’t want to take pills everyday anymore. any suggestions on what she can try to do. she wont try lavender oil cuz it makes her feel sick.
reply
By Katie M. Golden August 24, 2015 at 3:38 pm Moderator
53rx6k,
Your wife is lucky to have a partner who is so invested in her health!
I can understand not wanting to be on a lot of medications, however if she’s having a Migraine a day, she needs more aggressive treatment so that she can regain her quality of life.
Fioricet can become slightly addictive and higher doses will be needed to mask the pain. Also taking too much of it, can cause rebound headaches. As long as she’s aware of that, there are ways she can use it and avoid these pitfalls.
Imitrex is typically the first drug a doc goes to for a new migraine patient. If she doesn’t want to do that, there are a number of other ways to try to manage her Migraines. Here is a great resource on natural options: https://migraine.com/migraine-treatment/natural-remedies/
Also, since her Migraines are so bad and so frequent I hope she is seeing a neurologist and not a general practicioner. The best type of doctor for her to see is a headache specialist. These are neuros that only deal with Migraines. Here’s info on that: https://migraine.com/blog/how-are-migraine-specialists-different/
Best Wishes,
-Katie
Migraine.com Moderator
reply
By kyle August 26, 2015 at 12:34 pm
thanks for your reply. she has seen a neurologist a ways back and they didn’t see anything but we need to go back.
reply
Join the conversation! Log in or create an account.
Sign up for emails
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Follow us
About Us Contact Us Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Community Rules Help Center Ad Choices
© 2010–19 Health Union, LLC. All rights reserved. This information is not designed to replace a physician’s independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions. Migraine.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the site is conditional upon your acceptance of our terms of use.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.