Simple and Natural Cold Remedies - InfoBarrel
Log into InfoBarrel
Forgot your password?
Sign In
Cancel
Log in with Facebook
Need an account?
Close
Health
Auto Business Entertainment Health History Home Lifestyle Sports Tech Travel >>
Auto History Sports IB University
Login Sign Up
By SophieSSmith
Follow
InfoBarrel is a writing platform for non-fiction, reference-based, informative content. Opinions expressed by InfoBarrel writers are their own.
InfoBarrel > Health > Alternative Medicine
Simple and Natural Cold Remedies
By SophieSSmith
Sep 27, 2011
0 Shares
0
0
0
0
0
<?xml encoding="UTF-8"><?xml encoding="UTF-8">
Hot ginger tea and steam inhalations are some of the easiest home remedies for colds. Adding essential oils to a steam inhalation can make it more efficient for relieving a stuffy nose or a sore throat.
Natural Remedies for Cold
A steam inhalation is an easy and effective way to clear a stuffy nose during a cold. Simply boil some water and pour it into a large bowl, add a few drops of essential oils and inhale the hot steam for up to ten minutes. Repeat several times a day until the symptoms disappear. The hot steam helps to open up the nasal passages, to fight bacteria and viruses, and to prevent any further complications such as sinus infections. If your sinuses are already infected, steam inhalations can help to relieve the pain and to speed up healing.
Good essential oils to use in steam inhalations during a cold or a sinus infection are eucalyptus, lavender, pine and tea tree. Eucalyptus is a traditional home remedy for colds as it is antibacterial, antiviral and decongestant. Tea tree is one of the most effective antiviral and antibacterial oils you can find, lavender is especially good for evening use as it can help to sleep better, and pine is a decongestant, antibacterial and refreshing oil for inhalations. Steam inhalations also help to heal and relieve a cough.
Sore Throat Home Remedies
A cold often causes a sore throat as well as nasal congestion. The same steam inhalations that relieve a stuffy nose also help with a sore throat. Essential oils that are especially good for throat infections include lavender, benzoin and thyme. Drinking plenty of hot drinks is helpful too, and one of the best home remedies for sore throat is ginger and honey tea.
For a homemade ginger tea, use a small piece of fresh ginger root (about the size of the tip of your finger) cut into thin slice for each cup and pour boiling water over the slices. Leave the tea to infuse for at least five minutes and add a teaspoon of honey. Ginger is a warming spice and is used widely in Traditional Chinese Medicine and India's Ayurvedic medicine. Honey can help to soothe an irritated throat. You can also add the juice of half a lemon for flavor and for its antiseptic effect. Many herb teas can also help with an irritated throat. These include red sage (not to be used during pregnancy), peppermint and chamomile.
It is also a good idea to burn eucalyptus, tea tree, pine or lavender essential oil in an essential oil burner. These antibacterial and antiviral oils may even help to stop the cold virus from spreading.
Sources:
Natural Home Remedies for Colds
Patricia Davis: Aromatherapy: an A to Z (Random House, UK, 2004)
Credit: Gleb (Wikimedia Commons)
Next >> Spices as Medicine: 8 Spices with Healing Powers
Share
Pin
Tweet
Share
Share
More
SophieSSmith
Follow
Alternative Medicine
Follow
Health
Follow
Related Articles
Is It Strep Or A Sore Throat?
Healing With Coconut Oil
Making a Shower Pod For Congestion During the Cold Season
Benefits and Uses of Oil of Oregano
15 Natural Remedies for Eczema
Light Box Therapy - Do You Dread Winter?
21 Unusual Ways to Use Onions
Discover Kava - Relaxation The Pacific Way
Use every Piece of a Pineapple for Making Medicine
Comments
Comment on this Article
Save
Cancel
Bibliography
Site Links About Us Advertise on IB Contact Us Our Charity Work
Members Blog Contests The Top 100 Writer's Community Forum
Help FAQ How Does InfoBarrel Work? How Do I Start Writing? How Can I Get Preapproved?
RSS Feeds Articles Blog Features
© Copyright 2008 - 2019 by My Passion Media Inc. Terms of Service Privacy Policy XML Sitemap Page built in 0.8318s
article: 0.0034s
Article Score (12): 0.0193s
Author Score (13): 0.0198s
Author Profile Links (15): 0.0209s
Parent (19): 0.0239s
Hub Parent (24): 0.0261s
References (26): 0.0471s
Comments (27): 0.0479s
Save Socials (29): 0.6825s
Related (101): 0.8260s
Format Article (101): 0.8284s
Choose Ads(101): 0.8305s
Load Ads(101): 0.8306s
HeaderS (101): 0.8307s
HeaderE (101): 0.8308s
DB Connections: 102