8 Best Foods and Home Remedies To Cure Anemia - Best Health Tips
Home
About Site
Contact
Disclaimer
DMCA (Copyright)
Privacy Policy
Anti-Aging
Beauty Care
Eye Care
Fair Complexion
Food and Fitness
Hair Care
Heart Care
Skin Care
Teeth Care
Home / Blood Care / Health Care Tips / 8 Best Foods and Home Remedies To Cure Anemia
8 Best Foods and Home Remedies To Cure Anemia
Mahwish Iram 11:58 PM Blood Care, Health Care Tips
Anemia or anemia is a decrease in number of red blood cells (RBCs) or less than the normal quantity of hemoglobin in the blood. Hemoglobin is the iron-containing protein molecule in red blood cells that transports oxygen from your lungs to all tissues of the body and, in exchange, collects carbon dioxide from different tissues and transport back to the lungs. A lower level of hemoglobin, would mean low oxygen in all your body's tissues which may result in fatal consequences.
Causes of Anemia
Inadequate diet
Inadequate intake of iron, vitamins and proteins
Lack of Vitamin B12
Intestinal parasites or worms
Food not being absorbed properly
Chemotherapy drugs
Diseases of the bone marrow
Liver disease
Symptoms Of Anemia
Lack of energy
Fatigue
Dizziness
Dryness in the mouth and throat
Tiredness
Weakness
Dull and tired-looking eyes
Headache
Cold hands and feet
Being intolerant of cold temperatures
Rapid pulse
Shortness of breath
Burning sensation in the tongue
Slow healing of wounds
Sores at the corners of lips
Anemia has many types but the most common type is iron deficiency anemia that can be treated at home simply by following some Home remedies which are given below:
Home Remedies to Treat Iron Deficiency Anemia
1. Iron Rich Foods
First of all you need to make a proper diet containing Iron-Rich Foods. Red meat, organ meat such as kidney and livers, beans, lentils, brown rice, dark green leafy vegetables, such as spinach and kale, dried prunes, dried raisins, dates, pomegranate and egg yolks are excellent sources of Iron.
2. Vitamin C Rich Foods
Sometimes your body is getting enough iron but unable to absorb iron. Therefore, Vitamin C is recommended for proper absorption of iron. Along with iron rich foods don't forget to consume Vitamin C rich foods. Natural Important sources of Vitamin C are oranges, tangerines, limes, guava, lemons, papayas, strawberries, grapefruit pomegranate and mangoes. Many vegetables contain Vitamin C including collard greens, brussel sprouts, cabbage, potatoes, kale, spinach(palak), green and red peppers, broccoli, tomatoes and watercress. To preserve more of the Vitamin C content, eat these fruits and vegetables raw or only slightly cooked. Steam and exposure to light break down this vitamin.
3. Vitamin B12 Rich Foods
Deficiency or lack of Vitamin B12 may also cause anemia. However, eating foods rich in Vitamin B12 is very helpful in treatment of anemia. Liver, kidney, yogurt, cheese, eggs, dairy products, nonfat dry milk, fish, clams, oysters, salmon and sardines are good sources of Vitamin B-12.
4. Folate (Vitamin B-9) Rich foods
Folate (Vitamin B-9) Rich foods also considered very effective to treat anemia. Green leafy vegetables such as spinach and asparagus are wonderful sources of Folic Acid(Vitamin B-9). Organ meats including liver and kidney also contain ample amounts of Vitamin B9. Nuts, beans and legumes, shellfish, poultry, whole grains, citrus fruits, fruit juices and yeast are also good sources of Vitamin B-9.
5. Ripe Banana and Honey
Consumption of a ripe banana; mashed and mixed with a tablespoon of honey, helps a lot in treatment of anemia. Consume this on a daily basis to cure anemia.
6. Honey, Lemon Juice and Apple Cider Vinegar
Take 1 teaspoon of honey, 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, and 1 teaspoon of apple cider vinegar. Mix them well and consume on daily basis to treat anemia.
7. Figs (Anjeer)
Dried Figs works wonderfully to treat anemia. Eat 3-4 figs daily to treat anemia. You can chop dried figs and mix them with 1 tablespoon of honey or alternately you can grind the dried figs to a fine paste and infuse it in a glass of lukewarm milk and have this drink on a daily basis.
8. Beetroot (Chuqandar)
Consumption of beetroot(chuqandar), as a cooked vegetable or in salad, is one of the best home remedies for anemia. Beetroot juice is also considered very effective to cure anemia.
Some Precautions are Useful Tips
(i)Avoid drinking coffee, tea and all caffeine containing foods because they decrease iron absorption.
(ii)Avoid Alcohol it can further drop your hemoglobin level.
(iii)Avoid all foods containing high amount of gluten because it creates a hindrance in iron absorption. Avoid white refined flour and also avoid all products containing gluten.
(iv)Avoid consuming calcium-rich dairy products with iron-rich foods because the calcium in them reduces the absorption of iron. Maintain a proper eating gap of at least 2-3 hours between dairy products and iron-rich foods.
Important Note! Natural home remedies do not substitute for medical advice. In case of severe or acute Anemia you must consult your problem with a Medical Doctor.
8 Best Foods and Home Remedies To Cure Anemia Reviewed by Mahwish Iram on 11:58 PM Rating: 5
Share This
Facebook Twitter Google+
Health Care Tips
Categories
Beauty Care
Blood Care
Dark Skin
Facial Masks
Fair Complexion
Food and Nutrition
Foods And Fitness
Foot care
Fruits and Nutrients
Hair Care Tips
Lips Care Tips
Men's Health
Sexual Health
Skin Care Tips
Vitamins
Women's Health
Tags
Anti Aging Baby Soft Skin Belly Fat Brain Health Care Breast Care Dark Skin Dark Spots Dry Skin Eye Care Facial Masks Fat Burning Foot care Foul Smell Gray Hair Cure Hair Care Tips Heart Care Honey Benefits Lips Care Tips Men's Fairness Menstrual Problems Nail Care Oily Skin Pregnancy Sexual Health Skin Whitening Skin Whitening Masks Stomach Care Stretch Marks Summer Skin Whitening Teeth care Unwanted Hair Vegetables Benefits Vitamins Waist Size Weight Gain Weight Loss Winter Skin Whitening Wrinkles Yogurt Benefits
Facebook
Created By SoraTemplates | Distributed By Blogger Templates