Shoulder Osteoarthritis Treatment | Arthritis-Health
Skip to main content
Spine-health.com Sports-health.com
Arthritis Types
Living with Arthritis
Treatment
Surgery
Forums
Arthritis Types
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Bursitis
Fibromyalgia
General Arthritis
Gout
Juvenile Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
Polymyalgia Rheumatica
Pseudogout
Psoriatic Arthritis
Reactive Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Living with Arthritis
Chronic Pain
Coping with Fatigue
Managing Depression
Treatment
Alternative Treatments
Arthritis Specialists
Diet and Nutrition
Exercise
Injections
Joint Aspiration
Medications
Surgery
Hip Surgery
Knee Surgery
Shoulder Surgery
Forums
All Forums
Alternative Treatments Forum
Chronic Pain Forum
Exercises Forum
Medications Forum
Osteoarthritis Forum
Rheumatoid Arthritis Forum
Surgery Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find an Arthritis Center
Videos
Free Newsletters
You are here
Types
Osteoarthritis
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Treatment
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Treatment
share pin it Newsletters
By Ana Bracilovic, MD
|
Peer Reviewed
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Treatment Video
Osteoarthritis of the shoulder is a progressively degenerative disease that cannot be reversed. A variety of treatments are used to control pain and slow the disease's progression.
Unfortunately, there is a lack of clinical research that establishes which non-surgical shoulder arthritis treatments work best for which patients.6,7 This does not mean that the treatments available are not effective, but that often there is a process of trial and error regarding which treatments work best for which patients.
Explore the symptoms and treatments for the most common type of osteoarthritis in the shoulder: Acromioclavicular (AC Joint) Osteoarthritis
Without definitive clinical guidelines to direct non-operative treatment, it is imperative that the patient and doctor have a good relationship and talk frankly about hopes, expectations and risks of treatment. If the patient responds well to non-surgical treatment the degenerative process can be slowed down, pain can be controlled, and surgery can be avoided or at least postponed.
Article continues below
Advertisement
Non-Surgical Treatments for Shoulder Osteoarthritis
Common non-operative shoulder arthritis treatments include:
Activity modification
Certain activities and exercise will aggravate the shoulder joint. Daily activities may need to be modified to avoid pain. Weight lifting, chopping wood, kayaking, and similarly intense shoulder activities may need to be avoided altogether.
View Video: Should I Exercise Through Joint Pain?
Periodic rest
A little discomfort is to be expected as stiff joints loosen up in the morning or at the beginning of exercise. However, when people feel bone on bone pain or searing pain, they should not try to "work through the pain." Moderate to serious shoulder pain is a signal that the joint needs a rest.
Warm or cold compress
Using moist heat, such as a warming pad or whirlpool, for a few minutes can loosen a stiff shoulder joint making activity easier. Icing the shoulder joint for 15 or 20 minutes after activity can decrease swelling and provide some immediate pain relief. Heating or icing a joint is focused on improving symptoms temporarily: it does not alleviate the underlying causes of shoulder pain and will not improve long-term joint function by itself.
See 9 Easy Ways to Apply Heat to an Arthritic Joint
Physical Therapy
A physical therapy program that is focused on stretching and strengthening muscles and maintaining the shoulder's range of motion can be helpful. However, there is a lack of clinical research studying how physical therapy can benefit shoulder arthritis patients.8 Experts caution that aggressive physical therapy to expand range of motion can be detrimental to glenohumeral arthritis patients.9 A physical therapy program should proceed slowly to ensure the most benefit.
See Shoulder Exercises.
In This Article:
What Is Shoulder Osteoarthritis (Glenohumeral Arthritis)?
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Symptoms
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Causes
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Diagnosis
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Treatment
Shoulder Osteoarthritis Video
Medications and Injections for Shoulder Osteoarthritis
The medications listed below can be used to alleviate symptoms and slow the progression of shoulder osteoarthritis. Doctor and patient should discuss medication in the context of the patient's lifestyle, severity of pain and medical history. Potential side effects and interaction with other drugs and vitamins/supplements should also be considered.
See Dietary Supplements for Treating Arthritis
Analgesics. Pain relievers, such as acetaminophen (e.g. the active ingredient in Tylenol) have relatively few side effects and relieve pain.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs. Patients with moderate to severe pain may benefit from anti-inflammatory medications, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (e.g. Advil), naproxen (e.g. Aleve) or cox-2 inhibitors (e.g. Celebrex) to reduce the swelling and inflammation that are a common cause of pain. Prescription topical anti-inflammatory medications such as Voltaren gel and Flector patch may also be used.
Topical analgesics. These creams can be applied directly onto the shoulder. The creams contain counterirritants, such as wintergreen and eucalyptus, which stimulate the nerve endings and help distract the brain from joint pain. These creams are often sold over the counter and are available in most drug stores. Examples of brand names include Ben-Gay, Icy-Hot and Zostrix. Most can be used in combination with oral pain medications.
See Topical Pain Relief for Arthritis
Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate
Glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate occur naturally in the body's cartilage. In clinical trials conducted by the American College of Rheumatology, some patients with knee osteoarthritis reported benefits from taking supplements containing glucosamine sulfate or a combination glucosamine sulfate with chondroitin sulfate. Many experts agree more study is needed to fully understand how these alternative supplements affect the symptoms of osteoarthritis.10
Read more: Glucosamine and Chondroitin Sulfate Supplements for Osteoarthritis
Injections
Two types of injections are normally used for treatment of severe pain from shoulder osteoarthritis: steroid injections and hyaluronic acid injections.
The goal of steroid injections is to reduce swelling and thereby alleviate shoulder stiffness and pain.
The goal of hyaluronic acid injections is to provide lubrication for the shoulder joint, as hyaluronic acid mimics the viscous synovial fluid that naturally lubricates joints. Hyaluronic acid injections are a type of treatment called viscosupplementation.
The degree of pain relief from injections is variable. In a review of non-operative treatments for shoulder arthritis, the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons found one clinical study supporting viscosupplementation but no rigorous studies to either support or discredit the use of steroid injections.11 Ideally, when injections are used they can be used in combination with a structured physical therapy program.
Many experts suggest that steroid and hyaluronic injections into the glenohumeral joint need to be done using fluoroscopy.12 Fluoroscopy is a radiographic imaging technique that allows doctors to conduct a procedure while watching a real-time X-ray movie, ensuring that the injection is made into the exact proper location. Ultrasound guidance can also be used to guide an injection into the glenohumeral joint and has the advantage of fluoroscopy of not containing any radiation.
Coping techniques
To manage the pain, patients may employ techniques such as relaxation (e.g. relaxation tapes, meditation), visual imagery, biofeedback or hypnosis. For many, these techniques, along with a positive attitude that focuses on what activities are possible, can have an impact in moderating the shoulder pain.
Surgery for Shoulder Osteoarthritis
Shoulder Replacement Surgery Video
If osteoarthritis symptoms are severe and other treatments don't succeed, surgery may provide relief.
See Types of Shoulder Replacement Surgeries
Surgeries to relieve osteoarthritis of the shoulder include:
Shoulder arthroscopy to remove loose pieces of damaged cartilage.
Shoulder osteotomy to shave off osteophytes and reduce friction between bones.
Shoulder arthroplasty, or total joint replacement, to replace the ball-and-socket glenohumeral joint with an artificial one. The CDC reports that 41,934 total shoulder replacement (arthroplasty) surgeries were performed in 2004, making it the third most common joint replacement surgery, behind knee (454,652) and hip (232,857).13
Hemiarthroplasty, or partial joint replacement, to replace the humeral head. The employment of partial vs. total joint replacement is somewhat controversial. The AAOS reports that both can be successful, though pain relief and motion may be better with total joint replacement.14
For those who suffer from advanced shoulder arthritis, shoulder arthroplasty or hemiarthroplasty is a logical choice that can successfully decrease or eliminate pain. However, these are major surgeries that require a long recovery and rehabilitation process. Additionally, shoulder replacements have a limited lifespan. Doctors may advise younger patients with active lifestyles to pursue alternative treatments and procedures before having a joint replacement surgery. Patients are advised to choose a surgeon who is experienced in shoulder replacements.
See also Arthritis Treatment Specialists
References:
Burbank K.M., Stevenson J.H., Czarnecki G.R., Dorfmon J., "Chronic Shoulder Pain: Part II. Treatment" Am Fam Physician, 2008 Feb 15; 77(4):493-497, http://www.aafp.org, accessed September 2011.
"Shoulder Arthritis? What Patients Need to Know Before Treatment," American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons/American Association of Orthopaedic Surgeons, press release dated July 15, 2010, http://www6.aaos.org, accessed September 12, 2011.
Complete Listing of References
Next Page: Shoulder Osteoarthritis Video
Pages:
1
2
3
4
5
6
Editor's Top Picks
Types of Shoulder Replacement Surgeries
Video: Should I Exercise Through Joint Pain?
Shoulder Exercises for Arthritis
Video: Towel Shoulder Stretch for Arthritis Pain Relief
Water Therapy for Osteoarthritis
Acromioclavicular (AC) Joint Osteoarthritis Video
Osteoarthritis Topics
Osteoarthritis
Overview
Symptoms
Causes
Diagnosis
Treatment
AC Joint Osteoarthritis
Ankle Osteoarthritis
Hand Osteoarthritis
Hip Osteoarthritis
Knee Osteoarthritis
Shoulder Osteoarthritis
Spinal Osteoarthritis
Videos
advertisement
Sponsored by: Zimmer Biomet
4 Signs It Might be Time for a Shoulder Replacement
Here's what you should know.
Learn More
advertisement
Latest
Top Videos
Top Articles
What Is Hyaluronic Acid?
Hyaluronic Acid Injections for Knee Osteoarthritis
Do Hyaluronic Acid Injections Work for Knee Osteoarthritis?
Hyaluronic Acid Injection for Knee Osteoarthritis: Procedure and Risks
Knee Exercises for Arthritis
Lumbar Osteoarthritis Video
Learn how osteoarthritis occurs and how it can cause lower back pain and other symptoms.
Lumbar Osteophytes (Bone Spurs) Video
Learn how bone spurs occur and how they can cause lower back pain and other symptoms.
Ankylosing Spondylitis Video
Watch an overview of the development and progression of ankylosing spondylitis.
Topical Pain Relief for Arthritis
What Is Pannus?
Hand Pain and Rheumatoid Arthritis
Integrative Medicine for Arthritis Pain Relief
Dietary Supplements for Treating Arthritis
Turmeric and Curcumin for Arthritis
Sacroiliac Joint Pain and Inflammation
Applying Heat vs. Cold to an Arthritic Joint
advertisement
Health Information (Sponsored)
Arthritis Resources
Become a Doctor Member
Glossary
Image Gallery
Find a Joint Pain Specialist
Find an Arthritis Center
Sign up for our Newsletter
About Arthritis-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Spine-health
Sports-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Arthritis-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding arthritis and arthritis related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
version.2019.01.051-2019.01.019