When Heel Pain Is Caused by Bone Spurs
Skip to main content
Spine-health.com Arthritis-health.com
Sports Injuries
Treatment
Forums
Sports Injuries
Ankle and Foot
Elbow
General
Groin
Hand and Wrist
Head and Neck
Hip
Knee
Leg
Shoulder
Running
Treatment
Ankle and Foot Injury Treatment
Elbow Injury Treatment
Groin Injury Treatment
Hand and Wrist Injury Treatment
Head Injury Treatment
Hip Injury Treatment
Knee Injury Treatment
Leg Injury Treatment
Regenerative Medicine
Shoulder Injury Treatment
Sports and Exercise Injury Treatment
Stress Fracture Treatment
Forums
All Forums
Arm and Shoulder Forum
Foot and Ankle Forum
Head and Neck Forum
Leg and Knee Forum
Surgery Forum
Training Regimen Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find a Sports Medicine Center
Videos
Free Newsletters
You are here
Blog
When Heel Pain Is Caused by Bone Spurs
When Heel Pain Is Caused by Bone Spurs
share pin it Newsletters
By Carrie DeVries
Updated: 01/11/2017
Like some other tissues in the body, bones can regenerate themselves and develop new growth. Unfortunately, sometimes the new growth comes in the form of an irregular protrusion on the bone known as a spur.
See What Is a Bone Spur?
Save
Plantar fasciitis and heel spur syndrome can both be treated through physical therapy.
See Plantar Fasciitis: Initial Treatment Options
Bone spurs are frequently harmless and often go undetected. But if they impinge on nearby soft tissues like tendons or ligaments, they can cause pain and immobility.
Bone spurs can occur at many sites in the body, but there are two common sites in the heel where spurs can cause pain and interfere with your ability to do activities that involve running and jumping.
See The 2 Common Types of Heel Spurs
This guide explains the causes and symptoms of both types of heel spur:
Pain on the bottom of the heel
Pain on the bottom of the heel toward the front (just behind the arch) may be the result of heel spur syndrome. This occurs when a bone spur forms at the spot where the plantar fascia, a fibrous band that runs down the sole of the foot, inserts into the heel bone.
See Is Heel Pain Caused by Heel Spurs or Plantar Fasciitis?
But the heel pain may not be caused by the bone spur. In fact, it’s much more likely the pain is the result of injury or inflammation in the planta fascia itself: plantar fasciitis. Even if imaging results reveal the presence of a bone spur, it’s probably not responsible for the pain.
See Plantar Fasciitis Symptoms
But whether the pain was caused by bone spur syndrome or plantar fasciitis, both have similar initial treatment recommendations: resting, changing footwear, and stretching the calf and plantar fascia.
See Plantar Fasciitis: Initial Treatment Options
Pain on the back of the heel
Another spot that’s susceptible to the growth of bone spurs is at the top and back of the heel, where the heel bone connects with the Achilles tendon.
See Achilles Tendon Conditions Signs and Symptoms
A bone spur in this location can irritate the Achilles tendon, causing pain and inflammation—this is known as insertional Achilles tendonitis. It usually develops over time and is more likely to affect people in their 40s, 50s, or 60s.
See Common Running Injuries: Pain in the Ankle or Back of the Heel
Insertional Achilles tendonitis is different than regular Achilles tendonitis, which causes pain higher up, at the bottom of the calf.
See Diagnosing Achilles Pain
Bone spurs can be treated nonsurgically and surgically, but the first step is to treat the inflamed structure (like the plantar fascia or Achilles tendon) that triggered the spur in the first place.
Learn more:
Achilles Tendonitis and Tendon Injuries
Plantar Fasciitis Risk Factors
Editor's Top Picks
What Is a Bone Spur?
Is Heel Pain Caused by Heel Spurs or Plantar Fasciitis?
What Is Plantar Fasciitis?
Diagnosing Achilles Pain
Treating a Painful Achilles Tendon
Patellar Tendinitis Video
Sports Medicine Topics
Sports Injuries Center
Ankle/Foot Injuries
Elbow Injuries
Groin Injuries
Hand/Wrist Injuries
Head Injuries
Knee Injuries
Leg Injuries
Shoulder Injuries
Running Injuries
General Injuries
Treatment Center
advertisement
advertisement
Latest
Top Videos
Featured Articles
Wrist Tendonitis: An Overview
Symptoms of Wrist Tendonitis
Risk Factors and Causes of Wrist Tendonitis
Diagnosing Wrist Tendonitis
Treating Wrist Tendonitis Without Surgery
Snapping Hip Syndrome Treatment Video
Learn the treatment options for a snapping hip accompanied by pain.
Treatment for Knee Meniscus Tear Video
This video details the types of treatment for a knee meniscus tear.
Video: How to Make a Moist Heat Pack
Learn to make a moist heat pack with common household items.
Achilles Tendonitis and Tendon Injuries
What Is the Difference Between Tendonitis, Tendinosis, and Tendinopathy?
What You Need to Know About Runner’s Knee
Jumper’s Knee vs. Runner’s Knee
Exercise Ball Workout for Beginners
Advanced Exercise Ball Program for Runners and Athletes
advertisement
Health Information (Sponsored)
Sports Resources
Become a Doctor Member
Glossary
Find a Sports Medicine Center
Find a Sports Injury Specialist
Sign up for our Newsletter
About Sports-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Spine-health
Arthritis-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Sports-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding sports and sports related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
version.2019.01.051-2019.01.018