Achilles Tendonitis: Treatment for Heel Pain and Symptoms
Newsletter
Content created by Healthline and sponsored by our partners.​ ​ Learn​ ​more
Navigating Psoriatic Arthritis
Achilles Tendonitis
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD on June 8, 2017 — Written by Chitra Badii and Elizabeth Boskey, PhD
Causes
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Treatment
Complications
Outlook
Prevention
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
What is Achilles tendonitis?
The Achilles tendon attaches your calf muscles to your heel bone, or calcaneus. You use this tendon to jump, walk, run, and stand on the balls of your feet.
Continuous, intense physical activity, such as running and jumping, can cause painful inflammation of the Achilles tendon, known as Achilles tendonitis (or tendinitis).
There are two types of Achilles tendonitis: insertional Achilles tendonitis and noninsertional Achilles tendonitis.
Insertional Achilles tendonitis affects the lower portion of your tendon where it attaches to your heel bone.
Noninsertional Achilles tendonitis involves fibers in the middle portion of the tendon and tends to affect younger people who are active.
Simple home treatments can help Achilles tendonitis. However, if home treatment doesn’t work, it’s important to see a doctor. If your tendonitis gets worse, your tendon can tear. You may need medication or surgery to ease the pain.
Causes of Achilles tendonitis
Excessive exercise or walking commonly causes Achilles tendonitis, especially for athletes. However, factors unrelated to exercise may also contribute to your risk. Rheumatoid arthritis and infection are both linked to tendonitis.
Any repeated activity that strains your Achilles tendon can potentially cause tendonitis. Some causes include:
exercising without a proper warmup
straining the calf muscles during repeated exercise or physical activity
playing sports, such as tennis, that require quick stops and changes of direction
sudden increase in physical activity without allowing your body to adjust to increased training
wearing old or poorly fitting shoes
wearing high heels daily or for prolonged durations
having bone spurs in the back of your heels
being older, as the Achilles tendon weakens with age
Symptoms of Achilles tendonitis
Symptoms include:
discomfort or swelling in the back of your heel
tight calf muscles
limited range of motion when flexing your foot
skin on your heel overly warm to the touch
The main symptom of Achilles tendonitis is pain and swelling in the backside of your heel when you walk or run. Other symptoms include tight calf muscles and limited range of motion when you flex your foot.
This condition can also make the skin on your heel feel overly warm to the touch.
Diagnosing Achilles tendonitis
To diagnose Achilles tendonitis, your doctor will ask you a few questions about the pain and swelling in your heel or calf. Your doctor may ask you to stand on the balls of your feet while they observe your range of motion and flexibility.
The doctor also feels around, or palpates, the area directly to pinpoint where the pain and swelling are most severe.
Imaging tests may help confirm Achilles tendonitis, but you usually don’t need them. If ordered, the tests include:
X-rays, which provide images of foot and leg bones
MRI scans, which can detect ruptures and tissue degeneration
ultrasounds, which can show tendon movement, related damage, and inflammation
Treating Achilles tendonitis
Many treatments are available for Achilles tendonitis, ranging from home remedies, like rest and anti-inflammatory medication, to more invasive treatments, like steroid injections, platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injections, and surgery. Your doctor might suggest:
reducing your physical activity
very gently stretching and later strengthening your calf muscles
switching to a different, less strenuous sport
icing the area after exercise or when in pain
elevating your foot to decrease any swelling
wearing a brace or walking boot to prevent heel movement
going to physical therapy
taking anti-inflammatory medication, such as aspirin (Bufferin) or ibuprofen (Advil), for a limited time
wearing a shoe with a built-up heel to take tension off your Achilles tendon
RICE method
The rest, ice, compression, and elevation (RICE) method is usually effective in treating Achilles tendonitis right after you’re injured. This method works in the following way:
Rest: Don’t put pressure or weight on your tendon for one to two days until you can walk on the tendon without pain. The tendon usually heals faster if no additional strain is placed on it during this time.
Your doctor may suggest that you use crutches if you need to go long distances while resting your tendon.
Ice: Put ice in a bag, wrap the bag in cloth, and place the wrapped bag of ice against your skin. Hold the bag on your tendon for 15 to 20 minutes, then take the bag off to let the tendon warm up again. The ice usually makes inflammation or swelling go down faster.
Compression: Wrap a bandage or athletic tape around your tendon to compress the injury. You can also tie an article of clothing around this area.
This keeps the tendon from swelling too much. But don’t wrap or tie anything too tightly around your tendon, as it can limit blood flow.
Elevation: Raise your foot above the level of your chest. Because your foot is higher than your heart, blood returns to the heart and keeps the swelling down. This is easiest to do by lying down and putting your foot on a pillow or other raised surface.
Surgery
In a case where this treatment isn’t effective, surgery may be necessary to repair your Achilles tendon. If the condition worsens and is left untreated, there’s a greater risk of an Achilles rupture, which requires a surgical intervention. This can cause sharp pain in the heel area.
Your doctor may recommend a few options for a tendon rupture surgery based on how severe your rupture is and whether you’ve had a rupture before. Your doctor will usually refer you to an orthopedic surgeon to decide which procedure is best for you.
One surgical method is called open repair. In this surgery, a surgeon makes an incision to open your leg above the heel bone. Then they sew the two sides of the ruptured tendon back together and close the incision.
In another method, a surgeon makes an incision to open the area on your leg where the rupture happened. Then they pass needles with sutures through the tendon and the skin and back out through the incision. Finally, they tie the sutures together.
Complications of Achilles tendonitis
The most common complications of Achilles tendonitis are pain, having trouble walking or exercising, and your tendon or heel bone becoming deformed.
You can also experience a complete tear, or rupture, of your Achilles tendon. In this case, you’ll usually need surgery to fix the rupture.
A 2017 study found that complications such as infection or difficulties in wound healing are possible, though uncommon, after a surgery for Achilles tendonitis.
Complications can worsen if you don’t follow your doctor’s instructions after an operation. If you continue to put stress or wear on your Achilles tendon after a surgery, your tendon can rupture again.
Recovery and outlook from Achilles tendonitis
Tendonitis usually goes away after a few days, following rest and proper home treatment (including the RICE method). Recovery takes a lot longer if you continue to put pressure on the tendon or don’t change your exercise habits to prevent another injury or rupture.
Long-term tendonitis can cause worse issues, including insertional tendonitis, or the tendon inserting itself into the heel bone, and tendonosis, or weakening of the tendon.
A tendon rupture or chronic tendonitis may require long-term treatment or surgery. Recovery from surgery can take anywhere from a few weeks to a few months for full recovery.
Seeking treatment for your tendonitis or ruptured tendon right away is very important. Carefully following your doctor’s instructions will give you a much better chance for a quick recovery.
Preventing Achilles tendonitis
To lower your risk of Achilles tendonitis, try to:
Stretch your calf muscles at the beginning of each day to improve your agility and make your Achilles tendon less prone to injury. Try to stretch before and after workouts. To stretch your Achilles tendon, stand with a straight leg, and lean forward as you keep your heel on the ground.
Ease into a new exercise routine, gradually intensifying your physical activity.
Combine high- and low-impact exercises, such as basketball with swimming, to reduce constant stress on your tendons.
Choose shoes with proper cushioning and arch support. Also make certain the heel is slightly elevated to take tension off your Achilles tendon. If you’ve worn a pair of shoes for a long time, consider replacing them or using arch supports.
Reduce the heel size of shoes gradually when transitioning from high heels to flats. This allows your tendon to slowly stretch and increase its range of motion.
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD on June 8, 2017 — Written by Chitra Badii and Elizabeth Boskey, PhD
More in Navigating Psoriatic Arthritis
11 Early Signs of Psoriatic Arthritis
What Are the Stages of Psoriatic Arthritis?
Arthritis Prevention: What Can You Do?
View all
READ THIS NEXT
Plantar Fasciitis Stretches to Soothe Heel Pain
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
Looking for relief from heel pain caused by plantar fasciitis? Don’t get discouraged. We’ll show you some easy stretches to soothe the pain…
READ MORE
6 Stretches for Sciatic Pain Relief
Medically reviewed by William Morrison, MD
The telltale symptoms of sciatic nerve pain are severe pain in your back, buttocks, and legs. The pain can be so excruciating that you don’t even want…
READ MORE
6 Early Symptoms of Osteoarthritis (OA): Pain, Tenderness, and More
Medically reviewed by Gregory Minnis, DPT
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a form of degenerative joint pain. Learn the early signs, such as pain and tenderness, stiffness, and loss of flexibility.
READ MORE
Why Do Statins Cause Muscle Pain?
Medically reviewed by Aleah Rodriguez, PharmD
One of the more common side effects of statins is muscle pain. Sometimes, adjusting your prescription can help relieve the pain. Learn more.
READ MORE
Skip the Running: Alternatives to High-Impact Exercises
Medically reviewed by Peggy Pletcher, MS, RD, LD, CDE
Give your joints a rest and test your mettle with these high-intensity/low-impact alternatives.
READ MORE
Essential Stretches for Runners
Medically reviewed by Gregory Minnis, DBT
Stretching before you run can help prevent injury. Learn about the most crucial muscle areas for runners, along with stretches to keep them healthy.
READ MORE
Best Hip Rotator Stretches for Cyclists
Medically reviewed by Peggy Pletcher, MS, RD, LD, CDE
If you regularly ride a bike, your hips and glutes might be constantly tight. Here are two effective stretches to loosen up.
READ MORE
Running Tips: 3 Essential Quad Stretches
Medically reviewed by Peggy Pletcher, MS, RD, LD, CDE
Try these three quad stretches before and after your run to help maintain and gain flexibility.
READ MORE
Best Running Blogs of the Year
Whether you're a seasoned runner or a veteran marathoner, there’s a blog out there you’ll want to follow. Add these top blogs to your list.
READ MORE
CMS Id: 17544 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582