Remember, Remember burns in November | www.aimhigh-training.co.uk
Home
Aim High Story
Courses
Assessing Your Workplace First Aid Needs
Open Course Dates
Workplace First Aid Open Course Dates
Parents First Aid Open Course Dates
Workplace 1-Day Courses
Emergency First Aid at Work
CPR & AED
Annual Refresher Courses
Workplace 2-Day Courses
First Aid at Work (Re-qualification)
Paediatric First Aid
Activity First Aid
Workplace 3-Day Courses
First Aid at Work
Parents First Aid Courses
Newsletters
Blog
Contact Us
Useful Links
Remember Remember Burns in November
Aim High Training
04 Nov 2014
First Aid
Comments: 0
Whether you are attending a public fireworks display or hosting your own at home with the family, it’s always best to be prepared!!!!
Burns and Scalds are damage to the skin caused by heat and are treated in the same way. A burn is caused by dry heat ie: an iron or fire. A scald is caused by something wet, such as hot water or steam. Burns can also be caused by chemicals, ice, electricity and the sun. They can be very painful and can cause blisters and charred, black or red skin.
Burns Statistics
Every 1.5 minutes someone in the UK is burnt or scalded in an accident at home
112,000 people visit hospital each year with the effects of burns and scalds incurred in the home
45% of all casualties are children under the age of 4 years old
Fireworks Statistics
Sparklers get five times hotter than cooking oil.
A rocket can reach speeds of 150mph.
A firework shell can reach as high as 200m.
Three sparklers burning together generate the same heat as a blowtorch.
The majority of firework-related injuries happen at family or private parties.
The most common injuries are to hands, followed by the eyes and face.
Depth of Burns
There are 3 different depths of burns:
Superficial
Partial-Thickness
Full-Thickness
Superficial Burns are red, sore and tender.
Partial-Thickness Burns are similar to Superficial burns but with the appearance of blisters.
Full-Thickness Burns have burnt through layers of skin, tissue and nerves and will be black and charred.
Treating burns and scalds
Immediately get the person away from the heat source to stop the burning
Cool the burn with cool water for 10 to 30 minutes – do not use ice, iced water or any creams or greasy substances such as butter
Remove any clothing or jewellery that is near the burnt area of skin, but do not move anything that is stuck to the skin
Keep the casualty warm as they could go into shock
Cover the burn by placing a layer of cling film over it
The British Red Cross website has a video about first aid for burns.
When to get medical attention
Depending on how serious a burn is, it may be possible to treat it at home. For minor burns, keep the burn clean and do not burst any blisters that form. More serious burns will require professional medical attention. You should go to a hospital A&E department for:
all chemical and electrical burns
large or deep burns – any burn bigger than the palm of your hand
full thickness burns of all sizes – these burns cause white or charred skin
partial thickness burns on the face, hands, arms, feet, legs or genitals – these are burns that cause blisters
People who are at greater risk from the effects of burns, such as children under five years old, the elderly and pregnant women, should also get medical attention after a burn or scald. The size and depth of the burn will be assessed and the affected area cleaned before a dressing is applied. In severe cases, skin graft surgery may be recommended.
Preventing burns and scalds
Many severe burns and scalds affect babies and young children. Examples of things you can do to help reduce the chances of your child having a serious accident at home include:
Keeping your child out of the kitchen whenever possible
Testing the temperature of bath water using your elbow before you put your child in the bath
Keeping matches, lighters and lit candles out of young children’s sight and reach
Keeping hot drinks well away from young children (a hot drink can still burn a very young child 15 minutes after it has been made)
Related Posts
Introducing our New Parents First Aid Facebook Page
Aim High Training are very proud and excited to ... Read more!
New Resuscitation Guidelines 2015
You may not be aware, but every 5 years ... Read more!
Christmas (first aid) Survival Guide
More than 80,000 people a year need ... Read more!
Coronary Heart Disease.......are you at risk?
There are many different heart ... Read more!
Summer Safety for you and your family
It’s well known that where it comes to accidents, prevention is much better ... Read more!
Teenagers and students advised to get Meningitis vaccine!!
Health officials are calling on all teenagers ... Read more!
Allergy Awareness - Hay fever
Allergy UK’s National Allergy Week takes place ... Read more!
Schools are now able to hold a stock of emergency inhalers
From the 1st October 2014 schools are now able to hold Salbutamol Inhalers ... Read more!
Anaphylaxis - a severe allergic reaction!
This week is Allergy awareness week ... Read more!
A guide to Diabetes
Around 3.2 million people have been diagnosed ... Read more!
First Aid knowledge doesn't just benefit humans......a guide to Pet First Aid
Each month we try to make our blogs interesting ... Read more!
Introducing our NEW Parents First Aid courses
At Aim High, we believe that ... Read more!
Are you water safety aware?
Accidental drowning causes more than 400 UK deaths every year, is the third ... Read more!
Calling 999 or 112 - A Parents guide!
There are many stories in the press about how young children have saved ... Read more!
Epilepsy - Seizure triggers and how to treat them!
In the UK there are over 600,000 people ... Read more!
New guidance on the First Aid Regulation changes - 1st October 2013
You may or may not be aware of the new ... Read more!
Are your workplace first aid kits up to standard?
Whilst completing first aid needs assessments ... Read more!
Allergic reactions to cosmetics
As it is Allergy Awareness Week we thought we ... Read more!
Top Ten First Aid Tips for keeping your children safe over the summer!
Read more!
How to recognise Bronchiolitis
As the autumn season develops ... Read more!
Back
Posts
Christmas (first aid) Survival Guide
More than 80,000 people a year need hospital treatment for injuries such as ...
16 Dec 2015 / Read more!
New Resuscitation Guidelines 2015
You may not be aware, but every 5 years the European Resuscitation Council ...
20 Nov 2015 / Read more!
How to Trick or Treat Safely
For young children, trick or treating is extremely fun and one of the most ...
27 Oct 2015 / Read more!
Courses
Level 2 Award in Activity First Aid
Level 2 Award in CPR and AED
Level 2 Award in Emergency First Aid at Work
Level 3 Award in Paediatric and Emergency Paediatric First Aid
Level 3 Award in First Aid at Work
Level 3 Award in First Aid at Work (Re-qualification)
Parents First Aid Courses
Tweets by AimHighTraining
tweets
© 2013 Aim High Training & Development
;
Home
Aim High Story
Courses
Newsletters
Blog
Contact Us
Useful Links