L-Theanine Powder – Supplements for Work
Menu
Home
Support
Products
My Account
Sales
Home
Support
Products
My Account
Sales
$0.00 0 items
Home / Anxiety / L-Theanine Powder
Save up to $1.00!
L-Theanine Powder
$9.95 – $18.95
L-Theanine Benefits*
L-Theanine is the reason why drinking green tea can be stimulating without leading to excitability and nervousness (unlike coffee) despite the fact that it contains caffeine. Theanine actually helps to blunt those caffeine side that is related, lessening signs of jitters or restlessness.
L-theanine increases alpha brain waves. Many users report feeling calm but being very aware with high levels of mental alertness, clarity and enhanced focus. The effects of L-theanine can be productive and increase motivation while reducing stress, anxiety, and restlessness.
L-Theanine also exhibits effects that make it an anti-oxidant. It might prevent or reduce the oxidation of LDL cholesterol, according to studies.
L-theanine has been shown to improve cardiovascular health, promoting the production of nitric oxide (helping to open blood vessels) in the lining of arteries. This also can reduce blood pressure and the risk of cardiovascular disease in general.
This supplement may protect the brain even and support better maintenance of brain cells. It prevents neurons from damage by blocking over-stimulation of the cells and protects them from low levels of oxygen.
Studies show that L-theanine also stimulate the release of specific proteins which are needed for nerve growth.
By itself, L-theanine is the ideal natural supplement to take during periods of sleeplessness.
Weight Choose an option100 Gram50 Gram Clear
Quantity
Add to cart
SKU: N/A Categories: Anxiety, Anxiolytics Tag: L-THEANINE
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Pin this product
Share via Email
Description
Additional information
Description
L-Theanine is a naturally occurring amino acid that has been shown in research studies to improve energy levels and reduces stress. Its effects have been backed up by thousands of years of use in Chinese and Japanese medicine as well as recent clinical studies.
This natural nootropic was first isolated from Green Tea in 1949. Since then, it has been researched for its ability to support brain health and enhance focus.
L-Theanine’s cognitive enhancement effects are most apparent when combined with caffeine, either in a nootropic stack or a natural nootropic like in green tea. Caffeine and L-Theanine work synergistically: caffeine increases your level of alertness, while L-Theanine may reduce some of the anxiety and nervousness that can occur when stimulants are used.
Before deciding whether to use L-Theanine, you might be curious about what it is, the relavent studies that have been published about it, its benefits and any potential side effects.
What Is L-Theanine?
L-Theanine (gamma-glutamylethylamide) is ananalog of glutamine and glutamate that is capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier. It is a form of L-Glutamic acid which is able to help increase and modulate alpha brain waves. Alpha brain waves famously help produce a feeling of calm, relaxed alertness.
In addition to occurring naturally in Camellia Sinensis (Green Tea), L-Theanine is present in certain types of mushrooms.
The chemical structure of this substance is similar to that of L-Tryptophan. This is a precursor to the neurotransmitter Serotonin (which helps to influence sleep cycles and feelings of relaxation).
You have L-Theanine to thank for some of the characteristic flavor you enjoy on a regular basis if you drink Green tea. It is known to contribute flavor that is savory and the umami taste to green tea and other foods.
In the USA, L-theanine is a legal dietary supplement and is included in a number products either as a nootropic or a natural flavoring additive.
There have been a true number of studies which substantiate the benefits of Theanine. The first was from a paper published in 1999 by Food Science and Technology. Researchers observed people who were given 50-200 mg of Theanine weekly.
Their brain waves were then measured and it was determined that those who received the highest doses of Theanine produced the alpha brain waves that are most. This allowed them to be more relaxed and yet alert enough to perform tasks that are complex.
Animal studies have shown that this supplement leads to higher levels of Dopamine in the brain. A 2004 study conducted by Harvard medical school determined that this supplement also acts as an immune booster and helps increase the body’s resistance to colds and flu.
There have even been studies regarding chemotherapy that took L-Theanine. These results show that the supplement appears to help concentrate the chemo drugs towards the cells that are unhealthy keep them away from healthy ones. It also may help reduce the side effects of chemo treatment due to the calming and effects that are relaxing.
How L-Theanine Works
Although the specific mechanisms of action for L-Theanine are not fully understood, the ability is had by this substance to cross the blood-brain barrier. It is very quickly absorbed into the bloodstream and is very fast-acting.
It begins by targeting a true number of different neurotransmitters. These include Serotonin, Dopamine, GABA, and Norepinephrine. These are all powerful brain chemicals which have a number of effects upon cognitive processes, sleep and relaxation cycles, and even pleasure and the reward system that is brain’s.
Side Effects & Usage Of L-Theanine
There are no known side that is specific associated with this supplement. However, a users that are few reported over the internet that they encountered diarrhea when using high doses of Theanine.
This supplement is not recommended for use in combination with high blood pressure prescriptions; the combination could actually reduce blood pressure too much.
Source: National Center for Biotechnology Information
*Statements regarding dietary supplements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease or health condition. Consult your healthcare professional before taking this or any new supplement. Do not exceed recommended dose.
Additional information
Weight
N/A
Weight
100 Gram, 50 Gram
Related products
Accomplish More: Rest & Relaxation
Digital Scale (20 g x 1 mg)
Premium Micronized Instant Kava
CDP Choline (CITICOLINE)	 Theacrine
FAQs
Tracking
Shipping
Loyalty Points
Payments, Refunds and Exchanges
Product Questions
Affiliate Program
Navigate
Articles
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Affiliate Login
Affiliate Dashboard
Register as Affiliate
Disclaimer
The products sold on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to prevent, treat, cure, or diagnose any disease. Terms of Sale Apply.
All products involved a certain level of risk. It is up to the user to asses that risk and determine what is best for themselves.
Social
We Accept: Visa, Amex, Mastercard, and Bitcoin
Contact Us:
support@supplementsforwork.com
© Supplements for Work 2019
My Account
Search
Search for:
Search
0
{{{ data.variation.price_html }}}
{{{ data.variation.availability_html }}}