Fermented milk drink reduces high blood pressure
Skip to Content
health.am
Cardiology Basics
Signs and Symptoms
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Diagnostic testing
Dyspnea
Palpitations
Bradycardias
Physical Examination
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Cardiac Catheterization and Angiography
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Signs
MI Symptoms
MI Treatment
Cardiac Biomarkers, CK - Creatine Kinase
MI Warning Signs
Who's at Risk
MI Treatment
MI Prevention
Postinfarction Management
MI Complications
High Blood Pressure
Etiology & Classification
- Essential Hypertension
- Secondary Hypertension
- Systemic Hypertension
Symptoms and signs
Hypertension Diagnosis
Drug Therapy
Special Considerations
Hypertension Complications
Hypertensive Urgencies & Emergencies
Hypertension in children
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Coronary Heart Disease
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Primary & Secondary Prevention
Angina Pectoris
Differential Diagnosis
Prognosis
Treatment
Unstable Angina
Chronic stable angina pectoris
Guidelines
Pharmacologic Therapy
What Is Angina
Acute coronary syndromes
Acute Myocardial Infarction
Complications
Treatment
Postinfarction Management
Arrhythmias
Mechanisms of Arrhythmias
Supraventricular Arrhythmias
- Atrial Fibrillation
- Atrial Flutter
Ventricular Arrhythmias
High Cholesterol
LDL and HDL cholesterol
What Is High Blood Cholesterol?
Too much cholesterol
Foods to avoid
Risk Factors
Cholesterol Lowering Medications
Measuring blood cholesterol
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
A blood cholesterol-lowering diet
Sample Menus
Treating High Blood Cholesterol
What are LDL and HDL cholesterol?
Lower your blood cholesterol
Lifestyle changes
Looking for High blood cholesterol
Cardiovascular Disease
Acute Heart Failure
Acute Pericarditis
Acute Rheumatic fever
The Cardiomyopathies
Myocarditis & the Cardiomyopathies
Rheumatic Heart Disease
Cardiac Failure
Pulmonary Heart Disease (Cor Pulmonale)
Patent Ductus Arteriosus
Pericardial Effusion
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension
Traumatic Heart Disease
What is Atherosclerosis?
What Is Coronary Artery Disease?
Valvular Heart Disease
- Aortic Stenosis
- Mitral Stenosis
- Pulmonary Stenosis
- Tricuspid Stenosis
- Mitral regurgitation
- Aortic Regurgitation
Congenital heart disease
Pulmonary Stenosis
Coarctation of the Aorta
Atrial Septal Defect and patent foramen ovale
Ventricular Septal Defect
Patent ductus arteriosus
Acute Pericarditis
Constrictive Pericarditis
Pericardial Effusion
Global Burden of Cardiovascular Diseases
In recent years, the dominance of chronic diseases as major contributors to total global mortality has emerged and has been previously described in detail elsewhere. By 2005, the total number of cardiovascular disease (CVD) deaths (mainly coronary heart disease, stroke, and rheumatic heart disease) had increased globally to 17.5 million from 14.4 million in 1990. Of these, 7.6 million were attributed to coronary heart disease and 5.7 million to stroke. More than 80 percent of the deaths occurred in low and middle income countries (WHO, 2009e).
Based on 2007 to 2010 data, 33% of US adults ≥ 20 years of age have hypertension. This represents ~ 78 million US adults with hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension is similar for men and women. African American adults have among the highest prevalence of hypertension (44%) in the world.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Heart Diseases
High Blood Pressure
Good vs. Bad Cholesterol
Hypertension Classification, Epidemiology ...
Secondary Hypertension
High Blood Pressure news |
Fermented milk drink reduces high blood pressure
Jan 23, 2006 Viewed: 551
A traditional Scandinavian beverage, fermented milk, can help reduce blood pressure in people with hypertension, a new study from Finland shows.
The drink has long been popular in Scandinavian countries, Dr. Riita Korpela of Valio Ltd. Research and Development in Helsinki, the study’s lead author, told Reuters Health in an E-mail interview. Valio makes a modern version, with juice added, and sells it in several European countries.
It is made by adding Lactobacillus to milk, which breaks down the milk protein casein into two types of protein fragments called tripeptides.
The tripeptides, isoleucine-proline-proline and valine-proline-proline, have been shown in animal studies to reduce blood pressure and also lower blood pressure in people with mild hypertension. According to Korpela and her colleagues, they work by blocking the blood-pressure-raising chemical angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), the same mechanism employed by ACE inhibitor drugs.
In the current study, the researchers randomized 94 people with hypertension who were not taking any medications to 150 mL of the fermented milk or a control drink twice daily for 10 weeks. Study participants underwent 24-hour blood pressure monitoring at the beginning of the study and at the end.
After 10 weeks, average systolic blood pressures - the top number in a blood pressure reading - were about four points lower in the group consuming the fermented milk, while diastolic pressure (the bottom number) was nearly two points lower.
Past researchers have estimated that a three-point reduction in systolic blood pressure reduces the risk of stroke by 10 percent to 13 percent, and the likelihood of heart attack by 7 percent, Korpela told Reuters Health.
“It is also important to notice, that this is a very natural way of treating enhanced blood pressure, without any adverse side effects,” the researcher added.
SOURCE: American Journal of Hypertension, December 2005.
Provided by ArmMed Media
Revision date: July 4, 2011
Last revised: by Amalia K. Gagarina, M.S., R.D.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Hypertension Headlines
Finding the right antithrombotic (anti-clotting)…
Vanderbilt study finds hypertension-related visits…
How healthcare is organized may affect how well…
Enzyme responsible for obesity-related high blood…
Potassium improved blood pressure in teen girls,…
Eating out = high blood pressure?
Prolonged shortened sleep increases blood pressure…
Visceral Fat and Hypertension: A Link?
ATS releases guidelines on the management of pulmonary…
Slightly elevated blood pressure also tied to…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
High Blood Pressure Topics
High Blood Pressure
Blood pressure control abnormal in newborns of smoking mothers
Storytelling may help control blood pressure in African-Americans
Why African Americans Are At Greater Risk of Hypertension…
Red wine can reduce factor linked to heart disease
Link between alcohol and blood pressure greater than previously…
Parents’ Blood Pressure, Waist and Hip Circumference…
Racial and Gender Disparities in Development of Hypertension…
Tests of blood pressure vaccine promising: report
Yale study shows how rare genes have big impact on blood…
Physical Activity and Blood Pressure in Childhood
Heart Disease
Coronary artery disease tests prompt patients toward healthier…
Improved lifestyle led to decreased cholesterol and less…
Emerging vascular risk factors in women: Any differences…
Study shows minorities had lower risk of coronary heart…
In pursuit of the causes of cardiac hypertrophy
New research offers reassurance over multiple artery procedures…
Study finds tree nut consumption may lower risk of cardiovascular…
Heart CT scans outperform stress tests in spotting clogged…
Worldwide shift in heart medication delivery required: Study
Male and female hearts don’t grow old the same way
HDL Cholesterol
Statin use linked to lower prostate cancer risk
More “Good” Cholesterol is Not Always Good for…
Cholesterol drugs safe, even after a decade of use
Pravastatin is highly effective in lowering the risk of…
Why bad things can happen to the heart when ‘good’…
Many at-risk people aren’t getting adequate cholesterol…
Trendy supplement doesn’t lower cholesterol
Low cholesterol may be sign of undiagnosed cancer
Genes that protect against atherosclerosis identified
Hormone linked to sugar control in diabetics
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved