Pericardial Effusion
Skip to Content
health.am
Cardiology Basics
Signs and Symptoms
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Diagnostic testing
Dyspnea
Palpitations
Bradycardias
Physical Examination
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Cardiac Catheterization and Angiography
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Signs
MI Symptoms
MI Treatment
Cardiac Biomarkers, CK - Creatine Kinase
MI Warning Signs
Who's at Risk
MI Treatment
MI Prevention
Postinfarction Management
MI Complications
High Blood Pressure
Etiology & Classification
- Essential Hypertension
- Secondary Hypertension
- Systemic Hypertension
Symptoms and signs
Hypertension Diagnosis
Drug Therapy
Special Considerations
Hypertension Complications
Hypertensive Urgencies & Emergencies
Hypertension in children
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Coronary Heart Disease
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Primary & Secondary Prevention
Angina Pectoris
Differential Diagnosis
Prognosis
Treatment
Unstable Angina
Chronic stable angina pectoris
Guidelines
Pharmacologic Therapy
What Is Angina
Acute coronary syndromes
Acute Myocardial Infarction
Complications
Treatment
Postinfarction Management
Arrhythmias
Mechanisms of Arrhythmias
Supraventricular Arrhythmias
- Atrial Fibrillation
- Atrial Flutter
Ventricular Arrhythmias
High Cholesterol
LDL and HDL cholesterol
What Is High Blood Cholesterol?
Too much cholesterol
Foods to avoid
Risk Factors
Cholesterol Lowering Medications
Measuring blood cholesterol
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
A blood cholesterol-lowering diet
Sample Menus
Treating High Blood Cholesterol
What are LDL and HDL cholesterol?
Lower your blood cholesterol
Lifestyle changes
Looking for High blood cholesterol
Cardiovascular Disease
Acute Heart Failure
Acute Pericarditis
Acute Rheumatic fever
The Cardiomyopathies
Myocarditis & the Cardiomyopathies
Rheumatic Heart Disease
Cardiac Failure
Pulmonary Heart Disease (Cor Pulmonale)
Patent Ductus Arteriosus
Pericardial Effusion
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension
Traumatic Heart Disease
What is Atherosclerosis?
What Is Coronary Artery Disease?
Valvular Heart Disease
- Aortic Stenosis
- Mitral Stenosis
- Pulmonary Stenosis
- Tricuspid Stenosis
- Mitral regurgitation
- Aortic Regurgitation
Congenital heart disease
Pulmonary Stenosis
Coarctation of the Aorta
Atrial Septal Defect and patent foramen ovale
Ventricular Septal Defect
Patent ductus arteriosus
Acute Pericarditis
Constrictive Pericarditis
Pericardial Effusion
Global Burden of Cardiovascular Diseases
In recent years, the dominance of chronic diseases as major contributors to total global mortality has emerged and has been previously described in detail elsewhere. By 2005, the total number of cardiovascular disease (CVD) deaths (mainly coronary heart disease, stroke, and rheumatic heart disease) had increased globally to 17.5 million from 14.4 million in 1990. Of these, 7.6 million were attributed to coronary heart disease and 5.7 million to stroke. More than 80 percent of the deaths occurred in low and middle income countries (WHO, 2009e).
Based on 2007 to 2010 data, 33% of US adults ≥ 20 years of age have hypertension. This represents ~ 78 million US adults with hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension is similar for men and women. African American adults have among the highest prevalence of hypertension (44%) in the world.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Heart Diseases
High Blood Pressure
Good vs. Bad Cholesterol
Hypertension Classification, Epidemiology ...
Secondary Hypertension
Heart Disease articles | Diseases of the pericardium |
Pericardial Effusion
Dec 21, 2005 Viewed: 955
Introduction
Pericardial effusion can develop during any of the processes discussed in the preceding paragraphs. The speed of accumulation determines the physiologic importance of the effusion. Because the pericardium stretches, large effusions (> 1000 mL) that develop slowly may produce no hemodynamic effects. Smaller effusions that appear rapidly can cause tamponade. Tamponade is characterized by elevated intrapericardial pressure (> 15 mm Hg), which restricts venous return and ventricular filling. As a result, the stroke volume and pulse pressure fall, and the heart rate and venous pressure rise. Shock and death may result.
Clinical Findings
A. Symptoms and Signs
Pericardial effusions may be associated with pain if they occur as part of an acute inflammatory process or may be painless, as is often the case with neoplastic or uremic effusion. Dyspnea and cough are common, especially with tamponade. Other symptoms may result from the primary disease.
A pericardial friction rub may be present even with large effusions. In Cardiac tamponade, tachycardia, tachypnea, a narrow pulse pressure, and a relatively preserved systolic pressure are characteristic. Pulsus paradoxus - a greater than 10 mm Hg decline in systolic pressure during inspiration due to further impairment of left ventricular filling - is the classic finding, but it may also occur with obstructive lung disease. Central venous pressure is elevated, and edema or ascites may be present; these signs favor a more chronic process.
B. Laboratory Findings
Laboratory tests tend to reflect the underlying processes.
C. Diagnostic Studies
Chest x-ray can suggest effusion by an enlarged cardiac silhouette with a globular configuration but may appear normal. The ECG often reveals nonspecific T wave changes and low QRS voltage. Electrical alternans is present uncommonly but is pathognomonic. Echocardiography is the primary method for demonstrating pericardial effusion. Tamponade presents a characteristic picture of inadequate ventricular filling (diastolic collapse of the right ventricle or right atrium). The echocardiogram readily discriminates pericardial effusion from congestive heart failure. MRI also demonstrates pericardial fluid and lesions. Diagnostic pericardiocentesis or biopsy is often indicated for microbiologic and cytologic studies; a pericardial biopsy may be performed relatively simply through a small subxiphoid incision.
Treatment
Small effusions can be followed clinically and with the aid of echocardiograms. When tamponade is present, urgent pericardiocentesis is required. Removal of a small amount of fluid often produces immediate hemodynamic benefit, but complete drainage with a catheter is preferable. Continued drainage may be indicated.
Additional therapy is determined by the nature of the primary process. Recurrent effusion in neoplastic disease and uremia, in particular, may require partial pericardiectomy.
Burgess LJ et al: Role of biochemical tests in the diagnosis of large pericardial effusions. Chest 2002;121:495.
Karam N et al: Diagnosis and management of chronic pericardial effusions. Am J Med Sci 2001;322:79.
Soler-Soler J et al: Management of pericardial effusion. Heart 2001;86:235.
Tsang TS: Outcomes of primary and secondary treatment of pericardial effusion in patients with malignancy. Mayo Clin Proc 2000;75:248.
Tsang TS et al: Consecutive 1127 therapeutic echocardiographically guided pericardiocenteses: clinical profile, practice patterns, and outcomes spanning 21 years. Mayo Clin Proc 2002;77:429.
Wang ZJ et al: CT and MR imaging of pericardial disease. Radiographics 2003;23 Spec No:S167.
Provided by ArmMed Media
Revision date: July 6, 2011
Last revised: by Tatiana Kuznetsova, D.M.D.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Heart Disease Headlines
Improved lifestyle led to decreased cholesterol…
Emerging vascular risk factors in women: Any differences…
Study shows minorities had lower risk of coronary…
In pursuit of the causes of cardiac hypertrophy
New research offers reassurance over multiple…
Study finds tree nut consumption may lower risk…
Heart CT scans outperform stress tests in spotting…
Worldwide shift in heart medication delivery required:…
Male and female hearts don’t grow old the…
Taking A Midday Nap May Help Lower Your Blood…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
Heart Disease Topics
Heart Disease
Coronary artery disease tests prompt patients toward healthier…
Improved lifestyle led to decreased cholesterol and less…
Emerging vascular risk factors in women: Any differences…
Study shows minorities had lower risk of coronary heart…
In pursuit of the causes of cardiac hypertrophy
New research offers reassurance over multiple artery procedures…
Study finds tree nut consumption may lower risk of cardiovascular…
Heart CT scans outperform stress tests in spotting clogged…
Worldwide shift in heart medication delivery required: Study
Male and female hearts don’t grow old the same way
High Blood Pressure
Researchers identify a gene affecting blood pressure
Hypertension Disparity Linked to Environment
Positive Influence of Religion and Spirituality on Blood…
Have high blood pressure? Aim for 140/90: study
Heart scans show those most likely to need statins
Blood pressure not seen linked to discrimination
Fermented milk drink reduces high blood pressure
New online care for hypertension gets results
High blood pressure linked to earlier death among African-American…
Swapping protein for sugar may help blood pressure
HDL Cholesterol
Unnecessary repeat cholesterol tests common: study
Monounsaturated fats boost “good” cholesterol
High cholesterol may lead to high blood pressure in men
Study Finds Association Between Low Cholesterol Levels and…
PDAs, More Education Help Doctors Follow Cholesterol Treatment…
Cholesterol metabolism links early- and late-onset Alzheimer’s…
“Bad” LDL cholesterol may benefit elderly
Scientists identify cholesterol-regulating genes
Cholesterol-Lowering Drugs Don’t Offset Healthy Choices
Vitamin D supplements do not improve cholesterol as previous…
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved