Cure for acne. Treatment against scars and skin damage
The Panter`s webstore
eMail: aquila_grande@yahoo.no
Back to main menu
Treatment - against acne, comedones, pimples - Help for scars and skin damage from acne and other causes
Wellcome to this presentation of selected quality products to cure or alleviate acne and scars from acne or other processes. Further down you will also find some general information about acne.
Acne treatment and anti-aging oil
Argan oil - Gives good help against acne, eczema, psoriasis and other skin problems This product is the pure coldpressed oil from kernels of the argan tree, growing natively in Marocco where people have used it as a rejuvenation remedy and beauty enhancer for millennia. The oil helps to prevent acne breakouts and stimulates the skin to repair damages from earlier breakouts. It has similar effects on psoriasis and eczema. The product is a pure argan oil, which has shown to be the most effective way of using this remedy.
The oil has a lot of other wellbeing effects on the skin: Argan oil gives the skin a healthy content of moisture so that it neither looks dry nor greasy, but smooth and elastic. It helps to prevent aging signs and and to prevent damages from hostile factors from the surrounding by remeding the natural barrier in the skin. It also stimulates healing from aging signs, for example will it help to take away fine cracks and lines in the skin. It will also potently stimulate healing and regrowth from sun damage and many other types of skin injuries.
The effective constituents of the oil are a high content of Vitamin E, antioxidants, a versatile mixture of unsaturated fatty acids, squalene, carotenes and polyphenols. The effects against acne are partly due to an antiseptic effect and to stimulation of healing and regrowth. Further it prevents the scarring that is a common consequence of acne.
Pills for the treatment of acne
Actimine pills to treat acne The ingredients of Actimine will help balance the chemical processes in the skin and stimulate the rinsing and healing capacity of the skin. This way it will clear up your skin, cure or reduce the symptoms of acne, such as blackheads, whiteheads, pimples and scarring. Further it helps to avoid new development of acne.
Please click here to learn more or buy - Actimine
Acneadvance formula to stimulate your skin to heal from acne
Futurebiotics Acneadvance Acne Skin Formula 90Vcaps
For Healthy Skin Description : Praventinï¿½ bioactive complex Clinically proven nutrients for healthy skin and complexion Healthy Skin Action Plan Often considered a challenge for teenagers, acne can affect women and men of all ages. Such skin problems often result from a combination of hormone stimulation, an increase in sebum production, bacteria, stress and poor diet. However, with proper nutrition, healthy stress-reduction techniques, select nutrients and other strategies, blemishes can be both controlled and prevented. Dietary ? Along with Futurebiotics AcneAdvanceï¿½ and a comprehensive multi-vitamin, eat a well-balanced diet that includes plenty of whole grains, fruits, vegetabales and lean protein. ? Increase intake of foods naturally high in vitamin A (dark colored fruits & vegetables, lean protein) and zinc (nuts & legumes) as both are important to skin health. ? Avoid refined and/or concentrated simple sugars and iodine. Physical Activity ? Exercise can help reduce stress and increase circulation.
Cleansing products against acne
The products presented here, will typically be a part of a total product family from a specific fabricant. By clicking at the links, you will also see other products in the family, like dey-cream, night-creams, and scrubs.
Natralia's Acne Rescue Wash 7 fl oz
Description: Acne Rescue Wash 7 fl oz.--- Natralia Acne Rescue Washdeeply penetrates the skin to clear congested pores. Naturallyformulated to reduce oil and control shine without over-drying the skin.Deeply penetrates toclear congested pores.Gentle formula without over-drying the skin. Supplement Facts: Amount Per Serving % DV Silica (3x HPUS 0.05%)* 0.00 ** Natrum Muriaticum (12x HPUS 0.05%)* 0.00 ** ** Daily Value (DV) not established Other Ingredients: Aloe Vera Gel, Calendula Officinalis (Calendula) Extract, Cocamidopropyl Betaine, Disodium Cocoamphodiacetate, Lactic Acid, Lauryl Glucoside, Lavandula Angustifolia (Lavender) Oil, Caprylyl Glycol (and) Sorbic Acid (and) Phenoxyethanol, Palmanosa Essential Oil, PEG-150 Distearate, Polysorbate 20, Melaleuca alternifolia (tea tree) oil Storage Instructions: Store between 50-86F. Directions: Use morning and night. Apply to hands, add water and work intolather.
Lucky Tiger's Head to Tail Acne & Blemish Soap 3oz
Description: Head to Tail Acne & Blemish Soap 3oz.--- Wash from head to tail with Lucky Tiger Acne & Blemish Soap. Made with antiseptic and antibacterial properties, this acne soap removes built-up oils and dirt at a deeper level than your average blemish soap. Effective for adults and safe for teens, our acne soap helps clear existing acne while helping to prevent new acne from forming.
Exuviance Clear & Smooth Daily Exfoliating Anti-Blemish Pads
"Exuviance Clear and Smooth Daily Exfoliating Anti-Blemish Pads target acne and skin texture in just one step. Salicylic Acid clears acne blemishes and prevents new ones from forming while Alpha Hydroxy Acids enhance exfoliation and diminish pore size. The result is clearer, smoother-looking skin. "
Acne treatment creams and gels
The products presented here, will typically be a part of a total product family. By clicking at the links, you will also see other products in the family, like washers and cleansers.
Natralia's Acne Rescue Cream Skin Care 2 fl oz
Description: Acne Rescue Cream Skin Care 2 fl oz.--- Natralia Acne Rescue Cream Acne is a condition that occurs due to overproductive sebaceous glands. The oil that normally lubricates the skin becomes trapped in blocked oil ducts and the result is what is call pimples, blackheads, whiteheads and inflammation on the skin's surface. ?Rapidly clears and prevents breakouts?Helps improve the appearance of scars associated with acne?Homeopathic AlternativeAreas of the skin most prone to Acne are those with the largest number of sebaceous glands.
Exuviance Blemish Treatment Gel
"Treat oily, acne-prone skin with a targeted solution for skin imperfections and blemishes. Gentle exfoliants help remove impurities and refine pore size while a concentrated formula of Pro-Vitamin A (Pro-Retinol) along with blemish-fighting Salicylic Acid, combine to control excess oil and target troubled areas. Our patented NeoHydroxy Complex - containing the Alpha Hydroxy Acids Acetyl Mandelic Acid, Tartaric Acid and Citric Acid - has beneficial antioxidant properties and promotes normal cell turnover to help uncover a smooth, healthy looking complexion while helping to minimize the inflammation that occurs with acne lesions. This rapid action gel is a dermatologist developed skin solution designed to target blemishes and is ideal for acne-prone, oily skin that needs special care."
Total acne treatment packages and product collections
Healthy pores - acne treatment set - complete set of products against acne rinse out impurities, stimulate the skin's own cleaning processes, boost healing, control bacterial growth and control sebum production. The product set contains topical cleansers, topical creams and oral pills that ensure a combat against the acne both form the outside and from the inside.
Care set for oily skin prone to acne - This treatment set is formulated for treatment of acne, blemishes and skin impurities in general.
Exuviance Introductory Collection Oily/Acne Prone
"Begin with soap-free Exuviance Moisturizing Antibacterial Cleanser to wash away impurities, makeup and oil without disrupting your skin's delicate pH balance. Then, prime skin with Exuviance Matte Perfection to instantly erase any unwanted shine and fight the over-production of oil with Mandelic Acid. Next, apply Exuviance Antioxidant Perfect 10 Serum to help conquer the aging effects and deliver superior broad spectrum protection from all ten sources of oxidative damage. In the evening, Exuviance Night Renewal HydraGel helps controls oil and smooth fine lines and wrinkles. Morning and evening, apply Exuviance Hydrating Eye Complex to hydrate, smooth and brighten the eye area, while discouraging signs of aging. Includes: Moisturizing Antibacterial Facial Cleanser, 2 fl oz, Matte Perfection, 0.35 fl oz, Hydrating Eye Complex, 0.50 oz, Night Renewal HydraGel, 0.35 fl oz, Antioxidant Perfect 10 Serum, 0.16 fl oz"
PRODUCTS TO TREAT SCARS, WRINCLES AND SKIN DAMAGE
Crystal Star's Scar Reducer Gel 1.5oz
beautifies skin texture Description : Reduces the appearance of scar tissue and beautifies skin texture. Wonderful for reducing even old scars. Rich in sea veggies that encourage natural collagen production. Other Ingredients: Herbal Extract: {Sea Veggie Blend: (Hijiki, Irish moss, Bladderwrack), Vitamin C Blend: (Amla Berry, Hawthorn L/B/F, Sea Buckthorn Berry, Rose Hips), EFA Blend: (Grapeseed Extract, Fennel Sd., Sesame Sd.; Tremella Mushroom), White Tea Lf., Royal Jelly, Stevia Lf.}; in a base of: Aloe Vera Gel; Tamanu Oil; Jojoba oil; Kukui Nut Oil. Directions: Apply to the skin for both protection and repair
Derma E Scar Gel
Derma E Scar GelThis clear, aloe- based scar cream works like magic! Use continually and watch marks and scars disappear.? Rub into skin day and night to fade and shrink hyper- pigmentation due to acne scars, stretch marks, burns, skin hardenings, and oth
Good stores for acne remedies and some other items
Strawberrynet - This is perhaps the biggest and most comprehensive cosmetics and skin care store on the net - cosmetics and skin-care of most brands for good prizes and also many products against acne and other skin conditions.
CURE OR SUPPORT against many specific diseases - Medicines to be taken by mouth: Urinary tract infection, yeast infection, acne, viotilligo, aging symptoms, AIDS, allergies, Alzheimers disease/dementia, angina, arthritis (osteoarthritis), arthritis (rheumatoid arthritis), asthma, attention deficit disorder (ADD), breast cancer, burns, carpal tunnel syndrome, cholesterol, cronic bronchitis, chronic cough, chronic fatigue sydrom, cognitive problems, colds and flue, congestive heart failure (CHF), Crohn`s disease, depression, diabetes mellitus type 1, diabetes mellitus type 2, eczema, edema, endometriosis, fatigue, fibromyalgia, hair loss, herpes simplex, hyperlipidemia, hypertention, obesity, otitis media
Click here to find the right product
ROSACEA - Rubactum - Rosacea is delated blood vessels in the skin. This is seen as a distinct redness and distinkt great vessels. It developes gradually and can eventually be complicated by inflammation and infection. These pills stimulate the vessels to constrict more dynamically and to repair damage due to the condition.
Please click here to read more or buy - Rubactum
To see the full range of our health products: Click here
For the full range of our skincare products: Click here
Some educational resources Here you find an article about acne We also have other articles with in depth information. To see a list of these, pleace click here. Special articles about acne is collected at this page.
Some information about acne
What is acne
The hairs on the skin extends out from a tubular structure down in the skin called a hair follicle. The hair grows outwards from the bottom of the hair follicle. Around the side of the hair follicle there are glands that produces sebum, the smearing substance of the skin. The sebum normally leaks out of the follicle through the same opening that the hair extends from.
For reasons no one completely understands, follicles sometimes get blocked by sebum which has been oxydized by the air oxygen and thus become solid. This is especially common in the puberty when the production of sebum is very great due to hormonal secretions. Sebum (oil) which normally drains to the surface now assembles in the follickle, and bacteria begins to grow. Both whiteheads and blackheads start out as a "microcomedone" - a lump of hard blocking sebum.
An increased keratinization of the skin epidermal cells also seems to be a component in the blockage of the follicles.
When the trapped sebum and bacteria stay below the skin surface, a whitehead is formed.
A blackhead occurs when the blockage is not total, the trapped sebum and bacteria partially open to the surface and turn black due to melanin, the skin's pigment. Blackheads can last for a long time because the contents very slowly drain to the surface.
Either way, blackheads and whiteheads are filled with trapped sebum and bacteria.
The bacterial growth increases, and the follickle gets inflamed and filled with inflammatory cells and products in addition to the sebum. This stage of the process is called a pimple. The pimple eventually tears up and drains to the surface. If the inflammation has destroyed the skin around the pimple, a scar is formed.
What Causes Acne?
Since acne consists of several components that exist together, the cause of full developed acne will also consist of several components. First of all something must cause the increased production of sebum. Secondly something must cause the increaased tendency for sebum and components from the epidermis to form plugs or comedones. One important causing factor of these two ingredients is an increase in hormones called androgens (male sex hormones). These increase in both boys and girls during puberty and cause the sebaceous glands to enlarge and produce more sebum. Hormonal changes related to pregnancy, or starting or stopping birth control pills can also cause acne.
Another factor is heredity or genetics. Researchers believe that the tendency to develope acne can be inherited from parents. For example, studies have shown that many school-age boys with acne have a family history of the disorder. Certain drugs, including androgens and lithium, are known to cause acne. Greasy cosmetics may alter the cells of the follicles and make them stick together, producing a plug.
A third causeing factors are bacteria that infect the swallen glands, making them inflamed and thereby produce fully developed pimples. But bacteria on the skin and in the folicles are not necessarily harmful. Some bacteria may infect the skin, and other may create an environment that hold the harmful bacteria away. Therefore a lack of some types of bacteria together with an overpopulation of other bacteria is a causing factor of acne.
The bacterium propriobacterium acne is a normal inhabitant of the skin. It nourishes itself from the sebum, and by an increased sebum production, the amount of this bacterium increases. The bacterium produces free fatty acids that irritate the follicle tissue making it inflamed. It also atracts white blood cells that penetrate from deeper layers into the follicles. But by this penetration they make openings from deeper areas in the skin into the follicles. Irritating substances from the bacteria therefore penetrate to deeper skin layers, making the inflammation widen its area.
An over-eager washing can take away substances in the skin that hinder harmful bacteria to grow, or take away beneficial bacteria that hold the population of harmful bacteria down. Therefore an exaggerated habit of skin washing also contribute to aggravating acne.
Acne treatment drugs
Modern acne treatment drugs has the aim of attacking every stages in the acne process: hindering fatty sybstances to accumulate in the pores. hindering infection, alleviating inflammation and stimulating repair of dammage.
They can broadly be divided in rinsing media, topical treatment creams and oral pills. If you need products in one, two or all tree cathegories, depends upon the seriousness of the acne attack. These products can be made of wholly natural ingredients, pharmacologically cyntetic ingredients or a blending of those.
Rinsing media
There are several types of rinsing products to choose from.
The simpleast of these are acne treatment bars to be used by the daily was, These bars contain substances soluted in the soap that can help to dissolve the cloges in the pores and substances that fight bacteria.
Then you have rinsing solutions, usually called acne wash, especially made to dissolve the plugs in your pores, and to make the environment in your skin unfriendly to bacteria causing infection. Some of these products are just products to rinse your skin with one or more times a day after the regular wash. Others are ment to remain on your skin until the next regular wash.
If your skin is heavily plugged by comedones or the acne process has produced heavy amounts of fatty deposits on your skin you can ocationally use stronger rinsing media like acne peels or acne shrubs. With these media you can dissolve and shrub away the stuff clogging the pores, and also take awat excessive horny layers and hard fatty deposits that make your skin surface irregular. These media contain strong dissolving substances and mineral powders with an abrasive effect, and should be used cautiously so that you do not hyurt your skin.
Acne treatment gels or creams
After the was or rinsing, you can apply some treatment product that shall remain on your skin during the day or during the night. Many of these products are also suitable as foundation for make-up. The products have varying physical consistency and are often called acne creams or acne gels. The products have these effects:
- Making your skin soft and elastic.
- Protecting your skin against the environment.
- Acting further to dissolve the clogging of your pores.
- Alleviating inflammation and soothing itching or burning sensations.
- Killing the bacteria causing infection or make an environment hostile for the bacteria.
- Stimulate the skin to clean itself from within.
- Stimulating the skin to heal.
- To be used as a isolating layer between the skin itself and cosmetics
Oral drugs or supplements
Supplements taken by mouth to nourish your skin and to stimulate healing processes may be useful. The effects of these supplements is more or less the same as that of nourishing creams.
- Making your skin produce more fluid sebum so that the comedones dissolve from within.
- Stimulating the immune system to fight bacteria and to clear out impurities in the skin tissues.
- Stimulating your skin to heal,
- Giving your skin building nutrients necessary to heal.
- Having an antibiotic effect that kills bacteria.
Natural ingredients in acne treatment drugs
Often several natural ingredients with the same effects, but with different workig mechanisms are combined in a product to increase the therapeutic effect and reduce eventual side effects. Here is a short survay of natural ingredients found in acne treatment products.
Azelaic acid (Azelex): This substance stimulates the division and renewing of cells in the follicles and the skin. Thereby it causes the comedones to be pushed out. It also works against the bacteria infecting the skin by acne.
Bioflavonoids: These are antioxidant substances produced by plants that protect against tissue damage. Many of these give fruits or other plant parts bright colors. Bioflavonoids are often included in oral or topical acne treatment to counteraqt tissue damage and ease healing.
Gum guggul extract: Gum guggul is the resin from the indian Commiphora mukul tree. Gum guggul extract used in oral products have an anti-biotic effect against the bacteria infecting the skin by acne. It also helps against tissue damage and promotes tissue healing.
Echinache extraxts: Extract of the herb Echinachea is a mild ingredient often used in topical products to dissolve the comedones and to counteract bacterial growth.
Extracts of the herbs Aloe Vera and, Viola tricolour and Rose hip oil, are often used to reduce inflammation and to stimulate healing.
Methylsulphonyl methane: This substance furnishes sulfur in a form usable in the rebuilding of skin damage. It is often combine with molybdenium to ease the use of this suplfur.
Plant oils: Evening primrose oil, Olive oil, Flax seed oil, Borage oil, Soy oil, Wheat germ oil are used in ora or topical products for several purposes. They contain essential fatty acids and vitamins that stimulate healing. The oils can also help to dissolve the comedones.
Lechithine: Lechitine is a blending of phospholipids. These phsopholipids are very important builing blocks of the cells in the body and also contain smaller elements used as effector tools and hormons in many processes. Lechithine is used in oral products to stimulate rinsing processes in the skin and to stimulate skin reduilding after damage.
Salicylic acid: This substance is an antibacterial effectors found widespread in the nature. It is used in topical products to dissolve clogs in the pores and to help fight bacteria.
Sulfur: Sulfur is used in cleansing products to dissolve comedones, dry up the skih and to rub away irregularities. It can cause too much peeling and can irritate the skin.
Tea tre oil: This is an oil containing essential fatty acids obtaind by steam destillation of leaves of the Australian plant Melaleuca alternifolia. The oil helps to dissolve the comedones, works against bacteria and fungi. Iea tree oil has very few side effects.
Vitamins and minerals: Both oral and topical acne treatment drugs often contain vitamins or vitamine-like susbstances or minerals, as vitamine A, C, B1, B2, B3, B6, C, D, E, folic acid, beta-carotene, copper, zink and selenium. These substances are working tools in the body, and they may effectivize cleaning processes and regeneration from damages excerted by acne. in addition many of these substances are anti-oxidants that protect the skin against damages. Vitmine E and A also help to reduce inflammation. Zink seems to be the most effective mineral for acne treatment.
Pharmacological ingredients used in acne treatment drugs
Also farmacologically syntetioc substances are used in acne medicines. These are very effective, but carry a heavier risk for side effects. Drugs containi9ng these substances are often bound to prescription.
Adapalene (differin): This subsrance slows down the accumulation of dead skin cells in the follicles and thereby reduce the tendencies to clog the pores. It can cause irritated skin and scaling, especially if the skin is exposed to sunlight.
Antibiotics: Antibiotics are used both in topical and oral products to fight the infetious element of acne. Topical antibiotcs have fewer side effects than oral ones. Antibiotics used against acne are tetracycline variants, erythromycin, clindamycin, Stievamycin, sulfacetamide and trimethaprim.
Bezoyl peroxide: ¨The substance imostly used in topical acne products to kill bacteria and dissolve comedones. Benzoyl peroxide often produce dryness and irritation in the skin. Thes side effects may however go away after some times use.
Resorcinol: Resorcinol is used in cleansing products to dissolve comedones and other irregularities. It can cause too much peeling and can irritate the skin.
Vitamine-A-derivates: (Tretinoin, tazarotene and similar substances): These are syntetic derivates of the A-vitamine type retinoic acid used in topical products. They stimulate the celles in the outer skin layer and in the lining of the pores to divide. This cell proliferation has the effect of pushing out the comedones clogging the pores. It may also stimulate healing of damages caused by acne and of other types of skin damage. The drug can however itself cause side effects like itching, brurning, redness, scaling and thin skin if not used with caution.
Some other acne treatment methods.
Laser treatment may be used to reduce scars caused by acne, and also to stop the acne process. The laser actually does as follows: to burn away the follicle sac from which the hair grows, to burn away the oil producing sebaceous gland, to induce oxygen formation in the bacteria causeing pimples.
Popping pimples after having made a puncture with a needle. This treatment may cause spread of infection and scarring if not performed very gently and anticeptically
In the fiftieth and before, x-rays were often used to treat severe acne. The treatment was reported to be effective, but it was dangerous. X-rays work by killing cells. The cells that produce excessive sebum were partially killed or biochemically crippled, so that the over-production of sebum was reduced. They also killed cells in the immune system, so that the inflammatory reactions was reduced. And they possibley killed bacteria. However, the x-rays could easily have too much effect so that the skin was damaged, and it could hurt the genome in the skin cells and thereby cause cancer.
Ingredients often used in acne products
The following ingredients are found in may of the above presented products. To find the exact ingredient of each product, please click at the product links for a more throrrough description.
Acetylic acid- THis is a natural acid found in many plants and fruits that tha plants use for protection against bacteria. In many topical acne products the substance is present to hinder bacterial groath and to rinse the skin for the materials making plugs in the pores.
Vitamin A- Vitamin A has been shown to reduce sebum production and the buildup of keratin in the follicle. Vitamin A is more effective when used in conjunction with Vitamin E and Zinc.
Selenium- When there is a Vitamin E deficiency in your body, your levels of Vitamin A will stay low, no matter how much you are supplementing into your diet. When Vitamin E is restored to the diet, Vitamin A levels normalize- this is why it is important to use these vitamins in combination.
Vitamin E - is important for its interactions with Selenium, which is an important antioxidant trace mineral. Selenium has been shown to have a function in the enzyme glutathione perozidase. This enzyme plays a crucial role in preventing acne inflammation. Those who experience acne usually have low levels of glutathione perozidase. After supplementing Vitamin E and Selenium into your diet, acne can be significantly diminished.
Zinc - Zinc is a very important nutrient for the health of the skin. Zinc is involved in the proper metabolism of testosterone. When zinc levels are low, there is an increase in the conversion of testosterone to DHT. It is known that DHT stimulates the manufacture of sebum and keratin which are primary factors in causing acne. Only certain forms of zinc have proven to be effective. These include effervescent zinc and zinc gluconate.
Methylsulfonyl Methane.- Has been shown to improve the permeability of cell walls which allows nutrients to flow in and out of cells with ease. This helps deliver nutrients to the cells and dispose of wastes. Actimine Contains: 1500mg
Gum Guggul Extract.- Studies have shown that Guggul Ext can effectively help with nodulocyctic acne. A study with 20 patients showed that Guggul is more effective that Tetracycline.
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. This information is nutritional in nature and should not be construed as medical advice. This notice is required by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.