What Causes Itching Between Toes? | Toenail Fungus Tips
Navigate
Home
How to Get Rid of Toenail Fungus
Nail Fungus Blog
Foot Health
Conditions
Daily Care
Foot Product Reviews
Antifungal
Laser Treatments
General Foot Care
You are at:Home»Foot Health»Conditions»What Causes Itching Between Toes?
Conditions
What Causes Itching Between Toes?
By Editor	 1st June 2016 No Comments
Share Tweet Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email +
This post contains affiliate links, where we may be compensated for any purchases you make. This does not affect the price you pay. Thanks for supporting our site! 🙂
If you’re experiencing itching between your toes, chances are that you’re suffering from athlete’s foot, or ‘tinea pedis’ to give it its clinical name.
Athlete’s foot is a common fungal infection – thought to infect around 25% of us – that can be caused by transmission of at least four different kinds of fungus. It is not a serious condition although should be treated promptly to avoid spreading it to other people and to other parts of your own body.
Remember to consult your doctor if you want a specific diagnosis. They will be able to examine your toes to see whether fungus is present, or whether you are experiencing something different.
Symptoms of athlete’s foot
Cracks between the toes (ProjectManhattan – Creative Commons)
Itching between your toes – usually starting at the little toes
A flaky and scaly rash may then develop
The skin between your toes can split and develop fissures which can be painful
Painful blisters can develop too
Who gets athlete’s foot?
The fungi that causes athlete’s foot thrives in warm, moist conditions – that means people who get sweaty regularly may well contract it at some point.
It’s a very contagious fungus so anyone who is sharing space or walking barefoot in a space where the athlete’s foot fungus is lurking is also at risk.
Athlete’s foot can afflict anyone but there are a few factors that can put you more at risk of catching it:
Athletes or those that keep their feet cooped up in warm, sweaty shoes all day
People that use swimming pools, gyms and communal showers
People who use nail salons
Types of athlete’s foot
There are four different types of fungus that can cause athlete’s foot although the most common is trichophyton rubrum. These fungi live on hair, nails and skin and are generally passed along the skin.
They can spread to the toenails and hands so be sure to tackle the problem early to limit the spread.
The most common type of athlete’s foot is interdigital – i.e. between the toes.
Another type of athlete’s foot is a moccasin infection. These infections tend to see the skin of the entire sole thickening and perhaps even spreading to the sides of the feet. The skin may crack.
Even rarer is a vesicular infection, which is characterised by a number of blisters appearing on the sole of the foot.
Interdigital athlete’s foot (Wes Washington – Creative Commons)
How to cure athlete’s foot
There are a few different methods on the best way to cure athlete’s foot. You may need to try a few things before you find the right cure for you.
Keep an eye on whether any cracks in the skin between your toes have allowed the introduction of a secondary infection into your skin. If you spot any signs of this, remember to consult your doctor so they can tackle your specific problem.
Best antifungal creams for athlete’s foot
Most athlete’s foot cases can be cured with at least one round of topical antifungal cream. These are generally available online, over-the-counter, or even by prescription if necessary.
Antifungal creams tend to be the first option most athlete’s foot sufferers start with and it can prove very effective – particularly on mild to moderate infections.
Here are the best 4 on the market right now:
Clotrimazole Antifungal Cream 1% USP
This is the best-selling medicated antifungal cream in the US right now, containing 1% active ingredient Clotrimazole.
Here are its stand-out features:
The best priced antifungal cream on Amazon
Effectively relieves itching, burning, cracking and scaling
Treats athlete’s foot, jock itch and ringworm
Comes in a 5-bundle pack – economical and efficient
Puriya Wonder Balm
This is an incredibly popular natural antifungal formula that’s tough on athlete’s foot without any of the harsh chemicals of the medicated creams.
Stand-out features:
Contains high doses of therapeutic grade Tea Tree, Eucaluptus and Lavender oils (antifungal and antimicrobial)
Longer lasting stay-on formula that includes beeswax and olive oil
180 day money-back guarantee
No fillers, synthetic chemicals, artificial colours, fragrances, preservatives or detergents
Made in the USA
REPARA Antifungal Cream Miconazole Nitrate 2%
Another highly popular medicated antifungal cream, containing 2% active ingredient Miconazole Nitrate, that quickly treats and relieves the symptoms of athlete’s foot.
Stand-out features:
High dose of the active ingredient
Forms a barrier by repelling moisture and softening the skin while relieving and treating athlete’s foot
Adheres well to damp skin
Comes in a large 5oz tube
The Yellow Bird’s All Natural Foot Cream
This is another effective yet natural solution to athlete’s foot that will help your feet get healthy and look great.
Stand-out features:
Works the whole foot: treats odour, athlete’s foot, psoriasis, cracked heels and calluses
Contains just 10 natural, organic ingredients including therapeutic grade essential oils
Free from parabens, phthalates, soy, gluten and GMOs
Home remedies for athlete’s foot
Some people choose to address their athlete’s foot with a series of home remedies – often in conjunction with an antifungal cream in order to speed up the healing process.
Here are a few ideas that you should be able to source easily from home:
Tea Tree Oil – this is a powerful, natural antifungal that should destroy the fungus and stop it spreading. Add it ‘neat’ in small doses to the fungus or add a few drops to a foot bath and soak.
Apple Cider Vinegar – vinegar creates an acidic environment in which the fungus cannot survive. Use it in a soak or spray it directly on to the affected area.
Colloidal Silver – silver supports the immune system in destroying fungi and bacteria. Spray directly onto the athlete’s foot.
Oregano Oil – this has antifungal, antiseptic and antibacterial properties. Dilute a couple of drops in a teaspoon of coconut oil and apply to the athlete’s foot.
Antifungal pills for athlete’s foot
In the rare cases when neither home remedies or topical creams can provide a cure for your athlete’s foot, your doctor may need to prescribe you antifungal pills to rid you of the infection.
While mostly effective, often these pills have to be taken for a long period of time before a total cure is achieved and can carry some nasty side-effects.
Speak to your doctor about the risks of taking antifungal pills before you embark on a course.
How to prevent athlete’s foot
Like with all medical conditions, prevention is always better than cure when it comes to athlete’s foot.
Follow these recommendations if you want to keep your feet and toes healthy and fungus-free:
Dry your feet and between your toes thoroughly after getting them wet
Wear sweat-absorbent socks when you’re wearing shoes all day or playing sports
Ensure your shoes fit well and aren’t causing any repetitive trauma to your toes
Wear flip-flops or sandals when using a locker room, communal shower or walking around a swimming pool
Wash your feet with antifungal wash regularly
Use an antifungal powder in your shoes
Don’t share towels, socks or shoes
(Kyle Cassidy – Creative Commons)
Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email
About Author
Editor
Related Posts
Gout: A Complete Guide
1st February 2019 0
Calcaneus Fractures: A Complete Guide
18th January 2019 0
Capsulitis of the Toe: A Complete Guide
11th January 2019 0
Comments are closed.
Search for:
A Guide to Healthy Feet and Nails
Do you suffer from nail fungus (onychomycosis) or any other foot/nail related conditions?
This blog is for you!
Over the last 3 years we have published dozens of tips and guides for getting rid of nail fungus – plus a host of other related conditions.
Be sure to visit our complete guide to curing toenail fungus, along with our nail fungus FAQs, and our latest Foot Care Product Reviews.
You can also check our Foot Health blog for advice on 25+ common ailments and conditions, plus best practices for foot/nail hygiene and daily care.
Latest Features
Gout: A Complete Guide
1st February 2019 0
AsaVea Fungus Stop Review
1st February 2019 0
Hongosan Fungal Killer Review
25th January 2019 0
Calcaneus Fractures: A Complete Guide
18th January 2019 0
Capsulitis of the Toe: A Complete Guide
11th January 2019 0
Latest Features
Gout: A Complete Guide
1st February 2019 0
AsaVea Fungus Stop Review
1st February 2019 0
Important Info
About Us
Terms of Use / Privacy Policy
Affiliate Disclosure
Contact
Sitemap
Toenail Fungus Tips is part of the Amazon affiliate program and we receive commission for purchases made through our referral links.
This does not affect the price you pay.
Copyright © — ToenailFungusTips.com — Contact us: information@toenailfungustips.com