Intra-Articular Hyaluronic Acid and Topical NSAIDS
Toggle Navigation
Central Call Center: 301-942-7600
Home
Physicians
Services
Physician Consultation Services
Laboratory & X-Ray
Joint Injection Therapy
Musculoskeletal Ultrasound
Nerve Conduction Testing | EMG
Osteoporosis Assessment Center
Physical Therapy
Wellness Programs | Arthritis Rehabilitation
Infusion Therapy Services
Clinical Research
Insurance
Patient Center
Patient Center
New Patient Forms
Patient Fees & Online Payments
Medication Refills
HIPAA Privacy Policies
Non-Discrimination Disclosure
Patient Portal
Surveys & Testimonials
Online Reviews
Diseases & Conditions
What is Rheumatology?
Common Rheumatic & Musculoskeletal Conditions
Our Blog
Educational Resource Links
Common Lab Tests
ARA Educational Articles
Medical Management of Back Pain
News
Rheumor’s Newsletter
Doctors in the News
Calendar of Upcoming Events
Locations/Contacts
Office Locations & Contacts
Physical Therapy Locations
Clinical Research Locations
Infusion Therapy Locations
Jeffrey Potter, MD, FACR
Arthritis and Rheumatism Associates, PC
Back to Articles>
Intra-Articular Hyaluronic Acid and Topical NSAIDS
Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis and is characterized by pain limited functioning in those patients affected by it. The diagnosis is made using a combination of a patient’s symptoms, physical examination findings and plain film radiographs, or x-rays. Osteoarthritis can occur at any age but is more common in after middle age, and in patients that have previously injured the affected joint or who are overweight. Pain is typically worsened by activity or overuse and relieved by resting; many patients require medications to help relieve their symptoms.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDS) are among the first agents used for management of pain related to osteoarthritis. In patients who do not have a satisfactory clinical response to acetaminophen (Tylenol) the use of oral or topical NSAIDs can provide significant relief of symptoms. Examples of commonly used NSAIDs include Advil, Motrin, and Aleve; these are excellent medications for relief of pain and mild inflammation in the appropriate patient population. Patients with underlying kidney disease or significant cardiovascular disease should avoid using NSAIDS, as this can complicate management of these conditions. Patients taking blood thinners, and those who have experienced gastrointestinal bleeding should also avoid using these medications due to increased risk of bleeding. Patients using NSAIDs are often advised to take a proton pump inhibitor or acid blocker to offset stomach upset that can be seen with use of anti-inflammatories. In patients > age 75 use of topical NSAIDS applied directly to the affected joint is preferable, and may limit exposure to possible side effects.
Use of hyaluronic acid is an alternative pain management strategy for patients with osteoarthritis whose symptoms are incompletely responsive to first line therapies. Also known as “rooster-comb” injections, hyaluronic acid injections are appropriate for patients who have failed therapies such as acetaminophen, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDS), and corticosteroid injections administered directly into the affected joint. Hyaluronic acid is present naturally in the human body and is found most commonly in the eyes and joint fluid. It works as a cushioning and lubricating devices in the joints of those patients affected with osteoarthritis, but is not believed to play a role in reversal of the disease process. Rather it provides often lasting pain relief for patients who have not responded to traditional therapies or who are not ideal candidates for surgical intervention. There are several different available forms of hyaluronic acid; all are administered by injection directly into the affected joint over a course of 1-5 weeks, depending upon the preparation.
In summary, current management of osteoarthritis varies from patient to patient; discussion of available therapies with a rheumatologist will help to alleviate concerns about possible associated side effects from therapy and hopefully lead to treatment and improvement in symptoms. All pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic treatments for osteoarthritis are used in concert with regular physical activity, physical therapy evaluation, and weight loss if indicated. In combination these management strategies should result in decreased discomfort and improved functionality for patients with osteoarthritis.
Home
Our Physicians
Services
Patient Center
Diseases & Conditions
News
Locations & Contact
Patient Portal
Sitemap
Infusion Therapy Services
ARA CAREERS
Wheaton, MD
2730 University Blvd. West
Suite 310
Wheaton, MD 20902
Rockville, MD
14995 Shady Grove Road
Suite 250
Rockville, MD 20850
Chevy Chase, MD
5454 Wisconsin Avenue
Suite 600
Chevy Chase, MD 20815
Washington DC
2021 K Street, NW
Suite 300
Washington, DC 20006
Olney, MD
18111 Prince Philip Drive
Suite 323
Olney, MD 20832
Frederick MD
71 Thomas Johnson Drive
Frederick, MD 21702
Disclaimer/Privacy Policy Copyright © All Rights Reserved.
View Full Site
Top