Natural Medicines - Folate Intake Linked to Memory Loss
Login Subscribe
Advanced Search
Databases
Food, Herbs & Supplements
Health & Wellness
Sports Medicine
Comparative Effectiveness
Manufacturers
Commercial Products
Fixed Herbal Combinations
Tools
Interaction Checker
Nutrient Depletion
Effectiveness Checker
Adverse Effects Checker
Pregnancy & Lactation Checker
Charts
Natural MedWatch
CE/CME Center
Clinical Management Series
Colleagues Interact
News
eNewsletter
About Us
Our Team
Editorial Principles and Process
Explore Features
Testimonials
Other TRC Products
Contact Us
Home > News > 2014 > November > Folate Intake Linked to Memory Loss
< Back
Print
Feedback
News
Copyright © 2019 Natural Medicines (www.naturalmedicines.com)
November 2014
Folate Intake Linked to Memory Loss
A recent study suggests that low folate intake might increase the risk for memory loss or dementia later in life.
Folate and folic acid are forms of a water-soluble B vitamin. Folate occurs naturally in food, and folic acid is the synthetic form of this vitamin. Folic acid is well-tolerated in amounts found in fortified foods and supplements. Folic acid supplements are effective for increasing folate levels in blood and decreasing symptoms associated with low folate levels. Dementia and Alzheimer's disease have been linked to low folate levels and high homocysteine levels. B vitamins, including folate, and the prevention of dementia are currently being studied. However, previous results are mixed.
In a new study, researchers analyzed data on 7,030 postmenopausal women from the Women’s Health Initiative Memory Study who did not have memory loss or dementia at the beginning of the study. Data on B vitamin intake was collected from 1993 to 1998 through questionnaires.
Throughout the average 5 year follow-up period, 238 cases of memory loss and 69 cases of dementia were identified. The researchers found that women who consumed folate levels below the recommended daily allowance at the beginning of the study had an increased risk of developing memory loss or dementia. However, there was no link between vitamin B-6 or B-12 and memory loss or dementia risk.
The authors concluded that low folate intake might increase the risk for memory loss or dementia later in life. However, additional research is necessary to further evaluate these findings.
For information about folate, please visit Natural Standard’s Food, Herbs & Supplements Database.
For information about integrative therapies for dementia, please visit Natural Standard’s Comparative Effectiveness Database.
References
Agnew-Blais JC, Wassertheil-Smoller S, Kang JH, et al. Folate, Vitamin B-6, and Vitamin B-12 Intake and Mild Cognitive Impairment and Probable Dementia in the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study. J Acad Nutr Diet. 2014 Sep 5.
Natural Standard: The Authority on Integrative Medicine.
The information in this brief report is intended for informational purposes only, and is meant to help users better understand health concerns. This information should not be interpreted as specific medical advice. Users should consult with a qualified healthcare provider for specific questions regarding therapies, diagnosis and/or health conditions, prior to making therapeutic decisions. Copyright © 2019 Natural Medicines Inc. Commercial distribution or reproduction prohibited. Natural Medicines is the leading provider of high-quality, evidence-based, clinically-relevant information on natural medicine, dietary supplements, herbs, vitamins, minerals, functional foods, diets, complementary practices, CAM modalities, exercises and medical conditions. Monograph sections include interactions with herbs, drugs, foods and labs, contraindications, depletions, dosing, toxicology, adverse effects, pregnancy and lactation data, synonyms, safety and effectiveness.
Ⓒ 2019 Therapeutic Research Center
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Technical Support | Site Map | Contact Us