Osteoarthritis Pain Cure and Pain Management
Osteoarthritis Pain Cure
Current and Optional Treatments
Osteoarthritis is one of the major causes of disability and pain in the elderly. An osteoarthritis pain cure is of interest to those faced with this aging disease.
Note: Both Osteoarthritis and Rhumatiod arthritis share a commonality. The curative powers of Glutathione or GSH works for both. First, consider the basics.
What Osteoarthritis Is
It is the degeneration or wear and tear on the joints as we age. One of the most significant symptoms is pain.
To manage the pain, most take painkillers from the mildest such as aspirin and Tylenol (acetaminophen), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) to the extreme of narcotics.
Most people reach for the acetaminophen first because of TV advertising and the fact that it is the most recommended for minor aches and pains of minor arthritis pain. Generally it is considered safe. However if you have liver disease, drink a considerable amount of alcohol, or take more than recommended, it can hurt your liver or even be fatal.
Remember, this is not even looking at an osteoarthritis pain cure. This is just treating the symptom.
Does Acetaminophen Ace the Pain?
A study from Rush-Presbyteran/St Luke’s Medical Center in Chicago compared the efficacy of acetaminophen and anti-inflammatory drugs in 82 men and women. The trial was looking at the pain associated with osteoarthritis of the knee. The study divided the knee pain group into thirds.
One third were given acetaminophen, one third were given NSAIDs and the last group a Placebo. The best result was the NSAID. That is not what is interesting. The acetaminophen group along with the placebo had no benefit. The conclusion of the study was that the use of acetaminophen should be reconsidered.
What if there was a safer and more effective way to eliminate the pain? I will tell you what works for both me and those I see at the end. There are a few more important things you need to know first.
Warning If Tylenol works for you and you notice an increase in pain, do not increase the Tylenol beyond the recommended dose. You may be familiar with the max dose of 4000 mg per day for adult. Actually if your over 60 the new guidelines recommend not taking more than 3000. Ask your pharmacist to be sure.
If you take NSAIDs, follow directions to avoid stomach upset. Remember there are still risks. The medical establishment feel the benefit out weigh the risk. You decide.
The Really Interesting Thing
This is what got me so interested in glutathione (GSH) in the first place. If you overdose on Tylenol and you get to the hospital emergency room, the doctor will treat you with a drug called NAC. That stands for N-acetal cysteine. According to the medical literature on the subject, NAC boosts the GSH which detoxifies the liver of the toxic level of acetaminophen.
Think of that. Boosting your glutathione is the cure for Tylenol poisoning.
There is something to learn here. If the GSH is detoxifying, it is also being depleted. This is why the extra drug is given. What the body makes on its own is not enough so you need extra. So it would seem that taking acetaminophen could actually deplete your body of the essential GSH that it needs to protect and defend.
This might just be why some find that by taking a diet that boosts their GSH or supplementation of GSH with bonded whey proteins can help the body to heal and decrease pain. Bonded whey protein is an all natural form of what is in NAC. Some even report a decrease in osteoarthritis pain even though that was not the reason for their boosting GSH in the first place.
Osteoarthritis Pain Cure
The above pain management does not promote healing. A simple logic would be that if you heal the damage and eliminate the pain.
Glucosamine and Chondroitin
Glucosamine and Chondroitin works for many. This is only part of the picture. If it does not work for you, then the next thing to try would be to boost your GSH. Both are not a quick fix. Orthopedic doctors recommend that you try it for at least a month. Sometimes it takes three months to see beneficial effects. The same is true with boosting your GSH.
The difference, the experts on GSH seem to feel that it will also be working on other things at the same time as it is promoting the osteoarthritis pain cure.
There are a few ways to boost your glutathione or GSH. We are constantly adding new ways to improve health and immunity. Many are almost free or low cost.
Your Guide to Boost Glutathione Levels
End My Pain Now
Where can I go to get the products that can help boost my immunity and give me my life back.
Comments
Do you have an Osteoarthritis Pain Cure comment? Did this work? Did it help? Did it not work? Please let everyone know.
Go to GlutathioneDiseaseCure.com Home
Lets Connect
Let The Sun Shine
Let us know what you would like to see next? Click here and fill out the form.
Need To Know
The Way to Make More GSH For Free
Glutathione has a high affinity for water. Simply put, if we are dehydrated our bodies may not make as much as they could. Or, what we do make may be less effective.
Usually there is something more than just being dehydrated. Often there is a condition called fluid and electrolyte imbalance, less than bodies needs. There is a simple, easy and inexpensive way to correct this, allowing your body to produce even more GSH.
The Water Cures Protocol really works. Give it a try today.
It is simple, easy, sustainable and affordable (the salt should cost less than $10 a year).
And like GSH, it will help with over 76 different diseases and conditions.
What are you waiting for? Go check it out