Imitrex Treatment Neuromuscular Dental Disorders Craniofacial Head Neck Shoulder Pain Alternatives
Neuromuscular Dentist TMJ TMD Migraine Headache Treatment Find Migraine Pain Doctor
Local physicians specialist doctors and dentists providing modern diagnosis and treatments of best bite occlusion alignment vertical dimension best occlusal relationships for successful resolution of Craniofacial TMJ TMD Migraine Headache Head Neck Pain attendant to mechanical or malformed or developmental dysfunctioning of critical tempromandibularjoints
Head Neck Shoulder Pain Analysis More Treatment Concepts Migraine Pain Medication Alternative
Home
Find Doctors
Add a Practice
Treatment Examples
TMJ
Video Library
Migraine Headaches
Jaw Clicking
Lock Jaw
Diagnostics
RF Thermoneurolosis
Imitrex
Equipment
Articles
Ask The Doctor
Contact
Imitrex Pain Management - A Popular Treatment
Imitrex is a renowned treatment medication for migraine sufferers. Sponsored by GlaxoSmithKline - one of the world's leading research-based pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, a good number of migraine patients are able to benefit signifcantly with the use of this product.
It is a prescription medication and can be taken in three different forms:
Oral Tablets
Injection
Nasal spray
Imitrex is Successful Treatment
Visit GlaxoSmithKline's Migraine website to learn more about Imitrex and other important health facts associated with the medication. As you will learn from their website, it is a unique medication specially developed for treatment of migraines. The medication is extremely effective in managing the frequent and popular complaints of throbbing pain, nausea and certain sensitivities to the perception of light and sound.
Imitrex is Unsuccessful Treatment
A good number of migraine sufferers, however, may not be able to derive the full benefit of the medication due to certain factors. This population of migraine patients often seek other treatment alternatives for obtaining relief.
Symptom Relief versus Symptom Resolution
Most pain medications address the symptoms or perceptions of pain. In general terms, if the pain medications are ceased... the feelings or perceptions of pain returns. It is NOT pain resolution.
The resolution of pain focuses on the causes or etiology of pain. Theoretically.. if the primary cause of pain is removed or effectively managed, the perception of pain diminishes.
Craniofacial pain, including the neck, shoulder and upper back can be caused by a great number of events or musculoskeletal relationships. Neuromuscular factors involving especially the intricate mechanisms of occlusal relationships between the maxillary and mandibular (upper and lower) jaws have been shown to be a root cause for numerous pain syndromes.
The normal occlusal relationship can become out of balance through developmental growth issues, trauma, certain oral diseases, failure in maintaining optimal oral health and even routine dental care. Modern dentistry which now includes advanced reconstructive materials and cutting edge treatments, if not monitored closely, can disrupt the delicate occlusal relationship which can lead to a variety of craniofacial pain ailments for many patients.
Neuromuscular Dentistry
The professional body of physicians, dentists, orthodontists and physical therapists involved with the study and treatment of the biomechanical processes of craniofacial pain grows at a seemingly geometric rate. Organizations including the Las Vegas Institute (LVI), American Academy for Functional Orthodontics, American Academy of Craniofacial Pain and the International College of Craniomandibular Orthopedics have been instrumental in the development of diagnostic and treatment programs that helped patients achieve the resolution of pain.... rather than the management of symptoms.
Imitrex versus Neuromuscular Dentistry
More and more patients are discovering they may have choices in effective sensible treatment... possibly bordering on an actual pain cure... depending on what etiological factors can be controlled. Individual experiences and success rates vary from patient to patient.
Doctors, dentists and orthodontists listed in this directory are involved in one or more of the organizations mentioned above. They espouse diagnostic and treatment methods that can help many patients obtain the possibility of pain symptom elimination.... rather than just the transitory relief of pain.
Neuromuscular Dentistry Directory
LVI Trained Dentists and American Academy of Craniofacial Pain Members
Migraine Headache Craniofacial Pain Cures
Featured in
All rights reserved: 2004 - 2012
Home | Our Doctors | TMJ| Migraine Headaches | Jaw Clicking | Lock Jaw | Diagnostics
Videos | Imitrex | Treatment Plans | Articles | Ask The Doctor | Contact
Thermoneurolosis Treatment
Powered by DentMedHost