UV Depression Lamp Custom Designed for OEMs | LightSources
Trust LightSources to Make
Your Specialty Lighting Vision a Reality!
ISO 9001:2015 Certified
Search this site
1 800-826-9465 (North America)
+36 27 541-800 (Europe)
+86 21 52662921 (China)
View Our Blog
English
Light Therapy Lamp
UVB Phototherapy
UVB Vitiligo
UV Acne
UV Depression
UV Eczema
UV Psoriasis
Contact
UV Depression
Light Sources > Solutions > Light Therapy Lamp > UV Depression
UV Depression Lamp
The LightSources Group delivers lighting solutions in a multitude of lamp types and styles, including our UV depression lamp. Light therapy has been used for years to treat a wide range of medical conditions including skin disorders such as acne and psoriasis and is also a recognized treatment for various mood disorders. People suffering from varying types of mood disorders and depression are finding relief with light therapy, also known as phototherapy.
Many Mood Conditions are Successfully Treated with a Depression Lamp
A UV depression lamp is used to treat mood and depression disorders in people, especially those suffering from Seasonal Affective Disorder, or SAD, which is a major type of depression occurring in many people who do not get enough sunlight. SAD is usually recurring during the winter months for people living in the Northern hemisphere, beginning around autumn when the days get shorter and lessening in the spring when days are longer.
Symptoms of depression from SAD are similar to symptoms of non-seasonal forms of depression which can become crippling and severe to some people. The most typical symptoms of depression include:
Fatigue
Social withdrawal
Weight gain
Craving foods high in carbohydrates
Lack of interest in normal activities
Phototherapy is also recognized as helping to treat other types of depression in people, not caused by seasonal affective disorder, as exposure to a UV depression lamp can increase the level of serotonin in the brain much like antidepressants.
Phototherapy is also beneficial to those suffering from circadian rhythm sleep disorders such as night shift workers or people suffering from jet lag.
How a UV Depression Lamp Works
Sunlight naturally triggers the pineal gland in our brain to produce serotonin, a mood elevating hormone. Full spectrum lighting replicates the intensity and color of the sun at mid-day and is recognized as an effective treatment for SAD. According to the American Psychological Association, the typical SAD therapy is exposure to fluorescent white light for approximately 30 minutes in the early morning.
This is shown to be effective for at least 50% of people suffering from SAD to regain positive moods and energy, with results jumping to 80% when the phototherapy is tailored to the individual’s wake and sleep cycle. Most people notice an improvement within one week of phototherapy.
LightSources Offers Proven Solutions with UV Depression Lamps
LightSources designs and produces varying types and models of depression lamps in our T5, T8, T12 and CPFL styles which are used in light treatment therapies. Our full spectrum lamps are made with rare Earth phosphors which produce a bright, clear, white light with color rendering index, CRI, of 90 to 100.
We understand the technology that is required for a depression lamp to work as intended and design each depression lamp with the emission of the proper wavelength required for successful treatment.
The LightSources Group is recognized for developing high quality lamps with long lasting performance for a broad range of applications. Contact us today to learn more about phototherapy options with our UV depression lamp.
LightSources LCD Lighting, Inc. KULKA VOLTARC MASQNLITE CERLUX LightTech
SOLUTIONS:
Germicidal
UV Curing
Specialty Fluorescent
Sign
Lampholders & Wiring Devices
Red Light
Tanning Lamps
Backlighting
Proprietary Bases & Sockets
CORPORATE WEBSITE:
Lighting Solutions
About LightSources
Contact Us
Our Latest Blog Posts
Privacy Statement
Cookie Notice
Facebook Linkedin
All rights reserved © 2015 Light Sources, Inc. , Created byWSI Privacy Statement. Site Map.
X
Email a Friend
Your Name:
Your Email Address: *
Recipient's Name:
Recipient's Email Address: *
Email Subject: *
Message: *
Message: *
By continuing to use this site, you accept our use of cookies and other online technology to send you targeted advertisements, for social media, for data analytics and to better understand your use of our website.
Click here for more information on the types of cookies we use and how to change your cookie settings. Accept
Privacy & Cookies Policy
`