January, 2019 | Inner Health Blog
Inner Health Blog
Health, Vitality & Beauty from the Inside Out!
Main menu
Skip to content
Inner Health Home
Hypnotherapy
Self-Hypnosis Downloads
Testimonials
Weight Loss
Stress Elimination Self-Hypnosis
Nutritional Supplements for Stress & Anxiety
Pain Management
Monthly Archives: January 2019
Post navigation
Supplements to Help with Stress & Anxiety
Posted on January 9, 2019 by ihbPT
THRIVE Rest Ingredients
L-Tryptophan, GABA (Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid), Skullcap Extract, Ashwagandha Extract, Bacopa Monnieri Extract, Valerian Root Extract, Passion Flower Extract, Hops Extract,
Chamomile Extract, Melatonin, L-Theanine
Other ingredients: Purified Water, Fructose, Glycerin, Natural Flavor, Cellulose Gum, Xanthan Gum, Citric Acid, Stevia Leaf Extract, Potassium Sorbate.
Please Note: The following ingredients research is not company supplied but based upon my own independent Google research, you are welcome to do your own research.
If you decide to try using herbal stress relief, it is important to be consistent and use the chosen herbs for some time. They are usually quite gentle in action on the body and need to be used regularly for you to see the results.
The Thrive Rest Sublingual Gel Technology Delivery System:
Sublingual from the Latin for “under the tongue”, refers to the pharmacological route of administration by which substances diffuse into the blood through tissues under the tongue.
When a chemical comes in contact with the mucous membrane beneath the tongue, it is absorbed. Because the connective tissue beneath the epithelium contains a profusion of capillaries, the substance then diffuses into them and enters the venous circulation. In contrast, substances absorbed in the intestines are subject to “first-pass metabolism” in the liver before entering the general circulation.
-Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sublingual_administration
L-Tryptophan for Sleep, Anxiety and Stress Relief
L-Tryptophan is an all-natural dietary supplement commonly used to counter insomnia, as well as depression, anxiety and premenstrual syndrome.
Tryptophan is an amino acid that interacts with those brain chemicals important to sleep and the timing of your biological clock’s sleep-wake cycle. Tryptophan increases serotonin, which also increases melatonin, both neuro-transmitters in your brain’s pineal gland. These neural “gateways” regulate sleep and mood chemicals that affect sleep and mood balance.
When either serotonin or melatonin is disrupted you can suffer insomnia and depression symptoms. Tryptophan supplements provide extra doses of sleep inducing amino acids that reportedly help counter sleep disturbances.
-Source: https://www.insomnia.net/natural-remedies/l-tryptophan/
One of the most useful benefits Tryptophan for anxiety provides is mood regulation, through the production of the neurotransmitter Serotonin. Supplementing with L-Tryptophan and its by-product 5-HTP may improve mood and relieve stress.
Once consumed, L-Tryptophan is converted into 5-HTP (5-hydroxytryptophan) and other metabolites in the liver. 5-HTP, which is also available as a mood supplement, travels through the blood stream to the brain. Once there, it is able to cross the blood-brain barrier.
In the brain, 5-HTP is converted into Serotonin, the neurotransmitter most commonly associated with the regulation of mood.
In addition to the role it plays in regulating mood, Serotonin is also converted into the hormone Melatonin. Melatonin is a sleep-regulating neurotransmitter that controls the sleep/wake cycle (circadian rhythm).
During the day, the brain produces more Serotonin, and Melatonin production is very low. When light levels drop at dusk, Serotonin is converted more readily into Melatonin, and levels rise in the body.
Melatonin helps you stay asleep throughout the night and wake feeling rested. This may help to control anxious thoughts during the day.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/l-tryptophan-anxiety/
Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA)
What is it? Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA) is a chemical made in the brain and often taken as a supplement to relieve anxiety, improve mood, reduce PMS symptoms, and treat symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Does it work? There is some limited evidence to suggest that orally-administered GABA supplements can help promote relaxation and immunity and reduce anxiety during times of stress. -Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
According to recent sleep studies, GABA levels are up to 30% lower in people suffering from insomnia. Similarly, GABA levels are also lower in patients with depression or mood disorders.
GABA (gamma-Aminobutyric acid) is a naturally occurring chemical compound produced in your brain, and, according to a recent study, helps to relax your body as well as your mind. “After 60 minutes of administration,” the clinical trials abstract reads, “GABA significantly increases alpha waves and decreases beta waves compared to water or L-theanine. These findings denote that GABA not only induces relaxation but also reduces anxiety.”
-Source: https://thethirty.byrdie.com/gaba-for-sleep
GABA is a highly important element in the brain. Essentially, it plays a key role in regulating the depressive neuro-activity in the human brain. In other words, it’s responsible for helping your mind switch from “work mode” to “relaxation mode”. It also plays a role in sedative change in the brain, which is the key to falling asleep at night.
How GABA helps reduce stress: GABA, in supplement form, is used for its relaxation-inducing effects, and to help relieve stress. It has also been shown to help improve mood, which can also lead to less stress in the future. Essentially, it works by blocking brain signals that incite anxiety and stressful feelings, allowing the brain to remain calm and inducing relaxation. -Source: http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
Skullcap Extract
Skullcap herb is an amazing plant for stress, tension, anxiety, nervousness and panic attacks. If I were pressed to simply list one application for skullcap it would be its ability to relieve stress and anxiety. It works well in acute situations and can be taken over time to decrease chronic stress (along with lifestyle modifications of course).
It works well for acute and sudden onset anxiety or panic attacks. For people susceptible to sudden onset anxiety or panic attacks, fresh skullcap tincture can be kept on them at all times.
Experienced herbal medic, Sam Coffman, shares his reliance on skullcap herb for shock-related anxiety.
Skullcap (Scutellaria spp.) and Passionflower are two that have never failed me as a formula to help someone cope quickly with shock-related anxiety. – Sam Coffman, Plant Healer Magazine 11
Not just for acute cases, skullcap can be taken over time as a nerve tonic to support nervous system health in people who have been through prolonged periods of stress and feel like their nerves are constantly on edge.
-Source: http://www.herbalremediesadvice.org/skullcap-herb.html
While skullcap may help with anxiety, it also can help those who experience insomnia and other sleeping problems, such as restlessness, muscle tension and clenching the jaws.
-Source: https://draxe.com/skullcap/
Studies showed that American skullcap has antioxidant properties that may help protect against Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, anxiety and depression.6
These antioxidant capabilities were also linked to increased antioxidant activity in the liver, considered to be one of the slowest-recovering organs. The herb boosts the liver’s efficiency, helping with reduction of toxin levels in the body and blood, and consequently enhancing well-being. Furthermore, other properties discovered in American skullcap include:7,8
• Sedative: American skullcap is a known nervine, and it has potential as treatment for epilepsy, hysteria, panic attacks, anxiety and delirium tremens. Meanwhile, people with sleep problems can use American skullcap since it’s able to help induce sleep naturally, without the negative effects of prescription drugs and over-the-counter (OTC) sleep aids
• Antispasmodic: The herb can help minimize throat infections, headaches from stress, neuralgia and after-effects of incessant coughing. American skullcap can also be useful when treating withdrawal symptoms from tranquilizers and barbiturates, and may even benefit people with anorexia nervosa, fibromyalgia and mild Tourette’s syndrome
People with nervous disorders who experienced seizures or other spasmodic side effects that occurred from a problem in the nervous system may also utilize American skullcap.
• Analgesic: This herb can help with pain relief all throughout the body, as it can reduce inflammation and deliver a major boost in wound healing and injury recovery
-Source: https://articles.mercola.com/herbs-spices/skullcap.aspx
Ashwagandha
The Ayurvedic herb, Ashwagandha supports healthy sleep by rejuvenating the body and addressing stress-related exhaustion. Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) has emerged as one of the world’s most powerful adaptogen, which means it helps the adrenal system regulate hormones and helps the body cope with stress. In fact, “somnifera” in Latin literally means the “sleep inducer.”
Lowers Stress Hormones: One of the well-understood pathways linked to sleep disturbance is the overproduction of the stress hormone, cortisol. According to our circadian clock, cortisol should naturally decrease in the early evening in preparation for sleep. Stress can overrule these rhythms and cortisol can stay elevated into the night and affect sleep success. Ashwagandha, in numerous studies, has been shown to help control and limit the production of cortisol as a result of stressful situations.
-Source: https://lifespa.com/5-reasons-use-ashwagandha-sleep/
Many people are ditching over the counter sleep aids and trying the herbal supplement Ashwagandha for sleep issues. We know that this plant-based medicinal has been used for centuries in India to treat a number of conditions and disorders.
It has strong anti-oxidant and anti-microbial properties, which it uses to protect cell health in the brain and major organs.
Ashwagandha reduces stress by cutting the amount of cortisol, a hormone commonly released by the body during stressful situations. Cortisol triggers various stress reactions in the body, or “fight or flight” reactions. It further cuts stress by reducing blood pressure, and balancing blood sugar levels.
Ashwagandha quells anxious thoughts and allows the mind to become calm. These anxiolytic effects are achieved by activating signaling via GABA receptors. When these receptors are activated, it results in feelings of calm and relaxation.
The central nervous system is mildly sedated and a sense of peace may result. We think that this is the key to the efficacy of taking Ashwagandha for sleep issues.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/ashwagandha-for-sleep/
Research has shown that there are measurable health benefits of engaging in a creative activity such as stress reduction, reduction of feelings of anxiety or depression, improvements in immune function, and improvements in your cognitive function are all associated with creative pursuits.
The Role of Herbs in Supporting Our Creativity
There are many herbs and supplements that are known to help boost creativity. These are commonly grouped together and called nootropics. A nootropic substance is anything that enhances our brain, especially in creativity, cognitive function, and memory.
Ashwagandha is one of these powerful herbs. Ashwagandha is one of the most heavily studied adaptogens there is. It is most known for its ability to reduce stress, but it has many other health benefits as well!
Researchers reported that it blocked the stress pathway in the brains of rats by regulating chemical signalling in the nervous system. In human studies, the herb showed a 69% reduction in anxiety and insomnia, compared to only 11% in the placebo group.
Ashwagandha can help your focus and concentration, both of which are incredibly important when you’re working on a creative project!
-Source: http://healthywithstefan.com/
There have been over 200 studies on Ashwagandha’s ability to:
Improve thyroid function
Treat adrenal fatigue
Reduce anxiety and depression
Combat effects of stress
Increase stamina and endurance
Prevent and treat cancer
Reduce brain cell degeneration
Stabilize blood sugar
Lower cholesterol
Boost immunity
In this article I’m going to discuss the benefits of Ashwagandha in healing your thyroid, adrenal glands, improving mood and energy, preventing cancer, and supporting brain health… read the full Dr. Axe article here: https://draxe.com/ashwagandha-proven-to-heal-thyroid-and-adrenals/
Here are 7 benefits women may experience with Ashwagandha:
1. Promotes Graceful Aging
Stress, both metabolic and emotional, dramatically affects aging. Cortisol, the body’s stress hormone, contributes to muscle loss and weakness, wrinkles, and cognitive impairment. Research has found that Ashwagandha improves resistance to stress, possibly decreasing cortisol production. [1] One study of 64 individuals observed a reduction in stress and a significant decrease in cortisol levels in individuals taking Ashwagandha compared with placebo.
2. Menopausal Support
Ashwagandha acts on the endocrine system by encouraging hormone balance. A study involving 51 menopausal women supplementing with Ashwagandha noted a significant reduction in symptoms such as hot flashes, anxiety, and mood. [2]
3. Sexual Potency (men and women)
The Kama Sutra, one of the oldest surviving texts on human sexuality, mentions Ashwagandha in its literature as a potent sexual stimulant for both men and women. Research indicates that the herb supports sexual health and vitality by increasing blood flow and reducing bodily tension. Women taking Ashwagandha typically experience an increase in sexual desire and satisfaction.
4. Memory Support
Recent research has shown that Ashwagandha reduces memory impairment in animal models. The herb may also protect the brain from the oxidative stress that leads to neurodegeneration. Relaxation, a benefit derived from the herb’s stress-fighting effects, also improves long-term visual memory. [3] [4]
5. Revitalization
Another benefit many women report after taking this herb is in regards to energy levels. This anecdotal evidence is supported by scientific investigation; a recent study reported Ashwagandha’s benefits for improving energy while reducing stress-related disorders. [5]
6. Mood Booster
Ashwagandha is a known mood-boosting herb, and research suggests that the therapeutic plant may play a potential role in fighting mood imbalance. [6] Women battling mood swings may benefit from supplementing with Ashwagandha.
7. Fertility
Stress, illness, hormone imbalance, and nutrient deficiencies — all of these issues threaten female reproductive health and make it difficult for a woman to conceive. Research shows that Ashwagandha supports thyroid function, an organ responsible for regulating hormones. [7] Also, by decreasing stress, Ashwagandha may encourage a situation that is optimal for fertility. [8] More research is needed to clarify whether or not Ashwagandha is effective for helping infertile females struggling to conceive.
-Source: https://www.globalhealingcenter.com/natural-health/7-amazing-benefits-of-Ashwagandha-root-for-women/
Bacopa monnieri
Bacopa monnieri is an herbal nootropic, a plant-based supplement that boosts brain power and reduces anxiety naturally. Bacopa monnieri is one of the oldest and most well-respected nootropic supplements. A traditional Ayurvedic medicine, sometimes referred to as Brahmi, has centuries of history as a potent cognitive enhancer, stress reliever, and brain protectant.
Bacopa monnieri is used to improve memory formation and speed of recall, make learning faster and easier, enhance clarity of thought, and augment overall brain function. It is also believed to act as a brain protectant, and studies show that it has potential as a treatment for dementia.
Bacopa has also been shown to have significant anxiolytic or anti-anxiety effects, producing a feeling of calmness and tranquility and reducing feelings of stress. Users report that it is an excellent general relaxant and can improve the quality of sleep, so they wake feeling rested and refreshed.
-Source: https://www.braintropic.com/nootropics/bacopa-monnieri/
I recently read an Ayurvedic weight loss protocol that included bacopa taken a few times a day to reduce nervous food cravings. The kind of sleepiness that a high dose of bacopa induces is not a heavy, drugged feeling, but a feeling of deep peace and calm in keeping with its respected Ayurvedic mental and soul-calming properties.
Bacopa is an ideal herb to give not only to induce sleep, but for staying asleep through the night.
-Source: https://planetherbs.com/blogs/michaels-blogs/bacopa-monnieri-the-true-brahmi/
Valerian Root
What is it? Valerian is an herb commonly used to treat insomnia, anxiety, and stress. Although it’s considered safe for most adults, the effects of long-term use are unknown. Short-term side effects include headaches and sluggishness in the morning, especially if taken at higher doses.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Some herbal supplements reduce anxiety without making you sleepy (such as L-theanine), while others are sedatives. Valerian (Valeriana officinalis) is squarely in the second category. It is a sleep aid, for insomnia. It contains sedative compounds; the German government has approved it as a treatment for sleep problems.
Valerian smells kind of nasty, so most people take it as a capsule or tincture, rather than a tea. If you want to try it, take it in the evening—not before you go to work! Valerian is often combined with other sedative herbs such as hops, chamomile, and lemon balm.
-Source: http://www.health.com/health/gallery/0,,20669377,00.html#valerian-2
Valerian is a very helpful form of herbal stress relief if you suffer from tension and anxiety, or have a tendency to get easily over-excited and/or hysterical. It is very calming but is unlikely to make you sleepy (although I wouldn’t suggest taking large quantities and then driving) and you can use it without any worries about getting addicted to it. If you have trouble sleeping, try taking valerian an hour or so before you go to bed. If your body gets so tense that you experience pain, taking valerian can help to relieve the discomfort. –Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Passionflower
Studies have shown that passionflower lowers anxiety in mice, but only one study has been carried out in humans, according to Lenz. That randomized, placebo-controlled study was done in 2001 in patients with general anxiety disorder, and found that 45 drops of liquid passionflower daily was as effective in treating the disorder as the drug oxazepam. Still, more research on its safety and effectiveness is needed, Lenz wrote in his study.
-Source: https://www.livescience.com/16975-herbal-supplements-stress-reduction.html
Passion flower is extremely useful if you suffer from long term insomnia. It can be taken over a long period of time. It helps you get to sleep, sleep well and wake up without any of the heavy feeling of some sleeping tablets. It has a generally tranquillizing effect. It can help to relieve restlessness, irritability, nervous stress and anxiety and can also be used where great tension is causing spasms in the body as it is also an antispasmodic. -Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH), more research is needed to assess the potential uses of P. incarnata. Some studies suggest it may help relieve anxiety and insomnia. Other species of passionflower have shown promise for treating stomach problems.
P. incarnata has many common names, including purple passionflower and maypop. Early studies suggest it might help relieve insomnia and anxiety. It appears to boost the level of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in your brain. This compound lowers brain activity, which may help you relax and sleep better.
In a trial published in Phytotherapy Research, participants drank a daily dose of herbal tea with purple passionflower. After seven days, they reported improvements in the quality of their sleep. The researchers suggest that purple passionflower may help adults manage mild sleep irregularities.
Some trials suggest that purple passionflower may also relieve anxiety. A study reported in the journal Anesthesia and Analgesia examined its effects on patients scheduled for surgery. Patients who consumed it reported less anxiety than those who received a placebo.
-Source: https://www.healthline.com/health/anxiety/calming-effects-of-passionflower#calming
There are many passion flower benefits — it may help reduce and possibly eliminate insomnia, anxiety, inflammation from skin irritations and burns, menopause, ADHD and even more serious conditions such as seizures, high blood pressure and asthma, just to name a few.
Studies have shown that passion flower may be just as effective as synthetic drugs for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD)! (1) It’s common to see passion flower combined with other calming herbs such as valerian root and lemon balm, chamomile, hops, kava and skullcap.
May Help Reduce the Effects of Menopause, Including Hot Flashes & Depression
Menopause is associated with feeling of anxiety and depression, which is often caused by low levels of amma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which is a chemical in the brain. Hormone therapy that relies on modern medicine can create a lot of unwanted side effects. Studies have been conducted that show that passion flower can treat menopausal symptoms such as vasomotor signs (hot flashes and night sweats), insomnia, depression, anger, headaches, and may be a great alternative to conventional hormone therapy. (3)
Reduce Anxiety
Passion flower may be helpful in reducing anxiety and has long been known as a folk remedy. It’s believed that certain compounds found in passion flower may interact with some receptors in the brain provoking relaxation. Because passion increases GABA, the activity of some brain cells that may be causing anxiety is lowered and makes you feel more relaxed. Studies suggest that passion flower extracts may even have mild anti-inflammatory and anti-seizure benefits. (4)
A study was performed for four weeks on 36 out-patients that were diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The results indicated that passion flower extract was an effective treatment for managing the anxiety and did not negatively affect job performance unlike the synthetic therapy. (1) Another study involving children showed that nervousness was reduced after the use of the combined plant extracts to include passion flower, St. John’s Wort and valerian root. (9, 10)
-Source: https://draxe.com/passion-flower/
Hops Extract
Hops work as a central nervous system relaxant. This makes them a very helpful form of herbal stress relief if you suffer from insomnia and the stress states caused by not getting enough sleep. Hops help to relieve tension and anxiety and are helpful in reducing restlessness.
Hops have a strong muscle relaxing effect so if being stressed gives you headaches, indigestion, stomach pains, palpitations or a nervous cough, then taking hops, especially in the form of a tincture, could prove very helpful for you.
-Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Effects of a hops (Humulus lupulus L.) dry extract supplement on self-reported depression, anxiety and stress levels in apparently healthy young adults: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover pilot study.
OBJECTIVE: The Humulus lupulus L. plant (hops) is used as a herbal medicinal product for anxiety/mood disorders. Our aim was to study the effects of a hops dry extract on self-reported, anxiety and stress levels in young adults.
DESIGN: Apparently healthy young adults from our university completed the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21) and those reporting at least mild depression, anxiety and stress were invited to complete the study intervention. This followed a randomized (1:1), placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover design with two 4-week intervention periods (hops or placebo; two 0.2 gr capsules once daily) separated by a 2-week wash-out.
Anthropometric measurements, DASS-21 assessments and measurements of morning cortisol plasma levels were performed at the beginning and the end of the 4-week treatment periods.
RESULTS: 36 participants (Females/Males: 31/5; age: 24.7±0.5 years) completed the study intervention (attrition: 6/42). No significant changes in body weight and composition or morning circulating cortisol were noted with the hops or placebo.
Significantly decreased DASS-21 anxiety, depression and stress scores were documented with hops (9.2±7.3 vs. 5.1±5.9, 11.9±7.9 vs. 9.2±7.4, and 19.1±8.1 vs. 11.6±8.1; all p values <0.05), which were significantly greater compared to those caused by the placebo (all p values <0.05).
CONCLUSION: In otherwise healthy young adults reporting at least mild depression, anxiety and stress symptoms, daily supplementation with a hops dry extract can significantly improve all these symptoms over a 4-week period. These beneficial effects agree with the indication of hops for anxiety/mood disorders and restlessness, as approved by the German Commission E.
-Source: https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/71e2/7c6afadc2f206330e9a94eab28ccfea6fbfb.pdf
FOR STRESS AND ANXIETY
Anybody that enjoys a glass or two of rich, hoppy beer will be familiar with the way that the tension seems to ease from your body. While alcohol may well have something to do with this, hops themselves may also play a part.
Hops have been traditionally used for their sedative abilities and may help to ease feelings of anxiety and stress.
Several studies have demonstrated that hops have sedative effects on the body’s nervous system (1)
It is believed to work because it modulates the GABA receptors in the brain. Studies have also shown that hops are more effective as a sedative when used in combination with valerian. (2)
FOR IMPROVED SLEEP
There is a growing body of scientific evidence that hops could help people improve their quality of sleep and even help treat sleep conditions like insomnia.
Hops have traditionally been used to help with sleep issues and several studies have analysed its effectiveness as a sleep aid. Several studies have found that hops were effective in promoting sleep in combination with another herb – valerian. (3)
A study published in 2012 set out to examine the effects of hops in female nurses chosen because of their stressful jobs and their poor sleep patterns.
The study found that the participants who drank non-alcoholic beer containing hops experienced a much-improved quality of sleep compared with the control group. (4)
FOR MENOPAUSE
Studies have found that hops have chemicals that act like estrogen. These chemicals may help relieve some of the symptoms of hormonal changes which occur because of menopause.
A study done on 100 postmenopausal women found that a vaginal gel using hops as one of the major ingredients reduced dryness in the vagina. It also helped relieve painful intercourse, burning, itching, and vaginal inflammation.
One study published in 2006 examined the effects of a phytoestrogen extracted from hops (8-prenylnaringenin) on menopausal discomfort.
The results of the study indicated that a daily intake of hop extract had beneficial effects on many of the discomforts associated with menopause including hot flashes. (5)
TO RELAX THE MUSCLES
Hops can also be used alone or in combination with valerian to help relax your overly stressed muscles, ease stiff joints and prevent spasms and twitching.
According to experts when these herbs are used in combination, they are even more effective than when used alone.
COGNITIVE HEALTH
Recent research carried out in China suggests that xanthohumol – a compound found in hops may help protect the brain’s cells from oxidative stress.
According to the researchers, this type of oxidative stress can lead to degenerative disorders such as Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease.
The researchers at Lanzhou university concluded that xanthohumol may protect the brain from damage and reduce the risk of various brain disorders. (6)
WEIGHT LOSS
A study published in 2012 reported that the flavonoid – xanthohumol – extracted from hops helped reduce body weight and fasting glucose levels in obese rats.
The researchers also concluded that the results demonstrated the extract may have a beneficial effect on some of the symptoms of metabolic syndrome. (8)
HEART HEALTH
Another potential benefit of the xanthohumol found in hops is the effect it may have on heart health. A study published in 2012 found that it possessed powerful antiplatelet activity. The researchers concluded it may have a role to play in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease. (9)
-Source: https://healthyfocus.org/benefits-of-hops/
Chamomile Extract
Chamomile is a mild relaxant and sedative. A cup of chamomile tea before bed can help you to fall asleep easily and sleep well. Like lemon balm, it also has anti-spasmodic properties. This is a wonderful tea for children. It can be slightly bitter so sweeten it with a little honey if you like. -Source: http://www.family-stress-relief-guide.com/herbal-stress-relief.html
Recent clinical and laboratory research has determined that chamomile is not only relaxing, but it can significantly decrease anxiety and even fight depression.
The most recent study, from the UK’s University of Nottingham Medical School, found that chamomile significantly relaxed blood vessels and smooth muscle fibers. This effect was indicated specifically with the application of three of chamomile’s central constituents, apigenin, luteolin and bisabolol – all hydroxylates.
The fact that chamomile is an anti-anxiety and anti-depression herb was cemented by a clinical study at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. This study was done in 2009, but its data and findings were re-investigated and confirmed last year.
The researchers enlisted 19 people diagnosed with anxiety with depression, along with 16 people who were diagnosed as having a history of anxiety and depression. These groups were studied along with a control group of 22 people who had no anxiety or depression – past or present.
The study was randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled. The researchers gave the subjects either 220 milligrams of chamomile extract (standardized to 1.2% apigenin) or a placebo study, both in capsules.
The researchers found that 57% of the group using the chamomile extract had significantly reduced (greater than 50%) anxiety scores using the HAM-A system.
-Source: https://www.realnatural.org/chamomile-relaxes-fights-anxiety-and-depression/
Chamomile Improves Sleep Quality
A study (RCT) on 80 postnatal women with poor sleep quality showed that drinking chamomile tea significantly improved in sleep quality after 2 weeks [R].
Another study (RCT) involving 80 elderly people over 60 yielded similar results. After 4 weeks of oral consumption of chamomile extract, the participants improved their sleep quality [R].
Chamomile Reduces Anxiety And Depression
Chamomile can be used as a treatment for patients with generalized anxiety disorder by reducing depression, restlessness, and constant worrying.
Several studies (RCT) concluded that long-term chamomile consumption reduces generalized anxiety disorder symptoms without significant side effects [R, R].
Furthermore, a study has revealed that aromatherapy with Roman chamomile oil over a 2-week period reduced depressive-like behaviors in rats [R].
Chamomile Rids Parasites In The Gut
A cell-based study showed that chamomile extracts exhibit anti-parasitic activity against Haemonchus contortus. Chamomile inhibited egg hatching and led to worm paralysis and/or death even at low concentrations [R].
Anisakiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the presence of worms from the Anisakis genus in the gut. This disease is usually contracted through consumption of raw or undercooked fish. Symptoms of anisakiasis include vomiting, nausea, stomach pain, and diarrhea.
An animal study concluded that chamomile essential oil can treat anisakiasis by producing damage to the parasite’s muscular and digestive systems, and ultimately killing, the worms [R].
-Source: https://www.selfhacked.com/blog/health-benefits-chamomile/#3_Chamomile_Improves_Sleep_Quality
Considered to be one of the most ancient and versatile medicinal herbs known to mankind, dried chamomile flowers have numerous, widespread health implications thanks to their high level of disease-fighting antioxidants like terpenoids and flavonoids.
Chamomile’s vital antioxidants are found in the plant’s potent oils and are the main contributors to its natural healing properties. As an effective alternative medicine with almost no known negative side effects, chamomile has been used for nearly 5,000 years in standardized tea, herbal extract and cosmetic forms to promote tranquility, vitality, a youthful appearance and longevity.
1. High Source of Antioxidants
The main antioxidant components extracted from chamomile flowers are the terpenoid group of antioxidants, including chamazulene and acetylene derivatives. Because these delicate compounds are unstable, they’re thought to be best preserved in an alcoholic tincture or “essential oil” form. Other major constituents of the flowers include several phenolic compounds, primarily the flavonoids, including apigenin, quercetin, patuletin as well as various glucosides. (1, 2, 3)
These compounds lower inflammation by fighting free radical damage and preventing cell mutation. Chamomile benefits start with antioxidants that are associated with better immune function; lower rates of mood disorders; reduced pain and swelling; and healthier skin, hair, nails, teeth and eyes.
2. Fights Anxiety and Depression
Chamomile, whether in tea, tincture or essential oil form, is one the best medicinal herbs for fighting stress and promoting relaxation, according to research from Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine and Pharmacognosy Review. (4, 5) Inhaling chamomile vapours using chamomile essential oils is often recommended as a natural remedy for anxiety and general depression, which is one reason why chamomile oil is a popular ingredient in many candles, aromatherapy products and bath-soaking treatments.
In extract form, chamomile is frequently used as a mild sedative to calm nerves and reduce anxiety because its vapours travel directly to the olfactory part of the brain, turning off tension and reducing the body’s stress response. This is why practitioners use chamomile to effectively relieve symptoms of chronic anxiety and stress, including hysteria, nightmares, insomnia and various digestive problems. (6)
Smells are carried directly to the brain, and they serve as an emotional trigger. The limbic system evaluates the sensory stimuli, registering pleasure, pain, danger or safety; this then directs our emotional response, such as feelings of fear, anger and attraction.
Our basic emotions and hormonal balance are in response to the most basic smell. Scents are a direct pathway to memory and emotion. Fragrances, like chamomile, relieve pain and generally affect personality and behaviour. Research proves that using oil fragrances is one of the fastest ways to achieve psychological results.
-Source: https://draxe.com/chamomile-benefits/
Melatonin
What is it? A hormone produced by the brain’s pineal gland, melatonin helps control sleep cycles. Because sleep and mood are closely connected, supplementing with melatonin can alleviate stress. It’s considered safe, but can cause side effects like headaches, short-term feelings of depression, dizziness, and irritability.
Does it work? Early research indicates it could be helpful in reducing blood pressure, heart rate, and feelings of pressure when under stress.
-Source: http://www.onemedical.com/blog/all-stress/stress-supplements/
Generally, people use Melatonin supplements to help with sleep disorders, such as primary insomnia. It also used for a variety of health conditions that include bipolar disorder, dementia, depression, endometriosis and anxiety.
Melatonin is a hormone made by the brain to regulate sleep cycles, but it can also play a role in mood and anxiety. It helps to control the level of stimulation and activity experienced by the body, and demonstrates anxiolytic effects.
If you have anxiety, melatonin may help make it easier to fall asleep at night, since insomnia is a common side effect of this mood disorder. It can also improve depression symptoms in patients with both anxiety and depression.
-Source: https://nootriment.com/melatonin-for-anxiety/
Melatonin: The Brain Hormone
Melatonin was introduced to the United States in 1992 as a “sleep hormone.”
While some find melatonin helps restore restful sleep, scientists are finding far more consistent applications for melatonin in the area of brain protection.
New discoveries are validating melatonin’s ability to guard the brain from oxidative stress and the neurodegeneration that occurs as a result of aging and environmental factors.1 With this research, melatonin deserves the title of “brain hormone.”
Scientists are increasingly finding that the age-related decline in melatonin levels may be one factor for the age-related increase in neurodegenerative diseases.2-4 In fact, some symptoms of melatonin deficiency are seen in patients with Alzheimer’s, such as disruption of day/night patterns, mood changes, and delirium.5
Fortunately, supplementing with melatonin in middle age and beyond has been shown to protect against Alzheimer’s as well as reduce the risk of Parkinson’s disease, shrink the size of the infarct area involved in a stroke, and minimize the brain swelling and dysfunction following a head injury. 2,6-13
As if this were not enough, research is also finding that in lab studies melatonin can play a role in longevity by increasing the “longevity protein” SIRT1.14,15 Clearly, melatonin’s beneficial properties extend far beyond sleep.
-Source: https://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2013/9/melatonin-the-brain-hormone/page-01
Melatonin and Brain
Melatonin as a natural occurring free radical scavenger and an inducer of antioxidant enzymes has been well documented in thousands of publications within the last decade. Melatonin is no longer exclusively classified as a neurohormone since melatonin has been identified in bacteria, fungi, algae and plants.
Likewise, endogenously-produced melatonin is no longer the only source in the body since melatonin is also derived from the diet when vegetables, fruits, cereals, herbs, olive oil, wine or beer are consumed.
One important characteristic of melatonin is its permeability into the brain. It readily passes through the blood-brain-barrier and accumulates in the central nervous system at substantially higher levels than exist in the blood. As a result, this molecule exhibits strong neuroprotective effects, especially under the conditions of elevated oxidative stress or intensive neural inflammation.
-Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3001209/
Theanine (L. Theanine)
There’s been a resurgence of interest in the anxiety-relieving powers of L-theanine, an amino acid found in green tea.
Discoveries over the past two years have uncovered exciting additional properties of this nutrient best known for inducing calming, tranquilizing effects while simultaneously improving alertness.
L-theanine relieves anxiety in large part because it bears a close resemblance to the brain-signalling chemical glutamate. L-theanine produces the opposite effect in the brain.
While glutamate is the brain’s most important excitatory neurotransmitter, L-theanine binds to the same brain cell receptors and blocks them to glutamate’s effects. This action produces inhibitory effects. That inhibition to brain overactivity has a calming, relaxing effect in which anxiety fades.
In addition to blocking excitatory stimuli at glutamate receptors in the brain, L-theanine also stimulates production of the inhibitory, relaxing neurotransmitter GABA, adding to its calming, anti-anxiety effects.
Unlike prescription anti-anxiety drugs, however, some of which mimic GABA’s effects, L-theanine produces its anti-anxiety effects without producing sleepiness or impairing motor behaviour. In fact, L-theanine has been shown in human studies to moderately improve alertness and attention while exerting its anxiety-reducing effects.
Of particular interest are studies showing that L-theanine supplementation prevents the abrupt rise in blood pressure that some people experience under stress. The reason this is so critical is that many people have normal blood pressure readings at rest that spike up to dangerously high levels when subjected to stressful situations.
There’s a link between anxiety, reaction to stress, and the brain’s most fundamental function, maintaining cognition. Studies over the past two years suggest a potential role for L-theanine in supporting cognitive function and preventing its loss.
-Source: http://www.lifeextension.com/magazine/2016/3/brain-benefits-of-l-theanine/page-01
How L-theanine helps reduce stress: Primarily, L-theanine helps to relax the body and mind, without having sedative effects. So, it’s a great way to help manage stress, and you can use it during the day because it won’t cause drowsiness.
Theanine supplements may also help to reduce the perception of stress and help you stay in a more positive mindset. Theanine has also been shown to work synergistically with other supplements, including caffeine. Research has shown a combination of 200mg of theanine with 200mg of caffeine promotes significant improvements in cognition and attention.
Many people consider L-theanine a way to “take the edge off”, so to speak. Particularly when used in combination with stimulants, like caffeine, the relaxing-but-not-sedative effects of L-theanine really come into play.
Also, while most people drink caffeine on a daily basis, few people know that coffee and caffeinated beverages can actually worsen anxiety and stress symptoms. But when combined with L-theanine, you shouldn’t experience any negative effect from the caffeine, and you can still enjoy that helpful pick-me-up from a cup of coffee, combined with the calming effects of the amino acid supplement.
http://top10supplements.com/best-supplements-for-stress-relief/
What You Need to Know about L-theanine to Sleep Better at Night and Feel Relaxed during the Day.
What is L-theanine?
L-theanine is an amino acid that is found in tea leaves. It was identified in tea by Japanese scientists in 1949. While tea is the most common dietary source for L-theanine, this compound is also found in some types of mushrooms. In foods, particularly green tea, L-theanine is thought to be a source of umami, the savory, brothy taste.
Scientists studying umami flavor have made some interesting discoveries. Umami has been linked to decreased risk for obesity. It may stimulate metabolism, and may boost sensations of fullness and lengthen the time before hunger returns after eating.
There’s also evidence suggesting that L-theanine, when consumed in tea, may change taste perception, specifically diminishing the taste of bitterness in foods such as chocolate and grapefruit.
How L-theanine works…
L-theanine promotes relaxation and facilitates sleep by contributing to a number of changes in the brain:
Boosts levels of GABA and other calming brain chemicals. L-theanine elevates levels of GABA, as well as serotonin and dopamine. These chemicals are known as neurotransmitters, and they work in the brain to regulate emotions, mood, concentration, alertness, and sleep, as well as appetite, energy, and other cognitive skills. Increasing levels of these calming brain chemicals promotes relaxation and can help with sleep.
Lowers levels of “excitatory” brain chemicals. At the same time it is increasing chemicals that promote feelings of calm, L-theanine also reduces levels of chemicals in the brain that are linked to stress and anxiety. This may also be a way that L-theanine can protect brain cells against stress and age-related damage.
Enhances alpha brain waves. Alpha brain waves are associated with a state of “wakeful relaxation.” That’s the state of mind you experience when meditating, being creative, or letting your mind wander in daydreaming. Alpha waves are also present during REM sleep. L-theanine appears to trigger the release of alpha-waves, which enhances relaxation, focus, and creativity.
One of the appealing aspects of L-theanine is that it works to relax without sedating. That can make L-theanine a good choice for people who are looking to enhance their “wakeful relaxation,” without worrying about becoming sleepy and fatigued during the day.
Benefits of L-theanine
Improving sleep…
With its ability to increase relaxation and lower stress, L-theanine can help in sleep in a number of ways. L-theanine may help people fall asleep more quickly and easily at bedtime, thanks to the relaxation boost it delivers. Research also shows L-theanine can improve the quality of sleep—not by acting as a sedative, but by lowering anxiety and promoting relaxation.
There’s evidence that L-theanine may help improve sleep quality in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). A study examined the effects on the sleep of boys ages 8-12, and found that the supplement worked safely and effectively to improve the quality of their sleep, helping them to sleep more soundly.
Reducing stress and anxiety…
L-theanine is what’s known as an anxiolytic—it works to reduce anxiety. Some anxiolytics, such as valerian and hops, have sedative effects. L-theanine, on the other hand, promotes relaxation and stress reduction without sedating. L-theanine can help foster a state of calm, attentive wakefulness.
L-theanine has positive effects on both the mental and physical symptoms of stress, including lowering heart rate and blood pressure.
Research suggests that L-theanine can help reduce anxiety in people with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder.
Enhancing attention, focus, memory and learning…
Under stress, the body increases production of certain hormones, including cortisol and corticosterone. These hormone changes inhibit some brain activity, including memory formation and spatial learning. L-theanine helps to lower levels of the stress hormone corticosterone, and avoid the interference with memory and learning.
L-theanine may help boost other cognitive skills. Research shows L-theanine can increase attention span and reaction time in people who are prone to anxiety. It may help improve accuracy—one study shows that taking L-theanine reduced the number of errors made in a test of attention.
Sometimes, L-theanine is used with caffeine to enhance cognitive skills. Studies show that combinations of L-theanine and caffeine can improve attention span, enhance the ability to process visual information, and increase accuracy when switching from one task to another.
-Source: https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/sleep-newzzz/201708/what-you-need-know-about-l-theanine
THRIVE products are all about nutritional support and enhancing general health, wellness, weight management, fitness, mental acuity and mood support. It is about bringing the body back into nutritional balance. For more about Thrive Products for mood and better sleep go to: https://brainspahealth.le-vel.com/Products/THRIVE/SGTRest
GMP and NSF Certified
Thrive is independently tested, and the facilities where Le-Vel’s products are manufactured, and the manufacturing processes, are GMP and NSF certified. We also have double-blind studies and clinical data – unfortunately we are not going to be releasing these as they are lengthy and do contain proprietary company information.
Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) are guidelines that provide a system of processes, procedures and documentation to assure a product has the identity, strength, composition, quality and purity that appear on its label.
NSF International independently registers manufacturers as meeting GMP requirements. The program is open not just to manufacturers of dietary supplements but also to manufacturers of ingredients and raw materials, as well as distribution, warehousing and packaging companies, who want to demonstrate their commitment to public safety. NSF certification is your key to making sure that the products you use meet strict standards for public health protection.
Disclaimer Note: just because an herbal supplement may be natural doesn’t mean it’s safe. If you are under a doctor’s care or on any kind of medications, always check with your therapist or physician before taking any herbal supplements. These statements have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
The total content material of this article is in relation to the investigation and viewpoints of the publisher, except if otherwise noted. The content on this website is not meant to substitute a one-on-one relationship with a certified health care specialist and is not intended as medical health advice.
Posted in Anxiety and Stress	| Leave a comment |
Post navigation
Search for:
Recent Posts
Supplements to Help with Stress & Anxiety
Insomnia and Other Sleep Disorders
How to Slow the Aging Process…
The Dark Side of Your Emotional Needs – Mind and Body
When to Stop Being a Patient and Escape the Victim Cage!
Recent Comments
Archives
January 2019
June 2018
March 2018
February 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
July 2017
June 2017
January 2017
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
November 2015
October 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
December 2014
November 2014
September 2014
August 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
November 2013
July 2013
Categories
Categories Select Category 7-Minute Work Out System Addiction Help Anxiety and Stress Benefits of Maca Brain Health Brainwashing Business Mindset Colds & Flu Virus Protectors Dangers of Sugar Eating Disorders Entire Body Detox Food Myths Guilt Free Deserts Gut Health How to Attract Money Hypnotherapy Immune System Booster Meditation & Hypnosis Mind Food Nutrition Pain Management Power Protein Powders Psychology of Eating Relationships Self-Confidence on Steroids Stress Relief Water Purification Weight Loss Secrets
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Design by Steve Deane.