 9 Health Benefits of Music | NorthShore
Skip to Content
Find a Doctor
Locations
Our Hospitals
Evanston Hospital
Glenbrook Hospital
Highland Park Hospital
Skokie Hospital
Outpatient Clinics
Medical Group Primary Care
Find a Specialist
Immediate Care
Laboratory
Radiology
Pharmacy
Our Services
Specialty Care
Cardiovascular Institute
Neurological Institute
Orthopaedic Institute
Kellogg Cancer Center
View All
Primary Care
Family Medicine
Internal Medicine
Obstetrics/Gynecology
Pediatrics
What's Next in Healthcare
Personalized Medicine
Medical Genetics
Pharmacogenomics
Immediate Care
Patients & Visitors
Patient & Visitor Information
Insurance
Medical Records
Billing
Classes & Events
Laboratory
Pharmacy
Foundation
Volunteer
Gift Shop
Contact Us
About Us
Donate
Professionals
Employees
Careers
Medical Group
Nursing
Academics
Research
Physicians
NorthShoreConnect
NorthShore’s online source for timely health and wellness news, inspiring patient stories and tips to lead a healthy life.
Home » Healthy You » 9 Health Benefits of Music
Healthy You
9 Health Benefits of Music
Thursday, April 12, 2018 3:00 PM
Music can improve mood, decrease pain and anxiety, and facilitate opportunities for emotional expression. Research suggests that music can benefit our physical and mental health in numerous ways. Music therapy is used by our hospice and palliative care board-certified music therapist to enhance conventional treatment for a variety of illnesses and disease processes – from anxiety, depression and stress, to the management of pain and enhancement of functioning after degenerative neurologic disorders.
Max Lerman, Hospice and Palliative Care Music Therapist from Spiritual Care and Music Therapy at NorthShore, highlights some of the benefits music has on health and well-being:
It’s heart healthy. Research has shown that blood flows more easily when music is played. It can also reduce heart rate, lower blood pressure, decrease cortisol (stress hormone) levels and increase serotonin and endorphin levels in the blood.
It elevates mood. Music can boost the brain’s production of the hormone dopamine. This increased dopamine production helps relieve feelings of anxiety and depression. Music is processed directly by the amygdala, which is the part of the brain involved in mood and emotions.
It reduces stress. Research has found that listening to music can relieve stress by triggering biochemical stress reducers.
It relieves symptoms of depression. When you’re feeling down in the dumps, music can help pick you up - much like exercise.
It stimulates memories. There is no cure for Alzheimer’s disease or dementia but music therapy has been shown to relieve some of its symptoms. Music therapy can relax an agitated patient, improve the mood and open communication in patients.
It manages pain. By reducing stress levels and providing a strong competing stimulus to the pain signals that enter the brain, music therapy can assist in pain management.
It eases pain. Music can meaningfully reduce the perceived intensity of pain, especially in geriatric care, intensive care or palliative medicine.
It helps people eat less. Playing soft music in the background (and dimming the lights) during a meal can help people slow down while eating and ultimately consume less food in one sitting.
It increases workout endurance. Listening to those top workout tracks can boost physical performance and increase endurance during a tough exercise session.
How do you use music to improve your well-being or the well-being of a loved one?
Tags: Integrative Medicine,music,music therapy,therapy
Join NorthShore University HealthSystem for Morning or Evening Music at Chicago Botanic Garden!
Related Content
Pet Therapy Benefits
How Integrative Medicine Improves Heart Health
Laughter as Medicine
Winter Wellness: Natural Remedies & Immunity Boosters
Holistically Healthy Turnaround
Benefits of Meditation
Categories
Select Category Allergy Cancer Cardiovascular Health Dermatology Diabetes Emergency Medicine Family Medicine Gastroenterology Integrative Medicine Internal Medicine Mental Health Neurology Nutrition Obstetrics Ophthalmology Orthopaedics Pediatrics Personalized Medicine Psychiatry Psychology Sports Medicine Urogynecology Urological Health Women's Health
HOSPITALS
Evanston Hospital | 847.570.2000
2650 Ridge Avenue, Evanston, IL 60201
Glenbrook Hospital | 847.657.5800
2100 Pfingsten Road, Glenview IL 60026
Highland Park Hospital | 847.432.8000
777 Park Avenue West, Highland Park, IL 60035
Skokie Hospital | 847.677.9600
9600 Gross Point Road, Skokie, IL 60076
ABOUT NORTHSHORE
Medical Group
Insurance
NorthShore Foundation
Research Institute
Organization Profile
Careers
NorthShore Newsroom
Community
Academics
QUICK LINKS
Physicians
Employees
Financial Assistance
Health Resources
Gift Shop
Email a Patient
HIPAA Notice
Patient Rights
Site Map
FOLLOW US ON
Download the NorthShoreConnect app to access your health information on your mobile phone.
A Teaching Affiliate of
© 2019
NorthShore University HealthSystem. All Rights Reserved. | Policies & Procedures