Sinus congestion: 6 natural home remedies
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
How can you clear up sinus congestion?
Last reviewed	 Wed 28 November 2018	 Last reviewed	Wed 28 Nov 2018
By Timothy Huzar
Reviewed by J. Keith Fisher, M.D.
Table of contents
Home remedies
Over-the-counter medication
When to see a doctor
Summary
Sinus congestion occurs when a condition causes fluid to become trapped in the sinuses, making them feel blocked and painful. Many natural home remedies can help a person feel better, including hydration, steam inhalation, and applying a warm, wet towel to the face.
A virus or cold is the most common cause of sinus congestion, but a bacterial infection can also occasionally cause it. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), a person with sinus congestion may experience:
headaches
a blocked or runny nose
a sore throat
tiredness
coughing
This article looks at six simple, natural home remedies for sinus congestion, as well as when to see a doctor.
Home remedies
There are many home remedies that a person can try to help relieve sinus congestion. These include:
1. Staying hydrated
The mucous membranes can become inflamed during sinus congestion. However, staying hydrated can help the membrane function correctly.
Drinking plenty of water and other fluids may help relieve the symptoms of sinus congestion. A person may find that keeping a water bottle close to them throughout the day can encourage them to drink more.
2. Breathing in steam
Inhaling steam can help with sinus congestion.
Breathing in steam can help keep the mucous membranes moist.
This is particularly important during winter or in colder climates.
This may help relieve the symptoms of sinus congestion and encourage the sinuses to unblock.
Running very hot water from a shower and breathing in the vapor may help unblock the sinuses and relieve symptoms.
It is also possible to use a humidifier for the same purpose.
3. Raising the head during sleep
To help encourage sinus blockages to clear, a person may consider raising their head during sleep. A person can use extra pillows to prop their head up.
Conversely, keeping the head level may result in a greater buildup of congestion overnight.
4. Using eucalyptus oil
Eucalyptus oil relieves the symptoms of sinus congestion. It may also help kill germs in and around the nasal passage that contribute to a sinus infection.
A person can use eucalyptus oil by applying it to tissue paper and sleeping next to it, or by adding it to hot water and inhaling the steam. However, if a person applies the hot water and eucalyptus oil mixture directly to the skin, it may cause burns.
Menthol-based oils are also popular, but they work by making a person feel as though they can breathe more easily. They do not unblock the congested sinuses.
5. Applying warm, wet towels
A warm, wet towel held against the face may help relieve the swelling and inflammation of sinus congestion.
It may also help keep the mucous membranes moist by breathing in moist air, which can help it function properly.
People can also soak a towel in warm water, wring it out, and drape it over their face in a way that is still comfortable for them to breathe through their mouth.
6. Trying a neti pot
A neti pot can help to relieve the symptoms of sinus congestion.
Neti pots are small teapot-shaped devices that help a person pour a salt water solution into their nasal cavity.
This may help relieve the symptoms of sinus congestion by keeping the mucous membranes moist and functioning properly.
Neti pots may also help treat congestion by flushing out the sinuses and the buildup of any material causing a blockage. It is vital to follow instructions carefully.
The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) note that if a person has not properly cleaned the neti pot before using it, it might actually cause a sinus infection. People should clean neti pots using distilled, sterile, or previously boiled water that is free of harmful germs.
Over-the-counter medication
Nasal sprays that include a decongestant may be helpful in relieving congested sinuses.
However, Harvard Medical School point out that decongestants can also cause problems. For example, sometimes, congestion can become worse after a person stops using decongestants.
Taking painkillers may also help relieve pain due to sinus congestion.
If a person experiences side effects or the medication is not working, they should speak to a medical professional.
What is the best remedy for sinus drainage?
Draining the sinuses can help relieve congestion. Learn about the best ways to drain the sinuses here.
Read now
When to see a doctor
Though a person can usually resolve sinus congestion using home remedies, complications can arise. In these cases, seeing a medical professional is important.
The CDC recommend seeing a medical professional if a person has:
a temperature above 100.4F (38C)
symptoms that are worsening
symptoms that have not gone away after 10 days
frequent sinus issues
symptoms that over-the-counter (OTC) medication does not resolve
Summary
Sinus congestion most commonly occurs as a result of a cold, virus, or bacterial infection. Symptoms include a sore throat, a runny nose, and coughing, among others.
There are a number of simple home remedies that a person can try to help relieve these symptoms. These include inhaling steam, using eucalyptus oil, and staying hydrated. A person can also use OTC medications such as nasal sprays.
They should consider seeing a doctor when their symptoms do not go away or become worse, and the doctor will be able to work out what is causing a person's infection and prescribe appropriate medication if necessary.
Related coverage
How do I know if I have a cold or sinusitis? The symptoms of a sinus infection are very similar to those caused by a cold, but if symptoms continue for some time, medical help may be needed. Learn how to spot symptoms caused by sinus infection. Get some tips for home remedies and other treatments, and find out when to see a doctor. Read now
How can you unblock your ear? A clogged ear can happen for a variety of reasons. It can be a buildup of wax or caused by a cold or sinus infection. Thankfully, many cases of a clogged ear can be treated with some simple home remedies. These include ear irrigation, steam inhalation, or simply ear drops. Learn about home remedies plus what not to do. Read now
What is frontal sinusitis and what causes it? The sinuses are cavities that produce mucus. If a person has frontal sinusitis, the cavities just behind the eyes become inflamed, and the mucus cannot drain correctly. Infections, allergies, or long-term health issues may be responsible. Here, we examine the causes of frontal sinusitis and how treatments vary. Read now
Everything you need to know about sinus infection The sinuses behind the nose can become inflamed for a variety of reasons. This MNT Knowledge Center article explains the symptoms of sinus infection, also known as sinusitis. Sinus infection is one of the most commonly diagnosed infections in the U.S. This article shows how it can complicate and what types there are. Read now
Common symptoms of a sinus infection Sinus infections, or sinusitis, occur when a virus of bacteria enters the sinuses. The symptoms of sinusitis are similar to a cold, but it also involves a feeling of pressure and congestion in the sinuses. Read on for a list of common symptoms and treatments for sinus infections. Read now
email email
print
share share
Flu / Cold / SARS
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine Ear, Nose and Throat
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Wed 28 November 2018.
Visit our Flu / Cold / SARS category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Flu / Cold / SARS.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Is rinsing your sinuses with neti pots safe? (2017, January 24). Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm316375
Sinus infection (sinusitis). (2017, September 25). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/antibiotic-use/community/for-patients/common-illnesses/sinus-infection.html
What to do about sinusitis. (2018, April 2). Retrieved from https://www.health.harvard.edu/diseases-and-conditions/what_to_do_about_sinusitis
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Huzar, Timothy. "How can you clear up sinus congestion?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 28 Nov. 2018. Web.
23 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323834.php>
APA
Huzar, T. (2018, November 28). "How can you clear up sinus congestion?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323834.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Can a blood pressure drug protect the brain from Parkinson's?
At blood levels that are typical in humans, an approved high blood pressure drug was able to clear toxic proteins of Parkinson's disease from mouse brains.
Cancer: Highly personalized therapy can improve outcomes
A new test-of-concept study suggests that using personalized combination therapy could improve the outcome for people with stubborn metastatic cancer.
Plant-based diet cuts heart failure risk by over 40 percent
New research examines how five major dietary patterns may affect the risk of developing heart failure among people without heart disease.
Study identifies a hormone that may hinder weight loss
A recent mouse study uncovers a new hormonal player in the body's metabolic response to weight loss. It appears to have a similar role to leptin.
Using stem cells to combat osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is a common condition without a cure. A recent small-scale pilot study concludes that stem cell therapies could offer some hope.
Popular in: Flu / Cold / SARS
What can I do to make my cough go away?
12 remedios naturales para acabar con las tos
What should you eat when you are sick?
How do I know if I have a cold or sinusitis?
Top 7 essential oils for sinus congestion
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/323834.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);