Magnetism – good and bad
Magnetism – good and bad
Experiments on chickens by research scientists Albert R Davis and Walter C Rawls discovered that young, developing fowl exposed to the south poles of magnets grew faster towards maturity and reached a larger overall size than those exposed to a north pole or not exposed at all. However, tests of their ability to perform simple tasks indicated that they were less intelligent than a control group.
With the fowl exposed to a north pole, on the other hand, it was the opposite result. Their growth was slower than the control group and they were thinner. This may have been a consequence of the fact that they ate less. They did on the other hand drink more water. However, when they reached maturity, this all changed. At that point, the north pole exposed fowl started drinking less and eating more. However they did not gain weight in maturity, despite the increased food intake.
In terms of their behaviour, those exposed to the north pole showed signs of being more nervous, but those exposed to the south pole became significantly more aggressive, even to the point of attacking other fowl and displaying cannibalistic tendencies.
These results suggested that magnetism from either pole had harmful effects on the fowl although startlingly different effects depending on both the polarity and the maturity of the fowl.
Other experiments have been carried out on mice with similar mixed results. Exposure to north poles of magnets appeared to reduce birth pains in female mice. Another experiment, exposing mice to a 10,000 gauss magnetic field of unspecified polarity for half an hour a day for 10 days increased their bone length by 4 – 9 % and bone length by 4 – 11 %. Another experiment established that exposing mice to 4000 gauss magnetic fields for two hours a day, split into two one-hour periods, can increase their longevity.
Experiments by an American scientist showed that magnetic fields can increase the number of red blood cells in animals whilst decreasing the number of white blood cells. This is a mixed result. Because whilst red blood cells are required to carry oxygen, it is the white blood cells that provide the body with its immune system.
Shopping Basket
Magnetic Therapy Info
THE SPOTLIGHTS ON PRODUCTS
RESOURCES
BUYING MAGNETIC BRACELETS
GENERAL INFO
MAGNETS IN THERAPY
› Getting the polarity right in magnet therapy
› How effective is magnetic therapy?
› How to use magnets to treat illness
› Magnetic diagnosis
› Magnetic therapy for complex disorders
› Magnetic therapy – the basics
› Magnetic therapy: for and against
› Magnetism – good and bad
› Prevention and cure with magnetic treatment
› The scope and limits of magnetic therapy
› The versatility of magnetic therapy
HISTORY
MAGNETS & MAGNETISM
ANIMALS & MAGNETS
SPORT & MAGNETIC POWER
HEALTH & MAGNETS
Advanced Search
STRENGTH (Highest strength 5):
All Results12345
SUITABLE MOSTLY FOR:
All ResultsMenUnisexWomen
PRODUCT TYPE:
All ResultsAnkletBangleLinks BraceletPendant
METAL:
All ResultsCopperGrade 2 TitaniumPlated Copper AlloyStainless Steel
Shop by Price
All Results£0 - £15£15 - £30£30 - £60£60+
Recently Viewed
Evo-Flow Energy Bands
Only £19.99 !
Available in White, Red and blue, the energy band represents superb value for money. Will make a great gift.
Click here to see the full range.
White Ceramic Bracelets
£29.99
Ceramic bracelet are most elegant and will stand scratches better than Titanium & Stainless Steel.
Click here to see the full range.
DID YOU KNOW?
You can send the item in
any condition
for the first 30 days after receiving it, or if new and unused,
any time!
LICK HERE FOR DETAILS
SUPER STRONG MAGNETS !
Booster bangles features two mega size magnets that makes all the difference - boosting the magnetic strength, and with the addition of four standard size magnets.
From £11.95 !
LASER ENGRAVED COPPER
From £ 7.99
Wide copper bangles, laser engraved with amazing patterns, with 6 powerful magnets. Shipped with luxury gift pouch.
JET-BLACK MEN'S TITANIUM
ONLY £ 27.00
Men's classic magnetic bracelets with two super strong magnets in each link.
SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR HER
£22.99 - £39.99
Classic range for ladies, offer wide range of prices and styles. Man, you cannot go wrong if you give one of those bracelets for St. Valentine's Day.
Treating Arthritis with Magnetic Bracelets
It appears to us from the feedback we are receiving from our customers that they proud supporters of using the unique benefits of treating arthritis with magnetic bracelets. Many others, mostly people that never used magnetic therapy, remain sceptic.
For this reason, it has become an issue of controversy between those that did not try magnetic therapy and do not believe in it, and those who actually used magnetic therapy.
And so it remains a hot topic in the world of medicine today.
With an estimated 8.5 million people in the UK suffering from different forms of arthritis, the suggestion that the inflammation that arthritis brings can be eased with something as simple as magnetic bracelet, it is no wonder that it is such a debated issue.
According to Arthritis-Relief.co.uk, there has been in recent years, and continues to be large volume of research conducted about using magnets to eliminate arthritic ailments which has demonstrated that magnetic bracelets, can be an effective method of pain management.
In the United States alone it is reported that as many as one in three adults are being affected by different forms of arthritis, with more than 70 million Americans suffering from the disease.
The Arthritis and Glucosamine Resource Centre reported that in a research carried out to whether or not magnetic bracelets are effective in fighting arthritis pain which questioned whether a ‘placebo effect’ of wearing a magnetic bracelet is the cause for arthritis patients endorsing that the bracelets create pain relief, it was concluded that arthritis patients should embrace magnetic bracelets with an open mind.
GENERAL
Go Top
All Products
Latest Products
Advance Search
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Return Policy
Resizing Links Bracelets
Spending Points
Bracelet Care
SITE INFORMATION
Postage
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map
HELP
Contact Us
Read Our Blog
About Magnetic Therapy
© 2019 Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
ALL PRODUCTS
Special OffersBlack RangeTitanium BraceletsStainless Steel BraceletsBio 4 in 1 ElementsEnergy PendantsNew Items
For Him For Her Bangles Anklets
Contact UsRecent Product Reviews
View Cart | Wish List | New Account | Sign In