Burns - Dr Jill Tomlinson
Home
Body
Abdominoplasty
Brachioplasty
Hyperhidrosis treatment
Labiaplasty
Scar management
Breast
Gynaecomastia
Nipple inversion correction
Burns
Face
Blepharoplasty / eyelid surgery
Mole, skin tag & lump removal
Scar management
Ears
Chondrodermatitis nodularis helicis
Prominent ear correction
Ear gauge repair
Ear molding
Preauricular skin tag / accessory tragus
Hand / wrist
Skin
Basal cell carcinoma
Dermapen Cryo™
Efudix / Fluorouracil
Melanoma prevention
Melanoma treatment
Mole, skin tag & lump removal
Picato® gel (Ingenol Mebutate)
Scar management
Skin cancer prevention
Squamous cell carcinoma
Dermal Therapies
Acne
Brushes
Clinical grade skincare
Dermapen3™
Mineral makeup
Pigmentation
Rosacea
Serums
Synergie Skin Kits
Dermapen3™
Antioxidant Cocktail™
Brite Lite™
Collagen Induction Therapy - Dermapen3™
Cover Recover™
Dermapen3™ Packages
Dermapen Cryo™
Hyla Active™
Hyla Active™ 3D Sculptured Mask™
MyDermapen
Micro Derm™ Exfoliant
Retinal Active™
Tri-Phase Cleanser™
Vitamin Rich Repair™
HomeBurns
Print
Burns
Written by Dr Jill Tomlinson on 11 December 2011 .
Early and appropriate management of scalds, flame burns and hot oil burns are very important in achieving an optimal outcome. Whether it's pain relief, specialised dressings, scar prevention advice or surgery, we're here to help.
Immediate management: First Aid
The first thing to do when you or someone close to you sustains a burn is to give emergency first aid by holding the burned area under cool (not cold) running water for 20 minutes or until the pain subsides. If it is not possible to hold the affected body part under running water then immerse it in cool water or cool it by applying cold compresses (such as towels or clothing soaked in cool water). Remove any jewellery or burned clothing. Don't apply ice.
After you have cooled the burn cover it with a non-stick dressing. Cling film (plastic wrap) is a good option - it keeps the area clean and can be removed easily so the area can be examined when you reach medical care. Avoid dressing the burn with anything that will allow lint or material to stick to the burn.
Wrapping the area is protective and reduces pain. Burned skin is more painful when it is exposed to the air.
Then seek medical care - from your general practitioner or an Emergency Department.
Will I need surgery?
Most burns will not require surgery, especially if appropriate treatment with dressings and wound care is administered early. The depth of the burn determines its severity. Superficial burns usually heal within 1-3 weeks and do not require surgery, but deep burns may require surgery.
What can I do for the pain?
Where it is practical, keeping the affected area elevated above the level of your heart will reduce the swelling that develops after a burn, and will also reduce the throbbing pain. Keeping the burn covered with a dressing also reduces the pain. Be sure to take pain medication at least 30 minutes before each dressing change.
Regular paracetamol and/or ibuprofen are usually safe and appropriate choices for pain medication.
PLEASE NOTE: All medications can have side effects. Please use only as directed. Incorrect use could be harmful. Consult your health care practitioner if pain or symptoms persist.
Do I need to take antibiotics?
Antibiotics are not recommended for burns, although they are prescribed if an infection develops. Watch for signs of infection such as increasing constant pain, redness, fever, swelling and a foul smell. If infection develops seek further medical care.
A tetanus immunisation booster is recommended for burns if you are not up to date.
Dressings for superficial burns
Superficial burns do not require surgery and will heal within 1-3 weeks. During this time I recommend that dressings be directed by a practitioner who has experience in treating burns.
Dressings are applied to prevent infection, prevent water and heat loss and to promote healing. The type of dressing applied varies widely. Some dressings need to be changed daily or every second day. Some dressings only need to be changed weekly. Sometimes the amount of wound ooze determines the frequency of dressing changes. I find that patients prefer (and do best) with dressings that require infrequent changes, are not painful to apply or remove, and are applied in a way that does not restrict movement or activity. Dressings that are impregnated with silver are particularly useful as this has an antibacterial effect.
What should I do with the blisters?
Usually small blisters are best left intact because this is more comfortable and carries less risk of infection. If the blisters are large (greater than a 50 cent piece) or over a joint then your healthcare practitioner may deliberately open the blisters when applying a dressing. Very large blisters will usually burst at the time of burn injury. In this case the loose (dead) skin will usually be removed before your dressing is applied.
Initially the blisters fill with a clear fluid, the same as the fluid that collects in a blister on your foot from ill-fitting shoes. In burns the blister fluid also contains proteins, which can become semi-solid (like egg whites) and make the blister fluid appear 'gluggy'. This is normal and should not be considered a sign of infection.
After the dressings finish
Burned skin often heals with pigment changes, so the healed area may be a darker (or lighter) colour than the surrounding skin, especially if the burn was deep or required surgery. The skin remains fragile while it is healing and may remain fragile for many months. During this time you should avoid friction on the skin (because the skin is fragile) and avoid exposing that area of skin to the sun (because sun exposure increases the likelihood that you will have persisting pigment changes). Moisturiser and massage is recommended.
There is a risk of hypertrophic scarring in the burned area. Some of this risk relates to the individual (the patient's age, depth of injury, time taken to heal and personal/genetic predisposition to hypertrophic scarring). Some of the risk can be reduced or modified with appropriate treatment using pressure, silicone, massage, laser and sun avoidance. Click here for information on scar prevention.
Surgery for burns
Surgery can be required to debride (clean) burns, especially if the burn is infected. Sometimes skin grafts are required for deep burns, because the amount of damage done to the skin means that there are insufficient skin cells for the wound to heal within 2-3 weeks. Prompt excision and grafting of burn wounds results in less hypertrophic scarring, less contractures and improved outcomes.
If your burn is anything more than minor it is highly advisable to seek treatment from a specialist who has experience in treating burns. This will help to ensure that the assessment and treatment you receive is appropriate for your injury, as this will minimise your recovery time and maximise your eventual outcome. If you have questions please call and make an appointment to see Dr Jill Tomlinson.
Specific advice for hand burns
Please click here to read specific advice for hand burns at the Melbourne Hand Surgery website.
< Prev Next >
About Dr Tomlinson
Information for patients
Locations
"See & Treat" Service
Patient care philosophy
About this website
Post operative instructions
Contact Us
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
Search only trustworthy HONcode health websites:
Website Disclaimer
This website is authored by Dr Jillian Tomlinson, a fully qualified plastic, reconstructive and hand surgeon who practices in Melbourne, Australia. This website aims to inform patients and health professionals about hand surgery, illness prevention and the practice philosophy of Dr Jill Tomlinson. This website's content is designed to complement, not replace, the relationship between a patient and his/her own doctor. The information is not intended to replace the advice of a health professional. This website does not host or receive funding from advertising or from the display of commercial content.
Site Map