Did Birth Control Cause My Ovarian Cyst?
True stories from the front lines of parenting.
Home
Contact
Advertise
Home
Contact
Advertise
Did Birth Control Cause My Ovarian Cyst? March 13, 2013 17 Comments
Katie Katie Parsons is the creator of Mumbling Mommy and is a freelance writer, editor and communications specialist. She works from her home office on the east coast of Florida. Most often she writes about life in a combined family of five children and what it's like being a full time work-from-home parent. Feel free to pitch guest post ideas or just drop her a line at katie@mumblingmommy.com.
Did birth control cause my ovarian cyst — and how can I prevent more?
There have been four times in my life that I have experienced pain so excruciating that I thought I could not physically handle it. Two times I was in labor with little girls; the other two times followed a rupture of a large ovarian cyst that I was unaware even existed.
My first ovarian cyst ruptured in 2003 when I was a college student. It was such a severe, large rupture that my ovary actually needed to be cauterized and “saved” through laproscopic surgery. I had been receiving injections every three months of Depo-Provera, a progestin birth control option, for nearly three years. Part of the way the shot works is by making the cervical mucus thicker, preventing eggs from reaching a fertilization spot.
This also meant that for most of those three years, I did not have a regular period. At the time of the rupture, I had not had a period in over a year. My surgeon told me that while Depo-Provera had NOT caused the cyst or rupture, not having a period may have led to the cyst growing so large because I lacked a monthly cleanse. Needless to say, I stopped getting Depo-Provera injections. I made the switch to a normal birth control pill — one that I went off when I no longer had health insurance and was living life as a freelance new writer, waitress and nanny. My first daughter was conceived during that time period. When she was about nine months old, I opted for the NuvaRing and used it with success until a few months prior to conception of my second daughter.
Six weeks after my youngest was born, I was prescribed the “mini pill” by my OB. My husband and I were not ready for any permanent birth control options, and because I was breastfeeding, I could not use my beloved NuvaRing. I was told I could also get the Depo Provera shot — but I quickly declined it. I admit that I did not research the way the birth control worked, but simply accepted it as the right thing in my exhausted, and desperately-not-wanting-to-get-pregnant-ever-again-in-this-lifetime, state. I did not realize that the mini pill is a cousin of Depo-Provera and works in a similar way.
About eight months after starting the mini pill (three weeks ago), I landed in the Emergency Room with a ruptured ovarian cyst, almost ten years after my first. After over two months of no period, some lower back cramping and severe constipation, the cause of my irregularities and discomfort finally burst. I was angry at myself for not noticing the signs earlier, but they were so easily attributed to other things.
No period = breastfeeding a baby with a healthy appetite. Lower back cramping = losing weight and body still adjusting to life postpartum. Constipation = Oh, I don’t know, take your pick: not eating on a schedule, not getting enough water, stress, holding it instead of going when my house was about to be destroyed by four crazy children, etc.
I was quick to blame my birth control method, especially since it uses the same method as the shot that landed me in surgery back in my college days. After doing a little more research, however, I figured out that ovulation is the problem. Really convenient, I know. Both of my cysts that landed me in the hospital were diagnosed as follicular cysts, which simply means something goes wrong when the egg bursts from the Fallopian tube and it turns into a nasty cyst instead.
Did Birth Control Cause My Ovarian Cyst – The Facts
Follicular cysts are actually incredibly common, but the majority pass without any knowledge on the part of the woman. The ones that stick around longer than a menstrual cycle or two grow and fill with cystic fluid. When they burst, they can be as large as a grapefruit and send a grapefruit-sized amount of fluid coursing into the abdominal cavity.
The initial pain of the rupture is intense, but the excess fluid can cause a host of other problems like chest pain that rivals the worst indigestion you’ve ever had paired with some wicked, pregnancy-like heartburn. I cried for several days because the pain in my chest and shoulders was so intense every time I nursed my nine-month-old. You also have to watch for infection of the fluid, which of course is tough to monitor until you actually HAVE the infection.
Did birth control cause my ovarian cyst? Though ovulation is to blame, I do believe both methods of birth control did elevate the problem by interfering with the natural process of ovulation and menstruation in my body. I think this led to the large size and severity of my cysts both times. I would like to stress that this is NOT a medical opinion and my own doctor even said it was merely a “coincidence.” Still, I have discontinued the use of the mini pill and we are using other temporary methods for birth control until I figure out a better solution.
While I was writhing in pain the night my cyst burst, and in the days of my recovery, I scoured the Web for other women going through the same thing. I found a surprisingly small amount of information — or the information that I did find was missing some key information. So I decided I’d share my story and answer a few key questions in case other women are online looking for answers too. Did birth control cause my ovarian cyst? Well, let’s take a closer look.
Symptoms of Ovarian Cysts
Irregular Menstrual Cycle
Bloating or heaviness in abdomen
Constipation
Pressure during urination or difficultly fully emptying bladder
Nausea, breast tenderness, vomiting
Dull ache in pelvic region
Pressure on bowels or pain during bowel movements
Pelvic pain during or following intercourse
Types of Ovarian Cysts
Follicular, or functional: These cysts are very common and form when an egg released during ovulation develops into a cyst.
Polycystic, or PCOS: Women with PCOS have follicles with eggs that do not fully mature, causing cysts to form.
Endometriomas: This painful cystic condition happens when uterus tissue grows in other areas of the body, including the ovaries. Fertility is often affected by endometriosis.
Dermoid: These cysts form with tissue that resembles other tissue in the body, including teeth, hair and skin.
Cystadenomas: These fluid-filled cysts form directly on the ovary, without an egg.
There is a difference between an ovarian cyst and an ovarian tumor. The tumor type is more serious and will need to be removed to determine if it is cancerous. All of these distinctions may help you determine the answer to the questions: did birth control cause my ovarian cyst?
Treatment for Ovarian Cysts
As I said above, many ovarian cysts come and go without causing too much trouble. Even ones that rupture really do not need treatment, but can lead to a lot of pain. You want to head to the doctor or emergency room if you feel sharp, sudden abdominal pain or pelvic pain that comes with or without a fever or vomiting. Both times my cysts ruptured I experienced symptoms similar to shock — clammy skin, uncontrollable shaking, lightheadedness and extreme fatigue. In fact, there was not much at the Emergency Room that the doctor could do for me other than give me a strong anti-inflammatory drug in an IV before releasing me.
In some cases when a cyst is discovered, surgery is recommended — especially in the case of a large cyst that may be cancerous (this is rare!). The best prevention for future cysts is birth control pills that prevent ovulation completely, which sort of goes against the whole “did birth control cause my ovarian cyst?” argument.
How Do I Know if my Ovarian Cyst Ruptured?
The pain that accompanies a ruptured ovarian cyst varies. You may notice some pelvic cramping and abdominal pain that is tolerable and goes away in a few days, or (as a good friend who has been through this puts it) you may feel like you “are dying.” A doctor will not be able to tell you if a cyst has ruptured without an ultrasound, and even then, it can be tough to tell if that is the culprit. If you are really not sure what is happening and there is severe abdominal pain involved, call your OB or head straight to the ER.
So… Did birth control cause my ovarian cyst?
Officially, no. In my case, I think that progestin birth control options aggravated the state of my follicular cysts to the point of painful rupture. Two times is enough for me personally, but your situation may be totally different. Types of birth control that prevent ovulation (estrogen-based types) actually decrease the risk of developing ovarian cysts and some studies show birth control can reduce risk for ovarian cancer. If you are breastfeeding, however, you may not have the estrogen option. The mini pill or birth control shot may be right for you, or you may want to look into having an IUD implanted until you are ready for more children or to go back to another form of birth control.
If you are reading this because you think you have a cyst that ruptured, boy do I feel your pain! I hope that you can find a way to cope with your cysts, no matter what the cause, and still be able to have children if you desire, breastfeed if it your choice and avoid landing in the emergency room.
Did birth control cause my ovarian cyst? I may never really know but I’ll certainly be hyper-aware of the symptoms in the future.
I’d love to hear your story if you’ve dealt with ovarian cysts. Please share it below in the comment section, or send me an email to mumblingmommy@mumblingmommy.com.
Let’s connect on social media:
Mumbling Mommy on Facebook
Mumbling Mommy on Instagram
Mumbling Mommy on Pinterest
Mumbling Mommy on Twitter
(Visited 45,056 times, 30 visits today)
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Category: Health
Tags: Depo-Provera
17 Comments:
Sam C says:
February 25, 2015 at 8:27 am
Thank you so much for your post! Last week I was told I had a cyst in my left ovary, and I'll be honest, I've been freaking out!! Reading all the medical websites it always seems to lead to "this may be cancerous" or "potentially, for further prevention, your doctor may want to remove all your reproductive organs" and that's terrified me: especially because I'm a newly wed and this wasn't something we were expecting. But your words have really soothed me. I feel a lot better about the situation hearing from someone who has been in a similar position.
Reply
Anonymous says:
March 21, 2015 at 7:26 pm
I'm 21 years old and I'm in the hospital right now with a ruptured ovarian cyst. You are totally right about the pain – definitely the worst I have ever experienced. I also agree that birth control i.e depo provera can contribute to cysts growing and bursting. This is because I had this rupture merely 2months after getting my first depo provera shot! Before then I had been without contraception for almost 2 years and was happily bleeding naturally. Needless to say I'll be abandoning the injection for the rest of my life. Thanks for the article.
Reply
Dr g... says:
May 23, 2015 at 8:42 pm
I appreciated your post, I am an emergency physician and I have found anecdotally there is a correlation of ovarian cysts and depo provera shots. Although correlation doesn't mean causation I'm suspect of the research on this topic. You're post is exactly in line with what I've experienced clinically with many women as patients.
Reply
Leticia says:
March 28, 2017 at 6:08 pm
Same thing happened to me. I was on the Depo Provera birth control shot for years. I stayed in constant pain. Went to a new Gynecologist he highly suggested I stop getting the injections!
Reply
Unknown says:
December 5, 2015 at 6:57 am
I'm a 26yr old female who suffers from pcos and endometriosis. I started the deposit shot almost a year ago. Since the shot I haven't had to be in the errer every other month with a cyst . I had one cyst rupture on me last year and it was so bad I had to have an ambulance take me to the er.I couldn't move was hyper ventilating and stuck in fetal position. I was shaking so bad from the pain they had to have a med team give me something to relax me before I could even go to the hospital. This all happened with out birth control pills or the depo. I don't know how big the cyst was when it ruptured but I know it had been building for at least 2 months. Luckily the fluid didn't harm me and I was okay. Was horrible sore after and had to have my bf at the time lift me up and down off the bed to even go pee. Worst pain of my life. I felt humiliated and embarrassed. fast forward a year. I decided to finally try the depo as my history is complicated. So this Nov I was experiencing constant cramping in my abdomen and felt bloated and tired. It would hurt extremely bad when I had a bowel movement and my bladder felt like it never emptied all the way. So I called my doc and she told me to get an ultra sound just to make sire everything looked okay. Which it did minus a 5mm uterine fibriod. Even hearing this I knew something was off.still had major discomfort and the pain in my abdomen was getting worse. 4 days after my ultra sound I decided to go to the er to see if there was a reason for my pain. They looked over the ultra sound results and said I was fine they didn't do another one since I had only had one 4 days prior.. They said the only other thing they could do would be a ct scan if I wanted it. I agreed to it and I'm so glad I did. They found a 2.3 cm cyst on my left ovary! Knowing that I felt better bc this wasn't my first rodeo with cysts. So they gave me pain med and Tylenol to help. 6 days later the pain still never got better. All my pain was centralized. I was driving to pick my mom up from work and all of a sudden on the high way I got this huge wave of nausa from my abdomen to my throat. Immediately felt light headed and started breathing like I have seen people in Lamaze classes do. When she came out of work which was 10 Min later I made her drive me to the er. When I got there my temp was. High for me and my blood pressure was through the roof for me all because of the pain. As I was finally seen for my symptoms it turns out that the 2.3cm cyst had grown just a little bit more and ruptured! 2nd time I've ever had a cyst rupture in my life. Never want another one to. The depo has saved my life so if a cyst happened only once in almost a year on it I'm a happy camper. As I deal with cysts every other month not in the depo. To the point the er learns my name and knows what I'm there for. Everything you have said in your writing is 100% how it happens. We don't even know half the time we have a cyst till its big enough to cause problems. Thank you for sharing your story I wanted to share mine as I have nothing but good things to say about the depo even if its not for everyone. Present day I am 100%healthy and haven't had a cyst since! I will keep an eye on it tho since they correspond with each other!! I hope this helped some of you!
Reply
Anonymous says:
December 17, 2015 at 11:16 am
HI THERE I AM 23 YEARS OLD I AM ON THE DEPO VERA INJECTION FOR 3 YEARS NOW BEFORE MY DAUGHTER WAS BORN I WAS FOR 3 YEARS ON THE 2 MONTHS INJECTION BUT BEFORE I FELL PREGNANT I HAVE BEEN EXPERIENCING THIS PAIN NEAR MY OVARIES AND ITS BEEN A YEAR NOW THAT THE PAIN RETURNED I WENT TO SEE DOCTORS AND ONE DOCTOR SAID ITS CONSTAPATION BECA– USE OF THE SEVERE BACK PAIN I HAD THE PAIN WENT AWAY FOR 2 WEEKS BUT ITS BACK NOW IT COMES AND GOES BUT TODAY ITS WORSE KINDA LIKE A BURNING SENSATION I DONT KNOW WHATS THE COURSE BUT I SUSPECT ITS MY OVARIES AND BECA– USE I HAVE NEVER HAD MY PERIOD FOR
3 YEARS NOW SO COULD IT BE CYSTS OR SOMETHING WORSE I AM SO SCARED TO GO TO THE DOCTOR BECA– USE WHAT IF THEY SAY ITS GAS AGAIN
Reply
Amy williams says:
January 18, 2016 at 5:13 am
on February 10th of this year I will be on the depo perva for 6 years. 2 years ago my urologist saw that I have a cyst on one of my overies as well as on one of my kidneys. I just went in for my 2 year follow up where I got another ultra sound done on my kidneys and overies and I am now waiting to hear back to find out if they have gotten bigger. I have never had any kind of cyst before I started the depo perva and I am wondering if I should ask my ob gyn Doctor to take me off the depo shot?
Reply
Amy williams says:
January 18, 2016 at 5:15 am
Can someone please tell me if the depo perva shot has anything to do with the cyst on my overies and kidneys? I have been on the depo perva shot for almost 6 years now. My urologist actually found the cysts which I have never had since starting the depo perva shot.
Reply
Shana Chillis says:
February 8, 2016 at 12:13 pm
Hey everyone I'm omw to work but I just have to comment…I too believe the ovarian cyst was caused by depo-privera my doctors say the same thing that yours did! And honestly hearing it from another person makes me feel more secure because I had been on the shot for three years straight after I had my daughter I felt like I was on bc for way too long and that it was time to cleanse my body…so I had been off of it for about three months….out of no where I land up in the er with the most excruciating pain I have ever felt they tell me an ovarian cyst had ruptured….bt how? When? It just seems like as soon as I stopped bc I was cramping bleeding abnormally and very lightheaded …. I'm starting to think that the bc is a part of the problem and birth control alone is a billion dollar med. So why would our docs tell us the truth ?? Don't get me wrong getting back on depo probably will help to avoid me from getting them again it's when you take a break from the shot, then u notice all different sorts of abnormalities with lots more than just ovaries!! Thanks guys this was very helpful to me!!
Reply
JH3178 says:
June 29, 2016 at 1:23 pm
I have a history of ovarian cysts. I have never tried Depo, but was always on “the pill”. Every month I got a cyst and was in severe pain. Dr. would feel the cyst send me for an ultrasound and by then it had already burst. I stopped taking the pill and no cysts since, until just recently when I took the morning after pill, which is just “the pill” in much higher doses. I KNOW that the pill caused my cysts, since I have only had them with oral contraceptives.
Reply
Ashley O. says:
December 30, 2016 at 10:20 pm
I have been taking a progestin birth control pill for over 2 years and was just diagnosed with a cyst on my right ovary as well as pcos. There is definitely something up with these birth control methods, and I have no plans of continuing to use them. I hope that someone will figure out whats going on!
Reply
Sky says:
January 21, 2017 at 3:45 pm
I had a large ovarian cyst rupture immediately following sex with my husband. I endured 8 hours of the most intense pain of my life (hard headed about going to the doctor) but it got to the point that I literally could no longer move my abdomen without screaming in pain. Que my husband and 2 year old insisting I go to the ER. i didn’t argue. Come to find out, my crazy amount of swelling of my abdomen was because I had blood vessels rupture that wouldnt stop bleeding. I was bleeding out slowly for 8 hours and the parts that had congealed in my belly were pressibg on all my organs as it gor bigger and bigger plus I had infection spread through my body. Ended up signing blood transfusion paper work but was on so much pain medication i dont remember much of the visit. I do remembee very vividly the pain, the vomiting, the constipation, passing out ovwr and over when trying to walk (due to loss of blood), and the excruciating ride to the ER and recover time after the surgery. Worst time of my life. And I think I terrified my husband and son pretty bad. I am now hyper aware of any lower abdomen pain.
My doc put me on the depo shot to help with the size of my cysts….but i need to find aomething else, as this is my third month on it and i have blown up like a balloon and cant eveb wear mybwedding ring anymore. I gained 3 pant sizes eveb though i eat really well and remain mildly active
Reply
Claire says:
March 20, 2017 at 8:40 am
I have been experiencing strong pain that lasts around 24-48 hours around ovulation time ever since going back on the contraceptive pill. After an ultrasound they found a large cyst 10cm in diameter, I have an operation next week for removal yet I stopped taking the pill a couple of months ago against the doctors advice and no pain since! Something is definitely up with contraceptive pills and injections, I had no problems until going back on it and now I’ve stopped no problems again.
Reply
Teresa says:
October 1, 2017 at 12:27 am
Hi Claire! May I ask which contraceptive pill you took? Progestin only or?
Reply
Holly says:
April 15, 2017 at 12:23 am
I’m so grateful for this post. I started the mini pill (progesterone only) in January and ended up in the ER just 2 weeks after starting with a ruptured ovarian cyst. It’s the only time in my life I’ve had pain at a level 10 (and I had a natural breach birth!). I was told it must’ve been from before I started the mini pill (I wasn’t on any BC after I stopped using the Nuvaring from before having my kids). But in the 3-4 months since then, I’ve had one more small rupture and I can feel symptoms building up again now. I didn’t take my pill tonight & will give my body a break before looking into another form of birth control. Thanks for sharing this!!
Reply
Naomi zani says:
April 29, 2017 at 7:17 am
Progesterone pills may be a cause of ovarian cysts…my friend lately had a surgery and i gues they are the cause since am almost going to have a surgery on ovarian cyst if medication doesnt work….i suggest serious reasearch should be done on the pills..and in future before approving any pills a study should be conducted…i am impressed to post this to save another lady from such trouble…i urge one to use natural birth control pills
Reply
Qbelet says:
December 14, 2017 at 12:12 pm
Great. Thanks for sharing
Reply
5 Trackbacks
Growing Up Millennial | What you miss when Disney plans your vacation
Growing Up Millennial | Why Millennials are banishing, but not burning, bras - Growing Up Millennial
Growing Up Millennial | Is the significance of Hillary's nomination lost on Millennials? - Growing Up Millennial
Growing Up Millennial | I tried 8 Blue Apron meals... here's what I think - Growing Up Millennial
Growing Up Millennial | Why people attacked Steve Martin for calling Carrie Fisher 'beautiful' - Growing Up Millennial
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
© 2019 Mumbling Mommy. All Rights Reserved.
Webbersites Website Design & Development
Mumbling Mommy
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.