VR Foundation | New
Search
VR Foundation
VR Foundation
VR Foundation
VR Foundation
Our mission is to develop effective treatments for millions of people around the world who suffer from vitiligo.
About Us
Meet the Team
Results to date
Financial information
Download center
Contacts
Researchers
Researchers
We address every phase in the vitiligo drug discovery process, from basic research all the way to the clinic, in order for new treatments to reach patients. At the Vitiligo Research Foundation, we have only one incentive: to bring a vitiligo treatment to market for nearly a 100 million people worldwide who are affected by this devastating condition.
Research Tools
Current Grants
Publications
Biobank
Doctors
Doctors
It is part of our mission to supply doctors with as much information as possible in regards vitiligo – this is to help you understand the disease better and help the patients in your care. Click on the following links to find useful information on vitiligo and our activities.
Treatment Guidelines
Master-classes
Insurance and Vitiligo
Patients
Patients
If you have been diagnosed with vitiligo, or think you might have it, or have a loved one with the disease, then we are here for you.
We want to help you understand your skin condition, feel more in control, and get more out of your next doctor's appointment by being better informed.
About Vitiligo
World Vitiligo Day
Famous Vitiligans
In The Media
World map
How to help
How to help
We are building a community of people across the globe who share our determination to beat vitiligo. There are two ways you can become a part of this community right now Donate or Sign up for Vitiligo News.
If you have questions about our work, or suggestions about things we can do better or differently then please contact us – we’d love to hear from you.
Donate Today
Our Partners
Our Supporters
Bookstore
News - 04 Feb `19Current guidelines for sun exposure are unhealthy and unscientific, new research suggests.
New
Our Youtube
Channels
25June
YouTube channel
VR Foundation
YouTube channel
Vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E, selenium, beta-carotene, glucosamine, chondroitin, and fish oil have all flopped in study after study. Now, vitamin D supplementation has failed spectacularly in a 5-year long clinical trials.
How did we get it so wrong? As it turns out, a rogue band of researchers has had an explanation all along. And if they’re right, it means that once again we have been epically misled.
Vitamin D is produced by our bodies as a result of sun exposure. Yet, it is just the tip of the iceberg. Sunlight also triggers the release of a number of important compounds in the body, including serotonin and endorphins. It reduces the risk of prostate, breast, colorectal, and pancreatic cancers. It improves circadian rhythms. It reduces inflammation and dampens autoimmune responses. It improves virtually every mental condition you can think of. These seem like benefits everyone should be able to take advantage of.
Obviously, not all people process sunlight the same way. True, the sun worshippers had a higher incidence of melanoma, but they are eight times less likely to die from it. People of color rarely get melanoma. The rate is 26 per 100,000 in Caucasians, 5 per 100,000 in Hispanics, and 1 per 100,000 in African Americans.
Note this: for every person who dies of skin cancer, more than 100 die from cardiovascular diseases. Most of it could be prevented through regular sun exposure. And it’s free.
Ultimately, it's your call. Each person’s needs vary so much with season, latitude, skin color, personal history, philosophy, and so much else that it’s impossible to provide a one-size-fits-all recommendation. The Dminder app, which uses factors such as age, weight, and amount of exposed skin to track the amount of sunlight you need for vitamin D production, might be one place to start. Trading your sunscreen for a shirt and a broad-brimmed hat is another. Both have superior safety records. So make up your mind. As for me, I’ve made my choice.
by Rowan Jacobsen
Read full article
Next Post All News
FAQOther Questions
How long does it take to treat vitiligo?
Treatment results will vary by person and type of vitiligo. The rule of thumb is that you will need to allow at least 3 to 6 months before you begin to see results from any trea...
How to get insurance coverage for vitiligo treatments?
Most of health insurance companies will initially reject claims for vitiligo doctor visits or phototherapy treatments but with enough efforts you can have a substantial part of ...
I have a new job - should I tell colleagues about my vitiligo?
If you are starting a new job and you are concerned about stares and questions about your skin, try a proactive approach. When the time is right and you are feeling comfortable,...
Donate Today
Our work is entirely funded by private donations – we receive no money from government. Your money will help us continue funding research into vitiligo and supporting people affected by the condition.
Though it is not always easy to treat vitiligo, there is much to be gained by clearly understanding the diagnosis, the future implications, treatment options and their outcomes.
Many people deal with vitiligo while remaining in the public eye, maintaining a positive outlook, and having a successful career.
Copyright (C) Bodolóczki Júlia
By taking a little time to fill in the anonymous questionnaire, you can help researchers better understand and fight vitiligo.
© 2010−2019 VR Foundation, Inc.
All rights reserved. VR Foundation™, and the “VR Foundation“ logo, are trademarks of VR Foundation, Inc.
© A registered 501(c)3 non-profit organization. TAX ID #45-2498489
Terms of Use
Privacy Statement
Contacts
made by carbonfay
Project Background
The study of multifactorial diseases, such as vitiligo, requires analysis of complex interplay of symptoms, treatments and outcomes across a large number of people. Population surveys and biobanks are indispensable research tools, required for downstream therapy development. Even small collections of biosamples may be extremely precious for researcher in academic institution or biopharma company.
Until recently, vitiligo researchers were generally limited to conducting studies on patient samples they could acquire themselves. When the Foundation started there were no centralized biological database along with the pre-existing body of the clinical management or the historical study data, which is required in order to proceed with the development of specific therapies. We have run a special investigation study to determine whether VRF shall establish its own biobank.
Then the project's leadership crafted a careful strategy for vitiligo biobank development, with special attention paid to the security and confidentiality of the donor's information. 'Future proofing' involves collecting and processing samples to permit the widest possible range of scientific uses, while avoiding approaches that would impede possible future uses.
The Vitiligo Biobank uses a federated network model, which encourages participation by biosample owners who are concerned about their ownership of samples and associated clinical data. The resulting integrated biobank consists of our central facility, a cloud-based IT system, distributed collection and storage sites, and international biobank framework agreements.
We have started the first Vitiligo Biobank with a 100+ sample collection from the completed research project in genetics in late January 2013. Three months later, it held approximately 1,000 biosamples and detailed clinical profiles. Our target number is 10,000 samples and we encourage patients to donate samples. The primary biorepository is located in Moscow (Russia) with networked locations in 11 countries.