Depression | Vita Sciences
Healthier Lives Through Science. ™
Welcome to Vita Sciences
Register Login View Cart
1-877-212-7282
Home
About VitaSciences
Creams
Capsules
Patches
Powders
Blog
Contact Us
Tag Archives: Depression
Could weight loss help lower risk of migraine?
March 27, 2019 alternative medicine, blood pressure, Blood pressure, diabetes, exercise, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, migraine, Migraine Headaches, obesity, pain, stroke, supplements, weight lossanxiety, blood pressure, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, Diabetes, migraine, Migraine headaches, Migraine symptoms, Migraine triggers, Natural migraine treatment, weight lossStaci
With summer on the horizon, weight loss efforts are in full bloom. However, weight loss can provide more than just body confidence. The Centers for Disease Control report that just losing 5-percent of your body weight, which is equal to about 10 pounds for a 200 lb. person, can lower your risk of chronic diseases like heart disease and type 2 diabetes. Not to mention that a recent study shows that losing weight can also lower risk of migraines.
What is a migraine?
A migraine is a recurring type of headache that causes a throbbing or pulsing pain along with other uncomfortable symptoms. Other symptoms of a migraine may include:
nausea
weakness
sensitivity to light and sound
Migraines can be triggered by a variety of different things such as:
stress
anxiety
hormonal changes in women
loud noises
bright or flashing lights
lack of sleep
tobacco
skipped meals
certain medicines
caffeine
too much activity (overexertion)
Women and those with a family history of migraines are at greater risk of developing migraines. Treatment usually includes certain pain relievers, resting with your eyes closed in a quiet, dark room, as well as placing an eye pack on your forehead and drinking plenty of fluids.
Migraines and weight loss
A recent study analyzed data from 10 different studies regarding migraine occurrence. Study results show that those who lost weight had a reduction in the days per month they had migraines. Also, pain severity and duration of the headache was reduced with weight loss. The results seemed to be the same in adults and kids. Also, results were similar for anyone who lost weight, no matter how the weight was lost (i.e. surgery, diet and exercise).
It is thought that those who are overweight or obese may be more at risk for migraine headaches due to inflammation. Researchers suggest that certain proteins released by fat tissue, obesity-related health problems such as hypertension and type 2 diabetes, as well as psychological risk factors, stroke, and respiratory conditions may also increase risk of headaches in those who are overweight or obese.
If you have migraines, but have not found success with any medications over-the-counter, then you may want to visit your doctor for suggestions. Another option is to try a natural supplement like Migravent by Vita Sciences. Migravent contains ingredients like CoQ10, magnesium, and riboflavin, among others to help promote migraine relief and provide neurological support.
Tips on losing weight
There are many ways to approach weight loss. It will vary according to the individual. Your current health status will determine your nutrient needs and exercise tolerance. Also, your food allergies or intolerances and daily schedule will help determine the eating plan that will work best for you. The key is to start changing unhealthy habits one at a time. Over time, you will create the healthy lifestyle that helps you meet your health goals and that is easy for you to stick with for the long term.
Here are some tips to help you start planning your weight loss program.
Write down short-term and long-term goals: Although the term goals may make some people sigh in frustration, they are important for keeping you on track with your weight loss regimen. Start by writing out your ultimate goal for the year, then break it down into smaller goals such as monthly goals. For example, your yearly goal may be to lose 50 pounds. Since this can seem overwhelming to approach, break this goal down into smaller monthly goals. These goals should be S.M.A.R.T., or specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound. A goal of this kind will help you track your progress since it’s measurable. Therefore, instead of just saying “I want to eat more vegetables,” instead you could make one of your monthly goals “I will eat at least one cup of vegetables at each meal over the next four weeks.”
Make time for planning and prepping meals: Your busy schedule may have you pressed for time. However, in order to have the best chance of weight loss success, you need to make time for meal planning and prepping. Just an hour a week can give you plenty of time to write a shopping list and meal calendar. These tools can help you know what foods you need to stay on track with your diet. A registered dietitian may be helpful to get you started on such as meal plan. Once you have the foods you need in stock, then just take another hour or so a week to wash, chop, dice, and portion out fruit and vegetables for meals and snacks. This can provide convenient meal and snack options that can make it easier for you to stay on track throughout the week.
Be active whenever possible: Every step counts, so move whenever possible. Take the stairs when you can, or walk your dog or take a walk after meals. You can also take a walk at lunch at work or home to help get some steps in and aid digestion.
Visit your doctor regularly: You should visit your doctor at least once a year to check your numbers. These numbers include blood pressure, weight, and labs like cholesterol and blood glucose. However, if you have a chronic condition or are at risk for such conditions like heart disease or diabetes, then you should visit twice a year or more to keep track of your numbers and risk factors.
Be accountable: Besides going to the doctor, it’s important to stay accountable in other ways as well to stay on track with your weight loss. This means weekly weigh-ins, having a weight loss buddy, and/or having a health coach to support you and provide motivation along the way.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD of LighttrackNutrition.com
References:
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (last reviewed February 13, 2018) “Losing Weight.” https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/losing_weight/index.html
Mayo Clinic Medline Plus (Last updated on February 7, 2019) “Migraine.” https://medlineplus.gov/migraine.html
MindTools (accessed March 27, 2019) “SMART Goals: How to Make Your Goals Achievable.” https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/smart-goals.htm
Preidt, R. (March 25, 2019) “Fewer Excess Pounds May Mean Fewer Migraines.” https://www.usnews.com/news/health-news/articles/2019-03-23/fewer-excess-pounds-may-mean-fewer-migraines
Move more to fight depression …and diabetes
January 30, 2019 alternative medicine, anxiety, cardiovascular, cognitive function, depression, diabetes, diabetes medicine, exercise, headache, Health, Health News, heart health, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, Diabetes, exercise, heart health, mental healthStaci
When most people start an exercise program, they may be trying to do one of a few things. Most people move more to lose weight, some exercise to gain muscle, and some just want to tone up. However, the benefit from exercise that most may not think of is improved mood. A recent study shows that moving more each day may have prevent depressive symptoms. Not to mention, that research also shows that preventing or improving such symptoms can help improve health outcomes in those with diabetes.
What is depression?
Depression is a mood disorder that can greatly impact daily life. It can make daily activities seem impossible by impacting the way you feel, think, sleep, eat, and work. There are various forms of depression such as persistent depressive disorder, which involves symptoms lasting two years or more.
On the other hand, there are forms of depression that occur as a result of certain environmental changes such as in climate like with seasonal affective disorder, or after pregnancy like with postpartum depression. Some people with depression may also experience other serious mood symptoms like with bipolar disorder or psychotic depression.
No matter what type of depression a person may have, they all share certain serious symptoms for more than two weeks at a time that may include:
persistent “empty” mood or sad feelings
irritability
hopelessness
loss of interest in hobbies or daily activities
decreased energy or fatigue
restlessness
moving or talking more slowly
difficulty concentrating
trouble sleeping or eating
digestive problems or headaches without a medical cause
thoughts of death or suicide
Not everyone with depression experiences every symptom. However, if you have a few of these symptoms and you feel that daily life has become hard to handle, then it may be time to reach out to a healthcare professional for help.
Antidepressant medications and psychotherapy, like talk therapy are typical primary treatments for depression. However, if these treatments alone are not helping all of your symptoms, then there are some other things you can try. Experts suggest asking for help from a trusted friend, family member, or counselor as well as taking steps to take part in your community for social support.
Another treatment option is to join a study through the National Institutes of Health where new treatments will be tested. If you need help now, then reach out to someone today for advice through one of the resources found on this website. Exercise can also be something you can do now to help improve your depressive symptoms.
Exercise and depression research
The American Heart Association suggests that most adults exercise at least 150 minutes a week. This means that for most days of the week, you should move at least thirty minutes a day. This doesn’t have to be all at once, but can be a few minutes at a time. And this exercise should be at a moderate pace. Therefore, if you walk briskly for a few minutes here and there for a total of thirty minutes a day, then you can keep your heart strong. Not only that, but you can also keep your mind healthy too.
A recent study shows that exercise may help improve depressive symptoms. This study looked at data from over 600000 adults. Study results show that there is a protective relationship between exercise and risk for major depressive disorder. And what makes this finding stronger is that this data was taken from actual measured movement, not self-reported exercise. Therefore, experts suggest that exercise could be an effective adjunct strategy to help treat and prevent depressive symptoms.
Exercise and diabetes research
If you exercise to help improve your depressive symptoms, you could also help improve your diabetes risk. Experts report that depressive symptoms correlate strongly with a risk of incident diabetes. A study of data from the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) looked at whether positive behavior could help lower risk of type 2 diabetes in postmenopausal women.
The study looked at data from over 100000 women over 14 years. Study results show that those who were the most optimistic had a 12-percent lower risk of developing diabetes versus those in the lowest quartile of optimism. Also, those who showed more hostile and negative behaviors, were at higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Therefore, prevention strategies to help target such negative mood and personality traits may help lower risk of type 2 diabetes in these persons.
Take home message
If you suffer from depression, then there are many steps you can take to help improve your quality of life. The first step is to ask for help. I know this is not an easy ask, but there are many resources out there where people want to help you take back your life.
And if you have diabetes, it may be worth it to be screened for depression to see if such strategies listed above may help you not only feel better in your mind, but also help improve your diabetes symptoms.
Changes in diet such as consuming more antioxidant-rich foods and taking supplements such as Elevia by Vita Sciences may also help. Elevia contains GABA and 5-HTP to help calm your mind and boost serotonin levels. This could be another tool in your belt to help you improve your depressive symptoms and start feeling better inside and out.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD
References:
American Heart Association (last reviewed April 18, 2018) “American Heart Association Recommendations for Physical Activity in Adults and Kids.”
Choi KW, Chen C, Stein MB, et al. (Published online January 23, 2019) “Assessment of Bidirectional Relationships Between Physical Activity and Depression Among Adults: A 2-Sample Mendelian Randomization Study.” JAMA Psychiatry, doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2018.4175
National Institute of Mental Health (February 2018) “Depression.”
Sandoiu, A. (January 27, 2019) “Diabetes: How optimism may influence your risk.” Medical News Today, https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324297.php
Is there a link between diabetes and depression?
November 6, 2018 cardiovascular, cognitive function, diabetes, diabetes medicine, digestion, exercise, gut health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stroke, supplementsBrain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, Diabetes, exercise, gut health, heart healthStaci
Depression on its own can be a very challenging condition to deal with. This diagnosis not only affects the mind, but can affect the body as well. It can make everyday tasks difficult to deal with such as sleeping, working, and even eating. Because of the effect of depression on eating behaviors, weight gain or loss can occur through appetite changes unrelated to diet. Not only that, but because of the many lifestyle changes that come with a diabetes diagnosis, depression is seen two to three times more often in such patients than those without diabetes. A recent study looked at how diet and exercise factors can affect the relationship between depression and metabolic syndrome.
What is depression?
We all may feel depressed from time to time. However, a diagnosis of depression is a chronic display of such feelings that can affect daily life, relationships, and can cause both psychological and physical symptoms. If the following symptoms occur for two weeks or more, then you should see a doctor for possible diagnosis and treatment of depression.
Feeling sad or having a depressed mood
Loss of interest in activities once enjoyed
Changes in appetite
Weight loss or gain unrelated to dieting
Trouble sleeping or sleeping too much
Loss of energy or increased fatigue
Slowed movements and speech
Feeling worthless or guilty
Difficulty concentrating or making decisions
Thoughts of death or suicide
Conditions related to the thyroid, nutrient deficiencies, or tumors of the brain can mimic symptoms of depression. Therefore, such underlying causes should be ruled out by a qualified healthcare provider.
Metabolic syndrome and depression
Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that can increase a person’s risk of chronic diseases like diabetes and stroke.
A waist circumference of more than 35 inches for women and 40 inches for men
A triglyceride level of 150 mg/dL or higher
An HDL cholesterol level of less than 50 mg/dL for women and less than 40 mg/dL for men
A blood pressure of 130/85 mmHg or higher
A fasting blood sugar level of 100 mg/dL or higher
Research shows that there is a relationship between those with depression and metabolic syndrome. A recent study looked at this relationship to see what exactly is causing it. Researchers looked at data from over 64,000 adults. Study results show that those with depression are highly linked to a high fat, high sugar diet regimen and low levels of physical activity.
Researchers suggest that diet and exercise may link depression and metabolic syndrome. However, they also state that inflammation and genetic factors have a greater causal link between the two conditions. Inflammation can develop as a result of the stress on the brain due to depression that may cause an imbalance in gut microbiome. This link is a theory known as the gut-brain axis. This in turn, could cause inflammation in the body that could increase risk of chronic diseases like heat disease and diabetes.
How to lower risk of metabolic syndrome
Besides diet and exercise, you can use the tips below to help lower your risk of metabolic syndrome.
Add more fruit and vegetables to your diet: More fruits and vegetables means more antioxidants. And more antioxidants in your diet means more anti-inflammatory power. In turn, you can help reduce inflammation in your body by adding more colorful fiber sources to your plate at each meal.
Move more: Exercising at least 30 minutes a day for most days of the week can help you manage your weight. It can also help you manage stress and strengthen your heart. All of these factors can help reduce inflammation in your body and lower chronic disease risk.
Stop smoking or never start: Smoking can constrict blood vessels and in turn can increase heart disease risk. Therefore, if you already smoke, visit Smokefree.gov to quit. If you have never started smoking, then don’t. Your body will thank you.
Take a daily supplement: If you are deficient in nutrients, then this could put you at risk for conditions like depression that have an inflammatory link. Certain supplements can also help you gain better control over your blood glucose levels too. Glucarex by Vita Sciences is one such supplement that uses chromium, alpha lipoic acid, and cinnamon to help support weight loss, metabolism, and blood glucose levels.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD
References:
American Psychiatric Association (January 2017) “What is Depression?” Physician Review By: Ranna Parekh, M.D., M.P.H.
Matta J, Hoertel N, Kesse-Guyot E, et al. (2019) Diet and physical activity in the association between depression and metabolic syndrome: Constances study. J Affect Disord., 244:25-32.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (accessed November 6, 2018) “Metabolic Syndrome.”
A lonely mood could be worse for your health than obesity
June 7, 2018 alternative medicine, anxiety, brain health, cognitive function, depression, Health, Health News, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain fog, Brain health, Depression, health, mental healthStaci
So much focus is placed on diet and exercise to stay healthy, that sometimes mental health care can be forgotten. However, the health of both mind and body is important to be in your best state of health. In fact, a recent report has found that being lonely may be a greater hazard to public health than obesity.
What is mental health?
Mental health considers the well-being of the emotional, social, and psychological parts of one’s life. Although mental health issues can affect the mood of a person, it can also impact important life factors. The way we feel can affect the way we think, act, make decisions, and how we handle relationships with others, among other things. Therefore, it mental health should be taken just as seriously as physical health.
How can being lonely affect your health?
A recent report has found that being lonely is a serious public health issue. The health insurance company Cigna reports that most American adults consider themselves lonely, or feel disconnected from the world and people around them. Younger American, such as those in Generation Z and millennials, report being the most lonely.
Since loneliness is not necessarily a condition on your diagnosis sheet, health care providers may overlook it. However, left untreated, loneliness can lead to more serious mental health conditions such as depression. Experts suggest “social cognitive retraining” to combat loneliness. This is because the brains of lonely people can make the negative feelings worse if left untreated. A qualified psychologist or psychiatrist can perform this type of brain retraining.
Ways to help improve your mood
If you feel that your lonely mood is starting to affect your daily life and relationships, then you should contact a health care provider or counselor to get proper treatment. However, if you feel that your lonely feeling is in its early stages, then you may be able to take steps to improve this feeling on your own.
Extend yourself in the community: By volunteering or attending social events, you can feel more engaged in your community. This can help you feel less lonely and perhaps make some new friends and contacts.
Find groups to join that involve your hobbies: Whether you like to read, run, or play music, find local groups in your community to join. These groups can help you meet like-minded people that like the same things that you do. This can help you get out of your comfort zone at home a little and find others to talk with that you have something in common with. One app to help with this is Meetup, which provides you access to local clubs and events in your community.
Take a mood lifter supplement: Elevia by Vita Sciences is a mood lifting supplement. It contains compounds such as GABA (gamma amino butyric acid) and 5-HTP that research shows to calm the mind and body, while boosting levels of the feel good hormone serotonin.
Stay positive: As the saying goes, energy creates energy. If you exude negative energy, then that negative energy will likely remain within you. However, if you go into life and situations with a positive attitude, then it is likely that before long, that positive energy will become a part of you. Certain mental health issues may make staying positive nearly impossible. However, with the help of a mental health professional, counselor, and a network of family and friends to reach out to, you can start to create more positive energy in your life and mind.
Be sure to call the following hotlines if you are experiencing a mental health crisis or have questions about getting started on treatment for your mental health condition.
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline: 1-800-662-HELP (4357)
National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) Helpline: 1-800-950-NAMI (6264)
Sources:
Loria, K. ( June 3, 2018) “Loneliness may be a greater public health hazard than obesity- here are 4 psychology-backed tips to combat it.” Business Insider, http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-feel-less-lonely-2018-5
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (August 29, 2017) “What is Mental Health?”
Could your sleep patterns affect your mental health?
May 29, 2018 anxiety, blood pressure, Blood pressure, Boost energy!, brain health, cognitive function, depression, digestion, exercise, Health News, heart health, hypertension, Mental Health, stress, supplementsanxiety, blood pressure, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, hypertension, mental health, sleepStaci
Sleep. Work. Eat. Repeat. Does that sound like your day, or something like it? Sleep is often set aside as just something that a person does at the end of the day. It is often overlooked as a very important part of optimal health. A recent study found that it is so important in fact, that not getting enough sleep may increase your risk for mental health disorders.
The Importance of Sleep
The average adult needs at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep a night. This may seem like a lot if you live a busy life which many of us do. And you may shrug it off and say, “Who needs sleep. I don’t need sleep.” The fact is that sleep is more important than you think, and without it your health could suffer.
So many things happen while you sleep. For example, at rest your body conserves energy, regulates blood pressure, and restores tissues and muscles. Furthermore, your body regulates fluids and controls hormone levels in the body while you sleep. Without enough sleep, your circadian rhythm can go off course. In turn, this can lead you to eat when you’re not hungry, which can lead to weight gain and increased chronic disease risk over time.
And if these weren’t enough reasons to hit the snooze button, sleep also has an impact on the immune system. Lack of sleep can cause yo to get sick more often, which in turn could put more stress on your body and mind.
Sleep and Mental Health
A recent study looked at about 90,000 residents from the United Kingdom in regards to sleep patterns. Study subjects between the age of 37 and 73 years wore accelerometers for 24 hours a day for 7 days. In other words, these devices measured the rest and activity levels of participants. Those with reduced activity during the day or increased activity at night were described as having a disrupted circadian rhythm, or lower amplitude. Comparing these patterns with questionnaires filled out by participants found links between lower amplitudes and health measures such as:
higher risk of unstable moods
lower levels of unhappiness
lower health satisfaction
greater reported loneliness
Among other findings, it is clear that this study shows that lack of sleep can greatly impact mental health measures, and in turn quality of life.
Ways to Help You Get More Sleep
There may not be enough hours in the day to get everything done. However, it is really important to make sure sleep gets a priority on your to-do list. Therefore, if you have trouble sleeping, try some of the methods below to help.
Stick to a sleep schedule: Just like your other daily tasks, put sleep on your daily planner. Although it can be hard to do sometimes, setting a time to prepare for bed each night can help you develop a new healthy sleeping pattern over time.
Start a bedtime ritual: When it is coming close to that time of night, start a bedtime ritual that will help your body prepare for bed. Whether it is drinking a cup of herbal tea after dinner, or diffusing some lavender essential oils to relax your body, this type of ritual can reduce your risk of tossing and turning into the night. It is also helpful to reduce caffeine, sugar, and alcohol intake in the latter part of the day as well as turning off any screens during your bedtime ritual to help your eyes and mind rest.
Exercise each day: Any type of movement for at least 30 minutes each day can tire your body out a bit, so you can rest better in the evening. Otherwise, your body will have energy to expend with no outlet to provide it with. In turn, you will likely stay up late and have trouble sleeping. Besides that, exercise is good for keeping your body and mind healthy.
Take a supplement for sleep like Somnova by Vita Sciences. Somnova contains melatonin and l-theanine to help relax your mind, feel refreshed, and get more peaceful sleep. Add a sleep supplement to your bedtime routine about 30 minutes before you plan on going to sleep.
Visit your healthcare provider: If you have tried all of the above, or feel particularly tired upon waking, you may need to see your healthcare provider. This is because your sleep problems may be related to other conditions such as pain issues, sleep apnea, or other health conditions and should be treated under medical supervision.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Division of Sleep Medicine at Harvard Medical School (December 18, 2007) “Why Do We Sleep, Anyway?”
National Sleep Foundation (accessed May 16, 2018) “How Much Sleep Do We Really Need?”
NIH News in Health (April 2018) “Tick Tock: Your Body Clocks.”
Paddock, Ph.D., C. (May 16, 2018) “Sleep-wake disruption strongly linked to mood disorders.”
Drinking more alcohol than suggested could shorten life
April 18, 2018 alternative medicine, anxiety, Blood pressure, brain health, cardiovascular, cognitive function, digestion, exercise, Health News, heart health, hydration, medication, medicine, memory, Mental Health, Neuropathy, stress, stroke, supplements, wateralcohol, blood pressure, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, heart health, hypertension, mental healthStaci
It’s Friday night and the weekend is just beginning. After a long week of work, you may be thinking about that glass of wine or pint of beer to help you relax. In moderation, there is nothing wrong with a few drinks on the weekend. However, a recent study has found that drinking more than the suggested amount each week can shorten your life.
What is the recommended alcohol intake for most adults?
General recommendations in the United States suggest that men consume no more than 2 standard alcoholic drinks a day and women consume no more than one daily. A standard drink is equal to:
12 ounces beer (5% alcohol content)
8 ounces malt liquor (7% alcohol content)
5 ounces wine (12% alcohol content)
1.5 ounces liquor (40% alcohol content)
Any more than this recommendation is heavy drinking and can have negative health effects. More than 4 drinks at one occasion for a woman or 5 drinks for a man is considered binge drinking. Negative health effects of such heavy drinking include:
short term effects such as increased risk of falls, injuries, car crashes if driving while intoxicated, and increased likelihood of engaging in risky behaviors such as unprotected sex or violent behavior.
if pregnant and drinking, your unborn child could have increased risk of fetal alcohol syndrome, miscarriage, or stillbirth.
increased risk of heart disease, stoke, liver disease, and digestive problems
increased risk of anxiety and depression
learning and memory problems
In addition to such health problems, long term drinking could lead to problems with family and friends if you become dependent on alcohol. Contact the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) for resources on how to get help if you think you may have a drinking problem.
Alcohol and life span
A recent study in the medical journal Lancet found that for each alcoholic drink over 6 standard glasses of wine or 7 standard 12 oz beers a week could shorten your life by 30 minutes. This may not seem like a lot, but every minute can add up over time. This recommended amount is equal to about 12.5 units of alcohol.
You may ask, “How did they come up with this number?” The answer to this comes in the form of a study of about 600,000 current drinkers included in 83 studies from 19 countries. It was found that a 40-year old drinking just 2-3 standard drinks a week more than the suggested tipping point can lower their life expectancy by about 2 years. This is likely due to the health effects listed above such as increased risk of heart disease, among other things. This study helped support the United Kingdom’s proposed reduction in alcoholic drink recommendations. When following these guidelines, people had a 20-percent lower heart disease risk. Also, there was no increase in harm to health seen in terms of death rate in those who were compliant with the guidelines.
Although some studies show that moderate drinking may help heart health, this study reports different results. Researchers suggest that a glass of red wine now and then may reduce the risk of a non-fatal heart attack. However, this positive health effect is offset against the increased risk of other health issues.
Other ways to relax
If drinking alcohol is a method you use to relax, then perhaps it is time to try healthier methods of lowering stress. Try a few of the methods below to replace happy hour, so you can live out the highest quality, and quantity of life possible.
Exercise each day with something as simple as a short walk. Just getting fresh air and sunshine on your face can help you feel better and more relaxed. Try to walk at least 3 to 5 times a week.
Breathe. Taking five deep breaths when you are stressed and practicing relaxation breathing before bed can help you to reduce stress.
Meditate and focus on all of the positive things in your life such as those things you have accomplished, what you are grateful for, to name a few.
Take breaks throughout the day. Even just a 5 minute break here and there during your work day can help. Rub some relaxing essential oil scents on your wrist or neck, go to the bathroom stall, sit down, and take several deep breaths. Release the stress from your mind and focus on your breath and the scent. You can also do this at home when you are feeling overwhelmed or just want to decompress after a long day.
Detox your life in a variety of ways to lighten your load of stress. You can do this by:
giving away clothes you don’t wear anymore.
cleaning your house and reorganizing your belongings.
self care such as a hot bath with relaxing essential oils like lavender, getting a massage, or getting your hair done.
writing in a journal or talking with a trusted friend, family member, or counselor. Talking can help you to unload your brain of any fears, anxieties, or stress that may be bogging you down.
taking a supplement such as Sereneo by Vita Sciences to relax your mind. Sereneo contains ingredients such as valerian root, magnesium, and chamomile to help increase your levels of feel good serotonin.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Boseley, S. (April 13, 2018) “Extra glass of wine a day ‘will shorten your life by 30 minutes.'”
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (January 3, 2018) “Fact Sheets- Alcohol Use and Your Health.”
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) (updated April 18, 2018) “SAMHSA’s National Helpline.”
Tartakovsky, M.S., M. (May 23, 2013) “20 Ways to Relax & Unwind.”
Could a walk in the park lower stress levels?
March 14, 2018 alternative medicine, blood pressure, Blood pressure, Boost energy!, brain health, cardiovascular, cognitive function, depression, exercise, Health News, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, heart health, hypertension, lower stress, mental healthStaci
Staying active has many benefits. In particular, you may have been told by a healthcare provider to move more to help manage weight or improve heart health. However, a recent study has found that a walk in the park may also reduce stress levels in the body.
How Much Exercise Do I Need?
The Department of Helath and Human Services recommends that most adults exercise 30 minutes a day for most days of the week. In particular, it is suggested that most adults should engage in:
150 minutes of moderate activity a week or 75 minutes of vigorous activity a week, or a combination of both levels of activity.
2 days each week of resistance or strength training that involves a single set of exercises that includes 12 to 15 repetitions at a weight that will tire the muscles by the end of the set.
This thirty minutes does not have to be all at once. Five minutes here and ten minutes there is enough as long as it adds up to 30 minutes by the end of the day. Also, you may be wondering what moderate activity is. Moderate activity is any exercise that allows you to hold a conversation, but does not allow you enough breath to sing. In addition, you should break a light sweat within 10 minutes of a moderate activity, while vigorous activity will have you breaking a sweat in a few minutes or less. Moderate activities include:
walking
water aerobics
gardening
light dancing
slow bicycling
Walking to Lower Stress
A study by researchers at the Center for Nature and Health at the University of California San Francisco looked at the effects of exercise on a group of 78 parents and children. This group of parents and children were encouraged to visit local parks as often as possible over the course of the study period. They were either provided maps to local parks and bus schedules or invited to group outings at local parks.
Follow-ups were done at one month and three months after the start of the study. During these follow-ups, self reports, journalling, and salivary cortisol levels were used to measure stress levels. It was found that every increase in park visits each week was linked to decreases in stress. In addition, it was found that those who visited the parks often saw:
increased physical activity
decreased loneliness
increased interest in nature
Other Ways to Lower Stress
Besides getting fresh air and exercising, there are many ways you can try to lower your stress levels.
Deep breathing can help relax the mind during stressful times and can also help improve sleep. This type of breathing involves breathing from the diaphragm, which means your stomach should inflate as you inhale and deflate as you exhale. Inhale for several seconds, hold your breath for several seconds, and exhale for several seconds. You may feel a bit lightheaded when starting this practice, so do not perform deep breathing when driving a car or operating machinery.
Simplifying your life by donating items in your home that you do not use such as clothes, excess furniture, or decorative items. Also, delegate tasks when possible at both home and work if possible to lighten your load. Finally, write upcoming events on a calendar and keep a running shopping list so you can lighten the burden on your mind.
Getting enough sleep is important not only for lowering stress, but for overall health. The average adult should get at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night.
Eating a balanced diet that is low in sugar, high in fiber, and high in other nutrients such as iron, B12, and vitamin C will help your body perform better in many ways. Some benefits of a healthy, balanced diet include improved cognitive function, better heart health, and an enhanced ability to handle stress. This balanced diet also includes lowering caffeine, increasing water intake, and reducing alcohol intake as well as eating a minimally processed diet.
Spending more time with others in your family, circle of friends, and/or community since social engagement can help boost “feel good” serotonin levels in the body.
Taking mood-boosting supplements like Elevia by Vita Sciences. Elevia contains GABA, chamomile, and 5-HTP. These compounds can calm the mind and boost serotonin levels.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Burton, M.D., N. (February 11, 2017) “How to Reduce Stress.”
Healthline (accessed March 5, 2018) “Parl Prescriptions Can Help Lower Stress Levels.”
Laskowski, M.D., E.R. (August 20, 2016) “How much should the average adult exercise each day?” Mayo Clinic.com
Mayo Clinic (May 19, 2017) “Exercise intensity: how to measure it.”
National Sleep Foundation (accessed March 5, 2018) “How Much Sleep Do We Really Need?”
Razani, N., et al (2018) “Effect of park prescriptions with and without group visits to parks on stress reduction in low-income parents: SHINE randomized trial.”
Watson, S. (June 18, 2014) “Caffiene and a healthy diet may boost memory, thinking skills; alcohol’s effect uncertain.”
Could Having a Pet Improve Your Anxiety?
February 21, 2018 alternative medicine, anxiety, Boost energy!, brain health, cognitive function, depression, exercise, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Cardiovascular health, Depression, heart health, hypertension, mental healthStaci
There’s nothing better than coming home after a long and stressful day of work or school, and having a happy wagging tail waiting at the door for you. Owning a pet involves a lot of work and cost. However, studies show that a pet may be worth the time and money for the good of your health. A recent study review has shown that having a pet can decrease anxiety and provide overall benefits to anyone suffering from mental health issues.
About Mental Health and Anxiety
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), mental health is a “state of well being” in which a person can lead a productive life while being able to deal with the normal daily stresses of life. The National Alliance on Mental Illness reports that mental illnesses are not just the result of one event. However, such a state of being involves multiple factors such as genetics, environment, and lifestyle.
Examples of mental health conditions include:
Anxiety Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Eating Disorders
Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophrenia
According to the American Psychiatric Association, anxiety disorders are the most common mental health disorders. In particular, about 30-percent of adults deal with such a disorder at some point in their life. Anxiety disorders are not just everyday stress or worry. On the contrary, those with such disorders worry or fear that may be seen as “abnormal” in certain situations. This fear or worry can result in disruption of their daily life.
For example, it may be “normal” to worry about taking a test. However, someone with anxiety disorder may have a similar level of worry and stress when having to talk with someone at the store. On the other hand, a person with the disorder may lose sleep because they worry that if they leave the house tomorrow that something bad may happen to them. These are just some examples of how anxiety disorder can manifest. However, this condition can come in many forms such as:
generalized anxiety disorder
panic disorder
phobias, or fears, such as agoraphobia (fear of public places)
social anxiety disorder
separation anxiety disorder
Pets and Mental Health Benefits
An analysis of 17 studies reported in BMC Psychiatry found that having a pet may help those with mental health disorders. Results of this study review found that pets had the following positive impacts on mental health:
One study interviewed some people who had depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or post-traumatic stress disorder. Subjects reported feeling more secure and stable with a pet in their lives.
Another study reported that those with a pet had lower levels of anxiety and a lower average body mass index.
Pets can provide unconditional love as well as support without judgment. In turn, this can help those with mental health issues cope if they are not getting such support from their family and friends.
Pets forced their owners to stay connected with the outside world and be more active. Besides helping those with mental health issues to connect with others, the act of going outside is also very helpful to overall health. For one thing, getting outside can help people get sunlight that helps make sure they get enough vitamin D, which can affect mental health. Also, mental health may benefit from the act of exercise.
Researchers suggest that mental health care plans should include asking patients with mental health issues to get a pet. However, more studies need to be done to figure out how pets could play in the lives of patients and in treatment plans.
Other ways to help improve your mental health
Besides having a pet, there are some other things you can do to help your mental health.
Be mindful by living in the present moment. Talk with a counselor if you have troubles in your past that are stopping you from living in the moment. Also, take a yoga class, learn relaxing breathing techniques, or get a wellness app to help you find ways to stay calm each day and night.
Eat balanced meals since sometimes low levels of certain vitamins or nutrients can make you feel more tired or nervous. Eat plenty of fiber-rich fruits and veggies to help keep your gut healthy. Also, make sure to eat enough protein each day such as meats, beans, low fat dairy products, nuts, and seeds. Low protein intake can cause you to feel tired. This is because protein-rich foods contain dopamine and tyrosine which keep you alert. Finally, make sure to eat some carbohydrate foods such as whole grains and cereals. This is because such foods increase “feel-good” serotonin in the body.
Volunteer or help out a friend or loved one since such acts can help you feel better about yourself. Also, such acts can help you connect with others and perhaps help you to see how much you have to be grateful for.
Get plenty of sleep since lack of sleep can greatly impact your mood. Set a bed time each night, avoid caffeine in the latter half of the day, and limit screen time at night to help you get more sleep.
Visit your doctor to make sure your vitals are healthy and to get help for any symptoms that may be bothering you or affecting your daily life.
Take a supplement such as Sereneo by Vita Sciences. Sereneo contains ingredients such as magnesium, chamomile, and valerian that promotes a boost in serotonin and supports stress and anxiety relief.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
American Psychiatric Association (January 2017) “What are anxiety disorders?”
Greenblatt, M.D., J.M. (November 14, 2011) “Psychological Consequences of Vitamin D Deficiency.”
Medical News Today (February 19, 2018) “It’s official: Pets benefit our mental health.”
National Alliance on Mental Illness (accessed February 20, 2018) ” Mental Health Conditions.”
Psychology Today (October 27, 2015) “9 Ways You Can Improve Your Mental Health Today.”
Weir, K. (December 2011) “The exercise effect.”
World Health Organization (August 2014) “Mental health: a state of well-being.”
Seven Simple Ways to Keep Your Weight Loss Resolutions This New Year
January 1, 2018 alternative medicine, Blood pressure, Boost energy!, brain health, cardiovascular, cognitive function, exercise, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, memory, Mental Health, Neuropathy, obesity, stress, weight lossBrain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, exercise, heart health, hypertension, mental health, weight lossStaci
Every new year, many of us make resolutions to be healthier. Whether it be weight loss, exercising more, eating healthier, or managing stress better, such resolutions usually start off strong. However, by early spring, such goals usually lose steam and get pushed off until the next new year. That is why it is important to plan ahead before making any goals so you can make sure they are realistic and backed up with a lasting motivating factor. With such planning, you can make your new year’s goals come true this year and maintain such healthy habits for the long-term.
What is a SMART goal?
SMART goals provide a formula for the greatest success in goal-setting and achieving. SMART stands for:
Specific: Being specific requires you to be clear about the goal you want to set. For example, “I want to exercise 30 minutes a day for at least 3 days a week,” or “I want to lose 1 pound a week for the next 12 weeks.” Being specific is more helpful than just saying “I want to lose weight” or “I want to eat healthier.” Such general statements do not provide any concise marker to work towards, therefore they allow for a greater likelihood of non-compliance.
Measurable: The marker that a specific goal contains allows your progress to be measured. When you can measure how many days you have been able to exercise each week, or how many cups of water you drink each day, you can have a better idea of what areas of your healthy regimen are doing well, and which need more work. Tracking through an app or food journal can help with keeping track of such progress.
Attainable: Perhaps one of the most important parts of a goal is to make sure it is attainable. For example, if you currently consider yourself a couch potato, it would be a stretch to make a goal to run a marathon by the springtime. A more attainable goal would be “I will train for a summertime 5K race.”
Relevant: Another important part of your goal is that it must be relevant to your life. You should never set a goal that someone else may have for you. This type of goal-setting is setting you up for disappointment, especially if you are only working towards that goal to gain approval from others. Set your goals for YOU and YOU only, and you will be sure to be successful.
Time-bound: Finally, it is important that your goals include a start and end time. Timing your goal makes it easier to keep track of your progress. For example, “In the next three months, I want to be able to work out for at least three times a week.” In addition, breaking these timed goals into small pieces, like a week or a month at a time, will make them more approachable. So instead of saying, “I want to lose 50 pounds this year,” saying “I want to lose 5 pounds this month” will make this large goal seem more possible.
What are good motivating factors?
To keep your motivation level strong, it is important to have some non-scale goals, or goals that have no number attached to them. For example, some non-scale goals may include:
Having more energy to play with your kids or grand kids.
Moving around with less pain.
Being on a reduced number of medications.
Fitting in an airplane seat or amusement park ride seat comfortably.
What is a Realistic Weight Loss Goal?
If you are one of the many people who wish to lose weight for the new year, it is important to set healthy expectations. Fad diets may promise 20 pounds lost in 20 days, which may seem great. However, these quick results usually only end up with quick weight regain. This is because such plans end up depriving you of nutrients, make eating healthy feel miserable, and are hard to stick to long-term. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that 1 to 2 pounds a week is a healthy rate of weight loss.
More Simple Steps to Getting Healthy This New Year
Simplify healthy eating. Instead of getting obsessed with counting every calorie and macronutrient, stick to the basics. Get out your measuring cups and smaller dinner plates (about 9-inches in diameter) and follow these simple tips:
Have at least 2 cups of non-starchy vegetables each day, which do not include corn, peas, and potatoes. With the plate method, fill half of your plate with the non-starchy vegetables at meal time.
Limit starchy, refined foods such as rice, potatoes, and pasta. Stick to 1/2 cup at each meal, or with the plate method, 1/4 of your plate. Choose high-fiber starches such as brown rice, quinoa, beans, or sweet potato.
Make sure you eat enough protein. Although this may seem easy enough, I find a lot of my patients do not eat enough healthy proteins. To determine your protein needs each day, you can multiply your weight in pounds times 0.3 to give you an estimate in grams. You may need more protein daily if you workout frequently.
Be more mindful. Mindfulness is important for all aspects of life. In eating, mindfulness may include:
meal planning and prepping
asking yourself if you are eating for hunger or emotions
chewing more per bite to really savor and enjoy your food
Mindfulness in exercise may be choosing exercises you enjoy or listening to your body to find ways to move without causing pain. Everyday you can be mindful by being present in each moment. You can do this by listening actively to others and using relaxation breathing and meditation to manage stress.
Track your progress. Download an app like MyFitnessPal or MyPlate to help you track what you consume and the calories you burn. Some apps, such as Apple Health or Calm, can help you keep track of the number of mindfulness minutes you engage in daily.
Fill in the gaps with vitamins and supplements. Even the healthiest diets may be lacking some vitamins. In addition, some climates that may have less days of sunshine may make individuals prone to vitamin D deficiency. It never hurts to have your healthcare provider check for your levels of vitamin D, vitamin B12, magnesium, and iron. Low levels of these nutrients may result in such symptoms as low energy, depressed mood, or trouble sleeping. Zestia by Vita Sciences contains several of these nutrients in addition to probiotics and a SuperFood complex to help promote optimal health inside and out.
Reward yourself. Every small goal you achieve should be celebrated. If you went a whole week without any drinking any sugary drinks, then reward yourself with a relaxing hot bath, or by enjoying a relaxing movie night at home.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (May 15, 2015) “Losing Weight.”
Medline Plus (December 28, 2017) “8 Small Changes for a Slimmer You in 2018.”
Richardson, H. (December 29, 2017) “Holly Richardson: Resolutions, SMART goals, CLEAR goals and BHAGs.”
Rossy, L. (April 29, 2016) “How Mindfulness Can Help You Stay Motivated to Exercise.”
Could Women’s Hearts be More Sensitive to Stress?
December 27, 2017 alternative medicine, anxiety, blood pressure, Blood pressure, brain health, cardiovascular, cognitive function, depression, digestion, headache, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stress, stroke, supplements, women's healthanxiety, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, heart health, hypertension, Insomnia, Magnesium, stressStaci
Stress of the mind can hurt your heart.
Your heart is racing. Your palms are sweaty. Sometimes you may feel dizzy, disoriented, or nauseous. These are all potential symptoms when you are faced with a stressful situation. However, one of the most dangerous symptoms of stress is constriction of blood vessels. A recent study has found that women may be more at risk for heart-related health problems in response to stress.
What is stress?
Stress is a normal reaction to the demands of life that can affect both the body and mind. A little bit can be healthy to remind you to be more alert or more motivated. However, too much can contribute to a variety of health conditions such as:
ulcers
digestive issues such as irritable bowel syndrome
asthma
headaches
back pain
In addition to such conditions, stress can also increase blood pressure, which can in turn increase risk of heart disease. This is due to the body’s response to a perceived threat. The body goes into “fight-or-flight” mode in which the body constricts blood vessels to provide more blood flow to the major organs. Also, digestion slows to keep the body focused on providing blood to the brain and the heart. However, if anxiety or chronic exposure to the perceived threat(s) occurs, then this response can negatively impact health.
Women, Stress, and the Heart
A recent study in the journal Arteriosclerosis looked at 678 people with coronary artery disease, or plaques in the major arteries that affects blood flow. Each person was asked to engage in public speaking, a commonly known fear of many, to see if it triggered myocardial ischemia, or a reduction of blood flow in the heart.
About 15-percent of study subjects triggered myocardial ischemia. Men and women were affected by this condition at a similar rate, but the cause was different. In men, blood flow was mostly affected by high blood pressure and increased heart rate. On the other hand, in women it was caused by a constriction of blood vessels, also known as microvascular dysfunction. The difference between the two reactions is that in men, the perceived fear increased workload on the heart. However, in women, the dysfunction of vessels impaired blood flow. It is not known whether this increased incidence of myocardial ischemia can increase risk of heart disease, but such studies are being planned.
Healthy Ways to Deal With Stress
You can help decrease stress, and in turn, lower risk of heart disease in a variety of ways. The following list includes way you can lower stress on both your body and mind.
Limit coffee and caffeine since such constrict blood vessels, thus impacting blood flow. Two to three cups a day is suggested for adequate health benefit.
Quit or don’t smoke since smoking can also constrict blood vessels, and in turn blood flow, this increasing heart disease risk.
Live a balanced life. It is important to make sure that as hard as you work in your job and in exercising, you should also rest your body just as readily. A good balance of rest and activity is around 30 minutes a day of moderate activity such as walking combined with about 7 hours of sleep each night. Being both active and resting well each night are important for the regulation of body fluids, blood pressure, and blood glucose levels in the body, among other things.
Be mindful in everything you do. When you are more mindful and aware of the choices you make each day, it can eliminate a lot of stress on the body. The following are a list of small things you can do each day to be more mindful and in turn reduce stress on your body inside and out.
Plan and prep meals and snacks ahead of time.
Make healthy choices at meal and snack time such as less processed food and more fresh foods.
Portion out food choices to prevent excess intake.
Set a designated bedtime to help your body get more rest.
Make a to-do list to keep track of your weekly tasks and delegate any tasks that you can to others.
When you get stressed, give yourself a time-out with relaxation breathing to help you better face the situation at hand.
Make time for yourself in your schedule by setting aside 15 minutes a day to meditate, read, or do something your enjoy to give your body and mind a break.
Take supplements to help with sleep and managing stress. There are many herbal supplements on the market that claim to help with sleep and stress. However, it is important to do your research. Perhaps the supplement most well-known for its sleep-inducing properties is melatonin. It is actually a hormone produced by the brain’s pineal gland that affects the sleep/wake cycle and produces drowsiness. Those that may be deficient in this hormone may experience trouble sleeping or insomnia. However, it is important to remember that since it is a hormone, it may not be suitable for everyone, so be sure to check with your doctor first before starting a melatonin regimen.
Another supplement to try is Sereneo by Vita Sciences. Sereneo contains a combination of magnesium, chamomile, and valerian to help promote a feeling of calm by working to help reduce stress and anxiety. Valerian and chamomile have been found to be safe, natural herbal remedies to help induce sleep, while magnesium has been found to help promote reduced anxiety and irritability. Be sure to let your healthcare provider know before starting any new supplement regimen to be sure it does not interact with any of your currently prescribed medications.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
American Heart Association (June 2014) “Fight Stress with Healthy Habits”
American Heart Association (June 2014) “Stress and Heart Health”
Berkeley Wellness (October 1, 2013) “Can Supplements Help You Sleep?”
Centers for Disease Control (March 2, 2017) “How Much Sleep Do I Need?”
Deans, M.D., E. (June 12, 2011) “Magnesium and the Brain: The Original Chill Pill.” Psychology Today.
Harvard Medical School: Division of Sleep Medicine (December 18, 2007) “The Characteristics of Sleep”
Mayo Clinic (March 31, 2017) “Stress Management”
Medline Plus (December 21, 2017) “Are Women’s Hearts More Vulnerable to Stress?”
Rodale Wellness (August 25, 2017) “4 Sleep Supplements That Actually Work”
Posts navigation
← Older posts
Search
Search the blog with this form:
Special Offers
Sign-up for Email Offers with this form:
Subscribe
Tags
Tags Select Category Aging (20) alternative medicine (66) antioxidant (31) anxiety (17) arthritis (7) ashwagandha (3) back pain (5) blood pressure (40) Blood pressure (50) bone health (11) Boost energy! (23) brain health (28) breakfast (12) calcium (7) cardiovascular (56) chondroitin (2) Chronic Pain (11) coffee (2) cognitive function (30) depression (14) diabetes (41) diabetes medicine (17) digestion (26) exercise (40) eye health (6) Fertility and Pregnancy (2) fiber (39) garlic (2) Gastrointestinal (GI) Disorders (6) glaucoma (3) gut health (22) Hair, Skin, and Nails (3) hawthorn (2) headache (3) Health (77) Health News (110) healthy fats (21) heart health (70) Help for Tinnitus (4) herbs (1) high cholesterol (13) hydration (11) hypercholesterolemia (14) hypertension (53) Hypothyroidism (2) insulin (8) joint pain (8) l-arginine (1) medication (39) medicine (39) memory (10) menopause (2) Mental Health (28) migraine (2) Migraine Headaches (12) Neuropathy (14) niacin (2) obesity (34) omega-3 (2) osteoporosis (2) pain (3) Pernicious Anemia (PA) (1) probiotic (11) probiotics (11) retinopathy (2) Sciatica (2) stress (40) stroke (18) supplements (56) unemployment (3) unsaturated fat (7) vision (6) vitamin A (1) vitamin A deficiency (1) Vitamin B12 Benefits (4) Vitamin B12 Deficiency (10) vitamin D (8) vitamin deficiency (8) Vitamin Deficiency Risk Factors (9) water (12) weight loss (34) women’s health (4) yoga (4)
Recent Posts
Could eating breakfast could lower your heart disease risk? April 24, 2019
Reduce carbs at breakfast to lower blood sugar April 17, 2019
Improve your diet, extend your life April 10, 2019
Add nuts to your diet for better brain health April 4, 2019
Could weight loss help lower risk of migraine? March 27, 2019
Could sugary drinks reduce life expectancy? March 20, 2019
Could your yo-yo diet lifestyle be hurting your heart? March 12, 2019
A plant-based diet may help treat diabetes March 6, 2019
Could too much fat in your diet harm your gut health? February 27, 2019
Could preventing or treating hypertension protect your mind? February 20, 2019
Could eating processed foods increase risk of death? February 13, 2019
Heart Health Month: How to protect yourself from heart attack February 6, 2019
Move more to fight depression …and diabetes January 30, 2019
Could fish oil lower your risk of stroke? January 24, 2019
A team approach may help diabetes health and your relationships January 16, 2019
Eat less red meat in your diet for better heart health this new year January 8, 2019
Could sleep help you meet your New Year’s weight loss goals? January 2, 2019
Could a Mediterranean diet improve your brain health? December 27, 2018
Drinking less alcohol could help weight loss goals this new year December 18, 2018
Do you have good metabolism? If not, try this December 12, 2018
Products
Migravent
B12 Patch
Nervex
Maxasorb B12 Cream
Maxasorb D3 Cream
Maxasorb Melatonin Cream
Nurenza
About Us
Company History
Practitioners
Wholesale
Quality Assurance
Help
Terms and Conditions
Product Index
Category Index
Store Locator
Copyright © 2016 Vita Sciences / All rights reserved. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.