Headache Relief in Woodbridge, VA | Masterpeace Spine Care Center
Request Appointment
Call to Request an Appointment
(703) 490-4242
Call to Request an Appointment
(703) 490-4242
Contact Us
Menu
Home
About
Conditions
Treatments
Chiropractic Adjustments
Chiropractic BioPhysics (CBP®)
Auto Injury Rehabilitation
IDD® Spinal Decompression
Deep Tissue Laser Therapy (Class IV)
Vibration Plate Therapy
CLEAR® Trained for Scoliosis
Massage Therapy
Headache Relief
Nutrition Counseling & ZYTO Body Scan
Weight Loss with LightenUP
BrainTap Therapy
Reviews
Blog
Contact
Contact & Hours
Insurance & Payment
Patient Forms
(703) 490-4242
Natural Headache Treatment Center
Call (703) 490-4242 or Contact Us to Request an Appointment
Headache Treatment Center in Woodbridge, VA | Masterpeace Spine Care Center
Insurance is Accepted • Free Consultations for New Patients
Headaches are defined as pain anywhere in the region of the head or neck. Headaches can cause long-term damage mentally and physically, and easily affect day-to-day life. About half of adults experience headaches at least every year, with tension headaches being the most prevalent.
Headaches are something that many people deal with, but they are not a necessary part of life. Migraines, tension-type headaches and cluster headaches are all considered headaches but each have specific qualities in diagnosis.
Symptoms of headaches are:
Dull aching pain in head and muscle aches
Pressure or pain in the front, top or sides of the head
Chronic fatigue
Irritability and disturbed concentration
Sensitivity to light or noise
Dizziness
Stop chronic migraine, cluster & tension headaches without medication:
Headaches commonly occur when spinal bones in the neck do not support the head properly. A misalignment causes irritation to the nerve structure and interference in the flow of nerve energy throughout the body. Stress and bad posture easily lead to chronic migraines, which is why many people who work at a desk suffer from them.
By receiving the gentle and effective treatment of chiropractic care, you will have subluxations and stress removed from the spine. This decrease in misalignments will help to decrease or eliminate headaches! With chiropractic care, you get the natural approach for headache relief. Whether you suffer from tension headaches, migraine headaches, cluster headaches, stress headaches, anxiety related headaches, neck pain related headaches or cervico-genetic headaches, relief is possible.
Spinal decompression therapy for headache relief
Chiropractic treatment with spinal decompression is the health science that has been most successful. It immediately goes to the cause of headaches, and in many cases halts the progress of a dangerous disease. Spinal decompression involves stretching the spine, using a traction table or similar motorized device, with the goal of relieving pain and increasing functionality in the spine. This in turn alleviates the symptoms of chronic headaches.
Natural headache treatment at Masterpeace Spine Care Center
Dr. Gerard Mannino has been providing quality chiropractic and wellness care to his patients since 1992. We are located in the heart of Prince William County at 3302 Old Bridge Rd, Woodbridge, VA 22192. Our office has convenient early morning, day and evening hours.
When you are ready to start your path to optimal health and wellness, call to request your appointment: (703) 490-4242 or contact us to request an appointment online. We gladly accept most insurance!
Request Your Next Appointment (703) 490-4242
Book Online
Patients Love What We Do!
***
Wow! What can I say about Master Peace Chiropractic Services. From my very first visit, I have received such great care, service and professionalism! What a pleasant staff and environment, with amazing customer service. Dr. Mannino is very patient and genuinely cares for each patient with individual attention. He knows his stuff, too and has a GREAT sense of humor! You guys ROCK!
I highly recommend this Chiropractic service. Come on in and feel GOOD, today!! You will not be disappointed. Here’s to GOOD HEALTH!!
Natalie D.
Yelp
I had a minor accident at work. I turned my ankle in, but the pain was not in my ankle. It was my lower back and my hip and thigh. I went to my primary physician and his solution was to medicate with Aleve. The pain was so bad and the Aleve was not doing anything at all to cut the pain. I had to do something. I called Masterpeace Chiropratic and set up an appointment. The staff was so amazing and nice. I was treated with compassion and kindness. Dr. Mannino walked me through what could be causing the pain and he began treatment. The pain, while still bad, is getting manageable and I slept better. I am so grateful to him and his staff. I don’t know what I would have done without them.
Robin M.
Facebook
Masterpeace Spine Care Center • Dr. Gerard Mannino
3302 Old Bridge Rd, Woodbridge, VA 22192
Free Consultation & Orthopedic Exams for New Patients ($180 Value)
***
Now Accepting New Patients: (703) 490-4242
Send Us a Message
Masterpeace Spine Care Center
3302 Old Bridge Rd, Woodbridge, VA 22192
(703) 490-4242
Facebook
Google
Yelp
Resources
American Chiropractic Association
Healthgrades
Wellness Directory
LightenUP Weight Loss
Recent Blogs
Creating a Diet Plan – Where to Start?
For Better Heart Health
Health Tips for 2019
© Copyright, Masterpeace Spine Care Center, All Rights Reserved • Read Our Privacy Policy
Website by Local Gold Total Health Care Marketing
Menu
Call Us