Croup | Kettering & Dayton, OH | Ohio Pediatrics
Appointments (937) 299-2339
Privacy Policy
Locations
Insurance List
Hospital List
Appointments
Sick Visits
Well Visits
Emergencies
After Hours
Referral Info
Alerts
Growth and Development
Medical Conditions
Nutrition
Safety
Sports
Teens
Newborn Information
Breastfeeding
Special Needs Children
What's Going Around?
Parenting Tips
Practice News
Immunization Schedule
Emergencies
Spanish Illness and Symptoms
Our Research
Web Resources
Fever Information
Adoption: Guidelines for Parents
Adoption: Guidelines for Parents (1)
Back to Sleep, Tummy to Play
Bedwetting
Born Early (Preterm): At the Hospital
Born Early (Preterm): Health Concerns
Care of the Uncircumcised Penis
Caring for Your Child's Teeth
Choking Prevention and First Aid for Infants and Children
Choosing a Pediatrician
Circumcision: Information for Parents
Colds
Colic
Common Childhood Infections
Constipation
Croup
Crying and Your Baby: How to Calm a Fussy or Colicky Baby
Crying and Your Baby: How to Calm a Fussy or Colicky Baby (1)
Diaper Rash
Diarrhea and Dehydration
Diarrhea, Vomiting, and Water Loss (Dehydration)
Ear Infections
Eczema (Atopic Dermatitis)
Encourage Your Child to Be Physically Active
Feeding Your Baby
First Year of Life, The: Framingham Safety Survey
Infant Furniture: Cribs
Is Your Toddler Communicating With You?
Jaundice and Your Newborn
Jaundiced Newborn
Know the Facts About HIV and AIDS
Media History
Newborn Appearance Questions
Newborn Characteristics
Newborn Hearing Screening and Your Baby
Newborn Illness - How to Recognize
Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks
Newborn Reflexes and Behavior
Parenting Your Infant
Playground Safety
Playing Is How Toddlers Learn
Protect Your Child…Prevent Poisoning
RSV, Bronchiolitis, and Your Baby
Safety of Blood Transfusions
Scabies
Should My Child Join a Clinical Trial?
Sleep Problems in Children
Sleeping
Starting Solid Foods
Weight Gain and Newborns
Welcome to the World of Parenting!
Your Baby's Head Shape: Information for Parents on Positional Skull Deformities
Your Child is on the Move: Reduce the Risk of Gun Injury
Driving Directions
Join Mailing List
Home Meet Us Office Info Medical Content Expecting Forms & Policies Careers Contact Us
Newborn Information
Related Articles
It doesn't sound like croup, see Cough
Croup
Print, Share, or View Spanish version of this article
Croup is an infection that makes the inside of your child's throat swell up. This makes it hard for your child to breathe. It can be scary for both parents and children.
Croup is common in young children. Most cases of croup are mild. But croup can get worse and stop your child from breathing at all. Call the doctor if you think your child has croup and he or she is having a hard time breathing.
Croup is usually caused by a virus that infects the voice box and windpipe. The main sign of croup is a barking cough. It may start with a cold. Most children with viral croup have a low fever. But some have temperatures up to 104°F or 40°C.
Signs of Croup
Here are some signs your child may have croup:
Barking cough
Noisy or troubled breathing
Hoarse voice
Gasping for breath
What to Do for Croup
Call 911 or an Ambulance Right Away If… …your child:
Can't speak for lack of breath.
Seems to be struggling to get a breath.
Makes a whistling sound when breathing in. (This is called stridor*.)
Drools much more than usual or has a very hard time swallowing saliva*.
Has a bluish mouth or fingernails.
The above are all signs of severe croup. They may also be signs of other serious problems. Either way, if your child is having trouble breathing, you need to get him or her to the hospital.
Call the Doctor If…
…either of these is true:
Your child is a baby 1 year or younger.
The cough keeps getting worse.
Try Home Treatment
Croup may wake your child up in the middle of the night. If your child is not having trouble breathing, try these home treatments.
Steam up the bathroom by running hot water in the shower. Take your child in the bathroom to breathe the moist air for 15 or 20 minutes. Steam works for many children.
If steam does not work, bundle your child up and go outdoors for a few minutes. The cool night air may help your child breathe more freely.
Use a cool-mist humidifier (hyoo-MID-uh-fye-ur) in your child's room for the rest of the night. Turn it on for the next 2 to 3 nights too.
Medicines for Croup
The doctor may prescribe steroids*. Steroids help bring down the swelling in the throat.
Antibiotics don't help because croup is almost always caused by a virus.
Cough syrups don't help either. They can even make things worse. They may keep your child from coughing up mucus (MYOO-kus) that needs to come out if there is infection.
Who Gets Croup?
Most children get croup once or twice. Some children get croup every time they get a cold or the flu. Croup can come at any time. It's most common in the winter months.
Children are most likely to get croup between 6 months and 3 years of age. After age 3, it is not as common. That's because the windpipe is larger. So swelling is less likely to get in the way of breathing.
If your child seems to get croup a lot, he or she may have another problem. Talk with your child's doctor.
Can You Prevent Croup?
You can’t really prevent croup. But you can prevent a more serious illness called acute epiglottitis (uh- KYOOT epp-uh-glah-TYE-tis). Its symptoms are a lot like croup, but worse. This illness usually strikes children 1 to 5 years old.
The good news is that the Hib vaccine can protect against this illness. Your child should get the first dose of Hib at 2 months old.
Copyright © 2008
1775 Delco Park Dr., Kettering, Ohio | (937) 299-2339
7200 Poe Avenue, Suite 201 Vandalia, Ohio 45414 | (937) 236-5396
DISCLAIMER:
The information contained in these topics is not intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice, it is provided for educational purposes only. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information.
Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified healthcare provider before starting any new treatment or discontinuing an existing treatment. Talk with your healthcare provider about any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Nothing contained in these topics is intended to be used for medical diagnosis or treatment.
Not a Substitute - The information and materials on this website and RemedyConnect's content (Including but not exclusive of: Illness/Symptoms, Is Your Child Sick? Medicine Dosages, Medical Conditions) should not be used as a substitute for the care and knowledge that your physician can provide to you.
Supplement - The information and materials presented here in HouseCalls Online are meant to supplement the information that you obtain from your physician. If there is a disagreement between the information presented herein and what your physician has told you -- it is more likely that your physician is correct. He or she has the benefit of knowing your medical problems.
Limitations - You should recognize that the information and materials presented here in HouseCalls Online have the following limitations, in comparison to being examined by your own physician:
You can have a conversation with your doctor.
Your doctor can perform a physical examination and any necessary tests.
You could have an underlying medical problem that requires a physician to detect.
If you're taking medications, they could influence how you experience various symptoms.
If you think that you are having a medical emergency,
call 911 or the number for the local emergency ambulance service NOW!
And when in doubt, call your doctor NOW
or go to the closest emergency department.
By using this website, you accept the information provided herein "AS IS." Neither RemedyConnect nor the providers of the information contained herein will have any liability to you arising out of your use of the information contained herein or make any express or implied warranty regarding the accuracy, content, completeness, reliability, or efficacy of the information contained within this website.
X
Privacy Statement
RemedyConnect, Inc. has created this privacy statement in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to your privacy. The following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for this website: http://www.remedyconnect.com.
Acquisition of Information through PMD
We do not acquire any more information about website visitors than is required by law or is otherwise necessary to provide a high level of service efficiently and securely. Our site's registration form requires users to give us contact information (e.g., their name and e-mail address) and demographic information (e.g., children's birth months, but not birth dates). We use customer contact information from the registration form to (1) send the user pertinent medical and parenting information and (2) allow your local health provider lists of who is registering on that provider's site as a parent/guardian, staff member, doctor, or visitor. Users may opt-out of receiving future mailings; see the choice/opt-out section below.
We use your IP address to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our Website. Your IP address is used to help identify you and to gather broad demographic information.
Demographic and profile data is also collected at our site. We may use this data to tailor the visitor's experience at our site, showing them content that we think they might be interested in, and displaying the content according to their preferences.
Our site may use order forms to allow users to request information, products, and services.
Your Doctor's Right to Privacy
We will respect your doctor's right to privacy. A doctor typically does not give his/her e-mail address to the parents/guardians of patients. We will not provide the e-mail addresses of doctor(s) in the local practice to users of their site without the doctor(s)' permission. Their site is restricted to use by whomever they wish, and they may deny access to their site to one or more prior users. In unusual cases, doctors may change their private site's access code and arrange for us to e-mail the new access code to approved users.
Cookies
We use cookies to deliver content specific to your interests and to save your doctor's access code so you don't have to re-enter it each time you visit your doctor's site on http://www.remedyconnect.com.
Links
This site contains links to other sites. RemedyConnect.com is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Websites. See Disclaimers.
Disclosure to Third Parties
We will provide individually-identifiable information about website users to third parties only if we are compelled to do so by order of a duly-empowered governmental authority, we have the express permission of the visitor, or it is necessary to process transactions and provide you services from our affiliates: Live Agent Answering Service, Digital Answering Service, Medical Answering Service and Pediatric Answering Service.
Privacy and Our Business Partners
When we make our technology or services available to business partners, we will not share with them any more consumer information than is necessary, and we will make every reasonable effort to assure, by contract or otherwise, that they use our technology and services in a manner that is consistent with this Privacy Policy.
Public Forums
This site may make chat rooms, forums, message boards, and/or news groups available to its users. Please remember that any information that is disclosed in these areas becomes public information and you should exercise caution when deciding to disclose your personal information.
Security
This site has security measures in place to protect the loss, misuse and alteration of the information under our control. For further information regarding our security, please contact us at support@remedyconnect.com. If you have any concerns regarding the security of information, please do not provide any information to RemedyConnect, Inc. until you are comfortable with our security measures.
Correct/Update
You may correct or update your User Registration information at any time, by visiting the User Registration section and providing your personal password that you set at registration. If need be, please email us at support@remedyconnect.com.
Choice/Opt-Out
Our site provides users the opportunity to opt-out of receiving e-mail communications from our partners or us, except communications approved by your doctor's practice office. To so opt-out, please email us at support@remedyconnect.com. To be removed as a user, please email us at the same address. If need be, you may mail requests to us at RemedyConnect, Inc.
Contacting the Website
If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this Website, you can contact us by email at support@remedyconnect.com or by mail at our address above.
Privacy X