Evening Primrose – Herb Encyclopedia | Flora Health – US
Login | Cart (0)
Free Shipping on Orders $100+ SHOP NOW
Toggle navigation
Products
Detox & Cleansing
Natural Foods
Apple Cider Vinegar
Culinary Oils
Manuka Honey
Super Foods
Omega Oils
Pet Care
Probiotics & Enzymes
Enzymes
Probiotics
Sports Nutrition
Supplements
Teas
Vitamins & Minerals
Minerals
Vitamins
Learn
Herb Encyclopedia
Experts in Health
Our Story
Our Partners
Our Commitment
Meet Our Staff
Lifestyle
Ambassadors
Become a Flora Ambassador
FloraHealthy Blog
Recipes
Evening Primrose
Scientific Name/Common Name: Oenothera biennis / Evening Primrose
Part(s) Used: Seed oil
Constituents/Active Ingredients: The natural clear yellow to yellow-green oil contains: Fatty acids with not less than 8% gamma-linolenic acid (GLA). The peroxide value should be less than 10 meq/kg oil and free fatty acids should be less than 10 mg KOH/g. Efamol® brand Evening Primrose Oil has 12% GLA.
Overview: Evening Primrose Oil products consist of the oil of dried, ripe seed of Oenothera biennis. Evening primrose oil is a good source of Gamma-Linolenic Acid (GLA), a biologically important fatty acid normally produced within the human body from enzymatic conversion of linoleic acid (omega-6 EFA) into its longer-chain derivatives. EFAs are “good” fats that are precursors to various prostaglandins and leukotrienes—and are as necessary for health as vitamins. GLA is associated with beneficial anti-inflammatory prostaglandins. GLA is also a precursor for dihomogamma-linolenic acid, found concentrated in human breast milk. Prostaglandins and leukotrienes influence inflammation and pain so having the right balance of precursor EFA’s in the diet can be critical for avoiding inflammatory diseases. Having an excess of bad fats in the diet, such as trans fats or unnatural hydrogenated fats, can disrupt enzyme pathways needed to convert the precursor EFAs to their important metabolites and this can increase pain and inflammation. Taking GLA helps to swing the balance over to the more favorable prostaglandins and leukotrienes, making it helpful for diseases that involve inflammation. Clinical trials have demonstrated benefits with GLA for treating diabetic neuropathy, eczema, and improving the quality and appearance of normal skin.
Traditional Use/Benefits/Body Systems: Source of essential fatty acids; helps prevent premature aging by reducing wrinkles and maintains healthy elasticity and firmness in skin; helps treat eczema/atopic dermatitis; helps relieve diabetic neuropathy.
Clinical Studies/Scientific Research/References:
Morse NL, Clough PM. A meta-analysis of randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials of Efamol evening primrose oil in atopic eczema. Where do we go from here in light of more recent discoveries? Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2006 Dec;7(6):503-24. Review.
Muggli R . Systemic EPO improves biophysical skin parameters in healthy adults. Int J of Cosmetic Science. 2005;27(4):243-249.
Horrobin DF.,The roles of essential fatty acids in the development of diabetic neuropathy and other complications of diabetes mellitus.Prostaglandins Leukotriens Essential Fatty Acids (1988): Reviews 31:181-197.
Disclaimer: This information in our Herbal Encyclopedia is intended only as a general reference for educational purposes. It is not a replacement for medical advice. This content does not provide dosage information, cautions/contraindications, or possible interactions with prescription drugs. Please consult any relevant product labels for detailed information on use and with a medical practitioner for individual health advice.
My Account
Login
Sign Up
Order Status
Terms and Conditions
Returns and Refunds Policy
Privacy Statement
Our Story
Our Partners
Our Commitment
Careers
Meet Our Staff
Contact Us
INTERNATIONAL INQUIRIES
Lifestyle
Blog
Recipes
Events
Press & Awards
Subscribe to our enewsletter for health tips, recipes & deals
All text and Images © Flora Inc. The content on this site is meant for informational purposes only, and is not intended for use as official health consultation or recommendations. Flora Inc. takes no responsibility for harm that may result from the use, abuse or misuse of information contained on this site. Please read our Privacy Statement. *These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
International Inquiries
Contact us for information regarding international product distribution.
Name*
Email*
Telephone
Country*
Inquiry*
Phone
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
X