Naproxen: Uses, side effects, dosage, warnings, and interactions
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
What to know about naproxen
Last reviewed	 Tue 9 April 2019	 Last reviewed	Tue 9 Apr 2019
By Jessica Caporuscio, PharmD
Reviewed by Alan Carter, PharmD
Table of contents
What is naproxen?
Uses
Brand names
Ingredients
Dosage and forms
Side effects
Interactions
Pregnancy and breastfeeding
Warnings
Summary
People usually use the drug naproxen to relieve pain and swelling, but it can also help treat fever.
Naproxen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Naproxen is available by prescription, or people can purchase lower-strengths forms over the counter.
In this article, we provide an overview of naproxen, including how it works, its uses, and the potential side effects, warnings, and interactions.
What is naproxen?
A person can take naproxen for rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, and dental pain.
Naproxen is a pain medication that relieves inflammation and joint stiffness. Other NSAIDs in the same medication class include acetylsalicylic acid, diclofenac, ibuprofen, and meloxicam.
Naproxen works by blocking the enzyme that produces prostaglandins. Prostaglandins play an essential role in inflammation. The body produces them at the site of injured tissue, and they cause redness, heat, swelling, and pain.
Naproxen is available as naproxen or naproxen sodium. The major difference between naproxen and naproxen sodium is that naproxen sodium is more rapidly absorbed.
The body reaches peak levels of naproxen in 2–4 hours and naproxen sodium in 1–2 hours, meaning that it absorbs naproxen sodium faster than regular naproxen.
Uses
People use naproxen for the following conditions:
rheumatoid arthritis
osteoarthritis
ankylosing spondylitis
juvenile arthritis
tendonitis
bursitis
gout attacks
muscle aches, strains, and sprains
headaches
dental pain
menstrual cramps
fever
Brand names
In the United States, over-the-counter (OTC) naproxen is called Aleve. Prescription naproxen is known as Naprosyn and Anaprox.
Naproxen is available for purchase in drug stores, or people can choose between brands online.
Ingredients
There are various types and strengths of naproxen. Regular naproxen tablets contain 250 milligrams (mg), 375 mg, or 500 mg of naproxen.
Fast-absorbing naproxen sodium is available in 220 mg OTC capsules and tablets, and 275 mg and 550 mg tablets by prescription. Low-dose naproxen is available in tablet or capsule form.
Children and people who have difficulty swallowing tablets can use naproxen suspension. Naproxen suspension contains 25 mg of the drug per milliliter (ml).
The following table lists the inactive ingredients in regular naproxen, naproxen sodium, and naproxen suspension. People who have allergies or intolerances to any inactive ingredients should avoid using naproxen.
Naproxen Naproxen sodium Naproxen suspension
microcrystalline cellulose
croscarmellose sodium
povidone
magnesium stearate
iron oxide
microcrystalline cellulose
croscarmellose sodium
povidone
magnesium stearate
colloidal silicon dioxide
talc
methylparaben
fumaric acid
magnesium aluminum silicate
sodium chloride
sorbitol solution 70%
sucrose
flavor
FD&C Yellow No. 6
Naproxen is also available in enteric-coated tablets. These tablets release naproxen in the intestine rather than in the stomach. This formulation helps prevent gastrointestinal side effects that manufacturers have sometimes associated with naproxen. Similarly to regular naproxen, enteric-coated tablets come in tablets of 250 mg, 375 mg, and 500 mg.
Dosage and forms
A person should take naproxen at the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration.
Naproxen is available as tablets, liquid capsules, and in a liquid form.
The dose of naproxen that a person requires depends on why they are using the medication. A general rule is to use the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible duration. This dosing helps prevent side effects from occurring.
Doctors advise people to take naproxen and other NSAIDs with food to prevent gastrointestinal side effects.
Mild to moderate pain
For fever and mild to moderate pain, adults between 12 and 65 years old can take one 220 mg tablet of naproxen every 12 hours. Children under 12 years old should not take naproxen unless their doctor recommends it.
Osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis
People can manage the symptoms of osteoarthritis, which is commonly known as arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis with a dose of 220 mg to 550 mg of naproxen every 12 hours. Naproxen does not cure these conditions but offers relief from pain and inflammation.
Acute gout attacks
People with experience acute gout attacks may take 825 mg for one dose, followed by 275 mg every 8 hours.
Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis
Doctors can prescribe naproxen to manage the pain and inflammation caused by juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. People can administer the liquid suspension of naproxen to children 2 years old and older. The recommended dose is 10 mg per kilogram (kg), or mg/kg divided into two doses 12 hours apart.
Headaches
Using naproxen to relieve pain from headaches and migraine headaches is controversial.
People can try taking 550 mg of naproxen sodium every 12 hours and may increase it to 825 mg if needed. The daily dose should not exceed 1,375 mg.
Naproxen sodium is degraded more slowly than regular naproxen and other NSAIDs. This means that naproxen sodium should remain active for longer than other anti-inflammatory drugs.
However, after 2 hours, headache pain relief is lower with naproxen sodium than with other NSAIDs.
Although naproxen can be used to reduce the pain of headaches and migraine headaches, other NSAIDs may provide better relief.
Maximum recommended daily dose
People should only use OTC naproxen for a short-term period of between 3–5 days for pain and no more than 3 days for fever. If they need ongoing treatment, people should consult their doctor first.
For children between 2–12 years old, the maximum daily dose by weight is 20 mg/kg. They should not be taking more than 1,000 mg in 24 hours.
When OTC medications, children 12 years and older should not take more than 660 mg in 24 hours.
Studies have not shown any benefit in using daily doses higher than 1,000 mg, but some sources suggest a maximum of 1,650 mg per day for up to 6 months for arthritis.
Side effects
Common side effects of naproxen may include headache and dizziness.
The frequency and severity of side effects that naproxen causes depend on several factors.
Considerations include the dose and duration of treatment, other medical diagnoses a person may have, and individual risk factors.
The following sections discuss the common and serious side effects of naproxen.
Common side effects
The following table from the naproxen monograph lists the most common side effects grouped by body system. The side effects in this table occur in approximately 3 to 9 percent of people.
Body system Side effect
Gastrointestinal tract Heartburn, constipation, abdominal pain, nausea
Central nervous system Headache, dizziness, drowsiness, depression, fatigue
Skin Itchy skin, ecchymoses, skin eruptions
Cardiovascular system Dyspnea, peripheral oedema
Senses Ringing in the ear
Serious side effects
Although people can buy low-dose naproxen without a prescription, it is not safe for everyone.
People with serious heart conditions, such as heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, and congestive heart failure, may experience severe side effects from taking naproxen.
Severe side effects of naproxen include:
heart attack
stroke
blood clots
People with high blood pressure should only take naproxen cautiously.
Naproxen can cause sodium retention in the kidneys, which can result in increased blood pressure. A person with high blood pressure should consult their doctor before taking naproxen.
Gastrointestinal side effects of taking naproxen can be severe. Bleeding in the stomach, the formation of ulcers, and stomach or intestinal blockages can occur when taking naproxen. Most often, older adults are the most vulnerable age group for gastrointestinal side effects.
People who have a history of ulcers or gastrointestinal bleeding have a 10-fold higher risk for developing a bleed when taking naproxen. For these individuals, even short-term treatment can be risky.
Everything you need to know about NSAIDs
In this article, we provide an overview of NSAIDs, including how they work, their uses, and possible side effects.
Read now
Interactions
Naproxen may interact with several prescription and nonprescription drugs. Drinking alcohol and taking naproxen may increase the risk of gastrointestinal side effects.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors
People taking the antidepressant class of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding and ulcers when taking naproxen. SSRIs include:
citalopram
escitalopram
fluoxetine
fluvoxamine
paroxetine
sertraline
vortioxetine
Oral steroids
Oral steroids, such as prednisone and antiplatelet drugs, may also increase stomach and intestinal bleeding and ulceration if people combine them with naproxen.
Blood thinners
Naproxen blocks the aggregation of platelets, which is an essential step in blood clotting. Blocking the aggregation of platelets can increase the time it takes for bleeding to stop.
People must talk to a doctor before combining naproxen with blood thinners, such as antiplatelet and anticoagulant medications.
Pregnancy and breastfeeding
Women should avoid taking naproxen in the third trimester of pregnancy.
NSAIDs can prevent the body from producing prostaglandin, which may affect pregnancy. Taking naproxen during the third trimester of pregnancy may cause heart malformations in the fetus.
Also, nursing babies may experience serious side effects if the mother is taking naproxen. Doctors do not recommend naproxen for women who are breastfeeding.
Warnings and what to consider before taking naproxen
If a person has a history of an allergy or intolerance to any NSAID, they should not take naproxen. Cross-allergies and intolerances may occur between NSAIDs.
Aspirin-induced asthma
One type of intolerance to NSAIDs is aspirin-induced asthma. Asthma symptoms and severe allergic reactions may occur when affected individuals take aspirin. These people should avoid naproxen and all other NSAIDs because of the risk of developing severe side effects.
Pregnancy
During the first two trimesters of pregnancy, women should use naproxen cautiously. Once the pregnancy enters the third trimester, they must avoid taking naproxen. Naproxen may be present in breast milk, which can cause serious side effects for an infant.
Drug interactions
People should not combine certain antidepressants, high blood pressure, and blood thinners with naproxen.
Medical conditions
Certain diagnoses may increase the likelihood of experiencing side effects, such as heart disease, ulcers, and kidney disease.
Age
Children under 12 years old should avoid using naproxen unless a doctor prescribes the medication.
Summary
Naproxen is a prescription and nonprescription NSAID. People can use it to relieve pain that inflammation causes.
Naproxen is not safe for everyone. People taking certain medications should use naproxen cautiously to avoid side effects. People with stomach or intestinal diseases, cardiac disease, or kidney disease should discuss the use of NSAIDs with their doctor.
Naproxen can also be dangerous during pregnancy and breastfeeding.
At the appropriate dose, naproxen is a safe and effective pain reliever.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Is it safe to mix ibuprofen and alcohol? Ibuprofen is a common medication that people use to reduce pain and inflammation. In this article, we discuss the risks of mixing alcohol and ibuprofen. Read now
Does magnesium relieve migraines? Many people use magnesium, which is a naturally occurring mineral, to treat and prevent migraine headaches, especially those with aura. In this article, learn about the effectiveness of magnesium and discover whether there are any side effects or risks. We also list some of the foods that contain magnesium. Read now
What alternatives to NSAIDs are available? NSAIDs are common, over-the-counter (OTC) painkillers that are available from grocery stores. However, they might not be safe for every person that needs them. Find out about the alternatives to NSAIDs. This article looks at side effects, precautions, and when to use NSAIDs. Read now
What are the side effects of antibiotics? Doctors prescribe antibiotics to treat bacterial infections. However, they can cause side effects, such as digestive issues, fungal infections, and drug interactions. Some people experience severe reactions, including anaphylaxis and antibiotic resistant infections. Learn about the side effects of antibiotics here. Read now
Is it safe to mix acetaminophen and alcohol? People take acetaminophen, also known as paracetamol or Tylenol, to treat pain and fever. In combination with alcohol, this drug can cause side effects, such as stomach upset, or severely damage the liver. In this article, we outline the risks of combining acetaminophen and alcohol and give tips on how to stay safe. Read now
email email
print
share share
Pharmacy / Pharmacist
Headache / Migraine Pain / Anesthetics
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Tue 9 April 2019.
Visit our Pharmacy / Pharmacist category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Pharmacy / Pharmacist.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Brutzkus, J. C., & Varacallo, M. et al. (2019). Naproxen. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK525965/
Label: Naproxen - naproxen tablet. (2010). https://dailymed.nlm.nih.gov/dailymed/drugInfo.cfm?setid=50954ade-19ad-40dd-8e06-0b33394895f7
Product monograph: Aleve. (2017). https://www.bayer.ca/omr/online/aleve-pm-en.pdf
Product monograph: Naproxen. (2017). https://pdf.hres.ca/dpd_pm/00038933.PDF
Product monograph: Pediapharm naproxen suspension (2018). https://pdf.hres.ca/dpd_pm/00044295.PDF
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Caporuscio, Jessica. "What to know about naproxen." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 9 Apr. 2019. Web.
26 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324917.php>
APA
Caporuscio, J. (2019, April 9). "What to know about naproxen." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324917.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Innovative patch may reduce muscle damage after a heart attack
An interdisciplinary team of researchers has designed a patch that can limit damage after a heart attack. The patch was successfully tested in rats.
Could invigorating the immune system prevent lung cancer?
Early immune-related molecular changes in airway tissue could potentially predict invasive lung cancer and serve as prevention targets, new study suggests.
Does your tongue have a sense of smell?
New research in mice and human cell cultures has revealed that the taste cells of humans and other mammals can also contain smell receptors.
This common food additive may fuel weight gain, diabetes
A new research study links the common anti-mold food additive propionate to blood sugar metabolism and insulin resistance in human volunteers and mice.
Study explores the neuroscience of overindulging
A recent study in mice identified a new brain circuit that appears to play a part in an animal's drive to overeat high-calorie foods.
Popular in: Pharmacy / Pharmacist
How to deal with prednisone withdrawal
All you need to know about metoprolol
What to know about amlodipine
What are the benefits of glutathione?
What is the difference between methylprednisolone and prednisone?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324917.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);