Temperatures - what they are and how to treat them! - WonderBaba
Home
Due Date Calculator
Ovulation Calculator
Contraction timer
01-2600262
Skip to content
message me
WonderBaba
Childrens Health Advice From a Pharmacist Mum
Menu
Articles
Shop
Useful Resources
menu cart search
GO
Home
Articles
Shop
Useful Resources
Contact
Temperatures – what they are and how to treat them!
January 12, 2015 by WonderBaba Blog
Temperatures – What they are and how to treat them!
A fever/temperature in children usually indicates that they have picked up a bacterial or viral infection but can also be a result of a reaction to a vaccine or becoming overheated.
A child’s normal temperature can range from about 97°F/36.1°C up to 99.4°F/37.4°C. Most doctors consider a temperature of 100.4°F/38°C or higher as a fever when measured using an oral, ear or rectal thermometer. A baby younger than three months of age with a temperature over 100.4°F/38°C or a baby aged between 3 and 6 months with a fever of over 102.2°F/39°C should be brought straight to a doctor.
For children aged up to five years of age it is recommended to take their temperature using an infra red tympanic thermometer (in other words an ear thermometer!) or an electronic axilla thermometer ( an underarm thermometer). Other methods of measuring temperature are not routinely recommended.
There are a number of things you can do if your child has a temperature including removing excessive clothing so that your child is wearing a light layer and give plenty of fluid in the form of breast milk, formula, dioralyte or water depending on their age. Tepid sponging is not recommended in the latest NICE Guidelines. Avoid putting your baby in a warm or cool bath as a quick change in body temperature can be difficult for their bodies to manage and can lead to further complications.
How you deal with a high temperature depends on a number of factors but if your baby is less than 3 months with a temperature of 100.4°F/38°C or over, or is 3 to 6 months and has a temperature of 102.2°F/39°C or greater then you should contact your doctor.
You can give liquid paracetamol (calpol) or ibuprofen (nurofen) to children over three months of age when appropriate – but these medications are only recommended for fever if your child seems distressed or unwell. Both are good for reducing temperature and get to work within 15mins. I would advise starting with a dose of paracetamol and then reassessing your baby’s symptoms 30-60 minutes later. Ibruprofen and Paracetamol can be used together if necessary but just make sure to follow dosage instructions and cautions on box. You should not routinely give them together – only in the case that one of the medicines alone is not reducing your child’s high fever. To learn more about using these medicines together have a read of this blog –http://wonderbaba.ie/2015/12/19/can-i-give-calpol-and-nurofen-together/
If your baby is very sick or suffering from a sore throat and it is not possible to use liquid medicine I would recommend using paracetamol (paralink) or ibuprofen (nurofen for children) suppositories. It sounds horrible but I promise when you are looking at a baby with a temperature of 39.5 who won’t unclench their lips it is definitely worth considering! They are so easy to use – for tips don’t hesitate to message me!
Seek medical advice if your child is lethargic, not eating, has a rash, shows signs of dehydration or has a seizure. Have a read of my dehydration blog here http://wonderbaba.ie/2015/04/23/a-wonderbaba-guide-to-dehydration/
Whilst this all sounds very alarming and of course due caution is always worth taking, do remember a temperature is a bodies normal fighting response. Follow the above guidelines and contact your doctor when necessary and your little ones will hopefully bounce back in no time!
Its worth investing in a reliable thermometer from a reputable brand for your own peace of mind – I recommend something like a Braun thermoscan – particularly the 5 and 7 models It takes the reading in just one second and comes with BPA free filters which prevent cross contamination amongst family members. Check out my full review on thermoscan thermometers by clicking here!
I always keep one like this in my first aid kit and also in my washbag…honestly it’s the only way I know I will always have it with me when travelling! They are really reliable and good for under arm measurements. These work a lot faster than when I was a child as I remember having to wait for so long to get the magic beep! These work in about 10 seconds! https://www.wonderbaba.ie/p/microlife_thermometer_express
I hope you have found this article helpful and if you have any questions at all please don’t hesitate to contact me by sending a private message to the WonderBaba facebook page or my website contact page or by calling me (Sheena) at Milltown totalhealth Pharmacy in Dublin 6 on 012600262.
Reviewed 18/5/18 & 15/6/18
Author: WonderBaba Blog
My name is Sheena Mitchell and I'm a pharmacist with my own business Milltown totalhealth Pharmacy in Dublin 6. From working in the pharmacy I've realised that there are a lot of first time and experienced moms who might benefit from hints and tips from a pharmacist who can balance healthcare advice with real hands on experience from my important work as a mother of two! I hope to bring you regular advice and information and answer questions that you have! Being a mother and pharmacist are my two favorite things and I'm delighted to have this way of bringing my two worlds together! All questions and queries are gratefully received but otherwise sit back, relax, and let the solutions come to you!	View all posts by WonderBaba Blog
Read Next...
Hospital bag check list!
Expectant mums should consider getting their hospital bag together at about 34 weeks. I've compiled a list of useful items and I hope it's of some help! Space is so...
Read More >
Cough’s – What causes them and how to treat them!
Cough’s – What causes them and how to treat them! A cough is a bodies reflex to clear its airways of dust, irritants or mucus. The most common cause of...
Read More >
Search for:
Search
Article Categories
Baby and Child
Allergies
Bottle Feeding
breast feeding
First Aid
Hair Care
nail care
Nappy Care
Oral Hygiene
Skin Care
Soother Use
toilet training
Travel
Vaccinations
Vitamins and Probiotics
Weaning
Conditions
Asthma
colic
Congestion
Cot Death – SIDS
Coughs and Colds
Ear Conditions
Eczema and Dermatitis
Eye Conditions
flat head syndrome
Flu
Hair Loss
hay fever
Infections
Nausea & Vomiting
Rash
Sun
teething
Temperature
Tummy Trouble
For Mums
Birth
Bottle Feeding Info
Breast Feeding Info
Pregnancy
Trying to Conceive
Vitamins and Supplements
General
Medicines Information
Wonder Reviews
Wonder Tips
Pages:
About
Contact
Useful Resources
Shop:
Wonderbaba Favourites
For your WonderBaba
For Your WonderMama
Breastfeeding your Baba
Pre Conception & Pregnancy
Skincare Brands
Vitamins & Supplements
Contact: Find WonderBaba at
Milltown totalhealth Pharmacy,
Unit 2 Milltown S.C
Dublin 6
Ph: 01-2600262
For one to one advice send
Sheena a private message
@WonderBaba facebook
Home
Due Date Calculator
Ovulation Calculator
Contraction timer
Website Design by Dmac Media