L Theanine Benefits: An Amino Acid that reduce stress, anxiety and boo – Pure Science Supplements
Root By Science. Backed by Research.
Sign in or Create an Account
Search
Cart 0
Menu
Cart 0
Search
Home
All Products
Enhanced with BioPerine
Blog
Affiliate Program
About Us
Sign in
Create an Account
Home
All Products
Enhanced with BioPerine
Blog
Affiliate Program
About Us
Sign in
Create an Account
Home › Articles › L Theanine Benefits: An Amino Acid that reduce stress, anxiety and boost focus.
L Theanine Benefits: An Amino Acid that reduce stress, anxiety and boost focus.
Posted by PS Admin on Apr 17, 2019
L Theanine or simply theanine is an amino acid possessing mental health benefits. It is said to boost calm attentiveness with zero side effects. Anxiety and stress are two common problems faced at various levels by most of us. However, a problem with the placebo medicines available in the store for both is the side effects or counter actions affecting the productivity. Anxiety drugs often induce excessive sleep and stress relieving drugs causes lack of concentration and motivation. For years, the breakthrough of a comprehensive medicine to boost productivity by reducing stress and increasing concentration is nothing but a dream.
But what Theanine does is beats the purpose of store medicines and offers both benefits as one in a very organic form. The essential chemical is found in teas, mostly green and black tea. The availability of such highly regarded organic supplement in a widely available option is the reason why tea is most consumed in China. However, it is also found in a rare edible mushroom, roots of some region-specific herbs, etc.
Consumption of L-Theanine
The recommended quantity of L-Theanine consumption for an adult per day is 100 to 200mgs. A normal green tea contains about 2% of this essential amino acid among the 1000+ compounds found. For most, it does not come close to the recommended 200mg. Hence, it is advised to have either an organic supplement rich in theanine. If that feels difficult to source, take 3 cups of good quality green tea every day without sugar, which must do the magic.
Benefits of L-Theanine
Most of the benefits that L-Theanine offers are close to relaxing and focusing like curing insomnia disorders and cognitive performance, etc. Here are the in-depth benefits that the amino acid offers.
Boosts Brain Chemicals: All the major effect expected to happen from the Theanine either happen in the brain or start from the brain. It basically improves communication in the brain by boosting neurotransmitters. These improve the overall brain activities and yield better learning, memory, and positive mood. The Dopamine, Serotonin, and GABA are important neurotransmitters in which increased dopamine production can even help quit smoking.
Stress and Anxiety: These are two major worrisome factors for every working person, which L-Theanine can easily deal with. Stress is characterized by a higher heart rate and blood pressure. Theanine chemical reduces both physiological and psychological stress and lowers the heart rate. Anxiety, on the other hand, is handled by the GABA neurotransmitter. Theanine with the antipsychotic drug is a good combination for dealing with anxiety symptoms found in schizophrenia
Alternate Brain Waves: This strong amino acid impact the level of brain waves-electric waves that are used as signals inside the brain. Among the five main brain wave patterns, theanine improves the alpha activity, which otherwise is high during meditation. This means calmness while you are still responsive.
Cognitive Performance: L-Theanine, when consumed with or supplemented with caffeine, attains temporary peak cognitive performance than caffeine only. This is achieved by L-Theanine putting a bar on the over-stimulating effects of caffeine.
Sleep Quality: Unlike any sleep supplement, Theanine does not help fall asleep instead provides a healthy brain function for a deeper and prolonged sleep while the brain refreshes. This behavior also keeps the brain function more capable for seniors being a regular tea drinker.
Theanine is one of the best essential amino acids improving brain function without side effects but the quality and quantity of consumption depend on the source. Teas have a limitation of not exceeding caffeine content and there are other alternate herbal solutions if you are not a fan of tea.
RECOMMENDED PRODUCTS
Related Posts
Boost Your Brain with Right Nootropics Supplements
Nootropics are natural or synthetic substances that can be taken to improve brain performance for healthy people. To ...
Read More
BioPerine®, a Natural Bioavailability Enhancer
What is bioavailability? Before you advance to what is Bioperine and how it can used to increase the rate of bioavail...
Read More
What are bacopa side effects?
Bacopa Monnieri or Brahmi as it is known in ayurvedic medicine is a plant best known for its nootropic benefits. It h...
Read More
Share this post
Share Share on Facebook Tweet Tweet on Twitter Pin it Pin on Pinterest
0 comment
Tags: Brain Health
← Older Post Newer Post →
0 comment
Leave a comment ›
Leave a comment
Name Email
Message
Please note, comments must be approved before they are published.
Recent Articles
What is DIM Supplement?
Apr 19, 2019
What are bacopa side effects?
Apr 18, 2019
L Theanine Benefits: An Amino Acid that reduce stress, anxiety and boost focus.
Apr 17, 2019
What are Tongkat Ali benefits for male?
Apr 16, 2019
Bacopa Benefits: A Natural Herb for boosting brain health and memory
Apr 15, 2019
How To Improve Your Sex Life To Save Your Relationship
Apr 11, 2019
Categories
Blood Pressure & Vascular Support
Bone Health
Brain Health
Cholesterol Management
Digestion Support
Energy Management
General Health
Glucose Management
Heart Health
Hormone Balance
Libido
Liver Health & Detoxification
Longevity & Wellness
Men's Health
Mood & Stress Management
Skin Care
Sleep Management
Sports Performance
Weight Management
Women's Health
71
Verified Reviews
Twitter
Facebook
© 2019 Pure Science Supplements
Powered by Shopify
Payment icons
PayPal
Venmo
•••