Cool, Calm and Collected - Sally-Ann Creed
Shopping Cart
My Account
Log In
Cart
Home
About
Meet Sally-Ann
Testimonials
Nutrition Wheel
Courses
Blog
Recipes
Health Evaluation
Contact
Shop
Newsletter
Blog
Cool, Calm and Collected
What would you say to a supplement which offers the following benefits:
Improves sleep quality
Promotes relaxation without sedation
Helps to reduce feelings of stress
Reduces negative effects of caffeine
May help with weight loss
Promotes a balanced, healthy state of mind
You may be surprised to know it is a non-protein amino acid commonly found in green and black tea called L-Theanine, and one of the reasons you love your tea! L-Theanine lifts your mood due to the improved GABA (gamma aminobutyric acid) levels in the brain, an inhibitory neurotransmitter which is vital for nervous system function. Regular supplementation with L-Theanine helps maintain GABA levels, and promotes a calm, relaxed mood. It crosses the blood-brain barrier and boosts serotonin and dopamine – the feel-good neurotransmitters. The L- Theanine available in my online store here is optimally absorbed and assimilated.
APPLICATIONS
The wonderful thing about L-Theanine is that it both calms and relaxes you while boosting concentration and alertness. If you are ADHD you might find this helpful as it is often used in this context, or if you are struggling to concentrate, are anxious or nervous before speaking publicly – this is very helpful. When you have a cup of tea, the L-Theanine works to promote relaxation while allowing the caffeine to produce what is known as “alert calmness”, and fully concentrate on your task at hand. Great for studying and exam nerves.
I often recommend it for people who are stressed, or have slight increases in blood pressure due to stress. A study published in Pharmacology, Biochemistry, and Behavior found that graduate students who took L-Theanine experienced less anxiety (as measured by a questionnaire and by a salivary marker for stress) when they were assigned stressful work in a pharmacy, compared to a placebo.
NEUROLOGICAL EFFECTS
An Israeli Journal of Clinical Psychiatry noted that L-Theanine relieved anxiety symptoms and augmented antipsychotic treatment in patients with schizophrenia. Please ensure it is L-Theanine and not D-Theanine (which is the fake synthetic version which will do nothing for you and won’t provide neurochemical actions). An opened capsule under the tongue helps to prevent panic attacks.
SLEEP
Sleep quality is also enhanced, and beats taking a drug to sleep any day. Not everyone has this effect, but some people sleep very soundly with L-Theanine. While L-Theanine’s effect on the brain relaxes, it does keep you focused while awake, but it’s also very effective against insomnia when needed. Falling asleep is one thing, staying asleep and getting quality sleep is quite another. While it may not cause you to sleep longer, the quality of sleep will be better, leaving you more refreshed. The feeling of being refreshed is one that L-Theanine offers after sleep.
The dose: 1 vegetable capsule twice a day, between meals is all you need for that sense of calm without falling asleep. Of course if you don’t want to take it – try drinking black or green tea! Tea – while also containing caffeine – doesn’t have that immediate “kick” effect to it, because the L-Theanine calms you taking off the jagged edge of coffee. Remember too that tea and coffee can be fat-burning – what a great reason to go and get a cuppa!
ALCOHOL AND THE LIVER
The liver responds amazingly to L-Theanine. Japanese research shows L-Theanine to be a powerful antidote to the effects of alcohol, and if given just before or after they drink alcohol, significantly lowers blood levels of alcohol by modulating alcohol chemistry. In case you don’t know, alcohol is converted in the body to a toxic chemical known as acetaldehyde which is very similar to formaldehyde (used in embalming!) and much more toxic to the body than even the alcohol itself. What L-Theanine does then is to accelerate the breakdown of the acetaldehyde and block the very toxic compounds, and it does this suppressing them to normal levels for over 5 hours. Pretty amazing! With Christmas coming up and possible over-indulgence, L-Theanine might be good to have in your back pocket.
The other benefit to the liver would be the ability of L-Theanine to reverse damage caused by alcohol, restoring the liver’s all-purpose antioxidant and powerful detoxifier known as glutathione, suppressed when drinking alcohol. L-Theanine helps to counteract the alcohol-induced loss of glutathione. Glutathione is very important in the fight against cancer. Depletion of glutathione in vital organs like the heart is a major cause of chemotherapy toxicity. Researchers also found that L-Theanine can counteract drug-induced losses of glutathione.
WEIGHT LOSS
Because L-Theanine together with other components in green tea, reduce triglyceride levels and fatty acid levels in the blood, food intake and body weight may decrease in those who take it.
Whatever your reason for taking it, L-Theanine is a great little ‘something extra’ if you need it.
Search
Search for:
Choose an Article
Facts on Fats
Pure Hydrolysed Collagen Side Effects
Bio-Sweet Prebiotic Sweetener
I have discovered KonMari
31 Days – Detox, Facelift & Weight Loss Kickstart Plan
Vitamins needed as you age
All about Potassium
Magnesium Citrate vs Magnesium Chelate Premium
Osteoporosis – scurvy of the bone, not a calcium deficiency
Hair today, gone tomorrow
How to take my Pure Hydrolysed Collagen
Candida 101
Make your own Compost
Pumpkin Seed Pesto
Omega-3 Fatty Acid Deficiency is Serious
The Role of Homocysteine in Mental Health
Psoriasis in a nutshell
The Truth about Eggs
Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) and your Thyroid
Osteoporosis
Collagen Types 1,2 and 3 – Know the important differences
Why you can’t live without Progesterone (ladies)
We Have to Talk about Alcohol
The Critical Master Mineral you can’t live without
Iron Deficiency 101
Bacteria which cause Weight Loss
How Cholesterol helps your Thyroid (& Heart)
Life without a Gallbladder
Are you an Undiagnosed Type II Diabetic?
Do you Suffer from Rosacea?
Benefits of Vitamin K
Weight Gain in Menopause
The Benefits of Prebiotics
What Your Fingernails can Tell You about Your Health
Berberine – A Modern Panacea?
How to nourish a healthy Thyroid Gland
The Effect of Insulin On Growth Hormone And Muscle Repair
Little-Known Nutrient which Increases Thyroid Hormone
The Curse of Cellulite
Decaffeinated Coffee
Treat Hashimoto’s (underactive thyroid) with your Fork
Breaking News: Natural Blood Sugar Solution
Fibromyalgia
9 Ways to lower Hypertension
Great Gelatine
Hormone Havoc during Menopause
What sets my brand of Apple Cider vinegar apart?
40 Healthy Eating Habits that Won’t Break the Bank
How to Avoid a Hangover in Advance!
Familial/Genetic Hypercholesterolemia
Brand New Chocolate Nutties!
The Amazing Benefits of MSM
What some of the Collagens in the market contain – and why I had to bring in my own pure one: a comparison
B12 is only found in Animal Protein
Why do doctors hate Linus Pauling? Was it his collagen and heart disease hypothesis?
Exposing The pH Myth
The Problem with Soy
What’s the Deal with Fibre?
All About Probiotics
Intermittent Fasting – Is it different for Men & Women?
Vitamin B Complex for Brain Health
The Low-Carb, Healthy Fat Bible
Can you boil the Perfect Egg?
All about Collagen
The Benefits of Gelatin
My Guide on HOW to Drink Alcohol
What to expect when you take my Pure Hydrolysed Collagen
The Benefits of N-Acetyl Cysteine (NAC)
Do you have Stomach Acid Problems?
Thyme Tea – an Easy Remedy
Alcohol, the Festive Season & Staying LCHF
Confused about Omega’s? Here’s the Lowdown on Omega’s – 3, 6 and 9
How to Take Collagen and Gelatine
Golden Nutritional Yeast Flakes
How Collagen helps Weight Loss
Amazing Glutamine
Who knew Collagen could do all This?
Butter – A True Superfood
Eggs 101
Collagen & Gelatine – Missing in the Modern Diet
Try this Collagen Hair Mask
My Experience with Collagen
Hypothyroid? Collagen might be the answer you are looking for
Roast Lamb for Christmas (my way) with Mint Sauce
Alcohol, Sugar and Your Liver
The Body’s Exquisite Dance of Synergy
Amazing Benefits of Vitamin D3
Cool, Calm and Collected
Chocolate Macadamia Nuts
MSM (MethylSulphonylMethane)
My Take on “The Smoothie”
The Story of Banting
Selenium
Legal Addictions
Would you like some Arsenic with your Rice?
Saturated Animal Fats (the S-Word)
Is Animal Protein Good or Bad?
Stop cravings with L-Glutamine
Wonderful Vitamin C
How to have a GOOD breakfast
Why I am Against Veganism
How Vegetable Oils Make you Fat and Sick
Are you getting enough Vitamin D?
The Importance of Drinking Water
Is Xylitol Safe for Humans?
How Chewing affects Weight Loss
Are you deficient in B Vitamins?
Lovely Leptin
Do Artificial Sweeteners Contribute to Diabetes?
Can Sleep Help you Lose Weight?
Coffee Withdrawal
Some Special Low Carb Veggies
Hair Loss Prevention Strategy
Welcome to my blog!