Treating and Preventing Athlete's Foot | Talus inMotion
Home Doctors Conditions Services Schedule an Appointment
Patient Resources
Shop
Back
Contact Us Schedule an Appointment Location and Directions Patient Reviews Insurance Patient Forms Media Search
HomeDoctorsConditionsServices
Personalized Treatment of the Foot and Ankle
Schedule an Appointment Patient Resources Contact Us Schedule an Appointment Location and Directions Patient Reviews Insurance Patient Forms Media Search Shop
Treating and Preventing Athlete's Foot
Are your feet dry, itchy or burning? Below are some tips on treating and preventing Athlete's Foot.
Athlete's Foot, also known as Tinea Pedis, is a very common problem. You do not have to be an athlete to get athlete's foot! Athlete's foot is a fungal infection of the skin. It stems from a similar kind of fungus that is responsible for jock itch and ringworm. This fungus loves damp, dark environments so wet, tight-fitting shoes are its ideal environment. There are two different ways athlete's foot can present. One way is that you get a red, scaly rash in between your toes. The rash can be itchy or even burn. The other way athlete's foot can present is in a "moccasin" distribution. You get dry, flaky, red skin around your whole foot. It happens all along where a moccasin would cover your foot. You can sometimes see blisters along the rash in more severe cases. This can also be itchy or cause a burning sensation, but it could also just look like dry skin that doesn't go away even if you apply lotion to your feet. It can also look like eczema!
Treating athlete's foot is important because your athlete's foot infection can move to your toenail's and then it is much more difficult to treat. It can also become jock itch or infect your hands. It is easy to transfer the fungus to different locations on your body with towels. Once the other locations get infected it is possible to have them re-infect your foot. This is especially seen with fungal infection of the toenails because of its proximity to the foot.
Treatment of athlete's foot can usually be accomplished by using an over-the-counter anti-fungal cream. Look for creams that contain either miconazole, clotrimazole, or terbinafine. Do not apply the cream heavily in between your toes, because this creates the dark, damp environment fungus like to grow in. If you are diligent about applying the anti-fungal cream twice a day for a couple weeks, but are not seeing improvement it is time to come in and see your podiatrist. If the itching or burning is interfering with your day to day life it would be best to come see a podiatrist and start treating with prescription strength right away. Podiatrist have prescription strength anti-fungal creams on hand and Ta'lus inMotion has an anti-fungal spray you can use to kill the fungus that lives in your shoes, so your shoes do not continue to re-infect your feet.
Preventing Athlete's foot infections can be as simple as keeping your feet dry. If your feet sweat a lot changing socks when they get damp can help to prevent a fungal infection. Also wearing shoes that have ventilation will help. Alternative between pairs of shoes will allow the shoe to dry. Making sure to wear water-proof sandals in public showers or by public pools will help protect your feet from fungal infections. Laundry detergent kills the fungus, so washing towels and socks often will help prevent a fungal infection or help prevent spreading of a current fungal infection.
Athlete's Foot is very treatable. Don't settle for dry, itchy, burning feet! Contact Talus inMotion Foot & Ankle and set up a consultation. We are here to help!
Conditions & Treatments, Sports Medicinestaff December 23, 2014 Conditions, Treatments, Athlete's Foot, Itchy FeetComment
Facebook0 Twitter Tumblr Pinterest0 0 Likes
Previous
Holiday Sock & Shoe Drive
Givingstaff November 13, 2016 Talus inMotion Foot & AnkleGiving, Sock & Shoe Drive, Holidays
Next
Common Running Injuries + How to Treat them
Sports Medicine, Conditions & Treatments, Foot & Heel Painstaff November 26, 2014 Sports Injuries, Running, Achilles Tendonitis, Neuromas, Stress Fractures, Conditions, Treatments, Running Injuries
Talus inMotion
5111 N. Scottsdale Rd. Suite 101,
Scottsdale, AZ 85250
480-994-FOOT(3668) frontoffice@talusinmotion.com
Hours
Mon 8am - 5pm
Tue 8am - 5pm
Wed 8am - 5pm
Thu 8am - 5pm
Fri 8am - 3pm
Conditions
Sports Injuries of the Foot and Ankle Foot and Heel Pain Foot Deformities Diabetic Foot Pain Children's Foot Problems Breaks and Sprains of the Foot and Ankle Skin and Nail Problems
Services
Aesthetic Foot Care Diabetic Foot Care Foot and Ankle Surgery Pediatric Podiatry Regenerative Medicine Sports Medicine
Specialties
Achilles Tendon Surgery Ankle Joint Replacement Surgery Fat Pad Restoration K-Laser Therapy Morton's Neuroma Surgery Nerve Decompression Surgery Plantar Fasciitis Surgery Tenex Treatment Toenail Fungus Treatment Topaz Treatment
Our Doctors
Dr. Erin Martin, DPM Dr. Serrina Yozsa, DPM
Talus inMotion 2019 | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED | Website by On Media Group