Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream Review
Sign Up | Doctor Login Search
Research News
Athlete's Foot Products
#1 Top Pick
Subscribe Now
Home
Athlete’s Foot Information
Top 5 Athlete’s Foot Treatments
Product Reviews
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream Review
Editor's Rating:
If you want to find out all the details about the ingredients, the dosage, the price and the guarantee policy for Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream, then this is the review for you. Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream is a product designed to treat and prevent different types of fungal infections, including the highly common athlete’s foot (tinea pedis), jock itch (tinea cruris) and ringworm (tinea corporis). The product has been clinically tested and proven to relieve and completely cure symptoms of fungal infections such as cracking, itching, burning and chafing. To find out more about Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream continue reading this review.
Ingredients
Tolnaftate (1%)
Ceteth-20
Cetostearyl alcohol
Chlorocresol
Liquid paraffin
Monobasic sodium phosphate dihydrate
Propylene glycol
Purified water
White petrolatum
The primary active ingredient, tolnaftate, which accounts for one percent of the total formula, is a synthetic anti-fungal substance designed specifically to eliminate infections such as athlete’s foot. The compound works by inhibiting the production of an enzyme that is essential for new fungal cell membranes to be created. Chlorocresol can potentially cause skin irritation or rashes due to being a moderate allergen.
Dosage
Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream comes with a convenient set of instructions, which can be easily accessed on the internet or found directly on the packaging. Once you have identified the infection, clean and dry the area with care and then proceed to apply a thin layer of Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream. Once this is done, gently massage it into the skin, so that the cream may clean out and sterilize the pores. When used to eliminate athlete’s foot, pay special attention to the area in between the toes and make sure to apply the cream twice a day, both morning and evening. Typically the infection should be gone within four weeks. However, if this is not the case, seek medical attention.
Possible Side Effects
Due to some of the ingredients being allergens, for example chlorocresol, the product may cause skin irritation, rashes or various other uncomfortable side effects. The product should be kept clear of one’s face and eyes and is not to be used on children under two year of age.
Price
A package of three tubes of Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream costs $6.21 when purchased from Amazon. If your order exceeds $35, shipping will be free. The price of this product is extremely low in relation to the market average. The reason for this is unknown as much of the ingredients are the same as in any anti-fungal cream.
Guarantee
While there is no official guarantee policy in place enforced by the manufacturer, the customer reviews we found are positive. Despite this, the lack of a guarantee remains a negative point as paying even such a small amount is a waste if the customer is unsatisfied with the results.
Conclusion
Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream has an unbeatable price and several positive customer reviews. However, the possibility of negative side effects coupled with the lack of a guarantee prevent us from recommending this product.
Click here to learn more about our Top Athlete’s Foot Treatment Products.
Jimmy Rodriguez	reviewed Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream	on June 10th	 and gave it a rating of 2.5.
Top 5 Athlete's Foot Products for 2019
TOP 5
ATHLETE'S FOOT PRODUCTS
#1
Learn More
#2
Learn More
#3
Learn More
#4
Learn More
#5
Learn More
Athlete's Foot Clear
Naturasil
Healing Natural Oils
Forces of Nature
DeSensua
1 2 3 4 5
Price (1 bottle)
Price (6 bottles) *Best Value $49.95
$139.80 $31.30
$169.00 $29.95
$161.73 $34.85
$188.00 $23.99
$129.55
Overall Rating 99.30% 82.20% 79.40% 74.80% 66.30%
Effectiveness
Speed of Results Extremely Fast Good Average Slow Slow
Quality of Ingredients Premium Good Good Average Average
Customer Satisfaction Evaluation 99.10% 80% 75% 74% 65%
Safety Evaluation Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use
Customer Service Rating
Reorder Rate Highest Good Average Average Average
Return Policy Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Unopened Only
Success Rate 99.20% 82% 73% 73% 62%
*The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the Editor. Results may vary from person to person and cannot be guaranteed.
Our Top 5 Picks
Editor's Choice
Click Here
Subscribe Now!
Get the latest NEWSLETTER updates
delivered right to your inbox.
Research News
Top Reviews
#1 Top Pick
About Us
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Athletefoot.org- All Rights Reserved.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
*Results for individuals will vary, depending on existing health factors, lifestyle and level of fitness. The information contained on this site is intended to educate only and is in no way, a substitute for medical advice that your doctor or healthcare provider can offer, with whom you should always consult with before making any dietary changes. Information within should not be used for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Testimonials on this site are based on the experiences of a few people and you may not have similar results. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.