How to Get Rid of Acne with Vitamin E oil Top
Write For Us
Follow us for daily updates: Facebook Twitter
Makeup
Face Makeup
Eye Makeup
Lip Makeup
Bridal makeup
Celebrity Makeup
Teen Makeup
Makeup Ideas
Hair
Dandruff
Dry Hair
Oily Hair
Hair Growth
Hair Fall/Loss
Treatments
Hair Color
Hair Styles
Bob Hairstyles
Bun Hairstyles
Celebrity Hairstyles
Curly Hairstyles
Bridal Hairtyles
Hair Color Trends
Hairstyle Trends
Long Hairstyles
Medium Hairstyles
Short Hairstyles
Teen Hairstyles
Updo Hairstyles
Wavy Hairstyles
Skincare
oily skin
Dry Skin
Fair Skin
Acne
Masks/Packs
pregnancy skin care
Aging
Health & Wellness
Home Remedies
Superfoods
Ingredients
Fitness
Yoga
Diet
Relationship
Dating Advice
Family
Friends
Love Advice
Fashion
Celebrity Fashion
Teen Fashion
Wedding Fashion
Trending
Tattoo
Nail Art
Mehandi Designs
DIY & Tutorials
Recipes
Food And Drink
Search
Home
>>
Acne, Skin Care
>>
How to Get
How to Get Rid of Acne with Vitamin E oil?
By Beatuy Epic on October 11, 2018 on Acne, Skin Care
Acne, a skin disease, is formed when skin pores are clogged and is found mostly in adolescence period. Acne means the formation of pimples, scars, blackheads, whiteheads etc. Vitamin E maintains skin health by neutralizing free radicals and by being absorbed into the skin. Thus it fades away scars left by acne. Here in this article, we will discuss how to use vitamin E oil for acne.
Article Contains
What Does Vitamin E oil do for Acne?
How to use Vitamin E oil for Acne?
1. Tea Tree oil and Vitamin E oil for Acne:
2. Aloe Vera and Vitamin E for Acne:
3. Coconut oil and Vitamin E for Acne:
What Does Vitamin E oil do for Acne?
The topical application of vitamin E oil helps to remove acne scars. Its benefits are-
It boosts the production of skin proteins like collagen and elastin.
It maintains skin health by neutralizing free radicals
It penetrates deep into the skin and fades away acne scars.
If you want to get the result from vitamin E oil, you have to use it for 3 months because vitamin E repairs skin gradually.
How to use Vitamin E oil for Acne?
Vitamin E oil can be applied directly on acne scars or you can use vitamin e capsules. Pierce capsules with a needle and extract oil from it. First, wash your face and then apply vitamin E oil on your acne scars on face.
1. Tea Tree oil and Vitamin E oil for Acne:
Tea tree oil is a natural remedy for acne. It has anti-bacterial property, which kills bacteria causing acne.
Ingredients:
5 drops tea tree oil
5 drops vitamin E oil
Preparation time: 5 minutes.
Procedure:
Mix vitamin E oil with tea tree oil
Soak a cotton ball in the mixture
Wash your face with water
Apply wet cotton on the affected areas
How it works: this mixture acts as a spot treatment for acne scars. It removes your existing acne as well as fades hideous spots.
Repetitions: twice a day.
Best time to apply: before bath, before going to bed.
Tips: Avoid contact with eyes.
[ Read: How to Get Rid of Acne with Tea Tree oil? ]
2. Aloe Vera and Vitamin E for Acne:
Aloe vera has many vitamins and minerals that heal the skin. It has an anti-inflammatory property, which gives relief to inflammation of acne scars.
Ingredients:
1 teaspoon of vitamin E oil
2 tablespoon aloe vera gel
Preparation time: 5 minutes.
Procedure:
Mix vitamin e oil with aloe vera gel
Stir well
Apply this mask on the affected areas
Leave it for few minutes
Wash your face with lukewarm water
How it works: this face mask is a natural remedy for acne scars. This mask moisturizes the skin, removes the damaged skin and regenerates new skin. Thus it removes acne.
Repetitions: once daily.
Best time to apply: before going to bed.
[ Read: How To Use Aloe Vera For Acne? ]
3. Coconut oil and Vitamin E for Acne:
The saturated fatty acids present in coconut oil kill the bacteria causing acne scars. It moisturizes the skin and heals acne rapidly.
Ingredients:
2 tbsp coconut oil
2 tbsp vitamin E oil
Preparation time: 2 minutes.
Procedure:
Mix coconut oil with vitamin E oil in equal proportion.
Apply it to acne scars
Massage gently
Leave it overnight
Wash with water next morning
How it works: This mixture is a natural home remedy for acne scars. It can be used all over the face. It is an effective moisturizer.
Repetitions: once daily.
Best time to apply: Before sleep at night.
Some studies have shown that use of high concentration of vitamin e oil may cause negative effects. If you have allergic reaction to vitamin E oil, you must stop using it. Besides topical application of this oil, you may reap the benefits of vitamin e oil by adding vitamin E to your diet.
Read Also:
How to Get Rid of Acne with Olive oil?
How to Treat Acne with Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Get Rid of Acne with Honey?
Image:- 1
SHARE THIS STORY ON FACEBOOK
More from my site
Aloe Vera for Acne Scars – Benefits and How to Use It
How to Use Coconut Oil for Acne and Acne Scars?
How to Use Bio oil to Remove Acne Scars Quickly?
How Effective Is Aspirin for Acne?
How to Get Rid of Acne Fast with Evening Primrose Oil
How to Get Rid of Whiteheads Naturally at Home?
Article Name
How to Get Rid of Acne with Vitamin E oil?
Author
Beatuy Epic
Description
Vitamin E maintains skin health by neutralizing free radicals and by being absorbed into the skin. Here we discuss how to use vitamin E oil for acne.
Written by: Beatuy Epic
Beauty Epic is the beauty network that sets a new level of trust and honesty in beauty world. We are driven by a commitment to prove Beauty Epic is best for beauty and improve women's lives by covering daily breakthroughs in beauty, Lifestyle and Health.
No comments yet.
Leave Your Reply Cancel Reply
Name
Email (never published)
Comment
Popular
Recent
How to Get Rid of Dark Neck Naturally? no comments
How to Remove Hair Dye with Baking Soda? no comments
16 Amazing Pics of Trisha In Saree no comments
Epsom Salt Foot Soak – Benefits & How To Do It? no comments
Ginger Tea For Weight Loss – Benefits and How to Drink no comments
Eye Makeup For Deep Set Eyes – Tips and Tricks no comments
5 Best Yoga Poses for Strong Shoulders no comments
Fat Burning Exercises: 7 Best Moves to Burn Fat Fast no comments
About Us
Beauty Epic is the Beauty Network that sets a new level of trust and honesty in beauty info. We are driven by a commitment to improve women's lives by covering daily breakthroughs in beauty, Lifestyle and Health.
Pages
Contact us
About us
Advertise
Authors
Privacy Policy
Popular Categories
Fashion
Hair
Health & Wellness
Makeup
Relationship
Skin Care
Trending
News Letter
Thank you for your subscription.
Your email format is wrong!
Sad, but we couldn't add you to our mailing list ATM.
Subscribe
Loading...
Copyright © 2015 Beauty EPic. All Rights Reserved
Let's be friends Facebook Twitter Google+ Pinterest
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OK