Best L-Theanine Supplements 2019 (Review & Info)
Menu
Social Anxiety
How To Get Rid Of Social Anxiety (Even If It Seems Impossible)
How I Overcome 15 Years Of Social Anxiety
More Social Anxiety Blogs
Techniques
Meditation
Mindfulness
Anxiety
Emotional Wellness
Depression
Social Anxiety
Motivation
Products & Supplements
Aromatherapy
Books
Herbal Tea
Meditation
Sleep
Superfood
Supplements
Stress Support
Cognitive Performance
Reviews
Muse, The Brain Sensing Headband Review 2019 (Get 15% Discount)
Hypnosis For Social Anxiety – HypnosisDownloads Review
Headspace Meditation App – Does It Worth $95.88 A Year (Review)
Aware Guided Meditation App Review – Mindfulness And More
Shyness And Social Anxiety Workbook – Does It Really Work? (Review)
365 Days Of Happiness by Jacqueline Pirtle – Review
Quietude Meditation Music
Popular Posts
Community
Blogs
Guest Post
About Me
Contact Me
SEARCH:
Best L-Theanine Supplements 2019 (Review & Info)
By	Kenny Lee | Essentials
You are here:
Home
Blog
Essentials
Best L-Theanine Supplements 2019 (Review & Info)
Jul	27
0
What are the best L-Theanine supplements that you could take if you’re not a fan of green tea? Learn more about it in this buyer’s guide.
What Is L-Theanine
L-Theanine is an amino acid that is commonly found in tea leaves, particularly green tea. The chemical structure of L-Theanine resembles glutamate, a naturally produced amino acid in the body that helps nerve cells to communicate.
Popular foods that contain a significant amount of L-Theanine includes green tea, black tea and bay bolete, a type of edible mushroom found in the jungle of North America and Europe. L-Theanine is highly dissolvable in water, and it’s the reason why sipping a cup of green tea provides a relaxing effect.
Can L-Theanine Help With Stress?
You’re probably aware that green tea is becoming an increasingly popular natural remedy for stress. But what you may not be aware of is that L-Theanine, an amino acid that is present in green tea is responsible for the calming effect. And if you’re not into drinking green tea, taking L-Theanine supplements is a great alternative.
L-Theanine is known the resemble the chemical structure of glutamate. While glutamate is a neurotransmitter that exhibits excitatory property, L-Theanine functions otherwise. It counters the effects of excessive activity in the brain by with its inhibitory effect. In short, L-Theanine calms the mind down. (1)
Besides canceling the stimulating effect of glutamate, L-Theanine also increases the production of GABA in the brain. GABA is a natural neurotransmitter that helps to reduce anxiety. Unlike some anti-anxiety drugs, L-Theanine does not cause drowsiness in spite of its calming effect.
There are preliminary researches that back the positive effects of L-Theanine against anxiety. A clinical research conducted by providing 34 teenagers and adults with nutrition beverage containing 200 mg of L-Theanine reported a significant reduction in stress level.
Other Benefits of Taking L-Theanine
Besides reducing stress, the effect of L-Theanine on our brain and nervous system also deliver positive changes in other health aspects.
L-Theanine promotes better sleep – Taking L-Theanine is associated with getting better sleep quality. A study that involves 98 children with ADHD has shown an improvement in sleep quality after they are prescribed with L-Theanine tablets twice daily
It helps people with depression – Depression can be a crippling mental disorder that ruins an individual’s life. A preliminary study has shown encouraging results on the psychotropic effects of L-Theanine in decreasing the depressive symptoms in participants.
L-Theanine may help improve cognition functions – It is natural that some of us experience deterioration in cognitive functions like memory and focus as we age. A study has suggested that the combination of L-Theanine and caffeine may boost cognitive functions.
Prevents alcoholic liver damage – If you’re alcoholic and concerned about the health of your liver, L-Theanine may offer the protection you needed. Research has shown that L-Theanine reduces the damage that alcohol could do to your liver.
Recommended Dosage Of L-Theanine
As effective as it is, you should always abide by the recommended dosage for L-Theanine supplements. While L-Theanine is usually available in 200 mg capsules, it is best to refer to medical advice before taking L-Theanine. Start with a smaller dose before progressing to large dose if necessary. (2)
If unsure, always check with your doctor before taking L-Theanine.
Precautions and Side Effects of L-Theanine
While L-Theanine is generally safe as a supplement, it does produce adverse side effects if taken with medications for high blood pressure and stimulant drugs. There is also too little research on L-Theanine for pregnant or lactating women and it’s best to avoid in such condition. (3)
If you experience any side effect when taking L-Theanine supplements, do consult with your doctor for further advice.
How To Choose The Right L-Theanine Supplement
Choosing the right L-Theanine supplement involves more than getting the lowest priced product on the shelf. Here are some points to consider when you’re shopping for the supplement.
Serving Size – Most manufacturers offer 200 mg serving size in a capsule while some produce 100 mg capsules.
Physical Form – Capsules are convenient but some may prefer powder or tincture form of L-Theanine.
Proven Manufacturer – As a potent psychotropic supplement, you do not want to take chances. Look for supplements produced by reputable manufacturers.
Where To Buy L-Theanine Supplements
You can head to the nearest pharmacy and probably find L-Theanine supplements on the shelf. But if you prefer the convenience of shopping online, Amazon is a great place to browse the best L-Theanine brands. You’ll get timely delivery and hassle-free returns if you’re not satisfied with the results.
Best L-Theanine Supplements 2019
Important: If you’re suffering from any medical conditions, you’re advised to consult your doctor before using these supplements. This article is not written by a medical professional, health expert or a doctor. Thus, it is not a substitute for medical diagnosis or treatment.
The nutritional supplement market is pretty crowded with different brands vying for attention. I’ve built this list of the best L-Theanine products after making some research on my own. Hope it helps you in seeking a remedy for stress.
1. Sports Research Suntheanine L-Theanine Soft Gel (Top Favorite)
Serving Size: 200mg ( 1 soft gel)
Quantity: 60 soft gels
Established in 1980, Sports Research remains a family-operated business that is committed to enriching families’ life with high-quality nutritional products. Each of its products is formulated from the results of extensive research. They are tested both by internal and external labs after production.
The soft gels are formulated from Sports Research proprietary L-Theanine formula named Suntheanine. It is produced with organic virgin coconut oil and encapsulated with soft gels to increase the absorption rate. As the L-Theanine crosses the blood-brain boundary, you’ll start to feel the calming properties of the supplement.
Taking a single soft gel on an empty stomach per day will help you in relieving stress and get better sleep. The gels are produced in a GMP certified facility. They are non-GMO and gluten-free. The strict testing that it’s gone through ensures that it has no substances that will induce drowsiness after taking the soft gels.
Pros
Special formula for better absorption
Helps relieve stress
Enhanced with organic virgin coconut oil
Cons
Not effective for some individuals.
Check Latest Price On Amazon
2. Nature’s Throve L-Theanine Capsules
Serving Size: 200mg ( 1 capsule)
Quantity: 120 capsules
Being business for more than 20 years, Nature’s Throve is all about bringing the goodness of nature to support the health of consumers. During its inception, it realizes that nutritional supplements are incredibly expensive and sought to make wellness products affordable to all.
Taking these L-Theanine capsules by Nature’s Throve is a great way to relax at the end of a stressful day. Each of the capsules contains 200 mg of L-Theanine, a moderate dose for alleviating stress. It is suggested that you take a single capsule on a daily basis.
Nature’s Throve L-Theanine capsules are ideal for vegan as they are made of vegetarian-friendly ingredients. The capsules are Kosher certified and produced in a GMP certified facility. As there are no harmful additives that are compromising the quality, you’ll stay alert and yet relaxed after taking the capsules.
Pros
Vegetarian capsules
Effectively helps stress
Promotes better sleep
Cons
No effects on some buyers.
Check Latest Price On Amazon
3. NOW L-Theanine Capsules
Serving Size: 200mg ( 1 capsule)
Quantity: 120 capsules
Celebrating its 50th anniversary, NOW’s commitment to producing top quality nutritional supplement has bagged the company multiple awards along the years. Besides investing in advanced facilities, NOW Is equally committed to protecting the environment and ensuring sustainability in its business.
With 200 mg of L-Theanine in a single capsule, you’ll get a decent dosage of amino acids that help calm your nerves. The increased level of GABA that happens after taking the capsules means that you’ll have little problem dozing off at bedtime.
The capsules are tested and verified to be non-GMO and are vegetarian-friendly. Besides L-Theanine, the capsule also contains inositol, a compound that is believed to be helpful in combating stress. For best effect, it is recommended that you take one capsule a day before having a meal.
Pros
Vegetarian capsules
Reduce stress
Boost cardiovascular function
Cons
Some may experience side effects
Check Latest Price On Amazon
4. BulkSupplements L-Theanine Powder
Serving Size: 250mg
Quantity: 100 grams
BulkSupplements has made its mark as a leading nutritional supplement brand in the US. It specializes in shipping products in pure powder forms. Manufactured in GMP certified facilities, Bulk Supplements customers are made of regular consumers and other wellness manufacturers.
If you’re not a fan of L-Theanine capsules, the powder form offers a great alternative. The L-Theanine powder by Bulk Supplements is clean and pure. They are free from any unnecessary fillers. To take the powder as a supplement, take 1/16 or 1/8 teaspoon a day, depending on the required serving size.
The L-Theanine powder is shipped in a zippable pouch. They are tested stringently to ensure the quality is as suggested as the label. As your body absorbs the amino acid, you’ll feel both alert and relaxed. It’s a great way to destress an anxious mind.
Pros
Clean and pure powder.
Zippable foil for easy storage
Helps to calm anxious mind.
Cons
Some individuals find the smell unpleasant.
Check Latest Price On Amazon
5. Nutricost L-Theanine Capsules
Serving Size: 200mg ( 1 capsule)
Quantity: 120 capsules
At Nutricost, affordable and purity are what matters for its range of nutritional products. It ensures each of its supplement uses only the finest ingredient while keeping the price affordable for consumers.
These L-theanine capsules are produced in an easy-to-swallow shape. By taking 1 capsule before your meal daily, you’ll experience a calmer mind as the effect of the L-Theanine kicks in. Unlike medications, you will remain alert after taking the supplement.
The capsules are made in the US and were tested meticulously by the 3rd party to ensure its purity remains intact. The capsules are non-GMO and gluten-free as the only other ingredients are gelatin and rice flour. It’s a great supplement if you’re transitioning off anti-anxiety medications.
Pros
Non-GMO and gluten-free
Helps in reducing stress
Easy to swallow capsules.
Cons
Zero effect for some individuals.
Check Latest Price On Amazon
6. Superior Labs Pure L-Theanine Capsules
Serving Size: 250mg ( 1 capsule)
Quantity: 90 capsules
One of the reasons why Superior Labs is enjoying a solid reputation in the nutritional industry is its commitment of safety of its customers. It ensures that zero harmful additives are included in the manufacturing process and only operates from FDA certified GMP facilities.
With 250 mg of L-Theanine in a capsule, this is a strong supplement to help you battle stubborn stress-related symptoms. There are no additives in this highly pure L-Theanine capsules. You’ll need to take a single capsule 1-2 times a day to release your mind from excessive stress.
Besides being vegetarian-friendly, the capsules are tested to ensure no heavy metals exist along with the L-Theanine compound. Strict harvesting procedures are also implemented by Superior Labs to ensure the safety of the supplement.
Pros
Produced in GMP certified facility.
Strong L-Theanine capsules.
Vegetarian Capsules.
Cons
Not effective for some people.
Check Latest Price On Amazon
7. Doctor’s Best Suntheanine L-Theanine
Serving Size: 150mg ( 1 capsule)
Quantity: 90 capsules
Doctor’s Best has been in the nutritional supplement industry for almost three decades. It was founded by physicians and emphasizes using only high-quality raw material and certified GMP facilities to produce its range of over 200 products.
This L-Theanine supplement from Doctor’s Best is made of a specially patented formula of L-Theanine. You can expect a similar calming effect just as when you’re sipping a cup of green tea. This happens due to the inhibitory nature of L-Theanine and the increasing level of GABA in your brain.
The potency of this supplement is due to the extensive research carried out by the company. The capsules are also vegan-friendly and NON-GMO. 3rd party testing also ensures that you’re receiving a supplement that is safe for consumption.
Pros
Vegan-friendly capsules
Promote mental relaxation
Contain Suntheanine, a patented form of L-Theanine
Cons
Not observable positive effects for some people.
Check Latest Price On Amazon
8. Integrative Therapeutics L-Theanine Capsules
Serving Size: 100mg ( 1 capsule)
Quantity: 60 capsules
Integrative Therapeutics has the privilege of an advisory board comprising health professionals to guide the company in producing high quality, potent and safe supplements. It has a rich history that saw the founders of various pharmaceutical brands came together under the single entity of Integrative Therapeutics.
If you’re looking for a minimum strength L-Theanine supplement to start with, these 100mg capsules will be a great choice. You can start by taking 1 capsule 2-3 times daily and observe if there are any positive improvements in your mood. Increase to two capsules per intake if necessary.
The capsules are made of vegetarian-friendly ingredient and free from any artificial additives. You can be assured that these pure L-Theanine capsules will not cause any side effects after consumption. Instead, you’ll feel alert and refreshed just as after drinking a cup of green tea.
Pros
Vegetarian Capsules.
Great for reducing stress
Helps relax before bedtime.
Cons
May cause side effect in rare cases.
Check Latest Price On Amazon
9. L-Theanine Capsules Supplement by SYM Nutrition
Serving Size: 200mg ( 1 capsule)
Quantity: 120 capsules
A group of friends pursuing their interests in nootropics lead to the formation of SYM Nutrition. Now a growing brand in the industry, SYM Nutrition ensures that all of its products pass a strict quality control inspection before being tested by independent labs.
These L-Theanine capsules are strong enough to provide you long lasting relaxation. Its effect can be further enhanced by coffee to increase focus and wakefulness. It is suggested that you take on capsule 2-3 times daily on an empty stomach for maximum effect.
SYM Nutrition provides one of the longest periods of guarantee with 180 days money back. This speaks highly on the quality of the product. The capsules were manufactured in a GMP certified facility and further tested stringently to ensure its purity.
Pros
180 days of money back guarantee
Helps to focus and relax.
Great anti-stress effect.
Cons
Does not make a difference for some customers
Check Latest Price On Amazon
10. L-Theanine Alcohol-Free Liquid Extract by Svasthya Body & Mind
Serving Size: 200mg (2 droppers full)
Quantity: 2 oz
While the word Svastya means health and wellness in Sanskrit, Svasthya Body & Mind is a family-owned company in the US. It specializes in creating single ingredient wellness products. It is determined to incorporate the earth’s natural resources to benefit the health of human beings.
Liquid extract of L-Theanine may not be as common as the capsules form. This alcohol-free L-Theanine liquid extract is one of the finest supplements around. It is commonly known that liquid has a better absorption rate to its capsule counterpart.
You can start by taking two droppers full daily of the L-Theanine extract to calm your stressful mind. It is produced in a GMP-certified facility and contains no harmful chemicals in the extract. The liquid is also alcohol-free which made it safe for your family. It also contains stevia extract which gives it a hint of sweetness.
Pros
Alcohol-free
Derived from Suntheanine for maximum bioavailability.
Help reduce stress.
Cons
Some individuals found the taste unpleasant.
Check Latest Price On Amazon
What’s The Synergy Between L-Theanine And Caffeine?
You’ve probably come across suggestions to take L-Theanine and caffeine. You may wonder how that could benefit stress as caffeine is known to be a cause of an anxious mind.
However, the combination of L-Theanine and caffeine leads to a miraculous synergy that reduces the negative properties of caffeine, leaving only the benefits of both compounds. It’s a simple natural combination that makes 1 plus 1 more than 2.
Have L-Theanine supplements been effective for your stress? Share your thoughts in the comment below.
Related:
Best Decaf Green Tea For Anxiety
Best L Tryptophan Supplements
Best Kava Kava Supplements
Best Lemon Balm Supplements
Best Organic Lavender Tea For Better Sleep
About the Author
I struggled with social anxiety for at least 15 years, without really knowing what I was going through. Eventually, I defeated my social phobia and conquered the fear of public speaking.
Related Posts
Top 10 Best Vetiver Essential Oil 2019 (Buyers Guide & Review)
Performance Lab Mind Supplement Review 2019
Best Organic Lavender Tea For Better Sleep 2019
Best Organic Maca Root Supplements 2019 (Review & Guide)
Best Rosemary Essential Oils To Boost Memory (2019 Update)
Best Mindfulness Meditation Books For Beginners (2019 Update)
Best St. John’s Wort Herbal Supplements 2019 (Safety, Guide & Review)
Best Essential Oils For Brain Fog 2019
Leave a Comment:
Name * E-Mail * Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Comments:
(0) comments
Add Your Reply
Leave a Comment:
Name * E-Mail * Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Comments:
Previous Post Social Media And Social Anxiety – Does One Lead To The Other? Next Post How Positive Thinking Can Help Beat Sleep Anxiety
FREE Meditation Guide Download
About Author
Kenny Lee
I struggled with social anxiety for at least 15 years, without really knowing what I was going through. Eventually, I defeated my social phobia and conquered the fear of public speaking.
View all posts
Recent Posts
7 Tips for Maintaining an Emotional Well-being
What’s The Difference Between Anxiety and Worry
Top 10 Best Vetiver Essential Oil 2019 (Buyers Guide & Review)
The Gut-Brain Connection: How Probiotics Can Improve Mood
Performance Lab Mind Supplement Review 2019
Copyright text 2018 by MakeMindPowerful.com. - Designed by Thrive Themes | Powered by WordPress
Privacy Policy
Affiliate Disclosure