Migraine Treatment ⋆ El Paso's Injury Doctors® 915-850-0900
Dr. Alex Jimenez, El Paso's Chiropractor
I hope you have enjoyed our blog posts on various health, nutritional and injury related topics. Please don't hesitate in calling us or myself if you have questions when the need to seek care arises. Call the office or myself. Office 915-850-0900 - Cell 915-540-8444 Great Regards. Dr. J
Likes
Followers
Followers
Subscribers
Followers
Likes
Followers
Followers
Subscribers
Followers
Followers
Trending
Construction Workers Thrive with Chiropractic Care | El Paso, Tx.
Most Recommended Chiropractor | Video | El Paso, Tx (2019)
Chiropractors and Lawyers | Video | El Paso, Tx
How Chiropractic Helps Keep You Moving On An Assembly Line
Car Accident Injury Rehabilitation | Video | El Paso, TX.
Whiplash Rehabilitation | Video | El Paso, TX.
Car Accident Injury Chiropractor | Video | El Paso, Tx
Auto Accident Injuries | Video | El Paso, TX.
Acute Injury Management: What Does the Acronym PRICE Stand For?
Patellar Tendinitis After Automobile Accidents
Publisher - Chiropractic Injury Specialist & Passionate Doctors Advancing the Science of Post Injury Rehabilitation.
Home
Meet Us
Testimonies ♥️
Injury Care
Personal Injury
Personal Injury Doctor˚
Auto Injuries
Whiplash
Work Injuries
Federal Employee Work Injuries
Car Accident Specialist
Collision & Injury Dynamics
Crime Victims
Testimonies ♥️
Message From Dr. Alex Jimenez
Conditions Treated
Sport Injuries
Sport Injuries & Functional Fitness
Complex Injuries
Fitness
Mobility & Flexibility
Power & Strength
Agility & Speed
Crossfit Injuries
Sport Specific Training ˚
PUSHasRx ®™ ˚
Athletes
Mobility & Flexibility ˚ ˚
Chiropractic
Chiropractic Examination
Imaging & Diagnostics
Screening Tests
Neck Pain
Lower Back Pain
Severe Back Pain
Chronic Back Pain
Sciatica
Hip Pain & Disorders
Posture
Arthritis
Arthropathies
Biocentrism
Nerve Injury
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Neuropathy˚
Radiculopathies
Fibromyalgia
Massage
Headaches & Treatments
Migraine Treatment˚
Spinal Care
Sleep Hygiene
Veterans
Stress Management˚
Testimonies ♥️
Nutraceuticals & Prescriptions
Nutritional Genomics
Formulas
Functional Medicine
ProLon®
Fasting
Supplements
Adrenal Fatigue (AF)
DETOX Your BODY˚
Healthy Food
Anti Aging
Cannabinoids
New Formulas
Reformulations
Adrenal Support
Antioxidant Activity
Blood Sugar Support
Body Composition
Bone Health Support
Cardiovascular Support
Cell-Life Regulation
Cytokine Balance Support
Detoxification
Essential Fatty Acids
Female Health
Functional Food Bars
Gastrointestinal Support
Immune System Support
Joint & Muscle Support
Liver Support
Male Health
Multivitamins & Minerals
Neurological & Cognitive
Oral/Dental Health
Probiotics
Relaxation & Sleep
Sports Nutrition
Thyroid Support
XYMOGEN Supplements
EZ-Form
🔴 Contact Us
Labs & Research
Labs
Genova Diagnostics
Metametrix Labs
Cyrex Labs
Pharmasan Labs
Direct Labs
Clinical Case Reports
Clinical Case Series
Cross Sectional Studies
Case Control Studies
Cohort Studies
Randomized Controlled Trial
Systematic Reviews And Meta-Analysis
Clinical Neurophysiology
Clinical Neurology
Neuropathy˚
Cerebral Palsy
Home
Migraine Treatment˚
Migraine Treatment˚
Migraine Headache Pain & Chiropractic Treatment In El Paso, TX.
Migraine Treatment: A migraine is a debilitating, neurological condition characterized by chronic headache pain. Many people frequently seek medical attention for migraines, however, some healthcare professionals may often prescribe pain drugs and/or medications for migraine headaches. Pain killers can cause undesirable side-effects if not utilized properly. Research studies have demonstrated that chiropractic care can be a safe and effective migraine treatment option. The purpose of chiropractic migraine headache pain treatment is to prevent migraines as well as decrease the frequency of attacks.
Facts About Migraines
According to the Migraine Research Foundation, migraine is the 3rd most prevalent illness in the world. Approximately 12 percent of the population, including children, suffers from migraines, where nearly 1 in 4 United States households include someone who experiences debilitating headaches. Migraines can cause intense throbbing pain or a severe pulsing sensation, generally on one side of the head. Common symptoms include, nausea, vomiting and sensitivity to light and sound. Other common symptoms include, aura in vision or distorted vision, dizziness, lightheadedness, irritability, nasal congestion and scalp tenderness. Symptoms may vary from person to person and not everyone will experience all the symptoms mentioned above. Furthermore, some people may experience mild and/or moderate pain and have less frequent attacks than others.
Chiropractic Migraine Headache Pain Treatment
Dr. Alex Jimenez is an experienced and qualified chiropractor who specializes in migraine treatment through the use of spinal adjustments and manual manipulations, among other chiropractic methods and techniques. Chiropractic care focuses on treating the source of the issue rather than treating the symptoms alone. In addition, Dr. Alex Jimenez may recommend lifestyle modifications, including nutritional advice as well as exercise and physical activity guidance, to promote further relief. According to several research studies, chiropractic care can be a safe and effective migraine headache pain treatment.
A migraine is caused by changes in the nervous system. Migraine headaches consist of severe throbbing pain or a pulsating pain. This usually occurs on one side of the head. Migraines often begin in childhood, adolescence or early adulthood.
They can be accompanied by:
Extreme Sensitivity to Light & Sound
Nausea
Vomiting
Pain associated with migraines can last for hours, days and can be so intense that the pain is disabling.
Medications can help prevent some migraines and make them less painful. Talk to a doctor about different migraine treatment options. The right medicines, combined with self-help remedies and lifestyle changes, can help.
Symptoms
Migraines can go through 4 phases: Prodrome, Aura, Headache or (Attack phase) and the Postdrome or (Recovery phase).
Prodrome – aka “Pre-headache,” can begin hours or days before the following phases. It can be helpful because it can serve as a warning of an oncoming attack.
Prodrome symptoms can include:
Aphasia – Difficulty Finding Words and/or Speaking
Constipation and/or Diarrhea
Difficulty Concentrating
Excessive Yawning
Fatigue
Food Cravings
Hyperactivity
Increased Frequency of Urination
Mood Change
Neck Pain
Sleepiness
Aura – Visual symptoms are the best known, but there are other possible symptoms. The aura phase can also serve as a warning and in some cases, allow migraine treatment early enough to stop it before it moves on to the headache phase.
Aura symptoms can include:
Alice in Wonderland Syndrome: This is a rare form of Migraine aura where the distinctive symptom is a type of metamorphosia, or a distortion of body image and perspective. While it’s occurring it is not real. This syndrome can happen at any age, but it is more common in children.
Allodynia: Hypersensitivity to feeling and touching to the point that what is considered normal is actually painful
Aphasia
Auditory Hallucinations: Hearing sounds that are not there
Confusion
Decrease of hearing/Loss of hearing
Dizziness
Hemiplegia: One-sided paralysis (happens in hemiplegic Migraines only)
Olfactory Hallucinations: Smelling odors that are not there
One-sided motor weakness (happens in hemiplegic Migraines only)
Parasthesia: Prickling, stinging, burning, numbness, and/or tingling, most commonly happen to the extremities or face
Vertigo: Sensation of whirling or spinning not like dizziness
Aura Visual symptoms can include:
Wavy lines (sometimes described like heat rising from the road)
Blank or tiny blind spots
Blurry vision
Partial loss of sight
Phosphenes: Brief flashes of light that streak across the field of vision
Scotoma: Decreased or lost vision. Some people describe scotoma like having tiny blank spots in their vision. Some compare it to tiny snowflakes.
Unilateral or One-sided (happens in Retinal Migraines only)
Attack – The actual headache which is frequently the most debilitating phase of a migraine. Symptoms are not limited to the head, as they can affect other parts of the body. Pain can range from mild to severe. Migraines can happen without the headache phase. When this happens the term acephalgic is applied.
Headache phase symptoms can include:
As the trigeminal nerve is inflamed during a migraine, pain may occur around the eyes, the sinus area, teeth and jaw.
Confusion
Dehydration
Depression, anxiety, panic
Diarrhea or constipation
Dizziness
Duration of four to 72 hours in adults, one to 72 hours in children
Fluid retention
Headache
Hot flashes and/or chills
Nasal congestion and / or runny nose
Nausea and / or vomiting
Neck pain
Osmophobia (heightened sensitivity to odors)
Physical activity makes it worse
Phonophobia (heightened sensitivity to sound)
Photophobia (heightened sensitivity to light)
Pulsating or throbbing pain
Usually unilateral (one-sided). But headaches can shift from one side to the other, become bilateral (on both sides), or be completely bilateral
Vertigo
Postdrome – This is known as the hangover phase. Symptoms can last hours or a couple of days.
Postdrome symptoms can include:
Fatigue
Feelings of well-being and euphoria
Lowered intellect levels
Lowered mood levels, depression
Poor concentration and comprehension
Not everyone goes through all of the stages and each phase can vary in length and severity.
Diagnosis
If migraines exist in family history, a headache doctor (neurologist) can diagnose the migraines based on medical history, symptoms, and physical and neurological examination.
A doctor may also recommend additional tests to rule out other possible causes of head pain if the condition is unusual, complex or suddenly becomes severe.
Blood tests: A doctor will order these to test for blood problems, infections in the spinal cord or brain, and toxins in the system.
Computerized Tomography (CT) Scan: A CT scan combines a series of X-rays to create detailed cross-sectional images of the brain. This helps in diagnosing tumors, infections, brain damage, bleeding in the brain and other possible medical problems that could be causing the headaches.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI): An MRI produces detailed images of the brain and blood vessels. MRI scans help diagnose tumors, strokes, bleeding in the brain, infections, and other brain/nervous system (neurological) conditions.
Spinal tap (lumbar puncture): A doctor may recommend a spinal tap (lumbar puncture) if they suspect an infection, bleeding in the brain or other underlying condition. A thin needle is inserted between two vertebrae in the lower back to remove a sample of cerebrospinal fluid for analysis.
Migraine Treatment Options
Various types of migraine treatment options can help stop symptoms and prevent future attacks.
Medications have been designed to treat migraines. Some drugs often used to treat other conditions can also help relieve or prevent migraines. Medications used to combat migraines fall into two categories:
Pain-relieving medications: These are also known as acute or abortive treatment. These types of medications are taken during a migraine and are designed to stop symptoms.
Preventive medications: These types of medications are taken regularly, usually on a daily basis, to reduce the severity or frequency of the migraines.
A migraine treatment strategy depends on the frequency and severity of the headaches, degree of disability the headaches cause, and other medical conditions.
Some medications are not recommended when pregnant or breast-feeding. Some medications are not given to children. A doctor can help find the right medication.
Pain-Relieving Medications
Pain-relieving medications should be taken, as soon as, signs or symptoms present themselves for best results. Resting or sleeping in a dark room after taking them can help, as well. These medications include:
Pain Relievers: Aspirin or Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB,) can help relieve mild migraines. Acetaminophen (Tylenol), can also help relieve mild migraines.
Drugs marketed specifically for migraines, such as the combination of acetaminophen, aspirin and caffeine (Excedrin Migraine), also can ease moderate migraine pain. These are not effective by themselves for severe migraines.
If taken too often or for long periods, can lead to ulcers, gastrointestinal bleeding and headaches caused by medication overuse.
The prescription pain reliever Indomethacin may help thwart a migraine and is available in suppository form, which may be helpful if you’re nauseated.
Triptans: These medications are often used in treating migraines. Triptans make blood vessels constrict and block pain pathways in the brain.
Triptans effectively relieve the pain and other symptoms that are associated with migraines. They are available in pill, nasal spray and injection form.
Triptan medications include:
Almotriptan (Axert)
Eletriptan (Relpax)
Eletriptan (Relpax)
Frovatriptan (Frova)
Naratriptan (Amerge)
Rizatriptan (Maxalt)
Sumatriptan (Imitrex)
Zolmitriptan (Zomig)
Side effects of triptans include injection site reactions, nausea, dizziness, drowsiness and muscle weakness. They are not recommended for people with risk of stroke and heart attack.
A single-tablet combination of sumatriptan and naproxen sodium (Treximet) has proved to be more effective in relieving migraine symptoms than by themselves.
Ergots: Ergotamine and caffeine medications (Migergot, Cafergot) are not as effective as triptans. Ergots are most effective for pain lasts for more than 48 hours. They are most effective when taken after symptoms begin.
Ergotamine can worsen nausea and vomiting, and can also lead to medication-overuse headaches.
Dihydroergotamine (D.H.E. 45, Migranal) is an ergot derivative that is more effective and has fewer side effects than ergotamine. Also less likely to lead to medication-overuse headaches. It’s available in nasal spray and injection.
Anti-nausea medications: Nausea medication is commonly combined with other medications. Usually prescribed medications are chlorpromazine, metoclopramide (Reglan) or prochlorperazine (Compro).
Opioid medications: Opioid medications are sometimes used to treat migraine pain for those who can’t take triptans or ergots. Narcotics are habit-forming and are usually used only if no other migraine treatment provides relief.
Glucocorticoids (prednisone, dexamethasone): A glucocorticoid may be used with other medications to improve pain relief. However, glucocorticoids should not be used often to avoid side effects.
Preventive Medications
Candidates for preventive therapy:
Attacks last more than 12 hours
Experience four or more debilitating attacks a month
Migraine signs and symptoms include a prolonged aura and/or numbness and weakness
Pain-relieving medications are not helping
Preventive medications can reduce the frequency, severity and length of migraines and can increase the effectiveness of symptom relieving medicines used during attacks. It can take several weeks to see improvements in symptoms.
A doctor may recommend daily preventive medications, or only when predictable triggers, i.e. menstruation are about to happen.
Preventive medications don’t stop headaches completely, and some cause serious side effects. If preventive medicines are working and keeping migraines under control then a doctor may recommend tapering off the medication to see if migraines return without it.
The most common preventive medications include:
Cardiovascular Medications: Beta blockers, which are commonly used to treat high blood pressure and coronary artery disease, may reduce the frequency and severity of migraines.
Beta blockers propranolol (Inderal LA, Innopran XL) metoprolol tartrate (Lopressor) and timolol (Betimol) have proven effective for migraine prevention. Other beta blockers can also be used for migraine treatment. One might not notice improvement in symptoms for several weeks after taking these.
If older than age 60, use tobacco, or have heart or blood conditions, a doctor may recommend a different medication.
A different class of cardiovascular medications (calcium channel blockers), which are used to treat high blood pressure can also be helpful in preventing migraines and relieving symptoms. Verapamil (Calan, Verelan) is a calcium channel blocker that can help prevent migraines with aura.
The angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril (Zestril) can be used to reduce the length and severity of the migraines.
Antidepressants: Tricyclic antidepressants may be effective in preventing migraines, even in those that are not depressed.
Tricyclic antidepressants can reduce frequency of migraines by affecting the level of serotonin and other chemicals in the brain. Amitriptyline is the only tricyclic antidepressant proven to effectively prevent migraines. Other tricyclic antidepressants can be used as they contain fewer side effects than the amitriptyline.
Side effects of these medications are sleepiness, dry mouth, constipation, weight gain and other side effects.
Antidepressant known as selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors has not been proven to be effective for migraine prevention and can even worsen or trigger headaches.
Research has shown one serotonin and norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitor, venlafaxine (Effexor XR), can be helpful in migraine prevention.
Anti-Seizure Medications: Some anti-seizure medications, such as valproate (Depacon) and topiramate (Topamax), seem to reduce the frequency of migraines.
High doses of anti-seizure medications can cause side effects. Valproate sodium can cause nausea, tremors, weight gain, hair loss and dizziness. Valproate should not be used for pregnant women or women who may become pregnant.
Topiramate can cause diarrhea, nausea, weight loss, memory difficulty and concentration problems.
OnabotulinumtoxinA (Botox): Botox has shown to be helpful for treating chronic migraines in adults.
During this procedure, botox is injected into the muscles of the forehead and neck. The treatment is usually repeated every 12 weeks.
Pain Relieving Medications: Taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, like naproxen (Naprosyn), can help prevent migraines and reduce symptoms.
Lifestyle & Home Migraine Treatment
Self-care measures can help with migraine pain.
Muscle relaxation exercises. Relaxation techniques can include muscle relaxation, meditation and/or yoga.
Get the right balance of sleep every night, and make sure to go to bed and wake up at a consistent time.
Rest and relax. Try to rest in a dark, quiet room when feeling a headache coming on.
Place an ice pack wrapped in a cloth on the back of the neck and apply gentle pressure to the painful areas on the scalp.
Maintain a headache diary. It will help to learn more about what triggers the migraines and what treatment is most effective.
Alternative Medicine Migraine Treatment
Non-traditional therapies can be helpful as well.
Acupuncture can be helpful for headache pain. For this migraine treatment, a practitioner inserts thin, disposable needles into several areas at defined points.
Biofeedback has shown to be effective in relieving migraine pain. This relaxation technique uses special equipment, which shows how to monitor and control physical responses related to stress.
Massage Therapy can help reduce the frequency of migraines. Researchers continue to study the effectiveness of massage therapy in preventing migraines.
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy can benefit some people with migraines. This type of psychotherapy teaches how behaviors and thoughts affect how pain is perceived.
Herbs, Vitamins and Minerals evidence has shown that the herbs feverfew and butterbur can prevent migraines and/or reduce their severity. However, Butterbur is not recommended because of long-term safety concerns.
A high dose of riboflavin (vitamin B-2) can also prevent migraines or reduce the frequency.
Coenzyme Q10 supplements can decrease the frequency of migraines, but is still being studied.
Some people have low magnesium levels, magnesium supplements have been used to treat migraines, but with mixed results.
Ask a doctor about these migraine treatment options. Don’t use feverfew, riboflavin or butterbur if pregnant or without first talking with a doctor.
Chiropractic Migraine Treatment
Chiropractic treatment for migraines consists of moving, stretching and manipulating the spine. Chiropractic treatment does not use medication or surgery, but uses X-rays and other examinations to analyze how the spine is and how an adjustment might impact the patient’s health. Chiropractic treatment implements devices like shoe inserts, braces, straps and other tools. Chiropractic treatment also includes advice on lifestyle issues i.e. exercise, nutrition and stress management.
A study examined chiropractic treatment for various types of headaches, including migraines. The study combined the results of 22 studies, which contained more than 2,600 patients. The studies showed that chiropractic treatment can serve, as a well as, preventive treatment.
Another study found that 22% of people who had chiropractic treatment saw the number of attacks drop 90%. Within that same study, 49% had significant reduction in pain intensity.
The Purpose Of Chiropractic Migraine Headache Treatment:
Reduce the frequency of attacks
Avoid the use of drugs and/or medications
Prevent future migraines
Decrease the debilitating symptoms
Improve overall health and wellness
Possible Side Effects
Discomfort where manipulation took place
Increased pain
Stiffness
Temporary headaches
Tiredness
Serious Side Effects
In rare cases, chiropractic treatment side effects include:
Artery damage
Bleeding between the brain and the skull
Damage to the spinal cord
If there is dizziness, vertigo, nausea or loss of consciousness after receiving chiropractic treatment seek immediate medical attention.
Before seeking chiropractic treatment, talk to a doctor about all medications and supplements being taken as chiropractic manipulation could interact with medications.
Get approval from a doctor after spinal surgery
Pregnant women should talk to a doctor before chiropractic migraine treatment
Contact Our Clinic Today
If you suffer from migraine headache pain, chiropractic care can help improve your quality of life by providing you with the relief you need for your specific health issue. Chiropractic care can help the body naturally heal itself by carefully correcting a spinal misalignment, or subluxation, restoring the original structure and function of the spine. Dr. Alex Jimenez and his staff aspire to provide overall health and wellness to all of his patients, making sure to treat his patients as a whole, rather than focusing on a single injury and/or condition. Contact our office today to learn more about what chiropractic care can do for you or contact us to set up an appointment. With chiropractic care, you will be able to return to your original life in no time.
Dr. Alexander Jimenez ♛
Advanced Chiropractic & Wellness Authority ⚕ Healthcare Educator • Injury, Sciatica Specialist • 915-850-0900 📞
We Welcome You 👊🏻.
Purpose & Passions: I am a Doctor of Chiropractic specializing in progressive, cutting-edge therapies and functional rehabilitation procedures focused on clinical physiology, total health, practical strength training, and complete conditioning. We focus on restoring normal body functions after neck, back, spinal and soft tissue injuries.
We use Specialized Chiropractic Protocols, Wellness Programs, Functional & Integrative Nutrition, Agility & Mobility Fitness Training and Rehabilitation Systems for all ages.
As an extension to effective rehabilitation, we too offer our patients, disabled veterans, athletes, young and elder a diverse portfolio of strength equipment, high-performance exercises and advanced agility treatment options. We have teamed up with the cities premier doctors, therapist and trainers to provide high-level competitive athletes the possibilities to push themselves to their highest abilities within our facilities.
We’ve been blessed to use our methods with thousands of El Pasoans over the last three decades allowing us to restore our patients’ health and fitness while implementing researched non-surgical methods and functional wellness programs.
Our programs are natural and use the body’s ability to achieve specific measured goals, rather than introducing harmful chemicals, controversial hormone replacement, un-wanted surgeries, or addictive drugs. We want you to live a functional life that is fulfilled with more energy, a positive attitude, better sleep, and less pain. Our goal is to ultimately empower our patients to maintain the healthiest way of living.
With a bit of work, we can achieve optimal health together, no matter the age or disability.
Join us in improving your health for you and your family.
It’s all about: LIVING, LOVING & MATTERING! 🍎
Welcome & God Bless
EL PASO LOCATIONS
Central:
6440 Gateway East, Ste B
Phone: 915-850-0900
East Side:
11860 Vista Del Sol, Ste 128
Phone: 915-412-6677
Professional Profile
Dr. Alexander Jimenez ♛
Advanced Chiropractic & Wellness Authority ⚕ Healthcare Educator • Injury, Sciatica Specialist • 915-850-0900 📞
We Welcome You 👊🏻. Purpose & Passions: I am a Doctor of Chiropractic specializing in progressive, cutting-edge therapies and functional rehabilitation procedures focused on clinical physiology, total health, practical strength training, and complete conditioning. We focus on restoring normal body functions after neck, back, spinal and soft tissue injuries. We use Specialized Chiropractic [...]
Clinic Maps & Locations
Recent Posts: Chiropractic Scientists • 915-850-0900
What Too Much Sugar Does To Your Health El Paso, Tx.
One of the problems is that it is very difficult to get away from. Pick up almost any product on your grocery store shelves and read the ingredients. Sugar is there most of the time. Most people now acknowledge just how bad sugar is. The problem is, many are not willing to give it up.…
Methylation, Nutrition, And Lifestyle Habits
Dr. Alex Jimenez Explains Methylation, Nutrition & Lifestyle Habits A variety of healthcare professionals recommend full MDL or portions of the program to their patients. Research studies report that participants have responded well to the diet plan. By way of instance, a 57-year-old male diagnosed with diffuse myalgia and arthralgia as well as a history…
What Is This Ketogenic Diet El Paso, Texas?
There is talk about the ketogenic diet, also known as a low carbohydrate diet. While science has proven again and again the numerous health benefits, there are still those that seek to disclaim it. This guide will explain the ketogenic diet, ketones, and the many health benefits that this way of eating provides. What are…
Assessment of Methylation Status Part 4
Dr. Alex Jimenez Explains Methylation Status, Inflammation and Oxidative Stress As previously mentioned in the past series of articles, doctors can use a variety of clinical assessments to evaluate the methylation status of their patients. Although no assessment method or technique can accurately determine a patient’s methylation activity, current assessments can provide a better understanding…
Pinched Nerves And Chiropractic Relief | El Paso, Tx.
Having a pinched nerve is a common condition that can cause a wide variety of symptoms. In many cases the condition can be resolved quickly through chiropractic care; sometimes with only one session. But, chiropractic should be treated as an ongoing practice for top health and wellness. Chiropractic care can help you better manage pain…
Assessment of Methylation Status Part 3
Healthcare professionals can use several clinical assessments to examine the methylation status of their patients. But, there is not one type of assessment method or technique that can accurately show the complexity of methylation in the human body. Current assessments can help offer an understanding for methylation-related genetic polymorphisms, nutrient status, methylation-related neurotransmitters and neurotransmitter…
School Teachers Can Thrive with Chiropractic | El Paso, TX.
Teachers go through a lot in a day. They spend hours on their feet. They bend, stoop, and lift, hunching over students’ desks helping them and carrying heavy books. They sit at a desk, grading papers. It’s no wonder so many of our educators complain of neck and back pain! The good news is, regular…
Choosing Dr. Alex jimenez D.C. Injury Medical & Chiropractic Clinic
Clinic Location 1
Address: 11860 Vista Del Sol Dr Suite 128
El Paso, TX 79936
Phone: (915) 412-6677
Email: Send Email
Web: www.DrAlexJimenez.com
Clinic Location 2
Address: 6440 Gateway East, Building B
El Paso, TX 79905
Phone: (915) 850-0900
Email: Send Email
Web: www.ElPasoBackClinic.com
Clinic Location 3
Address: 1700 N Zaragoza Rd # 117
El Paso, TX 79936
Phone: (915) 850-0900
Email: Send Email
Web: www.ChiropracticScientist.com
Push As Rx Crossfit & Rehab
Address: 6440 Gateway East, Building B
El Paso, TX 79905
Phone: (915) 412-6677
Email: Send Email
Web: www.PushAsRx.com
Push 24/7
Address: 1700 E Cliff Dr
El Paso, TX 79902
Phone: (915) 412-6677
Email: Send Email
Web: www.PushAsRx.com
Call (915) 850-0900 Today! Or fill out our form below!
Dr. Alexander Jimenez ♛
Advanced Chiropractic & Wellness Authority ⚕ Healthcare Educator • Injury, Sciatica Specialist • 915-850-0900 📞
We Welcome You 👊🏻.
Purpose & Passions: I am a Doctor of Chiropractic specializing in progressive, cutting-edge therapies and functional rehabilitation procedures focused on clinical physiology, total health, practical strength training, and complete conditioning. We focus on restoring normal body functions after neck, back, spinal and soft tissue injuries.
We use Specialized Chiropractic Protocols, Wellness Programs, Functional & Integrative Nutrition, Agility & Mobility Fitness Training and Rehabilitation Systems for all ages.
As an extension to effective rehabilitation, we too offer our patients, disabled veterans, athletes, young and elder a diverse portfolio of strength equipment, high-performance exercises and advanced agility treatment options. We have teamed up with the cities premier doctors, therapist and trainers to provide high-level competitive athletes the possibilities to push themselves to their highest abilities within our facilities.
We’ve been blessed to use our methods with thousands of El Pasoans over the last three decades allowing us to restore our patients’ health and fitness while implementing researched non-surgical methods and functional wellness programs.
Our programs are natural and use the body’s ability to achieve specific measured goals, rather than introducing harmful chemicals, controversial hormone replacement, un-wanted surgeries, or addictive drugs. We want you to live a functional life that is fulfilled with more energy, a positive attitude, better sleep, and less pain. Our goal is to ultimately empower our patients to maintain the healthiest way of living.
With a bit of work, we can achieve optimal health together, no matter the age or disability.
Join us in improving your health for you and your family.
It’s all about: LIVING, LOVING & MATTERING! 🍎
Welcome & God Bless
EL PASO LOCATIONS
Central:
6440 Gateway East, Ste B
Phone: 915-850-0900
East Side:
11860 Vista Del Sol, Ste 128
Phone: 915-412-6677
Facebook Join us on Facebook
Linkedin Follow us
Twitter Join us on Twitter
Instagram Join us on Instagram
Google+ Join us on Google
Pinterest Join us on Pinterest
Posts Join our site
Tumblr Subscribers
Youtube Join us on Youtube
Vimeo Join us on Vimeo
Home
Patient Intake Form* Its Easy!
🔴 Contact Us
Athletes
Agility & Speed
Fitness
Mobility & Flexibility
Power & Strength
Chiropractic
Arthropathies
Carpal Tunnel
Chronic Back Pain
Clinical Success Stories
Complex Injuries
Fibromyalgia
Hip Pain & Disorders
Lower Back Pain
Massage
Neck Pain
Nerve Injury
Posture
Sciatica
Spinal Care
Spinal Hygiene
Nutrition and Wellness
Personal Injury
Auto Injuries
Car Accident Specialist
E-Z Intake Form *
Legal Disclaimer **
Medical Legal
Rss Feed (Site Map)
© 2019 - El Paso's Injury Doctors® 915-850-0900. All Rights Reserved.
Website Design: The Injury Specialist®
Multi Domain SSL
Call Now Button