depression |
SAD Lamp Reviews
#1 – NorthStar 10,000 Light Box Review
#2 – NatureBright Sun Touch Plus Review
#3 – Verilux HappyLight Deluxe Sunshine Simulator
#4 – Lightphoria 10,000 LUX Energy Light Lamp Review
#5 – Philips HF3520 Wake Up Light Review
Choosing A Light Therapy Box
Seasonal Affective Disorder
SAD Symptoms
About
Contact
Blog
depression
Is There A Link Between Vitamin D And Depression?
admin August 25, 2014
Vitamin D is sometimes referred to as the Sunshine vitamin, because it can be absorbed and synthesized through the skin with proper sunlight. It also can be acquired through diet and taken in supplement form to promote healthy levels. The most important two types of this vitamin are D2 & D3. Despite popular belief, it is not an actual essential vitamin, because it can also be implemented through a healthy exposure to the sun. Any vitamin that is essential means that it can only be obtained and put into use through diet.
D is in charge of making the absorption of Zinc, Calcium, Phosphate, Magnesium and Iron possible.
Although the link between D and depression remains inconclusive, it has some very important health benefits.
First Consider The Symptoms Of Vitamin D Deficiency
Muscle fatique
skeletal pain
Cognition issues with the elderly
Greater risk of cardiovascular disease
And some studies hint at the possibility that vitamin D may be helpful in preventing M.S., as well as type 1 & 2 diabetes. If you cannot consume milk, are a strict vegan or do not get enough natural sunlight then you can run the risk of vitamin d deficiency.
Does Vitamin D Deficiency Cause Depression?
Evidence is not conclusive, but some research does show a link between low vitamin D levels and depression. The issue is that it is uncertain whether or not a low level of D can cause depression or if having depression causes a low presence of D.
Research has however shown that it is very imperative to the basic functionality of both the body and the brain. In fact, many receptors in the brain do utilize this vitamin and a great number of these receptors are located in specific regions of the brain that have a direct link with depression.
A 2008 research that was carried out in Norway revealed that participants who had low traces of vitamin D in their blood stream had a stronger presence of depression and it’s symptoms. For more details please see https://www.vitamindcouncil.org/health-conditions/depression/.
It’s also been estimated that 1 in 4 people suffer from a deficiency of vitamin D. Part of the issue is that for many people around the world, getting an ample amount of sunlight is difficult. This is because for many, the Winter and Fall process can drag on for up to 6 months out of the year; making it more challenging to get enough sunlight.
Studies have shown promise in using light therapy throughout this time to improve mood and do away with Seasonal Depression. Whether there is a link between this and vitamin D is uncertain, but some sources have shown that getting more D3 can help.
One thing seems to be quite clear. If you already have depression, increasing the amount of D in your body does not seem to show any harm or side effects.
Best Food Sources Of Vitamin D
Although you can take D3 supplements there are also some organic food sources that promote healthy levels.
Fatty fishes
Cod liver oil (can be taken as a supplement)
Herring, Mackerel, Salmon, Tuna, Catfish, Sardines
Milk and Soymilk
White Mushrooms
Tofu
Vitamin D fortified orange juice
Fortified cereal
Eggs
Spinach
Shitake mushrooms
Not a whole lot of foods are good sources of D. You’ll find most of them that do relate to seafood, while other forms that you can buy in your local grocery store such as cereals, grains and juices are fortified with D. For vegans or anyone who is concerned that they cannot get enough of this vitamin, D supplements are a great solution. Sunshine is another thing to consider getting more of as well.
Facebook
Twitter
depression	depression, vitamin d, vitamin d research
#1 – Recommended
NorthStar 10,000 Light Box Review
Recently I wanted to take a closer look at the NorthStar 10,000 LUX light box and this is what I discovered. Pros: Lifetime Warranty to original Read Review
Lightphoria 10,000 LUX Energy Light Lamp Review
Rating: The Lightphoria 10,000 Lux Energy Light Lamp is a portable SAD light system that mimics real sunlight and does so in a compact and Read Review
NatureBright Sun Touch Plus Review
Rating: One of the most popular light therapy boxes on Amazon, the NatureBright Sun Touch Plus Light & Ion Therapy Lamp packs all of the Read Review
Verilux HappyLight Deluxe Sunshine Simulator
Rating: If it weren't for the price I would say that the Verilux HappyLight takes the cake, but I know that most people aren't going to want Read Review
Philips HF3520 Wake Up Light Review
Rating: The Philips HF3520 Wake-Up Light With Colored Sunrise Simulation is a star player in the Amazon marketplace and a #1 featured product Read Review
Things That May Interest You
Recent Posts
Feeling Stressed Every Day? Fix These 3 Things
4 Unique Sun Lamps For SAD This Season!
Waking Up With Anxiety In The Middle Of The Night?
Organifi Green Juice Review
5 Homemade Energy Drink Recipes
Categories
anxiety
circadian rhythm
depression
Diet & Nutrition
meditation
natural depression remedies
natural health
phototherapy
podcasts
psychotherapy
SAD
SAD lights
SAD therapy
seasonal affective disorder
sleep disorders
SSRIs
therapy
winter blues
Archives
October 2018
May 2018
September 2016
August 2015
July 2015
January 2015
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
Privacy Policy
Medical Disclaimer
I receive monetary compensation should you decide to purchase a product mentioned on this site by clicking on a link to a product.
I have no problem being transparent about this as I pride myself on writing good content that delivers to you information that is also important to me.
I get paid a small commission should you choose to buy a product after clicking through on one of my links linking to the product. This helps me cover the costs of running this site, but by law I must make sure that you know this.
Therefor you should also assume that any link on this site leading to a 3rd party website is an affiliate link, although they aren't always. I also make sure to only link to trusted sources, mainly Amazon.
I sincerely hope to point you in the right direction and help you find solutions for issues relating to depression, seasonal depression and anxiety, as I have also struggled with these issues throughout my life.
Best of luck in your quest for answers.
© 2019 . All rights reserved.
Flato by ThemeMeme