Croup
Our Office
Appointments: 813-655-7726
681 West Lumsden Road | Brandon, FL 33511
Fax: 813-655-5617
After Hours Information
Patient Portal Pay My Bill
Menu
Home
Office Info
Insurance
Hospitals
Get Our Mobile App
Services
Emergencies
Appointments
Well Visits
After Hours
Request Appointment
Referrals
Payment / Online Bill Pay
Meet Our Team
Providers
Staff
Awards & Honors
Meet & Greet
Patient Education
Newborns
Teens
Breast Feeding
Behavior
Special Needs
Parenting Tips
Immunizations
Emergencies
Growth & Development
Nutrition
Safety
Sports & Exercise
Useful Links
Nutrition and Activity
Forms
New Patients
Contact Us
Pay My Bill
Croup
Is this your child's symptom?
Barky cough and hoarse voice caused by a virus
Croup is a viral infection of the voicebox (larynx)
The croupy cough is tight, low-pitched, and barky (like a barking seal)
The voice or cry is hoarse (called laryngitis)
Some children with severe croup get a harsh, tight sound while breathing in. This is called stridor.
If NOT, try one of these:
Cough
Wheezing (Other Than Asthma)
Stridor: A nother Health Problem of Croup
Stridor is a harsh, raspy tight sound best heard with breathing in
Loud or constant stridor means severe croup. So does stridor at rest (when not crying or coughing).
All stridor needs to be treated with warm mist
Most children with stridor need treatment with a steroid (such as Decadron)
For any stridor, see First Aid for treatment
Causes of a Croupy Cough
Viral Croup. Viruses are the most common cause of croup symptoms. Many respiratory viruses can infect the vocal cord area and cause narrowing. Even influenza (the flu) can do this. A fever is often present with the barky cough.
Allergic Croup. A croupy cough can occur with exposure to pollens or allergens in a barn. A runny nose, itchy eyes and sneezing are also often present.
Inhaled Powder. Breathing in any fine substance can trigger 10 minutes of severe coughing. Examples are powdered sugar, flour dust or peanut dust. They can float into the lungs. This is not an allergic reaction.
Airway Foreign Object (Serious). Suspect when there is a sudden onset of coughing and choking. Common examples are peanut and seeds. Peak age is 1 to 4 years.
Food Allergy (Serious). Croup symptoms can also be caused by a food allergy. This can be life-threatening (anaphylaxis). Examples are nuts or fish.
When to Call for Croup
When to Call for Croup
Call 911 Now
Severe trouble breathing (struggling for each breath, constant severe stridor)
Passed out or stopped breathing
Lips or face are bluish when not coughing
Croup started suddenly after bee sting, taking a new medicine or allergic food
Drooling, spitting or having great trouble swallowing. Exception: drooling due to teething.
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Doctor or Seek Care Now
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) is heard now
Trouble breathing. Exception: present only when coughing.
Lips or face have turned bluish during coughing
Ribs are pulling in with each breath (retractions)
Breathing is much faster than normal
Can't bend the neck forward
Severe chest pain
Age less than 1 year old with stridor
Had croup before that needed Decadron
Weak immune system. Examples are: sickle cell disease, HIV, cancer, organ transplant, taking oral steroids.
High-risk child (such as cystic fibrosis or other chronic lung disease)
Fever over 104° F (40° C)
Age less than 12 weeks old with fever. Caution: do NOT give your baby any fever medicine before being seen.
Your child looks or acts very sick
You think your child needs to be seen, and the problem is urgent
Call Doctor Within 24 Hours
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) occurred but not present now
Nonstop coughing
Age less than 1 year old with a croupy cough
Earache or ear drainage
Fever lasts more than 3 days
Fever returns after being gone more than 24 hours
You think your child needs to be seen, but the problem is not urgent
Call Doctor During Office Hours
Coughing causes vomiting 3 or more times
Croup is a frequent problem (3 or more times)
Barky cough lasts more than 14 days
You have other questions or concerns
Self Care at Home
Mild croup (barky cough) with no stridor
Call 911 Now
Severe trouble breathing (struggling for each breath, constant severe stridor)
Passed out or stopped breathing
Lips or face are bluish when not coughing
Croup started suddenly after bee sting, taking a new medicine or allergic food
Drooling, spitting or having great trouble swallowing. Exception: drooling due to teething.
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Doctor or Seek Care Now
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) is heard now
Trouble breathing. Exception: present only when coughing.
Lips or face have turned bluish during coughing
Ribs are pulling in with each breath (retractions)
Breathing is much faster than normal
Can't bend the neck forward
Severe chest pain
Age less than 1 year old with stridor
Had croup before that needed Decadron
Weak immune system. Examples are: sickle cell disease, HIV, cancer, organ transplant, taking oral steroids.
High-risk child (such as cystic fibrosis or other chronic lung disease)
Fever over 104° F (40° C)
Age less than 12 weeks old with fever. Caution: do NOT give your baby any fever medicine before being seen.
Your child looks or acts very sick
You think your child needs to be seen, and the problem is urgent
Call Doctor Within 24 Hours
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) occurred but not present now
Nonstop coughing
Age less than 1 year old with a croupy cough
Earache or ear drainage
Fever lasts more than 3 days
Fever returns after being gone more than 24 hours
You think your child needs to be seen, but the problem is not urgent
Call Doctor During Office Hours
Coughing causes vomiting 3 or more times
Croup is a frequent problem (3 or more times)
Barky cough lasts more than 14 days
You have other questions or concerns
Self Care at Home
Mild croup (barky cough) with no stridor
Care Advice for Croup
What You Should Know About Croup:
Most children with croup just have a barky cough.
Some have tight breathing (called stridor). Stridor is a loud, harsh sound when breathing in. It comes from the area of the voicebox.
Coughing up mucus is very important. It helps protect the lungs from pneumonia.
We want to help a productive cough, not turn it off.
Here is some care advice that should help.
First Aid For Stridor (Harsh sound with breathing in):
Breathe warm mist in a closed bathroom with the hot shower running. Do this for 20 minutes.
You could also use a wet washcloth held near the face.
Caution: Do not use very hot water or steam which could cause burns.
If warm mist fails, breathe cool air by standing near an open refrigerator. You can also go outside with your child if the weather is cold. Do this for a few minutes.
Calm Your Child if He or She has Stridor:
Crying or fear can make stridor worse.
Try to keep your child calm and happy.
Hold and comfort your child.
Use a soothing, soft voice.
Humidifier:
If the air in your home is dry, use a humidifier.
Reason: Dry air makes croup worse.
Homemade Cough Medicine:
Goal: Decrease the irritation or tickle in the throat that causes a dry cough.
Age 3 months to 1 year: Give warm clear fluids to treat the cough. Examples are apple juice and lemonade. Amount: Use a dose of 1-3 teaspoons (5-15 mL). Give 4 times per day when coughing. Caution: Do not use honey until 1 year old.
Age 1 year and older: Use Honey ½ to 1 teaspoon (2-5 mL) as needed. It works as a homemade cough medicine. It can thin the secretions and loosen the cough. If you don't have any honey, you can use corn syrup.
Age 6 years and older: Use Cough Drops to decrease the tickle in the throat. If you don't have any, you can use hard candy. Avoid cough drops before 6 years. Reason: risk of choking.
Non-Prescription Cough Medicine (DM):
Non-prescription cough medicines are not advised. Reason: No proven benefit for children and not approved under 6 years old. (FDA)
Honey has been shown to work better for coughs. Caution: Do not use honey until 1 year old.
If age 6 years or older, you might decide to use a cough medicine. Choose one with dextromethorphan (DM) such as Robitussin Cough syrup. DM is present in most non-prescription cough syrups.
When to Use: Give only for severe coughs that interfere with sleep or school.
DM Dose: Give every 6 to 8 hours as needed.
Coughing Fits or Spells - Warm Mist and Fluids:
Breathe warm mist, such as with shower running in a closed bathroom.
Give warm clear fluids to drink. Examples are apple juice and lemonade.
Age under 3 months. Don't use warm fluids.
Age 3 - 12 months of age. Give 1 ounce (30 mL) each time. Limit to 4 times per day.
Age over 1 year of age. Give as much warm fluids as needed.
Reason: Both relax the airway and loosen up any phlegm.
Fluids - Offer More:
Try to get your child to drink lots of fluids.
Goal: Keep your child well hydrated.
It also loosens up any phlegm in the lungs. Then it's easier to cough up.
Fever Medicine:
For fevers above 102° F (39° C), give an acetaminophen product (such as Tylenol).
Another choice is an ibuprofen product (such as Advil).
Note: Fevers less than 102° F (39° C) are important for fighting infections.
For all fevers: Keep your child well hydrated. Give lots of cold fluids.
Sleep Close By to Your Child:
Sleep in the same room with your child for a few nights.
Reason: Stridor can start all of a sudden at night.
Avoid Tobacco Smoke:
Tobacco smoke makes croup much worse.
Return to School:
Your child can go back to school after the fever is gone.
Your child should also feel well enough to join in normal activities.
For practical purposes, the spread of croup and colds cannot be prevented.
What to Expect:
Most often, croup lasts 5 to 6 days and becomes worse at night.
The croupy cough can last up to 2 weeks.
Call Your Doctor If:
Trouble breathing occurs
Stridor (harsh raspy sound) occurs
Croupy cough lasts more than 14 days
You think your child needs to be seen
Your child becomes worse
And remember, contact your doctor if your child develops any of the 'Call Your Doctor' symptoms.
Disclaimer: this health information is for educational purposes only. You, the reader, assume full responsibility for how you choose to use it.
Copyright 2000-2019 Schmitt Pediatric Guidelines LLC.
First Aid - Croup with Stridor
Stridor is a harsh, tight sound with breathing in. Stridor means the croup is severe.
Breathe warm mist in a closed bathroom with the hot shower running. Do this for 20 minutes.
Other Option: Use a wet washcloth held near the face. Can also use a humidifier containing warm water.
Caution: Do not use very hot water or steam which could cause burns. Hot steam can also cause high body temperatures.
If warm mist fails, breathe cool air by standing near an open refrigerator. You can also go outside with your child if the weather is cold. Do this for a few minutes.
Is Your Child Sick?®
Illnesses and Symptoms... Abdominal Pain - Female Abdominal Pain - Male Acne Animal or Human Bite Antibiotics: When Do They Help? Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bed Bug Bite Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Boil Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Breath-holding Spell Bronchiolitis-RSV Bruises and Cuts Burn Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Coughs: Meds or Home Remedies? Cracked or Dry Skin Cradle Cap Croup Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old Crying Child - 3 Months and Older Cut, Scrape, or Bruise Diaper Rash Diarrhea Diarrhea Diseases From Travel Dizziness Drinking Fluids - Decreased Dry Skin Ear - Congestion Ear - Discharge Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing Ear - Swimmer's Ear Infection Questions Ear Injury Earache Earwax Buildup Ebola Exposure Eczema Emergency Symptoms Not to Miss Eye - Allergy Eye - Foreign Object Eye - Pus or Discharge Eye - Red Without Pus Eye Injury Eye Swelling Fainting Fever Fever - How to Take the Temperature Fever - Myths Versus Facts Fifth Disease Finger Injury Fire Ant Sting Flu Fluid Intake Decreased Food Allergy Foreskin Care Questions Frostbite Genital Injury - Female Genital Injury - Male Hair Loss Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever Head Injury Head Lice Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Human or Animal Bite Immunization Reactions Impetigo - Infected Sores Infection Exposure Questions Influenza - Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Jellyfish Sting Jock Itch Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice - Head Lymph Nodes - Swollen Medicine - Refusal to Take Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Period - Missed or Late Mental Health Problems Molluscum Mosquito Bite Mosquito-Borne Diseases from Travel Motion Sickness Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness - How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Allergy (Hay Fever) Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy - Oak - Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness - Localized Rash or Redness - Widespread Reflux (Spitting Up) Ringworm Roseola RSV-Bronchiolitis Scabies Scorpion Sting Scrape Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Object Skin Injury Skin Lump Sliver or Splinter Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up - Reflux Stomach Pain - Female Stomach Pain - Male Stools - Blood In Stools - Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Strep Throat Infection Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Swallowed Foreign Object Swallowed Harmless Substance Swimmer's Itch - Lakes and Oceans Tear Duct - Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Toe Injury Toenail - Ingrown Tooth Injury Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Urinary Tract Infection - Female Urination Pain - Female Urination Pain - Male Vaginal Bleeding Vaginal Symptoms Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea Warts Weakness and Fatigue Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection
Medicine Dosages... Acetaminophen ASDs Family Handout—Introduction to Complementary and Alternative Medicine Choosing Over-the-Counter Medicines for Your Child Cold Medicines Cough Medicines Giving Medicine to Children: Important Safety Information Ibuprofen Itching/Allergies Medicine and the Media: How to Make Sense of the Messages Medicines for ADHD: Questions From Teens Who Have ADHD Parent's Guide to Complementary and Integrative Medicine, A Prescription Medicines and Your Child Use of Medicines in Sports (Care of the Young Athlete) Using Liquid Medicines Using Over-the-Counter Medicines with Your Child
Medical Conditions... A Guide to Children’s Dental Health Abdominal Pain, Recurrent Acne Acute Ear Infections and Your Child Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Otitis Media Acute Strep Throat Addison AIDS/HIV Allergies in Children Anaphylaxis Anemia and Your Young Child: Guidelines for Parents: Adapted from Caring for Your Baby and Young Child: Birth to Age 5 Anesthesia and Your Child: Information for Parents Ankle Sprain Treatment (Care of the Young Athlete) Antibiotics and Your Child Anxiety Appendicitis Asthma Asthma and Exercise (Care of the Young Athlete) Asthma and Your Child Asthma Triggers Atopic Dermatitis (Eczema) Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Breast Enlargement, Premature Breath-Holding Spells Bronchiolitis Bronchiolitis and Your Young Child Care of the Premature Infant Celiac Disease Chickenpox Chickenpox Immunization Chickenpox Vaccine, The Coarctation of the Aorta Colds Common Childhood Infections Congenital Hip Dysplasia Constipation Constipation and Your Child Coxsackie A16 Croup Croup and Your Young Child Croup: When Your Child Needs Hospital Care Crying and Your Baby: How to Calm a Fussy or Colicky Baby Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome (CVS) Depression Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip Diabetic Mother, Infant of Diaper Rash and Your Baby Diarrhea and Your Child Diarrhea, Vomiting, and Water Loss (Dehydration) Ear Infection Ear Infections Eating Disorders Eczema Eczema (Atopic Dermatitis) and Your Child Enlarged Lymph Nodes Erythema Multiforme Eye Problems Related to Headache Febrile Seizure Febrile Seizures Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Fever Fever and Your Child Fifth Disease Fifth Disease (Erythema Infectiosum) Flu Flu, The Food Allergies and Your Child Fragile X Syndrome Gastroenteritis, Viral Gastroenteritis: When Your Child Needs Hospital Care Gastroesophageal Reflux Hand Foot and Mouth Hand-Foot-and-Mouth Disease Head Lice Headache Related to Eye Problems Hemangioma Hepatitis A Hepatitis A Immunization Hepatitis B Hepatitis B Immunization Hepatitis C Hib Immunization High Blood Pressure Hip Dysplasia (Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip) HIV/AIDS How to Take Your Child's Temperature Hyperactivity Hypertension Hypothyroidism Immunizations Infant of a Diabetic Mother Infectious Mononucleosis Influenza Immunization Influenza-Seasonal Inhaled and Intranasal Corticosteroids and Your Child Kawasaki Syndrome Language Development in Young Children Lead Poisoning Leukemia Lung Hypoplasia Lyme Disease Lymphadenopathy Managing Chronic Health Needs in Child Care and Schools—Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Measles Mental Health Middle Ear Fluid and Your Child MMR Immunization Molluscum Contagiosum Mumps Obesity in Childhood Osgood-Schlatter Disease (Care of the Young Athlete) Otitis Media, Acute Parasites - Giardia Pneumococcal Conjugate Immunization Pneumonia and Your Child Polio Immunization Premature Thelarche Prematurity Prematurity, Retinopathy of Pulmonary Hypertension Pulmonary Hypertension (PPH & SPH) Retinopathy of Prematurity Rheumatic Fever, Acute Ringworm (Tinea) Roseola Rotavirus Rubella (German Measles) Safety of Blood Transfusions Scabies Seasonal Influenza (Flu) Separation Anxiety Sinusitis Sinusitis and Your Child Sleep Apnea and Your Child Smoking Speech Development in Young Children Stevens-Johnson Syndrome Strep Throat Strep Throat-Acute Strep Throat-Recurrent Stuttering and the Young Child Swine Flu Swine Flu (H1N1) FAQ Swine Flu (H1N1) Vaccine Swollen Glands Tattoos Tear Duct, Blocked Tetralogy of Fallot Thyroid Problems Tinea (ringworm infection) Tonsils and the Adenoid Toxic Shock Syndrome Toxoplasmosis Treating Your Child's Pain: Medical Procedures Treating Your Child's Pain: Surgery Turner Syndrome Type 2 Diabetes: Tips for Healthy Living Underdeveloped Lungs Urinary Tract Infection Urinary Tract Infections in Young Children Varicella or Chickenpox Varivax Immunization Vesicoureteral Reflux Wheezing-Infant Whooping Cough (Pertussis) Wilson Disease Food Borne Illnesses
X
X