Warts: Types & Home Treatment
Newsletter
Warts
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on April 20, 2017 — Written by Elea Carey
Genital warts
Types
When to see a doctor
Home treatments
Treatments
Prevention
What are warts?
Warts are raised bumps on your skin caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). Warts have plagued humans for thousands of years — they have been discovered on 3,000-year-old mummies and were mentioned by Shakespeare. Although warts generally aren’t dangerous, they are ugly, potentially embarrassing, and contagious. They can also be painful.
Important information about genital warts
There are more than 100 types of HPV, the virus that causes warts. Almost all types of HPV cause relatively harmless warts that appear on your hands or feet. However, there are a few strains of HPV that cause warts on, in, and around your genitals. In women, these warts — called “genital warts” — can eventually lead to cervical cancer, a potentially fatal disease.If you think you have genital warts or think you have been exposed to them, you should see a doctor right away.
What are the types of warts?
There are five major types of warts. Each type appears on a different part of the body and has a distinct appearance.
Common warts
Common wartsusually grow on your fingers and toes, but can appear elsewhere. They have a rough, grainy appearance and a rounded top. Common warts are grayer than the surrounding skin.
Plantar warts
Plantar warts grow on the soles of the feet. Unlike other warts, plantar warts grow into your skin, not out of it. You can tell if you have a plantar wart if you notice what appears to be a small hole in the bottom of your foot that is surrounded by hardened skin. Plantar warts can make walking uncomfortable.
Flat warts
Flat warts usually grow on the face, thighs, or arms. They are small and not immediately noticeable. Flat warts have a flat top, as if they’ve been scraped. They can be pink, brownish, or slightly yellow.
Filiform warts
Filiform warts grow around your mouth or nose and sometimes on your neck or under your chin. They are small and shaped like a tiny flap or tag of skin. Filiform warts are the same color as your skin.
Periungual warts
Periungual warts grow under and around the toenails and fingernails. They can be painful and affect nail growth.
When should I see a doctor?
You should see your doctor if:
you have warts on your face or another sensitive part of your body (e.g., genitals, mouth, nostrils)
you notice bleeding or signs of infection, such as pus or scabbing, around a wart
the wart is painful
the color of the wart changes
you have warts and diabetes or an immune deficiency, such as HIV/AIDS
Can I treat warts at home?
Although warts usually go away on their own, they are ugly and uncomfortable, so you may want to try treating them at home. Many warts respond well to treatments available at the drugstore.
Some things to remember:
You can spread warts to other parts of your body, and they are contagious to others. If a treatment requires that you rub the wart with a fingernail file or a pumice stone, don’t use that utensil on any other part of your body, and don’t allow anyone else to use it.
Don’t try to treat warts on your feet if you have diabetes. See your doctor. Diabetes can cause loss of sensation in your feet, so you can easily injure yourself without realizing it.
Don’t try to remove warts on your face or another sensitive part of your body (such as your genitals, mouth, or nostrils) with at-home treatments.
Freezing treatments
These over-the-counter treatments spray concentrated cold air (a mixture of dimethyl ether and propane) onto your wart. This kills the skin and allows you to scrape away the surface of the wart. These treatments are a good choice if you want to try to remove a wart quickly, but they aren’t strong enough to remove all warts.
Treatments and patches containing salicylic acid
You must use these products every day, often for a few weeks. They’ll work best if you soak the wart in water for about 15 minutes before you apply the treatment.
Shop for salicylic acid treatments.
Duct tape
Some people have had success treating warts with duct tape. The process involves covering the wart with a small piece of duct tape for several days, then soaking the wart, and, finally, rubbing the wart to remove the dead skin. This approach can take several rounds of treatments to work.
What can my doctor do about warts?
If your wart doesn’t respond well to at-home treatments, your doctor may be able to help. Remember, always see your doctor if you have diabetes and have warts on your feet.
Liquid nitrogen
Your doctor may freeze your wart with liquid nitrogen. This can be a bit painful, but usually works well. More than one treatment may be required. Freezing causes a blister to form under and around your wart. This lifts the wart away from the skin within about a week.
Surgery
Surgery is usually only considered if a wart hasn’t responded to other treatments. Your doctor can cut away your wart with a surgical knife or burn it with electricity. You’ll need to receive a shot of anesthetic first, and these shots can be painful. Surgery may also cause scarring.
Can warts be prevented?
There are ways to prevent warts and keep them from spreading to other parts of your body if you already have one. Follow these simple guidelines:
Wash your hands regularly, especially if you’ve been in contact with someone with warts.
Don’t pick at your warts.
Cover warts with a bandage.
Keep your hands and feet dry.
Wear shower shoes (flip-flops) when in a locker room or communal bathing facility.
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on April 20, 2017 — Written by Elea Carey
related stories
Can You Remove Warts with Apple Cider Vinegar?
Home Remedies for Genital Warts: What Works?
HPV and HIV: What Are the Differences?
Anal Warts
What You Need to Know About the HPV Vaccine
READ THIS NEXT
Can You Remove Warts with Apple Cider Vinegar?
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Apple cider vinegar may be touted as a remedy for just about anything, but can it really treat warts? Anecdotal evidence suggests this is true, but as…
READ MORE
Home Remedies for Genital Warts: What Works?
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Here are seven genital warts home remedies that you can try. Remedies include using tea tree oil and applying green tea. Though you can treat genital…
READ MORE
HPV and HIV: What Are the Differences?
Medically reviewed by Holly Ernst, PA-C
Although HPV and HIV can both be sexually transmitted, these infections have different symptoms and management plans. Here's what you should know…
READ MORE
Anal Warts
Medically reviewed by Janet Brito, PhD, LCSW, CST
Anal warts are a form of genital warts caused by human papillomavirus (HPV). They’re a type of genital wart that occurs inside or around the anus. In…
READ MORE
What You Need to Know About the HPV Vaccine
Medically reviewed by Daniel Murrell, MD
The HPV vaccine protects against human papillomavirus (HPV). HPV is a common sexually transmitted infection that can cause problems from genital warts…
READ MORE
Mushroom Extract Could Cure HPV, Study Says
Preliminary testing shows that a shiitake mushroom extract shows promise in curing HPV.
READ MORE
Treating and Preventing Plantar Warts
Medically reviewed by William A. Morrison, MD
Learn more about treating and preventing these common warts.
READ MORE
Genital Warts in Pregnancy
Medically reviewed by Holly Ernst, PA-C
Genital warts are a sexually transmitted infection. They typically appear as fleshy growths in the moist tissues of the genitals in both men and women.
READ MORE
Cryotherapy: Is Freezing Warts an Effective Treatment?
Medically reviewed by Elaine Luo, MD
Cryotherapy is a treatment that can be used to remove warts by freezing them.
READ MORE
Recognizing and Treating Common Foot Problems
Medically reviewed by Daniel Murrell, MD
As an integral part of your everyday life, your feet experience a lot of wear and tear. You're likely to develop foot problems over time as a result.
READ MORE
CMS Id: 21589 Client Version: 478d73e1dd9c5e778a40d69f42568223020523ba Build Number: 26877