11 Reasons Why Whey Protein is Important for Health And Fitness
Call to fight diseases
<?php<div class="main-wrap content-main-wrap">
Home
What is Truweight
Success Stories
Superfoods
Contact us
Truweight - Honest Weightloss through Super Foods
Health Consultation worth Rs.1500, absolutely FREE
Select CityBangaloreMumbaiDelhi NCRHyderabadChennaiOthers
Book now
Blog
Nutrition
Food & Nutrition
Health Snacks
Superfoods
Health
Recipes
Snacks
Breakfast
Healthy Cooking
Fitness & Exercise
Exercise Basics
Workout Ideas
Cardio
Strength & Toning
Weight Loss
Myths & Facts
Home
Food & Nutrition
11 Reasons Why Whey Protein is Important for Health And Fitness
11 Reasons Why Whey Protein is Important for Health And Fitness
By Saba Ahmad Last updated Apr 8, 2019 4
Adding whey protein to your healthy eating diet is an excellent way to build your muscles, improve health and fitness levels, and strengthen the body.
Research suggests that consuming whey protein along with resistance training can help in maintaining lean body mass and increase upper and lower-body strength.
This is because whey protein promotes greater muscle growth due to the presence of amino acids which are the muscles building block.
Whey protein
Research clearly shows that whey proteins are good for health and even for people suffering from ailments like diabetes, blood sugar, blood pressure, cholesterol or a weak gut.
Health benefits of whey protein
Whey protein is a mixture of proteins found in the commonly discarded liquid portion produced during the cheese manufacturing process.
It is found in the milk of nearly all animals, including humans. It is rich in vitamins, minerals, and essential amino acids needed for muscle growth.
Here are some of the key benefits of whey protein
1. Helps in muscle gain and fitness levels
Whey protein supplements give the body the amino acids needed to maintain muscle mass during calorie restriction diet. In a caloric restriction diet, the body uses existing protein for fuel.
The amino acid leucine is the driving factor for muscle growth in whey protein.
Leucine makes up 12% of the amino acids in whey protein and functions by stimulating muscle growth in the body. The amino acids in whey protein also increase lean muscle growth after exercise [3].
2. Whey protein reduces hunger and aids weight loss
Drinking whey protein shake helps in weight loss by reducing hunger when compared to other protein supplements such as casein and soy proteins.
Taking whey protein 90 minutes before a meal increases hormones responsible for satiety and, even during a state of reduced caloric intake.
The body will reach a satisfied state sooner and with less food. Obese people actually see a major decrease in liver fat within 4 weeks of adding whey protein to their diet.
If you are on a calorie-reduced diet to lose body fat and preserve lean muscle then have whey protein. Its high count of leucine helps in maintaining the right weight
Get FREE Health Consultation Today!
3. Improves digestive system health
Whey protein is prebiotic that helps good bacteria in the gut and can improve intestinal disorders. Lactoferrin, a protein found in whey, plays an important role in the uptake of iron through the digestive system.
Iron is important for carrying oxygen in red blood cells and preventing anemia.
While lactoferrin may have other health benefits such as its anticancer properties, it may be in too low of quantities in whey to exert these effects.
4. Whey protein can help in type 2 diabetes
Related Posts
3 Super Interesting Recipes That Will Add More Flavours To…
Apr 6, 2019
Here Is How You Can Easily Include Healthy Protein Foods In…
Mar 26, 2019
7 Good eating habits that naturally slim people have, may be…
Mar 23, 2019
For people with In type 2 diabetic, whey protein taken during a meal increases the insulin response and significantly decreases blood glucose levels.
Those struggling with maintaining a low sugar level in the blood can consume whey protein before a high carbohydrate meal to reduce glucose levels after the meal.
5. Increases antioxidant defenses
Whey protein contains a large supply of the amino acid cysteine, which is known to be a precursor of glutathione, a powerful antioxidant made by the body.
Glutathione is responsible for many health benefits, like restoring cellular damage and preventing diseases such as cancer.
6. Whey Protein has anti-cancer properties
Whey protein increases glutathione synthesis in normal cells while decreasing glutathione levels in cancer cells. Using whey protein concentrate might become a promising strategy in tackling resistance to cancer therapies.
7. Lowers blood pressure
Fermented dairy products reduce blood pressure in patients suffering from high blood pressure.
In fact, research suggests that fermented milk supplemented with whey protein concentrate lowered blood pressure and cholesterol levels.
Whey protein contains a natural bioactive peptide called lactose, which helps in the treatment of high blood pressure and improves cardiovascular health.
Common high blood pressure pharmaceutical drugs contain a synthetic, but more powerful, replacement for lactose. Six weeks of whey protein supplementation can decrease blood pressure in overweight individuals.
8. Whey Protein Helps in Reducing Inflammation
Inflammation is the body’s natural reply to tissue damage and pathogens. The immune system clears out injured cells triggering tissue repair.
A study suggests that whey protein reduces inflammation [11]. Whey protein reduces gut inflammation and damage to the intestinal lining by increasing both antioxidant defenses and good bacteria.
9. Reduces high cholesterol in overweight individuals
Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol or “bad” cholesterol is a major risk factor for heart disease, heart attack, and stroke. Overweight patients taking high doses of whey protein supplements noticed a significant decrease in bad cholesterol.
10. Whey protein improves bone health in women
For women suffering from postmenopausal osteoporosis, bones become fragile from increased bone degradation (resorption) due to hormonal changes (lower estrogen).
Whey protein supplements help in bone resorption in postmenopausal phase.
Get FREE Health Consultation Today!
11. Check out our videos on how to make tasty shakes with whey protein:
For more such interesting and informative content, keep following the Truweight blogs and let us know how our articles helped you in any way. Leave your comments below.
Also, get in touch with our expert Truweight Nutritionist for guidance on weight loss and well being. The first consultation is on us. Click here to avail!
benefits of whey proteinhealth benefitsHealth Benefits Of Whey Proteinweight losswhey proteinwhey protein health benefitsWhey Protein is Important for Health And Fitness
4
Share
Prev Post
10 Healthy Summer Foods To Enjoy This Vacation | Truweight
Next Post
11 Cheat Codes to Include Salads in the Diet; With Bonus 8 Healthy Salad Recipes
You might also like More from author
Recipes
3 Super Interesting Recipes That Will Add More Flavours To Ugadi
Food & Nutrition
Here Is How You Can Easily Include Healthy Protein Foods In Your Diet
Food & Nutrition
7 Good eating habits that naturally slim people have, may be you should try it
Food & Nutrition
The Serious Effects Of Yo-yo Dieting; Why Should You Avoid This ?
Prev Next
Show Comments (4)
Know how HEALTHY you eat!
Height (ft.in)4ft.0in4ft.1in4ft.2in4ft.3in4ft.4in4ft.5in4ft.6in4ft.7in4ft.8in4ft.9in4ft.10in4ft.11in5ft.0in5ft.1in5ft.2in5ft.3in5ft.4in5ft.5in5ft.6in5ft.7in5ft.8in5ft.9in5ft.10in5ft.11in6ft.0in6ft.1in6ft.2in6ft.3in6ft.4in6ft.5in6ft.6in6ft.7in6ft.8in6ft.9in6ft.10in6ft.11in7ft.0in7ft.1in7ft.2in7ft.3in7ft.4in7ft.5in
Take the quiz now
Quick Links
Detox
Free Consultaion
Home Consultation
BMI Check
Diabetes Weight Management
Thyroid PCOS Weight Management
How to lose weight with Indian Diet?
Truweight Nutritionists
Truweight
What is Truweight?
Weightloss Mobile app
About
Science Behind Truweight
How Superfoods Helps?
Success Stories
Super Foods
Contact
Contact Us
Blog
FAQs
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Keep in Touch
Indian diet plan weight loss | Millets | Diet Chart | Iron Rich Fruits | Belly Fat | Accupressure weight loss | Climbing Stairs | Natural weight loss | Keto diet plan | GM Diet | Weight loss through Sabja seed | Face fat | Slimming belts | Weight loss exercises | Skipping for weightloss | Diet during exams | BMI Chart | Reduce Belly fat | Hot water for weightloss | Thyroid | Ayurvedic medicines for diseases | Height weight chart | Black coffee for weightloss | 1200 calorie diet plan | Health Benefits of Jowar | Seeds for Weight Loss | Jeera Water | Yoga for Stomach | Ayurvedic Medicine for Weight Loss | Ghee Nutrition | How to Reduce Weight Naturally | Healthy Indian Snacks for Office | How to Control Diabetes With Indian Food | Is Egg Yolk Good For Weight Loss | High Fiber Foods List | Garcinia Cambogia Juice Review |
© 2019 - Truweight All Rights Reserved.
Honest Weight Loss Through Super Foods
Check your BMI
Live Chat