Allergy & Asthma Care of Fairfield County
Allergy & Asthma Care of Fairfield County
Pediatric & Adult 55 Walls Dr., Fairfield, 259-7070 • 500 Monroe Tpk, Monroe, 445-1960 • Dr. Backman, Dr. Veksler, Dr. Bloom
Home
Subscribe
Offices & Hours
Our Physicians & Providers
Our Services
New Patients
Thunderstorms and asthma
As we have found with the recent deaths in Australia in the news from “thunderstorm asthma” it is important to remember that storms can trigger your asthma and allergies and could, in rare, severe cases, be fatal.
Asthma and thunderstorms
Thunderstorm asthma is a potentially dangerous mix of pollens, weather conditions and rain that can trigger severe asthma symptoms. People residing in metropolitan, regional and rural areas can be affected.
How does a thunderstorm cause asthma symptoms?
Thunderstorms cause a rapid increase in the number of triggers in the air such as pollens, mold and dust and changes in humidity and temperature. Breathing this air in can irritate the lining of the airway causing swelling and extra mucus to be produced. This causes the airway to narrow and triggers an asthma flare-up. These flare-ups may become severe very quickly.
(source: health.harvard.edu)
Do you have to be allergic to pollens or grasses to experience thunderstorm asthma?
No.
Thunderstorm asthma can affect anyone. In fact, during very severe storms, some people who have never been diagnosed with asthma may experience breathing difficulties.
If you have asthma, be alert to the potential dangers of thunderstorm asthma.
What do you do if a thunderstorm is in the forecast?
Always carry your rescue inhaler
This is your emergency asthma first aid medication
This will provide relief from asthma symptoms within minutes by relaxing the muscles around the airways
Ideally use this with a spacer
Know the signs of worsening asthma and the asthma first aid steps
If you start developing any signs of asthma, get your reliever and follow the asthma first aid steps
If at any point, you are concerned your asthma is rapidly worsening, please call 911 and say you are having an asthma attack.
If you know you are sensitive to pollen, you may wish to stay inside on high pollen and windy days, and during and after a thunderstorm. However, this may not always help and you must remain alert to the signs your asthma is worsening.
References:
https://www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/health/conditionsandtreatments/asthma-thunderstorm
Posted on November 30, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
Infants with a history of allergies should be tested for peanut allergy prior to introduction into the diet
Most of the time, parents can safely feed peanuts to babies on their own, but infants with a history of allergies should still get a checkup first, a research review confirms. "If your infant has a history of an allergic disorder (i.e. eczema, food allergy), we would recommend that he/she be evaluated for a peanut allergy by an allergist, before introducing a peanut containing product at home," said lead study author Dr. Sara Anvari of Texas Children's Hospital and Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. "Also, when introducing peanuts at home, do not introduce whole peanuts as they can be a choking hazard," Anvari added by email.
Reports of peanut allergies have increased more than three-fold among U.S. children in the last 20 years, Anvari and colleagues note in JAMA Pediatrics. During this time, feeding guidelines have moved away from telling parents to avoid introducing some foods that can cause allergies until kids are 2 or 3 years old, and stopped telling women to avoid peanuts when they're pregnant or nursing. But many recommendations still stop short of urging parents to give babies eggs and peanuts early in life. For the current analysis, researchers summarized research published since 2008, when the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) revised its guidelines for peanut introduction to note there's no evidence to suggest waiting longer than six months could reduce the risk for allergies to this food.
After these guidelines and other similar recommendations came out, a shift in thinking about peanuts came courtesy of a study of 640 babies in the U.K. who were already at high risk for nut allergies because they had eczema or an egg allergy already, researchers note. This U.K. experiment compared the effects of giving some babies a 6-gram dose of peanut each week to strict peanut avoidance in children over a five-year period. All of the kids in the study got skin tests to determine if they developed a peanut allergy. At age 5, about 14 percent of the kids who avoided nuts had a peanut allergy compared with roughly 2 percent of the children who got an early taste of this food. Based on these results, some proposed guidelines may be shifting toward early introduction of peanuts even in babies with a history of other allergies, the authors note.
But when these high risk babies get that first taste of peanuts, they should have it in a clinical setting with lab tests to check for allergic reactions before parents offer peanuts to children at home, the researchers point out. This study had some limitations, including a lack of data on how much peanuts babies could have at one time or how long they might need to continue eating nuts on a regular basis to protect against allergies. It's also unclear what risks babies might face if they got a taste of peanuts then stopped eating them.
Still, guidelines in development from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases are expected to come out soon and recommend that all kids get their first taste of peanuts around 4 to 6 months of age as long as they have tried some other foods first, said Dr. Matthew Greenhawt, a food researcher at the University of Colorado School of Medicine who wasn't involved in the current analysis. "Guidance regarding when to introduce peanut into the diet of an infant is changing, based on new research that shows that early introduction around 4 to 6 months of life, after a few other foods have been introduced into the infant's diet, is associated with a significantly reduced risk of such infants developing peanut allergy," Greenhawt added by email. "This is an amazing opportunity to help potentially reduce the number of cases of peanut allergy."
Babies, however, should stick to nut butters and pastes, said Dr. Robert Boyle, a pediatric allergy researcher at Imperial College London who wasn't involved in the current analysis." Whole nuts are not advised for babies or children up to the age of 3, due to the risk of choking," Boyle added by email.
Source: JAMA Pediatrics, November, 2016
Dr. Kenneth Backman of Allergy & Asthma Care of Fairfield County comments:"The past year has brought a great deal of new information about food allergy. It is now clear that infants at high risk of food allergy, such as those with severe eczema or known egg allergy, benefit from early introduction of peanut. As more studies are performed, we will learn more about when to introduce which foods. For now, it is clear that high risk infants should be tested for peanut, and if testing is negative, peanut should be introduced before age 1."
Posted on November 09, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
Peanut patch effective in reducing sensitivity to peanut
Initial trial results have shown that a wearable patch, which delivers small amounts of peanut protein, can protect children and young adults with peanut allergies from the effects of accidental ingestion or exposure. The findings come from the first year of an ongoing trial of a treatment called epicutaneous immunotherapy or EPIT, which is being conducted by the Consortium of Food Allergy Research (CoFAR).
A total of 74 peanut-allergic individuals were enrolled, aged 4 – 25 years, and assigned to either a high-dose (250mg peanut protein), low-dose (100mg peanut protein), or placebo patch. Baseline peanut tolerance was tested with a supervised oral food challenge with peanut-containing food. The study involved the patients applying a new EPIT patch each day to their arm or between their shoulder blades.
Results show that after one year, 46% of the low-dose and 48% of the high-dose group achieved treatment success, which was defined as the ability to consume at least 10 times more peanut protein than he or she was able to before starting EPIT. The placebo group had a treatment success rate of 12%. Greater treatment effects were seen among children aged 4 to 11 years, with significantly less effect in participants aged 12 years and older. No serious reactions were reported apart from mild skin reactions such as itching or rash at the site of application.
“Epicutaneous immunotherapy aims to engage the immune system in the skin to train the body to tolerate small amounts of allergen, whereas other recent advances have relied on an oral route that appears difficult for approximately 10 to 15 percent of children and adults to tolerate,” said Daniel Rotrosen, MD, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases' Division of Allergy, Immunology and Transplantation.
The plan is to keep the participants in the study for a total of two and a half years. After the first year all participants in the EPIT group have begun using the high-dose daily patches. Additional studies in larger groups of children are needed before the therapy could be approved for wider use. The patches used in the trial are developed and provided by the DBV Technologies under the trade name Viaskin.
For more information visit www.niaid.nih.gov
Dr. Kenneth Backman comments: "This provides further evidence that the peanut patch will offer a huge advance in our ability to treat food allergies and prevent severe reactions. We look forward to further studies and hope for the patch to be commercially available within the next year or two."
Posted on October 26, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
Early introduction of egg and peanut may prevent allergy
For many years parents were advised not to give their child eggs and peanuts before the age of one or even later, but more recently it's been suggested that earlier introduction may be better, and a recent large review of studies confirms this. The review, based on 146 studies and more than 200,000 children, was conducted for UK Food Standards Agency and published in JAMA – the Journal of the American Medical Association. They looked at data on the introduction of allergenic foods – milk, egg, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, wheat, peanuts, and soy – during an infant's first year, and the development of allergies at any age.
Although some studies have found feeding children peanut and egg may reduce allergy risk, other studies have found no effect. Overall, there was moderate-certainty evidence that, compared with later introduction of these foods, introducing egg to a child's diet at the age of four to six months was associated with reduced egg allergy later in life, and introducing peanut at age four to 11 months was associated with reduced peanut allergy.
Dr Robert Boyle, lead author of the research from the Department of Medicine at Imperial College London, said: "This new analysis pools all existing data, and suggests introducing egg and peanut at an early age may prevent the development of egg and peanut allergy, the two most common childhood food allergies. "Until now we have not been advising parents to give these foods to young babies, and have even advised parents to delay giving allergenic foods such as egg, peanut, fish and wheat to their infant."
There was weak evidence that introducing fish before the age of six to nine months could reduce allergies developing, and strong evidence that the likelihood of developing celiac disease was not affected by the timing of introducing gluten. Findings for other potentially allergenic foods were inconclusive.
The study authors note that the findings should not automatically lead to new recommendations to feed egg and peanut to all infants, and in particular warned against introducing these foods to a baby who already has a food allergy or another allergic condition such as eczema, suggesting you should talk to your pediatrician or allergist before introducing these foods.
In an accompanying editorial, pediatric allergy expert Dr Matthew Greenhawt writes, "Their conclusions highlight that the 2008 guidelines to not delay introduction were correct. Delay of introduction of these foods may be associated with some degree of potential harm, and early introduction of selected foods appears to have a well-defined benefit."
Dr. Irena Veksler of Allergy & Asthma Care of Fairfield County comments: "Several recent studies have demonstrated that early introduction of foods is likely better than delayed introduction, and this review is an excellent addition to the literature showing that early introduction of egg and peanut reduces the risk of allergy to these foods. While we can never completely prevent allergies, it is good to have means available to reduce the risk. The current data are only strong for peanut and egg, but additional studies are sure to follow."
Posted on September 27, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
Vitamin D supplements may combat asthma
A Cochrane Review (meta-analysis of multiple studies) suggests that patients with asthma who take vitamin D supplements can reduce the number and severity of attacks, researchers reported at the annual meeting of the European Respiratory Society. In nine trials reviewed by a team headed by Adrian R. Martineau, MD, of Queen Mary University in London, administration of vitamin D reduced the rate of exacerbations by 37% [RR 0.63 (95% CI 0.45-0.88)], and the risk of having at least one exacerbation requiring an emergency department visit was reduced 61% [OR 0.39 (95% CI 0.19-0.78)].
The trial included outcomes among 435 children in seven trials and 658 adults who were participants of two other trials. "Vitamin D is likely to prevent severe asthma exacerbation and reduce healthcare use by people with asthma," Martineau said. Subgroup analysis to determine whether the effect of vitamin D on the risk of severe exacerbation was modified by baseline vitamin D status was not performed, due to the unavailability of suitably disaggregated data, the researchers noted. Giving an oral vitamin D supplement reduced the risk of severe asthma attacks requiring hospital admission or emergency department attendance from 6% to around 3%. Vitamin D supplementation also reduced the rate of asthma attacks needing treatment with steroid tablets. The results are based largely on trials in adults, Martineau and colleagues cautioned, adding that vitamin D did not improve lung function or day-to-day asthma symptoms or increase the risk of side effects.
Low blood levels of vitamin D have been linked to an increased risk of asthma attacks in children and adults with asthma, the team noted. The study participants were ethnically diverse, reflecting the broad range of global geographic settings, involving Canada, India, Japan, Poland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The majority of people recruited to the studies had mild to moderate asthma, and a minority had severe asthma. Most people continued to take their usual asthma medication while participating in the studies. The studies lasted for 6 to 12 months. Asked for his opinion of the study, Len Horovitz, MD, of Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City told MedPage Today: "Everyone should be on vitamin D supplementation because vitamin D deficiency is epidemic unless you are a forester or a tennis pro.
"Most of us are vitamin D deficient and need to take supplements. Vitamin D deficiency can lead to a lot of adverse consequences -- they may be involved in autoimmune disease, and some people see a link with certain cancers. So I would never say that it could not be involved in asthma as well." Martineau said that caution is required in interpreting the results of the study, however. "First, the findings relating to severe asthma attacks come from just three trials. Most of the patients enrolled in these studies were adults with mild or moderate asthma. Further vitamin D trials in children and in adults with severe asthma are needed to find out whether these patient groups will also benefit. "Second," he continued, "it is not yet clear whether vitamin D supplements can reduce the risk of severe asthma attacks in all patients, or whether this effect is seen just in those who have low vitamin D levels to start with. Further analyses to investigate this question are ongoing, and results should be available in the next few months."
Dr. Kenneth Backman of Allergy & Asthma Care of Fairfield County comments: "This adds to the evidence that vitamin D may be beneficial in asthma. However, it is not clear whether the benefit would mainly be seen in those who are vitamin D deficient. We encourage patients to discuss their vitamin D status, and possible supplementation, with their primary care physician."
Posted on September 08, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
Nasal irrigation and steam inhalation in chronic sinusitis
Nasal irrigation appears beneficial in symptom improvement for patients with chronic sinusitis, according to a study published online July 18 in CMAJ, the journal of the Canadian Medical Association.
Paul Little, M.D., professor of primary care research at the University of Southampton in the United Kingdom, and colleagues followed 871 patients in England who had a history of chronic or recurrent sinusitis. Participants were assigned one of four treatments: daily nasal irrigation with saline plus use of an instructional video; daily steam inhalation; a combination of both; or their usual treatment. Usual care was at the discretion of the patient's physician and could include the use of antibiotic medications. The team assessed Rhinosinusitis Disability Index (RSDI) scores as the primary outcome.
At three months and six months, the researchers found that patients who used nasal irrigation had improved RSDI scores. Fewer participants in the nasal irrigation group (compared to no-irrigation patients) took over-the-counter medications, had headaches, or intended to consult a doctor in future episodes. Those using steam inhalation said headaches had eased, but had no significant improvement in RSDI scores. Adverse effects were similar in both intervention groups.
"Advice to use steam inhalation for chronic or recurrent sinus symptoms in primary care was not effective," the authors write. "A similar strategy to use nasal irrigation was less effective than prior evidence suggested, but it provided some symptomatic benefit."
Source: Little P, Stuart B, Mullee M, et al. Effectiveness of steam inhalation and nasal irrigation for chronic or recurrent sinus symptoms in primary care: a pragmatic randomized controlled trial [published online July 18, 2016]. CMAJ. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.16
Dr. Katherine Bloom of Allergy & Asthma Care comments: "Saline irrigation has been found to be effective in controlling symptoms and improving outcomes in sinusitis. This study adds to the evidence that nasal saline irrigation is a worthwhile intervention."
Posted on July 19, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
Fish oil supplementation during pregnancy does not reduce IgE mediated allergic disease in children
Prenatal supplementation with omega-3 (n-3) long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) does not reduce immunoglobulin E (IgE)-associated allergic disease in children, according to a study published online May 25 in Pediatrics.
Karen P. Best, R.N., Ph.D., from the South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute in Adelaide, and colleagues assessed 706 children with a family history of allergic disease from the Docosahexaenoic Acid to Optimize Mother Infant Outcome trial at six-year follow-up. Women enrolled in the trial were randomized to n-3 LCPUFA-rich fish oil capsules or vegetable oil capsules.
The researchers found that the percentage of children with any IgE-associated allergic disease did not differ between the n-3 LCPUFA and control groups (31.5 versus 31.5 percent; adjusted relative risk, 1.04; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.82 to 1.33). The percentage of children sensitized to house dust mite Dermatophagoides farinae was reduced in the n-3 LCPUFA group (13.4 versus 20.3 percent; adjusted relative risk, 0.67; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.44 to 1.00).
"Prenatal n-3 LCPUFA supplementation did not reduce IgE-associated allergic disease at 6 years of age," the authors write. "Secondary outcomes were suggestive of a protective effect of the intervention on the incidence of D. farinae sensitization."
Source: Pediatrics 2016
Dr. Kenneth Backman of Allergy & Asthma Care of Fairfield County comments: "While some reduction in dust mite sensitization (IgE production to dust mite) was seen in children of mothers who took fish oil during pregnancy, the actual incidence of allergic disease did not appear to be reduced by fish oil. There are certainly many benefits of fish oil, but this study suggests that prenatal prevention of allergic disease does not appear to be one of them."
Posted on July 19, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
Fluticasone plus salmeterol associated with fewer severe exacerbations than fluticasone alone
The safety of long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs) such as salmeterol and formoterol, in medications such as Advair, Symbicort, Dulera, and Breo, has been widely debated. Large, poorly structured trials in the past have shown increased risk of serious asthma related events in patients on LABAs, but many patients were on these without adequate asthma controller medication.
A new study published in the New England Journal of Medicine (May 12 2016) addresses this issue. A multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial of adolescent and adult patients with persistent asthma randomized patients to either fluticasone with salmeterol or fluticasone alone for 26 weeks. All patients had a history of a serious asthma exacerbation in the year before study onset, though not the previous month. Patients were excluded if they had life threatening or unstable asthma. The primary end point was the first series asthma related event (death, incubation, or hospitalization.)
Of 11,679 patients enrolled, 67 had 74 serious asthma related events, with similar numbers in both groups and no statistically significant different between them. There were no asthma related deaths, and only 2 intubations, both in the fluticasone group. The risk of asthma exacerbation was 21% lower in the fluticasone-salmeterol group vs. the fluticasone only group.
The conclusions of the study were that salmeterol in fixed dose combination with fluticasone did not lead to a significantly higher risk of serious asthma-related events, and patients on fluticasone-salmeterol combination therapy had fewer severe asthma exacerbations than the fluticasone only group.
(N Engl J Med 2016;374:1822-30)
Dr. Kenneth Backman of Allergy & Asthma Care of Fairfield County comments: "There has been concern about the safety of LABAs since a couple of poorly designed studies over a decade ago. Several smaller studies have shown no danger of LABAs when combined with inhaled corticosteroid, but this large, very well designed study is the most reassuring so far that inhaled steroid-LABA combination therapy is safe and puts asthma patients at no increased risk of exacerbations or adverse effects. In fact, the combination therapy actually reduced the risk of exacerbations. There is still a need for further studies, because this study did not include children under 12, and excluded patients with very severe, life-threatening asthma."
Posted on May 16, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
Early epinephrine use tied to fewer overall doses
Although anaphylaxis accounts for an increasing percentage of all pediatric emergency department (ED) visits, early use of epinephrine before ED arrival is associated with a lower likelihood of requiring multiple doses of epinephrine in the ED, Canadian researchers report.
Epinephrine use before ED arrival was the only factor associated with a reduced risk for multiple ED epinephrine doses among pediatric patients with anaphylaxis, write Elana Hochstadter, MD, from the Department of Pediatric Emergency Medicine at the University of Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children, Ontario, Canada, and colleagues. The researchers reviewed 965 anaphylaxis cases from Montreal Children's Hospital that were included in the Cross-Canada Anaphylaxis Registry (C-CARE), which tracks individuals presenting to EDs or emergency medical services with the condition.
More than 25% of moderate/severe anaphylaxis cases did not receive epinephrine inside or outside the hospital, and "[o]nly 50.7% (95% CI, 45.9-55.4) of those who had an epinephrine autoinjector used it before arrival to the ED," the authors write in a letter to the editor published online April 20 in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology. Factors associated with an increased likelihood of receiving multiple doses of epinephrine in the ED were older age, a severe reaction, and anaphylaxis cases triggered by peanuts, tree nuts, and milk .
The percentage of anaphylaxis cases among all ED visits more than doubled from April 2011 to April 2015, going from 0.20% to 0.41%, with the largest annual increase seen between 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 (0.11%). The median age of patients was 5.8 years. Almost half of patients reported a known food allergy, and asthma and eczema were reported in almost 20% of patients. Most cases (85.3%)were referred to an allergist after the ED visit or already had consulted with an allergist. Food was the most common trigger of anaphylaxis in the study, responsible for 80% of cases, with peanut responsible for 22.2%. Most reactions were moderate in severity; asthma (OR, 2.3) and eczema (OR, 2.1) were associated with severe reactions.
Although the results are from just one center, "they suggest a worrisome increase in anaphylaxis rate that is consistent with the worldwide reported increase," the authors note. "Both our study and US studies reveal that a higher percentage of pediatric ED visits are due to anaphylaxis in North America compared with European centers. This likely reflects differences in the prevalence of food allergies between North America and Europe."
From J Allergy Clin Immunol. Published online April 20, 2016.
Dr. Irena Veksler of Allergy & Asthma Care of Fairfield County comments: "This study reinforces the importance of early administration of epinephrine in all cases of anaphylaxis. While anaphylaxis is on the rise, we have an extremely effective treatment in epinephrine, and it is important that it be administered as soon as anaphylaxis is suspected."
Posted on May 16, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
Tips to help prepare for another bad pollen season
As another potentially bad pollen season approaches, clinicians can help patients with allergies manage their symptoms with recommendations from the American College of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology (ACAAI).
“Unfortunately, it's true that in the past few years, the amount of pollen in the air during spring allergy season seems to have gotten worse,” says allergist Bryan Martin, DO, president of the ACAAI. “One of the reasons is the effects of climate change. Increased carbon dioxide from longer growing seasons as a result of warmer weather has a positive effect on pollen production. That means a negative effect on those suffering from pollen allergens.”
To help patients with allergies combat their symptoms, the ACAAI has released a number of tips.
The most effective treatment for allergies is immunotherapy (also known as allergy shots), though treatment is gradual with a therapy duration of 3 to 5 years, according to the ACAAI. The organization rates it as a good option for patients seeking a natural treatment for their allergies, though immunotherapy is usually only recommended for patients who are selectively sensitive to several allergens.
Although many patients with allergies self-medicate using over-the-counter options, clinicians are advised to suggest prescription medications. A recent study found that prescription medications were more effective than over-the-counter options for alleviating allergy symptoms. To make these medications even more effective, the ACAAI recommends encouraging patients to start taking their prescription allergy medication 2 to 3 weeks before their symptoms usually manifest. This can help reduce overall symptom severity.
If patients are looking for small, easy changes that can help manage their symptoms, clinicians can recommend the following:
Check weather reports for pollen and mold counts.
During allergy season, keep windows closed.
Pollen counts are the highest midday and in the afternoon, so stay inside during these times.
After spending time outdoors, shower, wash your hair, and change your clothes.
If you need to do outdoor chores such as mowing the lawn, wear a NIOSH-rated 95 filter mask and take allergy medication beforehand.
Source: www.clinicaladvisor.com, March 23, 2016
Posted on March 24, 2016 | Permalink | Comments (0)
| | |
« Previous | Next »
Search
Submit
Our Practice
Offices & Hours
Our Physicians and Providers
Hospital Affiliations
Managed Care & Insurance
NEW PATIENTS: Download, Print, Fill out Forms
Our Services
What about allergy drops?
Financial and School Forms Policies
Baked milk and baked egg challenge recipes
Helpful Health Library
ALLERGY/ASTHMA: Medication
ALLERGY: American Academy of Allergy website
ALLERGY: American College of Allergy website
ALLERGY: Children
ALLERGY: Eyes & Conjunctivitis
ALLERGY: Facts about Shots
ALLERGY: Skin rashes
ALLERGY: Homeopathy
ALLERGY: Insect Stings
ALLERGY: Latex
ALLERGY: Pet allergies
ALLERGY: When to see an allergist
ASTHMA: Take control of your asthma
ASTHMA: Exercise induced asthma
ASTHMA: Triggers and management
ASTHMA: Childhood asthma
ASTHMA: Adult Asthma
FOOD: Food Allergy Handbook
Excellent food allergy guide for parents
FOOD: Be Allergy Ready website
FOOD: Divvies Allergen Free Foods
FOOD: Eosinophilic Esophagitis
FOOD: Food Allergy Initiative
FOOD: Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network
FOOD: How to read a label (FARE website)
FOOD: Parent's Guide
FOOD: International Association for Food Protein Induced Enterocolitis
ALLERGY: Mission: Allergy
Allergen avoidance products
FOOD: Preventing peanut allergy
NASAL/EYES: Rhinitis
FOOD: Peanut allergy prevention guidelines - 2017
FOOD: Oral immunotherapy to food
SINUS: Sinusitis
Archives
February 2019
November 2018
August 2018
June 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
November 2017
September 2017
July 2017
Categories
Allergies
Asthma
Food Allergies
Physician News
See More
Allergy & Asthma Care of Fairfield County
Powered by Typepad