Common cold: Home remedies, duration, and prevention
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Eight home remedies for treating a cold
Last reviewed	 Sat 11 March 2017	 Last reviewed	Sat 11 Mar 2017
By MaryAnn de Pietro
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
Home remedies
Duration
Prevention
At some point, almost everyone gets a cold. Colds are caused by a virus, which means an antibiotic is not an effective treatment.
Colds are so common that according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), adults can expect to get about two colds per year. Although a cold is usually not dangerous, it can leave a person feeling awful.
There is currently no cure for a cold but there are several home remedies that may reduce symptoms. Symptoms of a cold include a sore throat, nasal congestion, coughing and aches and pains.
Fortunately, most home remedies do not have any side effects, so even if they only offer limited help, they will not do any harm.
Home remedies
Consider the following eight common home remedies:
A common home remedy is to gargle with warm saltwater or honey and lemon juice.
1. Gargling
This old-school remedy can ease a sore throat, which is often one of the first symptoms of a cold. People can choose from a variety of saltwater gargle recipes, including gargling with 1 teaspoon of salt mixed in a cup of warm water.
Another option is gargling with warm water that is mixed with half a teaspoon of lemon juice and honey. With any gargling solutions, people should be sure that the water is not too hot, which can lead to burns.
2. Sipping fluids
Drinking plenty of fluids can help prevent dehydration and may thin mucus. Water is the best bet when it comes to staying well hydrated. Other liquids such as juice are also acceptable.
Tea with lemon and honey and other hot drinks may help break up congestion and ease a sore throat. Hot soup, especially spicy soups, may promote nasal drainage and make breathing easier.
People who have a cold should avoid alcohol, which can contribute to dehydration.
3. Steam
Breathing in steam from a hot shower may decrease nasal congestion and sinus pressure, at least temporarily. An alternative to a hot shower is filling a pot with boiling water, placing a towel over the head and breathing in the steam.
Steam soothes the tissues of the nose and throat and to make steam inhalation even more effective, people can consider adding eucalyptus, which is an essential oil. The National Association for Holistic Aromatherapy suggest adding 3 to 7 drops of eucalyptus oil to boiling water and inhaling the steam through the nose.
A range of eucalyptus oils is available for purchase online. People should close the eyes to avoid irritation.
4. Blowing the nose correctly
Blowing the nose may seem like a no-brainer. But it's important to blow the nose correctly in order to clear the nasal passages as much as possible. Sniffing mucus back up can force it into the ears and lead to an earache.
To blow the nose correctly, people should block one nostril and gently blow into a tissue, then switch and block the opposite nostril and blow.
Additional home remedies for children
All the home remedies that may work for an adult can also be used with a child. Children may also benefit from a few additional home remedies, including the following:
A humidifier may help to decrease cold symptoms.
5. Using a humidifier
A humidifier or cool mist vaporizer can decrease cold symptoms, such as a sore throat, cough, and congestion. Caregivers can place a cool mist vaporizer or humidifier in the child's room to add moisture to the home.
People should be sure to change the water daily. Also, cleaning the unit as instructed by the manufacturer prevents the buildup of mildew and mold.
A range of humidifiers is available for purchase online.
6. Saline drops
Saline drops can help promote mucus drainage and clear the nasal cavity. While kids may not tolerate using a Neti pot to flush out the sinuses, they may be accepting of a few drops of saline in each nostril.
In very young children who have trouble blowing their nose, it may also be helpful to use a rubber bulb suction to remove mucus after using saline drops.
A range of saline drops is available for purchase online.
7. Acetaminophen
Children are more likely than an adult to develop a fever when they have a cold. Although a fever is usually not harmful, it can make a child feel miserable.
To treat a fever and sore throat, caregivers can consider over-the-counter pain relievers, such as acetaminophen, also available for purchase online. In children over the age of 6 months, ibuprofen can also be used.
Cold medicines containing a decongestant may be appropriate for children over the age of 6, but should not be given to younger kids. As always, it's best to talk to a healthcare provider regarding medications for children.
People should not give aspirin to children due to the possibility of a child developing Reye's syndrome. Although rare, Reye's syndrome is a serious illness that can be life-threatening. Research indicates that aspirin may trigger the development of the illness in some children.
8. Honey preparations
A research study published in Pediatrics suggested that giving honey to children before bedtime helped decrease nighttime coughs.
Honey should not be given to babies under the age of 1, however, because it contains botulinum spores. If the spores grow in a baby's immature digestive tract, they can make a baby sick.
All about the common cold
Find out more about the common cold by clicking here.
Read now
Duration
Home remedies won't necessarily speed up a person's recovery, but they may help someone feel better until the virus has run its course. The CDC state that most people tend to experience cold symptoms for 7 to 10 days. Certain symptoms, such as a cough, may linger a little longer.
Complications of a cold can include an ear or sinus infection. If symptoms persist for longer than 2 weeks or become severe, it may be a good idea for the individual to see a doctor.
Prevention
Prevention is the best medicine when it comes to a cold. Although it is not always possible to prevent a cold, certain precautions may help.
Below are a few ways to decrease the chances of developing the sniffles.
Frequent hand-washing
Frequent hand-washing may be one of the best ways to avoid getting a cold.
Viruses can live on the hands, which is why regular hand-washing is one of the best ways to avoid getting and spreading a cold.
When washing their hands, people should use soap and water and rub their hands together for about 20 seconds. Hand sanitizers containing alcohol are an option if soap and water are not available.
Keeping the immune system strong
It's almost impossible to avoid all germs. By keeping the immune system strong and working well, a person will increase their chances of fighting off the germs they encounter.
Getting plenty of sleep, exercising, and eating a well-balanced diet are important ways of boosting the immune system. Avoiding smoking and keeping stress levels down can also keep the immune system strong.
Not sharing germs
When someone does have a cold, it's important that they take a few precautions to avoid spreading the infection. These steps include:
staying home from work or school to avoid exposing other people to the virus
moving away from other people when sneezing
coughing or sneezing into a tissue
throwing away any used tissues so others can't handle them
People who have a compromised immune system, such as those on certain medications, should pay special attention to cold prevention methods. Someone with a lower immune system may be more likely to develop complications and may take longer to recover from a cold.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Does an onion in the sock work for a cold? One folk remedy for cold and flu is to put an onion against the sole of the foot, inside a sock. Find out why people do this, and whether there is any evidence that it works. You can also find out more about the other benefits of onions, and some additional home remedies for colds and flu. Read now
Everything you need to know about head cold A head cold is a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract. It is usually a mild illness, but it can have a significant impact on everyday activities. This MNT Knowledge Center article explains the causes, risk factors, and symptoms of a head cold, as well as how to treat and prevent them and when to see a doctor. Read now
How do I treat a cold? A viral infection is responsible for the common cold. While the effects can be unpleasant, people tend to recover within around 1 week. Medicines such as decongestants can help to manage symptoms, as can a range of home remedies, such as steam inhalation. Here, discover the best ways to reduce symptoms and find relief. Read now
All you need to know about flu Flu, also known as influenza, is a respiratory illness caused by a virus. Influenza is highly contagious and can be life-threatening for some population groups. This article explains how flu differs from a cold, identifies the symptoms of both, looks at diagnosis, treatment, and offers tips on how to avoid getting flu. Read now
Flu and colds: Why do we cough? Whether dry or chesty, coughing fits are customary when flu or the common cold is involved. But what causes us to cough? We investigate. Read now
email email
print
share share
Flu / Cold / SARS
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine Infectious Diseases / Bacteria / Viruses Pediatrics / Children's Health
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Sat 11 March 2017.
Visit our Flu / Cold / SARS category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Flu / Cold / SARS.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Common colds: Protect yourself and others. (2017, February 6). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/features/rhinoviruses/
Cohen, H. A., Rozen, J., Kristal, H., Laks, Y., Berkovitch, M., Uziel, Y., … Efrat, H. (2012, August). Effect of honey on nocturnal cough and sleep quality: A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. [Abstract]. Pediatrics, 2011-3075. Retrieved from http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/early/2012/08/01/peds.2011-3075
Exploring aromatherapy. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://naha.org/index.php/explore-aromatherapy/about-aromatherapy/methods-of-application/
Get smart: Know when antibiotics work. Symptoms relief. (2015, April 17). Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/getsmart/community/for-patients/symptom-relief.html
Reye's syndrome information page. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.ninds.nih.gov/Disorders/All-Disorders/Reyes-Syndrome-Information-Page
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
de Pietro, MaryAnn. "Eight home remedies for treating a cold." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 11 Mar. 2017. Web.
26 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/316302.php>
APA
de Pietro, M. (2017, March 11). "Eight home remedies for treating a cold." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/316302.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Scientists confirm blood test could track Alzheimer's disease
Data from up to 11 years of blood samples confirm neurofilament light protein as a potential noninvasive marker of Alzheimer's disease progression.
This neurotransmitter helps aggressive tumors spread
New research in mouse models of human-derived cancers has found a new key factor that supports the growth and spread of aggressive tumors.
Marijuana users less likely to be overweight, obese
New research examines the link between body mass index and cannabis use. The findings may seem counterintuitive, given that marijuana increases appetite.
Patterns of antibiotic use may predict cardiovascular risk
A large cohort study has found a link between prolonged antibiotic use in middle age and later in life and an increased cardiovascular risk.
Innovative patch may reduce muscle damage after a heart attack
An interdisciplinary team of researchers has designed a patch that can limit damage after a heart attack. The patch was successfully tested in rats.
Popular in: Flu / Cold / SARS
What can I do to make my cough go away?
12 remedios naturales para acabar con las tos
What should you eat when you are sick?
Top 7 essential oils for sinus congestion
How do I know if I have a cold or sinusitis?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/316302.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);