How to Fight Depression Naturally | Menopause Now
Menopause Now All about each symptom of menopause
Symptoms
Allergies
Anxiety
Bloating
Breast Pain
Brittle Nails
Burning Tongue
Changes in Odor
Depression
Difficulty Concentrating
Digestive Problems
Dizziness
Electric Shocks
Fatigue
Gum Problems
Hair Loss
Headaches
Hot Flashes
Incontinence
Irregular Heartbeat
Irregular Periods
Irritability
Itchy Skin
Joint Pain
Loss of Libido
Memory Lapses
Mood Swings
Muscle Tension
Night Sweats
Osteoporosis
Panic Disorder
Sleep Disorders
Tingling Extremities
Vaginal Dryness
Weight Gain
All Menopause Symptoms
Stages
Premenopause
Perimenopause
Menopause
Postmenopause
Early Menopause
Premature Menopause
About Stages
Home
Menopause Symptoms
Depression
How to Fight Depression Naturally
Sections
Depression Overview
About Depression
Definition
Types
Risk Factors
Signs and Symptoms
Physical
Emotional
Behavioral
Top 10 Signs
When to Seek Help
Causes of Depression
Hormonal Causes
Other Causes
Depression Treatments
Depression Articles
Share
Tweet
Pin
Depression can be a tough disorder to deal with on a day-to-day basis, and it affects many people. It is estimated that as many as one in 10 American adults suffers from the illness. There may be many medical treatment options available, but there are also some natural ways to fight depression that are free of the risks associated with pharmaceutical options.
Pin
1
Get Plenty of Sleep
To fight depression, it is important to get enough sleep. Sleep deprivation can aggravate depression, as it can cause irrational thought patterns and increased stress levels. Promoting healthy sleeping patterns involves making sure your bedroom is cool, dark, and quiet, as well as going to bed at around the same time each night.
2
Regular Exercise
Exercise encourages the release of the natural mood elevators serotonin and endorphins, making it a great way to fight depression naturally. It is important to get approximately 20 - 30 minutes of exercise every day for overall well-being, as well as mental health. Cycling, swimming, walking, or even gardening are all possible ways to lift mood.
3
Take an Herbal Remedy
In order to fight depression, an herbal supplement could help give you the initial motivation. No pill should be thought of as a cure on its own, but the power of nature can be used alongside healthy lifestyle habits to keep depression at bay. St. John's wort and valerian are both herbs that have been shown to lift mood. Valerian contains compounds that have a relaxant effect, and it is thought that St. John's wort prolongs the action of serotonin in the brain. However, before taking any supplements, it is important to first consult your doctor.
4
Progressive Muscle Relaxation
Taking 10 - 15 minutes a day to find somewhere quiet and free of distractions is a wonderful way to fight depression naturally, as it reduces stress levels and promotes an overall sense of well-being. The exercise below is one that you could try.
Take a few deep breaths and then identify the tense areas in your body. In order to loosen these areas, tense them and then release. Then, roll your head smoothly a couple of times before rolling your shoulders forward and backwards once or twice. Afterwards, let all your muscles relax and recall a pleasant thought for a few seconds. Take a few more deep breaths. Exhale.
5
Avoid Caffeine and Alcohol
Alcohol and drugs can have potent effects on the body, and what begins as a coping mechanism or a bit of fun can turn into a downward spiral of depression. Alcohol is a strong depressant, so it serves only to amplify negative feelings, while caffeine is a stimulant, and too much can result in jitteriness or nervousness.
6
Positive Self-Talk
Depression leads to low self-esteem, which can intensify the condition. To fight depression naturally, it is important to practice being kind to yourself, and for some people, this can be difficult. The first step is to counteract each negative thought with a positive statement, saying it out loud if the situation permits. Additionally, whenever you rebuke yourself for something, envision what you would say if a friend found herself in that situation - it would probably be a lot kinder. Be your own best friend. Eventually, this positive mindset will become habitual.
Depression is unpleasant, so it is important to deal with its symptoms as soon as they arise. Many people are unsure about conventional antidepressants, as they can often come with side effects. To fight depression naturally, follow the points above. This could be enough, but if the depression persists, it is important to tell your doctor your concerns.
Sources
Love, S. & Lindsey, K. (2003). Dr. Susan Love's Menopause & Hormone Book. New York: Three Rivers Press.
National Health Service UK. (2012). Clinical depression. Retrieved August 27, 2014, from http://www.nhs.uk/Conditions/Depression/Pages/Introduction.aspx
Segal, Jennae. (2014). Anger Management.. Retrieved August 27, 2014, from http://www.helpguide.org/mental/anger_management_control_tips_techniques.htm
Thacker, H.L. (2009). The Cleveland Clinic Guide to Menopause. New York: Kaplan Publishing
University of Maryland Medical Center. (2012). Depression. Retrieved August 27, 2014, from http://umm.edu/health/medical/altmed/condition/depression
Treatments for Depression
Depression Overview
Other Related Articles:
5 Reasons to Consider a Spinning Class for Easing Your Depression
4 Steps to Deal with Depression during Perimenopause
5 Physical Symptoms of Depression in Women
What Does Clinical Depression Mean?
4 Habits that Trigger Depression
Share
Tweet
Pin
10 Top Tips for Dealing with Depression during Menopause
How to deal with menopausal depression is finally feasible with these 10 tips. Learn more here to get out of the blues today.
Top 7 Foods for Improving Your Mood
Studies have been conducted on the relationship between food and the brain, and show that certain nutrients can actually improve mood.
Treating Menopause Depression with Holistic Care
Midlife is often difficult for women. Depression affects twice as many women as it does men.
MenopauseNow.com
MenopauseNow.com is dedicated to providing reliable, up-to-date information and advice on the most common topics in women's health, including PMS, menopause, natural hormones, hormonal conditions, and fertility.
Additional Information
About
Privacy
Terms of use
Sitemap
Find us on
©Copyright 2019. MenopauseNow.com. All Rights Reserved.
The content of these informational pages is for educational purposes and health care support only and does not intend to be used for diagnosis or treatment of a health problem or as substitute for consulting a licensed medical professional.