Magnesium and Migraines, Connection for Some Migraines..
Is there a link Between Magnesium and Migraines?
Magnesium and migraines:
It's been known for some time that there's a link between magnesium deficiency, and migraines. One of the treatments for migraines may be a supplement.
Magnesium is essential for maintaining a healthy body. Even women that get menstrual migraine can be helped for their PMS, and also menstrual pain.
One could be a little skeptical that magnesium migraines can be from a deficiency of magnesium. After reading its functions you'll see that out of twenty eight million headache/migraine sufferers, there may be thousands, or even millions of migraines/headaches because of this mineral.
Here's what a deficiency in magnesium can do to one.
If you're deficient in magnesium it can't counteract the clotting action of calcium on the blood. Tiny blood clots are said to clog up tiny brain blood vessels, thus leading to migraines and:
Low brain magnesium promotes:
Hyperactivity Nerve excitation
Deficient in magnesium, and having several conditions such as:
Pregnant
Taking drugs
Drinking alcohol
Menstruation (women)
Can trigger migraines.
Just a few things that magnesium does to help migraines.
You know that the spasms, and constrictions of blood vessels causes migraines.
Magnesium relaxes the blood vessels, and allows them to dilate, thus no spasms.
With the right amount of magnesium, the neurotransmitters, and inflammatory substances in the brain are regulated.
These play an important role in migraines when they are unbalanced, and relief when the right amount of magnesium is present.
Magnesium also relaxes muscles, and prevents the build up of lactic acid, and along with muscle tension can make more head pain.
You can now see why magnesium and migraines run hand in hand by being deficient.
Out of one study, three thousand migraine sufferers that took magnesium for migraines, eighty percent had a reduction of their migraines.
Below is a study that Dr.Mauskop did. Here is what's said.
Dr. Mauskop has spent close to 20 years researching the link between magnesium and migraines. In the early 1990s it seemed clear that low levels of magnesium in the blood were linked to several types of headaches. By the mid 1990s, a series of studies conducted by Dr. Mauskop, using a new testing technique that measured ionized magnesium had proven conclusively that a lack of magnesium was a factor in several types of headaches. The next step was to determine whether giving magnesium could help eliminate those headaches.
In a blinded study, 86 percent of those deficient in magnesium who received magnesium infusion experienced dramatic relief from their headaches. Dr. Mauskop and other researchers then performed additional studies, all of which found that many headache sufferers had low levels of ionized magnesium, and that taking magnesium (intravenously or orally) offered significant relief.
Magnesium and migraines work together, being deficient on magnesium will make the head hurt, while having the right amount will help. Also preventive (also called prophylactic) treatment of migraines can be an important component of migraine headache management to.
Treatments can take many forms, including everything from taking certain drugs or nutritional supplements, to lifestyle alterations such as increased exercise, and avoidance of migraine triggers.
Your goal is to reduce the frequency, painfulness, and how long they hang with you. One more reason one needs to pursue these goals is to avoid medication overuse which is known to give rebound headaches, which is a common problem among migraine sufferers.
Thanks for reading
Our next page is on what causes migraine headaches, and our last page covers pain pills induced headaches. Info on chronic migraine headache Home page from magnesium and migraines. Amazons A Store has magnesium products.
New! Comments
Click the like button, or leave me a comment in the box below on Help for Migraines for headache sufferers..All the best...
For our Migrane sufferers that may want to seek additional help other than information, there's many products to choose from on Amazon to relieve that headache. You'll be surprised as to how many products are designed for headache relief, from medicine to pillows and so forth.
Look at the products below and read the reviews. They are all sold on Amazon for
Even pillows for migraines help tremendously when the pain originates from the neck area. Herbs and Vitamins such as the ones mentioned above are helpful for some sufferers. Most are very inexpensive, and you may find something that will work for your type of headache. All can be found by searching Amazons many headache products.
Home
Blog
Migraine-Causes
Migraine -Symptoms
Herbs_For_Migraines
Daily-Migraines
Migraine_Triggers
Help_For_Migraines
What's_A_Migraine
Menstrual_Migraines
Migraine_Treatments
Migraine_Relief
Migraine_Meds
Child_Migraines
Migraine_Diet
Your_Migraine_Signs
Migraine_Cures
Botox- Migraines
Sitemap-1
Migraine_Diary
Migraine_Books
Links on Migraines
Hemicrania_Continua
Migraine_Clinic
Sinus_Headache
Types_Of_Migraines
Morning_Headache
Migraine_Remedies
Migraine_Stroke
Silent_Migraine
Eye Headache
Disability_4_Migraines
Biofeedback-Migraines
Testamoniols
Headache_Specialist
Buckwheat_Pillows
Migraine_Prevention
Cure_Migraine
Minerals_Herbs_Vitamins
Sex_Headaches
Migrains_Info
Vitamin_Deficiency
Books_On_Migraines
TMJ_Headaches
Work_From_Home
Migraine_Headache
Herbs_4_Health
Microfiber_Products
Pllows_For_Migraines
Miracle_Cream
Joint Relief For Dogs
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Copyright 2009-2018 Help-For-Migraines.com Disclaimer: This website is for information only. Don't delay going to a physician because of something you've read on this website.
SBI!