Fermented milk products could have antihypertensive properties
Nutrition
Healthy Food
Organic Food
Diet & Nutrition
Nutrition Videos
Fermented milk products could have antihypertensive properties
Many studies about the effects of fermented milk on the prevention of diseases such as hypertension have been done during the last decade. If this can be demonstrated scientifically, it will provide hypertension patients with a more natural option to the usual drugs. It is known that these functional dairy products lower blood pressure and heart rate. This very important biological property has been attributed to bioactive peptides within dairy products. These peptides can be released during fermentation with specific lactic acid bacteria during digestion.
Hypertension is a risk factor for several other heart diseases, stroke, cerebrovascular accidents, stroke, and many other complications. According to the World Health Organization, hypertension affects more than one billion people worldwide.
Belinda Vallejo-Córdoba, PhD, of the Center for Food Research and Development, Sonora, Mexico, said that “Fermented milk has been promoted as a nonpharmacological treatment for hypertension, mainly because of the lack of undesirable side effects, but as yet, there is insufficient evidence to support this according to the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA)”
“The most studied bioactive peptides derived from dairy proteins are antihypertensive peptides; however, existing studies need to be evaluated before a health claim may be associated with products. With this in mind we have carefully reviewed in vitro and in vivo and clinical studies of fermented milk containing antihypertensive peptides,” she added.
Due to the side-effects of hypertension drugs, scientists are working hard on effectively providing patients with a much less invasive alternative that will reduce hypertension and the risks associated with it. Scientist have discovered that the best alternative in selecting fermented products was that where the angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitory peptides could be found. This peptide is attributed to the positive effects of reducing hypertension. However, scientists point out that these products also contain minerals such as calcium and potassium, which have a positive effect on blood circulation and pressure.
Featured Articles
Is Store Bought Baby Food as Healthy as Homemade?
Adults, generally, prefer home-made food. However, due to the demands of work and busy schedules, we sometimes resort to store-bought food. These are edibles that are ready-to-eat and full of preservatives and many other additives that can be harmful to our health. Although most adult individuals…
Adolescent dieting may increase breast cancer risk later in life
It is becoming increasingly evident that breast cancer during adulthood can be traced back to adolescence and preadolescence and the diet adopted during those formative years. A study conducted over 22 years with over 2000 participants has shown that diets rich in fiber have a significantly lower…
Leptin - linked to ability to or not to lose weight
Let’s start with the basics of what leptin is and what it does. It is known as the “satiety hormone” and this might help give you an idea of what it does. This is a hormone that inhibits hunger to help regulate energy balance. Here’s the thing about this type of hormone, it…
How oatmeal can help you with your diet
Oatmeal is made of oat grains that are ground, crushed, rolled, or steel-cut. Steel-cut or rolled oats are whole oat grains. Steel-cut oats are used in the preparation of porridges and oatcakes that generally take time to cook. Rolled oats are ground into oatmeal, steamed and rolled into flakes…
Four foods to eliminate if you want to burn fat
There are many different reasons why someone might want to burn fat and many people think that the main way to do that is by exercising. Exercising is essential but you will also need to watch what you eat. There are four main foods to eliminate if you want to burn fat. Simple Carbs: There are two…
What to eat if you are anemic/have low blood iron
When we hear about anemia, we instantly get worried. Is it serious? Can it affect our health in the long term? How difficult it is to treat? Well, there is no need to worry. A big percentage of the population has low blood iron nowadays, they just don’t know it. This is due to unhealthy diets,…
Fast-Food Favors Heart-Attacks Due To The Presence Of Soybean Oil
Fast-food has the most to contribute to the incidence of heat disorders in the populace in the US. This is because it contains a high amount of hydrogenated soybean oil. This makes fast food the numero uno enemy of the American population in terms of degenerative diseases. Hydrogenated soybean oil…
Popular Articles
Popular
Can brain injury recovery be accelerated by taking omega-3?
Minerals and supplements are excellent additions to any diet. Presently, the supplements and minerals come in many forms and are packed into pills, energy drinks, and many other varied forms. They are particularly necessary and come recommended by physicians and nutritionists to boost the immune…
Popular
What is the profile of Macronutrient?
Your daily diet consists of some definite count of calories every day and a small amount of sodium but we forget to focus on macronutrients that builds some important blocks like proteins, fats and carbohydrates that are required for body to function. These form basic elements of food that is…
Popular
True Benefits of having nutritious food
Eating sound sustenance isn't just about consuming fewer calories, keeping away from your most loved treats or getting to be model-slim. Fitting nourishment is a lifestyle that permits you to be as rational and physically solid as could reasonably be expected. There is no perfect diet…
Popular
Nutrition during Menopause
Every woman is going to face menopause during her lifetime. It is a very crucial phase, which requires a healthy lifestyle and good nutrition to combat any adverse effects. • During menopause, your body will undergo a great deal of hormonal changes. This will directly affect your entire health.…
News Flash
Rice Blast Destroys 30% of World's Rice Production
For years, as much as 30% of the world's rice crop has been devastated annually and rendered useless by a type of fungus. Recent breakthroughs suggest that scientists have finally found a way to put an end to this. The team of scientists, an international group led by the University of Exeter in…
Matcha from Japan – not just a beverage
Matcha is a traditional Japanese infusion. In fact, it has always been linked to traditions and almost enigmatic rituals of the Japanese culture. This beverage its making its way not only through regular cuisine in Japan but it is also making an impact all over the world. The trend of Matcha can be…
Three Quick and Easy Crock Pot Recipes
There are instances when you don’t have enough time to spend in the kitchen. Even if you love cooking, there are times when you need to prioritize other things in life. In such cases, you should consider these three quick and easy crock pot recipes. Chicken Tacos This chicken taco recipe only…
Four delicious takes on mac and cheese
Everyone loves mac and cheese. Whether your 7 or 70, mac and cheese can be a side dish or staple for just about any meal. Not only is mac n cheese versatile, but there’s lots of different ways to make it. Here are just a few of them. Bacon Mac This is a very simple method to make mac and…
Three no-bake cookie recipes your kids will love
If you want to make some treats with your kids this weekend, there’s no better way than to make no-bake cookies and sweets! You and your kids will have fun with these simple recipes. Cookies and Cream Fudge All you need are white chocolate baking squares, sweetened condensed milk, and a…
Heinz introduces new jalapeno mustard
For generations, Heinz has been the face of many sauces including most notably ketchup. Heinz has continued this mass exposure and presence even further, this time on the side of innovation. Heinz now introduces its newest sauce option - jalapeno mustard. Not only is this a unique sauce from Heinz,…
Fermented milk products could have antihypertensive properties
Many studies about the effects of fermented milk on the prevention of diseases such as hypertension have been done during the last decade. If this can be demonstrated scientifically, it will provide hypertension patients with a more natural option to the usual drugs. It is known that these…
Three flatbread meals that are nutritious and lo-cal
When you think about flatbread, you imagine too many calories and too many carbohydrates. Indeed, it is difficult to create a meal that is nutritious that is lo-cal, but it is possible. Once you learn how to choose the right combination of the ingredients, you will be able to enjoy delicious dishes.…
Three Ways to Serve Sweet Potatoes
Most people like sweet potatoes because of their taste and because they are also a very healthy vegetable. Because of its excellent source of fibre content, sweet potatoes stimulate stomach activities and digestion. You can consume these potatoes in different ways by making attractive and delicious…
Chicken Enchiladas Made Simple
How about a treat of Mexican chicken enchiladas to enjoy with friends and family? Or maybe just to enjoy by yourself and pamper yourself for a change? Either way, the treat is heavenly and the time and effort is minimal. This is a no-hassle and simple recipe. What you will need for an approximate…
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
DMCA
Copyright © 2019 Apllied Nutrition. All Rights Reserved.