Depression Diagnosis, Tests, & Treatments
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Mixed Bipolar Disorder Home
Medical Reference
Features
Video
Slideshows & Images
Blogs
Health Tools
News Archive
Depression Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Boards
Medications
Find a Psychiatrist
Depression Guide
Overview & Causes
Symptoms & Types
Diagnosis & Treatment
Recovering & Managing
Finding Help
Related to Depression
ADHD
Anxiety & Panic Disorders
Binge Eating Disorder
Bipolar Disorder
Crisis Assistance
Mental Health
Pain Management
Pill Identifier
Postpartum Depression
Stress Management
Substance Abuse & Addiction
More Related Topics
Depression
Guide
Understanding Depression -- Diagnosis and Treatment
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
How Is Depression Diagnosed?
What Are the Treatments for Depression?
Medication for Depression
Psychotherapy for Depression
Other Treatments for Depression
Exercise for Depression
Nutrition and Diet for Depression
Alternative Medicine for Depression
Herbal Remedies for Depression
Mind/Body Medicine for Depression
Massage for Depression
Acupuncture for Depression
How Is Depression Diagnosed?
Although very common, depression is often ignored or misdiagnosed and left untreated. Such inattention can be life-threatening; major depression, in particular, has a high suicide rate.
If you or a loved one have symptoms of depression, seek help from a qualified health care provider. Many primary care doctors diagnose and treat depression. Screenings for depression are now often part of a routine visit to your doctor. But if your symptoms get significantly worse or do not improve within four to eight weeks of treatment, ask your health care provider for a referral to a psychiatrist for diagnosis and treatment. Clearly, for more severe symptoms -- and always if you have thoughts about death or hurting yourself or someone else -- you should see a psychiatrist as soon as possible.
To diagnose depression, your health care provider will ask you questions about your symptoms and family history. You may be asked to fill out a questionnaire about your symptoms. You may be given medical tests to rule out other conditions that may be causing your symptoms, such as nutrient deficiencies, underactive thyroid or hormone levels, or reactions to drugs (either prescription or recreational) and/or alcohol.
What Are the Treatments for Depression?
The stigma depression carries drives many people to hide it, try to tough it out, or misuse alcohol, drugs, or herbal remedies to get relief. To effectively treat depression, it is important to seek care from a health care provider such as your primary care doctor or a licensed mental health professional. Both of these types of providers can help you get a correct diagnosis and develop a treatment plan. Many treatments for depression are available and typically include a combination of psychotherapy and medication.
Psychotherapy teaches patients how to overcome negative attitudes and feelings and helps them return to normal activities.
Drug therapy is intended to treat symptoms that are thought to result from abnormalities in brain circuits that regulate mood, thinking and behavior. It may take several weeks for an antidepressant to fully work to ease depression symptoms, so it's important to stay on the medication.
As with any chronic illness, getting an early medical diagnosis and medical treatment may help reduce the intensity and duration of depression symptoms. It may also reduce the likelihood of a relapse.
Continued
Medication for Depression
The group of antidepressants most frequently prescribed today consists of drugs that regulate the chemical serotonin. Known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), the group includes citalopram (Celexa), escitalopram oxalate (Lexapro), fluoxetine (Prozac), luvoxamine (Luvox), paroxetine HRI (Paxil), and sertraline (Zoloft). Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) including desvenlafaxine (Khedezla,), desvenlafaxine succinate (Pristiq), duloxetine (Cymbalta), levomilnacipran (Fetzima), and venlafaxine (Effexor), also act on serotonin and norepinephrine but in a different way than SSRIs. The drugs vortioxetine (Trintellix -formerly Brintellix) and vilazodone (Viibryd) affect the serotonin receptor (like SSRIs) but also affect other receptors related to serotonin function. Other antidepressants include bupropion (Wellbutrin), a drug that appears to affect dopamine and norepinephrine regulation, and mirtazapine (Remeron), which increases levels of serotonin and norepinephrine by a different mechanism than SNRIs. For children and adolescents, the SSRIs are among the best-studied and therefore often the drugs of choice.
The tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), which have been used to treat depression since the 1950s, are another option, although they are apt to have more side effects than the SSRIs. Like all antidepressant drugs, you must take them for a while before they take effect. TCAs include amitriptyline (Elavil), amoxapine Asendin), desipramine (Norpramin), doxepin (Sinequan), imipramine (Tofranil), nortriptyline (Aventyl, Pamelor), protriptyline (Vivactil), and trimipramine (Surmontil).
Because adolescents do not tolerate side effects well and tend to stop taking their medication, TCAs are not recommended for them as first-line treatments. In addition, heart rhythm problems have been seen in children and adolescents taking desipramine, a TCA, so caution should be taken when this medication is prescribed to this population.
The third group of antidepressants, the monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), like phenelzine (Nardil), tranylcypromine (Parnate) and the skin patch EMSAM, have also proved effective. MAOIs may sometimes work more quickly than the TCAs, but they require avoiding certain foods (such as aged meats and cheeses) and certain other medicines that can also affect serotonin or raise blood pressure. MAOIs are usually prescribed only if the SSRIs and the TCAs or other depression medicines that can be simpler to take fail to bring improvement.
Continued
Lithium carbonate (Eskalith), which is a drug commonly used for manic depression, is also sometimes used to treat depression in combination with an antidepressant. Today, atypical antipsychotics have become the most widely prescribed class of medications that are added on to an antidepressant after an incomplete initial response. Three in particular, aripiprazole (Abilify), brexpiprazole (Rexulti), or quetiapine (Seroquel XR), are FDA-approved as add-on therapy for antidepressants, regardless of the presence or absence of psychosis (delusions or hallucinations). However, atypical antipsychotics can have many possible side effects, including weight gain, changes in blood sugar and cholesterol, sedation, and abnormal movements.
The nutriceutical l-methylfolate (Deplin) is a prescription strength form of the B-vitamin,folate, and has shown success in treatment of depression. Referred to as a medical food by the FDA, l-methylfolate helps regulate all three of the brain’s monoamine neurotransmitters associated with moods. Side effects include hives, swelling, nausea and bloating.
Your health care provider can recommend the best medicine for you.
Psychotherapy for Depression
Psychotherapy is an important part of treatment for depression. In cases of mild-to-moderate depression, psychotherapy may be used alone to relieve symptoms. More often, it is used in conjunction with medication to alleviate depression.
Commonly used forms of psychotherapy are cognitive, behavioral, and interpersonal therapies.
Cognitive therapies challenge the negative thought patterns that accompany depressed moods and teach you new ways to think more positively.
Behavior therapies concentrate on changing patterns of behavior.
Interpersonal therapies help you examine how relationships affect your moods.
Other Treatments for Depression
Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT)
ECT involves the application of an electric current through electrodes on the head. These are not felt by the patient, who is asleep under general anesthesia. Although doctors are still uncertain exactly how ECT works, it is thought that by producing a brief seizure, a course of several treatments of ECT conducted over a few weeks can bring about relief from depression. Its techniques have been refined in the past 20 years in order to minimize side effects, such as memory loss, and today ECT is considered to be as safe, or even safer, than many drugs used to treat depression and for some people, more effective.
Continued
ECT is usually considered after a number of other options have been tried because it may require hospitalization and general anesthesia. It's also considered if rapid results are vital, as with suicidal patients or those who refuse to eat or drink. ECT should not be thought of as a "last resort"; it is extremely effective and may work before other treatments have been tried and failed.
Usually given three times a week for two to four weeks, treatments generally involve 6 to 12 sessions and are sometimes followed by a gradual “taper down” in frequency over several weeks. Some people benefit from ongoing “maintenance” treatment over longer periods to prevent relapse when medicines alone may be ineffective.
Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS)
rTMS, which involves passing strong magnetic currents through the brain, is another option for treating depression. rTMS has been used effectively at times to treat major depression and depression that does not respond to other forms of treatment (treatment-resistant depression). However, to date, studies have not found rTMS to be as effective as ECT.
Vagal Nerve Stimulation (VNS)
VNS is used to treat select cases of severe or recurrent, chronic depression that does not respond to at least two antidepressant trials. This surgical treatment involves the use of a pulse generator implanted under the collar bone that sends out pulses of electricity to stimulate the vagus nerve in an attempt to affect the brain's mood centers. It typically takes at least several months for VNS to begin to show a benefit for treating depression.
Exercise for Depression
Exercise should be a part of any therapy for depression. It improves blood flow to the brain, elevates mood, and relieves stress. Even if used alone, it can often bring favorable results. Studies show that jogging for 30 minutes three times a week can be as effective as psychotherapy in treating depression. Pick an exercise you like and do it daily, if possible. Any exercise is fine; the more energetic and aerobic, the better. The key is getting your heart rate into the right range for your age for 20-30 minutes three to four times a week.
Continued
Nutrition and Diet for Depression
Because symptoms of depression can be exacerbated by nutritional deficiencies, a healthy diet is important. Eat a well-balanced diet. Some people have noticed an improvement of depression symptoms when they eliminated wheat, dairy, alcohol, sugar, and caffeine from their diets. But this is not proven to treat depression. You can try eliminating those foods one at a time from your diet and note whether your depression improves. It may help to keep a symptom diary. Quitting smoking is also advised.
Alternative Medicine for Depression
As with any alternative or complementary medicine, check with your health care provider before starting it, especially if you are taking other medications or treatments.
Herbal Remedies for Depression
Several studies show that the herb St. John's Wort is as successful at improving symptoms of mild-to-moderate depression as prescription medications, often with fewer side effects. However, other reports show that the herb isn't any better than placebo (or sugar pill) in treating depression. Although it is considered safe, St. John's Wort can be potentially dangerous if taken with other antidepressants (especially SSRIs), including certain medications used for treating HIV, cyclosporine, a drug used in organ transplant patients, or anticoagulant drugs. It can also interfere with the efficacy of oral contraceptives and medications used for heart disease and seizures.
S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM-e), another herbal remedy, is also sometimes considered to be a useful treatment option for depression, although existing medical studies have not been conclusive about its effectiveness.
Although ginkgo biloba is typically used as an "alternative medicine" strategy that might help to improve memory and ease confusion, it has proven in some cases to work better than placebo for the symptoms of depression, and is approved by the German government's Commission E for this purpose.
Whatever herbal remedy you may decide to take to treat a medical condition, it is always best to consult your health care provider first. This is especially true if you are taking prescription medications for the same or other conditions.
Mind/Body Medicine for Depression
Many mind/body practices can be helpful with depression. Music and dance can lift the spirits and energize the body. Meditation and relaxation techniques, such as progressive muscle relaxation, both stimulate and relax. Other choices include transcendental meditation, visualizations, and the Asian exercise techniques of yoga, tai chi, and qigong. Choose one or two that suit you and practice often.
Continued
Massage for Depression
Massage not only relaxes you, it may help reduce your anxiety and depression. When groups of depressed adolescents received massage therapy, their stress hormone levels changed, their brain activity was positively affected and their anxiety and depression eased. Because it has no side effects, massage could be a safe and positive addition to your depression treatment program. However, by itself, massage is not considered to be a proven or evidence-based treatment for depression.
Acupuncture for Depression
The World Health Organization lists depression among the conditions for which acupuncture is effective. Some studies have shown it markedly lessens symptoms of depression. Acupuncture may be a viable alternative from therapy if you are unable to take antidepressants or have not found them helpful.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by Smitha Bhandari, MD on June 23, 2017
Sources
SOURCES:
Miniussi C. Clinical Neurophysiology, May 2005.
American Psychiatric Association: Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5.
Shelton C. Journal of Clinical Psychiatry, 2004.
Hu, Z. Drugs, 2005.
Szegedi, A. British Medical Journal, March 5, 2005.
Stahl, S. Journal of Clinical Psychiatry, 2003.
The Journal of the American Medical Association. “Recommendations for Screening Depression in Adults,” Vol. 315, No. 4, January 26, 2016.
© 2017 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next Article
Types of Treatments
Depression Guide
Overview & Causes
Symptoms & Types
Diagnosis & Treatment
Recovering & Managing
Finding Help
Top Picks
Mood Disorders: How to Recognize and Treat Them
Dealing With Antidepressant Side Effects
MS and Depression: How Are They Linked?
What Happens in Depression Treatment?
8 Foods That Help Fight Depression
Causes of Depression
further reading
Dealing With Ups and Downs of Bipolar Disorder?
What Is Mixed Bipolar Disorder?
Treating Bipolar Depression
Baby Steps: Recovering From Bipolar Relapse
Try a Healing Touch Massage
Getting Started: Talk Therapy for Depression
Understanding Bipolar Disorder
Mixed Bipolar Disorder Topics
Today on WebMD
What Is Depression?
Differences between feeling depressed and feeling blue.
Celebrities With Depression
Famous people who've struggled with persistent sadness.
Depression Myths & Facts
Learn the truth about this serious illness.
Is Your Antidepressant Working?
Tips to stay the treatment course.
Recommended for You
Health Check
Depressed? Assess Your Symptoms
Slideshow
Famous Faces With Depression
Article
Myths & Facts About Antidepressants
Article
Is My Teen Depressed?
Article
10 Warning Signs of Suicide
Article
How Depression Affects Women
Article
Guide to Depression Meds
Article
Natural Depression Treatments
Tools & Resources
Depression: Signs Your Medication Isn’t Working
Celebrities With Depression
8 Foods That Fight Depression
Detecting Depression: Symptoms
Physical Signs of Depression
Effects of Untreated Depression
Health Solutions
World Class Heart Care
Living Donor Kidney Donation
Treat Enlarged Prostate
Treating Baby Eczema
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Advanced Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Penis Curved When Erect
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.