Light therapy: an effective, natural antidepressant
Home
Everyday Health
Natural Remedies
Nutrition
Pregnancy
Sexuality
Search
Search for:
Search
Menu
Latest stories
Cystitis: Causes, symptoms and natural remedies
Meningitis: Causes, symptoms and treatment
Eucalyptus: A plant and oil with many amazing uses
Soya milk: Is it good for your baby’s health?
Irritable Bowel Syndrome: 5 tips and natural remedies to combat IBS
Screens: Great alternative activity ideas for children
Epileptic attack: Causes, symptoms and how to react
Previous Next
in Natural Remedies, Psychology
Light therapy: an effective, natural antidepressant
Credit: Nikodash / iStock
by Eilidh Ramsay 51 Views
SharePin it
Light therapy: an effective, natural antidepressant
5 (100%) 1 vote
Light therapy is an alternative therapy which involves exposing yourself to specific wave lengths of artificial white light every day that imitate the effects of sunlight. According to a study this alternative therapy is just as effective as antidepressants in helping to overcome different types of depression.
Light therapy: effective and natural anti-depressant
According to the results of a study published in the journal Jama Psychiatry, light therapy is an effective treatment for combating depression and seasonal depression.
Researchers from the University of Vancouver carried our a clinical trial on 122 patients suffering from depression aged between 19 and 60 which they separated into four groups:
First group: received 20 mg of fluoxetine, an anti depressant (Prozac)
Second group: followed a programme of 30 minutes of light therapy per day with a 10000 lux lamp.
Third group: received the both the above treatments combined.
Fourth group: underwent placebo treatments.
According to the lead author of the study, Doctor Raymond Lam, “Light therapy used on its own or combined with fluoxetine is an effective and well tolerated treatment for adults suffering from major, non seasonal depression. However the treatment that combined the two treatments together had more constant effects.”
A summery of the results after the 8 week study
76% of the patients that received the two treatments (light therapy and antidepressants) showed a clear improvement of their symptoms.
59% of the patients that received the two treatments said that their depression symptoms disappeared.
50% of the patients that under went light therapy and a placebo anti depressant showed improvements to their symptoms.
29% of the patients treated with the Prozac drug and who were exposed to a placebo lamp showed an improvement in the symptoms.
According to the results of this study the best way to overcome depression is by following a treatment that involves both antidepressant medication and light therapy sessions.
Before you try and practice light therapy session on your own at home you should always consult your doctor for their advice. Generally the first few sessions are carried out a doctor, psychiatrist, neurologist or a naturopathist.
Source
Related articles:
Do you know the 5 main causes for depression?
Stress, depression and insomnia: homeopathic remedies
5 signs of depression, and what to do about them
More From: Natural Remedies
Avid coffee drinker? Try homemade remedies using coffee grounds
Raynaud’s syndrome: Best natural remedy
Jojoba oil: Multiple benefits for oily skin and hair
Nausea and vomiting: How to soothe your stomach with natural remedies
How to make your own homemade pain relief cream
Acne scars: 9 natural remedies to clear your skin
Natural Health
in Everyday Health
Cystitis: Causes, symptoms and natural remedies
in Everyday Health
Meningitis: Causes, symptoms and treatment
45 Views
in Everyday Health
Eucalyptus: A plant and oil with many amazing uses
74 Views
in Nutrition, Pregnancy
Soya milk: Is it good for your baby’s health?
147 Views
in Nutrition
Irritable Bowel Syndrome: 5 tips and natural remedies to combat IBS
36 Views
in Everyday Health
Screens: Great alternative activity ideas for children
Popular
7.1k Views
Top 3 favourite sex positions in Europe
7.3k Views
How to give amazing blowjobs – 14 tips to send him to seventh heaven
1.1k Views
Ejaculate for the good of your health! How many times a month is best?
Welcome to the site of Health & Wellness! Every day you will find:
– articles dedicated to natural health,
– natural remedies,
– the benefits of sweet doctors, plants, natural foods,
– recipes to stay in top shape, naturally.
top 3 of the month
What does the half-moon shape on your nails mean?
Public toilet hygiene: why you should never line the toilet seat with toilet paper
A new virus in children that you need to know about
Legal Notice
Contact us
Publicity
Back to Top
Home
Everyday Health
Natural Remedies
Nutrition
Pregnancy
Sexuality
Search for:
Search
Powered by
Thewonderlist.net - Grannystips.co.uk - Sciencepost.uk - Womanistic.net - Creatistic.net