Zinc Deficiency: Symptoms, Diagnosis, and More
Newsletter
Zinc Deficiency
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on June 14, 2017 — Written by Kathryn Watson
Symptoms
Risk factors
Diagnosis
Treating zinc deficiency
Emergency symptoms
Outlook
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
Overview
Zinc is a mineral that your body uses for fighting off infections and producing cells. It’s important for healing injuries and creating DNA, the genetic blueprint in all of your cells. If you’re not getting enough zinc in your diet, you may have side effects such as hair loss, lack of alertness, and a reduced sense of taste and smell. Zinc deficiency is rare in the United States, but it still occurs in some people.
Symptoms
Zinc is used by your body in cell production and immune functions. There is still a lot more to learn about zinc, but we do know that zinc is an essential part of growth, sexual development, and reproduction.
When you’re zinc deficient, your body can’t produce healthy, new cells. This leads to symptoms such as:
unexplained weight loss
wounds that won’t heal
lack of alertness
decreased sense of smell and taste
diarrhea
loss of appetite
open sores on the skin
Summary Zinc is essential for growth and sexual development, a deficiency in this mineral can lead to a variety of physical ailments.
Risk factors
If you’re pregnant and have zinc deficiency, your baby might not have what it needs to develop properly in your womb. And if you and your partner are trying to become pregnant, zinc deficiency could make it difficult. That’s because zinc deficiency may lead to impotence in men.
Read more: The link between zinc and erectile dysfunction »
The people at the highest risk of zinc deficiency in the United States are infants who are breastfeeding and older adults. Pregnant women need more zinc than usual because the zinc in their body is needed to help the developing baby. People with alcoholism are also at risk of deficiency. Some shows that alcohol makes it harder for your body to digest zinc.
Summary It’s important for pregnant women to maintain healthy zinc levels during and (if breastfeeding) after pregnancy to ensure the proper development of their baby.
Diagnosing zinc deficiency
Zinc is distributed in trace amounts among the cells in your body, making it difficult to detect zinc deficiency through a simple blood test.
If your doctor suspects a zinc deficiency, they will need to test your blood plasma for an accurate reading. Other tests for zinc deficiency include a urine test and an analysis of a strand of your hair to measure the zinc content.
Sometimes zinc deficiency is a symptom of another condition. For example, some conditions may cause zinc to be processed in your body but not absorbed well. Zinc deficiency can also lead to copper deficiency. Your doctor will be aware of these possibilities. They may do additional testing to get to the root of your deficiency.
Summary A zinc deficiency can be diagnosed using a blood test, urine test, or hair analysis. As some conditions can lead to a zinc deficiency, your doctor may do additional testing to discover the root cause.
Treating zinc deficiency
Diet changes
Long-term treatment for zinc deficiency starts with changing your diet. To start, consider eating more:
red meat
poultry
seeds
wheat germ
wild rice
oysters
If you’re a vegetarian, it might be more difficult to get the amount of zinc you need from the foods you eat. Consider baked beans, cashews, peas, and almonds as alternative sources of zinc.
The United States Department of Agriculture keeps an up-to-date, comprehensive list of foods that are high in zinc. Add more of these foods to your diet to help prevent deficiency.
Supplements
You can also treat your zinc deficiency right away with supplements. Zinc is found in many multivitamin supplements. It’s also found in some cold medicines, though you shouldn’t take cold medicine if you’re not sick. You can also buy supplements that contain only zinc.
If you’re using supplements to boost the amount of zinc in your body, be careful. Zinc can interact with some antibiotics, arthritis medications, and diuretics.
Shop for zinc supplements online.
Summary Changing your diet to include foods rich in zinc is the best way to treat a zinc deficiency. Zinc supplements are available but should be used with caution, as they can interfere with certain medications.
When to call your doctor
In most cases, a zinc deficiency is not an emergency. That said, if you are pregnant or breastfeeding and suspect a zinc deficiency, it’s extremely important that you address it right away. Zinc is essential to healthy development in the womb.
If you know that you are deficient and have diarrhea that lasts for several days, you should call a doctor. Zinc is the mineral that helps your intestines fight off infection, and without it, your infection might become more serious.
As with any condition, you should contact your healthcare provider if you:
feel dizzy or nauseous
have a sudden headache that will not go away
experience unconsciousness
Summary A zinc deficiency is not an emergency in most cases. However you should contact your doctor if you suspect you may have a zinc deficiency, especially if you are pregnant.
Outlook
Zinc deficiency happens in the United States. But through dietary changes and supplements, it’s possible to reverse. People with zinc deficiency can address the problem by seeking out sources of zinc and being mindful of what they eat.
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI on June 14, 2017 — Written by Kathryn Watson
related stories
What Are Zinc Supplements Good For? Benefits and More
Zinc: Everything You Need to Know
7 Signs and Symptoms of Zinc Overdose
The 10 Best Foods That Are High in Zinc
Can You Use Zinc for Acne Spots and Scars?
READ THIS NEXT
What Are Zinc Supplements Good For? Benefits and More
Written by Rachael Link, MS, RD
Available in many forms, zinc supplements are often used to treat an array of ailments. This article reviews the types, benefits, dosage…
READ MORE
Zinc: Everything You Need to Know
Written by Jillian Kubala, MS, RD
Zinc is a nutrient that plays many vital roles in your body. This article explains everything you need to know about zinc, its functions, benefits…
READ MORE
7 Signs and Symptoms of Zinc Overdose
Written by Makayla Meixner
Zinc is absolutely essential for good health, but consuming too much can have several side effects. Here are 7 signs and symptoms of zinc overdose.
READ MORE
The 10 Best Foods That Are High in Zinc
Written by Helen West, RD (UK)
Zinc is involved in many important processes in your body and absolutely essential for good health. Here are the 10 best foods that are high in zinc.
READ MORE
Can You Use Zinc for Acne Spots and Scars?
Medically reviewed by Cynthia Cobb, DNP, APRN
Zinc is one of the most widely studied forms of acne treatment. Here's how it works, whether adding it to your diet is enough, products to try, and…
READ MORE
Connecting Testosterone and Zinc
Low testosterone can be caused by many treatable medical issues, but it may be as simple as a nutritional deficiency in zinc. Find out if zinc can…
READ MORE
The Link Between Zinc and Erectile Dysfunction
Low zinc levels are blamed for a wide variety of health woes, including erectile dysfunction. But, will increasing zinc significantly change your…
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From barre to TRX, there's a lot of ways to work out. But if you're someone who wants to keep it simple and effective, then this workout routine is…
READ MORE
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Approximately 1 in 6 U.S. adults experiences mental health issues each year. So chances are, you may benefit at some point in your life from talking…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 123134 Client Version: cdb63dc652210437a373a364814a92be03920246 Build Number: 26560