Buy NuMedica L-Theanine Capsules - 60/120c
(888) 424-0032
Shop NuMedica
NuMedica Supplement Directory
Supplement Directory
Click the link1 below to be taken directly to the product page.
14 Day Detox Program
14 Day Immune Focus
28 Day Adipose Focus
28 Day Cardio Focus
28 Day Glycemic Focus
5-HTP 100 mg
5-HTP 50 mg
7 Day Metabolic Detox Program
Absolute Protein
Absolute Protein Chocolate
Absolute Protein Vanilla
Acetyl L-Carnitine
AdrenaMed
AdrenaMed GL50
African Mango
Allergenza
Alpha Lipoic Acid Controlled Uptake
Appe-Curb
B-Replete
Berberine VasoQX
Borage GLA 240CP
BrocColinate 60 mg Extra Strength
BrocColinate Activated
C-750 Plus
C-Bioflav 1000
Calcium D-Glucarate USP
CandideX
Caprylic Acid
CINNergy
CLA Trim 1000
Cognitive Balance
Comprehensive Recovery Packets
Copper
CoQ-Clear 100 Ubiquinol
CoQ-Clear 100 Ubiquinone
CoQ-Clear 50 Ubiquinone
Core Nutrition Pack - 30 day
Corti-B Plex
CurcuCalm
D3-2000 Bio-Identical Vitamin D
D3-5000 Bio-Identical Vitamin D
DHA Liquid
DHEA
DIM Estro
Dual-Tox DPO
Eliminator Bronze Weight Loss Pack 30d
Eliminator Gold Weight Loss Pack 30d
Eliminator Silver Weight Loss Pack 30d
Elite-E Complex
Fiber Factors
Fit-N-Slim Pack - 30 day
Foundation Essentials
Foundation Essentials Men
Foundation Essentials Men + Women
Foundation Essentials Women
Functional Female Performance Formula
Functional Male Performance Formula
GABA Capsules
Gluco-Response
GlutaMed
Gluten Support Packets
Gluten Support Program
Gluten Support PRP Balance Spray
Glutenza
GS GI Restore Capsules
GS GI Restore Cherry Chewable
GS GI Restore Powder
GS Micellized D3 + K2 - 1 fl oz
GS Micellized D3 1200 IU - 1 fl oz
GS TheraPRP Capsules
GS TheraPRP Powder
GS Tri-Flora
GS ZinCosa GI
hc3 Lifestyle Program 30d
hc3 Trim Active Complex
Healthy Composition Support Program 30d
HemePlex Fe
HiFlora-5012
HM Protect
Immuno PRP Spray
ImmunoG PRP
ImmunoG PRP Capsules
ImmunoG PRP Chewable Cherry
ImmunoG PRP Powder
ImmunoMed 3-6
Joint Replete
Kids Berry Chewables
L-Arginine
L-Glutamine Powder
L-Theanine Capsules
L-Theanine Liquid - Natural Lemon - 2 fl. oz.
Lipid Factors
Liposomal CoQ10 + PQQ
Liposomal Curcumin
Liposomal Glutathione
Liposomal Hydroxy B12
Liposomal MethylSorb
Liposomal Vitamin C
Liver Defend
Mag-Cal Citrate
Mag-Plex Ultra
Magnesium Citrate
MCT Oil USP
Melatonin Liquid - Lemon Flavor - 2 fl. oz
Melatonin Lozenges
Metabolic Reset Program - 30 day
Methyl B-12 HP
Methyl Folate 5-MTHF
Methyl Folate HP
Methyl Folate Optimizer
Methyl-Plex B
Micellized D3 + K2 - 1 fl oz
Micellized D3 1200 IU - 1 fl oz
MineralPlex
Mitochondrial Recharge
MSM 920
MultiMedica
MultiMedica for Men
MultiMedica for Women
MultiMedica Without Iron
MultiPlex Complete
MyoMedica PC - Professional Cream
MyoMedica Tablets
NAC (N-Acetyl Cysteine)
Nattokinase
Neuro Harmony
Neuro PRP Spray
NeuroMethylation Cream
Niacin SR
Omega 1700 TG
Omega 600 USP EC (Enteric Coated)
Omega 780 USP EC (Enteric Coated)
Omega 950 USP
Omega EFA Complex
Osteo V SC
Osteo Vegan Program - 30 day
Osteo Vegan Rx
OsteoMedica
Pan-GL
Pan-V
ParasideX
Path DS
Pepcigen
Phosphatidyl Serine Soy Free
Phospholipid Complex
Power Fruits & Veggies for Kids
Power Greens
Power Greens Berry
Power Greens Chocolate
Power Greens Espresso
Power Greens Mint
Power Greens Premium Berry
Power Reds Strawberry-Kiwi
Pregnenolone
PrenuPhase
Pro-ToxiClear Vanilla
ProGI Soothe
ProstaCalm (with BrocColinate)
Red Yeast Rice - Extra Strength
Reminisce
Reset PATH Support Formula
ResveraPlex Plus
SacBoulardii DF
Salicin-B IC (Intensive Care)
Seasonal Shield
Sereni-T Rx
SlimFit Protein
SlimFit Protein Dutch Chocolate
SlimFit Protein French Vanilla
Taurine
TheraPRP Capsules
TheraPRP Powder
Thyrodex T-150
ThyroMedica Plus
Thyroxodine (Organic Iodine)
Total Vegan Protein
Total Vegan Protein Chocolate - 6-Pack
Total Vegan Protein Chocolate Delight
Total Vegan Protein Mocha
Total Vegan Protein Mocha - 6-Pack
Total Vegan Protein Vanilla
Total Vegan Protein Vanilla - 6-Pack
Tri-Flora Plus
UTI Soothe Capsules
UTI Soothe Powder
Zinc Glycinate
×
Reviews
Seller Reviews
Product Reviews
Login
Member Benefits
Home
Blog
Recipes
Wellness
Contact
Buy NuMedica L-Theanine Capsules - 60/120c
NuMedica L-Theanine Capsules - 60c/120c
Orders (888) 424-0032
$AVE Cart Ship
Call $AVE Cart Ship
Unit Price: $39.50
Form: Capsule ($39.50) ... Liquid ($35.90) ...
Size: 60c 120c ($59.95)
Quantity:
Add to Cart
NuMedica Reviews NuMedica Catalog
Adrenal Support
Anti-Aging Support
Antioxidants
Blood Sugar Support
Bone Health Support
Cardiovascular Support
Children&apos;s Health
Detoxification
Essential Fatty Acids
Female Health
Focused Nutrition
GI Support
Gluten Sensitivity
hc3 Lifestyle Weight Loss
Immune Support
ImmunoG
Joint & Muscle Support
Liposomal
Liver Support
Male Health
Meal Replacement Shakes
Metabolic Management
Methylation Support
Multivitamins & Minerals
Neurologic Support
Osteo Vegan
Power Greens
Power Reds
Probiotics
Respiratory Support
Seasonal Health
Sports Nutrition
Stress & Sleep Support
Superfood Antioxidant Drinks
Swelling & Tenderness
Thyroid Support
Weight Loss
Wellness
NuMedica L-Theanine Capsules
60/120 capsules
Vegetable Capsule Gluten Free Vegetarian
Relaxation and Stress Relief
Unique amino acid in capsule form found in tea leaves that promotes relaxation and stress relief without side effects like drowsiness or fatigue.
view 3 product reviews
Product Reviews
on March 4, 2019
- Verified Purchase
Helps with sleep
l-theanine
on December 4, 2018
- Verified Purchase
Something in life will direct you to the funny farm! That is a guarantee! I generally take Xanax. This is one of the supplements I'm taking to eventually replace it. I would be in serious trouble without it!
Recommend
Purchase was without any issue and timely delivery.
on November 12, 2018
- Verified Purchase
Purchase was without any issue and timely delivery.
Recommend
UPC: 812527011472, 812527012356, 812527013073 SKU: NM147, NM235, NM965
view related NuMedica supplements
Description
Benefits
Directions
Ingredients
Resources
Anxiety and Stress Relief from NuMedica L-Theanine
Derived from tea leaves, NuMedica L-Theanine is a unique amino acid that is known to induce feelings of relaxation without causing sleepiness or fatigue. Theanine is found essentially in tea leaves, but it can also be found in a certain type of edible mushroom. If you've ever wondered why so many people say that enjoying a cup of tea relaxes them, it has much to do with this beneficial amino acid. You can ramp up your intake of this feel-good amino acid by taking a natural supplement like NuMedica L-Theanine, which can reduce feelings of anxiety and stress so your mind and body can experience the relief it needs.
NuMedica is a celebrated pioneer of the natural supplement industry. They are known for their safe and effective products. Through its devotion to supplement research, NuMedica continues to produce some of the most popular supplements on the market today.
Benefits of NuMedica L-Theanine
L-Theanine is known to relieve stress and anxiety by promoting feelings of relaxation. Although taking this supplement may relax you, it will not cause you to feel drowsy, which is why this particular natural stress reliever has become so popularly taken. This powerful amino acid is also being researched for possible other applications. Some scientists believe it may have some anti-cancer properties and may provide support for both the immune system and cardiovascular system. According to studies, L-theanine may also enhance the nervous system by protecting brain cells during times of stress like periods of low oxygenation. As medical research continues, scientist may unlock still more powerful benefits of this unique amino acid.
NuMedica L-Theanine Available in Multiple Forms and Sizes
NuMedica L-Theanine comes in 60/120 Capsule and Liquid (Natural Lemon) forms.
Promotes feelings of relaxing
Does NOT induce drowsiness or fatigue
Provides relief from anxiety and stress
Natural amino acid found in tea leaves
Product
Serving
Size
Number
Servings
Directions
L-Theanine - 60c 1 Capsule 60 Take one capsule one or two times daily or as directed by your healthcare practitioner.
L-Theanine - 120c 1 Capsule 120 Take one capsule one or two times daily or as directed by your healthcare practitioner.
One Capsule Contains:
Ingredient
Amount
L-Theanine 200 mg
Other Ingredients: Rice flour, HPMC (vegetable capsule), MCC (microcrystalline cellulose), ascorbyl palmitate, silica.
Free of: Milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, soy.
Suntheanine® is a registered trade name for pure L-Theanine from Taiyo Kagaku Co. Ltd., Yokkaichi, Japan.
Related Wellness Resources
We encourage you to take advantage of these FREE Wellness Resources on our website.
Diet Failure: Part 3 - Deadlines Can Make You Fat!
Stress is the ultimate diet killer and can make us hold onto the weight.
Eight and One Half Steps to Relieve Stress
Facilitator Libby Wright discusses the physiological effects of stress and how we perceive situations with participants of the Your Best Weight program. She provides practical tips for managing stress that everyone can do. The webinar last for 17 minutes and addresses questions submitted by the program participants.
You can learn more about the NuMedica supplements discussed: AdrenaMed, Magnesium Citrate and Power Greens.
You may view or download the slides used for the presentation. We encourage you to take advantage of the supporting content on the Resources tab and to ask questions or share your thoughts in the Discussion Forum.
Tip 4: Take a Breath
One of the best ways to exercise is through breathing! Learn more in part four of this blog series entitled Seven Tips For Balanced Living.
Webinar: Better Sleep Tonight!
Facilitator Libby Wright interviews Dr. Jamie Wright who discusses the role of sleep in weight loss with participants of the Your Best Weight program. Dr. Wright is a board certified physician with a Masters Degree in Metabolic and Nutritional Medicine. The webinar last for 29 minutes and addresses questions submitted by the program participants.
You can learn more about the NuMedica supplements discussed: Liquid Melatonin.
Please enjoy the webinar. You may also wish to view or download the slides used for the presentation. We encourage you to ask questions or share your thoughts in the Discussion Forum.
Yes! Stress Makes You Fat
People talk about stress all the time, and sure, we all know what it feels like! But how does our body actually handle stress, and what in the world does that have to do with getting fat?
Description
Anxiety and Stress Relief from NuMedica L-Theanine
Derived from tea leaves, NuMedica L-Theanine is a unique amino acid that is known to induce feelings of relaxation without causing sleepiness or fatigue. Theanine is found essentially in tea leaves, but it can also be found in a certain type of edible mushroom. If you've ever wondered why so many people say that enjoying a cup of tea relaxes them, it has much to do with this beneficial amino acid. You can ramp up your intake of this feel-good amino acid by taking a natural supplement like NuMedica L-Theanine, which can reduce feelings of anxiety and stress so your mind and body can experience the relief it needs.
NuMedica is a celebrated pioneer of the natural supplement industry. They are known for their safe and effective products. Through its devotion to supplement research, NuMedica continues to produce some of the most popular supplements on the market today.
Benefits of NuMedica L-Theanine
L-Theanine is known to relieve stress and anxiety by promoting feelings of relaxation. Although taking this supplement may relax you, it will not cause you to feel drowsy, which is why this particular natural stress reliever has become so popularly taken. This powerful amino acid is also being researched for possible other applications. Some scientists believe it may have some anti-cancer properties and may provide support for both the immune system and cardiovascular system. According to studies, L-theanine may also enhance the nervous system by protecting brain cells during times of stress like periods of low oxygenation. As medical research continues, scientist may unlock still more powerful benefits of this unique amino acid.
NuMedica L-Theanine Available in Multiple Forms and Sizes
NuMedica L-Theanine comes in 60/120 Capsule and Liquid (Natural Lemon) forms.
Benefits
Promotes feelings of relaxing
Does NOT induce drowsiness or fatigue
Provides relief from anxiety and stress
Natural amino acid found in tea leaves
Directions
Product
Serving
Size
Number
Servings
Directions
L-Theanine - 60c 1 Capsule 60 Take one capsule one or two times daily or as directed by your healthcare practitioner.
L-Theanine - 120c 1 Capsule 120 Take one capsule one or two times daily or as directed by your healthcare practitioner.
Ingredients
One Capsule Contains:
Ingredient
Amount
L-Theanine 200 mg
Other Ingredients: Rice flour, HPMC (vegetable capsule), MCC (microcrystalline cellulose), ascorbyl palmitate, silica.
Free of: Milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, soy.
Suntheanine® is a registered trade name for pure L-Theanine from Taiyo Kagaku Co. Ltd., Yokkaichi, Japan.
Resources
Related Wellness Resources
We encourage you to take advantage of these FREE Wellness Resources on our website.
Diet Failure: Part 3 - Deadlines Can Make You Fat!
Stress is the ultimate diet killer and can make us hold onto the weight.
Eight and One Half Steps to Relieve Stress
Facilitator Libby Wright discusses the physiological effects of stress and how we perceive situations with participants of the Your Best Weight program. She provides practical tips for managing stress that everyone can do. The webinar last for 17 minutes and addresses questions submitted by the program participants.
You can learn more about the NuMedica supplements discussed: AdrenaMed, Magnesium Citrate and Power Greens.
You may view or download the slides used for the presentation. We encourage you to take advantage of the supporting content on the Resources tab and to ask questions or share your thoughts in the Discussion Forum.
Tip 4: Take a Breath
One of the best ways to exercise is through breathing! Learn more in part four of this blog series entitled Seven Tips For Balanced Living.
Webinar: Better Sleep Tonight!
Facilitator Libby Wright interviews Dr. Jamie Wright who discusses the role of sleep in weight loss with participants of the Your Best Weight program. Dr. Wright is a board certified physician with a Masters Degree in Metabolic and Nutritional Medicine. The webinar last for 29 minutes and addresses questions submitted by the program participants.
You can learn more about the NuMedica supplements discussed: Liquid Melatonin.
Please enjoy the webinar. You may also wish to view or download the slides used for the presentation. We encourage you to ask questions or share your thoughts in the Discussion Forum.
Yes! Stress Makes You Fat
People talk about stress all the time, and sure, we all know what it feels like! But how does our body actually handle stress, and what in the world does that have to do with getting fat?
Related NuMedica Supplements
Retail: $35.90
NuMedica L-Theanine Liquid - Natural Lemon - 2 fl. oz.
Relaxation and Stress Relief - Fast Acting Liquid **
Unique amino acid in liquid form found in tea leaves that promotes relaxation and stress relief without side effects like drowsiness or fatigue.
view product
NuMedica L-Theanine - 60c
NuMedica L-Theanine (Large) - 120c
NuMedica L-Theanine Liquid - Natural Lemon - 2 fl. oz.
×
Are you human? Reset Code	 Incorrect Captcha Code
×
x
Product Questions or Feedback?
Ask questions. Share your thoughts. Note that we cannot answer questions relating to specific medical conditions - please refer those to your qualified healthcare provider. Post a new Comment or Reply to an existing one.
Help for using the Discussion Forum.
Product Questions
Share your thoughts. Post a new Comment or Reply to an existing one.
Help for using the Discussion Forum.
Post Comment
Comment is required
Post
Discussion Forum Help
Comments are displayed in order of the last one posted so the most recent Comment is at the top and older Comments are towards the bottom. Replies within a Comment are displayed in reverse order with the oldest Reply at the top and the most recent one at the bottom.
Each post identifies who made the post and the date and time the post was made.
Mouse over the icons for tooltips that explain what the data means.
If you see this icon you can attach an Audio file to your post.
If you see this icon you can attach a Document file to your post.
If you see this icon you can attach an Image file to your post.
If you see this icon you can attach a Video file to your post.
You will see the Ban icon (Report Post as SPAM) immediately following the Timestamp of the post. Click this icon if you feel strongly that the content posted is not appropriate and should be reviewed by the Forum Moderator. You will be provided with a confirmation dialog to be sure you wish to submit this post for review. If submitted, the Forum Moderator will be notified to review the post and will determine what type of action to take.
Click in the upper right corner of this Help modal or anywhere on the web page outside of the modal to exit Help.
×
NuMedica L-Theanine Capsules Health & Beauty > Health Care > Fitness & Nutrition > Vitamins & Supplements https://cdn-manager.net/media/images/numedica-L-Theanine-60c-medium.jpg
Unique amino acid in capsule form found in tea leaves that promotes relaxation and stress relief without side effects like drowsiness or fatigue.
$ 39.50 New Available online https://supplementrelief.com/numedica-l-theanine/
wmblount March 4, 2019
Helps with sleep
l-theanine
esczrhnds December 4, 2018
Something in life will direct you to the funny farm! That is a guarantee! I generally take Xanax. This is one of the supplements I'm taking to eventually replace it. I would be in serious trouble without it!
Purchase was without any issue and timely delivery.
wmblount November 12, 2018
Purchase was without any issue and timely delivery.
Order Processing Policy
Please call (888) 424-0032 or email if you have questions or need assistance.
Payment
We accept Visa, MasterCard, Discover and American Express credit cards. Payments are securely processed through industry leader Authorize.net of which SupplementRelief.com is a Verified Merchant. We DO NOT retain or store your credit card information after the purchase. The charge will appear on your credit card statement as SupplementRelief.com.
Shipping & Handling
You may choose from the shipping options below on the Order Checkout form. Some International orders may cost more to ship depending upon weight and location. If that happens we will contact you first and get your approval for any additional charge before proceeding.
Country
Option
Schedule
Cost
United States Standard 3-5 Days $3.95
United States Priority 2-3 Days $7.95
United States Free 5-8 Days $0.00
Canada Standard 7-12 Days $12.95
International Small: less than 2 lbs 10-21 Days $21.95
International Medium: 2-4 lbs 10-21 Days $39.95
International Large: over 4 lbs 10-21 Days $59.95
When your order ships we will send you a confirmation email with the delivery tracking information. Most orders are shipped USPS, UPS or Federal Express. Delivery times vary from two to five or more business days based upon option chosen, delivery location and sometimes weather and seasonal issues.
Returns and Refunds
If we have made a mistake on your order, or the product arrives in a damaged or unusable condition, we will make every reasonable attempt to right the situation quickly to your satisfaction.
We accept returns subject to the condition the product is returned in. All cancellations and returns must first be authorized by contacting us by email or calling us at (888) 424-0032. In your request, please let us know the reason for your cancellation or return. We will respond promptly with authorization, the return address and a return postage label if appropriate.
If your order has not been shipped yet, you can request a cancellation. Your original purchase amount will be refunded within three business days.
If your order has already shipped you can return any un-opened products for a 100% refund and opened products for a 50% refund within 30 days of receiving your order. Un-opened means the protective seal on the bottle or container, or the shrink-wrap on the box or kit, has not been broken and the product has not otherwise been damaged in any way. You may use the original packaging for return or acquire your own. The buyer pays the return postage unless we have made a mistake in which case we will provide you with a return postage label. Returned products should be insured for the price of the product and shipped to the return address provided in your return instructions, otherwise buyer assumes responsibility for lost or damaged goods caused by the carrier.
Upon receipt of returned product(s), we will refund your credit card within three business days for the product(s) returned.
×
Home
Product
Credit Card Processing
SupplementRelief.com
9618 Jefferson Highway, Suite D-191
Baton Rouge, 70809 - United States
(888) 424-0032 | [email protected]
Contact Reviews About Order Policy FAQs Privacy Policy Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Last Updated: October 17, 2018
This Privacy Policy describes the types of data we collect and how we collect it, as well as how we use, process, and disclose your information, including personal information, in conjunction with your access to and use of the SupplementRelief.com Site, products, and services.
1. INFORMATION WE COLLECT
There are two general categories of information we collect.
1.1 Information You Give to Us.
1.1.1 Information that is necessary for the use of the Site (required; provided as necessity).
We require and collect the following personal information about you when you use the Site. This information is necessary for the performance of a contract in which the data subject is a party and to allow us to comply with our legal obligations under the contract and more generally. The following information is required because without it, we may not be able to provide you with all the requested services:
Account Information. When you sign up for a SupplementRelief.com Account, we require certain information such as your first name, last name, email address, address, phone number and password you choose.
Payment Information. To use certain features of the Site (such as ordering products or Services), we may require you to provide to our third party payment processor, certain financial information (like your bank account or credit card information) in order to facilitate the processing of payments. All financial information will be collected directly by third party payment processors according to their privacy policies.
Communications with SupplementRelief.com and other users and customers. When you communicate with SupplementRelief.com or use the Site to communicate with other users and customers, we collect information about your communication and any information you choose to provide.
If you wish to use the Site, we require the aforementioned information; if you do not want to provide this information, you should not use the Site.
1.1.2 Information you choose to give us (optional; provided with consent).
While not required, you may choose to provide us with additional personal information to obtain a better user experience when using Site. This optional, additional information will be processed based on your consent and includes:
Additional Account Information. You may choose to provide additional information as part of your SupplementRelief.com Account (such as your personal description, location, and preferred language(s)). This information will be publicly visible to others. If you do not wish to share this information with SupplementRelief.com or others, do not provide the information as part of your SupplementRelief.com Account.
Other Information. You may otherwise choose to provide us information when you fill in a form, conduct a search, update or add information to your SupplementRelief.com account, respond to surveys, post to community forums, participate in promotions, or use other features of the Site. In these situations, SupplementRelief.com will collect the requisite consent.
1.2 Information We Automatically Collect from Your Use of the Site.
When you use the Site, we automatically collect information, including personal information, about the services you use and how you use them. This information is necessary for the performance of a contract in which the data subject is a party and to allow us to comply with our legal obligations under the contract and more generally. Also, this information is necessary given our legitimate interest in being able to provide and improve the functionalities of the Site.
Geo-location Information. When you use certain features of the Site, we may collect information about your precise or approximate location as determined through data such as your IP address or mobile device's GPS to offer you an improved user experience. Most mobile devices allow you to control or disable the use of location services for applications in the device's settings menu. SupplementRelief.com may also collect this information even when you are not using the app if this connection is enabled through your settings or device permissions.
Usage Information. We collect information about your interactions with the Site such as the pages or content you view, your searches for Products or Services, and other actions on the Site.
Log Data and Device Information. We automatically collect log data and device information when you access and use the Site, even if you have not created a SupplementRelief.com Account or logged in. That information includes, among other things: details about how you've used the Site (including if you clicked on links to third party applications), IP address, access dates and times, hardware and software information, device information, device event information, unique identifiers, crash data, cookie data, and the pages you've viewed or engaged with before or after using the Site.
Cookies and Similar Technologies. We use cookies and other similar technologies, such as web beacons, pixels, and mobile identifiers. We may also allow our business partners to use these tracking technologies on the Site, or engage others to track your behavior on our behalf. You may disable the usage of cookies through your browser settings.
2. HOW WE USE INFORMATION WE COLLECT
We use, store, and process information, including personal information, about you to provide and improve the Site and comply with our legal obligations.
2.1 Provide and Improve the Site.
Enable you to access and use the Site.
Enable you to communicate with other users and customers.
Operate, protect, improve, and optimize the Site and experience, such as by performing analytics and conducting research.
Provide customer service.
Send you service or support messages, updates, security alerts, and account notifications.
Send you promotional messages and other information that may be of interest to you based on your preferences (including information about SupplementRelief.com or donor offers and launches).
We process this information given our legitimate interest in improving the Site and our users' and customers' experience with it, and where it is necessary for the performance of the contract with you and/or a legal obligation. You can opt-out of receiving communications from us by following the unsubscribe instructions included in our marketing communications or changing your notification settings within your SupplementRelief.com account.
2.2 Comply With Our Legal Obligations.
Detect and prevent fraud, spam, abuse, security incidents, and other harmful activity.
Conduct security investigations and risk assessments.
Verify or authenticate information provided by you (such as to verify your authorization to act as an agent on behalf of a nonprofit organization).
Conduct checks against databases and other information sources, to the extent permitted by applicable laws.
Resolve any disputes with any of our users or customers and enforce our agreements with third parties.
Enforce our Terms of Use and other policies.
We process this information given our legitimate interest and legal obligation to protect the Site, to measure the adequate performance of our contract with you, and to comply with applicable laws. SupplementRelief.com may process your information if it is necessary for legitimate interests, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal data.
3. SHARING & DISCLOSURE
Processing is lawful only if and to the extent one of the following applies:
3.1 With Your Consent.
Where you have provided consent, we share your information, including personal information, as described at the time of consent. If you participate in promotional activities conducted by SupplementRelief.com partners or third parties we may also share information if you have provided us with prior consent to do so.
3.2 Other Situations.
3.2.1. Profiles and other Public Information.
The Site lets you publish information, including personal information, that is visible to the general public. For example:
Parts of your public profile page, such as your first name, your description, and city, are publicly visible to others.
If you submit content in a community or discussion forum, blog or social media post, or use a similar feature on the Site, that content is publicly visible. Information you share publicly on the Site may be indexed through third party search engines. If you change your public-facing content, these search engines may not update their databases. We do not control the practices of third party search engines, and they may use caches containing your outdated information.
3.2.2. Compliance with Law, Responding to Legal Requests, Preventing Harm and Protection of our Rights.
SupplementRelief.com may disclose your information, including personal information, to courts, law enforcement or governmental authorities, or authorized third parties, if and to the extent we are required or permitted to do so by law or if such disclosure is reasonably necessary: (i) comply with our legal obligations, (ii) to comply with legal process and to respond to claims asserted against SupplementRelief.com, (iii) to respond to verified requests relating to a criminal investigation or alleged or suspected illegal activity or any other activity that may expose us, you, or any other of our users to legal liability, (iv) to enforce and administer our Terms of Service or other agreements with our users and customers, or (v) to protect the rights, property or personal safety of SupplementRelief.com, its employees, its users, customers or members of the public.
Where appropriate, we may notify users and customers about legal requests unless: (i) providing notice is prohibited by the legal process itself, by court order we receive, or by applicable law, or (ii) we believe that providing notice would be futile, ineffective, create a risk of injury or bodily harm to an individual or group, or create or increase a risk of fraud upon SupplementRelief.com's property, its users and customers and the Site. In instances where we comply with legal requests without notice for these reasons, we will attempt to notify that user or customer about the request after the fact where appropriate and where we determine in good faith that we are no longer prevented from doing so.
3.2.3 Third Party Companies.
SupplementRelief.com enters into contracts with third parties to provide certain donations to SupplementRelief.com users, customers, or companies that offer their products and/or services on the Site ("Third Party Companies"). SupplementRelief.com will share your account information with Third Party Companies when you request donations or purchase products and/or services from such Third Party Companies. SupplementRelief.com will need to share your account information, including your personal information, to implement a contract between you and the Third Party Company. Your account information will be processed according to the privacy policies of such Third Party Companies. We will provide you with these policies as reasonably appropriate.
3.2.4 Service Providers.
SupplementRelief.com uses a variety of third parties to help us provide services related to the Site. Service providers may be located inside or outside of the European Economic Area ("EEA"). The EEA unites the EU Member States and the three EEA EFTA States (Iceland, Liechtenstein, and Norway) into a market governed by the same basic rules (such as GDPR).
For example, service providers may help us: (i) verify your identity or authenticate your identification documents, (ii) check information against public databases, (iii) conduct background or police checks, fraud prevention, and risk assessment, (iv) perform product development, maintenance and debugging, (v) allow the provision of the SupplementRelief.com Services through third party platforms and software tools (e.g., through the integration with our APIs), or (vi) provide customer service, advertising, or payments services. These providers have limited access to your information to perform these tasks on our behalf, and are contractually bound to protect and to use it only for the purposes for which it was disclosed and consistent with this Privacy Policy. If SupplementRelief.com needs to share your information, including personal information, with a service provider, in order to ensure the adequate performance of our contract with you, we are permitted to do so.
3.2.5 Business Transfers.
If SupplementRelief.com undertakes or is involved in any merger, acquisition, reorganization, sale of assets, bankruptcy, or insolvency event, then we may sell, transfer or share some or all of our assets, including your information in connection with such transaction or in contemplation of such transaction (e.g., due diligence). In this event, SupplementRelief.com will notify you before your personal information is transferred and becomes subject to a different privacy policy.
3.2.7 Aggregated Data.
We may also share aggregated information (information about our users that we combine together so that it no longer identifies or references an individual user) and other anonymized information for regulatory compliance, industry and market analysis, insights about the sector, demographic profiling, marketing and advertising, and other business purposes. We may share this aggregated data with the public.
4. THIRD PARTY PARTNERS & INTEGRATIONS
The Site may contain links to third party websites or services, such as third party integrations, co-branded services, or third party-branded services ("Third Party Partners"). SupplementRelief.com doesn't own or control these Third Party Partners and when you interact with them, you may be providing information directly to the Third Party Partner, SupplementRelief.com, or both. These Third Party Partners will have their own rules about the collection, use, and disclosure of information. We encourage you to review the privacy policies of the other websites you visit.
5. YOUR RIGHTS
You may exercise any of the rights described in this section by sending an email to [email protected] Please note that we may ask you to verify your identity before taking further action on your request.
5.1 Managing Your Information.
You may access and update some of your information through your Account settings. You are responsible for keeping your personal information up-to-date.
5.2 Rectification of Inaccurate or Incomplete Information.
You have the right to ask us to correct inaccurate or incomplete personal information concerning you (and which you cannot update yourself within your SupplementRelief.com Account).
5.3 Data Access and Portability.
In some jurisdictions, applicable law may entitle you to request copies of your personal information held by us. You may also be entitled to request copies of personal information that you have provided to us in a structured, commonly used, and machine-readable format and/or request us to transmit this information to another service provider (where technically feasible).
5.4 Data Retention and Erasure.
We generally retain your personal information for as long as is necessary for the performance of the contract between you and us and to comply with our legal obligations. If you no longer want us to use your information to provide the Site to you, you can request that we erase your personal information and close your SupplementRelief.com Account. Please note that if you request the erasure of your personal information:
We may retain some of your personal information as necessary for our legitimate business interests, such as fraud detection and prevention and enhancing safety. For example, if we suspend a SupplementRelief.com Account for fraud or safety reasons, we may retain certain information from that SupplementRelief.com Account to prevent that user or customer from opening a new SupplementRelief.com Account in the future.
We may retain and use your personal information to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations. For example, SupplementRelief.com may keep some of your information for tax, legal reporting and auditing obligations.
Information you have shared with others (e.g., forum postings) may continue to be publicly visible on the Site, even after your SupplementRelief.com Account is cancelled. However, attribution of such information to you will be removed. Additionally, some copies of your information (e.g., log records) may remain in our database, but are disassociated from personal identifiers.
Because we maintain the Site to protect from accidental or malicious loss and destruction, residual copies of your personal information may not be removed from our backup systems for a limited period of time.
5.5 Withdrawing Consent and Restriction of Processing.
Where you have expressly provided your consent to the processing of your personal information by SupplementRelief.com you may withdraw your consent at any time by changing your Account settings or by sending a communication to SupplementRelief.com specifying which consent you are withdrawing. Please note that the withdrawal of your consent does not affect the lawfulness of any processing activities based on such consent before its withdrawal. Additionally, in some jurisdictions, applicable law may give you the right to limit the ways in which we use your personal information, in particular where (i) you contest the accuracy of your personal information; (ii) the processing is unlawful and you oppose the erasure of your personal information; (iii) we no longer need your personal information for the purposes of the processing, but you require the information for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims; or (iv) you have objected to the processing pursuant to Section 5.6 and pending the verification whether the legitimate grounds of SupplementRelief.com override your own.
5.6 Objection to Processing.
In some jurisdictions, applicable law may permit you to legally object to SupplementRelief.com processing. In these instances, you may require SupplementRelief.com not to process your personal information for specific purposes (including profiling) where such processing is based on legitimate interest. If you object to such processing SupplementRelief.com will no longer process your personal information for these purposes unless we can demonstrate a legal basis for doing so or such processing is required for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims.
At any time, regardless of applicable law, you may object to us processing your personal information for direct marketing purposes. You may, at any time, ask SupplementRelief.com to cease processing your data for these direct marketing purposes by sending an e-mail to [email protected]
5.7 Lodging Complaints.
With respect to GDPR, you have the right to submit complaints about the data processing activities carried out by SupplementRelief.com before Information Commissioner's Office in the UK; for complaints unrelated to GDPR, nothing in this Privacy Policy is intended to limit your right to file a complaint in the appropriate jurisdiction.
6. SECURITY
We are continuously implementing and updating administrative, technical, and physical security measures to help protect your information against unauthorized access, loss, destruction, or alteration. Some of the safeguards we use to protect your information are firewalls and data encryption, and information access controls. If you know or have reason to believe that your SupplementRelief.com Account credentials have been lost, stolen, misappropriated, or otherwise compromised or in case of any actual or suspected unauthorized use of your SupplementRelief.com Account, please contact us following the instructions in the Contact Us section below.
7. CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY
SupplementRelief.com reserves the right to modify this Privacy Policy at any time in accordance with this provision. If we make changes to this Privacy Policy, we will post the revised Privacy Policy on the Site and update the "Last Updated" date at the top of this Privacy Policy. If you disagree with the revised Privacy Policy, you may cancel your Account or no longer use the site.
8. CONTACT US
If you have any feedback about this Privacy Policy or SupplementRelief.com information handling practices, you may email us at: [email protected] or contact us at: SupplementRelief.com, 9618 Jefferson Highway, Suite D-191, Baton Rouge, LA 70809. We welcome your feedback!
×
Disclaimer: This page is available exclusively for SUPPLEMENTRELIEF.COM clients. None of the information on this website is intended to replace your relationship with your healthcare provider(s). Nothing should be considered medical advice nor is a physician-patient relationship implied. The information, knowledge, and experience shared on this website is the opinion of SupplementRelief.com. This site and its content is intended to enhance your knowledge base as YOU MAKE YOUR OWN HEALTHCARE DECISIONS in partnership with your qualified health professional.
There is NO GUARANTEE OF SPECIFIC RESULTS for the products or services offered and the RESULTS CAN VARY for each individual. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products and services are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
NuMedica may be promoted and sold on the internet ONLY by Authorized Healthcare Providers who have been approved by NuMedica and have registered their website domain. NuMedica strictly prohibits, and actively monitors, the UNAUTHORIZED SALE of NuMedica supplements in online public shopping portals including Amazon, eBay, and others. NuMedica supplements purchased in SupplementRelief.com are for PERSONAL USE ONLY and CANNOT BE RESOLD to others. Please report violations of NuMedica's Provider Policy to NuMedica at 800.869.8100.
The content and photographs on this website are copyrighted or Licensed Material and may not be downloaded for other than personal use. Republication, retransmission, reproduction or any other use of the content or photographs is prohibited. ©2010-2019 SupplementRelief.com.