CNS (Citizen News Service): Moderate quality evidence that yoga reduces impact of asthma
Home
Issues
Contributors
Multimedia
Conference coverage
About CNS
Contact us
Infectious diseases
HIV/AIDS
Tuberculosis (TB)
Drug-resistant TB
Childhood TB
TB vaccine
HIV vaccine
TB-HIV co-infection
TB-Diabetes co-morbidity
Gender and TB
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
Hepatitis B Virus (HBV)
Hepatitis C Virus (HCV)
Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)
Injecting drug use & harm reduction
Swine flu
Lung health
Asthma
Childhood pneumonia
COPD
Indoor air pollution
Lung cancer
Tobacco control
Tuberculosis (TB)
Drug-resistant TB
Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs)
Asthma
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases (CVDs)
Diabetes
Diabetic foot care
Mental health
Obesity
Tobacco control
Tropical diseases
Dengue
Leishmaniasis (Kala azar)
Malaria
Health research
Microbicides (vaginal, rectal)
Multipurpose Prevention Technologies (MPTs)
Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP)
Post-Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP)
HIV vaccine
TB vaccine
Gender justice
Combination prevention
Female and male condoms
LGBT
Men who have sex with men (MSM)
Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights (SRHR)
Transgender
Violence Against Women (VAW)
Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision (VMMC)
Child rights and health
Breastfeeding
Child rights
Childhood pneumonia
Childhood tuberculosis (TB)
Malnutrition
Youth
Special Days for health communications
World Cancer Day: 4 February
International Women's Day: 8 March
World Water Day: 22 March
World Tuberculosis Day: 24 March
World Health Day: 7 April
World Malaria Day: 25 April
World Asthma Day: 1st Tuesday of May
World No Tobacco Day: 31 May
World Environment Day: 5 June
World Hepatitis Day: 28 July
World Heart Day: 29 September
World Mental Health Day: 10 October
World Pneumonia Day: 12 November
World Diabetes Day: 14 November
World COPD Day: 20 November
16 days of activism against gender violence: 25 November – 10 December
World AIDS Day: 1 December
International Human Rights Day: 10 December
Governance
Communal harmony
Corruption
Dalit rights and caste equity
Democracy
Displacement
Elections
Energy
Lokpal Bill
Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA)
Nuclear disarmament and peace
Palestine and Israel
Politics
Right To Education (RTE)
Right To Information (RTI)
Trade agreements and right to health
Tribals
Agriculture
Environment
Climate change
Energy
Displacement
Indoor air pollution
Mining
Nuclear disarmament and peace
Sanitation and hygiene
Water
Others
Corporate accountability
Graphic health warnings
Piles (Haemorrhoids)
Secondhand Smoke
Tobacco control
Trade agreements and right to health
Tribals
CNS Correspondents
How to become a CNS Correspondent?
Bimla Misra Memorial Health Fellowship Programme
CNS Health Justice Media Awards
CNS Webinars
Shanti Devi Memorial Health Justice Lecture Series
CNS Content Submission Policy and Agreement
Privacy Policy
CNS Webinars
CNS Publications
CNS Podcasts
CNS Videos
CNS Images
About us
International Advisory Committee
CNS core team
हिन्दी - सिटिज़न न्यूज़ सर्विस
Vote For Health campaign
Contact us
Moderate quality evidence that yoga reduces impact of asthma
Aarti Dhar, CNS Correspondent, India
[First published in Theindiasaga.com]
Researchers have found moderate-quality evidence that yoga probably leads to small improvements in quality of life and symptoms in people with asthma, but there is more uncertainty about potential adverse effects of yoga and its impact on lung function and medication usage. According to a new Cochrane Review, the results of randomised control trials (RCTs) has found evidence that practicing yoga might be able to improve asthma quality of life and symptoms to some extent.
However, researchers also warned that higher-quality studies with more participants would be needed to draw any firm conclusions about the effects of yoga. "RCTs with a large sample size and high methodological and reporting quality are needed to confirm the effects of yoga for asthma," researchers have said. They found15 randomised controlled trials which involved 1,048 men and women. Most of the trials were conducted in India, followed by Europe and the United States. The majority of participants had mild to moderate asthma for six months to more than 23 years. Six studies looked into the effects of breathing alone during yoga exercise, whilst the other studies assessed the effects of yoga that included breathing, posture and meditation.
Most people continued to take their usual asthma medication while participating in the studies. The studies were conducted over a time period of two weeks to over four years. Asthma is a common chronic disease that affects about 300 million people worldwide. A non-communicable disease (NCD) that causes periodic episodes of breathlessness and coughing, the WHO estimates 235 million people suffer from the disease, while the Global Burden of Diseases Study says the true number may be as high as 334 million.
The episodic onset of symptoms is called asthma attack. During an asthma attack, the bronchial tubes in the lungs become inflamed and narrow, making it difficult to breathe. Attacks can recur for asthmatics multiple times a day or week, with differing intensity, depending on the individual. Asthma is not curable, but through proper medication and appropriate management the disease’s burden can be reduced. In addition to access to medication that relieves both short-term and long-term symptoms, this means providing care to individuals with asthma in which patients are explicitly warned about avoiding inhaled substances and particles and other potential triggers of attacks. These triggers include irritants such as air pollution, tobacco smoke, indoor and outdoor allergens, and harmful chemicals in the workplace, as well as cold air, physical exercise, and emotional arousal.
Since 2015, United Nations has declared June 21 as International Yoga Day and first Tuesday of May is observed as Asthma Day. This year the day falls on May 3. Yoga, the popularity of which has expanded globally, has the potential to relieve some asthma-related problems. However, the effects of yoga for asthma need to be confirmed due to the inconsistent findings of existing studies.
Yoga originated from ancient India and remains an important aspect of India's diverse culture. Yoga includes such common components as breathing exercises (pranayama), postures (asanas), and meditation (dhyana). It is difficult to know exactly how many types of yoga are being practiced around the world, as different combinations of and variations in components could represent a 'new' type of yoga. To our knowledge, types of yoga include, but are not limited to, the following: aerial yoga, Ananda yoga, Anusara yoga, Ashtanga (or Astanga) yoga, Bhakti yoga, Bikram yoga (hot yoga), Chair yoga, Forrest yoga, Hatha yoga, ISHTA (Integral Science of Hatha and Tantric Arts), Iyengar yoga, Jivamukti yoga, Jnana yoga, Kali Ray TriYoga, Karma yoga, Kripalu, Kriya yoga, Kundalini yoga, Mantra yoga, Moksha, Power yoga, prenatal yoga, Purna yoga (integral yoga), Raja yoga, Restorative yoga, Sahaja yoga, Satyananda yoga, Sivananda yoga, stand-up paddle yoga, Svaroopa yoga, Swara yoga, Tibetan yoga, Viniyoga yoga, Vinyasa yoga, and White Lotus yoga.
As a holistic therapy, yoga contains no asthma-specific posture or breathing exercises. The exact mechanism by which yoga may affect asthma symptoms is not fully understood. However, several explanations have been proposed. The first explanation is related to the breathing pattern in yoga practice. One trigger of asthma attacks is frictional stress in airways, which could damage the airway wall, affect the dynamics of airway smooth muscle, and result in mast cell degranulation. Some studies have shown that the tidal volume and breathing rate decrease during yoga practice, which may interfere with the process that triggers asthma attacks.
Empirically, randomised controlled trials (RCTs) conducted in people with asthma have demonstrated that specific breathing exercises or techniques could help reduce acute exacerbations and rescue bronchodilator use as compared with no intervention, and could significantly improve quality of life as compared with asthma education. However, in a Cochrane review comparing breathing exercises with usual care or asthma education control, data were insufficient to be able to draw conclusions to this effect. Consequently, yoga practice involving breathing techniques may have some impact on asthma symptoms. Breathing exercises in yoga practice could help release suppressed emotion, reduce anxiety and self consciousness, and relax muscle tension. Secondly, certain yoga postures may help expand the chest and increase breath-holding time as well as vital capacity. This could logically have some effect on the lung function of people with asthma. Thirdly, by practicing yoga people with asthma may achieve a sense of relaxation and a positive mood, thus reducing the autonomic arousal factors. Meditation, a common component of yoga, may even help practitioners reach a state of complete mental silence ('Sahaja' in Sanskrit), which yoga advocates consider to be an innately therapeutic process beneficial to people with chronic diseases, including asthma. Meditation may also help the control and feedback of respiratory muscles which would be adversely affected by asthma attacks, researchers have said citing several earlier studies done on yoga.
Lead author, Dr Zuyao Yang from the Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, at the Chinese University of Hong Kong commented, "Our findings suggest that yoga exercise may lead to small improvements in asthma quality of life and symptoms. However, it is unclear whether yoga has a consistent impact on lung function and we don’t yet know if yoga can reduce people’s medication usage, or if there are any side-effects of yoga for people with asthma."
Deputy Co-ordinating Editor of the Cochrane Airways Group, Rebecca Normansell, added, "At present, we just don’t have enough high quality evidence to determine the effects of yoga as a type of exercise for helping people manage their asthma. Because there is uncertainty about the effects of yoga on lung function and use of asthma medication, it’s important that people with asthma continue to take their medication, as prescribed. The findings of this Cochrane Review will help people make more informed choices about their future treatment options."
[First published in Theindiasaga.com]
Aarti Dhar, Citizen News Service - CNS
3 May 2016
Like this article?
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
No comments:
Post a Comment
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Top 5 CNS articles
Loading...
Hindi - Citizen News Service
Loading...
Best Practices in PMDT in India: 2013
Citizen News Service (CNS) partners with
Issues in CNS Spotlight
accountability adivasi adolescents agriculture ASEAN Asthma Avian Influenza cancer Cancun 2009 children citizen journalism cleft lip climate change communal harmony community radio corporate accountability dalit defense democracy dengue diabetes diptheria discrimination displacement drug resistance education elections employment energy environment equity exploitation floods food security freedom of press FTA G20 G8 Summit Gandhian gender girl child global warming globalization H1N1 haemorrhoids harm reduction HCV health health financing health systems healthcare Hepatitis Hiroshima Day HIV/AIDS human rights hunger immunization Influenza IPT kala azar labour leishmaniasis LTTE Lung Health Malaria malnutrition marginalized MDR-TB mental health microbicide migration minimum wage non-communicable diseases NREGA nuclear disarmament obesity Ozone passive smoking Patent peace People's Politics Front pictorial warnings Pneumonia politics pollution racism recession rehabilitation right to life right to water RTI sanitation second hand smoke settlement sexual violence SEZ social justice surgery surrogate advertising sustainability Swine Flu TB terrorism TOBACCO tobacco politics transparency treatment and care tribals tuberculosis UPASICON 2009 vaccination Violence against minorities Vitamin A Water Tribunal web 2.0 whooping cough women World Asthma Day 2009 World Breastfeeding Week World Cancer Day World Diabetes Day World Food Day World No Tobacco Day 2008 World No Tobacco Day 2009 World Pneumonia Day World Water Forum youth
Bimla Misra Memorial Health Fellowship Programme
CNS Webinars on current global health priorities
SDM Health Justice Lecture Series
CNS & daily e-newsletters of 3rd APFF, Chiang Mai, Thailand
CNS & APLCC 2016 Insights
Health Justice Media Awards (HJMA)
CNS at 11th ICAAP
Tweets by @cns_health
.
Young Voices: a video series
CNS Report: WHO FCTC Article 5.3 Workshop
CNS Food For Thought
Loading...
CNS archive
► 2019 (29)
► April (3)
► March (14)
► February (11)
► January (1)
► 2018 (175)
► December (24)
► November (24)
► October (24)
► September (22)
► August (11)
► July (7)
► June (5)
► May (8)
► April (14)
► March (11)
► February (9)
► January (16)
► 2017 (285)
► December (20)
► November (16)
► October (27)
► September (43)
► August (16)
► July (22)
► June (22)
► May (27)
► April (24)
► March (27)
► February (23)
► January (18)
▼ 2016 (288)
► December (18)
► November (28)
► October (38)
► September (30)
► August (10)
► July (31)
► June (24)
▼ May (39)
World No Tobacco Day 2016: India cannot afford pre...
Cultural event to create awareness about TB
Advocacy for increasing access to care for people ...
APLCC 2016 calls on governments to reduce lung can...
[Webinar] World No Tobacco Day 2016
[Focus] Lung cancer prevention and early diagnosis...
Screening for breast and cervical cancer is a publ...
Raising awareness to reduce asthma burden
Minimize air hunger and lead a quality life
How much should new drugs cost to worth the benefi...
Challenges in using new lung cancer drugs in Asia ...
APLCC 2016 Insight: Issue 3 (15th May 2016)
[Focus] Lung cancer in Philippines: Progress made ...
Psychological effects of Asthma
Dealing with stage IIIA N2 non small cell lung can...
The promise of immunotherapy
SBRT holds the promise of curing early stage NSCLC...
APLCC 2016 Insight: Issue 2 (14th May 2016)
Highlights of the Asia Pacific Lung Cancer Confere...
"Cure" for lung cancer: More hype or new hope?
Lung cancer screening: The Thailand perspective
Tobacco control must be a priority for health prof...
APLCC 2016 in Thailand: Preventing lung cancer is ...
APLCC 2016 Insight: Issue 1 (13th May 2016)
[Focus] Why despite HC order, children of governme...
A holistic approach is needed to tackle India’s as...
[Call to register] Webinar for media in lead up to...
Innovation: Yoga to relieve asthma-related problem...
APLCC 2016: Latest updates on lung cancer science
You can control Asthma
Addressing asthma is a big challenge
How to prevent premature deaths from asthma?
Asthma: A manageable burden
Do not ignore your asthma
Moderate quality evidence that yoga reduces impact...
Asthma: We can beat it but not kill it
Achyut Patwardhan Bal Sabha formed
[Focus] Curtain-raiser to Asia Pacific Lung Cancer...
CNS around World No Tobacco Day 2016
► April (17)
► March (20)
► February (21)
► January (12)
► 2015 (276)
► December (32)
► November (29)
► October (30)
► September (46)
► August (21)
► July (16)
► June (11)
► May (28)
► April (19)
► March (20)
► February (15)
► January (9)
► 2014 (262)
► December (8)
► November (31)
► October (34)
► September (28)
► August (13)
► July (33)
► June (22)
► May (30)
► April (14)
► March (21)
► February (13)
► January (15)
► 2013 (276)
► December (25)
► November (63)
► October (26)
► September (21)
► August (11)
► July (14)
► June (12)
► May (29)
► April (20)
► March (28)
► February (15)
► January (12)
► 2012 (288)
► December (23)
► November (34)
► October (15)
► September (23)
► August (24)
► July (54)
► June (16)
► May (19)
► April (15)
► March (27)
► February (28)
► January (10)
► 2011 (390)
► December (19)
► November (40)
► October (29)
► September (21)
► August (22)
► July (27)
► June (44)
► May (48)
► April (44)
► March (44)
► February (30)
► January (22)
► 2010 (315)
► December (25)
► November (52)
► October (23)
► September (20)
► August (23)
► July (29)
► June (25)
► May (37)
► April (32)
► March (23)
► February (12)
► January (14)
► 2009 (338)
► December (27)
► November (22)
► October (30)
► September (27)
► August (29)
► July (15)
► June (15)
► May (41)
► April (45)
► March (50)
► February (19)
► January (18)
► 2008 (344)
► December (14)
► November (28)
► October (19)
► September (31)
► August (35)
► July (14)
► June (40)
► May (64)
► April (45)
► March (18)
► February (16)
► January (20)
► 2007 (240)
► December (17)
► November (15)
► October (28)
► September (32)
► August (23)
► July (15)
► June (1)
► May (51)
► April (47)
► March (1)
► February (8)
► January (2)
Home | Conference coverage | Issues | CNS Correspondents | Become a CNS Correspondent | About CNS
Content submission policy and agreement * Email: editor@citizen-news.org * Privacy Policy * About us * Creative Commons license
The views expressed in the articles on this website are those of the author(s) only. This website doesn't necessarily subscribes to the views and opinions expressed in the article.
Creative Commons License (CC)
This work by Citizen News Service (CNS) is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License.
Powered by Blogger.