Avoidance of surgical and pharmacological management of osteoarthritis is best strategy - Magaziner Center for Wellness
Patient Portal
Call: 856-424-8222 To Get In Touch With Us
About Us
Meet Our Healthcare Providers
Meet Our Staff
Dr. Allan Magaziner
Dr. Scott Greenberg
Dr. Kyle Meyer
Nadine Miles, PA-C
What we do
Our Educational Mission
What Our Patients Are Saying
In The News
Testimonials
FAQs
Conditions
Allergies & Environmental
Environmental and Food Allergies/Intolerance
Heavy Metal Excess
Cancer
Neurologic Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Alzheimer’s Disease
Autism
Charcot Marie Tooth Disease
Depression
Multiple Sclerosis
Post-Concussion Syndrome
Pain/Orthopedics
Rheumatoid Arthritis & Ankylosing Spondylitis
Osteoarthritis
The Back & Spine
The Knees
The Elbow
The Feet and Ankles
The Head and Neck
The Hips
The Wrist and Hand
The Shoulders
Cardiovascular Disease
Heart Disease
High Blood Pressure
High Cholesterol
Digestive System Conditions
Endocrine/Metabolic Disorders
Diabetes
Hormonal Imbalance and Menstruation
Obesity and Weight Loss
Thyroid Conditions
Erectile Dysfunction
Infection/Immune Disorders
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
Fibromyalgia
Interstitial Cystitis
Lyme Disease
Skincare
Treatments
Hormone Imbalance
Cancer Support Program
Chelation Therapy
Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy
IV Vitamins & Nutritional Therapies
Non-invasive Aesthetics
Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP)
Prolotherapy
Sports Medicine
Regenerative Medicine
Sublingual Desensitization
Community & Events
Think Hormones First
Financial Advertisement for Alternative Healthcare
Current Patients
Blog
Patient Portal
Herb of the Month
Recipe of the Month
Supplement of the Month
Dr. Meyer’s Research Review
Store
Get In Touch With Us
856-424-8222
Contact Us
Blog
Avoidance of surgical and pharmacological management of osteoarthritis is best strategy
Avoidance of surgical and pharmacological management of osteoarthritis is best strategy
September 20, 2016 September 20, 2016
Category: Blog, Hip pain
Exercise and weight loss are very important components of treating hip osteoarthritis. For many patients this may be easier said than done because of range of motion and pain concerns.
In this article we describe non-surgical hip pain repair in conjunction with diet and exercise to help the patient lessen pain and regain mobility.
Research has shown that for people with osteoarthritis of the knee, exercise in combination with weight loss is a proven effective conservative treatment option, yet evidence is lacking for people with hip osteoarthritis.
Recently, doctors published their findings which clearly suggested that older patients are not being advised of the importance or exercise and diet and the correct diet and exercise program for their individual cases. When these patients are, they show significant improvement in their symptoms.1
In another study, doctors took thirty-five people who were 25 years or older, had clinical and radiological evidence of hip osteoarthritis, and were overweight or obese. They participated in an 8-month program of exercise in combination with weight loss.
Participation in the combination program resulted in a 32.6% improvement in self-reported physical function after 8 months, a finding that could be considered clinically relevant. Significant improvements also were seen in pain and on walking tests.2
Avoidance (if possible) of surgical and pharmacological management of osteoarthritis
A key to this and other research is the all out avoidance (if possible) of surgical and pharmacological management of osteoarthritis. In New Zealand, researchers noted in their paper:
“Non-pharmacological, non-surgical interventions are recommended as the first line of treatment for osteoarthritis of the hip and knee.”3
What type of exercise?
Exercise and physical therapy plans should always be discussed with your doctor as hip osteoarthritis is a multi-plexed problem and the recommendations to the patient needs to be individualized.
In discussing exercise or physical therapy – the researchers added:
“There is evidence that exercise therapy is effective for reducing pain and improving function in patients with knee osteoarthritis, some evidence that exercise therapy is effective for hip osteoarthritis, and early indications that manual therapy may be efficacious for hip and knee osteoarthritis. There is little evidence as to which approach is more effective, if benefits endure, or if providing these therapies is cost-effective for the management of this disorder.” 3
Researchers in Ireland published a study in which they also found that physical therapy and exercise, when compared, delivered inconclusive results on the benefit of manual therapy on pain and function for knee or hip osteoarthritis and was basically equal to an exercise program in results. This again is a broad study and the needs of the individual patient must be addressed in designing any plan of exercise or therapy.
At the Magaziner Center for Wellness we take a holistic view of the body, even from an orthopedic standpoint. We believe it is crucial to obtain recovery from an injury or to cure chronic pain. We also look at the problems of the immune system and problems of obesity.
We bring a comprehensive understanding of thyroid, hormonal, metabolic and nutritional medicine to our treatment of our patients. Since regular exercise and a healthy diet are crucial when it comes to controlling weight, we speak to each patient about his or her lifestyle habits, as well as his or her biochemistry, in order to create a customized treatment plan.
Rather than just placing an obese patient on a restricted diet, we first analyze his or her blood to look for thyroid or endocrine problems that could have led to weight gain and may be inhibiting a patient from losing weight. We test patients’ reaction to food allergens and if a food allergy or sensitivity is discovered, we will have the patient avoid the food that may be harmful to his or her wellbeing or we work to desensitize the patient to that food. If hypothyroidism is discovered, we will utilize natural thyroid agents to stimulate the production of thyroid hormone as a first step.
For the long run, we help our patients understand food choices and their impact on the body. Our goal is to help our patients maintain their weight loss for a lifetime, by educating them on proper nutrition and changing body chemistry to reduce cravings.
Please visit our page on treating hip pain
1. Quintrec JL, Verlhac B, Cadet C, Bréville P, Vetel JM, Gauvain JB, Jeandel C, Maheu E. Physical Exercise and Weight Loss for Hip and Knee Osteoarthritis in Very Old Patients: A Systematic Review of the Literature. Open Rheumatol J. 2014 Nov 28;8:89-95. eCollection 2014.
2. Paans N, van den Akker-Scheek I, Dilling RG, Bos M, van der Meer K, Bulstra SK, Stevens M. Effect of exercise and weight loss in people who have hip osteoarthritis and are overweight or obese: a prospective cohort study. Phys Ther. 2013 Feb;93(2):137-46. doi: 10.2522/ptj.20110418. Epub 2012 Sep 27.
3. Abbott JH, Robertson MC, McKenzie JE, Baxter GD, Theis JC, Campbell AJ; MOA Trial team. Exercise therapy, manual therapy, or both, for osteoarthritis of the hip or knee: a factorial randomised controlled trial protocol. Trials. 2009 Feb 8;10:11. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-10-11.
Tags: hip osteoarthritis, Prolotherapy
Hear What Our Patients Are Saying.
Read More
Our Services
Autoimmune Disorders
Arthritis
Allergies & Environmental Issues
Cancer
Cardiovascular Disease
Posts
New research, New comparisons – PRP vs Hyaluronic acid injections
12 April, 2019
Pancreatic cancer and diet
05 April, 2019
Are you being sent to the wrong joint replacement surgery?
29 March, 2019
Nutritional and complementary medicine strategies against cancer – Killing the cancer chaos in cells
22 March, 2019
A Long-history of spine and neck pain and a long history of opioid use. What are the options?
15 March, 2019
Newsletter Sign-up
Subscribe to Get INSIDER Access To The Latest News, Research, Articles And More.
The Magaziner Center for Wellness has the South Jersey and Philadelphia regions most experienced and highly-trained physicians specializing in nutrition, integrative and regenerative medicine.
For over 30 years, the Magaziner Center for Wellness has successfully treated thousands of patients, using natural and non-toxic techniques to both prevent and reverse illness.
Company
Home
Services
Testimonials
What we do
Blog
Contact
Contact Us
Office Hours:
Mon-Thurs : 8:30am - 5pm
Fri : 8:30am - 12:00pm
Sat-Sun: Closed
Contact Info:
Phone: 856-424-8222
Address:
1907 Greentree Road
Cherry Hill, NJ 08003
United States
"IMPORTANT! All information presented in this website is intended for informational purposes only and not for the purpose of rendering medical advice. Statements made on this website
have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. The information contained herein is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. "