10 Quick Tips and Home Remedies for Anemia
Wingman Magazine
Sex
Dating
Growth
Health
Other
10 Quick Tips and Home Remedies for Anemia
By Huyen My
•Posted 8 months ago•HEALTH
You have an average or even a ‘solid’ body type. You sleep well and nevertheless you feel oftentimes tired. Someone had suggested to you to go to a doctor and check your blood, the results was : ANEMIA. How come?!
Don’t fall into the trap of thinking that anemia only touches mostly anorectic Instagram stars. You can be even overweight and still have anaemia because your body is missing something. Like with everything in life – quality over quantity! It’s not about how much you eat, the most important is what you eat, so let’s look closer at the topic.
What is anemia?
Red blood cells have an iron-based protein – haemoglobin – that can support the blood cells carrying more oxygen. When you have a condition called anemia, your blood cannot deliver the suitable oxygen supply to your tissues and organs.
Anything that can disrupt the red blood cells’ normal lifespan may lead to anemia, such as an increased destruction of red blood cells, a decreased red blood cell production, or an excess loss of blood. Depending on the causes, there are various types of anemia.
Women and those living with chronic conditions are at highest risks of developing anemia. Some of the diseases that might lead to the condition are bleeding disorders, cancer, intestinal disorders, ulcers, pregnancy, heavy blood loss during menstruation, and other chronic conditions, or a deficiency of vitamin B12, folic acid, and iron. Certain types of anemia could be inherited as well.
Symptoms of anemia may vary basing on the causes of the condition and might range from severe to mild. Common signs are high or low blood pressure levels, hair loss, lack of energy, cold feet and hands, headaches, cognitive issues, dizziness, chest pain, shortness of breath, an irregular or fast heartbeat, pale skin, and fatigue.
Men who have less than thirty grams of hemoglobin for a deciliter suffer from anemia, according to the World Health Organization. For women, the level is less than twelve grams.
Approximately 3 million Americans have this condition, and anemia happens when the red blood cell count of the body is less than normal.
Home Remedies For Anemia – The Most Effective Natural Treatments To Apply:
People can easily prevent and cure some types of anemia at the comfort of their own home just by making use of some natural remedies. Here are some beneficial home remedies for anemia until you see your hemoglobin level normalized.
1. Dates
Date is very abundant in vitamin C and iron so that it plays a crucial role in the absorption of iron inside the body. There are 2 simple ways to make use of dates to cure anemia at home:
First, you can try eating some dried dates followed by 1 cup of warm milk in the morning on an empty stomach.
Alternatively, try soaking overnight 2 dates in 1 cup of milk. Next morning, drink the milk and consume the date fruits on an empty stomach.
2. Sesame Seeds
Sesame seeds are also beneficial for curing anemia thanks to their abundant content of iron. ¼ cup of sesame seeds offers almost 30% of the required daily iron intake.
Soak 1 tbsp. of black sesame seeds for 2 hours in warm water. Grind the combination into a paste and then to get the emulsion, strain it. Mix the emulsion in 1 cup of warm milk, add some jaggery and honey and consume it one time per day.
Soak two tbsps. of black sesame seeds for 2 – 3 hours in water. Strain and form a paste of soaked seeds. Add 1 tbsp. of honey and mix well. Have this mixture 2 times on a daily basis.
3. Pomegranate
Pomegranate is abundant in iron and other minerals, like magnesium and calcium. It also offers vitamin C, which can help to improve the iron absorption of the body. This results in an increased haemoglobin level and more red blood cells.
You can also consume a pomegranate in medium size on an empty stomach every morning as one of your healthy mindful eating habits.
Instead, you can take 2 tbsps. of dried powdered pomegranate seeds with 1 glass of warm milk once and twice times every day.
Mix 1 cup of pomegranate juice, ¼ tbsp. of powdered cinnamon and 2 tbsps. of honey. Consume this along with your healthy breakfast recipes on a daily basis.
4. Spinach
A diet abundant in green leafy veggies such as spinach is among the best home treatments for anemia. Spinach is abundant in folic acid, vitamin B12, iron, and energy-promoting nutrients that the body requirements to recover from anemia.
A ½ cup of spinach offers almost 35% of your recommended daily intake of iron and 33% of your daily intake of folic acid.
Mix 2 tbsps. of honey in 1 glass of spinach juice (fresh). Consume this once per day.
Consume spinach soup 2 times per day. To make this soup, prepare and puree 1 cup of blanched spinach after adding some water. In a pan, heat one tbsp. of extra-virgin olive oil and stir fry some onion and garlic cloves (chopped) in the pan until they turn brown. Add a little salt and pureed spinach to the pan to cook within 5 – 10 minutes over low heat.
You need to follow these home remedies for 1 month at least.
5. Beetroot
Beetroot is highly good for those who face anemia due to the deficiency of iron, which is the most common of every type of anemia. It contains high iron content, along with vitamins, sulfur, potassium, calcium, and fiber.
In addition to offering nutrients, beetroot can help to supply more oxygen throughout the body and cleanse the body as well. This, in turn, can help a lot in increasing the red blood cell count of the body. There are two ways to make use of beetroot to deal with and beat off the disease:
First, you and try eating beetroots to add into a salad or as a cooked veggie. Eat the peel of the beetroot as well to get the best nutritional value.
Blend in a juicer ½ sweet potato, 3 carrots, and a medium-sized beetroot. Consume the juice once per day.
6. Banana
Rich in iron, bananas can help to stimulate the haemoglobin production and the production of various enzymes that are necessary for the red blood cells formation. In addition, bananas are an excellent magnesium source so that it can aid a lot in the synthesis of haemoglobin. Here is how you can make use of banana at home to deal with signs and symptoms of the anemia issue:
First, you just need to mix 1 tbsp. of amla (Indian gooseberry) juice with 1 mashed ripe banana and consume it 2 – 3 times per day.
Alternatively, try consuming a ripe banana along with 1 tbsp. of honey twice every day to achieve the best result in treating signs and symptoms of anemia at home.
7. Blackstrap Molasses
Blackstrap molasses are considered a nutritional powerhouse, particularly for people with anemia.
It is an excellent source of B vitamins, iron, and other necessary minerals that can help in increasing the production of red blood cells. 1 tbsp. of blackstrap molasses can supply almost 15% of your daily consumption of iron. There are two methods people can try to deal with anemia at home:
First, you can try combining 2 tsps. each of apple cider vinegar and blackstrap molasses in a cup of water. Consume this once per day.
Another option is to mix a tbsp. of blackstrap molasses in 1 cup of milk or hot water. Consume 1 – 2 times on a daily basis. This drink is highly good for women who are pregnant.
8. Fenugreeks
The high content of iron contained in fenugreeks can help a lot in maintaining the iron levels in the blood. It can also aid the production of new red blood cells. Both the seeds and leaves of fenugreek could be used in curing anemia. Try these two simple ways to cure anemia with the help of fenugreeks:
You can also use fenugreek leaves in your cooking, especially in soups or salads.
Mix 1 cup of rice with 2 teaspoons of fenugreek seeds and cook it. Add some salt in the mixture and eat every day for at least 2 to 3 weeks.
These natural remedies are very useful for restoring healthy red-blood cell count in those living with anemia. Applying well-balanced diet tips is really necessary to prevent anemia from coming back.
9. Dried Blackcurrant
Thanks to the high content of vitamin C and iron, dried blackcurrants have been proven to be an extremely useful cure for anemia. Vitamin C can help to enhance the ability to absorb iron of the body, increasing haemoglobin and red blood cells. Here are some steps you should follow to treat anemia with the help of dried blackcurrants:
Soak ten to twelve dried blackcurrants overnight in water.
The next morning, remove the blackcurrants from the water and throw the seeds off.
Consume the blackcurrant on a daily basis before you eat breakfasts.
Apply this tip within about 2 – 3 weeks to achieve the best results.
10. Apple
Being abundant in nutrients including iron, apple can help to cure anemia effectively. You can follow these methods to treat anemia right at the comfort of your own home:
You could also mix equal parts of some honey, beetroot juice, with fresh apple juice. Consume this juice 2 times per day.
Consuming an apple at least per day is also a great idea for people with anemia. If possible, you should consume green apples and do not remove their skin.
The entire list above introduces 10 most effective tips and home remedies for anemia without requiring people to make use of any drug, pill, or medical intervention so that readers should not skip this article. The recipes revealed and suggested in this writing are 100% based on nature so that they will cause no harmful side effects and work effectively for people at all cases of anemia – a very common disease in our life. If you have any question about this article or its content, do not hesitate to leave your comments and feedbacks in the section below and wait for the best answers from the author of the article.
About the author Huyen My
My – Writer and Blogger, who has over 5 years of experience in Beauty & Skin Care industry. I work for VKool.com and AllRemedies.com - reliable resources assisting people to resolve their health and life issues, as a content coordinator for categories including Health & Beauty. I also focus on fitness, women’s issues, relationship, and lifestyle. Find more of my articles on Facebook.
Related Posts
Vegan Bodybuilding Diet: 6 Effective Tips to Get a Great Body Without Eating Meat
What to Eat Before a Workout: Optimising Your Pre workout Nutrition
How Does Keto Diet Affect Men’s Hormones?
How to Keep Your Sanity While Dieting
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Most Popular Posts
How to Make A Woman Orgasm In Under 5 Minutes
How To Talk Dirty To A Girl Over Text – Ready to Use Sexting Examples
44 Best Tinder Pickup Lines That Will Make Her Crazy For You
How To Make My Wife Horny
How to Have Sex Dreams
How To Text A Girl You Just Met: 5 Bulletproof Methods To Get Her To Like You!
How To Find Girls On Omegle Chat?
How To Get Out Of The Friend Zone In 6 Easy Steps
What Do Women Find Attractive in Men? – 8 Scientifically Proven Traits
How to Start a Conversation With a Girl Online
6 Best Topics to Talk About With a Girl
The Female Body Language Decoder
What To Do When a Girl Doesn’t Text Back
How to Safely Remove Pearly Penile Papules at Home
17 Dirty Pick-Up Lines To Create Sexual Tension (or at least make her laugh)
4 Alpha Male Body Language Hacks That Instantly Boost Your Attractiveness
Female Perspective: 3 Best Tinder Openers She HAS to Respond To
Tinder Dating Tips: The Definitive Script For Picking Up Girls On Tinder
How to Stop Being Jealous When my Girlfriend Is Talking To Other Guys
What to Say On Tinder? Tinder Conversation Ideas That Work!
How to Make Her Squirt – The Definitive Guide
Wingman Magazine is product from Red Snapper Publishing GmbH, Registred in Berlin Germany, Rosenthaler Straße 34/35, 10178 Berlin
Wingman Magazine
Meta
Contact
Imprint
Privacy Policy
Write For Us
Sitemap
Categories
DATING
GROWTH
HEALTH
OTHER
SEX
Uncategorized
Recent Posts
How to Use NLP Anchoring Techniques to Become More Confident
9 Things Women do When They Like You, Even When They Won’t Admit It
Introvert Personality Type: How Introversion Can Make You More Charismatic
What is Religion and Why All Of Them Are About The Same Thing
You Don’t Have to Stop Being Lazy: 10 Unexpected Benefits Of Bad Habits