2019.03 <<
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
>> 2019.05
AN ANSWER TO ANXIETY AND DEPRESSION
Salt lamps are unique carving from certain salts. The most common salt lamps are made from pink salts originating from the Himalayas. These lamps give out an appealing light which lightens the moods of most people. The lamps are mostly known for decoration until some time when other benefits were traced from the very lamps.
The salts are prepared by introducing a source of light, mostly bulb in a container full of pink salts. The good pink light emitted provides an ambiance environment in the house. The reason behind the common use of the lamps is to lighten up this kind of surrounding especially in the house. However, some people have argued that salt lamps have numerous uses cutting across various human needs. Some schools of thought have revealed that the salt lamps contribute to good health. They can correct a human state of mind as well altering how the human body functions for the better. Some of the mental disorders are anxiety and mental depression.
Anxiety occurs when someone is totally unsettled and fears that something bad awaits them. The condition can have negative effects on a person’s state of mind. Loss of appetite, inability to sleep, a feeling of less importance and constant self-blame are some of the symptoms associated with anxiety. Another mental problem is depression. Individuals suffering from condition are plagued with the inability to concentrate apart from constant fear. The two conditions need adequate medical treatment to arrest and bring to control one's state of mind. If not adequately managed the risks are real since they have been witnessed before. Some of the people diagnosed with acute depression and anxiety have ended up committing the ultimate unfortunate act of taking their lives. Yet the solution to all these problems is here with us.
Salts lamps come in handy. Some research and beliefs reveal that the pink and yellow lights have the ability to manage and improve by a great extent depression and anxiety too. The proponents believe that they have their distinctive ability to offer the required help. Salts lamps improve anxiety and depression, in a more specific way.
How does it work?
Naturally, there are both positive and negative ions in the air. Positive ions cause havoc to human feeling. In contrary, the negative ions bring about a very good mood among people. The salts lamps generate negative ions by default to lighten up a cool and a wonderful feeling among a person. It brings the very feeling a person gets when enjoying the wonderful scenery off a waterfall, a hiking experience and when swing in a seashore. It is the light in these bulbs which activate the natural release of the ions in the air.
The proceeding section of this article shows how helpful salt lamps can be.
Addition of body energy
The presence of Himalayan salt lamps activates a feeling of more energy. The negative ions make the body feel the extra flow of energy as though one is in a hiking mission or just enjoying a run. So the fatigue as a result of the depression naturally disappears automatically.
Reduces panic Anxiety and depression is a product of unwanted panic whose source may be known or unknown. The presence of negative ions from the salt lamps drastically cures this menace. A feeling of calmness always replaces everything else leaving a person mind fresh and out of the chains and cocoon s of mental siege.
In the end, it is pretty clear that there is a need for the use of salt lamps. The lamps are a natural source of mental relaxation. Salt lamps too are renewable and have pretty fewer risks and negative effects as other biomedical methods of anxiety and depression management. The medics and the population as well should prepare to champion the use of the salt lamps for the delicate mental situation.
2018-11-09(20:16) :
Unclassified :
Comments 0 :
Trackbacks 0
Top of page
Contact Us
Our customers are very valuable to us and we cherish the feedback they provide. It helps us grow, learn and get better. If you have tried our lamps or have any query or suggestion, feel free to contact us. Share with us your precious views. We will love to hear from you.
2018-11-08(00:00) :
Unclassified :
Comments 0 :
Trackbacks 0
Top of page
About Us
We are glad to let our readers and customers know that we provide
Himalayan Salt Lamps which are lighter at their pocket but look exquisitely arresting sitting in their homes. Yes! It is affordable, it is stunning and it is unique. What else can one wish for!
Our Himalayan salt lamps are made by professional methods to ensure the quality of each product. We provide you with best quality products at your doorstep. Our quality is unprecedented. Shopping here will be a joyful experience for all. This leaves all of our customers craving for another shopping expedition here.
We observe appreciating feedback often. We are always open to your questions, queries, suggestions for improvement, constructive criticism and orders. We also provide best and fastest delivery services in the country. We also provide special services on demand.
Our Himalayan salt lamps are a treat for eyes. They look beautiful giving hues of pink and peach. Once you plug in the lamp, you get mesmerized by the orange shade of our Himalayan Salt Lamps. They look utterly dazzling. This is an experience worth having. The feedback we receive from our customers is replete with the description of how amazingly gorgeous the lamps look.
Himalayan salt lamps are the future of preventive medicine of skin infections and breathing disorders along with a number of other medical conditions. They need research which is lacking in this field. Talking in detail, if we consider the already present knowledge on salt lamps we come to the conclusion that salt lamps are hygroscopic in nature and they are an effective substitute of machines which produce and spread negative ions. This makes the need of buying a salt lamp more pressing. Salt lamps are assumed to make your home environment pristine and calm, similar to one found near waterfalls and forests.
Buying a salt lamp can be one of the things you will feel grateful for doing, especially when any member of your family suffers from asthma or breathing problems caused by impure air as salt lamps are considered natural air purifiers. This is one of the countless benefits of salt lamps.
We are providers of this exquisite embellishment ensure that the products we produce are of highest standards. Along with quality, we try our utmost best to maintain a price tag which is easier for everyone to afford. After price and quality, delivery and what we deliver is our utmost concern.
2018-11-07(23:57) :
Unclassified :
Comments 0 :
Trackbacks 0
Top of page
Himalayan Salt Lamps
Colorful, exquisite, attractive and versatile are few characteristics of salt lamps we offer. When you see the beautiful orange shade of light our salt lamps give off you will be mesmerized, they are so arresting. Once off, the hues of pink and peach in the lamp are totally spectacular. A salt lamp is a beautiful piece of salt with a bulb in its hollow center. The bulb is connected with a wire and a plug. It is a brief introduction of what a salt lamp looks like.
Quality of our salt lamps
Apart from appearance, a salt lamp has many others features. Our customers often admire the quality of our products. We ensure that we provide the best of items at utterly reasonable prices. Yes, it is our plus point; highest quality at a very affordable price.
Benefits of salt lamps
Our lamps do add to the beauty of your room but it plays a much bigger role than that. It ensures you stay healthy and happy. Sounds strange? It is not! Don’t worry we have a whole science behind it. Now read close and feel lucky that you came around the idea of buying one of our amazingly gorgeous salt lamps.
Salt lamps are a most feasible substitute to air fresheners, skin care products (don’t be surprised) and air cleaners. Now you do not need to buy costly machines which produce negative ions when you have salt lamps in your home. Before jumping in the science behind how salt lamps provide all these functions, let us tell you one thing.
Get products with minimum wait
Delivery! We ensure our customers enjoy the most friendly delivery experience. We deliver most efficiently and suitably within the shortest time possible. So you need not worry about getting your products late. Our delivery services are the fastest you will ever come across. So enjoy your time here. Happy Shopping!
Healthy environment
So talking about how salt lamp produces negative ions in the air. First, let us tell you about the significance of negative ions. An abundance of negative ions is found in places free from pollution. Especially near water bodies such as waterfalls. They direct more oxygen to lungs during inhalation which significantly improves health. Now let us come to the point that how salt lamps prevent skin diseases like ringworm and breathing disorders like asthma.
Why salt lamps give off water?
When salt lamps come in contact with a humid climate they give off the water. It is natural and a symbol of pure salt. When the lamp is on, it produces heat like all other lamps. This heat evaporates some of the water. With the evaporation, negative ions are produced which cancel out all the positive ions and eliminate all the impurities present in the air such as dust particles, mould, fungus. Once all these particles are removed and the air is cleansed, no trigger is left for breathing problems or skin infections.
This is a short yet interesting account of some benefits our salt lamps offer. There is much more to this wonderful product which you are going to love once you start using it.
Summing up
In a nutshell, a Himalayan salt lamp is a complete package. It is not at all ugly to look at. Very appealing in appearance and utterly gorgeous, it will fit beautifully in your home owing to its uniqueness. But it is no ordinary lamp. It is preventive medicine as well. It will aid is refraining from and repelling skin problems and breathing disorders caused by impure or polluted air.
Other Beneficial Sites are Below
https://salt-lamps.jimdosite.com
http://publish.lycos.com/salt-lamp/
https://salt-lamp.weebly.com/
https://saltlamp.home.blog/
http://saltlamp.strikingly.com/
https://saltlamps.tumblr.com/
2018-11-07(23:51) :
Unclassified :
Comments 0 :
Trackbacks 0
Top of page
HOME
Top of page
Profile
Author:himalayansaltlamp
Welcome to FC2!
Latest journals
AN ANSWER TO ANXIETY AND DEPRESSION (11/09)
Contact Us (11/08)
About Us (11/07)
Himalayan Salt Lamps (11/07)
Latest comments
Monthly archive
2018/11 (4)
Category
Unclassified (4)
Search form
Display RSS link.
RSS of recent journals
RSS od the latest comments
Link
Admin page
add link
Friend request form
Want to be friends with this user.
QR code
Powered by FC2 Blog
Copyright © All Rights Reserved.