Light Therapy Lamp for Medical OEMs | LightSources
Trust LightSources to Make
Your Specialty Lighting Vision a Reality!
ISO 9001:2015 Certified
Search this site
1 800-826-9465 (North America)
+36 27 541-800 (Europe)
+86 21 52662921 (China)
View Our Blog
English
Light Therapy Lamp
UVB Phototherapy
UVB Vitiligo
UV Acne
UV Depression
UV Eczema
UV Psoriasis
Contact
Light Therapy Lamp
Light Sources > Solutions > Light Therapy Lamp
Light Therapy Lamp Technology from LightSources
LightSources and LightTech design and manufacture fluorescent lamps including various styles of a specialty light therapy lamp for treating several medical conditions. Light therapy, also known as phototherapy, is used to treat medical conditions such as jaundice, mood disorders, sleep disorders, and skin conditions including psoriasis, eczema, vitiligo and acne. Phototherapy is proven beneficial to promote wound healing and is also used in, photodynamic therapy which is a medical treatment used to treat some cancers that incorporates a photosensitizing drug which activates from exposure to light.
LightSources produces a wide variety of specialty lamps used for light therapy, emitting the proper exposure at the right UV wavelength to successfully treat each condition. The fluorescent lighting engineers at LightSources have in-depth knowledge of the wavelength requirements for each condition, developing the most effective lamps for OEM products used in phototherapy today.
Light Therapy Lamps Effective at Treating Several Health Conditions
Light therapy lamps are effective at treating several health conditions, with specific design and structure aimed at the right wavelength to treat each disorder. A wide variety of health conditions that may be successfully treated and dramatically improved with phototherapy include:
Neonatal Jaundice – A condition common occurring in newborns that develops from underdeveloped function of the liver. Newborns begin to show a yellowing of their skin and also in the whites of their eyes as toxins build up in the body. Treatment with blue light prevents brain damage which can occur with elevated levels of bilirubin in the blood. LightSources produces Ultra Blue lights, also called Bili-lights available in compact T6 size and assorted sizes such as T5, T8, T12 linear, to provide light therapy to newborns and successfully treat jaundice. The specific wavelengths emitted from the Blue lights help to break the bilirubin down into substances that are excreted through waste, improving the liver function of the newborn.
Mood disorders – Seasonal Affective Disorder also referred to as SAD, is a mood disorder that occurs when people experience reduced exposure to daylight as natural sunlight is a trigger for production of serotonin, the hormone which elevates mood. Light therapy is proven to be a highly effective therapy for SAD, with most people experiencing noticeable improvement within one week.
Lamps by LightSources are manufactured with phosphors that produce a bright light similar to natural sunlight. Our CPFL light therapy lamps, and assorted T5, T8, T12 styles are useful in full-spectrum phototherapy applications and are also proven effective to treat depression caused from non-seasonal factors.
Sleep Disorders – Sleep disorders such as circadian rhythm disorders have an effect on sleep timing and related biological functions. The brain’s pineal gland is activated by sunlight, and naturally controls serotonin and melatonin production, causing the body to become tired when daylight diminishes and alert when daylight begins. People suffering from sleep disorders have different waking and sleeping patterns that can be successfully treated with full-spectrum light therapy. Light therapy is useful in treating a wide range of sleep disorders including people suffering with jet lag and those that work night shifts.
Skin Conditions – Dermatologists have used light therapy for more than 80 years to treat various skin conditions including psoriasis, acne, vitiligo, eczema, and is even beneficial for cosmetic uses.
Acne affects approximately 60 million Americans across all age and ethnic groups, with 65% of sufferers between the age of 14 and 24. People with acne usually try various treatments including benzoyl peroxide, ointments and harsh drying treatments that alter the natural balance of pH in the skin and can prove ineffective at treating stubborn P acne, or Propionibacterium acnes. Using both blue and red-light combination therapy has proven to be a successful acne treatment without the annoying or painful side effects comparable to other acne treatments. Blue light emitted at the wavelength of 415 nm is effective at killing existing bacteria and preventing future breakouts. Red light emitted at a wavelength of 600 – 700 nm induces healing and repair as red-light therapy soothes inflammation and stimulates cell regeneration.
LightSources produces all types of phototherapy lamps used to treat Psoriasis which are UVA, narrow band UVB and UVB. UV treatments help to reduce the rapid skin cell growth beneath the epidermal layer and promote healing. Light therapy lamps are sometimes used in combination with medication, giving relief to patients in as little as two to three weeks or just a few months. Consistency and following your doctor’s orders are key to successful treatment, and patients should be aware that tanning beds do not produce the same wavelength of UV light necessary to treat skin conditions.
Eczema is a dermatitis caused by a hyperactive immune system with symptoms that include itchy, swollen and reddened skin. UV light effectively suppresses the overactive immune system, reducing inflammation. LightSources designs and produces UVA lamps which emit the precise wavelength of 315 to 400 nanometer (nm), UVB at 280 to 315 nm, and UVB narrow band in an effective 310 nm to successfully treat people with eczema.
Vitiligo is possibly an autoimmune condition where white patches appear on the skin and are caused by a loss of melanin which destroys the cells that form pigmentation. Light therapy with narrow band UVB has become a popular therapy to treat vitiligo as it helps to replace pigment in cells.
LightSources Will Custom Design and Engineer Light Therapy Lamps
LightSources and our strategic partners work together to design, engineer and produce the right light therapy lamp for your product requirements. We work with you to develop the most effective and cost-efficient solution for phototherapy needs. Our vast resources combined with our in-depth knowledge UV technology allow us to provide the right solution to you at the best available cost.
LightSources and LightTech are recognized leaders in fluorescent and UV lamp technology, developing patented products with cutting edge technology. We design, engineer and manufacture the most effective phototherapy lamps available on the market today. Contact us today to speak with a knowledgeable engineer and to learn how to find your ideal light therapy lamp.
LightSources LCD Lighting, Inc. KULKA VOLTARC MASQNLITE CERLUX LightTech
SOLUTIONS:
Germicidal
UV Curing
Specialty Fluorescent
Sign
Lampholders & Wiring Devices
Red Light
Tanning Lamps
Backlighting
Proprietary Bases & Sockets
CORPORATE WEBSITE:
Lighting Solutions
About LightSources
Contact Us
Our Latest Blog Posts
Privacy Statement
Cookie Notice
Facebook Linkedin
All rights reserved © 2015 Light Sources, Inc. , Created byWSI Privacy Statement. Site Map.
X
Email a Friend
Your Name:
Your Email Address: *
Recipient's Name:
Recipient's Email Address: *
Email Subject: *
Message: *
Message: *
By continuing to use this site, you accept our use of cookies and other online technology to send you targeted advertisements, for social media, for data analytics and to better understand your use of our website.
Click here for more information on the types of cookies we use and how to change your cookie settings. Accept
Privacy & Cookies Policy
`