ACDF | Become Pain Free, Pain, Back Pain, Spine Pain, Spine Surgery, Chronic Pain
Become Pain Free, Pain, Back Pain, Spine Pain, Spine Surgery, Chronic Pain
The Blog of www.becomepainfree.com a National Pain Publication
Archive for the ‘ACDF’ Category
You May Get relief from chronic pain by walking
leave a comment »
If you are suffering from chronic pain from fibromyalgia or another medical condition, you know the frustration that comes with the attempts to control pain. While medication and therapies are a key factor in pain management, exercise can also work to relieve pain and improve quality of life. Inactivity can lead to more pain – the more you move, the less you will feel your pain.
If you are suffering from chronic pain, begin introducing regular walking workouts into your daily routine. Walking is the most basic form of aerobic exercise. There are several benefits of aerobic exercise, including: building stamina, boosting energy and reducing stiffness and pain. Specific health benefits of walking for exercise include:
Strengthening muscles – By strengthening the muscles in the feet, legs, hips and torso, you will increase stability of the spine. Spinal stability may reduce symptoms of chronic back pain.
Improves flexibility and range of motion – With improved range of motion, you will be less susceptible to injury due to stiffness or awkward movements.
Strengthening joints – A low-impact workout such as walking improves strength and flexibility of the joints, as well as muscles and tendons surrounding the joints.
Research has shown that low-impact aerobic exercise is most effective for improving chronic pain symptoms. It provides a means of relaxation for both the body and mind. Exercise in short intervals has been shown to be most successful in relieving chronic pain. For example, rather than going for one 30-minute walk each day, take three short, 10-minute walks instead.
In a study of 52 sedentary patients with chronic lower back pain, Dr. Michal Katz-Leurer and colleague Ilana Shnayderman found that a simple daily walking routine can improve chronic lower back pain symptoms. Katz-Leurer, from Tel Aviv University’s Stanley Steyer School of Health Professions at the Sackler Faculty of Medicine, and Shnayderman, a graduate student at the Department of Physical Therapy and a practicing physiotherapist at Maccabi Health Care, published their findings in the journal Clinical Rehabilitation.
If you suffer from chronic pain, make a point to exercise daily. By exercising, you will help prevent muscle atrophy and decrease joint pain. Start with a simple 30-minutes of exercise each day, gradually increasing if you are able.
Consult with your physician before beginning any exercise routine.
Call Us: (214) 396-3647 | (888) 373-3720 Fax #: (888 )238-9155 | E-mail Us http://www.becomepainfree.com
http://www.becomepainfree.com
Share this:
Email
Print
Tweet
Like this:
Like Loading...
Written by becomepainfree
May 13, 2013 at 2:47 pm
Posted in About Laser Spine Surgery, ACDF, Adult Stem Cell Therapy, American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, Another Chance at Life, Anterior cervical discectomy, Back Pain Plano, Back Pain Relief, Back pain sufferers, Back Surgeon Texas, Best Spine Doc in Texas, Best Spine Doctor, Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, Central Cord Syndrome, Chronic Pain, Coccydynia, Complex regional pain syndrome, Comprehensive list of advanced minimally invasive procedures, cts, Dallas Doctors, Dallas Spine Pain Center, Dallas Texas Pain Doctor, Discectomy and Stabilization, Endoscopic and Laser Spine Surgery, Failed back surgery syndrome, fellowship in Disorders of the Spine, fellowship trained Orthopaedic Spine Surgeon, Fellowship-trained spine surgeons, Fibromyalgia, Fort Worth Orthopedic Surgeon, Headache, Headaches, Herniated discs, Importance of a Screening Colonoscopy, Injured on the Job, injured workers, Innovative pain mapping process, interventional therapies, Laser Back Surgery, laser spine procedures, Laser Spine Surgery, Low back pain, Lumbar and Cervical Radiofrequency, Lumbar Microdiscectomy, M.D., Mayo Clinic, Mayo Clinic Spine Surgeon, Mayo Clinic Trained Surgeons, Medical Education, Microdiscectomy, Migraine Doctor Dallas, Migraine Treatment, Minimal Access Spinal Technologies, MINIMALLY INVASIVE, minimally invasive disc healing, Minimally Invasive Laser Spine Surgery | Spine Surgeons | Dallas, minimally invasive procedures, Minimally Invasive Spine, minimally invasive spine procedures, Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery, Minimally Invasive Stabilization, Minimally Invasive Surgery, MIS, Myofascial pain syndrome, Natural and Ethical, Neck pain, Neck Pain Treatment Texas, Neuropathic Pain, non-invasive procedures, North American Spine Society, Open Surgery and Minimally Invasive Surgery, Overuse Injuries, Pain, pain disorders, Pain Doctor, Pain Doctor Dallas, Pain Doctor Fort Worth, Pain Doctor Irving, Pain Doctor Plano, Pain Doctor Texas, Pain Doctors, Pain Dr, pain management, Pain Medicine, Pain Prevention, Painful nerve injuries, Painful osteoarthritis, patients’ own stem cells, Pelvic pain/Genital pain, Pinnacle Pain, Pinnacle Pain Group, Positive Side Effects, posterior spinal fusion, Presbaterian Pain, Proven Results, PRP, Radicular Syndrome, Regenerative Medicine, Robotic Guided Spine Surgery, Robotic Spine Surgery, Rockwall Back Doctor, Safe and Effective:
Tagged with arthritis, back pain, BecomePainFree.com, benefits of aerobic exercise, Bone grafting, building stamina, chronic pain, Clinics and Practices, Conditions and Diseases, Degenerative disc disease, Failed back syndrome, health, healthy-living, impact workout, Invasiveness of surgical procedures, Laser Spine Institute, laser spine surgery, lumbar spine surgery, Magnetic resonance imaging, Mayo Clinic, medicine, Pain management, science, stretching, Surgery
How to Prevent Migraines
leave a comment »
Throbbing headache. Blurred vision. Sensitivity to light and sound. Nausea. Sound familiar? At least 16 to 17 percent of the world’s population will experience a migraine at some point in their lives, but for many, migraines are a part of daily life.
A migraine can be simply debilitating, when all you can think about is getting to a dark, quiet place to lie down and rest. Migraines can mean missing work or school, and even missing out on important, they-only-happen-once, life events.
There are some medications that can reduce the number and severity of migraines, but lifestyle changes are also strongly recommended to help prevent and/or alleviate the pain associated with migraines. If you suffer from migraines, try these migraine prevention tips.
Get regular exercise. Aerobic exercise helps to reduce tension and prevent migraines. Choose a form of exercise you enjoy — walking, swimming or cycling or even dancing. Make time for 30 minutes of aerobic exercise every day. Exercise also aids weight loss, which may also help to prevent migraines.
Avoid migraine triggers. For many people, migraines are triggered by certain food or scents. If you notice that a specific food or scent has triggered migraines in the past, try to avoid them.
Get plenty of rest. Regular sleep patterns can help to reduce tension and stress that lead to migraines. Establish a regular sleep pattern means going to bed and getting up at the same time, every day. To help yourself sleep, turn off all electronics at least an hour before your bedtime, turn down the lights and allow yourself to relax.
Reduce stress. Stress is a common cause of migraines. Find ways to reduce your stress, whether through exercise, meditation or simply relaxing at home.
Reduce estrogen levels. For some women, estrogen can induce migraine headaches or make them work. If this is the case for you, avoid medications such as birth control and other hormone pills that contain estrogen.
If you suffer from chronic migraines, talk with your doctor about pain management and lifestyle changes that may help reduce your headache main.
Call Us: (214) 396-3647 | (888) 373-3720 Fax #: (888 )238-9155 | E-mail Us
http://www.becomepainfree.com
Share this:
Email
Print
Tweet
Like this:
Like Loading...
Written by becomepainfree
May 13, 2013 at 2:41 pm
Posted in About Laser Spine Surgery, ACDF, Adult Stem Cell Therapy, American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, Dallas Texas Pain Doctor, Discectomy and Stabilization, Endoscopic and Laser Spine Surgery, Failed back surgery syndrome, Headache, Headaches, Herniated discs, MINIMALLY INVASIVE, minimally invasive procedures, Minimally Invasive Surgery, MIS, Myofascial pain syndrome, Natural and Ethical, Neck pain, Neck Pain Treatment Texas, Neuropathic Pain, non-invasive procedures, North American Spine Society, Pain Doctor, Pain Doctor Dallas, Pain Doctor Fort Worth, Pain Doctor Irving, Pain Doctor Plano, Pain Doctor Texas, Pain Doctors, Pain Dr, pain management, Pain Medicine, Pain Prevention, Painful nerve injuries, Painful osteoarthritis, patients’ own stem cells, Pelvic pain/Genital pain, Top Back Doctors, Top Docs, Top Spine Dr in the USA, Top Texas Surgeons, Transforaminal Endoscopic Discectomy, True minimally invasive procedures, Tx Top Spine Dr
Tagged with Back and Spine, back pain, BecomePainFree.com, Bone grafting, chronic migraines, chronic pain, Clinics and Practices, Conditions and Diseases, estrogen levels, Failed back syndrome, Fort Worth Texas, headache blurred vision, health, Invasiveness of surgical procedures, laser spine surgery, lumbar spine surgery, Mayo Clinic, mayo clinic trained spine surgeon, medicine, migraine headaches, migraine prevention, Neurosurgery, Spinal fusion, spine surgery
San Antonio Spine Surgeon, San Antonio Back Doctor, Mayo Clinic Trained Spine Surgeon, Bexar County Orthopedic Surgeon
leave a comment »
Become Pain Free | Pain Specialist in Texas
Call Us: (214) 396-3647 | (888) 373-3720 Fax #: (888 )238-9155 | E-mail Us
https://www.becomepainfree.com/
http://www.becomepainfree.com
Share this:
Email
Print
Tweet
Like this:
Like Loading...
Written by becomepainfree
February 17, 2013 at 9:25 pm
Posted in About Laser Spine Surgery, ACDF, Adult Stem Cell Therapy, American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, Another Chance at Life, Anterior cervical discectomy, Back Pain Relief, Back pain sufferers, Back Surgeon Texas, Best Spine Doc in Texas, Best Spine Doctor, Central Cord Syndrome, Chronic Pain, Complex regional pain syndrome, Comprehensive list of advanced minimally invasive procedures, cts, Discectomy and Stabilization, Endoscopic and Laser Spine Surgery, Failed back surgery syndrome, fellowship in Disorders of the Spine, fellowship trained Orthopaedic Spine Surgeon, Fellowship-trained spine surgeons, Fibromyalgia, Headache, Injured on the Job, injured workers, Innovative pain mapping process, interventional therapies, Laser Back Surgery, laser spine procedures, Laser Spine Surgery, Low back pain, Lumbar and Cervical Radiofrequency, Mayo Clinic, Mayo Clinic Spine Surgeon, Mayo Clinic Trained Surgeons, Medical Education, Microdiscectomy, Minimal Access Spinal Technologies, MINIMALLY INVASIVE, minimally invasive disc healing, Minimally Invasive Laser Spine Surgery | Spine Surgeons | Dallas, minimally invasive procedures, Minimally Invasive Spine, minimally invasive spine procedures, Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery, Minimally Invasive Stabilization, Minimally Invasive Surgery, MIS, Myofascial pain syndrome, Natural and Ethical, Neck pain, Neck Pain Treatment Texas, Neuropathic Pain, non-invasive procedures, North American Spine Society, Obese Patients, Open Surgery and Minimally Invasive Surgery, Overuse Injuries, Pain, pain disorders, Pain Doctor, Pain Doctor Texas, Pain Doctors, Pain Dr, pain management, Pain Medicine, Pain Prevention, Painful nerve injuries, Painful osteoarthritis, patients’ own stem cells, Pelvic pain/Genital pain, posterior spinal fusion, Proven Results, PRP, Radicular Syndrome, Radiofrequency Ablation and Lesioning, Regenerative Medicine, Robotic Guided Spine Surgery, Robotic Spine Surgery, Safe and Effective:, San Antonio Spine Surgeon, Scoliosis, Spine Surgery Robot, sports injuries, Stem Cell Therapy, stem cells, surgical treatment of spinal disorders, Texas, Texas Health Pain, Texas Spine Consultants, Top Back Doctors, Top Docs, Top Spine Dr in the USA, Top Texas Surgeons, Transforaminal Endoscopic Discectomy, True minimally invasive procedures, Tx Top Spine Dr, Work Comp Injury, Workers Compensation Injury
Tagged with Back and Spine, back pain, BecomePainFree.com, Bone grafting, Clinics and Practices, Conditions and Diseases, Degenerative disc disease, e mail, Failed back syndrome, free pain, health, healthy-living, invasive spine surgery, Invasiveness of surgical procedures, laser spine surgery, lumbar spine surgery, Magnetic resonance imaging, mayo clinic trained spine surgeon, medicine, Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery, pain specialist, stretching, United States
Laser spine surgery is a minimally invasive surgery highly acclaimed by surgeons across the nation
with one comment
Laser Spine Surgery/Endoscopic Spine Surgery
http://www.becomepainfree.com
www.becomepainfree.com
Laser spine surgery is a minimally invasive surgery highly acclaimed by surgeons across the nation. It was introduced over 30 years ago, and has recently been excessively rising in popularity with evolved technology and knowledge. Laser spine surgery is typically a go-to procedure for patients with neck and back pain. Using lasers, doctors and neurosurgeons can more precisely target soft tissue to help relieve pain and ridding of excess dead tissue surrounding the spine. It is also a procedure used to trim any bulging or herniated discs to ease pressure on the spinal column and nerves.
Laser spine surgery has historically has been done by “going under the knife”, but with laser spine surgery, patients can rest assured that this minimally invasive procedure requires concentrated beams of light to relieve back pain. With laser spine surgery, the effects are safer and much more controlled. The result of the surgery is less blood loss, which results in a faster healing process, and minimal scarring due to it being less invasive. Also, using lasers can greatly decrease the amount of damage to any muscles or spine surrounding tissues because of the increased ability to control the concentrated beam of light, rather than “hand and knife.”
Although laser spine surgery is said to have unproven benefits by the National Institute of Health, doctors everywhere have relied on its usefulness to help relieve back and neck pain in countless patients. Laser spine surgery has become wildly popular in the medical field, and it is continuously and rapidly growing into an effective, helpful, and patient-convenient procedure that will undoubtedly continue to climb the charts.
Call Us: (214) 396-3647 | (888) 373-3720
Fax #: (888)238-9155 | E-mail Us
Share this:
Email
Print
Tweet
Like this:
Like Loading...
Written by becomepainfree
January 22, 2013 at 5:25 pm
Posted in About Laser Spine Surgery, ACDF, Anterior cervical discectomy, Chronic Pain, Complex regional pain syndrome, Endoscopic and Laser Spine Surgery, Failed back surgery syndrome, Fibromyalgia, Fort Worth Orthopedic Surgeon, Herniated discs, Laser Spine Surgery, Low back pain, Lumbar and Cervical Radiofrequency, Lumbar Microdiscectomy, Microdiscectomy, Minimal Access Spinal Technologies, Minimally Invasive Laser Spine Surgery | Spine Surgeons | Dallas, minimally invasive procedures, Minimally Invasive Spine, Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery, Minimally Invasive Surgery, Myofascial pain syndrome, Neck pain, Obese Patients, Open Surgery and Minimally Invasive Surgery, Pain, Pain Doctor, Pain Doctor Dallas, Pain Doctor Fort Worth, Pain Doctor Irving, Pain Doctor Plano, Pain Doctor Texas, Pain Doctors, Pain Dr, Pain Medicine, Painful nerve injuries, posterior spinal fusion, Radicular Syndrome, Radiofrequency Ablation and Lesioning, Robotic Guided Spine Surgery, Robotic Spine Surgery, Spine Surgery, Spine Surgery Robot, Texas
Tagged with Back and Spine, back pain, beams of light, Bone grafting, chronic pain, Clinics and Practices, Conditions and Diseases, countless patients, Degenerative disc disease, Failed back syndrome, Fort Worth Texas, health, invasive spine surgery, Invasiveness of surgical procedures, Laser Spine Institute, laser spine surgery, LSI, Mayo Clinic, medicine, misi, Musculoskeletal Disorders, national institute of health, spine institute, zero spine pain
Anterior cervical discectomy & fusion (ACDF), ACDF, ACDF Spine Surgery
leave a comment »
ACDF Spine/Back Surgery Overview
Come see on of our Doctors today please visit https://www.becomepainfree.com/
Anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) is a surgical procedure performed to remove a herniated or degenerative disc (Fig. 1) in the cervical (neck) spine. The surgeon approaches the spine from the front, through the throat area. After the disc is removed, the vertebrae above and below the disc space are fused together. Your doctor may recommend a discectomy if physical therapy or medication fail to relieve your neck or arm pain caused by inflamed and compressed spinal nerves. Patients typically go home the same day; recovery time takes 4 to 6 weeks.
Spine Surgery
Figure 1, top. (top view of vertebra) Degenerative disc disease causes the discs (purple) to dry out. Tears in the disc annulus can allow the gel-filled nucleus material to escape and compress the spinal cord causing numbness and weakness. Bone spurs may develop which can lead to a narrowing of the nerve root canal (foraminal stenosis). The pinched spinal nerve becomes swollen and painful.
What is an anterior cervical discectomy & fusion (ACDF)?
Discectomy literally means “cutting out the disc.” A discectomy can be performed anywhere along the spine from the neck (cervical) to the low back (lumbar). The surgeon reaches the damaged disc from the front (anterior) of the spine — through the throat area. By moving aside the neck muscles, trachea, and esophagus, the disc and bony vertebrae are accessed. In the neck area of the spine, an anterior approach is more convenient than a posterior (back) because the disc can be reached without disturbing the spinal cord, spinal nerves, and the strong neck muscles of the back. Depending on your particular case, one disc (single-level) or more (multi-level) may be removed.
After the disc is removed, the space between the bony vertebrae is empty. To prevent the vertebrae from collapsing and rubbing together, the surgeon fills the open disc space with a bone graft. The graft serves as a bridge between the two vertebrae to create a spinal fusion. The bone graft and vertebrae are often immobilized and held together with metal plates and screws. Following surgery the body begins its natural healing process and new bone cells are formed around the graft. After 3 to 6 months, the bone graft should join the vertebrae above and below to form one solid piece of bone. With instrumentation and fusion working together, the bone may actually grow around the plates and screws – similar to reinforced concrete.
Bone grafts come from many sources. Each type has advantages and disadvantages.
Autograft bone comes from you. The surgeon takes your own bone cells from the hip (iliac crest). This graft has a higher rate of fusion because it has bone-growing cells and proteins. The disadvantage is the pain in your hipbone after surgery. Harvesting a bone graft from your hip is done at the same time as the spine surgery. The harvested bone is about a half inch thick – the entire thickness of bone is not removed, just the top half layer.
Allograft bone comes from a donor (cadaver). Bone-bank bone is collected from people who have agreed to donate their organs after they die. This graft does not have bone-growing cells or proteins, yet it is readily available and eliminates the need to harvest bone from your hip. Allograft is shaped like a doughnut and the center is packed with shavings of living bone tissue taken from your spine during surgery.
Bone graft substitute comes from man-made plastic, ceramic, or bioresorbable compounds. Often called cages, this graft material is packed with shavings of living bone tissue taken from your spine during surgery.
After fusion you may notice some range of motion loss, but this varies according to neck mobility before surgery and the number of levels fused. If only one level is fused, you may have similar or even better range of motion than before surgery. If more than two levels are fused, you may notice limits in turning your head and looking up and down. New motion-preserving artificial disc replacements have emerged as an alternative to fusion. Similar to knee replacement, the artificial disc is inserted into the damaged joint space and preserves motion, whereas fusion eliminates motion. Outcomes for artificial disc compared to ACDF (the gold standard) are similar, but long-term results of motion preservation and adjacent level disease are not yet proven. Talk with your surgeon about whether ACDF or artificial disc replacement is most appropriate for your specific case.
Who is a candidate?
You may be a candidate for discectomy if you have:
diagnostic tests (MRI, CT, myelogram) show that you have a herniated or degenerative disc
significant weakness in your hand or arm
arm pain worse than neck pain
symptoms that have not improved with physical therapy or medication
ACDF may be helpful in treating the following conditions:
Bulging and herniated disc: The gel-like material within the disc can bulge or rupture through a weak area in the surrounding wall (annulus). Irritation and swelling occurs when this material squeezes out and painfully presses on a nerve.
Degenerative disc disease: As discs naturally wear out, bone spurs form and the facet joints inflame. The discs dry out and shrink, losing their flexibility and cushioning properties. The disc spaces get smaller. These changes lead to foraminal or central stenosis or disc herniation (Fig. 1).
The surgical decision
Most herniated discs heal after a few months of nonsurgical treatment. Your doctor may recommend treatment options, but only you can decide whether surgery is right for you. Be sure to consider all the risks and benefits before making your decision. Only 10% of people with herniated disc problems have enough pain after 6 weeks of nonsurgical treatment to consider surgery.
Your surgeon will also discuss the risks and benefits of different types of bone graft material. Autograft is the gold standard for rapid healing and fusion, but the graft harvest can be painful and at times lead to complications. Autograft is more commonly used these days as it has proven to be as effective for routine 1 and 2 level fusions in non-smokers.
Who performs the procedure?
A neurosurgeon or an orthopedic surgeon can perform spine surgery. Many spine surgeons have specialized training in complex spine surgery. Ask your surgeon about their training, especially if your case is complex or you’ve had more than one spinal surgery.
What happens before surgery?
You may be scheduled for presurgical tests (e.g., blood test, electrocardiogram, chest X-ray) several days before surgery. In the doctor’s office, you will sign consent and other forms so that the surgeon knows your medical history (allergies, medicines/vitamins, bleeding history, anesthesia reactions, previous surgeries). Discuss all medications (prescription, over-the-counter, and herbal supplements) you are taking with your health care provider. Some medications need to be continued or stopped the day of surgery.
Stop taking all non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines (Naprosyn, Advil, Motrin, Nuprin, Aleve, etc.) and blood thinners (Coumadin, Plavix, etc.) 1 to 2 weeks before surgery as directed by the doctor. Additionally, stop smoking, chewing tobacco, and drinking alcohol 1 week before and 2 weeks after surgery because these activities can cause bleeding problems. No food or drink is permitted past midnight the night before surgery.
Smoking
The most important thing you can do to ensure the success of your spinal surgery is quit smoking. This includes cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco, and smokeless tobacco (snuff, dip). Nicotine prevents bone growth and puts you at higher risk for a failed fusion. Patients who smoked had failed fusions in up to 40% of cases, compared to only 8% among non-smokers [1]. Smoking also decreases your blood circulation, resulting in slower wound healing and an increased risk of infection. Talk with your doctor about ways to help you quit smoking: nicotine replacements, pills without nicotine (Wellbutrin, Chantix), and tobacco counseling programs.
Morning of surgery
Shower using antibacterial soap. Dress in freshly washed, loose-fitting clothing.
Wear flat-heeled shoes with closed backs.
If you have instructions to take regular medication the morning of surgery, do so with small sips of water.
Remove make-up, hairpins, contacts, body piercings, nail polish, etc.
Leave all valuables and jewelry at home (including wedding bands).
Bring a list of medications (prescriptions, over-the-counter, and herbal supplements) with dosages and the times of day usually taken.
Bring a list of allergies to medication or foods.
Arrive at the hospital 2 hours before (surgery center 1 hour before) your scheduled surgery time to complete the necessary paperwork and pre-procedure work-ups. An anesthesiologist will talk with you and explain the effects of anesthesia and its risks. An intravenous (IV) line will be placed in your arm.
What happens during surgery?
There are seven steps to the procedure. The operation generally takes 1 to 3 hours.
Step 1: prepare the patient
You will lie on your back on the operative table and be given anesthesia. Once asleep, your neck area is cleansed and prepped. If a fusion is planned and your own bone will be used, the hip area is also prepped to obtain a bone graft. If a donor bone will be used, the hip incision is unnecessary.
Step 2: make an incision
A 2-inch skin incision is made on the right or left side of your neck (Fig. 2). The surgeon makes a tunnel to the spine by moving aside muscles in your neck and retracting the trachea, esophagus, and arteries. Finally, the muscles that support the front of the spine are lifted and held aside so the surgeon can clearly see the bony vertebrae and discs.
Figure 2. A 2-inch skin incision is made on the side of your neck.
Step 3: prepare to remove disc
With the aid of a fluoroscope (a special X-ray), the surgeon passes a thin needle into the disc to locate the affected vertebra and disc.
To remove the damaged disc, the vertebrae above and below the disc must be held apart. Your surgeon first inserts a spreader into the body of each vertebra above and below the disc to be removed. Gentle tension is placed on the spreader to separate the two vertebrae.
Step 4: remove the disc fragments
The outer wall of the disc (annulus) is cut (Fig. 3). The surgeon removes about 2/3 of your disc using small grasping tools, and then looks through a surgical microscope to remove the rest of the disc. The posterior longitudinal ligament, which runs behind the vertebrae, is removed to reach the spinal canal. Any disc material pressing on the spinal nerves is removed.
Figure 3. The muscles are retracted to expose the vertebra. The disc annulus is cut open and the disc material is removed with grasping tools.
Step 5: decompress the nerve
Bone spurs (osteophytes) that press on your nerve root are removed. The foramen, through which the spinal nerve exits, is enlarged with a drill (Fig. 4). This procedure, called a foraminotomy, gives your nerves more room to exit the spinal canal.
Figure 4. (top view) The disc annulus and nucleus are removed to decompress the spinal cord and nerve root. Bone spurs are removed and the spinal foramen is enlarged to free the nerve.
Step 6. prepare a bone graft fusion
Using a drill, the open disc space is prepared on the top and bottom by removing the outer cortical layer of bone to expose the blood-rich cancellous bone inside. This “bed” will hold the bone graft material that you and your surgeon selected:
Bone graft from your hip. A skin and muscle incision is made over the crest of your hipbone. Next, a chisel is used to cut through the hard outer layer (cortical bone) to the inner layer (cancellous bone). The inner layer contains the bone-growing cells and proteins. The bone graft is then shaped and placed into the “bed” between the vertebrae (Fig. 5).
Bone bank or fusion cage. A cadaver bone graft or bioplastic cage is filled with the leftover bone shavings containing bone-growing cells and proteins. The graft is then tapped into the shelf space.
Figure 5. (side view) A bone graft (blue) is shaped and inserted into the shelf space between the vertebrae.
The surgeon may reinforce the bone graft with a metal plate screwed into the vertebrae to provide stability during fusion – and possibly a better fusion rate. An x-ray is taken to verify the position of the bone graft and the metal plate and screws (Fig. 6).
Come see on of our Doctors today please visit https://www.becomepainfree.com/
New option: artificial disc replacement. Instead of a bone graft or fusion cage, an artificial disc device is inserted into the empty disc space. In select patients, it may be beneficial to preserve motion. Talk to your doctor – not all insurance companies will pay for this new technology and out-of-pocket expenses may be incurred.
Step 7. close the incision
The spreader and retractors are removed. The muscle and skin incisions are sewn together with sutures. Steri-Strips or biologic glue is placed across the incision.
What happens after surgery?
You will awaken in the postoperative recovery area, called the PACU. Blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration will be monitored. Any pain will be addressed. Once awake, you will be moved to a regular room where you’ll increase your activity level (sitting in a chair, walking). Patients who have had bone graft taken from their hip may feel more discomfort in their hip than neck incision. Most patients having a 1 or 2 level ACDF are sent home the same day. However, if medical complications such as difficulty breathing or unstable blood pressure develop, you may need to stay overnight. You will be given written instructions to follow when you go home.
Discharge instructions
Discomfort
After surgery, pain is managed with narcotic medication. Because narcotic pain pills are addictive, they are used for a limited period (2 to 4 weeks). As their regular use can cause constipation, drink lots of water and eat high fiber foods. Laxatives (e.g., Dulcolax, Senokot, Milk of Magnesia) can be bought without a prescription. Thereafter, pain is managed with acetaminophen (e.g., Tylenol).
Hoarseness, sore throat, or difficulty swallowing may occur in some patients and should not be cause for alarm. These symptoms usually resolve in 1 to 4 weeks.
Restrictions
If you had a fusion, do not use non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (e.g., aspirin; ibuprofen, Advil, Motrin, Nuprin; naproxen sodium, Aleve) for 6 months after surgery. NSAIDs may cause bleeding and interfere with bone healing.
Do not smoke. Smoking delays healing by increasing the risk of complications (e.g., infection) and inhibits the bones’ ability to fuse.
Do not drive for 2 to 4 weeks after surgery or until discussed with your surgeon.
Avoid sitting for long periods of time.
Avoid bending your head forward or backward.
Do not lift anything heavier than 5 pounds (e.g., gallon of milk).
Housework and yard-work are not permitted until the first follow-up office visit. This includes gardening, mowing, vacuuming, ironing, and loading/unloading the dishwasher, washer, or dryer.
Postpone sexual activity until your follow-up appointment unless your surgeon specifies otherwise.
Activity
You may need help with daily activities (e.g., dressing, bathing), but most patients are able to care for themselves right away.
Gradually return to your normal activities. Walking is encouraged; start with a short distance and gradually increase to 1 to 2 miles daily. A physical therapy program may be recommended.
If applicable, know how to wear a cervical collar before leaving the hospital. Wear it when walking or riding in a car.
Bathing/Incision Care
You may shower 1 to 4 days after surgery. Follow your surgeon’s specific instructions. No tub baths, hot tubs, or swimming pools until your health care provider says it’s safe to do so.
If you have staples or stitches when you go home, they will need to be removed. Ask your surgeon or call the office to find out when.
When to Call Your Doctor
If your temperature exceeds 101° F, or if the incision begins to separate or show signs of infection, such as redness, swelling, pain, or drainage.
If your swallowing problems interfere with your ability to breathe or drink water.
Recovery and prevention
Schedule a follow-up appointment with your surgeon for 2 weeks after surgery. Recovery time generally lasts 4 to 6 weeks. X-rays may be taken after several weeks to verify that fusion is occurring. The surgeon will decide when to release you back to work at your follow-up visit.
A cervical collar or brace is sometimes worn during recovery to provide support and limit motion while your neck heals or fuses (see Braces & Orthotics). Your doctor may prescribe neck stretches and exercises or physical therapy once your neck has healed.
If you had a bone graft taken from your hip, you may experience pain, soreness, and stiffness at the incision. Get up frequently (every 20 minutes) and move around or walk. Don’t sit or lie down for long periods of time.
Recurrences of neck pain are common. The key to avoiding recurrence is prevention:
Proper lifting techniques
Good posture during sitting, standing, moving, and sleeping
Appropriate exercise program
An ergonomic work area
Healthy weight and lean body mass
A positive attitude and relaxation techniques (e.g., stress management)
No smoking
What are the results?
Anterior cervical discectomy is successful in relieving arm pain in 92 to 100% of patients [3]. However, arm weakness and numbness may persist for weeks to months. Neck pain is relieved in 73 to 83% of patients [3]. In general, people with arm pain benefit more from ACDF than those with neck pain. Aim to keep a positive attitude and diligently perform your physical therapy exercises.
Achieving a spinal fusion varies depending on the technique used and your general health (smoker). In a study that compared three techniques: ACD, ACDF, and ACDF with plates and screws, the outcomes were [3]:
67% of people who underwent ACD (no bone graft) achieved fusion naturally. However, ACD alone results in an abnormal forward curving of the spine (kyphosis) compared with the other techniques.
93% of people who underwent ACDF with bone graft placement achieved fusion.
100% of people who underwent ACDF with bone graft placement and plates and screws achieved fusion.
What are the risks?
No surgery is without risks. General complications of any surgery include bleeding, infection, blood clots (deep vein thrombosis), and reactions to anesthesia. If spinal fusion is done at the same time as a discectomy, there is a greater risk of complications. Specific complications related to ACDF may include:
Hoarseness and swallowing difficulties. In some cases, temporary hoarseness can occur. The recurrent laryngeal nerve, which innervates the vocal cords, is affected during surgery. It may take several months for this nerve to recover. In rare cases (less than 1/250) hoarseness and swallowing problems may persist and need further treatment with an ear, nose and throat specialist.
Vertebrae failing to fuse. Among many reasons why vertebrae fail to fuse, common ones include smoking, osteoporosis, obesity, and malnutrition. Smoking is by far the greatest factor that can prevent fusion. Nicotine is a toxin that inhibits bone-growing cells. If you continue to smoke after your spinal surgery, you could undermine the fusion process.
Hardware fracture. Metal screws, rods, and plates used to stabilize the spine are called “hardware.” The hardware may move or break before your vertebrae are completely fused. If this occurs, a second surgery may be needed to fix or replace the hardware.
Bone graft migration. In rare cases (1 to 2%), the bone graft can move from the correct position between the vertebrae soon after surgery. This is more likely to occur if hardware (plates and screws) are not used to secure the bone graft. It’s also more likely to occur if multiple vertebral levels are fused. If this occurs, a second surgery may be necessary.
Transitional syndrome (adjacent-segment disease). This syndrome occurs when the vertebrae above or below a fusion take on extra stress. The added stress can eventually degenerate the adjacent vertebrae and cause pain.
Nerve damage or persistent pain. Any operation on the spine comes with the risk of damaging the nerves or spinal cord. Damage can cause numbness or even paralysis. However, the most common cause of persistent pain is nerve damage from the disc herniation itself. Some disc herniations may permanently damage a nerve making it unresponsive to decompressive surgery. In these cases, spinal cord stimulation or other treatments may provide relief. Be sure to go into surgery with realistic expectations about your pain. Discuss your expectations with your doctor.
Sources & links
If you have more questions, please contact the Call Us: (214) 396-3647 | (888) 373-3720
Fax #: (888)238-9155 | E-mail Us Come see on of our Doctors today please visit https://www.becomepainfree.com/
Sources
Bose B: Anterior cervical instrumentation enhances fusion rates in multilevel reconstruction in smokers. J Spinal Disord 14:3-9, 2001.
Hilibrand AS, et al.: Impact of smoking on the outcome of anterior cervical arthrodesis with interbody or strut-grafting. J Bone Joint Surg Am 83-A:668-73, 2001.
Xie JC, Hurlbert RJ. Discectomy versus discectomy with fusion versus discectomy with fusion and instrumentation: a prospective randomized study. Neurosurgery 61:107-16, 2007.
Links Come see on of our Doctors today please visit https://www.becomepainfree.com/
www.spine-health.com
www.spineuniverse.com
www.knowyourback.org
Glossary
allograft: a portion of living tissue taken from one person (the donor) and implanted in another (the recipient) for the purpose of fusing two tissues together.
annulus (annulus fibrosis): tough fibrous outer wall of an intervertebral disc.
autograft (autologous): a portion of living tissue taken from a part of ones own body and transferred to another for the purpose of fusing two tissues together.
bone graft: bone harvested from ones self (autograft) or from another (allograft) for the purpose of fusing or repairing a defect.
discectomy: a type of surgery in which herniated disc material is removed so that it no longer irritates and compresses the nerve root.
foraminotomy: surgical enlargement of the intervertebral foramen through which the spinal nerves pass from the spinal cord to the body.
fusion: to join together two separate bones into one to provide stability.
herniated disc: a condition in which disc material protrudes through the disc wall and irritates surrounding nerves causing pain.
interbody cage: a device made of titanium, carbon-fiber, or polyetheretherketone (PEEK) that is placed in the disc space between two vertebrae. It has a hollow core packed with bone morsels to create a bone fusion.
osteophytes: bony overgrowths that occur from stresses on bone, also called bone spurs.
posterior longitudinal ligament (PLL): a strong fibrous ligament that courses along the posterior surface of the vertebral bodies within the spinal canal from the base of the skull to the sacrum.
vertebra (plural vertebrae): one of 33 bones that form the spinal column, they are divided into 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, and 4 coccygeal. Only the top 24 bones are moveable.
Call Us: (214) 396-3647 | (888) 373-3720
Fax #: (888)238-9155 | E-mail Us
Come see on of our Doctors today please visit https://www.becomepainfree.com/
Share this:
Email
Print
Tweet
Like this:
Like Loading...
Written by becomepainfree
January 22, 2013 at 3:32 pm
Posted in ACDF, Anterior cervical discectomy, Minimally Invasive Spine, Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery, Minimally Invasive Surgery, Myofascial pain syndrome, Neck pain, Open Surgery and Minimally Invasive Surgery, Pain Doctor, Pain Doctor Dallas, Pain Doctor Fort Worth, Pain Doctor Irving, Pain Doctor Plano, Pain Doctor Texas, Pain Doctors, Pain Dr, Pain Medicine, Painful nerve injuries, posterior spinal fusion, Spine Surgery
Tagged with ACDF, Back and Spine, back pain, chronic pain, Conditions and Diseases, Degenerative disc disease, Failed back syndrome, health, invasive spine surgery, Invasiveness of surgical procedures, Low back pain, medicine, Neurosurgery, science
Search for:
Recent Posts
The 5 things you should know about chronic pain from BecomePainFree.com
You May Get relief from chronic pain by walking
How to Prevent Migraines
Painkiller abuse and addiction
Herniated Disk in the Lower Back
Archives
May 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
Categories
About Laser Spine Surgery
ACDF
Adult Stem Cell Therapy
American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons
Another Chance at Life
Anterior cervical discectomy
Back Pain Plano
Back Pain Relief
Back pain sufferers
Back Surgeon Texas
Best Spine Doc in Texas
Best Spine Doctor
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Central Cord Syndrome
Chronic Pain
Coccydynia
colon cancer
colon polyps
Colonoscopy
colorectal cancer
Complex regional pain syndrome
Comprehensive list of advanced minimally invasive procedures
cts
Dallas Doctors
Dallas Spine Pain Center
Dallas Texas Pain Doctor
Discectomy and Stabilization
Dr. Jeffrey Wasserman
Endoscopic and Laser Spine Surgery
Failed back surgery syndrome
fellowship in Disorders of the Spine
fellowship trained Orthopaedic Spine Surgeon
Fellowship-trained spine surgeons
Fibromyalgia
Fort Worth Orthopedic Surgeon
Harvard
Headache
Headaches
Herniated discs
Huntley Chapman
Importance of a Screening Colonoscopy
Injured on the Job
injured workers
Innovative pain mapping process
interventional therapies
Lafayette University
Laser Back Surgery
laser spine procedures
Laser Spine Surgery
Low back pain
Lumbar and Cervical Radiofrequency
Lumbar Microdiscectomy
M.D.
Massachusetts General Hospital
Mayo Clinic
Mayo Clinic Spine Surgeon
Mayo Clinic Trained Surgeons
Medical Education
Microdiscectomy
Migraine Doctor Dallas
Migraine Treatment
Minimal Access Spinal Technologies
MINIMALLY INVASIVE
minimally invasive disc healing
Minimally Invasive Laser Spine Surgery | Spine Surgeons | Dallas
minimally invasive procedures
Minimally Invasive Spine
minimally invasive spine procedures
Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery
Minimally Invasive Stabilization
Minimally Invasive Surgery
MIS
Myofascial pain syndrome
Natural and Ethical
Neck pain
Neck Pain Treatment Texas
Neuropathic Pain
non-invasive procedures
North American Spine Society
Obese Patients
Open Surgery and Minimally Invasive Surgery
Overuse Injuries
Pain
pain disorders
Pain Doctor
Pain Doctor Dallas
Pain Doctor Fort Worth
Pain Doctor Irving
Pain Doctor Plano
Pain Doctor Texas
Pain Doctors
Pain Dr
pain management
Pain Medicine
Pain Prevention
Painful nerve injuries
Painful osteoarthritis
patients’ own stem cells
Pelvic pain/Genital pain
Pinnacle Pain
Pinnacle Pain Group
Positive Side Effects
posterior spinal fusion
Presbaterian Pain
Proven Results
PRP
Radicular Syndrome
Radiofrequency Ablation and Lesioning
Regenerative Medicine
Robotic Guided Spine Surgery
Robotic Spine Surgery
Rockwall Back Doctor
Safe and Effective:
San Antonio Spine Surgeon
Sciatica
Scoliosis
Screening Colonoscopy
spinal cases from children
Spinal cord injury spasticity and pain
Spinal Cord Stimulator Trial
Spinal Fusion
Spinal Stenosis
Spine Microdiscectomy
Spine Pain Plano
Spine Surgery
Spine Surgery Addison
Spine Surgery Coppell
Spine Surgery Dallas
Spine Surgery Doctor
Spine Surgery Houston
Spine Surgery McKinney
Spine Surgery Mesquite
Spine Surgery Plano
Spine Surgery Robot
sports injuries
Stem Cell Therapy
stem cells
surgical treatment of spinal disorders
Texas
Texas Back Institute
Texas Health Pain
Texas Spine Consultants
Top Back Doctors
Top Docs
Top Spine Dr in the USA
Top Texas Surgeons
Transforaminal Endoscopic Discectomy
True minimally invasive procedures
Tx Top Spine Dr
Uncategorized
Work Comp Injury
Workers Compensation Injury
Meta
Register
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com
Top Clicks
None
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: