Croup | Warren, Fanwood, Millburn, NJ | Watchung Pediatrics
Millburn Office
225D Millburn Ave
Suite 301
Millburn, NJ 07041
973-376-PEDS (7337)
Fax: 973-218-6647
Fanwood Office
346 South Avenue
Suite 3
Fanwood, NJ 07023
908-889-TOTS (8687)
Fax: 908-889-0047
Warren Office
76 Stirling Road
Suite 201
Warren, NJ 07059
908-755-KIDS (5437)
Fax: 908-755-6905
Patient Portal Pay My Bill
Find Us On
Join Our Email ListSearch
Menu
Home
About WP
Our Providers
Our Locations
Appointments
Walk-Ins & After Hours
Insurance & Billing
Referrals & Rx Refills
Hospital Affiliations
New Patients
Welcome to WP
FAQs
Vaccine Policy
New Patient Interviews
Become a New Patient
Testimonials
Office Tour
Parent Resources
What's New?
Web Resources
Immunization Schedule
Medical Library
Forms & Policies
Pay My Bill
Prescription Refills
Contact WP
Referrals & Rx Refills
Sick Visits
Well Visits
Emergencies
Receiving Reminders
Feedback
Alerts
Page My Doctor
Patient Portal
Pay My Bill
Search
Medical Conditions
Related Articles
It doesn't sound like croup, see Cough
Croup
Print, Share, or View Spanish version of this article
Croup is an infection that makes the inside of your child's throat swell up. This makes it hard for your child to breathe. It can be scary for both parents and children.
Croup is common in young children. Most cases of croup are mild. But croup can get worse and stop your child from breathing at all. Call the doctor if you think your child has croup and he or she is having a hard time breathing.
Croup is usually caused by a virus that infects the voice box and windpipe. The main sign of croup is a barking cough. It may start with a cold. Most children with viral croup have a low fever. But some have temperatures up to 104°F or 40°C.
Signs of Croup
Here are some signs your child may have croup:
Barking cough
Noisy or troubled breathing
Hoarse voice
Gasping for breath
What to Do for Croup
Call 911 or an Ambulance Right Away If… …your child:
Can't speak for lack of breath.
Seems to be struggling to get a breath.
Makes a whistling sound when breathing in. (This is called stridor*.)
Drools much more than usual or has a very hard time swallowing saliva*.
Has a bluish mouth or fingernails.
The above are all signs of severe croup. They may also be signs of other serious problems. Either way, if your child is having trouble breathing, you need to get him or her to the hospital.
Call the Doctor If…
…either of these is true:
Your child is a baby 1 year or younger.
The cough keeps getting worse.
Try Home Treatment
Croup may wake your child up in the middle of the night. If your child is not having trouble breathing, try these home treatments.
Steam up the bathroom by running hot water in the shower. Take your child in the bathroom to breathe the moist air for 15 or 20 minutes. Steam works for many children.
If steam does not work, bundle your child up and go outdoors for a few minutes. The cool night air may help your child breathe more freely.
Use a cool-mist humidifier (hyoo-MID-uh-fye-ur) in your child's room for the rest of the night. Turn it on for the next 2 to 3 nights too.
Medicines for Croup
The doctor may prescribe steroids*. Steroids help bring down the swelling in the throat.
Antibiotics don't help because croup is almost always caused by a virus.
Cough syrups don't help either. They can even make things worse. They may keep your child from coughing up mucus (MYOO-kus) that needs to come out if there is infection.
Who Gets Croup?
Most children get croup once or twice. Some children get croup every time they get a cold or the flu. Croup can come at any time. It's most common in the winter months.
Children are most likely to get croup between 6 months and 3 years of age. After age 3, it is not as common. That's because the windpipe is larger. So swelling is less likely to get in the way of breathing.
If your child seems to get croup a lot, he or she may have another problem. Talk with your child's doctor.
Can You Prevent Croup?
You can’t really prevent croup. But you can prevent a more serious illness called acute epiglottitis (uh- KYOOT epp-uh-glah-TYE-tis). Its symptoms are a lot like croup, but worse. This illness usually strikes children 1 to 5 years old.
The good news is that the Hib vaccine can protect against this illness. Your child should get the first dose of Hib at 2 months old.
Copyright © 2008
Health Center
In This Section
Behavior
Breastfeeding
Growth & Development
Emergencies
Newborns
Nutrition
Parenting Tips
Safety
Special Needs
Sports & Exercise
For Teens
Visual Symptom Checker
What's Going Around?
About
WP
Our Providers
Our Locations
Appointments
Walk-Ins & After Hours
Insurance & Billing
Referrals & Rx Refills
Hospital Affiliations
New
Patients
Welcome to WP
FAQs
Vaccine Policy
New Patient Interviews
Become a New Patient
Testimonials
Office Tour
Parent
Resources
What's New?
Web Resources
Immunization Schedule
Medical Library
Forms & Policies
Pay My Bill
Prescription Refills
Contact
WP
Referrals & Rx Refills
Sick Visits
Well Visits
Emergencies
Receiving Reminders
Feedback
Alerts
Is Your
Child Sick?TM
Illnesses and Symptoms...... Abdominal Pain - Female Abdominal Pain - Male Acne Animal or Human Bite Antibiotics: When Do They Help? Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bed Bug Bite Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Boil Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Breath-holding Spell Bronchiolitis-RSV Bruises and Cuts Burn Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Coughs: Meds or Home Remedies? Cracked or Dry Skin Cradle Cap Croup Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old Crying Child - 3 Months and Older Cut, Scrape, or Bruise Diaper Rash Diarrhea Diarrhea Diseases From Travel Dizziness Drinking Fluids - Decreased Dry Skin Ear - Congestion Ear - Discharge Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing Ear - Swimmer's Ear Infection Questions Ear Injury Earache Earwax Buildup Ebola Exposure Eczema Emergency Symptoms Not to Miss Eye - Allergy Eye - Foreign Object Eye - Pus or Discharge Eye - Red Without Pus Eye Injury Eye Swelling Fainting Fever Fever - How to Take the Temperature Fever - Myths Versus Facts Fifth Disease Finger Injury Fire Ant Sting Flu Fluid Intake Decreased Food Allergy Foreskin Care Questions Frostbite Genital Injury - Female Genital Injury - Male Hair Loss Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever Head Injury Head Lice Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Human or Animal Bite Immunization Reactions Impetigo - Infected Sores Infection Exposure Questions Influenza - Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Jellyfish Sting Jock Itch Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice - Head Lymph Nodes - Swollen Medicine - Refusal to Take Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Period - Missed or Late Mental Health Problems Molluscum Mosquito Bite Mosquito-Borne Diseases from Travel Motion Sickness Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness - How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Allergy (Hay Fever) Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy - Oak - Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness - Localized Rash or Redness - Widespread Reflux (Spitting Up) Ringworm Roseola RSV-Bronchiolitis Scabies Scorpion Sting Scrape Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Object Skin Injury Skin Lump Sliver or Splinter Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up - Reflux Stomach Pain - Female Stomach Pain - Male Stools - Blood In Stools - Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Strep Throat Infection Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Swallowed Foreign Object Swallowed Harmless Substance Swimmer's Itch - Lakes and Oceans Tear Duct - Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Toe Injury Toenail - Ingrown Tooth Injury Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Urinary Tract Infection - Female Urination Pain - Female Urination Pain - Male Vaginal Bleeding Vaginal Symptoms Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea Warts Weakness and Fatigue Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection
Medicine Dosages... Acetaminophen ASDs Family Handout—Introduction to Complementary and Alternative Medicine Choosing Over-the-Counter Medicines for Your Child Cold Medicines Cough Medicines Giving Medicine to Children: Important Safety Information How Asthma Medicines Are Taken Ibuprofen Itching/Allergies Medicine and the Media: How to Make Sense of the Messages Medicines for ADHD: Questions From Teens Who Have ADHD Parent's Guide to Complementary and Integrative Medicine, A Prescription Medicines and Your Child Use of Medicines in Sports (Care of the Young Athlete) Using Liquid Medicines Using Over-the-Counter Medicines with Your Child
Medical Conditions... A Guide to Children’s Dental Health Abdominal Pain, Recurrent Acne Acute Ear Infections and Your Child Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Otitis Media Acute Strep Throat Addison AIDS/HIV Allergies in Children Anaphylaxis Anemia and Your Young Child: Guidelines for Parents: Adapted from Caring for Your Baby and Young Child: Birth to Age 5 Anesthesia and Your Child: Information for Parents Ankle Sprain Treatment (Care of the Young Athlete) Antibiotics and Your Child Anxiety Appendicitis Asthma Asthma and Exercise (Care of the Young Athlete) Asthma and Your Child Asthma Triggers Atopic Dermatitis (Eczema) Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Breast Enlargement, Premature Breath-Holding Spells Bronchiolitis Bronchiolitis and Your Young Child Care of the Premature Infant Celiac Disease Chickenpox Chickenpox Immunization Chickenpox Vaccine, The Coarctation of the Aorta Colds Common Childhood Infections Congenital Hip Dysplasia Constipation Constipation and Your Child Coxsackie A16 Croup Croup and Your Young Child Croup: When Your Child Needs Hospital Care Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome (CVS) Depression Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip Diabetic Mother, Infant of Diaper Rash and Your Baby Diarrhea and Your Child Diarrhea, Vomiting, and Water Loss (Dehydration) Ear Infection Ear Infections Eating Disorders Eczema Eczema (Atopic Dermatitis) and Your Child Enlarged Lymph Nodes Erythema Multiforme Eye Problems Related to Headache Febrile Seizure Febrile Seizures Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Fever Fever and Your Child Fifth Disease Fifth Disease (Erythema Infectiosum) Flu Flu, The Food Allergies and Your Child Fragile X Syndrome Gastroenteritis, Viral Gastroesophageal Reflux Hand Foot and Mouth Hand-Foot-and-Mouth Disease Head Lice Headache Related to Eye Problems Hemangioma Hepatitis A Hepatitis A Immunization Hepatitis B Hepatitis B Immunization Hepatitis C Hib Immunization High Blood Pressure Hip Dysplasia (Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip) HIV/AIDS How to Take Your Child's Temperature Hyperactivity Hypertension Hypothyroidism Immunizations Infant of a Diabetic Mother Infectious Mononucleosis Influenza Immunization Influenza-Seasonal Inhaled and Intranasal Corticosteroids and Your Child Kawasaki Syndrome Language Development in Young Children Lead Poisoning Leukemia Lung Hypoplasia Lyme Disease Lymphadenopathy Managing Chronic Health Needs in Child Care and Schools—Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Measles Mental Health Middle Ear Fluid and Your Child MMR Immunization Molluscum Contagiosum Mumps Obesity in Childhood Osgood-Schlatter Disease (Care of the Young Athlete) Otitis Media, Acute Parasites - Giardia Pneumococcal Conjugate Immunization Pneumonia and Your Child Polio Immunization Premature Thelarche Prematurity Prematurity, Retinopathy of Pulmonary Hypertension Pulmonary Hypertension (PPH & SPH) Retinopathy of Prematurity Rheumatic Fever, Acute Ringworm (Tinea) Roseola Rotavirus Rubella (German Measles) Safety of Blood Transfusions Scabies Seasonal Influenza (Flu) Separation Anxiety Sinusitis Sinusitis and Your Child Sleep Apnea and Your Child Smoking Speech Development in Young Children Stevens-Johnson Syndrome Strep Throat Strep Throat-Acute Strep Throat-Recurrent Stuttering and the Young Child Swine Flu Swine Flu (H1N1) FAQ Swine Flu (H1N1) Vaccine Swollen Glands Tattoos Tear Duct, Blocked Tetralogy of Fallot Thyroid Problems Tinea (ringworm infection) Tonsils and the Adenoid Toxic Shock Syndrome Toxoplasmosis Turner Syndrome Type 2 Diabetes: Tips for Healthy Living Underdeveloped Lungs Urinary Tract Infection Urinary Tract Infections in Young Children Varicella or Chickenpox Varivax Immunization Vesicoureteral Reflux Wheezing-Infant Whooping Cough (Pertussis) Wilson Disease Food Borne Illnesses
What's Going Around?
For Teens
For Kids
What's New?
Watchung Pediatrics Spring 2019 Newsletter
4/1/2019
Read our latest edition of our Watchung Pediatrics newsletter!
Community Health Alert - Stomach virus
3/28/2019
Community Health Alert
Currently there are many patients coming in for symptoms that include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain, specifically the Scotch Plains-Fanwood area in which parents have received a letter from the school. Click to read more.
Follow Us On Social Media!
1/12/2019
Follow us on social media to stay up to date with pediatric news as well as office news and updates!
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/watchungpediatrics/
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/watchungpeds/
Twitter: https://twitter.com/watchungpeds?lang=en
See all news here
Get Our Mobile App
Dr. B's Blog
Traditional Toys Trounce Tech
4/8/2019 4:11:41 PM
Being Left Handed is Right
8/29/2018 10:33:39 AM
Talking to Teens About E-Cigarettes and Vaping
5/2/2018 3:21:17 PM
The Benefits of Exercise on Depression in Young Children
10/31/2017 11:50:17 AM
Helpful Tips For Parents With Teens Going Off to College
8/7/2017 12:43:42 PM
See all posts here
DISCLAIMER:
The information contained in these topics is not intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice, it is provided for educational purposes only. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information.
Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified healthcare provider before starting any new treatment or discontinuing an existing treatment. Talk with your healthcare provider about any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Nothing contained in these topics is intended to be used for medical diagnosis or treatment.
Not a Substitute - The information and materials on this website and RemedyConnect's content (Including but not exclusive of: Illness/Symptoms, Is Your Child Sick? Medicine Dosages, Medical Conditions) should not be used as a substitute for the care and knowledge that your physician can provide to you.
Supplement - The information and materials presented here in HouseCalls Online are meant to supplement the information that you obtain from your physician. If there is a disagreement between the information presented herein and what your physician has told you -- it is more likely that your physician is correct. He or she has the benefit of knowing your medical problems.
Limitations - You should recognize that the information and materials presented here in HouseCalls Online have the following limitations, in comparison to being examined by your own physician:
You can have a conversation with your doctor.
Your doctor can perform a physical examination and any necessary tests.
You could have an underlying medical problem that requires a physician to detect.
If you're taking medications, they could influence how you experience various symptoms.
If you think that you are having a medical emergency,
call 911 or the number for the local emergency ambulance service NOW!
And when in doubt, call your doctor NOW
or go to the closest emergency department.
By using this website, you accept the information provided herein "AS IS." Neither RemedyConnect nor the providers of the information contained herein will have any liability to you arising out of your use of the information contained herein or make any express or implied warranty regarding the accuracy, content, completeness, reliability, or efficacy of the information contained within this website.
X
Privacy Statement
RemedyConnect, Inc. has created this privacy statement in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to your privacy. The following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for this website: http://www.remedyconnect.com.
Acquisition of Information through PMD
We do not acquire any more information about website visitors than is required by law or is otherwise necessary to provide a high level of service efficiently and securely. Our site's registration form requires users to give us contact information (e.g., their name and e-mail address) and demographic information (e.g., children's birth months, but not birth dates). We use customer contact information from the registration form to (1) send the user pertinent medical and parenting information and (2) allow your local health provider lists of who is registering on that provider's site as a parent/guardian, staff member, doctor, or visitor. Users may opt-out of receiving future mailings; see the choice/opt-out section below.
We use your IP address to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our Website. Your IP address is used to help identify you and to gather broad demographic information.
Demographic and profile data is also collected at our site. We may use this data to tailor the visitor's experience at our site, showing them content that we think they might be interested in, and displaying the content according to their preferences.
Our site may use order forms to allow users to request information, products, and services.
Your Doctor's Right to Privacy
We will respect your doctor's right to privacy. A doctor typically does not give his/her e-mail address to the parents/guardians of patients. We will not provide the e-mail addresses of doctor(s) in the local practice to users of their site without the doctor(s)' permission. Their site is restricted to use by whomever they wish, and they may deny access to their site to one or more prior users. In unusual cases, doctors may change their private site's access code and arrange for us to e-mail the new access code to approved users.
Cookies
We use cookies to deliver content specific to your interests and to save your doctor's access code so you don't have to re-enter it each time you visit your doctor's site on http://www.remedyconnect.com.
Links
This site contains links to other sites. RemedyConnect.com is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Websites. See Disclaimers.
Disclosure to Third Parties
We will provide individually-identifiable information about website users to third parties only if we are compelled to do so by order of a duly-empowered governmental authority, we have the express permission of the visitor, or it is necessary to process transactions and provide you services from our affiliates: Live Agent Answering Service, Digital Answering Service, Medical Answering Service and Pediatric Answering Service.
Privacy and Our Business Partners
When we make our technology or services available to business partners, we will not share with them any more consumer information than is necessary, and we will make every reasonable effort to assure, by contract or otherwise, that they use our technology and services in a manner that is consistent with this Privacy Policy.
Public Forums
This site may make chat rooms, forums, message boards, and/or news groups available to its users. Please remember that any information that is disclosed in these areas becomes public information and you should exercise caution when deciding to disclose your personal information.
Security
This site has security measures in place to protect the loss, misuse and alteration of the information under our control. For further information regarding our security, please contact us at support@remedyconnect.com. If you have any concerns regarding the security of information, please do not provide any information to RemedyConnect, Inc. until you are comfortable with our security measures.
Correct/Update
You may correct or update your User Registration information at any time, by visiting the User Registration section and providing your personal password that you set at registration. If need be, please email us at support@remedyconnect.com.
Choice/Opt-Out
Our site provides users the opportunity to opt-out of receiving e-mail communications from our partners or us, except communications approved by your doctor's practice office. To so opt-out, please email us at support@remedyconnect.com. To be removed as a user, please email us at the same address. If need be, you may mail requests to us at RemedyConnect, Inc.
Contacting the Website
If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this Website, you can contact us by email at support@remedyconnect.com or by mail at our address above.
Privacy X