Clubfoot: Background, Anatomy, Pathophysiology
News & Perspective
Drugs & Diseases
CME & Education
Academy
Video
Edition: ENGLISH
DEUTSCH
ESPAÑOL
FRANÇAIS
PORTUGUÊS
Log In
Sign Up It's Free!
Edition: ENGLISH DEUTSCH ESPAÑOL FRANÇAIS PORTUGUÊS
Register Log In
No Results
No Results
News & Perspective Drugs & Diseases CME & Education Academy Video
close
Please confirm that you would like to log out of Medscape. If you log out, you will be required to enter your username and password the next time you visit. Log out Cancel
https://profreg.medscape.com/px/getpracticeprofile.do?method=getProfessionalProfile&urlCache=aHR0cHM6Ly9lbWVkaWNpbmUubWVkc2NhcGUuY29tL2FydGljbGUvMTIzNzA3Ny1vdmVydmlldw==
processing....
Drugs & Diseases > Orthopedic Surgery
Clubfoot
Updated: Apr 16, 2017
Author: Minoo Patel, MBBS, PhD, MS, FRACS; Chief Editor: Vinod K Panchbhavi, MD, FACS more...
Share
Email
Print
Feedback
Close
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Google+
Sections
Clubfoot
Sections Clubfoot
Overview
Background
Anatomy
Pathophysiology
Etiology
Epidemiology
Prognosis
Show All
Presentation
Workup
Treatment
Approach Considerations
Medical Therapy
Surgical Therapy
Postoperative Care
Complications
Long-Term Monitoring
Show All
Media Gallery
References
Overview
Background
Clubfoot can be classified as either of the following:
Postural or positional - Technically, these are not true clubfeet
Fixed or rigid - These are either flexible (ie, correctable without surgery) or resistant (ie, requiring surgical release, though this is not entirely true according to the Ponseti experience [1, 2, 3] )
The Pirani, Goldner, Diméglio, Hospital for Joint Diseases (HJD), and Walker classifications have been published, but no classification system is universally used. [4, 5, 6, 7]
In the past, clubfoot surgery was performed in a way that did not differentiate severity. The same procedure was performed for all patients. Bensahel proposed a more individualized approach (ie, addressing only the structures that are required are released), in which the surgery is tailored to the deformity. For example, if the forefoot is well corrected and externally rotated, if there is no cavus, but if there is still significant equinus, a posterior approach alone should suffice (see Treatment). [8]
Next:
Anatomy
Factors related to bone anatomy include the following:
Tibia - Slight shortening is possible
Fibula - Shortening is common
Talus - In equinus in the ankle mortise, with the body of the talus being in external rotation, the body of the talus is extruded anterolaterally and is uncovered and can be palpated; the neck of the talus is medially deviated and plantarflexed; all relations of the talus to the surrounding bones are abnormal
Os calcis - Medial rotation and an equinus and adduction deformity are present
Navicular - The navicular is medially subluxated over the talar head
Cuboid - The cuboid is medially subluxated over the calcaneal head
Forefoot - The forefoot is adducted and supinated; severe cases also have cavus with a dropped first metatarsal
Factors related to muscle anatomy include the following:
Atrophy of the leg muscles, especially in the peroneal group, is seen in clubfeet
The number of fibers in the muscles is normal, but the fibers are smaller
The triceps surae, tibialis posterior, flexor digitorum longus (FDL), and flexor hallucis longus (FHL) are contracted
The calf is smaller and remains so throughout life, even after successful long-lasting correction of the feet
Thickening of the tendon sheaths frequently is present, especially of the tibialis posterior and peroneal sheaths. Contractures of the posterior ankle capsule, subtalar capsule, and talonavicular and calcaneocuboid joint capsules commonly are seen. Contractures are seen in the calcaneofibular, talofibular, (ankle) deltoid, long and short plantar, spring, and bifurcate ligaments. The plantar fascial contracture contributes to the cavus, as does contracture of fascial planes in the foot.
Previous
Next:
Pathophysiology
Various theories of the pathogenesis of clubfeet have been advanced, including the following:
Arrest of fetal development in the fibular stage
Defective cartilaginous anlage of the talus
Neurogenic factors
Retracting fibrosis
Anomalous tendon insertions
Seasonal variations
With respect to neurogenic factors, histochemical abnormalities have been found in posteromedial and peroneal muscle groups of patients with clubfeet. This is postulated to be due to innervation changes in intrauterine life secondary to a neurologic event, such as a stroke leading to mild hemiparesis or paraparesis. This is further supported by a 35% incidence of varus and equinovarus deformity in spina bifida.
Retracting fibrosis (or myofibrosis) may occur secondary to increased fibrous tissue in muscles and ligaments. In fetal and cadaveric studies, Ponseti also found the collagen in all of the ligamentous and tendinous structures (except the Achilles [calcaneal] tendon), and it was very loosely crimped and could be stretched. The Achilles tendon, on the other hand, was made up of tightly crimped collagen and was resistant to stretching. Zimny et al found myoblasts in medial fascia on electron microscopy and postulated that they cause medial contracture. [1, 2, 9]
Inclan proposed that anomalous tendon insertions result in clubfeet. [10] However, other studies have not supported this proposal. It is more likely that the distorted clubfoot anatomy can make it appear that tendon insertions are anomalous.
Robertson noted seasonal variations to be a factor in his epidemiologic studies in developing countries. [11] This coincided with a similar variation in the incidence of poliomyelitis in the children in the community. Clubfoot was therefore proposed to be a sequela of a prenatal poliolike condition. This theory is further supported by motor neuron changes in the anterior horn in the spinal cord of these babies.
Previous
Next:
Etiology
The true etiology of congenital clubfoot is unknown. Most infants who have clubfoot have no identifiable genetic, syndromal, or extrinsic cause. [12]
Extrinsic associations include teratogenic agents (eg, sodium aminopterin), oligohydramnios, and congenital constriction rings. Genetic associations include mendelian inheritance (eg, diastrophic dwarfism; autosomal recessive pattern of clubfoot inheritance).
Cytogenetic abnormalities (eg, congenital talipes equinovarus [CTEV]) can be seen in syndromes involving chromosomal deletion. It has been proposed that idiopathic CTEV in otherwise healthy infants is the result of a multifactorial system of inheritance. [13] Evidence for this is as follows:
Incidence in the general population is 1 per 1000 live births
Incidence in first-degree relations is approximately 2%
Incidence in second-degree relations is approximately 0.6%
If one monozygotic twin has a CTEV, the second twin has only a 32% chance of having a CTEV
A study by Weymouth et al found that associated promoter variants in HOXA9, TPM1, and TPM2 alter promoter expression suggesting that they have a functional role in gene regulation in clubfoot. [14]
Previous
Next:
Epidemiology
The incidence of clubfoot is approximately 1 case per 1000 live births in the United States. The incidence differs among ethnicities. For example, it is close to 75 cases per 1000 live births in the Polynesian islands, particularly in Tonga.
The male-to-female ratio has been reported to be 2:1. Bilateral involvement is found in 30-50% of cases. A 2017 study by Zionts et al found that severity did not differ significantly by either sex or bilaterality, though patients with bilateral clubfoot had a wider range of severity. [15]
There is a 10% chance of a subsequent child being affected if the parents already have a child with a clubfoot.
Parker et al pooled data from several birth defects surveillance programs (6139 cases of clubfoot) to better estimate the prevalence of clubfoot and investigate its risk factors. [12] The overall prevalence of clubfoot was 1.29 per 1000 live births, with figures of 1.38 among non-Hispanic whites, 1.30 among Hispanics, and 1.14 among non-Hispanic blacks or African Americans. Maternal age, parity, education, and marital status were significantly associated with clubfoot, along with maternal smoking and diabetes.
Previous
Next:
Prognosis
Approximately 50% of clubfeet in newborns can be corrected nonoperatively. Ponseti has reported an 89% success rate using his technique (including an Achilles tenotomy); others have reported success rates of 10-35%. One study analyzed the correction progression of patients with idiopathic clubfeet after the Ponseti technique. [16] The data indicated that successive castings resulted in reduced cavus and medial crease with a gradual correction of midfoot rotation, adduction, and heel varus. Interestingly, heel equinus improved concurrent with midfoot variables and also with final casting.
Most series report 75-90% satisfactory results of operative treatment (appearance and function of the foot). The amount of motion in the joints of the foot and ankle correlates with the degree of patient satisfaction. [17, 18, 19]
Satisfactory results were obtained in 81% of cases, and the range of ankle movement was a major factor in determining the functional result, which again was influenced by the degree of talar dome flattening (suggesting that the primary bone deformity present at birth dictates the eventual result of treatment). In all, 44% of patients had no dorsiflexion beyond neutral, and 38% of patients required further surgery (nearly two thirds of these were bony procedures).
Recurrence rates of deformity were reported at around 25%, with a range of 10-50%. Menelaus reported a 38% recurrence rate. [20, 21]
The best results were obtained with children older than 3-4 months with a foot large enough to allow the procedure to be performed without compromise (longer than 8 cm, as specified by Simons [22, 23] ). The age at operation is directly related to the result. Less-than-satisfactory results may be associated with overcorrection, which occurs in approximately 15% of cases.
Previous surgery seems to have a deleterious effect on the result.
Steinman et al compared the Ponseti and French functional methods for idiopathic clubfeet (265 feet [176 patients] by the Ponseti method; 119 feet [80 patients] by the French functional method). [24] The study showed that although there was a trend toward improved results with the Ponseti method, the difference was not significant. Parents chose the Ponseti method twice as often as the French functional method. Initial correction rates were 94.4% for the Ponseti method and 95% for the French functional method.
Relapses occurred in 37% of the Ponseti-method feet, and in a third of these cases, further nonoperative treatment was successful; however, surgical treatment was necessary for the other two thirds. [24] Relapses occurred in 29% of the feet treated by the French functional method; surgical intervention was necessary in all those cases. At the latest follow-up, outcomes with the Ponseti method were good in 72% of cases, fair in 12%, and poor in 16%. For the French functional method, outcomes were good in 67%,fair in17%,and poor in 16%.
In a controlled study of 164 patients (238 feet), Jeans et al compared the Ponseti method (n=122) with the French physiotherapy (PT) method (n=116) in terms of pedobarographic findings at age 5 years. [25] The only significant difference noted between the two groups was that the PT group had significantly less medial movement of the center of pressure (COP) line. Plantar pressures in the hindfoot and first metatarsal regions were decreased in both groups as compared with control subjects and increased in the midfoot and lateral forefoot regions. Mild residual deformity remained even though clinically successful outcomes were achieved.
Parada et al reviewed the safety of general anesthesia in infants who underwent percutaneous tendoachilles tenotomy. The procedure was performed in 137 patients (182 tenotomies). Of the tenotomies, 92 were unilateral and 45 bilateral. No complications related to anesthesia were identified, and nearly all patients were discharged on the day of surgery. [26]
Pavone et al achieved good/excellent outcomes in 96% of the 82 patients with 114 congenital clubfeet treated with the Ponseti method from 2004 through 2010, with follow-up through 2011. [27]
A two-institution review by Miller et al found that strict adherence to the Ponseti method in nonoperative treatment of isolated clubfoot, as opposed to more flexible adherence, was associated with improved outcome in the form of a reduced risk of subsequent unplanned surgical intervention. [28]
In a cross-sectional study of postcorrection brace wear over a 3-month period in 48 patients in four age-based groups (6-12 months, >1 to 2 years, >2 to 3 years, and >3 to 4 years) who were treated for idiopathic clubfoot, Sangiorgio et al found that patients who wore the brace for a mean of 8 hours daily had significantly lower relapse rates than those whe wore the brace for a mean of 5 hours daily. [29]
Previous
Clinical Presentation
References
Docker CE, Lewthwaite S, Kiely NT. Ponseti treatment in the management of clubfoot deformity - a continuing role for paediatric orthopaedic services in secondary care centres. Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 2007 Jul. 89(5):510-2. [Medline].
Ippolito E, Ponseti IV. Congenital club foot in the human fetus. A histological study. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1980 Jan. 62(1):8-22. [Medline].
Scher DM. The Ponseti method for treatment of congenital club foot. Curr Opin Pediatr. 2006 Feb. 18(1):22-5. [Medline].
Hussain FN. The role of the Pirani scoring system in the management of club foot by the Ponseti method. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2007 Apr. 89(4):561; author reply 561-2. [Medline].
Lejman T, Kowalczyk B. [Results of treatment of congenital clubfoot with modified Goldner's technique]. Chir Narzadow Ruchu Ortop Pol. 2002. 67(4):351-5. [Medline].
Diméglio A, Bensahel H, Souchet P, Mazeau P, Bonnet F. Classification of clubfoot. J Pediatr Orthop B. 1995. 4 (2):129-36. [Medline].
Kaewpornsawan K, Khuntisuk S, Jatunarapit R. Comparison of modified posteromedial release and complete subtalar release in resistant congenital clubfoot: a randomized controlled trial. J Med Assoc Thai. 2007 May. 90(5):936-41. [Medline].
Celebi L, Muratli HH, Aksahin E, Yagmurlu MF, Bicimoglu A. Bensahel et al. and International Clubfoot Study Group evaluation of treated clubfoot: assessment of interobserver and intraobserver reliability. J Pediatr Orthop B. 2006 Jan. 15(1):34-6. [Medline].
Zimny ML, Willig SJ, Roberts JM, D'Ambrosia RD. An electron microscopic study of the fascia from the medial and lateral sides of clubfoot. J Pediatr Orthop. 1985 Sep-Oct. 5(5):577-81. [Medline].
Inclan A. Anomalous tendon insertions in the pathogenesis of club foot. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1958 Jan. 40-B:159.
Robertson. CORR Prenatal polio-like condition; epidemiological evidence,seasonal variation.
Parker SE, Mai CT, Strickland MJ, Olney RS, Rickard R, Marengo L, et al. Multistate study of the epidemiology of clubfoot. Birth Defects Res A Clin Mol Teratol. 2009 Nov. 85 (11):897-904. [Medline].
Paton RW, Freemont AJ. A clinicopathological study of idiopathic CTEV. J R Coll Surg Edinb. 1993 Apr. 38(2):108-9. [Medline].
Weymouth KS, Blanton SH, Powell T, Patel CV, Savill SA, Hecht JT. Functional Assessment of Clubfoot Associated HOXA9, TPM1, and TPM2 Variants Suggests a Potential Gene Regulation Mechanism. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2016 Jul. 474 (7):1726-35. [Medline].
Zionts LE, Jew MH, Ebramzadeh E, Sangiorgio SN. The Influence of Sex and Laterality on Clubfoot Severity. J Pediatr Orthop. 2017 Mar. 37 (2):e129-e133. [Medline].
Chaudhry S, Chu A, Labar AS, Sala DA, van Bosse HJ, Lehman WB. Progression of idiopathic clubfoot correction using the Ponseti method. J Pediatr Orthop B. 2012 Jan. 21(1):73-8. [Medline].
Morcuende JA, Abbasi D, Dolan LA, Ponseti IV. Results of an accelerated Ponseti protocol for clubfoot. J Pediatr Orthop. 2005 Sep-Oct. 25(5):623-6. [Medline].
Ponseti IV. Relapsing clubfoot: causes, prevention, and treatment. Iowa Orthop J. 2002. 22:55-6. [Medline].
Ponseti IV. Clubfoot management. J Pediatr Orthop. 2000 Nov-Dec. 20(6):699-700. [Medline].
Haft GF, Walker CG, Crawford HA. Early clubfoot recurrence after use of the Ponseti method in a New Zealand population. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2007 Mar. 89(3):487-93. [Medline].
Dobbs MB, Corley CL, Morcuende JA, Ponseti IV. Late recurrence of clubfoot deformity: a 45-year followup. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2003 Jun. (411):188-92. [Medline].
Simons GW. Calcaneocuboid joint deformity in talipes equinovarus: an overview and update. J Pediatr Orthop B. 1995. 4(1):25-35. [Medline].
Simons GW. A standardized method for the radiographic evaluation of clubfeet. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1978 Sep. (135):107-18. [Medline].
Steinman S, Richards BS, Faulks S, Kaipus K. A comparison of two nonoperative methods of idiopathic clubfoot correction: the Ponseti method and the French functional (physiotherapy) method. Surgical technique. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2009 Oct 1. 91 Suppl 2:299-312. [Medline].
Jeans KA, Erdman AL, Karol LA. Plantar Pressures After Nonoperative Treatment for Clubfoot: Intermediate Follow-up at Age 5 Years. J Pediatr Orthop. 2017 Jan. 37 (1):53-58. [Medline].
Parada SA, Baird GO, Auffant RA, Tompkins BJ, Caskey PM. Safety of percutaneous tendoachilles tenotomy performed under general anesthesia on infants with idiopathic clubfoot. J Pediatr Orthop. 2009 Dec. 29(8):916-9. [Medline].
Pavone V, Testa G, Costarella L, Pavone P, Sessa G. Congenital idiopathic talipes equinovarus: an evaluation in infants treated by the Ponseti method. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2013 Oct. 17(19):2675-9. [Medline].
Miller NH, Carry PM, Mark BJ, Engelman GH, Georgopoulos G, Graham S, et al. Does Strict Adherence to the Ponseti Method Improve Isolated Clubfoot Treatment Outcomes? A Two-institution Review. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2016 Jan. 474 (1):237-43. [Medline].
Sangiorgio SN, Ho NC, Morgan RD, Ebramzadeh E, Zionts LE. The Objective Measurement of Brace-Use Adherence in the Treatment of Idiopathic Clubfoot. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2016 Oct 5. 98 (19):1598-1605. [Medline].
Zionts LE, Sangiorgio SN, Cooper SD, Ebramzadeh E. Does Clubfoot Treatment Need to Begin As Soon As Possible?. J Pediatr Orthop. 2016 Sep. 36 (6):558-64. [Medline].
Jeans KA, Erdman AL, Jo CH, Karol LA. A Longitudinal Review of Gait Following Treatment for Idiopathic Clubfoot: Gait Analysis at 2 and 5 Years of Age. J Pediatr Orthop. 2016 Sep. 36 (6):565-71. [Medline].
Dyer PJ, Davis N. The role of the Pirani scoring system in the management of club foot by the Ponseti method. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2006 Aug. 88(8):1082-4. [Medline].
Cummings RJ. The effectiveness of botulinum A toxin as an adjunct to the treatment of clubfeet by the Ponseti method: a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study. J Pediatr Orthop. 2009 Sep. 29(6):564-9. [Medline].
Gray K, Pacey V, Gibbons P, Little D, Burns J. Interventions for congenital talipes equinovarus (clubfoot). Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Aug 12. 8:CD008602. [Medline].
Dragoni M, Farsetti P, Vena G, Bellini D, Maglione P, Ippolito E. Ponseti Treatment of Rigid Residual Deformity in Congenital Clubfoot After Walking Age. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2016 Oct 19. 98 (20):1706-1712. [Medline].
Hsu WK, Bhatia NN, Raskin A, Otsuka NY. Wound complications from idiopathic clubfoot surgery: a comparison of the modified Turco and the Cincinnati treatment methods. J Pediatr Orthop. 2007 Apr-May. 27(3):329-32. [Medline].
Singh BI, Vaishnavi AJ. Modified Turco procedure for treatment of idiopathic clubfoot. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2005 Sep. 438:209-14. [Medline].
Bensahel H, Csukonyi Z, Desgrippes Y, Chaumien JP. Surgery in residual clubfoot: one-stage medioposterior release "à la carte". J Pediatr Orthop. 1987 Mar-Apr. 7(2):145-8. [Medline].
Bensahel H, Jehanno P, Delaby JP, Themar-Noël C. [Conservative treatment of clubfoot: the Functional Method and its long-term follow-up]. Acta Orthop Traumatol Turc. 2006. 40(2):181-6. [Medline].
Ferreira RC, Costa MT, Frizzo GG, Santin RA. Correction of severe recurrent clubfoot using a simplified setting of the Ilizarov device. Foot Ankle Int. 2007 May. 28(5):557-68. [Medline].
Freedman JA, Watts H, Otsuka NY. The Ilizarov method for the treatment of resistant clubfoot: is it an effective solution?. J Pediatr Orthop. 2006 Jul-Aug. 26(4):432-7. [Medline].
Ferreira RC, Costa MT, Frizzo GG, Santin RA. Correction of severe recurrent clubfoot using a simplified setting of the Ilizarov device. Foot Ankle Int. 2007 May. 28(5):557-68. [Medline].
Gupta P, Bither N. Ilizarov in relapsed clubfoot: a necessary evil?. J Pediatr Orthop B. 2013 Nov. 22(6):589-94. [Medline].
Gray K, Burns J, Little D, Bellemore M, Gibbons P. Is tibialis anterior tendon transfer effective for recurrent clubfoot?. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2014 Feb. 472 (2):750-8. [Medline].
Graham GP, Dent CM. Dillwyn Evans operation for relapsed club foot. Long-term results. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1992 May. 74(3):445-8. [Medline].
Schlegel UJ, Batal A, Pritsch M, Sobottke R, Roellinghoff M, Eysel P, et al. Functional midterm outcome in 131 consecutive cases of surgical clubfoot treatment. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2010 Sep. 130 (9):1077-81. [Medline].
Cooper DM, Dietz FR. Treatment of idiopathic clubfoot. A thirty-year follow-up note. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1995 Oct. 77(10):1477-89. [Medline].
Wallander H, Larsson S, Bjönness T, Hansson G. Patient-reported outcome at 62 to 67 years of age in 83 patients treated for congenital clubfoot. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2009 Oct. 91(10):1316-21. [Medline].
Richards BS, Faulks S, Razi O, Moualeu A, Jo CH. Nonoperatively Corrected Clubfoot at Age 2 Years: Radiographs Are Not Helpful in Predicting Future Relapse. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2017 Jan 18. 99 (2):155-160. [Medline].
Media Gallery
Posteromedial release for clubfoot.
Complications of manipulation treatment. Rockerbottom foot.
Ilizarov distraction for arthrogrypotic clubfoot.
Schematic representation of posteromedial release.
Traditional manipulation and casting methods fail, as they do not allow the free rotation of the calcaneum and the talus.
Never forcibly evert or pronate the foot during clubfoot casting.
Spontaneous correction of the hind foot varus by abducting the forefoot and allowing the calcaneum to freely rotate under the talus.
of 7
Tables
Back to List
Contributor Information and Disclosures
Author
Minoo Patel, MBBS, PhD, MS, FRACS Senior Lecturer, Monash University; Director, Centre for Limb Reconstruction and Deformities, Epworth Centre; Chairman, Cabrini Hospital Orthopaedic Surgery Specialty Group; Orthopaedic Adult/Pediatric Surgeon, Epworth Hospital; Fellowship Director, Epworth Kleos Upper Limb and Limb Reconstruction Fellowship; Consulting Adult/Pediatric Orthopedic Surgeon, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Monash Medical Center, Australia
Minoo Patel, MBBS, PhD, MS, FRACS is a member of the following medical societies: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, Australian Association of Surgeons, Australian Medical Association, Australian Orthopaedic Association, Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, Orthopaedic Research Society, AO Foundation, Orthopaedics Overseas, Indian Orthopedic Association, Bombay Orthopedic Society, Shoulder and Elbow Society of Australia, Australian Paediatric Orthopaedic Society, Australian Limb Lengthening and Reconstruction Society, Victorian Hand Surgery Society, Victorian Shoulder and Elbow Society
Disclosure: Nothing to disclose.
Coauthor(s)
John Herzenberg, MD, FRCSC Head of Pediatric Orthopedics, Director of International Center for Limb Lengthening, Rubin Institute for Advanced Orthopedics, Sinai Hospital of Baltimore
John Herzenberg, MD, FRCSC is a member of the following medical societies: American Academy for Cerebral Palsy and Developmental Medicine, Pediatric Orthopaedic Society of North America, Limb Lengthening and Reconstruction Society, American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons
Disclosure: Received educational grant from Smith and Nephew, EBI, Orthofix for none.
Specialty Editor Board
Francisco Talavera, PharmD, PhD Adjunct Assistant Professor, University of Nebraska Medical Center College of Pharmacy; Editor-in-Chief, Medscape Drug Reference
Disclosure: Received salary from Medscape for employment. for: Medscape.
Chief Editor
Vinod K Panchbhavi, MD, FACS Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, Chief, Division of Foot and Ankle Surgery, Director, Foot and Ankle Fellowship Program, Department of Orthopedics, University of Texas Medical Branch School of Medicine
Vinod K Panchbhavi, MD, FACS is a member of the following medical societies: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, American College of Surgeons, American Orthopaedic Association, American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society, Orthopaedic Trauma Association, Texas Orthopaedic Association
Disclosure: Serve(d) as a speaker or a member of a speakers bureau for: Styker.
Additional Contributors
John S Early, MD Foot/Ankle Specialist, Texas Orthopaedic Associates, LLP; Co-Director, North Texas Foot and Ankle Fellowship, Baylor University Medical Center
John S Early, MD is a member of the following medical societies: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, American Medical Association, American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society, Orthopaedic Trauma Association, Texas Medical Association
Disclosure: Received honoraria from AO North America for speaking and teaching; Received consulting fee from Stryker for consulting; Received consulting fee from Biomet for consulting; Received grant/research funds from AO North America for fellowship funding; Received honoraria from MMI inc for speaking and teaching; Received consulting fee from Osteomed for consulting; Received ownership interest from MedHab Inc for management position.
Close
What would you like to print?
What would you like to print?
Print this section
Print the entire contents of
Print the entire contents of article
Sections Clubfoot
Overview
Background
Anatomy
Pathophysiology
Etiology
Epidemiology
Prognosis
Show All
Presentation
Workup
Treatment
Approach Considerations
Medical Therapy
Surgical Therapy
Postoperative Care
Complications
Long-Term Monitoring
Show All
Media Gallery
References
Find Us On
Group 2 34A8E98B-62ED-4216-98D6-E986304F4C2E
About
About Medscape Privacy Policy Cookies Terms of Use Advertising Policy Help Center
Membership
Become a Member
Email Newsletters Manage My Account
Apps
Medscape MedPulse News CME & Education
WebMD Network
WebMD MedicineNet eMedicineHealth RxList WebMD Corporate
Editions
English Deutsch Español Français Português
All material on this website is protected by copyright, Copyright © 1994-2019 by WebMD LLC. This website also contains material copyrighted by 3rd parties.
Close
encoded search term (Clubfoot) and Clubfoot
What to Read Next on Medscape
Related Conditions and Diseases
Clubfoot
Clubfoot Imaging
Calf Augmentation
Mobius Syndrome
Cri-du-chat Syndrome
Arthrogryposis
Disulfiramlike Mushroom Toxicity
Medscape Consult
News & Perspective
Zika-Caused Microcephaly Not Evident Until Later in Pregnancy
No Excess Risk for Orofacial Cleft in Lamotrigine-Exposed Babies
Physical Activity Level of US Children, Teens Earns D- Grade
Tools
Drug Interaction Checker
Pill Identifier
Calculators
Formulary
Most Popular Articles
According to Orthopedists
Diagnosing Sacroiliac Joint Pain
Expert Panel Advises Against Surgery for Shoulder Pain
Knee Surgery for Torn Cartilage May Not Be Worthwhile
Brick by Lego Brick, Teen Builds His Own Prosthetic Arm
Physical Activity Patterns and Mortality
View More
Recommended
2002 1237077-overview Procedures
Procedures Clubfoot
2002 407294-overview Diseases & Conditions
Diseases & Conditions Clubfoot Imaging
2001 /viewarticle/881541 News
News Zika-Caused Microcephaly Not Evident Until Later in Pregnancy
2002 1271957-overview Procedures
Procedures Calf Augmentation
Need a Curbside Consult? Share cases and questions with Physicians on Medscape consult. Share a Case