caas.rxwiki.com
Gamifant
Read more about Gamifant
Feraheme
Read more about Feraheme
Ascor
Read more about Ascor
Hemlibra
Read more about Hemlibra
Dupixent
Dupixent is an injectable prescription medication used to treat symptoms of eczema in adults. Dupixent belongs to a group of drugs called monoclonal antibodies. These drugs work on the immune system by blocking substances that cause inflammation. As a result, they help to decrease redness and itchiness of the skin.
This medication comes in a prefilled syringe and is injected under the skin every other week.
Common side effects of Dupixent include injection site reactions, eye inflammation, and mouth or lips sores. Dupixent can also cause eye problems, tell your doctor if you...
Read more about Dupixent
Alectinib
Alectinib is a prescription medication used to treat a certain type of advanced lung cancer. Alectinib belongs to a group of drugs called kinase inhibitors. These work by blocking the activity of the ALK (gene mutation) protein to prevent cancer cells from growing and spreading.
This medication comes in capsule (by mouth) form and is taken twice a day with food.
Common side effects of alectinib include tiredness, constipation, and swelling in the hands, feet, ankles, and eyelids.
Read more about Alectinib
Quartette
Read more about Quartette
Dimenhydrinate
Read more about Dimenhydrinate
Dinutuximab
Dinutuximab is a prescription medication used to treat high-risk neuroblastoma, a rare type of cancer that affects infants and young children. Dinutuximab is a monoclonal antibody that works by using the immune system to target and destroy tumor cells.
Dinutuximab comes in a liquid to be given by intravenous (IV) injection over a period of 10 to 20 hours for 4 days in a row. It may be given for up to 5 cycles.
Read more about Dinutuximab
Obinutuzumab
Obinutuzumab is a prescription medication used to treat patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or follicular lymphoma. Obinutuzumab belongs to a group of drugs called monoclonal antibodies. These work by helping the body slow or stop the growth of cancer cells.
This medication is available in an injectable form to be given directly into a vein (IV) by a healthcare professional.
Common side effects of obinutuzumab include infusion reactions, fever, and cough.
Read more about Obinutuzumab
Pages
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
next ›
last »