Burn scars: Treatment, removal, and prevention
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
How to get rid of burn scars
Last reviewed	 Sun 25 March 2018	 Last reviewed	Sun 25 Mar 2018
By Bethany Cadman
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
Types of burn scars
Removal
Prevention
Treatments
Complications
Outlook
Burns can occur when a person's skin touches something too hot, gets scalded with boiling water, is overexposed to the sun, certain chemicals, or even electricity.
During the healing process, scars often form. Scars, which are areas of thick, discolored skin, often develop after damaged skin causes cells to die. The body produces a protein called collagen to repair the damaged skin, which leads to a scar.
Burn scars can be large or small depending on how much of the skin is damaged. The severity of the burn will determine whether these scars will fade or remain permanently visible.
In this article, we look at which types of burn are more likely to scar, how to reduce burn scars, and how to prevent long-term scarring from a recent burn.
Types of burn scars
Blisters may form in second-degree burns.
The likelihood and severity of getting a burn depend on how long a person is exposed to the heat as well as its intensity.
Burns are classified depending on how much of the skin they affect:
First-degree burns damage the outer layer of the skin (the epidermis) and cause redness and pain. They usually heal within 6 days without scarring the skin.
Second-degree burns affect both the epidermis and the layer under the skin (the dermis). As well as pain and redness, people with second-degree burns may experience blisters. These burns may take 2 to 3 weeks to heal and are more likely to scar.
Third-degree burns are the most severe. They damage the top two layers of skin but may also damage the bones and tendons and can affect nerve endings. People with third-degree burns may also notice their skin turn white or black. These types of burns can take a long time to heal and are likely to produce a scar.
Scars caused by second and third-degree burns are categorized according to their appearance and how they affect the skin:
Hypertrophic scars may appear red or purple and are raised above the skin level. They may feel warm and become itchy.
Contracture scars make the skin, muscles, and tendons tighter and restrict normal skin movement.
Keloid scars form a shiny, hairless bump.
Removing burn scars
Silicone gel can be applied to a burn scar to promote healing.
Quick treatment and proper wound care is often the best way to prevent or minimize the appearance of scars.
Many scars fade over time. However, keloid scars often do not fade by themselves and may require treatment.
Once a scar has already formed, a person can reduce the appearance of the scar by:
Applying a silicone gel. Research shows that this can help to reduce the appearance of existing scars, including reducing the size, stiffness, and redness.
Protecting the area from the sun. Ultraviolet rays from the sun can cause the scars to turn a darker color and become more noticeable. The American Academy of Dermatology (AAD) recommend that people wear protective clothing and sunscreen of SPF 30 or above.
Be wary of over-the-counter scar removal products. The effectiveness of such products is often untested.
If burn scars cause significant distress, a person can talk to their doctor about options for reducing scar tissue. These treatments involve working with the damaged collagen.
The AAD recommend the following medical options for reducing scars:
steroid injections, which may ease pain and reduce the size of keloid and other scars
laser treatments, which can reduce redness, pain, and hardness of keloid and other scars.
surgery to remove scar tissue, reducing the size of keloid scars and improving skin movement
While these treatments can help to reduce scars, they may not remove them completely, and healing can take time.
Avoid using creams that contain vitamin A or vitamin E on scars, as this can make them more noticeable. However, it is important to keep the skin moisturized.
How can home remedies get rid of my old scar?
After a scar has formed it can be difficult to get rid of. There are a number of ways, however, to reduce a scar's appearance. In this article, learn about methods for reducing old scars and preventing new scars.
Read now
How to prevent scars
After a recent burn, a person can use several methods to prevent or reduce the severity of scars:
Directly after the burn occurs, a person can:
rinse the burn with cool or lukewarm water, then let the skin air dry
apply antibiotic anointment, using a sterilized applicator to help prevent infection
cover the burn with a nonstick bandage, held in place with gauze
seek medical care if the wound is getting redder instead of healing.
Shortly after the burn has healed, a person can:
carefully stretch the skin around the affected area for a few minutes every day to prevent the skin from sticking together
wait for any blisters to burst and drain by themselves, then have a doctor cut away the dead skin
cover the damaged area with clothing or sunscreen for a few months
To ensure a severe burn is healing well make regular appointments with a doctor. They can advise on how to prevent or lessen scarring and check the burn is healing as it should.
How to treat burns
Applying gauze bandages to the burn will help to prevent infection.
Quick and proper treatment of a burn will reduce the risk and severity of any scarring.
A person can usually treat a first-degree burn at home by soaking the burn in cool water for a minimum of 5 minutes.
People who have a second-degree burn should usually see a medical professional. However, people can treat small burns at home in the following ways:
Antibiotic ointment. Applying a thin layer of antibiotic ointment to the affected area promotes healing and reduces the risk of infection.
Gauze bandages. Covering the burn with sterile, nonstick gauze protects the skin and reduces the chances of an infection.
Third-degree burns are very serious and require immediate medical attention.
Treatment for third-degree burns include:
Compression garments are tight items of clothing that support the affected area. This pressure will allow the skin to recover. A person may have to wear a compression garment all day for a few months to give the burn time to heal.
Skin grafts. A skin graft involves a surgeon taking healthy skin from another area of the body, or from a donor, and using this to cover the area of burned skin.
Surgery. If a burn causes parts of the skin to stick together (called contractures), a person may require surgery to release these and enable movement.
Physical therapy to encourage motion in areas of the body affected by contractures may also help.
If a burn does not heal within a week, regardless of its size or severity, make an appointment with a doctor. If the burn scar is severe or it does not fade in time, a person should also consult their doctor.
Applying aloe vera gel, eating a diet rich in antioxidant foods, drinking plenty of water, and taking certain supplements may improve a person's healing process. However, it is essential to consult a doctor before putting anything on severe burns and taking new supplements as these may interfere with other treatments.
Complications
The majority of minor burns will heal without causing any further problems and do not require medical care. More severe burns need medical management, may leave scars, and carry a higher risk of complications, such as:
Infection
Burns cause open wounds where bacteria and other germs can enter the body. The resulting infections can be minor and easily treatable or can develop into more severe infections, such as sepsis. Sepsis occurs when the infection enters a person's bloodstream and can be life-threatening.
Dehydration
Burns cause the body to lose fluid. Losing excessive amounts of fluid can cause dehydration, which can affect the volume of blood flowing through the body.
Low body temperature
A person's skin helps to regulate their body temperature. When a burn damages the skin extensively, the resulting heat loss can result in hypothermia, when a person's body temperature suddenly drops to dangerously low levels.
Contractures
Contractures occur during the healing process when scar tissue forms. The scar tissue can tighten the skin, causing restricted movement in bones or joints.
Muscle and tissue damage
More severe burns often penetrate all the layers of a person's skin and can reach the muscles and tissue, which can cause long-term damage to these structures.
Self-esteem and emotional issues
Burn scars can harm a person's self-confidence or self-esteem, particularly when they are in an area that is not easy to hide, such as the face. This can lead to emotional and psychological distress.
Outlook
The outlook depends on the severity of the burn is and how quickly treatment is given. Small first-degree burns should heal by themselves with little to no scarring. Second and third-degree burns may leave scars though treatment, such as skin grafts and pressure clothing, can help to reduce their visibility and encourage faster healing.
Some of the home remedies listed on this pages are available for purchase online.
Shop for silicone gel.
Shop for sunscreen.
Shop for nonstick bandages.
Shop for gauze.
Shop for antibiotic ointment.
Shop for compression garments.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
How do you get rid of keloids? Scars can be unsightly and difficult to remove. Keloid scars occur when the skin overreacts to the injury, after which they grow and darken. This MNT Knowledge Center article takes a look at keloids and how to get rid of them. Included are details on why keloids form, their relation to body piercings, and the outlook. Read now
Tips for treating and reducing hypertrophic scars Hypertrophic scars are raised, red scars that occur due to collagen imbalance at the location of an injury. This MNT Knowledge Center article explains everything you need to know about hypertrophic scars, including what they and tips on how to treat or remove them. Read on to find out if these scars can be prevented. Read now
What home remedies can treat my burn? Many home remedies are suggested for treating burns, but which ones work? We look at which home remedies can help and which ones should be avoided. Read now
Where do blisters come from? A blister is a pocket of fluid that forms between the upper layers of skin. The most common causes are crushed or pinched skin, chemical exposure, burns, and friction, but blisters are also a feature of many medical conditions. Here, learn about the types of blisters, why they form, and how to treat and prevent them. Read now
Scars: Are they preventable? While many scars do not hamper everyday life, some cause life-long problems. Find out how scars form and why it is so difficult to prevent them. Read now
email email
print
share share
Dermatology
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Sun 25 March 2018.
Visit our Dermatology category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Dermatology.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Avoiding household burns. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://www.emergencycareforyou.org/Content.aspx?id=25990
Burns. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://assh.org/handcare/hand-arm-injuries/Burns
Burns [Fact sheet]. (2018, January 26). Retrieved from http://nigms.nih.gov/Education/Pages/Factsheet_Burns.aspx
Burns and scalds. (2015, November 16). Retrieved from http://nhs.uk/Conditions/Burns-and-scalds/Pages/Recovery.aspx
Burns: Preventing burns in your home. (2017, March 23). Retrieved from https://familydoctor.org/burns-preventing-burns-in-your-home/
Goel, A., & Shrivastava, P. (2010, September). Post-burn scars and scar contractures. Indian Journal of Plastic Surgery, 43, S63–S71. Retrieved from http://ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3038392/
How to prevent scarring from a second degree burn. (2014, September 14). Retrieved from http://woundcaresociety.org/prevent-scarring-second-degree-burn
Maenthaisong, R., Chaiyakunapruk, N., Niruntraporn, S., & Kongkaew, C. (2007, May 17). The efficacy of aloe vera used for burn wound healing: A systematic review [Abstract]. Burns, 33(6), 713–718. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17499928
Peck, M. D. (2017, November 30). Prevention of fire and burn injuries. Retrieved from https://www.uptodate.com/contents/prevention-of-fire-and-burn-injuries
Preventing scars and contractures. (n.d.). Retrieved from http://urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=90&ContentID=P01754
Proper wound care: How to minimize a scar. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/skin-hair-nails/injured-skin/wound-care
Purdue, G. F., Arnoldo, B. D., & Hunt, J. L. (2011, May). Acute assessment and management of burn injuries [Abstract]. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Clinics , 22 (2), 201–212. Retrieved from http://www.pmr.theclinics.com/article/S1047-9651(11)00016-7/abstract
Puri, N., & Talwar, A. (2009, July–December). The efficacy of silicone gel for the treatment of hypertrophic scars and keloids. Journal of Cutaneous and Aesthetic Surgery, 2(2), 104–106. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2918339/
Scars. Overview. (n.d.). retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/diseases/bumps-and-growths/scars
Scars: Diagnosis, treatment, and outcome. (n.d.). https://www.aad.org/public/diseases/bumps-and-growths/scars#treatment
Scar treatments can improve patients' quality of life. (2016, July 28). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/media/news-releases/scarring
Torpy, J. M., Lynm, C., & Glass, R. M. (2009, October 28). Burn injuries. JAMA, 302(16), 1828. Retrieved from https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/184786
What do I need in my first aid kit? (2017, June 7). Retrieved from https://familydoctor.org/what-do-i-need-in-my-first-aid-kit/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Cadman, Bethany. "How to get rid of burn scars." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 25 Mar. 2018. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321314.php>
APA
Cadman, B. (2018, March 25). "How to get rid of burn scars." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321314.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Dermatology
Hair growth: 6 home remedies
What causes tongue bumps?
What causes patches of discolored skin?
Can you remove a skin tag yourself?
What causes an underarm rash?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321314.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);