Kathleen Marsh: Battling ticks in the north woods
SUBSCRIBE NOWfor full access
Home
News
Business
Sports
Packers
Opinion
Go 920!
Life
Outdoors
Door Co
Homes
Jobs
Autos
Archives
USA TODAY
Media
Business Directory
Public Notices
Weather
Icon
Humidity
Precip.
Winds
Open settings
Settings
Enter City Name
Cancel
Set
Close settings
Full Forecast
More
Home
News
Business
Sports
Packers
Opinion
Go 920!
Life
Outdoors
Door Co
Homes
Jobs
Autos
Archives
USA TODAY
Media
Business Directory
Public Notices
Weather
Search
Subscribe
salutation
View Your Account
Today's e-Edition
Newsletters
Pay Your Bill
Report Delivery Issues
Temporary Stop/Restart
Member Guide
Help and Support
Sign Out
Have an existing account?
Sign In
Already have a subscription?
Activate Your Account
Don't have an account?
Create One
Get the news
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
FacebookEmailTwitterGoogle+LinkedInPinterest
Marsh: Battling ticks in the north woods
Kathleen Marsh is a columnist for the Oconto/Lakes Forest Beacon.
Post to Facebook
Marsh: Battling ticks in the north woods Kathleen Marsh is a columnist for the Oconto/Lakes Forest Beacon. Check out this story on greenbaypressgazette.com: https://gbpg.net/2MxdznK
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Comments
This conversation is moderated according to USA TODAY's community rules. Please read the rules before joining the discussion.
Marsh: Battling ticks in the north woods
Kathleen Marsh, Special to USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin Published 11:40 a.m. CT Aug. 9, 2018
Kathleen Marsh discusses dealing with ticks.(Photo: Contributed photo)
CONNECTTWEETLINKEDINCOMMENTEMAILMORE
It’s been a plus and minus year for those of us who like to forage in the forest, especially good for berries and bugs. Early rains followed by hot and humid summer temperatures produced quality wild raspberries in quantities I haven’t seen here at Otter Run in 25 years. I picked enough for two batches of freezer jam and made my favorite dessert: raspberry angel food torte, twice. Good job, Mother Nature.
Unfortunately, the sultry weather also brought out the beasties. I am referring to bugs, not the young, muscular, very good-looking men I’ve encountered on my daily walks. These men are employees of Michels, a contractor working for WPS, our electrical utility which is converting from overhead to underground service. I watched with admiration as they performed challenging physical and mental tasks in all kinds of conditions. I’m told they’re well-paid. I hope so because they deserve every cent.
On some of my walks, I chatted with a few of them. I wanted to be educated because I knew absolutely nothing about what it takes to bury cables and install those big metal boxes that keep us powered up. It was fun; you can learn from someone you can look at. One was a dead ringer for Frankie Avalon. He told me he loves working outdoors, even in sweltering weather. What he doesn’t like are ticks. He said that despite taking serious precautions, there wasn’t a day when he didn’t have at least two or three that became very attached to him.
Ticks. The sheer number of these nasty parasites this year gave new meaning to the phrase “tick off.” Actually, it was more like tick-on. Starting in late April, Jon and I had several close encounters with wood ticks and routinely performed body-checks. We found a few and removed them before they could do us harm. But then in early June my Kenny Rogers look-alike and still handsome husband had one buried in his lower back. Because it was in a place Jon couldn’t see, he didn’t notice anything until it started itching. That’s when he asked me to take a look. At first glance, I wasn’t sure what it was and got out the magnifying glass. Yikes. A wood tick, and well entrenched at that. This required immediate attention.
I suggested he call Dr. Peggy in Lakewood, but you know men. “You do it, Wifey.” I tried to think of a way to get out of it. I know; I’ll call my sister Marge. She’s the nurse in the family. No, she’s a hundred miles away. Maybe my friend Jean; she’s a retired school nurse. Rats, she’s out of town. Guess the job of excising the little bugger falls to me. Hey, no need to panic. I’ve done this before so I gather my tools for the operation. Vaseline, check. Rubbing alcohol, check. Cotton balls, check. Tweezers. Check. Neosporin, check. Band-Aid, check. I clean my glasses and sterilize my equipment. Okay, I’m ready.
I know I have to extricate all of the tick, especially the head. While I’ve read that putting Vaseline on an embedded tick doesn’t actually make it retract itself, it has worked for me in the past. It can’t hurt so I slather some on and hope the little bloodsucker withdraws its tiny fangs. While we wait, Jon drains his coffee cup. Finally, we’re ready for the procedure.
I wipe off the Vaseline, dab the area with alcohol, and carefully probe with the tweezers. Jon asks me if I’m done yet. Ah, no. “I have to work carefully, Honey. This tick’s been stuck in your back for a while and obviously likes it there.” No response from the patient, if you don’t count the groaning. More alcohol. More probing. More grumbling.
I talk to myself. Okay; just get the job done. I use the tweezers to rip the little critter out of its comfy nesting place. Surprisingly, Jon doesn’t even flinch. He examines what is obviously a very dead tick to make sure I got it all. Yes, even a small hunk of skin still attached to its mouth. I put it in a plastic bag in case we need to test it later. I disinfect the spot, dab on Neosporin, and cover the wound. “All-done.” He gives me a hug. “Thanks, Babe. What would I do without you?”
I just smile; we both know the answer to that question.
CONNECTTWEETLINKEDINCOMMENTEMAILMORE
Read or Share this story: https://gbpg.net/2MxdznK
More Stories
Someone poisoned and killed dogs, wildlife in Northwoods, DNR says
April 20, 2019, 10:42 a.m.
Oconto toddler with failing heart rescued by groundbreaking surgery
April 18, 2019, 1:59 p.m.
A piece of history: You can buy seats from the Brown County Arena
April 18, 2019, 4:45 p.m.
Oconto County declares emergency on flooding
April 19, 2019, 4:51 p.m.
Wisconsin native was on Columbine's front lines
April 18, 2019, 5:37 a.m.
Good-weather Packers games please fans, businesses
April 19, 2019, 9:34 a.m.