Calm Natural Magnesium Capsules
Items (0)
|
My Account / Hi Guest
Home
About Us
Promotions
My Account
Contact Us
Research
Blog
Category
All Retail Products
Product Categories
Organic Juices and Super Fruits - Foods
Grasses and Seeds
Body Detoxification and Digestive Support
Vitamins
Minerals Supplements
Amino Acids
Weight Loss Support
Antioxidants and Anti-Aging
Oils
Juices
Organic
Tamanu
Voitenko Wellness
Gift Certificates
Antioxidants and Anti-Aging
Oils
Superfoods
Vitamins
Wholesale
Home
All Retail Products
Calm Natural Magnesium Capsules
Add to Wish List
×
Add to My Lists
Calm Natural Magnesium Capsules
New list:
Close
Add to List
Email a friend
×
Email a Friend
Please complete the fields below to send your friend a link to this product. Your friend will receive an email from you with a link to our site.
Your Name: *
Your Email: *
Friend's Name: *
Friend's Email: *
Note to friend:: *
Close
Recommend!
Thank you for recommending this product.
Close
Calm Natural Magnesium Capsules
Write a Review
×
Add Review (Please do not use reviews to ask a question or as means of contacting us regarding a problem: email us at info@caoh.com)
Your rating: *
Name: *
Email: *
Location: *
Title: *
Review: *
Images:
Select files...
Close
Add Review (Please do not use reviews to ask a question or as means of contacting us regarding a problem: email us at info@caoh.com)
Thank you for submitting your review.
Close
Your Price: $22.98
Retail Price:$26.98
You Save:$4.00(15%)
The Power of Magnesium Powder in Convenient 120 Vegetable Caps
Questions about this item? Be the first to ask here.
×
Product Q & A
Your Name or Alias: *
Email: * (Your email will not be displayed)
Q::
Provide your Answer: *
What's your question?: *
Close
Submit your Question Answer it
Thank you for your question.
Close
Ask another question?
Thank you for your answer.
Close
Part Number: r00236
Availability: In stock
Put me on the Waiting List
×
Put me on the waiting list
The item you are trying to purchase is currently out of stock.
Please enter your name, email, and phone number below.
We will contact you as soon as this product is available.
Name: *
Email: *
Phone: *
Close
Submit
Close
Recurring Order
Would you like to have this product automatically shipped to you? (Terms)
If yes, select frequency 30 days60 days90 days120 days150 days180 days
Quantity
+
-
Add to Cart
Description
Product Information
Nutrition Facts
Calm - Natural Magnesium Supplement
Discover the power of magnesium in convenient vegetable caps!
General Information:
Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the body and is essential to good health. Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of magnesium is found in blood, but the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant [1].
Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, and keeps bones strong. Magnesium also helps regulate blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis [2-3]. There is an increased interest in the role of magnesium in preventing and managing disorders such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Dietary magnesium is absorbed in the small intestines. Magnesium is excreted through the kidneys [1-3,4].
Data from the 1999-2000 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey suggest that substantial numbers of adults in the United States (US) fail to get recommended amounts of magnesium in their diets. Among adult men and women, the diets of Caucasians have significantly more magnesium than do those of African-Americans. Magnesium intake is lower among older adults in every racial and ethnic group. Among African-American men and Caucasian men and women who take dietary supplements, the intake of magnesium is significantly higher than in those who do not [5].
References
Rude RK. Magnesium deficiency: A cause of heterogeneous disease in humans. J Bone Miner Res 1998;13:749-58. [PubMed abstract]
Wester PO. Magnesium. Am J Clin Nutr 1987;45:1305-12. [PubMed abstract]
Saris NE, Mervaala E, Karppanen H, Khawaja JA, Lewenstam A. Magnesium: an update on physiological, clinical, and analytical aspects. Clinica Chimica Acta 2000;294:1-26.
Institute of Medicine. Food and Nutrition Board. Dietary Reference Intakes: Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin D and Fluoride. National Academy Press. Washington, DC, 1999.
Ford ES and Mokdad AH. Dietary magnesium intake in a national sample of U.S. adults. J Nutr. 2003;133:2879-82.
Is your daily magnesium intake sufficient to keep you healthy?
Virtually all chemical reactions in the body require an enzyme system to help these biochemical reactions take place. Magnesium is a critical co-factor in more than 300 enzymatic reactions in the human body. The sad part is that magnesium deficiency is one of the top mineral deficiencies in the world and because of it, cardiovascular disease and other maladies are increasing year after year.
In America, magnesium supplementation is readily available but mainly in sub-optimum forms, such as magnesium sulfate or straight magnesium oxide. Magnesium is also vastly under-utilized by the medical profession and is more important in patient therapy than most physicians realize or will admit to. There are over 200 published clinical studies documenting the need for magnesium, so what is the solution? The solution in safeguarding that you and your family will maintain healthy magnesium levels is by adding our Calm (Magnesium capsules) into your daily routine. Our magnesium capsules supply three forms of magnesium to ensure a high absorption rate and are thus fast acting.
Symptoms of magnesium depletion:
Here are just some of the positive signs that one may be experiencing magnesium deficiency:
Low Energy
Fatigue & Fibromyalgia
PMS and Hormonal Imbalances
Inability to Sleep (Insomnia)
Restless Leg Syndrome
Headaches (including migraines)
Muscle Tension & Cramping
Backaches
Calcification of Organs & Kidney Stones
Weakening Bones (Osteoporosis)
Heart-Related Difficulties (Arrhythmias)
Anxiousness, Nervousness, Irritability, etc.
What are some current issues about magnesium?
Magnesium and blood pressure
"Epidemiological evidence suggests that magnesium may play an important role in regulating blood pressure [1]." Diets that provide plenty of fruits and vegetables, which are good sources of potassium and magnesium, are consistently associated with lower blood pressure [2-4]. The DASH study (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension), a human clinical trial, suggested that high blood pressure could be significantly lowered by a diet that emphasizes fruits, vegetables, and low fat dairy foods. Such a diet will be high in magnesium, potassium, and calcium, and low in sodium and fat [5-8].
Magnesium and diabetes
Diabetes is a disease resulting from insufficient production and/or inefficient use of insulin. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas. Insulin helps convert sugar and starches in food into energy to sustain life. Magnesium plays an important role in carbohydrate metabolism. It may influence the release and activity of insulin, the hormone that helps control blood glucose (sugar) levels [9].
Magnesium and cardiovascular disease
Magnesium metabolism is very important to insulin sensitivity and blood pressure regulation, and magnesium deficiency is common in individuals with diabetes. The observed associations between magnesium metabolism, diabetes, and high blood pressure increase the likelihood that magnesium metabolism may influence cardiovascular disease [10].
Magnesium and osteoporosis
Bone health is supported by many factors, most notably calcium and vitamin D. However, some evidence suggests that magnesium deficiency may be an additional risk factor for postmenopausal osteoporosis [1]. This may be due to the fact that magnesium deficiency alters calcium metabolism and the hormones that regulate calcium [11].
Magnesium and migraine headaches
Individuals who suffer from recurrent migraine headaches have lower intracellular magnesium levels (demonstrated in both red blood cells and white blood cells) than individuals who do not experience migraines (12). Oral magnesium supplementation has been shown to increase intracellular magnesium levels in individuals with migraines, leading to the hypothesis that magnesium supplementation might be helpful in decreasing the frequency and severity of migraine headaches.
References:
Institute of Medicine. Food and Nutrition Board. Dietary Reference Intakes: Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin D and Fluoride. National Academy Press. Washington, DC, 1999.
Appel LJ. Nonpharmacologic therapies that reduce blood pressure: A fresh perspective. Clin Cardiol 1999;22:1111-5. [PubMed abstract]
Simopoulos AP. The nutritional aspects of hypertension. Compr Ther 1999;25:95-100. [PubMed abstract]
Appel LJ, Moore TJ, Obarzanek E, Vollmer WM, Svetkey LP, Sacks FM, Bray GA, Vogt TM, Cutler JA, Windhauser MM, Lin PH, Karanja N. A clinical trial of the effects of dietary patterns on blood pressure. N Engl J Med 1997;336:1117-24. [PubMed abstract]
Sacks FM, Obarzanek E, Windhauser MM, Svetkey LP, Vommer WM, McCullough M, Karanja N, Lin PH, Steele P, Praschen MA, Evans M, Appel LJ, Bray GA, Vogt T, Moore MD for the DASH investigators. Rationale and design of the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension trial (DASH). A multicenter controlled-feeding study of dietary patterns to lower blood pressure. Ann Epidemiol 1995;5:108-18. [PubMed abstract]
Sacks FM, Appel LJ, Moore TJ, Obarzanek E, Vollmer WM, Svetkey LP, Bray GA, Vogt TM, Cutler JA, Windhauser MM, Lin PH, Karanja N. A dietary approach to prevent hypertension: A review of the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) Study. Clin Cardiol 1999;22:6-10. [PubMed abstract]
Svetkey LP, Simons-Morton D, Vollmer WM, Appel LJ, Conlin PR, Ryan DH, Ard J, Kennedy BM. Effects of dietary patterns on blood pressure: Subgroup analysis of the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) randomized clinical trial. Arch Intern Med 1999;159:285-93. [PubMed abstract]
Ettinger, MS. How to lower your blood pressure in only 14 days. 16 Aug 2009 [Blog Post]
Kobrin SM and Goldfarb S. Magnesium Deficiency. Semin Nephrol 1990;10:525-35. [PubMed abstract]
Altura BM and Altura BT. Magnesium and cardiovascular biology: An important link between cardiovascular risk factors and atherogenesis. Cell Mol Biol Res 1995;41:347-59. [PubMed abstract]
Elisaf M, Milionis H, Siamopoulos K. Hypomagnesemic hypokalemia and hypocalcemia: Clinical and laboratory characteristics. Mineral Electrolyte Metab 1997;23:105-12. [PubMed abstract]
Mauskop A, Altura BM. Role of magnesium in the pathogenesis and treatment of migraines. Clin Neurosci. 1998;5(1):24-27. [PubMed abstract]
Serving Size: 2 Capsules
Servings Per Container: 90
2 Capsules contain: 800 mg (Combination of Magnesium Aspartate, Magnesium Citrate & Magnesium Oxide)
Other Ingredients:
White Rice Flour, Vegetable Gelatin (Capsule).
This formula is free from preservatives, solvents, additives, fillers, yeast, wheat, corn, soy and milk.
Suggested Usage:
2 Capsules Daily - Capsules can be opened and mixed with water or juice if desired.
Safety Information:
Do not use this product if you have a known allergy to any of the above ingredients. Always consult with a healthcare professional before using any nutritional supplement or starting any dietary program.
Reward Points
23 points will be rewarded to you when you buy this item.
Related Items
Quick View
Liquid Power Multivitamins 32 oz
In stock
(25)
$46.98
Add To Cart
Quick View
Liquid Advanced Amino Acids
In stock
(2)
$24.98
Add To Cart
Quick View
Liquid Anti Aging Therapy
In stock
$38.98
Add To Cart
Quick View
Absolute L Tryptophan
In stock
$24.98
Add To Cart
Quick View
Liquid Coenzyme Q10 With gamma oryzanol Vitamins C and E
In stock
$26.98
Add To Cart
Quick View
Vitamin B-1 Thiamine
In stock
$13.98
Add To Cart
Recently Viewed Items
Turn History Off
Copyright © 1999-2019 California Academy of Health all rights reserved.
California Academy of Health® - CAOH®
Liquid Power Multi-V™ - Goji Fusion® - Absolute Goji™ - Absolute Acai™ - Acai-Max®
Absolute Mangosteen™ - Mangosteen Elixir® - Maqui Max™
Totally Nude Noni Juice™ - Almost Nude Noni Juice™
Important Notice: Only your doctor can properly diagnose and treat any disease or disorder. Before starting the use of any nutritional supplement, it is important to consult with your doctor. The statements on this web site have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Information on the site is educational information only and does not warrant, imply or guarantee any result or cure.
Mailing List
GO
Subscribe
Unsubscribe
Ooop! The email you entered isn't valid.
WooHoo! You subscribed successfully.
Ok! You're unsubscribed.
Pages
Terms and Conditions
Become an Affiliate
Product Index
Category Index
Why CAOH?
Research and Information
Copyright 1999 - California Academy of Health - CAOH.
All Rights Reserved.
TOP
Menu Links
Categories
×
×
Store Search