Just 3 sessions of aerobic exercise per week can relieve clinical depression
Just 3 sessions of aerobic exercise per week can relieve clinical depression
01/23/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
A systematic review published in the journal Depression and Anxiety suggests that aerobic exercise has significant antidepressant effects for people with clinical depression. More specifically, the review reported that three 45-minute sessions of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise every week may relieve clinical depression.
A team of researchers from Greece, the U.K., and Canada evaluated the antidepressant effects of aerobic exercise on people suffering from clinical depression. The research team looked at 11 studies with a total of 455 adult participants.
Instead of taking antidepressant drugs – which is the conventional treatment for depression – the participants underwent supervised moderate-intensity aerobic exercise for an average of 45 minutes, thrice a week for a period of 9.2 weeks. (Related: Stopping exercise can plunge people back into depression after only THREE DAYS, study concludes.)
The results showed that the exercise routine significantly improved the symptoms of depression, regardless of their severity. In addition, in trials for individuals with a lower risk of clinical depression, aerobic exercise produced moderate-to-large antidepressant effects. For trials with short?term exercise interventions or up to four weeks, exhibited large antidepressant effects.
Based on these findings, the research team concluded that aerobic exercise can relieve symptoms of depression and may be used as an effective treatment for this mental illness.
More on depression
Depression is a life-threatening and burdensome mental illness. In recent years, the number of people suffering from this mental illness has increased. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), around 300 million people around the world suffer from depression. Furthermore, it is estimated that 15 percent of the adult population will experience depression at some point in their lives.
A person with depression may experience the following symptoms:
Changes in appetite which cause either weight loss or gain.
Exhibiting purposeless physical activities or actions that show distress or worry like hand-wringing.
Feeling worthless or guilty.
Difficulty thinking, concentrating, or making decisions.
Difficulty falling asleep.
Sleeping excessively.
Losing energy or feeling weak.
Losing interest or pleasure in activities previously enjoyed.
Slowed movements or speech that is observable by others.
Thinking of death or having thoughts of killing oneself.
More ways to beat depression
In addition to aerobic exercise, there are other non-drug treatments available that help beat depression. These include the following:
Curcumin: Research has found that curcumin, which is the primary active compound of turmeric, is a safe and effective alternative treatment for people with depression. However, the study only suggests it for people who do not show suicidal intentions or have a concurrent psychotic disorder.
Saffron: Research has also reported that saffron extracts offer antidepressant effects. In a small study, researchers compared the effects of saffron with the effects of fluoxetine (an antidepressant drug) on people with depression and found that both produced similar improvements.
Meditation: Meditation, which is an active training of the mind, can also help reduce the symptoms of anxiety and depression. This practice involves a 30- to 40-minute daily mind training to accept feelings and thoughts without judgment, as well as relaxing the mind and body.
Yoga: Practicing yoga can help reduce stress and anxiety by decreasing heart rate, lowering blood pressure, and improving breathing. A study on yoga found that the practice helps improve symptoms of depression in the long run.
Read more news stories and studies on natural ways to battle with depression by going to BeatDepression.news.
Sources include:
PsychologyToday.com
Psychiatry.org
VerywellMind.com
Psycom.net
Tagged Under: aerobic exercise, beat depression, Clinical depression, depression, depressive disorder, exercise, fitness, mental health, mind body science, Natural Treatments, prevention, remedies
Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
RECENT NEWS & ARTICLES
Mediterranean diet linked to lower depression risk, according to study
03/14/2019 / By Zoey Sky
How does a plant-based diet help diabetics have a better mood?
03/14/2019 / By Zoey Sky
Spending too much time on social media can make you lonely and depressed
03/13/2019 / By Zoey Sky
The science is in: Acupuncture can help address treatment-resistant depression
03/11/2019 / By Rhonda Johansson
Happier and healthier: Curcumin-rich turmeric can help ease depression and anxiety, researchers find
03/11/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
Omega-3s found to help those suffering from PTSD
03/10/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Lack of sleep alters adolescent behavior: Study finds it reduces brain activity, compromises judgement leading to increased risk of addiction, depression
03/09/2019 / By David Williams
Omega-3s can improve depressive symptoms in older adults
03/08/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Food GOLD: Turmeric is just as effective as 14 pharma drugs but suffers from NONE of the side effects
03/07/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
Vitamin D shown to reduce depression scores in people suffering from ulcerative colitis – can it be a potential antidepressant?
03/07/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Systematic review concludes omega-3 fatty acids are beneficial for older adults with mild to moderate depression
03/06/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
Frankincense: Nature’s psychoactive antidepressant
03/02/2019 / By Isabelle Z.
High doses of B-vitamins have a profound effect on mental health
03/01/2019 / By Tracey Watson
Diets have greater impact on mood, mental wellness in women rather than men
02/28/2019 / By Ellaine Castillo
Exotic spice saffron found to be safer, more effective than antidepressants
02/27/2019 / By Vicki Batts
Why do we feel happier when we garden? The answer may lie in the soil
02/26/2019 / By Zoey Sky
Feeling down? Eat these foods to boost your mood
02/26/2019 / By Tracey Watson
Diabetics can reduce their risk of depression by taking melatonin and quercetin
02/25/2019 / By Ellaine Castillo
Stop stress by taking a walk and enjoying the sounds of nature
02/25/2019 / By Rhonda Johansson
Vitamin D supplementation can reduce Beck Depression Inventory scores in patients with ulcerative colitis
02/22/2019 / By Michelle Simmons
COPYRIGHT © 2017 BEATDEPRESSION.NEWS
All content posted on this site is protected under Free Speech. BeatDepression.news is not responsible for content written by contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional advice of any kind. BeatDepression.news assumes no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material. All trademarks, registered trademarks and service marks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners.
Privacy Policy