Healthy Living DVDs – Just another WordPress site
Skip to content
Healthy Living DVDs
Just another WordPress site
Menu and widgets
How Much Alcohol Is Safe For Women?
The Relation between Ovarian Cysts and Birth Control Pills
A Healthy Diet Keeps You Fit
Privacy
Contact
About Me
Search for:
Categories
No categories
The Relation between Ovarian Cysts and Birth Control Pills
When it comes to the question do birth control pills lower your chances of ovarian cysts, many women realize they do not the exact answer. While there is no doubt that birth control does influence the ovaries in a great effect, the issue of ovarian cysts and their formation remains murky. Some sources point towards a big connection between these two facts while other discards it off as irrelevant. Now, this entire dilemma can be finally resolved. Read on and learn do birth control pills lower your chances of ovarian cysts?
Basic Knowledge about Ovulation
In a common menstrual cycle, the produced egg becomes released from one ovary once every month. This process is called ovulation. To get to this, during the previous stage, an egg sack is formed around the egg and filled with essential fluids. This sac is called a follicle and when it grows too much and becomes bigger than the needed size, it becomes a cyst. Then, instead of being released, the cyst remains attached to the ovary that produced it. Simply put, a cyst is a bubble that collects fluids with a thin sac or wall holding these liquids inside of it.
Cysts and their Effects on a Woman’s Body
Mostly, cysts are about the size of a single pea, but have been know grow to be around the size of a small walnut. With an ovary being somewhere in the range of a single almond, a cyst might grow to become double its size. These cases of ovarian cysts can cause symptoms like abdominal bloating or discomfort, chronic pain in the pelvic region and acute pain during things like bowel movements or sexual intercourse. With time, these symptoms might become more intense and more frequent. In these cases, a visit to the doctor should be a priority because the cyst might lead to further complication and even more serious medical issues. Check out this site for a natural cure for ovarian cysts
Cysts and Birth Control Pills
One of the key ways how birth control pills prevent their users from becoming pregnant is by putting a stop to the ovulation process. This means that birth control pills, using hormones, stop the egg from being produced. This way, the ovarian cysts themselves cannot be formed either. This is the reason why birth control pills are a great way of lowering the chances of ovarian cysts being formed. But, on the other hand, the so-called mini-pill that is based on progestin-only formula can disturb ovulation and the entire menstrual cycle, which can lead to even more cysts being formed. The same was true for old-fashioned birth control pills, but both classes of medicine are rarely used today (old birth control pills are no longer in production in pharmaceutical companies). In case of ovarian cysts, mini-pill should be avoided.
Conclusion
With these facts, it is clear that the answer to the question do birth control pills lower your chances of ovarian cysts is a definite yes. By getting the right birth control pills by a medical practitioner, a woman can significantly lower her chances of any future ovarian cysts being formed.
Proudly powered by WordPress