SpectraCell Laboratories | Fertility
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
Blog
Home
About SpectraCell
Clinicians
Patients
Blog
Contact Us
Career Center
SpectraCell Blog
Vitamin A: Functions and Benefits
Posted by SpectraCell Laboratories, Inc. on Mon, Jul 31, 2017 @ 11:30 AM
Tweet
Vitamin A was one of the earliest vitamins to be discovered – hence its top rank in the alphabetical vitamin nomenclature.Vitamin A is a family of fat soluble compounds that play an important role in vision, bone growth, reproduction, and immune system regulation. Most people associate vitamin A with carrots, and for good reason: the common orange veggie has high amounts of beta-carotene, which is actually a vitamin A precursor and also the reason carrots got their name. But vitamin A is actually a group of chemicals that are similar in structure, and include retinol (the most biologically active form of vitamin A), retinal, and retinoic acid.
β-carotene is slightly different in that it is cleaved in the intestinal mucosa by an enzyme to form retinol. Other carotenoids include lycopene and lutein but, although similar to vitamin A, they are not actually vitamin A in the truest sense. One distinction is that excessive amounts of vitamin A from over-supplementation, can cause toxicity (although deficiency is much more common). On the other hand, β-carotene does not cause vitamin A toxicity because there exists a regulatory mechanism that limits vitamin A production from beta carotene when high levels are ingested.
A large number of physiological systems may be affected by vitamin A deficiency which is most often associated with strict dietary restrictions and excess alcohol intake. Patients with Celiac disease, Crohn’s disease and pancreatic disorders are particularly susceptible due to malabsorption. Vitamin A is also essential for the developing skeletal system and deficiency can result in growth retardation or abnormal bone formation.
The functions of vitamin A are very diverse:
Eyesight: Vitamin A forms retinal, which combines with a protein (rhodopsin) to create the light-absorbing cells in the eye. This explains why a common clinical manifestation of deficiency is night blindness and poor vision.
Skin: In addition to promoting healthy skin function and integrity, vitamin A regulates the growth of epithelial surfaces in the eyes and respiratory, intestinal, and urinary tracts. Deficiency impairs epithelial regeneration, which can manifest as skin hyperkeratization, infertility, or increased susceptibility to respiratory infections.
Anemia: Vitamin A helps transfer iron to red blood cells for incorporation into hemoglobin; thus, a vitamin A deficiency will exacerbate an iron deficiency.
Weight management: Vitamin A reduces the size of fat cells, regulates the genetic expression of leptin (a hormone that suppresses appetite), and enhances the expression of genes that reduce a person’s tendency to store food as fat.
Cancer prevention: Vitamin A deficiency impairs the body’s ability to launch cell-mediated immune responses to cancer cells. Vitamin A inhibits squamous metaplasia (a type of skin cancer) and inhibits breast cancer cell growth.
Fertility: Vitamin A plays a key role in the synthesis of sperm.
Autism: Vitamin A is part of the retinoid receptor protein (G-alpha protein), which is critical for language processing, attention, and sensory perception. Some autistics have a defect in this protein that vitamin A supplementation can modulate.
Sleep: Vitamin A deficiency alters brains waves in non-REM sleep, causing sleep to be less restorative.
Vitamin A also interacts with other micronutrients. For example, zinc is required to transport vitamin A into tissues, so a zinc deficiency will limit retinal binding protein (RBP) synthesis and thus limits the body’s ability to use vitamin A stores in the liver. Oleic acid, a fatty acid found in olive oil, facilitates the absorption of vitamin A in the gut.
Find out if you have a vitamin A deficiency, and take steps to correct it, by ordering a micronutrient test today.
0 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Topics: micronutrients, Vitamin A, Vitamins, Fertility, Cancer Prevention, Celiac Disease, Supernutrients, Weight Management, Vitamin A Deficiency, Chron's Disease, Anemia, Nutrients, β-carotene
Vitamin A - How does it AFFECT YOU!
Posted by SpectraCell Laboratories, Inc. on Thu, Aug 01, 2013 @ 11:47 AM
Tweet
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons. Different forms of the vitamin include retinol, retinoic acid, and carotenoids. Retinol is the most biologically active form of vitamin A and is synthesized by pro-vitamin A(beta-carotene). Vitamin A regulates cell proliferation, differentiation, immune function and apoptosis (cell death). This vitamin plays a vital role in night or low-light vision and color vision among many other common functions.
Symptoms of vitamin A deficiency - Impaired immune function; eye or skin problems; compromised cell growth and development; fat malabsorption; night blindness; zinc deficiency; insomnia.
Common conditions associated with vitamin A deficiency - Hormone balance, Immunidex, Insomnia, night blindness.
CASE STUDY highlights a common problem with a vitamin A deficiency. A 45 year old female with multiple conditions such as hypertension, insomnia and GERD, click here.
View our webinars Nutritional Considerations of Hormone Balance and Nutritional Considerations of Skin disorders, which references vitamin A deficiency among others in these conditions.
To check your micronutrient levels or to get started click here
4 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Topics: SpectraCell, micronutrients, micronutrient testing, Cancer, cancer cells, autoimmune diseases, zinc, Vitamin A, Migraines, Heart Disease, pregnancy, Multivitamins, immune system, E-zinc, breast cancer, Fertility, PMS, deficiencies, Case Study, Headache, Dr. Ron Grabowski, deficiency, Depression, degenerative illness, micronutrient test, Cancer Prevention, Hypothyroidism, Hormones, Menopause, HSVI, GERD, mitral valve prolapse, infertility, Immunidex, eczema and nutrition, Women's Health
Do the Prescriptions YOU take deplete your nutritional status?
Posted by SpectraCell Laboratories, Inc. on Wed, Jul 24, 2013 @ 03:34 PM
Tweet
When a person takes prescription drugs or over the counter medication chances are that they can be affecting their nutrient levels. Below are some of the possible deficiencies that are correlated with each corresponding drug.
Antacids/Ulcer medications
vitamin B12 - Anemia, depression, tiredness, weakness, increased cardiovascular risk
Folic Acid - Birth defects, cervical dysplasia, anemia, heart disease, cancer risk
vitamin D - osteoporosis, muscle weakness, hearing loss
Calcium - Osteoporosis, heart and blood pressure irregularities, tooth decay
Iron - Anemia, weakness, fatigue, hair loss, brittle nails
Zinc - weak immunity, wound healing, sense of smell/taste, sexual dysfunction
Antibiotics
B vitamins, Vitamin K - short term depletion affects are minimal, but failure to re-inoculate the GI tract with beneficial bacteria (probiotics) often results in dysbiosis which causes gas, bloating, decreases digestion & absorption of nutrients, and also may lead to a variety of other health problems.
Calcium - osteoporosis, heart & blood pressure irregularities, tooth decay
magnesium - cardiovascular problems, asthma, osteoporosis, cramps, PMS
Iron - slow wound healing, fatigue, anemia
vitamin B6 - depression, sleep disturbance, increased cardiovascular disease risk
zinc - weak immunity, wound healing, sense of smell/taste, sexual dysfunction
Cholesterol drugs
Coenzyme Q10 - Various cardiovascular problems, weak immune system, low energy
Female Hormones
Vitamin B6 - depression, sleep disturbance, increased cardiovascular disease risk
Folic acid - birth defects, cervical dysplasia, anemia, cardiovascular disease
vitamin B1 - depression, irritability, memory loss, muscle weakness, edema
vitamin B2 - problems with skin, eyes, mucous membranes and nerves
vitamin B6 - depression, sleep disturbances, increased cardiovascular disease risk
vitamin B12 - anemia, depression, tiredness, weakness, increased cardiovascular risk
vitamin C - lowered immune system, easy bruising, poor wound healing
magnesium - cardiovascular problems, asthma, osteoporosis, cramps, PMS
selenium - lower immunity, reduced antioxidant protection'
zinc - weak immunity, wound healing, sense of smell/taste, sexual dysfunction
Anti-Inflammatories
calcium - osteoporosis, heart and blood pressure irregularities, tooth decay
vitamin D - osteoporosis, muscle weakness, hearing loss
magnesium - cardiovascular problems, asthma, osteoporosis, cramps, PMS
zinc - weak immunity, wound healing, sense of smell/taste, sexual dysfunction
vitamin C - lowered immunity, easy bruising, poor wound healing
vitamin B6 - depression, sleep disturbances,increased cardiovascular disease risk
vitamin B12 - anemia, depressioon, tiredness, weakness, increased cardiovascular risk
Folic Acid - birth defects, cervical dysplasia, anemia, cardiovascular disease
Selenium - lower immunity, reduced antioxidant protection
chromium - elevated blood sugar, cholesterol & triglycerides, diabetes risk
vitamin B5 - fatigue, listlessness, and possible problems with skin, liver and nerves
For a complete list of drugs and their correlating deficiencies click here
If you would like to check your nutrient levels click here
3 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Topics: SpectraCell, micronutrients, Coenzyme Q10, Antidepressants, Cancer, autoimmune diseases, zinc, Vitamin D, Carnitine, Magnesium, Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Vitamin B6, B Vitamins, Folic Acid, Antioxidants, Fibromyalgia, Cholesterol, Cardiovascular Health, Heart Disease, Vitamin K, Vitamin B12, Chronic Disease, diabetes, immune system, E-zinc, Vitamins, Calcium, Fertility, PMS, deficiencies, chronic fatigue and nutrition, health, Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Depression, Diet, Digestion, Stress, Vitamin B1, micronutrient test, Inflammation, Vitamin B5, High Blood Pressure, Vitamin B2, Iron, Nutritional Deficiency, Cancer Prevention, Heart Health, Gastrointestinal Tract, Hypothyroidism, Allergies, Wound Healing, Vitamin B3, Antihistamines, cardiovascular disease, Nutrient, hypertension, Women's Health
Fertility Awareness Week - SpectraCell Female Fertility Chart
Posted by SpectraCell Laboratories, Inc. on Wed, Apr 24, 2013 @ 01:52 PM
Tweet
Folate - Protects genes during rapid cell division which increases likelihood of a healthy embryo (via methylation of DNA); Deficiency raises homocysteine which damages reproductive cells.
Vitamin B6 & B12 - Both are needed to convert toxic homocysteine to a benign form; Low homocysteine levels linked to a better chance of pregnancy.
Vitamin C - Increases serum progesterone levels; Induces ovulation in some women; Enhances effect of the fertility drug clomiphene.
Vitamin D - Higher levels linked to better success rates of IVF (in vitro fertilization); Influences production of the sex hormones estradiol and progesterone.
Vitamin E - Protects reproductive cells (follicles); May improve endometrial response (ability of fertilized egg to implant into uterine wall properly) during IVF.
Selenium - Deficiency implicated in miscarriage and infertility; In one trial, 100% of infertile women achieved pregnancy after supplemenation.
Glutathione - Protects eggs (fertilized or not) from damage by reactive oxygen species; Protective action of follicle stimulating hormone on embryonic development is due largely to glutathione synthesis.
Cysteine - N-acetyl cysteine can improve ovulation and pregnancy rates in women with infertility due to PCOS (polycystic ovary syndrome) that do not respond to fertility drugs; Improves viability of endometrial cells in vitro; Precurso to glutathione.
Antioxidant Status - Reproductive cells, including embryos, are very susceptible to damage from oxidative stress due to the rapid rate of growth; Low antioxidant status can cause infertility or miscarriage.
Minerals - Several enzymes needed to protect a woman's reproductive organs (such as superoxide dismutase) are dependent on the trace elements, zinc, copper and magnesium.
Click here to download your own copy of the Female Fertility Wheel
0 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Topics: micronutrient testing, Cysteine, folate, Vitamin D, Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, Vitamin B6, B Vitamins, Antioxidants, Vitamin B12, Fertility, deficiencies, deficiency, Minerals
Theories, Research and Treatment with Vitamins and Antioxidants
Posted by SpectraCell Laboratories, Inc. on Thu, Mar 07, 2013 @ 09:31 AM
Tweet
New theory on how vitamins work gains attention
A group of researchers in Europe proposed a new theory on how vitamins work in the body, displacing the former accepted view that vitamin molecules work directly on cells in the body. Their research, which used radiation and electron pulse technology, led them to conclude that antioxidant vitamins emit dissolved electrons that quench free radicals. They concluded that the well-known vitamin effects are attributed to “vitamin free radicals rather than the vitamin molecules per se, as generally accepted.”(Nutrition, January 2013)
Link to Abstract Vitamin-induced intracellular electrons are the mechanism for their well-known beneficial effects: A review.
Treatment resistant depression responds to folate therapy
Two randomized, double-blind trials were conducted in which depression patients who had a partial or no response to a SSRI (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors) were given l-methylfolate for 60 days. In the first trial, the dosage of folate was 7.5mg/day for 30 days, then 15mg/day for 30 days. In the second trial, the dosage of folate was 15mg/day for 60 days. Patients in the second trial showed significantly greater efficacy of SSRI drugs (lower depression scores and significantly decreased symptom severity) compared to the first trial (where the dosage of folate was lower) and compared to placebo. (American Journal of Psychiatry, December 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT (L)-methylfolate as adjunctive therapy for SSRI-resistant major depression: results of two randomized, double-blind, parallel-sequential trial.
LINK to FLYER on NUTRIENT INTERACTIONS IN DEPRESSION
Antioxidant therapy benefits both anxiety and depression
Blood levels of the antioxidant (specifically, vitamins A, C and E) were measured in eighty patients of a psychiatric hospital that were diagnosed with stress-induced generalized anxiety disorder and depression. Supplements of each vitamin were given for six weeks and blood levels of each vitamin were measured again. After six weeks, blood levels of vitamin A and C had increased and there was a “significant reduction in anxiety and depression scores of patients.”(Indian Journal of Psychiatry, July2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Role of antioxidants in generalised anxiety disorder and depression.
LINK to FREE FULL TEXT
LINK to FLYER on NUTRIENT INTERACTIONS IN ANXIETY
LINK to FLYER on NUTRIENT INTERACTIONS IN DEPRESSION
Is B12 the magic bullet for hepatitis?
This paper concludes that B12 is particularly beneficial for hepatitis C viral therapy. Specifically, adding vitamin B12 (5mg given intramuscularly every 4 weeks) to the conventional therapy of pegylated interferon plus ribavirin improved treatment response after 3 months. This confirms earlier research that shows vitamin B12 ca inhibit the hepatitis C virus in vitro.(Expert Review of Anti-Infective Therapy, November 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Vitamins? The magic bullet against hepatitis C.
LINK to FREE FULL TEXT
Vitamin D amplifies progesterone's neuroprotective effect after traumatic brain injury
Both progesterone and vitamin D have demonstrated neuroprotective effects on the brain after a traumatic injury in past studies, so a group of researchers sought to evaluate the effect of combining them. This randomized clinical trial compared progesterone treatment alone and combined with vitamin D to a placebo group and found that the “recovery rate of patients with severe brain trauma in the group receiving progesterone and vitamin D together was significantly higher than that of progesterone [only] group, which was in turn higher than that of placebo group.”(Advanced Biomedical Research, 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Comparison of the administration of progesterone versus progesterone and vitamin D in improvement of outcomes in patients with traumatic brain injury: A randomized clinical trial with placebo group.
Vitamin C help patients recover from hearing loss
72 patients with sudden hearing loss of unknown cause participated in this study. 36 patients served as a control group that received steroid treatment for 15 days and 36 patients received the same steroid treatment plus high dose vitamin C intravenously daily for 10 days. Auditory evaluations were administered and the recovery rate of the group receiving vitamin C was more than twice that of the control group. (European Archives of Oto-rhino-laryngology, December 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Effect of high dose intravenous vitamin C on idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss: a prospective single-blind randomized controlled trial.
Mechanism behind serine's role for proper brain function is uncovered
Serine is a crucial amino acid needed to form proper synapses in the brain. It acts as a neurotransmitter and regulates NMDA(N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors in the brain, which regulate mood and sleep, explaining its role in psychiatric and neurological disease. A recent study showed that serine supplementation could reverse oxidative stress-induced deficits in cognitive function.(Current Opinion in Clinical Nutrition and Metbolic Care, January 2013), (Aging Cell, April 2012), (Journal of Biological Chemistry, June 2012), (Biochemical Journal, 2003)
LINK to ABSTRACT D-Serine: physiology and pathology.
LINK to ABSTRACT Reversal of age-related oxidative stress prevents hippocampal synaptic plasticity deficits by protecting D-serine-dependent NMDA receptor activation.
LINK to ABSTRACT Resurgence of serine: an often neglected but indispensable amino acid.
LINK to ABSTRACT L-serine in disease and development.
LINK to FREE FULL TEXT
For more educational resources visit our Clinical Education Center
4 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Topics: SpectraCell, Antidepressants, Autoimmunity, autoimmune diseases, folate, Vitamin D, Vitamin C, B Vitamins, Folic Acid, Antioxidants, Vitamin B12, immune system, Vitamins, Fertility, Case Study, Hearing, Depression, Brain, Hepatitis, anxiety
Vitamins, minerals and antioxidants can help!
Posted by SpectraCell Laboratories, Inc. on Thu, Jan 10, 2013 @ 01:20 PM
Tweet
Is carnitine the answer for male infertility?
A group of men (n=96) who had been diagnosed as infertile for at least 18 months were given the following nutritional formulation daily for four months: L-carnitine, acetyl-L-carnitine, fructose, citric acid, selenium, coenzyme Q10, zinc, vitamin C, vitamin B12 and folic acid (see abstract for exact dosages). At the end of the study, sperm motility improved and 16 of the patients had achieved pregnancy. The authors concluded that carnitine may be the key component of the supplement cocktail for improving sperm quality. (Italian Archives of Urology and Andrology, September 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Prospective open-label study on the efficacy and tolerability of a combination of nutritional supplements in primary infertile patients with idiopathic astenoteratozoospermia.
Vitamin D helps leg ulcers heal
In this double-blind, placebo controlled trial, 26 patients with leg ulcers were given either placebo or 50,000 IU vitamin D weekly for two months. Leg ulcer size, blood levels of vitamin D and pain was measured before and after the two month trial. In the vitamin D group, leg ulcers were reduced in size by 28% while the placebo group had only a 9% reduction in ulcer size. The authors stated “there was a trend toward better healing in those with vitamin D reposition.” (Journal of Brazilian College of Surgeons, October 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Vitamin D and skin repair: a prospective, double-blind and placebo controlled study in the healing of leg ulcers.
LINK to FREE FULL TEXT
Complexity of methylation reactions gains insight
This review emphasizes how methyl donor nutrients such as choline, folic acid and methionine interact and how consumption (via supplement or food) of one can have sparing effect s on another – such as choline’s sparing effect on methionine, for example. (Current Opinion in Clinical Nutrition and Metabolic Care, January 2013)
LINK to ABSTRACT The nutritional burden of methylation reactions.
LINK to FLYER on NUTRIENT INTERACTIONS in METHYLATION
For more journal articles by disease or nutrient please click here
5 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Topics: SpectraCell, serine, micronutrients, Coenzyme Q10, Oleic Acid, Cysteine, autoimmune diseases, zinc, Vitamin D, Carnitine, Magnesium, Choline, Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Vitamin A, Selenium, Vitamin B6, B Vitamins, Folic Acid, Antioxidants, lipoprotein particle profile, Omega 3 Fatty Acid, diagnostic tools, vitamin, wellness, pregnancy, Serum, Vitamin K, Vitamin B12, supplements, Multivitamins, Nutrition, diabetes, immune system, E-zinc, N-acetylcysteine, DNA, Calcium, Fertility, Lipoic Acid, deficiencies, health, Case Study, Omega 3s, Depression, Glutamine, Minerals, Neurotransmitters, Stress, Vitamin B1, micronutrient test, Vitamin B5, Vitamin B2, Nutritional Deficiency, Vitamin B3, cardiovascular disease, Hormones, Reproductive Health, Chromium, Manganese, Muscle recovery, Erectile Dysfunction, infertility, Niacin, Prostate, Energy, Methylation, Carbohydrate Metabolism
SpectraCell's Clinical Updates - Volume 6, Issue 7
Posted by SpectraCell Laboratories, Inc. on Thu, Aug 09, 2012 @ 10:37 AM
Tweet
CLINICAL UPDATE - Omega 3s Can Replace Ibuprofen for PMS Pain
In this trial, a group of women were given either placebo or omega3 fatty acids for three months, followed by three months of the opposite regimen. Symptoms of PMS, especially pain, were monitored. After 3 months of treatment, women who took the omega 3 capsules every day decreased their ibuprofen usage by 19% (first group) and by 53% (second group). (International Journal of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, April 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Effect of omega-3 fatty acids on intensity of primary dysmenorrhea
CLINICAL UPDATE - Carnitine Supplements Improve Lung Function in Asthmatics
A recent placebo-controlled study compared 50 children with asthma to 50 healthy controls and found that not only were levels of the amino acid carnitine lower in those with asthma, but supplementation with 350mg of L-carnitine daily for six months significantly improved lung function is those with asthma. Researchers noted that carnitine’s primary role in transporting fatty acids into the mitochondria may explain its benefit to those with asthma – carnitine also transports fatty acids to lung membrane surfaces ensuring they are lubricated, explaining a mechanism by which carnitine improves pulmonary function. (Journal of Allergy, 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT L-carnitine improves the asthma control in children with moderate persistent asthma.
LINK to FREE FULL TEXT
LINK to FLYER on NUTRIENT INTERACTIONS OF ASTHMA
CLINICAL UPDATE - Vitamin C Benefits Diabetics on Metformin
Seventy patients with type II diabetes were given either placebo or 500mg vitamin C twice a day. All patients were taking metformin as well. After twelve weeks, measures of blood sugar control (fasting blood sugar, post-meal blood glucose and HbA1c levels) were all improved in the vitamin C group only. (Advances in Pharmalogical Sciences, 2011)
LINK to ABSTRACT Supplementation of vitamin C reduces blood glucose and improves glycosylated hemoglobin in type 2 diabetes mellitus: a randomized, double-blind study.
LINK to FREE FULL TEXT
CLINICAL UPDATE - Zinc: A New Role for Traumatic Brain Injury
In this review, the protective role of zinc against traumatic brain injury is elucidated. The authors stat that human clinical data “suggest that zinc may increase resilience” and can be used “to improve cognitive and behavioural deficits associated with brain injury.” (Nutrition Reviews, July 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Improving treatments and outcomes: an emerging role for zinc in traumatic brain injury.
CLINICAL UPDATE - Vitamin E Increases Sperm Count
106 infertile men were included in this trial – 64 were infertile due to low sperm count and 42 were infertile due to poor sperm motility. They were divided into two groups – both groups received pharmaceutical therapy for fertility but only one group was simultaneously treated with a natural form of vitamin E. Sperm count and motility improved more dramatically in the vitamin E treated group. In fact, only five natural pregnancies occurred in the non-vitamin E group, while 15 natural pregnancies occurred in the vitamin E treated group. In an unrelated trial, vitamin E was co-administered with fertility drugs to a group of women and compared to fertility drug treated women without vitamin E. Although those treated with vitamin E did not have statistically higher rates of pregnancy, the women given vitamin E did show significantly improved endometrial thickness, which would facilitate future pregnancy. (Natural Journal of Andrology, May 2012; Journal of Assisted Reproduction and Genetics, April 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Efficacy of natural vitamin E on oligospermia and athenospermia: a prospective multi-centered randomized controlled study of 106 cases.
LINK to ABSTRACT Vitamin E effect on controlled ovarian stimulation of unexplained infertile women.
CLINICAL UPDATE - A New Role for Omega 3s in Building Muscle Mass
A group of women (average age = 64 years old) were put on a strength training program for 90 days. Some of the women were given fish oil supplements while others received no supplement. Measures of muscle strength were taken and those taking fish oil showed significantly higher muscle development. Researchers hypothesized that this increase in muscle development during strength training is due to the role omega 3 fatty acids play in plasma membranes and muscle cell function. (American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, February 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT Fish-oil supplementation enhances the effects of strength training in elderly women.
CLINICAL UPDATE - High Dose Serine Improves Neuropathy: Case Report
One of the most common inherited neurological disorders, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease affects approximately 1 in every 2500 people and is characterized by muscle wasting and peripheral neuropathy. In this case report, a male patient with polyneuropathy had a serine synthesis defect. Deficiency in the amino acid serine often manifests neurologically and in this case, high-dose supplementation of serine improved his neuropathy symptoms. (Archives of Neurology, March 2012)
LINK to ABSTRACT A Serine Synthesis Defect Presenting With a Charcot-Marie-Tooth-Like Polyneuropathy.
Clicke HERE to browse our archived library of clinical updates
3 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Topics: serine, zinc, Carnitine, Vitamin C, Vitamin E, diabetes, Fertility, PMS, Omega 3s, Asthma
Case Study: 25 Year Old Female with History of Infertility
Posted by SpectraCell Laboratories, Inc. on Tue, Jun 12, 2012 @ 10:16 AM
Tweet
Previously treated for ogilomenorrhea, acne, menorrhaggia, cold intolerance, obesity with gradual weight gain and Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome
In September 2003, the patient was very interested in becoming pregnant. She was counseled in and utilized Basal Body Temperature charting with adjunctive use of the LH ovulation kit. She and her husband were counseled on focused sex for five days before and three days after ovulation. After more than a year and a half of unsuccessful attempts at pregnancy, the physician performed SpectraCell’s micronutrient testing in June 2005. Her results returned gross deficiencies of vitamins B1 (Thiamin), B6 (Pyridoxine) and E (alpha-tocopherol). She was also grossly deficient in Zinc, Serine, Glutamine and Coenzyme Q10 in addition to revealing a Glucose-Insulin interaction consistent with insulin resistence frequently found in PCOS. Her Antioxidant Function was remarkably low at 38.1% demonstrating increased potential for oxidative damage. All of the abnormalities were present despite the patient taking excellent prenatal vitamins, fish oil, chromium and NAC. Based upon her deficiencies found with SpectraCell’s micronutrient testing, she was placed on adequate replacement for each of the gross and even the marginal deficiencies in June 2005.
Clinical Outcome:
She and her husband subsequently became pregnant very quickly within a month and she attended her first obstetrics appointment on August 2005. She delivered a 8lb. 7oz. viable baby boy at 38 and a half weeks by vaginal delivery after being induced for mild preeclampsia.
Conclusion:
As a result of performing SpectraCell’s micronutrient testing, her physician was able to identify key nutritional deficiencies in this patient which occurred despite the patient following a good diet and taking good prenatal vitamins and other nutritional supplements. Her physician safely supplemented her during her pregnancy knowing that the patient and thus the baby did in fact need these nutrients. This helped allay fears of over supplementation and facilitated optimal growth and development of what proved to become an extremely healthy and happy young male child.
Approximately 85% of women will become pregnant within one year of trying. This young lady had been unsuccessful for 21 months before her nutritional deficiencies were identified and supplemented and then became pregnant shortly thereafter. She would have probably had to undergo fertility treatment as do many women with PCOS. The 27 year old white female with PCOS and infertility is forever grateful for the existence and utilization of SpectraCell’s micronutrient testing.
Interested in learning more about women's health and infertility?
Read abstracts and full papers on infertility and nutrition
Watch our webinar on "Nutritional Considerations of Endocrinology: Part 1 (Women's Health)"
Download our flyer on "Women's Health"
Download our flyer on "Infertility and Micronutrient Deficiencies"
2 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Topics: SpectraCell, micronutrient testing, Fertility
A SUCCESSFUL Case Study Involving Infertility and Nutritional Status
Posted by Heather Vorce on Mon, Jul 19, 2010 @ 12:36 PM
Tweet
A 25 year old white female was dealing with prolonged infertility issues. She was also previously treated for Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome)
Case Summary:
In September 2003, this patient was very interested in becoming pregnant. She utilized Basal Body Temperature charting with adjunctive use of the LH ovulation kit. She and her husband were counseled on focused sex for five days before and three days after ovulation. After more than a year and a half of unsuccessful attempts at pregnancy, her physician recommended SpectraCell’s micronutrient testing. Almost two years later, her results returned gross deficiencies of:
Vitamin B1 (Thiamine)
Vitamin B6 (Pyridoxine)
Vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol)
Zinc
Serine
Glutamine
Coenzyme Q10
Glucose-Insulin interaction (consistent with insulin resistence frequently found in PCOS).
Her Antioxidant Function was remarkably low at 38.1% demonstrating increased potential for oxidative damage. All of the abnormalities were present despite her taking excellent prenatal vitamins, fish oil, chromium and NAC.
Based upon her deficiencies found with SpectraCell’s micronutrient testing, she was recommended adequate replacement for each of the deficiencies.
Clinical Outcome:
She and her husband subsequently became pregnant very quickly (within a month) and attended her first obstetrics appointment. She delivered a 8lb. 7oz. viable baby boy at 38 and a half weeks by vaginal delivery.
Conclusion:
As a result of performing SpectraCell’s micronutrient testing, the physician was able to identify key nutritional deficiencies in their patient which occurred despite the patient following a good diet and taking good prenatal vitamins and other nutritional supplements.
The physician was also able to safely supplement her during her pregnancy which helped facilitate optimal growth and development of an extremely healthy and happy baby.
Approximatley 85% of women will become pregnant within one year of trying. This young lady had been unsuccessful for 21 months. If she had not become pregnant, she probably would have used fertility treatments, as do many women with PCOS. This patient is forever grateful for the existence and utilization of SpectraCell’s micronutrient testing.
If you or someone you know has had trouble conceiving, what have they tried? Have the been successful?
6 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Topics: SpectraCell, Nutrition, Fertility, infertility, Women's Health
All posts
Subscribe to Email Updates
Most Popular Posts
Browse by Tag
ADHD (6)
advanced glycation end products (1)
Advanced Nutritional Testing (3)
Age Management (3)
Aggression (2)
Aging (10)
Allergies (2)
Alpha-Lipoic Acid (8)
alternative therapy for autism (2)
Alzheimer's Disease (2)
Alzheimers (4)
Amino Acid (2)
Amino Acids (1)
amino acids that affect depression (1)
Amino Acids That Affect Metabolism (1)
Anemia (1)
Antacids (1)
Anti-Aging (1)
anti-stress (1)
Antidepressants (6)
Antihistamines (2)
antioxidant status (2)
Antioxidants (23)
anxiety (1)
Apo A (1)
Apo B (1)
ApoE Genotyping (3)
Arthritis (3)
Asparagine (7)
Asthma (2)
Atherothrombosis (1)
Athlete (1)
Athletes (1)
Athletic Performance (1)
athralgias (1)
autism (8)
autism speaks (4)
autistic symptoms (3)
autoimmune diseases (13)
Autoimmunity (7)
Autophagy (1)
awareness (1)
B Complex Vitamins (1)
B Vitamins (33)
barley (1)
biological age (1)
biotin (11)
Biotin Deficiency (1)
Bipolar (1)
Blood Glucose Dysregulation (1)
Blood Pressure (2)
blood sugar (1)
Blue Cross Blue Shield (1)
body fat (1)
Bowel Disease (1)
Brain (3)
breast cancer (7)
Breast Cancer and Nutrition (2)
breast cancer awareness (1)
breast cancer prevention (1)
breast cancer preventnion (1)
broccoli (1)
caffeine (2)
Calcium (17)
Calcium and Dementia (1)
Cancer (6)
cancer cells (5)
Cancer Prevention (6)
Carbohydrate Metabolism (2)
cardiac (1)
Cardio (1)
cardiometabolic (2)
cardiovascular disease (6)
Cardiovascular Health (13)
Carnitine (28)
Carnitine Deficiency and Autism (1)
Case Study (9)
Cash Practice (1)
Celiac (1)
Celiac Disease (2)
Cell Function (1)
Cell Function and Disease (1)
Cellular Age (2)
cellular aging (1)
Cellular Health (2)
Cellular Metabolism (1)
Children (1)
Cholesterol (8)
Choline (12)
Chromium (13)
chromium deficiency (1)
chromium picolinate (1)
Chron's Disease (1)
chronic (2)
Chronic Disease (8)
Chronic Fatigue (2)
chronic fatigue and nutrition (4)
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (1)
Circadian Rhythms (1)
Cobalamin (1)
Coenzyme Q10 (22)
Cognitive Function (1)
Concierge Practice (3)
constipation (1)
Controversy (2)
Copper (12)
CoQ10 (1)
cord blood (1)
Cortisol (1)
Crossfit (1)
Cysteine (15)
David J. Blyweiss (1)
deficiencies (24)
deficiency (12)
Degenerative Diseases (1)
degenerative illness (4)
Dementia (1)
Depression (12)
dermatitis (1)
DHA (3)
diabetes (14)
Diabetes and Alzheimer's Disease (1)
diagnostic tools (14)
Diet (6)
Diet and Immune Response (1)
Digestion (4)
disease (2)
DNA (5)
DNA breakage (1)
Dr. Arland Hill (3)
Dr. Bridget Briggs (1)
Dr. Charles Northren (1)
Dr. Eva Cwynar (5)
Dr. Fred Crawford (3)
Dr. Jan Troup (1)
Dr. Karl R.O.S. Johnson (1)
Dr. Mike Carragher (1)
Dr. Ron Grabowski (7)
Dr. Shelena Lalji (1)
Drug-induced Nutrient Depletion (1)
Dysglycemia (1)
dyslipidemias (1)
E-zinc (7)
early detection (1)
early pregnancy (2)
eczema (1)
eczema and nutrition (4)
Effective weight loss (2)
Effective weight management (2)
Effects of Statins on CoQ10 (1)
Elderly (3)
endocrine disorder (1)
Endurance Athletes (1)
Energy (7)
energy and metabolism (1)
Environmental Influence on Gene Expression (1)
EPA (2)
Epigenetics (3)
Erectile Dysfunction (2)
Essential Fatty Acid Deficiency (1)
Estrogen (3)
estrogen and breast cancer (2)
estrogen metabolism (1)
expecting mothers (3)
Fasting-Mimicking Diet (1)
Fatigue (10)
Female Fertility (1)
Fertility (9)
Fibromyalgia (5)
FMD (1)
FMD Helps Reduce Cardiovascular Disease (1)
folate (18)
Folate Deficiency (1)
Folic Acid (10)
Folic Acid and Neural Tube Defects (1)
Folic Acid and Pregnancy (1)
Folic Acid and Strokes (1)
Folic Acid Deficiency (1)
Fountain of Youth (1)
Free Radicals (3)
Functional Medicine (2)
Functional Micronutrient Testing (3)
Functional Zinc Status (1)
Gastrointestinal Tract (5)
Gene Expression (1)
Gene Expression and Nutrition (1)
Genetic Predisposition (1)
Genetics (2)
Genomics (1)
Genotyping (3)
GERD (2)
Glucose (1)
Glucose Intolerance (2)
Glutamine (16)
Glutathione (12)
Gluten Free Works (1)
Gluten Intolerance (1)
Gluten Sensitivity (1)
Gluten-Free (1)
green beans (1)
HDL (1)
Headache (2)
Headaches and Nutrition (1)
health (14)
Healthy BMI (1)
Healthy Diet (1)
healthy gut flora (1)
healthy metabolism (1)
Hearing (1)
Heart Attack (7)
Heart Disease (18)
Heart Health (10)
Heavy Metal Toxicity (1)
Hepatitis (1)
High Blood Pressure (4)
high blood sugar (1)
High Lipoprotein(a) (1)
Homocysteine (8)
Hormone (1)
hormone balance (1)
Hormone Imbalance (1)
Hormones (20)
how selenium affects thyroid (1)
HRT (1)
HS-Omega-3 Index (4)
HSVI (2)
huntington's disease (1)
hypertension (2)
hypometabolic state (1)
Hypothyroidism (6)
immune system (16)
Immunidex (5)
Immunity (4)
infertility (6)
Inflammation (6)
Inflammatory Bowel Disease (3)
inositol (12)
insomnia (1)
Insulin (2)
Insulin Resistance (2)
Insulin Sensitivity (1)
Insurance (3)
integrative approach to autism (2)
integrative approach to weight loss (1)
intracellular (4)
Intracellular Analysis (2)
intracellular micronutrient status (2)
Intracellular Micronutrient Testing (1)
Iron (2)
irritability (1)
key to thyroid problems (1)
Kidney Inflammation (1)
L-carnitine (2)
LDL (1)
LDL and HDL (6)
Leptin (1)
Leptin Resistance (1)
leukemia (1)
Lipidomics (1)
Lipoic Acid (8)
lipoprotein particle profile (10)
Lipoprotein Particles (6)
Lipoprotein(a) (2)
Lipoproteins (3)
Longer Telomeres (2)
Longevity (2)
loss of appetite (1)
Low Carnitine Status (1)
Lower LDL (1)
Lower Lipoprotein(a) (2)
Lp(a) (3)
LPP (7)
Magnesium (32)
Magnesium and Glucose Metabolism (1)
Magnesium Supplementation (1)
Maintaining stable blood sugar (1)
Manganese (2)
marketing (1)
MD (1)
medicare (1)
Men's Health (1)
Menopause (3)
mental confusion (1)
mental health in children (1)
Metabolic (1)
metabolic processes (1)
Metabolic Syndrome (1)
Metabolism (5)
Metabolism-Boosting Vitamins (1)
Metabolomics (1)
Methylation (5)
micrnonutrients (1)
Microbiomics (1)
micronutrient (16)
micronutrient deficiencies (4)
micronutrient deficiencies in ADHD (1)
micronutrient deficiency (5)
micronutrient profile (1)
micronutrient status (5)
micronutrient test (20)
micronutrient testing (62)
micronutrients (45)
Micronutrients and Breast Health (1)
Micronutrients and Cardiovascular Health (1)
Micronutrients and Cellular Health (1)
Micronutrients and Cognitive Health (1)
Micronutrients and Estrogen Imbalance (1)
Micronutrients and Men's Health (1)
Micronutrients and Telomere Length (2)
micronutrients and weight loss (1)
Migraines (4)
Mild Cognitive Impairment (1)
Minerals (11)
Minerals and Metabolism (1)
mitral valve prolapse (2)
Mortality (1)
MTHFR Genotyping (5)
Multiple Sclerosis (1)
Multivitamins (8)
Muscle recovery (4)
myalgic encephalomyelitis (1)
Myopathy (1)
N-acetylcysteine (2)
National Lab Week (1)
nausea (1)
NBC (1)
NCEP (2)
Nerves (1)
Nervous System (3)
Neurology (5)
Neurotransmitters (3)
New Year Weight Loss Solutions (1)
New York State License (1)
Niacin (4)
Nutrient (5)
nutrient deficiencies (2)
Nutrient Deficiency (1)
Nutrient Interactions (1)
Nutrient-Hormone Connection (1)
Nutrients (1)
nutrients and depression (1)
nutrients and PTSD (1)
Nutrigenomics (1)
Nutrition (22)
nutrition and autism (4)
Nutrition and Sports Performance (2)
Nutrition Month (1)
nutrition speaks (3)
nutrition testing (5)
Nutritional Deficiency (8)
Nutritional Testing (2)
oats (1)
Obesity (1)
Oleic Acid (6)
Omega 3 Fatty Acid (8)
Omega 3s (8)
Omega 6 (1)
Omega-3 and Aging (1)
Omega-3 Fatty Acids (1)
Omega-3s in ADHD and Autism (1)
OmegaCheck (1)
Optimizing gut health (1)
Osteoporosis (2)
Ovarian Cancer and Nutrition (1)
overweight (1)
Oxidative Stress (10)
Pain (2)
pantothenate (2)
pantothenic acid (1)
Parkinsons disease (4)
Patent (1)
Patient (1)
Performance (1)
Pharmacogenomics (1)
Plaque Formation (1)
PMS (5)
preferred payment option (1)
pregnancy (5)
premature aging (1)
product tools (2)
promotion (1)
Prostate (1)
Prostate Health (1)
Protein (2)
Proteomics (1)
PTSD (1)
Recommended Daily Allowance (1)
Reducing Inflammation (3)
reference chart (2)
Remnant Lipoproteins (1)
Reproductive Health (3)
Risk Assessment (1)
RLP (3)
Role of micronutrients in weight management (2)
root cause of depression (1)
Sanctuary Medical Center (1)
Selenium (15)
selenium deficiency (1)
selenium testing (1)
serine (11)
serine and depression (1)
serine and neurotransmitters (1)
Serum (2)
Serum levels of folate (1)
Shingles (1)
skin disorder (2)
Sleep Apnea (1)
SpectraCell (71)
Spectrox (9)
sphingolipids (1)
Sports Medicine (1)
Sports Nutrition (1)
Sports Performance (1)
Standard Cholesterol Testing (3)
standard lab testing (1)
statin (2)
Stress (7)
Stroke (2)
Stroke Prevention (1)
sub-clinical deficiencies (1)
sugar (1)
sugar binge (1)
super foods (1)
Supernutrients (2)
supplements (11)
Supplies (1)
Supplmentation (1)
T3 (1)
T4 (1)
telomerase (6)
telomere (11)
telomere and cancer (5)
Telomere Homeostatis (2)
telomere length (11)
telomere test (5)
Telomere testing (16)
Testicular Cancer (1)
Testosterone (5)
The TODAY Show (1)
thiamin (1)
Thyroid (5)
thyroid disease (1)
thyroid dysfunction (1)
thyroid gland (1)
thyroid hormones (1)
Thyroid Issues (1)
thyroid stimulating hormone (1)
thyroid symptoms and solutions (1)
thyroid treatment (1)
Tim Ferriss (1)
Trans Fats (1)
Triage Theory (1)
Triglycerides (2)
Type 3 Diabetes (1)
vitamin (7)
Vitamin A (24)
Vitamin A and Alzheimer's (1)
Vitamin A Deficiency (2)
vitamin b (1)
Vitamin B1 (14)
Vitamin B1 and Fertility (1)
Vitamin B1 and Headaches (1)
vitamin b1 and huntington's disease (1)
Vitamin B1 Deficiency (3)
Vitamin B12 (18)
Vitamin B12 Deficiency (1)
Vitamin B2 (6)
Vitamin B3 (12)
Vitamin B5 (10)
Vitamin B6 (20)
vitamin B6 deficiency (1)
Vitamin B7 (1)
Vitamin C (27)
Vitamin D (42)
vitamin deficiencies (10)
Vitamin E (30)
Vitamin K (12)
Vitamin K and Heart Health (1)
Vitamin K and Sports Performance (1)
Vitamins (19)
Vitamins and weight loss (2)
weakness (3)
webinar (2)
website (3)
Weight Gain (5)
Weight Loss (7)
Weight Management (3)
wellness (12)
what causes depression (1)
what causes thryoid problems (1)
What is nutrigenomics (1)
Women's Health (13)
Women's Health (1)
Wound Healing (4)
XFIT (1)
zinc (38)
Zinc and Copper Impact on Cognitive Function (1)
Zinc Deficiency (1)
β-carotene (1)
Posts by Month
March 2017 (10)
January 2017 (8)
May 2011 (7)
July 2010 (6)
January 2012 (6)
July 2012 (6)
February 2017 (6)
June 2011 (5)
February 2012 (5)
June 2012 (5)
October 2010 (4)
November 2010 (4)
December 2010 (4)
July 2011 (4)
November 2011 (4)
July 2013 (4)
August 2013 (4)
April 2017 (4)
January 2011 (3)
February 2011 (3)
April 2011 (3)
May 2012 (3)
August 2012 (3)
September 2012 (3)
December 2012 (3)
January 2013 (3)
March 2013 (3)
April 2013 (3)
October 2016 (3)
December 2016 (3)
November 2017 (3)
February 2018 (3)
June 2018 (3)
July 2018 (3)
September 2010 (2)
March 2011 (2)
August 2011 (2)
April 2012 (2)
February 2013 (2)
September 2013 (2)
October 2013 (2)
November 2013 (2)
December 2013 (2)
January 2014 (2)
February 2014 (2)
March 2014 (2)
January 2015 (2)
May 2017 (2)
March 2018 (2)
April 2018 (2)
May 2018 (2)
August 2018 (2)
October 2011 (1)
December 2011 (1)
November 2012 (1)
May 2013 (1)
June 2013 (1)
April 2014 (1)
May 2014 (1)
July 2014 (1)
February 2015 (1)
March 2015 (1)
June 2015 (1)
September 2016 (1)
November 2016 (1)
June 2017 (1)
July 2017 (1)
August 2017 (1)
September 2017 (1)
December 2017 (1)
October 2018 (1)
March 2019 (1)
April 2019 (1)
CareersDisclaimer & Privacy NoticesSitemap
Copyright © 2015 SpectraCell Laboratories, Inc. All rights reserved.
Website design by Spotlight Creative, LLC.