Children's Medical Condition |Anemia in pregnancy | Vidant Health
Have an emergency? close
Menu
MyChart Pay My Bill
Find a Doctor
Find a Doctor
VidantNow
See Full Directory
Manage My Health
Manage My Health
Overview
Manage my condition
See a doctor online
MyChart
Advance care planning
Wellness Centers
Health library
Services & Treatments
Services & Treatments
Services
Cancer
Heart and vascular
Children's
Neurology and neurosurgery
See all
Treatments
Chemotherapy
Pain Management
Rehabilitation
Surgery
See all
Conditions
Stroke
Diabetes
Heart failure
Hypertension
See all
Programs & Support
Cancer support groups
Cancer Clinical trials
Heart Failure Program/Clinics
Sedation
See all
Patients & Families
Patients & Families
Overview
How to prepare for your appointment
Request Medical Records
Tell Us Now
Be a patient advocate
Gift Shops
Billing/insurance/financial assistance
Patient care and quality
Patient rights and responsibilities
Pricing Transparency
Notice of Privacy Practices- English
Aviso Sobre Las Practicas De Privacidad
Locations & Directions
Locations & Directions
View All
Ahoskie
Belhaven
Edenton
Greenville
Jacksonville
Kenansville
Kinston
Outer Banks
Tarboro
Washington
Wilson
Windsor
Referring Physicians
Referring Physicians
Overview
Inpatient Transfers
Refer to a specialist
Physician outreach
Electronic health record
Live Chat
Contact us
Sign in to MyChart
Conditions
Overview
Treatments
Conditions
Home / Conditions
Children - Anemia in pregnancy
What is anemia?
Anemia is when your blood has too few red blood cells. Having too few red blood cells makes it harder for your blood to carry oxygen or iron. This can affect how cells work in nerves and muscles. During pregnancy, your baby also needs your blood.
You can get several kinds of anemia during pregnancy. These are:
Anemia of pregnancy. In pregnancy, your body makes more blood but keeps the same amount of red blood cells. This is sometimes called anemia of pregnancy. It is not considered abnormal unless your red blood cell count falls too low.
Iron-deficiency anemia. During pregnancy, your baby uses your red blood cells for growth and development, especially in the last 3 months of pregnancy. If you have extra red blood cells stored in your bone marrow before you get pregnant, your body can use those stores during pregnancy. Women who do not have enough iron stores can get iron-deficiency anemia. This is the most common type of anemia in pregnancy. Good nutrition before getting pregnant is important to help build up these stores.
Vitamin B12 deficiency. Vitamin B12 is important in making red blood cells and protein. Eating food that comes from animals, such as milk, eggs, meats, and poultry, can prevent vitamin B12 deficiency. Women who don't eat any foods that come from animals (vegans) are most likely to get vitamin B12 deficiency. Strict vegans often need to get vitamin B12 shots during pregnancy.
Folate deficiency. Folate (folic acid) is a B vitamin that works with iron to help with cell growth. If you don't get enough folate during pregnancy, you could get iron deficiency. Folic acid helps cut the risk of having a baby with certain birth defects of the brain and spinal cord if it is taken before getting pregnant and in early pregnancy.
Who is at risk for anemia during pregnancy?
Women are more likely to get anemia during pregnancy if they:
Are strict vegetarians or vegans. They are at greater risk of having a vitamin B12 deficiency.
Have celiac disease or Crohn's disease, or have had weight loss surgery where the stomach or part of the stomach has been removed
Women are more likely to get iron-deficiency anemia in pregnancy if they:
Have 2 pregnancies close together
Are pregnant with twins or more
Have frequent vomiting because of morning sickness
Are not getting enough iron from their diet and prenatal vitamins
Had heavy periods before pregnancy
What causes anemia during pregnancy?
You can get several kinds of anemia during pregnancy. The cause varies based on the type.
Anemia of pregnancy. During pregnancy, the volume of blood increases. This means more iron and vitamins are needed to make more red blood cells. If you don't have enough iron, it can cause anemia. It is not considered abnormal unless your red blood cell count falls too low.
Iron-deficiency anemia. During pregnancy, your baby uses your red blood cells for growth and development, especially in the last 3 months of pregnancy. If you have extra red blood cells stored in your bone marrow before you get pregnant, your body can use those stores during pregnancy. Women who do not have enough iron stores can get iron-deficiency anemia. This is the most common type of anemia in pregnancy. Good nutrition before getting pregnant is important to help build up these stores.
Vitamin B12 deficiency. Vitamin B12 is important in making red blood cells and protein. Eating food that comes from animals, such as milk, eggs, meats, and poultry, can prevent vitamin B12 deficiency. Women who don't eat any foods that come from animals (vegans) are most likely to get vitamin B12 deficiency. Strict vegans often need to get vitamin B12 shots during pregnancy.
Folate deficiency. Folate (folic acid) is a B vitamin that works with iron to help with cell growth. If you don't get enough folate during pregnancy, you could get iron deficiency. Folic acid helps cut the risk of having a baby with certain birth defects of the brain and spinal cord if it is taken before getting pregnant and in early pregnancy.
What are the symptoms of anemia during pregnancy?
You may not have clear symptoms of anemia during pregnancy unless your cell counts are very low. Symptoms may include:
Pale skin, lips, nails, palms of hands, or underside of the eyelids
Feeling tired
Sensation of spinning (vertigo) or dizziness
Labored breathing
Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia)
Trouble concentrating
The symptoms of anemia can be like other health conditions. Always see your healthcare provider for a diagnosis.
How is anemia during pregnancy diagnosed?
Your healthcare provider will check for anemia during your prenatal exams. It is usually found during a routine blood test. Other ways to check for anemia may include other blood tests such as:
Hemoglobin. This is the part of blood that carries oxygen from the lungs to tissues in the body.
Hematocrit. This measures the portion of red blood cells found in a certain amount of blood.
Treatments
Your healthcare provider will figure out the best treatment based on:
How old you are
Your overall health and health history
How well you can handle specific medicines, procedures, or therapies
Your opinion or preference
Treatment for iron deficiency anemia includes taking iron supplements. Some forms are time-released. Others must be taken several times each day. Taking iron with a citrus juice such as orange can help your body take it in. Taking antacids may make it harder for your body to take in iron. Iron supplements may cause nausea and cause stools to become dark greenish or black in color. They may also cause constipation.
What are the complications of anemia during pregnancy?
If you have anemia during pregnancy, your baby may not grow to a healthy weight, may arrive early (preterm birth), or have a low birth weight. Also being very tired may keep you from recovering as quickly after birth.
Can anemia during pregnancy be prevented?
Good pre-pregnancy nutrition not only helps prevent anemia, but also helps build other nutritional stores in your body. Eating a healthy, balanced diet before and during pregnancy helps keep up your levels of iron and other important nutrients needed for your growing baby.
Good food sources of iron include:
Meats. Beef, pork, lamb, liver, and other organ meats.
Poultry. Chicken, duck, turkey, and liver, especially dark meat.
Fish. Shellfish, including (fully-cooked) clams, mussels, and oysters are good. So are sardines and anchovies. The FDA recommends that pregnant women eat 8 to 12 ounces per week of fish that are lower in mercury. These include salmon, shrimp, pollock, cod, tilapia, tuna (light canned), and catfish. Don't eat fish with high levels of mercury such as tilefish from the Gulf of Mexico, shark, swordfish, and king mackerel. Limit white (albacore) tuna to only 6 ounces per week.
Leafy greens of the cabbage family. These include broccoli, kale, turnip greens, and collards.
Legumes. Lima beans and green peas; dry beans and peas, such as pinto beans, black-eyed peas, and canned baked beans.
Yeast-leavened whole-wheat bread and rolls
Iron-enriched white bread, pasta, rice, and cereals
Experts recommend all women of childbearing age and all women who are pregnant take vitamin supplements with at least 400 micrograms of folic acid. Folate is the form of folic acid found in food. Good sources are:
Leafy, dark green vegetables
Dried beans and peas
Citrus fruits and juices and most berries
Fortified breakfast cereals
Enriched grain products
Key points
Anemia is a condition of too few red blood cells.
Four kinds of anemia can happen during pregnancy: anemia of pregnancy, iron deficiency anemia, vitamin B12 deficiency, and folate deficiency.
Anemia may cause your baby to not grow to a healthy weight. Your baby may also arrive early (preterm birth) or have a low birth weight.
Anemia is usually found during a routine blood test for hemoglobin or hematocrit levels.
Treatment depends on the type of anemia and how bad it is.
Good nutrition is the best way to prevent anemia during pregnancy.
Next steps
Tips to help you get the most from a visit to your health care provider:
Before your visit, write down questions you want answered.
Bring someone with you to help you ask questions and remember what your provider tells you.
At the visit, write down the names of new medicines, treatments, or tests, and any new instructions your provider gives you.
If you have a follow-up appointment, write down the date, time, and purpose for that visit.
Know how you can contact your provider if you have questions.
See All Treatments
Treatments for Children - Anemia in pregnancy
Back to Condition
Healthy Eating
Medication
Symptoms and Screenings for Children - Anemia in pregnancy
Back to Overview
Causes and Preventions for Children - Anemia in pregnancy
Back to Overview
Education and Resources for Children - Anemia in pregnancy
Back to Overview
Support groups for Children - Anemia in pregnancy
Back to Overview
Learn More about Children - Anemia in pregnancy
Vidant Health can connect you to health care professionals to help you understand your condition and guide you through the treatment process. Let’s chat.
Live Chat
Upcoming events
See more
{{castDate(item.EventStartDate) | date:'MMM'}}
{{castDate(item.EventStartDate) | date:'dd'}}
{{item.EventName}}
{{item.EventSummary}}
©2019 Vidant Health. All rights reserved.
Sitemap Disclaimer ACA Nondiscrimination Notice Notice of Privacy Practices
Accessibility Statement
Find A Doctor
Request medical records
Log in to MyChart
Pay my bill
Pricing Transparency
About Vidant Health
Voices of Vidant
News
Events
Careers
Team members
Clinical students
Center for Research and Grants
Vendors
Media
Contact us
Get driving directions
Medical Center Map