Onzetra Xsail - Sumatriptan Nasal Powder | The Medical Letter, Inc.
Friday, April 19, 2019
Login/Register Subscribe | Donate | Search
Essential to your practice
Search
Not a subscriber
My Account
My Orders
Logout
The Medical Letter on Drugs and Therapeutics
FROM
ISSUE
1499
July 18, 2016
View Complete Issue Table of Contents 2016
Onzetra Xsail - Sumatriptan Nasal Powder
Subscribers: Log in to read full article. Not a subscriber? Subscribe or purchase article.
July 18, 2016 (Issue: 1499)
The FDA has approved Onzetra Xsail (Avanir), a nasal powder formulation of sumatriptan, for acute treatment of migraine in adults. Nasal spray formulations of sumatriptan (Imitrex) and zolmitriptan (Zomig) have been available for many years.
SUMATRIPTAN FORMULATIONS — Subcutaneously administered sumatriptan relieves pain faster (in about 10 minutes) and more effectively than other triptan formulations, but it causes more adverse effects.1,2 With oral sumatriptan, onset of pain relief generally occurs 45-60 minutes after administration, but patients with migraine who have nausea, vomiting, or gastroparesis may not be able to take or absorb an oral triptan.3 Sumatriptan nasal spray formulations have a more rapid onset of action than oral tablets, but their efficacy also depends on GI absorption (of the significant ... more
Show References Hide References
Drugs for migraine. Treat Guidel Med Lett 2013; 11:107.
CJ Derry et al. Sumatriptan (all routes of administration) for acute migraine attacks in adults – overview of Cochrane reviews. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2014; 5:CD009108.
SD Silberstein and DA Marcus. Sumatriptan: treatment across the full spectrum of migraine. Expert Opin Pharmacother 2013; 14:1659.
M Obaidi et al. Improved pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan with breath powered nasal delivery of sumatriptan powder. Headache 2013; 53:1323.
RK Cady et al. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of breath powered nasal delivery of sumatriptan powder (AVP-825) in the treatment of acute migraine (The TARGET Study). Headache 2015; 55:88.
SJ Tepper et al. AVP-825 breath-powered intranasal delivery system containing 22 mg sumatriptan powder vs 100 mg oral sumatriptan in the acute treatment of migraines (the COMPASS study): a comparative randomized clinical trial across multiple attacks. Headache 2015; 55:621.
The Medical Letter is a subscriber-funded nonprofit organization that publishes critical appraisals of new prescription drugs and comparative reviews of drugs for common diseases.
Would you like to read the rest of this article? Gain access below.
Subscribe
Subscriptions to The Medical Letter on Drugs and Therapeutics include:
Print version published and mailed biweekly (26 issues/year)
Unlimited online access to current and past issues (1988 - present)
Mobile App for iOS, Android, and Kindle Fire
FREE online per issue CME/CE
Subscribe
Purchase this article:
Title: Onzetra Xsail - Sumatriptan Nasal Powder
Article code: 1499b
Electronic, downloadable article - $45
Add to cart
Gain access through your organization
Ask your librarian to consider an Institutional Subscription to The Medical Letter.
Recommend to your librarian
THE MEDICAL LETTER
Current Issue
Previous Issues
The Medical Letter
Treatment Guidelines
La Lettre Médicale
Reference Tables
Most Read Articles
Purchase Single Article
Sample Issues
Free Trial
ABOUT US
Our Mission
Reader Testimonials
SUBSCRIPTIONS & PRODUCTS
The Medical Letter
Continuing Education
Exams
Drugs of Choice
Drug Interactions
Site Licenses
Content Licensing
Mobile App
RECOMMEND TO YOUR LIBRARY
CONTACT US
© 2019 The Medical Letter, Inc. FAQs Site Map Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Contact Us Corrections & Clarifications Follow us: