12 L-Theanine Benefits (Anxiety, Sleep) + Dosage, Side Effects - Selfhacked
Home
Start Here
Posts
Biohacking Science
Miscellaneous
Mitochondria
Neuroscience
Transcription Factors
Conditions
Anti-aging
Autoimmunity
Blood Sugar
Brain
Gut
Heart Health
Histamine intolerance
Infections
Inflammation
Mold
Thyroid
Weight loss
Healthy Living
Detox
Devices
Diet
Fitness
Holistic Interventions
How-to
Sleep/Circadian Rhythm
Stress Reduction
Substances
Amino Acids
Fats
Foods
Herbs
Nutrients
Probiotics
Supplements (other)
Testing
Blood Tests
Cytokines
Genetics
Hormones
About
Genetics
VIP Login
Store
Search for an Article
Search
Selfhacked
Home
Start Here
Posts
Biohacking Science
AllMiscellaneousMitochondriaNeuroscienceTranscription Factors
Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Function
Too Much Norepinephrine: Symptoms & How to Lower It
How to Increase Norepinephrine + Deficiency Symptoms
Norepinephrine Function, Effects, Synthesis & Receptors
6 Oxaloacetate Benefits (incl. Brain Protection) + Side Effects
Catalase Enzyme: Function, Benefits, Supplements
View all
Conditions
AllAnti-agingAutoimmunityBlood SugarBrainGutHeart HealthHistamine intoleranceInfectionsInflammationMoldThyroidWeight loss
9 Chicory Root Fiber, Coffee & Extract Benefits + Side Effects
10 Impressive Bentonite Clay Benefits (incl. Detox) + Dangers
10 Luteolin Benefits + Foods & Supplement Side Effects
Too Much Norepinephrine: Symptoms & How to Lower It
How to Increase Norepinephrine + Deficiency Symptoms
Norepinephrine Function, Effects, Synthesis & Receptors
View all
Healthy Living
AllDetoxDevicesDietFitnessHolistic InterventionsHow-toSleep/Circadian RhythmStress Reduction
5 Ornithine Benefits (incl. Sleep) + Side Effects
7 Benefits of Hemp Seeds + Nutrition & Side Effects
HMB Supplement Benefits + Side Effects, Dosage & Reviews
10 Impressive Bentonite Clay Benefits (incl. Detox) + Dangers
Alkaline Water Hype vs. Potential Benefits & Side Effects
10 Trehalose Health Benefits + Uses, Dangers & Side Effects
View all
Substances
AllAmino AcidsFatsFoodsHerbsNutrientsProbioticsSupplements (other)
11 Chinese Skullcap Benefits (incl. Hair Loss) + Side Effects
11 Anise Seed Benefits + How to Use the Oil, Extract & Tea
Armour Thyroid Dosage, Side Effects, Reviews
6 Benefits of Passion Fruit (Maracuya) & How to Eat It
Laetrile (Vitamin B17, Amygdalin) Benefits, Foods & Fallacies
5 Ornithine Benefits (incl. Sleep) + Side Effects
View all
Testing
AllBlood TestsCytokinesGeneticsHormones
Armour Thyroid Dosage, Side Effects, Reviews
Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone (GnRH) Function
Levothyroxine Uses, Side Effects, Dosage + Thyroid Support
Too Much Norepinephrine: Symptoms & How to Lower It
How to Increase Norepinephrine + Deficiency Symptoms
Norepinephrine Function, Effects, Synthesis & Receptors
View all
About
Genetics
VIP Login
Store
Nootropics
12 L-Theanine Benefits (Anxiety, Sleep) + Dosage, Side Effects
By Maja Stanojevic, MD
Reviewed By Dr. Nattha Wannissorn, PhD
Last updated: April 22, 2019
Evidence Based
4/5
14
Our team comprises of trained MDs, PhDs, pharmacists, qualified scientists, and certified health and wellness specialists. We are dedicated to providing unbiased, comprehensive, objective information on any given topic.
Note that each “R” in parentheses [R, R, etc.] is a clickable link to peer-reviewed scientific studies. “R+” means that the information is found within the full scientific study rather than the abstract.
L-Theanine is an amino acid commonly found in tea. Theanine, together with caffeine, produce a distinct cognitive enhancement profile without the jitters or other side effects. In addition, theanine has many other surprising health benefits. Read this post to learn more about the health benefits of theanine.
What is L-Theanine?
Theanine is an amino acid that is mostly found in tea leaves and fungi (R).
It is used to help improve mood and lower stress, and to protect the brain and heart (R).
Theanine usually refers to L-Theanine, which has more health benefits compared to D-Theanine.
Health Benefits of Theanine
1) It Reduces Anxiety and Stress
After participants took L-Theanine, they performed mental tasks. Compared to the patients who took a placebo, they had lower stress symptoms, along with reduced heart rates and blood pressure (R, R).
Daily supplementation in schizophrenic patients leads to reduced anxiety (R).
It also promoted relaxation in healthy patients (R, R).
Supplemental doses of theanine that promote relaxation do not cause sedation (R).
In addition, theanine may also have stimulating effects when given at smaller doses, doses that are less than half the doses that promote relaxation (R).
2) It Improves Brain Function
L-Theanine supplementation helps increase attention and improve memory.
In men and women who suffered from minor brain damage, a combination of L-Theanine and green tea extract improved memory during a mental exercise. It did so by increasing delayed recognition during a memory test (R).
The subjects’ attention span and alertness increased during the memory test as well (R).
An improvement in attention has also been noted in healthy people who are prone to anxiety (R).
3) It Reduces Negative Effects of Caffeine and Improves Its Cognitive-Enhancing Effects
Theanine and caffeine are typically found together in tea. A combination of caffeine and theanine together significantly improves alertness, reduce fatigue, and improves task-switching accuracy (R).
High dose caffeine (250 mg, equivalent to 2.5 cups of coffee) has some negative effects, such as jitters and increased blood pressure. Theanine was able to mitigate the increase in blood pressure (R).
L-Theanine decreases the negative and jittery effects of caffeine in rats (R).
However, human studies found that L-Theanine helps reduce caffeine jitters, although the changes were not significant (R, R).
L-Theanine changes the pharmacological profile of caffeine in humans, as the combination of caffeine and L-Theanine have somewhat different cognitive enhancement effects. (R)
4) It Protects the Heart and Blood Vessels
Theanine improves blood vessel function by increasing nitric oxide production (R, R).
It also prevents fat peroxidation of LDL (low-density lipoprotein), which reduces the risks of hardening of the arteries (R).
Theanine also decreased blood pressure in hypertensive rats (R, R).
5) It is an Antioxidant
The L-Theanine in tea exerts a dose-dependent antioxidant effect (R).
It also restored the antioxidant capability of liver cells, which helps prevent liver injuries (R).
In rats, it dose-dependently decreased oxidative damage and stopped inflammation (R).
6) It Increases Sleep Quality
ADHD may cause sleep disturbances. Boys who took two 200 mg doses of L-Theanine daily for six weeks had a higher quality of sleep compared to ones who took a placebo (R).
They had higher sleep percentages and better sleep efficiency. Supplementation also decreased the amount of time the participants were awake during the night after sleep started (R).
7) It Reduces Symptoms of Schizophrenia
Taking 400 mg daily for eight weeks resulted in less schizophrenic symptoms. The patients reported lower anxiety, less sensory complaints, and fewer muscle problems (R).
8) It May Enhance Th1 Immunity and Combat Stress-Related Weakened Immunity
Theanine may boost the activity of T cells that protect against infection and tumors (R, R). Theanine shifts the Th1/Th2 balance towards Th1 (R).
The study showed that tea drinkers, when compared to coffee drinkers, had increased production of cytokines by T cells (R).
High cortisol generally suppresses the Th1 immune system and stimulates the Th2 immune system. In the presence of stress, theanine helps to reverse this trend. Theanine decreased suppression of the immune system and inflammation caused by high cortisol from endurance exercise (R, R).
Theanine may help with allergies. It decreased the production of IgE and histamine release from mast cells (R, R).
Studies showed that theanine intake prevents the flu and common cold (R, R, R).
Theanine intake also alleviates inflammation and promotes recovery after surgery (R, R).
9) It Works As an Adjunctive Cancer Treatment
Theanine enhanced anti-tumor effects of cancer-killing drugs (R, R).
It also reduced the toxicity of these drugs to healthy tissues (R, R, R).
Theanine decreased growth and migration of liver and lung cancer cells (R, R).
10) It May Reduce Symptoms of Depression
In an open-label study, L-Theanine intake for eight weeks helped with depressive symptoms, anxiety, sleep disturbance, and cognitive impairments in patients with major depressive disorder (R).
11) It Helps with Weight Loss
Theanine, along with other components of green tea, reduced triglyceride and fatty acid levels in the blood. The food intake and body weight decreased in the mice given theanine (R).
12) It May Heal Stomach Ulcers
L-Theanine healed stomach ulcers at a dose of 10 mg/kg body weight, but aggravated ulcers at a higher dose of 40 mg/kg body weight (R).
It alleviated the adverse effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs as an antioxidant and by stimulating prostaglandin E production(R).
How Does Theanine Work?
Theanine is able to cross the blood-brain barrier and affect the brain directly. In the brain, it targets brain chemicals that regulate arousal, anxiety, pleasure, and attention (R).
When administered to rats in the stomach, theanine is found in the blood after one hour, peaks in the brain at five hours, and is completely eliminated at 24 hours (R).
L-Theanine increases brain serotonin and dopamine levels, with possible improvement in memory and learning (R, R).
It also increases the levels as well as the effectiveness of GABA, the body’s main inhibitory neurotransmitter (R).
Theanine also increases alpha brain wave activity, which causes mental relaxation, concentration, and deep REM sleep (R, R, R).
L-Theanine increases glutathione levels, the body’s most important antioxidant molecule (R).
L-Theanine and caffeine in combination are beneficial for improving performance on cognitively demanding tasks (R).
Technical
L-Theanine increases brain serotonin, dopamine, and GABA levels with possible improvement in memory and learning (R, R)
Theanine exerts neuroprotective effects possibly through inactivation of group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (R).
L-Theanine promotes the release of alpha waves related to mental relaxation and concentration in young adults.
Natural Sources of Theanine
Tea leaves (R, R)
Japanese Camellia (green tea) (R)
Bay Bolete mushroom (R)
Side Effects of L-Theanine
In animal studies, oral intake of L-Theanine did not produce toxic effects even at very high doses (R).
However, when taking theanine supplements, you should pay attention to your use of other drugs.
Theanine can lower blood pressure. If you take medication for blood pressure, your blood pressure might go too low.
It can also lower the effectiveness of stimulant medications.
L-Theanine Dosage
The appropriate dosage depends on the user’s age and health.
My Experience with Theanine and Recommendation
Theanine is relaxing for me, but not too sedating. It’s a good relaxer that doesn’t decrease cognitive performance.
I find that 50 to 200 mg of theanine taken daily provides optimal health benefits (R).
Buy Theanine
Amazon or iHerb
This section contains sponsored links, which means that we may receive a small percentage of profit from your purchase, while the price remains the same to you. The proceeds from your purchase support our research and work. Thank you for your support.
Maja Stanojevic, MD
RATE THIS ARTICLE
(139 votes, average: 4.04 out of 5)
Loading...
FDA Compliance
The information on this website has not been evaluated by the Food & Drug Administration or any other medical body. We do not aim to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease. Information is shared for educational purposes only. You must consult your doctor before acting on any content on this website, especially if you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition.
Contents
What is L-Theanine?
Health Benefits of Theanine
1) It Reduces Anxiety and Stress
2) It Improves Brain Function
3) It Reduces Negative Effects of Caffeine and Improves Its Cognitive-Enhancing Effects
4) It Protects the Heart and Blood Vessels
5) It is an Antioxidant
6) It Increases Sleep Quality
7) It Reduces Symptoms of Schizophrenia
8) It May Enhance Th1 Immunity and Combat Stress-Related Weakened Immunity
9) It Works As an Adjunctive Cancer Treatment
10) It May Reduce Symptoms of Depression
11) It Helps with Weight Loss
12) It May Heal Stomach Ulcers
How Does Theanine Work?
Technical
Natural Sources of Theanine
Side Effects of L-Theanine
L-Theanine Dosage
My Experience with Theanine and Recommendation
Buy Theanine
Joe Cohen, CEO
About Joe
Joe Cohen won the genetic lottery of bad genes. As a kid, he suffered from inflammation, brain fog, fatigue, digestive problems, anxiety, depression, and other issues that were poorly understood in both conventional and alternative medicine.
Read More
Comments
Meritorious April 4, 2019at 7:28 am
L-Theanine seems to “balance” the nerve system’s response to freaking out, psychological stressors and many other stress factors as it feels like it “masks over” the previously increased stressor senses and the overall “sensing” of post-stress reactions has decreased by 80%, even if I get a repeated unwanted though and it slightly elevates a fight or flight response it like “goes down” just in few seconds.
It is also harder to get slightly depressed or disturbed. I feel calm in a concentrated and relaxed way.
Intermittent Fasting reduces the initial onset and strength of reaction to stress and L-Theanine reduces the post-stress symptoms and manifestations and feelings, therefore I think if you take a nerve supplement that has L-Theanine in it while in a fasted state you become invincible to stressor responses, I am going to try this out in my next Sunday/Saturday eating window and at an exam day.
Lois October 20, 2018at 5:09 am
400 mg of theanine in my morning coffee and before bed has me focusing better during the day and finally sleeping at night. Love this.
Korona Mascrenhas October 7, 2018at 9:02 pm
I have experienced along with the beneficiary effects….over sleep and fast weight loses…
peter lami July 12, 2018at 10:05 am
L theanine,naturilizes the calmness of daily living,without ANY drug type feelings! I take a
200 mlg. Capsule dose every 3 or 4 days. It is the best of the best!! For overall well-being
Shari June 15, 2018at 10:12 am
So L-Theanine with caffine is the recipe? (Green Tea?)
I get up @ 4am for work everyday How much in morning or should I wait till later in day?
Up 2 or 3 times a nite?
Tony April 17, 2018at 7:41 pm
Anyone else experiencing tolerance when taking 100mg of L-Theanine daily for more than a week?
Tony April 17, 2018at 7:39 pm
Yes, Suntheanine is the prefered type.
Nick January 12, 2018at 3:52 pm
I take L theanine whenever I consume caffeine and the end results have been fantastic. I am more focused and my attention span is much much better. I am going to continue to take this supplement because L theanine is fantastic!
Rosalee Adams October 4, 2017at 10:42 am
I began taking 200mg midmorning and now take 200mg 1 hour before bed with 1mg melatonin. The change was gradual but has been remarkable in stress reduction and enhancing my mood and much better quality sleep at night……able to get to sleep and stay asleep (both problems before I began the theanine regiment)
So grateful that my naturopath recommended it.
Buks Terblanche September 22, 2017at 5:17 am
I have nerve damage and pain every day and 50mg L-theanine and 500mg of slow release magnesium is the only, only, only thing that helps with my pain Stres and 24/7 muscle twitching.It helps! IT HELPS! NO DR DRUGS HAVE EVER HELP ME WITH MY MUSCLE TWITCHING AND PAIN AND STRES.ON A VERY BAD DAY I TAKE 150mg of L-theanine AND 25MG B6 AND 1000MG OF SLOW RELEASE MAGNESIUM. IT HELP WITH MY STRES, PAIN, MUSCLE TWITCHING, MODE AND MEMORY. I THANK GOD FOR L-THEANINE
Phill H. September 5, 2017at 1:54 am
I wonder if l-theanine is even appropriate for me.?.
I do have some anxiety & stress, drink a couple cups of coffee
in a.m., & sleep well. Why, when, & at what dose would this
benefit me? Sincerely, Phill
P.S. Is suntheanine the preferred type?
Phif August 20, 2017at 4:03 pm
This supplement is great! i Used to use Ritalin for my a.d.d disorder and now i just use L theanine. This is really a life saver. I feel focus and with no anxiety. Although Ritalin did help me stay focus i did felt slight anxious when it was wearing off. With L theanine there is no wearing off with no anxiousness just calmness and focus
JBr October 21, 2018at 10:51 am
may I ask what dosage you’re taking? Thank you 🙂
bob July 26, 2017at 4:08 am
If I wake up during the night…a 100 mg cap of l-theanine will usually allow sleep and sleeping later.
Using a Fitbit Charge 2 which monitors sleep levels…i usually see longer deep sleep times after taking this. More deep sleep usually results in a more rested feeling after awakening.
Add Comment CANCEL
Please enter your comment!
Your email
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
Name
Please enter your name here
Notify me of replies via email
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Related Articles
VIEW ALL
Drugs
5
0
Atomoxetine (Strattera) Mechanism + Side Effects & 7 Natural Alternatives
Supplements (other)
5
7
12 Creatine Benefits + Dosage & Side Effects
Nootropics
4.7
0
4 Oxiracetam Benefits + Side Effects, Dosage, Reviews
What do your genes tell you about your health?
Align your health hacks with your genes for optimal health & cognitive function.
Check out SelfDecode Now
Why did you dislike this article?
Science is not accurate Not interesting Not what I was looking for Not written well Not thorough Grammar / Spelling Too difficult to understand Titles / Headings are misleading Other
Submit
Navigation
Home
Start Here
Posts
About
Genetics
VIP Login
Store
Disclaimer
Careers
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact us
Contact Us
[email protected]
Follow Us
Join SelfHacked today and start the journey of improving your life
I'm most interested in...Overcoming brain fogBoosting energy and overcoming fatigueOvercoming inflammation and autoimmunityOptimal health and longevityBalancing hormones and metabolismBiohacking/Becoming superhumanAll of the above
SUBSCRIBE
Thank you for subscribing!
Invalid email. Please enter a valid email address.
Processing...
Yes, sign me up for marketing emails from SelfHacked. For more information on how we use your information check out our Privacy Policy. You can change your mind at any time by unsubscibing
SelfHacked © 2016 – 2019 All Rights Reserved
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();