6 Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil - PURAVEDA ORGANICS BLOG
Menu
PURAVEDA ORGANICS BLOG
Home
Skin Care
Sun & Body
Hair Care
Our Products
PURAVEDA ORGANICS BLOG
6 Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil
Posted on May 20, 2018 January 13, 2019
Thousands of years ago, Native Americans used to soak the roots of Evening Primrose plants in warm water to make a poultice that was used to cure everything from wounds and bruises, to eczema and allergies, sore throats and even infertility and hemorrhoids! Today, the benefits of this amazing botanical are being utilized in skincare and haircare products in the form of rejuvenating night creams, antiaging facial serums and toners, shampoos & conditioners and more…
The Therapeutic Attributes of Evening Primrose
Evening Primrose (Oenothera biennis) is a hardy wildflower found in dry and sunny meadows, whose seeds, in particular, have countless medicinal properties for improved skin and hair, as well as women’s hormonal health.
Our body needs a hormone called PGE1 which has a wide range of beneficial effects and Gamma Linolenic Acid (GLA) is needed as a precursor to it. Our body cannot synthesize GLA on its own, so it needs to be obtained from outside sources such as Borage Seed Oil, Evening Primrose, and Black Current Oil. The oil extracted from the seeds of Evening Primrose has rich sources of cis- GLA content which helps in regulating the production of prostaglandins (hormone-like substances)/ PGE1.
To be specific, Evening Primrose Oil contains 70% of cis-linolenic acid and 6 to 8% of cis-g-linolenic acid. The oil extracted from high-quality crops and through cold pressed method, can give a yield of ~10-11% GLA.
Evening Primrose Oil is rich in Omega 3 and Omega 6 fatty acids, which helps in the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, and K) and minerals.
Skin & Hair Benefits of Evening Primrose Oil
1) Clears Acne Flare-Ups
In a study, it was found that GLA supplementation can help reduce inflammatory and non- inflammatory acne lesions. The Omega 6 fatty acids in Evening Primrose help regulate oily skin caused by hormonal imbalance. It also plays a role in improving cell structure and nerve function helping to eradicate acne-causing bacteria and infection.
2) Anti-Aging
A group of Canadian researchers recently identified an antioxidant compound known as Catechins (a type of flavonoid) in Evening Primrose Oil that helps counteract the negative effects of oxidation on skin tissues. It is also one of the best botanicals to combat age-related skin tissue changes such as redness, roughness, loss of firmness and fatigue resistance. And so, here at PuraVeda Organics, it has found a place in our BioScience Peptide Complex formula to help reduce fine lines, wrinkles, dark circles and puffy eyes.
3) Treats Sunburns
Overexposure to the sun not only ages your skin faster, but it can also play a part in the development of melanoma and skin cancer. Exposure to UVB causes several skin changes and the release of inflammatory chemicals that can result in characteristic redness, swelling, and blistering of Sunburn. With an SPF of 6, Evening Primrose along with Carrot Seed Oil (with high SPF of 38-40) often are used in organic sunscreen formulas.
4) Reduces Hair Loss
Evening Primrose Oil with its high omega content can also help reduce the sensitivity of your hair follicles towards Androgens, particularly a male hormone called 5ἁ-Dihydrotestosterone or DHT, which causes shrinkage of hair follicles leading to hair thinning in women and characteristic male pattern baldness in men.
5) Eases Eczema and Atopic Dermatitis
Eczema is triggered due to an inflammatory allergic response to certain foods, chemicals, perfumes, soaps and other substances that can cause dry, itchy and red skin which often blisters and cracks. Studies show that Eczema is often caused due to the deficiency of GLA and Omega 6 fatty acid content which helps our body to reduce inflammation. Evening Primrose Oil shows promising results to give you relief from skin conditions such as Eczema, Rosacea, and Atopic Dermatitis with it’s painful and annoying symptoms of itching, redness, and edema.
6) Treats Psoriasis
When skin cells multiply faster than normal, it can cause your skin to develop scaly patches or psoriatic plaques. The areas of inflammation and excess skin production can be treated with diet, hormonal re-balancing and regular application of moisturizing skin treatments containing Omega-6 fatty acid rich ingredients such as Evening Primrose and Borage Seed Oil.
NOW THAT YOU KNOW THE AMAZING BENEFITS OF EVENING PRIMROSE OIL, COME SHOP OUR PRODUCTS FOR THE BEST SKIN & HAIR OF YOUR LIFE!
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search for:
Sign up for our Newsletter for the Latest in Skin and Hair Care, Beauty Fixes, and Fantastic Exclusive Newsletter-only Weekly Discounts. Sign-Up!
Our goal is to provide compelling reasons why Organic, Toxin-Free Botanically based products are not just the ‘Healthy’ choice, but also the most EFFECTIVE choice. Choosing products with clinically proven natural ingredients in proper concentration is the fastest path to more beautiful Skin and Hair!
Recent Comments
Kimberly on Do ‘On the Spot Treatments’ Work for your Acne?
Mikkel on SO WHAT’S WRONG WITH CETYL (OR CETEARYL) ALCOHOL?
Recent Posts
The Benefits of Organic Sunflower Seeds for Skin and Hair
How to Care for the Fragile Skin around your Eyes
Exclusive Interview with Skin Therapist and Esthetician, Mikkel Støve
Collagen – The Protein Matrix of Youthful Skin
Treating Hyperpigmentation and Uneven Skin Tone Naturally with ‘DevaBright’
Where have you seen us
Ayurvedic skin care products
Organic hair and skin products
Organic Anti-Aging Products
Organic sunscreen
Organic haircare products
Natural blemish treatment
Organic face wash for rosacea
Organic cleanser
©2019 PURAVEDA ORGANICS BLOG