Hindustanlink.com: Health Care Blog » Know about VITAMIN D
Hindustanlink.com: Health Care Blog
Hindustalink.com Health Care Blog, Healthcare issues & problems, diseases, health care resources, care tips
Know about VITAMIN D
Vitamin D is a vitamin. It can be found in small amounts in a few foods, including fatty fish such as herring, mackerel, sardines and tuna. To make vitamin D more available, it is added to dairy products, juices, and cereals that are then said to be “fortified with vitamin D.” But most vitamin D – 80% to 90% of what the body gets – is obtained through exposure to sunlight. Vitamin D can also be made in the laboratory as medicine.
Vitamin D is used for preventing and treating rickets, a disease that is caused by not having enough vitamin D (vitamin D deficiency). Vitamin D is also used for treating weak bones (osteoporosis), bone pain (osteomalacia), bone loss in people with a condition called hyperparathyroidism, and an inherited disease (osteogenesis imperfecta) in which the bones are especially brittle and easily broken. It is also used for preventing falls and fractures in people at risk for osteoporosis, and preventing low calcium and bone loss (renal osteodystrophy) in people with kidney failure.
Vitamin D is used for conditions of the heart and blood vessels, including high blood pressure and high cholesterol. It is also used for diabetes, obesity, muscle weakness, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, bronchitis, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), and tooth and gum disease.
Some people use vitamin D for skin conditions including vitiligo, scleroderma, psoriasis, actinic keratosis, and lupus vulgaris.
It is also used for boosting the immune system, preventing autoimmune diseases, and preventing cancer.
Because vitamin D is involved in regulating the levels of minerals such as phosphorous and calcium, it is used for conditions caused by low levels of phosphorous (familial hypophosphatemia and Fanconi syndrome) and low levels of calcium (hypoparathyroidism and pseudohypoparathyroidism).
Vitamin D in forms known as calcitriol or calcipotriene is applied directly to the skin for a particular type of psoriasis.
How does it work?
Vitamin D is required for the regulation of the minerals calcium and phosphorus found in the body. It also plays an important role in maintaining proper bone structure.
Sun exposure is an easy, reliable way for most people to get vitamin D. Exposure of the hands, face, arms, and legs to sunlight two to three times a week for about one-fourth of the time it would take to develop a mild sunburn will cause the skin to produce enough vitamin D. The necessary exposure time varies with age, skin type, season, time of day, etc.
It’s amazing how quickly adequate levels of vitamin D can be restored by sunlight. Just 6 days of casual sunlight exposure without sunscreen can make up for 49 days of no sunlight exposure. Body fat acts like a kind of storage battery for vitamin D. During periods of sunlight, vitamin D is stored in fatty fat and then released when sunlight is gone.
Older people are also at risk for vitamin D deficiency. They are less likely to spend time in the sun, have fewer “receptors” in their skin that convert sunlight to vitamin D, may not get vitamin D in their diet, may have trouble absorbing vitamin D even if they do get it in their diet, and may have more trouble converting dietary vitamin D to a useful form due to aging kidneys. In fact, the risk for vitamin D deficiency in people over 65 years of age is very high.
Vitamin D supplements may be necessary for older people, people living in northern latitudes, and for dark-skinned people who need extra time in the sun, but don’t get it.
VITAMIN D USES & EFFECTIVENESS
Effective for:
Low levels of phosphate in the blood due to an inherited disorder called familial hypophosphatemia. Taking vitamin D (calcitriol or dihydrotachysterol) by mouth along with phosphate supplements is effective for treating bone disorders in people with low levels of phosphate in the blood.
Low levels of phosphate in the blood due to a disease called Fanconi syndrome. Taking vitamin D (ergocalciferol) by mouth is effective for treating low levels of phosphate in the blood due to a disease called Fanconi syndrome.
Low blood calcium levels due to low parathyroid hormone levels. Low levels of parathyroid hormone can cause calcium levels to become too low. Taking vitamin D (dihydrotachysterol, calcitriol, or ergocalciferol) by mouth is effective for increasing calcium blood levels in people with low parathyroid hormone levels.
Softening of the bones (osteomalacia). Taking vitamin D (cholecalciferol) is effective for treating softening of the bones. Also, taking vitamin D (calcifediol) is effective for treating softening of the bones due to liver disease. In addition, taking vitamin D (ergocalciferol) is effective for treating softening of the bones caused by medications or poor absorption syndromes.
Psoriasis. Applying vitamin D or calcipotriene (a synthetic form of vitamin D) to the skin treats psoriasis in some people. Applying vitamin D to the skin together with cream containing drugs called corticosteroids seems to be more effective for treating psoriasis than using just vitamin D or the corticosteroid creams alone.
A bone disorder called renal osteodystrophy, which occurs in people with kidney failure. Taking vitamin D (calcifediol) by mouth manages low calcium levels and prevents bone loss in people with kidney failure. However, vitamin D does not appear to reduce the risk of death or bone pain in people with kidney failure.
Rickets. Vitamin D is effective for preventing and treating rickets. A specific form of vitamin D, calcitriol, should be used in people with kidney failure.
Vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D is effective for preventing and treating vitamin D deficiency.
Likely Effective for:
Bone loss in people taking drugs called corticosteroids. Taking vitamin D (calcifediol, cholecalciferol, calcitriol, or alfacalcidol) by mouth prevents bone loss in people taking drugs called corticosteroids. Taking vitamin D alone or with calcium seems to improve bone density in people with existing bone loss caused by using corticosteroids.
Preventing falls in older people. Researchers have observed that people who do not have enough vitamin D tend to fall more often than people who do. Taking a vitamin D supplement seems to reduce the risk of falling by up to 22%. Higher doses of vitamin D are more effective than lower doses. One study found that taking 800 IU of vitamin D reduced the risk of falling, but lower doses did not.
Also, vitamin D, in combination with calcium, but not calcium alone, may prevent falls by decreasing body sway and blood pressure. Taking vitamin D plus calcium seems to prevent falls more significantly in women than men and in older people living in hospitals or residential care facilities than those living in community dwellings.
Osteoporosis (weak bones). Taking a specific form of vitamin D called cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) along with calcium seems to help prevent bone loss and bone breaks.
Possibly Effective for:
Cancer. Some research shows that people who take a high-dose vitamin D supplement plus calcium might have a lower risk of developing certain types of cancer. However, taking vitamin D alone does not appear to reduce the risk of cancer.
Cavities. Research suggests that taking vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) reduces the risk of cavities by 49% and vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol) reduces the risk by 36% in infants, children and adolescents.
Bone loss caused by having too much parathyroid hormone (hyperparathyroidism). Taking vitamin D (cholecalciferol) by mouth seems to reduce parathyroid hormone levels and bone loss in women with a condition called hyperparathyroidism.
Multiple sclerosis (MS). Research shows that taking vitamin D can reduce the risk of developing MS in women by up to 40%. Taking at least 400 IU daily, the amount typically found in a multivitamin supplement, seems to work the best.
Respiratory infections. Research in school aged children shows that taking a vitamin D supplement during winter might reduce the chance of developing seasonal flu. Other research suggests that taking a vitamin D supplement might reduce the chance of an asthma attack triggered by a cold or other respiratory infection. Some additional research suggests that children with low levels of vitamin D have a higher chance of developing a respiratory infection such as the common cold or flu. However, most research suggests that vitamin D might only have an effect on respiratory infections in children. It does not appear to provide the same benefits in adults.
Rheumatoid arthritis. Research suggests that older women who consume more vitamin D from foods or supplements tend to have a lower risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis.
Tooth loss. Taking calcium and vitamin D by mouth appears to prevent tooth loss in elderly people.
Weight loss. Research shows that people with lower vitamin D levels are more likely to be obese than those with higher levels. Women taking calcium plus vitamin D are more likely to lose weight and maintain their weight. However, this benefit is mainly in women who did not consume enough calcium before they started taking supplements.
Possibly Ineffective for:
Breast cancer. Evidence on the effects of vitamin D on breast cancer risk is inconsistent. The best evidence comes from a large study called the Women’s Health Initiative, which found that taking 400 IU of vitamin D and 1000 mg of calcium per day does not lower the chance of getting breast cancer when taken by postmenopausal women. However, the possibility remains that high doses of vitamin D might lower breast cancer risk in younger women.
Muscle strength. Taking vitamin D (cholecalciferol) by mouth daily does not increase muscle strength or improve physicical performance in healthy older men who are not vitamin D deficient.
Bone loss in people with kidney transplants. Taking vitamin D (calcitriol) daily together with calcium carbonate does not decrease bone loss in people with kidney transplants.
Tuberculosis. Vitamin D does not appear to help cure tuberculosis infections.
Insufficient Evidence for:
Asthma. Some research suggests that people with asthma are more likely to have low vitamin D levels. In children with asthma, taking a vitamin D supplement might reduce the chance of an asthma attack during a cold or other respiratory infection. However, it is too soon to know if taking a vitamin D supplement can prevent or treat asthma symptoms.
Heart disease. Research suggests that people with low levels of vitamin D in their blood are more likely to develop heart disease, including heart failure, than people with higher vitamin D levels. However, taking vitamin D does not seem to extend the life of people with heart failure.
Kidney disease. Research suggests that vitamin D decreases parathyroid hormone levels in people with chronic kidney disease. However, taking vitamin D does not appear to lower the risk of death in people with kidney disease.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Some research shows that people with COPD have lower than normal vitamin D levels. However, there is not enough information to know if taking a vitamin D supplement can decrease symptoms of COPD.
Mental function. Research shows that vitamin D levels are not linked to improved or worsened mental function.
Colorectal cancer. It is not clear if vitamin D might benefit colorectal cancer. Some research shows that calcium intake is linked with a reduced risk of developing colorectal cancer. However, this effect is not seen in people with low vitamin D levels, indicating that vitamin D might be an important factor. However, other research suggests that taking vitamin D with calcium is not associated with a lower risk of colorectal cancer.
Diabetes. Research shows that people with lower vitamin D levels are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes compared to people with higher vitamin D levels. However, there is no reliable evidence that taking vitamin D supplements can treat or prevent type 2 diabetes. Early evidence suggests that giving vitamin D supplements to infants daily during the first year of life is linked to a lower risk of developing type 1 diabetes later in life.
Heart failure. Some research suggests that people with low vitamin D levels have an increased risk of developing heart failure compared to those with higher vitamin D levels. However, other research shows that taking vitamin D (cholecalciferol) daily does not decrease the risk of death in people with heart failure.
High cholesterol. People with lower vitamin D levels seem to be much more likely to have high cholesterol than people with higher vitamin D levels. Limited research shows that taking calcium plus vitamin D daily, in combination with a low-calorie diet, significantly raises “good (HDL) cholesterol” and lowers “bad (LDL) cholesterol” in overweight women. However, taking calcium plus vitamin D without dietary restrictions does not reduce LDL cholesterol levels. Other research suggests that vitamin D might actually increase LDL and have no beneficial effect on HDL, triglycerides, or total cholesterol.
High blood pressure. Research suggests that lower vitamin D levels are associated with a higher risk of developing high blood pressure. However, research is inconsistent. Some research suggests that vitamin D can reduce blood pressure in people with or without high blood pressure. Other research shows that taking vitamin D (cholecalciferol) daily in combination with calcium does not lower blood pressure or reduce the risk of developing high blood pressure in postmenopausal women.
Low birth weight. Research suggests that mothers who take vitamin D supplements during pregnancy have a lower risk of delivering a low birth weight infant.
Metabolic syndrome. There is conflicting evidence about the link between vitamin D and metabolic syndrome. Some research suggests that women aged at least 45 years who consume high amounts of vitamin D or take vitamin D supplements do not have a lower risk of developing metabolic syndrome. However, other research suggests that higher vitamin D levels are linked to a lower risk of metabolic syndrome.
Overall death risk. Research suggests that having low vitamin D levels is associated with an increased risk of death from any cause. Some research suggests that people who take vitamin D supplements daily have a lower risk of dying. However, other research suggests that vitamin D reduces the risk of death only when taking together with calcium.
A blood cell disease called myelodysplastic syndrome. Taking vitamin D (calcitriol or calcifediol) by mouth seems to help people with myelodysplastic syndrome.
Gum disease. Research shows that higher blood levels of vitamin D seem to be linked with a reduced risk of gum disease in people 50 years of age or older. However, this does not seem to be true for adults younger than 50 years.
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS). There is some evidence that consuming more vitamin D from the diet might help to prevent PMS or reduce symptoms. Taking vitamin D supplements does not seem to prevent PMS. However taking vitamin D plus calcium seems to reduce PMS symptoms.
A muscle disease called proximal myopathy. Taking vitamin D (ergocalciferol) by mouth or administering it as a shot into the muscle seems to help treat a muscle disease associated with vitamin D deficiency.
Seasonal depression (seasonal affective disorder). Early research suggests that vitamin D improves symptoms of seasonal depression.
Non-cancerous wart-like growths on the skin (seborrheic keratosis). Early research suggests that applying vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) to the skin might reduce tumor size in some people with seborrheic keratosis.
Muscle pain caused by medications called statins. Some reports suggest that taking vitamin D supplements can decrease symptoms of muscle pain in people taking statin drugs.
Vaginal atrophy. Early research shows that taking vitamin D supplements for a least one year improves the surface of the vaginal wall. However, it does not seem to improve symptoms of vaginal atrophy.
Warts. Reports suggest that applying maxacalcitol, which comes from vitamin D3, to the skin, can reduce viral warts in people with weakened immune systems.
Bronchitis.
Breathing disorders.
Other conditions.
Comments are closed.
Search for:
Swine Flu / H1N1
Swine Flu Contacts / Helpline
Click here for Influenza H1N1
List of State Nodal Officers and contact details of Control Room / Helpline / Centers
Swine Flu - Guides, Ebooks, Downloads
Click here Swine Flu - Guides, Ebooks, Downloads
Swine Flu - Some Important Links
WHO H1N1 Site
MoHFW Swine Flu Site
Wikipedia
Hospitals in India
Click here for the details and List of Hospitals in India
Pages
14 Health Benefits Of Green/ Raw Mango
3 Ways to Choose Nuts Low in Fat
5 Home Remedies for Seasonal Allergies
9 Benefits Of Eating Watermelon During Pregnancy
Benefits Of Eating Apples During Pregnancy
Eat more or eat often?
How should your diet change as you age?
How to Deal With Fainting Spells
How To Treat Gallstones
Know about VITAMIN D
Nuts or dry fruits – which is healthier?
Pain Management and Physical Therapy
Papaya
Swine Flu – Guides & e-books. Downloads
The wonder of whole grains
Top 10 Health Benefits of Dates
What are the benefits of Fibre
Categories
Acidity (9)
Allergies (18)
Cotton Allergy (1)
Dust Allergies (1)
Mosquito Bite Allergy (2)
Pollen alergy (2)
Alopecia (Hair Loss) (4)
Amblyopia (4)
Amebiasis (4)
Amnesia (6)
Anosmia (4)
Anti Ageing (3)
Appendicitis (4)
Asthenia (3)
Babesiosis (4)
Back Pain (6)
Beauty Tips (263)
Beer (2)
Benefits of Apples (1)
Benefits of Baby Corn salad (3)
Benefits of Banana (2)
Benefits of Barley (1)
Benefits Of Beetroot (1)
Benefits of Bhindi (1)
Benefits of Bitter Gourd (1)
Benefits of Carrots (2)
Benefits of Figs (1)
Benefits of Grapes Juice (1)
Benefits of Guava (2)
Benefits of Honey (1)
Benefits of Mangoes? (1)
Benefits of Plums (1)
Benefits of Pomegranate (1)
Benefits of Pumpkin (1)
Benefits of Strawberries (1)
Bird Flu (5)
Blackheads (2)
Bloating (1)
Blood Pressure (14)
Brain Disorder (3)
Schizophrenia (3)
Bronchitis (2)
Bulimia (3)
Cancer (9)
cardiac health (2)
Cavity (3)
Breathing refresh (2)
Cellulitis (8)
Ear Pain (4)
Chickenpox (12)
Vomiting (3)
Chlamydia (5)
Cold and Flu (16)
Cosmetics advice (1)
Crash diet (5)
Crohn's Disease (5)
Dandruff (9)
Dark circle (1)
Deficiency Diseases (15)
Calcium Deficiency (3)
Iron Deficiency (2)
Magnesium Deficiency (2)
Vitamin Deficiency (8)
Dehydration (4)
Dementia (4)
Dengue (7)
Dermatitis (5)
Diabeties (5)
Diet for healthy pregnancy (8)
Dysentry (Blood Flux) (4)
Eye Care (8)
Face Care (6)
FAST FOOD AND HEALTH (3)
Fracture (6)
Gastritis (10)
Hair Loss (10)
health care (51)
skin care (9)
Healthcare (651)
Achalasia (2)
Addison's Disease (5)
Alcohol (9)
Anemia (8)
Iron deficiency (3)
Anxiety Disorders (4)
Arthritis (6)
Asthma (13)
Bipolar disorder (6)
Blood cancer (4)
Brain Tumors (3)
Breast Cancer (7)
Cholesterol (8)
Constipation (7)
Dental Care (3)
Depression (11)
Migraine (3)
Diabetes (13)
Diarrhea (10)
Diarrhea treatment (3)
Ear Infection (3)
Fast diet (2)
Headaches (5)
Hepatitis (8)
Kidney Infection (4)
Kidney Stones (6)
Lung cancer (5)
Malaria (7)
Menopause (8)
Mesothelioma (10)
Nutrition (10)
Cholera and its common remedies (2)
Sinusites (8)
Skin rash (5)
Sleep Disorder (13)
Smoking (5)
Sore Throat (2)
Stress Management (10)
Thyroid (10)
Hyperthyroidism (2)
Hemorrhoids (4)
High Blood Pressure (2)
HIV AIDS (5)
Home remedies (2)
Jaundice (5)
Leprosy (4)
Low Blood Pressure (3)
Morning Sickness (3)
Mouth Ulcer (4)
Mumps (3)
Muscle cramps (1)
Narcolepsy (3)
Obesity (4)
Osteoporosis (3)
Plaque (2)
Pneumonia (6)
Probiotics (3)
Rashes (2)
reduce weight (1)
Rosacea (1)
Scoliosis (4)
Side effects of Cocoa Butter (1)
Skin care (6)
Foot Care (2)
Skin Diseases (27)
Acne (7)
Eczema (5)
Psoriasis (5)
Vitiligo (4)
Sore Throat (7)
STD's (3)
Strawberries benefits (2)
Swine Flu (34)
symptom and remedies (1)
Tennis Elbow (3)
Thalassemia (4)
Toe Problems (2)
Toothache (8)
Toothache pain (2)
Treatment of Toe and nail (2)
Tuberculosis (5)
Ulcer (3)
Viral (6)
Warts (5)
Weight Loss (12)
Indian diat char (2)
Coconut and Coconut water (2)
Wrinkles (3)
Links
Bollywood
BPO
BPO Portal
CA India
Doctor Online & Tips
Gadgets
Hindustanlink.com
Home Based Business
Homeopathy Blog
Honeymoon Tips
India Tourist Places
LifePartnerKhoj
Manoj Jain’s Blog
Mehendi
Recipes
Scabies
Yoga
Archives
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006
Meta
Log in
Valid XHTML
XFN
WordPress
RSS Feeds:
Downloads
Fit Over 40. Amazing Inspirational Anti-aging, Health And Weight Loss E-book For The Over 40 Crowd.
Alcoholism & Drug Addiction Alternatives. Recovery Alternatives To Alcohol And Drug Addiction.
Acne Free In 3 Days. All Natural Cure For Stopping Acne In 3 Days!
Master Cleanse Secrets. The Master Cleanse Is Perfect For Anyone Interested In Weight Loss, Natural Health, Cleansing & Detoxing, Or Acne.
Burn The Fat Feed The Muscle. Burn The Fat - #1 For 4 Years Straight: Best Selling Fitness E-Book In Internet History. Why? Because It Works
The Fat Burning Furnace System. High Converting Fat Loss And Fitness System. Burn Fat, Build Muscle, & Cardiovascular Health In Minutes Per Week...no Cardio Or Fad Diets.
12 Steps To A Complete Body Detox. Make Great Money From This Incredible Health Product On Detox, Weight Loss And Anti Aging, Affiliates Earn 60%.
The Personal Power Course. Discover How To Use Your Own Subconscious Energies For Health, Prosperity And Personal Achievement!
Home Remedies For Better Health. Offering The Complete Health Guide To Self Healing, shows You How To Treat Any Disease, With Herbs, Herbal.
Alternative Cancer Treatment Guide. How To Successfully Treat Cancer Using Inexpensive, Proven, Natural Therapies.
Cancer & Health- It's All About The Cell. Discover The Truth About Cancer And How To Eliminate Sickness And Disease Naturally By Health Expert Dr. Thompson!
Red Hot Metabolism. Metabolism, Weight Loss, Health, Fitness & Nutrition.
The Raw Secrets. The Most Complete Book On Living On An Optimal Raw Food Diet For Better Health.
Grooming Secrets For Men. The Ultimate Guide For Men - Skin Care, Shaving, Body Hair Trimming, Diet, Exercise - Loaded With Lots Of Tips For Men To Help Them Look Their Best.
500 Years Of Natural Health Secrets. Classic Natural Health EBook(R)s Help People Lose Weight, Gain Energy, Reduce Pain, Improve Memory, Detox, Etc.
Health Research Today. eBook(R)s On Fibromyalgia, Lupus And Psoriasis.
Creatine: A Practical Guide. Learn How To Most Effectively Combine Exercise, Nutrition And Smart Creatine Use For Explosive Muscle Growth And Improved Overall Health.
Miracle Superfoods. Superfoods, Diet, Natural Nutrition, Raw Food, Beauty, Anti-Aging, Ultimate Health.
Home Vegetable Gardening Guide. A Complete Guide To The Planting And Care Of Vegetables, Fruit, And Berries.
Addictive Health Program. 28 Days To A Vibrant You! Use This Fun And Easy To Follow Program To Become Addicted To Health.
The Fitness Model Bible. Health & Fitness New Products.
Adaptive Healing For Women's Health. Audio Course On Relieving Cysts On The Ovaries. High Conversion. High Commission.
Hope For Healing Canine Liver Disease. Alternative Treatment For Healing Canine Liver Disease.
The Diabetes Miracle Breakthrough. Diabetes Cure eBook(R).
Diabetes Guide. A Comprehensive Guide To Beating Diabetes - Dramatically Improve Your Blood Sugar Control, Reduce And Eliminate Your Need For Me.
Natural Diabetes Handbook. Total Reference Guide For Natural Diabetes Remedies.
Diabetic Cooking Guide. Essential Guide To Planning, Shopping And Cooking.
1001 Beauty Tips, Secrets And Techniques. Homemade Beauty Tips, Beauty Secrets, Acne Treatments, Bath Salt Recipes, Natural Beauty, Weight Loss Tips, Smoothie Recipes.
Disclaimer - The contents of this site are for informational purposes only.
Above articles / notes provides general overview on the topic and may not apply to everyone.
Always seek the advice of a qualified physician for any treatment / doubts
NOT meant to be used for self-diagnosis / treatment or as a substitute for consultation with a health care provider.
Hindustanlink.com nor its any of the owners, employees, other representatives will be liable for damages / inconvenience arising
out of or in connection with the use of this site /blog.
Home | Health Care Blog Home | Send Gifts to India | Beauty| Mehendi | Recipes | CareersJobs | Matrimonials
| Horoscope | Personal Problems | Sex Education | Doctor Online | E-Greetings | E-Shopping| Yoga |
Destination India | India Virtual Tour | Kids Corner Baby Names | Jokes Indian Universities & Colleges |Contests | Weather |News
|World Guide | World Time | | Currency Converter| Classified Ads | Bollywood | Yoga Blog
Copyright 2006 Hindustanlink.com. Terms of Use & Privacy Policy Hosted by Web-link
Hindustanlink.com: Health Care Blog is proudly powered by WordPress
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS).