How to Help Acne Scars | Information & Recommended Treatments
Skip to content
How to Help Acne
How to Improve Your Skin
Home
How Acne Works
How Acne Works in No-Nonsense Simple Steps
Causes of Acne for Teenagers
Talking to Teens about Acne
Acne and Dermatitis
Post-Inflammatory Hyperpigmentation Causes
Acne Product Reviews
Best Skin Care Regimen for Acne
Dead Sea Mud Mask by Pure Body Naturals Review
Kerah Lane Razor Bump & Ingrown Hair Formula Review
L’Oreal Sulfate-free Shampoo and Conditioner Review
Pantothen Review
The Love Vitamin Book Review
What is AcnEase? | Ingredients & Where to Buy It?
Diet
Skin Care
Causes of Acne
More Articles
About
About How to Help Acne
Some Good Acne Advice | Fix the Cause, Not the Symptom
Medical Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Contact
Facebook
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Tumblr
Twitter
Google+
How to Help Acne Scars
June 26, 2018 Rohan
Acne scars manifest as raised or pitted skin. It is the result of the body’s attempt to heal itself. This is your guide on how to help acne scars.
Dead skin cells can clog the pores. When the pores become inflamed, it results in acne lesions. These lesions can rupture and its content can irritate the skin and cause redness and tenderness. The body forms new collagen fibers to fix these problems.
Pitted acne scars occur when the skin doesn’t produce enough collagen, while raised acne scars result when excess collagen is produced.
How are Acne Scars Caused?
Acne scars are caused by more severe cases of acne. Inflammatory acne like nodules or acne cysts is most likely to create long-term scars as this kind of acne affects deeper skin layers. Blackheads and whiteheads rarely cause scarring.
How Long Before Having Acne Do You Get Scars?
The scars develop as part of the healing process of the skin. There are different kinds of acne scars. Boxcar scars have broad depressions with sharply defined edges.
Rolling scars have sloping edges and broad depressions. Ice-pick scars are deep and narrow.
The more serious the inflammation is, the more likely it is you will develop acne scars. Non-inflammatory acne lesions such as blackheads and whiteheads don’t cause lasting marks. Cysts, pustules and papules often cause marks and scars if left untreated.
Is Prevention Better than Cure for Acne Scars?
Acne can leave permanent scars whether it is moderate, mild or severe. The most severe cases leave darker scars. Acne often appears on the neck, face, back and shoulders.
How to help acne scars begins with prevention. Prevention is always better than cure, so try to reduce the chances of scarring. Avoid inflammatory breakouts as much as possible.
Don’t use harsh skin care products and avoid aggressive scrubbing on acne-prone skin. Don’t squeeze pimples as it can spread infection and inflammation. You should also avoid picking scabs to reduce the possibility of scarring. Don’t do anything that can further irritate your skin.
How to Help Acne Scars – Home Remedy Treatments?
Here are some of the best home remedies for acne scars.
Fresh lemon or lime juice – Use a cotton ball to apply fresh lemon or lime juice directly to the scars. Leave it for some time to allow the skin to absorb the juice and then rinse it properly. This home remedy lightens acne scars.
Tomatoes – Tomatoes have Vitamin A, which prevents the overproduction of sebum. It also contains antioxidants that renew scarred and damaged skin.
Fenugreek paste – Fenugreek leaves can be made into a paste and used as a facial mask. If you don’t want to make a paste, you can boil fenugreek seeds in water and then apply the solution to pimple scars once it cools down.
Cucumber – Cucumber can also treat acne scars. It reduces inflammation and rejuvenates the skin.
Rosewater and sandalwood paste – Combine sandalwood and rosewater. Sandalwood has a cooling and soothing effect on the skin. Apply the paste to the affected areas and leave it on for 1 or 2 hours. You can also leave it on for whole night. Rinse it with water.
Cleanse Your Skin – One of the best ways to avoid acne scars is to cleanse your skin gently. This will help remove whiteheads, pimples and blackheads. You can combine probiotics, essential oils, apple cider vinegar, coconut oil and honey to cleanse your skin without causing irritation. Coconut oil helps fight fungus and bacteria, while honey soothes the skin. Honey is a natural moisturizer. It can be taken orally or used as a face mask. Dampen your skin with warm water and massage the mixture into your neck and face. Rinse and pat your skin dry. Do this every morning and evening. Don’t cleanse too often as it can irritate your skin.
Makeup, skin care and hair products contain ingredients that can irritate the skin and cause acne. Some of these ingredients include mineral oil, alcohol, lanolin, oxybenzone, retinyl acetate, BHA, formaldehyde-based preservatives, BHT, triclosan, polyethylene and parabens. Read the labels first before buying a product.
Is Vitamin E Good for Acne Scars?
Many creams and ointments that contain vitamin E claim to remove all types of scar. Some people believe that applying Vitamin E oil is very effective on how to help acne scars by lessening its visibility.
However, evidence that Vitamin E provides this effect is mostly subjective. In one study, one-third of the participants who used Vitamin E developed contact dermatitis or a red, itchy skin rash.
A different study discovered that kids with surgical scars who applied Vitamin E 3 times a day did not develop excess scar tissue over their wound or keloids. According to researches, using a topical form of this vitamin before and after surgery improved the healing process of the wound.
However, research on how Vitamin E can heal acne scars is inconclusive. There is little proof that this vitamin can get rid of scars.
Should I Get Microdermabrasion?
Microdermabrasion combines exfoliation from small crystals with suction to get rid of dead cells from the skin. This method is not invasive and doesn’t use chemicals, but it helps you achieve a brighter, clearer complexion.
Microdermabrasion causes minimal discomfort and is ideal for all skin types and colors. It will not leave any scar. In some cases, microdermabrasion can reduce scars.
Recovery time is fast, so you don’t have to take precautionary recuperation time. There is no need to use medications to numb your skin as this method is less aggressive than dermabrasion techniques.
What are Some Other Forms of Treatment?
There are other forms of treatment as well. Steroid injections can help flatten out thick scars and reduce inflammation to help the surface of the skin look softer. It is important that you get these injections from a medical professional or licensed dermatologist.
Laser treatments are popular among people with severe acne scarring. Before, continuous waves of carbon dioxide laser were used to remove sun-damaged skin to allow new skin to grow. However, this method has several side effects such as eczema, skin discoloration, swelling and infections.
Scanned and pulsed carbo dioxide laser systems were introduced to better control the effects of the laser and to prevent these side effects. All these treatments are sure ways on how to help acne scars.
Posted in Acne Causing, Natural Acne Treatments, Skin Care
Post navigation
Chromium Supplements for Acne
Liver Detox for Acne
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
CAPTCHA Code *
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Search for:
Popular Posts
Eliminate the Vitamins that Cause Acne
Best Shampoo for Acne Prone Skin | 3 Tips
Can’t Wait to Clear Your Blemished Skin?
Recent Posts
Liver Detox for Acne
How to Help Acne Scars
Chromium Supplements for Acne
Top Rated Acne Products for Adults Available on Amazon
Juniper Oil for Acne
Benefits of Calendula Oil for Skin
Natural Homemade Treatments for Pimples
Argan Oil Skin Benefits
What is IGF-1? | Why is it Bad for Acne?
Categories
Acne Causing
Activities
Anatomy
Best Foods for Acne
Devices
Diet
Emotions
Holistic
Natural Acne Treatments
Natural Oils
Skin Care
Uncategorized
Vitamins
Proudly powered by WordPress	| Theme: Ogee | By: Phoenix Web Solutions
Contact
Privacy Policy
Medical Disclaimer
Articles
Acne Product Reviews
How Acne Works
Home