Yoga Trainer For Asthma | Personal Yoga Trainer Classes At Home | Yoga Trainer At Home For Asthma | Yoga At Home For Asthma | Yoga Classes At Home For Asthma | Personal Yoga Teacher In Delhi For Asthma | Home Yoga Teacher In Janak Puri, delhi cantt, rajouri garden, kirti nagar, shiv nagar, vikaspuri, uttam nagar, hari nagar, naraina | Personal Yoga Trainer At Home | Home Yoga Instructor | Power Yoga Trainer | Home Yoga Trainer | Home Yoga Classes At West Delhi | Home Yoga Classes At East Delhi | Home Yoga Classes At North Delhi | Home Yoga Classes At pitampura | Personal Yoga Trainer At Home in Rohini | Power Yoga At Home in in Inderpuri | Home Yoga classes in R K Puram | Power Yoga Classes For Ladies At Home | Meditation Classes At Home | Yoga Classes At Home For Women in Model Town, in darerwal nagar | Power Yoga Classes At Home in East Of Kailash | Yoga Classes For Diabetes At Home | Yoga Classes For Asthma At Home | Yoga Classes For Heart Problem At Home | Power Yoga For Womens At Home | Yoga Classes At Home For Men | Home Yoga Trainer For Weight Loss in west punjabi bagh| Female Yoga Trainer At Home in old/new Rajender Nagar |Female Yoga Teacher At Home in karol bagh | Yoga Classes At Home For Female in patel nagar | Female Yoga Trainer In Delhi | Female Yoga Teacher In Delhi | Yoga For Kids | Yoga For Children | yoga at home new delhi, delhi | yoga teacher in delhi for home visit | yoga instructor in south delhi, south extension, malviya nagar, Hauz Khas, greater kailash, new friens colony, Vasant Kunj, Vasant vihar, safdarjung enclave, Lajpat Nagar, Shastri Nagar, kalkaji, green park | yoga classes in delhi | home yoga classes in vaishali | yoga classes in south delhi | home yoga classes in Vasundhara Enclave | yoga classes in north delhi | yoga trainer in gurgaon | power yoga in gurgaon | Yoga trainer at doorstep in noida | yoga teacher at doorstep in faridabad | Power Yoga Trainer For Females in GK-1/GK-2 | Home Yoga Trainer At West Delhi | Home Yoga Trainer At East Delhi | Home Yoga Trainer At North Delhi | Yoga Trainer At Home In South Delhi | Meditation Yoga Trainer At Home in krishna nagar | yoga teachers | yoga instructor | Pranayama | Breathing and relaxation techniques | Meditation for stress management | Power yoga classes | yoga for weight loss | yoga for general fitness."
Toggle navigation
Indira Gandhi Institute Of Yog Services (Blog) For Trainer Call @ 9999166524
Home
Top
Video
Story
Gallery
Footer
Home
Yoga
Instructor
Personal Yoga Trainer At Doorstep
The Pilates Method of Body Conditioning develops the body uniformly, invigorates the mind and elevates the spirit.
Full Name
Email address
<
Yoga For Asthma and Bronchitis
Yoga Trainer At Home / Yoga Classes At Home / Yoga At Home / Yoga Teacher (Home Tutor) Delhi
Asthma
Asthma is a condition in which a person's airways become narrow, inflamed, swelling and produce extra mucus, which makes it difficult to breathe. Asthma is a inflammatory disease of the airways of the lungs. It is characterized by variable and recurring symptoms, reversible airflow obstruction, and bronchospasm. Common asthma symptoms include episodes of coughing, chest tightness, wheezing and shortness of breath. These episodes may occur a few times a day or a few times per week. Depending on the person, they may become worse at night in lying position.
Bronchitis
Bronchitis: A cold or the flu runs its course in a couple weeks, if you’re lucky. After that, you’re back to normal. But sometimes you may get bronchitis, too. That’s when your bronchial tubes, which carry air to your lungs, get infected and swollen. You end up with a nagging cough and a lot more mucus. You can get bronchitis in other ways, too.
There are actually two types of it:
Acute bronchitis: This is the more common one. Symptoms last for a few weeks, but it doesn’t usually cause any problems past that.
Chronic bronchitis: This one is more serious, in that it keeps coming back or doesn’t go away at all. It’s one of the conditions that makes up what's called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
9 yoga asans to cure Asthma and Bronchitis are
1. Savasana
Tips: Lie on your back with your arms at your sides and your feet and palms dropped open. Close your eyes and soften your jaw, taking your focus inward. Start to focus your attention on your breath and slow it down, making it deep and rhythmic, relaxing every part of your body. Stay in the pose for 5 to 10 minutes, maintaining slow, even breathing.
Benefit: Used for asthma relief attack due to its breath and stress management it provides.
2. Sukasana
Tips: Start seated, with your legs crossed. If you feel some discomfort in your hips or lower back, roll up a towel and place it under your sitz bone (tailbone) for extra support. Take your right hand and place it on your heart, place the left hand on your belly, and close your eyes. Draw in the stomach and lift the chest for good posture. Let out your breath slowly and hold the pose for 5 minutes, with slow, even breathing.
Benefit: Its focus on breath and stress control makes it a great exercise to help asthma and lung function in particular.
3. Uttanasana-Forward Bend
Tips: Stand with your legs hip-width apart, fold your body forward, and put a little bend in the knees to relieve any strain in the lower back. Fold your arms, holding each elbow with the opposite hand, and let your body hang as you take five deep breaths with your eyes closed.
Benefit: This bending pose can open up the lungs for natural asthma relief.
4. Baddha Konasana-Butterfly
Tips: Sit with the soles of your feet together and your knees dropped out to the sides — picture your legs as two butterfly wings. Hold your ankles and pull your heels into your hips. Inhale deeply and, as you exhale, fold your body forward. You can use your elbows to press down your knees a bit more. Hold this pose as you take five deep breaths.
Benefit: This yoga practise is a popular relaxing yoga pose that can bring asthma relief, which makes it another top stretching exercise to help with asthma.
5. Upavistha Konasana-Straddled Splits
Tips: Sit with your legs straddled wide apart and your heels flexed. Firm the thighs, and follow with a big inhale as you reach your arms up. As you exhale, fold your body forward, walking your hands out in front of you. Hold this pose as you take five deep breaths.
Benefit: This yoga pose for asthma relief involves stretching out the upper body and opening up the lungs.
6. Setu Bandha Sarvangasana-bridge pose
Tips: To begin, lie flat on your back with your arms parallel with your body. Bend your knees and slide your feet toward your butt until your feet are directly under your knees; then lift your butt up off the floor. Think of lifting your tailbone upward toward the ceiling and bringing your thighs parallel with the floor. At the same time, your shoulder blades should be pressed in toward your back, expanding your chest. Hold for 30 seconds to 1 minute, and exhale as you gently lower your spine to the ground.
Benefit: The bridge is a great yoga pose for asthma relief because because it helps open the lungs.
7. Matsyasana-Supportive Fish
Tips: To begin, lie flat on your back with your arms parallel with your body. Bend your knees and slide your feet toward your butt until your feet are directly under your knees; then lift your butt up off the floor. Think of lifting your tailbone upward toward the ceiling and bringing your thighs parallel with the floor. At the same time, your shoulder blades should be pressed in toward your back, expanding your chest. Hold for 30 seconds to 1 minute, and exhale as you gently lower your spine to the ground.
Benefit: This pose is good for the health of your bronchial tube.
8. Pranayama
Tips: Pranayama is simplicity itself. Sit with the legs crossed and the spine, neck, and head in a straight line. Close your eyes and focus on breathing using your abdomen, following a few rapid breaths with some slower breaths for balance. Repeat for a few minutes, focusing on technique, to get the most relaxation.
Benefit: It is a simple breathing pose that makes a great exercise to help asthma.
9. Meditation
For any queries or Yoga Trainer booking feel free to call us!
Thanks & Regards
Pankaj Thakur
(Director and Founder)
Indira Gandhi Institute Of Yoga Services
Phone: 9999166524
www.igiyogservices.in (Parent website)
www.homeyogainstructor.in/ (Blog website)
www.yogatrainerhome.in/ (Blog website)
Our Services & Literature
We provide yoga services in all life style disorders and wellbeing
Yoga For Heart Problem
Heart conditions that include diseased vessels, structural problems and blood clots.
Read More
Yoga For Diabetes
Diabetes - A group of diseases that result in too much sugar in the blood (high blood glucose).
Read More
Yoga For Weight Loss
Obesity - A disorder involving excessive body fat that increases the risk of health problems.
Read More
Yoga For Cervical
Cervical spondylosis is a common, age-related condition that affects the joints and discs in your cervical spine, which is in your neck.
Read More
Yoga For Arthritis
Arthritis - Inflammation of one or more joints, causing pain and stiffness that can worsen with age.
Read More
Yoga For Asthma
Asthma - A condition in which a person's airways become inflamed, narrow and swell and produce extra mucus, which makes it difficult to breathe.
Read More
Yoga For Stress, Anxiety And Anger
A mental health disorder characterised by feelings of worry, anxiety or fear that are strong enough to interfere with one's daily activities.
Read More
Yoga For PCOS/PCOD
PCOS - A hormonal disorder causing enlarged ovaries with small cysts on the outer edges.
Read More
Yoga For Thyroid
Thyroid - Thyroid disease is a common problem that can cause symptoms because of over- or under-function of the thyroid gland.
Read More
Yoga For Knee & Joint Pain Problem
Osteoarthritis is a degenerative process that causes knee joint pain, stiffness, and swelling.
Read More
Yoga For Migraine
Migraine - A headache of varying intensity, often accompanied by nausea and sensitivity to light and sound.
Read More
Yoga For Gas And Acidity
Gastric problems are usually more common in diabetics who have had the condition for longer, and is mostly caused by neuropathy affecting certain nerves in the digestive system.
Read More
Yoga For Eye Problem
Eye diseases like macular degeneration, glaucoma, and cataracts, can cause vision problems.
Read More
Yoga For Shoulder, Neck And Backpain
Shoulder problems happen when the soft tissues in the shoulder break down.
Read More
Yoga For Beginners
Begin your day and life with yoga practise to stay healthy.
Read More
Yoga For Kids And Children
Yoga is for all age groups kids, children, tenage, young and adults.
Read More
Yoga For Hair Loss
Hair Loss - Hair loss, also known as alopecia or baldness, refers to a loss of hair from part of the head or body.
Read More
Yoga For Increase Height
Yoga helps to increase your height by opening your ligamnets, stiffed tendons, ball and socket joints.
Read More
Yoga For Skin Problem
Pranayama, breathing exercises, headstand, and fish pose are primarily the best for glowing skin.
Read More
Yoga For Body Tonning
Body Tonning - Tone up you body curves and lose weight by yoga asanas.
Read More
Yoga For General Fitness
General Fitness by yoga includes physical, mental and spiritual wellbeing.
Read More
Yoga For Allergies
Remove your body toxins and impuriites by yoga to get ride of allergies.
Read More
Yoga For Prenatal
Prenatal yoga comprises of pranayam breathing excersises, meditation and prenatal yoga asansa.
Read More
Nutritious Support
Nutritious Support for good health.
Read More
Supplements
Supplements and probiotics as nutritious support in our food.
Read More
Green Health
Green Health - Go for green fruits and vegetables only.
Read More
Food Safety
Safety of food pratise can prevent many numerous diseases learn how.
Read More
Nurtition By Age
Nurtition By Age - Nutrition for all age group.
Read More
Yoga For Body Growth
Our body growth can be customised by yoga pratise if done on regular bases.
Read More
Weight Control Diet
Diet chart plan for over or under weight people follow now!.
Read More
Yoga Trainer In North Delhi
About Us
Photo Gallry
Yoga Instructor In South Delhi
Home Yoga Courses
General Yoga Info
Yoga Trainer In East Delhi
Management Team
Delhi Yoga Trainer List
Yoga Teacher In West Delhi
Nutrition By Age
Supplements
Home Yoga Tutor In Delhi
Testimonials
IGIYS Blog
referral websites: www.igiyogservices.in | www.yogatrainerhome.in | wordpress | support | IGIYS Blog | ask | forum | personal-yoga-trainer-classes-at-home-in-delhi |
Delhi |
Gurgaon |
Noida |
Faridabad |
Ghaziabad
©2017-18 Copyrights All Rights reserved Indira Gandhi Institute of Yog Services Register Society No: S-55032 Of 2006 Under Society Registration Act 12 Of Government Of India
Website Designed by www.pantech-websitedesigning.in