Baby Fever 101: Caring for a Sick Baby
Newsletter
Baby Fever 101: How to Care for Your Child
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD on December 5, 2018 — Written by Jessica Timmons
Causes of fever
Treatment
When to seek help
Fever in newborns
Fever and seizures
Fever or heatstroke?
Next steps
Share on Pinterest
When your baby has a fever
It can be concerning to wake up in the middle of the night to a crying baby, and find they’re flushed or hot to the touch. The thermometer confirms your suspicions: Your baby has a fever. But what should you do?
It’s important to learn how to comfort your feverish baby and recognize when you need to seek medical care.
Caring for a sick baby
While you may be able to feel a temperature difference through touch alone, it’s not an accurate method of diagnosing fever. When you suspect that your baby has a fever, take your baby’s temperature with a thermometer.
A rectal temperature of more than 100.4°F (38°C) is considered a fever. In most cases, a fever is a sign that your baby’s body is fighting an infection.
A fever can stimulate certain bodily defenses to protect against invading viruses and bacteria. While this is a positive step in fighting infection, a fever can also make your baby uncomfortable. You may also notice that they’re breathing faster.
Fever is typically associated with the following illnesses:
croup
pneumonia
ear infections
influenza
colds
sore throat
blood, bowel, and urinary tract infections
meningitis
a range of viral illnesses
Fevers can lead to dehydration if your baby is not drinking well or is vomiting with their illness. Young children can get dehydrated quickly. Symptoms of dehydration may include:
crying without tears
dry mouth
fewer wet diapers
Unless your baby seems uncomfortable and isn’t sleeping, eating, or playing normally, it’s fine to wait and see if the fever goes away on its own.
How can I make my feverish baby comfortable?
Speak with your pediatrician about administering a dose of acetaminophen or ibuprofen. These usually reduce fever by at least a degree or two after 45 minutes or so. Your pharmacist or doctor can give you the correct dosage information for your baby. Do not give your baby aspirin.
Make sure your baby isn’t overdressed, and be sure to offer fluids regularly. Dehydration can be a concern for a feverish baby.
To comfort your baby, try these methods:
give a sponge bath or a lukewarm bath
use a cooling fan
remove extra clothing
offer extra fluids
Check your baby's temperature again after you have tried these things. Continue to check the temperature to see if the fever is getting lower, or getting higher.
If your baby is breastfeeding, try to nurse more often to prevent dehydration. Try to keep your child’s room comfortably cool. Use a fan to circulate air if the room is overly warm or stuffy.
When should you call the doctor if your child has a fever?
Call your pediatrician immediately if your baby has a fever that is accompanied by any of the following symptoms:
vomiting
diarrhea
an unexplained rash
a seizure
acting very ill, unusually sleepy, or very fussy
What if my newborn has a fever?
If your baby is younger than 3 months and you’ve taken a rectal temperature of 100.4°F (38°C) or higher, call the doctor.
Newborn babies can have difficulty regulating body temperature when they’re sick. This means they may become cold instead of hot. If your newborn has a temperature lower than 97°F (36°C), call the doctor.
Seizures and fever in infants
Sometimes, babies older than 6 months can have seizures that are triggered by fever. They’re called febrile seizures, and they sometimes run in the family.
In many instances, a febrile seizure will take place during the first few hours of the illness. They can be just seconds long, and usually last less than one minute. A baby may stiffen, twitch, and roll their eyes before becoming limp and unresponsive. They may have skin that looks darker than usual.
It can be a very concerning experience for parents, but febrile seizures almost never result in long-term damage. Still, it’s important to report these convulsions to your baby’s doctor.
If your baby seems to be having trouble breathing, call 911 or your local emergency services immediately. Also call immediately if the seizure continues for more than five minutes.
Does my baby have a fever or heatstroke?
In rare cases, a fever may be confused with heat-related illness, or heatstroke. If your baby is in a very hot place, or if they’re overdressed in hot and humid weather, heatstroke may occur. It’s not caused by infection or an internal condition.
Instead, it’s the result of surrounding heat. Your baby’s temperature can rise to dangerously high levels above 105°F (40.5°C) that must be brought down again quickly.
Methods for cooling your baby include:
sponging them with cool water
fanning them
moving them to a cooler place
Heatstroke should be considered an emergency, so immediately after cooling down your baby, they must be seen by a doctor.
Next steps
A fever can be frightening, but it’s important to remember that it’s not usually a problem. Keep a close eye on your baby, and remember to treat them, not the fever.
If they seem uncomfortable, do what you can to offer comfort. If you’re feeling unsure about your baby’s temperature or behavior, don’t hesitate to speak with your child’s doctor.
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD on December 5, 2018 — Written by Jessica Timmons
related stories
Identifying and Treating Low Body Temperature in Babies
What You Should Know About Colds in Newborn Babies
Identifying and Treating Teething Rashes
The Warning Signs of Dehydrating in Toddlers
Is Fever a Symptoms of Allergies?
READ THIS NEXT
Identifying and Treating Low Body Temperature in Babies
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD
A low temperature in a baby can be serious. Premature babies are at increased risk, as well as babies of low birth weight. We explain the best methods…
READ MORE
What You Should Know About Colds in Newborn Babies
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD
Find out what to expect from your newborn's first cold.
READ MORE
Identifying and Treating Teething Rashes
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD
Is your baby's rash from teething or something else? We share tips for identifying rashes with teething, plus pictures of teething rashes versus other…
READ MORE
The Warning Signs of Dehydrating in Toddlers
Medically reviewed by Laura Marusinec, MD
Your toddler may not always communicate how thirsty they are, but parents should learn to recognize dehydration. Here are the signs and symptoms.
READ MORE
Is Fever a Symptoms of Allergies?
Medically reviewed by Alana Biggers, MD
Fever isn't a typical symptom of allergies. Allergy symptoms typically include sneezing, watery eyes, a runny nose, or even a skin rash. If your…
READ MORE
Your Guide to Baby Massage
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD
Baby massage can have many lifestyle and health benefits for your little one. It can help your baby feel loved and nurtured, and promote relaxation…
READ MORE
The Safest Way to Sterilize Baby Bottles
Medically reviewed by Holly Ernst, PA-C
Having a supply of clean bottles on hand is essential for keeping baby fed and happy. Here's how to sterilize them safely.
READ MORE
Galactagogues: 23 Foods That Increase Breast Milk
Medically reviewed by Valinda Riggins Nwadike, MD, MPH
A galactagogue is a food that's thought to boost your production of breast milk. Examples include fennel, oats, brewer's yeast, and leafy green…
READ MORE
Why Is My Newborn Sneezing So Much?
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD
Frequent newborn sneezing is typically nothing to worry about, but there are other symptoms you should keep an eye on.
READ MORE
Is Vicks Vapor Rub Safe for My Baby’s Feet?
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD
You might have heard an old wives' tale about applying vapor rub to kids' feet when they're coughing. But is it safe for infants?
READ MORE
CMS Id: 104994 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582