Exercise for people with depression | Workout & Exercises articles | Physical activities center | SteadyHealth.com
Menu
Register
Login
EN
ENGLISH
DEUTSCH
ESPAÑOL
Couldn't find what you looking for?
TRY OUR SEARCH!
Home
...
Info Center
Well Being
Physical activities
Workout & Exercises
Exercise for people with depression
Post a comment
by James Uden over a year ago
Exercising is known to have countless benefits which affect lives of people positively, keeping them healthy and happy at the same time. However, exercising is also a great cure for depression and individuals who exercise regularly rarely suffer from mood problems or negativity itself.
Positive Sides of Exercising when Depressed
First of all, exercising helps your body release endorphins which are, basically, our feel-good hormones. These reduce any pain you might be feeling and make you feel positive and satisfied, as if you have been administered a small dose of morphine.
When people start working out, they reach a stage when their body passes its former limits and this leads to a phenomenon called “the runner's high”, when the person exercising feels positive and energized because of the physical activity he/she has been performing.
Finally, since endorphins shut down pain, they act like your body's natural analgesics, without triggering any kind of addiction or side-effects.
Benefits of Exercising Regularly
If you are depressed and you start exercising regularly, you are bound to experience a decrease in stress levels and the degree of depression and worry. As your body becomes more and more toned, your self-esteem levels will rise. Furthermore, you will be happy and satisfied with yourself and this will boost your positive outlook on life even more. Additionally, your sleeping will be significantly improved by your exercising.
However, these are not all of the benefits you will reap once you decide to exercise your depression away. Rather, your heart will become stronger, you will have more energy and your blood pressure levels will drop. At the same time, you will boost your muscles and your overall strength, fortifying your bones and reducing body fat. All in all, you will create a new, positive, fit and healthy you.
Exercising vs. Clinical Depression
Researchers have shown that certain physical activities work well for removing depression, even when it is clinical. These are biking, dancing, gardening, golfing, household chores, moderate jogging, low-impact aerobics, tennis, walking, swimming, mowing, raking or yoga.
Moreover, you might join a group of people who are fighting the same problem you are. People in exercise classes will share your goal and will be there to support or advise you.
Nevertheless, you can always benefit from consulting your doctor before you engage in any kind of physical activity, especially if you suffer from some kind of a chronic illness and are older than 50.
Once you have decided to take up exercising, think about the favorite physical activity of yours and plan out your routine. All you need is about 30 minutes, three times a week. Choose a variety of exercises to keep your mind busy and relaxed and feel free to explore, changing and modifying your routine.
Sources & Links
Important notification about information and brand names
www.nhs.uk/conditions/stress-anxiety-depression/exercise-for-depression/
www.betterhealth.vic.gov.au/health/conditionsandtreatments/depression-and-exercise
www.flickr.com/photos/95413346@N00/634452266/
Your thoughts on this
Guest
Type in what you see:
Comment
Loading...
Editor's Picks
Elderly Who Exercise Regularly Have Better Heart than Healthy Young Sedentary People
Infocenter articles
Physical exercise for better brain
Exercise for people with disabilities
Physical fitness and mental health
Physical fitness for dementia
Physical fitness overload principle
Why Does Exercise Make Us Feel Good
Stop Feeling Depressed: 10 Effective Mood Boosters
Coping With Anxiety And Depression
Best Way to Maximize Weight Loss through Exercise?
What Is The Best Exercise For Your Age?
6 Things That Happy People Do Every Day
Related Articles
Cardio Workouts During Pregnancy
Reducing Stroke Severity With Regular Exercise
Cardiovascular (Cardio) Exercise: Aerobics for Fat Loss
Why Is Cardio A De-Stressor?
Weight Lifting During Pregnancy
Related Topics
lexapro weight gain
over a year ago
Sedentary arthritis patients risk disability
over a year ago
Walking Boosts Brainpower
over a year ago
Daily Jogging Helps Depression
over a year ago
Ecotherapy proves beneficial in treatment of depression
over a year ago
Physical activity's effect on breast cancer varies
over a year ago
Anxiety and exercise
over a year ago
excersizes
over a year ago
As Little As 10 Minutes of Daily Exercise Boosts Heart Health
over a year ago
Depressed people better off in marriage
over a year ago
OK
You may find this useful × +
Exercise heals depression and stress
Exercise the Depression Away Surely, many people who are suffering from depression believe that all they need are the...