My Lyme Symphony: What Is Lyme Disease? (includes safety precautions, tick removal tools, and testing labs)
Pages
Home
About My Lyme Symphony
What Is Lyme Disease? (includes safety precautions, tick removal tools, and testing labs)
Resources
My Lyme Story
I'm A Photographer
What Is Lyme Disease? (includes safety precautions, tick removal tools, and testing labs)
Lyme disease is a bacterial (spirochete) infection that is transmitted through the bite of an infected tick to both humans and animals. It is a multi-systemic infectious disease that if left untreated; will travel from the skin through the bloodstream to organs, cells and various body tissues. It is often called "The Great Imitator" because it can mimic so many other diseases or illnesses (MS, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Influenza, Mono, Alzheimer's, Fibromyalgia, Lupus, Rheumatoid Arthritis, ALS, Parkinson's, etc.). Lyme disease is endemic to the United States as well as throughout the world.
The most well known causative agent of Lyme disease is Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb). However, there are other strains of Borrelia bacteria, which are also considered to be the cause of Lyme Borreliosis (Borrelia afzelii, Borrelia garinii, Borrelia andersonii, Borrelia valaisiana, etc). Worldwide, there are about three hundred known species of Borrelia bacteria.
The Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb) bacteria is polymorphic. This means it can change its form in order to ensure survival and proliferation in the body. There are three forms it can transform into - spirochete, cell-wall deficient, and cyst. This shifting, which enables the bacteria to elude immune defenses, can greatly confuse the immune system and over time; create severe immune imbalance and dysfunction. To better understand these forms, go here to read an excerpt.
Lyme disease is considered a tick-borne infection. However, transmission of the Lyme bacteria is also very possible through other vectors, i.e. infected mosquitoes, fleas, spiders, mites, flies. There is evidence now that supports Lyme can be sexually transmitted. To read more about this go here.
There are three stages of Lyme disease:
Stage 1 - Early Localized Infection (from the initial time of bite - first 4 weeks after bite) The infection is not yet widespread throughout the body.
General symptoms include:
Flu-like symptoms (usually the first symptoms)
Fatigue
Fever
Chills
Body-wide itching
Swollen lymph nodes
Headache
Muscle and joint pain
Stiff neck
Bull's eye rash (usually a red circular rash with a fading spot in the center)
* FYI - over half of the people infected with Borrelia burgdorferi never notice a Bull's eye rash and many have a different kind of rash altogether. Lyme related rashes can look like a type of bruise or bite. Often there can be multiple ring-like rashes on the body.
* It has been documented that the Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb) bacteria can cross the Blood-Brain-Barrier (BBB), invading the brain within the first hours (8-72 hrs) after initial infection.
Stage 2 - Early Disseminated Infection (1 to 4 months)
The bacteria have begun spreading throughout the body.
If Lyme disease is not detected and treated early, the infection can disseminate or spread throughout the body affecting the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord), the peripheral nervous system (nerves), cardiovascular system (heart and vessels), liver, muscles, joints, skin, and various other organs. The Lyme bacteria can also suppress and damage the immune system when left untreated.
Extreme fatigue
Low-grade fevers
Headaches
Visual disturbances
Light and/or sound sensitivity
Irritability
Bell's Palsy
Sleep disturbance
Rashes
Muscle and joint pain
Heart palpitations
Wooziness (unsteady, faint, dazed, muddled, slightly nauseous)
Sharp, shooting, or stabbing pains
Digestive issues (ranging from minor to severe)
Food allergies
Stage 3 - Late Disseminated or Persistent Infection (Chronic Lyme)
The bacteria have spread throughout the body.
Severe persistent fatigue
Fevers
Pericarditis (inflammation of the tissue surrounding the heart)
Myocarditis (inflammation or infection of the heart muscle often associated with pericarditis)
Endocarditis (inflammation of the lining inside of the heart chambers and valves)
Arrhythmia (irregular or abnormal heart rhythm)
Shortness of breath
Vertigo
Disequilibrium (loss of balance and/or coordination)
Gastritis (inflammation of the stomach lining)
Colitis (inflammation of the lining of the colon)
Parathesias (numbness, tingling, burning, buzzing, stabbing or sharp shooting pains)
Insomnia
Cognitive impairment
Speech problems
Muscle weakness, tenderness, and pain
Joint tenderness, pain, swelling and/or stiffness
Headaches
Blurry vision
Nystagmus
Tinnitus (buzzing or ringing in the ears)
Pressure or fullness in the ears
Paralysis
Gait disturbances
Symptoms may come and go. However, they usually become persistent in late stage Lyme. A person can have any combination of these at any stage ranging from minor to moderate to severe. While there are often many shared commonalities, Lyme disease can affect people differently. Differing strains of Borrelia bacteria, other vector-borne co-infections (Babesia, Ehrlichia, Bartonella, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Relapsing Fever, Powassan Virus, Tularemia, West Nile Virus, Yellow Fever, etc), viral co-infections (Epstein-Barr, CMV, HHV-6, etc.), Mycoplasma, opportunistic infections, the condition of one's immune system, how soon one is diagnosed, biofilms, genetics, and any pre-existing health issues or trauma can all play a role in the severity and chronicity of this disease. The majority of chronic Lyme patients are multiply co-infected, making treatment and healing much more complexed.
* Peak season for ticks is mid-spring to fall. However, adult ticks can remain active in temperatures above freezing (32 degrees F) any time of year *
Risk Factors for Lyme disease:
Doing any outside activities increases tick exposure, such as yard work, gardening, hiking, camping, hunting, farming. Also be mindful of children playing outdoors or in parks.
Having a pet that may carry ticks home.
Stumps or fallen trees.
Wood and leaf piles.
Walking in or near high grasses.
Safety Precautions:
Wear light-colored clothing while outside.
Wear long pants and tuck pant legs into longs socks.
Use Picaridin spray or lotion on your skin for tick repellent (effective and less toxic than DEET).
For a more natural tick repellent use Lyme Guard on your skin.
For general insect (ticks, mosquitoes, flies, chiggers) repellent use All Purpose on your skin.
For pets use Ticks-N-All For Dogs and For Cats.
Cedercide makes natural tick and other insect repellent products for people, pets, and home.
Use Permethrin spray on your clothes and camping gear for tick repellent (also good for mosquitoes, chiggers, and other insects).
Put all clothing in a hot dryer for 15-20 minutes after coming in from outdoors. This will kill any remaining ticks on your clothes.
After being outside, always check your whole body thoroughly for any ticks including belly buttons, underarms, groin areas, in and behind ears, behind knees, and between toes.
Check pets for ticks, especially if they come indoors.
How To Properly Remove A Tick:
Do not squeeze or twist the tick. Do not use soap, matches, lighters, Vaseline, nail polish remover or any other solutions to burn or smother it. This can actually cause the tick to regurgitate any bacteria or viruses it might be harboring into your bloodstream while it's still attached.
Instead, use fine-tipped pointed tweezers to gently grasp the head of the tick at the point of contact with the skin and firmly but slowly pull straight up and out. Make sure the head and mouth of the tick are fully removed.
The Tick Key is excellent for tick removal; great for people and pets.
The Tick Twister is another excellent tool for tick removal; also great for people and pets.
Dr. David Jernigan, DC, DNM, recommends using the TRIX Tick Remover. Click here to read more about this device and his article on the secret to proper tick removal.
IF YOU WANT TO HAVE A TICK TESTED - place it in a plastic bag with a lightly moist paper towel. Label the bag with your name, date, and the site where the tick was attached. Call your local health department or find a lab or veterinarian that will test the tick for Lyme and any other tick-borne infections. Vets are very knowledgeable about tick and other vector-borne diseases. The Tick Encounter Resource Center lists several labs that can identify and test ticks for Lyme and other tick-borne pathogens. Go here to read more. Or go to Tick Chek to read about their tick testing services.
Wash your hands and disinfect the site of the tick bite.
Apply Silver to the bite right away; this serves as a natural antibiotic. SilverBiotics Gel is excellent (great for burns, cuts, and scraps too). Also, it is beneficial to take Silver by mouth for immune system support. I prefer Smart Silver or ASAP Silver Sol. Both of these are nano Silver so their particles are smaller and more easily absorbed by the body. The key is to stop any tick-borne bacteria or viruses from penetrating the body's defenses as soon as possible, and therefore, prevent deeper, more serious infection.
Homeopathic Lyme Nosode and Tick Pathogen Nosode are also great to have on hand. Drops can be taken orally and applied directly to the bite as well.
It may be prudent for you to get tested for Lyme and other tick-borne infections like Babesia, Bartonella, Ehrlichia, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, etc. by a doctor who uses one of the labs listed below.
It is a fallacy that a tick must be attached 24-36 hours to a person before any transmission can take place. NOT TRUE. Any pathogens a tick might be carrying can be transmitted as soon as a person is bitten. Ticks have an anesthetic in their saliva that actually numbs the surface of the skin so you don't feel the bite. That is why many people never know they've been bitten.
Testing:
Standard lab tests (ELISA and Western Blot) for Lyme disease are not highly accurate because they only check for antibodies to Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb) and do not test for all Lyme specific proteins or bands. Therefore, these tests produce many false negatives. It's important to be tested through a lab that uses DNA and antigen detection testing for Lyme.
IGeneX is a clinical and research testing laboratory for Lyme and tick-borne associated diseases and employs these important methods.
Advanced Labs Services is another good Lyme specialty lab and some Lyme practitioners find it to offer the most superior Lyme testing available today.
Please go here to read more about different testing methods and specialty labs.
Remember there are many other strains of Borrelia that cause Lyme or Lyme-like infections, but most conventional labs only check for Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb); that's 1 strain out of 100. Specifically, there are one hundred different strains of Borrelia in the USA.
Ultimately, Lyme disease is a clinical diagnosis. Lab tests are to be used as a diagnostic tool.
Helpful Resources:
International Lyme And Associated Diseases Society (ILADS)
LymeDisease.org
Tick-Borne Disease Alliance
LymeLight Foundation
Global Lyme Alliance
Focus On Lyme
Tick Encounter Resource Center
What Is Lyme.com
IGeneX Lab
Advanced Laboratory Services
Tick Chek
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
1 comment:
Unknown June 12, 2016 at 12:17 PM
Thank you so much for sharing your knowledge about ticks and lymes disease. I pray for a cure or at the least remission for you and everyone who has this horrible chronic disease. Wanda
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
ShareThis
Michelle Holderman
Writing • Photography • Ministry
View my complete profile
Search
Blog Archive
▼ 2016 (2)
▼ May 2016 (2)
Rachel Platten - Fight Song (Official Video)
Lyme Disease Awareness 2016: Hope Always
► 2015 (5)
► September 2015 (1)
► May 2015 (2)
► April 2015 (1)
► February 2015 (1)
► 2014 (7)
► December 2014 (1)
► October 2014 (1)
► August 2014 (1)
► July 2014 (1)
► May 2014 (1)
► February 2014 (1)
► January 2014 (1)
► 2013 (18)
► October 2013 (2)
► August 2013 (4)
► July 2013 (2)
► May 2013 (2)
► April 2013 (2)
► March 2013 (3)
► February 2013 (1)
► January 2013 (2)
► 2012 (9)
► November 2012 (1)
► October 2012 (1)
► August 2012 (1)
► May 2012 (1)
► April 2012 (2)
► February 2012 (1)
► January 2012 (2)
► 2011 (6)
► November 2011 (1)
► August 2011 (1)
► July 2011 (1)
► June 2011 (2)
► May 2011 (1)
► 2010 (2)
► September 2010 (2)
Follow by Email
Popular Posts This Week
The Complexities Of Lyme Disease (Part 1): The Structure of the Lyme Bacteria
I recently came across this fantastic excerpt written by Lyme researcher and lecturer, Thomas Grier, M.S., who was misdiagnosed with MS f...
Oral Spirochetosis, Lyme, and Other Chronic Diseases
I believe the book, The Stealth Killer: Is Oral Spirochetosis the Missing Link in the Dental and Heart Disease Labyrinth? is very relevant...
Recent Lyme Disease Research News And Breakthroughs: Part 1
Some interesting and hopeful news has emerged out of the medical establishment over the past two years concerning breakthroughs and open do...
Brief Health Update and The Blessings of Autumn
Hi friends. It's been an exceptionally rough few months for me. Honestly, I've felt so bad and so fatigued I haven't really car...
The Complexities of Lyme Disease (Part 4): Lyme Receptors
This is Part 4 in the series The Complexities of Lyme Disease by Thomas Grier, M.S. Click here to read Part 1. Here to read Part 2. ...
Labels
Lyme Disease (48) Chronic Lyme Disease (45) Hope (16) Faith (13) Lyme Friends (12) Support (12) Borrelia Burgdorferi (11) Encouragement (11) Immune System (11) Love (10) Lyme Disease Awareness (9) Tick Borne Diseases (9) Borrelia (8) Chronic Illness (8) Chronic Pain (8) Neuro Lyme (8) Chronic Fatigue (7) My Lyme Symphony (7) Epstein-Barr Virus (6) God (6) Inflammation (6) Lyme Bacteria (6) Lyme Co-Infections (6) Nervous System (6) Borreliosis (5) Brain (5) Fatigue (5) Friends (5) Health Updates (5) Lyme Treatment (5) Music (5) Babesia (4) EBV (4) Ehrlichia (4) Fever (4) Homeopathic Medicine (4) Homeopathy (4) Lyme Disease Awareness Month (4) My Lyme Journey (4) Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever (4) Spirochete (4) The Complexities of Lyme Disease (4) Thomas Grier (4) Truth (4) Wheelchair (4) CMV (3) Cytomegalovirus (3) Don't Quit (3) Friendship (3) Grief (3) Healing (3) Jesus (3) Late Stage Lyme Disease (3) Lyme Disease Complex (3) Lyme Warriors (3) MS (3) Pain (3) The Healing Files (3) Adrenal Fatigue (2) Antigens (2) Bartonella (2) Biofilms (2) Cells (2) Christ (2) Cytokines (2) DNA (2) Despair (2) Don't Give Up (2) Dr. Alan MacDonald (2) Dr. Eva Sapi (2) Fortitude (2) Inspiration (2) Juicing (2) Liver (2) Long Term Lyme Infection (2) Mono (2) Pathogen (2) Perseverance (2) Persistent Lyme Disease (2) Spirochetes (2) Suffering (2) Tears (2) The Great Imitator (2) Tick Borne Illnesses (2) Viruses (2) Anitbodies (1) Auto-Antibodies (1) Castor Oil Compresses (1) Chiropractic (1) Connie Strasheim (1) DesBio (1) Deseret Biologicals (1) Disability (1) Discouragement (1) Dr. William Nordquist (1) Epsom Salt Baths (1) Genetic Mutations (1) Heart Disease (1) Henri Nouwen (1) ILADS (1) Lyme Disease Breakthroughs (1) Lyme Disease Research (1) Lyme Disease Testing (1) Lyme Journey (1) LymeDisease.org (1) MTHFR (1) Miracles (1) Mycoplasma (1) Naturopathic Medicine (1) NeuroScience Inc (1) Neuroborreliosis (1) Nutrition (1) Oral Spirochetosis (1) Organic Carrot Juice (1) Pharmasan Labs (1) Powassan Virus (1) Spleen (1) T Cells (1) T-Helper Cells (1) The Biology of Lyme Disease (1) The Innocence Mission (1) The Jive Aces (1) The Long And Winding Road Of Chronic Lyme Disease (1) The X-Files (1) Thyroid Fatigue (1) Vertigo (1)
My Blog List
Know The Cause Health Blog
Could a Diet Rich in Animal Protein Shorten Your Lifespan?
Dr. David Jernigan Blog, Hansa Center
A Short Memoir of One of the First Natural Lyme Docs
Natural News Blogs
The Geoengineering Chemical of the “Future” that has Been Dispersed by Jet Aircraft for Decades
LymeMD
Lyme, evidenced based medicine, Fallon and the Institute of Medicine
The Naturopathic Mama
The Benefits of Infrared Sauna
THE LYME ROAD
Financial Resources to Offset the Costs of Chronic Lyme Symptoms
Jenna's Lyme Blog
Passing on the Torch
Living with Lyme
Update
The Tick Slayer
Vol 2: Winning Strategies Using Essential Oils , SAFETY of Essential Oils
The Lyme Disease Sentinel Blog
Munchausen's By Proxy and Government Control Of Our Children
Today I Feel Exceptionally....
healthy - resolved/the end
Ticks and Trust
OH CANADA - CALL TO ACTION!
Better Health Guy
ILADS 2016: Lyme Disease - An Evolving Paradigm for Chronic Illness
Lyme Disease Insights Blog
Guest Blog post – FIR Saunas
Midway Center for Integrative Medicine
Dr. Roach’s GOD’S HOUSE CALLS to be released today! www.godshousecalls.com
Lyme Chick
Where I’ve Been…
The Perfect Storm
What's Happening in the Lyme World Lately?
About Lyme (Hope. Strength. Awareness)
Through The Lens Of Love
SpiroChicks
Lyme disease: Epidemic. Disabling. Expensive.
Journey Thru Lyme | Trekking for the Truth, by Logan McCulloch (AKA Unitic)
Disease – A Very Profitable Growth Industry
Healthy Medicine Radio
Healthy Medicine #180: Food and Health
Alter Everything
When No Means Yes
Voyaging Lyme
Let's Really Clear It Up
In The Lyme Fight
Congenital Lyme Update: Happy News, Sad News and a Commitment
Connie Strasheim
The People's Chemist Blog - Health and home remedies blogs
Infectiously Optimistic
Lyme Nation | Demanding better
Feedjit Live Blog Stats
Followers
Copyright 2010-2017 © My Lyme Symphony - Michelle Holderman. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2010-2013 Michelle Holderman. Powered by Blogger.