Zinc Complex for general, immune and reproductive health ONLY $21
Discrete Packaging
Worldwide Delivery
FREE NZ Delivery Over $100
Delivery & FAQ
About Us
Contact Us
Members Login
Shopping Cart My Cart 0 Items
Home
Trying To Conceive
Male Fertility
Pregnancy Tests
Ovulation Tests
Ovulation Monitors
Fertility Tests
Hormonal Test Kits
Charting
Fertility Friendly Lubricants
Fertility Supplements
Supplements for Woman
Supplements for Men
Gender Swaying
Books, DVS & Software
Fertility Amulets
... more in Trying to Conceive
Pregnancy
Morning Sickness
Gender Prediction Tests
Fetal Heartbeat Monitors
Supplements
Comfort & Sleep
Stretch Marks & Skincare
Maternity Belly Bars
Sterling Silver Keepsake Dangles
Fancy Dangles
Plain, Acrylics & Titanium
Labour & Birth Aids
Books
Pregnancy Ailments
Back Pain
Hemorrhoids & Varicose Veins
Leg Cramps
Heartburn and Indigestion
Iron Deficiency Anemia
Yoga
Pregnancy Amulets
Breastfeeding
Nipple & Breast Care
Nipple Shields & Shells
Milk Supply
Breast Pads
Breast Pumps
Manual Pumps
Electric Pumps
Caring for the Baby
Breastfeeding
Nipple Care
Nipple Shields
Milk Supply
Skincare for Baby
Colic
Free Samples
For trying to Conceive Mums Only
For Expecting Mothers Only
For Breast Feeding Mums Only
Fertility Tools & Information
Ovulation Calculator
Fertility Information
Pregnancy Calculator
Articles To Help You
Home > Trying to Conceive > Fertility Supplements > Supplements for Men > Zinc Complex by Radiance
00972 https://www.baby4you.co.nz/shop/Trying+to+Conceive/Male+Fertility/Zinc+Complex+by+Radiance.html
Zinc Complex by Radiance
larger imageMove mouse over the image to magnify
High Absorbtion Zinc and important co-factors 30 Capsules
NZ $21.00
Qty.
Refer a friend
Product query
Convert currency
Seventy two days before you attempt to conceive, you need to ensure that both partners are in optimal health. This will ensure that the sperm (which has a 72 day life cycle) fertilising the ovum will be a healthy, viable specimen for making the best babies possible.
Although all the vitamins and minerals are important and eating a natural, varied, whole food diet will be essential to your health, there a few stand out nutrients for male reproductive health.
The Zinc Link with Male Fertility
Zinc is an extremely common deficiency in the Western world. NZ soils are low in zinc, added to the fact that it is a mineral which is poorly absorbed it is not surprising that there is a general deficiency of zinc in the NZ population. Zinc has been shown in clinical studies to increase sperm count and is vital for the development and functioning of the hormonal and reproductive systems of both sexes. It it is also a key player in immune function and it’s needed to keep mother and baby protected. A zinc deficiency during pregnancy may worsen the baby blues and contribute to problems with breastfeeding. Radiance Zinc Complex caters for your needs with a convenient, highly bioavailable form of zinc monomethionine, alongside a blend of co-factors to enhance absorption, retention and activity for support of general, immune and reproductive health.
Radiance® Zinc Complex also provides Vitamin C, Vitamin B6, Magnesium and Vitamin A (as betacarotene) for optimal retention and activity. An easy indicator of zinc deficiency is the appearance of white spots on the fingernails, taste and smell perception may also be diminished. A zinc taste/talley test (available at some health stores, pharmacies and many natural health practitioners) will help further confirm the need for supplementation.
Usage:
Nutritional support where zinc may be deficient. Supplying adequate dietary zinc may assist with energy, immune and reproduction function and healthy radiant skin.
Dosage:
One capsule daily.
Ingredients per capsule:
Zinc (from zinc monomethionine) 15mg
Vitamin C 50mg
Vitamin B6 (pyrodoxine hydrochoride) 10mg
Magnesium 10mg
Vitamin A (as Betacarotene) 1000 IU
Precautions:
None known.
30 Capsules
1. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2006;110(2):97-106
You might also be interested in ...
Maca - Fertiliity Enhancing Herb for Men and Woman
NZ $44.50
Pomegranate - Natures Way 60 Capsules
NZ $44.90
Featured Products
Trying To Conceive
Pregnancy
Breastfeeding
New Baby
Free Samples
More About Baby4You
About us
Delivery
Ordering & Payment Information
Returns Policy
Contact Us
Disclaimer:
Information on this site is not meant to substitute for the advice of a physician or medical professional and should not be not used for diagnosing or treating a health problem or disease, or prescribing any medication. Information and statements regarding dietary supplements are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. If trying to conceive and you have irregular or absent periods or are not pregnant after 6 months we recommend that you consult a physician.
Subscribe & Enjoy More Benefits
Receive monthly informative articles, resources, special offers and new product information pertaining to fertility and conception.
Your Email*
Home
Site Map
Back to top
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact us
© 2008 New Zealand Medical Supplies Ltd T/A Baby4You. All rights reserved.