Bauerfeind – AchilloTrain – Achilles Tendon Support – Breathable Knit Ankle Brace for Targeted Relief of Achilles Tendon Without Limiting Mobility – Right Foot – Size 2 – Color Nature | Medical Supplies & Equipment
Friday , April 26th 2019
Best Leg & Foot Supports
Medical Supplies & Equipment
Ankle Supports
Medical Support Hose
Knee Braces
Foot Supports
Ankle Braces
Bauerfeind – AchilloTrain – Achilles Tendon Support – Breathable Knit Ankle Brace for Targeted Relief of Achilles Tendon Without Limiting Mobility – Right Foot – Size 2 – Color Nature
Availability: In Stock
Product Features:
Bauerfeind's AchilloTrain ankle supports relieve pain and stabilize the Achilles tendon without restricting your mobility. This soft brace is ideal for post-surgery therapy, tendinitis, and pain in the back of the heel. If your ankle is weak, swollen, painful or recovering from an injury, Bauerfeind's AchilloTrain ankle support provides…
Price as on: 2018-12-18 14:53:17
107.95
Product Description
Bauerfeind’s AchilloTrain ankle supports relieve pain and stabilize the Achilles tendon without restricting your mobility. This soft brace is ideal for post-surgery therapy, tendinitis, and pain in the back of the heel.
If your ankle is weak, swollen, painful or recovering from an injury, Bauerfeind’s AchilloTrain ankle support provides relief and stability for the Achilles tendon & heel. AchilloTrain’s medical-grade compression relieves pain, heightens proprioceptive bio-feedback, and protects the tendon without limiting your mobility.
More than 80 years ago, Bauerfeind set the bar for compression technology and we’ve been raising it ever since. Because of our medical heritage and attention to detail, our products still lead the industry in fit, comfort, support and performance.
Endorsed by the Arthritis Foundation, NBATA (National Basketball Athletic Trainers Association), and PBATS (Professional Baseball Athletic Trainers Society), and the 2008-2018 Olympic Games, Bauerfeind’s braces are trusted by professional athletes and healthcare providers throughout the world.
Whether you are a serious athlete or an active person who doesn’t want pain or injury to interfere with the things you love to do, Bauerfeind’s AchilloTrain ankle support is for you. Be comfortable and active with AchilloTrain.
Bauerfeind Perfect Fit sizing system – Please measure according to the size chart provided.
Product Features
PROVIDES A THREE-FOLD THERAPEUTIC EFFECT: The soft brace relieves pain, distributes pressure uniformly to reduce impact, and produces a soothing massage effect to prevent fluid build-up.
SPECIALLY ENGINEERED FABRIC: Due to the contoured, three-dimensional knit not found in other brands of braces, AchilloTrain is constructed to conform to the natural shape of the ankle, so the ankle is still mobile, but gets the stability it needs.
ENSURE CORRECT FIT AND SIZING: Measure the circumference of your ankle at the narrowest point, right above your ankle bones/joints. Make sure that the measure tape is not too loose or too tight. If your measurements are close to different size, choose the different size (either smaller or bigger).
COMFORTABLE FIT & GENTLE ON THE SKIN: The support fits optimally even in the instep. Extra cushioning on the Achilles and heels make the brace comfortable all day, while the breathable material prevents moisture build-up.
USED TO HELP TREAT & HELP PREVENT: Achilles pain, swelling, tendonitis, Haglund’s deformity, heel pain, heel swelling, pump bump, heel bursitis and more. Ideal for post-surgery therapy, tendonitis and inflammation around heel.
THE BAUERFEIND STANDARD OF QUALITY: All Bauerfeind products are made in Germany with the highest manufacturing standards to ensure superior quality. Bauerfeind technology has evolved over the past 80+ years and continues to set the standard in fit, comfort, support and performance.
Share on Facebook Share
Share on Pinterest Pin it
Share on TwitterTweet
Send To Devices Send
Related Products
Ankle Foot Orthosis Support – Drop Foot Support
The orthosis is an aid when treating DROP FOOT and other insufficiencies of the foot and ankle Injection molded…
Price : 11.99
View Details
Foot Droop Orthosis Guards Foot Correction Shoes
This ankle foot postural corrector is designed to provides full stabilized protection, suitable for ankle or foot drop sporting.The…
Price : 22.99
View Details
Posture Corrector Spinal Support – Physical
Do You Think You Need Spinal Rehabilitation or Postural Correction? Leading medical experts agree bad posture leads to more…
Price : 21.99
View Details
Popular Products
Liomor Ankle Support Breathable Ankle Brace for
Nov 8 2018 569 Views
Blitzu Flex Plus Compression Knee Brace for Joint
Nov 8 2018 521 Views
Made in the USA – Opaque Compression Socks,
Nov 8 2018 391 Views
Nuvein Compression Socks for Women and Men, Medical
Nov 8 2018 366 Views
This website is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com All logos and product images are copyrighted to the original manufacturer.
Copyright © 2019 - All Rights Reserved
Contact Us | Sitemap | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy