What Is Athlete's Foot & How Is It Treated - PricePro Pharmacy
Skip to content
PricePro Pharmacy
(0)
Toll-Free:1-855-776-0079
Home
Rx Upload
Medications
How To Order
Refill
Coupons
About Us
Reviews
Blog
FAQ
Toll-Free: 1-855-776-0079 Fax:1-855-776-0006
Search for:
Home > Medications > Athlete’s Foot Treatment
Athlete’s Foot Treatment
What are Fungal Skin Infections?
Fungal skin infections are common and can affect various portions of the body, including the nails, groin, feet, and head. Individuals frequently have simultaneous presence of fungal skin infection in more than one body region. These infections are typically caused by dermatophytes such as Epidermophyton, Trichophyton, and Microsporum. These fungi usually produce superficial skin infections that involve only the outer epidermal layer. Nail infections can be caused by dermatophytes, yeast, or molds.
The manifestations of fungal skin infection depend on the particular body region affected. Skin lesions tend to be circular, red, scaly, and itchy. Nail infections usually produce discolored nails that are brittle and crusty. Most superficial fungal skin infections can be treated with topical antifungal therapies, but others require oral medications. Due to the importance of these infections, it is essential that patients understand there causes, symptoms, and treatment. By the end of this article, you will have the answers to these essential questions
What causes Fungal Skin Infections?
How common are Fungal Skin Infections?
What are the symptoms and signs of Fungal Skin Infection?
How are Fungal Skin Infections diagnosed?
How are Fungal Skin Infections treated?
What causes Athlete's Foot (Fungal Skin Infections)?
Fungal skin infections are typically acquired by direct contact with the causative fungus. These fungi normally include dermatophytes such as Epidermophyton, Trichophyton, and Microsporum. Tinea pedis (fungal foot infection) can be caused by contact with fungi while walking barefoot in a locker room or swimming pool facility. Tinea corporis (fungal body surface infection) often occurs in outbreaks among athletes with skin-to-skin contact (eg, wrestlers). Fungal nail infection (tinea unguium) is usually caused by dermatophytes, yeast, or molds.
The following is a list of medical terms for fungal infection involving various body regions:
Tinea corporis – infection of body surfaces such as the trunk, back, or abdomen
Tinea pedis – fungal foot infection (athlete's foot)
Tinea cruris – fungal groin infection (jock itch)
Tinea capitis – fungal scalp infection
Tinea unguium – fungal nail infection (onychomycosis)
How common are Fungal Skin Infections?
Fungal skin infections are very common in the United States and responsible for frequent primary care visits. They may require referral to dermatology or infectious disease specialist if first-line measures are unsuccessful.
The most common fungal skin infections include tinea unguium (about 39% of cases), tinea corporis (approximately 23% of cases), and tinea pedis (about 20% of cases). Tinea unguium and corporis appear to be more predominant in women, whereas tinea pedis and cruris are more prevalent in men.
What are the symptoms and signs of Fungal Skin Infections?
Tinea pedis (fungal foot infection) tends to cause itchy (pruritic), red (erythematous), erosions and scales between toes. Patients may develop painful fissures between the toes as well.
Tinea corporis typically manifests as itchy, circular, red, scaly plaques that spread outward. They usually have central clearing and raised borders. This is why this condition is commonly referred to as “ringworm.”
Tinea cruris (“jock itch”) is characterized by a red patch on the inner thigh that spreads outwards and has central clearing. It’s border may have tiny vesicles or “blisters.” The infection can spread to areas around the groin or buttocks.
Tinea unguium (onychomycosis) is characterized by nail discoloration (yellow/brown) and separation of the nail plate from the nail bed.
How is Fungal Skin Infections diagnosed?
Fungal skin infections are typically diagnosed based on symptoms and physical examination findings. Testing is often performed to confirm the diagnosis as many skin conditions have a similar appearance.
Skin scrapings are usually analyzed on a potassium hydroxide (KOH) preparation. Fungal cultures are also occasionally sent for diagnostic confirmation. Inaccurate diagnosis of fungal skin infection can result in inappropriate therapy with topical corticosteroids (eg, Cortizone cream).
How is Athlete's Foot treated?
The majority of fungal skin infections improve with topical antifungal therapy. Individuals with tinea pedis, tinea corporis, or tinea cruris usually benefit from topical agents such as:
Clotrimazole
Spectazole (econazole)
Jublia (efinaconazole)
Ketoderm (ketoconazole)
Lamisil (terbinafine)
Ciclodan (ciclopirox)
Lotrimin Ultra (butenafine)
Tinactin (tolnaftate)
Patients with tinea pedis and tinea cruris often have recurrent infections. Individuals with tinea pedis should generally use drying foot powders to reduce moisture and risk for fungal reinfection. Placement of antifungal foot powders in footwear and avoidance of occlusive shoes may also be effective. Tinea cruris can also benefit from use of desiccating powders in the groin and avoidance of occlusive clothing.
Oral antifungal medications are typically reserved for severe infections or those that have not responded to topical agents. Oral antifungal drugs such as Lamisil (terbinafine) or Sporanox (itraconazole) are typically required for nail infections (onychomycosis).
Fungal Skin Infection Patient Summary:
Fungal skin infections are common and can affect various portions of the body, including the nails, groin, feet, and head. Individuals frequently have a simultaneous presence of fungal skin infection in more than one body region.
These infections are typically caused by dermatophytes such as Epidermophyton, Trichophyton, and Microsporum.
Tinea pedis (fungal foot infection) tends to cause itchy (pruritic), red (erythematous), erosions and scales between toes.
Tinea corporis typically manifests as itchy, circular, red, scaly plaques that spread outward. They usually have central clearing and raised borders (“ringworm”).
Tinea cruris (“jock itch”) is characterized by a red patch on the inner thigh that spreads outwards and has central clearing. It’s border may have tiny vesicles or “blisters.” The infection can spread to areas around the groin or buttocks.
Tinea unguium (onychomycosis) is characterized by nail discoloration (yellow/brown) and separation of the nail plate from the nail bed.
Individuals with tinea pedis, tinea corporis, or tinea cruris usually improve with topical antifungal therapy such as: Clotrimazole, Spectazole (econazole), Jublia (efinaconazole), Ketoderm (ketoconazole), Lamisil (terbinafine), Ciclodan (ciclopirox), Lotrimin Ultra (butenafine), and Tinactin (tolnaftate).
Patients with tinea pedis should generally use desiccating foot powders to reduce moisture and risk for fungal reinfection. Placement of antifungal foot powders in footwear and avoidance of occlusive shoes may also be effective.
Tinea cruris can also benefit from use of desiccating powders in the groin and avoidance of occlusive clothing.
Oral antifungal agents such as Lamisil (terbinafine) or Sporanox (itraconazole) are typically required for nail infections (onychomycosis).
References:
Ameen M. Epidemiology of superficial fungal infections. Clin Dermatol 2010; 28:197.
Crawford F, Hollis S. Topical treatments for fungal infections of the skin and nails of the foot. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2007; :CD001434.
El-Gohary M, van Zuuren EJ, Fedorowicz Z, et al. Topical antifungal treatments for tinea cruris and tinea corporis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2014; :CD009992.
Athlete’s Foot Medications
Lotriderm Cream
The above information is an educational aid only. It is not intended as medical advice for individual conditions or treatments. Talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before following any medical regimen to see if it is safe and effective for you.
How to Order
Toll-Free: 1-855-776-0079
Fax: 1-855-776-0006
Search for:
Suite 550
102-17750 56th Avenue
Surrey BC V3S 1K4
Canada
Hours of Operation
Monday-Friday 6:00 am to 6:00 pm PST
Saturday 8:00 am to 2:00 pm PST
Contact Us
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Security & Privacy
Terms of Sales
PriceProPharmacy.com dispenses medications through our affiliated Canadian licensed and certified dispensing pharmacy which is licensed in the province of Manitoba, Canada. PriceProPharmacy.com also uses affiliated international pharmacies that are approved by regulatory authorities in their respective countries.
These affiliated facilities dispense medications which they acquire in their home countries or internationally from countries like Australia, New Zealand, India, Turkey, UK, Germany and other European Union member states.
**All trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. The products mentioned on this website are trademarks of their respective owners and are not owned by or affiliated with PriceProPharmacy.com or any of its associated companies.
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
© Copyright 2019 PricePro Pharmacy