Ankle Braces for Diabetic Patients | Call (520) 274-8059 for Diabetic Supplies
Call Now (520) 274-8059
Home
Ankle Braces for Diabetic Patients
When to Wear an Ankle Brace
An ankle brace is a protective garment specifically made to immobilize the ankle while providing support and compression as to avoid and/or heal an ankle injury. Ankle injuries, particularly ankle sprains, are the most common type of injury sustained during engaging in a physical activity. In fact, ankle-related injuries (sprain, strain, fracture, etc.) account for 15% - 30% of all injuries during physical activity, and of these injuries, 85% are specifically ankle sprains.
Overall, wearing ankle brace is an extremely important modality for those that engage in any fast-paced physical activity. Most commonly worn by athletes, ankle braces serve the main purposes of preventing from further injuring an already injured ankle, or to prevent an injury from occurring.
Athletes that play sports involving a lot of jumping, shifting of the feet, and running should always wear an ankle brace as recommended by physicians and sports team coaches.
Specific sports in which the players should always be wearing an ankle brace (during both games and training/practices) include:
Basketball
Football
Soccer
Volleyball
Track (Running)
Tennis
Rugby
And the list can go on and on. For an athlete, or anyone that engages in strenuous physical activity on a regular basis, wearing an ankle brace is the best way to avoid an ankle-related injury. The pain and discomfort associated with ankle-related injuries can be excruciating. By utilizing a high-quality ankle brace designed to cater to the specific ankle injury (sprain, fracture, strain, etc.), the healing process will be much faster, safer, and more effective.
Why Should You Wear an Ankle Brace and How Does it Work?
An ankle brace provides protection, support, and immobilization during the healing process of an ankle-related injury. Primarily designed to limit the mobility of the ankle joints, ankle braces also provide a specific amount of heat and compression to the ankle bones to aid in relieving pain and to speed up the overall injury healing process.
Immobilizing the ankle during the participating in any high-intensity physical activity is of major importance. Limiting the ankle’s mobility is paramount in preventing the ankle from sustaining further damage or injury while also helping to ease overall ankle pain due to an injury.
To minimize the chance of inflammation due to an ankle-related injury, the ankle brace applies the right amount of compression, heat, and support to help the ankle heal properly. Those that decide to not wear an ankle brace following an ankle-related injury may face future complications, increased and/or prolonged pain, and run the risk of reinjuring the ankle.
So if you are an athlete, or live an active lifestyle, then wearing an ankle brace can be very beneficial for you as to ensure that your ankles are well-protected and supported.
Quick Search
Accu-Chek
Bayer
CareSens
Simple Diagnostics
Infopia USA
ACON Laboratories
LifeScan
Trividia Health
← Back to All Products
Get Your Diabetic Supplies Delivered Right to Your Door!
Call Us Now (520) 274-8059
2921 E Fort Lowell Road,
Tucson, AZ 85716
Copyright © 2018 Diabetic Equipment Supplier. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions