Getting To Know About Cod Liver Oil: Health Benefits Cold Liver Oil In Swissgarde Nutritional And Herbal Alternative | 20MG5MGCOM
Friday, April 19, 2019
20MG5MGCOM
The best place to find health information is from healthcare professionals
Search for:
Getting To Know About Cod Liver Oil: Health Benefits Cold Liver Oil In Swissgarde Nutritional And Herbal Alternative
Health
January 5, 2019 rizki
In order for us to appreciate products like Immune booster, Omega plus, and Power Powder we need to be grounded in the knowledge of essential oil, known as cod liver oil.
What Is Cod Liver Oil?
Cod liver oil is a nutrient-dense source of essential vitamins including vitamin D and vitamin A as well as anti-inflammatory omega-3 fatty acids. Considering most people don’t eat enough anti-inflammatory foods that provide both vitamin D and omega-3, important nutrients that play a crucial role in cardiovascular, hormonal, immune, reproductive and neurological health. Many adults and children can benefit from regularly supplementing with cod liver oil.
Cod liver oil comes from, cod liver! You can consume the oil either from eating fresh cod liver or, more likely, from taking over-the-counter supplements. Each teaspoon of cod liver oil has about 41 calories and 4.5 grams of fat according to the USDA, split between monounsaturated, saturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids.
The most beneficial aspect of taking cod liver oil is that it contains high levels of omega-3 fatty acids, the same type found in oily fish or seafood like salmon, mackerel and sardines. It’s also one of the few and best vitamin D–rich foods.
Omega-3s and vitamin D are known for lowering inflammation, preventing blood clotting, preserving brain health and preventing depression. They’re even capable of causing noticeably reduced levels of pain and swelling due to inflammatory conditions like arthritis
For more information call 📲 me now 2347038574473, 2348074256315
Health Benefits Of Cod Liver Oil
Dozens of studies have linked cod liver oil with the following benefits:
• lowering high cholesterol and high triglycerides
• preventing and treating diabetes
• lowering high blood pressure
• preventing heart disease
• reducing the risk for osteoarthritis
• treating depression
• lowering the risk of autoimmune diseases
• fighting eye disorders like glaucoma and protecting eyesight
• treating ear infections, allergies, and asthma
• preventing and treating kidney disease
• helping to heal skin wounds
• maintaining bone health and preventing fractures or osteoporosis
Cod Liver oil Supplies Critical Vitamin D
Vitamin D acts more like a hormone in the body than a vitamin since it affects neurotransmitter functioning, heart health, and inflammatory responses. Synthesized by your own skin when you’re exposed to the sun’s UV light, the best way to get enough vitamin D is to spend time outdoors without sunscreen on.
Not only does vitamin D play a part in healthy bone metabolism, but it supports important functions of all of our cells. Because low vitamin D levels can interfere with our cells’ ability to multiply and replenish, vitamin D deficiency might increase the risk of becoming sick short term, or even worse developing a chronic autoimmune disorder, cognitive or cardiovascular disease, diabetes, osteoporosis or cancer.
Considering most adults and children don’t get enough regular sun exposure year round due to living mostly indoor lifestyles, vitamin D supplementation is now recommended for the majority of people. Vitamin D deficiency symptoms can include depression, anxiety, fatigue, low libido, infertility, autism, asthma and more — in addition, the deficiency can lower immunity and even up the risk of cancer.
High doses of vitamin D taken alone might have potential side effects, which is why it’s now recommended to take vitamin D in combination with synergistic vitamin A and omega-3 fatty acids, such as how it’s found naturally in vitamin D–rich foods including cod liver oil.
Great Source of Vitamin A
Vitamin A is an important antioxidant that reduces oxidative stress (also called free radical damage) and thereby inflammation levels. It’s tied to the prevention of eye-related disorders, supports brain health, helps fight cancer and is important for hormone production. While most people eating a pretty well-balanced diet get enough vitamin A daily, deficiency is a risk for some people eating highly processed foods or not enough calories in general.
When it comes to obtaining vitamin A from cod liver oil, the quality of the supplement seems to make a big impact. Many brands contain synthetic versions of vitamins A and D that aren’t well absorbed, in addition to dangerous ratios of these two nutrients. While consuming very high levels of vitamin A from supplements alone has been linked to some health concerns, obtaining vitamin A naturally from food sources can help improve the immune system. Eating plenty of vitamin A-rich foods is beneficial for bone growth, night vision, healthy cellular growth, testicular and ovarian function, and much more.
Vitamins A and D are fat-soluble nutrients often found together in animal foods. Both act like precursors to active hormones, so we produce certain enzymes that convert each of these to active forms the body can use to regulate our immune system. In this case, vitamin A is converted to retinol. Obtaining vitamins A and D together is completely natural and allows these processes to happen in a way that protects us from toxicity.
Getting To Know About Cod Liver Oil: Health Benefits Cold Liver Oil In Swissgarde Nutritional And Herbal Alternative
Lowers Risk For Cancer
High levels of vitamin D, obtained from both sun exposure and supplementing with cod liver oil, have been associated with lower risks of cancer. One study found that vitamin D from both the sun and cod liver oil could help prevent breast cancer in women due to having antiproliferative and proapoptotic effects on breast cancer cells, thereby reducing mammary tumors. While sun exposure still seems to be the most relevant protective factor for getting enough cancer-busting vitamin D, cod liver oil also seems to help offset common deficiencies.
Prevents or Treats Diabetes
As a great source of essential healthy fats, cod liver oil can help control insulin resistance, inflammation and manage glucose (sugar) levels in the blood. It’s even been shown to help lower symptoms of complications related to diabetes like kidney disease. Use of cod liver oil and vitamin D supplements during the first year of a baby’s life and use of cod liver during pregnancy can also help lower the risk of developing diabetes.
Helps Treat Arthritis
At the beginning of the 20th century, scientists established that cod liver oil was a natural “antirachitic,” which meant thousands of mothers began forcefully spoon-feeding the stuff to unwilling children! Cod liver oil use is associated with a reduction in pain, joint stiffness, and swelling in patients with arthritis and other inflammatory conditions.
Cod liver oil is an effective natural treatment for arthritis because it mimics the effects of medications. It acts as a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, improves chief clinical symptoms, and can be used as a safe alternative to medications, or simply a complementary supplement, in treating rheumatoid arthritis.
Boosts Fertility and Helps with Growth and Development
Fats are critical for reproductive health and a vibrant pregnancy because they help the body produce sex hormones including estrogen and progesterone. Cod liver oil is linked with healthier ovarian and testicular function since it provides critical nutrients (omega-3s and vitamin D) that help keep the endocrine system running smoothly.
With multiple anti-inflammatory nutrients, cod liver oil supports the adrenal, hypothalamic and pituitary glands that control the release of sex hormones involved in libido, pregnancy, and reproduction. DHA also plays a crucial role in the mobility and health of sperm in men.
Improves Brain Function
Regularly supplementing with fish oil for depression has been associated with lower risks for depressive symptoms, due to both the higher intake of essential omega-3 fats and vitamin D.
There’s a strong connection between omega-3 intake or fish oil supplementation and prevention of cognitive decline, including Alzheimer’s disease. Studies show consistent results: The essential fatty acids vital for brain function are found in fish oil and help prevent brain disorders in older adults.
Helps Maintain Bone Health
Vitamin D is important for building and maintaining strong bones. Studies show that women who live in cold, northerly latitudes and don’t get enough sunlight tend to produce less vitamin D, which increases the risk for bone turnover, bone loss, fractures and also obesity. Vitamin D supplementation, including from cod liver oil, has been associated with a significantly lower risk of bone fractures and might help naturally prevent osteoporosis from developing.
Fights Ulcers
In laboratory settings, cod liver oil has shown benefits for improving gastric ulcer healing and reducing gastric antisecretory effects observed in rats. The oil also seems to produce gastric cytoprotective effects and causes a significant reduction in the development of stress and pain caused by gastric ulcers.
Now, you know why omega plus and the others are often combined for medical challenges.
Getting To Know About Cod Liver Oil: Health Benefits, Omega Plus
For more information call Swissgarde distributor / Agent Now Felix Joshua 2347038574473, 08074256315
Post navigation
What You Need To Be Wary About Before Going For That Fibroid Surgery Or D&C
Wrinkle-Fighting Vitamins – Swissgarde Nutritional And Herbal Alternatives For Anti-Aging
Related Posts
Successful Sex Pre-Selection Using Natural Family Planning Method And Swissgarde Products
January 11, 2019 rizki
Insomnia – Swissgarde Natural Remedy For Insomnia
January 3, 2019 rizki
How to ease your pain : Arthritis or Rheumatism Using Swissgarde Nutritional and Herbal Alternative
December 8, 2018 rizki
Search for:
Recent Posts
Introducing Swissgarde Products: Premium Quality Nutritional And Herbal Alternative – Creating Wealth Through Health
Swissgarde Buchu Power – Detox Drink
14 Network Marketing Tips For Guaranteed Success – Growing Your Swissgarde Business
17 Great Benefits Of Aloe Power
Presentation On Swissgarde 40 Plus For Women
Categories
Health
News Vibrant	| Theme: news-vibrant by CodeVibrant.