Ortho Heal Pneumatic Daytime Brace for Plantar Fasciitis, Heel Pain Relief, and Achilles Tendonitis Support (Large) | Medical Supplies & Equipment
Friday , April 26th 2019
Best Leg & Foot Supports
Medical Supplies & Equipment
Ankle Supports
Medical Support Hose
Knee Braces
Foot Supports
Ankle Braces
Ortho Heal Pneumatic Daytime Brace for Plantar Fasciitis, Heel Pain Relief, and Achilles Tendonitis Support (Large)
Availability: In Stock
Product Features:
Don't buy into the compression sock hype! You need MORE than a tight fitting sock to relieve your heel pain! The Ortho Heal is comfortable to wear while on your feet, relieving the pressure your body exerts on the plantar fascia. It helps align the heel to its natural…
Price as on: 2019-02-13 15:45:07
39.99
Product Description
Don’t buy into the compression sock hype! You need MORE than a tight fitting sock to relieve your heel pain! The Ortho Heal is comfortable to wear while on your feet, relieving the pressure your body exerts on the plantar fascia. It helps align the heel to its natural position, reducing stress on the painful areas, and allows stretching exercises to work. The Ortho Heal is designed to lift the heel a small amount, relieving pressure on the areas of pain and allowing it to recover. Pneumatic air chambers surround the painful areas, cushioning each step, and providing a massaging effect to the painful areas. While walking, air transfers between the upper and lower air bladders, massaging the achilles tendon and heel. The brace is not designed to give ankle support, but to cushion your foot while standing. The brace will not make you unstable but is not designed to provide added stability. Not recommended for anyone at risk for falls, over 275 pounds, or doing rigorous activity. Add the optional compression sock to help soothe tired and achy feet at night. Alternatively, you can wear the sock around the house and save your Ortho Heal for more demanding activity. US Sizing as Follows: SMALL – Men’s up to 7, Women’s up to 6.5. MEDIUM – Men’s 7.5-10.5, Women’s 7-11.5. LARGE – Men’s 11 and up, Women’s 12 and up.
Product Features
NOT DESIGNED FOR ANKLE OR FOOT SUPPORT. ONLY DESIGNED TO SOOTHE AND CUSHION HEEL PAIN. DO NOT BUY FOR FOOT OR ANKLE SUPPORT. Air Bladder system immediately cushions each step, alleviating heel pain during the day while standing and during activities.
Designed for heel pain, plantar fasciitis, achilles tendonitis, heel spurs, and foot pain relief.
Unique horse shoe shape on the bottom of the foot surrounds the areas of pain and provides a cushioned landing while walking.
Optional Compression sock provides night time relief for 24 hour relief for pain and swelling.
Fits both feet, 3 sizes. If on the edge of a size but have a condition like swelling, buy the larger size.. Not designed for ankle stability but for cushioning. Weight Limit 275 pounds.
Share on Facebook Share
Share on Pinterest Pin it
Share on TwitterTweet
Send To Devices Send
Related Products
Ankle Foot Orthosis Support – Drop Foot Support
The orthosis is an aid when treating DROP FOOT and other insufficiencies of the foot and ankle Injection molded…
Price : 11.99
View Details
Foot Droop Orthosis Guards Foot Correction Shoes
This ankle foot postural corrector is designed to provides full stabilized protection, suitable for ankle or foot drop sporting.The…
Price : 22.99
View Details
Posture Corrector Spinal Support – Physical
Do You Think You Need Spinal Rehabilitation or Postural Correction? Leading medical experts agree bad posture leads to more…
Price : 21.99
View Details
Popular Products
Liomor Ankle Support Breathable Ankle Brace for
Nov 8 2018 569 Views
Blitzu Flex Plus Compression Knee Brace for Joint
Nov 8 2018 521 Views
Made in the USA – Opaque Compression Socks,
Nov 8 2018 391 Views
Nuvein Compression Socks for Women and Men, Medical
Nov 8 2018 366 Views
This website is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com All logos and product images are copyrighted to the original manufacturer.
Copyright © 2019 - All Rights Reserved
Contact Us | Sitemap | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy