Benefits of Magnesium Taurate | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Health
Alternative Medicine
Alternative Remedies
Benefits of Magnesium Taurate
Adam Cloe
About the Author:
Adam Cloe
Adam Cloe has been published in various scientific journals, including the "Journal of Biochemistry." He is currently a pathology resident at the University of Chicago. Cloe holds a Bachelor of Arts in biochemistry from Boston University, a M.D. from the University of Chicago and a Ph.D. in pathology from the University of Chicago.
View Full Profile
Magnesium and other minerals are essential to keep your body healthy, and magnesium deficiency may play a role in many diseases, including cardiovascular disease, migraines and depression. Supplements such as magnesium taurate can help boost your levels of magnesium, and the taurate may also have a role in protecting your cardiovascular system.
Low magnesium levels may be linked to migraines. (Image: Dirima/iStock/Getty Images)
Cardiovascular Benefits
The combination of magnesium and taurate can be especially beneficial in preventing cardiovascular problems. Magnesium supplementation can help lower blood pressure and reduce the risk of developing diabetes and atherosclerosis. Elevated levels of magnesium may also protect from irregular heartbeats and sudden cardiac death. Taurate, on the other hand, can be converted into taurine, an amino acid. Taurine helps the heart pump blood throughout the body, improves blood flow to the heart and protects the heart from damage due to poor blood flow. As a result, these two compounds, taken in combination as magnesium taurate, could interact to protect against cardiovascular disease.
Migraine Prevention
Magnesium taurate also may help prevent migraines. People who experience migraines tend to have lower levels of magnesium in their cerebrospinal fluid, brain, red blood cells and immune cells. Increasing your levels of taurine and magnesium may also help prevent some of the neurological changes associated with migraines.
Other Benefits of Magnesium
By supplying you with magnesium, magnesium taurate also provides other benefits. Magnesium plays a key role in the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats as well as in the synthesis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), one of the main molecules for storing and using energy in the body. Magnesium is also needed to make DNA and proteins, as well as the antioxidant glutathione. Cell membranes, bones and chromosomes also require magnesium. Finally, magnesium is essential for the transportation of potassium and calcium, aids in wound healing and helps form the molecule cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), which is important for the secretion of parathyroid hormone.
Dosage and Safety
Men need between 400 and 420 milligrams of magnesium per day, whereas women need between 310 and 360 milligrams per day. However, because magnesium is found naturally in foods, the maximum recommended intake of magnesium from supplements is 350 milligrams. If you take too much magnesium, you might experience nausea, vomiting, facial flushing, lethargy and muscle weakness. Because taurine is not an essential element, there is no official recommended daily intake. Talk to your doctor before starting magnesium taurate or other supplements.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Medical Hypotheses: Complementary Vascular-Protective Actions of Magnesium and Taurine: A Rationale for Magnesium Taurate
Medical Hypotheses: Magnesium Taurate and Fish Oil for the Prevention of Migraine
Linus Pauling Institute: Magnesium
Office of Dietary Supplements: Magnesium
NYU Langone Medical Center: Taurine
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Foods With Calcium Channel Blockers
2
Calcium and Magnesium in Caltrate: What Does It Do for the Body?
3
Benefits of Magnesium Chloride
4
What Is Chelated Magnesium?
5
Magnesium Dosage for Depression
6
What Is Magnesium Aspartate?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.