Home Remedies for Fever in a Toddler | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Parenting
Toddlers
Toddlers and What to Expect
Home Remedies for Fever in a Toddler
Adrienne Weeks
About the Author:
Adrienne Weeks
Adrienne Weeks spends her time as a collegiate speech instructor, fitness instructor and stay-at-home mom. She holds a master's degree in communication studies from Texas Tech University. Weeks has written about a wide variety of topics but enjoys sharing her passion about fitness, cooking and parenting.
A fever, a common ailment among toddlers, is generally a symptom of a viral or bacterial infection. According to The Doctors Book of Home Remedies for Children, a fever acts as a defense mechanism that helps the body to fight infection. If the fever causes irritability or crying, treat the fever with home remedies to help your child feel more comfortable. Remember that a child's temperature can fluctuate after high amounts of activity, being out in the sun or after a hot meal or drink. If your child's temperature is over 100.4 degrees, he has a fever. Contact a physician if your child is confused or delirious, has a stiff neck, has difficulty breathing or is inconsolable. For children under 2, use acetaminophen only if prescribed by a physician.
A fever can be very uncomfortable, but there are ways to relieve the discomfort. (Image: Nadezhda1906/iStock/Getty Images)
Sponge Bath
The Doctors Book of Home Remedies for Children recommends a lukewarm sponge bath for children suffering from a fever. Fill the tub with tepid water and allow your child to sit in the bath for 10 to 15 minutes. Sponge the water over your child's body to provide a cooling effect. Ensure that the water is warm enough to avoid shivers. If your child gets the shivers, take him out and dry him off. Shivering raises the body's temperature, which defeats the purpose of the bath.
Encourage Fluids
Encourage your child to drink plenty of fluids, since fevers can lead to dehydration. If breastfeeding your toddler, continue to offer your child breast milk. Use an oral hydration solution for toddlers to replenish lost body fluids and electrolytes. According to the Mayo Clinic, oral hydration solutions include the proper amounts of salt, water and nutrients necessary for replacing essential body fluids. Give your child small, frequent sips of cool, not hot, beverages.
Dress Lightly
Dress your child in lightweight clothing to avoid overheating, which may make the fever worse. Keep the room cool and cover him with a light blanket or sheet when sleeping or resting.
Avoid Alcohol
Once used as a remedy for a feverish child, The Doctors Book of Home Remedies for Children discourages the use of alcohol to lower a fever. When rubbed on the skin it produces a soothing effect, however, rubbing alcohol causes shivering and may cause a toxic reaction when absorbed through the skin. Inhaling alcohol fumes can cause alcohol poisoning or irritation.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
The Doctors Book of Home Remedies for Children: Fever
Mayo Clinic: Fever
NY Times: The Claim-Rubbing Alcohol Can Help Cool a Fever
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Natural Home Fever Reducer Remedies
2
Should You Drink Alcohol With a Cold?
3
How to Lower a High Fever in a 6-Month-Old Baby
4
Will Milk Hurt a Baby With a Fever?
5
How Long Can a Fever Last With a Virus in a 10-Month-Old?
6
Should I Wake up My Child at Night If He Has a Fever?
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.