Evening Primrose Organic – CanadaWell
Skip to content
Submit
Close search
Home
Catalog
Apparel
Short Sleeve
Long Sleeve
Tank
Hoodie
Submit
Search
Log in Cart
Home
Catalog
Apparel
Apparel Menu
Apparel
Short Sleeve
Long Sleeve
Tank
Hoodie
Evening Primrose Organic
Regular price
$5.00
Sale price
$5.00 Sale
Tax included. Shipping calculated at checkout.
Size 0.5oz 1oz 2oz 4oz
0.5oz 1oz 2oz 4oz
Add to cart
Evening Primrose Oil should help your face from looking bleary and tired in the morning, perking up your eyes and keeping skin toned and bright.
This oil is a rich source of gamma linoleic acid, omega 3 and omega 6 fatty acids which can be used to nourish the skin. It also soothes inflammation and can be used in dandruff applications.
The oil is extracted from evening primrose seeds and is reportedly very gentle. The fatty acids in the oil are extremely moisturizing, helping to keep dry areas hydrated.
It also reportedly improves blood circulation wherever it is applied, making it a natural way to treat tired skin and eyes.
Not only does evening primrose oil for skin hydrate and increase circulation, it also helps reduce inflammation and keeps pores clear.
If you’re suffering from eczema, acne, psoriasis, or rosacea, evening primrose oil for skin may be the ideal for you.
Those using evening primrose oil for skin conditions like eczema, rosacea, and psoriasis may want to apply it several times a day. The oil may be applied with a makeup sponge or cotton ball, then covered with gauze, if possible. If you’re using the oil for rosacea on your face, you can simply apply it about 10 minutes before you put on your makeup, if you wear any. The same goes for using this oil to treat acne. Reapplication is best done in the middle of the day and again right before you go to bed.
Botanical Name
100% Evening primrose (Oenothera biennis) oil
Country of origin
Canada
Cultivation
Conventional (Non GMO)
Extraction Method
Cold Pressed / Unrefined
Color
Pale yellow to golden yellow liquid.
Scent
Being unrefined, Evening Primrose Oil has been left in its virgin state after pressing. It has not been run through filters or chemical processes, so stronger colors and fragrances should be expected. This is completely natural.
Texture
Liquid
Ingredients
100% Evening primrose (Oenothera biennis) oil
Usage
Evening primrose oil has been used to improve the following skin problems: Acne, Stretch marks, UV damage from overexposure to the sun, Scars from surgery, burns, and acne, Eczema, Psoriasis, Rosacea, Wrinkles and premature skin aging, Hyper-pigmentation, Dermatitis, Burns, including those from radiation and sunburns. Rosehip can be used for skin damaged by, or over-exposed to, ultraviolet radiation from the sun or x-ray radiation. Age spots. Brittle nails. Dry and damaged hair
Warnings
Not known.
Shelf Life
1-2 years
Manufacture
Best Natures Cosmetic
Country of Manufacture
Canada
Share Share on Facebook
Tweet Tweet on Twitter
Pin it Pin on Pinterest
*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food & Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. Always seek professional medical attention for any medical conditions or health issues you may be experiencing. The information on this website is not intended as medical advice or to replace the advice of a qualified medical professional. Testimonials used on this website are from validated users of these products who have not been compensated for their reviews.
Search
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Refund Policy
Shipping Policy
Payment methods
American Express
Diners Club
Discover
Mastercard
Visa
© 2019, CanadaWell Powered by Shopify