The Benefits of Vitamin E Are Due To Its Antioxidant Capability
The Benefits of Vitamin E For a Variety of Health Needs
The benefits of Vitamin E are obtained from fatty foods such as nuts and oils or a vitamin E supplement, an effective way to get the value of vitamin E without the calories.
Benefits of Vitamin E
Vitamin E acts as an anti-blood clotting agent and promotes red-blood cell formation. Vitamin E also improves how the body uses Vitamin A.
An important benefit of Vitamin E is that it appears to slow the aging process and protects against pollutants including second-hand smoke.
Also benefiting from vitamin E are people with circulatory disorders, skin and joint problems, high cholesterol, endometriosis and immune-system problems.
Vitamin C is a sister antioxidant that increases the effectiveness of Vitamin E. These two vitamins work together best in aiding with complications with heart failure, cancer, lupus, multiple sclerosis and congestive heart failure.
One study confirmed that the risk of late-stage Macular Degeneration was lowered substantially in older adults who had high levels of vitamin E and C in their bloodstream.
Vitamin E Help Scars
In healing scars, one group of people use a vitamin E cream and apply it directly to the scar area. Another group that already takes a vitamin E supplement, will raise the dosage for the healing process. It is said to speed up the healing process and also to lessen the appearance of the scar.
One of the benefits of vitamin E in helping with scars is that it softens the scar. It reduces the strength of the three strands that form collagen which makes them more pliable.
Research also shows, however, that up to one third of the patients that apply a cream with Vitamin E, can contact Dermatitis, allergic reactions, or other irritations that can worsen a scar's appearance.
Foods containing Vitamin E include almonds, brazil nuts, hazelnuts, peanuts, safflower nuts and walnuts.
Also included are canola oil, corn oil, margerine, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, safflower oil, soybean oil and wheatgerm oil. Spinach and broccoli also are foods with vitamin E.
Featured Vitamin E Supplement
At Nutritional Supplements Guide we have been using a product that contains a blend of over 70 powerful nutrients to give you energy, keep your body functioning at its highest level and give you a complete spectrum of vitamin E and other vitamins that your body needs.
This unique supplement is called Total Balance and it is manufactured using strict pharmaceutical GMP Compliance, which is the most controlled standard for dietary supplements on the market. The company also files a Certificate of Analysis (COA) for each of their products to guarantee the potency of the ingredients they use.
We highly recommend you take a look at Total Balance because of how great we feel since we have been on it.
Make Total Balance with Vitamin E a part of your daily regimen and feel healthier and more energetic than ever before!
Home
Health Conditions
Healthy Living
Herbals
Mens Health
Minerals
Supplements
Vitamins
Weight Loss
Womens Health
Free Newsletter
About Us
Disclaimer
Privacy
Contact Us
[?]Subscribe To This Site