Testimonials
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
Mypurmist Pty Ltd, The ONLY Australian and New Zealand Official Importer
Register
Log In
Products imported through the official importer come with Australian power supplies that conform to the Australian electrical standards.
Home
Products
My Symptoms
Why Steam?
Testimonials
Support
Shop
0Item(s)
0 Items View Cart
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Allergy Symptoms
Wash away allergens and environmental pollutants with soothing steam
Cold, Flu and Cough
Warm steam relief for your worst flu and cold symptoms, including coughs
Dryness Symptoms
Moisturise sinus, nose and throat passages with soothing mist
Sinus Congestion
Ease your sinus pressure and pain with a natural expectorant
Breathing Conditions
Direct germ-free symptom relief to reduce inflammation and relieve congestion
read more
See how mypurmist uses 100% natural steam to provide fast relief
mypurmist free cordless
ultrapure steam inhaler
Get the world's most advanced steam inhaler! Provides 100% natural, drug-free, and ultrapure therapy for sinus congestion, colds and allergies.
ultrapure sterile water
20 x 30ml refills
The most sterile and purest form of water commercially available. When used with mypurmist, it provides a pure, and warm therapeutic mist.
mypurmist free
handsfree strap
A specially designed adjustable elastic strap so you can use your mypurmist free when on the move without having to hold it.
mypurmist free
ScentPad 4 pack
Releases soothing aromatic vapours of Eucalyptus and Peppermint for non-medicated comfort and a peaceful nights rest.
Shipping Information
Learn about our shipping options.
Warranty Registration
Register to apply for warranty
FAQ
All your questions answered
Contact Us
Get in touch with us
Home
Products
mypurmist free cordless ultrapure steam inhaler mypurmist ultrapure sterile water mypurmist free handsfree strap mypurmist free additional mask mypurmist free scentpad 4 pack
My Symptoms
Allergy Symptoms Cold, Flu and Cough Dryness Symptoms Sinus Congestion Breathing Conditions
Why Steam?
Testimonials
Support
Shipping Information Warranty Registration FAQ Contact Us
Shop
Register / Login
View Cart
My Symptoms
Allergy Symptoms
Cold, Flu and Cough Symptoms
Dryness Symptoms
Sinus Congestion
Breathing Conditions
Why Steam?
Watch our TV ADs
Mypurmist TV ad 30 sec
Mypurmist TV ad 60 sec
Mypurmist V4 Cordless
How to use cordless mypurmist free
Professionals
Overview
Research Studies
Resources
Testimonials
Real Users
Medical Experts
Celebrities
Celebrity Quotes
Shop
Nasal Decongestant
Steam Mask
Natural Remedies For Sinus Infection
Nasal Congestion Relief
Remedies For Cough & Cold
Natural Sinus Congestion Remedies
Product was successfully added to your shopping cart.
Go to cart page
Continue
Testimonials
mypurmist is recommended
by doctors
As a physician we have learned for many years of treating patients that having direct targeted therapy to the very area that you're trying to treat is the most effective way to treat respiratory problems, so instead of filling a big old room with steam or putting your face over a hot kettle and hoping that some of the steam will get in, mypurmist allows a direct and efficient way with the micro fine particles to get into the respiratory tract to provide humidification and give patients symptomatic relief
Dr. William Berger (MD)
Allergy and Asthma Physician,
California, USA
Real users love mypurmist!
“Our family of 4 came down with a virus/scratchy throat/cough after coming back from the dusty 'red centre' Northern Territory (& various congested airports). Our doctor recommend antibiotics, we asked for an alternative, he suggested steam vapour. I went online and discovered mypurmist, and received it in 2 days. Well after two days of using mypurmist the cough is gone, the phlegm gone, sore throat gone and the sinus is clear, self medication doesn't get any better than that. (PS I am getting another for mum's birthday).”
Glen, Melbourne
“Amazing. It's a sauna on the couch. Had a heavy cold, it cleared and refreshed my nose and chest.”
Malcolm, Sydney
“As someone that suffers from hay fever and mild asthma I have a cupboard full of medications. mypurmist has given me relief that has allowed me to cutback completely on the sprays and pills feeling relieved and comfortable. Cant recommend the natural remedy enough!”
Nic, Perth
“There are SO many products on the market that promise the world but never deliver!!! So I was sceptical when I saw this product. But mypurmist has surpassed all my expectations. I was really unwell for weeks with sinus problems & nothing at all helped, even Dr’s appointments & advice proved frivolous. Then I stumbled on this amazing product which literally and honestly changed my world! I feel normal again, my sinus problem has disappeared and my head feels so clear and energised.”
Sandra, Sydney
Celebrity endorsements
Being on the national tour of Mamma Mia, being a principal role, singing eight shows a week, you really need to keep everything nice and humidified and steamed, so that's what mypurmist does for me, it really helps alleviate all that dryness, hoarseness, any irritants.
Georgia Kate Haege
Australian Actress & Singer
“My voice feels better having used it.”
Caleb Followill, Kings of Leon (band)
“I'm going to use this tonight before I go on. It's great!”
LeAnn Rimes, Singer
Cordless Steam Inhaler
Truly enjoy your freedom to breathe anywhere, anytime!
Introducing mypurmist free, the world's most advanced steam inhaler! It provides 100% natural, drug-free, and ultrapure therapy for sinus congestion, cold, and allergies
Shop Now Comes with a 21-day, 100% money back guarantee
Shipping
Free shipping on any orders over $99
(Applies to Australia only)
21 Day Money Back Guarantee
Try the mypurmist risk free today with a
21 day 100% money back guarantee*
Products
Shop Now
Menu
Home
Why Steam?
Testimonials
Register
Login
Contact Us
Products
Cordless Steam Inhaler
Additional Mask
Handsfree Strap
Ultrapure Sterile Water
Scentpad
My Symptoms
Allergy Symptoms
Cold, Flu and Cough
Dryness Symptoms
Sinus Congestion
Breathing Conditions
More Information
Shipping Information
Warranty & Returns
FAQs
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
About Us
CALL US NOW
1300 121 316
or
Contact us
Steam Inhaler
Best Steam Inhaler Online
Steam Inhalation Machine
Handheld Nasal Steam Inhaler
Steam Breathing Mask
Nasal Mist Machine
Benefits
Sinus Congestion Relief
Nasal Decongestant
Sinus Pressure Relief
Nasal Steamer
Cold Remedy
Symptom Relief
Hayfever
Allergies
Sinus Infection
Coughs & Colds
Natural Sinus Relief
© MyPurmist 2019. All Rights Reserved
Digital Marketing by King Kong Digital Marketing by King Kong
* Terms and conditions apply