What You Need to Know About Lyme Disease
Patient Portal and Medical Records
Giving
About Us
Contact Us
Billing & Finance
Careers
Menu
Find a Doctor
Doctor Last Name A-Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Services
Services
Nationally recognized for high quality and patient safety, Doylestown Health provides comprehensive care by top doctors in primary, specialty, urgent and emergent care services.
Breast Care
Cancer
Children's Village
Colon and Rectal
Critical Care
Dermatology
Emergency Services
Gastroenterology
Heart and Vascular
Maternity
Medical Imaging
Neurology
Obstetrics/Gynecology
Orthopedics
Pediatrics
Primary Care
Pulmonary
Rehabilitation Therapy
Sleep
Stroke
Urgent Care
Urology
Women's Diagnostics
Wound Care
View all services View all services
Patients and Visitors
Patients and Visitors
Doylestown Health is here to assist you before, during and after your visit. Find information about becoming a patient, visitor amenities, billing and financial assistance, privacy practices and more.
About
Billing and Finance
Contact Us
How to Request an Appointment
Locations and Maps
Patient Experience
Patient Portal and Medical Records
Patient Resources
Patient Stories
Pharmacy Services
Phone Directory
Policies
Visiting a Patient
View All View All
Classes and Events
Classes and Events
Doylestown Health offers a variety of classes, support groups, health screenings, and special events. In addition, our class and events calendar consists of special programs from select community partners.
Advanced Care Planning
Bereavement Support
Cardiac Connections
Childbirth and Parenting
Concerned About Cancer
Designer House
Diabetes
Health Connections
Healthy Lifestyles
Mental Health Series
Nutrition
Orthopedic Options
Pediatrics
Special Events
Support Groups
View all classes and events View all classes and events
Locations
Locations
Doylestown Health provides a network of care, serving patients and families in the northern suburban communities of Philadelphia, including Bucks and Montgomery Counties in Pennsylvania and Hunterdon and Mercer Counties in New Jersey.
Doylestown Hospital
Health and Wellness Center
Home Care
Hospice
Outpatient Imaging and Testing
Retirement and Long Term Care
Surgery Center
Urgent Care
View All Locations View All Locations
Share:
Also in this section
Call us at 215.345.2121 for more information
Home
About Us
Awards and Accreditations
Board of Directors and Administration
Community and Patient Education
Employee Resources
For Healthcare Professionals
Giving
Mission, Vision and Values
Our History
Volunteer Services
News
News
Construction Updates
Keep In Touch
Publications
Health News and Blog
Health News and Blog
Find a Doctor
Classes and Events
Make a Gift
Medical Records
What You Need to Know About Lyme Disease
Health Articles | June 25, 2015
Cases of Lyme disease are expected to increase 25 percent over last year. Our Infection Prevention specialist shares tips on preventing Lyme disease while still enjoying the great outdoors.
As summer temperatures rise, so should our awareness about Lyme disease.
"Lyme disease is present in every county in Pennsylvania, which had the most reported cases of Lyme disease in the U.S. for the past five years," said Bridget McEnrue, BSN, RN, CIC, director of Infection Prevention & Sterile Processing at Doylestown Health.
Lyme disease is an illness transmitted through the bite of an infected blacklegged tick (also known as a deer tick). Symptoms include fever, fatigue, headache, muscle aches and joint pain. A common early symptom is a red rash that looks like a bulls-eye.
Cases of Lyme disease have spiked significantly in Pennsylvania. Statewide infection rates more than doubled over the last five years, reaching 11,443 in 2016. In 2014, the Department of Health recorded 7,400 cases of Lyme disease in Pennsylvania, compared with 5,900 cases in 2013. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) reports that overall, mosquito, tick and flea bites that have resulted in illness tripled between 2004 and 2016.
How to Prevent Lyme Disease
"With outdoor summer activities, prevention is key," said Bridget. "People of all ages should wear a hat, long pants, socks and shoes while in wooded or grassy areas."
Tips for Protecting Yourself
Avoid tick-infested areas, particularly during the summer months.
Use an insect repellent that contains at least 20% concentration of DEET on exposed skin and clothing. Parents should apply this product to their children, avoiding hands, eyes, and mouth. Always follow product instructions.
You can use permethrin on camping gear and tents. Permethrin spray is any bug repellent on the market.
For clothing or other items such as outdoor gear that are not easily washed, use a permethrin 0.5% product by spraying onto surfaces.This will last for several months, or less if gear gets wet.
"Remember to look at all skin areas after outdoor activities and shower within two hours so you can see and remove ticks," said Bridget.
The sooner you remove the tick, the better your chances are of not getting Lyme disease.
Finding and removing ticks:
Check your body for ticks daily if you have been in a high-risk area.
Shower or take a bath once you come in from the outside, preferably within two hours. Ticks often crawl or climb to areas of our body using our clothing.
Be sure to wash and dry your clothing on a high-heat temperature. Tumble clothes in a dryer on high heat for an hour to kill remaining ticks.
If you find a tick on your body, remove it carefully. It is important to avoid crushing the body. Grasp the tick as close to your body as possible and firmly pullin an upward direction.
Then, be sure to clean the area with antiseptic. Never use remedies like hot matches, nail polish, or Vaseline to attempt to make the tick pull away from your skin.
Parents should check their children for ticks under the arms, in and around the ears, inside the belly button, behind the knees, between the legs, around the waist, and especially in their hair.
"Seek medical attention for Lyme disease if you experience flu-like symptoms or a target-like or bull’s-eye rash develops on your skin during late spring to early fall when ticks are prevalent," suggested Bridget.
About Doylestown Health
Doylestown Health is a comprehensive healthcare system of inpatient, outpatient and wellness education services connected to meet the health needs of all members of the local and regional community. Doylestown Hospital, the flagship to Doylestown Health has 232 beds and a Medical Staff of more than 435 physicians in over 50 specialties. An independent nonprofit health system, Doylestown Health is dedicated to providing innovative, patient-centered care for all ages.
Blog Posts
Complex Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm: Joe's Story
When an abdominal aortic aneurysm nearly stopped Joe Bauer in his tracks, he turned to Doylestown Health vascular surgeon Atul Rao, MD, for advanced vascular care.
Doylestown Hospital Receives Another Top National Ranking
Doylestown Hospital is ranked 150th in the U.S. in a new World's Best Hospitals ranking list released by Newsweek.
Designing Healthy Communities
Since the beginning, the women of the VIA have personified caring leadership, designing innovative ways to meet the changing healthcare needs of the community.
View All Articles
Upcoming Classes and Events
Apr22
Darkness to Light's Stewards of Children Program
April 22, 2019 | 9-11 AM
Conference Room J
595 West State Street
Doylestown, PA 18901
Apr22
Diabetes Education (Afternoon)
April 22, 2019 | 12-2 PM
Conference Room I
595 W State Street
Doylestown, PA 18901
Apr22
Darkness to Light's Stewards of Children Program
April 22, 2019 | 12-2 PM
Conference Room J
595 West State Street
Doylestown, PA 18901
Apr22
Diabetes Education (Evening)
April 22, 2019 | 6-8 PM
Conference Room J
595 W State Street
Doylestown, PA 18901
View All Events
For more information or to find a doctor
Call 215.345.2121
Stay Connected
SIGN UP FOR THE NEWSLETTER
Access
How to Request an Appointment
Patient Portal and Medical Records
Billing & Finance
Contact Us
Find
Doctors
Locations
Classes & Events
Giving Opportunities
Careers
Doylestown Health. All rights reserved.
HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices
Website Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Social Media Commenting Guidelines