Iron Tests
Skip to main content
Global Sites
User Top Links
Patient Resources
For Health Professionals
Subscribe
Menu
Search
Global Sites
Tests
Tests Index Not Listed? Not Listed?
5-HIAA
17-Hydroxyprogesterone
Acetaminophen
Acetylcholine Receptor (AChR) Antibody
Acid-Fast Bacillus (AFB) Testing
Activated Clotting Time (ACT)
Acute Viral Hepatitis Panel
Adenosine Deaminase
Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH)
Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT)
Albumin
Aldolase
Aldosterone and Renin
ALK Mutation (Gene Rearrangement)
Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP)
Allergy Blood Testing
Alpha-1 Antitrypsin
Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) Tumor Marker
AMAS
Aminoglycoside Antibiotics
Ammonia
Amniotic Fluid Analysis
Amylase
ANCA/MPO/PR3 Antibodies
Androstenedione
Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme (ACE)
Anti-DNase B
Anti-dsDNA
Anti-LKM-1
Anti-Müllerian Hormone
Anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae Antibodies (ASCA)
Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing
Anticentromere Antibody
Antidiuretic Hormone (ADH)
Antimitochondrial Antibody and AMA M2
Antinuclear Antibody (ANA)
Antiphospholipid Antibodies
Antistreptolysin O (ASO)
Antithrombin
Apo A-I
Apo B
APOE Genotyping, Alzheimer Disease
APOE Genotyping, Cardiovascular Disease
Arbovirus Testing
Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST)
Autoantibodies
B Vitamins
B-cell Immunoglobulin Gene Rearrangement
Bacterial Wound Culture
Basic Metabolic Panel (BMP)
BCR-ABL1
Beta-2 Glycoprotein 1 Antibodies
Beta-2 Microglobulin Kidney Disease
Beta-2 Microglobulin Tumor Marker
Bicarbonate (Total CO2)
Bilirubin
Blood Culture
Blood Gases
Blood Ketones
Blood Smear
Blood Typing
Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN)
BNP and NT-proBNP
Body Fluid Testing
Bone Markers
Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy
BRCA Gene Mutation Testing
Breast Cancer Gene Expression Tests
C-peptide
C-Reactive Protein (CRP)
CA 15-3
CA-125
Calcitonin
Calcium
Calprotectin
CALR Mutation
Cancer Antigen 19-9
Carbamazepine
Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA)
Cardiac Biomarkers
Cardiac Risk Assessment
Cardiolipin Antibodies
Catecholamines
CD4 Count
Celiac Disease Antibody Tests
Cell-Free Fetal DNA
Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Analysis
Ceruloplasmin
Chemistry Panels
Chickenpox and Shingles Tests
Chlamydia Testing
Chloride
Cholesterol
Cholinesterase Tests
Chromogranin A
Chromosome Analysis (Karyotyping)
Chymotrypsin
CK-MB
Clopidogrel (CYP2C19 Genotyping)
Clostridium difficile and C. diff Toxin Testing
Coagulation Cascade
Coagulation Factors
Cold Agglutinins
Complement
Complete Blood Count (CBC)
Comprehensive Metabolic Panel (CMP)
Copper
Cortisol
Creatine Kinase (CK)
Creatinine
Creatinine Clearance
Cryoglobulins
Cyclic Citrullinated Peptide Antibody
Cyclosporine
Cystatin C
Cystic Fibrosis (CF) Gene Mutations Testing
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Tests
D-dimer
Dengue Fever Testing
Des-gamma-carboxy prothrombin (DCP)
DHEAS
Digoxin
Direct Antiglobulin Test
Direct LDL Cholesterol
Drug Abuse Testing
EGFR Mutation Testing
Electrolytes
Emergency and Overdose Drug Testing
Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) Antibody Tests
Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR)
Erythropoietin
Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (eGFR)
Estrogen Receptor, Progesterone Receptor Breast Cancer Testing
Estrogens
Ethanol
Extractable Nuclear Antigen Antibodies (ENA) Panel
Factor V Leiden Mutation and PT 20210 Mutation
Fecal Fat
Fecal Immunochemical Test and Fecal Occult Blood Test
Ferritin
Fetal Fibronectin (fFN)
Fibrinogen
FIP1L1-PDGFRA
First Trimester Screening
Follicle-stimulating Hormone (FSH)
Fructosamine
Fungal Tests
G6PD
Gamma-Glutamyl Transferase (GGT)
Gastrin
Gastrointestinal Pathogens Panel
Genetic Tests for Targeted Cancer Therapy
Glucose Tests
Gonorrhea Testing
Gram Stain
Growth Hormone
Haptoglobin
hCG Tumor Marker
HDL Cholesterol
Heavy Metals
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) Testing
Hematocrit
Hemoglobin
Hemoglobin A1c
Hemoglobinopathy Evaluation
Heparin Anti-Xa
Heparin-induced Thrombocytopenia PF4 Antibody
Hepatitis A Testing
Hepatitis B Testing
Hepatitis C Testing
HER2
Herpes Testing
High-sensitivity C-reactive Protein (hs-CRP)
Histamine
Histone Antibody
HIV Antibody and HIV Antigen (p24)
HIV Antiretroviral Drug Resistance Testing, Genotypic
HIV Viral Load
HLA Testing
HLA-B27
Homocysteine
Human Epididymis Protein 4 (HE4)
Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Test
Human T-cell Lymphotropic Virus (HTLV) Testing
IGRA TB Test
Immunoglobulins (IgA, IgG, IgM)
Immunophenotyping
Immunoreactive Trypsinogen (IRT)
Influenza Tests
Insulin
Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1)
Interleukin-6
Intrinsic Factor Antibody
Iron
Iron Tests
Islet Autoantibodies in Diabetes
JAK2 Mutation
Kidney Stone Analysis
Kidney Stone Risk Panel
KRAS Mutation
Lactate
Lactate Dehydrogenase (LD)
Lactoferrin
Lactose Tolerance Tests
LDL Cholesterol
LDL Particle Testing (LDL-P)
Lead
Legionella Testing
Leptin
Levetiracetam
Lipase
Lipid Panel
Lipoprotein (a)
Lithium
Liver Panel
Lp-PLA2
Lupus Anticoagulant Testing
Luteinizing Hormone (LH)
Lyme Disease Tests
Magnesium
Marijuana (THC) Testing
Maternal Serum Screening, Second Trimester
Measles and Mumps Tests
Mercury
Metanephrines
Methotrexate
Methylmalonic Acid
Mononucleosis (Mono) Test
MRSA Screening
MTHFR Mutation
Mycophenolic Acid
Mycoplasma
Myoglobin
Nicotine and Cotinine
Non-High Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol
Opioid Testing
Osmolality and Osmolal Gap
Ova and Parasite Exam
Pap Test
Parathyroid Hormone (PTH)
Parietal Cell Antibody
Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT, aPTT)
Parvovirus B19
PCA3
Pericardial Fluid Analysis
Peritoneal Fluid Analysis
Pertussis Tests
Pharmacogenetic Tests
Phenobarbital
Phenytoin
Phosphorus
Plasma Free Metanephrines
Platelet Count
Platelet Function Tests
Pleural Fluid Analysis
PML-RARA
Porphyrin Tests
Potassium
Prealbumin
Pregnancy Test (hCG)
Pregnenolone
Prenatal Group B Strep (GBS) Screening
Procalcitonin
Progesterone
Prolactin
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA)
Protein C and Protein S
Protein Electrophoresis Immunofixation Electrophoresis
Prothrombin Time and International Normalized Ratio (PT/INR)
PSEN1
Red Blood Cell (RBC) Antibody Identification
Red Blood Cell (RBC) Antibody Screen
Red Blood Cell Count (RBC)
Red Cell Indices
Renal Panel
Respiratory Pathogens Panel
Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Testing
Reticulocytes
Rheumatoid Factor (RF)
Rubella Test
Salicylates
Semen Analysis
Serotonin
Serum Free Light Chains
Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG)
Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli
Sickle Cell Tests
Sirolimus
Smooth Muscle Antibody (SMA) and F-actin Antibody
Sodium
Soluble Mesothelin-Related Peptides
Soluble Transferrin Receptor
Sputum Culture, Bacterial
Stool Culture
Stool Elastase
Strep Throat Test
Sweat Chloride Test
Synovial Fluid Analysis
Syphilis Tests
T-Cell Receptor Gene Rearrangement
T3 (Free and Total)
T4, Free
Tacrolimus
Tau Protein and Beta Amyloid
TB Skin Test
Testosterone
Theophylline and Caffeine
Therapeutic Drug Monitoring
Thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT)
Thrombin Time
Thyroglobulin
Thyroid Antibodies
Thyroid Panel
Thyroid-stimulating Hormone (TSH)
TORCH
Total IgE
Total Protein and Albumin/Globulin (A/G) Ratio
Toxoplasmosis Testing
Trace Minerals
Transferrin and Iron-binding Capacity (TIBC, UIBC)
Trichomonas Testing
Triglycerides
Troponin
Tryptase
Tumor Markers
Uric Acid
Urinalysis
Urine Albumin and Albumin to Creatinine Ratio
Urine Culture
Urine Metanephrines
Urine Protein and Urine Protein to Creatinine Ratio
Valproic Acid
Vancomycin
Vanillylmandelic Acid (VMA)
VAP
Vitamin A
Vitamin B12 and Folate
Vitamin D Tests
Vitamin K
VLDL Cholesterol
von Willebrand Factor
Warfarin Sensitivity Testing
West Nile Virus Testing
White Blood Cell (WBC) Differential
White Blood Cell Count (WBC)
Widal Test
Xylose Absorption Test
Zika Virus Testing
Zinc Protoporphyrin
Conditions/Diseases
Index of Conditions Not Listed? Not Listed?
Acidosis and Alkalosis
Adrenal Insufficiency and Addison Disease
Alcoholism
Allergies
Alzheimer Disease
Anemia
Angina
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Anthrax
Antiphospholipid Syndrome
Arthritis
Asthma
Autoimmune Diseases
Babesiosis
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia
Bioterrorism Agents
Bleeding Disorders
Blood in Urine (Hematuria)
Bone Marrow Disorders
Breast Cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Disease
Celiac Disease
Cervical Cancer
Chemical Terrorism Agents
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
Cirrhosis
Colon Cancer
Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia
Congestive Heart Failure
Cushing Syndrome
Cystic Fibrosis
Dehydration
Diabetes
Diarrhea
Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC)
Down Syndrome
Ebola Virus Infection
Endocrine System and Syndromes
Epilepsy
Excessive Clotting Disorders
Fibromyalgia
Food and Waterborne Illness
Fungal Infections
Gallstones and Gallbladder Disease
Gout
Graves Disease
Guillain-Barré Syndrome
Hashimoto Thyroiditis
Heart Attack and Acute Coronary Syndrome
Heart Disease
Hemochromatosis
Hemoglobin Abnormalities
Hepatitis
HIV Infection and AIDS
Huntington Disease
Hypertension
Hyperthyroidism
Hypothyroidism
Infertility
Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Influenza
Insulin Resistance
Jaundice
Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis
Kidney Disease
Lactose Intolerance
Lead Poisoning
Leukemia
Liver Disease
Low Testosterone in Adult Men
Lung Cancer
Lung Diseases
Lupus
Lyme Disease
Lymphoma
Malabsorption
Malaria
Malnutrition
Melanoma
Meningitis and Encephalitis
Menopause
Metabolic Syndrome
Multiple Myeloma
Multiple Sclerosis
Myasthenia Gravis
Myelodysplastic Syndrome
Myeloproliferative Neoplasms
Neural Tube Defects
Neuropathy
Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Infections
Norovirus
Osteoarthritis
Osteoporosis
Ovarian Cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
Pancreatic Diseases
Pancreatic Insufficiency
Pancreatitis
Parathyroid Diseases
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease
Peptic Ulcer
Pituitary Disorders
Pneumonia
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)
Porphyria
Pre-eclampsia
Pregnancy
Pregnancy: First Trimester (Up to 12 Weeks)
Pregnancy: Preconception
Pregnancy: Second Trimester (13 to 27 weeks)
Pregnancy: Third Trimester (28 weeks to delivery)
Primary Aldosteronism (Conn Syndrome)
Prostate Cancer
Protein in Urine (Proteinuria)
Reactive Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Sarcoidosis
Scleroderma
Sepsis
Septic Arthritis
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Shingles
Sickle Cell Anemia
Sjögren Syndrome
Staph Infections and MRSA
Stroke
Testicular Cancer
Thalassemia
Thyroid Cancer
Thyroid Diseases
Travelers' Diseases
Tuberculosis
Urinary Tract Infection
Vaginitis and Vaginosis
Vasculitis
Vitamin B12 and Folate Deficiencies
Vitamin K Deficiency
West Nile Virus
Wilson Disease
Wound and Skin Infections
Health Screenings
Index of Screening Recommendations Not Listed? Not Listed?
Newborn Screening
Screening Tests for Infants
Screening Tests for Children (Ages 2 to 12)
Screening Tests for Teens (Ages 13-18)
Screening Tests for Young Adults (Ages 19-29)
Screening Tests for Adults (Ages 30-49)
Screening Tests for Adults (50 and Up)
User Top Links
Patient Resources
For Health Professionals
Subscribe
Search
Iron Tests
Send Us Your Feedback
Choose Topic
At a Glance
What is being tested?
Common Questions
Related Content
View Sources
Ask a Laboratory Scientist
Also Known As
Fe Tests
Iron Indices
This article was last reviewed on
July 22, 2017.
This article waslast modified on December 21, 2018.
At a Glance
Why Get Tested?
To evaluate your body's current level of iron; to help diagnose iron deficiency or iron overload
When To Get Tested?
When you have low hemoglobin and hematocrit on a complete blood count (CBC); when your healthcare practitioner suspects that you may have too little iron (deficiency) or too much iron (overload) in your body
Sample Required?
A blood sample drawn from a vein in your arm
Test Preparation Needed?
You may be instructed to have your blood drawn in the morning and/or fast for 12 hours before the test; in this case, only water is allowed. Follow any instructions from your healthcare practitioner and/or from the laboratory performing the test.
What is being tested?
Iron is an essential nutrient that, among other functions, is needed in small quantities to help form normal red blood cells (RBCs). It is a critical part of hemoglobin, the protein in RBCs that binds oxygen in the lungs and releases it as blood circulates to other parts of the body. The body cannot produce iron and must absorb it from the foods we eat or from supplements.
Iron tests evaluate the amount of iron in the body by measuring several substances in the blood. These tests are often ordered at the same time and the results interpreted together to help diagnose and/or monitor iron deficiency or iron overload.
Serum iron test—measures the level of iron in the liquid portion of the blood.
Transferrin test—directly measures the level of transferrin in the blood. Transferrin is the protein that transports iron around in the body. Under normal conditions, transferrin is typically one-third saturated with iron. This means that about two-thirds of its capacity is held in reserve.
TIBC (total iron-binding capacity)—measures the total amount of iron that can be bound by proteins in the blood. Since transferrin is the primary iron-binding protein, the TIBC test is a good indirect measurement of transferrin availability.
UIBC (unsaturated iron-binding capacity)—The UIBC test determines the reserve capacity of transferrin, i.e., the portion of transferrin that has not yet been saturated with iron. UIBC also reflects transferrin levels.
Transferrin saturation—a calculation that reflects the percentage of transferrin that is saturated with iron (100 x serum iron/TIBC).
Serum ferritin—reflects the amount of stored iron in the body.
Iron is normally absorbed from food in the small intestine and transported throughout the body by binding to transferrin, a protein produced by the liver. In healthy people, most of the iron transported is incorporated into the production of red blood cell hemoglobin. The remainder is stored in the tissues as ferritin or hemosiderin, with additional small amounts used to produce other proteins such as myoglobin and some enzymes.
When the level of iron is insufficient to meet the body's needs, the level of iron in the blood drops and iron stores are depleted. This may occur because:
There is an increased need for iron, for example during pregnancy or childhood, or due to a condition that causes chronic blood loss (e.g., peptic ulcer, colon cancer)
Not enough iron is consumed (either foods or supplements)
The body is unable to absorb iron from the foods eaten in conditions such as celiac disease
Insufficient levels of circulating and stored iron may eventually lead to iron-deficiency anemia (decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit, smaller and paler red cells). In the early stage of iron deficiency, no physical effects are usually seen and the amount of iron stored may be significantly depleted before any signs or symptoms of iron deficiency develop. If a person is otherwise healthy and anemia develops over a long period of time, symptoms seldom appear before the hemoglobin in the blood drops below the lower limit of normal.
However, as the iron deficiency progresses, symptoms eventually begin to appear. The most common symptoms of anemia include fatigue, weakness, dizziness, headaches and pale skin. Read the article on Anemia to learn more.
Conversely, too much iron can be toxic to the body. Iron storage and ferritin levels increase when more iron is absorbed than the body needs. Absorbing too much iron over time can lead to the progressive buildup of iron compounds in organs and may eventually cause their dysfunction and failure. An example of this is hemochromatosis, a rare genetic disease in which the body absorbs and builds up too much iron, even on a normal diet. Additionally, iron overdose can occur when someone consumes more than the recommended amount of iron.
See More
See Less
Accordion Title
Common Questions
How is it used?
Iron tests are used to assess the amount of iron circulating in the blood, the total capacity of the blood to transport iron, and the amount of stored iron in the body. Testing may also help differentiate various causes of anemia.
Iron tests are often ordered together, and the results of each can help identify iron deficiency, iron deficiency anemia, or too much iron in the body (overload).
When is it ordered?
Iron tests may be ordered when results from a routine complete blood count (CBC) show that a person's hemoglobin and hematocrit are low and their red blood cells are smaller and paler than normal (microcytic and hypochromic), suggesting iron deficiency anemia even though other clinical symptoms may not have developed yet.
Iron tests may be ordered when a person develops signs and symptoms of anemia, such as:
Chronic fatigue/tiredness
Dizziness
Weakness
Headaches
Pale skin (pallor)
Iron tests may be ordered when iron overload is suspected. Signs and symptoms of iron overload will vary from person to person and tend to worsen over time. They are due to iron accumulation in the blood and tissues. These may include:
Joint pain
Fatigue, weakness
Lack of energy
Abdominal pain
Loss of sex drive
Organ damage, such as in the heart and/or liver
When a child is suspected to have ingested an excessive amount of iron tablets, a serum iron test is ordered to detect and help assess the severity of the poisoning.
What does the test result mean?
A summary of the changes in iron tests seen in various diseases of iron status is shown in the table below.
Disease Iron TIBC/Transferrin UIBC % Transferrin Saturation Ferritin
Iron Deficiency Low High High Low Low
Hemochromatosis/Hemosiderosis High Low Low High High
Chronic Illness Low Low/Normal Low/Normal Low/Normal Normal/High
Hemolytic Anemia High Normal/Low Low/Normal High High
Sideroblastic Anemia Normal/High Normal/Low Low/Normal High High
Iron Poisoning High Normal Low High Normal
Iron deficiency
The early stage of iron deficiency is the slow depletion of iron stores. This means there is still enough iron to make red cells, but the stores are being used up without adequate replacement. The serum iron level may be normal in this stage, but the ferritin level will be low.
As iron deficiency continues, all the stored iron is used and the body tries to compensate by producing more transferrin to increase iron transport. The serum iron level continues to decrease and transferrin and TIBC and UIBC increase. As this stage progresses, fewer and smaller red blood cells are produced, eventually resulting in iron deficiency anemia.
Iron overload
If the iron level is high, the TIBC, UIBC and ferritin are normal and the person has a clinical history consistent with iron overdose, then it is likely that the person has iron poisoning. Iron poisoning occurs when a large dose of iron is taken all at once or over a short period of time. Iron poisoning in children is almost always acute, occurring in children who ingest their parents' iron supplements. In some cases, acute iron poisoning can be fatal.
A person who has mutations in the HFE gene is diagnosed with hereditary hemochromatosis. However, while many people who have hemochromatosis will have no symptoms for their entire life, others will start to develop symptoms such as joint pain, abdominal pain, and weakness in their 30's or 40's. Men are affected more often than women because women lose blood during their reproductive years through menstruation.
Iron overload may also occur in people who have hemosiderosis and in those who have had repeated transfusions. This may occur with sickle cell anemia, thalassemia major, or other forms of anemia. The iron from each transfused unit of blood stays in the body, eventually causing a large buildup in the tissues. Some people with alcoholism and with chronic liver disease also develop iron overload.
Is there anything else I should know?
Recent consumption of iron-rich foods or iron supplements can affect test results, as can recent blood transfusions.
Normal iron levels are maintained by a balance between the amount of iron taken into the body and the amount of iron lost. Normally, a small amount of iron is lost each day, so if too little iron is taken in, a deficiency will eventually develop. Unless a person has a poor diet, there is usually enough iron to prevent iron deficiency and/or iron deficiency anemia in healthy people.
In certain situations, there is an increased need for iron. Persons with chronic bleeding from the digestive tract (usually from ulcers or tumors such as colorectal cancer) or women with heavy menstrual periods will lose more iron than normal and can develop iron deficiency. Women who are pregnant or breast feeding lose iron to their baby and can develop iron deficiency if not enough extra iron is taken in. Children, especially during times of rapid growth, may need extra iron and can develop iron deficiency. Iron deficiency can also be seen in malabsorption diseases such as celiac disease.
Low serum iron can also occur in states where the body cannot mobilize and use storage iron properly. In many chronic inflammatory conditions, especially in cancers, autoimmune diseases, and with chronic inflammations or chronic infections (including AIDS), the body cannot properly use iron to make more red cells. Under these conditions, production of transferrin decreases, and serum iron is low because little iron is being absorbed from the gut and storage iron can't get mobilized, and ferritin increases.
Do all people with iron deficiency have anemia? What are the symptoms?
Iron deficiency refers to a decrease in the amount of iron stored in the body, while iron deficiency anemia refers to a drop in the number of red blood cells (RBCs), hemoglobin and hematocrit caused by not having enough stored iron (there are many other causes of anemia). It typically takes several weeks after iron stores are depleted for the level of hemoglobin and production of RBCs to be affected and for anemia to develop. There usually are few symptoms early in iron deficiency, but as the condition worsens and blood levels of hemoglobin and RBCs decrease, then ongoing weakness and fatigue can eventually develop.
As your iron continues to be depleted, you may have shortness of breath and dizziness. If the anemia is severe, chest pain, headaches, and leg pains may occur. Children may develop learning (cognitive) disabilities. Besides the general symptoms of anemia, there are certain symptoms that are characteristic of iron deficiency. These include dysphagia, pica (cravings for specific substances, such as ice, corn starch, licorice, chalk, dirt, or clay), a burning sensation in the tongue or a smooth tongue, sores at the corners of the mouth, and spoon-shaped fingernails and toenails.
What are some other tests that might be done to detect iron deficiency or iron overload?
Several other tests can also be used to help recognize problems with iron status.
Hemoglobin and hematocrit are tests that are performed as part of a complete blood count (CBC). A low value for either test indicates that a person has anemia. Iron deficiency is a very common cause of anemia. The average size of red cells (Mean Corpuscular Volume or MCV) and the average amount of hemoglobin in red cells (Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin or MCH) are also measured in a CBC. In iron deficiency, insufficient hemoglobin is made, causing the red blood cells to be smaller than normal. Both MCV and MCH are low. In addition, the hemoglobin concentration in red cells (Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin Concentration or MCHC) is decreased; the red cells in iron deficiency anemia look much paler than normal ones.
Soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR). This test may be used to detect iron deficiency anemia and distinguish it from anemia caused by chronic illness or inflammation. In patients with iron deficiency, the sTfR level is elevated.
Zinc Protoporphyrin (ZPP). The amount of zinc protoporphyrin in red cells is increased in iron deficiency. ZPP is sometimes used as a screening test in children and teens. However, the test is not specific for iron deficiency; thus, elevated values must be confirmed by other tests.
HFE gene test. Hemochromatosis is a genetic disease, found primarily in Caucasians, that causes the body to absorb too much iron. It is usually due to an inherited mutation in the HFE gene that affects the amount of iron absorbed from the digestive tract. The HFE gene test determines whether a person has the mutations that cause the disease. Read the article on Hemochromatosis to learn more.
What are some causes of anemia besides iron deficiency?
There are many different conditions that can cause anemia other than iron deficiency. Some examples include vitamin B12 and folic acid deficiencies, cancer (e.g., leukemia, lymphoma, myelodysplastic syndrome), chronic infection or inflammation, and genetic disorders such as sickle cell disease and thalassemia. However, iron deficiency is a very common cause, which is why iron tests are so frequently performed. If iron tests rule out iron deficiency, another source for the anemia must be found. Read the article on Anemia to learn more.
What foods contain the most iron?
Heme iron is the easiest form of iron for the body to absorb. It is found in meats and eggs. Non-heme iron is found in a wide variety of plants and in iron supplements. Iron-rich sources include green leafy vegetables such as spinach, collard greens, and kale, wheat germ, whole grain breads and cereals, raisins, and molasses. If you have been diagnosed with iron deficiency anemia or you are pregnant or breast feeding, vitamin pills or tablets may be needed to provide extra iron. Ask your healthcare practitioner about the right supplement for you.
Who needs iron supplements?
The people who typically need iron supplements are pregnant women and those with documented iron deficiency. People should not take iron supplements before talking to their healthcare practitioner as excess iron can cause chronic iron overload. An overdose of iron pills can be toxic, especially to children.
See More Common Questions See Less Common Questions
Related Content
On This Site
Tests
Iron
Ferritin
Transferrin and Iron-binding Capacity (TIBC, UIBC)
Zinc Protoporphyrin
Complete Blood Count (CBC)
Hemoglobin
Hematocrit
Reticulocytes
Soluble Transferrin Receptor
Conditions
Anemia
Hemochromatosis
Elsewhere On The Web
American Society of Hematology: Anemia
MedlinePlus: Iron Deficiency Anemia
KidsHealth: Iron
NIH Office of Dietary Supplements: Iron
National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute: Iron Deficiency Anemia
National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute: Hemachromatosis
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases: Hemochromatos…
Looking for Test Results?
You may be able to find your test results on your laboratory's website or patient portal. However, you are currently at Lab Tests Online. You may have been directed here by your lab's website in order to provide you with background information about the test(s) you had performed. You will need to return to your lab's website or portal, or contact your healthcare practitioner in order to obtain your test results.
Lab Tests Online is an award-winning patient education website offering information on laboratory tests. The content on the site, which has been reviewed by laboratory scientists and other medical professionals, provides general explanations of what results might mean for each test listed on the site, such as what a high or low value might suggest to your healthcare practitioner about your health or medical condition.
Looking for Reference Ranges?
The reference ranges for your tests can be found on your laboratory report. They are typically found to the right of your results.
If you do not have your lab report, consult your healthcare provider or the laboratory that performed the test(s) to obtain the reference range.
Laboratory test results are not meaningful by themselves. Their meaning comes from comparison to reference ranges. Reference ranges are the values expected for a healthy person. They are sometimes called "normal" values. By comparing your test results with reference values, you and your healthcare provider can see if any of your test results fall outside the range of expected values. Values that are outside expected ranges can provide clues to help identify possible conditions or diseases.
While accuracy of laboratory testing has significantly evolved over the past few decades, some lab-to-lab variability can occur due to differences in testing equipment, chemical reagents, and techniques. This is a reason why so few reference ranges are provided on this site. It is important to know that you must use the range supplied by the laboratory that performed your test to evaluate whether your results are "within normal limits."
For more information, please read the article Reference Ranges and What They Mean.
View Sources
Sources Used in Current Review
Wintrobe's Clinical Hematology. 12th ed. Greer J, Foerster J, Rodgers G, Paraskevas F, Glader B, Arber D, Means R, eds. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins: 2009, pp 792-793, 826-827.
Harmening D, Clinical Hematology and Fundamentals of Hemostasis, Fifth Edition, F.A. Davis Company, Philadelphia, 2009, pp 122-127.
Devkota, B. (2014 January 16 Updated). Iron-Binding Capacity. Medscape Drugs and Diseases. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/2085726-overview Accessed on June 2017.
Paruthi, S. (2015 January 14 Updated). Transferrin Saturation. Medscape Drugs and Diseases. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/2087960-overview. Accessed on June 2017.
Harper, J. and Conrad, M. (2016 November 14 Updated). Iron Deficiency Anemia. Medscape Drugs and Diseases. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/202333-overview Accessed on June 2017.
Devkota, B. (2014 January 16 Updated). Ferritin. Medscape Drugs and Diseases Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/2085454-overview. Accessed on June 2017.
Duchini, A. et al (2016 September 12 Updated).Hemochromatosis. Medscape Drugs and Diseases. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/177216-overview. Accessed on June 2017.
Sources Used in Previous Reviews
Pagana, K. D. & Pagana, T. J. (© 2007). Mosby's Diagnostic and Laboratory Test Reference 8th Edition: Mosby, Inc., Saint Louis, MO. Pp 574-577.
Clarke, W. and Dufour, D. R., Editors (© 2006). Contemporary Practice in Clinical Chemistry: AACC Press, Washington, DC. Pp 407-408.
Wu, A. (© 2006). Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 4th Edition: Saunders Elsevier, St. Louis, MO. Pp 634-635.
(Modified 2009 March 13). About Iron. Iron Disorders Institute [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.irondisorders.org/Disorders/about.asp. Accessed June 2009.
(Updated 2007 August 24). Dietary Supplement Fact Sheet: Iron. NIH Office of Dietary Supplements [On-line information]. Available online at http://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/iron.asp. Accessed June 2009.
Rathz, D. et. al. (Updated 2009 February 02). Toxicity, Iron. eMedicine [On-line information]. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/166933-overview. Accessed June 2009.
Chen, Y. (Updated 2009 April 05). Iron Deficiency Anemia. MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000584.htm. Accessed June 2009.
Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods. 21st ed. McPherson RA and Pincus MR, eds. Philadelphia: 2007, Pg 506-507.
(November 3, 2006) Iron Disorders Institute, Sideroblastic anemia. Available online at http://www.irondisorders.org/Disorders/Sideroblastic.asp. Accessed September 2009.
Devkota, B. (2012 October 4). Iron. Medscape Reference [On-line information]. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/2085704-overview#showall. Accessed April 2013.
Gersten, T. (Updated 2012 February 8). Serum iron. MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/003488.htm. Accessed April 2013.
Paruthi, S. (Updated 2012 November 7). Transferrin Saturation. Medscape Reference [On-line information]. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/2087960-overview. Accessed April 2013.
Devkota, B. (Updated October 4). Iron-Binding Capacity. Medscape Reference [On-line information]. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/2085726-overview. Accessed April 2013.
Spanierman, C. (Updated 2011 July 27). Iron Toxicity in Emergency Medicine. Medscape Reference [On-line information]. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/815213-overview. Accessed April 2013.
Boyle, J. (Updated 2012 April 12). Pediatric Iron Toxicity. Medscape Reference [On-line information]. Available online at http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1011689-overview. Accessed April 2013.
Gersten, T. (Updated 2012 February 8). Total iron binding capacity. MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/003489.htm. Accessed April 2013.
Gersten, T. (Updated 2012 February 8). Ferritin. MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/003490.htm. Accessed April 2013.
Pagana, K. D. & Pagana, T. J. (© 2011). Mosby's Diagnostic and Laboratory Test Reference, 10th Edition: Mosby, Inc., Saint Louis, MO. Pp 594-598.
Clarke, W., Editor (© 2011). Contemporary Practice in Clinical Chemistry, 2nd Edition: AACC Press, Washington, DC. Pp 536, 597.
Elghetany MT, Banki K. Erythrocytic disorders, in Henry's Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods, 22nd ed. McPhereson RA, Pincus MR, eds. Elsevier/Saunders:Philadelphia. Chapter 32, 2011.
See More
See Less
Ask a Laboratory Scientist
This form enables you to ask specific questions about lab tests. Your questions will be answered by a laboratory scientist as part of a voluntary service provided by one of our partners, American Society for Clinical Laboratory Science.
First Name
Last Name
Please indicate whether you are a - Select -Patient, family member, or FriendLaboratorian or Other Medical ProfessionalOther
Email Address
Email Address
Confirm Your Email Address
Subject
Question or Comment
I agree to the disclaimer (read the disclaimer).
Disclaimer
Thank you for using the Consumer Information Response Service ("the Service") to inquire about the meaning of your lab test results. The Service is provided free of charge by the American Society for Clinical Laboratory Science, which is one of many laboratory organizations that supports Lab Tests Online.
Please note that information provided through this free Service is not intended to be medical advice and should not be relied on as such. Although the laboratory provides the largest single source of objective, scientific data on patient status, it is only one part of a complex biological picture of health or disease. As professional clinical laboratory scientists, our goal is to assist you in understanding the purpose of laboratory tests and the general meaning of your laboratory results. It is important that you communicate with your physician so that together you can integrate the pertinent information, such as age, ethnicity, health history, signs and symptoms, laboratory and other procedures (radiology, endoscopy, etc.), to determine your health status. The information provided through this Service is not intended to substitute for such consultations with your physician nor specific medical advice to your health condition.
By submitting your question to this Service, you agree to waive, release, and hold harmless the American Society for Clinical Laboratory Science and its affiliates or their past or present officers, directors, employees, agents, and Service volunteers (collectively referred to as "ASCLS") and the American Association for Clinical Chemistry and its affiliates or their past or present officers, directors, employees, agents, and Service volunteers (collectively referred to as "AACC") from any legal claims, rights, or causes of action you may have in connection with the responses provided to the questions that you submit to the Service.
AACC, ASCLS and its Service volunteers disclaim any liability arising out of your use of this Service or for any adverse outcome from your use of the information provided by this Service for any reason, including but not limited to any misunderstanding or misinterpretation of the information provided through this Service.
See More See Less
Find Us On Social Media:
Facebook
Twitter
Footer Menu
Home
About This Site
Contact Us
Terms Of Use
In The News
Policies
Editorial Review Board
Partner | Advertise | License
Sponsors and Partners
Spread the Word
Subscribe
Awards
Editors' Picks
Program of:
© 2001-2019 by American Association for Clinical Chemistry