6 Foods To Eat To Reduce Anxiety
About
Advertise on HealthyNewAge.com
Contact
Healthynewage.com NUTRITION | FITNESS | PSYCHOLOGY | WELLNESS | ALTERNATIVE HEALTH
Wellness
Nutrition
Fitness
Psychology
Dentistry
Pregnancy
Sexual health
Home / Holistic Nutrition / 6 Foods To Eat To Reduce Anxiety
6 Foods To Eat To Reduce Anxiety
Jacques Dippenaar Holistic Nutrition, Psychology Leave a comment 1,946 Views
Do you feel constantly worried and nervous? Do not stress, you might be suffering from a disorder called anxiety. And you are not alone, many people suffer from this disorder. Normally medication is prescribed to control the condition, but there are different strategies that you can apply to help to control and reduce your anxiety symptoms. These strategies include from doing breathing exercises, practicing yoga, but also there are certain foods that you can munch on that can aid to lessen the severity of your anxiety symptoms. This is mostly since these foods have brain-boosting properties.
And this article is all about the best food and drinks that can help to reduce your anxiety.
1 Salmon
Salmon, a few servings per week could help to offer anxiety relief. This is since this fish have nutrients like vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid, which helps your brain. That is since eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid aid in the regulation of neurotransmitters serotonin and dopamine that have relaxing and calming properties.
Also, omega-3 fatty acids can lessen inflammation and also avoid brain cell dysfunction that could develop into mental disorders such as anxiety. That is since the two fatty acids founds in salmon, eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid, can assist your body to handle tress better, adopt to changes and thereby lessen the anxiety symptoms.
The vitamin D can have positive effects on calming you by calming your neurotransmitters.
2 Chamomile
The herb, chamomile is known to calm and therefore might help reduce anxiety. This herb contains high concentration of antioxidants that can lessen inflammation, and offer you some anxiety relief. In fact, research has shown that people with generalized anxiety disorder can benefit a lot from taking chamomile extract, if taken for around eight weeks.
3 Turmeric
Turmeric, the spice that contains curcumin, which is a compound that can promote brain health and prevent anxiety disorders. Some studies have concluded that the compound curcumin can increase omega-3 fatty acids in the brain as it aids the body to synthesize this fatty acid more meritoriously.
More so, curcumin was found to lower anxiety effects. Nevertheless, curcumin is a strong antioxidant and anti-flammatory agent that can help prevent brain cell damage. This is since this compound has the ability to reduce inflammatory markers like cytokines, and cytokines are liked to anxiety development.
Your blood antioxidants levels can also increase by taking curcumin. This is useful, especially for those that have anxiety problems.
4 Dark chocolate
Dark chocolate, since it contains flavonols antioxidants that can help your brain function, could help anxiety. Flavonols help the blood flow better. A lack of blood flow can worsen your anxiety and stress levels.
Since, dark chocolate taste and smells yummy, and can become a comfort to your mood. In fact, some research has shown that people that eat 74 percent dark chocolate twice a day over a two-week period have improved stress hormones, catecholamines and cortisol. Other research studies has shown that dark chocolate aid to increase the levels of neurotransmitter serotonin that can help to lessen your anxiety levels. 40 grams of dark chocolate daily, for two weeks, could do the trick.
But with dark chocolate comes a warning: do not overdo it. It is high in calories and you can easy overdo it. Stick to one to 1.5 ounces of dark chocolate per serving.
5 Yogurt
Yogurt, since it is filled with healthy bacteria that helps to keep your gut and body healthy, should also be included in your diet to help deal with your anxiety. In fact, there have been some studies that have concluded that adding probiotic rich foods such as yogurt helps people to cope with stress better. This since it contains free radicals and neurotoxins that protect nerve tissues in the brain that could lead to anxiety.
Just 125 grams of yogurt, eaten twice a day, for only four weeks, could help lowering your anxiety levels.
Just one note, pick a yogurt that contains live active cultures and avoid the sweetened types.
6 Green tea
Green tea has L-theanine, an amino acid. These two elements have positive effects on reducing anxiety and overall brain health. That is since L-theanine can lower your heart rate, which is a symptom of anxiety. Also, L-theanine can lessen the cortisol levels that is a stress hormone associated with anxiety.
All of these effects are since L-theanine could help to prevent nerves from becoming worked up. Moreover, L-theanine may increase serotonin, dopamine and, neurotransmitters, which all have anti-anxiety properties.
Green tea also has epigallocatechin gallate, an antioxidant that promotes brain health.
Concluding remark
The research on which foods can help to lessen anxiety might be sparse; still there are some foods and drinks that we can take to ease our anxiety symptoms. This is since they reduce inflammation and boost brain health.
Related
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Stumbleupon
LinkedIn
Pinterest
About Jacques Dippenaar
Jacques is an influential health blogger and researcher helping readers explore interesting facts and information.
Previous Add Eggplant to Your Diet: 6 Reasons Why
Next Cooking Fish: Which Method Is The Healthiest?
Related Articles
Why is Omega 3 an amazing nutrient?
4 weeks ago
Check Also
Svetlana Wickstrom Weighs in on Body Image and Mental Health
Although we are told that body image isn’t really the result of what we see …
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Health finder
Addiction
Alternative Medicine
Alternative Therapies
Ayurvedic Medicine
Beauty
Body Detoxification
Body Mind Spirit
CBD
Children's Health
Cosmetic procedures
Courses
Dentists
Doctors
Drugs
Eco Friendly Products
Energy Medicine & Healing
Fitness Training Programs
Green Super Foods
Gym and fitness directory
Healing Travel Tours
Health Insurance
Health News
Health Problems
Healthy Diet Recipes
Holistic Healing Arts
Holistic Herbs
Holistic Nutrition
Inspirational Stories
Lose Weight Systems
Mens health
Natural Health Foods
Natural Health Remedies
Natural Pet Care
Nutritional Supplements
Organic Gardening
Pest control
Physiotherapy
Pilates
Pregnancy
Psychology
Quit Smoking
Relaxation Techniques
Sexual health
Urologists
Vaping
Women's Health Care
Yoga and pilates studio directory
Yoga Practice
Reach out
Write for us
Advertise on HealthyNewAge.com
About
Contact
Privacy Policy, FTC Disclosure Statement, and Legal Disclaimer
News
5 Factors To Consider For International Medical Schools
Are You Or A Loved One Addicted to One of These Most Commonly Abused Substances?
4 Tips For Recovering From a Serious Injury
Why is Omega 3 an amazing nutrient?
© Copyright 2019, All Rights Reserved (Healthynewage.com magazine)