Advanced Hair Regrowth Treatment Foam for Men with 5% Minoxidil
Become a Reseller 
Find in Stores 
Modern Science for Better Hair
Home
Trioxidil®
For Men
For Women
Press
About
Contact
Modern Science for Better Hair




Home /
Men's Products /
Advanced Regrowth Foam
FOR EXPORT ONLY
FOLIGAIN® Advanced Hair Regrowth Treatment Foam for Men with 5% Minoxidil
(6oz) 177ml
Clinically proven foam to help regrow hair with Minoxidil!
Clinically proven 5% minoxidil foam treatment to help regrow hair
Reactivates hair follicles to stimulate regrowth
Unscented topical solution
Fast-drying and easy to use
VIEW LABEL 
Men’s Minoxidil 5% Advanced Hair Regrowth Treatment Foam is for men who have a general thinning of hair on the top of the scalp (vertex, as shown below). Our high-performance formula uses potent 5% Minoxidil for a simple, painless, clinically proven answer to hair loss in men that works by awakening and revitalizing the scalp area—specifically the deadened hair follicles. It is clinically shown to help prevent hair loss and regrow hair in just a few months. Applies quickly and easily and dries fast so you aren’t left with greasy-looking hair.
What is Minoxidil?
Minoxidil was the first drug approved for the treatment of androgenetic alopecia (hair loss). Before that, minoxidil had been used as vasodilator drug prescribed as oral tablet to treat high blood pressure, with side effects that included hair growth and reversal of male baldness.
For the treatment of hair loss, minoxidil is available as a topical solution that is generally either 2% or 5% minoxidil in propylene glycol. The propylene glycol ensures that the applied minoxidil is evenly spread across the affected area and easily absorbed through the skin.
How does Minoxidil work?
Minoxidil topical solution is used to stimulate hair growth in people who are balding. The drug seems to exert its maximum effect at the crown of the head. The exact way that minoxidil works is not known, but it may stimulate hair growth by improving the blood supply to the hair follicles.
For Best Results
Apply directly to the scalp. Use twice daily.
​
Directions
Apply 1 pump twice a day into the scalp in the hair loss area. Massage into scalp with fingers, then wash hands well. Using more or more often will not improve results. Continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair re-growth or hair loss will begin again.
Ingredients
Active Ingredients: Purpose Minoxidil USP 5% w/w (without propellant) hair re-growth treatment.
Inactive Ingredients: Purified Water, Propylene Glycol, Oleth-20, Lactic Acid, Fragrance, Alcohol.
Become a Reseller 
Find in Stores 
Customer Support
800.325.2614
9160 E. Bahia Drive
Scottsdale, AZ 85260, USA




© Copyright 2019 FOLIGAIN®™. All Rights Reserved.
*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Contact | Return Policy
Become a Reseller 
Find in Stores 
HOME
TRIOXIDIL®
For MEN
For WOMEN
PRESS
ABOUT
CONTACT
FIND IN STORES


Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
Contact | Return Policy
800.325.2614