How High Cholesterol and Heart Disease Relate to Alzheimer's Disease (page 3)
Share:
eMedTV Login
eMedTV Home
TOPIC HOME
HEALTH CHANNELS
HEALTH TOPICS A-Z
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
Alzheimers Home > How High Cholesterol and Heart Disease Relate to Alzheimer's Disease
Risk Factors We Can Control to Prevent Alzheimer's
Although we can't do much about our age or genetic profile, recent research suggests that maintaining good overall health habits may help lower a person's chances of developing Alzheimer's disease, as well as reducing the chances of developing other serious diseases. Scientists are studying a number of health, lifestyle, and environmental factors that could make a difference. Some of the factors include controlling conditions such as:
High cholesterol
Heart disease
High blood pressure
Diabetes.
Other factors may include:
Engaging in intellectually stimulating activities
Physical activity
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
Antioxidants
Estrogen
Ginkgo biloba
Vaccines
Social engagement.
High Cholesterol and Heart Disease
In recent years, basic research in laboratories, as well as population and animal studies, has suggested a connection between a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease and high cholesterol (known as hypercholesterolemia). These findings led scientists to wonder whether cholesterol-lowering drugs might also lower the risk of developing symptoms associated with dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Two recent population studies that examined this question found reduced risk of dementia in people who took statins, the most commonly prescribed cholesterol medication. The effects did not appear to be related to lowering cholesterol in and of itself, but rather to some other action of the statins.
Other research has found that a high level of the amino acid homocysteine is associated with an increased risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. High levels of homocysteine are known to increase a person's risk for heart disease, and studies in mice have shown that high levels of this amino acid can make neurons stop working and die. The relationship between a person's risk for Alzheimer's disease and homocysteine levels is particularly interesting, because blood levels of homocysteine can be reduced by increasing intakes of folic acid and vitamins B6 and B12.
ARTICLE CONTINUES: PAGE 4
Pages:
<< Back123456789Next >>
Written by/reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD
Last reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD
Last updated/reviewed:
List of references (click here):
Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
Alzheimer's
Causes of Alzheimer's Disease
Alzheimer's and Genes
Early Signs of Alzheimer's Disease
Alzheimer's Symptoms
Diagnosing Alzheimer's
Stages of Alzheimer's
Alzheimer's Treatment
Alzheimer's Disease Medication
Prevent Alzheimer's
Aluminum and Alzheimer's
Alzheimer's Research
Topics & Medications
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
Alzheimer's Disease
Aricept
Binswanger's Disease
Cognex
Dementia
Exelon
Ginkgo Biloba
L-Theanine
Lecithin
Lewy Body Dementia
NADH
Namenda
Namenda XR
Phosphatidylserine
Razadyne
Vitamin E
Quicklinks
Alzheimer's
Lewy Body Dementia
Dementia
Aricept
Symptoms of Dementia
Causes of Dementia
Vitamin E
Benefits of Vitamin E
Namenda
Exelon
Cognex
L-Theanine
Phosphatidylserine
Ginkgo Biloba
Lecithin
Related Channels
Depression
Mental Health
Nervous System
Senior Health
eMedTV Links
Exit Mobile View
Terms of Use
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
About eMedTV
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2006-2019 Clinaero, Inc.
eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind. Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with their own physician. Click Terms of Use for more information.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.