Take Action With DUPIXENT® (dupilumab)
DUPIXENT Pricing
Information
Patient Prescribing
Information
Patient Prescribing Information
Prescribing Information
Instructions for Use - 200mg
Instructions for Use - 300mg
For Healthcare
Professionals
For U.S. Residents Only
Select
Condition
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 18+)
Moderate-to-Severe Atopic Dermatitis (Ages 12-17)
Moderate-to-Severe Asthma (Ages 12+)
DUPIXENT Pricing Information
For Healthcare Professionals
Choose a Condition Below
To learn how DUPIXENT may help.
For Adults With Uncontrolled
Moderate-to-Severe (Eczema) Atopic Dermatitis (AGES 18+)
Add-on Maintenance Treatment for
Patients With Uncontrolled Moderate-to-Severe Asthma (AGES 12+) DUPIXENT is not used to treat sudden breathing problems DUPIXENT is not used to treat sudden
breathing problems
For Teens With Uncontrolled
Moderate-to-Severe (Eczema) Atopic Dermatitis (AGES 12-17)
DUPIXENT is a prescription medicine used:
to treat people 12 years of age and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 12 years of age.
with other asthma medicines for the maintenance treatment of moderate-to-severe asthma in people aged 12 years and older whose asthma is not controlled with their current asthma medicines. DUPIXENT helps prevent severe asthma attacks (exacerbations) and can improve your breathing. DUPIXENT may also help reduce the amount of oral corticosteroids you need while preventing severe asthma attacks and improving your breathing. DUPIXENT is not used to treat sudden breathing problems. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with asthma under 12 years of age.
PATIENT SUPPORT WITH
DUPIXENT MyWay®
DUPIXENT MyWay, is our patient support program. Once you enroll, you will experience personalized
assistance throughout your entire treatment journey. After your doctor has prescribed DUPIXENT, you
can enroll online or by calling 1‑844‑DUPIXENT (1‑844‑387‑4936).
DUPIXENT MyWay Brochure
Download Now
With DUPIXENT MyWay You’ll have access to
the following resources:
Nurse Educators offering tips,
tools, and resources
Supplemental injection training
online or in-person
Ongoing nursing support for
DUPIXENT available by phone 24/7
Help scheduling deliveries and
monthly prescription refills
Exclusive support and
resources about DUPIXENT
Important Safety Information
and Indications
Important Safety Information
Do not use if you are allergic to dupilumab or to any of the ingredients in DUPIXENT®.
Before using DUPIXENT, tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions, including if you:
have eye problems (if you also have atopic dermatitis)
have a parasitic (helminth) infection
are taking oral, topical, or inhaled corticosteroid medicines. Do not stop taking your corticosteroid medicines unless instructed by your healthcare provider. This may cause other symptoms that were controlled by the corticosteroid medicine to come back.
are scheduled to receive any vaccinations. You should not receive a “live vaccine” if you are treated with DUPIXENT.
are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known whether DUPIXENT will harm your unborn baby.
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed. It is not known whether DUPIXENT passes into your breast milk.
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements. If you are taking asthma medicines, do not change or stop your asthma medicine without talking to your healthcare provider.
DUPIXENT can cause serious side effects, including:
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity), including a severe reaction known as anaphylaxis. Stop using DUPIXENT and tell your healthcare provider or get emergency help right away if you get any of the following symptoms: breathing problems, fever, general ill feeling, swollen lymph nodes, swelling of the face, mouth and tongue, hives, itching, fainting, dizziness, feeling lightheaded (low blood pressure), joint pain, or skin rash.
Eye problems. If you have atopic dermatitis, tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worsening eye problems, including eye pain or changes in vision.
Inflammation in your blood vessels: Rarely, this can happen in people with asthma who receive DUPIXENT. This may happen in people who also take a steroid medicine by mouth that is being stopped or the dose is being lowered. It is not known whether this is caused by DUPIXENT. Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have: rash, shortness of breath, persistent fever, chest pain, or a feeling of pins and needles or numbness of your arms or legs.
The most common side effects include injection site reactions, pain in the throat (oropharyngeal pain) and cold sores in your mouth or on your lips. Eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching have been seen in patients who have atopic dermatitis.
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. These are not all the possible side effects of DUPIXENT. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
Use DUPIXENT exactly as prescribed. DUPIXENT is an injection given under the skin (subcutaneous injection). If your healthcare provider decides that you or a caregiver can give DUPIXENT injections, you or your caregiver should receive training on the right way to prepare and inject DUPIXENT. Do not try to inject DUPIXENT until you have been shown the right way by your healthcare provider. In adolescents 12 years of age and older, it is recommended that DUPIXENT be administered by or under supervision of an adult.
Please see accompanying full Prescribing Information including Patient Information.
Indications
DUPIXENT is a prescription medicine used:
to treat people 12 years of age and older with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (eczema) that is not well controlled with prescription therapies used on the skin (topical), or who cannot use topical therapies. DUPIXENT can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with atopic dermatitis under 12 years of age.
with other asthma medicines for the maintenance treatment of moderate-to-severe asthma in people aged 12 years and older whose asthma is not controlled with their current asthma medicines. DUPIXENT helps prevent severe asthma attacks (exacerbations) and can improve your breathing. DUPIXENT may also help reduce the amount of oral corticosteroids you need while preventing severe asthma attacks and improving your breathing. DUPIXENT is not used to treat sudden breathing problems. It is not known if DUPIXENT is safe and effective in children with asthma under 12 years of age.
Site Map
Legal Disclaimer Information
Privacy Policy
Questions or comments?
Contact Sanofi US or call 1‑844‑643‑7346
to contact Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
© 2019 Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DUPIXENT® is a registered trademark of Sanofi Biotechnology.
Sanofi US is hosting this website on behalf of Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
×
This DUPIXENT® (dupilumab) website is for U.S. healthcare professionals only. Click "continue" only if you are a U.S. healthcare professional.
US-DUP-1049(1)
Cancel
Continue
×
Are you sure you want to leave?
Please note: By clicking on this link, you will be leaving this Sanofi-hosted US website and going to another, entirely independent website. Sanoﬁ US and Regeneron provide these links as a service to its website visitors and users; however, they take no responsibility for the information on any website but their own.
US-DUP-1049(1)
Cancel
Continue
×
You are about to leave sanofi site for U.S.
Sanofi US does not review the information contained on this website and/or database for content, accuracy or completeness. Use of and access to this information is subject to the terms, limitations and conditions set by the website and/or database producer.
This site might not comply with the regulatory requirements of US
Cancel
Continue
×
You are about to move to an Unbranded site
You are moving to an Unbranded site
Cancel
Continue
Privacy Policy
Legal Disclaimer
© 2002-2018 sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Legal Disclaimer | Contact Us
This site is intended for use by U.S. residents only.
US-DUP-1230 Last Update: April 2019