Hair Loss Treatment, Causes, Home Remedies & Prevention
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/skin health center/skin a-z list/hair loss center /hair loss article
Hair Loss in Men and Women (Alopecia)
Hair loss facts
What are causes and risk factors for hair loss?
What types of doctors treat hair loss?
How do physicians classify hair loss?
What is alopecia areata?
What is traction alopecia?
What is trichotillomania?
What is tinea capitis?
What is generalized (diffuse) hair loss?
What is telogen effluvium?
What is androgenetic or androgenic alopecia ("male-pattern baldness," "female-pattern baldness")?
What treatment is there for hair loss in men?
What other options do people have for hair loss?
Is hair loss in women different than men?
What about pregnancy hair loss?
What specific treatments are there for hair loss in women?
What vitamins are good for hair loss? Are there home remedies for hair loss?
Can itchy scalp cause hair loss?
What is the prognosis for hair loss?
How do people prevent hair loss?
Medical Author: Gary W. Cole, MD, FAAD
Gary W. Cole, MD, FAAD
Dr. Cole is board certified in dermatology. He obtained his BA degree in bacteriology, his MA degree in microbiology, and his MD at the University of California, Los Angeles. He trained in dermatology at the University of Oregon, where he completed his residency.
Medical Editor: William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR
William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR
Dr. Shiel received a Bachelor of Science degree with honors from the University of Notre Dame. There he was involved in research in radiation biology and received the Huisking Scholarship. After graduating from St. Louis University School of Medicine, he completed his Internal Medicine residency and Rheumatology fellowship at the University of California, Irvine. He is board-certified in Internal Medicine and Rheumatology.
Hair Loss in Men and Women (Alopecia) Center
Hair Loss Slideshow Pictures
Hair and Scalp Slideshow Pictures
Take the Hair Loss Quiz!
Hair Loss FAQs
Patient Comments: Hair Loss - Treatments
Patient Comments: Hair Loss - Age and Pattern
Patient Comments: Hair Loss - Vitamins
Patient Comments: Hair Loss - Options
Patient Comments: Hair Loss - Telogen Effluvium
Patient Comments: Hair Loss - Women
Find a local Dermatologist in your town
Hair loss facts
What are causes and risk factors for hair loss?
What types of doctors treat hair loss?
How do physicians classify hair loss?
What is alopecia areata?
What is traction alopecia?
What is trichotillomania?
What is tinea capitis?
What is generalized (diffuse) hair loss?
What is telogen effluvium?
What is androgenetic or androgenic alopecia ("male-pattern baldness," "female-pattern baldness")?
What treatment is there for hair loss in men?
What other options do people have for hair loss?
Is hair loss in women different than men?
What about pregnancy hair loss?
What specific treatments are there for hair loss in women?
What vitamins are good for hair loss? Are there home remedies for hair loss?
Can itchy scalp cause hair loss?
What is the prognosis for hair loss?
How do people prevent hair loss?
Hair loss facts
Hair loss without scarring of the scalp is a very common condition and affects most people at some time in their lives.
Medical professionals should distinguish hair loss from breakage of the hair shaft from hair loss due to decreased hair growth.
Common balding (androgenetic alopecia) occurs in men and women and is due to the effect of testosterone metabolites in genetically susceptible hair follicles.
Thyroid disease, anemia, protein deficiency, secondary syphilis, chemotherapy, and low vitamin levels may cause hair loss.
Alopecia areata is a form of hair loss produced by the autoimmune destruction of hair follicles in localized areas of skin.
Medications indicated for hair regrowth include minoxidil (Rogaine) and finasteride (Propecia).
Prevention of hair loss includes good hair hygiene, regular shampooing, and good nutrition.
Medical health screening for hair loss may include blood tests such as complete blood count (CBC), iron level, vitamin B, thyroid function tests (TFT), and a biopsy of the scalp.
Hair Loss and Stress
Is there a correlation between hair loss and stress?
Both emotional and physical stress (such as a serious illness or recovery from surgery) have been associated with hair loss. It is possible that stress induces hormonal changes that are responsible for the hair loss, since hair loss is a known consequence of other hormonal changes due to pregnancy, thyroid disturbances, or even from taking oral contraceptives.
Learn more about how stress may cause hair loss »
What are causes and risk factors for hair loss?
Because there are many types of hair loss, finding the cause can be challenging. This review will cover the most common causes of hair loss occurring on normal unscarred scalp skin. The medical term for hair loss is alopecia.
Most hair loss is not associated with systemic or internal disease, nor is poor diet a frequent factor. Hair may simply thin as a result of predetermined genetic factors and the overall aging process. Many men and women may notice mild physiologic thinning of hair starting in their 30s and 40s. Life vicissitudes, including illness, emotional trauma, protein deprivation (during strict dieting), and hormonal changes like those in pregnancy, puberty, and menopause may cause hair loss.
Several health conditions, including thyroid disease, iron deficiency anemia, and secondary syphilis, can cause hair loss. While thyroid blood tests and other lab tests, including a complete blood count (CBC), on people who have ordinary hair loss are usually normal, it is important to exclude treatable causes of hair loss.
QUESTION
It is normal to lose 100-150 hairs per day. See Answer
What types of doctors treat hair loss?
A family physician, internist, or gynecologist can perform a basic health screening. Dermatologists are doctors who specialize in problems of skin, hair, and nails and may provide more advanced diagnosis and treatment of hair thinning and loss. Sometimes a scalp biopsy may be necessary.
Although many medications list "hair loss" among their potential side effects, most drugs are not likely to induce hair loss. On the other hand, cancer treatment (for example, chemotherapy or radiation therapy) and immunosuppressive medications commonly produce hair loss. Complete hair loss after chemotherapy usually regrows after six to 12 months.
How do physicians classify hair loss?
Readers Comments 11
Share Your Story
There are numerous ways to categorize hair loss. One must first examine the scalp to determine if the hair loss is due to the physical destruction and loss of hair follicles (scarring or cicatricial alopecia). If the scalp appears perfectly normal with plenty of empty hair follicles, this is called non-scarring hair loss. On the other hand, cicatricial alopecia permanently destroys the follicles. Non-scarring hair loss also happens in situations where there is physical or chemical damage to the hair shaft, resulting in breakage. Occasionally, it may be necessary to do a biopsy of the scalp to distinguish these conditions. Sometimes, a physician may pull a hair to examine the appearance of the hair shaft as well as the percentage of growing hairs (anagen phase). This article will concentrate on the non-scarring types of hair loss.
Patchy hair loss
Some conditions produce small areas of hair loss, while others affect large areas of the scalp. Common causes of patchy hair loss are
alopecia areata (small circular or coin size bald patches on the scalp that usually grow back within months),
traction alopecia (thinning from tight braids or ponytails),
trichotillomania (the habit of twisting or pulling hair out),
tinea capitis (fungal infection), and
secondary syphilis.
Diffuse hair loss
Some common causes of diffuse hair loss are
pattern alopecia,
drug-induced alopecia,
protein malnutrition, and
systemic disease-induced alopecia (cancer, endocrine disease, and telogen effluvium).
Daily Health News
Two Drugs for Men Up Diabetes Risk
Experimental Blood Thinner
Veggies vs. Steak for Heart
Meals and Heart Attacks
'Bubble Boy' Disease Cure
More Health News »
Trending on MedicineNet
Appendectomy
Candida Auris
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
Ebola Virus
Hepatitis A
What is alopecia areata?
A common skin condition, alopecia areata usually starts as a single quarter-sized circle of perfectly smooth bald skin. These patches usually regrow in three to six months without treatment. Sometimes, white hair temporarily regrows and then becomes dark. The most extensive form is alopecia totalis, in which the entire scalp goes bald. It's important to emphasize that patients who have localized hair loss generally don't go on to lose hair all over the scalp. Alopecia areata can affect hair on other parts of the body, too (for example, the beard or eyebrows).
Alopecia areata is an autoimmune condition in which the body attacks its own hair follicles. Most patients, however, do not have systemic problems and need no medical tests. While people frequently blame alopecia areata on "stress," in fact, it may be the other way around; that is, having alopecia may cause stress.
Treatments for alopecia areata include injecting small amounts of steroids like triamcinolone into affected patches to stimulate hair growth. Although localized injections may not be practical for large areas, often this is a very effective treatment in helping the hairs return sooner. Other treatments, such as oral steroids, other immunosuppressives, or ultraviolet light therapy, are available for more widespread or severe cases but may be impractical for most patients because of potential side effects or risks. In most mild cases, patients can easily cover up or comb over the affected areas. In more severe and chronic cases, some patients wear hairpieces; nowadays, some men shave their whole scalp now that this look has become fashionable. Recently, investigators have noted some beneficial results in small groups of patients with extensive alopecia areata or alopecia totalis with a JAK1/2 inhibitor, baricitinib (Olumiant). Long-term studies are under way.
IMAGES
Hair Loss See pictures of hair loss and other scalp related conditions See Images
What is traction alopecia?
This is a small or localized hair loss area caused by repetitive or persistent pulling or traction on hair roots. Tight braids and ponytails can pull hard enough on hairs to make them fall out. If this happens, it's best to choose hairstyles that put less tension on hair. Doing this sooner helps to avoid permanent damage.
What is trichotillomania?
This refers to the habitual pulling or twisting of one's own hair. The scalp and eyelashes are often affected. Unlike alopecia areata patches, which are perfectly smooth, hair patches in trichotillomania show broken-off hairs. Treatment is often entirely behavioral. One has to notice the behavior and then consciously stop. Severe or resistant cases may require stress counseling with a therapist or psychologist or medical treatment with a psychiatrist. Several antidepressant or anti-anxiety medications can help with this condition.
What is tinea capitis?
Tinea is the medical word for fungal infection, and capitis means head. Tinea capitis is fungal infection of the scalp that for the most part affects school-age children. Tinea capitis is more common in black African or African-American scalps. This condition is rare in healthy adults. Bald spots usually show broken-off hairs accompanied by a dermatitis. Oral antifungals can penetrate the hair roots and cure the infection, after which hair grows back. Sharing hats or combs and brushes may transmit tinea capitis.
Subscribe to MedicineNet's Skin Care & Conditions Newsletter
By clicking "Submit," I agree to the MedicineNet Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy. I also agree to receive emails from MedicineNet and I understand that I may opt out of MedicineNet subscriptions at any time.
What is generalized (diffuse) hair loss?
This is an overall hair thinning without specific bald spots or patterns. While this type of hair loss may not be noticeable to others, often the individual will feel their hair is not as thick or full as it previously was. Common conditions in this category are
telogen effluvium (rapid shedding after childbirth, fever, or sudden weight loss);
androgenetic or androgenic hair loss ("male-pattern baldness," "female-pattern baldness").
What is telogen effluvium?
Readers Comments 3
Share Your Story
Under normal conditions, scalp hairs live for about three years (the anagen, or growing, phase); they then enter the telogen, or resting, phase. During the three-month telogen period, the hair root shrivels up into a small "club," then the hair falls out. It is therefore normal to lose about 100 hairs every day, more of them on days when shampooing loosens the hairs that are ready to fall out. The body then replaces the hairs.
Sometimes people who worry about losing their hair start noticing hairs on their pillow or in the sink, not realizing that they've always been there. A close look at these will usually reveal the club at the end, showing that these hairs shed normally. Normally, about 10% of scalp hairs are in the telogen phase.
Several circumstances produce a "shock to the system" that alters the hair growth rhythm. As a result, as much as 30%-40% of the hairs can cycle into telogen. Three months later, hairs come out in a massive shedding (effluvium), especially near the front of the scalp. These include
childbirth,
high fever,
sudden weight loss (crash dieting),
surgery,
severe illness,
severe emotional stress or loss.
None of these need be life threatening, nor does hair loss usually follow them. (Moreover, it can happen after one pregnancy, but not the next.) But when the hair falls out, it's all over the place -- covering the pillow, clogging the drain, and so forth. Paradoxically, the more dramatic the hair loss, the better the prognosis, because when the body gets back into normal rhythm, most if not all of that hair comes back; these people need no special treatment. Normal shampooing can continue, because this only loosens hairs that were going to come out anyway.
From
Healthy Resources
Do Baseball Caps Cause Baldness?
Top 10 Foods for Healthy Hair
Are We Close to a Cure for Cancer?
Featured Centers
How Is Your MS Care Routine? Assess Yourself
11 Things Not to Do If You Want to get Pregnant
What is androgenetic or androgenic alopecia ("male-pattern baldness," "female-pattern baldness")?
This type of alopecia is often attributed to genetic predisposition and family history. Androgenic alopecia appears in both men and women. The hair loss in men is often faster, earlier onset, and more extensive.
Doctors refer to common baldness as "androgenetic alopecia" or "androgenic alopecia," which implies that a combination of hormones and heredity (genetics) is necessary to develop the condition. The exact cause of this pattern is unknown. (The male hormones involved are present in both men and women.)
Male-pattern baldness
Even men who never "go bald" thin out somewhat over the years. Unlike those with reversible telogen shedding, those with common male-pattern hair loss don't notice much hair coming out; they just see that it's not there anymore. Adolescent boys notice some receding near the temples as their hairlines change from the straight-across boys' pattern to the more "M-shaped" pattern of adult men. This normal development does not mean they are losing hair.
Some "myths" about male-pattern baldness
People inherit baldness through their mother's male relatives. Actually, genes from both the mother and the father determine baldness. Looking at one's family can give someone at best an educated guess about how he or she will turn out. Studies are ongoing in this field, and current research has been inconclusive about the inheritance patterns.
Longer hair puts a strain on roots. It doesn't. And hats don't choke off the circulation to the scalp to cause hair loss either.
Shampooing does not accelerate balding.
"Poor circulation" does not cause hair loss, and massaging doesn't stop it.
Male-pattern baldness
SLIDESHOW
Hair Loss: Causes, Treatments, and Prevention See Slideshow
What treatment is there for hair loss in men?
Readers Comments 28
Share Your Story
There are few scientifically proven and FDA-approved treatments for hair loss. There are thousands of unproven claims and products to help with hair regrowth. Many conditioners, shampoos, vitamins, and other products claim to help hair grow in some unspecified way. Nioxin has been a popular brand of shampoo for hair loss, but there is no compelling evidence showing it is any more effective than regular shampoos. These products are usually harmless but generally not scientifically proven and therefore potentially useless. To slow down hair loss, there are at least four potentially effective, basic options. These include medications like Minoxidil, and Propecia, which are for long-term use. Stopping these drugs does not seem to worsen or exacerbate the prior hair loss. The patient will simply revert to the state he would have been in had he never started treatment.
Minoxidil (Rogaine): This topical medication is available over the counter, and no prescription is required. Men and women can use it. It works best on the crown, less on the frontal region. Minoxidil is available as a 2% solution, 4% solution, an extra-strength 5% solution, and a new foam or mousse preparation. Rogaine may grow a little hair, but it's better at holding onto what's still there. There are few side effects with Rogaine. The main problem with this treatment is the need to keep applying it once or twice daily, and most men get tired of it after a while. In addition, minoxidil tends to work less well on the front of the head, which is where baldness bothers most men. Inadvertent application to the face or neck skin can cause unwanted hair growth in those areas.
Finasteride (Propecia): This medication is FDA approved for use in only men with androgenic hair loss. Finasteride is in a class of medications called 5-alpha reductase inhibitors. It helps reduce hair loss by blocking the action of natural hormones in scalp hair follicles. Propecia is a lower-dose version of a commercially available drug called Proscar that helps shrink enlarged prostates in middle-aged and older men. Women of child-bearing potential should avoid finasteride. Propecia 1 mg tablets are available by prescription and taken once daily. Propecia may grow and thicken hair to some extent for some people, but its main use is to keep (maintain) hair that's still there. Studies have shown that this medication works well in some types of hair loss, and patients should use it for about six to 12 months before full effects are determined. This medication does not "work" in days to weeks, and its onset of visible improvement tends to be gradual. It may be best for men who still have enough hair to retain but also can help some regrow hair. Possible but very unlikely side effects include impotence or a decreased sex drive (libido). Studies show that these side effects were possibly slightly more common than seen in the general population and are reversible when patients stop taking the drug. The cost is about $70-$100/month, and most health insurers do not reimburse for the expense.
A group of topical medications called prostaglandin analogs have recently began undergoing testing for potential hair regrowth. They may be used in men and women. These drugs are not currently FDA approved for scalp hair loss. Currently, these are primarily used for eyelash enhancement. One of the new medications is called bimatoprost (Latisse). Further testing and studies are required to assess the efficacy of these products in scalp hair loss. Bimatoprost solution is sometimes used off-label for help in selected cases of hair loss. It is currently FDA approved for cosmetic eyelash enhancement. Studies have shown it can treat hypotrichosis (short or sparse) of the eyelashes by increasing their growth, including length, thickness, and darkness. This medication is also commercially available as Lumigan, which is used to treat glaucoma. It is not known exactly how this medication works in hair regrowth, but it is thought to lengthen the anagen phase (active phase) of hair growth. Interestingly, during routine medical use of Lumigan eyedrops for glaucoma patients, it was serendipitously found that eyelashes got longer and thicker in many users. This led to clinical trials and the approval of cosmetic use of Latisse for eyelashes.
What other options do people have for hair loss?
Readers Comments 3
Share Your Story
There are many options and alternative cosmetic treatments for hair loss. Some of these are listed here and include hair-fiber powders, hairpieces, synthetic wigs, human hair wigs, hair extensions, hair weaves, laser, and surgery.
Hair-fiber powders: Colored, powdery fiber sprinkles are commercially available and may work to camouflage balding areas. These colored sprinkles have special properties that help them attach to hair and give a fuller appearance. Toppik is one manufacturer of these products and can be found online. These cosmetic products are available without a prescription, are fairly inexpensive ($20-$40 range), and quite safe with minimal risk. Often these may be used in addition to medical treatments like Rogaine, Propecia, and hair transplants, and they are a great temporary measure to tide one over for special occasions.
Hairpieces: Among the time-honored ways to add hair temporarily are hairpieces or hair weaving, in which a mesh is attached to the remaining hair and artificial or human hair of similar color and texture is woven with existing hair. Quality varies considerably with price; also, hairpieces and weaves may stretch, oxidize, and loosen.
Surgery or hair transplants: Surgical hair restoration approaches include various versions of hair transplantation (taking hair from the back and putting it near the front) or scalp reduction (cutting away bald areas and stitching the rest together). Transplant procedures have improved greatly in recent years. They can produce much more attractive and natural-looking results than older methods that sometimes leave a "checkerboard" or hair plug look. Many transplant patients now take Propecia to maintain or keep what they've transplanted. When considering a hair transplant, check the surgeon's credentials and experience carefully. Micrografts are some of the newest techniques whereby surgeons transplant single one to two hair follicles. Hair transplants may be very expensive and time-consuming procedures ranging widely anywhere from $1,000-$20,000, depending on the number of hair grafts transplanted. Typically, 500 or more hairs may be transplanted in a session.
Low level laser devices approved by the FDA are promoted for use in male pattern hair loss. These devices are used at home without a physician's prescription and vary in cost from $50 to over $1,000. They come in the form of combs, helmets, and hats. Limited studies are moderately persuasive that they stimulate hair growth.
Platelet rich plasma obtained from the processed whole blood of male patients with pattern hair loss and then reinjected into their own scalp has been suggested as an adjuvant treatment. The efficacy of this form of therapy is currently under investigation.
Is hair loss in women different than men?
Readers Comments 9
Share Your Story
Female-pattern baldness
Women lose hair on an inherited (genetic) basis, too, but female pattern hair loss tends to be more diffuse, with less likelihood of the crown and frontal hairline being lost. Although some women may notice hair thinning as early as their 20s, the pace of hair loss tends to be gradual, often taking years to become obvious to others. There seems to be a normal physiologic thinning that comes with age and occurs in many women in their early to mid-30s. More women have underlying causes of hair loss than men. These include treatable conditions like anemia and thyroid disease and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). These conditions are diagnosed by blood tests along with a historical and physical evidence. Although a few studies have suggested that baldness may be inherited through the mother's family genes, these theories require further testing. Current studies are inconclusive. Although not indicated for female pattern balding, spironolactone (Aldactone) has had some success in treating this condition.
While stories about hats choking off follicles or long hair pulling on the roots may be more folklore, repeat hair trauma like tightly woven hair pulled back and consistent friction can potentially worsen or cause localized hair loss in some individuals. Individuals who pull their hair tightly back in a rubber band can develop a localized hair loss at the front of the scalp.
Hair loss "myths" of special concern to women
Longer hair does not necessarily put a strain on roots.
Shampooing does not accelerate hair loss; it just removes those that were ready to fall out anyway.
Coloring, perming, and conditioning the hair do not usually cause hair loss. Burns or severe processing may produce hair fragility and breakage. Styles that pull tight may cause some loss, but hair coloring and "chemicals" usually don't.
What about pregnancy hair loss?
Pregnancy may cause many changes in the scalp hair. As the hormones fluctuate during pregnancy, a large number of women feel their hair thickens and becomes fuller. This may be related to change in the number of hairs cycling in the growth phase of hair growth, but the exact reason is unknown. Quite often, there may be a loss of hair (telogen effluvium) after delivery or a few months later which will eventually normalize.
What specific treatments are there for hair loss in women?
Female hair loss treatments include minoxidil (Rogaine), hair transplants, hair-powder fibers like Toppik, wigs, hair extensions, and weaves.
Minoxidil (Rogaine) is available over the counter and available in 2%, 4%, and 5% concentrations. It may be something of a nuisance to apply twice daily, but it has been shown to help conserve hair and may even grow some. Minoxidil tends to grow very fine small hairs wherever it is applied. It is important to avoid running the liquid onto the face or neck where it can also grow hair. It is marketed for women at the 2% concentration but may be used in higher strengths as directed by a doctor.
Surgical procedures like hair transplants can be useful for some women as well as men to "fill in" thinned-out areas.
What vitamins are good for hair loss? Are there home remedies for hair loss?
Readers Comments 3
Share Your Story
A good daily multivitamin containing zinc, vitamin B, folate, iron, and calcium is a reasonable choice, although there is no good evidence that vitamins have any meaningful benefit in alopecia. Newer studies suggest that vitamin D may be somewhat helpful and worth considering. Specific vitamin and mineral deficiencies like iron or vitamin B12 may be diagnosed by blood tests and treated.
Multiple vitamins, including biotin, have been promoted for hair growth, but solid scientific studies for many of these claims are lacking. While taking biotin and other supplements marketed for hair, skin, and nails probably won't worsen anything, it may also not necessarily help the situation. Therefore, advertised hair-regrowth supplements should be approached with mild caution. There is only anecdotal evidence that oral or topical application garlic, onion juice, saw palmetto, coconut oil, evening primrose oil, apple cider vinegar, creatine, and pumpkin seed oil are of benefit for hair loss.
Can itchy scalp cause hair loss?
Itchy scalp may be a symptom of a scalp disease that could produce hair loss. Causes may include seborrheic dermatitis (dandruff) and psoriasis. Treatments may include medicated shampoos like ketoconazole (Nizoral), OTC dandruff shampoos, and topical steroid creams and lotions to help decrease itching.
What is the prognosis for hair loss?
The prognosis for androgenic non-scarring hair loss is guarded due to the fact that there is no cure for the problem. Medications must be taken indefinitely. Other types of hair loss have a good chance of spontaneously resolving.
How do people prevent hair loss?
Hair-loss prevention depends on the underlying cause. Good hair hygiene with regular shampooing is a basic step but is probably of little benefit. Good nutrition, especially adequate levels of iron and vitamin B, is helpful. Treatment of underlying medical conditions like thyroid disease, anemia, and hormonal imbalances may useful in prevention.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Hair Loss Center
Medically Reviewed on 11/7/2018
References
REFERENCES:
Ahanogbe, Isabella, and Alde Carlo P. Gavino. “Evaluation and Management of the Hair Loss Patient in the Primary Care Setting.” Prim Care Clin Office Pract 42 (2015): 569-589.
Baden, Howard P., Joseph C. Kvedar, and Cynthia M. Magro. "Loose Anagen Hair as a Cause of Hereditary Hair Loss in Children." Arch Dermatol 128.10 October 1992: 1349-1353.
Bolognia, Jean, Jorizzo, Joseph, and Rapini, Ronald. Dermatology. Philadelphia: Mosby Elsevier, 2008.
Han, A., and P. Mirmirani. "Clinical approach to the patient with alopecia." Semin Cutan Med Surg. 25 (2006): 11-23.
Harfmann, Katya L., and Mark A. Bechtel. "Hair Loss in Women." Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology 58.1 (2015): 185-199.
Mubki, T., L. Rudnicka, M. Olszewska, and J. Shapiro. "Evaluation and diagnosis of the hair loss patient: part I. History and clinical examination." J American Academy Dermatol 71.3 Sept. 2014: 415.
Mubki, T., L. Rudnicka, M. Olszewska, and J. Shapiro. "Evaluation and diagnosis of the hair loss patient: part II. Trichoscopic and laboratory evaluations." J American Academy Dermatol 71.3 Sept. 2014: 431.
Piraccini, Bianca Maria. "Evaluation of Hair Loss." Curr Probl Dermatol 47 (2015): 10-20.
Triyangkulsri, Korn, and Poonkiat Suchonwanit. "Role of Janus Kinase Inhibitors in the Treatment of Alopecia Areata." Drug Design, Development and Therapy 12 (2018): 2323-2335.
Won, Yong-Yon, Bark-Lynn Lew, and Woo-Young Sim. "Clinical Efficacy of Oral Administration of Finasteride at a Dose of 2.5 mg/day in Women With Female Pattern Hair Loss." Dermatologic Therapy 2018: e12588. https://doi.org/10.1111/dth.12588.
Zerbinati, Nicola, et al. "Topical Immunotherapy of Alopecia Areata: A Large Retrospective Study." Dermatol Ther (Heidelb) 8 (2018): 101-110.
Related Article
Hair Loss Quiz: Test Your Medical IQ
What causes hair loss? Learn about hair loss treatment, female baldness. What causes male pattern baldness? Is there a cure for baldness? Take the quiz to find out more.
Read more: Hair Loss Quiz: Test Your Medical IQ
Patient Comments
Hair Loss - Treatments
What hair loss treatments have worked well for you?
Post View 28 Comments
Hair Loss - Age and Pattern
How old were you when you first experienced hair loss? How would you describe or classify the pattern?
Post View 11 Comments
Hair Loss - Vitamins
What vitamins do you take for hair loss? Have you noticed an improvement since taking them?
Post View 3 Comments
Hair Loss - Options
What optional treatments have you tried for your hair loss? Are you happy with the results?
Post View 3 Comments
Hair Loss - Telogen Effluvium
Describe your experience with telogen effluvium, including the suspected cause for your "sudden" hair loss.
Post View 3 Comments
Hair Loss - Women
If you are a woman, describe your experience with hair loss, including any treatments.
Post View 9 Comments
Complete List
Top Hair Loss Related Articles
Aches, Pain, Fever
Although a fever technically is any body temperature above the normal of 98.6 F (37 C), in practice, a person is usually not considered to have a significant fever until the temperature is above 100.4 F (38 C). Fever is part of the body's own disease-fighting arsenal; rising body temperatures apparently are capable of killing off many disease-producing organisms.
Anemia
Anemia is the condition of having less than the normal number of red blood cells or less than the normal quantity of hemoglobin in the blood. The oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood is, therefore, decreased. There are several types of anemia such as iron deficiency anemia (the most common type), sickle cell anemia, vitamin B12 anemia, pernicious anemia, and aplastic anemia. Symptoms of anemia may include fatigue, malaise, hair loss, palpitations, menstruation, and medications. Treatment for anemia includes treating the underlying cause for the condition. Iron supplements, vitamin B12 injections, and certain medications may also be necessary.
Skin & Makeup Quiz
Are you doing right by your skin? Take the Skin and Makeup Quiz to learn how to make the most of your beauty regimen.
Chemotherapy
Chemotherapy is the treatment of cancer with drugs that can destroy cancer cells. These drugs often are called "anticancer" drugs. Chemotherapy is often used with other treatments. Coping with side effects (fatigue, nausea, vomiting, pain, hair loss, infection, diarrhea, constipation, fluid retention, mouth and throat problems) are important to understand when undergoing chemotherapy treatment. It is important to eat well during chemotherapy, and get the support you need both during and after treatment.
Complete Blood Count
A complete blood count (CBC) is a calculation of the cellular makeup of blood. A CBC measures the concentration of white blood cells, red blood cells, platelets in the blood, and aids in diagnosing conditions and disease such as malignancy, anemia, or blood clotting problems.
Women’s Hair Loss: Causes, Treatments, and Solutions
Hair loss in women is common. Thinning hair on the scalp happens more frequently after menopause due to changing hormone levels. Hair follicles can also be damaged by autoimmune disease, cancer treatment, medication side effects, and more. Consult a dermatologist. Rogaine (minoxidil) can help.
Hair Loss Slideshow
Learn about hair loss in women and men. Discover hair loss causes and treatments as well as how to prevent hair loss.
Hair Loss Quiz
True or false: Genetic hair loss comes from the mother's side of the family. Take the Hair Loss Quiz to learn about your hair. Learn what damages hair and what doesn't. Take the quiz!
Hair Removal
There are many different types of hair removal: shaving, plucking, waxing, depilation, laser hair removal, oral medications, and electrolysis. Laser hair removal is one of the longest-lasting methods of hair removal. Unfortunately, no hair-removal technique is permanent when it comes to getting rid of unwanted hair.
Human Body Quiz
The Human Body Quiz will help you learn about your little-known body parts! Take this quiz to learn more about your body and what goes on inside.
Labor and Delivery
Early and later symptoms and signs of labor and delivery are unique to each woman. Early signs of labor are "lightening” and passing the mucous plug.
Later symptoms and signs that labor that labor is are the woman’s water breaking, and when contractions begin.
There are three stages of labor, stage 1 is the longest and occurs when the cervix begins to thin and dilate. During stage 2 of labor the baby passes through the birth canal and remains there until delivery, and stage 3, is when the baby is delivered.
Menopause
Menopause is the time in a woman's life when menstrual periods permanently stop, also called the "change of life." Menopause symptoms include hot flashes, night sweats, irregular vaginal bleeding, vaginal dryness, painful intercourse, urinary incontinence, weight gain, and emotional symptoms such as mood swings. Treatment of menopausal symptoms varies, and should be discussed with your physician.
Ringworm
The term "ringworm" or "ringworms" refers to fungal infections that are on the surface of the skin. A physical examination of the affected skin, evaluation of skin scrapings under the microscope, and culture tests can help doctors make the appropriate distinctions. A proper diagnosis is essential to successful treatment. Among the different types of ringworm are the following: tinea barbae, tinea capitis, tinea corporis, tinea cruris, tinea faciei, tinea manus, tinea pedis, and tinea unguium.
Smoking & Your Looks
What are the effects of smoking tobacco? Besides and increased risk of smoking related diseases, smoking can affect your looks and moods. Get information on how smoking affects major organs, causes wrinkles, and increases your risk of cancer.
Thyroid Blood Tests
Thyroid blood tests determine the adequacy of the levels of thyroid hormones in in a patient. The blood tests can determine if the thyroid gland's hormone production is normal, overactive, or underactive. The level of thyroid hormones may help to diagnose hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. The test may also point to other diseases of conditions of the thyroid gland.
Thyroid Disorders
There are several types of thyroid disorders including hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, goiters, thyroid nodules, and thyroid cancer. Symptoms vary by condition. Diagnosis is made with blood tests, scans, ultrasound, or biopsy. Treatments depend on the disorder and can include medication or surgery.
Thyroid Slideshow
Learn about thyroid problems such as hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, thyroid cancer, and more. Discover symptoms and treatments for various thyroid problems.
Tinea Capitis Picture
Tinea capitis is also known as ringworm of the scalp. See a picture of Tinea Capitis and learn more about the health topic.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth