Yoga may improve quality of life for people with asthma
Home
About
Azalea Centre
Team
Contact & Locations
Services
Physiotherapy
Sports injuries treatment & rehabilitation
Acupuncture
Weight loss program
Occupational Therapy
Kinesiology & Rehabilitation
Osteopathy
Appointment
Yoga may improve quality of life for people with asthma
Asthma is a chronic condition that leads to spasm, swelling, and extra production of mucus in the airways which makes it difficult to breathe. Medications can help open airways but lifestyle habits and your environment also play an important role in managing the condition. Knowing and avoiding environmental triggers is an important step to preventing episodes.
Physical conditioning may improve the function of your lungs and the way your body uses oxygen, which may decrease stress on your airways. Certain activities like yoga not only work on conditioning but also use breathing techniques which may be helpful for managing asthma flare ups along with medication.
Researchers wanted to investigate what impact yoga may have in participants with asthma. The study, published in The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, found that yoga was associated with improvements in quality of life and reduced symptoms in people with asthma.
About the Study
The systematic review of 15 randomized controlled trials included 1048 male and female participants with mild to moderate asthma. The participants were randomized to yoga or sham intervention, usual care, or breathing exercises for a period of 2 to 54 months. A number of different asthma factors were studied. Some measured changes in quality of life through questionnaires before and after the trial. Other trials tracked changes in lung function, asthma symptoms, and asthma medication use.
Participants randomized to the yoga intervention reported:
Improvement in quality of life in 5 trials with 375 patients
Improvement in asthma symptoms in 3 trials with 218 patients
Reduced medication usage in 2 trials with 48 patients
Information on unwanted side effects was limited.
How Does this Affect You?
A systematic review combines large numbers of smaller trials to create a larger pool of participants. The larger the pool of participants the more reliable the outcomes are. However, the included trials were not similar enough to combine with accuracy. For example, the treatment durations lasted as short as 2 weeks, which may not be enough time to see a benefit, and as long as 54 months. This wide variation in treatment duration makes it hard to compare results. Past studies have also shown that yoga may improve asthma outcomes, so yoga is still a good option to consider in an overall asthma management plan.
There are many types of yoga, many of which you can do at home. Yoga is not only a way to stay physically active, its breathing techniques and stress relieving qualities make it a good choice to improve your overall health. Try various types of yoga with different yoga instructors to find the one that best meets your needs. Also, you will need to practice yoga consistently for a period of time in order to determine if it is a helpful addition to your asthma management plan. If you are struggling with asthma, talk to your doctor about your overall asthma management plan. non rutrum tortor euismod ut.
Prev
Next
AZALEA 16th St. Clinic AZALEA Ocean Walk Clinic
Address: #207-585 16th Street Address: 1884 Marine Drive
West Vancouver, BC, V7V 3R8 West Vancouver, BC, V6B 5C6
Phone: (604) 281.3345 Phone: (604) 281.3122
Fax: (604) 281.3346 Fax: (604) 281.3123
Email: info@azaleaphysio.com Email: info@azaleaphysio.com
Business Hours: Mon - Fri: 8:00 a.m..to 7:00 p.m. Business Hours: Mon - Fri: 8:30 a.m..to 7:00 p.m.
Sat 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Sat 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Book Your Appointment Online
Get Direction HERE
What People Say
Amir H. / Vancouver, BC
Such an amazing personnel I met along my visits in Azalea Physiotherapy clinic! In a professional, cool and familiar atmosphere their job was not just teaching me how to best decrease my pain, how to modify my activities, and how to keep my body as strong as possible! Not only they did fix me, they also taught me to believe how incredibly nice is having a strong liking or love for the others, and that’s their attitude and belief. I truly appreciate their knowledge and the way they care. With special thanks to my physiotherapist, Mary, who never stops smiling. She’s just unbelievable!
Kate Marini / Vancouver, BC
I look forward to my physiotherapy sessions with Mary because she is always encouraging, kind, helpful and never rush through any of the treatments and exercises. Her happy disposition makes her a joy to work with.
Kate Marini / Vancouver, BC
Azalea Physiotherapy is a wonderful place to go to for physiotherapy, as it is bright, modern, sunny, and cheery, and has state of the art equipment. I am delighted with my treatment at Azalea Physiotherapy! Thanks to Mary for the excellent treatment I have and continue to receive!
Ash Cook / Vancouver, BC
Excellent treatment and advice. Professional but friendly and very adaptable. They were always able to work around my busy schedule.
María Desiderio / Vancouver, BC
Having suffered a broken ankle while playing golf, physiotherapy was the final chapter in my recovery to get back on the course. Azalea Physiotherapy not only recommended a comprehensive exercise routine but a number of innovative ideas (ask them about the high heeled shoes), that saw me back on the course within four months.”
Penny Luzia / Vancouver, BC
After my Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) operation, Azalea Physiotherapy looked after me during the all-important recovery period. At my first session with Azalea Physiotherapy, my knee was fixed in a heavy brace and I relied on crutches to get around. Within a couple of weeks, I had ditched the crutches and removed the brace thanks to Azalea Physiotherapy’s careful and professional treatment. I was delighted at how quickly I recovered and my friends were amazed at how quickly I was back on my feet and walking properly again after a month or so. Even my knee surgeon was impressed with my rapid recovery. Azalea Physiotherapy’s approach is very relaxed yet professional. I highly recommend their practice.
Frieda Reyes / Vancouver, BC
Following a road traffic accident involving my vehicle being hit from behind, I suffered considerable pain around my left shoulder blade region. It affected my work life and general living and activities. Upon coming to the Physiotherapy Clinic and having hands-on treatments, accompanied with ultrasound and shortwave diathermy, my back was soon on the way to recovery. Building up resistance each time and receiving instruction on light exercise helped speed up my recovery. I am now fit as a fiddle, feeling no pain and, most importantly, back to work doing all activities I should be able to do for the daily living. I am truly grateful to Azalea Physiotherapy and their profession, for I was a person with little faith in physiotherapy, they have surely restored that faith and helped to heal my once aching back. Thank you.”
Maroun Salibain / Vancouver, BC
Recently, I suffered a back injury that affected my right leg, making it very difficult to walk, sit and work. After taking painkillers and seeing many doctors–both of which did not help–I started treatments with Mary. Within the first week, my walking improved and now, after just three months, I am off of all medications and feeling 90% better. Mary is a miracle therapist whom I have recommended to all of my family and friends.
Navin Virani / West Vancouver, BC
Looking good is definately than tasting good! Mary taught me how to look good and feel good!. Thank you Mary for helping me look good and with your great program, I have managed to lose weight too and have a great back! Your staff are as incredible as you are. It is a pleasure to visit you every time.
Zohreh Hashemi / West Vancouver, BC.
Azalea physiotherapy provides great service. I find the staff friendly, knowledgable and encouraging in helping me get the best out of my visits. I definitely recommend this place to anyone looking for acupuncture and physio services.
Karineh Morvarid Farahmand / Vancouver, BC.
Excellent
Copyright © 2019
Cookies make it easier for us to provide you with our services. With the usage of our services you permit us to use cookies.
Ok Decline