Evening Primrose Oil – Institute for Brilliant Learning
Skip to content
Submit
Close search
Due to variable shipping rates, international orders must be made by phone: +1 (949)-252-1228
Home
Catalog
Submit
Search
Cart
Home
Catalog
Evening Primrose Oil
Regular price
$40.00
Sale price
$40.00 Sale
Default Title
Add to cart
Solutions4 EVENING PRIMROSE OIL (EPO), comes from the seeds of the evening primrose plant. Once known chiefly for its beauty, few knew of its healing powers as an herb. This Omega 6 fatty acid is a rich source of gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), an essential fatty acid (EFA) that the body converts to a hormone-like substance called prostaglandin E1 (PGE1). Prostaglandins positively affect every organ of the body and are especially beneficial to the heart, skin, and immune system. A shortage of prostaglandins results in impaired health. With an increase of GLA in the diet, the body is better able to function and properly fight disease. Evening Primrose Oil has been shown to: • Lower weight without dieting • Lower blood cholesterol • Lower blood pressure • Heal or improve eczema • Lesson rheumatoid arthritis • Normalize saliva and tear production • Relieve premenstrual pain • Slow progression of multiple sclerosis • Improve acne when taken with zinc • Improve function of hyperactive children • Strengthen fingernails • Alleviate hangovers Suggested Use: Take 3–6 softgels daily 3 softgels daily will last: 66 days 6 softgels daily will last: 33 days Amount varies according to the nutritional program you are on. Speak to your nutritional counselor. Size Available: 200 softgels (500mg each) Shelf Life: 3 years Ingredients: EVENING PRIMROSE OIL — A natural oil known to improve overall health and alleviate discomforts from many health conditions, including PMS, eczema, breast pain, and rheumatoid arthritis. LINOLEIC ACID — Enhances muscle growth, lowers cholesterol and triglycerides, reduces food-induced allergic reactions and enhances immune system. GAMMA LINOLENIC ACID (GLA) _— May help: heart disease, lupus, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes, & eczema. (200 ct)
Share Share on Facebook
Tweet Tweet on Twitter
Pin it Pin on Pinterest
Search
© 2019, Institute for Brilliant Learning Powered by Shopify