Burn Wound Care FAQ Center | BSTTW
Home
BSTTW Info
Address & Phone
Auction
Banners & Logos
Brochures
BSTTW Board of Directors
BSTTW Calendars
BSTTW Directors
BSTTW Guestbook
BSTTW Medical Application
BSTTW Medical Internship
BSTTW Member Internet Sites
BSTTW Mission
BSTTW Movies
BSTTW Music CD
BSTTW Online Community
BSTTW Online Store
BSTTW Songs
Donate To BSTTW
Chat
Donate
Ecards
Education
Article Lists
Bodies Reaction
BSTTW Medical Internship Program
Burns
Cosmetics
Facial Masks
Family & Friends
Fire Safety
Laser Surgery
Legal
Nutrition
Pain
Psychological
Rehabilitation
Reviews
Scar Revision
Service Dogs
Skin
Tai Chi
World
Conference List
eBooks List
Newsletter Lists
BSTTW Community News
BSTTW Teen News
Pictures List
Poems List
Stories List
Email Forms
BSTTW Community
Comments & Questions
Cosmetic Application
Legal
Membership
Support Team
Volunteer
Email Lists
BSTTW E-List E-Form
BSTTW News Update E-Form
BSTTW Podcast E-List E-Form
Events
FAQ
Links
Memberships
Podcast
RSS
Sales
Search
Sitemap
Volunteer
Burn Survivors Throughout The World, Inc. FAQ Center
Search our FAQs Ask a Question FAQs
Burn Wound Care List of Categories
Questions relating to Burn Wound Care:
What should I do first when I have minor burns?
What should I do first when I have a major burn?
When do I need medical attention?
What should I do first when I have minor burns?
Minor burns are sun burn, 1st and minor 2nd degree burns without blisters. You should do the following when you have minor burns:
1. Flush the burn area with low pressure running cool water for 10-15 minutes.
2. Do not ever put ice on the burn, this can cause tissue damage.
3. Do not put butter on the burned areas. This can increase the possibility of infections in a severe burned area.
4. Keep the burned area clean and dry as it is healing. If needed, you can cover the burned area with a light bandage. You can put a small amount of an over the counter ointment on the burned area in order to help the healing process and keep the bandage from sticking to the burned skin.
What should I do first when I have a major burn?
What you do for a burn in the first few minutes after it occurs can make a difference in the severity of the injury.
You should get medical attention when one or more of the following occurs:
1. Stop the burning process. Remove the source of heat. If your clothing is on fire, "stop, drop, and roll." That should put out the flames.
2. Remove all burned clothing. Clothing usually retains the heat. This can cause a deeper injury. If clothing adheres to the skin, cut or tear around adherent area to preserve good skin tissue.
3. Immediately pour cool water over the burned area. You should do this for at least 10-15 minutes. If the individual suffered chemical burns continue pouring the cool water on the bured area for 30-40 minutes, or until the paramedics arrive. Remember not to put ice on the burned areas. It can increase the extent of injury and cause hypothermia.
4. You should remove all jewelry, belts, tight clothing that are over the burned areas. A burned are can swell and cause many problems if they are not removed.
5. Do not apply ointments or butter to the burns. These may cause infection and cause the burns to deeper level.
6. Cover burns with a soft, clean, dry dressing, bandage or sheet.
7. Keep the burn victim warm.
8. Seek immediate medical attention.
When do I need medical attention?
You should get medical attention when one or more of the following occurs:
1. The individual has deep second and 3rd degree burns.
2. A burn covers a large area.
3. The individual burned has a medical history.
4. The burned areas are showing blisters.
5. There is a high level of pain or loss of sensation.
6. You are burned on your eyes, face, feet, or hands.
7. You were burned by chemicals or electricity.
8. You inhaled smoke.
9. During your recovery the burn(s) does not appear to be healing appropriately.
Was this page helpful?
DISCLAIMER
Copyright © Burn Survivors Throughout The World, Inc. (BSTTW)