Black Currant Oil, Borage Oil, Evening Primrose Oil, Flaxseed Oil, and Hemp Oil Supplements | ConsumerLab.com
Join Now! | Sign In | Contact Us
Product Tests
Select a Review
5-HTP (5-Hydroxytryptophan)
7-Keto DHEA
Acai Berry
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
Acidophilus
African Mango
ALA (alpha-linolenic acid)
Algal Oil (Omega-3)
Aloe
Alpha Lipoic Acid
Amino Acid Combinations
Apple Cider Vinegar
Arginine (L-arginine)
Ashwagandha
Astaxanthin
B Vitamins & Complexes
Baobab
Berberine
Beta-Carotene
Beta-sitosterol (for cholesterol)
Beta-sitosterol (for prostate)
Bifidobacterium
Bilberry
Biotin/Hair, Skin & Nails
Black Cohosh
Black Currant Oil
Bone Broth
Borage Oil
Boswellia
Branched-chain Amino Acids
Breast Enhancement Ingredients
Bromelain
Buckwheat (Kasha) Cereal
Bupropion (Drug)
Calcium
Cannabidiol Oil
CBD Oil
Chlorella
Cholesterol-lowerers
Choline (many forms)
Chondroitin
Chondroitin for Animals
Chromium
Cinnamon
CLA (conjugated linoleic acid)
Cocoa and Dark Chocolate (Flavanols)
Coconut Oil
Coconut Water
Cod Liver Oil
CoQ10
Creatine
Curcumin
Dark Chocolate and Cocoa (Flavanols)
DHA
DHEA
Diet Powders/Drinks
Digestive Enzymes
Echinacea
Energy Bars
Energy Drinks
EPA
Epimedium (horny goat weed)
Evening Primrose Oil
Extra Virgin Olive Oil
Eye Health Supplements
Fiber Supplements (Webinar)
Fiber Bars
Fish Oil (DHA & EPA)
Fish Oil (Omega-3) for Pets
Flaxseed Oil
Folate (Folic Acid, Methylfolate)
Garcinia cambogia (HCA)
Garlic
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Ginseng
GLA (gamma-linolenic acid)
Glucosamine
Glucosamine for Animals
Goldenseal
Green Coffee Bean Extract (CGBE)
Green Tea
Greens and Whole Foods Powders
Growth Hormone (HGH)
Hemp Extracts (CBD)
Hemp Oils (Omega-3&6)
Hoodia
Horny Goat Weed (Epimedium)
Huperzine A
Inactive Ingredients
Iron
Joint Health
Joint Health for Animals
Kefir
Kelp
Kombucha
Krill Oil (Omega-3)
L-Theanine
L-Tryptophan
Lactase Supplements
Lactobacillus
Lactose-Free Milk
Leucine
Lipoic Acid
Lithium (Low-dose)
Lutein
Lycopene
Lysine (L-lysine)
Maca
Magnesium
Mangosteen
Matcha Green Tea
MCT Oil
Meal Replacement Bars
Meal Replacement Powders/Drinks
Melatonin
Memory Enhancers
Menopause Supplements
Methylfolate
Metoprolol (Drug)
Milk Thistle
MSM (Methylsulfonylmethane)
MSM for Animals
Multivitamins/Multiminerals
Multivitamins/Multiminerals for Pets
Muscle & Workout Supplements Review (Creatine and BCAAs)
N-Acetyl Cysteine (NAC)
Nattokinase
Niacin/Niacinamide/Other
Nitric Oxide Supplements
Noni
Nutrition Bars
Nutrition Drinks
Nutrition Powders
Oat-based Cereals
Olive Oil (Extra Virgin)
Omega-3 Fatty Acids
Omega-3 Fatty Acids for Pets
Omega-6 Fatty Acids
Omega-6 Fatty Acids for Pets
Phosphatidylcholine
Policosanol
Pomegranate
Potassium
Potassium Iodide/Iodate (Radioprotective Agents)
Prenatal Vitamins
Probiotics
Progesterone Cream
Prostate Supplements
Protein Bars
Protein Powders/Drinks
Quercetin
Red Clover Isoflavones
Red Yeast Rice
Resveratrol
Rhodiola
Salmon (Canned)
SAMe
Saw Palmetto
Sea Buckthorn (Omega-7)
Selenium
Sexual Enhancers
Soy Isoflavones
St. John's Wort
Sterols
Stimulant Blends
Taurine
Theanine
Thiamin
Toprol (Drug)
Tryptophan (L-Tryptophan)
Tuna (Canned)
Turmeric
Ubiquinol
Valerian
Vision Supplements
Vitamin A
Vitamin B-6
Vitamin B-12
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Vitamin E
Vitamin K
Weight Loss Supplements
Wellbutrin vs Bupropion
Whole Food Powders
Yohimbe
Zeaxanthin
Zinc
CL Answers
Warnings
Encyclopedia
Where to Buy
News
Share ConsumerLab.com's information with family and friends — or just send to yourself. Simply provide an email address below.
You must provide a valid email address.
Your email address*:
Your name*: Send me a copy
Email Address where it's going*:
*Addresses and name will only be used for sending this message.
Additional message (optional):
Your message has been sent. Thanks for sharing!
THIS CONTENT IS COPYRIGHT PROTECTED
As a ConsumerLab.com member, you may print a copy of this report for your personal use. You can access a special print version by clicking the "Print" icon in the upper right corner of this report or by clicking here. You can then use your web browser's print functions to print the whole report or just selected pages.
You may also email or post a link to this report using the web address above. Non-members using the link will see a free summary and can join to view the full report. Other means of copying or distributing this report, in part or full, are not permitted.
If you are sight-impaired and your computer is having trouble converting the text in this report to speech, contact us for assistance at Membership@ConsumerLab.com or by phone at 888-676-9929, ext. 2#.
Product Reviews
Black Currant Oil, Borage Oil, Evening Primrose Oil, Flaxseed Oil, and Hemp Oil Supplements Review: Sources of ALA and GLA (Omega-3 and -6 Fatty Acids)
Posted: 11/18/2017 Last update: 1/19/2019
Sections: Jump to a section by clicking on its name.
What It Is
What It Does
Quality Concerns and What CL Tested For
What CL Found
Top Picks
Test Results by Product
What to Consider When Buying
What to Consider When Using
Concerns and Cautions
Full List of Ingredients by Product
How Products Were Evaluated
Summary: What You Need to Know About Seed Oil Supplements Containing ALA and GLA
Does it work? These seed oils contain predominately healthful, polyunsaturated fats such as ALA (as from flax) and/or GLA (as from evening primrose) (See "What It Is"). Substituting these for saturated fats in your diet can lower your risk of cardiovascular disease. Taken as a supplement, they may help with the following conditions, although the evidence remains only preliminary: acne, ADHD, dry eye, bipolar disorder, diabetic neuropathy, mastitis, eczema, rheumatoid arthritis, and Raynaud's phenomenon. (See "What It Does").
What dose? Depending on the use, studies have used daily doses of seed oils that provide from as little as 15 mg to as much as 2,000 mg of ALA or GLA. (See "Dosage"). Keep in mind that only a part of the seed oil is ALA or GLA, so the amount of oil needed could be double or even 10 times higher than the dose of ALA or GLA. For example, about 55% of flaxseed oil is ALA, so a tablespoon of flaxseed oil (weighing about 14,000 mg) provides about 7,700 mg of ALA, while evening primrose oil is only 7 to 10% GLA (about 1,200 mg per tablespoon). (See "What to Consider When Buying")
Best choice? ConsumerLab.com's tests found that most products were high-quality, although three failed to pass tests for freshness. See CL's Top Picks among products that were Approved.
Cautions Although generally safe, these oils can cause mild nausea and diarrhea, but there are ways to lessen this. Rarely, allergic reactions to flaxseed have been reported. Use these oils with caution if you are pregnant, have a seizure disorder, hemophilia, take blood-thinning medication, or are considering use in an infant. (See "Concerns and Cautions").
What It Is:
ALA:
ALA (alpha-linolenic acid) is an omega-3 essential fatty acid. An essential fatty acid is one that the body needs but must be supplied by the diet, since the body cannot manufacture it or cannot manufacture enough of it. From ALA, the body has a limited ability to manufacture two other important omega-3's — EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) and DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) -- it can convert small amounts of ALA into EPA and is even less efficient in making DHA. It is estimated that between 5 to 10% of dietary ALA may be converted into EPA, and about 2 to 5% may be converted into DHA (Davis, Am J Clin Nutr 2003), although conversion may be somewhat higher in young women as well as vegans and non-fish eating vegetarians (Burdge, Br J Nutr 2002; Welch, Am J Clin Nutr 2010).
Among plant seeds, flaxseed (also known as flax seed (Linum usitatissimum) or linseed) contains among the highest concentration of ALA — in fact, 55% of the oil in flaxseed is ALA. Chia seed also has a very high concentration (58%) of ALA in its oil, although the seed itself has less total oil than flaxseed. Phytoplankton and algae are also rich sources of ALA. The oil from hemp and black currant seeds also contain, respectively, 19% and 13% ALA. Soybean oil, canola oil, and walnuts also contain some ALA.
GLA:
GLA (gamma-linolenic acid) is an omega-6 fatty acid. The body ordinarily is able to produce sufficient GLA from another omega-6 fatty acid, linoleic acid (LA), which is an essential fatty acid found in foods containing oils from corn, sunflower, safflower, soy, peanut and other plants, including flaxseed. However, GLA production might be reduced in several conditions (advanced age, diabetes, high alcohol intake, eczema, excessive saturated fat intake, elevated cholesterol, and some vitamin/mineral deficiencies.) In such cases, it is possible that supplementation may be beneficial. Seed oils from black currant (Ribes nigrum), borage (Borago officinalis), and evening primrose (Oenothera biennis) are among the few that are rich in GLA. Hemp seed oil also contains a small amount. All of these oils are also rich in linoleic acid.
Both ALA and GLA, as well as LA, are polyunsaturated fats ("good" fats, as opposed to saturated fats that may increase the risk of heart disease).
#263#
Join | Sign In
Product Tests
Brands Tested
Health Conditions
Encyclopedia
CL Answers
Clinical Updates News
Recalls & Warnings
RDAs
Where to Buy Products Raw Materials Tests
Testing Program
How Products Were Tested Join CL Today
Testimonials
Join Free Newsletter
Group Subscriptions
Gift Membership About Us
The CL Seal
CL Survey
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Contact Us/Help
©2019 ConsumerLab.com, LLC. All rights reserved. A single copy of a report may be printed for personal use by the subscriber. It is otherwise unlawful to print, download, store or distribute content from this site without permission.
ConsumerLab.com name and flask logo are both registered trademarks of ConsumerLab.com, LLC. This site is intended for informational purposes only and not to provide medical advice.
Member Testimonials
Press Coverage
Press Releases
Close/No Thanks
Already a Member?
Join our FREE Newsletter and Become a Member to View
Black Currant Oil, Borage Oil, Evening Primrose Oil, Flaxseed Oil, and Hemp Oil Supplements Review: Sources of ALA and GLA (Omega-3 and -6 Fatty Acids) !
First Name
Last Name
Email*
Retype Email*
*We do not sell or share your personal information with anyone else, ever.
ConsumerLab.com Member Benefits:
†
Instant Access to All Product Review Reports Covering Over 1,000 Products
Quality Ratings and Product Comparisons by Brand
Expert Tips on Using Supplements
† Membership fee required for full benefits.
Price Checks on Popular Brands
e-Newsletter with Updates and Alerts
New and Archived Recalls and Warnings