Selenium — Consumer
Skip navigation links
U.S. Department of Health & Human ServicesHHS.gov
National Institutes of HealthNIH.gov
Find ODS on:
Strengthening Knowledge and Understanding of Dietary Supplements
Health Information
Supplement Fact Sheets
Frequently Asked Questions
Making Decisions
What you Need To Know About Supplements
Dietary Supplement Videos
Dictionary of Dietary Supplement Terms
Dietary Supplement Label Database (DSLD)
Información en español Consumer information in Spanish
Consumer Protection Information
Nutrient Recommendations
Join ODS Listserv
Contact Us
News & Events
News Releases
Newsletters
Highlights
Conferences & Workshops
Media Resources
Join ODS Listserv
Contact Us
For Researchers
Funding
Resources for Researchers
Dietary Supplement Research Practicum
ODS Scholars Program
Population Studies Program
ODS Programs and Initiatives
NIH Guide ListServ
Join ODS Listserv
Contact Us
Analytical Methods and Reference Materials
Dietary Supplement Label Database (DSLD)
Dietary Supplement Ingredient Database (DSID)
Computer Access to Research on Dietary Supplements (CARDS) Database
PubMed Dietary Supplement Subset
Product Integrity Resources
About ODS
Director's Page
ODS Activities
Staff Bios & More
ODS Strategic Plan (2017-21)
Conferences and Workshops
Join ODS ListServ
Contact Us
Search the ODS website Submit Search
NIH Office of Dietary Supplements
Consumer Datos en español Health Professional Other Resources
Share:
Selenium
Fact Sheet for Consumers
Have a question?
Ask ODS: ods.od.nih.gov/contact
Table of Contents
What is selenium and what does it do?
How much selenium do I need?
What foods provide selenium?
What kinds of selenium dietary supplements are available?
Am I getting enough selenium?
What happens if I don't get enough selenium?
What are some effects of selenium on health?
Can selenium be harmful?
Are there any interactions with selenium that I should know about?
Selenium and healthful eating
Where can I find out more about selenium?
Disclaimer
What is selenium and what does it do?
Selenium is a nutrient that the body needs to stay healthy. Selenium is important for reproduction, thyroid gland function, DNA production, and protecting the body from damage caused by free radicals and from infection.
How much selenium do I need?
The amount of selenium that you need each day depends on your age. Average daily recommended amounts are listed below in micrograms (mcg).
Life Stage
Recommended Amount
Birth to 6 months 15 mcg
Infants 7-12 months 20 mcg
Children 1-3 years 20 mcg
Children 4-8 years 30 mcg
Children 9-13 years 40 mcg
Teens 14-18 years 55 mcg
Adults 19-50 years 55 mcg
Adults 51-70 years 55 mcg
Adults 71 years and older 55 mcg
Pregnant teens and women 60 mcg
Breastfeeding teens and women 70 mcg
What foods provide selenium?
Selenium is found naturally in many foods. The amount of selenium in plant foods depends on the amount of selenium in the soil where they were grown. The amount of selenium in animal products depends on the selenium content of the foods that the animals ate. You can get recommended amounts of selenium by eating a variety of foods, including the following:
Seafood
Meat, poultry, eggs, and dairy products
Breads, cereals, and other grain products
What kinds of selenium dietary supplements are available?
Selenium is available in many multivitamin-mineral supplements and other dietary supplements. It can be present in several different forms, including selenomethionine and sodium selenate.
Am I getting enough selenium?
Most Americans get enough selenium from their diet because they eat food grown or raised in many different areas, including areas with soil that is rich in selenium.
Certain groups of people are more likely than others to have trouble getting enough selenium:
People undergoing kidney dialysis
People living with HIV
People who eat only local foods grown in soils that are low in selenium
What happens if I don't get enough selenium?
Selenium deficiency is very rare in the United States and Canada. Selenium deficiency can cause Keshan disease (a type of heart disease) and male infertility. It might also cause Kashin-Beck disease, a type of arthritis that produces pain, swelling, and loss of motion in your joints.
What are some effects of selenium on health?
Scientists are studying selenium to understand how it affects health. Here are some examples of what this research has shown.
Cancer
Studies suggest that people who consume lower amounts of selenium could have an increased risk of developing cancers of the colon and rectum, prostate, lung, bladder, skin, esophagus, and stomach. But whether selenium supplements reduce cancer risk is not clear. More research is needed to understand the effects of selenium from food and dietary supplements on cancer risk.
Cardiovascular disease
Scientists are studying whether selenium helps reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. Some studies show that people with lower blood levels of selenium have a higher risk of heart disease, but other studies do not. More studies are needed to better understand how selenium in food and dietary supplements affects heart health.
Cognitive decline
Blood selenium levels decrease as people age, and scientists are studying whether low selenium levels contribute to a decline in brain function in the elderly. Some studies suggest that people with lower blood selenium levels are more likely to have poorer mental function. But a study of elderly people in the United States found no link between selenium levels and memory. More research is needed to find out whether selenium dietary supplements might help reduce the risk of or treat cognitive decline in elderly people.
Thyroid disease
The thyroid gland has high amounts of selenium that play an important role in thyroid function. Studies suggest that people—especially women—who have low blood levels of selenium (and iodine) might develop problems with their thyroid. But whether selenium dietary supplements can help treat or reduce the risk of thyroid disease is not clear. More research is needed to understand the effects of selenium on thyroid disease.
Can selenium be harmful?
Yes, if you get too much. Brazil nuts, for example, contain very high amounts of selenium (68-91 mcg per nut) and can cause you to go over the upper limit if you eat too many. Getting too much selenium over time can cause the following:
Garlic breath
Nausea
Diarrhea
Skin rashes
Irritability
Metallic taste in the mouth
Brittle hair or nails
Loss of hair or nails
Discolored teeth
Nervous system problems
Extremely high intakes of selenium can cause severe problems, including difficulty breathing, tremors, kidney failure, heart attacks, and heart failure.
The upper limits for selenium from foods and dietary supplements are listed below.
Ages
Upper Limit
Birth to 6 months 45 mcg
Infants 7-12 months 60 mcg
Children 1-3 years 90 mcg
Children 4-8 years 150 mcg
Children 9-13 years 280 mcg
Teens 14-18 years 400 mcg
Adults 400 mcg
Are there any interactions with selenium that I should know about?
Yes, some of the medications you take may interact with selenium. For example, cisplatin, a chemotherapy drug used to treat cancer, can lower selenium levels, but the effect this has on the body is not clear.
Tell your doctor, pharmacist, and other healthcare providers about any dietary supplements and prescription or over-the-counter medicines you take. They can tell you if the dietary supplements might interact with your medicines or if the medicines might interfere with how your body absorbs, uses, or breaks down nutrients.
Selenium and healthful eating
People should get most of their nutrients from food, advises the federal government's Dietary Guidelines for Americans. Foods contain vitamins, minerals, dietary fiber and other substances that benefit health. In some cases, fortified foods and dietary supplements may provide nutrients that otherwise may be consumed in less-than-recommended amounts. For more information about building a healthy diet, refer to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's MyPlate .
Where can I find out more about selenium?
For general information on selenium:
Office of Dietary Supplements Health Professional Fact Sheet on Selenium
Selenium in Diet , MedlinePlus®
For more information on food sources of selenium:
U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) National Nutrient Database
Nutrient List for selenium (listed by food or by selenium content), USDA
For more advice on buying dietary supplements:
Office of Dietary Supplements Frequently Asked Questions: Which brand(s) of dietary supplements should I purchase?
For information about building a healthy diet:
MyPlate
Dietary Guidelines for Americans
Disclaimer
This fact sheet by the Office of Dietary Supplements (ODS) provides information that should not take the place of medical advice. We encourage you to talk to your healthcare providers (doctor, registered dietitian, pharmacist, etc.) about your interest in, questions about, or use of dietary supplements and what may be best for your overall health. Any mention in this publication of a specific product or service, or recommendation from an organization or professional society, does not represent an endorsement by ODS of that product, service, or expert advice.
Updated: February 17, 2016
Share:
Find ODS on:
Contact Us |
Accessibility |
Site Policies |
Disclaimer |
FOIA |
Información en español
Download free Acrobat Reader
Term Selected:
Select the term below that you'd like to link this term to.
Filter: