L-Theanine: Is It The Secret to Tea Happiness? : Life is Better with Tea
Search this website
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to footer
Life is Better with Tea
Learn About Tea
Home
Tea Recipes
Tea Education
Tea Business
Shop Tea
About
Work With Me
Resources
Contact
You are here: Home / Tea for Health / L-Theanine: Is It The Secret to Tea Happiness?
L-Theanine: Is It The Secret to Tea Happiness?
March 27, 2019 By Mary Ann Rollano 2 Comments
This post may contain affiliate links.
Share665
Pin102
Tweet
Yum
767 Shares
Have you ever wondered why tea drinkers always seem so calm? Could L-theanine really be the best-kept secret behind tea drinkers happiness?
Can a cup of tea really make you happy? There are two ingredients in tea that have an extraordinary effect on the brain.
Tea contains a unique combination of caffeine and an amino acid called L-theanine.
By tea, I’m referring to black, green, white and oolong tea which are all made from the tea plant known as Camellia sinensis. This is different from herbal tea which is an infusion made from any other plant in the world, commonly called tisanes.
Of all the thousands of plants to choose from, why is this one tea plant the most popular beverage in the world?
It’s not the caffeine. The coffee plant has more caffeine but worldwide more people drink tea than coffee. Why do we drink billions of cups of tea a day?
All The Right Ingredients
It turns out that there’s something in the tea plant that’s only found in two places in nature, tea, and a rare mushroom called the bay bolete. Scientists identified this rare compound as L-theanine.
What does L-theanine do that has millions of people drinking tea? Researchers sought to answer this very question. A study was performed at the Brain and Cognition Laboratory, Oxford University, in the UK called L-theanine, a natural constituent in tea, and its effect on mental state.
Participants were connected to an electroencephalogram (EEG) to measure their brain wave activity. Human beings basically have four mental states.
Two sleeping states:
Delta waves are when the entire electrical brain activity is pulsing very slowly at about a wave a second and is only seen in deep sleep.
Theta waves are found in dream sleep and cycle at about five waves per second.
And two waking states:
Alpha waves are present in a relaxed, aware and attentive state. Similar to a meditative state.
Beta waves are dominant during the stimulated hustle and bustle state where we spend most of our waking lives.
But the alpha state is where you want to be – fully alert and calm. How do you get there?
If you relax in a nice peaceful place, after about 90 minutes you can start to see some significant alpha brain activity. Think of a quiet afternoon spent at your favorite beach.
Related: 3 Ways To Reduce Stress Naturally
Meditating Buddhist monks can achieve this state even sooner and maintain it with their eyes open. So you can meditate every day for a few years or just drink some tea.
This is Your Brain on Tea
Participants in the Oxford study were resting with their eyes closed during EEG recordings of their brain wave activity.
This is the amount of theanine that enters your brain after you drink about two cups of tea (L-theanine 50 mg). Take a look at this view of the brain after drinking two cups of L-theanine.
The orange area is the presence of alpha wave activity. See a difference?
Source: L-theanine, a natural constituent in tea, and its effect on mental state.
Drinking Tea To Reduce Anxiety
This increase in alpha activity supports a role for L-theanine in achieving a relaxed mental state via a direct influence on the central nervous system.
The combination of L-theanine with caffeine makes tea a unique beverage that promotes mental focus, increases energy, yet reduces anxiety and stress.
Studies have shown that L-theanine reduces anxiety and induces calm because it increases the neurotransmitters that balance our moods and controls serotonin and dopamine which makes make us feel good.
Benefits of L-theanine and Tea
Scientific studies suggest that drinking tea containing L-theanine may be beneficial in the following ways:
Increased cognitive function. It turns out tea may have a role in protecting our brain. Regular tea consumption was associated with lower risks of cognitive impairment and decline. source
Reduces blood pressure. L-theanine not only reduces anxiety but also lessens the blood-pressure increase in high-stress-response adults. source
L-theanine in tea has been shown to elevate mood, reduce anxiety and promote relaxation. source
L-theanine balances the stimulatory effects of caffeine so you stay alert without feeling jittery. source
Why Drink Green Tea Every Day?
Certain teas have higher amounts of L-theanine than others. Green teas that are grown in the shade for three weeks prior to harvest have some of the highest L-theanine levels. The shading increases the plants’ chlorophyll levels and increases the production of L-theanine at the same time.
Shade grown green teas include matcha, gyokuro, and tencha.
Related: A Simple Guide to Japanese Green Tea
Drinking green tea reduces anxiety and improves cognition. source
Green tea may lower weight providing anti-obesity effects. These findings suggest that green tea catechin consumption enhances exercise-induced changes in abdominal fat and serum triglycerides. source
Green tea is associated with a substantial decrease in the risk of getting ovarian cancer. Green tea is commonly consumed in countries with low ovarian cancer incidence. source
Green tea may lower blood sugar. Green tea at high concentration has the potential to reduce blood glucose levels. source
How Much L-Theanine In a Cup of Tea
Brewing time is a major factor in the amount of L-theanine extracted. The addition of small amounts of milk and sugar makes no significant difference.
Black tea: A standard 6-ounce cup of black tea contains 24.2 mg of L-theanine.
Green tea: A cup of green tea contains the least at 7.9 mg of L-theanine.
Shade grown green tea: Gyokuro and matcha may have as much as 46mg per cup. source
Theanine High
Drinking green tea may help reduce anxiety due to the calming effects of L-theanine on the brain. You may have heard some tea drinkers call the extreme calm experienced from drinking tea with high concentrations of L-theanine as tea drunkenness or a theanine high.
Reaching that super calm alpha state of mind is what they’re referring to. It doesn’t matter if you drink green tea for anxiety or drink for tea happiness, the positive effects are all the same. There are so many reasons to drink a cup of tea.
Related: 10 Best Online Tea Shops
It’s no wonder green tea is used for thousands of years as a restorative beverage in traditional Chinese medicine.
You Might Also Like...
3 Ways to Reduce Stress Naturally
Top 10 Health Benefits of Tea
6 Anti-Aging Beauty Products Infused With Tea
40 Tea Quotes To Help You Be a Better Person
Filed Under: Tea for Health
About Mary Ann Rollano
Mary Ann is the author of Life Is Better With Tea, an educational blog introducing conventional tea drinkers to the world of specialty tea. Enthusiasts learn the skills of selecting, brewing and creating recipes with tea. A registered nurse specializing in tea and wellness, Mary Ann founded the award-winning MaryAnna’s Tea. Click here for your FREE Tea Guide.
Previous Post: « How To Make Matcha Tea Without A Whisk
Next Post: 15 Best Tea Brands with Award-Winning Tea »
Reader Interactions
Make Better Tea
Subscribe for your FREE guide
Enter your email address...
Special guide reveals powerful SECRETS to making better tea.
Comments
Tony Bowles says
April 3, 2019 at
Lemon balm helps with anxiety, so mixing this with Gyokuro should have an enhanced effect.
Reply
Mary Ann Rollano says
April 3, 2019 at
That’s an interesting combination. It actually sounds quite good. I’ll have to try it. Thanks for the tip!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Recipe Rating
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Primary Sidebar
Join Over 120,000 Monthly Readers!
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Search this website
Hi! I’m Mary Ann
An award-winning tea entrepreneur, introducing conventional tea drinkers to the world of specialty tea.
I believe tea is more than a beverage, it's a lifestyle. Tea calms the mind and soothes the spirit. If you want to stay healthy and live well start by drinking tea.
Here you will learn how to select, brew and even create recipes with tea. My hope is to inspire a love of tea in others.
Sign-up for your FREE guide:
"How to Brew a Better Cup of Tea".
You will quickly learn what tea secrets experts already know!
Sign-up below:
Make Better Tea
Subscribe for your FREE guide
E-Mail Address
Special guide reveals powerful SECRETS to making better tea.
Posts You Missed
Apple Banana Smoothie Recipe
Quit Coffee: 11 Best Teas To Drink Instead
6 Anti-Aging Beauty Products Infused With Tea
15 Best Tea Brands with Award-Winning Tea
Secret To The Best London Fog Tea Latte
Maya the Therapy Dog with Her Tea and Biscuit
Best Tea Industry Winners: 2017 World Tea Expo
Best Online Tea Shop
Best Matcha
Bonavita Electric Tea Kettle – 2018 World Tea Award Best Tea Brewing Device
FOOD BLOGGER PRO
1st Place Tea Championship
A TOP TEA BLOG
Footer
As Seen In
Make Better Tea
Subscribe for your FREE guide
enter your email address ...
Special guide reveals powerful SECRETS to making better tea.
Join Over 120,000 Monthly Readers!
Email
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Find More Here
Home
Tea Recipes
Tea Education
Tea Business
Shop Tea
About
Work With Me
Resources
Contact
Disclaimer: The content on this website is for educational purposes only. Statements made are not intended to prevent, diagnose, treat or cure disease. Some links may be affiliate partners. See the full Disclaimer & Privacy Policy.
Copyright © 2019 · Genesis Framework · Disclaimer & Privacy Policy