Wart Removal Home Remedies
Home
About
About Us
Disclaimer
Terms Of Use
Privacy Policy
Home Remedies Pro
Your Self-Help Guide To Home Remedies And Natural Cures
Beauty Natural Remedies, Tips and Products
Facial Care
Hair Care
Skin Care
Anti Aging
Diseases & Conditions
Allergies
Cancers
Other Illnesses
Visual Problems
Health
Diets
Sexual
Tips And Advice
Women’s Health
Highly Recommended
Product Review
Nutrition
Antioxidant
Vitamins & Minerals
Parenting & Pregnancy
Pregnancy
Remedies
Alternative Cures
Home Remedies
Weight Loss
Diet
Exercise
You are here: Home / Remedies / Home Remedies / Wart Removal Home Remedies
Wart Removal Home Remedies
by April 1 Comment
Looking for wart removal home remedies? Before you can get rid of them, you need to understand and knows what they are, what causes them and what you can do to remove them. Warts or common warts are simply little growths on the skin that were caused by the HPV or human papillomavirus.
This virus can cause the cells to rapidly grow on the outer layer of the skin. HPV just like other infectious diseases can be transmitted from one person to another. The virus can also be acquired by sharing towel or other objects used by an infected person. The wart can take as long as 2 to 6 months to fully develop after the exposure to HPV.
Warts usually appear on the hands or feet, in clusters or singles. The wart may bleed if cut or picked, they usually have one or more little black spots, commonly referred as warts seeds, but these are the small blood vessels that were clotted. Most cases of common warts don’t need for any medical treatment.
However, there are some people who want to be treated to prevent the spread of the virus and for cosmetic purpose as well.
Proper home care and treatment can make most warts to disappear. You can also have a dermatologist give you a treatment to prevent the chance of spreading the virus to the other parts of your body and to other people. There are several wart removal home remedies that can effectively eliminate warts.
Wart Removal Home Remedies
Duct Tape – This is by far the most common home remedies for wart removal used to treat this condition. A study showed that the duct tape procedure was able to remove more warts than typical cryotherapy. This method is done by covering the warts with duct tape for 6 to 7 days; the wart is then soaked in warm water while rubbing them using a pumice stone or emery board. This procedure can be repeated as needed until all the warts are removed.
Salicylic Acid – These can be in the form of wart creams and patches that can be bought from your local pharmacies. This is another great home remedy for wart removal that is seen to be effective. A cream or patch with 17% salicylic acid is effective for common warts by peeling off the infected part of the skin.
These products need to be used daily and treatment can take up to several weeks. To get the best results, you can soak the warts in warm water for 10 to 20 minutes prior to the application of the cream or patch. You can also remove the dead skin with an emery board or pumice stone. Be careful in using salicylic acid, because it can cause irritation as well as causing damage to the healthy skin surrounding the warts.
Although these wart removal home remedies are usually enough, you can also try other stronger forms salicylic acid solutions too especially if the condition is more severe. However, a prescription is generally needed if you need to purchase them. Read also shingles remedy here.
Share This Article :
More Readings
Corn Removal Home Remedies
A corn is painful buildup on the skin on the bottom or side of the foot due to excessive pressure on specific area of the foot caused by
Blemish Removal Home Remedies
Everyone has experienced a blemish at one time or another and because of it, everyone now understands the embarrassment, frustration, and
Facial Hair Removal for Women
It’s embarrassing to have and even harder to get rid of; and that’s facial hair. It’s actually more common than you think which is why
Ear Wax Removal Home Remedy
Having ear wax problem? Want an ear wax removal home remedy to remove this annoying stuff in your ear that may also affect your hearing? Ear
Spider Vein Removal Cream
A number of people with spider veins often result to laser skin treatment to eliminate the problem. While it may be true that such laser
Filed Under: Home Remedies, Remedies Tagged With: skin problems, wart
Comments
Moles James says
at
Great and helpful information on this skin problem!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Select A Category
Select A Category Select Category Anti Aging Beauty Natural Remedies, Tips and Products Facial Care Hair Care Skin Care Diseases & Conditions Allergies Cancers Other Illnesses Visual Problems Health Diets Sexual Tips And Advice Women’s Health Nutrition Vitamins & Minerals Parenting & Pregnancy Pregnancy Remedies Alternative Cures Home Remedies Reviews Highly Recommended Product Review Weight Loss Diet Exercise
Popular Now
Home Remedies For Vertigo : Stop The Spin And Dizziness Now Do you know that there are plenty of home remedies for vertigo that ca...
Vitreolent Eye Drops For Eye Floaters Vitreolent eye drops can be a possible cure for the long prevailing pr...
Home Remedies For Sore Gums Having painful gums? Try these home remedies for sore gums and feel in...
How To Get Rid Of Vertigo Want to know how to get rid of vertigo? Unlike common dizziness, verti...
Bladder Infection Home Remedies : Get Rid Of UTI Fast And Easy Quick and effective bladder infection home remedies that can help you...
Home Remedies Pro · Copyright © 2019 · All Rights Reserved · Privacy Policy · Disclaimer