Aortic Regurgitation (Chronic Regurgitation)
Skip to Content
health.am
Cardiology Basics
Signs and Symptoms
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Diagnostic testing
Dyspnea
Palpitations
Bradycardias
Physical Examination
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Cardiac Catheterization and Angiography
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Signs
MI Symptoms
MI Treatment
Cardiac Biomarkers, CK - Creatine Kinase
MI Warning Signs
Who's at Risk
MI Treatment
MI Prevention
Postinfarction Management
MI Complications
High Blood Pressure
Etiology & Classification
- Essential Hypertension
- Secondary Hypertension
- Systemic Hypertension
Symptoms and signs
Hypertension Diagnosis
Drug Therapy
Special Considerations
Hypertension Complications
Hypertensive Urgencies & Emergencies
Hypertension in children
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Coronary Heart Disease
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Primary & Secondary Prevention
Angina Pectoris
Differential Diagnosis
Prognosis
Treatment
Unstable Angina
Chronic stable angina pectoris
Guidelines
Pharmacologic Therapy
What Is Angina
Acute coronary syndromes
Acute Myocardial Infarction
Complications
Treatment
Postinfarction Management
Arrhythmias
Mechanisms of Arrhythmias
Supraventricular Arrhythmias
- Atrial Fibrillation
- Atrial Flutter
Ventricular Arrhythmias
High Cholesterol
LDL and HDL cholesterol
What Is High Blood Cholesterol?
Too much cholesterol
Foods to avoid
Risk Factors
Cholesterol Lowering Medications
Measuring blood cholesterol
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
A blood cholesterol-lowering diet
Sample Menus
Treating High Blood Cholesterol
What are LDL and HDL cholesterol?
Lower your blood cholesterol
Lifestyle changes
Looking for High blood cholesterol
Cardiovascular Disease
Acute Heart Failure
Acute Pericarditis
Acute Rheumatic fever
The Cardiomyopathies
Myocarditis & the Cardiomyopathies
Rheumatic Heart Disease
Cardiac Failure
Pulmonary Heart Disease (Cor Pulmonale)
Patent Ductus Arteriosus
Pericardial Effusion
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension
Traumatic Heart Disease
What is Atherosclerosis?
What Is Coronary Artery Disease?
Valvular Heart Disease
- Aortic Stenosis
- Mitral Stenosis
- Pulmonary Stenosis
- Tricuspid Stenosis
- Mitral regurgitation
- Aortic Regurgitation
Congenital heart disease
Pulmonary Stenosis
Coarctation of the Aorta
Atrial Septal Defect and patent foramen ovale
Ventricular Septal Defect
Patent ductus arteriosus
Acute Pericarditis
Constrictive Pericarditis
Pericardial Effusion
Global Burden of Cardiovascular Diseases
In recent years, the dominance of chronic diseases as major contributors to total global mortality has emerged and has been previously described in detail elsewhere. By 2005, the total number of cardiovascular disease (CVD) deaths (mainly coronary heart disease, stroke, and rheumatic heart disease) had increased globally to 17.5 million from 14.4 million in 1990. Of these, 7.6 million were attributed to coronary heart disease and 5.7 million to stroke. More than 80 percent of the deaths occurred in low and middle income countries (WHO, 2009e).
Based on 2007 to 2010 data, 33% of US adults ≥ 20 years of age have hypertension. This represents ~ 78 million US adults with hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension is similar for men and women. African American adults have among the highest prevalence of hypertension (44%) in the world.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Heart Diseases
High Blood Pressure
Good vs. Bad Cholesterol
Hypertension Classification, Epidemiology ...
Secondary Hypertension
Heart Disease articles |
Aortic Regurgitation (Chronic Regurgitation)
Sep 14, 2005 Viewed: 736
Essentials of Diagnosis
Usually asymptomatic until middle age; presents with left-sided failure or chest pain.
Wide pulse pressure with associated peripheral signs.
Hyperactive, enlarged left ventricle.
Diastolic murmur along left sternal border.
ECG shows left ventricular hypertrophy; x-ray shows left ventricular dilation. Echo-Doppler confirms diagnosis and estimates severity.
General Considerations
Rheumatic aortic regurgitation has become less common than in the preantibiotic era, but nonrheumatic causes are frequent and are the major cause of isolated aortic regurgitation. These include congenitally bicuspid valves, infective endocarditis, and hypertension. Many patients have aortic regurgitation secondary to aortic root diseases such as cystic medial necrosis, Marfan’s syndrome, aortic dissection, ankylosing spondylitis, Reiter’s syndrome, and Syphilis.
Clinical Findings
A. Symptoms and Signs
The clinical presentation is determined by the rapidity with which regurgitation develops. In chronic regurgitation, the only sign for many years may be a soft aortic diastolic murmur. As the valve deformity increases, larger amounts regurgitate, diastolic blood pressure falls, and the left ventricle progressively enlarges. Most patients remain asymptomatic even at this point, and an often prolonged plateau phase, characterized by stable left ventricular dilation, occurs. Left ventricular failure is a late event and may be sudden in onset. Exertional dyspnea and fatigue are the most frequent symptoms, but paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and pulmonary edema may also occur. Angina pectoris or atypical chest pain may be present. Associated coronary artery disease and syncope are less common than in aortic stenosis.
Hemodynamically, because of compensatory left ventricular dilation, patients eject a large stroke volume which is adequate to maintain forward cardiac output until late in the course of the disease. Left ventricular diastolic pressure remains normal also but may abruptly rise when heart failure occurs. Abnormal left ventricular systolic function, as manifested by reduced ejection fraction and increasing end-systolic left ventricular volume, is a late sign.
The major physical findings relate to the wide arterial pulse pressure. The pulse has a rapid rise and fall (water-hammer pulse or Corrigan’s pulse), with an elevated systolic and low diastolic pressure, owing to the large stroke volume and rapid diastolic runoff back into the left ventricle, respectively. The large stroke volume is also responsible for characteristic findings such as Quincke’s pulses (subungual capillary pulsations), Duroziez’s sign (diastolic murmur over a partially compressed peripheral artery, commonly the femoral), and Musset’s sign (head bob with each pulse). The apical impulse is prominent, laterally displaced, and usually hyperdynamic and may be sustained. The murmur itself may be quite soft and localized; the aortic diastolic murmur is high-pitched and decrescendo. A mid or late diastolic low-pitched mitral murmur (Austin Flint murmur) may be heard in advanced aortic regurgitation, owing to obstruction of mitral flow produced by partial closure of the mitral valve by the regurgitant jet.
When aortic regurgitation develops acutely (as in aortic dissection or infective endocarditis), left ventricular failure, manifested primarily as pulmonary edema, may develop rapidly, and surgery is urgently required. Patients with acute aortic regurgitation do not have the dilated left ventricle of chronic aortic regurgitation. In the same way, the diastolic murmur is shorter and may be minimal in intensity, and the pulse pressure may not be widened, making clinical diagnosis difficult.
B. Diagnostic Studies
The ECG usually shows moderate to severe left ventricular hypertrophy. Radiographs show cardiomegaly with left ventricular prominence.
Echocardiography can demonstrate whether the lesion involves the aortic root or if valvular disease is present. Serial assessments of left ventricular size and function are critical in determining the timing for valve replacement. Doppler techniques can qualitatively estimate the severity of regurgitation, though it should be noted that “mild” regurgitation is not uncommon and should not be overinterpreted. Scintigraphic studies can quantify left ventricular function and functional reserve during exercise-a useful predictor of prognosis.
Cardiac catheterization can help quantify severity and is used to evaluate the coronary and aortic root anatomy preoperatively.
Treatment & Prognosis
Aortic regurgitation that appears or worsens during or after an episode of infective Endocarditis or aortic dissection may lead to acute severe left ventricular failure or subacute progression over weeks or months. The former usually presents as pulmonary edema; surgical replacement of the valve is indicated even during active infection. These patients may be transiently improved or stabilized by vasodilators.
Endocarditis is an inflammation of the inside lining of the heart chambers and heart valves (endocardium).
Causes, incidence, and risk factors
Endocarditis can involve the heart muscle, heart valves, or lining of the heart. Most people who develop endocarditis have underlying valvular heart disease.
Chronic regurgitation has a long natural history, but the prognosis without surgery becomes poor when symptoms occur. Vasodilators, such as hydralazine, nifedipine, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, can reduce the severity of regurgitation, and prophylactic treatment may postpone or avoid surgery in asymptomatic patients with severe regurgitation and dilated left ventricles. Beta-blocker therapy may slow the rate of aortic dilation in Marfan’s syndrome. Surgery is usually indicated once aortic regurgitation causes symptoms. Surgery is also indicated for those with few or no symptoms who present with significant left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction < 45- 50%) or who exhibit progressive deterioration of left ventricular function, irrespective of symptoms. Although the operative mortality rate is higher when left ventricular function is severely impaired, valve replacement or repair is still indicated, since left ventricular function often improves somewhat and the long-term prognosis is thereby enhanced.
The operative mortality rate is usually in the 3-5% range. Aortic regurgitation due to aortic root disease requires repair or replacement of the root, a more difficult operation. Following surgery, left ventricular size usually decreases and left ventricular function improves, except where dysfunction has been present chronically.
Preferences:
Carabello BA: Progress in mitral and aortic regurgitation. Prog Cardiovasc Dis 2001;43:457.
Chaliki HP et al: Outcomes after aortic valve replacement in patients with severe aortic regurgitation and markedly reduced left ventricular function. Circulation 2002;106:2687.
Hicks GL Jr et al: Update on indications for surgery in aortic insufficiency. Curr Opin Cardiol 2002;17:172.
Provided by ArmMed Media
Revision date: June 11, 2011
Last revised: by Amalia K. Gagarina, M.S., R.D.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Heart Disease Headlines
Improved lifestyle led to decreased cholesterol…
Emerging vascular risk factors in women: Any differences…
Study shows minorities had lower risk of coronary…
In pursuit of the causes of cardiac hypertrophy
New research offers reassurance over multiple…
Study finds tree nut consumption may lower risk…
Heart CT scans outperform stress tests in spotting…
Worldwide shift in heart medication delivery required:…
Male and female hearts don’t grow old the…
Taking A Midday Nap May Help Lower Your Blood…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
Heart Disease Topics
Heart Disease
Coronary artery disease tests prompt patients toward healthier…
Improved lifestyle led to decreased cholesterol and less…
Emerging vascular risk factors in women: Any differences…
Study shows minorities had lower risk of coronary heart…
In pursuit of the causes of cardiac hypertrophy
New research offers reassurance over multiple artery procedures…
Study finds tree nut consumption may lower risk of cardiovascular…
Heart CT scans outperform stress tests in spotting clogged…
Worldwide shift in heart medication delivery required: Study
Male and female hearts don’t grow old the same way
High Blood Pressure
Drinking milk may help ease the pressure
Simple procedure lowers blood pressure in kidney disease…
Microwave Treatments for Enlarged Prostate Cause Blood Pressure…
Time to rethink blood pressure tests: experts
Lower Your Blood Pressure Without Medication
New guidelines for treating high blood pressure discounts…
Topiramate lowers weight and blood pressure
Racial and Gender Disparities in Development of Hypertension…
Meditation alone doesn’t lower blood pressure: study
Non-fat milk products can reduce the risk of hypertension…
HDL Cholesterol
Cholesterol-Lowering Drugs Don’t Offset Healthy Choices
Green tea shows small effect on cholesterol
Researchers learn that some ‘good cholesterol’…
High cholesterol may lead to high blood pressure in men
Scientists identify cholesterol-regulating genes
MicroRNA and host gene play key role in regulating cholesterol…
Carbs may explain ethnic variations in cholesterol
‘Natural’ statins vary in quality, study finds
Should we lower cholesterol as much as possible?
Biggest Reduction in Bad Cholesterol Ever Achieved in a…
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved