Spinal Osteoarthritis Treatment
Skip to main content
Spine-health.com Sports-health.com
Arthritis Types
Living with Arthritis
Treatment
Surgery
Forums
Arthritis Types
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Bursitis
Fibromyalgia
General Arthritis
Gout
Juvenile Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
Polymyalgia Rheumatica
Pseudogout
Psoriatic Arthritis
Reactive Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Living with Arthritis
Chronic Pain
Coping with Fatigue
Managing Depression
Treatment
Alternative Treatments
Arthritis Specialists
Diet and Nutrition
Exercise
Injections
Joint Aspiration
Medications
Surgery
Hip Surgery
Knee Surgery
Shoulder Surgery
Forums
All Forums
Alternative Treatments Forum
Chronic Pain Forum
Exercises Forum
Medications Forum
Osteoarthritis Forum
Rheumatoid Arthritis Forum
Surgery Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find an Arthritis Center
Videos
Free Newsletters
You are here
Types
Osteoarthritis
Spinal Osteoarthritis Treatment
Spinal Osteoarthritis Treatment
share pin it Newsletters
By David C. DeWitt, MD
|
Peer Reviewed
Osteoarthritis of the spine is a degenerative disease. It cannot be reversed, but treatment can slow down its progression, help control pain, and restore some or all of normal function.
There is a wide range of treatment options, from self-care and home remedies to spine surgery. Patients may respond to one or a combination of treatments for a time, then find they need to try something else. Finding the most effective therapy of osteoarthritis symptoms is often a process of trial and error.
See also Osteoarthritis Treatment
Arthritis treatments for the spine are reviewed in this article in three general categories:
Medical and alternative treatments
Self care, exercise, and rehabilitation
Surgery
People with osteoarthritis of the spine may seek treatment from doctors, chiropractors, acupuncturists or massage therapists. These health practitioners may recommend medical and alternative approaches to treating osteoarthritic back pain such as the ones described below.
See Arthritis Treatment Specialists
Article continues below
Advertisement
Alternative Treatments for Spine Osteoarthritis
Manipulation. A chiropractor, an osteopathic physician, or a properly trained and licensed physical therapist can perform adjustments on the spine that may help properly align the spine and possibly reduce pain.
Massage. Therapeutic massage can help reduce osteoarthritis pain, improve circulation, and reduce muscle tension and spasms. It is preferable to find a professional who is specifically trained in treating people with arthritis.
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS). This type of non-invasive therapy uses small amounts of electricity to reduce sensitivity of nerves around the spine. Patients typically feel only a gentle vibration or tingling during TENS treatment. Not all patients receive pain relief. TENS therapy may be done in a medical office or the TENS unit may be prescribed to the patient and taken home with instructions regarding its proper use.
In This Article:
What Is Spinal Osteoarthritis (Facet Joint Arthritis)?
Spinal Osteoarthritis Symptoms
Spinal Osteoarthritis Risk Factors
Spinal Osteoarthritis Diagnosis
Spinal Osteoarthritis Treatment
Self Care and Exercise to Treat Spine Osteoarthritis
Surgery to Treat Spine Osteoarthritis
Lumbar Osteoarthritis Video
Acupuncture. Acupuncture is a safe medical treatment that involves inserting ultra-fine needles at specific points on the skin. There is evidence that acupuncture can be helpful for some people with osteoarthritis pain, back pain, or headaches.4 Some doctors may recommend acupuncture as an alternative to medical treatments or in combination with other medical treatments or medications.
Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate. Glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate occur naturally in the body’s cartilage. In clinical trials conducted by the American College of Rheumatology, some patients with knee osteoarthritis reported benefits from taking supplements containing glucosamine sulfate or a combination of glucosamine sulfate and chondroitin sulfate.5 However, another study examining patients who had low back pain and who took glucosamine for 6 months found the supplement did not reduce pain.6 Experts agree more studies are needed to fully understand how these alternative supplements affect the symptoms of osteoarthritis.
See Glucosamine and Chondroitin Sulfate Supplements for Osteoarthritis
Medications to Treat Osteoarthritis
Before deciding on a medication, the patient’s lifestyle, severity of pain and medical history should be taken into account. Possible effects and interactions with other drugs and vitamins/supplements should also be considered.
Analgesics. Pain relievers, such as acetaminophen (the active ingredient in Tylenol), have relatively few side effects and relieve pain but do not reduce swelling.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs. Moderate to severe pain may be controlled with anti-inflammatory medications that reduce swelling and inflammation, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (e.g. Advil), naproxen (e.g. Aleve) or cox-2 inhibitors (e.g. Celebrex).
Topical medications. These creams, sprays, gels and patches are applied directly to the skin over the painful joint.
Topical analgesics. The creams contain counterirritants, such as wintergreen and eucalyptus, which stimulate the nerve endings and distract the brain from neck or back pain. These creams are often sold over the counter and are available in most drug stores. Examples of brand names include Bengay, Icy-Hot and Zostrix. Most can be used in combination with oral pain medications.
See Topical Pain Relief for Arthritis
Topical non-steriodal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs. Like topical analgesics, topical NSAID creams should be applied directly to the painful neck or back. Topical medications containing the NSAID diclofenac have been found effective in treating isolated pain due to knee and hand osteoarthritis.7 Topical NSAIDs are available only with a prescription and sold under the names Voltaren, Flector, Pennsaid, and Solaraze.
See Over-the-Counter Topical Arthritis Pain Relief
Lidocaine patches. Topical lidocaine numbs an area and interrupts pain signals to the brain. Adhesive patches containing 5% lidocaine can be applied directly to the back to reduce or alleviate osteoarthritis pain.8 These patches are available only with a prescription.
See Prescription Topical Arthritis Pain Relief
Topical medications may be a good choice for people with spinal osteoarthritis who want to minimize gastrointestinal side effects that oral medications sometimes cause; however, side effects are still possible. Patients should always discuss new medications with their doctor or pharmacist and read drug labels and instructions.
Mild narcotic painkillers. Narcotic medications are effective in reducing pain but can be addictive and therefore are not prescribed often.
Muscle relaxants. These drugs may be temporarily prescribed if a spine osteoarthritis patient suffers from muscle spasms.
Injections for Spine Osteoarthritis
Facet Joint Injection Video
Two types of injections are typically used for treatment of severe pain from spine osteoarthritis: steroid injections and hyaluronic acid injections.
The goal of steroid injections is to reduce swelling and thereby alleviate back stiffness and pain.
The goal of hyaluronic acid injections is to provide lubrication for the facet joint, as hyaluronic acid mimics the viscous synovial fluid that naturally lubricates the facet joint.
The degree of pain relief from injections is variable. When effective, the results from the injections are temporary, typically lasting 6 to 12 months.
Read more in the Injections Health Center
Steroidal and/or hyaluronic acid injections are usually used with the goal of providing enough pain relief to enable the patient to get started with a physical therapy program to strengthen muscles and rehabilitate the affected facet joint(s). Injections may also be an option for individuals who are sensitive to medications.
See Ways to Get Exercise When You Have Arthritis
References
Sherman KJ, Coeytaux RR. Acupuncture for Improving Chronic Back Pain, Osteoarthritis and Headache.
Loes M, "Natural Medicine and Pain Relievers: A Review," Natural Medicine Online.
Arthritis Today. Study finds glucosamine supplements are no help for back pain.
Complete Listing of References
Next Page: Self Care and Exercise to Treat Spine Osteoarthritis
Pages:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Editor's Top Picks
How Osteoarthritis Can Lead to Spinal Stenosis
Cervical Facet Osteoarthritis Video
Exercising with Arthritis
Osteoarthritis Treatment
Ways to Get Exercise When You Have Arthritis
Glucosamine and Chondroitin Sulfate Supplements for Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis Topics
Osteoarthritis
Overview
Symptoms
Causes
Diagnosis
Treatment
AC Joint Osteoarthritis
Ankle Osteoarthritis
Hand Osteoarthritis
Hip Osteoarthritis
Knee Osteoarthritis
Shoulder Osteoarthritis
Spinal Osteoarthritis
Videos
advertisement
advertisement
Latest
Top Videos
Top Articles
What Is Hyaluronic Acid?
Hyaluronic Acid Injections for Knee Osteoarthritis
Do Hyaluronic Acid Injections Work for Knee Osteoarthritis?
Hyaluronic Acid Injection for Knee Osteoarthritis: Procedure and Risks
Knee Exercises for Arthritis
Lumbar Osteoarthritis Video
Learn how osteoarthritis occurs and how it can cause lower back pain and other symptoms.
Lumbar Osteophytes (Bone Spurs) Video
Learn how bone spurs occur and how they can cause lower back pain and other symptoms.
Ankylosing Spondylitis Video
Watch an overview of the development and progression of ankylosing spondylitis.
Topical Pain Relief for Arthritis
What Is Pannus?
Hand Pain and Rheumatoid Arthritis
Integrative Medicine for Arthritis Pain Relief
Dietary Supplements for Treating Arthritis
Turmeric and Curcumin for Arthritis
Sacroiliac Joint Pain and Inflammation
Applying Heat vs. Cold to an Arthritic Joint
advertisement
Health Information (Sponsored)
Arthritis Resources
Become a Doctor Member
Glossary
Image Gallery
Find a Joint Pain Specialist
Find an Arthritis Center
Sign up for our Newsletter
About Arthritis-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Spine-health
Sports-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Arthritis-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding arthritis and arthritis related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
version.2019.01.051-2019.01.019