New Study Shows Daily Use Of Antioxidant Pycnogenol® Improves Osteoarthritis Symptoms, Reduces Need for NSAID Painkillers | Benzinga
Benzinga Pro
Marketfy
Financial Data & APIs
Events
Premarket Prep
Membership is Free
What are you waiting for? Sign up now!
Name:
Username available!
Username taken!
Email:
Email available!
Email taken!
Password:
Leave blank:
OR
Free Account Login
Click here to access your premium account
Username or email:
Password:
OR Forgot password?
Looking for ? CLICK HERE
Contribute
Login
Join
News
Earnings
Guidance
Dividends
M&A
Buybacks
Legal
Interviews
Management
Retail Sales
Offerings
IPOs
Insider Trades
Biotech/FDA
Freight
Markets
Pre-Market
After Hours
Movers
ETFs
Forex
Cannabis
Commodities
Options
Binary Options
Bonds
Futures
Global Economics
Previews
Reviews
Small-Cap
Cryptocurrency
Ratings
Analyst Color
Downgrades
Upgrades
Initiations
Price Target
Ideas
Long Ideas
Short Ideas
Technicals
From The Press
Jim Cramer
Rumors
Tech
Start-Ups
Fintech
Investing
Best Online Brokers
Personal Finance
Compare Brokers
Ally Invest Review
Binary Options Review
eOption
Etrade Review
Forex.com Review
Interactive Brokers Review
Personal Capital Review
Suretrader Review
TD Ameritrade Review
Tradestation Review
Yewno|Edge Review
Premium
Market Overview
Tickers
Articles
Keywords
Search by keyword...
googlecse

New Study Shows Daily Use Of Antioxidant Pycnogenol® Improves Osteoarthritis Symptoms, Reduces Need for NSAID Painkillers
PRNewswire
{{following ? "Following" : "Follow"}}
March 26, 2019 12:13pm Comments
Share:
HOBOKEN, N.J., March 26, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Just in time for the arrival of spring, a new study delivers promising new findings for osteoarthritis sufferers. A peer-reviewed and published study shows the efficacy of the super-antioxidant Pycnogenol®, in the form of a topical patch, for relieving joint inflammation and discomfort associated with osteoarthritis. Participants in the independent study applied a topical patch containing 110mg of Pycnogenol® in the area of pain twice daily over the course of three weeks.
Osteoarthritis affects more than 30 million1 U.S. adults, making it the most common arthritis condition in America. This condition can cause pain and stiffness2 in joints and loss of flexibility.
"Osteoarthritis affects the quality of life for millions. There is no cure but new research like this study show that natural supplements like Pycnogenol® can be effective in addressing the symptoms that interfere with everyday activities by reducing joint inflammation," said renowned natural health physician Dr. Fred Pescatore.
Pycnogenol® is a powerful antioxidant shown in nearly five decades of research to reduce inflammation in patients experiencing osteoarthritis symptoms. Pycnogenol® is a standardized form of French maritime pine bark extract rich with a unique blend of micronutrients called polyphenols that are shown to support joint health and directly distribute throughout joint synovial fluid.
The registry study examined 64 individuals diagnosed with osteoarthritis of the knee, confirmed by X-ray. Participants applied a topical patch containing 110mg of Pycnogenol® twice daily over the course of three weeks, applied as close as possible to the area of pain. Subjects in the Pycnogenol® test group were compared to a control group following standard management procedures.
Researchers evaluated osteoarthritis symptoms using a combination of subjective pain survey scales, thermal imagery of affected joints, individual capability of walking or standing without pain, and measurement of erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-Reactive Protein (CRP) which are commonly associated with inflammation.
Following three weeks of using the Pycnogenol® topical patch, subjects reported significant improvement of their symptoms, including:
51 percent improvement of pain score (vs. 19 percent in the control group)
64 percent improvement of inflammation (vs. 39.5 percent in the control group)
33 percent improvement of knee function (vs. 16.3 percent in the control group)
66 percent improvement of swelling (vs. 50 percent in the control group)
42.4 percent of subjects reported no osteoarthritis symptoms (vs. 23.5 percent in the control group)
In addition, subjects who wore the Pycnogenol® topical patch had significantly reduced ESR and CRP levels in blood samples, showing reduced inflammation overall. Study participants also reported their need for NSAID pain relievers, consultations with specialists and need of physiotherapy throughout the study diminished in the Pycnogenol® group:
62 percent of participants reported decreased use of NSAID products (vs. 16 percent in the control group)
88 percent of participants did not need consultations of a specialist (vs. 22 percent in the control group)
91 percent of participants did not need physiotherapy during the study (vs. 33 percent in the control group)
"Many osteoarthritis patients depend on daily use of NSAID pain relievers, These drugs can be costly and constant use can bring adverse side effects. This new study shows a viable drug-free osteoarthritis option. The results here are meaningful for those looking to manage their condition and build or maintain a more active lifestyle," said Dr. Pescatore.
Previous research published in the Journal of Phytotherapy Research in 2008 also indicates that supplementing daily with Pycnogenol® reduces overall knee osteoarthritis symptoms by 20.9 percent. Pycnogenol® is shown to naturally inhibit pro-inflammatory molecules while promoting production of collagen and hyaluronic acid to support cartilage health.
To review clinical research and additional information on Pycnogenol®, visit www.Pycnogenol.com. Pycnogenol® is available in more than 1,000 dietary supplements and multi-vitamins worldwide.
About Pycnogenol®
Pycnogenol® is a natural plant extract originating from the bark of the maritime pine that grows along the coast of southwest France and is found to contain a unique combination of procyanidins, bioflavonoids and phenolic acids, which offer extensive natural health benefits. The extract has been widely studied for the past 40 years and has more than 420 published studies and review articles ensuring safety and efficacy as an ingredient. Today, Pycnogenol® is available in more than 1,000 dietary supplements, multi-vitamins and health products worldwide. For more information, visit www.pycnogenol.com.
About Horphag Research (USA) Inc.
Horphag Research (USA) Inc., based in Hoboken, New Jersey, is the North American distributor for Pycnogenol® (pic-noj-en-all) brand French maritime pine bark extract and Robuvit®, French oak wood extract on behalf of Horphag Research. Pycnogenol® and Robuvit® are registered trademarks of Horphag Research Ltd. For its patented ingredient, Pycnogenol®, Horphag Research has been awarded the Frost & Sullivan Excellence in Research Award, Nutraceutical Business & Technology Safety & Quality Award, SupplySide West Scientific Excellence Award and The American Botanical Council's Tyler Research Award. Horphag Research (USA) has the exclusive rights to market and sell Pycnogenol® in North America and benefits from more than 40 years of scientific research assuring the safety and efficacy of Pycnogenol® as a dietary supplement. For more information, visit www.pycnogenol.com and www.robuvit.com.
1 CDC: https://www.cdc.gov/arthritis/basics/osteoarthritis.htm
2 Mayo Clinic: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/osteoarthritis/symptoms-causes/syc-20351925
View original content to download multimedia:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/new-study-shows-daily-use-of-antioxidant-pycnogenol-improves-osteoarthritis-symptoms-reduces-need-for-nsaid-painkillers-300818718.html
SOURCE Pycnogenol
View Comments and Join the Discussion!
View the discussion thread.
Don't Miss Any Updates!
News Directly in Your Inbox
Subscribe to:
Benzinga Trading Daily
Get pre-market outlook, mid-day update and after-market roundup emails in your inbox.
Market in 5 Minutes
Everything you need to know about the market - quick & easy.
Daily Analyst Rating
A summary of each day’s top rating changes from sell-side analysts on the street.
Email
Thank You
for registering for Benzinga’s newsletters and alerts.
• The Daily Analysts Ratings email will be received daily between 7am and 10am.
• The Market in 5 Minutes email will be received daily between 7am and 8am.
• The Fintech Focus email will be received every Friday between 2pm and 5pm.
If you have any questions as it relates to either of the three newsletters, please feel free to contact us at 1-877-440-ZING.
View upcoming Earnings, Ratings, Dividend and Economic Calendars.
Trending
Recent
1 TNXP, TWTR: 26 Stocks Moving In Tuesday's Pre-Market Session
2 TWTR: Twitter Trades Higher After Q1 Earnings Beat
3 GBR, IRBT: 24 Stocks Moving In Wednesday's Pre-Market Session
4 SNAP, FB: Twitter Q1 Earnings Preview: What The Street Expects
5 CGC, ACRGF: GMP Upgrades Canopy Growth To Buy Follo...
6 FB, GOOG: Facebook Q1 Earnings Preview: W...
7 VZ, GES: 12 Stocks To Watch For A...
1 TFI Expects 'Shot In The Arm' From BeavEX Deal
2 ISCA, TRK: NASCAR Track Owner Speedway Motorsports Reports Take-Private Offer From...
3 TWTR, SNAP: The Positives And Negatives From Twitter's Q1 Earnings Print
4 NSC, CSX: Norfolk Southern Reports Record First Quarter Earnings
5 BA: Boeing Earnings Take A Nosedive
6 CAT: Strength In Mining Business Powers Caterpillar F...
7 KNX: Knight-Swift Modestly Beats Expectations And...
Brokerage Center
Compare All Online Brokerages
Benzinga is a fast-growing, dynamic and innovative financial media outlet that empowers investors with high-quality, unique content.
Popular Channels
Analyst Ratings
ETFs
Economics
Forex
Hot
News
Options
Press Releases
Start-ups
Tech
Tools & Features
Affiliate Program
PreMarket Prep
Feeds
News Widget
Real Time Feed
Sitemap
Submit News Tips
About Benzinga
About Us
Licensing & Syndication
Market Data & APIs
Apps (iOS and Android)
Fintech Awards
Blog
In the News
Careers
Service Status
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Benzinga Partners
Images provided by Deposit Photos.
1 (877) 440-9464 (ZING) © Copyright Benzinga
Benzinga - Feed Your Mind
try pro
News
Markets
Ratings
Ideas
Tech
Small-Cap
Personal Finance
Premium Products