Croup - Allied Physicians Group - Pediatric Medicine
About Allied
Specialists
Newborn Care
Telehealth
Blog
Allied Foundation
Pay Bills
Patient Portal
Join Our Team
Find Practice
☰
˟
Find A Practice
About Allied
Specialists
Newborn Care
Telehealth
Blog
Allied Foundation
Pay Bills
Patient Portal
Careers
Croup
Choose a symptom:
SelectAbdominal Pain Animal or Human Bite Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete’s Foot Back Pain Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Burns Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Cracked or Dry Skin Croup Crying Baby – Before 3 Months Old Crying Child – 3 Months and Older Cuts, Scrapes, or Bruises (Skin Injury) Diaper Rash Diarrhea Drinking Fluids – Decreased Ear – Congestion Ear – Discharge Ear – Injury Ear – Pulling At or Rubbing Ear – Swimmer’s Ear Infection Questions Earache Eye – Allergy Eye – Foreign Body Eye – Injury Eye – Pus or Discharge Eye – Red Without Pus Fever Finger or Toe Injury Frostbite Genital Injury Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever (Nasal Allergies) Head Injury Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Immunization Reactions Impetigo – Infected Sores Influenza – Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice – Head Lymph Nodes – Swollen Medication – Refusal to Take Mosquito Bite Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness – How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy – Oak – Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness – Localized Rash or Redness – Widespread Ringworm Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Body Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up – Reflux Stools – Blood In Stools – Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Tear Duct – Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Tooth Injury Urination Pain Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Vaginal Itching or Irritation Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea
See More Appropriate Topic (instead of this one):
It doesn’t sound like croup, see Cough
Tight purring sound when breathing out, see Wheezing (Other Than Asthma)
Definition
Infection of the voicebox (larynx) caused by a virus
The croupy cough is tight, low-pitched, and barky (like a barking seal)
The voice or cry is hoarse (called laryngitis)
Some children with severe croup get a harsh, tight sound while breathing in. This is called stridor.
First Aid Advice For Stridor (Harsh sound with breathing in) or for Nonstop Coughing:
Breathe warm mist in a closed bathroom with the hot shower running. Do this for 20 minutes. You could also use a wet washcloth held near the face. Another option is to use a humidifier containing warm water.
Caution: Do not use very hot water or steam which could cause burns. Hot steam can also cause high body temperatures.
If warm mist fails, breathe cool air by standing near an open refrigerator. You can also go outside with your child if the weather is cold. Do this for a few minutes.
Stridor: A Complication of Croup
Stridor is a harsh, raspy tight sound best heard with breathing in
Loud or constant stridor means severe croup
All stridor needs to be treated with warm mist
Most children with stridor need treatment with a steroid (Decadron)
For any stridor, see FIRST AID for treatment
Causes
Most often, caused by a virus
Croup symptoms can also be caused by a food allergy. This can be life-threatening.
Return to School
Your child can go back to school after the fever is gone. Your child should also feel well enough to join in normal activities. For practical purposes, the spread of croup and colds can’t be prevented.
When to Call Us for Croup
Call 911 Now If: Click to View
Call 911 Now (your child may need an ambulance) If:
Severe trouble breathing (struggling for each breath, constant severe stridor)
Passed out or stopped breathing
Lips or face are bluish when not coughing
Croup started suddenly after bee sting, taking a medicine or allergic food
Drooling, spitting or having great trouble swallowing (Exception: drooling due to teething)
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Us Now (night or day) If:
Caution: For any stridor or trouble breathing, see FIRST AID
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) is heard now
Your child looks or acts very sick
Choked on a small object that could be caught in the throat
Trouble breathing (Exception: present only when coughing)
Lips or face have turned bluish during coughing
Ribs are pulling in with each breath (retractions)
Can’t bend the neck forward
Severe chest pain
Age less than 1 year old with stridor
Weak immune system. (Such as sickle cell disease, HIV, cancer, organ transplant, taking oral steroids)
Fever over 104° F (40° C)
Age under 12 weeks old with fever. (Caution: Do NOT give your baby any fever medicine before being seen.)
You think your child needs to be seen urgently
Call Us Within 24 Hours If: Click to View
Call Us Within 24 Hours (between 9 am and 4 pm) If:
You think your child needs to be seen, but not urgently
Had croup before that needed Decadron
Stridor (harsh sound with breathing in) occurred but not present now
Nonstop coughing
Age less than 1 year old with a croupy cough
Earache OR ear drainage
Fever lasts more than 3 days
Fever returns after gone for more than 24 hours
Call Us During Weekday Office Hours If:
You have other questions or concerns
Coughing causes vomiting 3 or more times
Croup is a frequent problem (3 or more times)
Barky cough lasts more than 14 days
Parent Care at Home If: Click to View
Parent Care at Home If:
Mild croup with no complications
Care Advice for Croup
What You Should Know:
Most children with croup just have a barky cough.
Some have tight breathing (called stridor).
Coughing up mucus is very important. It helps protect the lungs from pneumonia.
We want to help a productive cough, not turn it off.
Here is some care advice that should help.
Humidifier:
If the air in your home is dry, use a humidifier.
Reason: Dry air makes croup worse.
Homemade Cough Medicine:
Goal: Decrease the irritation or tickle in the throat that causes a dry cough.
AGE 3 months to 1 year: Give warm clear fluids to treat the cough. Examples are apple juice and lemonade. Amount: Use a dose of 1-3 teaspoons (5-15 ml). Give 4 times per day when coughing. Caution: Do not use honey until 1 year old.
AGE 1 year and older: Use HONEY ½ to 1 teaspoon (2-5 ml) as needed. It works as a homemade cough medicine. It can thin the secretions and loosen the cough. If you don’t have any honey, you can use corn syrup.
AGE 6 years and older: Use COUGH DROPS to coat the sore throat. If you don’t have any, you can use hard candy.
Non-Prescription Cough Medicine (DM):
Non-prescription cough medicines are not advised. Reason: No proven benefit for children and not approved under 4 years old. (FDA 2008.)
Honey has been shown to work better for coughs. (Caution: Do not use honey until 1 year old).
If age over 4 years old, you might decide to use a cough medicine. Choose one with dextromethorphan (DM). It’s present in most non-prescription cough syrups.
When to Use: Give only for severe coughs that interfere with sleep or school.
DM Dose: See Dose Table. Give every 6 to 8 hours as needed.
Coughing Fits or Spells:
Breathe warm mist (such as with shower running in a closed bathroom).
Give warm clear fluids to drink. Examples are apple juice and lemonade. Don’t use before 3 months of age.
Amount. If 3 – 12 months of age, give 1 ounce (30 ml) each time. Limit to 4 times per day. If over 1 year of age, give as much as needed.
Reason: Both relax the airway and loosen up any phlegm.
Fluids:
Try to get your child to drink lots of fluids.
Goal: Keep your child well hydrated.
It also will thin out the mucus discharge from the nose.
It also loosens up any phlegm in the lungs. Then it’s easier to cough up.
Fever:
For fevers above 102° F (39° C), give acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) or ibuprofen. See Dose Table. Note: Lower fevers are important for fighting infections.
For ALL fevers: Keep your child well hydrated. Give lots of cold fluids.
For babies, dress lightly. Don’t wrap in too many blankets. Reason: Can make the fever higher.
Sleep Close By to Your Child:
Sleep in the same room with your child for a few nights.
Reason: Stridor can start all of a sudden at night.
Calm Your Child if He or She has Stridor:
Crying or fear can make stridor worse.
Try to keep your child calm and happy.
Hold and comfort your child.
Use a soothing, soft voice.
For a few days, give in more than usual to his or her demands.
Avoid Tobacco Smoke:
Tobacco smoke makes croup much worse.
Return to School:
Your child can go back to school after the fever is gone.
Your child should also feel well enough to join in normal activities.
For practical purposes, the spread of croup and colds cannot be prevented.
What to Expect:
Most often, croup lasts 5 to 6 days and becomes worse at night.
The croupy cough can last up to 2 weeks.
Call Your Doctor If:
Stridor (harsh raspy sound) occurs
Croupy cough lasts more than 14 days
Your child becomes worse
Disclaimer: This information is not intended be a substitute for professional medical advice. It is provided for educational purposes only. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information.
Author and Senior Reviewer: Barton D. Schmitt, M.D.
Copyright 1994-2013 Barton D. Schmitt, M.D.
Powered by Pediatric Web
Need to find something?
Use the buttons below to jump to important sections on the website quickly!
Symptom Checker
Dosage Checker
Patient Portal
Pay Your Bills
Upcoming Events
In the News
Pay your bill online!
Make a Payment
Are you a healthcare professional?
Join the extensive network of physicians at Allied Physicians Group today!
Learn More
In this section:
Patient Resources
Vaccines
Forms
Insurance
Symptom Checker
Dosage Checker
Billing FAQ
Additional Info
Allied Physicians Group
3 Huntington Quadrangle
Southeast Tower, Suite #105
Melville, NY 11747
866.621.2769
Employee Links
Careers
Allied Physicians Group LLC 2016
About Allied
Specialists
Newborn Care
Telehealth
Blog
Allied Foundation