How to use vitamin E oil for fading acne scars | Home Remedies
Newsletter
हिंदी
Subscribe to Onlymyhealth Newsletter
Living Better
Women's Health
Men's Health
Weight Loss Wisdom
I have read the Privacy Policy and the Terms and Conditions. I provide my consent for my data to be processed for the purposes as described and receive communications for service related information.
Gender :
Please SelectMaleFemale
✖
Health Diseases
Children Health
Men's Health
Women's Health
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Other Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Weight Management
Healthy Diet
Exercise Fitness
Yoga
Grooming
Fashion and Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Parenting
New Born Care
Parenting Tips
Know Baby Name
Search Baby Name
Relationships
Marriage
Dating
Cheating
Alternative Therapies
Mind and Body
Ayurveda
Home Remedies
Slideshows
Videos
Health A to Z
Health News
Baby Names
QNA
Health Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Parenting
Relationships
Alternative Therapies
Health
Health⁄
alternative therapies⁄
Home Remedies
How to use vitamin E oil for fading acne scars
Skin Care By Varsha Vats , Onlymyhealth editorial team / Apr 03, 2019
Quick Bites
Vitamin E has been claimed to reduce visibility of scars.
Research on its effectiveness in treating scars is, however, inconclusive.
Some studies have found that vitamin E is useful in treating scars.
Others have observed that it does not have any benefit.
Popular belief has it that rubbing vitamin E oil on skin can reduce acne scars. Several ointments and beauty creams contain vitamin E as the main ingredient. Unfortunately, there is very little evidence to support this claim.
Healing scars
Despite several products promoting vitamin E as the main and most useful ingredient, research on effectiveness of vitamin E in treating acne and reducing scars is still inconclusive.
According to a study conducted in 1999, ointments containing vitamin E could not reduce 90 percent of scars in people who had patches of skin cancer removed. In addition, 1/3 of participants who used vitamin E developed red and itchy rashes.
However, as per another study conducted in 2010, application of vitamin E three times a day on surgical scars of children prevented development of keloids or extra scar tissue over the wound. Use of topical vitamin E before and after surgery improved surgical wound healing.
Vitamin E for acne scars
Vitmain E makes your skin soft and improves blood circulation. Because it is rich in antioxidants, it helps fight free radicals that can make acne scars even worse. It also helps fight sunburn and protects skin from harmful ultraviolet rays.
How to use it
You can apply vitamin E directly on the acne scars or you may use vitamin E capsules. Take vitamin E capsules and extract oil from them by piercing the capsule with a needle. Then wash your face with water and apply the oil on the affected area. For best results, use it regularly.
Image Source: Getty
Read more articles on Home remedies
Written by
Meenakshi Chaudhary
Source: Onlymyhealth editorial teamOct 10, 2015
All possible measures have been taken to ensure accuracy, reliability, timeliness and authenticity of the information; however Onlymyhealth.com does not take any liability for the same. Using any information provided by the website is solely at the viewers’ discretion. In case of any medical exigencies/ persistent health issues, we advise you to seek a qualified medical practitioner before putting to use any advice/tips given by our team or any third party in form of answers/comments on the above mentioned website.
Go Back To Jagran
×
Trending Topics
Home remedies for acne scars
how to reduce acne scars naturally
fading acne scars naturally
Related News
Top 10 Foods highest in Vitamin D
10 Natural Remedies for Keloids
Beauty vitamins that help you delay ageing
5 Cocoa butter benefits that you did not know about
Home remedies to get rid of back acne scars
All Sections
Health Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Parenting
Relationships
Alternative Therapies
Featured Health Topics
Dental Health
Hepatitis
Dengue
Allergy
Asthma
Hypertension
About Us
Contact Us
Management
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
Copyright © 2018 MMI ONLINE LTD
This website uses cookie or similar technologies, to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations. By continuing to use our website, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. OK