Use These Pictures to Identify Frostbite
icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Use These Pictures to Identify Frostbite
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in First Aid
Heat & Cold Exposure
Allergies & Anaphylaxis
Bites & Stings
Breathing Emergencies
Broken Bones
Bruises, Cuts & Punctures
Infections
Rash
Emergency Preparedness
Calling for Help
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
First Aid Heat & Cold Exposure
Use These Pictures to Identify Frostbite
A Gallery of Frostbite Pictures from Minor to Severe
Print
By Rod Brouhard, EMT-P | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated April 02, 2019
More in First Aid
Heat & Cold Exposure
Allergies & Anaphylaxis
Bites & Stings
Breathing Emergencies
Broken Bones
Bruises, Cuts & Punctures
Infections
Rash
Emergency Preparedness
Calling for Help
View All
Frostbite damages body tissues in much the same way that burns do. In fact, frostbite injuries and burn injuries can look very similar, and frostbite can be categorized in the same way.
Frostbite can happen in many different ways, which is readily apparent from the different pictures. Whether climbing Mount Everest or icing an injury just a little too long, frostbite is an injury likely to leave its mark forever.
It is important to recognize both the symptoms of frostbite and know what to do if you experience symptoms.
You can't properly treat frostbite unless you recognize it. Hopefully, these pictures will give you an idea how frostbite might look.
Frostbitten Face
Hunting Trip Leads to Frostbite on Cheeks Frostbitten face from riding a snowmobile. Japeofapes
"It was the 3rd week of January and I decided to go hunting," VeryWell reader Japeofapes writes. "We were looking for caribou and my snowmobile windshield is very low profile."
Japeofapes says he and his partner stopped for tea. When his partner saw Japeofape's face, he said, "Oww man! Your face is frostbitten!"
I definitely agree with "Owww man!" That looks like it hurts.
Japeofapes says he "thawed it with snow so I would not feel so much pain later on and it worked." Not so sure I'm in love with "thawing" frostbite with snow. Putting snow on the frostbitten skin and muscle tissue is likely to continue the freezing process. Here's how to properly treat frostbite.
Japeofapes doesn't say how well his face did or did not heal. He does say his fingers also suffered from frostbite. He says he still feels numb and stinging in his fingers and blames that on not "thawing" them with snow.
Big Toe Frostbite Blister
Walking 9 Miles in the Freezing Cold Wearing Only Sandals Causes Nasty Blister Frostbite on toe down to the bone. Timothy J. Kosier
Timothy J. Kosier says he got stuck near his home outside Westcliffe, Colorado, and had to walk 9 miles wearing socks, sandals, light gloves and a coat. He says he didn't notice the loss of sensation and swelling in his fingers and toes until the next day—especially the blister on his big toe.
"I was surprised 'cause it was in the upper 20s," Timothy says in his frostbite picture submission, "not very cold at all. Live and learn."
To a California boy like me, temperatures in the upper 20s sound pretty darn cold. I guess it's all relative. Regardless whether you think that's cold or not, it's below freezing and Timothy walked 9 miles that way without adequate protection. It was a hard lesson to learn, but he did.
"Never fail to be prepared," Timothy warns, "no need for it to be 30 below to get frostbite. I've weathered 35 below, no problem—I was prepared then."
By preparing for cold weather, dressing appropriately, and taking basic safety precautions, you can minimize your risk of experiencing frostbite.
White Frostbite on Fingertips
White, Waxy Skin is a Danger Sign of Frostbite. (c) Dan Darley
Most textbooks describe frostbite as white and waxy. It's not always like that, but this image shows how frostbite can look. Dan Darley tells me this frostbite showed up after a day in the backcountry. His flickr photo page says he was in Yellowknife, NT, Canada preparing for a trip to the North Pole. In an email, Dan relates how he found the frostbite and how he kept it from getting worse:
"I got the damage on a backcountry trip - it happened in the morning and as we were on the move I didn't take my gloves off until the evening - so didn't do anything specific to warm the fingers. We were out for another couple days before returning to our motel but I managed to keep them warmish whilst out so they didn't get worse, although I was very worried."
One of the most important things Dan did was not to thaw the frostbite while he was still in the wilderness.
It's very important not to treat frostbite until there's absolutely no chance it could refreeze. Damage becomes more severe if thawed tissues freeze again.
Dan's frostbite looked better in a month without treatment, but he says it took several more weeks to feel completely healed.
Frostbite After Two Weeks
White, Waxy Skin Turns Black as the Top Layer Comes Off. (c) Dan Darley
Dan Darley shares this picture of his frostbitten fingers 2 weeks after they were frozen. His flickr photo page says he was in Yellowknife, NT, Canada preparing for a trip to the North Pole.
This frostbite started out looking waxy and white, which is the classic description of frostbite in many textbooks. After 2 weeks, the injury turned black and the skin was peeling, similar to the way a healing burn begins to peel.
Frostbite After Four Weeks
New Raw Skin Replaces the Frostbitten Tissue. (c) Dan Darley
Dan Darley shares this picture of his frostbitten fingers taken 4 weeks after they were frozen. His flickr photo page says he was in Yellowknife, NT, Canada preparing for a trip to the North Pole.
After the damaged skin tissue falls off, new, raw skin replaces it. In this case, Dan says the frostbitten fingers looked better in a month, but it took several more weeks for the injury to feel completely healed.
Frostbite is a cold injury to the skin. Frostbite damages skin similar to the way a burn works. Frostbite symptoms can be very similar to burns; frostbite causes discoloration, swelling and tissue death (necrosis).
Frostbite on Toes
Areas Furthest from the Heart Most Likely to Get Frostbite Frostbitten toes of a Chinese herdsman after a severe blizzard in northwest China in 2006. Temperatures during the storm were as low as 45 degrees below zero. Photo by China Photos/Getty Images
The body is like a car motor. We burn fuel (sugar) mixed with oxygen to create energy. And just like a motor—we get hot.
Your body is hotter deep in its core, near the heart. One of the benefits of your heart pushing blood around is to distribute that heat throughout your whole body.
As you might imagine, the further blood gets from the heart the cooler it gets. That's why your hands, toes and nose always seem to get cold first—they're not as hot-blooded as the rest of you.
When the environment gets really cold, like a blizzard in northwest China in 2006 that dropped to 45 degrees below zero, it's those areas far from the heart that are the hardest hit. Frostbite is much more common where blood doesn't flow as fast or as hot.
With the proper precautions, you can avoid hypothermia and frostbite. Treating frostbite is a delicate process and should only be attempted outside a hospital if no other option is available.
Black Frostbite on Fingertips
Permanent Damage from Severe Frostbite New Zealand climber and double-amputee Mark Inglis suffered frostbite on his fingertips while climbing Mount Everest in 2006. Photo by Sandra Mu/Getty Images
In severe cases of frostbite, the skin and deeper tissues may become gangrenous and turn dark green or black as they die. Feeling, movement and blood flow are all lost. If the tissue is not surgically removed, the gangrene can spread and develop into a severe infection.
Frostbite can happen in just a few minutes in the worst conditions, such as the subzero temperatures of Mount Everest. In such a remote location there is almost no possibility of thawing the frostbitten tissue before permanent damage is done.
Since frostbite is worse in areas where blood flow is restricted—like the fingertips—there isn't a lot of warm blood to stop the frostbitten tissue from cooling the tissue next to it. That's how frostbite spreads. Getting the tissues out of the cold environment is the only way to stop the spreading frostbite.
Are You at Risk of Gangrene?
Frostbite from an Ice Pack
Take Care When Icing an Injury Not to Cause Frostbite Frostbite on an ankle after treating with an ice pack improperly applied directly on the skin. (c) Melanie Martinez
Applying ice (part of first aid RICE treatment) can ease inflammation after someone has a sprain or bad bruising, but applying ice incorrectly can lead to frostbite.
It's important not to put the ice directly on the skin nor leave the ice on for too long. There are several documented cases of frostbite from ice packs.
Severe Frostbite on Fingers
Fresh Blisters Show Early Severe Frostbite. (c) Winky from flickr
Early frostbite can be nearly indistinguishable from a burn. The damage to skin causes almost identical swelling and blisters at first. Indeed, as it heals, frostbite can cause the skin to crack and peel just like a burn does.
Sometimes, the only way to tell the difference between a burn and frostbite is by knowing how it happened. If severe cold caused the injury, it's frostbite. If heat, radiation or chemical exposure caused the injury, it's a burn.
Note the redness and swelling on this woman's fingers. Her knuckles show the most damage, which is because joints have less muscle and more bone tissue. (Blood flowing through muscle helps it stay warm.) Fingers already don't have as much blood flow because they're so far from the heart, but around the joints, blood flow is even less robust.
Although the blisters on the knuckles are obvious, it's possible to see how swollen her fingers are by looking at her ring. The ring is very tight, indicating the finger is much larger than usual.
This case of frostbite was severe. This woman reportedly lost parts of some of her fingers from this injury. It's a good example of the early look of severe frostbite.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you reach your 2019 goals.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Handford C, Thomas O, Imray CHE. Frostbite. Emerg Med Clin North Am. 2017 May;35(2):281-299. doi: 10.1016/j.emc.2016.12.006. Review.
Continue Reading
Article
If Left Untreated Frostbite Poses a Serious Health Threat
Article
Can You Really Get Frostbite From an Ice Pack?
Article
The Symptoms of Frostbite You Should Watch Out For
List
Picture Gallery of Broken Fingers, Hands and Ankle Bones
List
How to Tell It's NOT a Brown Recluse
List
Pictures of a Rattlesnake Bite in the Hospital
List
Skin Boils
List
How to Recognize and Treat Chigger Bites (With Pictures)
List
Burn Pictures: A Close Look at First, Second and Third Degree
List
The Basic First Aid Procedures You Should Know
Article
Injured? This Is When You Should Be Using a Compression Bandage
Article
Calculating the Amount of Skin Burned Using the Rule of Nines
List
First Aid Kit Picture Gallery
Article
Method and Calculation of Determining a Person's Pulse Rate
Article
Learn How to Position a Tourniquet Properly Above the Wound
List
Minor Injury: Treat at Home or Call the Doc?
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more