Vitamin Deficiencies in People with Vitiligo - Recouleur Vitamin Deficiencies in People with Vitiligo - Recouleur
Recouleur
Home
Vitiligo Products
About
FAQ
Vitiligo Learning Center
Blog
Cart
Contact Us
Leave a Comment
Posted on February 10, 2016 by Audrey VanStockum
Vitamin Deficiencies in People with Vitiligo
Vitamin Deficiencies Found in Vitiligo
There are a number of studies which identify vitamin deficiencies in vitiligo. Vitiligo is a skin disease that is characterized by white spots on the skin. The white spots happen due to the lack of melanin in the skin. No one knows why vitiligo happens but medical researchers have related this disease to an autoimmune disorder. Other causes of vitiligo could be the result of genetics, oxidative stress, neural problems or the body’s lack of specific vitamins.
Researchers have conducted test studies on patients with vitiligo. One result these studies reveal is that people with vitiligo often lack certain key vitamins. The primary vitamins that they consistently lack is B12, folic acid, C, copper and zinc. Each of these essential nutrients play a key role with the health of the skin and its ability to produce color.
Each of these different vitamins also helps to stabilize a person’s immune system. Vitamin B12 is an important substance for the skin. The reason being is that vitamin B12 regulates metabolism which in effect helps the skin.
All of the missing vitamins and can be reintroduced back into a person’s system naturally or with the use of supplements. People who suffer from vitiligo can start taking Recouleur® Dietary Supplement to help try and restore vitamins back into the skin.
Tweet
Category: Blog Tags: copper vitiligo, Recouleur Dietary Supplement, Vitamin B12 vitiligo, Vitamins for vitiligo, Vitiligo
← Which Vitamins are Good for Vitiligo?
Combination Therapy for Vitiligo Treatment →
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Search
Recent Posts
Vitiligo Support Vitamins
B12 and Folic Acid for Vitiligo
Vitamin Therapy is Not New Science
My Vitiligo Story and the Recouleur® Story
Vitiligo Tip: Get Your Thyroid Tested
Contact Us
PO Box 909
Prospect Heights, IL 60070
Email Us
Information
About
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Customer Service
Contact Us
FAQ
Site Map
Email Newsletter
Sign up to receive the Recouleur® email newsletter with vitiligo tips, health news, and product specials.
Sign Up Now
This is a double opt-in so you will need to confirm your subscription in the follow-up email.
© 2015 Supernatural Health, Inc.®