How to remove a tick and treat the bite wound
Menu
Home
Animal
Health
Travel
News
Fun
Hacks
Facts
Art
Photography
Style
Quiz
Health
How to remove a tick and treat the bite wound
Samad 1 year ago
Prev Article	Next Article
Summer is here. Along with sun and fun, come those nasty pests known as ticks. According to Pest World For Kids, the more than 200 species of ticks come in two varieties. Hard ticks are found in the woods, while soft ticks live in caves, cabins, and on birds. They also live among tall grass and in shrubbery. When your dog, your child, or you, come close to a tick, the bug climbs onto the skin uninvited and makes the skin a warm and cozy host. While the tick is happy, the host is anything but.
Ticks are not only annoying, but they can also be dangerous. For example, Blacklegged or Deer ticks, which are found in the Northeastern, Southeastern, and Midwestern United States, can carry bacteria that causes Lyme Disease and Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. This is why it is extremely important to combat ticks head on as soon as you discover a bite in your skin. If the next time you come back from a hike, you spot a tick, try the following home remedies.
1. Lemon. Peel lemons or another citrus fruit, like oranges, and boil the peels. Allow the peels to cool and then apply them to the area where the tick has burrowed itself into the skin. The tick should be drawn out in no time, says Home Remedies Care.
2. Onion. Rubbing an onion sliced in half on the tick bite will help the bite heal faster. This is because onion is a powerful antioxidant, according to Tickbites.net.
3. Vaseline. The petroleum in Vaseline will suffocate the tick, causing it to die without causing any further harm to your skin. Vaseline is also safe to use on dogs, according to Home Remedies Care.
4. Coconut oil. According to Home Remedies Care, coconut oil is a natural repellent of mites, fleas, and ticks. Apply coconut oil to the tick bite and watch as the tick falls off. Like Vaseline, coconut oil is safe to use on dogs.
5. Apple cider vinegar. Apple cider vinegar is a cure-all ingredient everyone should keep in his or her household. Not only does it have a variety of health benefits when consumed daily, but it is also effective in reducing skin irritation when applied topically, says Tickbites.net
6. Insect spray. Grandmas Home Remedies recommends spraying a Q-Tip with insect repellent and applying the treated Q-tip directly to the site of the bite. The tick will be so offended, it will crawl out on its own. You can then use a pair of tweezers to pick up the bugger and dispose of him.
7. Mint-lemon-apple cider vinegar potion. This sweet smelling combination is a lethal potion to ticks. Home Remedies Care recommends blending two lemons with 10 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar and 10 mint leaves in warm water. Apply the homemade extract to the tick to remove it.
8. Rosemary. Rosemary is perhaps the best smelling tick removal home remedy. Boil rosemary leaves in water with lemon peels. Rub the solution on the tick bite. The tick should fall off almost immediately, according to Home Remedies Care. As an added benefit, your skin will smell delightful.
Don’t be a victim of ticks this summer! Use these home remedies at the first sign of a tick bite.
Do you have any home remedy solutions for treating tick bites? Tell us and SHARE this article on social media!
RESOURCES PEST WORLD FOR KIDS, HOME REMEDIES CARE, TICKBITES.NET, AND GRANDMAS HOME REMEDIES
Facebook
Prev Article	Next Article
Incredible Nature Copyright © 2019.
About
Contact Us
Privacy Policy