Ways of Treating Depression
Home
What's New!
Share Your Story
Ways of Treating Depression
There are no guaranteed method ways of treating depression, but there are a number of effective treatments that can set patients on the path to recovery. Depression can be very devastating, but it does respond well to treatment. There are three established modes of treatment for how to treat depression and these include psychotherapy, medications and natural therapy.
For individuals with seasonal depression, or seasonal affective disorder, light therapy may be applied. Other people prefer to manage depression through alternative approaches and therapies like acupuncture, yoga, meditation and dietary changes. These treatments may be used individually or in tandem with each other.
THE MOST EFFECTIVE ways of treating DEPRESSION ARE:
Medications
Medication is often used to manage the serious symptoms of depression, however, people suffering from depression have to know how to discern their individual symptoms and come up with ways of coping with them. Using medication prescribed by a physician is one of the methods of managing depression.
When medication is combined with psychotherapy, a very effective form of treatment is conceived.
Medication used to treat depression belong to the class known as antidepressants. They typically take between two and four weeks for their effects to be seen.
Antidepressant medication are typically non-habit forming, however, their use should not be instantly discontinued, as this can lead to the patient experiencing withdrawal symptoms.
Common medication for treating depression include:
1. Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors. These target serotonin, which is a neurotransmitter. They include; Zoloft, Prozac, Celexa, Paxil, among others.
2.Serotonin and norepinephrine re-uptake inhibitors. These target both serotonin and norepinephrine. They include Effexor, Cymbalta, Pristiq, among others.
3. Trycyclic antidepressants. These are rarely used today, for this reason, they are used when other depressants fail. They include; Norpramin, Tofranil, Elavil, among others.
Psychotherapy
If you’re wondering how to treat depression in addition to medication, psychotherapy is quite popular. Psychotherapy is found in several forms including interpersonal therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy. These forms of treatment are short term, as they normally last for approximately 9 to 20 weeks.
Less severe cases of depression can be treated with either psychotherapy or medication alone.Severe depression may require a combination of these treatment options. The treatment options pursued in psychotherapy include:
1. Cognitive behavioral therapy. This enables the patient to alter the negative thinking, as well as the behavior linked to depression while teaching the patients to stop the behaviors that contribute to depression. Changing an individual's behavior can result in an improvement of the thoughts and mood of the patient.
2. Interpersonal therapy. This lays more emphasis on improving the personal relationships that are associated with depression. In this mode of treatment, patients are taught to assess their interactions with other people, as this enables them to recognize self-isolation and the hurdles associated with getting along with others, relating and understanding others.
3. Natural therapy. These include exercise and support from friends and family. Research has proven that exercise is very effective in treating mild depression. Depressive symptoms are reduced by up to 50 percent in individuals who take part in thirty minute anaerobic exercise routines three to five times every week.
Exercise improves the activity of endorphins. These are a group of hormones that are associated with reducing the perception of pain and improving overall mood.
Exercise also stimulates the synthesis and release of norepinephrine. This is a neurotransmitter that is associated with improved mood in people.
Regarding how to treat depression, friends and family can also offer emotional support to an individual suffering from depression. They can also discuss previous episodes of depression, as this enables the patients to recognize the early signs and indicators of a potential episode of depression.
If you find yourself suffering from depression, know that there is help available for you. Whether you go to a counselor, psychiatrist, or psychotherapist, you will be able to work through your problems and your doctor should be able to determine if you are in need of medication or not.
The important thing is that you recognize that you are struggling with depression and understand that depression is quite manageable through medication and therapy.
Enter Your E-mail Address
Enter Your First Name (optional)
Then
Don't worry — your e-mail address is totally secure.
I promise to use it only to send you Help With Depressions.
Learn about Depression
Different Types Of Depression
Social Anxiety
Anxiety and Depression
Bipolar in Children
Depression Symptoms
Depression and Physical Health
Get Help
Depression Quotes
Treating Depression
Social Media
Blog
Tell your story
Health Benefits Of Walking
Knowledge About Depression From Twitter Users
Do I Have Atypical Depression
What is Seasonal Affective Disorder
Recent Articles
NBA Star Opens Up About Depression
NBA star guard opens up about his depression.
Read More
Out of my head
I've been in recovery from my Depression for 2 and half years. I'm better I know I am but, I live with this parlaysing fear that I'll relapse. Every single
Read More
Understanding Male Depression
Depression signs and symptoms can differ in men and women. Men also tend to use different coping skills — both healthy and unhealthy — than women do. It isn't clear why men and women may experience de…
Read More
Home
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
What's New!
This web site is for information and support only. It should NOT be used as a substitute for professional treatment or advice.