Evening Primrose Oil — Noema — We Investigate Organic & Natural Skincare Products
Reviews Ingredient Index Chronicle
Resources
About
Back
All Resources Certifications & Their Definitions Packaging Types & Their Impact How To Choose A 'Good' Product
Back
Our Mission Our Team Help us Request review Contact
ReviewsIngredient IndexChronicle
Resources All Resources Certifications & Their Definitions Packaging Types & Their Impact How To Choose A 'Good' Product About Our Mission Our Team Help us Request review Contact
Evening Primrose Oil
Evening Primrose Oil
— The oil highly influential on hormone stabilisation.
Kat explores they key properties of Evening Promise Oil and how its chemical composition impacts cell function.
✎ Kat Guerrero
Noéma contributor
Oenothera biennis is derived from evening primrose, a delicate goblet-like flower native to North America, Europe and Asia. The oil is extracted from the seeds and contains gamma-linolenic acid, a hearty fatty acid that encourages healthy cell membranes and balanced hormones. The seeds also contain proteins, carbohydrates, minerals and vitamins. You’ll find oenothera biennis in soaps and cosmetics because of its potent hormone strengthening properties that alleviate common skin problems like acne, eczema and psoriasis.
Traditionally, evening primrose was used to treat internal and external illness with potent teas and poultices is Mexico and the United States.
Image via VBACFacts
Properties of this potent flower:
Antioxidant-rich
Evening primrose contains high levels of antioxidants, which neutralise free radicals and minimise excess epidermal oxidation.
Packed with Fatty Acids
You’ll find linoleic acids, y-linolenic acid and omega-6 packed in the extract. Linoleic acid plays a particularly important role in how the skin functions - high levels of linoleic acid ensure the proper functioning of the epidermal tissue. High fatty acids also have a beneficial moisturising effect.
Rich with Omega-6
Our body doesn’t naturally produce Omega-6, an essential fatty acid. Omega-6 helps maintain a normal and healthy cellular structure and provides long-term flexibility. Evening primrose extracts contain
Hormone Balancing
Evening primrose has been linked to balancing hormones and treating hormone-related disorders because of its high gamma-linolenic acid content. The extract is believed to influence oestrogen levels, although further conclusive studies are needed.
Tissue Strengthening
The extracted oil is known to relieve skin conditions such as eczema and atopic dermatitis. High levels of gamma-linolenic acid increase skin moisture, decrease redness and holistically strengthen the epidermis.
Image via Nuori
Our top product picks:
Nuori Perfecting Facial Oil
Susanne Kaufmann Evening Primrose ointment
Share this article —
Thoughts?
Do you use Evening Primrose Oil as part of your routine?
Can you recommend any products with this ingredient included?
Let us know by commenting below.
Do you have a good story to tell?
— Get involved! We’re always on the lookout for new tales. Contact us here.
Habitat, ChronicleNoéma 15 March 2019 Evening Primrose, Oil, Gamma-Linolenic acid, Fatty Acid, Hormone, Acne, Eczema, Psoriasis, Antioxidant, Omega 6
Facebook0 Twitter Pinterest0
Previous
The Ordinary: Why their one ingredient approach has been so popular, but does it work?
Habitat, ChronicleNoéma 17 March 2019 The Ordinary, consumer behaviour
Next
Magnesium Sulphate
Ingredient investigationNoéma 13 March 2019 Ingredient Investigation, Hydration, Hydrating, Dehydrated Skin, Haircare, Skincare, Acne, Balance, pH Balance, Non-Comedogenic, magnesium, magnesium sulphate, epsom salts, Hormone, exfoliant, Anti-inflammatory, muscle relaxant
Join Noéma.
A fortnightly edit of our best, direct to your inbox. No spam.
Email Address
Join us!
Noéma
6/120 Cambridge Street,
Collingwood, VIC, 3066,
Australia
Hours
General
Our mission Our team Contact Us Privacy Policy
Community
Subscribe Contribute Request review Donate
Content sections
Product Reviews Ingredient Index Chronicle Instagram feed
Resources
Certifications & Their Definitions Packaging Types & Their Impact How To Choose A 'Good' Product
Popular searches
Organic Body Care
© Noéma