November | 2014 | Successful Parenting Today
Successful Parenting Today
Our Philosophy
Subscribe to RSS
Archive | November 2014
November 28, 2014
in Health, Parenting
Leave a comment
What Parents Need to Know About Children Suffering from Croup
Nothing is more frightening than seeing your young child struggling to breathe. Particularly for first-time parents, the symptoms associated with croup can seem alarming. Croup is an inflammation of the larynx and trachea that often develops in infants and young children infected with influenza or respiratory viruses. The condition leads to a a barking cough or hoarseness occurring particularly when a child cries.
Treating Croup
Although coughing associated with the condition sounds severe, treating croup is relatively easy. Most croup symptoms are mild and can be treated at home without expensive medications. One of the simplest natural croup remedies involves going outside to breathe cold air. Just dress warmly and sit out for as long as possible. Another way breathe cold air is to drive around with the windows open. In warmer climates, stand in front of the freezer for as long as possible.
Treating Croup With Steam
Possibly the most commonly used remedy for treating croup is steam. Experienced parents often take babies or toddlers with croup into a bathroom, close the door and fully turn on the shower with the hottest possible water and let steam fill the room. Often a good shot of humidity is all that is needed to start reversing croup. Sit with the child on your lap for reassurance and let the shower run for 20 to 30 minutes, or until the hot water runs out. When breathing improves, take your child back to his or her bedroom and run a cold vapor humidifier to continue supply water to the air to ease breathing. To make these croup remedies more effective, you can make a tent with sheets to place over the child’s bed to concentrate the humidity.
Other home remedies treating croup include placing warm compresses on the chest. If possible, include essential oils such as eucalyptus or peppermint, which are important for opening airways. Mix with a carrier oil and apply to the compress. Note that peppermint oil should not be used with children younger than two. Essential oils of cinnamon, thyme and clove may also be used in a steam tent, while elderberry syrup is good for general immunity and upper respiratory support.
Advertisements
November 25, 2014
in Health
Leave a comment
Hurry To Register For The 2015 New Jersey Unite Half Marathon
Do you want to be a part of the incredible experience at Rutgers University? This spring the Unite Rutgers Half Marathon will be taking place at Rutgers University, and you will finish the race with thousands of fans cheering as you cross the finish line on College Avenue. This New Jersey Half Marathon is taking place on April 12th 2015, so it is important to register quickly. To keep the event going 750 volunteers are needed, and when you volunteer CGI Racing offers runners the opportunity to volunteer in exchange for a free race but there are a limited amount of slots. The race itself has generally a very flat course, so everyone can be a part of this experience. Once you have completed the race CGI Racing gives runners a bunch of commemorative perks. You will receive a shirt, coffee cup, finishing medal, free training plans, and groups with 20 or more will receive a free finish line festival tent. So what are you waiting for? Register now so you can be a part of this amazing experience!
Would You Like To See Last Year’s Experience? Watch The Video Below:
Are You Wanting To Register For The Unite Rutgers Half Marathon? To Register And For More Information Follow The Banner Below:
November 25, 2014
in Health, Parenting
Leave a comment
Milk, Hormones and Children
There are so many concerns that a parent has anymore when it comes to deciding what to feed your children; it seems like every day in the United States we parents hear scary talk about how bad the quality of food is in the U.S., and how hidden ingredients can make your child or even you sick. One of those ingredients causing a stir is the use of growth hormones in dairy cows, which may be found in the milk we give our kids to drink. Today, we are going to briefly touch on this subject…
Growth Hormone in Cow’s Milk
Growth hormone is found in cow’s milk. Cows are often given synthetic recombinant bovine growth hormone, which is an artificial type of growth hormone to help them produce more milk. There is also a naturally-occurring growth hormone in milk. However, many people today are concerned about the synthetic type of growth hormone. Parents are also concerned about insulin-like growth factor-1, which is increased in a cow that receives recombinant bovine growth hormone. Insulin-like growth factor-1 is not absorbed in the intestines.
Milk and the Onset of Early Puberty
One of the reasons parents are concerned about the hormones in milk is because claims have been made saying the hormones are the reason children today are beginning puberty earlier. This is a phenomenon known as precocious puberty. However, pediatricians believe obesity is the main reason children today are starting puberty earlier.
There have also been studies done to debunk the theory that hormones in milk can lead to early puberty in children. It is important to note growth hormone is not the same as steroid hormones, such as estrogen. Growth hormone is a protein hormone. It is mostly destroyed by pasteurization and digestion. Children who are of short stature often receive growth hormone. Growth hormone injection do not cause early puberty.
Artificial Growth Hormones in Milk and Cancer
There has also been concerns raised about the artificial growth hormone in milk and cancer risk. Some claim artificial growth hormone can increase the risk of prostate cancer and breast cancer. However, there have been studies done to disprove this belief also.
Alternatives to Milk with rBST
Despite the fact that research has proven the health concerns about hormones in milk are overblown, there are still many people who want to avoid consuming any milk with artificial hormones. There are many ways you can avoid milk with artificial growth hormone. You can look for milk that has been labeled rBST-free, which can be found at just about any grocery store. You can also buy organic milk because it is free of artificial hormones. Furthermore, there are many alternatives to cow’s milk that are rich in vitamin D and calcium. Almond milk, soy milk and coconut milk are some of the types of milk people can try instead of cow’s milk. Simply be aware of chemicals and other toxins in food sources today, and be extra vigilant of what you and your family are purchasing from the grocery store and eating.
November 22, 2014
in Family, Parenting
2 Comments
Common Worries Teens Have and How Parents Can Address Them
The teenage years can be a difficult time for adolescents and their parents. When you understand teen issues, you can help your son or daughter. The main issues teens tend to worry about include school, body image, stress, depression, and their families. As teen worries do not simply disappear, parents need to take an active approach.
Communicating With Your Teen
First, strive for open communication with your teen. Let him know he can always come to you if he has a question or a problem. If you sense something is wrong, but he does not approach you, do not hesitate to bring up the subject. Do not be judgmental. The goal is communication, not confrontation.
Praise the Positive
Second, use praise frequently but wisely. Your teen needs to know his accomplishments are appreciated, but he also needs to know that he is appreciated. Take every opportunity to let him know you love, accept, and appreciate him. Hugs and smiles can be as encouraging as words.
Mistakes Can Be Lessons
Third, express confidence and trust in your teenager. Assist him when he needs help, but allow him to make mistakes. Help him understand a mistake does not mean he is a failure. He can become stronger and more self-reliant. Letting your teen know you trust and believe in him can strengthen his self-confidence and help him make good decisions.
Avoid Labels
Fourth, do not label your teen. Negative labels can destroy his self-confidence. If you want him to do his best, positive messages are the most useful approach.
Sometimes You Will Need Help
Fifth, do not hesitate to seek outside help if it becomes necessary. Teen worries that appear minor to parents can sometimes be too much for a teen to cope with, even with a parent’s assistance. In addition to basic teen issues, your teen may also be struggling with a mental health problem or substance abuse. Professional help can lead to a happier, healthier life for your teenager.
Many teenagers today struggle with everyday life. Attention, affection, and guidance from a parent can make a difference. Your teen can get through these years with the least amount of difficulty, and have a solid foundation for his adult life.
November 20, 2014
in Family, Health
Leave a comment
Defend Against Cold and Flu Season by Boosting Your Child’s Immune System
Children have weaker immune systems, so they are more prone to developing the cold or flu. Fortunately, an immunity boost can help prevent your children from getting sick. Below are some tips that can help boost your child’s immune system:
Make Sure Your Child Gets Plenty Of Sleep
Sleeping is one of the simplest things that can be done to ward off the cold and flu. Sleep helps heal and restore the body. It is nearly impossible for the immune system to properly function without the right amount of sleep. That is why it is important for children to go bed at a reasonable time every night. It will be a lot easier for your children to get sufficient sleep if they go to bed and get up around the same time every day.
Drink Plenty Of Fluids
Drinking fluids helps support all of the functions in the body, and that includes the immune system. You should make sure your child drinks plenty of fluids throughout the day. In addition to water, your child can also drink broths and soups that are made with fresh vegetables.
However, your child will need to avoid sweetened beverages. Sweetened beverages can suppress the immune system.
Limit Intake Of Sugar
Sugary foods can suppress the immune system for hours after they are ingested. That is why you should limit your child’s intake of sugary foods. Not only should your child avoid desserts and sweet treats, but they should also avoid refined grains and white flour. Those types of foods are converted into sugar.
Regular Exercise
Exercise is just as important for kids as it is for adults. Children need to engage in at least 60 minutes of physical activity per day. Regular exercise helps boost the immune system.
Vitamin D Supplements
Vitamin D supplements are a great solution for people who are looking for a kids immune boost. Studies have shown that supplementing with vitamin D can cut the risk of colds and the flu by up to 42 percent. However, you may want to consult with your children’s doctor before giving them a vitamin D supplement.
Tips For Guitar For Kids
Search for:
Recent Posts
How to Teach Your Kids Their Address and Phone Number
How Having a Baby Can Affect Your Relationship
How to Determine if Your Newborn Son Should Be Circumcised or Not
Tips to Help Get Through the First Day of Day Care
Tips For Caring For Your Partner When She Is Pregnant
Archives
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
November 2012
October 2012
Categories
Addiction
After School Programs
Allergies
Caregivers
College Students
Cooking
cooking tips
Drugs and Alcohol
Education
Family
Grandparenting
Guitar Tips
Health
hobbies
Home
Homeschooling
Kids
Moms
Newborns
Parenting
Parents
Pregnancy
Single Parents
Teens
Uncategorized
Advertisements
Successful Parenting Today
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy