The Best Athlete's Foot Spray | 4 Sprays Reviewed 2018 - Best Beauty Haven
Home
Product Reviews
Foot Care Tips
You are here:
Home »
Product Reviews
» The Best Athlete’s Foot Spray | 4 Sprays Reviewed 2018
Follow Us
twitter
google
pinterest
facebook
youtube
Recent Reviews
6 Best Foot Massagers to Soothe Your Tired, Aching Feet
Best Foot File for 2018 (Electric and Handheld)
Best Foot Peel Masks for Dry, Rough Feet (2018 Reviews)
O’Keeffe’s for Healthy Feet Foot Cream
Best Foot Cream Reviews (2018)
Recent Posts
8 Foot Care Tips to Soothe Sore Tired Feet
How To Prevent and Restore Dry, Cracked Feet (2018 Guide)
What is the Best Treatment for Athletes Foot? (Ultimate Guide)
Athletes Foot Powder Versus Cream
Can You Use Athletes Foot Cream For Ringworm?
The Best Athlete’s Foot Spray | 4 Sprays Reviewed 2018
June 11, 2018
/ Product Reviews
If you’re looking for an alternative to athlete’s foot cream or powder, you may want to consider athlete’s foot spray. Sprays are convenient because they can be easily applied to the areas infected with athlete’s foot without having to touch the infected areas.
In the following sections, we’ll discuss advantages of some of the best athlete’s foot sprays and provide reviews of a few specific brands.
What Is Athlete’s Foot?
You can skip ahead if you’re already familiar with athlete’s foot. For those new to the condition, we thought it might be useful to go over some basics.
Athlete’s foot, medically known as “tinea pedis,” is a common condition that anyone can contract—not just athletes. A contagious fungal infection that thrives in warm, moist areas like gyms and pools.
Athlete’s foot is a form of ringworm that usually affects the bottom of the feet and between the toes. However, it can spread to other parts of the body as well, including the fingernails.
When treated immediately, the condition is not usually serious. However, when left untreated, the infection can spread to more visible parts of the body and lead to painful blisters—not to mention stinky feet!
The good news is that the treatment procedure is simple.
How?
You can clear up the condition easily by learning how to apply athlete’s foot spray and other remedies to the affected areas.
Signs and Symptoms of Athlete’s Foot
Signs and symptoms of athlete’s foot can vary, but common ones to look out for include:
Inflammation of the affected area
Scaly red rash
Itchiness
Stinging or burning sensation in between the toes
Dry, flaky patches of skin on the soles and sides of the feet
Blisters and sores, especially on the soles of the feet
Toenails that pull away from the nail bed
One of the best ways to prevent athlete’s foot altogether is to avoid sharing towels, razors, shoes, or socks.
Also, when your feet become sweaty, such as after the gym or during the summer, change into dry socks as soon as possible so fungi do not have a breeding ground to reproduce.
In addition, do not walk around barefoot at the gym or pool.
What Is the Benefit of Using Athlete’s Foot Spray?
You’re probably wondering what the benefit of athlete’s foot spray is compared to other types of treatments like over-the-counter creams, lotions, and DIY natural remedies like foot soaks.
The primary benefit of spray products is that they are less messy to apply and they provide quicker results. Also, sprays do not require you to touch the infection which helps prevent it from spreading.
While sprays do not provide the added benefit of moisture absorption like powders do, there are some decent combination powder-spray products available on the market.
Active Ingredients Found in Athlete’s Foot Sprays
Athlete’s foot sprays and other products generally contain one of several key antifungal ingredients. Here is a quick look at the active ingredients in the four products. We will review in more depth later in the article:
Tea Tree Oil. Born to Nurture Antifungal Spray contains tea tree oil, which is a natural antifungal agent ideal for those seeking a chemical-free product.
Tolnaftate. Tinactin Antifungal Liquid Spray contains tolnaftate, a common antifungal medication found in many mainstream products used for athlete’s foot and other types of ringworm.
Terbinafine Hydrochloride. Lamisil Athlete’s Foot Antifungal Spray contains terbinafine hydrochloride, one of the most highly regarded and effective ingredients for treating athlete’s foot.
Miconazole Nitrate. Lotrimin Antifungal Liquid Spray contains miconazole nitrate, a common antifungal medication used for athlete’s foot and other types of ringworm, as well as another skin condition called pityriasis that causes lightening or darkening of the skin.
How Do You Apply Athlete’s Foot Spray?
It is imperative that you read product instructions before applying medication.
Recommended dosage and frequency of application can differ widely depending on the ingredients in the product. For example, products containing terbinafine often only require one week of usage while other products recommend application over the span of several weeks.
In general, sprays tend to work more quickly than creams or powders.
Can You Use Athlete’s Foot Sprays for Jock Itch or Ringworm?
With many products, you can use athlete’s foot spray to treat jock itch and other types of ringworm. Because the types of fungi that cause these conditions are often the same or similar, the active ingredients in most athlete’s foot medications can treat a variety of fungal infections.
However, it is always important to read the fine print since certain products may not be suitable for use on certain parts of the body, particularly the groin area!
Powder-spray products are also available which provide the added benefit of moisture absorption.
2018 Athlete’s Foot Spray Reviews
Here is our take on four of the best athlete’s foot sprays available on the market today.
Tinactin Antifungal Liquid Spray
Tinactin Antifungal Liquid Spray is one of the most highly recommended products by athletic trainers.
Not only does it kill the fungus that causes athlete’s foot, but it also relieves feet from itching, burning and cracking.
The product also comes in cream, powder, and combination powder spray.
Key Benefits:
Clear liquid leaves no powder residue
Treats athlete’s foot easily in hard-to-reach places
Treats ringworm also
Bottom Line:
Since this formula is a clear liquid, it doesn’t cake or leave a white residue which is a plus. Many users prefer this compared to powder because it not as messy.
The spray is a bit cold and wet but this disappears quickly. Many users comment that this product stops itching, burning and clears up any fungal infections quickly. Most report that it works great!
The biggest complaint is that the plastic cap is difficult to utilize or re-close.
Lamisil Athlete’s Foot Antifungal Spray
Formulated with the highly effective terbinafine hydrochloride as its main active ingredient, Lamisil Athlete’s Foot Antifungal Spray cures most cases of athlete’s foot in just one week when used as directed.
The product also provides effective relief from symptoms like itchiness, dryness, and cracking. Lamisil’s spray powder is also a popular choice among consumers.
Key Benefits:
Relieves itching, burning, cracking and scaling symptoms caused by athlete’s foot
Treats jock itch and ringworm
Cures most athlete’s foot with one week of treatment, active ingredient -Terbinafine hydrochloride 1%
Bottom Line:
The spray is nice because you can control the direction and intensity. Many users comment that it works very well and is a great topical antifungal without a prescription.
Users spray it on their toenails as well to get rid of any toenail fungus. One of the few complaints was that the liquid tends to run off the skin.
Lotrimin Deodorant Powder Spray
Clinically proven to cure most cases of athlete’s foot through its powerful miconazole nitrate solution, Lotrimin Antifungal Liquid Spray gets the job done.
Lotrimin also offers a variety of other antifungal products specifically formulated to treat conditions like jock itch and ringworm. Like other popular brands, Lotrimin’s antifungal medication also comes in cream, powder and powder spray formulas.
Key Benefits
Provides effective relief from itching, burning, cracking, scaling and discomfort
Available in three different types of sprays- liquid, powder, and deodorant powder
Treats athlete’s foot easily in hard-to-reach places such as between the toes
Bottom Line:
This product contains Miconazole Nitrate which is pretty effective in treating fungal infections. Many users say it works well in clearing their Athlete’s Foot. It dries as a powder so you can also use it in your shoes to prevent fungal infections. Many consumers like that it controls foot odor.
For a few users, this medication didn’t work well for their infection. However, you’ll find that this is the case for all the medications available over the counter. All in all, if you have foot odor and are dealing with a fungal infection, this treatment does work for most users.
Born to Nurture Antifungal Spray
Formulated with tea tree oil, black cumin, and other essential oils, as well as 190+ bioactive ingredients, Born to Nurture Antifungal Spray is a natural, chemical-free product that effectively fights fungi in addition to bacteria and viruses.
The spray is not tested on animals, and it is made in the USA. Born to Nurture also makes a complementary antifungal soap.
Key Benefits:
Free from harmful chemicals and not tested on animals
Gentle and non-irritating on sensitive skin
Combats ringworm, jock itch, athletes foot and other skin conditions
Bottom Line:
If you have sensitive skin or just want to use a product that is natural, you may want to give Born to Nurture a try. Most users were very pleased with how it relieved itching and burning. It has a minty, refreshing scent which some people liked. On the other hand, a few didn’t like the smell but it does dissipate quickly.
As with all the products we reviewed, it didn’t work well for a few users. Overall, if you are looking for an effective, natural product, it may be worth a try.
Summary
Don’t let athlete’s foot or other fungal infections get you down. There are lots of low cost, easy-to-use products available to relieve symptoms and cure your condition quickly!
Leave a Comment:
Name *
E-Mail *
Website Comment
Add Your Reply
Name *
E-Mail *
Website Comment
Important Information
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
twitter
google
pinterest
facebook
youtube
Categories
Foot Care Tips
General
Product Reviews
Disclaimer
Some recommended products may use affiliate links. BestBeautyHaven.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Amazon and the Amazon logo are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc or its affiliates.
Copyright 2018 by Best Beauty Haven.