7 Natural Remedies for Migraines
Skip to main content
Store
MENUMENU
Latest News
Latest News
Popular
GMOs & Pesticides
Health Politics
Good News
Environment
Marijuana
Judge Cancels Roundup Trials, Brings in ‘Neutral Third Party’ for Resolution
Doctors Find 4 Sweat Bees in Woman’s Eyes, Living Off of Her Tears
Listeria Concerns Prompt Avocado Recall in 6 States
Healthy Living
Healthy Living
Popular
Food & Diet
Fitness
Mind & Body
Weight Loss
Detoxing
Want to Naturally Crave Healthy Foods? Try This
Could Going Mostly Vegetarian Relieve Acid Reflux?
Study Suggests that a Coffee-Infused Heart is a Healthy Heart
Home Remedies
Natural Medicine
Popular
Hemorrhoids
Strep Throat
Gout
Teeth Whitening
Gum Disease
Kidney Cleanse
Heartburn Drugs Linked to Early Death – How to Safely Find Relief
6 of the Best Natural Remedies for Arthritis
Kidney Cleanse: 22 Foods for Kidney Health
Food as Medicine
Food as Medicine
Popular
Importance of MAGNESIUM
Dates
Chamomile Tea
Black Cumin (Nigella Sativa)
Nettle Tea
Sesame Seeds and Sesame Oil
Recent Posts
11+ Reported Health Benefits of Basil Seeds
Ancient Medicine: Black Seed Oil’s 21 Powerful Health Benefits
6 Little Known Reasons to Eat Cantaloupe this Season
Health Science
Health Science
Popular Topics
“Three-Parent” Baby has Been Born in Greece, Making Medical History
Scientists Sound the Alarm over Spread of Drug-Resistant Fungus
Obesity may be the Cause of Increasing Cancer Rates in Millennials
Search for:
7 Natural Remedies for Migraines
By Susan Patterson
Posted On November 25, 2012
Those who suffer from migraine headaches are more than familiar with the debilitating pain that ensues when one strikes. While there are numerous OTC and prescription drugs available to combat the pain, some people would rather choose a more natural approach. Natural remedies for migraines aren’t accompanied by the same side effects that drugs have, and are often used for prevention rather than treatment. A healthy diet, herbal therapy and whole food supplements are natural options available to migraine sufferers; here are some tips for preventing and treating migraines naturally.
1. Natural Remedies for Migraines – Avoid Processed Foods
Many processed foods contain artificial sweeteners and preservatives that are known to trigger migraine headaches in some people. A common preservative, monosodium glutamate (MSG), is just one of many preservatives that have been found to cause severe reactions including migraine headaches.
In 2002, the FDA reported 92 cases of aspartame toxicity. The artificial sweetener was taken off the market due to reported side effects, but eventually allowed to be sold again even after the reported incidence. Other artificial sweeteners such as Splenda have also been reported to have caused adverse side effects, including headaches. Sucralose, the chemical name for Splenda, is actually responsible for a variety of ailments, giving a clear answer to the question: Is Splenda safe?
Limiting processed and fast foods as much as possible and using natural sweeteners such as honey and stevia may reduce the chance of having a reaction and a painful migraine headache.
2. Avoid Certain Foods
Some people experience migraine headaches after they consume certain foods. Among these foods are caffeinated drinks, alcohol, chocolate, peanuts, grains with gluten and dairy products. Switching to a very simple plant-based diet and introducing the suspected foods one at a time helps to sort out which foods are causing the headaches.
3. Lavender Therapy
Lavender has long been used by herbalists to treat a wide variety of conditions including insomnia, post surgery pain, anxiety, fungal infections and headaches. Migraine sufferers experience increased inflammation in blood vessels and spasms in the neck and eye muscles. Lavender acts as an analgesic and reduces inflammation in those that suffer from migraines. Lavender treatments can be administered in any number of ways including inhalation therapy, dried flower sachets, teas or hot packs.
4. Butterbur
Butterbur is an herb used commonly for pain. Acting as a beta-blocker, this medicinal plant controls blood pressure, reducing inflammation and stabilizes blood flow to the brain. Because some butterbur treatments contain chemicals (pyrrolizidine alkaloids) which can cause damage to the liver, it is important to choose only products that are certified and carry a “PA-free” label.
5. Lemongrass – Other Herbal Remedies
Although less implemented among natural remedies for migraines, herbal remedies have great potential in treating headaches or even migraines. Scientists from Griffith University found that Australian Lemon Grass (Cymbopogon Ambiguus) has been used for an untold number of years by indigenous Australians as traditional medicine, and with good reason. They say the effects of the plant could be as “good as aspirin when it comes to treating headaches,” only this is one of many herbal remedies for headaches without the side-effects associated with OTC medication.
6. Tryptophan Therapy
Tryptophan is an amino acid that simulates the brain to produce dopamine which releases serotonin. Serotonin elevates moods, relaxes the small muscles around the capillaries in the scalp, and reduces tension and anxiety. Consuming a high quality tryptophan supplement is the best way to get more of this helpful amino acid.
7. Herbal Pain Relief Tea
There are other herbs that are beneficial in the treatment of migraines including, peppermint, cayenne pepper and ginger. Ginger is especially useful to combat the nausea that often accompanies migraine headaches. To use the 3 herbs together in tea as a natural pain reliever, mix a one inch piece of ginger with a teaspoon of dried peppermint and a pinch of cayenne in boiling water. Allow the mixture to seep for 15 minutes before drinking. Sweeten only with honey or stevia.
Looking for more natural remedies for migraines? Check out some other home remedies for headaches.
Additional Sources:
Fox News
LiveStrong
Huffington Post
Sweet Poison
Relieve-Migraine-Headache
UMM
6 responses to “7 Natural Remedies for Migraines”
Tawna says:
August 9, 2013 at 1:07 pm
I also suffer from headaches and refuse to use any of the over the counter medications. I have found that peppermint oil is a really great way to release the tension around the temples and back of the neck. I keep it on my desk and in my purse to breathe in when I feel the denseness of the headache coming on. It also works well in an infuser to fill the air in your home.
Reply
Penny says:
November 26, 2012 at 2:18 am
I am surprised to see that magnesium wasn't mentioned. I don't have migraines myself, but I've told migraine suffers that magnesium is supposed to help and received reports back that it does. There's lots of online info available if one searches migraines and magnesium. I believe I've read that the modern diet leaves many magnesium deficient, which would explain why so many of us have migraines. Here's links to a couple of studies: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8792038, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9523054
Reply
Marisa says:
November 25, 2012 at 5:20 pm
Thanks, Cathy, for the natural preventive suggestion.
Another natural preventive course of action is acupuncture, which has worked well for me. After seeing my acupuncturist, I would be migraine free for almost a year. Once I started getting them again, I would go back for another treatment. One time it took two treatments to keep the migraines from reoccurring, but usually this wasn't the case.
Dr. Oz recently recommended the herb Feverfew as a natural anti-inflammatory, but I haven't tried it yet.
Reply
wsx says:
November 25, 2012 at 4:07 pm
This link goes blank after a few seconds.
Reply
Cathy says:
November 25, 2012 at 1:28 pm
I have used 400mg magnesium citrate and 50mg B6 daily to very good effect to help with migraines. I also make sure I eat meals regularly and avoid foods that trigger the migraines for me. I have reduced the events from 1-2 weekly to 2-3 yearly by doing this for the past few years.
Reply
Jacob says:
November 25, 2012 at 11:20 am
Appreciate this article on migraines as I suffer from them myself. Thanks!
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Website
Newsletter
Featured Product
Essential Survival Tools
The Scrubba™ Wash Bag
More Trending News
The Numbers on Plastic Bottles: What do Plastic Recycling Symbols Mean?
Colorado House to Pass Forced Vaccination Bill: One of 18 States Pushing Corporate Drugs
16 Magnesium Deficiency Symptoms – Signs of Low Magnesium Levels
Health Benefits of Dates – Promoting Heart, Brain, and Digestive Health
Home
About
Contact
Store