anxiety Archives | Nootropics Hacks
Home
Nootropics
Nootropics Guide
About
Search
Menu
Posts
Three Compounds for Managing Any Crisis
July 18, 2016 /in Uncategorized /by
Crisis-induced stress is something that varies in degrees. For some, this stress is brought on by having to figure out how to pay a bill on time. For others, crisis-induced stress might mean exactly that, as in the 1962 confrontation between the United States of America and the Soviet Union known as the Cuban Missile Crisis. This stand-off was made up of 13 days of tense negotiations that would decide the fates of millions, if not the entire world itself.
Even though the people negotiating the terms of their agreement knew that the threat of a thermonuclear showdown was unacceptable, their task was still a challenging one. They would have to work together under that looming danger, and, no matter the size of the threat, people can and do make terrible decisions under pressure [1].
Fortunately for us, they managed to navigate those waters, but we’re not always so lucky under pressure, so how can we fix the odds a bit more heavily in our favor?
3 Compounds for Managing Any Crisis
Theacrine
Theacrine is an alkaloid found in the Cupuacu fruit species and a Chinese tea called kudingcha, or kucha. This compound is used for a number of reasons including reducing stress while it simultaneously increases motivation and focus. Participants in one study rated theacrine higher at increasing their attention, alertness, focus, and energy levels than caffeine did, while their lethargy and grogginess values were also notably lower [2].
Maybe the best part of theacrine is the fact that, unlike its counterpart caffeine, there is no tachyphylaxis, even after eight weeks of continuous use. This is important to note, because the tachyphylactic response is basically a decreased reaction to a compound given over a period of time, requiring larger and larger doses to achieve the same effect. So, unlike caffeine, which requires higher dosages over time, theacrine causes no tolerance and it should remain effective for as long as you need [3].
Alpha-GPC
If you’re constantly distracted — probably because you’d rather be doing anything than the work or study assignment you should be doing — Alpha-GPC is your supplement.
Alpha-GPC (Alpha-glycerophosphocholine) is a cholinergic compound and it has proven very effective at controlling impulsiveness and increasing self-control [4, 5], while displaying the ability to increase focus and motivation [6]
Alpha-GPC is also fantastic to supplement with when you would like to improve your mood and reduce stress since it releases GABA (an amino acid found in the body that has a calming effect) [7], and its supplementation increases the body’s natural levels of dopamine and serotonin – two neurotransmitters that have a big impact on improving mood [8].
Emoxypine Succinate
Emoxypine Succinate is a newer nootropic with that doesn’t behave like other nootropics — it doesn’t alter neurotransmitters to prevent neurological decline. Instead, emoxypine, also known as Mexidol and Mexifin, neutralizes free radicals that contribute to neurological decline [9]. But that’s not why it made this list. Emoxypine is a great choice for crunch time because it offers something a lot of calming compounds don’t – relief from situational anxiety [10]. Based on that finding, it seems safe to assume emoxypine will be perfectly suited to those crisis situations that trigger an anxiety all their own.
Fortunately, the Cuban Missile Crisis is over, so you won’t have to make any decisions quite that big, but, for those situations you do have to manage, this stack will help you figure it all out with a clear, stress-free head.
Sources
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK219168/
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26610558
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26766930
http://ajp.psychiatryonline.org/article.aspx?articleid=175211
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20428999
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21156078
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8726961
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16739923
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12056134
http://nootropicshacks.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/logo-new-300x76.png 0 0 http://nootropicshacks.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/logo-new-300x76.png 2016-07-18 15:24:032016-07-18 15:28:33Three Compounds for Managing Any Crisis
Best Nootropics for Anxiety
April 16, 2013 /1 Comment/in Uncategorized /by Phillip Johnson
Anxiety is an important part of human physiology and in many ways is what keeps us from living an accident prone disastrous lifestyle. A natural way of our body telling us we are in a potentially dangerous or harmful situation anxiety is a necessary response that promotes longevity in human life. With all that said; anxiety is often associated with stress and is generally seen in a negative light in most circles. The true villain here is “over-anxiety” and the body’s physical response which can include an increase in perspiration and heartbeat. If we were anxiety free all the time we would be much more likely to engage in dangerous and potentially life threatening activities that would greatly hamper our life expectancy. So, why am I telling you all of this and how can we use nootropics to curb intense anxiety that may constrain our lives?
Nootropics are often used to enhance memory and improve cognitive function but they have also been shown to have anti-anxiety and stress reducing properties. Specifically there are certain nootropics that when taking in conjunction work synergistically to achieve this desired effect. There are a number of nootropics available that can alleviate anxiety and in many cases a trial and error method of experimentation may be required to find the optimal solution for your needs.
Nootropics for Anxiety
In this analysis of anti-anxiety nootropics we will take a look at a few different nootropic options including theanine, GABA, 5-htp, bacopa, and rhodiola. Theanine is the only nootropic that has the ability to simultaneously increase serotonin and GABA levels, both of which are associated with lowering anxiety levels. Alternatively direct GABA supplementation is more effective in raising GABA levels and 5-htp or bacopa can be more effective in raising serotonin levels. So, if you are looking for a one and done solution theanine seems to be your best option. Rhodiola is one of the only nootropics that specifically halts the breakdown of serotonin in the brain and has shown a significant effectiveness in research, therefore I suggest supplementing with rhodiola in addition to other nootropics in most cases. A combination of rhodiola and either 5-htp (a naturally occurring anti-anxiety and stress reducing amino acid) or bacopa (an herb that has shown to increase serotonin in the brain) is recommended for the best anti-anxiety results with nootropics.
While this recommended combination/stack has shown to be effective and is a good starting point, the topic of nootropics is notorious for being uncharted territory and should be approached with that in mind. This means that one should always pay attention to your body’s individual response and conduct personal research on a supplement or supplements before consuming them.
Nootropic supplementation can be an exciting and often very effective method of attaining your desired results in your personal health related goals. Always pay attention to your products packaging and label information for dosing guidelines and it is recommended you consult a doctor before implementing nootropics in to your daily routine.
Sources
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12467378
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11498727
http://nootropicshacks.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/logo-new-300x76.png 0 0 Phillip Johnson http://nootropicshacks.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/logo-new-300x76.png Phillip Johnson2013-04-16 10:28:302017-10-29 16:04:49Best Nootropics for Anxiety
Page 1 of 212
NootropicsHacks is a blog devoted to providing firsthand accounts of Nootropic use, new nootropics and delivering groundbreaking Nootropic news to our engaged followers.
Meet the Authors →
Google+
Recent Posts
Afobazole: My Experience
Sulbutiamine Dosage, Description, and Experiences
Noopept vs Pramiracetam
CDP Choline vs Alpha GPC and Choline Bitartrate
Caffeine Extraction 101
Top Posts
Aniracetam Review: Side Effects, Benefits, and Dosage
5-HTP for Weight Loss and Better Sleep
A Not So Basic Preworkout
A Review of Nootropics Use in Sports
Adrafinil Dosage, Benefits and Side Effects Reviewed
ALCAR Benefits
Alpha GPC Powder : The Superior Choline Source
Alpha GPC Dosage and Benefits
Arginine for Immune System Health
Artichoke Extract And Forskolin Induced LTP
Ashwagandha: Strength of a Horse with Peace of Mind
Benefits of Sulbutiamine and Caffeine Nootropic Combo
Centrophenoxine and Piracetam Combo and Dosage
Centrophenoxine Review
Chasing the PEA Dragon: An Uncomfortable Euphoria
Custom Acetylcholine Enhancing Stack
DHEA as a Nootropic
DMAE Dosage, Benefits and Experiences
Falling Asleep with Melatonin Supplements
GABA for Sleep and Better Rest
GABA vs. Phenibut—Which Actually Affects the Body’s GABA More?
Galantamine for Lucid Dreaming
How Much GABA Should You Take for Sleep?
How to Increase Focus and Memory: Pramiracetam
My Theanine and Caffeine Experience
New to Nootropics? Information to Get You Started
Noopept and Exercise
Noopept and Megadosing
Noopept Review: Tolerance, Dosage, and Effects
Noopept vs Pramiracetam
Nootropic Showdown: 5-HTP vs L-Theanine
Omega-3 Fish Oil for Boosting Mood
PEA and Hordenine Combo
Phenibut: Nootropic or Not?
Piracetam Powder: How to Take Nootropic Powders
Piracetam Powder: Round 1
Piracetam, Noopept, Theanine and Caffeine: Hack your Brain for Increased Productivity
Powerful Anxiolytic Nootropic Combo: Rhodiola Rosea and Piracetam Supplement Stack
Pramiracetam Review: Pramiracetam Powder vs Other Stimulants
Choline Bitartrate Benefits and Dosage Reviewed
Shilajit: The Super Supplement
Sulbutiamine Dosage, Description, and Experiences
Sulbutiamine Review: My Uneventful yet Hopeful Experience
Hordenine and PEA (Phenylethylamine) Supplements
Interesting links
Here are some interesting links for you! Enjoy your stay :)
Pages
Aniracetam
Beginner’s Guide to Nootropics
Caffeine Anhydrous
Nootropics
Phenibut Effects
Russian Nootropics: Learn about Noopept and its Benefits
Write for Us
About
Categories
Uncategorized
Archive
December 2017
November 2017
August 2016
July 2016
April 2016
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
© Copyright - Nootropics Hacks - Enfold Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top