bmwultimatemisery.com – Page 2
bmwultimatemisery.com
Home
Primary Menu
Home
How to Treat a Burn
Whether you have poured hot scalding water over yourself or accidentally touched the hot oven rack in the kitchen you will know how painful burns can be. In fact burns are a common injury that can destroy the skin and cause immense pain. While minor burns will generally heal on its own with little care, second degree and third degree burns are usually severe and can result in serious complications. It is therefore best to seek medical attention immediately when suffering from serious burn injuries. If however you are suffering from minor burns then you can take certain steps to treat them yourself before seeking medical help.
Difficulty Level
Moderately difficult
Instructions
Place the affected area under cool flowing water. Once an area is burnt, the heat spreads to the surrounding tissues quickly thus damaging these areas as well. It is therefore important to cool the skin as soon as possible. If you cannot find running water then use cold water compresses to treat the area. Do not apply ice directly over the burns as it can lead to nerve damage and frostbite.
Once you have poured water over the burn assess its severity. While first degree burns are usually minor resulting in red and inflammation of the outer skin layer along with some peeling, second degree burns destroy the second layer of the skin causing painful blisters and swelling. Third degree burns are quite severe leading to charring of the skin tissues and the destruction of the nerve endings. Assessing the nature of the burns helps in the providing the necessary medical treatment.
To treat a first degree or minor burn, spread on some cooling aloe vera gel or apply cold milk compress on the burn after cleaning it properly. The allantoin in the aloe vera helps in treating the burns faster. You can also apply an antibiotic burn cream that prevents the chances of an infection.
Dress the affected area with sterile pieces of gauze dressing. This will allow the burnt area to breathe while protecting it from infections. Analgesics and other pain relievers can help with the pain. If there are any blisters then do not pop it as it can lead to the spread of the infection. Avoid the use of greasy butters and oils on the affected area.
If it is a major burn then seek medical help immediately. Do not try to remove any clothes that re stuck to the affected area. Instead use cold compresses to reduce the temperatures.
Reference:
Burns (First Aid): Get the Facts on Treating Burns – MedicineNet
Burns: First aid – Mayo Clinic
6-09-2016 | Comments Off on How to Treat a Burn
10 Ways to Kill Your Cravings: How to Overcome Food Cravings
Dieting would be oh so easy if it weren’t for those pesky cravings! Luckily, there are many things you can do to make cravings a thing of the past. Put down your fork, step away from the snacks and check out these 10 tips for beating your cravings.
Dieting would be oh so easy if it weren’t for those pesky cravings! Luckily, there are many things you can do to make cravings a thing of the past. Put down your fork, step away from the snacks and check out these 10 tips for beating your cravings.
Kill your cravings, tip 1: Address any deficiencies
If you experience regular, intense cravings for particular foods, it may be that you are suffering from a nutritional deficiency which your body is trying to address. It is believed that chocolate cravings can stem from a magnesium deficiency, while a lack of chromium in the diet can lead to sugar cravings. Maintaining healthy levels of zinc can also help to regulate your appetite. Make sure you are eating a wide variety of nutritious foods to address any deficiencies in your diet.
Kill your cravings, tip 2: Eat a little of what you fancy
Ever found that your cravings got worse the harder you tried to ignore them? A study published in the journal Appetite has suggested that many people crave the foods that they most attempt to resist. Rather than going cold turkey on your junk food addiction, having a little of what you fancy should help to reduce the temptation to binge on your favourite treats. You could try following the 80/20 rule; eating healthily 80 per cent of the time and being less strict for the other 20 per cent.
Kill your cravings, tip 3: Get active
Whether your cravings stem from hunger, boredom or lack of motivation, heading out for a run or hitting the gym could help you not to give in. Exercise is not only a great distraction from your cravings, a study led by a researcher at Loughborough University has also found that aerobic exercise can help to suppress your appetite. Furthermore, getting active will help you to feel great about your body, and you wouldn’t want to ruin all that hard work with a junk food binge now would you?
Kill your cravings, tip 4: Try healthier alternatives
Just because you’ve decided to eat healthily, that doesn’t mean you can never snack again. Rather than giving in to your junk food cravings, try experimenting with healthier alternatives, such as frozen yoghurt or sorbet instead of ice cream, seasoned popcorn rather than crisps and sweet potato wedges instead of fries.
Reference:
How to avoid food cravings – LI News Radio LI News Radio
How to say no to food cravings
The mindful way to distract you from your cravings – CNN.com
| Comments Off on 10 Ways to Kill Your Cravings: How to Overcome Food Cravings
Is Toothpaste with Hydrogen Peroxide Safe
According to my research, peroxide in toothpaste should not pose a health risk, especially if you take care not to swallow it. An article published by the American Dental Hygienists Associated indicates that the hydrogen peroxide used in commercial toothpaste can help to remove stains such as coffee and tea, and will kill bacteria in the mouth.
Hydrogen peroxide (H202) is produced by our bodies to help fight infections. It is present in breast milk, and especially concentrated in the colostrum, the first milk that stimulates and strengthens the immune system. Food grade H2O2 is also used in the production of cheeses and other foods.
Most strains of harmful bacteria are anaerobic. This means they do not do well in the presence of oxygen or H2O2. Helpful bacteria, on the other hand, are aerobic and therefore thrive in the presence of H2O2.
The fizzing action seen when H202 comes in contact with bacteria is caused by the release of the extra atom of oxygen and the destruction of potentially harmful organisms. The byproduct then is water (H2O).
The 3.5% peroxide available at the drug store contains stabilizers that should not be ingested. However, a diluted solution can be safely used as a mouthwash to enhance tooth whitening once per day. It should not, however, be swallowed.
H2O2 is also present in the atmosphere, and is beneficial to plants when it falls with rain. However, due to pollution, the amount of H2O2 in the atmosphere is diminishing. Some farmers treat their crops with a spray made from food grade 35% H2o2. They use 5 to 16 ounces per 20 gallons of water.
In this concentration, H2O2 must be handled with care. Once diluted, it is quite safe. For home gardeners who want to enhance the health of their plants, they could try adding 16 drops of the 3.5% H2O2 to a quart of water and giving this mixture to their plants.
A safe insecticide spray can be made with 8 ounces of 3.5% H2O2 and 8 ounces of white sugar in a gallon of water.
To whiten your teeth with peroxide, you must begin with very clean teeth.
*Brush teeth thoroughly after each meal with your favorite toothpaste that contains H2O2.
* Floss between the teeth at least once a day.
*Mix one part of 3.5% H2O2 with one part water. Use this as a mouthwash, and swish for a minute once a day. DO NOT SWALLOW.
*Be sure to brush your teeth each time you eat, even a small snack.
This method is quite safe, as long as you don’t swallow the peroxide mixture. You should see results in three weeks or so. An alternative is to use a paste made from H2O2 and baking soda, but most people strongly dislike the taste.
Reference:
Hydrogen peroxide extends its reach | News Article | Lehigh University
How to Safely Gargle with Hydrogen Peroxide
Electricity from seawater: New method efficiently produces hydrogen
| Comments Off on Is Toothpaste with Hydrogen Peroxide Safe
Coca Cola Cake Recipe
Just the name “Coca Cola Cake” makes the kids say, “Oh boy!” It is a family favorite.
Here is our tried and tested recipe. It has been prepared in both our home and restaurant kitchens, with rave reviews.
The original Coca Cola cake recipe appeared during the Second World War, because of rationing. Both sugar and cocoa were in short supply at times. However, Coca Cola was still allowed to use sugar, parthly because it was so loved by our troops overseas. Coca Cola cake became a popular dessert on the home front. In the Fifties, with the advent of quick and easy cake mixes and prepared dinners, the recipe was a natural for the times. It never went out of style.
This chocolate cake recipe makes a large moist cake!
Coca Cola Cake Ingredients and Directions:
2 cups flour
2 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
5 Tablespoon cocoa (heaping)
Bring to a boil
1/2 cup margarine
1/2 cup oil
1 cup coca cola
Pour oil mixture over dry ingredients and add:
1/2 cup sour milk
1 teaspoon soda
2 eggs, unbeaten
1 teaspoon vanilla
Beat until batter is smooth, then fold in 1 1/2 cup minature marshmallows. Bake in a greased 9 X 13 pan at 325 for 45 -50 minutes.
Icing for Coca Cola Cake:
1/2 cup margarine
4 tablespoon coca cola
4-5 tablespoon cocoa
1 cup chopped nuts
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 pound icing sugar
1 cup coconut
1. Bring the margarine, coca cola, cocoa to a boil. Remove from heat and add nuts, vanilla, icing sugar and coconut.
2. If too stiff to spread, add a little milk – a teaspoon at a time until it easily spreads on the cake.
Reference:
1. Coca-Cola Cake Recipe: The Coca-Cola Company
2. Chocolate Coca-Cola Cake Recipe | MyRecipes.com
5-30-2016 | Comments Off on Coca Cola Cake Recipe
Cocktails Liquor
One of the easiest ways to make a mixed drink go from ordinary to gorgeous is to add a rim to the cocktail glass. This simple touch can go a long way in presenting a drink in an attractive way, and knowing the proper way to rim a cocktail glass is essential for any bartender, whether professional or hobbyist. This brief guide will help you know exactly how to rim a glass perfectly every time!
-Start by wetting the rim-
One mistake a lot of people make is using water to wet the rim. Don’t! This will cause the sugar or salt to dissolve! Instead, make sure the glass is dry, then use a wedge of lime or lemon to wet the rim. However, if you are using something powdery, like cocoa, nutmeg, or powdered sugar, use a liqueur featured in the cocktail (such as Kahlua or Grand Marnier).
-Apply the rimmer-
Fill a wide, flat bowl or plate with the sugar or salt. Hold the glass parallel, dip it into the sugar or salt, and rotate it slowly to coat the outside of it. You may want to go through it twice to make sure that it is coated thoroughly. If you are using a powdery rimmer, do not go through twice – the powder may be too much if it is caked on!
-Shake off the excess-
To make sure that the rimmer won’t fall off all over the drinker’s hands or be too much, gently shake off the excess to rid it from the glass. Be sure to do this over a sink or trash can.
-Pour and serve!-
Carefully pour the cocktail in without disturbing the rim, then serve the gorgeous drink to the eagerly awaiting drinker! Congratulations – you now know how to beautifully rim a cocktail glass!
Reference:
1. List of cocktails
2. Cocktail Recipes | Liquor.com
5-29-2016 | Comments Off on Cocktails Liquor
Chef Profiles Virgilio Martinez
Virgilio Martinez: 28 years old, Peruvian, a degree in law and a lot of trips all over the world. He’s the executive chef of “Astrid & Gaston”, a famous restaurant located in Lima, Bogota and Madrid.
His passion for cooking arose accidentally: he got his degree in law and then he decided to travel for some time, to make different experiences abroad. When he arrived in Canada, he first got a job as a cooker. His interest and fervor for that job increased so much that he thought he was determined to attend the Cordon Bleu School. And he managed to.
After that, he has continued his experiences in each corner of the planet: he studied and worked in France, in the Far East, in New York at the Lutece and then in the Astrid & Gaston of Lima. He believes that travels play a fundamental role in the life of chef: “it allows you to meet new ingredients and cuisine techniques, and to develop your creativity”.
Peruvian cooking like his way of cooking is the outcome of different gastronomic traditions, from Asia especially China and Japan but also from Africa and Inca populations. In Peru there’s a multicolor and lively kitchen, full of varieties, with an infinite range of products, which come from the 84 micro climates of that region, where sea, mountain and forest stay together. They use particular ingredients: Guinea pig’s meat, cow heart, quinoa, etc. Pepper is an ingredient always utilized in Peruvian dishes and in Virgilio’s dishes in every different variety: fresh, dried, sweet, spiced, hot, red, green… In Andes’ region it is prepared a paste of pepper used to marinate meat. But Virgilio’s favorite ingredient remain the ginger.
Their national drink is the Pisco, a distillate of Moscatel grapes, cultivated in the Andes. It is conserved in particular black bottles and it is used to prepare a famous cocktail, the Pisco Sour.
Virgilio has recently hired the direction of the last Astrid & Gaston, that of Madrid. Three restaurants in three countries which have differences, but a guideline in common: they try to adapt to the local contests, even if they try to maintain a Peruvian way of cooking. So, they use local products in Lima and Bogota, but they bring a lot of raw materials from central and south America to Spain, because in Madrid people expect to try an exotic cuisine.
The Peruvian dish that better represents Virgilio Martinez is the “Cebiche”, fish marinated with lime, chili peppers, coriander and served with orange sweet potatoes.
He’s going to be one of the celebrities of the next years in the world of cooking. Surely Virgilio doesn’t lack of talent.
Reference:
1. Virgilio Martínez Véliz
2. Meet Peru's best chef, Virgilio Martinez – CNN.com
5-28-2016 | Comments Off on Chef Profiles Virgilio Martinez
Classic Christmas Drinks
Everyone accuses me of being a bit of a Christmas Ham. And I guess you could say that is true. I put up my downstairs Christmas tree on Oct 30th last year, my outdoor lights go up on November 1st of every year. In fact, I have still not taken down my lighted garland from my recreation room. If I had if my way the Christmas decor would stay up all year. I guess you can blame it all on my parents. They always made the holidays a big event. Who could ever forget the anticipation of Christmas eve, just waiting for Santa to come. Or the sleepless night waiting for that Christmas day sunrise.
Anyways when it comes to Christmas or any holiday for that matter I take the cake, and I want to share some of my favorite Christmas drinks, which have become a tradition in our family and a hit at our parties.
Gordos Baileys EggNog
Now its important for this drink, that you only purchase the best eggnog, unless you want to make it yourself (I don’t have a recipe for making it as it can be a real pain if you know what I mean)
You will need
6Oz’s of your favorite eggnog
1oz of Irish Cream
1/2 oz Spiced Rum
1oz of Chocolate Milk
sprinkle of Cinnamon
Whipped Cream
Small candy cane
Add ice first (this is most important)
Add Irish cream
Add Rum
Add EggNog and stir
Add chocolate milk (do not stir in)
Sprinkle with Cinnamon
Add whipped cream on top and garnish with the small Candy cane.
Boy oh Boy this is one good drink and I guarantee they will become a hit to your friends and family. OK so its a little fattening, big deal its Christmas time and you should be entitle. Most important is lot’s of Kenny G Christmas music to go with the drink.
Reference:
1. 14 Christmas Cocktails and Drinks – Holiday Drink Recipes – Esquire
2. Christmas Cocktails & Drinks | Food & Wine
5-27-2016 | Comments Off on Classic Christmas Drinks
Broccoli Pasta Quick Pasta Recipe Garlic Pasta
Fresh Garlic Broccoli Pasta
It is the season for fresh garlic! Surprise your family at dinner with this robust pasta dish that is not only delicious but easy to make for a week night meal. We are all busy during the week, but it’s nice to have a go-to meal that you can cook up and serve to your family within 30 minutes. Looking for a quick romantic night meal? Nothing better than great tasting pasta and a glass of wine without all the time.
Fresh Garlic Broccoli Pasta
Yields: 4 Servings
8 oz. Fettuccine (cooked and drained)
½ C. Butter
2 t. Dried Basil Leaves (crushed)
2 t. Lemon Juice
1 ¼ t. Chopped Fresh Garlic
¾ t. Seasoned Salt
1 ½ C. Broccoli Flowerettes (steamed until tender)
3 T. Chopped Walnuts
½ C. Grated Parmesan or Romano Cheese (or combination of both)
1. In a large skillet, melt butter over medium heat. Add basil, lemon juice, garlic, and season salt; mix well.
2. Add hot fettuccine, broccoli, walnuts and cheeses. Toss to combine and lightly coat. Do not continue to cook the pasta.
There you have it. A quick, but delicious garlic pasta that your family will enjoy and only took you 30 minutes to create. Go ahead, take all the credit, you worked hard and deserve a good meal. Serve with a fresh spinach or romaine salad and enjoy! This recipe goes great with parmesan bread sticks or even fresh garlic bread. Enjoy with a glass of white wine for a romantic evening!
Not feeling fettuccine? Swap out your fettuccine with penne, elbows, spaghetti, or even shells! This recipe is versatile and can be changed out with just about any ingredient. Don’t have fresh garlic? Use garlic powder for the same result. Just be sure to allow your garlic powder to fully dissolve in your butter before adding and tossing the pasta. This will ensure you do not have granules of garlic powder coating your food.
Recipe found in Favorite Brand Name Pasta Collection, Publications International, Ltd, 1992.
Reference:
1. Garlic Oil Sauteed Pasta with Broccoli Recipe : Melissa d'Arabian …
2. Campbell's Broccoli & Garlic Penne Pasta Recipe
| Comments Off on Broccoli Pasta Quick Pasta Recipe Garlic Pasta
Bottoms up Richmond Review
When it comes to pizza, Bottom’s Up in Richmond, Virginia does it right and does it big. Not only is their pizza fresh and topped with only the best ingredients, but even just one slice will be more than enough to satisfy even the biggest appetites. Their food is fantastic, the atmosphere is a lot of fun, and it seems that just about every customer leaves with a great big smile on their faces.
Located in the historic, trendy area of Shockoe Bottom, one of Richmond’s most beloved districts, Bottom’s Up has a unique look for a unique restaurant. The friendly staff greet customers with wide smiles and helpful attitudes, gladly answering questions about the menu and offering their own suggestions for first-time diners.
Though Bottom’s Up offers a wide variety of salads, sandwiches, and pasta, it is their pizza that is the real standout. Enormous, thick slices of pizza with crisp crust, tons of cheese, fresh sauce, and perfectly applied toppings make their pizza incredibly delicious – it is easy to see what all of the fuss is about. It is hard to find a native Richmonder who doesn’t rave about the pizza at Bottom’s Up!
Of particular note are the Steve’s Favorite pizza (red sauce with sliced chicken, caramelized onions, and roasted red pepper), the Greek pizza (white sauce, topped with spinach, tomatoes, onions, feta, black olives, and pepperoncini), and the Chesapeake pizza (white sauce, topped with fresh crab meat, sweet onions, and seasoned with Old Bay). All of the pizzas are fantastic and unique, of course, and there is also the option to create your own, but those three pizzas are especially good!
Bottom’s Up is a great choice for those with dietary limitations, particularly for those who are forced to avoid gluten. They have a gluten-free pizza crust that can be applied to any of the signature pizza choices, and there is even a gluten-free thin crust option! For people on a restricted diet, Bottom’s Up allows them the freedom to enjoy the same foods as everyone else.
With a full bar, huge menu, and excellent, reasonable prices, Bottom’s Up is one of Richmond’s finest restaurants. Take the opportunity to visit this gem in Shockoe Bottom the next time you are looking for a great place for a night out with friends and family, and especially when you are looking for a great slice of pizza!
Reference:
1. Bottoms Up Pizza – 125 Photos & 333 Reviews – Pizza – Shockoe …
2. Bottoms Up Pizza
5-26-2016 | Comments Off on Bottoms up Richmond Review
Cindys Spinach Lasagna
I love lasagna. I remember growing up and my mom always made this really awesome lasagna. It always made the house smell so good. This was a frequent request of mine. I came from a family of eaters. Everything we do revolves around food. If we are shopping we have to stop and eat. We go to the county fair for the food. For as long as I can remember my mom has been an ovo-lacto vegetarian. I converted from a full fledge carnivore (Yep, I ate it all even deer.) to an ovo-lacto vegetarian when I was 16. Now 25, two beautiful children, one bitter divorce, and now a wonderful engagement later, I use this recipe frequently. Even as meat eaters my children, my fiance, and his family love this lasagna.
1 box (16oz) lasagna noodles
2 jars of your favorite pasta sauce
1 box frozen chopped spinach thawed and drained
1 large container ricotta cheese
8oz mozarella cheese
Pre-heat oven to 350 degrees farenheit.
Cook lasagna noodles according to directions on package. Meanwhile thaw and drain spinach*. Mix thawed, drained spinach with ricotta cheese. Lightly grease a 13X9 pan with cooking spray. Layer noodles, sauce, cheese and spinach mixture, and mozarella cheese. Repeat layers until cheeses and sauce are gone finishing last layer with sauce and mozarella cheese. Cover with foil and bake for 30-35 minutes until cheeses are melted and lasagna is heated through. Serve with garlic bread and a salad.
* I thaw spinach in the microwave according to package directions and squeeze it out in a clean dishtowel.
Reference:
1. Cindy's Lasagna – Recipe – Cooks.com
2. Artichoke & Spinach Lasagna – Cindy Nord
| Comments Off on Cindys Spinach Lasagna
« Previous Page — Next Page »
Recent Posts
Guide on Clear Extra Long Shower Curtain
6 Suggestions to Help Pet Entrepreneurs Keep Fido and Fluffy Fit
The Pleasure Of Milking The Prostate
Prostate Milking – Cleansing Your Prostate
What is COPD’s effect on the body?
Blue Waffle Disease Details
Can Poison Ivy Spread
Excessive Sweating Solutions
The best Kinds of Tomatoes to use for Making Tomato Sauce
3 ways to instantly find more fulfillment in your life…and they won’t cost you a cent
Categories
Cooking
Cuisine and Food
Dining and Restaurants
Drinks
Food and Drink – Other
Health
Health problems
Recipes
Terror In Orlando
Pages
Can Tonsils Grow Back
Snoring Causes a Swollen Uvula & How to Stop
Spray Tan at Home
© 2019 bmwultimatemisery.com