Health Benefits of Magnesium - Happy Energy Amazing Life
{{{ data.variation.price_html }}}
{{{ data.variation.availability_html }}}
Call Hotline: (877) 570-4484
Hours: Monday- Friday, 8am- 7pm EST
Email: [email protected]
Log In
Support Centre
FAQs
Shipping Policy
Return Policy
Terms Of Service
Privacy Statement
Send an Email
Call Us: (877) 570-4484
8am- 7pm EST
Please enter key search to display results
Home
About Us
Harmonys Story
Why Harmony’s Ear Candles
Fair Trade
Certified Organic Cotton Certificate
FDA Citizens Petition
Press Release
Testimonials
In The News
Keeping Up With The Kardashians
Doc Harmony Vitamin Retailers
Order Now
ŐsiMagnesium
Harmonys Ear Candles
Harmony’s Essential Oil
Harmony’s Retail Store Locator
Natural Health Products
Pay Now
How To’s
Webinar
Harmony’s Ear Candles Instructions
Ask Doc Harmony FAQ
Giving Back
Blog
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Return Policy
Terms of Service
Shipping Policy
Home / Magnesium / Health Benefits of Magnesium
Blog
Health Benefits of Magnesium
April 3, 2019
0 Comments
chris
Category: Magnesium
It is important to take care of your body other than having a healthy diet and working out throughout the week. To be healthy you need to make sure that your body has the proper balance of minerals in it. Did you know that Magnesium can be naturally found inside your body and is the fourth most abundant mineral? This mineral is important to your body’s daily functions. That is why it is important to make sure you are getting enough of it in your daily diet. Here are 8 reasons why adding Magnesium into your diet will benefit you in the long run:
It Can Boost Exercise Performance.
Making sure your body is healthy and strong is important. Magnesium can help with that. Magnesium is great for boosting your exercise performance by helping your blood sugar and muscles. Magnesium helps with the relaxation of muscles as well, which would increase the speed of your recovery time after every gym session.
It can Relieve Your Insomnia.
One of the key ways to make sure that your body is staying healthy is through proper sleep, but with so many outside distractions it may be hard for you to get a good night’s sleep. Magnesium can help to prepare your body to get to sleep. By helping with the relaxation of your muscles it tells your brain “time to shut down.”
It Can Help Relieve or Treat Your Depression.
Magnesium can play a huge role in the development of your brain. When you suffer from depression or anxiety your brain is often not firing right. Increasing your Magnesium intake will help to even out the instability.
It Can Help To Protect Your Heart.
Making sure you have a healthy heart is a great way to keep track of your health. Magnesium can help with keeping your heart healthy by helping with the elasticity of your muscles, this helps to prevent any form of heart disease.
It Can Lower Blood Pressure.
Although you may not know it Magnesium plays a big role in keeping your blood pressure regulated. Since it helps to relax muscle cells it helps to stop the constriction of blood in your veins or arteries.
It Can Help Relieve or Treat Your Diabetes.
What is the key to insulin sensitivities? Magnesium. Those with Type 2 diabetes often find they are low in Magnesium. This supplement can help you with Type 2 diabetes by controlling your glycemic index.
It Can Help To Strengthen Your Bones.
Although calcium is the best mineral for building your bones, Magnesium is just as important in the structure of them. There is a large amount of metal found in Magnesium that is also found in your bones. This helps to keep your bones strong but also keep them flexible in case something does happen.
It Can Help To Prevent or Stop Your Migraines.
One major ailment that Magnesium can help with is migraines. Migraines are highly painful and can produce many things such as blindness, light and sound sensitivity and even vomiting. Increasing your Magnesium intake may help to reduce the number of migraines you have.
share tweet google+
Previous Post
5 Ways To Use Magnesium At Home
Next Post
What Is Magnesium and Why Do We Need it
RELATED ARTICLE
April 3, 2019
0 Comments
What Is Magnesium and Why Do We Need it
April 3, 2019
0 Comments
5 Ways To Use Magnesium At Home
November 2, 2018
0 Comments
How to avoid leg muscle cramps?
November 2, 2018
0 Comments
The connection between magnesium and the cells in our body
September 11, 2018
0 Comments
The disadvantages of oral magnesium products
September 10, 2018
0 Comments
Top 6 symptoms of magnesium deficiency
September 8, 2018
0 Comments
The effects of magnesium concentrate on the skin
September 5, 2018
0 Comments
Topical magnesium application guide and use
September 3, 2018
0 Comments
What is the topical Magnesium Supplement Oil?
August 30, 2018
0 Comments
Magnesium Oil from ancient Zechstein Sea
Written By
chris
administrator
Be the first to comment “Health Benefits of Magnesium” Cancel reply
Categories
Ear Candles
Magnesium
Happy Energy Amazing Life
Why Choose Harmony Candles
Harmony's Candles are helpful, natural, and sold only in the finest natural health stores. See the difference in our craftsmanship, high-quality candle materials, and superior service. We are your choice for premium candles!
Harmony's Candles, well known for producing the best handcrafted Candles in the world because of years of unparalleled research, wants you to learn more about candling and how it can help you and those you love. Here you’ll find helpful tips, links, and other information to help you determine if this modality is for you.
Disclaimer
* Statements on this site have not been evaluated by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Information provided is not intended to substitute advice from a healthcare professional. Consult a healthcare practitioner before using any natural, holistic or otherwise considered alternative health care options.
Our Address
Happy Energy Amazing Life
Mailing address: 1109 S Park street, #504, #341, Carrollton, GA 30117
Corporate office: 1807 Carson St Suite N, Carson City, NV 89701
Phone : (877) 570-4484
Website : www.happyenergyamazinglife.com
© 2018 HEAL
Privacy
Terms
Website by Infinite Labs Digital
"" was added to wishlist
Close (3) View page