Magnesium for Migraines..
Does Magnesium for Migraines Bring Relief..
Before we discus magnesium for migraines, let's take a second to think about headaches and migraines.
Preventive migraine treatment can, and most likely will be a very important part of migraine, or headache treatment. Now mind you, such treatments can take different forms, from taking certain drugs to nutritional supplements, to even lifestyle changes.
In other words, do what it takes to accomplish your goal of decreasing your pain."PEORID" One bit of advice, don't take a pain medicine everyday, and end up having rebound headaches, which is a very common problem with many migraine sufferers. (And yes, even pain medicine prescribed by a doctor can eventually go into chronic daily headaches if taken on a daily bases.)
One doctor has given quite a few years of his life to the connection between magnesium and migraines.
Alexander Mauskop, MD is a neurologist, and founder and director of the New York Headache Center. He is board-certified in Neurology, and Headache Medicine and is an Associate Professor of Clinical Neurology at the State University of Down State New York, Medical Center.
Throughout his career, Mauskop has been committed to educating physicians about headaches. Over 200 doctors from all over the world have visited the New York Headache Center to receive advanced training. He has given hundreds of lectures, at institutions such as Cornell, Harvard, Columbia University, NYU and Dartmouth Medical School, and Mayo and Cleveland Clinics.
He has been invited to speak at the meetings of the American Academy of Neurology, American Headache Society and International Headache Society Mauskop has spent close to 20 years researching the link between magnesium and headaches.
By the mid 1990s, a series of studies conducted by Mauskop using a new testing technique that measured ionized magnesium had proven conclusively that a lack of magnesium was a factor in several types of headaches. In a blinded study, 86 percent of those deficient in magnesium who received magnesium infusion experienced dramatic relief from their headaches.
Mauskop and other researchers then performed additional studies, all of which found that many headache sufferers had low levels of ionized magnesium, and that taking magnesium (intravenously or orally) offered significant relief.
Combining his years of experience in treating headaches with the results of his headache and magnesium research, Mauskop developed and patented a unique headache pain reliever called Dr. Mauskop’s Migralex. It is made up of a rapidly dissolving combination of magnesium and aspirin.
Mauskop is a recipient of the American Council for Headache Education Lecture Award. He has appeared on local and national television and radio programs.
Conditions that are associated with magnesium deficiency that causes migraines?
Drinking alcohol
Women that are pregnant
Stress
The use of some diuretics, and there may be a magnesium deficiency.
We know that the pain from migraines comes from something that causes the blood vessels to constrict and expand. This sets off a chain reaction.
Read what magnesium for migraines does once it's taken.
Magnesium relaxes blood vessels, and allows them to dilate, thus reducing the spasms and constrictions that can cause migraines.
Magnesium regulates the action of brain neurotransmitters and inflammatory substances, which may play a role in migraines when unbalanced.
Magnesium thins blood, somewhat like aspirin, preventing the formation of tiny clots that can block blood vessels and cause pain.
Magnesium relaxes muscles and prevents the build up of lactic acid, which along with muscle tension, can make your head pain worse.
A group of three thousand migraine sufferers (that's quite a lot of people suffering,but try to imagine 28,000,000), were given 200MG of magnesium a day, and there was a 80% reduction in their migraine symptoms. Although this wasn't a controlled group, it aroused quite a bit of excitement, and triggered a flurry of research on magnesium and migraines.
The dosage of magnesium for migraines.
It's been found that for migraine prevention, a dose of 400MG a day is recommended, and if this doesn't reduce the frequency, and severity within a month, increase the dose to 600MG a day.
How about an IV filled with magnesium for migraines?
While a IV filled with magnesium would stop a migraine in its tracks, that would get rather expensive after a while. It's much cheaper to just buy a magnesium supplement to take.
The brands of magnesium to take
Several forms of magnesium supplement absorb well, and can be taken for relief. Some to look for will be magnesium that contains magnesium chloride, magnesium ascorbate, magnesium gluconate, orotate, and magnesium malate.
WARNING, do not buy and take magnesium that contains mixtures of calcium. If a calcium supplement is taken , take it at a different time then the magnesium supplement.
Foods that are rich in magnesium.
Dark green vegetables
Whole grains
Beans
Bananas
Seafood is high in magnesium if you aren't allergic to them.
But keep in mind, eating these foods will help, but if your magnesium level is on the low side, taking a daily magnesium supplement will boost blood levels quicker, and bring you pain relief sooner.
Magnesium for migraines prophylaxis may bring relief. Along with vitamins, herbs magnesium, and a healthy lifestyle one may see less frequency and pain from migraines.
Our next page is about a vitamin called Riboflavin B-2. This vitamin has given tremendous relief of headache pain for many. Home page from magnesium for migraines
All the best, thanks for reading
New! Comments
Click the like button, or leave me a comment in the box below on Help for Migraines for headache sufferers..All the best...
For our Migrane sufferers that may want to seek additional help other than information, there's many products to choose from on Amazon to relieve that headache. You'll be surprised as to how many products are designed for headache relief, from medicine to pillows and so forth.
Look at the products below and read the reviews. They are all sold on Amazon for
Even pillows for migraines help tremendously when the pain originates from the neck area. Herbs and Vitamins such as the ones mentioned above are helpful for some sufferers. Most are very inexpensive, and you may find something that will work for your type of headache. All can be found by searching Amazons many headache products.
Home
Blog
Migraine-Causes
Migraine -Symptoms
Herbs_For_Migraines
Daily-Migraines
Migraine_Triggers
Help_For_Migraines
What's_A_Migraine
Menstrual_Migraines
Migraine_Treatments
Migraine_Relief
Migraine_Meds
Child_Migraines
Migraine_Diet
Your_Migraine_Signs
Migraine_Cures
Botox- Migraines
Sitemap-1
Migraine_Diary
Migraine_Books
Links on Migraines
Hemicrania_Continua
Migraine_Clinic
Sinus_Headache
Types_Of_Migraines
Morning_Headache
Migraine_Remedies
Migraine_Stroke
Silent_Migraine
Eye Headache
Disability_4_Migraines
Biofeedback-Migraines
Testamoniols
Headache_Specialist
Buckwheat_Pillows
Migraine_Prevention
Cure_Migraine
Minerals_Herbs_Vitamins
Sex_Headaches
Migrains_Info
Vitamin_Deficiency
Books_On_Migraines
TMJ_Headaches
Work_From_Home
Migraine_Headache
Herbs_4_Health
Microfiber_Products
Pllows_For_Migraines
Miracle_Cream
Joint Relief For Dogs
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Copyright 2009-2018 Help-For-Migraines.com Disclaimer: This website is for information only. Don't delay going to a physician because of something you've read on this website.
SBI!