Fermented dairy products may protect against heart attack
Topics
Conditions
Week's top
Latest news
Unread news
Subscribe
Science X Account
Remember me
Sign In
Click here to sign in with or
Forget Password?
Not a member? Sign up
Learn more
Addiction
Alzheimer's disease & dementia
Arthritis & Rheumatism
Attention deficit disorders
Autism spectrum disorders
Cancer
Cardiology
Dentistry
Diabetes
Diseases, Conditions, Syndromes
Genetics
Gerontology & Geriatrics
Health
HIV & AIDS
Immunology
Inflammatory disorders
Medical economics
Medical research
Medications
Neuroscience
Obstetrics & gynaecology
Ophthalmology
Other
Overweight & Obesity
Parkinson's & Movement disorders
Pediatrics
Psychology & Psychiatry
Radiology & Imaging
Sleep apnea
Sports Medicine & Kinesiology
Surgery
Asthma
Breast cancer
Cardiovascular disease
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Colon cancer
Coronary artery disease
Dementia
Depression
Heart attack
Heart disease
High blood pressure
Influenza
Kidney disease
Leukemia
Lung cancer
Malaria
Melanoma
Multiple sclerosis
Myocardial infarction
Ovarian cancer
Post traumatic stress disorder
Rheumatoid arthritis
Schizophrenia
Skin cancer
Stroke
Type 2 diabetes
Full List »
share this!
38
6
Share
Email
Home
Health
Home
Cardiology
October 31, 2018
Fermented dairy products may protect against heart attack
by University of Eastern Finland
Fermented dairy products may protect against heart attack, according to a new study from the University of Eastern Finland. Sour milk was the most commonly used low-fat fermented dairy product among study participants. Credit: Raija Törrönen
Men who eat plenty of fermented dairy products have a smaller risk of incident coronary heart disease than men who eat less of these products, according to a new study from the University of Eastern Finland. A very high consumption of non-fermented dairy products, on the other hand, was associated with an increased risk of incident coronary heart disease. The findings were published in the British Journal of Nutrition.
Earlier studies have shown that fermented dairy products have more positive effects on blood lipid profiles and on the risk of heart disease than other dairy products. Examples of fermented dairy products include cheese, yoghurt, quark, kefir and sour milk. However, research into the topic remains scarce.
The Kuopio Ischaemic Heart Disease Risk Factor Study ongoing at the University of Eastern Finland explored the associations of fermented and non-fermented dairy products with the risk of incident coronary heart disease. Approximately 2,000 men participated in the study. Their dietary habits were assessed at the beginning of the study in 1984-1989, and they were followed up for an average of 20 years. During this follow-up, 472 men experienced an incident coronary heart disease event.
The study participants were divided into groups on the basis of how much they ate different dairy products, and the researchers compared the groups with the highest and lowest consumption, while also taking various lifestyle and nutrition factors into consideration.
When the study participants were divided into four groups on the basis of their consumption of fermented dairy products with less than 3.5 percent fat, the risk of incident coronary heart disease was 26 percent lower in the highest consumption group compared to the lowest consumption group. Sour milk was the most commonly used low-fat fermented dairy product. The consumption of high-fat fermented dairy products, such as cheese, was not associated with the risk of incident coronary heart disease.
However, the researchers found that a very high consumption on non-fermented dairy products was associated with an increased risk of incident coronary heart disease. Milk was the most commonly used product in this category, and a very high consumption was defined as an average daily milk intake of 0.9 litres. Lower consumption levels were not associated with the risk.
"Here in Finland, people's habits of consuming different dairy products have changed over the past decades. For instance, the consumption of milk and sour milk have declined, while many fermented dairy products, such as yoghurt, quark and cheeses, have gained in popularity," says Adjunct Professor Jyrki Virtanen from the University of Eastern Finland.
The new study provides further evidence on the health benefits that fermented dairy products may have over non-fermented ones. All the mechanisms are not understood yet, but they may be linked to compounds forming during the fermentation process.
Explore further
Current advice to limit dairy intake should be reconsidered
More information: Timo T. Koskinen et al, Intake of fermented and non-fermented dairy products and risk of incident CHD: the Kuopio Ischaemic Heart Disease Risk Factor Study, British Journal of Nutrition (2018). DOI: 10.1017/S0007114518002830
Journal information: British Journal of Nutrition
Provided by University of Eastern Finland
Citation: Fermented dairy products may protect against heart attack (2018, October 31) retrieved 18 April 2019 from https://medicalxpress.com/news/2018-10-fermented-dairy-products-heart.html
This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only.
46 shares
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Feedback to editors
Featured
Last Comments
Popular
Researchers find number of mutations in human B lymphocytes increases with age
7 hours ago
0
A possible blood test for early-stage Alzheimer's disease
7 hours ago
0
Chinese researchers add human brain-related gene to monkey genome in controversial experiment
Apr 11, 2019
12
Researchers uncover how innocuous gut bacteria mutated to become deadly blood infectors
Apr 11, 2019
0
Study shows thousands of neurons becoming active during thirst and quench cycle
Apr 09, 2019
0
General anesthesia hijacks sleep circuitry to knock you out
44 minutes ago
The brain's imperfect execution of mathematically optimal perception
45 minutes ago
New immune pathway involved in resistance to parasite worms found in undercooked pork
2 hours ago
How the hepatitis B virus establishes persistent infection
2 hours ago
RNA sequencing used to discover novel genes and pathways in celiac disease
2 hours ago
Pig experiment raises ethical questions around brain damage
2 hours ago
Decline in measles vaccination is causing a preventable global resurgence of the disease
3 hours ago
Intentions attributed to other people change how we see their actions
3 hours ago
Researchers map sound, response and reward anticipation in mouse brain
3 hours ago
Microbiomes of diabetic foot ulcers are associated with clinical outcomes
5 hours ago
Related Stories
Current advice to limit dairy intake should be reconsidered
Aug 28, 2018
Yogurt, but not milk, may lower hip fracture risk
Dec 18, 2017
Opinion: Study gives dairy the all-clear—but is it justified?
May 17, 2017
Markers of dairy fat consumption linked to lower risk of type two diabetes
Oct 10, 2018
Study shows yogurt consumption reduces the risk of type 2 diabetes
Feb 05, 2014
Recommended for you
Late dinner and no breakfast is a killer combination
13 hours ago
Eight hours of interval sprinting can reverse negative effects of menopause
8 hours ago
Heart patch could limit muscle damage in heart attack aftermath
23 hours ago
National effort urged to overhaul 'broken' health data system
23 hours ago
Diet high in leucine may fuel breast cancer's drug resistance
Apr 17, 2019
Healthy hearts need two proteins working together
Apr 16, 2019
User comments
Please sign in to add a comment. Registration is free, and takes less than a minute. Read more
Sign in
Forgot Password Registration
What do you think about this particular story?
Your feedback will go directly to Science X editors.
Your message to the editors
Your email (only if you want to be contacted back)
Send Feedback
Thank you for taking your time to send in your valued opinion to Science X editors.
You can be assured our editors closely monitor every feedback sent and will take appropriate actions. Your opinions are important to us.
We do not guarantee individual replies due to extremely high volume of correspondence.
E-mail the story
Fermented dairy products may protect against heart attack
Your friend's email
Your email
I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more
Your name
Note
Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose. The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Medical Xpress in any form.
Your message
Send
Newsletter sign up
Get weekly and/or daily updates delivered to your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details to third parties.
Subscribe
More information Privacy policy
Phys.org
Phys.org internet news portal provides the latest news on science
Tech Xplore
Tech Xplore covers the latest engineering, electronics and technology advances
ScienceX
Science X Network offers the most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web
Newsletters
Subscribe
Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox
Follow us
Top
Home
Search
Mobile version
Help
FAQ
About
Contact
Science X Account
Sponsored Account
Newsletter
Archive
Android app
iOS app
RSS feeds
Push notification
© Medical Xpress 2011 - 2019 powered by Science X Network
Privacy policy Terms of use Medical Disclaimer
Your Privacy
This site uses cookies to assist with navigation, analyse your use of our services, and provide content from third parties. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
Ok More Information
E-mail newsletter
Subscribe
Follow us
It appears that you are currently using Ad Blocking software. What are the consequences?
×