Croup and Your Young Child - HealthyChildren.org
You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.
Turn on more accessible mode
Turn off more accessible mode
Skip Ribbon Commands
Skip to main content
Turn off Animations
Turn on Animations
Our Sponsors
Log in | Register
Menu
Log in | Register
Home
Our Sponsors
Ages & StagesAges & Stages
Ages and Stages
Prenatal
Baby (0-12 mos.)
Toddler 1-3yrs.
Preschool 3-5yrs
Grade School 5-12yrs.
Teen 12-18yrs.
Young Adult 18-21yrs.
Healthy LivingHealthy Living
Healthy Living
Nutrition
Fitness
Sports
Oral Health
Emotional Wellness
Growing Healthy
Sleep
Safety & PreventionSafety & Prevention
Safety and Prevention
Immunizations
At Home
At Play
On The Go
All Around
Family LifeFamily Life
Family Life
Medical Home
Family Dynamics
Media
Work & Play
Getting Involved in Your Community
Health IssuesHealth Issues
Health Issues
Conditions
Injuries & Emergencies
Vaccine Preventable Diseases
NewsNews
Tips & ToolsTips & Tools
Tips and Tools
Ask The Pediatrician
Find a Pediatrician
Newsletters
Symptom Checker
Apps
E-Magazine
Webinars
Our MissionOur Mission
Our Mission
AAP in Action
Medical Editor & Contributors
Sponsors
Sponsorship Opportunities
Spread the Word
Shop AAP
Find a Pediatrician
Health Issues
Conditions
Abdominal
ADHD
Allergies & Asthma
Autism
Cancer
Chest & Lungs
Chronic Conditions
Cleft & Craniofacial
Developmental Disabilities
Ear Nose & Throat
Emotional Problems
Eyes
Fever
From Insects or Animals
Genitals and Urinary Tract
Glands & Growth
Head Neck & Nervous System
Heart
Infections
Learning Disabilities
Obesity
Orthopedic
Prevention
Sexually Transmitted
Skin
Tobacco
Treatments
Injuries & Emergencies
Vaccine Preventable Diseases
Healthy Children > Health Issues > Conditions > Chest & Lungs > Croup and Your Young Child
Health Issues
Listen
Español
Text Size
Email
Print
Share
Croup and Your Young Child
Page Content
Article Body
Croup is a co​mmon illness in young children. It can be scary for parents as well as children. Read on for more information from the American Academy of Pediatrics about croup, including types, causes, symptoms, and treatments.
What is Croup?
Croup is a condition that causes a swelling of the voice box (larynx) and windpipe (trachea). The swelling causes the airway below the vocal cords to become narrow and makes breathing noisy and difficult. It is most commonly caused by an infection.
Children are most likely to get croup between 3 months and 5 years of age. As they get older, it is not as common because the windpipe is larger and swelling is less likely to get in the way of breathing. Croup can occur at any time of the year, but it is more common in the fall and winter months.
Types of Croup
Viral Croup
This is the most common type of croup. It is caused by a viral infection of the voice box and windpipe. It often starts out just like a cold, but then it slowly turns into a barky cough. Your child's voice will become hoarse and her breathing will get noisier. She may make a coarse musical sound each time she breathes in, called stridor. Most children with viral croup have a low fever, but some have temperatures up to 104°F (40°C).
Spasmodic Croup
This type of croup is thought to be caused by an allergy or by reflux from the stomach. It can be scary because it comes on suddenly, often in the middle of the night. Your child may go to bed well and wake up in a few hours, gasping for breath. She will be hoarse and have stridor when she breathes in. She may also have a barky cough. Most children with spasmodic croup do not have a fever. This type of croup can recur. It is similar to asthma and often responds to allergy or reflux medicines.
Croup with Stridor
Stridor is common with mild croup, especially when a child is crying or active. But if a child has stridor while resting, it can be a sign of more severe croup. As your child's effort to breathe increases, she may stop eating and drinking. She also may become too tired to cough, and you may hear the stridor more with each breath.
The danger of croup with stridor is that sometimes the airway may swell so much that your child may barely be able to breathe. In the most severe cases, your child will not be getting enough oxygen into her blood. If this happens, she needs to go to the hospital. Luckily, these most severe cases of croup do not occur very often.
Home Treatment for Croup
If your child wakes up in the middle of the night with croup, try to keep him calm. Keeping him calm may help him breathe better.
Ways to comfort your child may include:
Giving your child a hug or a back rub
Singing a favorite bedtime song
Offering reassuring words such as, "Mommy's here, you will be OK"
Offering a favorite toy
If your child has a fever (a temperature of 100.4°F [38°C] or higher):
Treat it with acetaminophen or ibuprofen (for children older than 6 months), as needed. Make sure he is drinking fluids to avoid dehydration.
In the past, parents may have been advised to try steam treatment in the bathroom. Though some parents may find that this helps improve breathing, there are no studies to prove that inhaling steam in a bathroom is effective. There are also no studies to prove that breathing in moist, cool night airs helps improve breathing.
When to Call the Doctor
If you are concerned that your child's croup is not improving, contact your child's doctor, local emergency department, or emergency medical services (911) even if it is the middle of the night. Consider calling if your child:
Makes a whistling sound that gets louder with each breath
Cannot speak or make verbal sounds for lack of breath
Seems to be struggling to catch her breath
Has bluish lips or fingernails
Has stridor when resting
Drools or has extreme difficulty swallowing saliva
Treating Croup with Medicine
If your child has viral croup, your child's doctor or the emergency department doctor may give your child a breathing treatment with epinephrine (adrenaline) to decrease the swelling. After epinephrine is given, your child should be observed for 3 to 4 hours to confirm that croup symptoms do not return.
A steroid medicine may also be prescribed to reduce the swelling. Steroids can be inhaled, taken by mouth, or given by injection. Treatment with a few doses of steroids should do no harm. Steroids may decrease the intensity of symptoms, the need for other medications, and time spent in the hospital and emergency department. For spasmodic croup, your child's doctor may recommend allergy or reflux medicines to help your child's breathing.
Antibiotics, which treat bacteria, are not helpful for treating croup because they are almost always caused by a virus or by allergy or reflux. Cough syrups are not useful and may do harm.
Other Infections
Another cause of stridor and serious breathing problems is acute supraglottitis (also called epiglottitis). This is a dangerous infection, usually caused by bacteria, with symptoms that can resemble croup. Luckily, this infection is much less common now because of the Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine. Rarely, supraglottitis is caused by other bacteria.
Acute supraglottitis usually affects children 2 to 5 years of age and comes on suddenly with a high fever. Your child may seem very sick. He may have a muffled voice and prefer to sit upright with his neck extended and face tilted upward in a "sniffing" position to make his breathing easier. He also may drool because he cannot swallow the saliva in his mouth. If not treated, this disease could rapidly lead to complete blockage of your child's airway.
If your child's doctor suspects acute supraglottitis:
Your child must go to the hospital right away. If he has supraglottitis, he will need antibiotics, and he may also need a tube in his windpipe to help him breathe. Call your child's doctor right away if you think your child may have supraglottitis.
To protect against acute supraglottitis:
Your child should get the first dose of the Hib vaccine when he is 2 months of age. This vaccine will also protect against meningitis (a swelling in the covering of the brain). Since the Hib vaccine has been available, the number of cases of acute supraglottitis and meningitis has dramatically decreased.
Recurrent or Persistent Croup
When croup persists or recurs frequently, it may be a sign that your child has some narrowing of the airway that is not related to an infection. This may be a problem that was present when your child was born or one that developed later. If your child has persistent or recurrent croup, your child's doctor may refer you to a specialist such as an otolaryngologist (ear, nose, and throat specialist) or pulmonologist (breathing and lung disease specialist) for further evaluation.
Croup is a common illness during childhood. Although most cases are mild, croup can become serious and prevent your child from breathing normally. Contact your child's doctor if your child's croup is not improving or if you have other concerns. He or she will make sure your child is evaluated and treated properly.
Additional Information
Fever and Your Baby
Coughs and Colds: Medicines or Home Remedies?
Diagnosing Asthma in Babies & Toddlers
Treating Bronchiolitis in Infants
Protecting Your Baby from RSV
Last Updated
11/21/2015
Source
Croup and Your Young Child (Copyright © 2009 American Academy of Pediatrics, Updated 08/2014)
The information contained on this Web site should not be used as a substitute for the medical care and advice of your pediatrician. There may be variations in treatment that your pediatrician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
Email
Print
Share
Donate
Contact Us
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Editorial Policy
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
© Copyright 2019 American Academy of Pediatrics. All rights reserved.