Light Boxes and Other Seasonal Affective Disorder Treatments
Homepage
Posts
Typography
Standard Post
Gallery Post Format
Sound Cloud Audio
WordPress Gallery
Vimeo Video Post
Pages
Shortcodes
Page full width
Page with sidebar
Site authors
Site Map
Home
FYI Living Menu
Body
Allergy & Asthma
Arthritis
Back & Neck Pain
Beauty & Skin
Cancer
Cold & Flu
Digestive Health
Fertility
Fitness
Headaches
Heart Health
Sleep Disorders
Mind
ADHD
Anxiety
Depression
Adolescent and Teen
Bipolar
Postpartum
Happiness
Memory
Diet
Nutrition
Meals
Special Diets
Allergies & Food Sensitivities
Cholestorol Diet
Diabetes Diet
Heart Healthy Diet
Vegetarian Diet
Restaurants
Sports Nutrition
Vitamins
Featured
Pregnancy
Tea
Videos
Depression, Seasonal Affective Disorder
Treating SAD with Light Box Therapy
by FYI Living
shares
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Print
Email
If you’ve ever experienced a case of the winter blues or find yourself feeling down on gloomy days, there’s a good chance that you suffer from seasonal affective disorder (SAD). SAD is a mood disorder in which sufferers experience depressive symptoms during the winter months of the year, and sometimes during other seasons as well. Fortunately, there are several different methods of treatment available for SAD.
In the darker Arctic regions of the world (such as Finland) there is a higher diagnosis of SAD than most other places, so it is believed that the disorder is caused by the lower light levels associated with the winter months. While some treat SAD with drugs, one form of treatment that is rising in popularity recently is the light therapy box. Light therapy products mimic certain wavelengths of light associated with the warmer, summer months and aid in reducing depressive symptoms during days when natural sunlight is not available. SAD light therapy causes a biochemical change in the brain that can elevate mood and reduce symptoms of depression.
While it’s possible to make your own seasonal affective disorder lights, it’s more practical to buy a SAD light box over-the-counter so that you’re assured the proper wavelengths of light to alleviate depressive symptoms. Because the Food and Drug Administration has not officially approved the depression light box, it’s important to research the seller before buying to ensure that it’s a reputable retailer.
When shopping for the best SAD light box, consider the degree of UV protection, light intensity, and light direction. It is important to buy a light box that offers some sort of ultraviolet light protection in order to avoid eye and skin damage. Intensity is also important because if it’s not high enough, the light therapy lamp might only be effective from a few inches away. Boxes with higher intensity stay effective up to several feet away. Also, light direction needs to come from above eye-level, so find a box shaped to direct light downward and place it in a spot just over head level.
Another effective treatment of seasonal affective disorder is the use of vitamin D supplements. Low vitamin D levels may cause depressive symptoms, and as sun exposure is a major provider of vitamin D, it’s only logical that lowered levels during winter months could be a cause of the disorder. Eating foods rich in vitamin D, such as eggs and fatty fish like salmon, or taking vitamin D tablets can effectively treat SAD if low vitamin D is the cause. Some people find that as little as fifteen minutes a day of direct sunlight exposure on the bare skin of the face of hands can elevate vitamin D levels.
So even though seasonal affective disorder only occurs at certain times of the year, it should still be treated just as seriously as others forms of depression. Through the use of a light therapy lamp and other alternative methods of treatment, there is a high possibility of alleviating some, if not all of your depressive symptoms.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
Related
Tags from the story
light therapy, Seasonal Affective Disorder, treatment
0
Facebook Twitter Pinterest
Google + LinkedIn Email
You may also like
July 5, 2011
Depression Study: 8 Years Later, Guess Who’s Smiling Now?
April 5, 2010
CPAP Machines are a Highly Effective Form of Treatment for Sleep Apnea
June 17, 2011
The Tansy Plant Treatment for Herpes
February 25, 2010
How to Overcome Teen and Adolescent Depression
April 5, 2010
Qualified Clinics Are Key to Quality Sleep Apnea Treatment
April 7, 2010
Q & A: How Do I Know If Therapy Is Working
Previous articleBeyond Baby Blues: Postpartum Depression
Next articleUnderstanding Bipolar Disorders 1 & 2
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
More Stories
Body
Benefits of Yoga for Breast Cancer Patients Undergoing Radiotherapy
Connect with FYI Living
Privacy Policy
Made with Love by Action Factory
Back to top
shares
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Print
Email
Send this to friend
Your email Recipient email
Send
Cancel