Articles - Acne News
CLOSE
Home
Articles
Causes & Symptoms
Treatment
Store
About
Home
Articles
Causes & Symptoms
Treatment
Store
About
Premium Rosehip Oil From Aveya Beauty Works on Cellular Level to Smooth Acne Scars
Causes & Symptoms
Treatment
May 19, 2014
0 4034
A Breakthrough in Skin Repair, Premium Rosehip Oil From Aveya Beauty Works on Cellular Level to Smooth Acne Scars, Rejuvenate and Protect Skin From Sun Damage, Discoloration (via PR Newswire)
MIAMI, May 12, 2014 /PRNewswire/ — Aveya Beauty’s (http://aveyabeauty.com/) 100% natural and organic Premium Rosehip Oil combines the power of essential oils and vitamins to create a skincare product that’s better than any spa treatment. Good for…
Continue
Rose Water For Acne
Articles
Treatment
Sep 19, 2013
0 4071
Rose Water For Acne
Acne is a problem not just for teens but also for adults. With regards to natural acne remedies, numerous acne sufferers are left in the dark regardless of the numerous possibilities. The bottom line is in finding the remedy that best suits you, and using it right. For instance, rose water is traditionally used in the Arab world like a flavoring agent. It’s also an ingredient of fresh fruit juices in the East and cookies and candies in the West. However, people are not conscious of its ability to promote skin growth. Tossing light on much more of its properties may help you use it successfully for acne treatment.
Among the remarkable benefits of rose water is that it is delicate and suitable for most skin tones. The only real caution is to stay away from it if you’ve rosacea. This happens because essential oils can worsen rosacea. And, rose water is actually a suspension of rose crucial oils in water. It is stated that certain ton of rose petals produces nearly a pound of concentrated rose essential oils. It has antiseptic and anti-microbial properties, helping maintain proper pH balance of your skin. Additionally, it works as a cartridge and toner by tightening up the pores and decreasing fine lines and wrinkles. Its skin health qualities could be attributed to natural bioactive chemical substances, particularly phenylethyl alcohol.
As the name suggests, the “water” part of it can moisten your skin, increasing its flexibility and reducing pore clogging. You can use it as a face wash, facial spray or face pack in conjunction with other ingredients. It is found to operate best with fresh lemon juice, probably the most widely accepted home remedies for acne. Create a mixture of 1 tablespoon each of rose water and lemon juice and put it on affected areas of your face. Ensure that you cleanse the face before the application. Leave for ten minutes and wash off. Make sure you test are you allergic to lemon juice by applying it on your own elbow before utilizing it on your face. While fresh lemon juice dissolves the dead skin cells so as to open your skin pores, rose water encourages new skin growth to promote healing. The end result is natural clear skin that shines with a richer color tone.
If you’re sensitive to citric acid, you may use a mild face pack made from rose water, honey and cucumber. Crush about two inches of cucumber in a mixer and blend it with two tablespoons honey and rose water to make a smooth paste. The anti-bacterial property of honey and cooling effect of cucumber work efficiently with rose water.
Rose water is instantly available in general stores or you can get it ready yourself by mixing a few drops of rose essential oil with water. It is also a good idea to incorporate rose water based cleansers, toners, face washes and lotions within your daily skin care routine.
Cucumber Treatment For Your Acne
Treatment
Sep 17, 2013
0 3440
Cucumber Treatment
The classic trend in skincare would be to go for natural treatments free of artificial colors and fragrances. Whether it’s for reaching natural crystal clear skin or dealing with skin conditions like acne, you will find endless organic and home made remedies. Cucumber can supply the much-sought skincare or acne remedies you are searching for.
Cucumber, the fruit of the sneaking vine, has its own roots in India. It’s been used in Asia and the Middle East being a natural agent to create a chilling effect on the skin. Using its mild flavor and intensely high water content – greater than 90 percent water – cucumber is among the best natural acne remedies that may hydrate and moisturize your skin, decreasing irritation and redness. Additional healthful vitamins and minerals of cucumber consist of vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E, potassium and proteins. Everyone knows that antioxidant vitamins, especially vitamin E, possess a crucial role in stopping free-radical harm to your skin.
With what form is cucumber treatment most appropriate? Well, cucumber works both inwardly and outwardly. It can be consumed being a salad every day. You may also consume cucumber juice, mixing it with other delicious ingredients like yogurt and strawberries. Cucumber pieces when put on your eyes can reduce under eye circles and puffiness, rendering a calming effect. It may form effective masks too.
The usage of cucumber mask dates back to Cleopatra of Egypt. To create an all-natural mask, merely, slice a medium-sized cucumber, mix it in a blender and add other 100 % natural ingredients based on whatever benefits you want to derive from the mask. For example, yoghurt imparts moisturising properties, while oatmeal imparts exfoliation properties. In the same way, honey is antimicrobial, fresh lemon juice is an astringent and brewer’s yeast offers deep cleansing. Blend the components, adding them gradually, before the mask reaches the best consistency, i.e. thick enough to smooth on to the skin. Apply evidently, avoiding your vision, leave on for a quarter-hour, rinse with warm water, and pat-dry. Abandoned portions could be refrigerated for a few days and used again.
Many discouraged acne sufferers have discovered relief in this wonder vegetable, one of the numerous effective home remedies for acne. Regular use of cucumber juice on acne-infested skin helps open up pores, allowing deep cleaning to get rid of dirt, oil and bacteria. The soothing acne remedy not just reduces inflammation but additionally softens rough and irritated skin to supply an even texture. The amino acids and minerals present in cucumber help firm and regrow your skin, thereby decreasing wrinkle formation. Cucumber is also better to treat other health problems like diabetes, high blood pressure, overweight and rheumatoid problems.
The most significant benefit of using cucumber for skin care is that it is cheap. It is amazing to notice that cucumber is popularly utilized in expensive spa treatments. Cucumber is mild and could be a part of your daily diet and exterior skin care regimen. The extra benefits are overwhelming. Cucumber treatment really helps!
Stay Acne Free With Healthy Diet
Treatment
Sep 11, 2013
0 2557
Stay Acne Free With Healthy Diet
Ever ask yourself why your acne continue showing up and vanishing in random instances? That is ultimately because of the foods that you simply eat. By consuming the foods which are beneficial to your skin, will assist you to lower your acne symptom, even though when you eat the meals which are harmful to your skin, those foods can make your acne continue and become worse. So, watch out for the meals that you simply give to your body. Those are the foundations of your skin, so select your foods carefully.
Foods are the supplies that your body uses as a blocks of all things that it needs to sustain and maintain your body health. It means that the actual foods may also be processed with regards to fixing the damage in your skin. Your system will invariably seek the way to keep the health in good shape. But, it requires your assist in doing so.
A modification of your diet can help your system to do its job properly. If you have acne or other diseases within you, your body will in fact cry for your help. If you pay attention to the cry of the body, you should be able to fix your skin damage quickly. But, most the ones who suffer don’t listen. They believe their acne is caused by factors including hormone, dirt, bacteria, and so forth. Those who suffer will think that foods can give no effect for their skin whatsoever. They’d rather believe the significance of deciding on the best over-the-counter products that are now being advertised heavily on television and other media. You need to stop this wrong thinking and begin to simply accept the truth that your foods can help or destroy your skin.
If initially you do not believe this, let’s do a simple experiment which will prove whether it’s true or not. You are able to adopt a brand new diet, starting today. Avoid damaging foods including meats, eggs, dairy products, cigarettes, soda, coffee, alcohol, junk foods, processed foods, and so on. And agree nourishing foods like avocado juice, watermelon, melon, apple, leafy green vegetables, almond, and so forth.
This can be done for a very short time period, such as 1 week or 2 weeks. See what goes on. If you really see a positive enhancement in your skin, then you need proven the theory that your foods can definitely cure your acne. Understanding this, you should keep a healthy diet in your life so that you can keep your skin clear from acne forever.
Effective Acne Scar Treatment
Treatment
Sep 10, 2013
0 1818
Effective Acne Scar Treatment
One of the most difficult periods in a person’s every day life is time when puberty starts. This is actually the age by which people try to look for themselves and create their very own distinct character. Combating acne problems is among the most significant areas of this age. Acne breakouts are a really bad problem that could bother you a lot. For this reason you need to optimize for efficient acne scar therapy so that you have the ability to possess a healthful and glowing skin. For more information about this topic, you can look at seeking help from experts.
The scariest thing here’s that no-one can clarify the problem to you or the reason it happened. Acne scar treatment method can definitely end up being process which is why you ought to choose the right treatment solution which isn’t just efficient but quite convenient as well. You need to first know your requirements about such a therapy. You must also plan your finances before you start so that you will don’t end up exceeding your budget.
Everyone knows that caring for the skin is definitely a wise decision as it can certainly assist you in fighting acne issues with great ease. You have to speak with an epidermis treatment expert if you wish to learn more about the best acne scar treatment. You just need to obtain the easy and basic things right and once you do this you’ll have the ability to generate some fine results on the run.
Occasionally, applying exfoliation cream can be quite amazing. It may provide you with some fast results and so you need to ensure that you opt for the right options each and every time. You have to find items on your own and ensure that you simply pay a lot of attention towards your choices while you’re shopping for some creams and medicines on acne scar therapy. Usually buy good quality items that may offer you best ends in quick time. The smartest thing which you’ll do for a more healthy skin would be to go to a trained professional.
An expert dermatological doctor can definitely provide you with some great details about this subject. He can even provide you with some treatments at cost-effective rates. You must put forward your condition and i’m pretty believing that a doctor will advise you something good. Honestly, my personal experience concludes that all you need is a healthy lifestyle. Both – physically and mentally. Following this simple rule will help you stay healthy and acne free!
4 Natural Acne Scars Treatments Revealed!
Treatment
Jul 29, 2013
0 2872
4 Natural Acne Scars Treatments Revealed!
Gaining scars is unavoidable and can easily appear at any time. Having said that, scars may be more undesirable in case they’re acne scars. These kinds of scars form if the recovery process of the skin is disturbed. These types of scars can actually make somebody feel more aware of their look, thus resulting to discomfort and low self-esteem. Because acne scars involves the skin, it is advisable to select natural acne scars treatments since they do not bring any kind of negative effects.
To assist remove the annoying scars on face or any other skin places of the body, allow me to share a few acne scars treatments :
If you are an acne victim, you need to drink no less than 8 glasses of water every day. Then your body will have sufficient amount of water. This may help with getting rid of or lightening the scars.
Drinking freshly squeezed lemon juice can help if you want to have a great health. Aside from that, fresh lemon juice may also help in the cure of acne scars. Squeeze out the juice, dip the cotton ball and use it to clean the face especially places which have been darkened by the scars. Leave it on your skin – it will certainly lighten the dark spots.
Blend rosewater and sandalwood to form into paste. Rub the paste on the affected place and let the paste stay on the skin for one hour. Wash the face with water that is clean. For optimum results, you can use this particular paste as a face mask and allow it to stay all night. Sandalwood is cool and may provide soothing feeling to the skin. It will reduce the swelling.
Apart from the health advantages olive oil has when used in food preparation, it can additionally help on the acne problem. Soon after cleansing and exfoliating the damaged area of the skin, pour a bit of olive oil on your palm and carefully rub it on the damaged skin. Olive oil will make the skin moisturized and brighten the scars.
These types of acne scars treatments are completely safe since they’re natural and can’t harm the skin in any way. Even though results of these natural acne scars treatments will take long to be noticed, they are able to successfully deal with the annoying skin trouble.
BTW did you heard about how to treat acne scars with onion extract? Read it here.
Mission Possible: Acne Treatments At Home
Articles
Jul 24, 2013
0 1033
Mission Possible: Acne Treatments At Home
Acne is probably the most common skin condition there is. It is described as a break out of pimples or zits in, usually in the person’s face. Even though it mainly impacts teens, it may still happen even after the puberty period. Even though some factors are no longer in your control, you can still find some acne treatments at home that you can apply to help you prevent acne breakouts.
Clean Your Face Regularly
Washing one’s face every day is a vital activity even when you do not have acne. Employing your clean hands or a smooth piece of cloth, you should clean your face lightly and thoroughly. This process assists in removing the dead skin cells, excess oil, along with other impurities from the surface of your skin. You have to keep in mind that you need to use warm water, and ensure it is not too hot. A gentle facial cleanser also comes strongly recommended. Don’t use a loofah and harsh soap whenever cleaning your face since this can result in further skin discomfort.
Regular Exfoliation
Exfoliation is the method of cleaning off the outer layer of your skin. This is so that your skin pores will be unclogged and so that your dead skin cells will be sloughed off. Keep in mind that this merely has to be done once weekly. Do not go overboard with it. You may either purchase exfoliating products or make them yourself. When done properly, this technique will significantly enhance your complexion.
Frequent Exercise
Exercise creates yet another unexpected health benefit other than maintaining you fit. Whenever you exercise, you not only burn off fat, but you also boost your blood circulation to your skin. Nevertheless, it is very important to keep in mind that you have to shower and clean your face right after each and every workout session. Sweat can block your pores. For this reason it is crucial for you to never forget to wash up afterwards. Acne is definitely an issue for anybody who has it. Nevertheless, you don’t have to be ashamed of your condition. It is very normal. It’s also essential to mention that acne is something that most people have had to cope with, at a particular point in their lives.
It’s also wise to bear in mind that acne is one skin disorder that may be prevented. Look around and you will find acne treatments at home that can be used to make you feel comfortable in your own skin. The guidelines introduced here can help you prevent acne outbreak in the future. Just be sure that you follow these tips regularly.
Remove Blackheads! Today!
Treatment
Jul 24, 2013
0 1234
Remove Blackheads! Today!
Removing blackheads is really a point of concern for most people who want to take good care of their skin. Even though the process of removing pimples is usually simple, a small careless move can result in temporary or even permanent marks on the skin. As humans, our skin particularly on our facial looks is extremely sensitive, so good care is essential to maintain your facial features fresh and glowing. Eliminating blackheads is one method to maintain your skin fresh and excellent. However, it is very important learn about how you can remove blackheads very carefully before applying any technique by yourself to prevent any negative effects. How to define Blackheads?
In most cases, they’re a concentration of dead skin cells or open follicles which are blocked with dirt. Causing blackheads on your face simply leaves small black dots on the facial expression particularly onto your nose also it does not look very attractive. Blackheads are generally present around nose, cheeks, around ears as well as sometimes on other areas of the body.
Removing Blackheads
As blackheads are result of oil, bacterias and dead cells in skin pores, it’s important for individuals to get rid of them securely to have their skin fresh and engaging. Following a few easy steps will help you easily eliminate these blackheads at your house . with no help of a beauty therapist or a dermatological doctor.
Make Them Soft. Just before removing blackheads, ensure your skin and the surface of blackheads are soft. A good way is to wash the skin with warm water frequently. You may also use soaps which make skin softer. Utilize Cleansers and Exfoliates. You might want to buy creams or cleansers which will make the procedure simpler for you. Facial cleansers and exfoliation soaps and creams with salicylic acid are able to keep your skin soft together with becoming dry the oil in pores. Likewise, use of benzoyl peroxide on skin is yet another efficient way to interrupt up a power of dead cells in pores leading to loosening up of pimples. A different way to help make your skin softer is exposing your face to hot steam for couple of minutes. Steam not just makes your skin layer soft but it may also enlarge your pores.
Dry Your Skin. After cleaning and applying creams or cleansers of your choice, dry your skin layer using a towel. Use Extractors, Tweezers or Your Fingers. Now, to get rid of blackheads out of your skin, you should use various kinds of blackheads extractors, tweezers as well as your fingers. If you are using your fingers or tweezers, be sure you have washed them properly. If you work with any type of metal extractor, ensure it is properly sterilized before use. It is simple to use your fingers to get rid of blackheads especially out of your nose or areas encompassing nose. You are able to apply GENTLE pressure together with your fingers around the pores. Squeezing them out using fingers is among the most common ways. Using more force than required, applying dirty fingers or attempting to squeeze blackheads out with out making your skin layer soft can harm you skin, it is essential to follow along with a proper procedure. If you think that the blackhead is not coming out easily, stop exerting more force on the skin as it can certainly seriously damage skin cells.
Utilize Antiseptic Cream. Once you’re done with taking out the blackheads, clean the face again with the hot water and apply a good antiseptic cream or acne cream at first glance of pores. Hopefully following these easy steps described above has assist you to learn how to remove blackheads at home. For anyone who wish to find out about how to remove blackheads from nose may also apply the same technique. Tip from an Expert: You may also apply a mixture of benzoyl peroxide, sulfur and salicylic acid on the skin after getting out of bed in the next morning for better results.
123...20Next Page 1 of 20
We cannot load blog data at this time.
ACNE TREATMENTS
No More Acne Breakouts ! Potatoes!
May 2, 2013
Acne Treatment Using Cayenne Pepper
Dec 30, 2012
Cure Acne Scars by Applying Onion Extract
Apr 30, 2013
Cure Acne With Carrots
Apr 5, 2013
ABOUT US
Here at Acne News we aim to provide you the reader with the latest and most updated information on all acne related issues.
We write original and curate content from many sources around the web to give you the best acne information all in one place.
CAUSES &AMP; SYMPTOMS
Premium Rosehip Oil From Aveya Beauty Works on Cellular Level to Smooth Acne Scars
May 19, 2014
Cause Of Acne: Gluten Allergy ?!
Jan 2, 2013
Clear Up Your Body Acne Now!
May 22, 2013
Causes Of Baby Pimples
Jan 28, 2013
Tips To Have A Clear Skin
Mar 14, 2013
Tags
Acne Acne Breakout Acne Breakouts Acne Cure acne free Acne Problem Acne Problems Acne Remedies acne remedy Acne Scars Acne Scar Treatment Acne Treatment Acne Treatments Adult Acne Benzoyl Peroxide Blackheads blemishes Cause Acne Cause Of Acne chemical peels cure acne Dead Skin Cells facial care facial skin Fight Acne Hair Follicles Natural Acne Treatments Natural remedies peeling peels Pimples pimples treatment proper nutrition Salicylic acid Sebaceous Glands Severe Acne skin care Skin Problems Stress Treat acne Treatment Of Acne Vitamin A vitamin C Whiteheads Zits
© 2012 - Acne News - Powered By: Tuuli Media
TOS
Disclaimer
Contact Us