B vitamins can help people with memory loss and other signs of dementia
Search for:
News
Food News
WARNING: Popular sweetener stimulates tumor growth, plus 3 other horrible health effects
Vitamin C News
Vitamin E Alert: Researchers discover surprising reason why you may be deficient in this critical an…
Cancer News
Cancer survival NEWS: Breast cancer patients discover the true value of physical activity
EMF Updates
Parents demand removal of cell tower from elementary school after four students and three teachers d…
Videos
Podcasts
Shop
How B vitamins can help people with memory loss and other signs of dementia
by: Lori Alton, staff writer | November 7, 2017
(NaturalHealth365) According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 5.5 million Americans are currently living with Alzheimer’s disease. Beginning with mild cognitive impairment – including memory loss – this form of dementia has Western medicine baffled. If only they knew more about the power of nutrition – especially how B vitamins can help reduce the risk of brain disorders.
In fact, new research shows that a combination of B-complex vitamins can help preserve brain volume while preventing and even reversing mild cognitive decline – possibly slowing down the onset of Alzheimer’s disease.
Key point: High levels of homocysteine tend to trigger neurodegeneration
Researchers have long considered levels of the amino acid homocysteine to be a biological marker, or predictor, of Alzheimer’s disease – meaning that elevated levels are linked with an increased risk of developing the condition.
But homocysteine may play a more destructive role. Many researchers feel that this pro-inflammatory substance is also a potential cause of the brain damage associated with Alzheimer’s disease.
Giving credence to the theory is the fact that raised homocysteine levels are frequently found in patients with mild cognitive impairment – a condition which often precedes the development of Alzheimer’s disease.
And, research has shown that high levels of homocysteine can impair circulation to the brain, while causing increased oxidative stress and damage to the blood-brain barrier. In addition, homocysteine increases levels of beta-amyloid proteins associated with Alzheimer’s disease.
Did you know? The liver is the most important detoxifying organ in the body. When the liver can’t effectively neutralize and dispose of toxins, they accumulate in the body. Two essential nutrients for healthy liver function are milk thistle and glutathione. These two ingredients - plus much more – are now available in an advanced liver support formula. Click here to learn more.
B vitamins can lower homocysteine and arrest cognitive decline
According to a study published in International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry and involving patients over 70 years old with mild cognitive impairment, daily doses of 0.8 mg of vitamin B9, 0.5 mg of vitamin B12 and 20 mg of vitamin B6 caused participants to experience homocysteine levels 30 percent lower than that of the control group.
In patients with elevated levels of homocysteine, the vitamin treatment conferred major benefits – markedly improving cognition and memory. The team concluded that B vitamins appeared to slow cognitive and clinical decline in people with mild cognitive impairment – and was particularly effective in those with elevated homocysteine.
As expected: researchers are calling for more study, saying that the next step is to see if this treatment will slow or prevent the conversion of mild cognitive impairment to dementia.
Can B vitamins slow the onset of Alzheimer’s disease?
Loss of brain volume is an unavoidable – but normal – part of aging. According to researchers, we lose about 2 percent of our brain volume every decade that we age.
However, while slow, minor loss of volume is normal, accelerated loss of volume is associated with Alzheimer’s disease – which makes the study below even more significant.
Researchers found that high doses of B vitamins for two years caused dramatic reductions in brain atrophy. Those with the highest homocysteine levels at the beginning of the study had the greatest benefits, with a rate of atrophy that was only half that of the placebo group. They also experienced improvements in higher cognitive function.
The team concluded that high-dose B vitamins may arrest cognitive decline in those with mild signs of Alzheimer’s disease, thereby slowing the development of the illness.
Vitamin B3 also contributes protective effects
In addition to vitamins B6, B9 and B12, niacin – or vitamin B3 – can be an important ally against neurodegeneration.
Niacin has been shown to cause improvements in cognitive abilities and overall function. In a study of 6,000 participants published in the Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Psychiatry, researchers found that participants with the highest total intake of niacin were much less likely to get Alzheimer’s disease – and had slower rates of cognitive decline.
In another study, elderly patients with dementia were shown to have lower levels of niacin.
Niacin has proven abilities to lower harmful LDL cholesterol while raising desirable HDL cholesterol – a benefit that also may help stave off Alzheimer’s disease.
Good sources of vitamin B3 include 100 percent grass-fed organ meats, wild-caught fish, organic broccoli and shitake mushrooms. (to name a few)
How can I increase levels of protective B vitamins?
Vitamin B6, vitamin B9 and vitamin B12 are all associated with improvements in cognitive function.
Vitamin B6 – or pyridoxine – is vital for the production of neurotransmitters – including serotonin, norepinephrine and melatonin – and is also needed for the absorption of vitamin B12. Good sources of B6 include humanely-raised chicken and turkey; organically-grown brown rice, sunflower seeds, spinach and wheat germ.
Naturally, choosing organic foods provides the most nutritional benefit – while avoiding the unwanted consumption of toxic chemicals.
Vitamin B9 – also known as folate and folic acid – is crucial for brain function. You can boost your dietary intake with organic dark leafy greens, legumes, beef liver, avocadoes and grass-fed (raw) milk products.
Vitamin B12 – or cobalamin – is essential for maintaining healthy nerve cells, and works hand in glove with vitamins B6 and B9 to control homocysteine. It is best found only in animal products, such as wild-caught fish, grass-fed organ meats and pasture-raised eggs.
To avoid deficiencies of vitamin B12, vegetarians and vegans should consider supplementation.
Supplemental B vitamins can ensure optimal levels
Most natural health experts maintain that the recommended daily amounts of B-complex vitamins advised by the Institutes of Medicine are far too low.
For a healthy adult, an integrative healthcare provider may advise a daily dose of 50 mg of vitamin B3, 800 micrograms of vitamin B9 in the form of folic acid, 150 mcg of vitamin B12 and 75 mg of vitamin B6.
To treat high homocysteine, daily dosages of up to 6,000 mcg of vitamin B9, 125 mg of vitamin B6 and 2,000 mcg of vitamin B12 may be recommended.
A word of caution: Before making any change to your diet or supplement routine – always consult with a knowledgeable integrative physician.
Thankfully, evidence continues to accumulate: when it comes to reducing neurodegeneration and warding off Alzheimer’s disease – this (above mentioned) roster of B-complex vitamins may very well prove to be your “A team” for disease prevention.
Editor’s note: The NaturalHealth365 Store offers the finest, easy-to-absorb, liposomal B vitamins on the market. Click here to order today!
Sources for this article include:
UniversityHealthNews.com
DrWhitaker.com
FoodForTheBrain.org
NIH.gov
Food & Nutrition
Natural Health 365
Natural Health 365 is a premium source of trending and popular health-related news, science, testimony & research articles on the most up to date and relevant natural health information. The Food & Nutrition articles found herein are meant to inform and advise our site visitors on eating healthy, nutritious foods and safely using supplements and vitamins to achieve optimal health.
Join thousands of daily visitors staying informed and involved on Natural Health 365! We seek out scientific solutions with proven results and it is our mission to keep you informed! Articles range in topic from the cancer fighting qualities of Olive Oil, to the remarkably high concentration of anti-oxidants found in blueberries, to how to make your own almond milk, to a nutritional comparison of organic vs conventional produce, to an analysis of the health benefits of tree nuts. You can find all of the Food News Articles here
Read Some of Our Most Popular Articles
Artichokes, Olive Oil, Almond Milk, Blueberries
Food News is one of our major post categories on www.naturalhealth365.com and contains over 350 articles that cover a wide range of subjects; including but not limited to…
Food News
Fruits and Vegetables
Organic Foods
Vitamins
Antioxidants
Omega-3
Healthy Fats
Non GMO
Vitamin D
Vitamin C
Health News
Coconut Oil
Healthy Eating
Nutrition News
Sugar
Processed Foods
Saturated Fats
More Food & Nutrition Articles
Fresh Organic Produce Fights Cancer, Susan G. Komen on Organic Foods, Hemp Seeds for Inflammation, Pau D’Arco For Improved Immunity
In addition to exploring health benefits of certain foods, vitamins and supplements, we also aim to connect healthy eating and balanced consumption of dietary supplements to long-lasting health and adding healthy, happy years to your life. For example, did you know that eating Granny Smith Apples on a regular basis can reduce your chance of building up unhealthy gut yeast? Or that ingesting ground hemp seeds can significantly reduce inflammation throughout the body? Perhaps you didn’t know that Fresh Organic Produce has been found to have higher concentrations of key, cancer-fighting anti-oxidants and vitamins than conventional produce? You can find all of that information and more right here on Natural Health 365.
We’d love to know what you’re thinking! Please join the conversation on Facebook, post comments here on the website and feel free to reach out to us if you have any questions.
Please use and share the articles you find here with your friends, family and peers.
Submit
RELATED NEWS
Gates Foundation quietly plans to control nutritional supplements for the ‘good of humanity’
(NaturalHealth365) For the majority of Americans, nutritional supplements are a mainstay of …
Another reason NOT to eat fried foods, the real problem with vegetable oil exposed
(NaturalHealth365) You already know fried foods are not great for your health …
5 essential micronutrients to correct an irregular heartbeat
(NaturalHealth365) Cardiac arrhythmia (also known as cardiac dysrhythmia) refers to a group …
Research links folate deficiency to a wide range of diseases
(NaturalHealth365) Folate, sometimes referred to as vitamin B9 or folic acid, is …
← Previous Article
Next Article →
MOST POPULAR
This Week
1
Bad news about the Impossible Burger: Ushering in a new wave of genetically engineered foods
2
Multiple chemical sensitivities is an overlooked worldwide health epidemic causing massive health problems
3
Shocking NEW research exposes the truth about ‘moderate’ alcohol consumption and your risk of a stroke
4
NYC Mayor threatens unvaccintaed residents: Get vaccinated or pay $1,000 fine
5
WARNING: Popular sweetener stimulates tumor growth, plus 3 other horrible health effects
6
New study: Chronic health problem linked with frequent nighttime bathroom trips
All Time
1
Microwave oven ALERT: The dangers of microwaves revealed
2
A safe and effective way to detox aluminum, scientist reports
3
Eggs EXPOSED: The difference between pasture raised, free-range and cage free
4
5 reasons why milk does NOT do a body good
5
Pro-vaccine medical expert ADMITS ‘there is a link’ between vaccinations and autism
6
Why aluminum foil can be a health hazard for you and your family
Popular Topics
Toxic Chemicals
Drug Alerts
Food News
Heart Disease
Natural Healing
Nutrition News
Vaccine Updates
Vitamin C
EMF Warnings
The Inside Scoop
Contact Us
Inner Circle Login
About Jonathan Landsman
NaturalHealth365 Store
Affiliate Disclosure
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Let’s Be Friends!
Join thousands of NaturalHealth365 Subscribers on your favorite platform!
All content on this site are the freely-expressed, individual opinions of all those involved. NaturalHealth365.com does not recommend any particular nutritional supplement or treatment option for any medical health condition. We do not intend to replace the need for professional advice in any way. Ultimately, it is up to you to work with a qualified, medical professional and make an informed decision. The information on this site is provided for educational purposes only. Your use of this website constitutes an agreement with our terms and conditions. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks posted on this website are the property of their respective owners.
NaturalHealth365 © 2019 - All Rights Reserved.
English
Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish