Do You or Someone You Know Suffer from Migraines? Here Are Few Natural Remedies That Can Help! - Stay Naturally Healthy
Menu
Home
Health
Diet & Weight Loss
Healthy Food
Healthy Drinks
Psychology
Recipes
Natural Tip
General
Do You or Someone You Know Suffer from Migraines? Here Are Few Natural Remedies That Can Help!
Sandra | December 14, 2017 | Health | No Comments
Headaches are causing problems for more than 47 million Americans. Those who suffer from headaches also experience nausea, light sensitivity, tension, and pain in the neck and back.
Some of the non-prescription treatments such as aspirin, Excedrin, and Aleve are not pain relievers and they cause side-effects. Due to these reasons you should use healthier alternatives in order to relive headaches. The most efficient ones are the following:
Caffeine
Caffeine is great for relieving migraines and due to its properties we often find it in medications. Also it helps you reduce inflammation that is caused by migraine. You should try and combine it with over the counter medicine in order to treat the headache very rapidly. Make sure that you don’t overuse this combination in order to avoid addiction.
Ginger
According to one study conducted in 2014 found that ginger root contains great benefits that are similar to other prescription drugs that are used for treatment of migraines.
Banana and ice compress
You should apply cold compress on your neck and head in order to relieve the migraine. Also you should put banana peel on the forehead in order to allow the skin absorb the potassium and relieve the pain.
Feverfew
You should use feverfew in any form you could find in order to prevent and treat migraines.
Flaxseed
If you are suffering from persistent migraine caused by inflammation you definitely need to increase the consumption of omega-3 fatty acids. One great source of omega-3 is flaxseed and you should definitely add this ingredient to your salads or soups. Also you could use flaxseed oil as salad dressing.
Lavender oil
First you will need to boil 6 cups of water and afterwards add 8 drops of lavender oil in it. This relaxing vapor will definitely help you relive headache as you inhale it.
Butterbur
In order to treat migraine you will need to take 50-75 milligrams of butterbur twice per day. This extract will help you improve circulation of the blood to the brain.
Basil oil
Basil oil is great natural relaxant for the muscles and helps you alleviate headaches. Also you could replace the use of olive oil with basil oil for cooking in order to relax the muscles and relieve migraine pain.
Buckwheat
This ingredient is packed with rutin which is a type of flavonoid that helps you relieve inflammation. You should definitely use it on regular basis in order to obtain the benefits it provides.
Besides these natural solutions you need to make sure that you change your lifestyle in order to prevent headache problems. Make sure that you consume healthy diet and do regular exercises.
Add a Comment
Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment:*
Name:*
Email Address:*
Website:
Follow me on:
Recent Posts
Signs And Symptoms Indicating You That You Have A Lack Of The Following Vitamins!
Psychologists Warn: Never Use These 5 Phrases When Talking To Your Child…
Here’s What To Do If You Are Suffering From Bad Circulation!
Having Mice In Your House Is Definitely The Worst Thing Ever! Give This Five Homemade Solutions A Try And Get Rid Of Them Once And For All!
Baking Soda Based Recipes To Properly Remove Fat From The Belly, Thighs, Arms, And Back!
Copyright © 2019 Stay Naturally Healthy.
Contact
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms and Conditions