Can Vitiligo Be exposure Under Sunshine_Vitiligo Disease Treatment
FREE INQUIRY Facebook
Contact us
About us
Email:bjzkhospital@gmail.com
SiteMap
Email : bjzkhospital@gmail.com
WhatsApp:008618519108583
Vitiligo Cure Chinese Medicine for Vitiligo
Home
Vitiligo ▼
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Vitiligo Treatment
Psoriasis
Our Hospital▼
Vitiligo Hospital
Psoriasis Hospital
Environment
Equipment
Expert Team
Online Doctor
Healthy Living
Patients Stories
FAQs
Contact us
Home > FAQs >
Vitiligo Disease
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Links
Doctors
Equipment
Vitiligo Hospital
Vitiligo Hospital
Healthy Living
Patients Stories
White Patches Disappear: I Can Visit My Girlfriend Family
A Patient From Congo Rehabilitate From Vitiligo In Our Hospital
A Successful Vitiligo Treatment Case of a Chinese Young Man
Contact Us
bjzkhospital@gmail.com
008613051357947
bjmeidi
Hot Article
5 Inducing Factors For Vitiligo
Fruits For Vitiligo Patients
How Is Dermatitis Treated
Is There a Medicine to Cure Vitiligo
Does Exposure To Sunlight Will Induce Vitiligo
Attentions For Vitiligo patients During Treatment
Does Vitiligo is a Incurable Disease
Can Vitiligo Be exposure Under Sunshine
After suffering from vitiligo, in addition to timely treatment, of course, nursing work is necessary, and in addition to the diet should pay attention to, life in vitiligo many aspects need to pay attention, then for vitiligo, vitiligo can bask in the sun? Here we have a detailed understanding of the patient's condition may be helpful.
Vitiligo and other skin diseases are not the same, do not completely taboo the sun's radiation, vitiligo can be sun, but this may not be said to be free to sun, but to the appropriate sun.
Vitiligo patients with appropriate sun exposure will have some help, because the sun's exposure to stimulate the melanocytes, thereby enhancing the function of melanocytes, is conducive to the regression of white spots. Especially for the development of vitiligo, appropriate to the sun can see the white spot boundary gradually clear, the edge of the skin color will deepen, so appropriate to bask in the sun for vitiligo enter a quiescent period of favorable.
But if the patient does not know how to appropriate light, excessive light is will lead to vitiligo area becomes larger, if some patients to excessive exposure will make the skin erythema, or blisters, some bullae in the development of vitiligo if these phenomena, in bullous, blister disappeared after will found the white spot area variable phenomena, it is recommended that patients with vitiligo can be appropriate sun exposure, but to avoid exposure, to prevent the effects of recovery.
Patients with vitiligo to avoid light exposure, may, at its discretion, accept can promote the metabolism of melanocytes and will not cause skin inflammation in the amount of ultraviolet light irradiation. Suggested to autumn and winter, spring can choose at noon, the sun shines into the ground to bask in the sun, the drying time can be longer, and for the summer, the sun to in the morning in the evening is appropriate, at noon the sun, then can choose across the glass exposure, repeated exposure, but some short.
In patients with vitiligo can be appropriate to the sun, but it is not recommended in the sun exposure, generally require patients to at noon on two seasons of winter and spring were appropriate sun bath is conducive to the rehabilitation of vitiligo, so that vitiligo can be appropriate to the sun.
Hope that patients have been seen after the harvest. Patients in the treatment of vitiligo to maintain an optimistic attitude, but also to overcome the fear of vitiligo, with the doctor to expand scientific and standardized treatment, believe that patients will be able to overcome vitiligo. At last, I wish the patient friend can restore health as soon as possible after the treatment, return to the good life.
Email: bjzkhospital@gmail.com
Skype: bjmeidi
WhatsApp: +86 18500025611 , +86 18500025611
Tag: FAQs Vitiligo FAQs
Pre：Can Psoriasis Have A Healthy Baby
Next：How To Identify The Lesion Color Of Vitiligo
As for you own illness conditions, you can get some guidance related to diet, exercise, medicines or some natural remedies. The online consultation service is free. Please remember to leave your email address, or phone number so that we can contact you and help you!
Please leave the patient's FULL name in case of a duplicate, and to make our doctor give timely response and help.
Full Name：
Country：
Email:
Skype：
Whatsapp:
Viber：
Phone Number：
Disease：
Vitiligo Psoriasis Acne Hair Loss Eczema Dermatitis
Message：
Related Articles
Does Vitiligo Can Be Cured
Bath Attentions For Patients With Vitiligo On Legs
How To Cure Vitiligo From The Root
Does Vitiligo Can Damage The Eyes
Diet Attentions For Vitiligo
Does Chinese Medicine Can Treat Vitiligo
Quick Links
Vitiligo
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Vitiligo Cure
Web map
Treatmet
Chinese Medicine Treatment for Vitiligo
Acupuncture Treatment for Vitiligo
Laser for vitiligo
PUVB
Contact Address
NO 18, Santai Mountain Streat Intersection South, Daxing Dirtrict,China.
Phone
008601087626355
WhatsApp
008618519108583
Email
bjmeidi@hotmail.com
Helpline
0086-01087626355
Follow us
Website content statement: the information on this website is for reference only, and can not be used as a medical basis for diagnosis and treatment.
Friendly Links : Vitiligo Cure