Normal Version
Music Therapy and Autism Ranking:
Music therapy uses singing, live music making and/or composition techniques to encourage people to engage in spontaneous and creative musical activities.
Music therapy is based on the idea that all individuals have the ability to respond to music and sound and that this can lead to positive changes in behaviour and emotional well being.
The music therapist and client use a variety of percussion or tuned instruments, or their voices, to develop shared and interactive musical activities.
The client does not need musical skills to benefit from music therapy but the music therapist does need a high level of musical and therapeutic skill.
Music therapy is sometimes used alongside other therapies, for example dance therapy and in the creation of musical social stories.
Our Opinion
There is a limited amount of low quality research evidence which suggests that music therapy may be helpful in improving communication skills and, to a more limited extent, social skills, in some children and adolescents on the autism spectrum.
There is a need for more studies on music therapy with better design and larger samples. There is also a need for studies which examine whether or not music therapy works in real-world settings (such as the home or school), whether music therapy leads to meaningful everyday improvements in social functioning, and whether those effects are long lasting.
Disclaimer
Please read our Disclaimer on Autism Interventions
Audience
Music therapy is used with a wide range of people, including people on the autism spectrum, people with learning disabilities, people with mental health problems and people with physical disabilities.
For example, according to the Nordoff –Robbins website, accessed on 17 May 2016
“Through music therapy we support people with a range of challenges including autism and other learning difficulties, dementia, mental health problems, stroke, brain injury and depression. Some of the people we help have a life-threatening or terminal illness, such as cancer.”
Aims and Claims
Aims
Music therapy is designed to address a wide range of physical, emotional, cognitive, and social needs. For example, according to the American Music Therapy Association website, accessed on 17 May 2016,
“Music Therapy is the clinical and evidence-based use of music interventions to accomplish individualized goals within a therapeutic relationship by a credentialed professional who has completed an approved music therapy program.
“Music Therapy is an established health profession in which music is used within a therapeutic relationship to address physical, emotional, cognitive, and social needs of individuals. After assessing the strengths and needs of each client, the qualified music therapist provides the indicated treatment including creating, singing, moving to, and/or listening to music. Through musical involvement in the therapeutic context, clients' abilities are strengthened and transferred to other areas of their lives. Music therapy also provides avenues for communication that can be helpful to those who find it difficult to express themselves in words. Research in music therapy supports its effectiveness in many areas such as: overall physical rehabilitation and facilitating movement, increasing people's motivation to become engaged in their treatment, providing emotional support for clients and their families, and providing an outlet for expression of feelings.”
Claims
There have been a number of claims for the use of music therapy with individuals on the autism spectrum. For example, the British Association of Music Therapy website, accessed on 24 May 2016, claims
“Music therapy can be very helpful for those with a diagnosis on the autistic spectrum. Involvement in music making can both stimulate and relax a person leading to very positive changes.
“Music therapy with children can:
help a child to listen
encourage spontaneous play
stir a desire to communicate
strengthen muscles and improve co-ordination
help the child to build relationships
improve concentration
provide a means of self expression
stimulate language development through songs and turn taking
excite imagination and creativity”
Key Features
According to the British Association of Music Therapists website, accessed on 19 May 2016,
“Music plays an important role in our everyday lives. It can be exciting or calming, joyful or poignant, can stir memories and powerfully resonate with our feelings, helping us to express them and to communicate with others.
“Music therapy uses these qualities and the musical components of rhythm, melody and tonality to provide a means of relating within a therapeutic relationship. In music therapy, people work with a wide range of accessible instruments and their voices to create a musical language which reflects their emotional and physical condition; this enables them to build connections with their inner selves and with others around them.
“Music therapists support the client’s communications with a bespoke combination of improvised or pre-composed instrumental music and voice, either sung or spoken. Individual and group sessions are provided in many settings such as hospitals, schools, hospices and care homes, and the therapist’s approach is informed by different theoretical frameworks, depending on their training and the health needs which are to be met”.
In practice music therapy uses singing, live music making and/or composition techniques to encourage people to engage in spontaneous and creative musical activities.
Music therapy is based on the idea that all individuals have the ability to respond to music and sound and that this can lead to positive changes in behaviour and emotional well being.
The music therapist and client use a variety of percussion or tuned instruments, or their voices, to develop shared and interactive musical activities.
The client does not need musical skills to benefit from music therapy but the music therapist does need a high level of musical and therapeutic skill.
Music therapy is sometimes used alongside other therapies, for example dance therapy and in the creation of musical social stories.
Music therapy is usually part of a multi-disciplinary programme, offering an enriched learning environment for the development of communication and other aspects of a child’s personality. Music therapy should thus be considered as part of a broader programme of support and intervention to individuals on the autism spectrum.
Cost and Time
Cost
In the UK, music therapy provided via the NHS is free of charge at point of delivery to individuals and their families.
For music therapists working privately in the UK, charges vary between £45-£65 per session, although there may additional fees for the initial assessment and report writing etc.
Time
Like many other interventions, the length and frequency of music therapy will depend to a large extent on the needs of the individual client.
Music therapy sessions vary in length but usually last about 30 to 50 minutes. Sessions are held on a regular basis, often weekly. For children on the autism spectrum more frequent, shorter sessions may be easier for the child to access. Sessions can be provided in individual or group settings.
Risks and Safety
Hazards
There are no known adverse effects for music therapy.
Contraindications
There are no known contraindications (something which makes a particular treatment or procedure potentially inadvisable) for music therapy.
Suppliers and Availability
Suppliers
Music therapy is established as a profession in over 50 countries and a World Music Therapy Federation has been formed to promote the understanding, use and development of music therapy for the international mental health community.
In the UK many professional music therapists are employed by the National Health Service, local education authorities and social services or while others work freelance or in the not for profit sector.
Credentials
In the UK the profession was recognised by the National Health Service as a Profession Allied to Medicine in 1982, and in 1999 music therapy became a State Registered profession, and was incorporated, together with Art and Drama therapy as an amendment to the 1960 legislation governing the Council for the Professions Supplementary to Medicine.
Currently music therapy is governed by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) where music therapists working in the public sector are required to maintain registration.
In the United States, a music therapist is most commonly designated by MT-BC (Music Therapist, Board-Certified). In Canada, the designation is MTA (Music Therapist Accredited/Musicotherapie Accreditee).
Related Suppliers and Availability
American Music Therapy Association
British Association for Music Therapy
History
Music therapy as a formal discipline was developed in the USA in the mid 1940s, when Michigan State University and the University of Kansas began courses.
Music therapy was introduced to the UK in the 1950s and 60s by pioneer practitioners like Juliette Alvin, Paul Nordoff and Clive Robbins.
In the USA music therapy grew up initially as a palliative treatment for returning war veterans, and subsequently became more adapted as a behavioural intervention. In Europe, behavioural and developmental influences were present at the beginning, and music therapy had a remedial role in special education. However, music therapy in Europe, and particularly in the UK, has developed predominately as a psychotherapeutic intervention.
In all countries where music therapists are trained and qualified as clinical practitioners, music therapy is influenced by, and allied to music psychology, music in medicine, musicology, music science and technology, and some forms of sound therapy.
Current Research
We have identified 30 scientific studies of music therapy as an intervention for people on the autism spectrum published in peer-reviewed journals.
These studies included more than 400 individuals aged from 3 months to adult.
The majority of the studies reported improvements. For example,
Some of the studies (Boso et al, 2007) reported increased musical skills in some participants, for example, singing a song
Some of the studies (such as Edgerton, 1984) reported increased communication skills in some participants, for example, matching a fast rhythmic beat from the therapist
Some of the studies (such as Lim and Draper, 2011) reported improved speech production in some participants, for example, producing repeated or echoed words
Some of the studies (such as Thompson et al, 2014) reported increased social interaction in some participants, for example, increased interactions with other family members
Some of the studies (such as LaGasse et al, 2014) reported increased joint attention skills and eye gaze in some participants.
A significant minority of the studies (such as Gattino et al, 2011) reported limited or mixed results.
Please note: we did not include some of the studies included in other reviews of music therapy such as the Cochrane review carried out by Geretsegger et al. (2014). For example, we did not include studies which have only been published as student dissertations (such as Arezina, 2011).
Status Research
There are a number of limitations to all of the research studies published to date. For example
The majority of the studies had a small number of participants - between 1 and 8. One of the studies with a greater number of participants (Kim, 2008) had a dropout rate of 5 out of 15, that is, 33%.
In some of the studies (such as Aldridge et al, 1995) it is not clear how many, if any, of the participants were on the autism spectrum.
Some of the studies (such as Kaplan and Steele, 2005) were retrospective (where the study is planned once the intervention has taken place) or were not experimental in design (where the study is planned to test specified objectives).
Some of the studies (such as Dezfoolian et al, 2013) had no comparison control group (a group that gets a different treatment).
Some of the controlled studies (such as Ghasemtabar et al, 2015) were non-randomised (so the control group may have had different characteristics to the experimental group) and non-blinded (the researchers and participants knew who got which treatment).
Some of the studies (such as Saperston, 1973) did not establish adequate baseline measures before the intervention began (which makes it difficult to assess the significance of any reported changes).
Some of the studies (such as Gattino et al, 2011) did not use a structured, manualised protocol (a set of codified instructions which ensures the intervention is delivered the way it should be).
Some of the studies (such as Rosenblatt et al, 2011) used music therapy alongside a wide range of other interventions (which makes it difficult to assess the effectiveness or otherwise of each intervention).
For a comprehensive list of potential flaws in research studies, please see "Why some research studies are flawed."
Ongoing Research
This page provides details of ongoing research into music therapy and people on the autism spectrum.
If you know of any other studies we should include please email info@researchautism.net with the details.
Grieg Academy Music Therapy Research Centre (GAMUT), Bergen, Norway is running a study to find out about the effects of improvisational music therapy on the social communication skills of children with ASD. For more details, please see Trial of Improvisational Music therapy's Effectiveness for children with Autism (TIME-A) Open in New Window)
Future Research
Summary of Existing Research
There is a limited amount of low quality research evidence which suggests that music therapy may be helpful in improving communication skills and, to a lesser extent, social skills, in some children and adolescents on the autism spectrum.
The systematic Cochrane review undertaken by Geretsegger et al. (2014) reported “that music therapy may have positive effects on social interaction and communication skills of children with ASD.”
The review went on to report “However, these findings need to be corroborated by future research involving larger samples. ...As only short- to medium-term effects have been examined, it remains unknown how enduring the effects of music therapy on social interaction, communication, and related skills are in the long term.”
There some anecdotal reports from a variety of individuals from a variety of countries.
Recommendations for Future Research
There is a need for more studies on music therapy with better design and larger samples. There is also a need for studies which examine whether or not music therapy works in real-world settings (such as the home or school), whether music therapy leads to meaningful everyday improvements in social functioning, and whether those effects are long lasting.
According to Geretsegger et al (2014),
“Future research on music therapy for people with ASD will need to pay close attention to sample size and power. Sample sizes in all included studies were small, and test power was only discussed in three studies (Gattino 2011; Kim 2008; Thompson 2012a). Limited sample size remains a common problem in research on interventions for ASD. As there is a lack of studies for older individuals with ASD, research is needed examining effects of music therapy for adolescents and adults with ASD. Furthermore, we recommend that future trials on music therapy in this area should be: (1) pragmatic [work in the real world]; (2) parallel [where different participants are split into different groups, each which receives a different intervention]; (3) conscious of types of music therapy; (4) conscious of relevant outcome measures; and (5) include long-term follow-up assessments.
We agree with these recommendations and also the need to evaluate the impact of music therapy on everyday social functioning.
Studies and Trials
This section provides details of scientific studies into the effectiveness music therapy for people on the autism spectrum which have been published in English-language, peer-reviewed journals.You may be able to find more studies on music therapy in our publications database.
If you know of any other studies we should include please email info@researchautism.net with the details.
Please note that we are unable to supply publications unless we are listed as the publisher. However, if you are a UK resident you may be able to obtain them from your local public library, your college library or direct from the publisher.
Related Studies and Trials
Aldridge D., Gustorff D., Neugebauer L. (1995) A preliminary study of creative music therapy in the treatment of children with developmental delay. Arts in Psychotherapy. 22(3), Read Abstract (New Window)
Boso M. et al. (2007) Effect of long-term interactive music therapy on behavior profile and musical skills in young adults with severe autism. Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine. 13(7), Read Abstract (New Window)
Brownell M. (2002) Musically adapted social stories to modify behaviors in students with autism: four case studies. Journal of Music Therapy. 39(2), Read Abstract (New Window)
Buday E. (1995) The effects of signed and spoken words taught with music on sign and speech imitation by children with autism. Journal of Music Therapy. 32(3), Read Abstract (New Window)
Dezfoolian L. et al. (2013) A pilot study on the effects of Orff-based therapeutic music in children with autism spectrum disorder. Music and Medicine. 5(3), Read Abstract (New Window)
Edgerton C. (1994) The effect of improvisational music therapy on the communicative behaviors of autistic children. Journal of Music Therapy. 31(1), Read Abstract (New Window)
Finnigan E., Starr E. (2010) Increasing social responsiveness in a child with autism: A comparison of music and non-music interventions. Autism. 14(4), Read Abstract (New Window)
Fuggle K. et al. (1995) Music therapy in the treatment of a child with epilepsy and autism. Epilepsia. 36(3),
Gattino G. S. et al. (2011) Effects of relational music therapy on communication of children with autism: a randomized controlled study. Nordic Journal of Music Therapy.
Geretsegger M. et al. (2016) Feasibility of a trial on improvisational music therapy for children with autism spectrum disorder. Journal of Music Therapy. 53(2), Read Abstract (New Window)
Ghasemtabar S. N. et al. (2015) Music therapy: An effective approach in improving social skills of children with autism. Advanced Biomedical Research. 4 Read Abstract (New Window) Read Full (New Window)
Gooding L. (2011) The effect of a music therapy social skills training program on improving social competence in children and adolescents with social skills deficits. Journal of Music Therapy. 48(4), Read Abstract (New Window)
Hillier A. et al. (2012) Positive outcomes following participation in a music intervention for adolescents and young adults on the autism spectrum. Psychology of Music. 40(2), Read Abstract (New Window)
Kaplan R. S., Steele A. L. (2005) An analysis of music therapy program goals and outcomes for clients with diagnoses on the autism spectrum. Journal of Music Therapy. 42(1), Read Abstract (New Window)
Kern P., Aldridge D. (2006) Using embedded music therapy interventions to support outdoor play of young children with autism in an inclusive community-based child care program. Journal of Music Therapy. 43(4), Read Abstract (New Window)
Kim J., Wigram T., Gold C. (2008) The effects of improvisational music therapy on joint attention behaviors in autistic children: A randomized controlled study. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 38(9), Read Abstract (New Window)
Kim J., Wigram T., Gold C. (2009) Emotional, motivational and interpersonal responsiveness of children with autism in improvisational music therapy. Autism. 13(4), Read Abstract (New Window)
Kostka M. J. (1993) A comparison of selected behaviors of a student with autism in special education and regular music classes. Music Therapy Perspectives. 11(2), Read Abstract (New Window)
LaGasse A. B. (2014) Effects of a music therapy group intervention on enhancing social skills in children with autism. Journal of Music Therapy. 51(3), Read Abstract (New Window)
Lim H. A., Draper E. (2011) The effects of music therapy incorporated with applied behavior analysis verbal behavior approach for children with autism spectrum disorders. Journal of Music Therapy. 48(4), Read Abstract (New Window)
Mahlberg M. (1973) Music therapy in the treatment of an autistic child. Journal of Music Therapy. 10(4),
Oldfield A., Adams M. (1990) The effects of music therapy on a group of profoundly handicapped adults. Journal of Mental Deficiency Research. 34(2), Read Abstract (New Window)
Oldfield A., Bunce L., Adams M. (2003) An investigation into short-term music therapy with mothers and young children. British Journal of Music Therapy. 17(1), Read Abstract (New Window)
Pasiali V. (2004) The use of prescriptive songs in a home-based environment to promote social skills acquisition by children with autism: Three case studies. Music Therapy Perspectives. 22(1),
Rosenblatt L. et al. (2011) Relaxation response-based yoga improves functioning in young children with autism: a pilot study. Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine. 17(11), Read Abstract (New Window) Read Full (New Window)
Saperston B. (1973) The use of music in establishing communication with an autistic mentally retarded child. Journal of Music Therapy. 10(4),
See C. (2012) The use of music and movement therapy to modify behaviour of children with autism. Pertanika Journal of Social Sciences and Humanities. 20(4), Read Full (New Window)
Stevens E., Clark F. (1969) Music therapy in the treatment of autistic children. Journal of Music Therapy. 6(4),
Thompson G. A., McFerran K., Gold C. (2014) Family-centred music therapy to promote social engagement in young children with severe autism spectrum disorder: a randomized controlled study. Child Care Health and Development. 40(6), Read Abstract (New Window)
Vaiouli P., Grimmet K., Ruich L. J. (2015) Bill is now singing: Joint engagement and the emergence of social communication of three young children with autism. Autism. Read Abstract (New Window)
Other Reading
This section provides details of other publications on this topic. If you know of any other publications we should include please email info@researchautism.net with the details.
Please note that we are unable to supply publications unless we are listed as the publisher. However, if you are a UK resident you may be able to obtain them from your local public library, your college library or direct from the publisher.
Related Other Reading
Accordino R. E. (2007) Searching for music's potential: A critical examination of research on music therapy with individuals with autism. Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders. 1(1), Read Abstract (New Window)
Geretsegger M. et al. (2015) Common characteristics of improvisational approaches in music therapy for children with autism spectrum disorder: Developing treatment guidelines. Journal of Music Therapy. 52(2), Read Abstract (New Window)
Geretsegger M. et al. (2014) Music therapy for people with autism spectrum disorder. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 6 Read Abstract (New Window) Read Full (New Window)
Gold C., Wigram T., Elefant C. (2006) Music therapy for autistic spectrum disorder. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. (6), Read Abstract (New Window) Read Full (New Window)
LaGasse A. B. (2017) Social outcomes in children with autism spectrum disorder: a review of music therapy outcomes. Patient. 2017(8), Read Abstract (New Window) Read Full (New Window)
Reschke-Hernández A. E. (2011) History of music therapy treatment interventions for children with autism. Journal of Music Therapy. 48(2), Read Abstract (New Window)
Simpson K., Keen D. (2011) Music interventions for children with autism: Narrative review of the literature. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. 41(11), Read Abstract (New Window)
Whipple J. (2004) Music in intervention for children and adolescents with autism: a meta-analysis. Journal of Music Therapy. 41(2), Read Abstract (New Window) Read Full (New Window)
Wigram T., Gold C. (2006) Music therapy in the assessment and treatment of autistic spectrum disorder: clinical application and research evidence. Child Care Health and Development. 32(5), Read Abstract (New Window)
Personal Accounts
We have been unable to identify any personal anecdotes about the use of music therapy in people on the autism spectrum. If you know of any personal accounts we could include please email info@researchautism.net with the details.
Updated
19 Dec 2017
Last Review
01 Sep 2016
Next Review
01 Sep 2019
Links
Home
About Us
Our Research
Autism
Issues
Interventions
Publications
Glossary
Links
News
Sitemap
Social
Friends
Twitter
Facebook
Google+
LinkedIn
YouTube
Legal
About This Website
Feedback
Accessibility
FAQ
Terms & Conditions
Privacy
Contact
Research Autism
393 City Road
London
EC1V 1NG
020 7923 5731
Email Us
© Research Autism. All rights reserved. Registered Charity No. 1096508. Company No. 8910262.
Website design & development by HigherSites.