amino acid | American Nutrition
American Nutrition
Dedicated to bringing you high quality supplements at the lowest prices guaranteed
Posted tagged ‘amino acid’
« American Nutrition home page
L-Theanine Promotes Relaxation and Helps Reduce Stress Naturally
February 24, 2010
L-Theanine is a unique amino acid found in the tea plant.
L-Theanine is a non-protein amino acid which takes up 50% of the total free Amino Acids in the green tea plant. L-Theanine is famous for its ability to increase Alpha Waves (associated with a feeling of calm and mental alertness).
Theanine is related to glutamine, and can cross the blood-brain barrier. Because it can enter the brain, theanine has psychoactive properties. Theanine has been shown to reduce mental and physical stress, may produce feelings of relaxation and improves cognition, and mood.
L-Theanine may help relieve stress by inducing a relaxing effect without drowsiness. L-theanine as been shown to promote the generation of alpha-brain waves, an index of relaxation. It may also boost natural resistance to microbial infections and perhaps even tumors. Researchers suggest further isolating and refining L-theanine from tea to use it as a drug to boost the infection defense of the body.
Theanine is speculated to produce these effects by increasing the level of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) production. Theanine increases brain serotonin, dopamine, GABA levels and has micromolar affinities for AMPA, Kainate and NMDA receptors.
L-Theanine may also help the body’s immune response to infection by boosting the disease-fighting capacity of gamma delta T cells.
Click here to Learn More about L-Theanine!
Categories: Better Sleep Month, Brain Supplements, depression, Green Supplements, Mental Wellness, Mood Stabilization, Natural Sleep Aids, Sleep and Relaxation, Stress Relief
Tags: amino acid, amino acid supplement, L-Theanine, natural stress reducer, natural stress relief, sleep supplement, Theanine
Comments: Be the first to comment
Deal of the Week: 20% off Colorado Nutrition L-Carnitine Fumarate
February 16, 2010
Natural Weight Loss Supplement
Lose Weight & Burn Fat
Lower Cholesterol Levels
Increase energy Levels
Increase Muscle Strength
L-Carnitine Fumarate is an amino acid(like) nutrient that is found naturally in the body. It plays a major role in the process of burning fat for energy. This nutrient is a great weight loss aid as it can help to increase muscle strength, energy and increase fat burning efficiency. L-Carnitine can also help you achieve more energy, increase immune function, enhance and protect your mental faculties, and lower your cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
L-Carnitine Fumarate is the most stable and bio-available carnitine salt. Contains 58.5% of active principle. Because fumarate is naturally present in the Krebs cycle it optimizes the action of L-carnitine. Recent studies have shown that fumaric acid increases energy through the anaplerotic effect and is beneficial for cardiac conditions.
When L-Carnitine Fumarate is taken in supplemental form, it can increase energy, burn fat, and improve the functioning of the heart and liver. Supplementation of this essential nutrient is a good idea for anyone looking to lose weight and improve muscle tone and strength.
Click here to purchase Colorado Nutrition L-Carnitine Fumarate NOW!.
Enter Coupon Code: SALE222
to recieve 20% off Colorado Nutrition L-Carnitine through 02/22/2010.
upon checkout and click recalculate to apply.
Categories: Energy, Fitness, natural weight loss, weight loss, Weightloss
Tags: amino acid, burn fat, carnitine, l-carnitine, lose weight, natural weight loss, weight loss pill
Comments: Be the first to comment
L-Theanine – Natural Anxiety Reducer and Mood Enhancer
February 8, 2010
Stress and anxiety have become standard in our daily existence. Chronic stress and anxiety can lower your immune system, diminish your quality of life and even lead to depression. Mental health problems have grown to an epidemic level. Most people know at least one person who takes medication to relieve anxiety. But, along with the benefits of prescription drugs comes a long list of potentially unpleasant, even dangerous, side effects.
Xanax was once considered the best drug for anti-anxiety, but it’s side effects include fatigue, tiredness, coordination and memory problems, irritability, and increased appetite. Valium, Klonopin, and Ativan are also commonly prescribed anti-anxiety drugs, long term use of these medications called benzodiazepines, can lead to psychological and physical dependence, and like all medications, have the potential to damage the liver with extended use.
As more people search for safe, effective alternatives to prescription anti-anxiety drugs, herbs like Kava Kava, Chamomile and Valerian Root come to light. Although many herbs are effective to calm nerves, they’re not all without risk. Kava Kava with extended use and if combined with certain medications or alcohol can cause serious liver damage, and while herbal teas offer a safe and pleasant way to ease mild anxiety, they still contain active ingredients that may be contraindicated with certain medications.
Green tea offers numerous health benefits, it’s added to supplements, foods, and beverages. Green tea contains a rich source of polyphenols known as catechins, potent antioxidants that may help prevent cancer, retard atherosclerosis, improve mood, and inhibit the growth of bacteria and other pathogens.
Green tea also has another naturally occurring compound that is just as benificial, the amino acid L-theanine.
L-theanine‘s Benefits Include, but are not limited to:
Produces a calming effect
Protects and restores the brain
Stimulates the immune system, and even makes cancer chemotherapy more effective with fewer side effects.
Induces deep states of relaxation without sedation
Relieves some PMS and menopausal symptoms
Increases mental clarity, focus, attention span and improves learning
Relieves nicotine addiction
Prevents jitters caused by caffeine
Promotes sleep
L-theanine has several advantages over prescription medications and herbs that contain side effects. It helps calm you without causing drowsiness. It keeps you mentally alert without feeling jittery, and although research to date has been limited, L-theanine has few if any side effects.
L-theanine stimulates the production of alpha brain waves, creating a state of deep relaxation and mental alertness similar to what is achieved through meditation. L-theanine is involved in the formation of the inhibitory neurotransmitter, gamma amino butyric acid (GABA). GABA influences the levels of two other neurotransmitters, dopamine and serotonin, producing the key relaxation effect.”
Most green teas sold in America contain less than 10mg of L-theanine per serving, the recommended dose is between 50-200mg per day. Most people don’t drink enough green tea to feel the beneficial effects of L-theanine and would benefit from L-Theanine supplementation. Although the maximum safe dosage hasn’t been determined, as with every supplement, start with the lowest amount reccomended and gradually increase as needed. In doses of more than 400mg, some people do experience sedation effects.
Even though there are little known side effects to L-theanine, it may be due to the fact that only a few clinical studies have been conducted. Talk to your doctor before trying L-theanine If you have kidney or liver disease, other chronic or serious health conditions, allergies, allergies to food, dyes or preservatives, and as with all supplements, be sure to tell your doctor if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding before taking L-theanine.
Click Here for More information on L-Theanine.
Categories: ADD, ADHD, antioxidants, anxiety, Brain Supplements, depression, Holiday Depression, Mental Health, Mental Wellness, Seasonal Affective Disorder, Stress Relief
Tags: amino acid, anxiety relief, L-Theanine, natural depression remedy, natural stress relief, Reduce Stress, relieve anxiety naturally, Theanine
Comments: 1 Comment
Deal of the Day: L-Carnitine Fumarate
July 16, 2009
L-Carnitine Fumarate
500 mg 120 Vcaps
Colorado Nutrition
(Retail: $39.99)
Our Price: $10.36
L-Carnitine Fumarate is an amino acid(like) nutrient that is found naturally in the body. It plays a major role in the process of burning fat for energy. This nutrient is a great weight loss aid as it can help to increase muscle strength, energy and increase fat burning efficiency. L-Carnitine can also help you achieve more energy, increase immune function, enhance and protect your mental faculties, and lower your cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
DEAL OF THE DAY:
L-Carnitine Fumarate
** Offer good until midnight, July 16 2009
Categories: Brain and Memory, Colorado Nutrition, deal of the day, Energy, Weightloss
Tags: amino acid, brain health, Colorado Nutrition, deal of the day, memory boost, weight loss
Comments: Be the first to comment
Pages
Home
About American Nutrition
Visit our Website
www.AmericanNutrition.com
Visit Our Store
American
Nutrition
Online
Store
American Nutrition offers Nutritional Supplements for your health at affordable price.
American Nutrition on Twitter
Essential fatty acid supplements http://ow.ly/4fkYl may ease PMS, says trial http://ow.ly/4fkYm 8 years ago
Potassium Iodide Pills Protect Against Radioactive Exposure http://wp.me/pwlmy-oP 8 years ago
Since the thyroid is prone to taking up radioactive iodine, people at risk can benefit from potassium iodide http://ow.ly/4fkWd 8 years ago
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Mar
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
Top Posts
Ways to Get Natural Relief from Seasonal Allergies
American Nutrition Blog Archives
American Nutrition Blog Archives Select Month March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009
Social Networking
Subscribe to RSS
VIA Email
Blogroll
American Nutrition
Visit our Natural Recipes Blog
Websites
American Nutrition Website
Join Our Affiliate Program
acai ADHD Allergy Alpha Lipoic Acid American Nutrition american nutrition coupons amino acid Aniracetam Anti Aging antioxidant antioxidants Arthritis beta-alanine boost immune system brain health cardiovascular health chondroitin Colorado Nutrition CoQ10 Creatine Bulk Powder deal of the day Deal of the Week dietary supplements Digestive Health fish oil Glucosamine Health health and wellness industry sales health events Heart Health herb sale Idebenone immune defense Immune System Boosters immune system health immunity increase sexual desire Joint Health joint mobility Joint Pain joint support L-Theanine lane labs lose weight memory boost Men's Health Month Men's Health Week msm Multivitamin natural anti-aging remedy natural antioxidant natural stress relief natural weight loss nrx Nutraceutics RX NutraceuticsRx Nutrition omega 3 omega 3 fatty acids picamilon Reduce Stress resveratrol retail sales sexual health Sexual Herbs super green foods Supplements supplement sale terraceutics Theanine Vitamins vitamin sale weight loss Weight Loss Diet weight loss supplements
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel