Dietary Folate and Dementia: Striking a Balance | Natural Partners Blog
Lifestyle
Health
Nutrition
Video
News
Visit NaturalPartners.com
Search
Dietary Folate and Dementia: Striking a Balance
March 29, 2017
|In Health
|By Natural Partners
By TAP Integrative
B vitamins potentially influence brain and cognitive function via several mechanisms, including regulation of DNA repair, support of methylation, and modulation of homocysteine. Observational studies and prevention trials have reported mixed results on the associations between B vitamin intake and risk of dementia. While some studies suggest a protective effect, harmful associations have been identified between high folic acid intake and cognition in individuals with low vitamin B12 status. Moreover, mandatory folic acid fortification of flour and cereal grains since 1998 in the United States has complicated the interpretation of population-based studies.
A prospective cohort study, published in Nutrients (2016), sought to evaluate the association between B vitamin intake and risk of dementia in France, a country not affected by folic acid fortification policy. Data from 1321 citizens, with a mean age of 76 years and no dementia at baseline, were included in this study. Food frequency questionnaires and 24-hour dietary recalls were collected, and participants were followed for an average of 7.4 years. The primary outcome was incident dementia.
Mean daily intakes of B vitamins were as follows: 1.5mg for B6, 278.3μg for folate, and 5.7 μg for B12. A total of 197 participants (15%) developed dementia during the follow-up period. After adjusting for other B vitamin intake, overall diet quality, and other potential confounders, higher intake of folate was significantly associated with a lower risk of dementia (p for trend ≤.02). Compared with individuals in the lowest quintile of folate intake, those in the highest quintile had a 47% lower risk of dementia over 10 years (HR=0.47; 95% CI, 0.28-0.81). No significant associations were observed between dietary intakes of vitamins B6 or B12 and the risk of dementia.
The median folate intake in the upper quintile for this cohort was 444μg, a value that is markedly lower than in similar studies conducted in the United States. A US study, reporting a median folate intake of 742μg/d found no association between B vitamin intake and risk of dementia. The authors of the current study suggest this may indicate that folate is protective for the brain in lower intake ranges but becomes inefficient or even detrimental at higher ranges. They conclude that a strong association exists between higher folate intake and lower risk of dementia in a population with no folic acid fortification and relatively low average intake.
Reference
Lefèvre-Arbogast S, Féart C, Dartigues JF, Helmer C, Letenneur L, Samieri C. Dietary B Vitamins and a 10-Year Risk of Dementia in Older Persons. Nutrients. 2016;8(12)
This content has been provided exclusively to Natural Partners by TAP Integrative. To learn more about TAP as well as details on how you can attain a discounted TAP Integrative membership, click here.
*These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease
Add comment Cancel reply
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Recent Posts
Why Is My Pee Yellow?
Hemp-Derived CBD FAQ
Alpha-Lipoic Acid and Diabetic Neuropathy: A Prospective Trial
I’m Taking Supplements, Why Don’t I Feel Different
The Farm Bill: The Future of Hemp
Search Articles
Categories
Health
Lifestyle
News
Nutrition
Uncategorized
Video
Prev
Next
© 2019 Natural Partners Blog All rights reserved