Cure Foot Fungus With Products in Your Home
Sign Up | Doctor Login Search
Research News
Athlete's Foot Products
#1 Top Pick
Subscribe Now
Home
Athlete’s Foot Information
Top 5 Athlete’s Foot Treatments
Product Reviews
Blog
About Us
Contact Us
Cure Foot Fungus With Products in Your Home
Fungal infections of the toenails and athlete’s foot are just two common types of fungal foot infections. There are many prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) treatments for these infections, but there are also some remedies using home products that can also relieve your suffering. Please note, though, that these home remedies should only be used on mild fungal foot infections. If you have a severe infection, you need to see a doctor right away. Also, if you are diabetic or a woman who is pregnant or nursing, you should also talk to a physician before trying one of these treatments.
Mustard Powder
Mustard powder is acidic, and fungi hate acidic environments. Thus, some mustard powder can quickly eliminate a fungus. To create your foot soak, simply add 1 teaspoon of powder to a tub of warm water. Immerse your feet for half an hour. Do this soak every evening and morning until the infection disappears. While powder is best, if you don’t have any, mustard oil is an acceptable alternative.
Salt Soak
People have been soaking their feet in salt water for years, and it is an excellent way to soothe your feet after they have battled a bout of athlete’s foot. Simply add two teaspoons of salt to one quart of warm water. Immerse your feet for at least 5 minutes and no more than 10 minutes. Feel free to do this soak a few times a day until the infection subsides.
Baking Soda
Baking soda can ease the itching, burning, and stinging symptoms that are a signature sign of fungal foot infections. Since this soothes the itching, baking soda can help heal your infection faster because you won’t be irritating it by constantly scratching your feet.
Put one tablespoon of baking soda into a bowl and stir in warm water until a paste forms. Then, wipe the paste over the infection, paying special attention to the skin between your toes. Air dry the area for at least five minutes and then rinse your feet in cool water. Make sure your towel is clean before drying your feet. Then, dust your feet with cornstarch to absorb sweat and moisture that will encourage further fungal growth. This treatment can be performed at least three times each day until the infection disappears.
Yogurt
Live cultures contained in unsweetened plain yogurt can wipe out fungal foot infections. This bacterial culture is called acidophilus, and it destroys the fungus that is plaguing your feet. Simply use a cotton ball or swab to wipe the yogurt over the infected areas. Allow the yogurt to dry. When it’s dry, use warm water to rinse it off. You can do this as many as three times every day.
Tea Tree Oil
There are antiseptic elements in tea tree oil, and these properties can kill fungal foot infections. You can use the oil in a few different ways. If the fungus is inside your toenails, you can put a small amount of the oil onto the spots on your nails that are discolored. This can be done several times throughout the day. For athlete’s foot or some other skin-based infection, mix one part of aloe vera to three parts of tea tree oil. Massage the mixture onto your infected skin twice a day. It may take up to eight weeks for the tea tree oil to wipe out the fungal foot infection. Make sure you are patient!
Top 5 Athlete's Foot Treatments for 2019
TOP 5
ATHLETE'S FOOT Treatments
#1
Learn More
#2
Learn More
#3
Learn More
#4
Learn More
#5
Learn More
Athlete's Foot Clear
Naturasil
Healing Natural Oils
Forces of Nature
DeSensua
1 2 3 4 5
Price (1 bottle)
Price (6 bottles) *Best Value $49.95
$139.80 $31.30
$169.00 $29.95
$161.73 $34.85
$188.00 $23.99
$129.55
Overall Rating 99.30% 82.20% 79.40% 74.80% 66.30%
Effectiveness
Speed of Results Extremely Fast Good Average Slow Slow
Quality of Ingredients Premium Good Good Average Average
Customer Satisfaction Evaluation 99.10% 80% 75% 74% 65%
Safety Evaluation Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use Safe for Use
Customer Service Rating
Reorder Rate Highest Good Average Average Average
Return Policy Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Risk Free Unopened Only
Success Rate 99.20% 82% 73% 73% 62%
*The views and opinions expressed in this page are strictly those of the Editor. Results may vary from person to person and cannot be guaranteed.
Related Articles
Fungal Infections on the Groin
DG Health Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
Meijer Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
Deep Steep Deodorizing Foot Mist Review
Why Heels Crack
Nordic Care Foot Spray Review
Tineacide Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
Ancient Secrets of Propolis
Subscribe Now!
Join with thousands who are getting EXCLUSIVE CONTENT, videos, and deals
you won't find anywhere else.
Our Top 5 Picks
Editor's Choice
Click Here
NEW ARTICLES
Anti Fungal Supplements
Anti Fungal Supplements Fungal skin infections are...
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch
Bike Shorts and Jock Itch Jock itch (tinea cruris)...
Natural Remedies for a Fungal Skin Infection in a Child
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet
The Kaufmann Anti-Fungal Diet Doug Kaufmann, the a...
Essentail Oil: Manuka
Essentail Oil: Manuka Leptospermum Scoparium is th...
HOT TOPICS
1
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano Oil. The ...
2
When You Need to Talk to a Doctor About Cracked Feet
3
Oral Medications for Athlete’s Foot
Oral medication can be taken, in severe cases......
4
Medical Treatment for Athlete’s Foot
In very rare cases, medical intervention may be neeeded...
PRODUCT REVIEWS
3M Cavilon Antifungal Cream 3390 Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
All Stop Medicated Skin Cream Review
This review of All Stop Medicated Skin C...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
Introduction The following is an in-dept...
Athlete’s Foot Clear Product Review
This review on Athlete’s Foot Clear pr...
Athlete’s Foot Killer Review
Written below is an in-depth product rev...
Athletol Review
The following is an in-depth review of t...
Au Kah Chuen Antifungal Lotion Review
This is a review of Antifungal Lotion, w...
Avon Foot Works Healthy Anti-fungal Powder Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Avon F...
Bayer Lotrimin AF Athlete’s Foot Deodorant Powder Spray Review
A lot of products for Athlete’s fo...
Baza Antifungal Moisture Barrier Antifungal Cream Review
This is a review of Moisture Barrier Ant...
Canesten Clotrimazole Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Canesten Clotrimazole Ath...
Clever Cultures For Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Clever Cultures For Athle...
Crawford Healthcare Cuplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Crawford Healthcare&...
Crystal Foot Deodorant Spray Review
This is a review of Foot Deodorant Spray...
Crystalline Salts Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
The following is a review for the Foot a...
CVS Athlete’s Foot Spray Review
This review of CVS Athlete’s Foot ...
Daktarin Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
Today we will take a look at the Daktari...
Deep Steep Deodorizing Foot Mist Review
This is a review of Deodorizing Foot Mis...
Derma E Tea Tree and E Oil Review
This is a review of Tea Tree and E Oil w...
Derman Antifungal Cream Review
In the following review you can find out...
Desenex Antifungal Spray Powder Review
If you want to find out everything there...
DeSensua Product Review
Introduction This is a review of Melaleu...
DG Health Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of DG Health Athlete’s...
Dr. Blaine’s Tineacide Anti-fungal Foot and Shoe Spray Review
Welcome to our review on Dr. Blaine’s ...
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete Foot Cream Review
Dr. Sheffield’s Athlete’s Fo...
Efficient Laboratories Hongo Killer Antifungal Spray Review
In this review, you can learn all there ...
Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream for Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Ego SolvEasy Tinea Cream ...
Elite Sportz Equipment Foot and Shoe Odor Spray Review
This is a review of Elite Sportz Equipme...
Equate Athlete’s Foot Powder Spray Review
In this review, you can read about a pro...
Family Care Tolnaftate Antifungal Cream Review
If you want to find out all the details ...
Flexitol Medicated Foot Cream Review
In our in-depth review of Flexitol Medic...
Forces of Nature Review
Introduction This article is a review of...
Fungi Nail Toe and Foot Ointment Review
This review discusses the various factor...
FungiCure Anti-Fungal Liquid Gel Review
In this review, you can learn more about...
Gehwol Fusskraft Blue Review
This is a review of the product Fusskraf...
Generic Lotrimin Clotrimazole Anti-Fungal Cream USP Review
By reading this review you can find out ...
GoodSense Clotrimazole Foot Cream Review
This review for GoodSense Clotrimazole F...
Healing Natural Oils Product Review
Introduction This article reviews H-Athl...
Home Health Antifungal Lotion Review
The subject of this review is a product ...
Honga Cura Ointment Review
This review was written to give a compre...
Hydrozole Review
This is a review of Hydrozole. According...
Karite Gold Athlete’s Foot Review
This is a review of Karite Gold’s ...
Lafe’s Natural Body Care Foot Spray with Peppermint Oil Review
The following is a review of Foot Spray ...
Lamisil Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Lamisil Athlete’s F...
Mar-v-cide Disinfectant & Germicidal Spray Review
In this review, you can read about Mar-v...
Meijer Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Meijer Athlete’s Fo...
Mellowleaf Beauty Tea Tree Oil Review
Meadowleaf Beauty manufacturers their ow...
Micatin Antifungal Cream Review
This review of Micatin Antifungal Cream ...
Miracle of Aloe Foot Repair Review
This review of Miracle Foot Repair for D...
Monray Antiperspirant Foot Treatment Review
If you are interested in learning more a...
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot & Body Wash Review
Mountainbreeze Naturals Funga-Free Foot ...
Naturally Fresh Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray which...
Naturasil Review
Product Claims: Naturasil claims to c...
NatureCare AF Anti-fungal Cream Review
This is our in-depth review of NatureCar...
Natureplex Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This is a review of Natureplex Athlete&#...
Nordic Care Foot Spray Review
This is a review of the Foot Spray manuf...
NutriBiotic Natural Body and Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Natural Body and Foo...
Odor Eaters Antibacterial Foot and Sneaker Spray Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Odorex Foot And Shoe Deodoriser Review
This review of Odorex Foot And Shoe Deod...
Oregavit Wild Oregano Oil Review
This is a review of Orgavit Wild Oregano...
PersonalCare Antifungal Powder Spray Review
If you wish to learn more about Persona...
Podosan Athlete’s Foot Treatment Review
Welcome to our Podosan Athlete’s Foot ...
Quantum Health Athlete’s Foot Cure Review
This detailed review is for the product,...
Remedy Antifungal Powder Review
In this review, you can find out everyth...
Ring Guard Ringworm Cream Review
If you’d like to find out more abo...
Rite Aid Clotrimazole Cream Review
Welcome to our review of the anti-fungal...
Rocket Pure Natural Foot and Shoe Deodorizer Spray Review
Welcome to our review of Rocket Pure Nat...
S.S.S. Company Tetterine Ointment Review
This is a review of Tetterine Ointment w...
Scholl Advance Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Scholl Advance Athlete...
Telia Oils Toe and Foot Review
This is a review of the Toe and Foot ant...
Thornton and Ross Mycota Review
This is a review of Thornton & Ross ...
Tineacide Athlete’s Foot Cream Review
This review of Tineacide Athlete’s Foo...
Ting Antifungal Spray Powder Review
In this review you can find out all the ...
Vertico Footwear Company Ped Powder Organic Foot Powder Review
In this review you will learn all there ...
Walgreens Clotrimazole Anti-fungal Cream Review
Welcome to our detailed review of Walgre...
Wise Ways Herbals Tea-Tree Foot Powder Review
This is a review of Tea-Tree Foot Powder...
Zeasorb Athlete’s Foot Review
This review of Zeasorb Athlete’s F...
Zema Cream Review
In the following review you can learn mo...
Research News
Top Reviews
#1 Top Pick
About Us
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Athletefoot.org- All Rights Reserved.
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
*Results for individuals will vary, depending on existing health factors, lifestyle and level of fitness. The information contained on this site is intended to educate only and is in no way, a substitute for medical advice that your doctor or healthcare provider can offer, with whom you should always consult with before making any dietary changes. Information within should not be used for diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease. Testimonials and results contained within may not be an implication of future results. Testimonials on this site are based on the experiences of a few people and you may not have similar results. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration.