Natural Remedies for Migraines
by Webmaster, All4NaturalHealth.com
Are you seeking natural remedies for migraines? Here, some simple tips and suggestions for relief are discussed.
First and foremost, let us discuss lifestyle changes. It has been found that factors such as cigarette smoke and birth control pills could trigger migraine headaches, so if you suffer from this ailment, you may want to avoid them.
Share YOUR Knowledge and Experiences
or Read Others' Contributions
Click here for more pages and articles on Headaches / Migraine.
A note about Natural Remedies for Migraines
In natural health and healing, we believe in holistic health and healing, as we realize that different parts of the human body are highly interlinked, often beyond Man's understanding. We also believe that the body has the ability to heal itself of any disease, even supposedly incurable diseases.
In order to do so, the body needs the support of some basic dietary and lifestyle good health habits, such as a full body detox and a proper understanding and application of nutrition. No matter how remote or unrelated a health condition may seem, these fundamental health steps will greatly magnify the effects and benefits of any of our health-promoting efforts, including the use of specific natural health remedies.
Elements in one's diet which should be avoided include alcohol, caffeine, as well as foods which contain refined sugars. Excess salt, dairy products (including milk), and aspartame are known to cause migraines in some people, while tyramine, a compound which can be found in numerous foods, is also linked to migraine incidence in some persons. In seeking natural remedies for migraines, it would be a good idea to exclude these elements from one's diet.
As migraines are often associated with food allergies, frequent sufferers of this ailment may want to work toward identifying and avoiding food items which may be giving them problems. One could work with one's health care practitioner to achieve these aims.
Dietary Supplements
Research has found that migraine sufferers have lower levels of magnesium in their blood and brains. And studies conducted along these lines have found that magnesium supplementation could indeed help to reduce the frequency of migraine attacks. Dosages used in the said studies ranged from 360mg to 600mg per day.
In other studies, vitamin B2 (400mg each day) was found to reduce the intensity and frequency of migraine attacks, while 5-HTP (ranging from 200mg to 600mg each day) lowered the frequency and intensity of attacks as well.
As specific nutrients and supplements taken in large doses could cause imbalances in the body, it is usually recommended that you obtain your needed nutrition from whole foods.
One whole food supplement which may prove helpful in your quest for natural remedies for migraines is fish oil. Research suggests that 1g of fish for every 10 pounds of body weight may help in alleviating migraine symptoms.
Herbs and Herbal Remedies
In terms of herbs which may be useful in dealing with migraines, the best known is perhaps feverfew. Besides traditional wisdom, separate double-blind studies have also found the herb to be effective in lowering the frequency, duration as well as intensity of migraine attacks.
Other potentially helpful herbal remedies for migraine attacks include butterbur, cayenne, ginger and ginkgo biloba.
Alternative Treatments
Acupuncture, which forms part of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), is a type of alternative therapy which has been found to be useful in alleviating migraine headaches. This has been validated in numerous studies, including placebo-controlled trials. Research also suggests the benefits are long-lasting.
Another type of treatment which could be useful as alternative remedies for migraine relief is manipulation. As certain headaches are linked to neck and spinal cord issues, manipulation would be able to help at least some migraine sufferers. Indeed, separate controlled studies found this therapy to be effective in dealing with migraines, helping to reduce intensity, frequency as well as duration.
Conclusion
Migraine headaches are potentially debilitating episodes. Thankfully for sufferers, there are numerous remedies for migraine relief under different realms of alternative medicine which can help initiate healing.
To learn more about natural migraine treatment, you may want to read the other related migraine articles and pages.
Read More: More on Headaches / Migraine | Natural Health Remedies for Various Ailments and Conditions | Home Page | Site Search
Share YOUR Knowledge and Experiences
or Read Others' Contributions
Click here to learn about a few simple exercises which can quickly eliminate your migraine and headaches.
Click here for natural, herbal and homeopathic remedies for headaches.
Click here for more pages and articles on Headaches / Migraine.
Tweet
Get Quality Natural Health Supplements at Reasonable Prices. $5 or $10 discount for new customers
Get natural, herbal and
homeopathic remedies for hundreds of
health conditions and ailments. GO.
New! Comments
Have your say about what you just read. Leave a comment in the box below.
Some Related Headaches / Migraine Pages
What Causes Headaches? - Possible Triggers
Natural Cures for Headaches - Useful Treatments and Remedies
Home Remedies for Headaches - Important Tips
Natural Headache Remedies That Work - Tips
Herbs for Headaches - Useful Herbal Remedies
Yoga as Treatment for Headaches
Possible Causes of Migraine Headaches
Symptoms of Migraine Headaches - Common Signs
Cure for Migraine Headache - Useful Tips
Herbal Remedies for Migraines
Anti Migraine Diet and Lifestyle Plan
Home Remedies for Migraines - Natural Treatment and Relief
Common Migraine Headache Triggers and Causes
Treatment for Migraines - Alternative and Natural Relief
What is a Migraine and How Can it Be Treated in a Natural Way?
Common Migraine Food Triggers - What to Avoid in Your Migraine Prevention Plan
Different Types of Migraines
Obtaining Natural Migraine Relief
Natural Remedies for Migraines
Different Types of Headaches - Facts and Information
Hormone Headache - Different Types and Useful Remedies
Headache High Blood Pressure Connection
Headaches and Neck Pain - Why They Come Together, Treatments and Remedies
Sinus Headache Medication - How They Work, Potential Side Effects
Sinus Headache Symptoms and Signs
Obtaining Sinus Headache Relief
Menopause Headaches - Discussion, Causes and Remedies
Menstrual Headache - Causes, Remedies, Discussion
Discussing a Lupus Headache - Causes, Symptoms, Remedies
Spinal Headaches - Overview and Information
Temple Headache - Overview, Causes, Relief
Headache on Top of Head - Symptoms, Causes, Relief
Cluster Headache Treatment - Natural Remedies for Relief
Menstrual Migraines - Causes, Frequency, Timing, Treatment and Remedies
Return from this page to Natural Health Remedies, Natural Health Cures, Organic Remedies & Organic Cures
Return from this page Natural Remedies for Migraines to All 4 Natural Health... attaining good health naturally... Home Page
Get Quality Natural Health Supplements at Affordable Prices. $5 or $10 discount for new customers
[?] Subscribe To This Site
Quality Natural Health Supplements at a Reasonable Price - iHerb Coupon and Referral Code
Tweet
Follow this site
Tweet
Site Search
Home Page
Latest Site Updates
Natural Health News
Introduction;
Basics & Foundation
About Good Health
About Natural Health
Good Health Basics
Food, Diet & Nutrition
Nutrition Articles
Healthy Lifestyle
Body Detoxification
Holistic Therapies
Conditions & Remedies
Natural Remedies
Herbal Remedies
Herbs & Supplements
Info on some Herbs
About Supplements
Best Herbs & Foods
Useful Information
Quotes & Inspiration
Health Articles
Links & Resources
Admin Links
About Me
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Subscribe Newsletter
Contact Us
Site Search
This website's content must not be reproduced or republished without express permission.
Site Search
The information provided on this website is not meant to diagnose, prevent, treat or cure any disease.
It is to be taken as suggestions or educational material and not to be considered professional advice.
Copyright© 2007-2014 All4NaturalHealth.com. All Rights Reserved.
Home | Links & Resources | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Subscribe to E-zine | Site Search | Contact Us
Return to top