Natural Remedies for Warts - Healthy Skin Care
SKIN CARE
Aging
Dry
Face
Oily
Sensitive
PROBLEMS
Acne
Angular Cheilitis
Cancer
Dermatographism
Dark Eye Circles
Impetigo
Ingrown Hair
Keratosis
Psoriasis
Rosacea
Spider Veins
Stretch Marks
Warts
RASHES
Rash Diagnosis
Bug Bites
Chicken Pox
Eczema
Hives
Ringworm
Scabies
Strep
Stress
Urticaria
TREATMENTS
Botox
Hair Removal
Hives Treatment
Natural
Non Surgical Lift
Tattoo Removal
Wrinkle Creams
OTHER
Food and Skin
Vitamin D
Vitamin E
Water and Skin
RESOURCES
Advertising
Best Products
Skin Care Store
Companies
Dermatologists
eBooks
Blog
Newsletter
Contact
Natural Remedies for Warts
Natural remedies for warts includes the wart removal duct tape method which is based on the principal of occlusion. Occlusion is defined as a blockage or a closure. In the case of wart removal or wart treatment, this refers to keeping the wart covered. It also refers to blocking the wart virus from spreading to other parts of the body.
The most talked about occlusion method for wart removal is the use of duct tape. Duct tape is a thick tape composed of a polyethylene plastic top layer, a fiber mesh middle layer, and a strong rubber based adhesive. Because of this rather sturdy construction, duct tape is often used in repairs and to hold many things together.
Why is duct tape an option for wart removal? One theory is that the duct tape abrades the wart surface and over time shrinks it because cells are repeatedly being stripped off the wart. A second theory is that the tape causes some skin irritation in the wart region, which stimulates the bodies own immune system to attack the wart virus and cure the wart.
Natural Remedies for Warts Summary
A brief summary of the wart removal duct tape method is given below. This is a very general procedure and the treatment times vary depending on the individual and the wart type. The duct tape wart removal procedure is a gradual method and for it to work it requires patience and adhering to the directions given below. It is most often used in conjunction with common warts. It does not always work, but seems to be a viable wart removal remedy for some.
Place a small piece of gray duct tape on the wart.
Let the tape sit on the wart for six days. If the tape falls off, replace with a fresh piece.
Remove the tape after six days in the evening, soak in warm water, and rub the wart gently with a pumice stone or emery board. Wash you hands afterwards to prevent the spreading of warts.
Leave the wart uncovered over night
Cover the wart with new tape in the morning and go back to step one, i.e. leave on for six day, etc.
It may take up to a maximum of 10 cycles or two months for some warts to be removed. Most warts disappear in half this time.
Variation of Method with Salicyclic Acid
A variation of the basic wart removal duct tape method is to combine the use of duct tape with salicylic acid. Apply this wart removal chemical to the wart at night. Let it dry for a couple of minutes and then apply duct tape to the wart. Leave the duct tape on overnight and remove in the morning. Repeat this step each night until the wart is gone.
Effectiveness of Duct Tape Method
Duct tape can play a role in healthy skin care and in particular the removal of certain types of warts. Some studies have shown that the duct tape method is more effective than cryotherapy (use of liquid nitrogen to freeze the wart). The effectiveness of duct tape wart removal in one study was actually 25 per cent greater than cryotherapy. In addition, the duct tape method produced almost no discomfort in patients compared to the pain, burning, itching, blistering, and skin damage caused by liquid nitrogen treatments.
In terms of natural remedies for warts, the duct tape wart removal method seems to be much more effective in children, teens, and young adults than individuals older than these age groups. For adults, natural remedies for warts such as the wart removal duct tape method may work, but often the wart comes back after a few months. Some believe that duct tape is not effective at all and any improvements in the wart problem were coincidental. It is likely not a method that works 100 per cent of the time, but may be worth a try.
Additional information on types of warts and other related topics is below:
common wart treatment | prevention | remedies
Visit this: Pictures of Rashes Page
Copyright 2006-2019 healthy-skincare.com
Disclaimer and Privacy Policy
Recent Articles
Pictures of Skin Rashes - Skin Rash Pictures - Pictures of Rashes
Pictures of skin rashes may be used to help diagnose a skin rash, but often a visit to a skin doctor is required for proper diagnosis.
Read More
Visit this
PICTURES OF RASHES PAGE