How Does Music Affect Your Mood and Emotions
Newsletter
Health News
Fact Checked
Does Music Affect Your Mood?
Written by Suzanne Boothby on April 13, 2017
Share on Pinterest
From the drumbeats of our ancient ancestors to today’s unlimited streaming services, music is an integral part of the human experience.
Researchers have pondered the possible therapeutic and mood boosting benefits of music for centuries.
Even sad music brings most listeners pleasure and comfort, according to recent research from Durham University in the United Kingdom and the University of Jyväskylä in Finland, published in .
Conversely, the study found that for some people, sad music can cause negative feelings of profound grief.
The research involved three surveys of more than 2,400 people in the United Kingdom and Finland, focusing on the emotions and memorable experiences associated with listening to sad songs.
The majority of experiences reported by participants were positive.
“The results help us to pinpoint the ways people regulate their mood with the help of music, as well as how music rehabilitation and music therapy might tap into these processes of comfort, relief, and enjoyment,” said lead author, Tuomas Eerola, Ph.D., a professor of music cognition at Durham University, in a press release.
He also said the study may help find reasons for both listening to and avoiding sad music.
An earlier study, published in the Journal of Consumer Research, found that people tend to prefer sad music when they are experiencing a deep interpersonal loss, like the end of a relationship.
The authors of that study suggested that sad music provides a substitute for the lost relationship. They compared it to the preference most people have for an empathic friend — someone who truly understands what you’re going through.
Other research has focused on the joy upbeat music can bring.
A 2013 study in the Journal of Positive Psychology found that people who listened to upbeat music could improve their moods and boost their happiness in just two weeks.
In the study, participants were instructed to try to improve their mood, but they only succeeded when they listened to the upbeat music of Copland as opposed to the sadder tunes of Stravinsky.
And a happier mood brings benefits beyond feeling good. In a press release, lead study author, Yuna Ferguson, noted that happiness has been linked to better physical health, higher income, and greater relationship satisfaction.
Read more: The music you choose may say something about your mental health »
Music as therapy
This music research aligns with the larger arena of music therapy.
The American Music Therapy Association (AMTA) reports that music therapy programs can be designed to achieve goals such as managing stress, enhancing memory, and alleviating pain.
It might seem surprising that music can help people cope with physical pain, but research has shown a clear link.
A 2015 review in found that people who listened to music before, during, or after surgery experienced less pain and anxiety, compared to patients who did not listen to music.
The music listeners didn’t even need as much pain medication.
To conduct the study, researchers looked at data from 73 different trials, involving more than 7,000 patients.
The people who experienced a slightly greater, but nonsignificant, reduction in pain, and needed the least pain medication, were the ones who got to pick their own music.
“Music is a non-invasive, safe, cheap intervention that should be available to everyone undergoing surgery,” lead study author Catherine Meads, Ph.D., of Brunel University in the United Kingdom, recommended in a press release.
When it comes to treating chronic conditions, music therapy can also play a powerful role.
A recent review in the found that music therapy can be an effective treatment for mood disorders related to neurological conditions, including Parkinson’s disease, dementia, stroke, and multiple sclerosis.
After reviewing 25 trials, the researchers concluded that music is a valid therapy to potentially reduce depression and anxiety, as well as to improve mood, self-esteem, and quality of life.
They also noted that no negative side effects were reported in any of the trials, making music a low-risk treatment.
Barry Goldstein, a recording artist who has studied the vibrational effects of music for more than 25 years, says music has a profound impact on the brain.
In a column for Conscious Lifestyle magazine, Goldstein wrote that music can actually enhance brain functions.
He said music can evoke emotion, help regain memories, stimulate new neural connections, and active attention.
Read more: Music and the brain »
Boosting moods
While listening to music may bring greater health benefits, creating it can be an effective therapy, too.
A unique orchestra for people with dementia helped improve their mood and boost their self-confidence, according to researchers at the Bournemouth University Dementia Institute (BUDI) in Dorset, U.K.
The orchestra is one of several BUDI research projects that aims to demonstrate how people with dementia can still learn new skills and have fun.
Eight people with dementia and seven caregivers participated in the project, along with students and professional musicians.
“Music touches everyone in some way, either by listening or playing,” said Anthea Innes, Ph.D., head of BUDI, in a press release.
She said that the orchestra has been a life-enhancing project for everyone involved, and that the project challenges the negative public perceptions of people diagnosed with dementia.
“Working together to produce a collaborative output is a powerful way to bring out the best in people — not just in terms of their musical skills, but their communication skills, friendships, care, and support for one another,” she added.
Editor’s Note: This story was originally published on May 17, 2013. It was updated by Jenna Flannigan on August 3, 2016, and again by David Mills on April 13, 2017.
Read more: The science behind the awesome feeling of discovering new music »
Written by Suzanne Boothby on April 13, 2017
related stories
Do You Live with Anxiety? Here Are 11 Ways to Cope
I Don’t Like Meditating. Here’s Why I Do It Anyway
The Difference Between VLDL and LDL
How Does CBD Affect Your Weight?
6 Ways Added Sugar Is Fattening
READ THIS NEXT
Do You Live with Anxiety? Here Are 11 Ways to Cope
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Identifying your triggers can take some time and self-reflection. In the meantime, there are things you can try to help calm or quiet your anxiety…
READ MORE
I Don’t Like Meditating. Here’s Why I Do It Anyway
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
If your take on meditation is that it's boring or too "new age," then read this. One man shares how - and why - he learned to meditate even though he…
READ MORE
The Difference Between VLDL and LDL
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Cholesterol is a fatty substance that's needed to build cells. Low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) are two types…
READ MORE
How Does CBD Affect Your Weight?
Written by Jillian Kubala, MS, RD
CBD is a widely popular compound derived from marijuana and often promoted for weight loss. This article explores the current research on CBD and how…
READ MORE
6 Ways Added Sugar Is Fattening
Written by Jillian Kubala, MS, RD
Diets high in added sugars have been linked to weight gain and chronic health conditions. Here are 6 reasons why added sugar is fattening.
READ MORE
The Best Stress Relief Blogs of 2019
Stress may be part of life, but when it starts affecting your health, it's important to find relief, whether through exercise, meditation, therapy, or…
READ MORE
5 Things I Wish I Knew About Postpartum Anxiety Before My Diagnosis
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
One writer shares what she wished she knew about postpartum anxiety before she was diagnosed in hopes of helping other parents.
READ MORE
What Is Parboiled Rice, and Is It Healthy?
Written by Marsha McCulloch, MS, RD
Parboiled, or converted, rice is partially precooked in its inedible husk before further processing. This article reviews parboiled rice, including…
READ MORE
32 Healthy, Low-Calorie Snacks
Written by Jillian Kubala, MS, RD
While snacking on the wrong foods may cause you to pack on weight, choosing the right snacks may promote weight loss. Here are 32 healthy, low-calorie…
READ MORE
Should You Add Butter to Your Coffee?
Written by Gavin Van De Walle, MS, RD
Butter coffee is claimed to burn fat and improve mental clarity, but many wonder whether this trend is driven by false claims. This article looks at…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 27351 Client Version: 79747923c4e6e47c969e01afcf54d3679b99590b Build Number: 26773