Fever in an 11-Month-Old Baby | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Health
Family Health
Babies Health
Fever in an 11-Month-Old Baby
Rose Erickson
About the Author:
Rose Erickson
Rose Erickson has been a professional writer since 2010. She specializes in fitness, parenting, beauty, health, nutrition and saving money, and writes for several online publications including The Krazy Coupon Lady. She is also a novelist and a mother of three.
View Full Profile
Your 11-month-old baby's temperature will naturally elevate and decrease between the morning and night. However, a lingering elevated temperature can be a sign of an illness or problem, especially if it is accompanied by other worrisome symptoms. This makes it important to understand what can cause a fever in your 11-month-old baby and how you can treat it.
Definition and Signs
Your 11-month-old baby has a fever if his internal body temperature reads higher than 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit. A fever is your baby's body's natural way of fighting off some type of infection or illness. It can last anywhere from a few hours to more than three days. A fever can be accompanied by sweating, a pink or white rash, weakness, head pain, shivering, lack of appetite or dehydration.
Possible Causes
Your 11-month-old child can experience a fever if he is teething. In addition, he can develop a fever if he has been out in the heat too long. Viral infections such as influenza and roseola can also trigger a fever. In addition, some more serious infections, such as a urinary tract infection, meningitis or bacteria in the blood can cause a fever.
Treatment Options
With your pediatrician's approval, give your child infant ibuprofen or acetaminophen to help control her temperature and any related pain. Remove her clothing or dress her in very light and loose-fitting clothes to help lower her fever. Sponge your baby down in a tub or sink of lukewarm water. Give her an oral rehydration drink for young children that contains both salt and water to help replenish any fluids lost due to the fever.
When to Call for Help
Contact a doctor or pediatrician immediately if your baby is inconsolable, crying nonstop, drooling excessively, has a stiff neck or rash, shows signs of having head pain, has problems swallowing, acts confused or develops pinpoint-sized purple spots on the skin that do not disappear when you press on them. These could be symptoms of a more serious infection or a condition such as purpura or petechiae in which blood vessels rupture beneath the skin.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
BabyCenter: Fever
Palo Alto Medical Foundation: Treating Fever
AskDrSears.com: Teething
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Blotchy Skin Rash on a Baby's Face
2
4 Ways to Handle a Fever During Pregnancy
3
A Child That Continuously Awakes From a Nap With a Fever
4
Can Gas Give an Infant a Fever?
5
A 5 Year Old With a Fever & No Other Symptoms
6
Two Year Old That Is Hot and Says His Eyes Hurt
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.