Influenza | Medicinal Herb Info
Oops! It appears that you have disabled your Javascript. In order for you to see this page as it is meant to appear, we ask that you please re-enable your Javascript!
Home
Herb Index
Dis-Eases
Resources
Credits
CAUTION!
Medicinal Herb Info
CommentsPosts
The Medicinal Herb Info site was created to help educate visitors about the often forgotten wisdom of the old ways of treating illnesses. Many of today's drugs and medicines were originally derived from natural ingredients, combinations of plants and other items found in nature.
We are not suggesting that you ignore the help of trained medical professionals, simply that you have additional options available for treating illnesses. Often the most effective treatment involves a responsible blend of both modern and traditional treatments.
We wish you peace and health!
Site Navigation
Home
Herb Index
Dis-Eases
Resources
Credits
CAUTION!
Categories
Ayerveda
Healing
Herbs
In the News
Medicinal Herbs
Medicinal Uses
Natural Health
Translate:
Influenza
Contents:
Definition | Symptoms | Treatment | Nutrients
Herbs | Recommendations | Suggestions | Bibliography
Definition
The flu is a highly contagious respiratory viral infection. Spread easily by coughing, sneezing, and poor hygiene. Vaccines have been only partially effective because of new and different viral strains that are constantly changing.
Back to Top
Symptoms
Early stages, similar to the common cold, are headache, weakness, and aching of back, arms, and legs. Dry throat and cough, tired quickly, loss of appetite, and sometimes nausea and vomiting. Rarely fatal, flu does make the patient more susceptible to ear infections, pneumonia, and sinus problems. Flu lasts for 7-10 days. Patients who have heart or lung diseases or are pregnant are prone to viral pneumonia. The system should be built up with good nutrition following a bout with the flu.
Back to Top
Treatment
Bedrest, plenty of fluids, fever control, relieve symptoms as much as possible.
Go to bed and stop eating. If treatment is started when early symptoms appear, recovery will be in 24-36 hrs. Mix 1 tbsp. yarrow, 1 tsp. pleurisy root and a small pinch of cayenne; steep in a pint of boiling water for 20 minutes; drink a cupful every hour. This tea will cause profuse perspiration, bed clothes being changed as needed. Tepid sponge bath will bring down fever, care should be taken not to chill the patient. Alternate the herb tea with fruit juices; orange, grapefruit, or lemon. Keep bowels open. Fresh air in patient’s room if possible.
Eucalyptus oil: Put 5 drops in a hot bath or 6 drops in boiling water, put a towel over your head and inhale vapors.
One tbsp. slippery elm bark powder mixed with 1 part boiling water and 1/2 cup honey will relieve cough and sore throat. Store in a jar and give 1 tsp. every 3-4 hours.
Echinacea, ginger, pau d’arco, slippery elm, and yarrow tea.
To reduce fever, take catnip tea enemas.
Also, 1/4 to 1/2 tsp. lobelia tincture every 3-4 hours until fever drops.
A tincture of goldenseal and echinacea is recommended for children. 8-10 drops in liquid every 3 hours until flu symptoms are gone.
Mix equal parts of juniper berries, black elder flowers, coltsfoot, lance-leaf plantain, and sallow bark. Steep 1 tsp. in 1/2 cup boiling water. Take 1/2 to 1 cup a day, sweeten with honey.
Back to Top
Nutrients
Vitamin C, 5,000-10,000 mg. per day in divided doses.
Vitamin A, 15,000 IU daily, is a powerful antioxidant and helps immune system.
Zinc Gluconate lozenges, every 2 hrs. dissolve lozenge under tongue. Use until symptoms stop, follow directions for children. Stimulant for immune system.
Garlic capsules, 2 capsules 3 times per day, acts as an antibiotic and immune system stimulant.
Multivitamins, taken as directed on label, gives aid to healing.
Kelp, 5-10 tablets per day, has an antiviral action and helps in reduction of inflammation.
Vitamin B complex, 100 mg. daily, a necessity in cellular enzyme function.
Back to Top
Herbs
Agrimony
Ague weed
Angelica, European
Basil
Bayberry
Birch
Blood root
Boneset
Borage
Bryony, white
Burdock, great
Burnet
Calendula
Calla, wild (water-arum)
Catnip
Cayenne
Celandine
Celery seeds
Centaury
Chamomile
Chrysanthemum flowers
Cinnamon
Clover, red
Coltsfoot
Costmary
Cow-parsnip
Culver’s root
Dayflower, Asiatic
Dropwort
Echinacea
Elder, black flowers
Elm, slippery
Ephedra (Ma huang)
Eryngo
Eucalyptus
Fenugreek
Fern, maidenhair
Feverfew
Flag, sweet
Garlic
Ginger, wild
Golden seal
Goose grass
Holly, mountain
Honeysuckle flowers
Horsemint
Horsetail
Hyssop
Indigo, wild
Jasmine, yellow
Juniper berries
Kudzu root
Lady’s slipper
Lavender
Life everlasting
Lobelia
Lungwort
Male fern
Mallow
Marjoram
Meadowsweet
Milkweed
Mint
Motherwort
Mulberry leaves
Mullein
Nettle, hedge
Oak
Oats
Onion
Osha
Pansy
Pennyroyal
Peppermint
Persimmon bark
Plantain, lance-leaf
Pleurisy root
Poke root
Primrose
Raspberry, leaves
Rosemary
Sage
Sallow bark
Sassafras root
Senega snakeroot
Spruce, Norway
Sticklewort
Stillingia
Tamarack
Tansy
Thyme, garden
Vervain, blue
Violet, garden
White pine
Yarrow root
Yerba santa
Back to Top
Recommendations
Wash hands often, flush tissues after use, do not give aspirin to children with a fever. Check children with frequent colds and flu, for thyroid malfunctions and/or allergies.
Back to Top
Suggestions
Drink potato peeling soup twice a day, made fresh daily. Potato peelings (the skins) should be peeled 1/2 inch thick. Discard center of potato. Boil peelings for about 20-30 minutes, strain, cool, and drink. Carrot or celery stick in the soup is optional.
Back to Top
Bibliography
LiveStrong.com: Fenugreek for Congestion
LiveStrong.com: Fresh Ginger Root for a Cough
LiveStrong.com: Turmeric for Coughs
The Complete Medicinal Herbal , by Penelope Ody, Dorling Kindersley, Inc, 232 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10016, First American Edition, copyright 1993
Prescription for Nutritional Healing, Fifth Edition: A Practical A-to-Z Reference to Drug-Free Remedies Using Vitamins, Minerals, Herbs & Food Supplements , by James F. Balch, M.D. and Phyllis A. Balch, C.N.C., Avery Publishing Group, Inc., Garden City Park, NY
The Herb Book , by John Lust, Bantam Books, 666 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY. copyright 1974.
Indian Herbalogy of North America , by Alma R. Hutchens, Shambala Publications, Inc., Horticultural Hall, 300 Massachusetts Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 1973
Back to Eden , by Jethro Kloss; Back to Eden Publishing Co., Loma Linda, CA 92354, Original copyright 1939, revised edition 1994
The Old Herb Doctor , by Joseph E. Meyer, Meyerbooks, publisher, PO Box 427, Glenwood, Illinois 60425, copyright 1984, sixth printing 1994.
Earl Mindell’s Herb Bible , by Earl Mindell, R.Ph., Ph.D., Simon & Schuster/Fireside, Rockefeller Center 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10020
Planetary Herbology , by Michael Tierra, C.A., N.D., O.M.D., Lotus Press, PO Box 325, Twin Lakes. WI 53181., Copyright 1988, published 1992
The Yoga of Herbs: An Ayurvedic Guide to Herbal Medicine , by Dr. David Frawley & Dr. Vasant Lad, Lotus Press, Twin Lakes, Wisconsin, Second edition, 1988.
Eastern/Central Medicinal Plants , by Steven Foster and James A. Duke., Houghton Mifflin Company, 215 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10000
Back to Top
Recent Posts
Peppermint Extract May Help Fight Drug-resistant Bacteria
An Herb That Enhances TB Treatment
Turns Out, Not All Cinnamon is the Same
Ethnobotanist Talks About The Riches of the Rainforest
Oil of Cinnamon May Help the Body Burn Fat
Tags
acai acid reflux acne alfalfa Aloe Bilberry Black Cohosh blood pressure Bloodroot borage oil Burdock chickweed cholesterol Cinnamon Cinnamon Oil Dandelion Echinacea Eczema Fenugreek Feverfew Ginger Ginkgo ginseng Goldenseal Gotu Kola heartburn high blood pressure Kelp licorice liver milk thistle moles Neem noni organic papaya pomegranate Psoriasis Red Clover rosacea Rosemary saw palmetto tea tree oil Tulsi Turmeric
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Copyright © 1996-2019 Medicinal Herb Info - All Rights Reserved
Powered by WordPress & Atahualpa
felestore
Plugins Wordpress
Themes Wordpress
Documents Wordpress
Translate »
error: Content is protected !!