Tripi's baby tips and tricks.: 5 More Tips For Reducing Your Baby's Fever
skip to main | skip to sidebar
Tuesday, December 13, 2011
5 More Tips For Reducing Your Baby's Fever
A baby's fever is one of the most frightening things you will experience as a parent. And although there are plenty of ways to lower your infants fever with medications like ibuprofen and acetaminophen, many parents feel that a natural approach to fever reduction is the better choice for them. The tricky part about fevers, is that they are the natural way for your baby's body to fight infection. So reducing a fever should be done mostly when the fever has risen nearly to levels that could be unsafe for your baby. Also, always notify your pediatrician when your baby is running a fever. If your pediatrician agrees that gently lowering your baby's fever with some natural methods is best, then I recommend you try these tips and/or my first 5 tips for reducing your baby's fever. Also be sure to continually monitor your baby's temperature while using any of these tips. A fever dropping too quickly can be a sign of shock, which can be dangerous.
1. Tepid skullcap tea sponge bath.
Skullcap is a natural herb that has gentle fever-reducing properties. Though many herbs including this one are considered safe, when your baby is already sick, it might irritate the stomach if ingested. Instead, simply make a medium-strength tepid tea (steeping the teabag for about 3 minutes) and then use a soft cotton cloth to sponge the cool liquid onto your baby's wrists, under his arms, behind his knees and across his chest and shoulders. This has the combined cooling effects of the slow evaporation of the liquid, and the gentle absorption of small amounts of the herb through your little glow-worm's skin.
2. Damp socks.
Whether you rinse your baby's socks in a bit of fresh cool water, or if you dip them in some chamomile, or skullcap tea (be careful, this can discolor the socks), when they are still just a bit damp, put them on her. This will help with a slower cooling evaporation, that is gentle enough to avoid cooling your infant down too quickly. As your little munchkin kicks her feet she will help to cool the socks off as well. Re-moisten the socks from time to time as they dry.
3. Cool lettuce leaf wrap.
Fresh romaine lettuce leaves soaked in a tepid bowl of water can be wrapped around your baby's legs, chest and back. Lettuce naturally conducts heat very quickly. As it absorbs the heat from your baby, it will also insulate gently, making sure that his temperature does not drop too fast. Change the lettuce leaves often, every 3-4 minutes until your infant's fever has been reduced to safe levels once again. Check your baby's skin for any sign of irritation, and discontinue the lettuce wraps at once if a rash appears.
4. Fever reducing acupressure.
For infants and babies, there is a very gentle style of acupressure that can be used. It is called the "Jin Shin" technique. Using this technique, you gently hold the acupoints for a few moments while breathing deeply, then repeat at regular intervals over the course of the day. Some acupoints that you can use to help reduce your little tiger-lilly's fever are:
* LI-4 "Union Valley"
* LI-11 "Pool By The Bend"
* GV-14 "Great Hammer"
Gently hold each of these acupoints in turn for about 10-15 seconds while using deep breathing to keep yourself calm and centered. You can repeat this baby's fever reducing acupressure routine 3-4 times through the day.
5. Skin-to-skin hold.
The best heat regulator you have is your own body. If you walk in the sunlight your body cools down, if you stroll through the shade, your internal temperature increases. So, in a warm room, take your baby's clothing off (except for the diaper) and hold him on your bare chest, Your body will immediately start to cool you both down. The excess heat from your baby will be absorbed gently through your own skin. This technique is not only gentle and effective for fever reduction, but it is very calming and comforting to both the you and your infant. If you think that your baby may be feeling cold, you can drape a light cotton blanket over his back. Continue the skin-toskin hold for about 20-30 minutes for the full effect. You can continue the hold longer if you like, but the fever will not drop much further. The hold can be repeated as often as you like.
While your baby has a fever, and immediately after a fever has been reduced, it is important to remember to try to feed your infant as much as you can. Dehydration is common in babies with fevers. Also, please put any sleep-training on hold until your baby feels better. Your baby needs as much sleep as she can get while she is sick, and it doesn't really matter if she sticks to a schedule or not. Also, always, always, always, talk to your baby's doctor about what you are doing, and how your baby is feeling. Even if you feel it is not that important, your doctor can reassure you, or alert you to issues you may not have been aware of. If you have found these tips to be helpful, please forward them to any new or expecting parents you know. Happy parenting!
Posted by Naomi Tripi at 9:31 PM
Labels: acupressure, babies, Baby, baby's, damp, fever, hold, infant, infant's, little, natural, naturally, one's, reduce, sick, skin-to-skin, skullcap
1 comment:
Lerina Melissa December 25, 2011 at 12:03 AM
Thank you so much for the tips. My little one is currently sick and has been having fevers back and forth.
ReplyDelete
Replies
Reply
Add comment
Load more...
Newer Post Older Post Home
Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)
Tripi's baby tips and tricks.
Professional tips for taking care of your baby, infant, newborn, or toddler.
Check out what Naomi is doing NOW!
NEW BLOG POSTS BY NAOMI At YummyShapes.com
About Me
Naomi Tripi
I have worked professionally with babies and children as a doula, nanny, and educator for over 20 years. I love sharing the knowledge I've gained with people who need it as both a guest speaker, and one-on-one. Parenthood is an exciting adventure, I love watching new families experience the wonder of getting to know the new members of their families.
View my complete profile
Infant Acupressure Booklet
Book or PDF
PDF $10.00 USD Book $25.00 USD Book and PDF $30.00 USD
Blog Archive
► 2014 (3)
► September (2)
► January (1)
► 2012 (3)
► July (1)
► March (1)
► January (1)
▼ 2011 (3)
▼ December (3)
5 More Tips For Reducing Your Baby's Fever
5 More Tips For Relieving Your Baby's Gas Pains
I'm Back.
► 2009 (78)
► October (2)
► September (4)
► August (15)
► July (19)
► June (22)
► May (16)
Follow by Email
Popular Posts
5 Tips About Your Baby's Spit-Up
Many of us parents worry about our baby spitting-up milk and/or formula. Sometimes it can seem like our little regurgitators don't keep ...
5 tips for teaching your baby to sit up.
One of the first developmental milestones that new parents look forward to is the day their baby learns to sit up. Most babies will learn ...
5 tips for infant acupressure points.
Acupressure is an ancient form of natural healing that uses pressure applied to certain spots on your body. Most acupressure for adults us...
5 tips for burping your baby.
Why is it that so many parents seem to have such an easy time burping their babies? It seems like when most infants have gas and need to bur...
5 tips for helping relieve baby's gas pains.
With every baby comes the problem of gas, and gas-related pains. For some babies these pains come only once in a great while, for others the...
5 tips for naturally reducing a baby's fever.
One of the scariest things for a parent to encounter is kissing your baby only to find that they are burning up with a fever. If your baby h...
5 More Tips For Relieving Your Baby's Gas Pains
One of the most consistent issues parents face with their new babies is the discomfort that gas can cause. That is why I am revisiting this...
5 tips to help relieve your baby's constipation
Within days of becoming a new parent, one of your very favorite topics will be...poop. Suddenly one of the most fascinating topics in the wo...
5 tips for reducing baby spit-up and soothing reflux.
When I was little, I remember thinking that it was natural for babies to spit up about half of their feeding every time they were burped. No...
5 More Tips For Reducing Your Baby's Fever
A baby's fever is one of the most frightening things you will experience as a parent. And although there are plenty of ways to lower you...
Search This Blog
Followers
Translate
everythingmom.com
No Time For Flash Cards
babyspot.com
Visit Babyspot.com
Betterwaymoms.com
Subscribe!
Posts
Atom
Posts
Comments
Atom
Comments
Statcounter
Twitter Updates
Twitter Updates
follow me on Twitter
BlogCatalog
Bloghub