Magnesium Oil: Does It Really Improve Magnesium Absorption? - Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe
Search for:
About Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe
Search for:
Health
Allergies
Brain Health
Cancer
Children’s Health
Diabetes
Gut Health
Heart Health
Hormones
Mental Health
Skin Health
Symptoms
Treatments
Weight Loss
Nutrition
Fruit
Grains
Herbs & Spices
Mushrooms
Probiotics
Protein
Supplements
Vegetables
Vitamins & Minerals
Diets
Fasting
Gluten-Free
Low-Carb
Ketogenic
Mediterranean Diet
Paleo
Plant-Based
Vegan
Vegetarian
Recipes
Gluten-Free
Ketogenic
Low-Carb
Paleo
Vegan
Vegetarian
Essential Oils
DIY Remedies
Body Care
Cleaning
Hair Care
Oral Health
Skin and Beauty
Fitness
Anatomy
Injury & Rehab
News & Tips
Running
Workouts
Yoga
Shop
Top Sellers
Supplements
Essential Oils
View All
About Dr. Axe
Dr. Axe on Facebook Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest Dr. Axe on RSS
Dr. Axe > Nutrition > Vitamins & Minerals
Fact Checked
×
This Dr. Axe content is medically reviewed or fact checked to ensure factually accurate information.
With strict editorial sourcing guidelines, we only link to academic research institutions, reputable media sites and, when research is available, medically peer-reviewed studies. Note that the numbers in parentheses (1, 2, etc.) are clickable links to these studies.
The information in our articles is NOT intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice.
×
This article is based on scientific evidence, written by experts and fact checked by our trained editorial staff. Note that the numbers in parentheses (1, 2, etc.) are clickable links to medically peer-reviewed studies.
Our team includes licensed nutritionists and dietitians, certified health education specialists, as well as certified strength and conditioning specialists, personal trainers and corrective exercise specialists. Our team aims to be not only thorough with its research, but also objective and unbiased.
The information in our articles is NOT intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice.
Magnesium Oil: Does It Really Improve Magnesium Absorption?
By Christine Ruggeri, CHHC
December 19, 2018
Dr. Axe on Facebook 9679 Dr. Axe on Twitter 55 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 3250 Share on Email Print Article
Ever wonder, “What does magnesium do?” An abundant element on our planet, magnesium is also present in every organ in the human body. In fact, it’s considered a vital mineral for over 300 biochemical reactions that regulate our health and wellness. Unfortunately, many of us simply don’t get enough magnesium in our bodies to the point that we unknowingly suffer from a magnesium deficiency. Thankfully, magnesium foods and magnesium oil can help.
In a report by the World Health Organization, it was found that less than 60 percent of adult men and women in the U.S. met the “adequate intake” values for magnesium.
That’s why it’s key to consume magnesium-rich foods like dairy products, vegetables, grain, fruit and nuts. It’s also a good idea to start using another key source of magnesium: magnesium oil.
Magnesium oil, which is actually magnesium chloride mixed with water, has been used as a home remedy for a number of daily ailments. Most notably, magnesium is credited with decreasing stress, sustaining a sense of well-being and improving sleep. Lately, studies show that magnesium can also boost performance levels, improve skin quality, and even help hypertension and diabetes.
What Is Magnesium Oil?
Despite its name, magnesium oil is not actually an oil at all. The name originated because of the oily texture when magnesium chloride flakes are mixed with water. There are many forms of the oil available for purchase online that feature various dosages and added minerals, but it’s also very easy to make at home.
Ancient people have used these so-called ancient minerals for topical and transdermal therapies for centuries, with little knowledge of the science behind the process. These included mineral baths, herbal compresses, mud packs, and steam and sweat lodges.
We know now how beneficial transdermal therapies can be in healing and wellness. In this case, transdermal application of magnesium helps prevent side effects and can work more quickly and effectively.
It has been found that magnesium, despite being available in many dietary sources, is not best absorbed orally. Magnesium taken orally is affected by a number of elements in your gut and can also act as a laxative. This reduces the amount of time the mineral can be absorbed in the body.
Injections of magnesium are commonly used for heart attacks and strokes, but the best way to regularly increase levels is using magnesium in a transdermal fashion. Some health experts have begun calling topical magnesium application, transdermal magnesium therapy.
In one magnesium study, patients using transdermal magnesium therapy saw increases in their cellular magnesium levels after 12 weeks of using magnesium sprays and soaks. The average increase over 12 weeks was 25.2 percent, which is pretty impressive.
The recommended dietary allowance of magnesium is about 300 milligrams daily, but the Office of Dietary Supplements recommends optimum levels are 400–420 milligrams for men and 310–320 milligrams for women daily. Our current diets provide, on average, less than 250 milligrams per day. Using magnesium oil to supplement this deficiency is the easiest and most effective way.
7 Magnesium Oil Benefits
1. Sports Performance and Workout Recovery
Athletes need adequate magnesium levels to perform at their best. Magnesium studies show that exercise redistributes magnesium throughout the body and can negatively affect physical performance. Athletes like gymnasts and wrestlers that rely on weight control may be the most affected.
Magnesium-deficient individuals can find beneficial effects on their exercise performance when magnesium supplements are introduced. Magnesium oil is also a natural muscle relaxant. Applications to sore muscles and joints can also provide pain and ache relief.
2. Migraine Relief
Migraine sufferers have lower levels of intracellular magnesium during acute migraine attacks, according to research. Low levels of magnesium affect a number of related receptors and neurotransmitters that cause migraine headaches. Studies also show that regular magnesium supplementation can reduce the frequency of migraines.
3. Skin Care
In studies regarding magnesium oil uses, magnesium is shown to break apart different fats and oils. Therefore, is can aid in reducing skin oiliness. Magnesium benefits also include its stress-relieving abilities. This can help reduce stress-related skin irritations, such as acne and rosacea.
4. Diabetes Regulation
Poorly controlled diabetes results in a large excretion of glucose in urine. This, in turn, depletes magnesium levels and has major implications in insulin resistance. Proper magnesium levels are incredibly important in diabetes patients. Why? Insulin resistance can result in major problems in trying to control diabetes mellitus.
5. Hypertension Control
Magnesium supplementation can offer slight decreases in blood pressure in patients suffering from hypertension. There are a number of additional factors that affect blood pressure in these individuals, but studies conclude magnesium supplementation lowers blood pressure.
6. Stress Relief and General Well-Being
Magnesium has long been known for its ability to relieve stress, as it is typically wasted via urine in times of duress. It aids in a number of neurological and physiological processes when the body is under stress, so maintaining sufficient levels helps balance hormones naturally. This stress-relieving effect can make magnesium oil face wrinkles treatment an option as well.
7. Sleep Improvement
Magnesium works as a natural muscle relaxer. This is why many people swear by magnesium for sleep issues. Magnesium helps you sleep because of its ability mineral to relax GABA receptors in the brain and nervous system. This helps promote a “slow down” you need in order to sleep.
Magnesium supplementation has also been shown to provide benefits, such as:
Care to prevent seizures for pregnant women with preeclampsia or eclampsia
Protection against brain damage in premature infants
Help with morning sickness in pregnant women
Hormone balancing
Reduction of PMS symptoms
Help prevent osteoporosis
How to Use Magnesium Oil
Once you start using magnesium oil, it’s recommended you continue to do so daily, applying more as you feel comfortable. It can take time to drastically increase magnesium levels, so it’s important to stick with regular applications. Keep track of your well-being and ailments prior to starting your regular applications to see how magnesium affects you and whether you need to change your dosage. Here are ways to use magnesium oil:
Spray: Spraying magnesium oil directly on the skin is the most common application of the mineral. It’s best to apply after a shower, when the skin is clear of lotions or other oils. After spraying, magnesium oil should be thoroughly rubbed in and left to absorb for about 30 minutes. Depending on your preference, you can shower or wipe down to eliminate any residue. The first few times applying magnesium oil spray may result in some uncomfortable tingling. This sensation should dissipate the longer you use it.
Massage: Massage promotes blood flow and ultimately maximizes the absorption of magnesium oil. Magnesium oil is used by the body primarily in the area of application, so muscle cramps and soreness can be alleviated using massage and magnesium oil as treatment.
Sports Rub: Essential oils like wintergreen oil can be added to magnesium oil to create a more potent massage oil for sports massages.
Bath: Some users say direct application of magnesium oil can create a tingling or stinging sensation they do not enjoy. Soaking in magnesium chloride diluted in a hot bath can be a great alternative. Using essential oils to add a pleasing scent is also common.
Foot Soaks: Similar to a bath, soaking feet or legs in warm water with magnesium chloride can help provide benefits of magnesium oil on feet to specific areas.
Deodorant: Mineral salts have been used for many years as a natural odor blocker. Magnesium oil works as a non-toxic deodorant too. Be sure not to apply magnesium oil to freshly shaven skin, as it will cause irritation.
Magnesium Oil History
Magnesium ions in the body are most commonly found in bones. They are also important elements in enzymes that help break down the food we eat into energy. Magnesium is a helper in so many different bodily processes. In fact, sometimes it is the key to unlocking the benefits in therapies and remedies that don’t seem to be working.
Magnesium has a role in the synthesis of essential molecules like DNA, RNA and proteins. In bones, cell membranes and chromosomes, it makes up a large portion of the structural base. Magnesium also plays a large part in nutrient reactions and interactions, helping achieve absorption and balance in the body.
It’s important to note that magnesium is key to calcium absorption. These two work in a very special relationship with each other in the body. If you have a calcium deficiency or imbalance, you also may have a magnesium deficiency. Often, a magnesium deficiency can be a precursor to later calcium issues, because of this affect on calcium uptake. This relationship is why calcium food sources are the most effective when eaten with magnesium-rich foods.
Magnesium deficiency has a number of negative affects. It is linked to:
Hypertension and cardiovascular disease
Coronary heart disease
Metabolic syndrome
Stroke
Osteoporosis
Decreased insulin sensitivity
Asthma
Migraines and headaches
Inflammation
Issues with the inner lining of blood vessels (endothelial dysfunction)
Impairment of exercise performance
Gastrointestinal issues
DIY Recipe to Make Your Own Magnesium Oil
To make your own magnesium oil at home, follow this magnesium oil recipe:
INGREDIENTS:
½ cup magnesium chloride flakes
½ cup filtered water
DIRECTIONS:
Bring water to a boil.
Turn off heat, and stir in the flakes until dissolved.
When cool, transfer to a glass spray bottle.
Magnesium Oil Deodorant Recipe
INGREDIENTS:
4 ounces magnesium oil
10–15 drops of your preferred essential oil
DIRECTIONS:
Mix ingredients, and add to spray bottle.
Spray on underarms as needed.
Let dry.
Here are a couple other homemade recipes that use magnesium oil:
Homemade CALM Body Butter
Homemade Remineralizing Toothpaste
Potential Magnesium Oil Side Effects
For certain people with existing maladies or sensitivities, they may experience magnesium oil side effects. For example, individuals with low blood pressure should use magnesium oil cautiously. Start with a small amount and short absorption time. Hypotension can be affected easily by salt intake, change in diet and medication, as well as supplements, so it is important to be cautious.
If you take an anti-anxiety medication, magnesium supplements may overcorrect your hyperactive nervous system. If it seems like you become too relaxed when combining magnesium and anti-anxiety medication, it’s best to eliminate the magnesium.
Individuals with sensitive skin should test a very diluted form of magnesium oil on their skin before applying all over the body. This can be done by adding more water to the solution. The usual tingling users experience could be made worse and irritate skin for those who have existing skin sensitivity and issues.
Individuals with renal impairment and limited kidney function should also be cautious and consult their physicians before starting supplementation of magnesium. Any prescription drugs should be cross-checked to ensure there is not an adverse reaction when taken with magnesium.
Final Thoughts
Magnesium is vital mineral for over 300 biochemical reactions that regulate our health and wellness.
Unfortunately, according to the World Health Organization, less than 60 percent of adult men and women in the U.S. met the “adequate intake” values for magnesium.
Magnesium oil, which is actually magnesium chloride mixed with water, has been used as a home remedy for a number of daily ailments.
Magnesium oil benefits include improved sports performance and workout recovery, migraine relief, skin care, diabetes and hypertension regulation, stress relief, and sleep improvement.
Magnesium oil uses include spray, massage, sports rub, baths, food soaks and deodorant.
Read Next: 6 Health Benefits of MCT Oil — Is It Better than Coconut Oil?
Get FREE Access!
Dr. Josh Axe is on a mission to provide you and your family with the highest quality nutrition tips and healthy recipes in the world...Sign up to get VIP access to his eBooks and valuable weekly health tips for FREE!
Free eBook to boost
metabolism & healing
30 Gluten-Free Recipes
& detox juicing guide
Shopping Guide &
premium newsletter
Your Best Email *
Ad
Popular Posts
All Time
This Week
1 Salt Water Flush Recipe
2 How to Get Rid of Bags Under the Eyes: 13 Easy, Natural Ways
3 Secret Detox Drink Recipe (A Natural Detox Drink Recipe)
4 Top 12 Natural Home Remedies for UTI
5 16 Soothing Strep Throat Home Remedies
1 Secret Detox Drink Recipe (A Natural Detox Drink Recipe)
2 Top 12 Natural Home Remedies for UTI
3 How to Get Rid of Bags Under the Eyes: 13 Easy, Natural Ways
4 16 Soothing Strep Throat Home Remedies
5 Salt Water Flush Recipe
More Nutrition
Dr. Axe on Facebook 1277 Dr. Axe on Twitter 34 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 2309 Share on Email Print Article 3.6K
Cauliflower Benefits, Nutrition & Recipes
Cauliflower is considered by many to be one of the healthiest foods ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 47 Dr. Axe on Twitter 2 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 9 Share on Email Print Article 58
Creatine Monohydrate: The Physical Benefits + How to Use
Creatine (sometimes referred to as creatine monohydrate) has been called a “phenomenon” ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 12 Dr. Axe on Twitter 22 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 22 Share on Email Print Article 56
How to Prevent Negative Vitamin D Side Effects
Sufficient blood levels of vitamin D may help defend against many symptoms ...
Read More
Dr. Axe on Facebook 955 Dr. Axe on Twitter 38 Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest 2101 Share on Email Print Article 3.1K
What Is Saffron? Saffron Benefits & Recipes to Try
Saffron is one of the most valuable and expensive spices known worldwide, thanks ...
Read More
View All
Most Popular Nutrition
All Time
This Week
1Can You Take Too Much Vitamin D?
2Which Ashwagandha Dosage Is Right for You?
3Best Collagen-Rich Foods and Collagen-Boosting Foods
4It’s Official: Poor Diets Kill (More Than Tobacco!)
5What Is Collagen? 7 Ways Collagen Can Boost Your Health
1Chia Seeds Benefits: The Omega-3, Protein-Packed Superfood
220 Apple Cider Vinegar Uses + 6 Health Benefits
39 Proven Black Seed Oil Benefits that Boost Your Health
4Top 10 Potassium-Rich Foods + Potassium Benefits
58 Kombucha Benefits + How to Make This Gut-Friendly Beverage
Let's Be Friends
Dr. Axe on Facebook 2.8M
Likes
Dr. Axe on Youtube 1.6M
Subscribers
Dr. Axe on Pinterest 435.4K
Followers
Follow us:
Dr. Axe on Facebook Dr. Axe on Instagram Dr. Axe on Google Plus Dr. Axe on Youtube Dr. Axe on Pintrest Dr. Axe on RSS
Get Free Access
Want to lose weight, use new natural remedies or recipes, or get stronger?
I'm interested in... Healing Foods Natural Remedies Healthy Recipes Fitness/ Metabolism All of the Above
Register
Yes, sign me up for marketing emails from Dr. Axe. For more information on how we use your information, check out our Privacy Policy. You can change your mind anytime by unsubscribing.
Inside Dr. Axe
About Us
Contact
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
Stores We Love
Program Login
Article Topics
Bone Broth
Collagen
Essential Oils
Leaky Gut
Keto Diet
Omega 3s
Probiotics
Medical Disclaimer
This content is strictly the opinion of Dr. Josh Axe and is for informational and educational purposes only. It is not intended to provide medical advice or to take the place of medical advice or treatment from a personal physician. All readers/viewers of this content are advised to consult their doctors or qualified health professionals regarding specific health questions. Neither Dr. Axe nor the publisher of this content takes responsibility for possible health consequences of any person or persons reading or following the information in this educational content. All viewers of this content, especially those taking prescription or over-the-counter medications, should consult their physicians before beginning any nutrition, supplement or lifestyle program.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Affiliate Disclosure
DMCA Policy
Careers
© 2019 Dr. Axe. All Rights Reserved.