minoxidil for hair loss – Better Hair with Hair Transplant and Hair Rejuvenation
Better Hair with Hair Transplant and Hair Rejuvenation
menu
Cart
Checkout
contact
Guest Post
My Account
Shop
Tag: minoxidil for hair loss
How to Treat Male Pattern Baldness
Posted on December 26, 2013 by admin
In the United States and even in other countries, there are a lot of people who are suffering from hair loss. The trend is continuously increasing every year. Majority of them have androgenetic alopecia or also known as pattern baldness. But with the recent developments in technology, patients now get the chance to have surgical hair restoration. For hair loss, this is the most popular treatment being offered.
How to Prevent Baldness
Baldness is a result of a wide variety of factors. Age is one of them. When men reach the age of 30, half of them start to lose hair. Unlike in their teenage years, their hairline starts to diminish.
In addition to your age, your genes will also determine if you are at risk of becoming bald. According to Steve Latham Hair Clinic of Alabama, genes can be a contributing factor but this is not the only reason why many people go bald.
The Truth About Hair Loss Treatments
With the increasing number of people who are experiencing hair loss, for sure you have come across various advertisements in particular magazine and television advertisements claiming that they offer effective and guaranteed hair loss solution.
But the problem with these offers is that they do not look at the root cause of the problem.
These so-called miracle treatments do not work for prevention and hair loss treatment. Make sure that before you spend any money, the treatment or the product you intend to buy is approved by the FDA and endorsed by the American Hair Loss Association.
With so many hair loss products being marketed today, you would not want to end up wasting money on pricey products that would only disappoint you. While the problem is still manageable, you should start working on preventing from further hair loss.
Effective Treatments
There are two highly recommended treatments that are clinically proven to treat and prevent hair loss. The first treatment is Finasteride. This is the generic name for the brand name for Proscar and Propecia. The said product was created by the company Merck. Originally, Finasteride was developed to cure enlarged prostate glands.
While the products underwent clinical trials to treat prostate problems, there was a surprising side effect. Men who used the product experienced hair growth. With the approval of FDA, Merck finally decided to develop Finasteride as a pill to cure male pattern baldness. FDA approved 1mg dose of Finasteride for alopecia treatment in December 1997. That time Minoxidil was already available in the market. But Propecia is the very first drug aimed at helping cure male pattern baldness.
How Does it Work?
Finasteride works by inhibiting the 5-alpha-reductase. This is an enzyme that converts testosterone into DHT or androgen dihydrotestosterone. DHT is responsible for shrinking the hair follicle which in turn affects hair growth. With 1 mg dose of Finasteride, you can lower the levels of DHT in your scalp by 60%. Based on studies, 865 of men who tried the drug recorded effective prevention of hair loss.
The Use of Minoxidil (Rogaine)
Another popular treatment is through the use of Minoxidil. This is also a drug approved by the FDA to treat male pattern baldness. The drug was originally developed to treat people who have high blood pressure. Eventually, clinical trials and series of tests recorded that those who are using the drug experienced hair growth. You can easily apply Minoxidil directly on your head.
These are the two treatments highly recommended by hair experts and by other people who have already tried them. If you want to find the best hair loss solutions, you should try Minoxidil or Finasteride. But just in case you are not sure, it helps if you can consult a medical professional.
Posted in menTagged finasteride for hair growth, hair loss in men, how to regrow hair in men, men hair treatment, minoxidil for hair loss
Minoxidil Topical for Hair Loss Treatment
Posted on December 26, 2013 by admin
Recent studies would show that the number of people experiencing hair loss is continuously increasing. Both men and women across varying age groups are not spared with this type of hair problem. If you happen to be one of them, it is strongly recommended that you start to find ways to prevent hair loss and look for an effective hair loss treatment.
Use Minoxidil
In the market, you can find several options to choose from. But among the different hair loss solutions made available, Minoxidil is one of the most popular choices. The very reason as to why this product is highly recommended is that it stimulates hair growth. It also slows balding. For people who are 40 years old and below can definitely use Minoxidil without having to worry about any adverse effects on hairlines. Although the product does not entirely cure baldness, at least it can alleviate further hair loss which can result to baldness.
Precautions to Keep in Mind
Before you finally use Minoxidil, it helps if you consult a reputable hair expert. Keep in mind that this is still a drug. If you are allergic to Minoxidil, you should tell your doctor or even to the pharmacist right away. Apart from allergic history, pharmacists would also require you to tell the medications that you currently take.
How to Use Minoxidil
Minoxidil is very easy to use. It is a liquid version that can be directly applied to your hair. Use this twice a day and you can notice significant results.
The very first thing that you have to do after buying the drug is to follow all of the directions or other prescriptions written on the label. If ever there is something that you do not understand, do not hesitate to consult your doctor or a pharmacist. Unless your doctor prescribed you to use it more or less than what is specified, stick with the original instructions.
Applying more than what is specified will not yield better results. In fact, this may even lead to adverse side effects.
For you to see the effects, you have to use Minoxidil for about 4 months. The box comes with three special applications that you can use which include the following: a metered-spray applicator for large scalp areas, an extender spray applicator (used with the metered-spray applicator) for small areas or under the hair, and a rub-on applicator. Just follow the direction as to how you can use these applicators.
To start off, you can now apply Minoxidil. Make sure that you only apply it to dry hair and to your scalp. This product should not be applied to other areas. When applying the liquid, avoid eye contact. If ever it comes in contact with your sensitive skin or with your eyes, wash them with cool water right away. If you have an irritated scalp or sunburned scalp, do not apply Minoxidil.
Side Effects of Minoxidil
Just like other medicines, there are side effects. But unlike other hair loss solutions made available in the market, you do not have to think of negative side effects that may endanger your health. Some of the common side effects of using Minoxidil include scaling, flaking, irritation, dryness, burning and scalp itching.
If you see any of these, tell your doctor. But if ever you notice any of these symptoms (weight gain, swelling of the face and other parts of the body, difficulty in breathing, chest pain and rapid heartbeat), you should consult your doctor right away. This is to ensure that you avoid experiencing any negative side effects in using the product.
Posted in minoxidilTagged minoxidil for better hair, minoxidil for hair loss, prevent hair loss with minoxidil
Recent Posts
The Do’s & Don’ts of Choosing a Hair Transplant Clinic. December 31, 2018
Laser Technique – The Technological Innovation for Hair Transplantation October 24, 2016
Teenage Hairloss Problems and Remedies October 17, 2016
7 Main reasons that cause hair loss August 13, 2015
Why body needs Zinc for hair growth June 23, 2015
Recent Comments
Archives
December 2018
October 2016
August 2015
June 2015
May 2015
March 2015
November 2014
October 2014
December 2013
November 2013
Categories
Alopecia
avodart
biotin
hair care
hair products
hair restoration
hair transplant
laser hair comb
laser treatment
men
minoxidil
propecia
shampoo
women
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Built in sunny Cape Town, South Africa
Theme: Sabino by Kaira
Cart
Checkout
contact
Guest Post
My Account
Shop