The Role of Intravenous Iron in the Treatment of Anemia Associated with Cancer and Chemotherapy.
BioPortfolio
Biotech, Healthcare and Medical Resources
BioPortfolio
Menu
Loading
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology Track topics Track topics important to you
World Biotech and Healthcare News
Published Research
Market Reports
Channels
Clinical Trials
Drugs
Corporations
Advertisement
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology
Track topics on Twitter Track topics that are important to you
Printed From BioPortfolio.com
The Role of Intravenous Iron in the Treatment of Anemia Associated with Cancer and Chemotherapy.
08:00 EDT 10th April 2019 | BioPortfolio
Home » Topics » Blood » Research » The Role of Intravenous Iron in the Treatment of Anemia Associated with Cancer and Chemotherapy.
Summary of "The Role of Intravenous Iron in the Treatment of Anemia Associated with Cancer and Chemotherapy."
Cancer-related anemia (CRA) is a commonly occurring problem for patients with cancer regardless of whether they are receiving treatment with chemotherapy or immunotherapy. It may result from one or more processes (decreased production, increased destruction, or increased loss of red blood cells, RBC). Perturbations in iron availability form the primary basis for anemia in many patients with cancer-related anemia. Functional iron deficiency (FID) anemia is a condition in which the patient has adequate or increased iron stores, but this iron pool is not available for erythropoiesis. Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) were the original treatment for FID; over time, however, if the supply of iron cannot keep pace with increased RBC synthesis driven by ESAs, FID may eventually lead to the lack or loss of ESA responsiveness. Subsequent clinical trials reported that intravenous (IV) iron could enhance the erythropoietic response to ESAs. This chapter reviews the pathogenesis of FID and summarizes the literature on the treatment of cancer- and chemotherapy-induced anemia. Clinical trials using IV iron with or without ESAs are reviewed in addition to the currently available IV iron products. The consensus conclusions from these trials, as well as guideline recommendations, support the use of IV iron in these patients to enhance ESA responsiveness, decrease ESA dosage, and reduce RBC transfusions. Little data have been published on the long-term safety of IV iron or its impact on tumor growth. This paper also briefly explores novel approaches for the treatment of FID anemia, which has relevance in treating not only cancer patients but also patients with benign inflammatory disorders.
Affiliation
Journal Details
This article was published in the following journal.
Name: Acta haematologica
ISSN: 1421-9662
Pages: 13-20
Links
PubMed Source: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30970366
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1159/000496967
PubMed Articles [38872 Associated PubMed Articles listed on BioPortfolio]
Management of Perioperative Iron Deficiency Anemia.
Preoperative anemia affects 30-40% of patients undergoing major surgery and is an independent risk factor for perioperative blood transfusion, morbidity, and mortality. Absolute or functional iron def...
Perinatal Iron Deficiency: Implications for Mothers and Infants.
Iron deficiency, with or without anemia, is common in pregnant women. In fact, nearly 30% of reproductive-age women are anemic worldwide, and anemia in pregnancy has an estimated global prevalence of ...
Effect of Helicobacter pylori Treatment on Unexplained Iron Deficiency Anemia.
A large number of patients with iron deficiency anemia have no known cause of their anemia despite a full evaluation. Optimal management and follow-up for this issue is unclear. Results of previous st...
Iron Deficiency Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease.
Iron deficiency anemia is a common complication of chronic kidney disease (CKD). CKD patients suffer from both absolute and functional iron deficiency. Absolute iron deficiency is defined by severely ...
Pagophagia in men with iron-deficiency anemia.
Few case series of pagophagia and iron deficiency include men. We performed a retrospective study of non-Hispanic white men with iron-deficiency anemia whose anemia and pagophagia, thrombocytosis, and...
Clinical Trials [18488 Associated Clinical Trials listed on BioPortfolio]
The Efficacy of Intravenous Iron for the Treatment of Anemia in Cancer Patients
- Multifactorial pathogenesis is involved in anemia of cancer patients and defining the causes of anemia is not always simple. - Currently, treatment options available for anemia...
Intravenous Treatment of Anemia in Pregnancy
The investigators assess and compare the efficacy of anemia treatment in pregnant women with anemia of chronic disease with true iron deficiency and in women with iron deficiency anemia.
Intravenous Iron Isomaltoside 1000 (Monofer®) Compared With Oral Iron in the Treatment of Postgastrectomy Anemia: An Open-label Randomized Controlled Trial
Iron deficiency anemia is a common complication in patients who underwent gastrectomy and leads to a deterioration in patient's quality of life. Therefore iron supplementation is one of th...
Comparison Study of Intravenous (IV) Versus Oral Iron (Fe) for Iron Deficiency Anemia Treatment in Late Pregnancy
The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of treatment between intravenous iron sucrose and oral iron fumarate in pregnant women in the third trimester.
Intravenous (IV) Iron vs. No Iron as the Treatment of Anemia in Cancer Patients Undergoing Chemotherapy and Erythropoietin Therapy
To assess the change in hemoglobin levels when iron sucrose was added to a regimen of weekly, fixed doses of erythropoietin in patients who had or had not responded to erythropoietin thera...
Medical and Biotech [MESH] Definitions
Anemia, Iron-deficiency
Anemia characterized by decreased or absent iron stores, low serum iron concentration, low transferrin saturation, and low hemoglobin concentration or hematocrit value. The erythrocytes are hypochromic and microcytic and the iron binding capacity is increased.
Iron, Dietary
Iron or iron compounds used in foods or as food. Dietary iron is important in oxygen transport and the synthesis of the iron-porphyrin proteins hemoglobin, myoglobin, cytochromes, and cytochrome oxidase. Insufficient amounts of dietary iron can lead to iron-deficiency anemia.
Anemia, Hypochromic
Anemia characterized by a decrease in the ratio of the weight of hemoglobin to the volume of the erythrocyte, i.e., the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration is less than normal. The individual cells contain less hemoglobin than they could have under optimal conditions. Hypochromic anemia may be caused by iron deficiency from a low iron intake, diminished iron absorption, or excessive iron loss. It can also be caused by infections or other diseases, therapeutic drugs, lead poisoning, and other conditions. (Stedman, 25th ed; from Miale, Laboratory Medicine: Hematology, 6th ed, p393)
Iron Overload
An excessive accumulation of iron in the body due to a greater than normal absorption of iron from the gastrointestinal tract or from parenteral injection. This may arise from idiopathic hemochromatosis, excessive iron intake, chronic alcoholism, certain types of refractory anemia, or transfusional hemosiderosis. (From Churchill's Illustrated Medical Dictionary, 1989)
Anemia, Sideroblastic
Anemia characterized by the presence of erythroblasts containing excessive deposits of iron in the marrow.
Advertisement
Quick Links
Advanced Search | Login | Subscribe | RSS
Quick Search
Advertisement
Advertisement
Relevant Topics
Blood
Blood is a specialized bodily fluid that delivers necessary substances to the body's cells (in animals) – such as nutrients and oxygen – and transports waste products away from those same cells. In vertebrates, it is composed of blo...
Cancer
Bladder Cancer Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Cancer Cervical Cancer Colorectal Head & Neck Cancers Hodgkin Lymphoma Leukemia Lung Cancer Melanoma Myeloma Ovarian Cancer Pancreatic Cancer ...
Cancer Disease
Cancer is not just one disease but many diseases. There are more than 100 different types of cancer. Most cancers are named for the organ or type of cell in which they start - for example, cancer that begins in the colon is called colon cancer; cancer th...
PubMed Database Quicklinks
Search PubMed Journal Article Database
Latest PubMed Articles
PubMed Journal List
Popular PubMed Articles
Recent Journal Article Searches
Searches Linking to this Article
BioPortfolio Limited
About Us
Contact Us
Social Media
Twitter (200+ Accounts)
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Publish Content
Publish
Publish Your Press Release
Advertise
Agreements
Agreements
Medical Disclaimer
Privacy
Tools
MyBioPortfolio
RSS
Help
FAQs
Sitemaps
XML Sitemap
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here.
The information provided by BioPortfolio.com is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. The BioPortfolio site is sponsored BioPortfolio Limited with offices at Stafford House, 10 Prince of Wales Road, Dorchester, DT1 1PW, England. If you are a legal copyright holder or a designated agent for such and you believe a post on this website falls outside the boundaries of “Fair Use” and legitimately infringes on your or your client's copyright we may be contacted concerning copyright matters here: Contact BioPortfolio.
All rights reserved. All other trademarks recognized. Copyright © 1997-2019 BioPortfolio Limited. Site developed by Alacrify Ltd.