Croup
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Call CommunityCare at 1-877-321-0022 for more information and rate quotes.
Home
View Plans
Individual & Family Plans
Senior Health Plan
Employer Group Plans
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Members
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Employers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Providers
Secure Login
Public Information & Resources
Security Request Form
Brokers
Wellness
Search
Provider Search
Prescription Drug Search
Website Search
Health Encyclopedia
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Networks & Affiliations
Preferred CommunityChoice PPO
WorkNet
Employee Assistance Program
ExcelCare
Contact Us
Take Charge
Your Symptoms
Self Care
In-Depth Reports
Diseases & Conditions
Surgeries & Procedures
Injuries
Tests
Complementary & Alternative Medicine
Multimedia Encyclopedia
Tobacco Cessation
Calculators
Smoking Cessation
Body Mass Index Calculator
Calorie Burner Counter Calculator
Target Heart Rate Calculator
Desirable Body Weight Calculator
Nutritional Needs Calculator
Waist to Hip Calculator
Risky Drinking
Wellness Tools
Stress and Anxiety
Diet & Nutrition
Emotional Health
Fitness
Sleep Health
Work & Life Balance
Career Burnout
Allergy
Cancer Prevention Guide
Depression
Diabetes
Heart Attack & Disease Risk
Menopause
Pain
Stroke Risk
Additional Resources
Wellness Promotions
Symptom Checker
Preventive Health Guidelines
Important Health Topics
Browse A-Z
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
0-9
Print-Friendly
Bookmarks
Croup
Viral croup; Laryngotracheobronchitis - acute; Spasmodic croup; Barking cough - croup
Croup is breathing difficulty and a "barking" cough. Croup is due to swelling around the vocal cords. It is common in infants and children.
Breathing difficulty
Breathing difficulty may involve:Difficult breathingUncomfortable breathingFeeling like you are not getting enough air
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Causes
Croup is most often caused by viruses such as parainfluenza RSV, measles, adenovirus, and influenza. It tends to appear in children between 3 months and 5 years old, but it can happen at any age. Some children are more likely to get croup and may get it several times. It is most common between October and March, but can occur at any time of the year.
More severe cases of croup may be caused by bacteria. This condition is called bacterial tracheitis.
Croup may also be caused by:
Allergies
Breathing in something that irritates your airway
Acid reflux
Symptoms
The main symptom of croup is a cough that sounds like a seal barking.
Most children will have mild cold symptoms for several days before the barking cough becomes evident. As the cough gets more frequent, the child may have trouble breathing or stridor (a harsh, crowing noise made when breathing in).
Croup is typically much worse at night. It often lasts 5 or 6 nights. The first night or two are most often the worst. Rarely, croup can last for weeks. Talk to your child's health care provider if croup lasts longer than a week or comes back often.
Exams and Tests
Children with croup are most often diagnosed based on the parent's description of the symptoms and a physical exam. Sometimes, a provider will listen to a child cough over the phone to identify croup. In a few cases, x-rays or other tests may be needed.
A physical exam may show chest retractions with breathing. When listening to the child's chest through a stethoscope, the provider may hear:
Difficulty breathing in and out
Wheezing
Wheezing
Wheezing is a high-pitched whistling sound during breathing. It occurs when air moves through narrowed breathing tubes in the lungs.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Decreased breath sounds
An exam of the throat may reveal a red epiglottis. A neck x-ray may reveal a foreign object or narrowing of the trachea.
Neck x-ray
A neck x-ray is an imaging test to look at cervical vertebrae. These are the 7 bones of the spine in the neck.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Treatment
Most cases of croup can be safely managed at home. However, you should call your provider for advice, even in the middle of the night.
Steps you can take at home include:
Expose your child to cool or moist air, such as in a steamy bathroom or outside in the cool night air. This may offer some breathing relief.
Set up a cool air vaporizer in the child's bedroom and use it for a few nights.
Make your child more comfortable by giving acetaminophen. This medicine also lowers a fever so the child will not have to breathe as hard.
Avoid cough medicines unless you discuss them with your provider first.
Your provider may prescribe medicines, such as:
Steroid medicines taken by mouth or through an inhaler
Antibiotic medicine (for some, but not most cases)
Your child may need to be treated in the emergency room or to stay in the hospital if they:
Have breathing problems that do not go away or get worse
Become too tired because of breathing problems
Have bluish skin color
Have bluish skin color
A bluish color to the skin or mucous membrane is usually due to a lack of oxygen in the blood. The medical term is cyanosis.
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Are not drinking enough fluids
Medicines and treatments used at the hospital may include:
Breathing medicines given with a nebulizer machine
Steroid medicines given through a vein (IV)
An oxygen tent placed over a crib
Fluids given through a vein for dehydration
Dehydration
Dehydration occurs when your body does not have as much water and fluids as it needs. Dehydration can be mild, moderate, or severe, based on how much...
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
Antibiotics given through a vein
Rarely, a breathing tube through the nose or mouth will be needed to help your child breathe.
Outlook (Prognosis)
Croup is most often mild, but it can still be dangerous. It most often goes away in 3 to 7 days.
The tissue that covers the trachea (windpipe) is called the epiglottis. If the epiglottis becomes infected, the entire windpipe can swell shut. This is a life-threatening condition.
If an airway blockage is not treated promptly, the child can have severe trouble breathing or breathing may stop completely.
Airway blockage
Breathing difficulty may involve:Difficult breathingUncomfortable breathingFeeling like you are not getting enough air
Image
Read Article Now Book Mark Article
When to Contact a Medical Professional
Most croup can be safely managed at home with telephone support from your provider. Call your provider if your child is not responding to home treatment or is acting more irritable.
Call 911 if:
Croup symptoms may have been caused by an insect sting or inhaled object.
Your child has bluish lips or skin color.
Your child is drooling.
Your child is having trouble swallowing.
There is stridor (a noise when breathing in).
There is a tugging-in of the muscles between the ribs when breathing in.
Your child is struggling to breathe.
Prevention
Wash your hands frequently and avoid close contact with people who have a respiratory infection.
Many cases of croup can be prevented with immunizations. The diphtheria, Haemophilus influenzae (Hib), and measles vaccines protect children from some of the most dangerous forms of croup.
Open References
References
Bower J, McBride JT. Croup in children (acute laryngotracheobronchitis). In: Bennett JE, Dolin R, Blaser MJ, eds. Mandell, Douglas, and Bennett's Principles and Practice of Infectious Diseases, Updated Edition. 8th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2015:chap 61.
Roosevelt GE. Acute inflammatory upper airway obstruction (croup, epiglottitis, laryngitis, and bacterial tracheitis). In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St. Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 385.
Rose E. Pediatric respiratory emergencies: upper airway obstruction and infections. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 167.
BACK TO TOP
All
Video
Images
Tog
Lungs - illustration
The major features of the lungs include the bronchi, the bronchioles and the alveoli. The alveoli are the microscopic blood vessel-lined sacks in which oxygen and carbon dioxide gas are exchanged.
Lungs
Illustration
Throat anatomy - illustration
Structures of the throat include the esophagus, trachea, epiglottis and tonsils.
Throat anatomy
Illustration
Voice box - illustration
The larynx, or voice box, is located in the neck and performs several important functions in the body.&#160;The larynx is involved in swallowing, breathing, and voice production. Sound is produced when the air which passes through the vocal cords causes them to vibrate and create sound waves in the&#160;pharynx, nose and mouth. The pitch of sound is determined by the amount of tension on the vocal folds.
Voice box
Illustration
Lungs - illustration
The major features of the lungs include the bronchi, the bronchioles and the alveoli. The alveoli are the microscopic blood vessel-lined sacks in which oxygen and carbon dioxide gas are exchanged.
Lungs
Illustration
Throat anatomy - illustration
Structures of the throat include the esophagus, trachea, epiglottis and tonsils.
Throat anatomy
Illustration
Voice box - illustration
The larynx, or voice box, is located in the neck and performs several important functions in the body.&#160;The larynx is involved in swallowing, breathing, and voice production. Sound is produced when the air which passes through the vocal cords causes them to vibrate and create sound waves in the&#160;pharynx, nose and mouth. The pitch of sound is determined by the amount of tension on the vocal folds.
Voice box
Illustration
Related Information
Breathing difficulty
Epiglottitis
Breathing - slowed or stopped
Atelectasis
Review Date: 2/19/2018
Reviewed By: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- A.D.A.M., a business unit of Ebix, Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.
A.D.A.M. content is best viewed in IE9 or above, Fire Fox and Google Chrome browser.
Privacy & Compliance
Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (Consumer Information Disclosure)
HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act)
Report Suspected Health Care Fraud, Waste or Abuse
Compliance Program and Code of Excellence
Nondiscrimination Statement
Careers
When you choose CommunityCare as your employer, you join a staff of highly motivated individuals who make CommunityCare Oklahoma's best choice for healthcare.
CommunityCare is just as dedicated to our employees as we are to our customers and our business. We make it a priority to provide our staff with all the tools necessary to have a long, fruitful career with our company.
Find out more
Newsroom Activity
Seasonal Triggers for Individuals With COPD
4/19/2019
Do You Take Diabetes Medicine?
3 months ago
Care Corner: You Asked, We Answer
3 months ago
Visit the Newsroom
Home
Contact Us
Find Health Insurance
Health & Wellness
Employee Assistance Program
Site Map
Language Assistance
Español
Tiếng Việt
繁體中文
한국어
Deutsch
العربية
Hmoob
Tagalog
Français
ພາສາລາວ
ภาษาไทย
اُردُو
tsalagi gawonihisdi
فارسی
© 2019 CommunityCare, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
tul-pubweb-2
CommunityCare is proudly owned by our region's two premier health systems. Other physicians and providers are available in our network.