OneLion Sound Blog | UK Hip Hop reviews | Hip Hop Events & Interviews
The home of UK Hip-Hop in the Southwest
OLS | OneLion Sound are an established promotions team, record label and clothin line based in the Southwest that focus on hip hop and urban music | Hip Hop reviews & Artists Interviews | Hip Hop in Devon
Home
Artist Roster
OLS Clothing
Hats
T-Shirts
Sweatshirts & Hoods
Women's T Shirts
OLS uk hip hop Blog
Event Tickets
Contact us
Radio
Links
Music Downloads
Releases
music therapy
16/11/2011
Comments
MUSIC THERAPY
Music therapy is a treatment method that involves using music to enhance health. There are many different approaches to music therapy, including creating music, listening to music, and talking about music. Although music therapy is often used to promote mental and emotional health, it may also help improve quality of life for people coping with physical health conditions.
In the last 5 years more evidence has been gathered suggesting that music can have a profound effect on your body and psyche. Music therapy is currently being used to treat cancer patients , children with ADHD , even hospitals are starting to use music therapy to help with pain management and treat depression along with easing muscle tension and numerous other benefits associated with music therapy
The following are some of effects of music, which help to explain the effectiveness of music therapy:
Water in your body: The human body is made up of around 70 percent water, its well knows that music has a direct affect on the water in the human body. Masaru Emoto, a creative and visionary Japanese researcher has published an important book, "The Message from Water,". His work has proved that music effects water in your body by photographing water crystals after playing them different types of music. His research provides us with factual evidence, that human vibrational energy, thoughts, words, ideas and music, affect the molecular structure of water, the very same water that comprises over seventy percent of a mature human body and covers the same amount of our planet. Water is the very source of all life on this planet, its quality and integrity are vitally important to all forms of life. The body is very much like a sponge and is composed of trillions of chambers called cells that hold liquid. The quality of our life is directly connected to the quality of our water.
Check link below for some grate images of water reacting to music
http://www.wellnessgoods.com/messages.asp
Brain Waves:
sync to the beat of the music, the slower the tempo of the music the calmer you will feel helping you to enter a relaxed meditative state where a s faster bpm’s will induce more alert thinking and sharper concentration. Its also been found that after music has been used to sync the brain in this way it can enable the brain to shift speeds more easily on its own when needed , proving the music can benefit you mind for years after you stopped listening to it.
Biomedical researchers have found that music is a highly structured auditory language involving complex perception, cognition, and motor control in the brain, and thus it can effectively be used to retrain and reeducate the injured brain. While the first data showing these results were met with great skepticism and even resistance, over time the consistent accumulation of scientific and clinical research evidence has diminished the doubts. Therapists and physicians use music now in rehabilitation in ways that are not only backed up by clinical research findings but also supported by an understanding of some of the mechanisms of music and brain function.
Breathing and Heart Rate:
Along with modifications in brainwaves comes changes with additional bodily processes. Most of these are controlled by the autonomic nervous system , such as your breathing and heart rate these will all be effected by the effects music can have on your body This is exactly the reason that music therapy will help to prevent the effects of chronic stress not only promoting relaxation but also all round health
Music is nonverbal so can move through the brain's auditory cortex directly to the center of the limbic system. This system governs emotional experiences and basic metabolic responses such as body temperature, blood pressure and heart rate. It can help create new neuro-pathways in the brain.
State of Mind:
In this current day and age a growing number of us suffer from depression at some point in our lives music therapy is being used more and more by health care professionals to treat cases of anxiety and depression This can help prevent the stress reaction from wreaking chaos on the body, and may help to keep creativeness as well as confidence levels high,
According to a review published in 2008. Researchers sized up data from five previously published studies, four of which found that participants receiving music therapy were more likely to see a decrease in depression symptoms (compared to those who did not receive music therapy). According to the review's authors, patients appeared to experience the greatest benefits when therapists used theory-based therapeutic techniques, such as painting to music and improvised singing.
Music therapy may help ease stress in pregnancy as well, according to a 2008 study of 236 healthy pregnant women. Compared to a control group, the 116 study members who received music therapy showed significantly greater reductions in stress, anxiety, and depression. The music therapy involved listening to a half-hour of soothing music twice daily for two weeks.
Music can excite peptides in the brain and stimulate the production of endorphins, which are natural opiates secreted by the hypothalamus, which produces a feeling of natural euphoria, shifting mood and emotion.
Using Music On Your Own:
You can reap a lot of the benefits music therapy can offer you own your own. simply test
out different sounds and styles of music and feel the effects listening to it will have on your body also bass frequency’s can be more effective than treble so a subwoofer might be a good idea
Other Benefits:
Some of the other benefits of music therapy include lowering blood pressure (by lowering your blood pressure can also reduce the risk of stokes and other health issues)Boost immunity and ease muscle tension.
Music can activate the flow of stored memory and imagined material across the corpus collosum (bridge between left and right hemispheres of the brain) helping the two work in harmony. This stimulates the immune system.
With untold benefits and such encouraging mental and physical effects its no wonder why so many people are turning to music therapy and a alternative way of staying or becoming healthy
article written by calum ince
Comments
Authors
Joe Read
Cal Ince
Benjamin Hewin
William Malpass
Archives
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
November 2018
September 2018
August 2018
May 2018
April 2018
March 2018
February 2018
January 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
August 2017
June 2017
April 2017
March 2017
February 2017
September 2016
August 2016
July 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
November 2015
August 2015
June 2015
May 2015
March 2015
February 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
December 2013
October 2013
August 2013
May 2013
October 2012
September 2012
July 2012
December 2011
November 2011
RSS Feed
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started