What is Osteoarthritis? | Rebalance Sports Medicine
Locations
Yonge & Adelaide
110 Yonge Street Suite #905
Toronto, ON M5C 1T4
T: (416) 777-9999
F: 1-866-338-1236
E: [email protected]
University & King
155 University Avenue Suite #303
Toronto, ON M5H 3B7
T: (416) 306-1111
F: 1-866-204-0961
E: [email protected]
HOURS
Monday:
7 AM - 6 PM
Tuesday:
7 AM - 6 PM
Wednesday:
7 AM - 6 PM
Thurdsday:
7 AM - 6 PM
Friday:
7 AM - 6 PM
Saturday:
Closed
Sunday:
Closed
Request Appointment
Request An Appointment Online or Call Now
Full Name
First Last
Phone
Email
YONGE & ADELAIDE
(416) 777-9999
UNIVERSITY & KING
(416) 306-1111
Call
YONGE & ADELAIDE
(416) 777-9999
UNIVERSITY & KING
(416) 306-1111
About
About Us
Our Philosophy
Team
Physiotherapists
Sports Medicine Doctors
Registered Massage Therapists
Chiropractors
Naturopathic Doctors
Pilates Instructors
Ergonomic Evaluator
Administrative Staff
Services
Physiotherapy
Chiropractic
Massage Therapy
Sports Medicine
Medical Acupuncture
Pelvic Floor Physiotherapy
Pilates
Shockwave Therapy
Active Release Techniques
ACL Pre & Post Op Care
Fascial Stretch Therapy
Laser Therapy
Ergonomic Assessments
Osteoporosis Program
Arthritis Management Services
Gunn IMS
BodyWorks
Compression Hosiery
Naturopathic Medicine
Pre & Post Natal Wellness
Post-Operative Services
Products
Custom Orthotics
Off-the-Shelf Bracing
Custom Knee Bracing
Self-Massage
General Wellness
Hot and Cold Therapy
For Patients
Patient Forms
FAQs
Injuries and Conditions
Videos
Blog
Helpful Links
Contact
General
What is Osteoarthritis?
July 13, 2014 by Rebalance Toronto
The word arthritis means inflammation of the joint. While there are many different types of arthritis, osteoarthritis (OA) is the most prevalent form, and it affects more than three million Canadians.
In a joint affected by arthritis, the cartilage (a flexible connective tissue which covers and protects the ends of bones) begins to wear down. Cartilage is very important for a joint to function well; it helps absorb shock and allows for smooth movement between bones. When the cartilage wears down in osteoarthritis, this often results in pain, stiffness (especially in the morning), and swelling. Over time, joints affected by osteoarthritis may slowly become bigger, and in severe cases the cartilage may wear away completely and the bones may rub together causing even more pain. The symptoms of pain and stiffness associated with osteoarthritis often cause the joints to be used less often, which ultimately leads to a weakening of the muscles around the joints. This then becomes a negative cycle because if the muscles are weaker, they are less able to provide support for the joints resulting in increased pressure through the boney surfaces.
What Joints are most Commonly Affected by Osteoarthritis?
End joints of fingers
Middle joints of fingers
Joint at base of thumb
Hips
Knees
Joints at base of big toe
Neck (cervical spine)
Low back (lumbar spine)
What are the Signs and Symptoms of Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis usually progresses slowly over a period of months to years. Below are some common symptoms you may experience.
You may experience morning stiffness for the first 15-20 minutes after waking up
At first, the pain may only occur with high impact activities
As the arthritis progresses, pain may be triggered by regular daily activities
Pain is ofter relieved by rest
You may experience constant pain, even when you try to sleep at night
Your joints may swell and you may lose some strength or flexibility in your joints
You may experience locking of joints as well as a ‘creaking’ sound when you move them
You may see a decrease in range of motion or movement in the joint
What are the Risk Factors for Developing Osteoarthritis
Some risk factors for developing osteoarthritis include:
Age: As people age, their risk of developing OA is increased. However, this does not mean that everyone will get OA eventually just because they get older.
Family History: Genetics plays a role in the development of OA
Excess Weight: The more excess weight a person carries around, the more load is going through the joints of their feet, knees, hips and low back.
Joint Injury: OA can occur in joints that have had previous injury. Sometimes an injury can damage the cartilage in a joint or affect the way the joint moves, making it more susceptible to developing OA in the future.
We do not yet know the cause of OA and there is currently no cure for this condition. However, we do know some factors that can put an individual more at risk of developing OA and some of these factors are under our control. We also have many options to help manage OA in joints that have already developed it including physiotherapy and chiropractic care. It is important to keep the muscles around the joint strong and active.
What do you do if you think you have Osteoarthritis?
If you think you might have OA, it would be a good idea to discuss this with your family doctor. They will be able to assess your symptoms and send you for any X-rays they deem appropriate to help with a diagnosis. If your doctor believes you have OA, they will educate you on treatment options including medications, physiotherapy or chiropractic care and surgery in severe cases.
How can a Physiotherapist or Chiropractor Help with Osteoarthritis?
Physiotherapy or Chiropractic are excellent treatment options for people with osteoarthritis. They can help control your pain and maximize your function to optimize your quality of life.
Some of the key components of a physiotherapy or chiropractic intervention for osteoarthritis are:
Exercise
Your physiotherapist and/or chiropractor will prescribe specific exercises and stretches to help maximize the range of motion and flexibility in your affected joints. They will also show you exercises to strengthen the muscles that can help protect and support your joints. Your physiotherapist may also recommend some form of low impact exercise, which can help manage your symptoms of pain and stiffness.
Other Therapeutic Modalities
Physiotherapists are skilled in the application of many other modalities which can make a big difference in reducing pain and swelling associated with arthritis. Such modalities include therapeutic ultrasound, laser, interferential current (IFC), TENS, acupuncture, dry needling and Gunn IMS.
Manual Therapy
Physiotherapists and Chiropractors are experts in using manual therapy for both joints and soft tissues to help modulate pain and increase range of motion.
Custom Knee Bracing for Osteoarthritis
Some trained physiotherapists can measure you for custom knee braces to help with osteoarthritis. We offer the DonJoy Defiance III brace which is highly effective and can help to off load the compartment of the knee affected so you can experience less pain with day to day activities. There are other off the shelf braces that can also help protect your joint and give it support it needs so that the pain can settle and you can begin to strengthen the area.
How can you Manage Osteoarthritis at Home?
Heat and Ice
Applying heat or ice to affected joints can help relieve local pain. Heat is specifically good for relieving muscles spasms and tightness, as well as promoting range of motion. Ice is specifically good for decreasing swelling and constricting blood flow to an already inflamed joint.
Joint Protection
A physiotherapist or chiropractor will educate you about ways you can reduce the stress on your joints with daily activities. Some strategies include:
Maintaining good posture and using good body mechanics with tasks to help protect the joints in your back and legs.
Changing position frequently can help reduce the stiffness and pain associated with prolonged positions.
Pacing by alternating heavy tasks with lighter tasks will help reduce stress on your joints and also conserve your energy.
Controlling your weight helps reduce extra stress on weight bearing joints such as the back, hips, knees and feet.
Using assistive devices can make daily activities easier and less stressful on your joints and muscles. Your physiotherapist can educate you about the different options. Some examples include grab bars near the toilet or bath tub, a reacher to pick up items from the ground, and a cane to decrease stress on hip or knee joints.
Bracing and/or taping can be especially helpful to unload painful knee joints affected by arthritis.
Things you can do to Avoid Developing Osteoarthritis?
If you injure a joint, be sure to seek help from a professional and complete the appropriate rehabilitation program. This should be done at any age.
Keep your joints strong and muscles balanced with resistance training followed by a stretching regime.
Maintain a strong core and postural awareness.
Maintain a healthy active lifestyle. With balanced rest/activity and a healthy diet.
If you have osteoarthritis and are interested in learning more about how a physiotherapist or chiropractor can help you reduce your pain and maximize your function, please contact us today.
Written By: Reanna Montopoli, FCAMPT Physiotherapist
Rebalance Toronto
Rebalance Sports Medicine is a multidisciplinary clinic in downtown Toronto offering physiotherapy, chiropractic, registered massage therapy, sports medicine, naturopathy, Pilates and more.
previousAre you Fit to Cycle?
nextSelf-Massage Tips
Injuries & Conditions We Treat
Head & Neck Pain
Shoulder Pain
Elbow Pain
Hand & Wrist Pain
Back Pain
Pelvic Pain
Hip Pain
Knee Pain
Ankle & Foot Pain
Nerve Pain
General Conditions
Activity Related Injuries
Head & Neck Pain
Neck Pain
Cervicogenic Headaches
Whiplash
TMJ Disorders
Postural Syndromes
Degenerative Disc Disease
Herniated Disc
Stenosis
Shoulder Pain
Shoulder Pain
Shoulder Dislocations & Instability
Multidirectional Instability
Rotator Cuff Dysfunction
Biceps Tendonitis
Frozen Shoulder (Adhesive Capsulitis)
Humerus Fractures
Labral Tears
Thoracic Outlet Syndrome
Sternoclavicular (SC) Joint Injury
Acromioclavicular (AC) Joint Injury or Separation
Snapping Scapula Syndrome
Impingement Syndrome
Elbow Pain
Elbow Pain
Tennis Elbow (Lateral Epicondylitis)
Golfers Elbow (Medial Epicondylitis)
Elbow Dislocation
Fractures of the Arm and Forearm
Elbow Arthritis
Radial Tunnel Syndrome
Cubital Tunnel Syndrome
Distal Biceps Rupture
Ulnar Collateral Ligament Sprain
Olecranon Bursitis
Hand & Wrist Pain
Hand & Wrist Pain
Duputrens Contracture
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
DeQuervains Tenosynovitis
Scaphoid Fracture
Wrist Fractures
Triangular Fibrocartilage Complex (TFCC) Sprain
Skiers Thumb
Ganglion Cyst
Trigger Finger
Back Pain
Back Pain
Mechanical Back Pain
Rib Dysfunction
Degenerative Disc Disease
Disc Bulge
Disc Herniation
Spondylolisthesis
Stenosis
Spondylolysis
Facet Joint Dysfunction
Scoliosis
Compression Fractures
Pelvic Pain
SIJ Dysfunction
Urinary Incontinence
Pelvic Organ Prolapse
Piriformis Syndrome
Pelvic Fractures
Pre and Postpartum Related Issues
Interstitial Cystitis
Hip Pain
Hip Pain
Hip Fractures
Trochanteric Bursitis
Osteoarthritis of the Hip
Snapping Hip Syndrome
Total Hip Replacement
Sports Hernias
Labral Tears
Femoral Acetabular Impingement (FAI)
Hamstring Tendonopathy
Knee Pain
Knee Pain
Total Knee Replacements
Bakers Cyst (Popliteal Cyst)
ACL Injury
MCL Injury
PCL Injury
LCL Injury
Iliotibial Band (ITB) Syndrome
Patellofemoral Syndrome
Fat Pad Syndrome
Osgood-Schlatter Disease
Patellar Tendonitis
Prepatellar Bursitis
Plica Syndrome
Osteochondritis Dissecans
Meniscal Injuries
Ankle & Foot Pain
Ankle & Foot Pain
Ankle Sprain
Ankle Fracture
Seasamoiditis
Tarsal Tunnel Syndrome
Achilles Tendonitis
Plantar Fasciitis (Heel Pain)
Flat Foot Deformity
Morton’s Neuroma
Ankle Surgery
Shin Splints
Peroneal Tendonopathy
Metatarsalgia
Tibialis Posterior Tendonopathy
Nerve Pain
Nerve Pain
Sciatica
Radiculopathy or Pinched Nerves
Peripheral Nerve Injuries and Entrapments
General Conditions
Muscle Strain
Muscle Imbalances
Sprain
Tendonitis
Pre and Post Surgical
Fractures
Stress Fractures
Bursitis
Joint Dislocations
Osteoarthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Repetitive Strain Injuries
Calcific Tendonitis
Osteoporosis
Chronic Pain
Compartment Syndrome
Infertility
Activity Related Injuries
Running Injuries
Dance Injuries
Rugby Injuries
Football Injuries
Hockey Injuries
Baseball Injuries
Skiing Injuries
Cycling Injuries
Skating Injuries
Weight Lifting Injuries
Golf Injuries
Kickboxing Injuries
Snowboarding Injuries
Tennis Injuries
Squash Injuries
Volleyball Injuries
Wrestling Injuries
Martial Arts Injuries
Working Out Injuries
Office Work Related Injuries
And Many More…
Recent Posts
April 4, 2019
Strengthen Your Core
April 3, 2019
What is Nerve Flossing and Why Did My Physiotherapist Give it to Me?
April 1, 2019
Massage Treatment Options for Knee Pain
March 29, 2019
Acromioclavicular (AC) Joint Sprains and Dislocations
March 29, 2019
Reclaim Your Squat Part 2 - The Role of Motor Control
Services We Offer
Sports Medicine
Physiotherapy
Chiropractic
Massage Therapy
Orthotics
Pilates
Bracing
Medical Acupuncture
Shockwave Therapy
Active Release Techniques
Gunn IMS
And Many More…
Request An Appointment Online or Call Now
Full Name
First
Last
Phone
Email
YONGE & ADELAIDE
(416) 777-9999
UNIVERSITY & KING
(416) 306-1111
Yonge & Adelaide
110 Yonge Street Suite 905
Toronto, ON M5C 1T4
T: (416) 777-9999
E: [email protected]
University & King
155 University Avenue Suite 303
Toronto, ON M5H 3B7
T: (416) 306-1111
E: [email protected]
POPULAR VIDEOS
What to Expect From Your First Physiotherapy Visit
The Benefits of Fascial Stretch Therapy [Demo]
How Does Physiotherapy Work?
Best Exercises for Low Back Pain
Copyright © Rebalance Sports Medicine 2013- 2019. All rights reserved.
Site Map
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
About Us
REQUEST APPOINTMENT
×
Request An Appointment
Full Name
First Last
Phone
Email
×
YONGE & ADELAIDE
(416) 777-9999
UNIVERSITY & KING
(416) 306-1111
×
Yonge & Adelaide
110 Yonge Street Suite #905
Toronto, ON M5C 1T4
University & King
155 University Avenue Suite #303
Toronto, ON M5H 3B7