How to Treat a Kitchen Burn | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Health
First Aid and Safety
Minor Burns
How to Treat a Kitchen Burn
Paula Quinene
About the Author:
Paula Quinene
Paula Quinene is an Expert/Talent, Writer and Content Evaluator for Demand Media, with more than 1,500 articles published primarily in health, fitness and nutrition. She has been an avid weight trainer and runner since 1988. She has worked in the fitness industry since 1990. She graduated with a Bachelor's in exercise science from the University of Oregon and continues to train clients as an ACSM-Certified Health Fitness Specialist.
View Full Profile
A kitchen burn from steam, hot liquids or direct contact with the burner or pot may be mild or severe. A first-degree burn does not blister the skin, according to University of Utah's Hospital Burn Center. Second-degree burns blister, while third-degree burns blister and burn all the way down to the muscles and bone. A critical burn includes any burn covering a large area of the body or a burn all the way down to the bone. If the victim has a third degree burn, or is over 60 years old, call for medical assistance.
Step 1
Tell the victim that you are trained in first aid and get his permission to give care. Remove the victim from the source of the heat to stop the burning.
Step 2
Apply cold running water, not ice-water, to cool a first or second degree burn; ice-water increases body heat loss and damages affected tissues. Cover the area with cool, damp cloths instead of immersing the area with water if it is a second or third degree burn covering a large area, according to MayoClinic.com; immersion could cause a steep drop in body temperature and blood pressure.
Step 3
Continue to treat the burn with cold water until the victim's pain goes away. Give the victim of a minor burn an over-the-counter pain reliever such as Advil or Motrin, according to MayoClinic.com.
Step 4
Put on sterile gloves then dry the burn gently with a sterile dressing. Refrain from breaking any blisters, preventing unnecessary infection.
Step 5
Place a sterile dressing loosely over the burn to keep air out, prevent infection and protect the skin. Tape the edges of the dressing with first aid tape. Do not remove any clothing that sticks to the victim's skin, minimizing further damage to the burned area.
Step 6
Get immediate medical help if the kitchen burn was on the head, neck, face, hands, feet or genitals, warns the American Red Cross. Check for signs of breathing and circulation and be prepared to give CPR for a major burn.
Things You'll Need
Cold, running water
Sterile gloves
Sterile dressing
First aid tape
Tip
Observe the burned victim for signs of shock including a change in consciousness, nausea or vomiting, rapid breathing, rapid pulse and excessive thirst. If you suspect the victim has gone into shock, call 911 immediately, have the victim lie down and elevate the victim's legs about 12 inches.
Warning
Do not use ointment or butter for second or third degree burns; these substances seal in heat and may cause infection. If there is no sterile dressing available, use a clean cloth with little to no lint because lint could get into the burned area.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
“First Aid/CPR/AED for Schools and the Community”; American Red Cross; 2006
The Mayo Clinic: Burns First Aid
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Treat Burns Caused by Boiling Water
2
How to Prevent Scarring From a Steam Burn
3
How to Prevent a Burn From Leaving a Scar
4
What Are the Treatments for Skin Bleach Burn?
5
How to Heal a Light Skin Burn
6
Home Remedies of a Blister Resulting From a Burn
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.