Blog Archives - Head to Toe Wellness
Head to Toe Wellness
May 1, 2015
Nutrition Blog
Mental Health
Ask Your Pharmacist
Holistic Health
Women's Health
Everyday Yoga
Dr Heidi
Lifestyle
What Hedi Hearts
Journey to Wellness
Life Fitness
Mind and Body
Aromatherapy
CrossFit Tone
Body Business
About Us
Contact Us
HAPPYSLIMHEALTHY and Hearty
The Importance of Iron and Iron Supplements
7/15/2013
0 Comments
What is Iron?
Iron is a mineral critical for the growth of all cells. It is needed to help our red blood cells deliver oxygen to the rest of the body. Almost 2/3 of the body's iron is found in hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells. Iron deficiency is the leading single nutritional deficiency in the world, and the most common cause of anemia in the US.
Iron in Our Diet
There are 2 forms of dietary iron. Heme iron is better absorbed than non-heme iron. Heme iron is found in animal foods, such as red meats, fish, and poultry. Non-heme iron is found in plant-based foods, such as lentils, beans, and fortified cereals and this is the main source of dietary iron. The recommended dietary allowances differ according to sex and age. Male teens ages 14 to 18 years require 11mg/day, where as, females of the same age require 15mg/day. Males ages 19 to 50 years require less iron, 8mg/day with similarly aged females needing much more at 18mg/day. Both males and females over 50 years of age require 8mg/day and pregnant women need 27mg/day.
Are You at Risk of iron Deficiency?
The main causes of iron deficiency are not getting enough in your diet, increased iron needs, poor absorption of iron, and blood loss. people prone to iron deficiency include athletes due to increased physical demands that stimulate red blood cell production. Young women often do not get enough iron from dietary intake to offset menstrual losses. Pregnancy increases the need for iron by the mother and the fetus. Vegetarians are at risk of iron deficiency because they only eat plant based foods.
Symptoms of Iron deficiency?
Fatigue, decreased performance at work or school. feeling cold, impaired immune function, shortness of breath and chest pains are some symptoms of iron deficiency. Some people may experience no symptoms so a blood test and a doctor's assessment are recommended to properly diagnose iron deficiency.
Iron Supplements
There are different formulations of iron available OTC. These include ferrous sulfate, carbonyl iron, and heme-based iron. The different formulations vary in absorption and side effects. The most common side effects are Nausea, constipation, and diarrhea. Ferrous sulfate is the most common form. It contains 65mg of elemental iron which equals a 325mg tablet. It provides 360% of RDA making it a high potency option. carbonyl iron is a pure form of iron (Feosol Natural Release) which is gentle on the system and a more well tolerated option. It contains 45mg of iron, which provides 250% of the RDA. Feosol Complete with Bifera contains heme and non-heme iron; is gentler on the system minimizing GI side effects. It contains 28mg of iron, 22mg as an iron complex, and 6mg as a heme iron poly peptide and provides 155% of the RDA. This formulation can be taken with or without food.
Interactions
A multivitamin does not have sufficient amounts of iron to treat a deficiency. Also other minerals present in multivitamins such as calcium, phosphorous, and magnesium, can impair the absorption of iron and should be taken hours before or after iron supplementation. Several foods, beverages and medications can also affect iron absorption. coffee, tea ,milk, cereals, fiber and carbonated beverages can inhibit iron absorption so less iron gets in your system. Antacids, histamine blockers like Zantac or Pepcid and proton pump inhibitors like Omeprazole, Nexium, and Prevacid can also inhibit iron absorption. On the contrary, tomato sauce and other acidic foods, vitamin C and taking iron on an empty stomach are all factors that can enhance the absorption of iron and get you the highest levels possible of absorption.
You should not take iron supplements without first consulting a pharmacist or physician and receiving a diagnosis. Pharmacists can help in the selection of the best iron product/ formulation and answer questions. Always inform your pharmacist if you are taking any medications or other supplements as they may influence the absorption of iron or specific medications such as quinolone antibiotics like Cipro or Avelox and tetracycline antibiotics.
0 Comments
Ouch! Relief for Minor Wounds and Burns
7/1/2013
1 Comment
Summertime means barbecue! And that can mean burns of all kinds and severity. Charcoal grills are known for the way they make meat taste, but as my husband found out last summer, trying to light the pilot of one without opening the flue can lead to a very nasty burn!
Proper wound and burn care is critical to the healing process and essential in preventing scar formation and bacterial infections. In general, wounds are appropriate for self treatment if they do not extend beyond the dermis or deeper layer of the skin. Wounds are classified as abrasions, punctures, or lacerations and may be treated using over the counter remedies. Abrasions involve an injury to the epidermis of the skin or top layer that are caused by a rubbing or friction injury. Punctures result when a sharp object pierces the epidermal layer and lodges into the dermis or deeper skin tissue. Lacerations are caused by sharp objects that have pierced through various layers of skin.
Burns are wounds caused by thermal, electrical, chemical, or ultraviolet radiation. In general, only superficial burns are suitable for self- treatment. Patients with more severe burns should be referred for medical treatment.
There are many different non- prescription topical first aid products available for treating minor wounds such as scrapes, scratches, cuts, and burns. Proper treatment helps wounds heal faster, prevents infection and minimizes scarring. It is important to make sure you are up to date with vaccinations such as Tetanus. This vaccination can be given by a trained immunizing pharmacist or your physician and a booster should be given every 10 years.
Over-the-counter (OTC) products for wound care include antibiotic creams such as bacitracin, neomycin, and polymixin B sulfate, wound irrigation liquids for cleansing and wound antiseptics, bandages (some are even medicated with topical antibiotics), and products that help reduce scar formation . Bandages are also available in waterproof form and liquid bandages are good for hard to cover areas like the skin located on the pad of your palm between your thumb and index finger. Ouch!
OTC products available for minor burns include skin protectants, such as formulations that contain antiseptics and local anesthetic or numbing ingredients. It may also be beneficial to take ibuprofen or acetaminophen for the pain associated with the burn.
Covering wounds or burns with proper dressing increases healing time and decreases chances of re-injury. Covering the wound also creates a moist healing environment and reduces chance of infection. Wound dressings should be changed every 3 to 5 days unless otherwise directed. Changing dressings too frequently may remove surface skin layers that are trying to regenerate thus slowing healing.
As a rule, general care for minor wounds includes cleaning the area thoroughly with soap and warm water, then applying a topical antibiotic ointment and covering the affected area with a sterile bandage.
General care for minor burns is to hold the affected area under cool running water. This step is very important to decreasing swelling and pain. Never apply ice to a burn!!! (I did this years ago while waitressing when a pot of freshly brewed coffee fell on my foot! My manager gave me an ice bag which I applied to the burn. I managed to tear away what remaining skin I had left on my foot). Apply skin protectant or anesthetic or topical antibiotic if skin is broken. Apply a non-sticky dressing or self stick gauze loosely.
If burned skin blisters, do not break the blister. The fluid underneath a blister is formed as your body's defense mechanism to protect the delicate tissue underneath. Sometimes a health professional may pierce the blister under sterile conditions only if the swelling is causing pain by stretching the skin.
children.
Examples of wounds that should not be self- treated are:
- Wounds that do not stop bleeding after 5 minutes of applying direct pressure
- Animal bites
- Puncture wounds
- Wounds that require stitches
- Wounds that show signs of infection
Examples of burns that should not be self-treated are:
- Burns affecting a large area of skin
- Burns involving the eyes, ears, face, hands and feet
- Burns occurring in immunocompromised patients
- Electrical or inhalation burns
- Chemical burns. Use first aid measures first like eye wash, then seek medical attention
Your pharmacist is always available to advise you on a burn or cut and if he or she thinks you should seek professional treatment. It is wise to carry a small, practical first aid kit on your person in case of cuts or burns for yourself and your children. Practice common sense safety measures. Stay healthy and safe this summer and enjoy using the grill to cook without being burned by it!
- Vanessa Andricola, PharmD
1 Comment
Vanessa Andricola, BS, PharmD
Archives
September 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
Categories
All
Follow my blog with Bloglovin
RSS Feed
Powered by Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
Get Started