Benefits of Lactobacillus helveticus — Probiotics.org
Search
probiotic recommendation tool
buying guide
side effects
reviews
strains
basics
about
Lactobacillus helveticus is a very interesting probiotic that has studies showing it can reduce blood pressure. Widely used in Switzerland, it is one of the choice starter cultures for Swiss cheeses!
L. Helveticus Benefits
(for hypertensive patients) reduces blood pressure
improves sleep quality/duration
increases perception of one’s health
increase levels of serum calcium in blood (see here)
decrease PTH (associated with bone loss)
normalize microflora colonization composition for infants fed formula
assist in ACE-inhibitor production
References (5)
show references
hide references
Probiotics: Protection Against Infection by Dr. Casey Adams
Aihara et al. Effect of powdered fermented milk with Lactobacillus helveticus on subjects with high-normal blood pressure or mild hypertension. J Am Coll Nutr. 2005 Aug;24(4):257-65
Jauhiainen et al. Lactobacillus helveticus fermented milk lowers blood pressure in hypertensive subjects in 24-h ambulatory blood pressure measurement. Am J Hypertens. 2005 Dec;18(12 Pt 1):1600-5.
Narva et al. The effect of Lactobacillus helveticus fermented milk on acute changes in calcium metabolism in postmenopausal women. Eur J Nutr. 2004 Apr;43(2):61-8.
Tuomilehto et al. Effect of ingesting sour milk fermented using Lactobacillus helveticus bacteria producing tripeptides on blood pressure in subjects with mild hypertension. J Hum Hypertens. 2004 Nov;18(11):795-802.
Yamamura et al. The effect of Lactobacillus helveticus fermented milk on sleep and health perception in elderly subjects. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2009 Jan;63(1):100-5.
4 comments on “Benefits of Lactobacillus helveticus”	- Click here to write your comment
John Talmadge says:
November 11, 2014 at 7:07 pm
Hello:
I am interested in pursuing a course of alternative treatment for high blood pressure using L. Helveticus but cannot seem to find any information on dosing or even the studies that show that it is beneficial in the treatment of HBP. Could you either provide me with the dosing recommendations or direct me in the proper direction so that I can review the research that was conducted and mentioned above?
Thank you for your time and assistance.
Reply
evan says:
March 1, 2015 at 10:38 pm
Hi John,
I also can’t get access to the exact CFU. I’ve emailed the authors of the study, but so far I haven’t heard back.
In the meantime you can try Custom Probiotic’s L Rhamnosus probiotic powder. I would use a dose that is MAX 1/10 of a gram at first, once every 3 days.
But you need to contact a doctor for the proper dosage for you. Or you can email the authors of the study (see the references above).
to your health,
Evan Jerkunica
Reply
Lena says:
April 23, 2015 at 1:11 pm
HI,
I m intersted in knowing more about the effects of lactobacillus on vaginal infection and inflammation when no germs are found in the analysis.
Thank you
Reply
evan says:
September 29, 2015 at 1:35 am
Hi Lena,
Vaginal infections can be caused by an imbalance of bacteria in a vagina. In my understanding, these infections typically come from an overgrowth of yeast of bad bacteria.
There is strong evidence that supplementing with probiotics (both vaginally and orally) can fight vaginosis.
to your health,
Evan Jerkunica
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Free Probiotics Guide
Learn to feel better with the Probiotics.org newsletter (and get a free probiotics guide).
Name: Email:
Sign Up!
Probiotics.org Tools
Probiotic Supplement Recommendation Tool
Our Most Popular Articles
21 amazing facts about probiotics
probiotic supplements reviews
gluten intolerent celebrities
144 benefits of probiotics
top 10 probiotic brands
probiotic side effects
candida & probiotics
Free Probiotics Buying Guide
Want to buy the best probiotics for you and your health? Then you should click here to download the Probiotics Buying Guide.
Featured Product Reviews:
1MD Complete Probiotics Platinum Review
read Synbiotic 365 review.
read Biotica800 review (probiotic air purifier)
Search
All information on this site is for informational purposes only - consult a doctor before taking any supplement.
Copyright © 2009-2015 by Probiotics.org - our policy to protect your privacy - By Evan Jerkunica