» Chest Congestion Home Remedies
Chest Congestion Home Remedies
posted by: Dennis
The build up of fluid and other secretion such as mucus in the lungs may cause to chest to be congested. Other people think that chest congestion is an illness when in fact; the condition is one of the symptoms of any underlying respiratory tract ailment like common cold, cough, asthma, pneumonia, tuberculosis, bronchitis, and many others. What causes the condition can be blamed to a virus or bacteria which enter the body.
Signs and Symptoms of Chest Congestion
The individual suffering from the problem will likely experience symptoms such as the following:
Shortness of breath
Labored breathing
Wheezing
Coughing
Tight feeling in the chest
For infants faced with the situation, it is important to seek medical treatment immediately. But for adults, there is an array of natural cures that can help you deal with lung congestion. Here are some that you can do.
Home Remedies for Chest Congestion
Primarily, drinking plenty of water surely helps to provide relief from the condition as it makes the mucus thin thus getting rid of it out of your system eventually. Diet should also consist of food rich in Vitamin C since it’s known the help fight off infection causing such symptoms.
Steam inhalation is also one of the best chest congestion home remedies. Doing this helps in loosening the mucus thus facilitating easy breathing. This can be done by inhaling the steam from boiling water fro atleast 15 minutes. You can also keep a humidifier in your room to maintain the humidity of the air. You can also fill the tub with hot water and inhale its steam while keeping the doors closed. Eucalyptus oil may be added to the water as another remedy.
Another way to alleviate discomfort felt from the condition is to massage the chest with eucalyptus or peppermint oil. The oil can be inhaled as well to help clear out nasal passages and relieve tightness of the chest.
Herbal teas also provide soothing effect thus eliminating distress experience from the situation. At times, spicy foods such as cayenne peppers are just among the remedies turned to which could help relieving blocked nasal passages and lung congestion. Finally, over the counter expectorant is taken alongside these home remedies to clear out the mucus from the lungs.
While natural cures are widely available and cost-effective when it comes to tending to the problem, it is still way better to see your doctor to further rule-out what causes the congestion of the chest.
You might also like
Home Remedies for Babies with Cough
Generally, almost all babies and toddlers experience coughs for the reason that their immune system is...
How to Stop Your Breasts from Sagging
Admit it, there will a come a time that your breasts will eventually sag. With the several...
How to Get Rid of Fluid in Ear
Swimmer’s ear – this is another name intended to refer to otitis externa or the painful condition...
Signs of Primary Pulmonary Hypertension
According to the definition, pulmonary hypertension (PH) is an uncommon lung condition which arises when...
Share |
Subscribe via RSS
Subscribe via Email:
Date: July 30, 2011 | Category: General Health
Comments Feed | Leave a Comment | trackback
No Responses
Leave a Reply
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
Pages
Home About Contact Privacy Policy
Categories
Beauty and Health
Featured
General Health
Kid's Health
Men's Health
STDs
Women's Health
healthcaretips101 | Email Address: admin@healthcaretips101.com | LogIn.