Former Inmates Have Increased Risk of High Blood Pressure
Skip to Content
health.am
Cardiology Basics
Signs and Symptoms
Signs of Heart Disease
Chest Pain
Diagnostic testing
Dyspnea
Palpitations
Bradycardias
Physical Examination
Heart Disease Risk Factors
Cardiac Catheterization and Angiography
Heart Attack
Acute Myocardial Infarction
MI Signs
MI Symptoms
MI Treatment
Cardiac Biomarkers, CK - Creatine Kinase
MI Warning Signs
Who's at Risk
MI Treatment
MI Prevention
Postinfarction Management
MI Complications
High Blood Pressure
Etiology & Classification
- Essential Hypertension
- Secondary Hypertension
- Systemic Hypertension
Symptoms and signs
Hypertension Diagnosis
Drug Therapy
Special Considerations
Hypertension Complications
Hypertensive Urgencies & Emergencies
Hypertension in children
Hypertensive States of Pregnancy
Coronary Heart Disease
Ischemic Heart Diseases
Primary & Secondary Prevention
Angina Pectoris
Differential Diagnosis
Prognosis
Treatment
Unstable Angina
Chronic stable angina pectoris
Guidelines
Pharmacologic Therapy
What Is Angina
Acute coronary syndromes
Acute Myocardial Infarction
Complications
Treatment
Postinfarction Management
Arrhythmias
Mechanisms of Arrhythmias
Supraventricular Arrhythmias
- Atrial Fibrillation
- Atrial Flutter
Ventricular Arrhythmias
High Cholesterol
LDL and HDL cholesterol
What Is High Blood Cholesterol?
Too much cholesterol
Foods to avoid
Risk Factors
Cholesterol Lowering Medications
Measuring blood cholesterol
The Benefits of Cholesterol Lowering
A blood cholesterol-lowering diet
Sample Menus
Treating High Blood Cholesterol
What are LDL and HDL cholesterol?
Lower your blood cholesterol
Lifestyle changes
Looking for High blood cholesterol
Cardiovascular Disease
Acute Heart Failure
Acute Pericarditis
Acute Rheumatic fever
The Cardiomyopathies
Myocarditis & the Cardiomyopathies
Rheumatic Heart Disease
Cardiac Failure
Pulmonary Heart Disease (Cor Pulmonale)
Patent Ductus Arteriosus
Pericardial Effusion
Primary Pulmonary Hypertension
Traumatic Heart Disease
What is Atherosclerosis?
What Is Coronary Artery Disease?
Valvular Heart Disease
- Aortic Stenosis
- Mitral Stenosis
- Pulmonary Stenosis
- Tricuspid Stenosis
- Mitral regurgitation
- Aortic Regurgitation
Congenital heart disease
Pulmonary Stenosis
Coarctation of the Aorta
Atrial Septal Defect and patent foramen ovale
Ventricular Septal Defect
Patent ductus arteriosus
Acute Pericarditis
Constrictive Pericarditis
Pericardial Effusion
Global Burden of Cardiovascular Diseases
In recent years, the dominance of chronic diseases as major contributors to total global mortality has emerged and has been previously described in detail elsewhere. By 2005, the total number of cardiovascular disease (CVD) deaths (mainly coronary heart disease, stroke, and rheumatic heart disease) had increased globally to 17.5 million from 14.4 million in 1990. Of these, 7.6 million were attributed to coronary heart disease and 5.7 million to stroke. More than 80 percent of the deaths occurred in low and middle income countries (WHO, 2009e).
Based on 2007 to 2010 data, 33% of US adults ≥ 20 years of age have hypertension. This represents ~ 78 million US adults with hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension is similar for men and women. African American adults have among the highest prevalence of hypertension (44%) in the world.
Health A-Z
Allergies
Anxiety Disorders
Breast cancer
Cancer
Cardiovascular Diseases
Cervical Cancer
Childhood obesity
Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology
Diabetes Mellitus
Disorders of Blood Vessels
Endometrial Cancer
Erectile Dysfunction
Heart Attack
High Blood Pressure
HIV/AIDS
Mood Disorders
Male Infertility
Mental Health
Ovarian Cancer
Overweight and Obesity
Personality Disorders
Pregnancy
Premature Ejaculation
Prostate Cancer
Schizophrenia
Sexual Health
Sleep Disorders
Urinary Incontinence
View All
Search
MOBILE
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
Home
Heart Diseases
High Blood Pressure
Good vs. Bad Cholesterol
Hypertension Classification, Epidemiology ...
Secondary Hypertension
High Blood Pressure news |
Former Inmates Have Increased Risk of High Blood Pressure
Apr 14, 2009 Viewed: 491
Young adults who have been incarcerated appear more likely to have high blood pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy, an enlarging of the heart muscle that is a common consequence of hypertension, according to a report in the April 13 issue of Archives of Internal Medicine, one of the JAMA/Archives journals. They also appear less likely to have access to regular medical care than those who have not been incarcerated.
“Incarceration has become increasingly frequent in the lives of young adults,” the authors write as background information in the article. Between 1987 and 2007, the U.S. prison population tripled. More than one in 30 men and one in nine black men between the ages of 20 and 34 are incarcerated. “This rise in incarceration as a normative experience for young men and young black men in particular makes it especially important to understand the implications of incarceration on future health status.”
Emily A. Wang, M.D, formerly of San Francisco General Hospital and the University of California, San Francisco, and colleagues studied the association of prior incarceration with future onset of high blood pressure (hypertension), diabetes and abnormal cholesterol in 4,350 individuals involved in the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study. Participants were enrolled in 1985 to 1986, at ages 18 to 30, and were followed up after two, five, seven, 10, 15 and 20 years.
Of these, 288 or 7 percent of participants reported being incarcerated one year prior to or two years following their enrollment. Former inmates were more likely to have hypertension in young adulthood than those who had not been incarcerated (12 percent vs. 7 percent three to five years later), even after considering other related factors such as smoking, alcohol and drug use and family income. In addition, left ventricular hypertrophy was more common among those with a history of incarceration (2 percent vs. 0.6 percent).
“Former inmates were also more likely to lack treatment for their hypertension at the year seven examination (17 percent [former inmates] vs. 41 percent [no prior incarceration] treated) and in each of the follow-up visits during the entire 20-year duration of the CARDIA study,” the authors write.
The mechanisms by which incarceration may lead to high blood pressure are not well understood, the authors note. Commonly cited factors such as drug and alcohol use, obesity and lower socioeconomic status may not entirely explain the association, since the current findings indicate an association between incarceration and hypertension after considering these factors. Other explanations include increased hostility and stress among former inmates, which may raise hormone levels that contribute to higher blood pressure.
“For the more than 7 million people that pass through U.S. jails and prisons each year, incarceration may be an independent risk factor for the development of hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, both of which put such persons at higher risk for clinical cardiovascular disease,” the authors conclude. “Incarceration may be a cause for hypertension and cardiovascular disease, but may also present an underused opportunity for intervention and improving health and access to health care.”
Editor’s Note: Emily A. Wang, M.D., is now with the Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn. Please see the article for additional information, including other authors, author contributions and affiliations, financial disclosures, funding and support, etc.
Source: American Medical Association (AMA)
Provided by ArmMed Media
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Latest Hypertension Headlines
Finding the right antithrombotic (anti-clotting)…
Vanderbilt study finds hypertension-related visits…
How healthcare is organized may affect how well…
Enzyme responsible for obesity-related high blood…
Potassium improved blood pressure in teen girls,…
Eating out = high blood pressure?
Prolonged shortened sleep increases blood pressure…
Visceral Fat and Hypertension: A Link?
ATS releases guidelines on the management of pulmonary…
Slightly elevated blood pressure also tied to…
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia Course and outcome
Schizophrenia and Other Psychotic Disorders
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophreniform Disorder
Delusional Disorder
Brief Psychotic Disorder
Shared Psychotic Disorder (Folie a Deux)
Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
Schizophrenia
Disorganized schizophrenia
Hebephrenic schizophrenia
Schizophrenia
Paranoid schizophrenia
Classification of sleep disorders
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) was produced primarily for diagnostic and epidemiologic purposes so that disorders ...
High Blood Pressure Topics
High Blood Pressure
Blood pressure control poor among elderly women
Dieting and Medication May Reduce High Blood Pressure
Hypertension and the Risk of Mild Cognitive Impairment:…
Swapping protein for sugar may help blood pressure
Older men’s blood pressure sensitive to alcohol
Huge disparities in hypertension seen across US counties
Non-fat milk products can reduce the risk of hypertension…
Fermented milk drink reduces high blood pressure
Health Fair Referrals Help Improve Patients’ Blood…
Self-monitoring tied to lower blood pressure: review
Heart Disease
Coronary artery disease tests prompt patients toward healthier…
Improved lifestyle led to decreased cholesterol and less…
Emerging vascular risk factors in women: Any differences…
Study shows minorities had lower risk of coronary heart…
In pursuit of the causes of cardiac hypertrophy
New research offers reassurance over multiple artery procedures…
Study finds tree nut consumption may lower risk of cardiovascular…
Heart CT scans outperform stress tests in spotting clogged…
Worldwide shift in heart medication delivery required: Study
Male and female hearts don’t grow old the same way
HDL Cholesterol
High cholesterol levels affect mobilization of cells from…
Vitamin D supplements do not improve cholesterol as previous…
How Atorvastatin Reduces Cholesterol and Fats in Blood Vessels
Cholesterol drugs safe, even after a decade of use
Fish oil and red yeast rice studied for lowering blood cholesterol
Low cholesterol linked to Parkinson’s risk in men
More “Good” Cholesterol is Not Always Good for…
FDA OKs Drug for Rare Lipid Disorder
Women lag men in cholesterol control
Cleveland Clinic researcher reports that evacetrapib can…
Sponsored
A Pragmatist's Guide for Living
It's easy to make a financial decision based on what you need right now, but making an informed choice will benefit you in the long run. Meet a former Red Sox pitcher who picked security over an uncertain future
Editors' Suggestions
Robert Shanahan
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Alex O'Connell
Alcohol, Tobacco and Genetics
Clare Corliss
Best Superfoods for Weight Loss
Catherine Harris
Withdrawal from Opioids
Cannabis, IQ and the law
Cancer
Sexual Health
OB / GYN
Mental Health
Heart Attack
Home
NewsFeed
Health Encyclopedia
Diseases & Conditions
Drugs & Medications
Medical Acronyms & Abbreviations
Health Tools
Complete Archives
Mobile
RSS/XML News Feeds
Newsletter
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Site Map
Advertising policy
We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here
© 2015 Health.am Inc. All rights reserved