What is Minoxidil? | Best Hair Growth Shampoos For Men and Women
Hair Growth Products
Hair Growth Shampoos
Hair Growth Supplement
Hair Growth Oil
SLS Free Shampoos
Hair Loss Treatments
Hair Loss Treatments For Children
Hair Loss Treatments For Men
Hair Loss Treatments For Women
Hair Loss Disease
Alopecia Totalis
Alopecia Universalis
Androgenetic Alopecia
Folliculitis
Hypotricosis
Telogen Effluvium
Trichotillomania
Hair Growth Home Remedies
Gallery
What is Minoxidil?
Home
Hair Growth Products
What is Minoxidil?
What is Minoxidil?
Posted on October 1, 2018 by alan
Almost everyone who is looking for ways to battle hair fall has heard of this word. Every-where you look, whether that place be a medical store or whether that place be the internet.
Minoxidil is a widely used FDA approved ingredient and is mostly used to counter attack many forms of alopecia and other hair problems.
I know there are many questions in your mind about Minoxidil that is exactly why we carefully composed a guide on everything you need to know about Minoxidil.
What is Minoxidil?
Minoxidil is a synthetic drug which is used to treat hypertension. Yes! Hyper-tension. When Minoxidil was firstly formulated, it was used by doctors to treat hypertension and high blood pressure. It was later found that Minoxidil also owns the ability to stop hair loss and also to regrow hair.
How is it possible? How can something that is used as a vasodilator (something that dilates blood vessels) help with hair loss.
Fortunately, when the flood flow in the scalp increases, it also increases the hair growth rate.
Let me explain, the strand of hair comes out of tiny pores known as the hair follicle. The hair follicle develops the hair strand and later pushes it out. From this we learn that the hair follicle is solely responsible for hair growth. So when the blood flow increase in the scalp, it stimulates the hair follicle causing hair to grow faster.
That is why when we undergo stress and tension we lose hair. The blood vessels become smaller, this leads to slower blood flow that further leads to the follicles to get weak causing hair loss.
How does Minoxidil work?
Minoxidil Dilates blood vessels that increase blood flow instantly. Increased blood-flow causes follicles to grow in size that makes the hair strands to grow thicker adding volume to the hair.
Why use Minoxidil?
But now it is really clear, for all those who suffer from hair loss, this is a great way to treat yourselves.
Although, this is an FDA approved ingredient it is recommended to see your physicist before the use of Minoxidil.
Pros (Advantages)
It is very effective.
It is leave on.
It is known to dilate blood vessels that can greatly decrease the blood pressure for those who suffer with high blood pressure.
It is a non-prescriptive product and can be purchased without a doctor’s prescription.(But, it is highly recommended to consult with the doctor before using the product)
It is easy to apply.
Cons (Dis-advantages)
It is an expensive product.
It must be used twice a day, which can be inconvenient for many users.
It does not work for everybody. It can’t sprout new hair for people who are already bald. For some people it can grow back hair, for some it will stop the hair loss, and for some it might not even work at all.
It takes time to see the effects.
Results are not permanent. It will reverse if the use of the product is stopped.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Related
Categories: Hair Growth Products
Tags: What is Minoxidil?
< Previous
Next >
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Comment
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Search
Search for:
Recent Post
5 Easy Remedies That Instantly Make Your Hair Growth Better
Hair Loss Prevention in Men
McDonald’s Fries Causing Hair Growth!
What Stimulates Hair Growth?
Regenepure Minoxidil Spray
Recent Comments
Categories
Categories Select Category Alopecia Totalis Androgenetic Alopecia Hair Growth Home Remedies Hair Growth Oil Hair Growth Products Hair Growth Shampoos Hair Growth Supplement Hair Loss Disease Hair Loss Treatments Hair Loss Treatments For Men Hair Loss Treatments For Women SLS Free Shampoos Types Of Hair
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Home
Contact Us
About Us
Hair Growth Products
Hair Loss Disease
Hair Growth Home Remedies
Hair Loss Treatments
Hair Loss Treatments For Men
Gallery
Regrow Your Hair
This Offer is Limited! Grab your Discount!
Offer Expires In:
Apply Coupon Code first10off & Upto 10% Off!
Email
GET MY OFFER!
Powered by Convert Plus