Reverse Male Pattern Baldness
Menu
Home
Hair Loss
5 Common Causes of Hair Loss
How Much Hair Loss is Normal?
Causes and Treatments of Children With Hair Loss
Evening Primrose Oil for Hair Loss
Hereditary Hair Loss
How Iodine is Linked to Hair Loss
Saw Palmetto And Hair Loss
Steroids and Hair Loss
Iron Deficiency and Hair Loss
Hair Growth
7 Best Hair Growth Supplements 2019
Essential Oils for Hair Growth
Food for Hair Growth
Biotin Hair Growth Rate
Hair Transplant
Cost of Hair Transplant
The Follicular Unit Extraction Hair Transplant
Pain After Hair Transplant
Psychological Benefits of Hair Transplant
True Cost of Propecia
Home Remedies
Shampoo
Top Hair Loss Shampoos
Pura D’or Premium Organic Argan Oil Anti-Hair Loss Shampoo
Ultrax Labs Hair Surge Review: The Solution to Your Root Problem
Viviscal Hair Growth Reviews
Best Leave in Conditioner for Natural Hair
Reverse Male Pattern Baldness
This is the term is given to the treatment of the condition of the MPB (male pattern baldness) which is also known by its scientific name Androgenetic Alopecia. It is the condition where men lose their hair. Together with its counterpart, the Female Pattern Baldness, the condition is considered a hormonal imbalance.
Much had been done to stop and reverse androgenic alopecia which usually attacks men in their 30s (and upwards) but can sometimes begin at a young age, some as early as 20 years old. The treatment had been the same, but success is uneven because of several factors, especially the degrees of severity of the disease.
Classic patterns
Called androgenic or androgenetic alopecia, the Male Pattern Baldness (MPB) and the Female Pattern Hair Loss have already established their classic patterns of symptoms and signs. Among males, the usual signs include the receding of the hairline at the temples, making an M-like shape of the hairline.
Around two out of three male have an experience of losing hair at age 60 plus due to male pattern baldness.
Females have a different pattern of losing their hair. While hair in males tend to be lost from the forehead (or crown), females lose first their hair on the scalp. The scalp’s top third or half is lost first while the frontal part stays. Women would notice them only when the area where they part their hair gets bigger and seeing more and more of their scalp.
Check out the best solution from Amazon
Causes of Baldness
Androgenic alopecia is triggered by a combination of what happens to genes and the male hormones. Only recently, another contributing factor is found, the Protaglandin D2, which shuts down hair follicles and prevents growth of new ones.
Among males, the DHT (dihydrotestosterone) is the main culprit, usually converted from the male testosterone. It attacks hair follicles and disrupts the hair-production cycle (shedding, rest, re-growth). Once the normal shedding stops, the new hair strands that are normally re-grown become smaller, finer and weaker. After a time, there is no re-growing of hair.
Women suffer less hair loss because they do not carry much of the male testosterone.
Hormonal changes that come with menopause may produce hair loss when male hormone receptors on the scalp activate to miniaturize hair follicles and thin the hair that grow.
Treatment for Baldness
Two FDA-approved products, Minoxidil (Rogaine) and Finasteride (Propecia) are able to arrest and reverse male pattern baldness. Minoxidil, in solution and foam, is usually applied topically on the scalp while Finasteride is taken orally in tablet form.
Click here to get FDA Approved treatment from Amazon
Both work to inhibit the action of the DHT in hair follicles. With DHT out of commission, the hair strands that are newly-grown (after the shedding and rest cycles) come out healthy, strong and robust. (DHT tampers with this cycle with the hair follicles producing weaker and finer hair strands each re-growth period until there won’t be any more hair growing.) You may have been taking different hair growth supplements, but the mentioned products are the proven ones.
The treatment, unfortunately, needs to continue if the patient wants his hair back. If they are discontinued, the hair loss condition comes back.
Tweet
Pin It
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name
Email
Website
Search
Hair Growth
How to Promote Facial Hair Growth
Biotin Hair Growth Rate
Food for Hair Growth
Reverse Male Pattern Baldness
HairWiki Copyright © 2019.
About • Contact Us