Dementia study questions advice on taking supplements – Emergency Live
Monday, April 22, 2019
Emergency Live - Internetional rescue magazine
Home
News
Areas of interest
Equipment
Stories
Health and Safety
Of interest
Marketplace
HEMS
Advertising
Company
Join us
EMSpedia
Contacts
Home
Stories
Dementia study questions advice on taking supplements
Stories
Dementia study questions advice on taking supplements
By Emergency Live	 Last updated Nov 17, 2014
0
Share
Taking vitamin B12 and folic acid supplements does not seem to cut the risk of developing dementia, say Dutch researchers
This contradicts what has previously been suggested, they say.
In one of the largest studies to date, there was no difference in memory test scores between those who had taken the supplements for two years and those who were given a placebo.
The research was published in the journal Neurology.
B vitamins have been linked to Alzheimer’s for some years, and scientists know that higher levels of a body chemical called homocysteine can raise the risk of both strokes and dementia.
Vitamin B12 and folic acid are both known to lower levels of homocysteine.
No protective effect
That, along with studies linking low vitamin B12 and folic acid intake with poor memory, had prompted scientists to view the supplements as a way to ward off dementia.
Yet in the study of almost 3,000 people – with an average age of 74 – who took 400 micrograms of folic acid and 500 micrograms of vitamin B12 or a placebo every day, researchers found no evidence of a protective effect.
All those taking part in the trial had high blood levels of homocysteine, which did drop more in those taking the supplements.
But on four different tests of memory and thinking skills taken at the start and end of the study, there was no beneficial effect of the supplements on performance.
The researchers did note that the supplements might slightly slow the rate of decline but concluded the small difference they detected could just have been down to chance.
Study leader Dr Rosalie Dhonukshe-Rutten, from Wageningen University in the Netherlands, said: “Since homocysteine levels can be lowered with folic acid and vitamin B12 supplements, the hope has been that taking these vitamins could also reduce the risk of memory loss and Alzheimer’s disease.
“While the homocysteine levels decreased by more in the group taking the B vitamins than in the group taking the placebo, unfortunately there was no difference between the two groups in the scores on the thinking and memory tests.”
Healthy brain
Dr Eric Karran, director of research at Alzheimer’s Research UK, said: “This large trial adds to previous evidence suggesting that while vitamin B supplements can lower homocysteine levels, this does not translate into improved memory and thinking in the general older population.”
But he said the trial did not look at people who were already experiencing memory decline.
Longer follow-up periods would be needed to see if vitamin B12 or folic acid could slow the severe memory decline associated with dementia, he said.
Dr Karran added: “Although this study casts doubt on the use of vitamin B or folic acid supplements to aid memory, a balanced diet is a good way to keep healthy at all ages.
“Evidence suggests that we can maintain a healthy brain for longer by keeping a healthy weight, eating a balanced diet, not smoking, staying active, drinking in moderation and keeping blood pressure and cholesterol in check.”
http://www.bbc.co.uk/
0
Share FacebookTwitterGoogle+WhatsAppTelegramPinterestLinkedinEmail
Emergency Live
Emergency Live is the only multilingual magazine dedicated to people involved in rescue and emergency. As such, it is the ideal medium in terms of speed and cost for trading companies to reach large numbers of target users; for example, all companies involved in some way in the equipping of specialised means of transport. From vehicle manufacturers to companies involved in equipping those vehicles, to any supplier of life- saving and rescue equipment and aids.
Prev Post
Liberia will not extend the State of Emergency
Next Post
Bird Flu comes to Britain
You might also like More from author
News
Angry Ebola affected Community refused Red Cross Treatment – Ambulance risked…
BREAKINGNEWS
33 years after Chernobyl Disaster – Firefighters and Volunteers, the real…
BREAKINGNEWS
Paramedics and Ambulance Driver killed in Libya during Fights
EMS in the World
The Patient is the Bad Guy – An Ambulance Dispatch for a Double Stabbing
Prev	Next
Leave A Reply
Cancel Reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Also available in
Advertising
Latest articles
Angry Ebola affected Community refused Red Cross Treatment – Ambulance risked to be Burnt
TOP 5 EMS Job opportunities worldwide – Middle East, India and Europe
Calculating Weight in Critically ill Paediatric Patients with a Special Smartphone for Drug Dosing
33 years after Chernobyl Disaster – Firefighters and Volunteers, the real Heroes of the Incident
Notre-Dame de Paris is Safe thanks to Fire Brigades and to a Special Help: Robots
Follow us
YouTube channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=we10nt9bB9I
Encyclopedia
About us
Emergency Live is the only multilingual magazine dedicated to people involved in rescue and emergency. As such, it is the ideal medium in terms of speed and cost for trading companies to reach large numbers of target users; for example, all companies involved in some way in the equipping of specialised means of transport. From vehicle manufacturers to companies involved in equipping those vehicles, to any supplier of life- saving and rescue equipment and aids.
Contacts
Emergency Live
Piazzale Badalocchio 9/b
43126 Parma (PR) – Italy
Phone: +39 340 2246247
Write to info@emergency-live.com or go to the form mail.
VAT Number: IT02277610347
Privacy Policies
Cookie Policy
© 2019 - Emergency Live. All Rights Reserved.
Roberts S.u.r.l.