Advantages Of Yoga For Asthma Patients | Yoga and Asthma | Yoga
Newsletter
हिंदी
Subscribe to Onlymyhealth Newsletter
Living Better
Women's Health
Men's Health
Weight Loss Wisdom
I have read the Privacy Policy and the Terms and Conditions. I provide my consent for my data to be processed for the purposes as described and receive communications for service related information.
Gender :
Please SelectMaleFemale
✖
Health Diseases
Children Health
Men's Health
Women's Health
Cancer
Heart Health
Diabetes
Other Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Weight Management
Healthy Diet
Exercise Fitness
Yoga
Grooming
Fashion and Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Parenting
New Born Care
Parenting Tips
Know Baby Name
Search Baby Name
Relationships
Marriage
Dating
Cheating
Alternative Therapies
Mind and Body
Ayurveda
Home Remedies
Slideshows
Videos
Health A to Z
Health News
Baby Names
QNA
Health Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Parenting
Relationships
Alternative Therapies
Health
Health⁄
diet & fitness⁄
Yoga
Advantages of Yoga for Asthma Patients
Skin Care By Varsha Vats , Onlymyhealth editorial team / Apr 03, 2019
Quick Bites
It helps in calming down the stressed muscles in your chest
It allows you to breathe more effortlessly
It helps to lessen the strains on your heart and lungs
Yoga therapy is known to cure asthma and not just manage it. In particular, it lessens the allergic reaction in your lungs.
Some benefits of Yoga for Asthma patients are:
You are able to control your breathing much better as breathing very fast is one of the major problems of an asthma patient. Although you are breathing fast, the oxygen is not being absorbed by your body. Practising slow breathing would not only improve your breathing but also allow you to control it better. You do not breathe quickly even if you are not inhaling enough air.
Asthma patients tend to hold their breath for long in an attempt to get more oxygen out of the air that they have inhaled. This can aggravate the condition as this puts more pressure on your internal organs. You are able to take breathe from the diaphragm which helps you in getting used to taking deep and more relaxed breaths.
The severity of an asthma attack, if and when it happens, can be significantly reduced if you have been practising Yoga. Although one should never make the mistake of ignoring asthma medication, Yoga can help to calm and de-stress your body and prevent the severe impact of an asthma trigger. Moreover, if you get an asthma attack, the practice of slow breathing would help you survive the complication posed by constricted airways much better.
A functional advantage of yoga is having control over your nervous reflexes. This facilitates you to lessen the excessive movement of the parasympathetic nerves.
Benefits of yoga and its asanas can be varied. They not only help in calming down the stressed muscles in your chest so that you can breathe more effortlessly but they also discharge the energy blocks. Overturned asanas also deplete mucus from your lungs.
Meditation aids in calming you and complements your mind and your body.
Pranayama also transports numerous benefits. Pranayama brings deeper advantages than the simple involuntary result of exercising the lungs.
Asthma makes the patients hold too much air in the lungs and also breathe quickly. Both these complications put undue pressure on the heart and lungs. In order to control this, you should practice the Bhrastika Pranayama, which is deep breathing but time yourself to 12 or lesser breaths a minute. Including these breathing exercises in your daily life, you would surely lessen the strains on your heart and lungs.
Image: Getty
Read more articles on Yoga.
For more such articles, Download OnlymyHealth App.
Written by
Vatsal Anand
Source: Onlymyhealth editorial teamMar 08, 2018
All possible measures have been taken to ensure accuracy, reliability, timeliness and authenticity of the information; however Onlymyhealth.com does not take any liability for the same. Using any information provided by the website is solely at the viewers’ discretion. In case of any medical exigencies/ persistent health issues, we advise you to seek a qualified medical practitioner before putting to use any advice/tips given by our team or any third party in form of answers/comments on the above mentioned website.
Go Back To Jagran
Trending Topics
Benefits of Yoga for asthma patients
cure asthma with yoga
yoga treatment for asthma
Related News
Benefits of Moksha Yoga
The Surprising Mental and Physical Health Benefits of Laughter Yoga
Famous athletes who battled asthma
Know how pranayama is good for asthma patients
Yoga isn't of much Help for Asthma Patients
All Sections
Health Diseases
Diet & Fitness
Grooming
Parenting
Relationships
Alternative Therapies
Featured Health Topics
Dental Health
Hepatitis
Dengue
Allergy
Asthma
Hypertension
About Us
Contact Us
Management
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Terms of Use
Sitemap
Copyright © 2018 MMI ONLINE LTD
This website uses cookie or similar technologies, to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations. By continuing to use our website, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. OK