Syria: Music Therapy Heals War Wounds – The Rabbit Hole
The Rabbit Hole
Denying the truth doesn't change the facts.
Become a Patron
Global Research Articles
Media Contributions (Interviews and Forums)
Mint Press News Articles
Support The Rabbit Hole
Contact Sarah Abed
Hot Topics
January 9, 2019 in Syria Related Articles // Cindy Sheehan’s Soapbox: Update on Syria with Guest Sarah Abed
January 3, 2019 in U.S. Domestic and Foreign Politics // Cindy Sheehan’s Soapbox: Imperialism Abhors a Void: Guest: Sarah Abed
January 3, 2019 in U.S. Domestic and Foreign Politics // Sputnik: Berlin’s Calls to Halt Arms Sales to Riyadh Part of Political Charade – Journo
November 28, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Syrian Activist Nidal Rahawi Provides Rare Insight into the Deteriorating Conditions in the Northeastern Region (PART II)
November 28, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Syrian Activist Nidal Rahawi Provides Rare Insight into the Deteriorating Conditions in the Northeastern Region (PART I)
September 21, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Arabic Transcript of Interview with Syrian Nationalist Nidal Rahawi
September 4, 2018 in MSM Propaganda // Kester Ratcliff’s International Assadist Directory Is His “Contribution to the War Effort”
September 4, 2018 in MSM Propaganda // Sputnik Interview: Ukraine’s Detention of Vyshinsky Political Act, Violates Int’l Law – Journalist
July 24, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Fars News Interview: US Aims for Long Term Presence in Syria to Check Iran and Ensure Israeli Domination
July 18, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // New Syrian Opposition Documentary Focuses on their Defeat in Aleppo and Features Al Zinki Terrorist
June 12, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // The Agents of the Nevermind: Interview with Psychological Suspense Author Tantra Bensko
May 24, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Syria: Music Therapy Heals War Wounds
May 23, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Sputnik Interview: The Consequences of UK Funding SOHR and Washington Arming “Syrian Rebels”
April 26, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Syrian Witnesses Testify at OPCW Briefing in the Hague -No Chemical Weapon Attack in Douma- White Helmets Fabrication
April 11, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Sputnik Interview- Syria: The U.S. Acting As Judge, Jury, and Executioner Ahead of OPWC Investigation in Douma
April 3, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Syria: The Gruesome Adra Massacre – Interview from Damascus
March 29, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // US-EU Economic Sanctions Inflict Suffering on War Battered Syrian Children
March 29, 2018 in MSM Propaganda // Basic Facts about the War in Syria
March 24, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Afrin: Turkey’s Operation Olive Branch Is Testing the US-Kurdish Alliance
March 14, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // The Impact of War on Syrian Health and Medical Services
March 3, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Sputnik Trendstorm Interview: Syrian Ceasefire: Significant or Symbolic?
February 26, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // What’s really going on in East Ghouta? VIDEO
February 14, 2018 in Uncategorized // The Lorde Saga – The Consequences of Supporting BDS in the Zionist Driven Entertainment Industry
February 14, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // Kurdish Militias in Conflict-Ridden Northeastern Syria Turn to Kidnapping, Conscription, ISIS-like Tactics
January 28, 2018 in Syria Related Articles // A Tribute to the Seldom Heard Of Female Warriors in the Syrian Arab Army
Syria: Music Therapy Heals War Wounds
Posted on May 24, 2018 by Sarah Abed in Syria Related Articles, U.S. Domestic and Foreign Politics // 2 Comments
“Music is a moral law. It gives soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination, and charm and gaiety to life and to everything.” ― Plato
When factoring the impact that war can have on civilians in any given country, many times we focus on the immediate concerns such as nutrition, housing, clothing, infrastructure, medicine and emergency services, education etc. Mental health concerns are a secondary thought and usually do not get the attention they deserve. The western insurrection in Syria has been persistently destroying lives for over seven years.
The Syrian government has made every attempt to address issues regarding health and wellness in the country. In spite of the war, cultural, musical, and humanitarian events have continued to take place. These events are often times hosted by the government. This is one method to bolster civilian conviction that their beloved homeland is alive and will survive regardless of external effort is being exerted to extinguish it’s bright flame. Music is such an integral part of Levant culture and has been used as a mechanism to heal and raise the spirits of the most vulnerable.
Barouk Festival at Dar Al Assad for Culture and Arts April 28th, 2018 (Image source SANA)
“Where words fail, music speaks.” ― Hans Christian Andersen
In January of this year, a lecture titled “Music, Therapy and Culture” was delivered by Musician Juan Qara Joly at the Arab Cultural Center in Abu Rummaneh, Damascus, Syria. Mr. Joly reviewed the benefits of music therapy and the role it plays in improving cognitive ability, reducing stress and curing different types of diseases including neurological disorders.
What is Music Therapy?
According to Dr. Axe:
“Music therapy is based on the improvisation of music by a therapist and patient, sometimes done in a one-on-one setting but other times conducted in groups. There are two main branches of MT: active and passive. Active MT involves interaction between therapist and the patient much more than passive MT, in which the patient is usually at rest but listening to the therapist.”
Music Therapy Is Effective in Treating Depression
Studies have shown that music therapy can be effective in treating depression in children, adolescents and even adults, especially those who are combating emotional, developmental and behavioral issues. Ordinarily treatment for depression has included psychotherapy and/or medication.
Music therapy is an effective alternative proven to bring about positive results and long-term benefits for patients. Some areas that showed substantial improvements with the use of music therapy were self esteem, communication and interaction skills, and overall depressive symptoms.
The Multi-Faceted Benefits of Music Therapy
When looking into the healing power of music, and its role in improving cognitive abilities, it’s important to also keep in mind that durations and intervals need to be set for each particular patient. Musicians with interests in child care and development have reported, for children as young as three and upward to young adult stages, the importance of employing music to encourage learning and improve communication skills. Music therapy practices encourage a greater scope of effort than what most readers think the “therapy” part is — merely listening to music.
One resourceful Eastern European who was inspired by scholarly Arab precedents hundreds of years old found speech challenges are addressed more enjoyably through singing than simple rote exercises forming oral sounds. Critical too was finding that vision-challenged persons can benefit from combination of touch and sound far more when tools designed for habits (and expectations) of readers are set aside. Music therapy has also proven to be an alternative path of progress for individuals with developmental or emotional delays; melody, rhythm or percussion simply being preferable to patients.
Some of the many benefits of music therapy include lessening feelings of fatigue, depression, loneliness, reducing stress, pain, and helping to relax muscles and nerves. U.S. Robert Wood Johnson Foundation reported, in a 2004 release informed by hundreds of studies, healing results from pairing music with motor pathway stimulation such as exercise or dance. Music therapy has proven useful to counseling psychologists and nutritionists, inducing endocrine products like endorphin (the “happiness” hormone countering social anxiety, chronic illnesses and compulsive disorders) or those essential to digestion. Centuries of spiritual practice link vibratory sound to calming and concentration effects known to reduce bodily stress such as elevated blood pressure. Patients in hospitals routinely resort to classical instrumental or natural sound recordings (ocean surf, forest glade) prior to surgical procedures because they’re calming, and even 19th century discoveries like binaural beats have reportedly promoted relaxation among migraine headache sufferers.
The Relationship Between Culture and Therapy As It Relates To Music
Music is in daily culture and not merely “entertainment”. Mid-Easterners have known and employed music’s healing powers for centuries; music therapy is seeing a revival, and Syria is one of the nations which has preserved it. Music therapy amounts to both a necessary “resource” and practice engendering healthy necessary competition, and cultural persistence in Syria. Music therapy isn’t merely folded into Syrian psychological therapies; it’s another unseen energy channeled by the people for survival.
Syrians Show Defiance to Foreign Aggression through Music
Syrians defy oppression or injustice, flaunting their resilience in open-air concerts surrounded by opponents: they get to the music along with using music to treat their wounded and those suffering from depressionbrought on by this foreign imposed war. A culture doesn’t survive letting it’s music go; a culture survives finding as many reasons and means it can to practice– incrementally transmuting chaos and calamity to survival and even celebration. Music intentionally enjoyed supports and sustains human life.
Demonstrated and future benefits from the growing revival of music therapy range across nations and cultures from Eastern Europe, Great Britain, North America and the Middle East. Deep considerations of its effect and persistence are revelatory. Music therapy is nested in hospitals and homes (or the remnants of them, filling gaps in conventional school or clinical programs disrupted by war). What blossoms from roots deep, and exceeding borders or boundaries via international music competitions and public cultural performances, is perhaps most vested in nations like Syria: culture prevailing from love, through willpower; unseen energy preserved in music and channeled through therapies in defiance of hardship and injustice.
Originally published on Global Research on May 24th, 2018 Written by Sarah Abed.
Share this:
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
#politics
#syria
informationwar
music
musictherapy
news
About Sarah Abed (121 Articles)
Independent journalist and political commentator. Focused on exposing the lies and propaganda in mainstream media news, as it relates to domestic and foreign policy with an emphasis on the Middle East. Contributed to various radio shows, news publications and spoken at forums. For media inquiries please email sarahabed84@gmail.com.
← Previous article
Next article →
2 Comments on Syria: Music Therapy Heals War Wounds
Marie Gentz // May 25, 2018 at 9:56 am // Reply
excellent!
LikeLiked by 1 person
dontgetfooledagain // June 3, 2018 at 11:57 am // Reply
I think Syrian musicians would appreciate these words from a fellow musician:
Roger Waters at Berlin Concert: “Resist the attempted silencing of Julian Assange” https://candobetter.net/node/5515#comment-235024
Last night, at a concert in Berlin, Roger Waters called upon his audience and his fans to resist attempts to silence Julian Assange, as shown in the images, copied from Twitter, above and below.
Isn’t it also about time that the Australian government finally began to exercise its duty of care to one of Australia’s most courageous and visionary sons?]
Also:
Rally Sydney Australia to demand freedom for Julian Assange https://candobetter.net/comment/235024#comment-235024 http://www.wsws.org/en/articles/2018/06/01/sint-j01.html
LikeLiked by 1 person
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Follow The Rabbit Hole on WordPress.com
Translate Articles
Blog Stats
109,277 hits
Follow Site via Email
Enter your email address to follow this site and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 11,141 other followers
Follow
The Rabbit Hole on Facebook
The Rabbit Hole on Facebook
Instagram
There was an error retrieving images from Instagram. An attempt will be remade in a few minutes.
Follow me on Twitter
My Tweets
YouTube Channel
https://youtu.be/3_M_Af1Y6KQ
Creative Commons Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
%d bloggers like this: