Foot and Ankle Problems By Dr. Richard Blake: May 2016
Foot and Ankle Problems By Dr. Richard Blake
Welcome to the Podiatry Blog of Dr Richard Blake of San Francisco. I hope that the information here will help you in some way. Please feel free to leave a comment on the blog, or email me questions at drblakeshealingsole@gmail.com. If the blog helps you, consider a $5 donation to keep the blog growing. Thank you so very much for the generosity. Dr Rich Blake
Total Pageviews
Followers
Search This Blog
Paypal Button for Donations
Tuesday, May 31, 2016
We Shouldn't Have To Be Reminded to Exercise: This Article Will
http://dailyburn.com/life/lifestyle/exercise-benefits-brain-function/?partner=internal&mtype=8&sub_id=20160417_News-LittleWL_LIFE&utm_content=buffer854eb&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 6:38:00 PM 1 comment: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Exercise Health Benefits
6 Great Stretches for all Activities
I hope you enjoy my new video on great stretches used for activities. The emphasis is on understanding the techniques of these 6 stretches. Hope they help you. This is part of my Ask The Podiatrist Segment. Please write questions to Dr Rich Blake 900 Hyde Street San Francisco California, 94109.
https://youtu.be/F2vn4xVaQQo
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 5:07:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Stretching for all Activities
Saturday, May 28, 2016
A, B, Cs of Diabetes
A simple, but important, reminder for diabetic patients, and those trying to avoid diabetes.
http://www.januvia.com/sitagliptin/januvia/consumer/diabtes-abc/index.xhtml
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:05:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Diabetes
Achilles Tendons Survive Hill Workouts, but there is a Catch!!
This is a great article stating that well trained achilles tendon survive the stresses of running hills (like in my beloved San Francisco). However, achilles and other body parts for that matter, do not like sudden changes in workouts (like adding hills, speed, or distance). So, make each transition gradually and you will do fine!!
http://www.runnersworld.co.uk/training/hill-running-poses-no-extra-risk-to-achilles/14047.html?utm_content=buffer58a99&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:01:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Achilles Tendon Injuries, Running Hills
Thursday, May 26, 2016
Ankle Sprain Treatment
Please review my video on the initial treatment of ankle sprains.
https://youtu.be/QMYH_f4VRoY
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 9:32:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Ankle Sprain
Wednesday, May 25, 2016
Foot Stability with Extrinsic Rearfoot Posts: Sexy Title!!
If any of you have orthotic devices, I invite you to comment on them. What they have done for you, what problems you have had? I repeatedly, since I am getting older, have patients express distress that I may retire someday and they will not be able to get good orthotics. I am honored, but it points to how important they are to so many people. I have been given quite a gift in life to be able to help these patients. For that, I am forever grateful to my profession and my mentors.
This short video goes over a small, but very powerful, part of the orthotic device called the rearfoot post. I owe Dr Christopher Smith, founder of SuperFeet, and one of my kind mentors, for introducing me to birkocork. Prior to birkocork, the posts I made were very hard. Birkocork posts are so much kinder on the knee and hip joints due to their shock absorption.
https://youtu.be/7SjkTwynaQM
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 10:13:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Foot Orthotic Devices
Tuesday, May 24, 2016
Sun Screen Needed for Feet!!
Just a reminder to use sunscreen on those feet also this spring, summer, fall, and winter!!
http://ht.ly/zlsC300xJRD
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 4:26:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Sunscreen for Feet
Hiking Boot Lacing for Extra Stability
If you are going hiking this summer, this lacing technique, even with some modification for lower top boots, can be very beneficial at preventing your heel and foot from moving around causing injury producing motions. I must thank our friends at REI for this tip.
https://youtu.be/rib1BXiWh4g
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 4:11:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Hiking Boot Lacing for Stability
Leg Length Discrepancy Treatment
Dear Dr. Blake,
I recently completed physical therapy for a leg-length discrepancy that was affecting an entire side of my body (the side with the shorter leg). The chiropractor prescribed me a 7mm heel lift, but I wanted to know how I could get a 7mm full foot lift that would be good for running. I recently found your post when someone asked a similar question to mine on this link:
http://www.drblakeshealingsole.com/2012/02/lifts-for-short-leg.html
Here is a video on making of full length lifts.
https://youtu.be/3WmO8mnHXN0
Dr Blake's comment: You can use two 4 mm full length flat spenco insoles. That will get you very close. Unless the chiropractor measured exactly by xray, that may be enough. Remember all soft insole give on impact, so 8 mm lifts will only give you 6.5-7.5 mm based on the stresses you are placing on it.
https://www.spenco.com/product.aspx?prodid=52&catid=
Is the only way for me to get a 7mm full foot lift is by purchasing several 1/8th inch sheets from jmsplastics.com? I'm just afraid to do this because I'm trying to get the lift to be exactly 7mm and if I get two 1/8th inch sheets it's going to be 6.35mm. And would you glue the layers together?
Dr Blake's comment: Typically you go with one layer for minimum of 2 weeks, than the second layer for another 2 weeks. If that is working, you can glue together.
Also, my second concern is not having enough room at the front of the shoe. I recently got the Clearly Adjustable full foot lift and my toes didn't have any room and I can't wear it. You mention you can cut out the toe, but if I cut out the toe then how is it taking care of the discrepancy?
Dr Blake's comment: You can ask a shoe repair store to thin out the thickness from the sulcus of the toes to the end of the toes on the lift. You can also use sandpaper. The green side should be facing up, and the black side is easy to thin. If you need more room, you can cut out the toe area completely and then bivel the last 1 inch in length.
On top of the Clearly Adjustable lift not fitting, it took me a long time to adjust each layer to make sure it fit inside my shoe and the result came out a bit choppy from my scissor job, so I'm afraid to try this again with other lifts.
Would love to hear your thoughts.
Thank you so much for helping patients with leg-length discrepancies and for your wonderful blog! I was very happy to find it.
Clare (name changed due to witness protection).
(if you post this on your website can you use another name for me? Thanks!)
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:48:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Leg Length Discrepancy, Short Leg Syndrome
Monday, May 23, 2016
Lower Extremity Nerve Symptoms: Looking for more than one Source
https://youtu.be/_7qNgYNUrmw
This was a comment to my You Tube video which I see often dealing with neurological problems in the lower extremities. There can be 2 or 3 sources of this neural tension that in themselves are minor, but together cause major disabilities. The treatment stems from finding all the possible triggers like poor posture sitting, overpronation of feet, poor core strength with low back issues, piriformis syndrome, etc, etc. I have had patients where the 2nd source of nerve irritation was the neck area, and the foot symptoms would not resolve unless the neck was stabilized somehow.
Hi Doctor Blake, I have a buzzy sensation in the ball of my foot when I walk. It began 10 months ago when I was running long distance. I had a variety of symptoms and was unsure where the pain was originating. It resulted in me developing a strong limp because I was in so much pain. I have had electric shock type pains travelling up my left leg, numbness in the ball of my left foot, pins and needles in my calf, tightness in my hamstring and glute. I have also had varying degrees of back discomfort but not enough for the doctor to think it is sciatica. I can't pinpoint a painful point in my foot and foot specialists haven't been able to either, although it does feel buzzy after it has been manipulated. I have had a steroid/anti inflammatory injection that didn't do much for me. The best thing has been some orthotics that raise my arch taking the pressure of the ball of my foot. I get the buzzy feeling by tapping the tarsal tunnel by my ankle as you demonstrated. What does this mean? Thanks,
Dr Blake's comment:
Thank you for your comment on the above video. You definitely are having neural tension and the source can be from 2 or 3 sources (and they all can be mild in nature, but have an additive effect). Please see a physiatrist or neurologist to look for back issues, piriformis, glut, ham, calf, tarsal tunnel or intermetatarsal neuritis signs. Someone should be able to figure out the syndrome, but it can be a lengthy process, and I am sorry. See my other video on the back relationship to foot symptoms. Rich﻿
https://youtu.be/E0E60NpOSHg
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:04:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Buzzing Sensation Feet, Double Crush Syndrome, Foot Nerve Pain, Nerve Pain
3D Printing to help Feet Problems
Even though I am fairly old school, mainly because I am old, I am excited about this new generation with their computer savy ideas. 3D Printing is cool and will gradually change the world I am still plodding through in podiatry. My hats off to this wonderful new generation. My advice: Get advice from those who came before who may help with real world scenarios. Rich
http://www.miamiherald.com/news/business/business-plan-challenge/article76412147.html
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 11:00:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: 3D Printing
Saturday, May 21, 2016
Top Foot Health Websites: I made #10 out of 25!!
Hello, I am honored to have made #10 of the top 25 Foot Health Websites. I am glad to be apart of helping foot problems and this gives me more motivation to keep going. Rich
Hi Richard,
Just a quick email to let you know that I featured you in a recent article named:
Top 25 Most Credible Foot Health Websites To Follow in 2016.
Here’s a link to the article:
http://www.healthlisted.com/top-25-credible-foot-health-websites-follow
I’ve also made a special badge for you here:
http://www.healthlisted.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/badge-best-foot-health-blogs.jpg
Feel free to download and use it anywhere you wish!
Once again, I hope your inclusion in the list drives some new readers to your blog and I look forward to staying connected!
Regards,
Aron
Get the Hive Health Media Blog Network widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 2:06:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Foot Health Websites, Websites for Foot Health
Plantar Fasciitis Post Cortisone Shot Advice
Love your info! I received a celestone 5mg. injection into the spot that hurts me the most(from plantar fasciitis) in the center of my left heel on Tues.May 17th (Dr Blake is reading this on 5/21). I have had pain since Sept. 2015 (over8mos.)! I am an avid speed walker, zumba dancer, and tennis player at the ripe old age of 76 years old! Guess I wore my thin narrow feet out walking 5 miles a day on the beach along the waters edge for the past 35 years (plus all my other activities)! I had an MRI done in Dec. 2015 that showed "mild Plantar Fa sciitis". I then went to PT for several weeks and do many stretching exercises AM and PM every day icing for 15 to 20 minutes after each session.
I had no pain after shot for about 3 hrs (Dr Blake's comment: This tells you that the shot was in the right place). Then bad pain till late AM next day. No pain Wed. PM until Fri. Pm. Then slight tinge lasting into this afternoon(Sat.= 4th day. I am icing it as you said! My Dr. never told me to ice it! I am doing this 3 times a day for 15 to 20 minutes after reading your info.
Dr Blake's comment: This bad pain is unfortunate, but can happen and typically lasts for 4 days, so you were lucky. Celestone is a long acting cortisone that can take up to 2 weeks to completely start working.
Questions:
Can I start the PT stretching now 2 times a day (icing after)??? Dr Blake's comment: I would do no weight bearing stretching for 2 weeks. You can do active range of motion stretch by pulling your toes towards your nose non weight bearing. You can massage your calf. You can do the frozen sports bottle roll for 5 minutes from the heel into the arch with progressively more pressure over that period.
When shall I try walking and tennis??? Dr Blake's comment: You can walk, but no impact activities for 2 weeks like running, tennis, basketball.
When shall I contact my Doc again???He said shot should last 2 to 4 mos.? I'm to get appt. after that time if no problem. I am seeing a Sports Medicine Ortho Doc. who has helped me with ankle tendinitis and sole problems with PT in the past!! I really trust him but am getting frustrated over my PF. Dr Blake's comment: The goal of cortisone therapy is to get the pain down to level 2, and then ice and physical therapy can take it from there. Typically you rest for 2 weeks, then spend a week or two testing it, and if you are not consistently between pain levels 0-2, get a booster shot. I do not like to give more than 3, and again, never get the shot where the plantar fascia attaches into the heel bone, just under the heel bone in the relatively fatty area.
What else can I try before another shot or any drastic treatment? ( extracorporeal pulse activation treatment or ultra sound therapy)??? Dr Blake's comment: There are so many treatments that should be used before injections with plantar fasciitis: orthotic devices, taping, icing, sleeping splints, physical therapy, acupuncture, calf stretches, deep calf massage, topical creams, various shoes, no barefoot walking, boots, etc. So, without knowing anything else you have tried or are using, it is hard to advise you. Hope this helps. Rich
Thanks so much for your time,
The patient's response:
Thank you so much for responding so quickly! Just some clarification. 1. Does it sound like my shot was in the heel bone? I believe it was where my worst pain was and where the facials come together in the heel? Dr Blake's comment: Typically the shot is under the heel bone in the fatty area that can form a bursae. This is the safest spot to inject. See my video below.
https://youtu.be/plbBvPASXwM
Is 2-0 pain very little pain on 0-10 scale?Dr Blake's comment: Yes, you are still smiling.
3.When should I go back to my full 11 stretch Pt program 2 times a day? Dr Blake's comment: You can do intense plantar fascial stretches starting at 2 weeks.
4.Can I use a towel and sit up on floor to do the toes to nose stretch you said? Dr Blake's comment: As long as it is gentle. 3 times daily for 30 seconds only---1 rep.
How many sets and how many times shall I do these? And how many times a day? I believe I should do this for 9 more days?
Wish you were in Phila. area! I would certainly be one of your patients!!!
Thanks again,
Patient's comments:
Dr Blake,
Thank you SO much! I feel a lot more confident about the future after reading your response.
I've been using your taping method on and off for months. I've been doing a lot of resistance band exercises but after watching your video, I think I was letting the tendon on the front of the ankle do all the work. I'm also doing a lot of arch exercises, picking up marbles, bands, doming my arch, etc.
How often should I use the tape? I was a little nervous that I may have been weakening the PTT by wearing it too regularly. Will the exercises offset that?
Dr Blake's comment: As long as you are doing the exercises, the taping is fine. Every 4th or 5th day go without the tape and see how you feel. Do it intentionally on days you will be alittle less active.
Would you be able to recommend a podiatrist in New York City who has experience with PTTD? As you can see, I haven't had the best luck here.
Dr Blake's comment: I would travel to Long Island to see my buddy Dr Karen Langone. She is wonderful.
Again, thank you so much!
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 1:53:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Pain Scale, Plantar Fasciitis, Posterior Tibial Dysfunction
How To Begin To Run after an Injury: Walk Run Program Video
Please enjoy my latest YouTube Video on beginning to run (especially after injury). Rich
https://youtu.be/o8Iky7Dc_jY
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 12:40:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: How To Begin To Run, Walk Run Program
Friday, May 20, 2016
Posterior Tibial Tendon Injury and Long Term Concerns
Hi Dr Blake,
I've been reading your blog archives since I first started having
problems with my foot. It's kind of a long story, so I apologize in
advance for the length.
I am/was a runner. I ran anything from 5K through ultras. I had been
running in the same pair of orthotics for 4 years at that point and
never had a problem.
Then last May (2015) I developed PF in my right foot. I rested, iced, rolled
and it wouldn't go away. I saw a Sports Med Doc who eventually gave
me a US guided steroid shot into the PF. He had me run on it within
three days. I was fine until two weeks later when the shot wore off
and then I was worse than before.
Dr Blake's comment: Patients get cortisone shots for plantar fasciitis all the time when a plantar heel bursae forms. So, the shot is into the bursae, not the plantar fascia. It is always risky to inject right into the plantar fascia with cortisone, for fear of causing a rupture. The odds of a rupture are small, but it can happen. If the pain intensifies following a cortisone shot in the bottom of the heel, assume that the plantar fascia tore, and start plantar fascia tear protocol of 3 months in a removable cast.
The pain was still bearable, I could walk but not run. In September,
one month after the shot, I was hiking and felt a pop in my arch just
in front of the heel but more towards the outside of the foot. The PF
got a lot worse after that.
Dr Blake's comment: This is when it completely tore.
I saw a podiatrist right after that. The area was red and puffy and
he noted that my ankle rolled in a little more on that side. I have
very high arches and roll in a little on both sides so I didn't make
note of that.
He had me fit for corrective orthotics. When they came back, they
inflamed my heel really badly. I started aggressively rolling and
stretching my arch (I think this is part of where I went wrong and
tore or worsened the tears). I kept having the orthotics adjusted
because they really hurt my right foot. They adjusted the left to
match, even though I was fine on that side.
Dr Blake's comment: So you are in the Immobilization Phase. This is the time you should be in a removable boot with heel cushion, or modified arch support to transfer weight into your arch and cushion and protect your heel.
https://youtu.be/g0sD0gUbEMU
About this time, this is late November now, I was at the gym and
couldn't do a heel rise. My foot was in almost constant pain, my
podiatrist was very dismissive and told me I was fine. He didn't
really seem concerned with my pain or inability to do a heel rise. He
told me that I shouldn't be doing them anyway with the PF (??) but
sent me for an ultrasound "for my peace of mind".
Dr Blake's comment: The inability to do a heel raise indicates the arch has been compromised. As you begin to lift your heel, all the weight goes from the heel to the supporting structures of the arch, and eventually to the ball of the foot. But when you can not lift your heel off the ground, some structure(s) has been injured that helps lift up the arch (Plantar Fascia, spring ligament, posterior or anterior tibial tendons, etc).
It showed that I had a full thickness partial tear of the PF and split
tear of the PTT. He put me in a boot and wanted to see me the
following week. Immediately the boot hurt, it had no arch support so
he put in lifts.
Dr Blake's comment: It is good to have an arch support inside the boot in situations like this.
By the next day, my foot started to swell and the
pain was excruciating.
Dr Blake's comment: There are 3 sources of pain: mechanical (due to the injury), the inflammatory reaction to the injury, and the gradual onset of nerve hypersensitivity for your body's protection (the worse of all the pain sources). You were now really triggering nerve pain affecting the sympathetic nervous system with some swelling and possible skin discoloration. Ideally, this gets everyone's attention by now.
I started using crutches the following day.
By the time I saw him the next week, my foot was painfully swollen and
it was discovered that I developed a blood clot in my calf. He took
me out of the boot and had me NWB. This was mid December. After that
he took one phone call from me telling me to stay NWB and that he
wouldn't see me until I was cleared by a vascular surgeon. I was
cleared, but that podiatrist didn't take or return my calls after
that.
Dr Blake's comment: I apologize for my profession. It was clearly over his head, but you had a bad reaction, and doctors are human and can behave badly.
In the beginning of January, I started seeing a new podiatrist. She
ordered an MRI that confirmed the PF tear and showed a small
insertional tear of the PTT. She thought I needed surgery but her
colleague came in and said that it was small and he thought most of my
problem was from atrophy. He wanted me to go from the crutches to my
sneaker. In a matter of five minutes I had gone from needing surgery
to needing nothing, not even a boot.
I was confused and still in pain so I decided to see an orthopedist
foot and ankle specialist. He had me go from crutches to a boot,
which I thought was reasonable. He said that the PTT tear was small
and most of the problem was from the large PF tear. My arch still
hurt in the boot so he had me wear the orthotics I had gotten in
Nov/Dec in the boot.
Dr Blake's comment: Thank you, finally some reason applied to this.
Around this time, I started getting tingling and pain in my left PTT.
We thought it was compensation. Mid February I came out of the boot.
I was doing physical therapy twice a week and things seemed to be
improving. The PF pain was gone. I was able to do weak but pain free
single heel rises.
Dr Blake's comment: I am so happy when the pain got out of control, with the swelling, that you do not develop a condition called "Complex Regional Pain Syndrome". The Golden Rule that applies here is to get the pain level between 0-2 as quickly as possible. That just did not happen. Pain syndromes from the Posterior Tibial Tendon tend to always be on both sides, with different starting dates, so after you identify the posterior tibial tendon as a source of pain, immediately start doing some preventative things for the opposite side (orthotics, strengthening, or simply just icing).
I kept having medial ankle pain whenever we would do any balance
exercises. I took a day trip walking around a city and afterwards I
had swelling all long the left PTT. I was very concerned and went
back to the orthopedist. He put me in an aircast PTT brace and told
me that he'd send me for an MRI if it didn't improve. I asked him why
this was happening and he said he didn't really know. I have very
high arches and that should protect the PTT.
Dr Blake's comment: High Arch feet have worse problems with posterior tibial tendons if the arch starts to fall. High Arch Feet are more unstable in general than pronated flat feet, which can have more alignment issues. High Arch Feet need more muscle/tendon strength around the ankles to keep upright. High Arch Feet never get good arch support from shoes, OTC arch supports, and even most custom foot orthotic devices, so relie on tendon and ligament strength. When these are compromised, even by simply favoring one foot for awhile, pain begins.
Sorry, I know this is long, I'm almost at present day.
The symptoms calmed down and I stopped using the brace after about a
week. I kept trying to figure out why the left was hurting me. I
decided to try my old orthotics again, the ones from now five years
ago, and my left PTT calmed down immediately. The right one
aggravated the heal and irritated my ankle.
Dr Blake's comment: Good detective work!! Something is off.
I thought the problem was that they were old and needed some tweaking.
I dug around and found the name of the podiatrist who had made the old
orthotics. He took x-rays and discovered that I have an accessory
navicular, which, he says, is very uncommon in high arched feet. He
has scheduled me for shockwave treatment on my PTTs. He wants to have
the old orthotics refurbished and has me wearing them with a gel heal
cup.
Dr Blake's comment: I have no experience with shockwave, but it is to break down scar tissue, and there is good scar tissue presumably helping heel the Posterior Tibial issues.
The shockwave won't fix the right foot where the arch falls a little
but he thinks that it will help heal the damage. The plan is to try
to stop it from falling further with my old orthotics. I've tried
wearing just the old orthotics but on the right foot, the one that
tore, they cause my arch and ankle to ache badly, and the outside of
my foot to hurt. Yesterday I was limping, my ankle swelled and
something by my lateral ankle sounded like a knuckle cracking when I
walked. Today I'm wearing the orthotics that hurt the left foot
because they are better, but not perfect, on the right.
Dr Blake's comment: Definitely, you can temporarily wear 2 different generation orthotics on the right and left, or a custom and OTC, on each foot, to handle the pain aspect. Without more complex information, we have to listen to your body and let pain be your guide.
My questions are:
Can they make me one orthotic to deal with the PTTD on the right side
but not make the same adjustment on the left? I think that's what
caused the problem on the left side.
Dr Blake's comment: Yes they can. You have very different needs for each foot, so the orthotics made should reflect that with different support. If you were in my office now, before I made anything else, I would try to understand why one orthotic feels good, and one causes problems. It is in knowing that info that you can redesign a new pair to help.
Can orthotics really halt the progression of my arch falling?
Dr Blake's comment: Never on there own. Orthotic devices are used to stabilize the foot, along with taping, bracing, and good shoes. Then, foot strengthening exercises like the ones in the video below, can triple the strength on the tissue. What you do not know is if there is a degenerative process that will continue in the ligaments or tendons. You have to set a one year goal to perfect your orthotics, your ability to tape as needed, and triple the strength of your ankles and feet.
https://youtu.be/w3FXx4OFqec
Will I be able to run again if I have proper orthotics? Will anything
get me back to running?
Dr Blake's comment: Without knowing everything, my expectation would be that you could run again. Once you can walk 30 minutes for 2 weeks without pain, you can start a Walk/Run program with stability shoes, power lacing, great orthotics, and some version of posterior tibial taping like in the video below. I love having you begin to run as soon as possible, when walking is fine, because your feedback is crucial to modifying your orthotics, changing shoes, perfecting taping, etc.
https://youtu.be/e1JAewWT9Fc
https://youtu.be/AcSSyBfFocE
Is having the accessory navicular removed a reasonable option? From
what I've read, they anchor the PTT down where it should have been
instead of doing a tendon transfer. If that's true, wouldn't it be
better to have that done before the tendon stretches out even further?
Dr Blake's comment: I understand completely what you are saying, but right now it is preventative surgery, and that does not sit well with me. I would have a better feel for that based on the ease or difficulty getting back to running, the level of pain is have to constantly deal with, a repeat MRI and even CT scan looking at the tissue. I have seen plenty of accessory navicular bones that cause no problem whatsoever. I hope this has been somewhat helpful. Rich
I'm really starting to lose hope that I'll ever be able to even go
about my day without one PTT or the other bothering me, let alone run
or hike or any of the other things I love.
Thank you so much for taking the time to read this. I appreciate any
advice you may have to offer.
Thanks,
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 6:05:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Accessory Navicular, Plantar Fascial Tear, Posterior Tibial Dysfunction, posterior tibial tendinitis
Wednesday, May 18, 2016
When to Use Foot Orthotic Devices
Hi Dr Blake,
I just wanted to get your thoughts on the question that I have which is some patients will ask me "Do I have to wear orthotics / or a heel lift for the rest of my life?''
I generally respond with
- it depends on the severity of the condition
- as the stress on the injured tissue is reduced which allows the tissue to heal and adapt to its optimal function over a period of time,
I can gradually reduce the correction of the orthotics and incorporate corrective exercises to see if the patient is able to adapt without orthotics.
If symptoms reappear when the orthotics is removed after the patient is asymptomatic, then I will explain that the patient will need to continue wearing orthotics.
Looking forward to your response.
Regards,
Dr Blake's response:
Most definitely. I explain that orthotics, like glasses, are necessary evils to be used as needed. For some injuries like sesamoid fractures, it can be easy two years of mandatory use, and other injuries like plantar fasciitis, only two months longer than the symptoms. That is the injury protection part. Now, when we are evaluating patients, some patients get the same problem over and over, so long term use of orthotic devices for activities that produce those symptoms are important. But, they may only wear them to run twice weekly, or if they have a big backpacking trip coming soon.
And then there are the patients who have very severe biomechanical problems that should always wear their orthotics if the orthotic devices can correct that problem. These are patients with severe pronation, PTTD, lateral instability with chronic sprains, etc.
A subcategory of this are the preventative patients. Patients that wear orthotics to slow down the course of their bunions, forefoot neuritis, heel pain, achilles symptoms, knee degeneration, frequent ankle sprains, etc. They probably could get by without orthotic devices alot, but chose to use them AMAP.
And you bring up a great point about exercises. If you are using orthotic devices to reduce the effects of pronation or supination, you should place that patient on exercises done 3 times weekly to do the same thing. As they get stronger, than they can go longer without orthotic devices, and perhaps not have to use them at all. Hope this helps. Rich
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 11:31:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Foot Orthotic Devices
Monday, May 16, 2016
Recent Sesamoid Fracture with Fear of Osteonecrosis
Dear Dr. Blake,
I'm sure I speak for everyone when I say, "THANK YOU for your informative website and sharing your expertise!!" I have seen 2 orthopedists and 1 podiatrist and they have only helped me a mere fraction of what I've learned from your website.
My MRI shows "Markedly abnormal tibial sesamoid, suggestive of fragmentation and osteonecrosis." Based on MRI, the podiatrist predicts 90% surgery for me, but he says that I can try doing conservative tx (8 weeks immobilized, NWB).
On 4/20/2016, my foot injury occured after many months of competitive tennis (no orthotics, pronated foot, high arch) I had severe pain and could not put any weight on my foot and was in a wheelchair for several days.
Today (3 weeks post-injury), my pain level is 0-2 when walking in flat shoes or tennis shoes! My 1st Met Joint + Big Toe is swollen; swelling seems to have increased after 1-week of NWB.
I hope you can please help with these questions (which I believe will help many other sesamoid sufferers):
1. Here is the million dollar question:
For sesamoid fracture recovery, do you advise "NO weight bearing (NWB)" or "LIMITED weight-bearing"?
(After 1-week of NWB, my GTJ is more swollen! I see where it is mentioned NWB may increase swelling and also about how NWB can cause mineralization of sesamoid.)
Please clarify: What is best for sesamoid fracture: NWB or limited weight bearing and if so, how much?
2. Will Exogen Bone Stimulator improve healing of a "fragmented" sesamoid?
3. The doctors said the MRI quality was poor (like low definition!). Would a repeat MRI be helpful at this point to obtain better views of sesamoid in order to properly diagnose if it's fractured or fragmented and if there truly is osteonecrosis?
4. Will Contrast Bath help with my osteonecrosis?
5. Do you advise wearing the orthotic boot when sesamoid patient is SLEEPING AT NIGHT TIME or RESTING ON COUCH... or is it okay to sleep without orthotic boot? Is it helpful to Spica Tape(Plantar-Flexion) of Big Toe,... ALL of the time or only when sleeping?
6. For a fragmented sesamoid, is the conservative treatment (3 months rest) the same as for a fractured sesamoid?
7. May I please, please send the MRI to you for your expert review?
Thank you again for sharing your time and expertise!!!
Kind regards,
Dr Blake's response:
Linda, sorry for your predicament. As long as you can accomplish 0-2 pain level, partial weight bearing is preferred for bone mineralization. NWB always causes more swelling and pain, making decision making harder for progress. Exogen helps strength of bone, but no one is sure about the fragmentation. I have patients doing well with fragmentation and others waiting for surgery. It is one strike against you, however, did you say this was less than a month old. Fragmentation from bone death increases surgery, fragmentation from the original surgery may not. You need a CT to really look at the fragmentation. Yes, get the best resolution MRI you can, call around. Also, may be they can do a CT scan at the same time. Contrasts bathing done twice daily is the best thing you can do at home to really eliminate the deep swelling which cuts off the circulation and leads to bone death. You should not need anything at night, unless you are a sleep walker. Right now, you are probably a fractured in multiple pieces than a fragmented patients. Once you have the CD of the new MRI and/or CT scan, you can mail to Dr Rich Blake 900 Hyde Street San Francisco, CA, 94109. I am happy to help. Rich
Hello Dr. Blake!!!
Thank you sooooo much for your reply and concern!!!
Yes, my fragmentation and osteonecrosis is from injury (it is not from surgery).
Yes, the injury occurred on April 20; it is less than one month old. Does that increase my recovery chances,... and does it change the treatment plan?
I play competitive tennis (pronated foot with high arch) which resulted in pain in my 1st Met; this got worse six months ago. Doctor suspected stress fracture of 1st Met so I was put into an AirCast Cam Walker on April 15, the day before I went on a cruise ship.
On April 16-20, I wore the AirCast Boot on the cruise ship where I was walking about 2-miles per day because it was a big ship with lots of trips to the food buffet!
***Stupid me,... when walking in the AirCast, I modified my gait in an attempt to keep weight off of my 1st Met... so my gait was very supinated AND I flexed my Big Toe upwards for 2 miles/day on the cruiseship! I have since read that supination and big toe dorsi-flexion can expose the sesamoid and moves the protective fat pad away from it's normal location. I believe my modified-gait resulted in exposure of my Tibial Sesamoid to the hard insole of the Aircast Cam and this resulted in my crushing the sesamoid!!!
It was cruise day#4 when suddenly after a lot of walking in Aircast, my R foot was suddenly in so much pain (felt like broken bone) that I could not bear any weight on it and ended up on crutches! The date was April 20 and my R foot had swelling, severe pain in 1st Met especially planter side, with intense pain upon dorsi-flexion!
OMG, is it possible that I crushed my own Tibial Sesamoid in the AirCast Cam by walking 2-3 miles with an exaggerated-supinated gait and with keeping my big toe dorsi-flexed upwards?! Do other patients complain about sesamoid pain in the AirCast Cam?
After my MRI, the doctor put me back in to the AirCast (despite my suspicion that it caused my injury). The AirCast hurt my sesamoid so after a few days, I took it off and my foot was more swollen. I now wear a DARCO Ortho Wedge instead of the AirCast. Is the Darco Wedge okay to use for 4-8 weeks of immobilization and limited weight bearing?
If the tibial sesamoid dies, then is there an option to leave the dead sesamoid in my foot or is sesamoidectomy required?
Thank you again for your invaluable advice and I will follow all of your advice. I will also try to pursue another MRI and/or CT scan and I will mail it for your expert review. Thank you so much again.
With sincere gratitude,
~ "Squashed Sesamoid"
Dr Blake's response:
Increase chances greatly, it is not in a chronic state.
Cam Walkers hold the weight down for long periods on the heel and forefoot. Many times you have to modify Cam Walkers to alleviate pressure either in the heel or ball of the foot. So it is possible the Cam Walker caused the problem, but it is important that you are wearing it now with some insert that takes pressure off the sesamoid. The Darco Wedge is okay, but causes an altered gait (not good), and no weight on the sesamoid (some increase in swelling retention and bone demineralization). Okay to wear until the Cam Walker with partial weight bearing has some accommodation to protect the sesamoid and reduces the pain consistently to 0-2.
No studies about leaving dead sesamoids in there.
Hope this all helps. Rich
Hello Dr. Blake!!!
Thank you again and your expertise and info are very helpful, and much appreciated!!!
I have one question and I hope this will help others to avoid what happened to me!
At the risk of sounding really dumb,... I think I caused the osteonecrosis (AVN) sesamoid!
While on the cruise, the pain from my sesamoid fracture was intense and I had NO pain killers, not even Tylenol. To relieve the pain, I put ice in a surgical glove and then applied it directly to my foot and tied it on to my foot,... and I left the ice on my foot for one HOUR! After an hour of icing, my GTJ was numb and skin was red/swollen. To alleviate the intense pain, I repeated this direct icing 4-5x/day, such that my GTJ was over-iced for 4-5 hours/each day for about one week!
Is it possible that my excessive-icing applied directly to GTJ caused AVN of sesamoid?!?
Dr Blake's comment: I guess it is possible to cut off enough circulation to kill the bone, but again, I am not sure if you have osteonecrosis yet. It is good to point out that icing more than 20 minutes can cause nerve damage, so you more likely have nerve problems now. The nerve hypersensitivity will improve likely with massage and perhaps nerve creams like OTC Neuro-Eze.
I read that the sesamoid has very limited blood supply and this raised my concern and regret that by OVER-ICING, I inadvertently froze that limited blood supply, resulting in AVN! I also read that AVN sesamoid is uncommon/rare.
Thank you for helping with my question about excessive-icing and AVN sesamoid!
Hopefully others can learn from my mistake.
I am working on getting the MRI repeated and plan to share the new MRI results/CD soon.
There is scant literature about sesamoid and very few doctors who know how to DX and treat it.
You are a RARE exception and you truly are a doctor sent from Heaven to help me and others.
Dr Blake's comment: We are all our own worse critics, so I appreciate the reference to Heaven. I hope to make it there someday (after a millenium or two of purgatory of course).
Thank you again and with sincere gratitude,
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 5:34:00 PM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Sesamoid Fracture
Accessory Navicular: Blog Comment
Dr Blake, My daughter is 9 years old and started having feet pain off and on last summer. Since January it became more consistent and now it is daily. We initially went to a orthopedic doctor and he referred to PT and a podiatrist. In the mean time we bought New Balance shoes and insoles. She btw was determined to have collapsing arches that had apparently aggravated the supporting tendon. During PT we started noticing a place on the inside of her left foot that now protrudes all the time and is very tender. We have also been to our family physician. Everyone just wants her in arch supporting insoles. We have been given anti inflammatory creams as well. Nothing works! We have tried all creams, advil, several different insoles, icing, stretching and physical therapy. We also took her out of karate, and reduced other activities. My daughter is in pain every day. They say her xrays are normal. Below the navicular bone there are 3 little pebble looking shapes. I am wondering if that extra bone is forming??? I am just at a loss of what to do next. Every shoe we have seems to really aggravate the protrusion on the inside of her foot. Any advice would be appreciated.
Dr Blake's response:
Thank you for your comment. Definitely sounds like the beginning of accessory navicular syndrome for sure. Buy some 1/4 inch adhessive felt which you can adjust/thin as needed to build a horseshoe accommodation for shoes. You really need to get her into a removable boot for 3 months to begin the Immobilization Phase ASAP. This should be accompanied with 10 minute ice packs three times a day. Since there is always time a home that she will walk without the boot, she will know if it is getting better. You stay completely in the boot 2 weeks longer than you need to. During the boot time, you have a podiatrist make a custom orthotic device with an accommodation. Hope this helps your daughter heal faster. Rich
Posted by Dr Richard Blake at 8:02:00 AM No comments: Links to this post
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Accessory Navicular
Newer Posts Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
Translate
Dr Blake's Book
Follow by Email
Blog Archive
► 2019 (36)
► April (3)
► March (12)
► February (8)
► January (13)
► 2018 (148)
► December (11)
► November (2)
► October (10)
► September (13)
► August (6)
► July (3)
► June (22)
► May (8)
► April (18)
► March (20)
► February (4)
► January (31)
► 2017 (159)
► December (10)
► November (8)
► October (17)
► September (7)
► August (17)
► July (22)
► June (17)
► May (19)
► April (13)
► March (5)
► February (10)
► January (14)
▼ 2016 (189)
► December (21)
► November (24)
► October (6)
► September (19)
► August (11)
► July (16)
► June (15)
▼ May (28)
We Shouldn't Have To Be Reminded to Exercise: This...
6 Great Stretches for all Activities
A, B, Cs of Diabetes
Achilles Tendons Survive Hill Workouts, but there ...
Ankle Sprain Treatment
Foot Stability with Extrinsic Rearfoot Posts: Sexy...
Sun Screen Needed for Feet!!
Hiking Boot Lacing for Extra Stability
Leg Length Discrepancy Treatment
Lower Extremity Nerve Symptoms: Looking for more t...
3D Printing to help Feet Problems
Top Foot Health Websites: I made #10 out of 25!!
Plantar Fasciitis Post Cortisone Shot Advice
How To Begin To Run after an Injury: Walk Run Prog...
Posterior Tibial Tendon Injury and Long Term Conce...
When to Use Foot Orthotic Devices
Recent Sesamoid Fracture with Fear of Osteonecrosi...
Accessory Navicular: Blog Comment
Working your way through the Phases of Rehabilitat...
Great Review Article on Posterior Tibial Tendon Dy...
Ilio Tibial Band Stretches
Posterior Tibial Tendon Strengthening: Ask The Pod...
Medial Knee Osteoarthritis and Foot Orthotic Devic...
Marathon Training: Learn from one of the world's b...
Stinky Feet: Check out this video
Posterior Tibial Tendon Treatment Advice
Podiatrist's Biomechanics Corner: Email Advice
Plantar Fasciitis and Arch Taping from Support The...
► April (25)
► March (9)
► February (11)
► January (4)
► 2015 (153)
► December (5)
► November (14)
► October (22)
► September (5)
► August (11)
► July (28)
► June (7)
► May (4)
► April (11)
► March (5)
► February (15)
► January (26)
► 2014 (218)
► December (10)
► November (17)
► October (19)
► September (17)
► August (14)
► July (17)
► June (20)
► May (11)
► April (17)
► March (31)
► February (29)
► January (16)
► 2013 (289)
► December (9)
► November (24)
► October (31)
► September (19)
► August (31)
► July (30)
► June (41)
► May (22)
► April (13)
► March (16)
► February (28)
► January (25)
► 2012 (262)
► December (22)
► November (22)
► October (14)
► September (33)
► August (21)
► July (23)
► June (17)
► May (25)
► April (26)
► March (20)
► February (20)
► January (19)
► 2011 (244)
► December (24)
► November (17)
► October (24)
► September (11)
► August (29)
► July (18)
► June (20)
► May (21)
► April (22)
► March (20)
► February (22)
► January (16)
► 2010 (197)
► December (23)
► November (33)
► October (25)
► September (13)
► August (27)
► July (25)
► June (11)
► May (13)
► April (21)
► March (6)
Popular Posts
Why do toenails become more curved as we Age?
Toe Nail Fungus: 30 Minute Vinegar Soaking
Achilles StretchIng: One Stretch to Avoid (when you have achilles tendinitits or plantar fasciitis)
Supinators: Wedges for the Shoes (Email correspondence)
Sesamoid Fractures: Advice when not healing well
Foot Pain in 8 year old: Email Advice
Taping for Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction/Tendinitis
For Podiatrists: Biomechanical Discussion Points #1
Cortisone Shots: The Thought Process Behind
Cartiva Joint Implant vs Arthrosurface: Present Thoughts
AvantLink
About Me
Dr Richard Blake
San Francisco, CA, United States
I have been a podiatrist for 34 years now and I am excited about sharing what I have learned on this blog. I love to exercise, especially basketball and hiking. I love to travel. I am very happily married to Patty, and have 2 wonderful sons Steve and Chris, a great daughter in law Clare, my new grandson Henry, and a grand dog Felix.
View my complete profile
AAPSM for Sports Podiatrists
AAPSM - American Academy of Podiatric Sports Medicine
Dr Blake's Typical Orthotic Response
Labels
2nd Metatarsal Fracture (1)
2nd Metatarsal Pain (5)
2nd Toe Dislocation (2)
2nd Toe Problems (2)
3rd Metatarsal Capsulitis (1)
4th Metatarsal Stress Fracture (1)
5th Metatarsal Fractures (4)
5th Toe Dislocation (1)
A.R.T. (1)
AAPSM (1)
AAPSM Lecture 4/11 (1)
AAPSM Referral Source for Good Podiatrists (2)
Abductor Hallucis Strengthening for Bunions (2)
Accessory Navicular (26)
Accommodative Padding (3)
Accupuncture (2)
Achilles (8)
Achilles Strengthening (8)
Achilles Stretching (7)
Achilles Stretching Principles (2)
Achilles Tendinitis (7)
Achilles Tendon Cortisone Shots (1)
Achilles Tendon Injuries (11)
Achilles Tendon Partial Tear MRI Image (2)
Achilles Tendon Ruptures (9)
Achilles Tendon Surgery (2)
Achilles Tendon Tightness (1)
Achilles Tightness Measurement (1)
Achilles Treatment with Soleus Roll (1)
Acute Ankle Sprain Treatment Advice (1)
Acute Injury Treatment (1)
Alcohol Injections for Nerve Pain (7)
Alpha Lipoic Acid (1)
Anatomy of the Foot (1)
Anatomy of the Foot and Ankle Video (1)
Ankle Brace Waterproof (1)
Ankle Braces (3)
Ankle Foot Orthotic (1)
Ankle Fracture (1)
Ankle Images Cartilage Damage (1)
Ankle Instability (5)
Ankle Pain (1)
Ankle Reconstruction Surgery (1)
Ankle Replacement Surgery (1)
Ankle Snapping (1)
Ankle Sprain (4)
Ankle Sprain Exercises (1)
Ankle Sprain Treatment Videos (1)
Ankle Sprains (14)
Ankle Strengthening Exercises (7)
Ankle Strengthening Video (1)
Ankle Xrays (1)
Anti-Inflammatory Medication (2)
Appointment with Dr Rich Blake (1)
Arch Heights (1)
Arch Strengthening Exercises (1)
Arch Supports Over the Counter (1)
Arch Taping (3)
Arm Swing (1)
Arthritis (when is it time to stop?) (1)
Ask The Podiatrist Segment (2)
Babinski (1)
Back and Foot Connection (1)
Back Exercises for Curves (1)
Balance (2)
Balance Exercises (5)
Balance Improvement with Orthoses (1)
Ball of Foot Pain (12)
Ballet (4)
Ballet Sesamoid Injury (1)
Ballet Shoes (1)
BAPS for Foot and Ankle Strengthening and Range of Motion (1)
Bar Method Intro (1)
Barefoot Running (6)
Basketball (3)
Big Toe Joint Fusion (4)
Big Toe Joint Injury (7)
Big Toe Joint Motion Evaluation (1)
Big Toe Joint MRI (1)
Big Toe Joint Pain (12)
Big Toe Pain (5)
Biker's Knee (1)
Biomechanics (11)
Biomechanics for the Podiatrist (4)
Biomechanics of Running (4)
Biomechanics of the Foot (1)
Biomechanics of Walking (2)
Bipartite Sesamoid (2)
Blake Inverted Device (5)
Blisters (6)
Bone Density Test (2)
Bone Scan for Diagnosis of Bone Pain (4)
Bone Spur Big Toe Joint (2)
Bone Spurs (1)
Bone Stimulators for Slow Fractures (3)
Breaking Into Orthotic Devices (1)
Bromstrom Procedure (1)
Buddy Taping (2)
Budin Splints (5)
Bunion and Treatment Recommendations (2)
Bunion Evaluation (4)
Bunion Exercise (1)
Bunion Night Splints (1)
Bunion Padding (1)
Bunion Self Help Tips (3)
Bunion Stages (1)
Bunion Surgery PreOp Considerations (1)
Bunion Surgery Problems (2)
Bunion Taping (1)
Bunion Treatment Tips (1)
Bunion Xray Evaluation (2)
Bunions (27)
Bunions and Shoe Recommendations (1)
Bursitis (6)
Bursitis Heel (1)
Bursitis on MRI imaging (2)
Buttock Pain (1)
Buzzing Sensation Feet (1)
Calcaneal Apophysitis (4)
Calcaneal Fracture (3)
Calcaneal Stress Fracture (2)
Calcaneo-Navicular Coalition (1)
Calcific Achilles Tendinitis (1)
Calf Atrophy (1)
Calf Pain (2)
Calf Strain (1)
Calf Tightness (1)
Calluses (4)
Calmare Pain Therapy (10)
Cane Decorative (1)
Canes (2)
Capsulitis of the 2nd and 3rd Metatarsal Phalangeal Joints (1)
Carbon Graphite Steel for Hallux Rigidus (1)
Cartilage Supplementation Injectable (1)
Cast Disease (1)
Cast Immobilization Rehab (3)
Casts/Splints/Braces (2)
Cerebral Palsy Patient (2)
Cervical Spine Myelopathy (1)
Chairs: Leading to Inflexibility (1)
Charcot (1)
Charcot Shoes (1)
Checklist Gait Evaluation (1)
Cheilectomy for Hallux Rigidus (5)
Cheilectomy Post Op (2)
Chi Running (1)
Children's Feet (2)
Children's Flatfeet (1)
Children's Health Article (1)
Children's Shoes (1)
Chronic Pain (6)
Chronic Pain treatment with Opioids (1)
Cipro Negative Impact Tendons (2)
Clonus (1)
Cluffy Wedge (1)
Coalition (1)
Coban Wraps (1)
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (1)
Cold Feet (3)
Cold Therapy (3)
Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (21)
Compression Pumps for Swelling (1)
Contrast Bathing (2)
Corns (1)
Correct Toes (2)
Cortisone (2)
Cortisone Injections Near Tendons Are Potentially Dangerous (2)
Cortisone Shot Adverse Effect (2)
cortisone shots (2)
Cramping at Night (1)
Creating a Pain Free Environment (1)
CRPS (27)
CRPS emergency room protocol (1)
CRPS patients needing shots (1)
CRPS Study 2016 seeking participants (1)
Crutches (1)
Crutches Weaning Off (1)
Cryotherapy (1)
Custom Orthotic Devices (3)
Custom Shoes (1)
Cycling (5)
Dance Injury (1)
Dancer's Knee (1)
Dancer's Pads (2)
Deep Relief for Soreness (1)
Deep Vein Thrombosis (3)
Diabetes (11)
Diabetes and Vegan Diet Help (1)
Diabetes Blood Test (1)
Diabetes Treatment (1)
Diabetic Neuropathic Pain (4)
Diabetic Socks (1)
Diet Health (1)
Dislocated Toe (1)
Distance Running (1)
Double Crush Syndrome (11)
Dr Deepak Chopra (pain specialist Rhode Island) (1)
Dr Lance Silverman's Blog (3)
Drawing Salve (1)
Dress Orthotic Devices (2)
Dry Cracked Heels (1)
Dry Skin (1)
Ehler Danlos (1)
En Pointe (Ballet) (2)
En Pointe Starting Point (1)
Epiphyseal Injury (1)
Equinus (1)
EvenUps (2)
Excessive Pronation (3)
Excessive Pronation Varus Wedge (1)
Excessive Supination (6)
Exercise Health Benefits (2)
Exercise Is Medicine Program (1)
Exercise Tips (1)
Exogen Bone Stimulator (5)
External Hip Rotator Strengthening (5)
Extracorpreal Shockwave Treatment (1)
Fall Injury with Advice (1)
Fall Prevention Program (2)
Falling and Ways to Prevent (2)
Family Support for Injury (1)
Fascia (1)
Fat Pad Atrophy (4)
Fat Pad Replacement (3)
Fettig Technique (2)
Fifth Metatarsal Fracture (6)
Finn Comfort Boots/Shoes/Sandals (1)
First Metatarsal Phalangeal Joint Pain (1)
First Metatarsal Position Evaluation (3)
First Metatarsal Stability (1)
Flat Feet (5)
Flat Feet and Running (1)
Flatfeet (2)
Flatfeet in Children (1)
Flexor Hallucis Longus Eccentric Strengthening (1)
Floor Mirror for Diabetes (1)
Flying Advice when Swollen (1)
Foam Toe Caps (1)
Food Allergies (1)
Foods to Fight Pain (1)
Foot Anatomy (1)
Foot and Ankle Strengthening Video Playlist (1)
Foot and Knee Relationship (2)
Foot Drop (3)
Foot Exercises (2)
Foot Health Websites (1)
Foot Nerve Pain (8)
Foot Orthotic Devices (21)
Foot Poem (1)
Foot Smart Company (1)
Foot Strengthening Exercises (16)
Foot Stress Fractures (6)
Foot Surgeries and Strengthening (1)
Force Length Curve (1)
Forefoot Abnormalities (3)
Forefoot Pain (2)
Forefoot Valgus (1)
Forefoot Varus (2)
Fracture Foot Advise (1)
Fracture Healing with Bone Stimulation (1)
Fracture with Soft Tissue Involvement (1)
Fractures and Smoking Link (1)
Fractures Foot (1)
Fractures of Metatarsals (3)
Fractures of the Foot (1)
Friction Relief (1)
Front of Foot Pain (2)
Frozen Ankle (1)
Functional Foot Orthotics (3)
Functional Hallux Limitus (2)
Gabapentin (1)
Gait Abnormalities (1)
Gait Evaluation (22)
Gait Phases (1)
Ganglions (5)
Gangrene (1)
Gel for Cushioning (2)
General Biomechanical Principles (4)
General Foot Care Advice (1)
Golden Rules of Foot (5)
Good Pain vs Bad Pain (4)
Gout (6)
Gout: General Treatment Thoughts (1)
Graded Motor Imagery for Nerve Pain (1)
Hallux Inter-Phalangeal Joint Pain (1)
Hallux Limitus Functional (1)
Hallux Limitus Initial Symptoms (1)
Hallux Limitus Xray Evaluation (1)
Hallux Limitus/ Rigidus (44)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus (9)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Playlist (1)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Reader Comment Post (1)
Hallux Limitus/Rigidus Self Mobilization Technique (2)
Hallux Pain (1)
Hallux Rigidus (5)
Hallux Rigidus Splint (1)
Hallux Rigidus Surgical Options (3)
Hallux Rigidus/Post Op (5)
Hallux Sesamoiditis (1)
Hallux Valgus/Bunion (1)
Hallux Varus (2)
Hammertoe Surgical Rehabilitation (1)
Hammertoes (8)
Hammertoes: Cause and Treatment (1)
Hamstring Stretches (5)
Hamstring Stretches Floor Based (1)
Hamstrings (2)
Hannaford Orthotics (8)
Hapad OTC Arch Supports (3)
Hawaii (1)
HbA1c Blood Test for Diabetes (1)
Health Benefits Daily Exercise (1)
Health Tip (1)
Heat Therapy (1)
Heel Bursitis (3)
Heel Lifts (1)
Heel Pain (26)
Heel Pain Evaluation (1)
Heel Pain in a Runner (1)
Heel Pain in Children (1)
Heel Pain Treatment with Orthotics (1)
Heel Pain Video (1)
Heel Pain Website (1)
Heel Slippage (1)
Heel Slippage and Shoes (1)
Heel Spurs (1)
High Heels (8)
High Heels with Orthopedic Thoughtfulness (1)
Hiking (1)
Hiking Boot Lacing for Stability (1)
Hiking Boots (5)
Hiking Preparation (1)
Hip Arthritis in Runners (1)
Hip Hop Dance (1)
Hip Pain (4)
Hip Pain and Foot Mechanics (1)
Hip Replacement (4)
Hip Replacement Problems (1)
Hip Replacements and Limb Length Discrepancies (2)
History of Podiatric Biomechanics (1)
HOKA shoes (4)
How To Begin To Run (1)
Hypermobility of Joints/Feet (1)
Ice Pack (1)
Ice Therapy (1)
Ice Treatment (1)
Icing for Swelling Reduction (2)
Ilio-Tibial Band Syndrome (3)
Iliotibial Band Syndrome: General Thoughts (1)
Images of Plantar Fascial Tear (4)
Immobilization with EvenUp (1)
Impressions for Orthotic Devices (1)
Infected Ingrown Toenail (3)
Infections (2)
Inflammation Food Triggers (1)
Ingrown Toenails (4)
Injection Tips for Comfort (1)
Injections for Diagnosis (1)
Injury Rehabilitation (4)
Injury Rehabilitation Principles (12)
Insect Bite (1)
Insertional Achilles Tendinitis (3)
Instep Pain (1)
Internally Rotated Legs (2)
International Biomechanics (1)
Intoed Gait (1)
Intrinsic Foot Strengthening (2)
Inverted Orthotic Technique (33)
Iontophoresis (1)
Joint Dysfunction (1)
Joint Mobilization Treatment (1)
Jones Fifth Metatarsal Fracture (3)
Juvaderm (1)
Keep It Simple Stupid (1)
Ketamine sublingual (1)
Kinesiotape (2)
Kirby Skive (3)
KISS Principle (2)
Knee Arthritis in Runners (1)
Knee Mechanics (1)
Knee Pain (16)
Knee Pain and Short Leg Syndrome (1)
Knee Treatment with Varus Wedging (1)
Kneecap Injuries (1)
Knees (4)
Lacing for Stability (2)
Lacing Modifications (2)
Lamisil (2)
Laser for Fungus (1)
Lasers for Pain (1)
Lateral Ankle Pain (1)
Lateral Knee Compartment Syndrome (2)
Laterality Flash Cards (3)
Laterality Flash Cards for Nerve Pain (1)
Ledderhose Disease (2)
Leg Length Discrepancy (1)
Leg/Shin Pain (7)
Lifts (2)
Lifts for Short Leg (4)
Limb Dominance in Gait (1)
Limb Length Discrepancies (4)
Limping Discussion (1)
Lipitor (1)
Lisa Tonra's Fitness Tips (4)
Lisfranc's Joint Sprain (5)
Listen To Your Body/Never Push Through Pain (1)
Long Distance Running (1)
Longer Feet Problems (1)
Loss of Sensation (1)
Lotions/Creams (1)
Low Back Nerve Compression (1)
Low Back Pain (4)
Low Dose Naltrexone (2)
Low Dye Taping (1)
Lower Extremity Review (1)
Lumps on the Foot (1)
Lymphatic Drainage (1)
Lyrica Dosing for Neuropathic Pain (1)
Magical 80% (1)
Malignant Melanoma (2)
Marathon Matt (2)
Marathon Training for Beginners (2)
MarathonRookie.com (1)
Marathons (3)
Marc Evans Triathalon Coach (4)
Massage Balls for Foot Pain (2)
Maximalistic Shoes (3)
Mechanics of Overuse Injuries (1)
Medial Knee Arthritis (1)
Medial Knee Compartment Syndrome (3)
Medical History (3)
Medical History: Biomechanics (1)
Medications Causing Tendon Problems (1)
Medications for Nerve Pain (5)
Meditation for Healing (2)
Men's Shoes for Long and Narrow Feet (1)
Metatarsal Arcing Exercise (1)
Metatarsal Doming Exercise (2)
Metatarsal Fracture Oblique Fifth (1)
Metatarsal Fractures (4)
Metatarsal Pain (16)
Metatarsal Support (1)
Metatarsalgia (6)
Midfoot Arthritis/Arthralgias (1)
Midfoot Pain (1)
Mirror Box Therapy (1)
Morton's Neuromas (29)
Morton's Syndrome (1)
MRI Knee (1)
Multiple Sclerosis (1)
Music for Chronic Pain (1)
Music for Healing (2)
Mustard Seed Plaster (1)
Nail Matrixectomy (kill root cells) (1)
Nail Polish (1)
Navicular (4)
Navicular Drop Test for Pronation (1)
Navicular Fractures (2)
Negative Cast Bisection (1)
Negative Cast Pouring (1)
Nerve Hypersensitivity (2)
Nerve Injury (2)
Nerve Pain (40)
Nerve Pain after Injuries (1)
Nerve Pain and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (1)
Nerve Pain and Exercise (1)
Nerve Pain caused by Neck Problems (1)
Nerve Pain Diet (1)
Nerve Pain Forefoot (1)
Nerve Pain from Back (1)
Nerve Pain Topical Medication (2)
Nerve Pain Treatment with Exercise (1)
Nerve Symptoms in Foot (1)
Neural Flossing (7)
Neural Prolotherapy (1)
Neural Tension (2)
Neuro-Eze (3)
Neuromas (6)
Neurontin (2)
Neuropathic Pain (11)
Nexcare Tape (1)
NSAIDS (1)
Numbness in the Foot (2)
Ollier's Disease (1)
Onychomycosis (3)
Oral Cortisone (2)
Orthotic Adjustments (1)
Orthotic Casting (1)
Orthotic Design (4)
Orthotic Designs (7)
Orthotic Device Break In (Tips) (1)
Orthotic Device Shoe Fit (1)
Orthotic Functions (1)
Orthotic Manufacturing (1)
Orthotic Modification to Prevent Movement (1)
Orthotic Modifications (7)
Orthotic Prescription Writing (1)
Orthotic Research (1)
Orthotic Waterproofing Product (1)
Orthotics for Maximum Shock Absorption (1)
Orthotics for Sandals (1)
Os Peroneum (1)
Os Tibial Externum (1)
Os Trigonum (2)
Osgood Schlatters Prolotherapy (1)
Osgood Schlatters Syndrome (1)
Osteoporosis Exercises (1)
Overheating While Exercising (1)
Overuse Injury Generalizations (1)
PAD: Peripheral Arterial Disease (1)
Pain (3)
Pain Checklist (1)
Pain Flareups (1)
Pain Management (3)
Pain Medical History (1)
Pain Scale (2)
Pain Treatment with Laser (1)
Pain: 3 Sources (2)
Paraffin Wax Treatments (1)
Partial Sesamoidectomy (3)
Patella Injuries (1)
Pediatric Problems (1)
Pedicures (1)
Pelvic Pain (1)
Pelvic Tilts (2)
Peripheral Arterial Disease (1)
Peripheral Neuropathy (9)
Peripheral Neuropathy with Gluten Sensitivity (1)
Peripheral Venous Insufficiency (1)
Peroneal Subluxation/Dislocation Syndrome (3)
Peroneal Tendinitis (7)
Peroneal Tendon Injuries (1)
Peroneal Tendon Repair Post Op (1)
Peroneal Tendon Repair Rehabilitation (1)
Peroneal Tendon Strengthening with Therabands (1)
Pes Cavus (1)
Pes Cavus Orthotic Therapy (1)
Pes Planus Orthotic Therapy (1)
Phantom Limb Pain (1)
Phases of Rehabilitation (1)
Physical Fitness (1)
Physical Therapy Modalities (4)
Pigeon Toes (1)
Piriformis Syndrome (2)
Plantar Fascia Sock (1)
Plantar Fascial Night Splint (2)
Plantar Fascial Stretches (9)
Plantar Fascial Surgery/Post Op (1)
Plantar Fascial Tear (15)
Plantar Fasciitis (45)
Plantar Fasciitis General Treatment based on need (1)
Plantar Fasciitis General Treatment Principles (3)
Plantar Fasciitis Injection (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Massage Technique (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Orthotics by Hannaford Technique (1)
Plantar Fasciitis Prolotherapy (1)
plantar fasciitis taping (1)
Plantar Fasciitis: Basic Treatment Remedies (1)
Plantar Fibromatosis or Fibromas (3)
Plantar Heel Bursitis (2)
Plantar Plate Tear (11)
Plantar Wart (4)
Playlist for Morton's Neuroma (2)
Playlist for Plantar Fasciitis (1)
Playlist for Short Leg Syndrome (1)
Playlist Hallux Limitus/Rigidus (1)
Plyometrics (1)
Posemethod of Running (1)
Positive Casts (2)
Positive Casts before Balancing (1)
Post Exercise Cool Down (1)
Post Op Foot Concerns (1)
Posterior Ankle Impingement Syndrome (1)
Posterior Heel Pain (1)
Posterior Tibial Dysfunction (26)
posterior tibial strengthening exercises (3)
posterior tibial tendinitis (11)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Dysfunction Brace (1)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Surgery (1)
Posterior Tibial Tendon Taping (1)
Power Lacing (4)
Pre-Dislocation Syndrome (1)
Prednisone Negative Impact Tendons (1)
Pregnancy (2)
PRICE (2)
Prolotherapy (1)
Pronation Control with Orthotic Modifications (2)
Pronation Evaluation (1)
Proprioceptive Exercises (1)
PRP injection (1)
Psoriasis (1)
Psoriatic Arthritis (3)
Psoriatic Arthritis and Ankle Swelling (1)
Push Off (1)
Quadreps Stretching (2)
Quadriceps Strengthening (1)
Radiculopathy (1)
Rearfoot Posts (3)
Recovering from Injury (1)
Referred Pain from Low Back (5)
Referred Pain to Foot (1)
Removable Boot from Ovation Medical (1)
Removable Boots (3)
Research on Treatment Success (1)
Retro-calcaneal bursitis (2)
Retrocalcaneal spur/exostosis (1)
Return to Activity (1)
Returning to Running after Injury (1)
Rheumatoid Arthritis (1)
RICE Therapy (1)
Rockport Shoes (1)
Roll A Bout (2)
Ronald Reagan's Humor (1)
Root Balance Technique (8)
Root Balancing Device (2)
RSD (5)
Runner's Exercise (1)
Runner's Knee (3)
Runner's Knee Exercise (1)
Runner's Loop (1)
Running (16)
Running 2012 (1)
Running Downhill (1)
Running Form (2)
Running Injuries (4)
Running Low Impact (1)
Running Shoe Evaluation for Wear (1)
Running Shoe Lecture (1)
Running Shoes (13)
Running Socks (1)
Running Technique (1)
Running vs Walking (1)
Running vs Walking Mechanics (1)
Running Warehouse (1)
Sacro-Iliac Joint Testing (1)
Samuel Merritt University Lecture Oct 2015 (1)
Samuel Merritt University Lecture on Gait Evaluation (1)
Samuel Merritt University Sports Medicine Lecture 1/13 (1)
Sandals for Cushioning (2)
Sandals for Summer (3)
Scar Breakdown (3)
Scar Reduction Techniques (2)
Sciatica (2)
Sciatica and Piriformis Syndrome (3)
Scoliosis (2)
Second Opinions (3)
Senior Health Issues (1)
Sensoria (1)
Sesamoid (10)
Sesamoid AVN (9)
Sesamoid Fracture (40)
Sesamoid Fracture General Rules (3)
Sesamoid Fracture Growing Child (3)
Sesamoid Fracture Initial Plan of Attack (1)
Sesamoid Fracture Post Surgery (12)
Sesamoid Fractures (53)
Sesamoid Injuries (58)
Sesamoid Missing in Child (1)
Sesamoid MRI views (1)
Sesamoid Partial Removal Post Surgery (2)
Sesamoid Post Op (6)
Sesamoid Sleeve for Protection (1)
Sesamoid Surgery Advice (1)
Sesamoid Surgery with Complications (4)
Sesamoiditis (8)
Sesamoidits (2)
Sever's Disease (3)
ShearBan (2)
Shin Splints (8)
Shin Splints 4 Basic Types (1)
Shin Splints Basic Treatment (1)
Shock Absorption (4)
Shoe Biomechanics (2)
Shoe Buying Tip (1)
Shoe Evaluation (4)
Shoe Evaluation for Flexion Properties (1)
Shoe Horn Replacement: Footfunnel (1)
Shoe Insert Evaluation (1)
Shoe Inserts (18)
Shoe Lace Modification (1)
Shoe Lacing for Wide Feet (1)
Shoe Lacing Techniques (5)
Shoe Lift Online Purchasing (1)
Shoe Lifts for Short Leg (4)
Shoe Modification (11)
Shoe Purchasing (1)
Shoe Size (2)
Shoe Size Measurement (1)
Shoe Stability Tests (2)
Shoe Wear Patterns (3)
Shoe Wedging (1)
Shoe Wedging for Supinators (1)
Shoes (10)
Shoes for Fashion (1)
Shoes for Infants (1)
Shoes for Men Long and Narrow (1)
Shoes online (1)
Short Leg Lifts Shoe Website (1)
Short Leg Syndrome (47)
Short Leg Syndrome and Hip Replacement (2)
Shots (1)
SI Joint (1)
Single Leg Balancing Exercise (1)
Sinus Tarsi Syndrome (1)
Skin Cancer (3)
Skin Discoloration (1)
Skin/Nail Conditions (2)
Sleeping Protection for Foot Pain (1)
Smart Socks (1)
Smart Sox (1)
Soccer Cleats (2)
Socks (3)
Socks for Cold Feet (1)
Socks with High Tech (1)
Soft Tissue Injury Treatment (1)
Sole OTC Arch Supports (2)
Solemates for Heels (1)
Soles4Souls (1)
Somatic Experiencing (1)
Song of Podiatry (2)
Sore Pressure Spots Bottom Feet (3)
Special Interest Story (1)
Spica Taping (5)
Spica Taping for big toe joint problems testimony (1)
Sports Medicine (1)
Sports Medicine Class 2012 (1)
Sprain Big Toe Joint (1)
Squeaking Orthotics (2)
Stationary Bike (2)
Steida's Process Fracture (1)
Stinky Feet (1)
Stonger Bones (1)
Straight Leg Raise Test (1)
Strengthening 6 Basic Types (1)
Strengthening Achilles Eccentrically (2)
Strengthening for Ankles (1)
Strengthening for Feet (2)
Strengthening for Hips (1)
strengthening for posterior tibial tendon (1)
Strengthening General Principles (4)
Stress Fractures (4)
Stress Fractures of the Leg (1)
Stretching (4)
Stretching 13 General Principles (1)
Stretching Achilles Principles (1)
Stretching for Achilles (1)
Stretching for Hamstrings (4)
Stretching for Ilio-Tibial Band (2)
Stretching for Plantar Fasciitis (2)
Stretching for Quads (2)
Stretching General Principles (1)
Stretching Principles (1)
Stretching Technique (1)
Stretching the Achilles Properly (1)
Stretching with Heat and Ice (2)
Subtalar Joint Arthritis (1)
Sunscreen for Feet (1)
Supination (15)
Supination causing Ankle Problems (2)
Supination Exercises for better Stability (1)
Supination Orthotic Modifications (2)
Support Hose for Leg Swelling (5)
Support Hose Slippage (1)
Support the Foot Taping (1)
Supportthefoot.com (1)
Sural Neuritis (maybe) (1)
Surgery of the Future?? (1)
Swelling After Ankle Sprains (2)
Swelling and Nerve Symptoms (1)
Swelling Self Help Tips (1)
Swelling Treatment (7)
Swimming Rehabilitation Ankle Brace (1)
Swollen Big Toe Joint (8)
Tailor's Bunions (2)
Talar Fractures (1)
Talus Injury (2)
Taping for 2nd Metatarsal/Toe Pain (4)
Taping for 5th Metatarsal Base Fractures (1)
Taping for Achilles (2)
Taping for Ankle Sprains/Pain (1)
Taping for Arch Pain (4)
Taping for Big Toe Joint Pain (3)
Taping for Bunions (1)
Taping for Plantar Fasciitis (4)
Taping for Posterior Tibial Tendon (1)
Taping for Toe Injuries (1)
Taping Modifications (1)
Taping of Posterior Tibial Tendon (1)
Taping of the Arch (2)
Taping the Arch (1)
Taping/Wraps (2)
Tarsal Tunnel Syndrome (13)
Team In Training (1)
Tendinitis (3)
tendinitis of the posterior tibial tendon (1)
Tendinitis Treatment with BRISS (3)
Tennis Shoes (2)
Theraband Strengthening Equipment (1)
Tibial Stress Fractures (3)
Tingling in the Foot (1)
Tip of the Iceberg Concept (1)
Tips for Breaking in Orthotic Devices (1)
Toastie Toes (1)
Toe Dislocation with Closed Reduction (1)
Toe Hyper Flexion Injury (1)
Toe Injury (1)
Toe Length Differences (1)
Toe Length Issues (1)
Toe Problems (4)
Toe Separators for Bunions (2)
Toenail Fungus (17)
Toenail Fungus Cold Plasma Treatment (1)
Toenail Fungus Topical Medication (1)
Toenail Fungus Urea Treatment (1)
Toenail Pain (1)
Toenails (1)
Top 100 Biomechanical Guidelines (45)
Treadmill Workouts (2)
Triathalons (3)
Tumeric (2)
Tumor of the Bone (1)
Turf Toe (7)
Twitter Updates (2)
Two Different Size Feet (1)
Ulcerations (3)
Ultrasound Examination Foot and Ankle (1)
Underpronation (aka over supination) (1)
Valgus Wedging for Knee Pain (1)
Varicose Veins (1)
Varus Wedging (3)
Vegan Diet (1)
Vitamin B Deficiency (1)
Vitamin D Deficiency (2)
Vitamin D/Calcium (6)
Walk Run Program (2)
Walking Poles for Hiking (1)
Walking Schedule Website (1)
Walking Shoes (1)
Walking Stairs (1)
Walking vs Running Mechanics (1)
Walnuts (1)
Wart (1)
Wart Treatment with Apple Cider Vinegar (1)
Water Aerobic Shoes (1)
Water Gym (1)
Water Workouts (1)
Waterproofing (1)
Weaning from a Cast (2)
Websites for Foot Health (1)
Wedging for Knee Pain (1)
Weight Loss Workouts (1)
Weighted Jackets for MS patients (1)
When To Ice? (1)
Wide Feet Shoes (3)
Women's Shoes (1)
Wounds (1)
X-rays for Hallux Rigidus (1)
Xrays for Short Leg (3)
Xrays for Tibial Stress Fractures (1)
Xrays/MRIs/Tests (7)
Yoga (2)
Yoga Introduction 13 Poses (1)
Yoga Toes (1)
Zappos Shoes Online (1)
Sitemap
Watermark theme. Powered by Blogger.