Pagophagia in men with iron-deficiency anemia.
BioPortfolio
Biotech, Healthcare and Medical Resources
BioPortfolio
Menu
Loading
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology Track topics Track topics important to you
World Biotech and Healthcare News
Published Research
Market Reports
Channels
Clinical Trials
Drugs
Corporations
Advertisement
Topics
All Topics Biotechnology Biotech Business Biotech Products Cancer Cardiovascular Dermatology Drug Discovery Endocrinology Gastroenterology Immunology Infectious Diseases Mental Health Neurology Obstetrics Orthopedics Public Health Respiratory Rheumatology Urology
Track topics on Twitter Track topics that are important to you
Printed From BioPortfolio.com
Pagophagia in men with iron-deficiency anemia.
08:00 EDT 7th April 2019 | BioPortfolio
Home » Topics » HemaXellerate » Research » Pagophagia in men with iron-deficiency anemia.
Summary of "Pagophagia in men with iron-deficiency anemia."
Few case series of pagophagia and iron deficiency include men. We performed a retrospective study of non-Hispanic white men with iron-deficiency anemia whose anemia and pagophagia, thrombocytosis, and thrombocytopenia (if present) resolved after iron replacement. Iron-deficiency anemia was defined as transferrin saturation (TS) <15%, serum ferritin (SF) <30 μg/L, and hemoglobin (Hb) <13.0 g/dL. We excluded men with: anemia, thrombocytosis, or thrombocytopenia due to non-iron-deficiency causes; malignancy; chronic inflammatory conditions; hemochromatosis; or creatinine >1.1 mg/dL. We computed univariate and multivariable pagophagia associations with: age; gastrointestinal bleeding; TS; SF; Hb; red blood cell (RBC) count; mean corpuscular volume (MCV); RBC distribution width (RDW); and platelet count. Median age of 41 men was 54 y (range 18-81). Fourteen men (34.1%) had pagophagia. Thirty-six men (87.8%) had gastrointestinal bleeding. Mean Hb was 9.4 ± 2.2 g/dL. Six men (14.6%) had thrombocytosis; two (4.9%) had thrombocytopenia. Logistic regression on pagophagia revealed: age (p = 0.0158; odds ratio 0.92 [95% confidence interval: 0.85, 0.99]) and platelet count (p = 0.0187; 0.98 [0.97, 1.00]) (41.4% of pagophagia occurrence; ANOVA p = 0.0053). We conclude that pagophagia occurred in 34% of men with iron-deficiency anemia and was negatively associated with age and platelet count, after adjustment for other variables.
Affiliation
Journal Details
This article was published in the following journal.
Name: Blood cells, molecules & diseases
ISSN: 1096-0961
Pages: 72-75
Links
PubMed Source: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30986649
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bcmd.2019.04.002
PubMed Articles [3721 Associated PubMed Articles listed on BioPortfolio]
Effect of Helicobacter pylori Treatment on Unexplained Iron Deficiency Anemia.
A large number of patients with iron deficiency anemia have no known cause of their anemia despite a full evaluation. Optimal management and follow-up for this issue is unclear. Results of previous st...
Perinatal Iron Deficiency: Implications for Mothers and Infants.
Iron deficiency, with or without anemia, is common in pregnant women. In fact, nearly 30% of reproductive-age women are anemic worldwide, and anemia in pregnancy has an estimated global prevalence of ...
Iron Deficiency Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease.
Iron deficiency anemia is a common complication of chronic kidney disease (CKD). CKD patients suffer from both absolute and functional iron deficiency. Absolute iron deficiency is defined by severely ...
The effect of therapy on plasma ghrelin and leptin levels, and appetite in children with iron deficiency anemia.
Background It is known that iron deficiency anemia effects appetite and growth negatively. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of iron therapy on appetite, growth and plasma ghrelin an...
Management of Iron Deficiency in Heart Failure.
Anemia is a common finding in patients with heart failure (HF). The cause for anemia is multifactorial, with iron deficiency being the most common cause. Anemia with HF is an established predictor of ...
Clinical Trials [2702 Associated Clinical Trials listed on BioPortfolio]
Improvement of Fatigue Symptoms in the Iron Deficiency Anemia With Iron Succinylate Therapy
The treatment of anemia depends on its cause. Patients with underlying iron-deficient anemia should be treated or referred to a specialist (eg gynecologist, gastroenterologist) for treatme...
Iron Metabolism Parameters At First Trimester and preGnancy outcomE
Iron deficiency anemia is the leading cause of anemia during pregnancy, which can still reach 10 to 20% of pregnant women in developed countries, with potentially serious consequences for ...
Effect of Consuming Food Cooked in Iron Utensils on Iron Status in Children With Iron Deficiency Anemia (IDA)
Iron deficiency is a common problem in the world and more so in the developing countries with a prevalence of 64 % (using WHO cut-off values of Hb
Fetal Vascular Hemodynamic Changes in Iron Deficiency Anemia
Iron deficiency anemia is a worldwide medical disorder. So far, it is the most common medical complication in pregnancy specially in developing countries. It is the cause of many adverse e...
Impact and Evaluation of the Management of Iron Deficiency With or Without Anemia in Patients With Cancer
In oncology, anemia is a frequent symptom, leading to complication of patient management for, more or less, a long term but often poorly evaluated by medical teams. In oncology, anemia is...
Medical and Biotech [MESH] Definitions
Anemia, Iron-deficiency
Anemia characterized by decreased or absent iron stores, low serum iron concentration, low transferrin saturation, and low hemoglobin concentration or hematocrit value. The erythrocytes are hypochromic and microcytic and the iron binding capacity is increased.
Iron, Dietary
Iron or iron compounds used in foods or as food. Dietary iron is important in oxygen transport and the synthesis of the iron-porphyrin proteins hemoglobin, myoglobin, cytochromes, and cytochrome oxidase. Insufficient amounts of dietary iron can lead to iron-deficiency anemia.
Anemia, Hypochromic
Anemia characterized by a decrease in the ratio of the weight of hemoglobin to the volume of the erythrocyte, i.e., the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration is less than normal. The individual cells contain less hemoglobin than they could have under optimal conditions. Hypochromic anemia may be caused by iron deficiency from a low iron intake, diminished iron absorption, or excessive iron loss. It can also be caused by infections or other diseases, therapeutic drugs, lead poisoning, and other conditions. (Stedman, 25th ed; from Miale, Laboratory Medicine: Hematology, 6th ed, p393)
Folic Acid Deficiency
A nutritional condition produced by a deficiency of FOLIC ACID in the diet. Many plant and animal tissues contain folic acid, abundant in green leafy vegetables, yeast, liver, and mushrooms but destroyed by long-term cooking. Alcohol interferes with its intermediate metabolism and absorption. Folic acid deficiency may develop in long-term anticonvulsant therapy or with use of oral contraceptives. This deficiency causes anemia, macrocytic anemia, and megaloblastic anemia. It is indistinguishable from vitamin B 12 deficiency in peripheral blood and bone marrow findings, but the neurologic lesions seen in B 12 deficiency do not occur. (Merck Manual, 16th ed)
Iron Overload
An excessive accumulation of iron in the body due to a greater than normal absorption of iron from the gastrointestinal tract or from parenteral injection. This may arise from idiopathic hemochromatosis, excessive iron intake, chronic alcoholism, certain types of refractory anemia, or transfusional hemosiderosis. (From Churchill's Illustrated Medical Dictionary, 1989)
Advertisement
Quick Links
Advanced Search | Login | Subscribe | RSS
Quick Search
Advertisement
Advertisement
Relevant Topic
Blood
Blood is a specialized bodily fluid that delivers necessary substances to the body's cells (in animals) – such as nutrients and oxygen – and transports waste products away from those same cells. In vertebrates, it is composed of blo...
PubMed Database Quicklinks
Search PubMed Journal Article Database
Latest PubMed Articles
PubMed Journal List
Popular PubMed Articles
Recent Journal Article Searches
Searches Linking to this Article
BioPortfolio Limited
About Us
Contact Us
Social Media
Twitter (200+ Accounts)
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Publish Content
Publish
Publish Your Press Release
Advertise
Agreements
Agreements
Medical Disclaimer
Privacy
Tools
MyBioPortfolio
RSS
Help
FAQs
Sitemaps
XML Sitemap
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
Verify here.
The information provided by BioPortfolio.com is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. The BioPortfolio site is sponsored BioPortfolio Limited with offices at Stafford House, 10 Prince of Wales Road, Dorchester, DT1 1PW, England. If you are a legal copyright holder or a designated agent for such and you believe a post on this website falls outside the boundaries of “Fair Use” and legitimately infringes on your or your client's copyright we may be contacted concerning copyright matters here: Contact BioPortfolio.
All rights reserved. All other trademarks recognized. Copyright © 1997-2019 BioPortfolio Limited. Site developed by Alacrify Ltd.