Iron-Deficiency Anemia – AHealthyMe – Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts
Skip to main content
En Español
Em Portuguese
Menu
Search Library:
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A-Z Listings Featured Tools
The Basics
Health Insurance
Plan Types
Choose Benefits
Choosing a Plan
Plan for Your Budget
Health Care Reform
Managing Your Health
Checkups & Screenings
Specialists
Tips for Good Health
Vaccinations
Conditions & Treatments
Adult Health Library
Allergy and Asthma
Arthritis and Other Rheumatic Diseases
Bone Disorders
Breast Health
Cardiovascular Diseases
Complementary and Alternative Medicine
Dermatology
Diabetes
Digestive Disorders
Endocrinology
Environmental Medicine
Eye Care
Gynecological Health
Hematology and Blood Disorders
Home Health, Hospice, and Elder Care
Infectious Diseases
Kidney and Urinary System Disorders
Liver, Biliary, and Pancreatic Disorders
Men's Health
Mental Health Disorders
Nervous System Disorders
Non-Traumatic Emergencies
Oral Health
Orthopaedic Surgery
Otolaryngology
Pathology
Pediatrics
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Plastic Surgery
Pregnancy and Childbirth
Prostate Health
Radiology
Respiratory Disorders
Skin Cancer
Spine, Shoulder, and Pelvis Disorders
Surgical Care
Travel Medicine
Women's Health
Pediatric Health Library
Adolescent Medicine
Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology
Blood Disorders
Burns
Cardiology
Care of the Terminally Ill
Child and Adolescent Mental Health
Child Having Surgery
Craniofacial Anomalies
Common Childhood Injuries and Poisonings
Dental and Oral Health
Dermatology
Diabetes Endocrinology
Digestive and Liver Disorders
Ear, Nose, and Throat
Eye Care
Genitourinary and Kidney Disorders
Growth and Development
High-Risk Newborn
High-Risk Pregnancy
Infectious Diseases
Medical Genetics
Neurological Disorders
Normal Newborn
Oncology
Orthopaedics
Pregnancy
Respiratory Disorders
Safety and Injury Prevention
Transplantation
Tests and Procedures
Cardiovascular
Gastroenterology
Gynecology
Lab Tests
Neurological
Orthopaedic
Pulmonary
Urology
Prevention Guidelines
Children Ages 0-2
Children Ages 2-18
Men Ages 18-39
Men Ages 40-49
Men Ages 50-64
Men Ages 65+
Women Ages 18-39
Women Ages 40-49
Women Ages 50-64
Women Ages 65+
Health Centers
Asthma
Understanding Asthma
Pulmonary Tests & Procedures
Controlling Asthma Triggers
Managing Your Asthma
Asthma and Other Conditions
For Your Family
Behavioral Health
During Life's Journey
Common Conditions
Support and Stability
Cancer
About Cancer
Cancer and Genetics
Cancer Test and Procedures
Cancer Diagnosis
Cancer and Nutrition
Cancer Treatment
Cancer Treatment Side Effects
Living With Cancer
Specific Cancers
Children and Cancer
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
What is COPD?
Pulmonary Tests & Procedures
Managing Your COPD
Preventing COPD
Diabetes
Understanding Diabetes
Types of Diabetes
Complications of Diabetes
Managing Diabetes
Diabetes and Your Family
Heart Disease
Understanding Heart Disease
Cardiac Tests & Procedures
Heart Conditions and Diseases
Women and Heart Disease
Diabetes and Heart Disease
Congenital Heart Disease
Cardiac Rehabilitation
Managing Heart Disease
Preventing Heart Disease
Neuroscience
About the Brain and Nervous System
Neurological Tests and Procedures
Neurological Conditions and Diseases
Alzheimer's Disease and Memory Disorders
Headaches
Stroke and Cerebrovascular Diseases
Understanding Rehabilitation
Children & Neurological Conditions
Obesity and Bariatric Surgery
Understanding Obesity
Obesity and Health Problems
Treating Obesity
Bariatric Surgery
Lifestyle Changes
Childhood and Obesity
Orthopedics
Basic Anatomy
Orthopedic Tests and Procedures
Orthopedic Conditions and Disorders
Arthritis and Rheumatic Disorders
Osteoporosis
Fractures
Sports Injuries
Preventing Injuries at Work
Orthopedic Conditions and Children
Pregnancy & Newborns
Preparing for Pregnancy
Your Changing Body
Your First Trimester
Your Second Trimester
Your Third Trimester
Pregnancy Tests and Procedures
Healthy Pregnancy Lifestyles
Pregnancy Complications
Labor, Birth, and Postpartum
Your Newborn Baby
When Baby Needs Special Care
Feeding Your Baby
Drugs, Herbs & Supplements
Drug Interaction Checker
Drug Search
Drug Search by Physical Description
Herbs, Vitamins & Supplements
Amino Acids
Herbs
Minerals
Vitamins
Other
All
Nutrition & General Wellness
Alternative Medicine
Healthy Recipes
By Dietary Considerations
By Food Category
Nutrition Facts
Wellness Library
At Work
Behavior
Dental
Diseases & Conditions
Fitness
Injuries & Emergencies
Nutrition
Parenting
Prevention
Safety
Today's Medicine
Weight Control
Your Body
Your Family
Children's Health
The Healthy Child
Children and Healthcare
Emotions and Behavior
Age-Specific Concerns
Parenting
Men's Health
In Good Health
Health Issues
Sexual Health & Reproduction
Sports Injuries
Older Adults
Living Better, Living Longer
Eating Well, Staying Fit
Prevention, Self-Care, and Safety
Using Medications
Health Concerns: Head to Toe
Long-Term Planning
For the Caregiver
Home Health and Hospice Care
Women's Health
A Woman's Journey
In Good Health
Women's Health Issues
News Center
Focus on Health
Health News
Newsletters
Cancer Awareness
Chronic Condition News
For Your Child
Heart Care
Men's Health
Women's Health
Lifestyle Tips
Back and Neck Care
Back and Neck Basics
Causes of Back and Neck Pain
Keeping Your Back Healthy
Dealing With Back Pain
Preventing and Treating Neck Pain
Back Pain and Pregnancy
Blood Pressure
Blood Pressure Basics
Eating Healthier
Getting Exercise
Losing Weight
Managing Stress
Quitting Smoking, Limiting Alcohol
Taking Medication
Cholesterol
Understanding Cholesterol
Eating Healthy
Managing Weight
Getting Exercise
Breaking Bad Habits
Taking Medication
Fitness
Why Fitness Matters
Get Started
Get Moving
Stay Motivated
Make Time for Fitness
Improve Your Health
Children & Teens
Women
Older Adults
Nutrition
Nutrition Basics
Healthy Practices
Nutrition and Health Conditions
Children and Teens
Pregnant Women
Smoking Cessation
Facing Up to Smoking
Planning Your Quit Strategy
Taking the Big Step
Staying Smoke-Free
Teens and Smoking
Smoking During Pregnancy
Stress Management
Understanding Stress
Keys to Managing Stress
Stress on the Job
Stress and Family
Weight Management
Call to Action
About Weight Loss
Nutrition
Exercise
Behavior
Related Health Issues
Children and Teens
Tools & Multimedia
Calculators
Podcasts
Quizzes
Risk Assessments
Video Library
Home
Related Reading
Iron-Deficiency Anemia
What is iron-deficiency anemia?
The most common cause of anemia is a lack of iron. This is called iron deficiency. Iron is needed to make hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the part of red blood cells that carries oxygen to the body. Most of your body’s iron is stored in hemoglobin.
What causes iron-deficiency anemia?
Iron-deficiency anemia may be caused by the following:
A diet low in iron. You get iron from foods you eat. But only 1 mg of iron is absorbed for every 10 mg to 20 mg of iron you take in. If you have a poor diet, you may have some level of iron-deficiency anemia.
Body changes. Your body needs more iron and more red blood cells when it’s going through certain changes. These changes include growth spurts, pregnancy, and lactation.
GI (gastrointestinal) tract problems. Your body can’t absorb iron well after some forms of GI surgery. Most of the iron taken in by foods is absorbed in the upper small intestine. Any problems in the GI tract could affect how well you absorb iron. Surgery or medicines that stop stomach acid production will also decrease how much iron you absorb.
Blood loss. Loss of blood can cause a decrease of iron. Sources of blood loss may include GI bleeding, urinary tract bleeding, menstrual bleeding, or injury.
Who is at risk for iron-deficiency anemia?
People who have a greater need for iron are at risk for this condition. This includes:
Babies, young children, and teens because of their rapid growth
Teen girls and women of childbearing age because of their periods
Pregnant women
Anyone with blood loss
People with kidney failure
People who have had gastric-bypass surgery because they absorb less iron
What are the symptoms of iron-deficiency anemia?
Each person’s symptoms will very. Symptoms may include:
Paleness or lack of skin color
Irritability
Lack of energy or tiring easily (fatigue)
Increased heart rate (tachycardia)
Sore or swollen tongue
Wanting to eat nonfood things such as dirt or ice (a condition called pica)
Feeling dizzy
Headaches
The symptoms of iron-deficiency anemia may look like other blood conditions or health problems. Always see your healthcare provider for a diagnosis.
How is iron-deficiency anemia diagnosed?
Your healthcare provider may think you have iron-deficiency anemia based on your symptoms and a complete health history and physical exam. This condition is often found through a blood test that measures the amount of hemoglobin present, and the amount of iron in your blood. Other tests may include:
Additional blood tests. These are done to test for iron.
Bone marrow aspiration or biopsy. A small amount of bone marrow fluid (aspiration) or solid bone marrow tissue (called a core biopsy) are taken. These are often taken from the hip bones. The sample is checked for the number, size, and maturity of blood cells or abnormal cells. A bone marrow biopsy is not often needed to make a diagnosis of iron deficiency. Blood tests are often enough.
Upper or lower endoscopy. These tests may help rule out a source of blood loss.
How is iron-deficiency anemia treated?
Treatment will depend on your symptoms, age, and general health. It will also depend on how severe the condition is.
Treatment may include the following.
Iron-rich diet
Eating a diet with iron-rich foods can help. Good sources of iron include:
Meats, such as beef, pork, lamb, liver, and other organ meats
Poultry, such as chicken, duck, turkey (especially dark meat), and liver
Fish, such as shellfish, including clams, mussels, oysters, sardines, and anchovies
Leafy greens of the cabbage family, such as broccoli, kale, turnip greens, and collards
Legumes, such as lima beans and green peas
Dry beans and peas, such as pinto beans, black-eyed peas, and canned baked beans
Yeast-leavened whole-wheat bread and rolls
Iron-enriched white bread, pasta, rice, and cereals
Iron supplements
Iron supplements are taken by mouth (orally). They can be taken over a few months to faise iron levels in your blood. These supplements can can an upset stomach and discolor bowel movements. Take them on an empty stomach or with orange juice. This can help increase how much iron is absorbed. Supplements work much better than dietary changes alone.
You can also get iron by IV if supplements don't give you enough iron or you can't tolerate taking them by mouth.
Checking for a source of blood loss
This may include having an upper endoscopy or colonoscopy.
Can iron-deficiency anemia be prevented?
The best way to prevent iron-deficiency anemia is to eat a well-balanced diet that includes iron-rich foods. Talk with your provider about taking an iron supplement if you or your child:
Can’t eat an iron-rich diet
Have heavy monthly periods
Have other risk factors
Living with iron-deficiency anemia
Iron-deficiency may be short-term (temporary). But if you have heavy monthly periods or other risk factors, you may need to address this all your life. Eat a well-balanced diet that includes iron-rich foods. Also talk with your provider about taking an iron supplement. Be sure to address any underlying blood loss or condition that may cause your anemia.
Key points about iron-deficiency anemia
Iron-deficiency anemia is the most common cause of anemia. It is due to a low level of iron in the blood.
Causes include a diet that is low in iron, body changes, problems in the GI tract, and blood loss.
Those most at risk include children and teens, women of childbearing age, and people with kidney failure.
Common symptoms include fatigue, paleness, irritability, and fast heart rate.
Treatment includes eating iron-rich foods, taking an iron supplement or an iron infusion, and finding out if there is underlying blood loss.
Next steps
Tips to help you get the most from a visit to your healthcare provider:
Know the reason for your visit and what you want to happen.
Before your visit, write down questions you want answered.
Bring someone with you to help you ask questions and remember what your provider tells you.
At the visit, write down the name of a new diagnosis, and any new medicines, treatments, or tests. Also write down any new instructions your provider gives you.
Know why a new medicine or treatment is prescribed, and how it will help you. Also know what the side effects are.
Ask if your condition can be treated in other ways.
Know why a test or procedure is recommended and what the results could mean.
Know what to expect if you do not take the medicine or have the test or procedure.
If you have a follow-up appointment, write down the date, time, and purpose for that visit.
Know how you can contact your provider if you have questions.
Online Medical Reviewer: L Renee Watson MSN RN
Online Medical Reviewer: Richard LoCicero MD
Date Last Reviewed: 9/1/2016
© 2000-2019 The StayWell Company, LLC. 800 Township Line Road, Yardley, PA 19067. All rights reserved. This information is not intended as a substitute for professional medical care. Always follow your healthcare professional's instructions.
Featured Tools
For Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts members
Find a Doctor & Estimate Costs
Healthy Times Newsletter
Personal Health Assessment
Programs
Savings & Discounts
Resources
Follow Us
Are you interested in becoming a member? Visit GetBlueMA or call 1-800-422-3545.
Related Items
Diseases and Conditions
Iron Deficiency After Gastric Bypass Surgery
Pediatric Diseases and Conditions
Iron-Deficiency Anemia in Children
Pediatric Blood Disorders
Tests and Procedures
Ferritin (Blood)
Iron (Blood)
Transferrin
Drug Reference
Ferric Pyrophosphate Citrate additive for dialysate
Ferumoxytol injection
Iron Chewable Tablets
View All 11
Herbs, Vitamins & Supplements
Iron
Zinc
MyBlue
Find a Doctor & Estimate Costs
Health & Wellness
Review Benefits
Review Claims
Recursos en Español
Medicare
Attend a Seminar
Medicare Plans
Request a Call
Plan Education
National Health Care Reform
Find a Health Plan
BlueLinks for Employers
Manage Your Account
Plans & Products
Forms & Documents
Tools & Support for Educating Employees
Broker Central
Provider Central
Medical Policy
Office Resources
Provider News
About Us
Annual Report
Careers
Contact Us
Corporate Citizenship
Diversity Leadership
News
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts is an Independent Licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.
® Registered Marks of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.
®´ ®´´ Registered Marks are the property of their respective owners.
© Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Inc.
101 Huntington Avenue, Suite 1300, Boston, MA 02199-7611 | 1-800-262-BLUE (2583)
About Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts Terms of Use, Privacy & Security Accessibility Nondiscrimination and Translation Resources
Powered by
Copyright © The StayWell Company, LLC. except where otherwise noted.
Staywell®´´, an independent company, offers health and wellness engagement tools and information on behalf of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts.
About StayWell
Massachusetts Health Insurance at Affordable Rates
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts is a leading provider of quality health insurance for residents of Massachusetts. Our main goal is to make health care cost-effective by offering health insurance solutions for individuals, families, and large and small businesses at affordable rates.
Our Vision — Making Quality Health Care Affordable
Our Promise — To Always Put Our Members First
To learn more about our Massachusetts health plans, please visit our Plans & Products page, where you can compare Massachusetts health insurance plans, buy health plans online, and get Mass health insurance quotes.
Other Coverage & Massachusetts Medical Insurance Plans
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts also offers insurance, pharmacy coverage, and Medicare Plans for seniors; life and disability insurance through Indigo Insurance Services (a wholly owned subsidiary); and insurance for individuals aged 18-26 years. Learn more about our other insurance plans and Medicare plans, or contact a sales representative today.