Cardiovascular health Archives - Yogurt in Nutrition
Twitter
LinkedIn
Youtube
A fermented food
Fermentation process and history
Yogurt and worldwide habits
Fermentation benefits
Lactose intolerance
Q&A on lactose intolerance
How yogurt can help
Recent studies on lactose intolerance
Eat yogurt, eat healthy
Yogurt is a nutrient dense food
Signature of healthy diet
There’s a yogurt for everybody
Yogurt and sustainable diet
Health effects of yogurt
Bone health
Diabetes prevention
Cardiovascular health
Weight management
Other promising research
Yogurt initiative
What is YINI?
Events & conferences
Grant application
Infographics and practical sheets
Key Publications
Yogurt Nutrition Digests
Monthly newsletter
En
Es
Cardiovascular health
Dietary change is one of the most important ways of preventing cardio-vascular disease (CVD), which remains a major cause of death and disability across the world. Milk and dairy foods are recommended in most dietary guidelines. Despite their fat content, milk and dairy products are rich in protein, minerals and vitamins. Calcium, potassium and magnesium have been linked to a reduced risk of stroke. Furthermore, high-fat diets enriched with dairy minerals are associated with reduced total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol levels. Finally, consuming fermented dairy products may reduce the risk of CVD.
Cardiovascular health
De-bunking the myths surrounding full-fat dairy foods
2019-03-11
The popular belief that full-fat dairy foods are less healthy than low-fat equivalents may be just...
Cardiovascular health
How might yogurt reduce CVD risk?
2019-03-25
“Yogurt consumption is associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD)” is...
Cardiovascular health
Yogurt and CVD: children and teenagers could benefit too
2019-03-18
“Yogurt consumption is associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD)” is...
Cardiovascular health
Yogurt may reduce risk of CVD
2019-03-11
“Yogurt consumption is associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD)” is one...
Cardiovascular health
Yogurt may reduce the risk of high blood pressure
2019-03-04
“Yogurt consumption is associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD)” is...
Other promising research • Cardiovascular health
How to live a long and happy life: yogurt and exercise could help
2019-02-04
Whether it’s a brisk walk with the dog, a jog in the park or a salsa dance class, we all know...
Cardiovascular health
Yogurt shows promise as part of a healthy lifestyle to control...
2018-11-19
It’s the silent killer that creeps up without warning and you don’t know you have it until you...
Cardiovascular health
Global study reveals dairy foods are associated with reduced...
2018-10-29
Do you like your dairy foods but worry over scare stories about the saturated fats they contain? ...
Diabetes prevention • Cardiovascular health
Could a yogurt a day keep diabetes away – and protect our...
2018-09-03
A balanced diet, exercise and maintaining a healthy weight are widely recommended to help prevent...
Cardiovascular health
Yogurt to the rescue: it may reduce heart disease risk by...
2018-08-27
You may not feel it but the chances are your body develops signs of inflammation whenever you eat a...
1 2 3 … 8 Next
Subscribe to our newsletter
Follow us
twitter
youtube
facebook
From Twitter
Tweets from @YogurtNutrition
More information
What is yogurt?
Fermented food
Gut microbiome
Nutrition
Nutrient density
Diabetes
Diabetes prevention
Lactose
Lactose intolerance
Bone health
Cardiovascular health
The Yogurt in Nutrition Initiative is a collaborative project between the Danone Institute International and the American Society for Nutrition which aims to evaluate the current evidence base on the nutritional impact of yogurt - Copyright 2015
Legal notice
About
Contact
Twitter
LinkedIn
Youtube
Pin It on Pinterest