What Are the Dangers of Theanine? | Livestrong.com
Welcome
Sign up | Log in
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
News
Stronger Women
BMI Calculator
Food
Weight Management
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Follow Us!
Livestrong
Food and Drink
Diet and Nutrition
Vitamins and Supplements
What Are the Dangers of Theanine?
Adele M. Gill
About the Author:
Adele M. Gill
Adele M. Gill began writing in 1981. She is a registered nurse and the author of two books, "Patient Persistence" and "7 Pathways to Hope." Her work has also appeared in the journal, "Advances in Medical Psychotherapy and Psychodiagnosis" Gill has a Bachelor of Science in nursing from the University of Maryland School of Nursing.
Theanine, a powerful amino acid found in black tea and green tea, mushrooms, and available as a non-prescription, over-the-counter food supplement in capsule form, is getting a lot of attention these days. According to Life Extension Magazine, theanine in tea "causes changes in body chemistry that rejuvenate, relax, enhance the ability to think and change mood." Although tea also contains caffeine, it is theanine in the tea that is credited with the soothing effects, as well as antioxidant properties that scavenge and destroy free radical cells. However, under certain conditions and in combination with certain medications, there are dangers associated with taking theanine.
A man works at his desk with a glass of black tea next to him. (Image: Ryan McVay/Photodisc/Getty Images)
Interference with Chemotherapy
Numerous in vitro and animal studies have shown that theanine has neuro-protective and anti-tumor effects. However, according to Sloan Kettering, theanine is contraindicated in patients receiving chemotherapy treatments as it may potentiate the powerful effects of chemotherapy agents. That is, theanine is dangerous as it has the ability to enhance the strength of chemotherapy agents, thereby altering the prescribed dose.
Potentiation of Sedatives
Theanine is well known for its soothing, relaxing effects, and has been found helpful as a non-prescription agent in treatment of depression and anxiety. However, it is important not to take it in combination with some antidepressants or Demerol, as it may increase the sedative effect of certain drugs and cause drowsiness.
Additive Effects of Cholesterol Drugs
According to the Life Extension Magazine, studies have also reported that theanine has the ability to significantly lower low-density cholesterol (LDL cholesterol) and high-density cholesterol (HDL cholesterol). In particular, consumption of theanine together with HDL cholesterol may lower "good" cholesterol, which vitally important to overall cardiovascular health. In this way, consumption of theanine supplements is contraindicated in people taking cholesterol medication(s).
Irritability
Theanine should be avoided in the event that irritability develops, as it may be a sign or symptom of a medication interaction. As always, before taking any supplements, it is important to consult with a physician before starting to assess for possible medication interference or side effects.
Nausea and GI Upset
Although theanine studies have determined it to be safe, some people may be sensitive to the caffeine that often accompanies theanine in tea. In the event that stomach upsets or other symptoms of sensitivity appear, theanine should be discontinued.
Pregnancy Complications
According to Sloan-Kettering, women who are pregnant or lactating should not consume theanine, as it may cause maternal-child complications. Further studies are needed to assess for efficacy and safety of theanine in pregnant and breastfeeding women. Specifically of concern is the sedative effect of theanine.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Life Extension Magazine: Natural support for sleep, mood and weight
LA Times" L-theanine comes into focus
Memorial Sloan-Kettering: L-theanine
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Does Caffeine Affect Ativan?
2
Citalopram and Caffeine
3
Is L-Theanine Safe While Pregnant?
4
Why Do Hospitals Say Not to Drink Green Tea With Prescription Medication?
5
Effect of Caffeine on Klonopin
6
Negative Benefits of Green Tea for Dieting
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.