Review: Sphere Gadget Technologies SP9882 Lightphoria SAD Light - SAD Lights Headquarters - SAD Lights Headquarters
SAD Lights Headquarters
Complete reviews about the best SAD Lights, SAD Lamps, and other Light Therapy products including tips, recommendations, and more!
Subscribe via RSS
Home
By Type
Blue Light Therapy Lights
Dawn Simulators
Desk SAD Lights
Portable SAD Lights
SAD Light Boxes
White Light Therapy Lights
Top SAD Lights
Top SAD Lights Overall
Top Dawn Simulators
How To’s
How To Buy A SAD Light
How To Buy A Dawn Simulator
How To Buy Replacement Bulbs
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Review: Sphere Gadget Technologies SP9882 Lightphoria SAD Light
Thursday, June 27th, 2013	at 9:46 pm
Rating:
The Sphere Gadget Technologies SP9882 Lightphoria SAD Light is great for those who want a well built portable light therapy device that doesn’t cost of a ton of money. It has the basic features and 10000 LUX of brightness that you expect out of any SAD light on the market. Some of the plus sides of this SAD light is that it doesn’t emit any plastic like smells, which is characteristic of some of the bigger SAD lamps. It also has different light intensity settings, incase 10000 LUX is too bright. The only notable downside is that it doesn’t use any batteries, you have to plug it in using the A/C adapter, but that doesn’t really bother most people and certainly doesn’t make it less portable.
Where To Buy?
I highly recommend buying it from Amazon.com (check current discounted price here), they have it for nearly 50% off, which is huge savings. Because it has tons of reviews on Amazon.com, it shows that other people have also bought it from Amazon as well. Another bonus is that you can have it shipped to you for free, and Amazon has great customer service.
Best For Who?
This particular SAD light is going to be great for those who need a portable solution. Its best to use these devices in the morning and make it part of your routine. The bigger lamps aren’t very portable, and will break your routine if you travel. It’s also good for those who need a smaller solution for their desk when they are working.
In general, this SAD light will help out those who suffer from the winter blues (seasonal affective disorder), general depression, and insomnia. Lack of light during the work day, or during the winter when the sun isn’t out much can really take a toll on your bodies hormone levels, causing you to feel tired or less energetic during the day. This is what rolls people into depression. Bright, natural light is one of the better ways to boost the right hormones to keep you awake, energetic, and sleeping better at night.
How Is It Supposed To Be Used?
It’s best to use it in the morning for about 20-30 minutes at its high setting, with a distance of about 12-15 inches from your face. This helps you get out of bed feeling energetic and awake. This SAD Light also has a low and medium setting, which is completely ok to use, but you’ll have to extend your daily therapy session to get some true benefits.
Don’t use these at night, they’ll only disrupt your sleeping patterns. Using them in the morning helps you feel less sleepy and tired during the day so that your body will have plenty it will want to rest at night.
[ See More Pictures… ]
Sphere Gadget Technologies SP9882 Lightphoria Key Features
Emits at 10000 LUX at high setting, also has a medium setting at 7500 LUX, and low setting at 5000 LUX
Has a timer that you can set to 15, 20, 45, or 60 minutes
Eliminates UV Rays
Very portable
Doesn’t emit hot plastic light bulb smells
Glare free
Flicker free
What’s In The Box
The Sphere Gadget Technologies SP9882 Lightphoria SAD light
Nylon travel pouch
A/C adapter
Instruction guide
Warranty
1 year warranty through manufacturer
User Reviews
On Amazon.com, it has over 170 customer review with an average rating of 4.5/5 stars. This suggests that a lot of people are buying this considering how many people actually leave a review. I recommend that you read a lot of those reviews by clicking here.
Here are some rewritten pros and cons from those reviews
Pros
“I bought this because my doctor recommended it to me. As soon as I unpacked it, I can tell that it felt very sturdy and strong. It’s one really bright light, lots of value for your money.”
“I bought this one because it’s a lot more portable than my desk SAD light, and I found it works just as well as my more expensive one.”
“I keep it right next to bed so I can turn it on in the morning, gives me a good boost to my day.”
Cons
“It only tilts one direction with its back stand, but it’s not a deal breaker because it’s so cheap.”
“Doesn’t have a battery, I have to plug it in. However, the ones that use batteries are a lot more expensive.”
Conclusion – Sphere Gadget Technologies SP9882 Lightphoria
If you need a powerful, portable SAD light that will meet your basic needs without breaking the bank, then the Sphere Gadget Technologies SP9882 Lightphoria SAD light should be a serious choice for you.
What Do You Think?
Have you tried this model before? Do you plan to buy it? What’s your opinion?
Related Categories
Full Spectrium Lights For Depression
SAD Lights
Filed under: Desk SAD Lights • Portable SAD Lights • White Light Therapy Lights
Like this post? Subscribe to my RSS feed and get loads more!
Comments RSS Feed
TrackBack URI
Leave a Reply
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Recent SAD Light Reviews
Review: Verilux VT20WW1 HappyLight Liberty Natural Spectrum Lamp
Review: Verilux VT05FWW1 HappyLight Energy Lamp
Review: Philips HF3520 Wake-Up Light
Review: Philips HF3500/60 Wake-Up Light
Review: Verilux Rise and Shine Natural Wake-up Light
Categories
Blue Light Therapy Lights
Dawn Simulators
Default
Desk SAD Lights
Portable SAD Lights
SAD Light Boxes
White Light Therapy Lights
Copyright © SAD Lights Headquarters