Revitols Scar Cream Review: Learn the Ingredients & Best Place To Buy
Home
DIY
Essential Oils
Health
Hair Care
Hair Removal
Lifestyle
Skin Care
About
Home » Revitol » Revitol Scar Cream Review: Ingredients and Places To Buy
Revitol
Revitol Scar Cream Review: Ingredients and Places To Buy
Lucy
Whether they are cause by acne, surgery or some accident, scars can mar your appearance and sap your confidence.
Revitol’s Scar Cream is a more than just a simple skin cream. It works to reduce the appearance of scars with the help of natural ingredients including proteins and vitamins that help your skin to heal and regenerate.
Skip to...
Full Review
Ingredients
Where to Buy
Using a skin cream that contains a combination of ingredients specifically targeted at treating scars will give you much quicker results than just applying vitamin E cream.
All you have to do is apply the scar cream to the site according to the instructions and exercise a little patience.
If you persevere with the treatment you will see a steady reduction in scar tissue and minor scars may disappear completely.
There’s no need to wait for years to allow scars to fade. Accelerate the process with Revitol’s Scar Cream and recover your confidence quickly.
Go to Top
Revitol Scar Cream Review – does it really work?
Get rid of scars by applying a skin cream: it sounds simple, but can the reduction of acne scars, burn scars or surgical scars really be that easy? Let’s investigate this cream and find out if it really works.
Who does It Benefit?
Nobody loves a scar on their body. It’s even worse if you have scars on your face. Acne scars are the most common problem and waiting for them to fade naturally can take years.
In the mean time, you’re stuck with a pitted complexion or a scar that forces you to cover up your body even in the middle of summer.
Wouldn’t it be great if one could make them go away without spending a fortune or undergoing medical procedures? Revitol’s cream aims to resolve this question by using natural ingredients that speed skin regeneration.
Is It Good for Acne Scars?
According to reviewers, this is an area in which this product really excels. The ingredients are certainly all proven to work in reducing the appearance of scars, so there’s no need to take a leap of faith and hope for the best. There’s solid science behind this product so there’s absolutely no reason why it should not work for you.
What Results Can You Expect From Using This Product?
Most people who’ve tried it see a significant difference in 30 – 90 days. Some even claim an almost instant reduction in the appearance of the scars. That’s because Revitol includes some safe skin lightening ingredients that help to make scars less obvious.
Actual healing takes a bit longer and because we are using a product that speeds natural healing, we have to exercise a little patience – natural healing is the best way to go, but it takes a little time.
Is it Worth the Investment and Does it Really Work?
Feel free to research the ingredients Revitol have used in their Scar Cream. It’s a good combination and all the ingredients are tried and tested. This is not ‘snake oil’ and no extravagant promises are made. Yes. It works. How it works for you will depend on the severity of the scar you’re trying to get rid of. It also doesn’t do you any good in the jar. You must apply it and you should do so twice daily.
The fact that this cream works already makes it worthwhile, but how much will you end up spending?
Not very much. Revitol try to make their products both effective and affordable and once again, they’ve hit the sweet spot with this cream.
A jar can last as much as two months depending on the area you’re covering. For example, if you have acne scars on your back or a massive surgical scar on your tummy, it’s not going to last as long as if you apply it to the face only.
All the same, the science is sound, the price is fair and you won’t have to make any major adjustments to afford Revitol’s cream.
Go to Top
Revitol Scar Cream Ingredients
If you’re looking at ingredients lists, you’re a savvy consumer and you’re getting the facts before you spend the cash. Commercial promises are sometimes a bit like election promises, but while you can’t look into the mind of a politician, you can check out the ingredients of a product such as this.
Aloe Vera juice
If you haven’t heard about the amazing healing properties of Aloe Vera, we’ll be surprised. This natural product is known to speed up skin healing and research has shown that it can have dramatic results in the reduction of scar tissue.
Safflower oil
This natural oil contains linoleic acid and linoleic acid is known to be great for repairing the skin. Safflower oil has antioxidant properties that will help you to get rid of impurities that could be slowing down the healing process.
Hyaluronic acid
If you want deep moisturizing for distressed tissues, then hyaluronic acid is the best possible choice. It’s a natural product and your skin absorbs it with ease. Keeping the skin tissues moisturized will help to speed up healing as well as plumping up the tissues so that the scar is less obvious.
Shea butter
Like Aloe vera, this plant extract has incredible skin healing properties. It reduces inflammation and has been used to reduce scar tissue. Shea butter contains vitamins A and E and both of these are known for their role in skin regeneration and rapid healing.
Palmitoyl oligopeptide
A blend of fatty acids and amino acids makes this healing ingredient particularly powerful. The peptides in this ingredient are known to enhance the functioning of skin cells thereby speeding up the healing process.
Palmitoyl tetrapeptide – 7
When combined with Palmitoyl oligopeptide, this combination of amino acids boosts the regeneration of connective tissue and stimulates collagen production. Simply put, we’re looking at a powerful healing combination that reduces inflammation and promotes the recovery of your skin from its scar trauma.
Evening Primrose Oil
As healing plants go, evening primrose is an all-rounder. When it comes to skin care, it reduces inflammation. That means that it will reduce the redness associated with recent scarring. It also contains linoleic acid which boosts the regeneration of skin tissue after injury. Deep penetration into the epidermis and moisturizing properties add to its ability to promote healing of scar tissue.
Urea
Urea offers numerous benefits: it helps to moisturize the skin, reduces loss of moisture during the course of the day thanks to its hygroscopic properties, helps you to get rid of dead skin cells, has anti-inflammatory properties and speeds wound healing by stimulating cell renewal. As if that wasn’t enough it also boosts the penetration of other ingredients into the epidermis thereby enhancing their efficacy.
Acetyl hexapeptide 8
Whether it’s wrinkles or scar tissue, part of the reason why these marks are so obvious is because of intense contractions of the facial muscles. This ingredient helps the muscles to relax and is considered as a valid alternative to certain cosmetic surgery procedures.
Retinyl palmatate
If you’re thinking that this ingredient sounds similar to Retinol and you’re associating that with vitamin A, you’re quite right. It also has a similar function. It reduces the dryness and flakiness often associated with scar tissue and restores suppleness to the damaged skin.
Tocopheryl acetate
Despite its complicated name, this ingredient is basically a form of vitamin E. As you know, vitamin E promotes skin healing and helps to reduce the appearance of scars. In combination with the other ingredients in this cream, you’re looking at a winning recipe for healing that will definitely reduce the appearance of scar tissue.
Ubiquinone
This antioxidant is produced by the body, but as we get older the amount our bodies can produce decreases. Even if ageing isn’t a worry for you yet, ubiquinone will boost the production of collagen and elastin in your skin helping it to regenerate after trauma.
Ascorbyl palmitate
Does this sound like it might have something to do with vitamin C? You’re quite right. Vitamin C is an antioxidant that will help to keep your skin free of toxins and resulting free-radical damage. Why should this help when scarring is the problem? Your skin can’t heal and regenerate optimally if it has free radicals to cope with. Once again, we’re speeding up healing with this ingredient.
DL panthenol
If you want to heal your body rapidly, you know what to do: get lots of vitamins and proteins. DL panthenol is a form of Vitamin B that moisturizes the skin. Healing is optimized when the skin is in peak condition so this ingredient is a logical choice for a Scar Cream formulation.
Thioctic acid
Free radicals cause damage to the skin and slow down the healing process, so getting rid of them with this antioxidant makes a great deal of sense. Help your body to help itself and enjoy the results of enhanced natural healing with this free radical scavenger.
Other ingredients
Of course, any cream contains ingredients that act as carriers, preservatives and ph balancers. All ingredients in Retinol products are FDA approved.
Go to Top
Where to Buy Revitol Scar Cream
This popular scar cream is only available online. Luckily, when you order from the right place there are many advantages to buying online.
First and foremost, when you buy Revitol’s cream for scars from the company themselves, you know you are getting the genuine article – not a cheap rip-off that will waste your time and money.
Secondly, when you purchase online, you have access to discounts on larger order making the product even more affordable.
Plus, when you buy from Revitol you know that your personal and financial information is secure with their SSL encryption and data protection.
Check Latest Price from Revitol
Previous
Best Hair Dryer for 2018: We Review 15 of the Top Compact, Quiet & Travel Blow Dryers for All Hair Types
Next
Revitol Stretch Mark Cream Review: Does it Work? Will it Really Help You?
Related Articles
Revitol Skin Brightener Review: Will it Help Your Skin Pigmentation?
Revitol Stretch Mark Cream Review: Does it Work? Will it Really Help You?
Revitol Hair Removal Cream: Full Ingredient Overview & Does it Really Work?
Revitol Pore Minimizer Review & Complete Ingredient Overview
11 Revitol Reviews to Read Before Your Next Skin Care Purchase
Latest Revitol Reviews
Revitol Skin Brightener Review: Will it Help Your Skin Pigmentation?
Revitol
Revitol Stretch Mark Cream Review: Does it Work? Will it Really Help You?
Revitol
Revitol Scar Cream Review: Ingredients and Places To Buy
Revitol
Revitol Hair Removal Cream: Full Ingredient Overview & Does it Really Work?
Hair Removal
Revitol Pore Minimizer Review & Complete Ingredient Overview
Revitol
© 2017 Lucys.net - All rights reserved.
About | Contact | Disclosure | Medical Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Scholarship | Terms of Service
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.