Listening to the body: Study examines the effects of fasting on infections | Page 2 | YaleNews
Skip to main content
calendar
subscribe
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
RSS Feeds
YaleNews
Explore Topics
Alumni
Arts & Humanities
Business
Campus & Community
Environment
Health & Medicine
International
Law
Science & Technology
Social Sciences
In Focus
Search form
Search
Listening to the body: Study examines the effects of fasting on infections
By Ziba Kashef
September 8, 2016
Share this with Facebook Share this with Twitter Share this with LinkedIn Share this with Email Print this
(© stock.adobe.com)
When people get sick with viral or bacterial infections, they often lose their appetite or avoid certain foods. According to a new Yale study, such sickness-related food preferences may correlate with the type of infection and the type of diet the body requires to fight the infection. The study findings could have implications for how doctors treat patients with acute infections, the researchers said.
The study also suggests a biological basis for certain food preferences during illness. It was published Sept. 8 in Cell.
For decades, scientists and doctors have speculated about the effect of certain sickness behaviors, such as fasting, on the immune system and on the course of disease. To investigate the phenomenon, a Yale research team, led by immunobiologist Ruslan Medzhitov, observed the impact of nutrition on mice infected with common viruses or bacteria.
“When animals are infected they stop eating and they switch to a fasting metabolic mode,” Medzhitov said. “The question was whether fasting metabolism is protective or detrimental.”
When the researchers fed the animals, they found that those with viral infections survived, but the bacterially infected ones succumbed to the illness. By testing individual nutrients (fat, protein, and glucose), they determined that glucose was responsible for the opposing effects of nutrition on infection.
The team then repeated the experiment, but used chemicals to block the glucose metabolism. The results were reversed: Mice infected with bacteria survived, and mice infected with viruses did not.
The differing effects of nutrition on viral versus bacterial infections may be explained by differences in the immune response, the researchers said. Bacterial and viral infections cause different types of inflammation that can cause tissue damage. Depending on the cause of infection, nutrition can either help or hinder the body’s ability to tolerate inflammation.
“During a viral infection, eating provides glucose, which may be necessary for survival,” Medzhitov said. Conversely, fasting leads to the production of ketones — another type of fuel — which may help animals tolerate a bacterial infection, he said.
The study suggests that different diet preferences may correlate with different types of infections, the researchers noted. Although further research is needed, the findings may have implications for how clinicians feed patients suffering from acute infections in intensive care units.
The findings provide support for the old adage “Starve a fever, feed a cold”; however, the authors caution that this should not be taken literally, as the effect may depend on the specific infection.
“Through millennia, all organisms evolved to be attuned to what cells need,” said Andrew Wang, M.D., first author and a clinical fellow in medicine. Cells require certain nutrients to perform tasks, he noted, and food preferences may be the body’s way of telling us how best to survive different types of infections.
Other Yale authors include Sarah C. Huen, Harding H. Luan, Shuang Yu, Cuiling Zhang, Jean-Dominique Gallezot, and Carmen J. Booth.
The work was supported by the The Blavatnik Family Foundation, Else Kröner Fresenius Foundation, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and grants from the National Institute of Health.
Related
New test shows when body is fighting a virus
Anti-inflammatory mechanism of dieting and fasting revealed
Combination therapy boosts antiviral response to chronic infection
Health & Medicine
Science & Technology
Share this with Facebook Share this with Twitter Share this with LinkedIn Share this with Email Print this
Media Contact
Ziba Kashef: ziba.kashef@yale.edu, 203-436-9317
More News
Book
Emotionally Disturbed: A History of Caring for America’s Troubled Children
Slideshow
‘Above and beyond the call of duty’: Dean Chun honors Y-Work Award winners
How inland waters ‘breathe’ carbon — and what it means for global systems
Meet Callichimaera perplexa, the platypus of crabs
Show More Articles
Yale
Browse Archives
Contact YaleNews
For the Media
It’s Your Yale
Apply to Yale
Give to Yale
Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications
Copyright © 2019 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
RSS Feeds
Yale on Instagram
Zoom in/out
Toggle fullscreen
Share
Close (Esc)
Previous (arrow left)
Next (arrow right)