Natural Migraine Treatments That Work | RemedyGrove
MORE
RemedyGrove
Sign InJoin
22
RemedyGrove»
Home Remedies
Natural Migraine Treatments That Work
Updated on October 20, 2017
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
more
Contact Author
Source
Migraines are devastating headaches, and those who suffer with them have an amazing tolerance for pain. Fortunately for many migraineurs, there are some pharmaceutical medications that are actually very good at alleviating a these headache such as the triptan class of medications (which are vasoconstrictors). But for all the migraineurs whose pain is alleviated by medication, there are just as many who can’t find relief with pharmaceuticals.
Migraineurs, myself included, will try just about anything once if there is a chance it will alleviate the pain. However, most of us forget to go back to basics and take a look at our nutrition which could be the cause of the headaches in the first place. This can also be the reason pharmaceuticals don’t work on everyone with migraines.
Excitotoxins
Migraineurs have extremely sensitive brains. They are extremely sensitive to excitotoxins which are essentially chemical poisons that overstimulate brain cells. They cause cells in the brain to fire rapidly and repeatedly until they become exhausted and die. Interestingly, those with epilepsy also have extremely sensitive brain cells.
There are a number of different excitotoxins, and many of them are used as additives in foods. Some of the most common excitotoxins include:
Monosodium Glutamate (MSG)
Aspartame
Aspartate
Glutamate
Gelatin
The antidote (for lack of a better term) to excitotoxins is actually antioxidants which block the toxic effects of these chemical poisons, albeit indirectly. Excess excitotoxins such as glutamate allow free radicals to accumulate which can cause damage to nerve cells. Free radicals are essentially cellular trash and antioxidants prevent this accumulation by removing this cellular debris.
The Headache
Source
How does this prevent migraines? By not allowing free radicals to build up, damage to nerve cells is prevented as is inflammation which is the primary culprit of migraines. Avoiding these toxins is the best treatment, but sometimes they are in our foods and we don’t even know it despite how well we read the labels. Taking antioxidant supplements such as vitamin C and vitamin E can help prevent damage from those toxins that manage to slip by unnoticed.
Diagnosing Migraines
Diagnosing a migraine headache isn’t easy. There are a number of different types of headaches:
Cluster Headaches
Tension Headaches
Migraines
Medication Overuse Headaches
Chronic Daily Headache
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Basilar Migraine
Abdominal Migraine
Many of these headaches have similar symptoms and distinguishing them can be very difficult. Unfortunately, the diagnosis can make all the difference in the treatment.
Headache/Migraine Types
Type
Symptom
Tension Headache
Usually mild constant pressure, like a band around the head
Cluster Headache
Excruciating pain of short duration, usually located around one red eye, nasal discharge
Medication Over use Headache
Daily headache, often tension-type, occuring in the mornings; caused by frequent use of painkillers
Chronic Daily Headache
Daily, often tension-type headache, similar to medication overuse headache
Common Migraine
Intense, throbiing one-sided headache; nausea and vomiting; photophobia, increased sensitivity to sound, smell or movement; can last from four hours to several days
Clasical Migraine with Aura
Warning signs (aura) occur before a migraine attack starts, such as visual disturbances, stiffness or tingling, poor balance
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Form of migraine with stroke-like symptoms; linked to genetics and runs in families
Basilar Migraine
A rare, dangerous form of migraine caused by brain stem dysfunction, with similar symptoms to hemiplegic migraine
Abdominal Migraine
Migraine in the gut, with vomiting, cramps, and nausea; occurs in children and less commonly in adults
The most difficult part of diagnosing migraines (or any headache) is the symptoms. Because they vary widely among individuals, symptoms can be the definitive factor in making the diagnosis.
This is when a headache journal comes in very handy. Writing down when you get a headache and everything associated with it can go a long way to helping your doctor diagnose and treat you.
There are plenty of programs available for the PC, iPad, iPhone, tablets and Androids that can help you keep track of your headaches as well as all the symptoms associated with it (like they say, there’s an app for that!). When you go to your doctor’s appointment, take your headache journal with you. Your doctor may find a pattern that you hadn’t noticed.
Dangerous Headache Symptoms
Symptom
Safe
Dangerous
Headache that is similar to many previous attacks
X
Worst headache ever
X
Severe pain in one without a history of cluster headaches
X
A headache that initially occurs later in life (over the age of 40 or so) with no previous headache history
X
Blurred vision, red eye, seeing rainbows around bright lights
X
Tingling or numbness in an arm or leg, especially one-sided
X
Migraine with increased temperature or rash
X
Moderate to severe headache in a child
X
Change in unusual migraine symptoms, such as tender scalp, or red, watery eye
X
Natural Migraine Prevention
The best way to treat a migraine is to prevent it in the first place. Surprisingly, this is much more difficult than aborting a migraine attack in progress. This is because most prophylactics take time to work.
Feverfew is the perfect example. It can take up to four months for feverfew to take effect. It’s difficult to continue taking a prophylactic when you have no idea if it’s working or not, which is why most prophylactics fail. This is the case with both natural and pharmaceutical prophylactic methods.
Please check with your physician if you are currently on any medications for possible drug interactions, if you have preexisting health conditions that need to be addressed, or are pregnant or nursing before trying a new product or supplement.
That said, there are quite a few natural treatments for migraines including:
Feverfew
Butterbur
Melatonin
Riboflavin
Coenzyme Q10
Zinc
Magnesium
Curcumin
Boswellia
Fish Oil
Feverfew is well-known for its ability to prevent migraines. | Source
Some of the above can also be used to abort an attack, however. While feverfew alone won’t abort an attack, when coupled with ginger, it can be very effective in stopping a migraine in its tracks.
Magnesium is another surprising migraine attack treatment. Migraines are sometimes the result of magnesium deficiency and taking magnesium supplements can help prevent attacks caused by such a deficiency. However, there is evidence to suggest that an infusion of 1,000mg of magnesium sulfate by direct injection will abort a migraine even in patients without a magnesium deficiency.
Finding this type of treatment can prove to be impossible, however. Most doctors won’t provide the treatment because of the lack of scientific evidence supporting it despite the fact that there have been several small studies done on treatment with magnesium.
People who have a zinc deficiency will benefit from taking a zinc supplement daily. A supplement of 15 to 25mg is sufficient. Unfortunately, zinc isn’t as effective as magnesium in aborting a migraine.
Fish oil and Boswellia are beneficial because of their effects on inflammation. Curcumin, a derivative of turmeric also has very powerful anti-inflammatory properties.
Prevention with Nutrition
Our body chemistry is the result of a symphony of enzymatic reactions. Why the medical community attempts to treat various illnesses such as hypertension, diabetes, migraines and other conditions with a single medication is beyond me. Not one cell in the body is made up of a drug. However, there are about 24 different nutrients that can be found in our cells. So it makes sense that nutrition would be able to prevent (and sometimes abort) a migraine attack.
The Gerson Therapy: The Proven Nutritional Program for Cancer and Other Illnesses
Buy Now
One such nutritional method is the Gerson Diet. Dr. Max Gerson suffered from migraines, and after researching diet and nutrition, he became headache free by avoiding various foods and incorporating nutrient rich foods into his diet. The Gerson Diet involves raw, vegan foods, fresh organic juices and absolutely NO processed foods, or animal products.
The Gerson Diet was so effective in treating various illnesses that it has become a well-known treatment for cancer that is actually illegal in the United States (it is illegal to treat cancer with anything other than chemotherapy or radiation here in the United States).
Vitamin Supplementation
Just about any vitamin deficiency can cause headaches of some kind, including migraines. Some vitamin deficiencies are more common than others including:
Vitamin A
Riboflavin
Pyridoxine
Vitamin C
Niacin
B12
Vitamin D
Vitamin E
Vitamin K
The B vitamins, riboflavin, pyridoxine, niacin and B12, are involved in the production of cellular energy and the synthesis of neurotransmitters, specifically serotonin. Low serotonin levels are thought to be a major cause of migraines because of the vasodilation low levels can cause. Vitamin C, E and D are all powerful antioxidants which can help prevent inflammation and the buildup of free radicals.
Vitamin E is a potent antioxidant that can help prevent migraines. | Source
Minimizing processed foods in the diet, especially those with MSG and aspartame, can go a long way to preventing migraines. Adding in a diet rich in nutrients and vitamins such as the Gerson Diet can help alleviate migraines completely. Exercise is a very important part of this equation as well, however. The endorphins released are the body’s natural painkillers and help to maintain the health of the cardiovascular system. Since migraines are vascular events, this too can help prevent them.
This content is accurate and true to the best of the author’s knowledge and does not substitute for diagnosis, prognosis, treatment, prescription, and/or dietary advice from a licensed health professional. Drugs, supplements, and natural remedies may have dangerous side effects. If pregnant or nursing, consult with a qualified provider on an individual basis. Seek immediate help if you are experiencing a medical emergency.
Questions & Answers
Questions must be on-topic, written with proper grammar usage, and understandable to a wide audience.
© 2012 Melissa Flagg COA OSC
Related
Home Remedies
What Is a Migraine and How Can I Get Rid of It Naturally?
by Annie Messeri17
Home Remedies
Migraine Symptoms, Treatment and Medication — It's Not "Just a Headache"
by Eugene Brennan7
Home Remedies
Headache & Migraine Home Remedies
by ii3rittles1
Bodywork & Energy Healing
Migraines and Spiritual Awakening
by peacelovelight8
Yoga
5 Yoga Poses for Migraine Relief
by Amanda Zahorik3
Popular
Oral Health
How to Pop a Dental Abscess by Yourself
by CapriCookie47
Skin & Hair Issues
How I Got Rid of Itchy Contact Dermatitis the Natural Way
by Laura43
Home Remedies
UTI Symptoms but no Bacteria: What Worked for Me
by Sherry Hewins603
Comments
Sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages Network account.
0 of 8192 characters used
Post Comment
No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked. Comments are not for promoting your articles or other sites.
sending
Lyn
16 months ago from England
Nicely done, as a sufferer, I was advised Feverfew by consultant for Familial Hemiplegic Migraine and it does seem to help, but then I forget to take it for a few days..... It does help though with both that and classic migraine. Actually, if I take one at the very first symptoms it seems to help as well.
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
5 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@Marie Flint, Thank you! For some people, the high protein/animal diet is necessary, veganism truly isn't for everyone. It happened to help in my case, and for that I'm ever so grateful! Does she have her migraines under control now?
Marie Flint
5 years ago from Jacksonville, Florida USA
You did an excellent job in researching and organizing this hub. My elder daughter suffers from migraines. She's avid about sticking to her high, animal protein diet, though.
Stacy Harris
6 years ago from Hemet, Ca
I get really bad headaches. I am not sure if they are migraines or not as I have never seen a doctor for them, but they sometimes have me sensitive to lights and sounds. Usually Excedrine Migraine does the trick but lately even that seems to be on the week side if I don't catch it fast enough. Great informative article!
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
6 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@B. Leekley Thanks so much for the share! and thank you for reading!! I'm glad you found it useful!
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
6 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@kohuether, I've had a migraine for the past week (which is why it has taken me so long to answer my comments) and nothing has worked, although I think that's because of neck compression. But the vitamin C has limited the frequency of my headaches. I might try the feverfew again since it worked so well the last time!
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
6 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@Carter06 thank you so much! I have a couple more to add to this list, but they need more research first. Hopefully I'll find something for everyone! Thanks for sharing!!!
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
6 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@ I AM Rosa You're welcome!! Let me know if that actually helps!! I'm going to start taking the Cal Mag D supplement as well!
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
6 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@Tillsontitan Thank you!! I never had any success with CoQ10, but then again most of mine are related to a neck injury. But the vitamin C did help actually. I'm hoping this hub will help some patients limit, or discontinue the meds they're taking for their migraines. Pharmaceuticals just aren't healthy for the body, even if they are necessary!
Brian Leekley
6 years ago from Bainbridge Island, Washington, USA
Up, Useful, and Interesting; shared with followers and on social networking sites, and bookmarked. Good information to know. Thanks.
Katherine Olga Tsoukalas
6 years ago from New Hampshire
This hub is great! I had a migraine today. Mine was caused by a combination of the weather (it snowed - this always happens when it snows) and paint fumes. I just took ibuprofin and didn't try anything natural. I've heard good things about feverfew, though.
Mary
6 years ago from Cronulla NSW
This is an excellent article D of M...and one sure to be helpful for sufferers...my daughter suffers debillitating migraines and needs to read this, am sure it will be useful to her...thanks so much for all your research and clear well laid out info...Shared, tweeted & lots of votes...cheers
Rosa Marchisella
6 years ago from Canada
YIKES! That means I should be taking about 4 of the Cal Mag +D tablets daily instead of 2. I'll up the dosage and see if that helps. Thanks :-)
Mary Craig
6 years ago from New York
You did a tremendous job here DOM! How detailed and informative. I like the way you provided lists with explanations and covered so much. My grandson found success with CoQ10 thankfully. I'm sure a lot of people can benefit from this hub, that's why I'm sharing it!
Voted up, useful, awesome, and interesting.
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
6 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@ I Am Rosa Oh I'm so sorry! My first trimester, my migraines were horrible!! I was lucky though, they subsided in the second trimester. I don't think I could have handled them for the entire 9 months! Make sure you take plenty of vitamin C! Most pregnant women have very low levels of vit C and need to take over 2,000mg so that the baby isn't deficient as well.
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
6 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@Stephanie Thank you! I know what you meant too, I was lucky enough to have a doctor who finally diagnosed mine, but it took quite a while. And it can be agony waiting for the right diagnosis and treatment!
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
6 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@Janine I actually just ordered some magnesium after writing this article because that may actually be part of my problem. I know I'm really low on potassium all the time, so I could easily be low on magnesium as well. Glad to know it actually works!! :D
AUTHOR
Melissa Flagg COA OSC
6 years ago from Rural Central Florida
@Phoenix Happy New Year! I hope this helps your daughter alleviate some of her migraines, I know it helped me quite a bit. The vitamin C especially! :)
Rosa Marchisella
6 years ago from Canada
Excellent info. I haven't have migraines in a few years, but with this pregnancy, they've returned and there is very little I can take while pregnant. Pinned, shared and voted up :-)
Stephanie Bradberry
6 years ago from New Jersey
This is an extensive and well composed and outline overview of details pertaining to migraines. The information is excellent for those who are not sure if they have migraines and those that have been diagnosed with migraines. I wish this was around all the years I suffered from them and no doctor diagnosed it. Well written!
Janine Huldie
6 years ago from New York, New York
Thanks for sharing, because as you know I suffer from migraines during that tine of the month. I found that my migraines were lessened at night. Ironically, I take magnesium supplements in the early evening. So, it would appear that it was helping and didn't even realize it. So, I appreciate you explaining all this here. Great article and have voted up, as well as tweeted!!
Zulma Burgos-Dudgeon
6 years ago from United Kingdom
This is wonderful. My daughter suffers from migraines terribly. She has tried all the medications going and still struggles to find a balance. I will definitely be forwarding this to her ASAP.
Happy New Year.
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. HubPages® is a registered Service Mark of HubPages, Inc. HubPages and Hubbers (authors) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon, Google, and others.
Sign InJoin
Home Remedies
Skin & Hair Issues
Foot Care
Oral Health
Whole Body
Digestive Issues
Joint & Muscle Pain
Reproductive Health
Cough & Cold
Respiratory Issues
Show All Categories
Connect with us
About Us
Editorial Policy
Copyright
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Advertising
Copyright © 2019 HubPages Inc. and respective owners.
working
This website uses cookies
As a user in the EEA, your approval is needed on a few things. To provide a better website experience, remedygrove.com uses cookies (and other similar technologies) and may collect, process, and share personal data. Please choose which areas of our service you consent to our doing so.
Necessary
Features
Marketing
Statistics
Approve All & Submit
Approve Checked Only
For more information on managing or withdrawing consents and how we handle data, visit our Privacy Policy at: https://remedygrove.com/privacy-policy#gdpr
Show Details
Necessary
HubPages Device ID This is used to identify particular browsers or devices when the access the service, and is used for security reasons.
Login This is necessary to sign in to the HubPages Service.
Google Recaptcha This is used to prevent bots and spam. (Privacy Policy)
Akismet This is used to detect comment spam. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Google Analytics This is used to provide data on traffic to our website, all personally identifyable data is anonymized. (Privacy Policy)
HubPages Traffic Pixel This is used to collect data on traffic to articles and other pages on our site. Unless you are signed in to a HubPages account, all personally identifiable information is anonymized.
Amazon Web Services This is a cloud services platform that we used to host our service. (Privacy Policy)
Cloudflare This is a cloud CDN service that we use to efficiently deliver files required for our service to operate such as javascript, cascading style sheets, images, and videos. (Privacy Policy)
Google Hosted Libraries Javascript software libraries such as jQuery are loaded at endpoints on the googleapis.com or gstatic.com domains, for performance and efficiency reasons. (Privacy Policy)
Features
Google Custom Search This is feature allows you to search the site. (Privacy Policy)
Google Maps Some articles have Google Maps embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Google Charts This is used to display charts and graphs on articles and the author center. (Privacy Policy)
Google AdSense Host API This service allows you to sign up for or associate a Google AdSense account with HubPages, so that you can earn money from ads on your articles. No data is shared unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Google YouTube Some articles have YouTube videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Vimeo Some articles have Vimeo videos embedded in them. (Privacy Policy)
Paypal This is used for a registered author who enrolls in the HubPages Earnings program and requests to be paid via PayPal. No data is shared with Paypal unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Login You can use this to streamline signing up for, or signing in to your Hubpages account. No data is shared with Facebook unless you engage with this feature. (Privacy Policy)
Maven This supports the Maven widget and search functionality. (Privacy Policy)
Marketing
Google AdSense This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Google DoubleClick Google provides ad serving technology and runs an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Index Exchange This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Sovrn This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Facebook Ads This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Unified Ad Marketplace This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
AppNexus This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Openx This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Rubicon Project This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
TripleLift This is an ad network. (Privacy Policy)
Say Media We partner with Say Media to deliver ad campaigns on our sites. (Privacy Policy)
Remarketing Pixels We may use remarketing pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to advertise the HubPages Service to people that have visited our sites.
Conversion Tracking Pixels We may use conversion tracking pixels from advertising networks such as Google AdWords, Bing Ads, and Facebook in order to identify when an advertisement has successfully resulted in the desired action, such as signing up for the HubPages Service or publishing an article on the HubPages Service.
Statistics
Author Google Analytics This is used to provide traffic data and reports to the authors of articles on the HubPages Service. (Privacy Policy)
Comscore ComScore is a media measurement and analytics company providing marketing data and analytics to enterprises, media and advertising agencies, and publishers. Non-consent will result in ComScore only processing obfuscated personal data. (Privacy Policy)
Amazon Tracking Pixel Some articles display amazon products as part of the Amazon Affiliate program, this pixel provides traffic statistics for those products (Privacy Policy)
{{section}}
{{title}}
by {{author}} {{comment_count}}