Migraine Headaches | Student Health and Counseling Services
Campus Resources
MyUCDavis
Jobs
News
Facts
Maps
Calendars
UC Davis Stores
Help
Schedules
Sustainability
Information Technology
Diversity
Emergency Services
General Catalogue
Health System
Libraries and Collections
Jump Menu
I want to...
View or cancel my appointments
Choose my provider
Send a message to my provider
Speak with an Advice Nurse 24/7
Waive SHIP insurance
Student Health and Counseling Services
Menu
About
About SHCS
Get Involved
Contact Us
Locations
Hours
Patient-Centered Medical Home
Eligibility and Billing
Common Fees for Services
Meet Our Staff
Health Education and Promotion
Employment
Schedule or Cancel an Appointment
Medical Services
Acute Care Clinic
Advice Nurse
Primary Care
Lab and X-ray Services
Nutrition Services
Optometry Clinic and Optical Shop
Pharmacy Services
Alcohol, Tobacco and Other Drug (ATOD) Intervention Services
Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) and HIV Testing
Birth Control
Specialty Care
Travel Services
Meet Your Provider
Immunizations
Counseling Services
Acute Care
Individual Counseling
Group Services
Career Counseling
Community Advising Network (CAN)
Self-Help Library
Eating Disorder Services
Community Referrals
Meet Your Counselor
Online Visits
Frequently Asked Questions
Wellness Services
Teaching Kitchen - Cooking Classes
What is Wellness?
Wellness To Go
Health Promotion Campaigns
Food and Nutrition
SHCS Blog
Health Topics
Recovery Resources
Wellness Maps
Healthy Eating
General Wellness
Sleep
Physical Activity
Injury Prevention
Sexual Health
Stress Reduction
Smoking Cessation
Anxiety Disorders
Safe Partying
Helmet Hair,
Don't Care!
Insurance
UC SHIP Benefits Information
UC SHIP Forms
UC SHIP Waiver Information
Frequently Asked Questions
UC SHIP News and Updates
Resources
Parents and Family Members
Health-e-Messaging
Health Topics
Faculty and Staff
Calendar
Program Requests
New Students
Feedback
close× Call Us
close×
Search form
Search
Home
Wellness Services
Health Topics
Migraine Headaches
Wellness Services
What is Wellness?
Health Topics
Post-exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) for HIV
Health Promotion Campaigns
Food and Nutrition
SHCS Blog
#ILoveBirthControl
A Ride Along with the Davis Police Department
Aggies Act! Do you?
Archive
Biking With Confidence
Cooking 101: How to Stock Your College Kitchen
How Basking In Blue Light Is Affecting Your Sleep
How to Eat More Vegetables Without Going to the Produce Section
Kitchen 101
Pressing Pause and Stressing Less
Sharing the Love - Love Lab 10 Year Anniversary
Stepping in a Winter Wonderland
Strike Out HIV Stigma
Think Before You Drink and Drug
Weeding Out What You Need To Know
What Is Mental Health and Where Can You Find Resources?
10 Student-Tested Strategies to Incorporate Movement Into Your Day
8 Ways for Aggies To Be Happy & Spread Happiness at UC Davis
A Weed By Any Other Name Would Not Be Talked About
Beaches and Eggplants: Safer Sex on Spring Break
Cooking 101: Cooking for One
De-Stress for Finals Week
Food Pinspiration
Four Healthy Relationship Hacks
GYT
Health Unfiltered
My Food Access Map: Access to food that meets your needs
Putting the "U" in Upstander
Self-Care for the Busy College Student
Strive to Thrive
The More You Adderall, the Less You Sleep
Your Pelvic Health Is Important
Wellness Maps
The Love Lab
Recovery Resources
Wellness To Go
Migraine Headaches
Overview of Migraine Headaches
Migraine headaches are periodic attacks of intense pain on one or both sides of the head. When untreated, they typically last between 4 and 72 hours. They are three times more common in women than men and more commonly experienced between the ages of 15 and 55 years old. 70% to 80% of sufferers have a family history of migraine.
Headaches also can be classified as tension-type which is more common than migraine (see Tension-Type Headaches). The cause of this type of headache and migraine headache is not completely understood. However, medical scientists now believe migraines may be caused by genetically influenced changes in the trigeminal nerve pathway in the brain (5th cranial nerve) and by imbalances in certain brain chemicals such as serotonin which regulate pain messages through this pathway.
Many factors can contribute to the development of a migraine headache. These factors or “triggers” may include diet, sleep, activity and psychological issues such as stress.
Signs & Symptoms
Moderate to severe pain with a pulsating or throbbing quality
Pain that worsens with physical activity
Nausea and possibly vomiting
Sensitivity to light or sound or even certain odors
Possibly visual disturbances or an aura that immediately precedes the headache
Prevention
Avoidance of any identifiable trigger factors may reduce the number of headaches a patient may experience. Healthy lifestyles that include regular exercise and other stress management techniques may also be instrumental in prevention.
If patients experience frequent migraines, prophylactic or preventive medicines may be used on a daily basis. Typically, the treatments tried first include certain anti-depressants or certain anti-hypertension drugs.
Treatment
Pain relieving medications should be taken as soon as the person starts experiencing the migraine. Non-prescription pain relievers such as Ibuprofen, aspirin, Excedrin, & Aleve may ease moderate migraines but usually alone are not sufficient for more severe headaches. Your health care provider can discuss and prescribe other pain relieving medication options. Since nausea can be a prominent symptom of a migraine, an anti-nausea medication also may need to be used.
Non-pharmacological options might include a quiet & darkened room, cool compresses.
How We Can Help
If you would like to be seen by our medical staff, please contact our Appointment Desk to schedule an appointment.
Also, our Advice Nurse service is available at no charge for all UC Davis students to discuss health concerns and the need for medical care.
Resources
Migraine Headaches (Mayo Clinic)
Tension-Type Headaches (SHCS Health Topic)
Dedicated to a Healthy Student Body
The mission of Student Health and Counseling Services is to enhance the physical and mental health of students in order to help them achieve academic success, personal development and lifelong wellness by providing an integrated program of quality, accessible, cost sensitive and confidential healthcare services, tailored to their unique and diverse needs and to assist the University community, through consultation and education, to develop a healthy campus environment consistent with UC Davis "Principles of Community".
Newsletter Signup
Newsletter Signup
Sign up for newsletter
Email *
Follow Us
Follow us in social media
Copyright © The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All rights reserved.
Appointment Desk: 530-752-2349
Advice Nurse: 530-752-2349
General Information: 530-752-2300
Locations: Student Health and Wellness Center | North Hall
Mailing: University of California, Davis One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616