Croup Success With Your Child
1...2...3...Croup Success!
Croup is one of the scariest child illness we have had to deal with.
Its 'barking coughing' attacks startle us awake in the middle of the night.
Each of our first 5 children have had this infection and handling 'whooping cough' quickly and effectively is becoming second nature from the onset of the first symptoms of this 'barking cough'.
Causes & Symptoms
swelling of breathing pipe--upper respiratory tract
common in children from 3mths(pseudo-croup) to 3yrs
can follow upper respiratory/sinus infections, cold or sore throat
low pitched wheezing breaths in, barking cough
increase in mucous production
typical middle of night coughing attacks can last a couple hours
What You Can Do
Continuously reassure your child & Keep them calm and relaxed
use cool mist humidifier--cool air often helps relieve Croup
cool night--bundle up and breath deeply the fresh cool outside air
slow deep breathing of warm wet air from steam shower can help **your child breathes the steam mist in only(not showering)
use a cool mist humidifier--air out home well to avoid mold onset
use a Pare E boy apparatus for saline mist breathing
deep breathing--deep breaths in the nose & slowly out the mouth
warm teas & soups soothes the throat, and eases coughing
lots of fluids, helps thin secretions, easier to cough up mucus
be creative with fluid intake:fun cups,curly straws,tummy river raid
avoid dairy products as they thicken & increase mucous
keep a liquid diet if severe coughing attacks cause vomiting
massage your child's back(each side of spine) to loosen mucous
sitting up, even in bed will help your child's breathing
hard to breath--go to your doctor or straight to emergency
doctor or hospital will administer oxygen and inhalation treatment
Quick Prevention Steps
keep healthy children away--croup is a highly viral infection
soothe irritated airways,use cool mist humidifier
with any cold increase fluid intake right away
increase vitamin C intake without using juice drinks high in sugar
limit refined sugar drinks--colds enjoy acidity levels in the body
wash hands & practice good hygiene throughout the day
Know your child, watch your child, and go with your instincts.No Panic! Your anxiety will feed your child's anxiety causing breathing to be more difficult. Your 'coolness' will help your child be more at ease. Cool air opens up the breathing by reducing the swelling. Our first child had this condition and it caused her to stop breathing in my arms, an extreme case of swelling & inflammations of the windpipe. Take these proactive steps we have shared with you and you will have success with treatment when the 'barking coughs' begin.
Make a doctor appointment whenever your child is 'not themselves'.
Return from Croup to Terrific Toddlers
Return to Family-Life-Parenting
[?]Subscribe To This Site
Home
Families
Healthy Eating
Family Finances
Kids'n Money
Dad's Corner
Parenting Today
Pregnancy Plus
Babies Plus
Terrific Toddlers
Relationships
Love Recipe
Anniversary Gifts
Romance Ideas
Top 10 Dating Ideas
Couples & Valentines
Celebrations
Celebrations
About Easter
Kids Birthday Parties
Family Blog
Family-Life Blog
Our Site Corner
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Contact Us
© Copyright 2008-2018 Family-Life-Parenting.com
SBI!