Apple cider vinegar to remove warts: Uses, effectiveness, and side effects
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Can apple cider vinegar treat warts?
Last reviewed	 Tue 27 February 2018	 Last reviewed	Tue 27 Feb 2018
By Rachel Nall, RN, BSN, CCRN
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
Effectiveness
Step-by-step guide
Side effects
Other treatments
When to see a doctor
Outlook
Many treatments are available for warts, including removal by a doctor, over-the-counter medication, and home remedies, such as apple cider vinegar.
Warts are rough bumps of skin caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV). Apple cider vinegar's effectiveness for treating warts is not known, and there are reports of risks and complications with this home remedy.
In this article, we look at how a person might use apple cider vinegar on warts, its effectiveness, and side effects. The article also looks at other ways to treat warts.
Effectiveness
Vinegar may be used to kill some bacteria, but apple cider vinegar has not been tested for this purpose.
There is currently no scientific research to suggest that apple cider vinegar is an effective treatment for warts.
The idea behind this treatment is that the acid should destroy the wart tissue, in a similar way that salicylic acid does. At high concentrations, salicylic acid can be more effective than a placebo for treating warts.
In general, vinegar can be used to kill some types of bacteria. According to one study, vinegar may be effective against common bacteria including Escherichia coli (E. Coli) and Salmonella. However, scientists have not tested this theory with apple cider vinegar.
There may also be some side effects of using acidic products on the skin, so a person considering this treatment should proceed with caution.
Step-by-step guide
When using apple cider vinegar to treat a wart, a person can follow these steps:
Gather a bottle of apple cider vinegar, cotton balls or cotton-tipped applicators, and a small bandage.
Soak the cotton ball in apple cider vinegar, and apply this to the area where the wart is.
Place the bandage over the cotton ball and leave it in place overnight. Some people may leave it on for up to 24 hours.
Replace the cotton ball with a fresh one dipped in apple cider vinegar each night.
The wart may swell or throb. The skin on the wart may turn black in the first 1 to 2 days, which might signal that the skin cells in the wart are dying.
The wart might fall off within 1 to 2 weeks. Continuing to use apple cider vinegar for a few days after this may prevent the skin cells that caused the previous wart from shedding and growing elsewhere.
Side effects and complications
Recommended treatments for warts include freezing, salicylic acid, and duct tape.
Apple cider vinegar is a form of acid. It is usually available at a concentration of 5 percent acetic acid.
Although weaker than other acids, such as sulfuric and hydrochloric acid, it still has the potential to cause a chemical burn and damage to the skin.
Therefore, people should not apply apple cider vinegar to warts in sensitive areas, such as on the genitals or face.
In one report, a young person experienced burns to their nose after applying apple cider vinegar to a mole.
In another report, a child experienced chemical burns and irritant contact dermatitis to their leg after using apple cider vinegar directly on the skin.
Other treatments
One possible treatment is the application of cantharidine. This substance causes the skin under the wart to blister so that the wart comes off. This treatment must be done in a doctor's office.
The American Academy of Dermatology also recommend the following treatments for warts:
Salicylic acid
Products containing salicylic acid are available over the counter. When applied to damp skin on a daily basis over several weeks, the acid can destroy skin cells on the wart.
Always follow the instructions from the manufacturer. Usually, a person can follow these steps:
Soak the wart for around 10 minutes, using warm water.
Gently rub the wart with an emery board or pumice stone.
Once the wart has softened, follow the instructions on the packet to apply the acid. The acid may cause mild stinging.
Eventually, the wart should peel off.
Freezing
A wart can be frozen off using a freezing spray. This procedure can be done at the doctor's office, but wart-freezing sprays are also available over the counter.
These sprays should create a blister around the wart, which will eventually fall off. Alternatively, a doctor can remove it with a laser or scalpel.
What you should know about freezing warts
Learn more about freezing warts, including how it works, effectiveness, when to do it, and what to expect
Read now
Duct tape
Another home remedy some people use for wart treatment is the application of duct tape. Apply duct tape over the wart and change it every few days.
While it is unclear whether this works, it is possible that it causes the skin cells of the wart to come off.
When to see a doctor
If a person uses the apple cider method to treat their wart, they should watch the skin around the wart carefully for signs of a chemical burn on the skin.
Signs a person should discontinue their treatment and see a doctor include:
bleeding
cracked, open areas of skin
severe pain from the treatment site
severe swelling
If a person experiences anything they did not expect related to their wart treatments, they should contact their doctor.
Outlook
Warts are not usually painful, and they typically go away on their own over time. However, some warts may bleed or rub against clothing, which can be uncomfortable and annoying.
There is no guaranteed cure for warts, and they may return in the same or a different location.
Apple cider vinegar is not an approved treatment method. However, there is a range of medical treatments and over-the-counter medications available that might help.
Related coverage
What is human papillomavirus (HPV)? Human Papillovirus (HPV) is the most common sexually transmited infection in the U.S. There are different types of HPV, and about 14 million people in the U.S. are diagnosed each year. Some of these people may develop a cancer that stems from HPV infection. Discover how HPV is transmitted and how to protect yourself. Read now
What is the apple cider vinegar detox? A look at the apple cider vinegar detox, which is a popular cleansing diet. Included is detail on scientific studies and the potential adverse effects. Read now
How to treat a wart Most warts clear up without treatment, although this can take up to several years. Treatments aim to irritate the skin to encourage the body's infection-fighting cells to clear the warts. A range of over-the-counter medications are available, as well as surgery and cryotherapy, which involves freezing the wart off. Read now
Can apple cider vinegar help treat psoriasis? Psoriasis is a painful, irritating, and unsightly condition that causes buildups of plaque on certain areas of the skin. Some people use apple cider vinegar as a home remedy to treat their psoriasis. This MNT Knowledge Center article looks at whether it is effective, along with other options. Read now
What you need to know about genital warts Genital warts are one of the most common types of sexually transmitted infection. They are contagious and occur when the human papillomavirus (HPV) infects the skin. Genital warts are not dangerous, and most can be treated with a topical cream. Read on to find out about other treatment options and how to prevent them. Read now
email email
print
share share
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Dermatology
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Tue 27 February 2018.
Visit our Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Bunick, C. G., Lott, J. P., Warren, C. B., Galan, A., Bolognia, J., & King, B. (2012, October). Chemical burn from topical apple cider vinegar [Abstract]. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 67(4), e143–e144. Retrieved from http://www.jaad.org/article/S0190-9622(11)02243-2/abstract
Feldstein, S., Afshar, M., & Krakowski, A. C. (2015, June). Chemical burn from vinegar following an Internet-based protocol for self-removal of nevi. The Journal of Clinical and Aesthetic Dermatology, 8(6), 50. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4479370/
How to get rid of warts. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/kids/skin/warts/how-to-get-rid-of-warts
Johnston, C. S., & Gaas, C. A. (2006, May 30). Vinegar: Medicinal uses and antiglycemic effect. Medscape General Medicine, 8(2), 61. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1785201/
Ngan, V. (2003). Cantharidine. Retrieved from https://www.dermnetnz.org/topics/cantharidine
Rutala, W. A., Barbee, S. L., Aguiar, N. C., Sobsey, M. D., & Weber, D. J. (2000, January 2). Antimicrobial activity of home disinfectants and natural products against potential human pathogens. Infection Control & Hospital Epidemiology, 21(1), 33–38. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10656352
Steele, K., Shirodaria, P., O'Hare, M., Merrett, J. D., Irwin, W. G., Simpson, D. I., & Pfister, H. (1988, April). British Journal of Dermatology, 118(4), 537–543. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3377974
Warts. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.aad.org/public/diseases/contagious-skin-diseases/warts
Warts. (2014, April). Retrieved from https://www.familydoctor.org/condition/warts/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Nall, Rachel. "Can apple cider vinegar treat warts?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 27 Feb. 2018. Web.
26 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321055.php>
APA
Nall, R. (2018, February 27). "Can apple cider vinegar treat warts?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321055.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Marijuana users less likely to be overweight, obese
New research examines the link between body mass index and cannabis use. The findings may seem counterintuitive, given that marijuana increases appetite.
Patterns of antibiotic use may predict cardiovascular risk
A large cohort study has found a link between prolonged antibiotic use in middle age and later in life and an increased cardiovascular risk.
Innovative patch may reduce muscle damage after a heart attack
An interdisciplinary team of researchers has designed a patch that can limit damage after a heart attack. The patch was successfully tested in rats.
Could invigorating the immune system prevent lung cancer?
Early immune-related molecular changes in airway tissue could potentially predict invasive lung cancer and serve as prevention targets, new study suggests.
Does your tongue have a sense of smell?
New research in mice and human cell cultures has revealed that the taste cells of humans and other mammals can also contain smell receptors.
Popular in: Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Benefits of black seed oil
How to relieve itching
How do you boost testosterone naturally?
What are the benefits of maca root?
Hemp oil benefits list
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/321055.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);