Professional Opinion: Do copper-infused sports braces really work? | Hilton Head Island Packet
As the general population seeks to continue remaining active, even into our older years, many look to novel ideas for reducing the pain that accompanies physical activity, especially when arthritis is present.
Many people wear copper bracelets, knee pads and elbow pads in search of relief of the discomfort experienced during activity and even pain at rest. While the health benefits of copper containing devices are marketed directly to consumers, many of these claims are not substantiated. Yet sales continue to grow and the lore of copper broadens.
While the health benefits of copper containing devices are marketed directly to consumers, many of these claims are not substantiated.
Dr. Shane K. Woolf, chief of sports medicine at the Medical University of South Carolina,
While the medical literature does not demonstrate a great volume of research on this topic, there are several published studies that have looked specifically at the pain relieving potential of copper.
One such study, published by Stewart J. Richmond and colleagues in 2009, found no therapeutic benefit from copper bracelets in terms of pain or stiffness in patients with osteoarthritis. This study was randomized, placebo controlled, blinded and patients crossed over between groups, including controls and magnetized bracelets. Thus, the study was of high quality and the outcomes can be considered reliable. The authors speculated that any pain relief achieved in the group who wore copper bracelets may be attributed to placebo effect.
Richmond was lead author on another study in 2013 that demonstrated similar findings in the rheumatoid arthritis population. Another high quality study by N.A. Shackel and colleagues from 1998 looked at copper-salicylate gel as a pain reliever in osteoarthritis of the hip and knee. This controlled study actually demonstrated a higher risk for adverse reaction such as skin irritation in the copper group and no therapeutic benefit.
The medical literature is absent any studies that have looked specifically at copper impregnated materials and pain relief for either arthritis or activity related soreness. Nor is there evidence that performance is enhanced by these devices. What is interesting, however, is that copper has been shown to demonstrate both antibacterial and antiviral properties.
There is substantial evidence that copper coated surfaces, including parts of hospital rooms, patient gowns, sinks, and other areas have a lower concentration of bacteria and viral particles. So it is not likely that copper devices will increase risk for skin infection when worn frequently.
Further, there is really no evidence for harmful effects from wearing copper bracelets or knee/elbow pads. Certainly, there is a risk to benefit assessment that must be considered about anything one uses to treat muscle and joint pain. Even over-the-counter medications like Tylenol, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories and topical pain creams are not without risk. Yet, there is something to be said for the effect of placebo and positive thinking about pain relief. This is where the lore and anecdote of copper devices resides.
Most of the sports medicine and orthopaedic research is clear that moderate activity and maintaining strength, motion, and flexibility are beneficial to reduce and prevent painful arthritis and muscles.
Spend a few bucks on a copper pad or bracelet while staying active, and you will likely have at least some benefit, even if you forget to wear it.
Comments
Videos
SHARE
COPY LINK
RBC Heritage winner C.T. Pan talks about his strategy for winning Hilton Head tourney
SHARE
COPY LINK
Clemson’s Dexter Lawrence discusses the NFL draft process
View More Video
Trending Stories
C.T. Pan wins RBC Heritage on Hilton Head. He says he owes it to his wife
April 21, 2019 05:58 PM
‘You can’t bring anyone back’: Hilton Head OBGYN sued for malpractice after infant death
April 22, 2019 01:20 PM
Updated traffic alert: 2 crashes near SC 170 bridge back up traffic, 1 driver injured
April 22, 2019 08:30 AM
Heritage fashion 2019: The 18 best outfits from Easter Sunday on Hilton Head Island
April 21, 2019 07:06 PM
Savannah’s Talmadge Bridge was closed for more than hour Monday afternoon. Here’s why
April 22, 2019 02:50 PM
Read Next
Professional Opinion
Attention germophobes and those who don’t want to get the flu: Don’t touch these 5 things
Posted by Liz Farrell
lfarrell@islandpacket.com
January 17, 2017 10:47 AM
ORDER REPRINT →
I’m not really a “germophobe,” but I had the flu last year and it was awful enough to make me not want to touch a single thing in public this winter. Am I being ridiculous?
KEEP READING
Unlimited Digital Access: Only $0.99 For Your First Month
#ReadLocal
Get full access to The Island Packet content across all your devices.
SAVE NOW
MORE PROFESSIONAL OPINION
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Probiotics — take a pill or eat some yogurt?
May 27, 2016 09:37 AM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Do SPF 100s really work?
May 20, 2016 06:15 AM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: How safe is robotic surgery and how does it work?
May 13, 2016 10:36 AM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Could hormones, busy lifestyle be to blame for fatigue?
May 06, 2016 11:13 AM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Why are allergies worse this year?
April 29, 2016 01:09 PM
Professional Opinion
Professional Opinion: Colonoscopies aren’t just for men
April 22, 2016 06:16 AM
Take Us With You
Real-time updates and all local stories you want right in the palm of your hand.
Hilton Head Island Packet App
View Newsletters
Subscriptions
Start a Subscription
Customer Service
eEdition
Vacation Hold
Pay Your Bill
Rewards
Learn More
About Us
Contact Us
Newsletters
News in Education
Photo Store
Archives
Advertising
Information
Place a Classified
Local Deals
Special Sections
Place an Obituary
Today's Circulars
Copyright
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service