Osteoarthritis Pain Medicine: Risks and Benefits
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Osteoarthritis Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Find a Rheumatologist
Medications
Osteoarthritis Guide
Overview & Facts
Symptoms & Types
Diagnosis & Tests
Treatment & Care
Living & Managing
Tools & Resources
Osteoarthritis Treatment
Osteoarthritis Medications and Surgery
What Medications Treat Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis Pain Medications
Steroids and Hyaluronic Acid for Osteoarthritis
Surgery for Osteoarthritis Joint Pain
Joint Replacement for Osteoarthritis
Complementary Therapies
Nutritional Supplements
Home Remedies
10 Tips for Self-Care at Home
Pain Management
Related to Osteoarthritis
Arthritis
Drug Interaction Checker
Living Healthy
Pain Management
Pill Identifier
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Tendinitis
More Related Topics
Osteoarthritis
Reference
Osteoarthritis Pain Medicine: Risks and Benefits
Articles OnOsteoarthritis Treatment
Osteoarthritis Treatment
Osteoarthritis Treatment - Osteoarthritis Pain Medicine: Risks and Benefits
Osteoarthritis Medications and Surgery
What Medications Treat Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis Pain Medications
Steroids and Hyaluronic Acid for Osteoarthritis
Surgery for Osteoarthritis Joint Pain
Joint Replacement for Osteoarthritis
Complementary Therapies
Nutritional Supplements
Home Remedies
10 Tips for Self-Care at Home
Pain Management
Because there is no cure for osteoarthritis (OA), medications focus on pain relief. If you have OA, consider the following risks and benefits of different pain relievers to make the decision that is best for you.
Analgesics for Osteoarthritis Pain
Analgesics are a class of drugs designed specifically to relieve pain. They do not reduce swelling or inflammation associated with OA. However, they can be quite effective as pain medications.
One of the most commonly used analgesics is acetaminophen (Tylenol). Acetaminophen is inexpensive and a safe arthritis pain reliever when taken correctly. However, too much acetaminophen can cause liver damage. Adults should not take more than 3,000 milligrams of acetaminophen in a day. People with existing liver disease and people who drink more than three alcoholic drinks a day may not be able to take acetaminophen.
There are stronger types of pain medications called narcotic analgesics, which are available by prescription. Narcotic analgesics include codeine, hydrocodone, and oxycodone. Although narcotics are effective in treating moderate to severe arthritis pain, they do have side effects, including nausea, constipation, dizziness, and drowsiness. Some people build tolerance to narcotic drugs, leading to the need for an increased dosage. Narcotics also can be habit-forming.
Because some prescription pain drugs may contain a narcotic ingredient along with acetaminophen, it is important to monitor the total amount of acetaminophen taken in a day if you are taking both prescription and over-the-counter pain relievers.
Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) for Osteoarthritis Pain
NSAIDs are also commonly recommended for arthritis pain relief. NSAIDs are available over the counter and by prescription. Over-the-counter NSAIDs help relieve pain but do not have a significant effect on inflammation and swelling at these lower doses. NSAIDs available over the counter include aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen.
Prescription NSAIDs have the ability to reduce swelling and inflammation caused by arthritis. There are many prescription NSAIDs, including diclofenac (Voltaren), ibuprofen (Motrin), naproxen (Naprosyn), and oxaprozin (Daypro). NSAIDs can increase the risk of heart attack or stroke, especially in higher doses. They can also cause kidney problems and liver problems as well as stomach issues in some patients, including ulcers with serious stomach bleeding. Taking the medicine with food is advised. Some research suggests that taking another medication called a proton pump inhibitor can greatly reduce the incidence of this problem. Other medications include an NSAID and a drug to help protect the stomach in one pill, such as diclofenac sodium/misoprostol (Arthrotec) and naproxen/esomeprazole magnesium (Vimovo), though they can be taken separately at a lower cost.
Continued
Cox-2 inhibitors, a class of drugs that includes the prescription celecoxib (Celebrex), are NSAIDs created more recently to be safer for the stomach.
Certain people may be at greater risk for adverse effects when taking NSAIDs. Because the side effects of these medications can be serious, it is important to communicate any issues you notice to your doctor immediately. Also, certain people respond to different NSAIDs better than others, so be patient. You might have to try a few before finding the one that works for you.
Antidepressants for Osteoarthritis Pain
Your doctor may recommend the use of antidepressant medication to help treat chronic OA pain whether or not you have depression. The exact way it helps curb pain is not known, but brain chemicals affected by antidepressant medications may play a role.
One antidepressant, duloxetine (Cymbalta), is FDA-approved for the treatment of chronic musculoskeletal pain, including chronic osteoarthritis pain. Some common side effects include nausea, dry mouth, sleepiness, and constipation.
Doctors sometimes prescribe a tricyclic antidepressant such as amitriptyline, desipramine (Norpramin), and nortriptyline (Pamelor) for chronic pain. These are most often taken near bedtime because of sedative effects. Other side effects include dry mouth, nausea, weight change, and constipation.
All antidepressant drugs carry a boxed warning of increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults. All patients starting antidepressant drugs should be monitored closely for any unusual behavioral changes, suicidal thinking and behavior, or worsening of a psychiatric disorder.
Injectable Steroids for Osteoarthritis Pain
Injectable corticosteroids (also known as glucocorticoids or “steroids”) are injected directly into a joint to help ease joint inflammation and pain. The benefit of corticosteroids is that they act quickly and can be administered directly to the joints. Side effects may include allergic reaction but are mainly limited to the joint and include infection, bleeding, and skin changes. Because frequent injections to the same joint can cause damage to the joint structures, you generally should not have more than three injections in the same site per year. Injections should not be done if there is an overlying skin infection.
Continued
Hyaluronan Injections for Osteoarthritis Pain
In viscosupplementation, the doctor injects the “lubricant” hyaluronan, a component of normal joint fluid into the knee joint. It may help ease pain and increase function in some people with mild to moderate OA. It may take four to 12 weeks to feel the full effect, and pain relief can last for up to several months in some people.
The potential side effects of hyaluronan injections include joint swelling or pain, and allergic reaction. Also, hyaluronan injections cannot be used by people with skin or joint infections. Examples of hyaluronan injections include Euflexxa, Hyalgan, Orthovisc, Supartz, and Synvisc-One.
Topical Pain Relief (Creams) for Osteoarthritis Pain
Arthritis pain relief does not always come in the form of a pill or shot. For people who cannot tolerate pain medications or who do not experience enough pain relief from other treatments, topical pain relievers in the form of creams, gels, and ointments are an important option. People may also use topical treatments in addition to other medications.
Topical treatments come in prescription and over-the-counter forms and may include topical NSAIDs, and capsaicin, an ingredient derived from hot peppers. You might experience some skin irritation, so test the medication on a small part of your skin to make sure you’re not sensitive to any of the ingredients.
You should never apply a topical ointment to broken or irritated skin, and keep them away from your eyes and mouth. Never combine a topical ointment with any sort of heat therapy, such as a heating pad or hot towel, because the combination could cause severe burns.
Dietary Supplements for Osteoarthritis Pain
Many people also take the dietary supplements glucosamine and chondroitin for osteoarthritis relief, but it's unclear how effective these supplements are at easing pain. Research indicates that the supplements may help some people with moderate to severe pain. However, the supplements also pose little risk; the most common side effect is a mild upset stomach. So, people with osteoarthritis often give them a try.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by David Zelman, MD on September 09, 2017
Sources
SOURCES:
News release, FDA.
American College of Rheumatology: Practice Guidelines: "Recommendations for the Medical Management of Osteoarthritis of the Hip and Knee."
The Arthritis Foundation: "What Can You Do About OA?" "2011 Drug Guide."
FDA: "Medication Guide for Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs)."
© 2017 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next In Osteoarthritis Treatment
Steroids and Hyaluronic Acid for Osteoarthritis
Top Picks
Knee Injuries and OA
Tips for Living Better With OA
Knee Arthritis: Treatment Advances
10 Ways to Exercise Hands and Fingers
Gout: Risk Factors and Triggers
Better Sleep With Osteoarthritis
Today on WebMD
Staying Active
Even with arthritis pain.
Better Living With Osteoarthritis
10 tips for your daily routine.
Acupuncture Guide
How it helps arthritis, migraines, and dental pain.
Coping With Pain?
Get personalized tips to reduce discomfort.
Recommended for You
SLIDESHOW
18 Ways to Keep Your Joints Healthy
HEALTH CHECK
Living With Chronic Pain: What Can You Do?
Article
Adult Obesity and Arthritis
Article
Everyday Tips for Healthy Joints
QUIZ
Do You Know How to Relieve OA Pain?
Article
Tai Chi for Arthritis Relief
Slideshow
10 Exercises for Hand and Finger Pain
Slideshow
Devices to Make Living With OA Easier
Tools & Resources
Best Exercises for OA
Quiz: How to Relieve OA Pain
Exercises for Healthy Knees
OA Pain? Practical Tips to Help
Tips for Healthy Joints
OA: Symptoms and Risk Factors
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.