Eating Sesame Seeds Superior To Tylenol for Knee Arthritis - Project Nsearch
Search
Sign Up
Sign In
Project Nsearch
God, Hope & Helping Others
Home
Blogs
Videos
Forum
Healing
God's Word
Prayer Requests
My Word
Nsearch Radio
God
Health
Cures
Energy
Sustainability
Money
Survival
Photos
Members
Training
Help Teams
Nsearch
Shopping
My Page
My Profile
Resources
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Ebooks
All Blogs
My Blogs
Add
Eating Sesame Seeds Superior To Tylenol for Knee Arthritis
Posted by Anna Janek on November 10, 2013 at 6:30pm
View Blogs
Posted on:
Sunday, November 10th 2013 at 12:15 pm
Written By:
Sayer Ji, Founder
A remarkable new study published in the International Journal of Rheumatic Diseases confirms thatfood is not only medicine, but sometimes superior to it. Medical researchers working out of Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran, sought to investigate the effects of sesame seed supplementation on clinical signs and sympto....[i]
Knee osteoarthritis is a form of degenerative joint disease or degenerative arthritis localized in the knee, and causes a variety of symptoms including pain, swelling, abnormal bone growth (which can result in bone spurs), disfigured cartilage and loss of motion, and it affects as many as 12.1% of adults aged 60+, according to the CDC.[ii] Standard therapy involves the use of NSAID drugs, many of which have been linked both to internal bleeding and significantly increased risk of cardiac mortality, which is why the researchers sought out to look for "a complementary treatment to reduce complications and costs."
The study took fifty patients with osteoarthritis of the knee, and divided them into two 25-patient groups: a sesame group, receiving 40 grams/day of powdered sesame seeds, and a standard drug therapy group, receiving two 500 mg doses of Tylenol twice a day along with 500 mg of glucosamine once daily. After two months of treatment, 22 patients in the sesame intervention group and 23 patients in the control group completed the study.
Table 1
Considering that treatment was comprised of little over an ounce and one half of sesame seeds, the results were truly remarkable. As presented in Table 1 above, there was a significant difference in pain intensity between the two groups after treatment, with the sesame group seeing the largest drop from 9.5 before treatment to 3.5 after treatment, and the control group seeing a more modest drop from 9 before treatment to 7 after treatment. Additional measurements were taken using both the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) Questionnaire and the Timed Up and Go (TUG) Test. Both tests revealed a similar degree of positive change in both treatment and control groups, when compared to baseline. [See table 2 and table 3 below].
Table 2 [KOOS]
Table 3 [TUG]
Taken together, sesame was the clear winner. Not only was this food therapy superior in reducing the intensity of pain, but it was at least equal in effectiveness to Tylenol and glucosamine in both the KOOS and TUG tests. This, of course, was accomplished without the notorious side effects associated with Tylenol; to the contrary, sesame seed has a wide range of side benefits, which we covered recently in our article on sesame's health benefits.
So, how much is 40 grams of sesame seed? A tablespoon of sesame seeds is approximately 9 grams. So, approximately 4 tablespoons will get you to what the study found to be a 'clinical dose.' Also, the researchers powdered the sesame seeds in order to enhance digestion. Remember, it is best to do this fresh with a mortar and pestle (first choice) or coffee grinder, also making sure that your seeds are raw, certified organic, and vetted to have not undergone gamma irradiation.
To truly appreciate the significance of this study, take a look at the growing body of toxicological research indicating that the unintended, adverse health effects of Tylenol (acetametaphen) far outweigh its purported benefits. We recently featured articles on the fact that even only occasional use of Tylenol may raise a child's asthma risk 540%, and that it may be time for the FDA to remove it from the market.
For additional research on natural and/or integrative interventions for knee osteoarthritis visit our research page on the topic: knee osteoarthritis.
[i] Bina Eftekhar Sadat, Mahdieh Khadem Haghighian, Beitollah Alipoor, Aida Malek Mahdavi, Mohammad Asghari Jafarabadi, Abdolvahab Moghaddam. Effects of sesame seed supplementation on clinical signs and sympto...
[ii] CDC.gov, Osteoarthritis statistics
Sayer Ji is the founder of GreenMedInfo.com, an author, researcher, lecturer, and an advisory board member of the National Health Federation. Google Plus Profile.
He founded Greenmedinfo.com in 2008 in order to provide the world an open access, evidence-based resource supporting natural and integrative modalities. It is widely recognized as the most widely referenced health resource of its kind.
Disclaimer: This article is not intended to provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of GreenMedInfo or its staff.
Commenting is limited to users that have the Member or Professional role.
To comment:
Login if you have a membership
Sign up for the Member role
Sign up for the Professional role
Recommended Related Articles
Ancient Ayurveda Beats Clonazepam in Clinical Trial for Anxiety Dis...
14,309 views
7 Ways To Prevent and Even Reverse Heart Disease With Nutrition
6,911 views
Open Sesame! 10 Amazing Health Benefits Of This Super-Seed
76,251 views
May All Your Medicines Be Green
4,141 views
Turmeric Extract Puts Drugs For Knee Osteoarthritis To Shame
20,398 views
http://www.greenmedinfo.com/blog/eating-sesame-seeds-superior-tylen...
Views: 134
Tags: Arthritis, Eating, Knee, Seeds, Sesame, Superior, To, Tylenol, for
Share Tweet
< Previous Post
Next Post >
Comment
You need to be a member of Project Nsearch to add comments!
Join Project Nsearch
RSS
Welcome to
Project Nsearch
Sign Up
or Sign In
Or sign in with:
Donate to the Nsearch ministry
Donate to the Nsearch ministry monthly at the $3, $5, $10, $25, $50 or $100 level. All your donations are used to record the anointed Word of God and spread it worldwide! Thank you for your support!
$3 Monthly Donation : $3.00 USD - monthly $5 Monthly Donation : $5.00 USD - monthly $10 Monthly Donation : $10.00 USD - monthly $25 Monthly Donation : $25.00 USD - monthly $50 Monthly Donation : $50.00 USD - monthly $100 Monthly Donation : $100.00 USD - monthly
Donate to our ministry one time or monthly in the amount you choose! All donations used for recording the anointed word of God! Thank you for your support!
Visit Our Sponsors!
It is the Ministry of NSearch that all inherit the Kingdom of God
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law....
Now the works of the flesh are evident,
which are adultery fornication, uncleanness, lewdness,
idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies,
outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, heresies, envy,
murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like;
of which I (Paul the Apostle) tell you beforehand,
just as I also told you in time past, that those who
practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering,
kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control,
against such there is no law. Those who are Christ's
have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
Let us not become conceited, provoking one another,
envying one another.
Galatians 5:18-26
{Sorcery: "Pharmakia;" Primarily mentioned as one of the "works of the flesh." In "sorcery" the use of drugs. Blue Letter Bible. Galatians 5:20}
Nsearch Cool Gadgets
Russian Device Treats Diseases!
Get all the details on the Russian device and much more in my FREE ebook when you Sign Up for Project Nsearch and go to the Bonuses page when logged in! Email glenn@nsearch.com if you have problems.
Donate to the Nsearch ministry monthly at the $5, $10, $25, $50 or $100 level. Thank you for your support! Also please join JesusHealingNow for more information on healing!
$5 Monthly Donation : $5.00 USD - monthly $10 Monthly Donation : $10.00 USD - monthly $25 Monthly Donation : $25.00 USD - monthly $50 Monthly Donation : $50.00 USD - monthly $100 Monthly Donation : $100.00 USD - monthly
Donate to our ministry one time or monthly in the amount you choose! Thank you for your support!
© 2019 Created by Glenn Canady. Powered by
Badges | Report an Issue | Terms of Service
Hello, you need to enable JavaScript to use Project Nsearch.
Please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.