~TREAT YOUR ACNE NATURALLY WITH OUR EVENING PRIMROSE OIL~ | Natures Bath & Body
Log in | Sign up
0 items in your cart
About Handmade Soaps
Why Essential Oils?
Fenton Store
Holly Store
About Us
Menu Account Cart USD
Pick a currency USD GBP CAD EUR X
Search
Handmade Soaps
All-Natural
Scented
Essential Oils
Oils A-B
Oils C-D
Oils E-F
Oils G-L
Oils M-Q
Oils R-V
Oils W-Z
Roller Blends
Accessories
Carrier Oils
Bathtime
Bath Bombs
Soaks
Melts
Bath Tea
Bath Accessories
Hands
Feet
Bath + Shower
Hair Care
Conditioning
Hair Growth
Dandruff
Shampoo Bar Tips
Body Care
Body Butter
Sugar Scrub
Body Oil
Powder
Deodorant
Skin Care
Masks
Cleansers + Toners
Moisturizers
Anti-Aging
Eye Care
Facial Care System
Hand Care
Lip Care
All-Natural
Flavored Lip Balm
Foot Care
Accessories
Heel Balm
Soak
Moisturizer
Exfoliants
Perfume
All-Natural
Fragrance
Kids
Shimmer
Spritz
Wash
Fizzies
Lotion
Gift Sets
Baby
Gentlemen
Manly Soap
Shave Soap
Beard Oils & Balms
Body
Pre-Shave Oils
Aftershave
Shaving Brushes
Gift Set
Aroma Mists
All-Natural Mists
Scented
Repellents
Flea & Tick
Bug Repellent
Salves
Oral Hygiene
Candles + Tarts
Melting Tarts
Soy Candles
Gift Card
Stay in touch
Newsletter
Sign up to our newsletter for the latest news and special offers...
Subscribe
Best Sellers!
Bath Bombs (21 Scents) $ 5.00
Essential Oil Roll-On Blends $ 12.00
Lavender Essential Oil $ 13.00
~TREAT YOUR ACNE NATURALLY WITH OUR EVENING PRIMROSE OIL~
by DAVID JUSTUS Jul 10, 2016 0 comments
~TREAT YOUR ACNE NATURALLY WITH OUR EVENING PRIMROSE OIL~
This amazing oil is a must have in your daily skin care regimen. It is a great all-natural treatment for skin conditions such as acne, eczema, etc...However, this little bottle packs a big punch and offers other skin benefits as well including:
* Reduces Redness
* Firms Skin
* Wrinkle Fighter
* Anti-Inflammatory
* Strengthens Nails
A bottle of Natures Bath & Body Evening Primrose Oil is $9.00
ORDER ONLINE AT www.naturesbathbody.com
Evening Primrose for Skin, Soothing and Softening
Evening primrose oil has many benefits for your skin. For skin, evening primrose soothes dryness and nourishes skin with important fatty acids that can reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles.It contains several fatty acids like palmitic, oleic, linoleic, gamma linoleic, alpha linoleic, icosanoic and acosenoic fatty acids. These components contribute to a variety of skin benefits such as:
Improves skin texture which offers smooth more supple skin.
Fine lines and wrinkles become less noticeable.
Rough skin becomes hydrated and nourished.
Helps to prevent skin inflammation which can cause discoloration and acne.
Rejuvenates skin!
Promotes elasticity offering a more firm appearance.
Assists in the production of new skin cells.
Skin is repaired at a cellular level.
Lightens dark circles under the eyes.
Did you know that if you have oily skin or dry skin, you may have reduced levels of linoleic acid in your skin? Good fats promote protection and help your skin look firm and tight. Evening primrose can help calm the skin.
Treat Acne
Acne affects teens and adults alike, and many people don’t realize that acne can be treated naturally.
You can put the oil on your face directly. This is known to help with the healing process and improve the overall appearance of your skin.
3. Hair Loss
Men and women struggle with hair loss.
You can rub evening primrose oil into your hair or add it to your shampoo. In a study done at the University of Maryland, 86 people who were experiencing hair loss massaged their scalps with essential oils. They did this daily for seven months; at the end, those who used essential oils daily noticed significant hair regrowth. Besides using evening primrose oil for this remedy, try lavender (order here www.naturesbathbody.com), cypress (order here www.naturesbathbody.com), and lemongrass essential oil (order here www.naturesbathbody.com) too.
4. Skin Health
Evening primrose oil has proven to be a valuable treatment choice for people suffering from skin conditions, such as eczema, psoriasis, and atopic dermatitis. Studies published in the International Journal of Cosmetic Sciencehave even shown that evening primrose oil can help with age-related structural and functional changes in skin tissues, such as redness, firmness, roughness, and fatigue resistance.
Research shows that people with eczema don’t have the normal ability to process fatty acids; this results in a deficiency of gamma-linolenic acid, or GLA. GLA is an omega-6 fatty acid that the body can convert to substances that reduce inflammation and cell growth. Studies prove that evening primrose oil is remarkably effective in relieving many symptoms of eczema,including itching, redness, and edema.
Psoriasis occurs when skin cells replicate too quickly, which results in swollen patches under the skin covered with whitish scales on top. The cause of psoriasis includes hormonal changes, poor diet, and difficulty digesting protein. An evening primrose oil benefit is its ability to help naturally cure psoriasis--because the essential fatty acids help with hormone balance and digestion.
5. Rheumatoid Arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis is a type of chronic arthritis that occurs in joints on both sides of the body—such as both hands, both wrists, or both knees. It’s an autoimmune disease, which means that the body’s immune system attacks its own healthy tissues. The cause of rheumatoid arthritis is a combination of genetic, environmental, and hormonal factors.
Some studies show that primrose oil may be a suitable natural remedy for rheumatoid arthritis. One study done by Arthritis Research UK measured the effects of evening primrose oil on 49 people. The data found that 94 percent of participants who got evening primrose oil reported a significant improvement of disease-related symptoms, including pain and morning stiffness. When using evening primrose oil for symptoms of arthritis, it may take one to three months for benefits to appear.
Botanical name: Oenothera biennis
Aromatic description: A bland odor.
How To Use
You can use it pure on the face and body and massage it in; or add 5-15% to your moisturizer, serum or another oil. Bonus points if you remember to massage some into your nails! Add a few drops to shampoo or conditioner. Can be added to a carrier oil like jojoba, sweet almond, or olive oil.
Ingredients: 100% Pure Evening Primrose Oil.
0.5 fl. oz.
WARNING: Test small patch of skin to make sure irritation does not occur. External use only. If irritation occurs, discontinue use. Avoid contact with eyes. Keep out of reach children. This product has not been evaluated by the FDA and is not intended to diagnose, cure or prevent any disease. It is paraben, gluten and dye free. No animal testing.
Disclaimer: The information contained on this site is general in nature and for informational purposes. It is not meant to substitute for the advice provided by your own physician or other medical professional. None of the statements on this site are a recommendation as to how to treat any particular disease or health-related condition. If you suspect you have a disease or health-related condition of any kind, you should contact your health care professional immediately. Please read all product packaging carefully and consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, exercise, supplementation or medication program. Cosmetic products have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent disease.
Share this post...
Share Tweet Pin it
Previous post Next Post
Comments
Leave a comment
Your name
Your email
Your message
Search
About Us
Blog
Holly
Fenton
Contact
Shipping
Returns
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
THC Disclaimer
Copyright © 2019 Natures Bath & Body. All Rights Reserved.
Site by Rawsterne
Powered by Shopify
Back to top