Pain Management Tips For Hip And Leg Pain - Colorado Pain
Skip to content
About
What is a Pain Doctor?
Role of Pain Management
Boost Medical
Patient Reviews
Non-Discrimination Statement
Opioid Therapy Statement
Pain Center
Conditions
Pain Treatments
Video
For Patients
Patient Portal
FAQ
Forms
Insurance Information
News
Inside Pain Doctor
Press Releases
Contact
Colorado Locations
Arizona Locations
Chandler
Downtown Phoenix
Flagstaff
Gilbert
Glendale
Scottsdale
Show Low
Schedule Now
Search for:
Pain Management Tips For Hip And Leg Pain
Home » Inside Pain » Pain Management Tips For Hip And Leg Pain
Previous Next
View Larger Image
Pain Management Tips For Hip And Leg Pain
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Do you suffer from hip and leg pain?
No matter its causes or symptoms, hip and leg pain are conditions that affect so many people. Treatment options vary widely, from at-home treatments for acute forms of leg pain to acupuncture to injection procedures for nerve-related leg pain.
In some form, though, all hip and leg pain sufferers are alike–they’re out there looking for treatment options that can help reduce the amount of pain that they feel.
During this month on Inside Pain Doctor, we’ve been looking at the many ways sufferers can prevent, reduce, and treat their forms of hip and leg pain. Some treatment options you’ll see here will be more invasive, however, we always try to balance these approaches with holistic lifestyle changes for maximum impact.
Cutting-edge pain treatment options
At Pain Doctor, we take pride in presenting the newest forms of pain therapies and treatments. We may not be able to provide all of these options at our clinics yet, but we can look forward to new pain management therapies for the coming years. In addition, it helps paint a greater picture of the direction pain treatment is headed for our patients.
1 of the more interesting treatment options we’ve seen recently includes intensive virtual reality programs for treating phantom limb pain. Phantom limb pain–pain that persists after an amputation–is often difficult to treat as there is no actual body part where the pain is being produced. Instead, researches suspect that damaged nerves or scar tissue near the amputation site send mixed signals to the brain that then cause the experience of pain. A new form of virtual reality therapy combines virtual representations of the missing limb performing tasks with electrodes attached to the amputation site to engage the area of the brain that controlled the limb’s movement.
Another new line of study has helped develop ChondroFiller Gel, a gel collagen implant that could help people suffering from knee osteoarthritis. By stimulating the self-healing growth of the knee’s existing cartilage, these implants can begin to help the knee fill in existing defects caused by osteoarthritis. The new gel treats more substantial injuries, while a similar liquid can treat minor defects. Unlike existing collagen therapies, ChondroFiller
Requires only 1 procedure
Has a much faster recovery time than other surgery options
Is low-priced and covered by many health insurance agencies
A common treatment that Pain Doctor does offer are injections for nerve-related leg pain. Injected medications can provide a low-risk and long-term option for pain relief from hip and leg pain conditions like sciatica and peripheral neuropathy. The injections include an anesthetic to block pain signals and, oftentimes, a steroid to reduce inflammation.
Another treatment for hip and leg pain that is offered at Pain Doctor is TENS unit therapy. This month, we discussed its use with sciatica pain in particular. As we noted in the original post:
“Approximately 70% to 80% of patients experience pain relief during their initial use of TENS unit therapy. The success rate drops to 20% to 30% after a few months. However, if the initial relief of pain allows the introduction of gentle exercises, such as walking or stretching, TENS unit therapy can ultimately lead to very long-lasting relief of pain.”
Managing common leg and hip pain conditions
Unfortunately, conditions like sports injuries, osteoarthritis, and osteoporosis are relatively common causes of leg and hip pain.
For sports injuries, in particular, prevention is key. We suggest going into new exercise programs thoughtfully and with your doctor’s knowledge. Once you start, ramp up your intensity gradually and always include a warm-up prior to exercise. This simple act alone can prevent many sports injuries from occurring. Just as importantly is rest. If you feel pain or have become injured, give yourself the opportunity to heal completely before resuming exercise.
Other posts this month discussed options for treating 2 bone conditions: osteoporosis and osteoarthritis. Osteoporosis, caused by a reduction in bone density, is best prevented with simple lifestyle changes. A diet high in calcium and vitamin D, alongside strengthening exercises, can help prevent osteoporosis. When pain management is needed, the following treatments may be considered:
Pain medications, such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory pills or opioids
Spinal nerve block injections
TENS unit therapy
Osteoarthritis is characterized by the chronic degradation of the cartilage that cushions the joints. Treatment options for this hip and leg pain condition range from weight loss to the use of assistive devices to joint replacement surgery.
Alternative and at-home therapies
As noted, no pain management plan is complete without incorporating less invasive treatment methods that complement more invasive treatments. This month, we looked a few options for treating and preventing hip and leg pain.
These included:
Homeopathic remedies: Homeopathy is a popular treatment option that is based upon 3 principles: like cures like, the law of minimum dose, and the single remedy. When used to treat hip and leg pain, homeopathy provides a low-risk alternative for managing pain naturally.
Acupuncture: This 2,500 year old treatment method still attracts over 3 million people in the U.S. every year. Acupuncture has been found to be effective for treating many conditions, including post-operative nausea and hip pain from osteoarthritis. When used for hip osteoarthritis, 75% of patients realized pain relief.
Herbal and vitamin supplements: Nature’s bounty provides numerous options for helping prevent and treat hip and leg pain. Our post discusses some of the supplements that have received the most empirical proof for pain management.
Diet: Diet is crucially important. You can help reduce inflammation and prevent future hip and leg pain by eating foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids, antioxidants, and vitamin D. Other foods especially known for their anti-inflammatory components include salmon, turmeric, and olive oil.
Exercise: Just as important as diet is exercise. An appropriate exercise routine can help strengthen muscles, maintain bone density, protect the joints, and release feel-good endorphins.
If you suffer from hip and leg pain, what treatment options have you pursued? Which worked best for you?
Image by Torrey Wiley via Flickr
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
GET FREE EMAIL UPDATES!
Weekly updates on conditions, treatments, and news about everything happening inside pain medicine.
SUBSCRIBE!
You have Successfully Subscribed!
We will never give away, trade or sell your email address. You can unsubscribe at any time.
By Pain Doctor|2016-11-09T09:36:23-06:00August 1st, 2014|0 Comments
About the Author: Pain Doctor
Pain Doctor provides patients with education, compassion, and quality care. We treat each patient like we would our own mom and dad.
Related Posts
Leave A Comment Cancel reply
Comment
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Pain is not normal, start the conversation today.
Our trustworthy, compassionate doctors are ready to help you!
Book Your Appointment
First Name*
Last Name*
Phone (111) 111-1111*
Email*
Date of Birth (mm/dd/yyyy)
Insurance*
Choose OptionAARPAetnaAIG / ChartisAnthem BCBSBroadspireCigna / Great WestCofinityCorvelCover ColoradoESISEvercareFirst Health CoventryGEHAGolden RuleHartfordHumanaLien (Injury/Accident)MedicareMeritan HealthMultiplanOWCP (Dept of Labor)PacificarePhysician HealthPartnersPinnacol AssuranceRocky MountainHealth PlanSecure HorizonsSedgewick/Beech StSentryTricare / ChampVAUMRUnitedWorkers Compensation
Get Relief Now
GET MORE LIKE THIS
Weekly updates on conditions, treatments, pain medicine news.
Thank you for subscribing.
Something went wrong.
No spam. Unsubscribe anytime.
Pain Doctor Mission
Our Elite Pain Management Team Provides Patients with Quality Care and Compassion that we would want for our Own Mom or Dad.
Newsletter
Weekly updates and news about everything happening inside pain medicine.
Thank you for subscribing.
Something went wrong.
© 2013-2019 Pain Doctor. All Rights Reserved. Services Provided by Boost Medical. Sitemap - Privacy Policy - Notice of Privacy Practice - Legal Disclaimer - Careers
Rss
Pin It on Pinterest
Schedule Your Appointment