Lyme Disease - Windhorse Naturopathic Clinic
Windhorse Naturopathic Clinic
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Our Doctors and Staff
Appointments, Directions, Contact Info
Specialty Services
Infrared Sauna
Colon Hydrotherapy
Lyme Disease
One of Dr. Maiella’s specialties is the treatment of Lyme disease. She has been a member of the International Lyme and Associated Disease Society (ILADS) for the past 10 years, and subscribes to the school of thought that Lyme Disease can indeed be a very chronic and debilitating disease.
Dr. Maiella and her staff at the Windhorse Naturopathic Clinic approach Lyme disease as a multi-leveled imbalance. The therapies that are used integrates herbal medicine, nutritional medicine and occasionally conventional pharmaceuticals. The whole body is strengthened first, as it needs to be strong to endure the treatment for Lyme disease. For many patients, Dr. Maiella will suggest a 4-6 week detox period, at which time other organic diseases and biological toxins, such as parasites, chronic viral infections, candida spp., molds and heavy metals are are evaluated for and treated. Depending on the individual, dietary restrictions/additions are suggested, and are often times, rather crucial to the healing process.
Modalities used in the treatment of Lyme disease include intravenous nutrition, antibiotics, herbal medicines, sound frequencies, energy balancing, family constellation work, Bee Venom Therapy, diet and various other supplements, which are individualized to meet the needs of the particular patient. Dr. Maiella’s integrative approach assists the body in healing itself, as opposed to simply using antibiotics to destroy the organism that causes Lyme disease. Often times, this is where Oxidative therapy, immune system rebalancing, and cell membrane/mitochondria support is employed. Success rate has been very high using this integrative approach.
Lyme disease can often lead a person down a spiritual path of healing as well. So much of the medicine and healing is from listening and true validation alone. I encourage (and sometimes require) that my patients have a therapist or a spiritual teacher/guide, to help them grow from the suffering of chronic illness.
What should you expect at your first visit? You should expect to be heard. You should expect that we will address your concerns and start a journey with you. The path is winding and we will help you to traverse it. It may be that we start to peel back layers, and discover new aspects to recovering your health, simply by discovered deeply hidden stressors. Be patient, this might take awhile.
Please be prepared to do some additional testing that your insurance most likely will not cover.
Food allergy testing, hormone analysis (estrogen, progesterone testosterone, thyroid, cortisol, DHEA etc), and heavy metal testing are all very important to address if you have been ill for a prolonged period of time. The cost of additional testing varies, depending on which insurance you carry.
Please bring copies of your previous lab records. If you are a patient of Dr. Maiella’s, please bring in all of your supplements for testing.
Dr. Maiella also lectures around New England on the topic of Lyme disease and other tick-borne illnesses. If you are interested in having Dr. Maiella speak at your venue, please contact 802.246.4282 and ask for Brighter.
Pages
Patient Forms
Lyme Disease
Articles and Handouts
Updates & Useful
Colon Hydrotherapy, An Alternative Choice for Colonoscopy Preparation
November 5, 2018
Usually, colonoscopy screening has you fasting for 24 hours, and drinking a vast amount of liquid laxatives the night before your test. This is typically not everyones’s favorite day. However, there is a complementary …Read More »
Weekly Colon Hydrotherapy Wisdom
October 17, 2018
Let talk about Peristalsis, Serotonin and SSRI’s…. Peristalsis is the wave-like action of the smooth muscles within your gastrointestinal tract. This wave helps to move food down through your digestive tract, and prevents food from …Read More »
Now Accepting NEW Primary Care Patients!
October 15, 2018
Dr. Laila Tomsovic is now accepting new primary care patients contracted with Vermont Medicaid, Cigna and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Vermont.Read More »
Colon Hydrotherapy and Detox Programs now Offered!
May 23, 2017
We are excited to announce that the Windhorse Naturopathic has added a state of the art, FDA-regulated, Colon Hydropathy machine, operated by Kimberly Rankin, CMT. Kimberly and the staff at the clinic offer guided detoxification …Read More »
Tick Bite Protocol
March 6, 2016
1. Promptly remove with tweezers or tick spoon. Pull the tick out perpendicularly to the skin. Do not aggravate the tick. Pull gently and swiftly. Do not apply Vaseline or any other agent (including lighting …Read More »
Patient Portal
Patient Portal
©2017 WIndhorse Naturopathic Inc., Brattleboro, VT