Upaya Naturals -Natural Calm Magnesium Citrate Powder PLUS CALCIUM* - RASPBERRY LEMON - 16oz Larger Container
To take full advantage of this site, please enable your browser's JavaScript feature. Learn how
close menu
Contact Us
Help / FAQS
Blog
Upcoming Events
My Account / Log In
PROMOTIONS & COUPONS!
NEW ARRIVALS
Kitchen Appliances & Accessories
Dehydrators
Juicers
Blenders, Food Processors & Grain Mills
Sprouters & Sprouting Seeds
Spiral Slicers, Mandolines, Ceramic Knives & Cutting Boards
Nut Milk Bags & Nut Milk Machines
Yogurt Makers
Drinking Water Filters/Water Treatment
Glass Drinking Straws
Miscellaneous Items (Crock Pots, Slow Cookers, Scales, Kitchen Gadgets and more...)
View All Kitchen Products
Organic Food, Superfoods & More
All Raw Food Products
Raw Salad Dressings, Sauces & Dips
Superfoods
Greens
Protein Powders
Cacao/Chocolate & Carob
Raw Vegan Cheese
Nuts, Seeds, Grains & Flours
Nut & Seed Butters
Water Kefir Grains
Olives & Olive Oils
Coconut Products & Oils
Sweeteners
Dried Fruits & Fruit Powders
Sea Vegetables & Algaes
Kelp Noodles & Raw Pastas
Breads, Cereals, Crackers & Wraps
Snacks
Kale Chips
Trail Mixes & Granola
Herbs, Spices,Teas & Seasonings
Coffee Alternatives
Mushroom Products
Sprouting Seeds
Bulk Raw Foods
Fermented Foods
Hemp Products - Seeds, Powders, Oils, Butters
Maca Products - Powders, Liquids, Capsules & More
Herbs, Spices & Teas
Dried Cultures / Fermentation
Supplements
Household and Grounding Products
Personal Care / Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care and Lotions
Dental Care
Facial Care
Lip Care
Nasal Care & Congestion Relief
Sun Care
Bath & Body
Deodorants & Perfumes
Essential Oils / Aromatherapy
Feminine Products
First Aid, Enemas & Misc.
Baby, Kids and Mommy
Air Purifiers / Humidifiers / Diffusers
Water Filters & Shower Filters
Water Bottles/Storage Containers
Replacement Water Filter Cartridges
Rebounders
Aromatherapy
Tachyon Products
Books / DVD's
Jewelry
Pet Products
Gift Certificates
Clearance Corner
Insulated Containers
** FREE SHIPPING IN CANADA OVER $79 **
Contact Us Help / FAQS Blog Upcoming Events My Account / Log In
www.UpayaNaturals.com
Canada's largest
Raw Vegan Source
Since 2004
Cart:
PROMOTIONS & COUPONS!
NEW ARRIVALS
Kitchen Appliances & Accessories
Dehydrators
Juicers
Blenders, Food Processors & Grain Mills
Sprouters & Sprouting Seeds
Spiral Slicers, Mandolines, Ceramic Knives & Cutting Boards
Nut Milk Bags & Nut Milk Machines
Yogurt Makers
Drinking Water Filters/Water Treatment
Glass Drinking Straws
Miscellaneous Items (Crock Pots, Slow Cookers, Scales, Kitchen Gadgets and more...)
View All Kitchen Products
Organic Food, Superfoods & More
All Raw Food Products
Raw Salad Dressings, Sauces & Dips
Superfoods
Greens
Protein Powders
Cacao/Chocolate & Carob
Raw Vegan Cheese
Nuts, Seeds, Grains & Flours
Nut & Seed Butters
Water Kefir Grains
Olives & Olive Oils
Coconut Products & Oils
Sweeteners
Dried Fruits & Fruit Powders
Sea Vegetables & Algaes
Kelp Noodles & Raw Pastas
Breads, Cereals, Crackers & Wraps
Snacks
Kale Chips
Trail Mixes & Granola
Herbs, Spices,Teas & Seasonings
Coffee Alternatives
Mushroom Products
Sprouting Seeds
Bulk Raw Foods
Fermented Foods
Hemp Products - Seeds, Powders, Oils, Butters
Maca Products - Powders, Liquids, Capsules & More
Herbs, Spices & Teas
Dried Cultures / Fermentation
Supplements
Household and Grounding Products
Personal Care / Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care and Lotions
Dental Care
Facial Care
Lip Care
Nasal Care & Congestion Relief
Sun Care
Bath & Body
Deodorants & Perfumes
Essential Oils / Aromatherapy
Feminine Products
First Aid, Enemas & Misc.
Baby, Kids and Mommy
Air Purifiers / Humidifiers / Diffusers
Water Filters & Shower Filters
Water Bottles/Storage Containers
Replacement Water Filter Cartridges
Rebounders
Aromatherapy
Tachyon Products
Books / DVD's
Jewelry
Pet Products
Gift Certificates
Clearance Corner
Insulated Containers
Change language
Home > Supplements >
Natural Calm Magnesium Citrate Powder PLUS CALCIUM* - RASPBERRY LEMON - 16oz Larger Container *** CLEARANCE BEST BEFORE MARCH 2019 ***
Our Price: CAD $58.99
Sale Price: CAD $39.99
You Save CAD $19.00!
Stock Status: Currently In Stock
Product Code: NCC-43-CL
Qty:
Description
Natural Calm Magnesium Citrate Powder PLUS CALCIUM* - RASPBERRY LEMON - 16oz Larger Container
Formulated with a 3:2 magnesium to calcium ratio, Natural Calm Canada’s magnesium citrate powder plus calcium should only be used when additional calcium supplementation is required. One of the only supplements formulated with more magnesium than calcium to restore mineral balance. Fortified with selected bone-builder nutrients.
Available in a variety of flavours and sizes:
Plain (Original) and Raspberry-Lemon
8oz (226g) and 16oz (454g) sizes.
Also available in boxes of 30 single serve envelopes in convenient Travel Packs.
Directions for Use: Pour about ½ cup slightly cooled boiling water, or very hot water into a cup or glass. Add powder, let fizz, let settle and stir. Add to favourite hot or cold beverage, or enjoy like a cup of tea.
Ingredients: Magnesium Citrate, Magnesium Ascorbate, Calcium Gluconate, Potassium Citrate, Ascorbic Acid, Vitamin D3, Boron Citrate.
Non-medicinal ingredients: Citric Acid. Flavours contain organic stevia.
Recommended Dose: Mix 2 teaspoons in a glass of very hot water
Nutrient Value, per 2 teaspoons: Magnesium 300mg, Vitamin C 250mg, Calcium 200mg, Potassium 99mg, Boron 250mcg, Vitamin D3 100 IU’s
Known Adverse Reactions: Some people may experience diarrhea. Resolve by reducing dose and taking twice daily. Note comfortably loose stools are an indication of the optimal amount. Adjust as required.
Why Magnesium?
The hardest-working mineral in the body does more than you know
“Both our current diet and tendency to over-supplement with calcium…makes getting enough magnesium almost impossible.” Carolyn Dean, M.D., N.D. Author of The Magnesium Miracle
Very few people, unless they are scientists or biologists, give a moment’s thought to what goes on at the cellular level in our bodies. We have trillions and trillions of cells in our bodies, each one less than a nanogram, each one performing enzymatic reactions, energy transfers every millisecond. It is this nutrient dance in and around our cells that is vulnerable to everything we eat and do.
Magnesium is a catalytic mineral that activates over 320 biochemical or enzymatic reactions in the body. These reactions are defined as the process that exerts energy or accomplishes an effect. There are only 7 macro-minerals in the body, and magnesium is ranked 4th in terms of abundance. Magnesium’s multi-tasking properties is linked to the way it partners with other nutrients. It’s like the team-work mineral – aligning itself with other nutrients to help them complete their functions.
Why is Magnesium Important to Our Body?
Every muscle and nerve in your body relies on magnesium to maintain normal function. This includes the biggest muscle of them all – your heart – and magnesium also has a direct connection to the electrical system of your heart, keeping heart rythym steady. Magnesium supports a healthy immune system, some of it through it’s work with Omega 3’s, and it has a crucial, yet rather unknown role of maintaining strong bones and teeth. Magnesium is the mineral that activates the Vitamin D that assimilates the calcium into your bones to help keep them strong. It also regulates blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. Protein synthesis is an enormously complicated process that utilizes DNA, RNA, amino acids and ATP(energy) to form proteins, hundreds of proteins a second in a cell that is functioning well.
Why is Magnesium Important for Health?
Magnesium’s multi-tasking properties are so diverse; that it’s deficiency in the body is thought to be a key contributor to the diseases described as Metabolic Syndrome. Metabolic –defined as the chemical processes of an organism – and so named because the diseases of Metabolic Syndrome - specifically Heart Disease and Diabetes, show similar deficiencies at the cellular level.
Other activities among the estimated 325 enzymatic processes attributed to magnesium include temperature regulation, activating Vitamin D, the vitamin B group, Omega 3, melatonin, serotonin and many, many more nutrients.
Why is Magnesium Important for Cells?
Magnesium lives in the centre of the cell, and with adequate levels, keeps calcium on the outside of the cell where it belongs – until the body calls for energy and then calcium floods the cell. Too much calcium and not enough magnesium create an unhealthy balance, allowing calcium to seep into the cell. Calcium in the centre of the cell is like putting the body in a perpetual state of excitement. There is ample evidence that tension-based conditions such as migraine, restless legs, muscle cramps, PMS and even day-to-day stress can be attributed to the troubling imbalance of too little magnesium and too much calcium.
FAQ
Frequently Asked Questions.
The most commonly asked questions about magnesium can be found below. If you don’t find what you’re looking for, Natural Calm Canada’s Facebook page is a great place to pose questions or share your story about how Natural Calm Canada’s magnesium citrate helped you or someone you know.
Why does it say magnesium carbonate in the ingredients listings? I thought this was magnesium citrate?
Magnesium Citrate is a compound created by combining magnesium carbonate and citric acid. This happens when you mix the magnesium powder in hot water. As per Health Canada regulation we must list the ingredients in their elemental state.
How Much Natural Calm’s Magnesium Should I Take?
Magnesium is a mineral very sensitive to it’s environment - your body, your behaviours. The foods you choose to eat, the amount of alcohol you consume, the prescription drugs you take, the amount of exercise you get both physical and mental - all are significant factors that directly affect how your body utilizes magnesium. Stress and pain levels will also affect the amount of magnesium supplementation you need.
Diets regularly high in sugar, processed foods and animal protein (such as steak!) will cause magnesium depletion at a faster rate. If you are constipated, or not sleeping well – these two symptoms – individually, but especially together - are the best indication of magnesium deficiency.
One teaspoon of Natural Calm magnesium citrate delivers 205 grams of magnesium: about half of what men need every day, and about 2/3 of a women’s required daily intake.
Can I get the magnesium I need from food?
It is increasingly difficult to get the magnesium we need from food alone. Our government reports that there are only 2 nutrient requirements that cannot be met by diet and magnesium is one of them: “Many Adults have inadequate intakes of magnesium and Vitamin A.”
This chart is from EatRightOntario.ca but there are many other reliable sources of nutritional information.
Food Serving Size Magnesium / (mg)
Pumpkin or squash seeds 60 mL (1/4 cup) 307
Brazil nuts 60 mL (1/4 cup) 133
Sunflower seeds 60 mL (1/4 cup) 129
Black-eyed peas/cowpeas 175 mL (3/4 cup) 121
Soy cheese 50 g (1 ½ oz) 114
All Bran cereal 30 g (1/3 cup) 83 to 111
Almonds 60 mL (1/4 cup) 88 to 109
Soy nuts 60 mL (1/4 cup) 99
Tofu (prepared with magnesium chloride or calcium sulphate) 175 mL (3/4 cup) 55 to 99
Wheat germ cereal 30 g (1/3 cup) 96
Beans (any variety) 175 mL (3/4 cup) 58 to 89
Prickly pear 1 fruit 88
Spinach 125 mL (1/2 cup) 83
Swiss chard 125 mL (1/2 cup) 80
Soy yogurt 175 g (3/4 cup) 70
Bran flakes cereal 30 g 49 to 69
Edamame/baby soy beans 125 mL (1/2 cup) 52
Potato with skin 1 medium 47 to 52
What are the Recommended Dietary Allowances for Magnesium?
Each tsp of Natural Calm’s Ionic Magnesium contains 205 mg of elemental magnesium citrate. 1 - 2 tsp daily will provide the Recommended Daily Allowance. Most people take Natural Calm’s magnesium to bowel tolerance.
Remember that you may need more than the Recommended Daily Allowance to:
overcome existing magnesium deficiency
provide 1:1 ratio to balance the tendency to over-consume calcium
neutralize acidic diets (animal protein, dairy)
alleviate major symptoms of magnesium deficiency
Canada's Recommended Dietary Allowance:
Children 1-3 years old: 80 mg per day
Children 4-8 years old: 130 mg per day
Children 9-13 years old: 240 mg per day
Teenage boys (14-18 years old): 410 mg per day
Teenage girls: 360 mg per day
Young Adult Men (19-30 years old): 400 mg per day
Young Adult Women (19-30 years old): 310 mg per day
Men over 31 years old: 420 mg per day
Women over 31 years old: 320 mg per day
Dr Carolyn Dean, lifelong magnesium advocate and author, suggests that Adults consume 3-4mg of magnesium per pound of body weight. Pregnant women and children should consume 4-5 mg of magnesium per pound of body weight. Remember that the only side effect will be loose stools, so adjust your dosage based on your body’s reaction.
Can I Take Too Much Magnesium?
If you take too much magnesium, as with vitamin C, the body will use what it needs and eliminate any excess. The excess will go into the colon, causing it to hydrate, where the only effect is stools that are “loose.” Millions of people around the world use magnesium simply because of e natural, laxative properties.
This would be the only side effect, and any "overdose" is safely depleted through the kidneys. In fact, magnesium is completely depleted from the body every 12 hours, requiring continual replenishment.
Caution should be taken with individuals who have kidney problems. Because the excess is detoxified through your kidneys into your colon, a weak kidney may not work well enough to properly excrete the magnesium. People on kidney dialysis or who have severe kidney disease should consult their physician before taking any magnesium in supplement form.
For people with IBS or loose stools it is recommended to divide the Natural Calm magnesium into smaller, more frequent doses throughout the day.
Why is Natural Calm in powder form?
Vitamins in tablet form can be absorbed by the body, but minerals in tablet form are poorly absorbed. According to the Physician’s Desk Reference (PDR), only 10% of minerals in tablet form make it to the body’s cells where they can do their work. This is why calcium is added to so many foods today, but it is also why we can throw the body’s calcium/magnesium ratio out of balance. Magnesium citrate powder becomes ionic in hot/boiling water for fast, effective absorption, going right to work at the cellular level.
How do I prepare Natural Calm’s Magnesium citrate powder and Calm Plus Calcium?
Boil your kettle and put ¼ cup of very hot or boiled water in a mug or glass. Place 1-2 tsps, depending on your preference, into the water and stir. Once the powder dissolves it will become clear (ionic). Drink hot like a tea or cool it down with cold water. You may also add the dissolved Natural Calm’s magnesium to any drink you like, except coffee or alcohol.
Is Natural Calm’s Magnesium citrate powder safe while Nursing / Breastfeeding?
Yes, Natural Calm’s magnesium citrate is safe while nursing and is actually recommended. Dr. Dean’s book, The Magnesium Miracle suggests that lactating/nursing/breastfeeding mothers should take about 600mg of magnesium due to their increased need for more magnesium. Enough magnesium during pregnancy will help with DNA formation of the baby and help ensure a healthier, safer labour. Taking Natural Calm’s magnesium citrate while nursing will help to keep baby’s magnesium levels balanced and will not only help the baby sleep better, but also help prevent constipation.
When should I take Natural Calm’s Magnesium?
Many people like to take Natural Calm’s Magnesium half an hour before bed for a great night’s sleep. People with any kind of chronic problem, i.e. muscle spasms, high blood pressure and diabetes should take their magnesium at least twice a day as magnesium is depleted from the body every twelve hours. People with diabetes should take their magnesium in divided doses throughout the day to help keep blood sugar levels balanced.
When I open my bottle of Natural Calm magnesium I find that the bottle is half full. Why is that?
Whenever you fill a container with a powder, there needs to enough room to accommodate the powder and the air it is mixed with. The weights shown on the bottles refer to the weights of the product in powder form, so that 8 ounces is 8 ounces of powder, and the larger one contains 16 ounces of powder. The powder settles once it has been filled leaving the container partially empty.
Can I take Natural Calm Magnesium with medication?
Yes you may take magnesium with most medications. You should check with your Doctor if you are taking blood thinners (i.e. Coumadin) as magnesium naturally thins the blood. Magnesium should not be taken at the same time as iron and antibiotics as they prevent each other from being absorbed or properly utilized.
What are the contraindications of taking magnesium?
People who have severe kidney disease should not take a lot of magnesium. Also people who have a really low heart rate (i.e. less than 50) and myasthenia gravis. Also anyone on blood thinners such as Coumadin should consult their doctor as magnesium is a natural blood thinner.
Should I take Natural Calm Magnesium with or without food?
You may take Natural Calm’s magnesium with or without food depending on your stomach. Most people like to take it on an empty stomach, and the vast majority of consumers prefer to take Natural Calm in the evening, about 30 minutes before bedtime. It is also well absorbed when you take food.
Are there any side effects of taking magnesium?
The only side effect is loose stools if too much is taken. Magnesium is a gentle natural laxative and also helps detoxify the body. If loose stools persist, consider taking smaller doses more frequently throughout the day.
Is Natural Calm Magnesium safe for babies and children?
Yes magnesium is required on a daily basis for everyone including babies, children and adults. Children require 4-5 mg of magnesium per pound of body weight.
What is the source of Natural Calm’s magnesium and calcium?
Natural Calm’s magnesium is extracted from ocean water. The citric acid in both the Natural Calm Magnesium Citrate Powder and the Calm Plus Calcium is sourced from sugar beets. The calcium is derived from Limestone, where it is extracted as calcium carbonate. Then gluconic acid is added to it to convert it into calcium gluconate.
Cramps and Spasms
Cramps and Spasms in the muscles is likely a direct result of excess calcium
It may surprise you to discover that cramping of the muscles is often caused by calcification or a build-up of calcium in the muscle and soft tissues of the body. Without sufficient magnesium to help with the absorption of calcium an over-abundance of calcium can lead to muscle cramps, spasms and pain.
Magnesium relaxes and calms muscles and nerves and reduces the incidents of muscle cramps caused by too much calcium by helping push high levels of calcium out from inside the cells.
Calcium’s function within the body is to tense and excite muscle and nerves. Magnesium will help to prevent the build-up of calcium in the muscle and even help with the re-absorption of calcification that has already taken place.
You should never take calcium without magnesium but you may take magnesium on a daily basis without calcium in order to ensure that the calcium that you are getting in your food is being properly assimilated
Natural Pain Relief
Chronic Pain is one of Canada’s most common medical conditions and the least understood
Pain is a result of an excessive stimulation of a chemical in the brain called “NMDA.” Magnesium works to settle NMDA without the toxicity of over-the-counter (OTC) pain medications. It has been found to lessen pain caused by severe pancreatic cancer and chronic pain problems such as fibromyalgia.
Magnesium helps to dramatically reduce pain by relaxing muscles and driving excess calcium out of the cells. It also helps by reducing spasms and by relaxing blood vessels in the extremities that are often associated with Raynaud’s Syndrome.
There are so many syndromes today that can be described as tension-based. Magnesium’s job in the body is to calm and relax the cells, easing stress at the cellular level and reducing tension. North American’s love of calcium, where it can build to excess in all parts of the body, is also a contributing factor in pain and pain management.
It is essential to maintain balanced levels of calcium and magnesium, as too much calcium may cause pain, as will too little magnesium.
Dr. Linda Rapson, who specializes in treating chronic pain and has a focus on nutrition as it relates to pain, believes that almost ¾ of her patients who complain of muscle pain, cramps and fatigue are showing signs of magnesium deficiency. “Virtually all of them improve when I put them on magnesium,” says Rapson, who runs a busy Toronto pain clinic. Dr. Rapson has been treating patients for more than 30 years and has seen magnesium work in those with migraines, fibromyalgia and constipation. “The scientific community should take a good hard look at this.”
Osteoporosis Prevention
Magnesium deficiency reduces the absorption of calcium required for bone building
Osteoporosis affects more middle class countries than poorer countries. The countries that consume the highest amount of dairy products (USA, Canada, Sweden and Finland) have the highest incidence of osteoporosis and poorer bone health, despite a major focus on osteoporosis prevention and treatment. Hip fractures in elderly Japanese women is much less than half that of western countries.
Osteoporosis is not an inevitable part of aging. It is simply the body’s attempt to compensate for factors that are interfering with normal biochemical balance and bone formation. Some of these factors include poor nutrition – particularly a perpetual state of magnesium deficiency, lack of sunlight exposure resulting in low Vitamin D, high caffeine and/or alcohol intake, lack of exercise, inflammation, chronic stress, some prescription medications – yes even those prescribed to arrest bone loss – and highly acidic diets, which is to say an emphasis on animal proteins, dairy and processed foods.
The western world’s fascination with calcium to build bone is sadly, untrue. It’s true that the bone is largely composed of calcium and perhaps that’s where the initial thinking started, but in reality, calcium depends on other nutrients to do its work, especially its twin mineral, magnesium. Simply increasing calcium without any other regard for nutrient balance is now known to cause more harm than good.
More calcium does not equal stronger bones.
The Science of Bone Building & Osteoporosis Prevention
Magnesium stimulates a particular hormone, calcitonin, that helps to preserve bone structure and draws calcium out of the blood and soft tissues back into the bones, prenting some forms of arthrits and kidney stones. Magnesium suppresses another bone hormone called PHT (parathyroid), preventing it from breaking down bone. The balance between PTH and calcitonin tilts too far toward PTH when we are magnesium deficient which results in excessive stimulation of osteoclasts, which causes net bone loss.
Your body needs to keep an exact level of calcium in your blood stream and these two hormones regulate your blood by pulling calcium in and out of the bones and putting it in your blood. Your body also needs to maintain a pH of 7 in your blood stream in the same way in needs to maintain 98°F body temperature and will do whatever it can to maintain a perfect balance. Because calcium and magnesium are alkalizing to the body, your PHT hormone will be stimulated by an acidic diet causing calcium to be depleted from your bones.
The Standard American Diet (SAD) diet is mostly an acidic diet. Protein, bread, soda pop, sugar and pastas are examples of acidic foods. Many vegetables (especially green leafy vegetables) and many fruits are alkaline (opposite of acidic). When we consume acidic foods, our body gets more and more acidic. Because milk is high in protein, drinking milk can often pull calcium from your bones to neutralize the acidic effect of the body. You can check your pH balance yourself at home. Ask your local pharmacists for a litmus test paper.
The imbalance of the hormones DHEA and Cortisol may result in osteoporosis. When you are stressed, you body produces a stress hormone called Cortisol. Cortisol will pull calcium from your bones. Cortisol and DHEA balance each other out, if one is high the other is low. Magnesium helps you deal with stress as you need magnesium to relax. Low hormone levels in general can lead to loss of bones, which is why many women start to lose bone density after menopause. Magnesium will help combat the negative effects of stress which in turn will decrease Cortisol in your body.
Menopause and Osteoporosis
Because magnesium improves the absorption of calcium from the gastrointestinal tract, some health care professionals like to suggest women take calcium and magnesium together at a ratio of 2:1, particularly for menopausal women. It’s well known that the menopausal years will decrease estrogen, one of the magnesium’s hormonal ‘partners.’ And along with lower estrogen, there are findings of lower magnesium.
Prescription Drugs for Bone Building
Fosamax is part of a class of osteoporosis medications known as anti-resorptive drugs. These medications dramatically reduce bone loss, but in a disturbing way. The drug leads to premature death to osteoclasts, the cells that break down and recycle old, worn-out segments of bone. Bone breakdown and bone build-up, however, are tightly coupled, so that just as bone breakdown is dramatically reduced by Fosamax, so too is new bone formation. In fact, studies show that the bone-forming surface of bone is suppressed by 60–90% with the usual dose of bisphosphonates.
It is far more accurate to call these prescriptioin medicines bone hardeners, not bone builders. The results show up in bone density tests as “improved”, when in reality, they have so altered the fundamental composition of the bone that it eventually leads to higher risk of fracture. These are the outcomes currently under review as the class of drugs is relatively new.
Supplements for Osteoporosis (excerpted from “The Miracle of Magnesium, Dr. Carolyn Dean)
Calcium: 500 mg per day
Magnesium: 300 mg twice a day
Boron: 2 mg daily (involved in Vitamin D conversion)
Copper: 1-3 mg daily (for collagen cross-linking)
Manganese: 5- 10 mg per day (stimulates the production of mucopolysaccharides, the organic matrix of bone)
Zinc: 10 mg daily (important for bone matrix)
Vitamin A: 20,000 IU daily (forms bone matrix)
Vitamin B6 : 50 mg per day
Folic Acid: 800 mcg daily
Vitamin B complex: 50 mg per day
Vitamin C: 1,000 mg per day
Vitamin D 1,000 IU per day or 20 minutes in the sun daily (for calcium absorption)
Progesterone for postmenopausal women under the advice of your doctor and after hormonal saliva testing to determine deficiency of progesterone: days 1-25, use ¼ tsp. of progesterone cream, rubbed into the skin, twice a day; take a break days 25-31 (make sure the product contains USP progesterone)
Excess calcium is a vastly widespread problem, as excess calcium DEPLETES magnesium from the body, and as a result brings about all of the symptoms of magnesium deficiency. At this point, it will be unimportant how much magnesium you consume, but how much is left in your body. If you feel your body is out of balance and isn't functioning right (with some symptoms manifesting), it could be suspect that excess calcium is the problem, especially if you have been supplementing it.
Remember calcium and magnesium need to be in the correct proportions for your own needs; otherwise the calcium turns from a nutrient into a pollutant causing heart disease, arthritis, hardening of the arteries, senility, osteoporosis and calcification of organs and tissues that eventually completely degenerate.
For this very reason excess calcium can become a real problem, while excess magnesium, on the other hand, is not of any concern. Unlike calcium, magnesium does not build up in the body, as excess is eliminated. Excess calcium combined with low magnesium - a lethal combination indeed.
Taking more calcium will not fix a calcium deficiency, which is quite evident from the statistics. It is magnesium that will handle the calcium deficiency as well as the magnesium deficiency itself (it will dissolve any excess calcium from the body, while helping any needed calcium to assimilate). Calcium alone is useless and potentially harmful.
Natural Sleep Aids
A good laugh and a long sleep are the best cures in the doctor’s book, Irish proverb
Among Canadians who have learned first-hand the benefits of magnesium, a great night’s sleep is cited as the most appreciated result of taking Natural Calm. In hundreds of testimonies, the restoration of a good night’s sleep is appreciated the most. Insomnia can be the most noticeable symptom of magnesium deficiency, and is often the most definitive clue that your body is trying to tell you something: you need more magnesium and how it is a natural sleep aid.
Melatonin, the sleep hormone, is one nutrient among hundreds that magnesium activates at the cellular level. Melatonin production in the body occurs in the pineal gland, but only in darkness. Efforts to fall asleep should be made in a dark room, no televisions, lights or computers. Lack of magnesium can result in over excitement and nervousness, keeping the electrical signals in your brain firing, causing you to wake up prematurely, or preventing sleep in the first place.
Sleep and Magnesium Factors:
The most prevalent sleep disorders: abrupt awakening from sleep; jerking and other movements enough to awaken you; talking in your sleep; restless leg syndrome (RLS) may all be related to magnesium deficiency
Magnesium supplementation has been a proven natural sleep aid both by helping you stay asleep and to fall asleep faster
The hormone estrogen helps with the uptake of magnesium, so low estrogen can contribute to magnesium deficiency which in turn can contribute to sleep disorders
Scientific studies on the efficiency of sleep (decreased episodes of awakening and increased sleep time) showed significant improvement when magnesium supplementation was introduced, especially for people reporting episodes of Restless Leg Syndrome (RLS).
Increasingly, restful sleep is found to be an important contributor to weight management.
Typically, North American diets are heavily skewed in favour of calcium. Not only do many opt for dairy products over magnesium-rich plant sources, increasingly people consume calcium-fortified products. As a result, the average North American consumes five to ten times more calcium than magnesium. Calcium is a contributor to a good night’s sleep, hence the proverbial warm glass of milk, as it activates the amino acid tryptophan which in turn produces melatonin. However dairy products are not the best source of calcium as they may be too rich in the mineral and therefore obstruct the flow of magnesium, required for melatonin activation. For most people, more calcium therefore is not the answer. Better absorption of calcium through an adequate supply of magnesium is a better solution.
Magnesium and Melatonin
If you have tried Natural Calm at bedtime for several nights in a row and have been one of the few who has not experienced an improved night’s sleep, it could be that your body is not producing enough melatonin. Melatonin is sometimes referred to as the Dracula hormone because it literally is only produced in darkness. Artifical light – including television sets in the bedroom – are enough to inhibit the production of melatonin.
Restless Leg Syndrome Treatment
Twitching that feels like “insects crawling around inside your legs”
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a disorder of the part of the nervous system that affects movements of the legs. For most, it occurs most at nighttime when trying to sleep, and the interferences are so great it interferes with sleep, so RLS is considered a sleep disorder.
RLS sufferers have strange sensations in their legs and an irresistible urge to move their legs to relieve the sensations. It is not really pain in the traditional sense, but “jumpy” “twitchy” or "creepy crawly" feeling deep in the legs.
The severity of these symptoms can range from mild occurrences a few times a year, to intolerable, where every night, they either can’t fall asleep in the first place due to the incredible discomfort, or they manage to fall asleep and then the intensity of the twitchiness wakes them up. For about 60% of people, both the frequency and the intensity can worsen over time.
Clearly the body is trying to say something is not right.
Treatments for RLS
There can be a feeling of relief from moving the legs, but this generally only temporary. Certainly laying in bed kicking the legs around, is not any way a treatment. For those with mild to moderate symptoms, preventing these unwanted movements altogether is the objective and it is possible. Many physicians suggest certain lifestyle changes and activities to try to reduce symptoms. Others feel it may be symptomatic of an iron deficiency although there are no clear studies on this. Testimonies from Natural Calm users suggest without a doubt, that RLS is due, at least in part, to a magnesium deficiency. Hundreds have written to say that their RLS symptoms were completely eliminated with regular use of magnesium citrate before bed.
Others benefit from the double-benefit of transdermal magnesium. Rubbing magnesium oil or gel into the legs before bedtime not only feels great, but over time the absorption into the blood vessels of the magnesium should help alleviate RLS.
Lifestyle changes you can consider include
Decreased use of caffeine, alcohol, and tobacco may provide some relief
Maintaining a regular sleep pattern can reduce symptoms.
Regular, moderate exercise will help with sleep; on the other hand, excessive exercise has been reported by some patients to aggravate RLS symptoms.
Taking a hot bath, massaging the legs, or using a heating pad or ice pack can help relieve symptoms in some patients.
Although many people find some relief with these modest adjustments, rarely do these efforts completely eliminate symptoms.
Prescription treatments for RLS
RLS is one of the leading conditions for which magnesium has proven to be a literal overnight cure for even the most severe cases. It is likely that a physician or healthcare professional may not even think to recommend magnesium, and go right to the prescription pad. In that case, beware that the remedies are very powerful drugs.
Some of the suggested Rx ‘solutions’ include benzodiazepines, opiods – heavyduty narcotics designed for pain relief, anti-epileptics, and dopamine agonists. Certainly try nutritional supplement like Natural Calm before bed to replenish much-need magnesium before opting for any of these prescription-based.
Magnesium for the Heart
The most important marker for impending heart disease is low magnesium to calcium ratio in the cells
The health of your heart – your body’s most important muscle – depends largely on your lifestyle choices, especially when it comes to food and drink. Once again, magnesium has a twin in heart health – and here it is potassium – the two nutrients working together to spark muscle contractions. Deficiencies in either or both of these nutrients can result in an irregular heartbeat. But magnesium’s role does not stop there. Magnesium has been called the gift to the heart; its multi-tasking performance is central to each and every risk factor for heart health.
Here’s what magnesium can do for your heart:
— Resolve the imbalance of too much calcium to magnesium in heart muscle which leads to spasms of the muscle causing a stroke or heart attack
— Prevent build- up of calcium and cholesterol in arteries and valves
— Works as a natural blood thinner, whereas calcium thickens blood
The continued use of diuretics is another factor causing magnesium depletion starting with the wasting of potassium which leads to the loss of magnesium. Adding to the chaos, too much calcium and age related factors involving absorption of minerals are known to cause low magnesium levels.
Dr. Mildred S. Seelig, from New York, who after a long and distinguished career in medicine founded the Journal of the American College of Nutrition in 1982, was emphatic about the role of magnesium in heart health:
“Most modern heart disease is caused by magnesium deficiency. A vast and convincing body of research, largely ignored, has convinced us and many of our colleagues of this fact. The diet of the industrial world is short on magnesium, and this is causing an epidemic of heart disease in the modern world.”
The risk factors for heart disease and diabetes are so similar, clinicians and healthcare professionals have taken the group of risk factors and named them: Metabolic Syndrome. Previously, this group of risk factors was referred to as Syndrome X. Metabolic, a word that refers to the biochemical processes that occur by the trillions every day in our cells – is also what magnesium does best: 320 enzymatic processes at the cellular level. It is not surprising that magnesium, when consumed in recommended allowances every day - will minimize all the risk factors associated with Metabolic Syndromes like Heart Health and Diabetes. No mineral does more for less attention than magnesium.
Here are the 5 Risk Factors for Metabolic Syndrome:
A large waistline. This also is called abdominal obesity or "having an apple shape." Excess fat in the stomach area is a greater risk factor for heart disease than excess fat in other parts of the body, such as on the hips.
A high triglyceride level or currently being treated for high triglycerides. Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood.
A low HDL cholesterol level. HDL is sometimes called "good" cholesterol. This is because it helps remove cholesterol from your arteries. A low HDL cholesterol level, or currently being treated for high cholesterol, raises your risk for heart disease.
High blood pressure or you are currently being treated for HBP.
High fasting blood sugar. Mildly high blood sugar may be an early sign of diabetes, increasingly referred to as Pre-Diabetes
Magnesium’s work in the bloodstream – anti-toxin, blood thinner, insulin transporter, plaque-buster, an electrolyte that moves other nutrients in and out of cells, helps the body make and utilize energy – are all co-factors in reducing risks for the development of Metabolic Syndrome.
Dr. Seeling, who passed away in 2005 but left the fabulous book, “The Magnesium Factor,” goes on to say:
“Studies have linked low magnesium with many of the major risk factors for heart disease. Other studies show that the average Western processed-food diet is lower in magnesium than is commonly acknowledged. While several essential nutrients are imperative for heart and blood vessel health, the vast research on low magnesium and its impact on heart health has gone unheeded, so much so that much of the heart disease seen today is a direct result of low magnesium consumption.”
"The most important risk factor for impending heart disease is a low magnesium-to-calcium ratio in the cells. All the usual factors such as high cholesterol, active type 2 diabetes (insulin resistance) and hypertension (high blood pressure) can be the result of a low magnesium status. Magnesium inhibits blood cell platelet aggregation, thins the blood, blocks calcium uptake, relaxes blood vessels and moderately lowers blood pressure. It has been shown to reduce the risk of coronary heart disease and relieve symptoms in roughly 85 percent of mitral valve prolapsed patients."
Another author laments the lack of attention paid to magnesium – the multi-tasking mineral in such short supply in North Americans:
Dr. Eades, author of 10 books with a dedication to low-carb living believes that the entire Metabolic Syndrome is nothing but a manifestation of a magnesium deficiency. He says, “Why are so many people deficient in magnesium? Because there are no single foods that contain huge amounts of magnesium, and because there is no single food containing large amounts, there is no magnesium lobby. Look at calcium. Thanks to the dairy industry, we are constantly told that we need to get enough calcium, and we’re told right where we can get it. Milk and cheese. Same with vitamin C. The orange juice people never let us forget. Not so with magnesium, so no one really thinks of it. Another reason that many people are magnesium deficient is that they drink bottled water or softened water. In the old days everyone drank well water or water from streams, both of which contain large amounts of magnesium. Magnesium is removed when water is softened and it isn’t in large amounts in most of the bottled waters that are available.”
Andrea Rosanoff, Ph.D. Co-Author of the Magnesium Factor, Director, Center for Magnesium Education & Research
Reducing Inflammation
Inflammation is the activation of the immune system as a result of infection, irritation or injury
Inflammation is an immune system response to an irritant. For example, an ankle sprain will prompt the immune system to create and send a protein called a Circulating Immune Complex (CIC) to the affected area. The CIC travels down to the injured ankle and causes pain and swelling. This is intended to prohibit and restrict further activity and help prevent further irritation. This also supports fresh blood, antibodies and vital cells flooding the area so that repair and healing can begin. Next, the proteolytic enzymes are produced and sent down to the affected area to help counteract the inflammation.
These same enzymes are responsible for fighting off bacterial and viral infections, cleaning the blood, and breaking down scar tissue, known as fibrin. All of these enzymes are mediated by magnesium, meaning they perform better when adequate levels of magnesium are present in the blood cells. When science states that magnesium is responsible for more than 320 enzymatic processes in the body, the production of proteolytic enzymes is just one of them. So if magnesium levels are too low, the activities of these crucial biological magnesium-sensitive enzymes will not work as they should.
Enzymes also break down scar tissue and fibrosis. Fibrosis is scar tissue that builds up in the body and over time creates so much restriction and strain on the organs that they can no longer function properly. Enzymes also clean the blood of excess fibrin that causes the blood to thicken, which causes blood clots, leading to heart attack or stroke. Enzymes also help take some of the strain off of the liver by keeping the blood clean. Enzymes are central to inflammation and the fundamental supporter of enzymes is magnesium. Another catalytic property of magnesium – modulating cellular repair via enzymatic processes involved in inflammation.
Researchers have found that when magnesium levels are too low, there is a profound increase of inflammatory cytokines, along with increased levels of histamine.1) Problems with insulin metabolism results in the inability to properly store magnesium, causing blood vessels to constrict, elevated blood pressure, and coronary arterial spasm, all of which can result in a heart attack. Atherosclerosis, a progressive narrowing and hardening of the arteries is an inflammatory condition.
Magnesium is at the core of the inflammatory process. Deficiency in magnesium should be considered the first cause, yet magnesium is seldom considered. Increases in extracellular magnesium concentration cause a decrease in the inflammatory response while reduction in the extracellular magnesium results in inflammation.2) In fact, the presence of inflammation will itself deplete magnesium levels, so supplementation when the body is battling and inflamed is crucial. If there is not enough magnesium present at this time, excess calcium will precipitate around the area of inflammation which will cause rigidity and blockage of blood flow.
There are many factors that trigger inflammation. Internal factors such as excessive levels of the hormone insulin (insulin resistance), emotional stress, free-radical damage, viral, bacterial, fungal and other pathogenic infections, obesity, overconsumption of hydrogenated oils, periodontal disease, smoking, spirochetes such as the Borrelia that causes Lyme disease, and some prescription drugs. External factors include environmental toxins and radiation.
1) Am J Physiol. 1992;263:R734-7
2) Magnesium and inflammation: lessons from animal models] Clin Calcium. 2005 Feb;15(2):245-8. Review. Japanese. PMID: 15692164 [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE
Natural Migraine Relief
Migraines and severe headache can severely impact your quality of life
Migraines, and headaches, such as tension headaches can be debilitating. Magnesium can lessen the tension in those muscles and help all your muscles relax. Magnesium also has a bio-chemical partnership with serotonin – currently the culprit when it comes to the study of the causes of migraines.
It’s no surprise then that:
66% of migraine sufferers have low magnesium
Magnesium helps reduce the frequency, intensity and duration of migraines
Magnesium deficiency will cause irritation and inflammation in the smooth muscles around the neck and scalp
Magnesium’s properties as a natural blood thinner helps prevents platelet aggregation which works to avoid the thickened blood and tiny clots that can cause blood vessel spasm and pain
Magnesium relaxes the blood vessels and allows them to dilate, reducing the spasms and constrictions that can cause migraines
Magnesium regulates the action of brain neurotransmitters (such as serotonin) and inﬂammatory substances, which may play a role in migraines when unbalanced.
Magnesium relaxes muscles and prevents the buildup of lactic acid, which, along with muscle tension, can worsen head pain.
Studies on the Magnesium-Migraine Link
Researchers gave 81 migraine sufferers either 600 milligrams of magnesium or a placebo pill once daily for three months. After four weeks, 42% of the group taking magnesium reported a reduction in the number of migraine occurrences. As well, the duration of migraine drug use significantly decreased among people who took magnesium supplements
There is growing support in the physician community that some of the most severe cases of migraines may actually be directly related to an imbalance of key minerals such as magnesium and calcium.
Understanding Migraines - Why is magnesium is a natural migraine relief?
A confirmed cause of migraines continues to elude researchers and scientists, but many believe they are a result of drastic change in the blood vessels. These so-called vascular changes are such that they interfere with the flow of blood and/or oxygen to the brain.
The triggers or causes of these changes to the blood vessels, or vascular change are as varied as the individuals who suffer from migraines.
A widely-held theory is that serotonin levels drop, causing inflammation and pain. Because serotonin, also known as 5-HT or 5-HTP is also know to regulate mood and a general feeling of well-being, many prescription drugs for depression, designed to elevate serotonin levels, may be prescribed for migraine sufferers. Many patients are disappointed with the medications ability to either decrease the frequency or the severity of their migraine.
Magnesium – when present in adequate amounts in the blood vessels – helps with the enzymatic conversion of tryptophan – the fore-runner bio-chemically to serotonin. Magnesium therefore directly affects the amount of serotonin found in the blood.
Not enough magnesium = not enough serotonin. Any migraine sufferer would do well to replenish their magnesium levels every day. Increased magnesium can elevate your serotonin levels and that just may help your migraines.
Stress Reduction
The storm before the calm – Natural Calm, the anti-stress mineral supplement
The body’s stress reactions were meant to protect us, but a body in a perpetual state of stress can take an enormous toll on your health. Most people are familiar with the two physiological responses to fear that occur naturally in our bodies: fight or flight. But when the body is in a constant state of alarm, the adrenal glands release hormone surges, such as cortisol and adrenaline.
Cortisol also affects the digestive system, reproductive system and too much cortisol can even affect normal growth processes. Long term activation of stressors in the body will disrupt almost all the body’s usual functions.
So how can you minimize, or eliminate stress in the body?
Research has shown that magnesium, a mineral proven to calm and relax your cells, also acts as a de-stressor. Magnesium also functions as a de-toxifier, cleansing cortisol from the cells, provided that the body has adequate amounts of the mineral.
Stress depletes magnesium; magnesium counter-acts stress. When magnesium levels are low, the nervous system gets out of balance and the muscles grow tight. This can also lead to elevated mental stress. At the same time, any stress, whether mental or physical, will deplete magnesium. Magnesium gained its name as nature's anti-stress mineral due to its helpfulness in combating internal stress.
There are no shortages of symptoms that can suggest stress. The American Institute of Stress publishes 50 Common signs and symptoms of stress at http://www.stress.org/stress-effects/ and the Top 10 are:
Frequent headaches, jaw clenching or pain
Gritting, grinding teeth
Stuttering or Stammering
Tremors, trembling of lips and hands
Neck ache, back pain, muscle spasms
Lightheadedness, faintness, dizziness
Ringing, buzzing or popping sounds
Frequent blushing, sweating
Cold, sweaty hands and feet
Dry mouth, problems swallowing
Most, if not all of these symptoms can also be signs of a magnesium deficiency. Magnesium is known as the anti-stress mineral. One of magnesium’s most important actions – when there is enough magnesium to do its jobs – is to keep calcium outside the cells where it belongs. Calcium moving into the centre of the cells when there is not enough magnesium there to keep it out, has been shown to cause rigidity and tension in the cell. This ‘dance’ between these two minerals can de-stress the cell when they occur in the right balance. This critical balance is why magnesium is also called The Twin Mineral to calcium, and the Anti-stress mineral.
The American Institute of Stress (AIS) was founded by the famous Canadian stress expert Hans Selye, MD. Dr. Selye estimates that 75 to 90 percent of all visits to primary care physicians are due to stress-related problems.
Below is a list of the body’s reactions to stress as outlined by AIS:
Heart rate and blood pressure soar, increasing the flow of blood to the brain to improve decision making
Blood sugar rises to furnish more fuel for energy as the result of the breakdown of glycogen, fat, and protein stores caused by adrenalin surging
Blood is shunted away from the gut, where it is not immediately needed for digestion, to the large muscles of the arms and legs to provide more strength in combat, or greater speed in fleeing a scene of potential peril
Clotting occurs more quickly to prevent blood loss from lacerations or internal hemorrhage.
It is worth noting that magnesium addresses each of these body’s reactions:
When blood pressure soars, the smooth muscles in the walls of your blood vessels can go into spasm if you are magnesium deficient. This can cause chronic hypertension
When blood sugar rises, magnesium is responsible for insulin opening up cell membranes to allow sugar into the cells. If you are magnesium-deficient, blood sugar continues to rise and cells do not receive glucose
If the large muscles of the arms and legs are magnesium-deficient, increased circulation can cause muscle cramping, irritability, and restless leg syndrome
Without enough magnesium, blood clotting can become enhanced leading to leg, lung, and brain clots.
Real inner balance is an expression of your body, mind and spirit, but you can only get there if your magnesium is in balance in your body.
Your opinion counts! Share your review and you can win $100* Be the first to write a review
Browse for more products in the same category as this item:
Supplements
Clearance Corner
PROMOTIONS & COUPONS!
Stay Connected
Newsletter signup
Contact Us
Toronto: 416-617-3096
Barrie: 705-727-1115
Toll Free: 1-855-RAW-VEG1 (729-8341)
Mon-Fri 9am-4pm EST
My Account
Login or Register
View Cart
Order Status
Wishlist
Toronto Pick-Up Orders
Barrie Pick-Up Orders
Quick Links
All Products
Site Help
Shipping Information
Terms & Conditions
Company
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Employment
Wholesale
Affiliates
© Copyright 2016 Upaya Naturals All rights Reserved.