The Effects of Aromatherapy Massage and Reflexology on Pain and
Toggle navigation
Research Tools
Research Dashboard
Search Abstracts
Search Articles
Search All Content (Google)
Topic Research Discovery
Diseases
Therapeutic Substances
Therapeutic Actions
Pharmacological Actions
Problem Substances
Problematic Actions
Adverse Pharmacological Actions
Trending Topics
Smart Search - Evidence Generator
Smart Search: Diseases
Smart Search: Therapeutic Substances
Smart Search: Pharmacological Actions
Articles
Most Recent
Most Popular
Find Articles
My Membership
Memberships
Compare Membership Plans
Join our Free Newsletter
Log in or Join us
Sayer Ji, Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Sayer Ji
Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Subscribe to our informative Newsletter & get two FREE E-Books
Our newsletter serves 500,000 with essential news, research & healthy tips, daily.
Depression: 21st Century Solutions + The Dark Side of Wheat
Aromatherapy massage and reflexology can be used to help manage pain and fatigue in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	- GreenMedInfo Summary
Abstract Title:
The Effects of Aromatherapy Massage and Reflexology on Pain and Fatigue in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract Source:
Pain Manag Nurs. 2016 Apr ;17(2):140-9. Epub 2016 Apr 16. PMID: 27091583
Abstract Author(s):
Zehra Gok Metin, Leyla Ozdemir
Article Affiliation:
Zehra Gok Metin
Abstract:
Nonpharmacologic interventions for symptom management in patients with rheumatoid arthritis are underinvestigated. Limited data suggest that aromatherapy massage and reflexology may help to reduce pain and fatigue in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The aim of this study was to examine and compare the effects of aromatherapy massage and reflexology on pain and fatigue in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The study sample was randomly assigned to either an aromatherapy massage (n = 17), reflexology (n = 17) or the control group (n = 17). Aromatherapy massage was applied to both knees of subjects in the first intervention group for 30 minutes. Reflexology was administered to both feet of subjects in the second intervention group for 40 minutes during weekly home visits. Control group subjects received no intervention. Fifty-one subjects with rheumatoid arthritis were recruited from a university hospital rheumatology clinic in Turkey between July 2014 and January 2015 for this randomized controlled trial. Data were collected by personal information form, DAS28 index, Visual Analog Scale and Fatigue Severity Scale. Pain and fatigue scores were measured at baseline and within an hour after each intervention for 6 weeks. Pain and fatigue scores significantly decreased in the aromatherapy massage and reflexology groups compared with the control group (p < .05). The reflexology intervention started to decrease mean pain and fatigue scores earlier than aromatherapy massage (week 1 vs week 2 for pain, week 1 vs week 4 for fatigue) (p < .05). Aromatherapy massage and reflexology are simple and effective nonpharmacologic nursing interventions that can be used to help manage pain and fatigue in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
Article Published Date : Mar 31, 2016
Study Type : Human Study
Additional Links
Diseases : Fatigue : CK(312) : AC(49), Rheumatoid Arthritis : CK(745) : AC(125)
Therapeutic Actions : Aromatherapy Massage : CK(100) : AC(10), Reflexology : CK(70) : AC(7)
Pharmacological Actions : Analgesics : CK(1327) : AC(217)
Print Options
Some features are currently member only features. If you are already a member, please login. Otherwise, click here to become a member.
Printer-friendly version
Send to friend
PDF version
Key Research Topics
Disease
Fatigue
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Pharmacological Actions
Analgesics
Therapeutic Actions
Reflexology
Aromatherapy Massage
Sayer Ji, Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Sayer Ji
Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Subscribe to our informative Newsletter & get two FREE E-Books
Our newsletter serves 500,000 with essential news, research & healthy tips, daily.
Depression: 21st Century Solutions + The Dark Side of Wheat
Links
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Services
Return Policy
Corrections
FAQ
Write For Us
Advertise
Research
Substances
Ailments
Problem Substances
Therapeutic Actions
Problematic Actions
Pharmacological Actions
Adverse Pharmacological Actions
Keywords
Articles
Most Popular
Most Recent
Store
eBooks
eCourses
Downloadable Documents
Donate
Join Us
Become a Member
Join our Free Newsletter
Log In
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
RSS Feed
This website is for information purposes only. By providing the information contained herein we are not diagnosing, treating, curing, mitigating, or preventing any type of disease or medical condition. Before beginning any type of natural, integrative or conventional treatment regimen, it is advisable to seek the advice of a licensed healthcare professional.
© Copyright 2008-2019 GreenMedInfo.com, Journal Articles copyright of original owners, MeSH copyright NLM.