Hyperpyrexia: Causes, symptoms, and treatment
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Hyperpyrexia: Causes, symptoms, and treatment
Last reviewed	 Wed 9 August 2017	 Last reviewed	Wed 9 Aug 2017
By Jenna Fletcher
Reviewed by Carissa Stephens, RN, CCRN, CPN
Hyperpyrexia is another term for a very high fever. The medical criterion for hyperpyrexia is when someone is running a body temperature of more than 106.7°F or 41.5°C.
Some doctors lower the measure for hyperpyrexia to include anyone with a body temperature of 106.1°F or 41.1°C and above.
Fevers, including very high fevers, are never illnesses in themselves, or the causes of illnesses. Instead, they are symptoms of other problems, such as an infection or injury. Viral or bacterial infections cause most fevers. However, in hyperpyrexia, that is not always the case.
Hyperpyrexia is an emergency that needs immediate attention from a medical professional.
Contents of this article:
What is hyperpyrexia?
Causes of hyperpyrexia
What are the symptoms?
Treatment and management
How is hyperpyrexia diagnosed?
Outlook
Fast facts on hyperpyrexia:
Viruses that can cause hyperpyrexia include enterovirus infection, roseola, rubeola, and malaria.
Hyperpyrexia is associated with a body temperature of more than 106.7°F or 41.5°C.
Typically, treatment for hyperpyrexia focusses on the underlying disease, if one exists.
The outlook for hyperpyrexia depends on the underlying condition causing the state of very high fever.
What is hyperpyrexia?
Hyperpyrexia can present as an adverse effect of anesthesia.
In hyperpyrexia and most other cases of fever, the brain tells the body to raise its baseline temperature above normal. The body responds to the brain's messages and raises its temperature to a new baseline. This reaction normally happens as a result of an infection or trauma.
Hyperpyrexia differs from hyperthermia, a medical term for the uncontrolled rise in body temperature due to excess amounts of body heat generated.
In hyperthermia, the brain is not regulating the rise in temperature the way it does with other fevers. Rather, the body cannot handle the heat from environmental causes, and so it overheats.
Cases of heat stroke are due to hyperthermia, and not to hyperpyrexia.
Causes of hyperpyrexia
Usually, instances of hyperpyrexia are associated with viral or bacterial infections. Some other causes include the following:
Intracranial hemorrhage
In some cases, bleeding in the brain known as intracranial hemorrhage causes hyperpyrexia. Accidents or other traumas and strokes are the most likely cause of intracranial hemorrhage. The bleeding in the brain can affect an area of the brain called the hypothalamus, which is responsible for regulating the body's temperature.
Sepsis
In rare cases, hyperpyrexia may result from sepsis. Sepsis is a potentially life-threatening response to an infection caused by the immune system. The overwhelming immune system response gets into the blood, which may cause organ damage or failure.
Anesthesia
People may experience hyperpyrexia due to a direct side effect of general anesthesia, occurring when there is an underlying disease of muscle. In these cases, a person's temperature rises rapidly while under anesthesia, requiring doctors to make adjustments to lower the body's temperature again.
Hyperpyrexia in children
Kawasaki syndrome or disease is a potential cause of hyperpyrexia, especially in children. Kawasaki syndrome causes inflammation to the medium-sized arteries throughout the body. One sign of Kawasaki disease is high fever, which can result in hyperpyrexia if left untreated.
What are the symptoms?
Headaches can be a sign that a fever is becoming more severe.
Symptoms of hyperpyrexia vary from person to person, depending on how long the condition lasts and if it worsens. Early symptoms may include:
increased thirst
extreme sweating
dizziness
muscle cramps
fatigue and weakness
nausea
light-headedness
As the high temperature persists or gets worse, the severity of the symptoms can increase. This situation can lead to:
headache
contracted pupils
mild confusion
pale, moist, and cool skin
vomiting or upset stomach
decreased urination or inability to urinate
In prolonged periods of a temperature of more than 106.1°F, the following symptoms may occur:
extreme confusion
loss of consciousness
rapid, shallow breathing
dry, hot, and red skin
weak, fast pulse
widened pupils
seizures
It is essential to seek treatment for fevers over 106.1°F to help prevent serious long-term complications or death.
Treatment and management
As hyperpyrexia is caused by another disease, treating the latter will usually cause the body's temperature to go down.
When the body temperature starts reaching 106.1°F and higher, it may be necessary to treat the fever itself, as well as the underlying cause. Direct treatment of hyperpyrexia may include:
a cool bath or cold, wet sponges put on the skin
liquid hydration through IV or from drinking
fever-reducing medications, such as dantrolene
In cases of malignant hyperpyrexia caused from general anesthesia, doctors will need to take steps to reduce the patient's fever.
How is hyperpyrexia diagnosed?
A thermometer is used to diagnose hyperpyrexia.
Diagnosing hyperpyrexia is done using a thermometer. If the reading is over 106.1°F, then the person has the symptoms of hyperpyrexia.
Since hyperpyrexia itself is not a diagnosis and only a symptom of a larger problem, finding the underlying cause of the high fever is more important and often more challenging.
A doctor will assess the person's physical state and run tests to rule out the more common causes of high fever. These test may include the following:
blood work, to check for signs of infection
image studies of the brain to check for intracranial hemorrhage
Further tests will largely depend on any other symptoms the person has.
Outlook
If the fever is not treated and a person's temperature brought down to a safe level, hyperpyrexia can cause permanent brain damage or death.
However, in most circumstances, correct treatments can lower the fever safely, giving doctors time to diagnose and treat the underlying cause of the hyperpyrexia.
Related coverage
Can you have the flu without a fever? While a fever is a common flu symptom, it does not occur in every case. In this article, learn about the flu without a fever, as well as when to see a doctor. Read now
What causes a fever and what can I do about it? A fever is when the body's temperature rises above 100.4°F or 38°C. It is the body's response to something wrong in one part or another, and it may resolve itself or mean someone needs to see a doctor. Read here about the types of fever there are, symptoms to look for, what to do, and how fevers affect young children. Read now
Why fever can be your friend in times of illness A mild fever is not just the sign of an infection or viral disease. It actually stimulates the body's immune response, and a new study explains how. Read now
Fever: What you need to know A person has a fever when their temperature goes higher than 36 to 37°C or 98 to 100°F. Symptoms include feeling cold, shivering, lethargy, sleepiness, and sweating. There are many causes and types of fever. Discover how long a fever might last, how to treat one, and what to look out for if a child develops a fever. Read now
Preventing Severe Brain Injuries By Cooling The Body A review published in this week's The Lancet claimsthat induced hypothermia is underused in the UK and in the USA. Read now
email email
print
share share
Emergency Medicine
Primary Care / General Practice
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Wed 9 August 2017.
Visit our Emergency Medicine category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Emergency Medicine.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Denborough, M. A. (1975, December). Malignant hyperpyrexia [Abstract]. Comprehensive Therapy, 1(8), 51-56. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/770064
Halliday, N. J. (2003, September). Malignant hyperthermia. The Journal of Craniofacial Surgery, 14(5), 800-802. Retrieved from https://insights.ovid.com/pubmed?pmid=14501352
Marvel, P. (1908, December 5). Hyperpyrexia in children: Its cause and treatment [Abstract]. JAMA, LI(23), 1920-1925. Retrieved from http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/article-abstract/428579
National Institutes for Health. (2012, June 27). Hyperthermia: Too hot for your health [Press release]. Retrieved from https://www.nih.gov/news-events/news-releases/hyperthermia-too-hot-your-health-1
Sioson, P. B., & Brown, R. B. (1993, July). Hyperpyrexia among patients in a large community hospital: Causes, features, and outcomes [Abstract]. Southern Medical Journal, 86(7), 773-776. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8322085
Willcox, W. H. (1920, March 20). The nature, prevention, and treatment of heat hyperpyrexia: The clinical aspect. British Medical Journal, 1(3090), 392–397. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2337571/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Fletcher, Jenna. "Hyperpyrexia: Causes, symptoms, and treatment." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 9 Aug. 2017. Web.
22 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318856.php>
APA
Fletcher, J. (2017, August 9). "Hyperpyrexia: Causes, symptoms, and treatment." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318856.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Study finds that many people diagnosed with MS do not have the condition
A new study suggests that almost 20 percent of people who receive a diagnosis for multiple sclerosis do not have the chronic disease.
Replacing red meat with plant protein reduces heart disease risk
A study of data from 36 trials suggests that eating plant-based proteins, such as nuts, instead of red meat may help reduce cardiovascular disease risk.
Increased muscle power may prolong life
A first-of-its-kind study finds that increased muscle power, rather than muscle strength, can significantly prolong life for seniors.
MS: High-strength MRI may predict disease progression
New research suggests that a powerful MRI scanner may help predict the progression of multiple sclerosis by analyzing cortical lesions on the brain.
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Popular in: Emergency Medicine
What to do when a pill gets stuck in the throat
How to respond to chlorine poisoning
Head injury: Symptoms, concussion, and treatment
What to know about Freon poisoning
What is trauma to the breast?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/318856.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);