Iged statement
Like most websites, we use cookies.
If this is okay with you, please close this message.
read more about your options.
Cookies policy | Easy Read | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] Reset
Championing optimum nutrition for the mind
Call us on 020 8332 9600
My account | Basket (0 Items)
Home
Nutrition solutions
Clinic
Smart kids
Alzheimer's prevention
Accreditation
Publications
Support us
igedstatement
Nutrition solutions
ADHD and hyperactivity
About ADHD/hyperactivity
Action plan to overcome ADHD/hyperactivity
Do you need help?
Hyper activity test
Autism
About autism
Action plan for managing autism
Do you need help?
Bipolar disorder
About bipolar disorder (manic depression)
Action plan for bipolar disorder
Do you need help?
Dementia and Alzheimer’s disease
About dementia/Alzheimer’s disease
Action plan for dementia & Alzheimer’s
Do you need help?
Cognitive Function Test
Support Our Campaign
Depression
About depression
Action plan for overcoming depression
Do you need help?
Depression Test
Food Intolerance Test
Dyslexia and dyspraxia
About dyslexia/dyspraxia
Action plan for managing dyslexia/dyspraxia
Do you need help?
Insomnia
About insomnia
Action plan for insomnia
Do you need help?
Parkinson's disease
About Parkinson's disease
Action plan for Parkinson's disease
Do you need help?
Schizophrenia and psychosis
About schizophrenia and psychosis
Action plan for managing schizophrenia
Do you need help?
Stress
About stress
Action plan for becoming more resilient to stress
Do you need help?
Brain Bio Centre
The Clinic
About the clinic
Clinic costs
The Complete Packages
Get in touch
Contact us
Book a consultation
Book a Skype consultation
Patient Information Forms
Consultations
Skype Consultations
Tests
Supplements
Meet the team
The Clinical Team
The Board
Our Experts
Scientific Advisory Board
How to find us
FAQs
Stress
Cognitive decline and neurological disorders
Depression and anxiety
Learning and behaviour
Psychotic disorders
Tune up your brain
Testimonials
In the media
Auction
AuctionProduct3
AuctionProduct7
AuctionProduct10
AuctionProduct11
AuctionProduct14
AuctionProduct17
AuctionProduct18
AuctionProduct21
AuctionProduct22
AuctionProduct23
AuctionProduct24
AuctionProduct25
AuctionProduct26
AuctionProduct27
AuctionProduct28
AuctionProduct29
AuctionProduct33
Alzheimer's prevention
About Alzheimer’s Prevention
Action on Alzheimer's
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Take the test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the test
Interpreting results
Lowering homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
Previous scores
6 Prevention Steps
Make a donation
Modifying Risk Factors
Homocysteine and B Vitamins
Methylation and homocysteine
Play Your Part
For business
Events
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Declarations of interest
Cognitive Function Test
Smart Kids
Is your childs diet healthy?
Child Survey
Child Survey on GMTV
Q and A on the child survey
How to build a healthy brain?
Where are the hidden sugars?
Smart shopping
Healthy recipes and ideas
Smart weaning
Supplements for smart kids
Children's food allergies
Schools Project
SAQ Training System
Cricket Green
Chineham Park
What children say
What the experts say
Research
Alzheimer's Prevention Project
Cognitive Function Test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the Test
Interpreting Results
Lowering Homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
10 Alzheimer's Prevention Steps
Declarations of interest
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Alzheimer’s Prevention Conference
Methylation and Homocysteine
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Information for Health Professionals
Alzheimer's - there is no cure. Prevention is the way.
Schizophrenia project
Evidence database
A review of the current evidence (2005) suggests that essential fatty acids, particularly EPA and DHA may benefit a variety of mental health conditions.
ADHD teens have higher need for Omega-3 fats. Colter A L et al., Nutr J. 2008 Feb 14;7:8.
An omega-3 fish oil combined with phosphatidylserine improved impulsiveness in ADHD kids...
Essential fat levels lower in boys with ADHD compared to 'healthy' controls...
Essential fats reduce ADHD-related symptoms in children with specific learning difficulties...
Feeding the autistic brain - Multi-nutrients reduce symptoms and improve biological function...
Foods and additives are common causes of the attention deficit hyperactive disorder in children...
Gut disorders are more prevalent in children with developmental disorders...
Keep it simple - Healthy diet best for ADHD...
Magnesium supplementation improved ADHD symptoms...
Physical symptoms of fatty acid deficiency unreliable in ADHD...
Restricted diet linked to 78% reduction in ADHD...
Supplementation of fatty acids improved ADHD symptoms in children aged 7 to 12 years...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves juvenile delinquency among American schoolchildren...
A very low carbohydrate diet improves memory function for older adults at risk of Alzheimer's disease...
Dementia costs the UK £23 billion a year and is preventable...
Efficacy of a medical food in mild Alzheimer's disease...
Lower reported nutritional status is associated with increased risk to physical and mental health and well-being in School-aged Children...
Nutrients, cognitive function, and MRI measures of brain ageing.
Omega 3 helps ageing brain
Supplements of omega-3 and omega-6 improve reading, spelling and behaviour in children ages 5-12 years with Developmental Coordination Disorder.
Allergy to milk proteins could be linked to autism...
Consumption of fish and n-3 fatty acids and risk of incident Alzheimer disease...
DHA may slow progression of Alzheimer’s in a mouse model...
Dietary intake of omega-3 fatty acids and weekly consumption of fish may reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Dietary intake of vitamin E associated with lower risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Fish oils stave off alzheimers...
Fruit and vegetable juice may protect against Alzheimer's...
Genetic link between vitamin D and Alzheimer's discovered...
Good diet staves off dementia and alzheimers...
Higher folate intake associated with lower risk of Alzheimer Disease in the elderly...
Homocysteine and dementia – a clear association...
Homocysteine effects on brain volumes mapped in 732 elderly individuals...
Medication prescribed to Alzheimer's patients may hasten their decline...
Mineral imbalances in Alzheimer's brains...
Sugar may speed up alzheimers...
Supplements of Vitamin E and Vitamin C reduce risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Targeting risk factors could cut Alzheimer’s by a quarter...
Vitamin E antioxidants to slow the progression of Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E slows progression of moderately severe Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E supplementation may lower mortality in Alzheimer's patients...
Elevated homocysteine found in women with eating disorders, independent of folic acid or B12 levels...
Supplementation with folic acid enhances effect of antidepressant medication...
Reduced risk of depression associated with mediterranean diet...
An autistic patient has abnormal red blood cell fatty acid composition compared to control subjects...
Autistic children benefit from a gluten and casein free diet...
Autistic children frequently suffer from digestive complaints and inflammation in the digestive system...
Autistic children show possible imbalance of fatty acids...
Behaviour deterioration seen in autistic children upon vitamin B6 withdrawal...
Damage to gut wall maybe a cause of autism...
Effect of gluten and casein free diets on food choice and nutrition in autism...
Food hypersensitivity linked to digestive disturbances in autistic children...
Gluten-free diet can improve behavioural symptoms of autistic children...
Immune reaction to both gliadin and brain proteins may explain an autoimmune basis for autism...
More than 1 in 100 children and adults have autism...
Opioid theory may explain food and gut-related symptoms of autism...
Opioid theory may explain role of diet and digestion in autism...
PCBs may contribute to Autism – rat study...
Review investigates links between immune system activity and autism...
Review of 12 studies suggest positive effect of vitamin therapy in autism...
Review of trials of gluten/casein elimination diets in children with autism...
Studies show a gluten and/or casein free diet reduces autistic behaviour...
Study finds no significant improvement in autistic children’s clinical symptoms whilst on a gluten-free and casein-free diet...
Vitamin A may help reverse a genetic predisposition to autism...
Vitamin B6 and magnesium improve childhood autism in combination...
Lowering homocysteine improved symptoms in chronic schizophrenia patients with elevated homocysteine...
Supplementation with essential nutrients may benefit symptoms of depression in elderly patients...
Elevated homocysteine associated with increased risk of mild cognitive impairment in the elderly...
High folate intake alongside low B-12 status may worsen risk for dementia...
Vitamin B12 deficiency may affect the brain through multiple mechanisms...
Association with vitamin D levels and depressive symptoms.
Could early vitamin C deficiency impair development?
Downside of acid drug...
Lack of B vitamins linked to PMS...
Lower blood levels of vitamin C in people with schizophrenia...
U.S. Study confirms homocysteine linked to brain shrinkage...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves intelligence in some American schoolchildren...
Vitamin D deficiency in pregnancy may have implications for mental health of children – rat study...
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with low mood and worse cognitive performance in older adults...
Vitamin D deficiency linked to Parkinson's...
Vitamin D linked with depression in elderly...
Vitamins and minerals improve learning and memory in 'normal' school children...
Diet has positive impact on anti-social, violent and criminal behaviour – a review...
Folic acid may boost baby's behaviour...
Iron, zinc, and lead are associated with behaviour and cognition in preschool children...
Sweets for kida means violent adults. Moore et al. (2009) 195: 366-367
Omega 3 fish oil good for depression and bipolar...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA improves depression in people with bipolar alongside their existing medication...
Beta carotene helps brain function and memory...
Breast feeding is best food for your child's brain...
Depressed brain deficient in Omega-3 fatty acid DHA...
Dietary choline, cognitive performance and brain volume...
Fish consumption associated with better brain volume and memory...
Fish oil supplementation supports mood and brain function in the elderly...
Homocysteine associated with brain atrophy in the healthy elderly...
Omega 3 good for cognitive performance in older adults...
Omega-3 in pregnancy boosts baby's brain development...
Use it or lose it - Cognitive activity throughout life supports a healthy brain...
Fish-eating mothers’ milk highest in DHA...
Chromium improves atypical depression...
Update on chromium for depression.
Cognitive performance among the elderly and dietary fish intake: the Hordaland Health Study, Nurk E et al...
Elderly people with the highest blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids had the least decline in verbal fluency...
Excess calcium speeds cognitive decline in the elderly...
Folic acid improves concentration and cognitive performance in healthy elderly...
Folic acid improves memory and mental agility in over-50s. ...
Higher intakes of fish oil from diet associated with slower rates of cognitive decline in elderly men...
Does raised homocysteine cause dementia?
Acne treatment could cause depression...
Beneficial gut bacteria reduce anxiety and depression in mice...
Breakfast, Academic Performance and Mental Distress...
Depression linked to processed food...
Fish oil boosts mood in depressed seniors...
Folic acid improves recovery in major depression and schizophrenia...
Low Iron may contribute to depression in women who are not anaemic...
More folate may mean less depression in men. Daniells 2010
Multivitamin and mineral supplement improves mood in hospitalised elderly...
Omega-3 helps depressed children, A Controlled, Double-Blind Pilot Study...
Review of research suggests folate may be effective for depression...
Sleep deprivation may cause depression in adolescents...
Tryptophan supplementation induces a positive bias in processing of emotional material...
Cochrane Review of essential fatty acids for schizophrenia inconclusive but recommends more research needed...
Children with healthier diets do better in school...
Good food boosts school performance...
Poor diet associated with worse mental health in teens...
Schizophrenia symptoms may be helped by a gluten free, low carb diet...
Drug treatment for Schizophrenics may induce diabetes...
Fish oil may reduce psychotic disorders in high risk individuals...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA helps schizophrenia symptoms...
Dietary sources of fat associated with schizophrenia...
Low essential fats worse for Schizophrenia symptoms...
Benefits may outweigh risks for seafood consumption in pregnancy...
Certain combinations of food additives are linked to hyperactivtiy in young children...
Food additives and hyperactivity in children...
Good food in infancy boosts earning power ...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Supplement combination helps the elderly get a good night’s sleep...
Omega 3 concentrations relationship to physical and mental well being...
Omega-3 supplementation reduces anxiety and inflammation in healthy young adults...
Efficacy and cost of micronutrient treatment of childhood psychosis
Publications and events
Current events
Food for the Brain Alzheimer's Conference 2011
More information of the speakers
Food for the Brain Conference 2008
Nutritional Strategies for Breaking Addiction - Speakers
FfB Mental Health Masterclass with Bill Walsh PHD from the Pfeiffer Treatment Centre
The Gut Brain Link in Autism, Depression and Mental Health
E-news
June 2013
May 2013
March 2013
October 2012
September 2012
July 2012
June 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
Further support
Reports
Nutritional interventions for the adjunctive treatment of schizophrenia: a brief review
The Links Between Diet and Behaviour
Food for the brain child survey report
Nutrients and Alzheimer's Disease Prevention: 2011 Review
Depression - the nutrition connection
Alzheimer's and Dementia - the nutrition connection
Oxidative Stress in Autism
Double blind placebo-controlled study of zinc sulfate in the treatment of ADHD
Effect of consumpton of soft drinks on hyperactivity and behaviour
Effect of Omega 3 supplementation on visual and cognitive development in childhood
Glucose tolerance predicts performance on tests of memory and cognition
Inositol deficiency deit and lithium effects
LC PFAs in Childhood Development and Psychiatric Disorders
Major Depressive Disorder, NEJM, 2008
O-3 Treatment of Childhood Depression - double blind controlled pilot study
Omega 3 for recurrent Unipolar Depressive Disorder
Raising IQ through vitamin and mineral supplementation
Supplementation with PFAs and Micronutrients on learning & behaviour in ADHD
The NEMO Study Group, 2007
Unhealthful Eating Patterns and overall school performance in Children
Zinc in Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder
Resources
Accreditation in catering
Support us
Support us by donating
Support us by fundraising
Partners
About us
Who we are
Board of Trustees
Scientific Advisory Board
Current vacancies
Donate
Friends of Food for the Brain
Register
Donate today
Donate through legacy
Donate by volunteering
Why donate?
Newsletter Signup
Site Map
Terms and Conditions
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Easy Read
Cookies policy
My Profile
Payment
3D Landing
3D Validate
Payment Result
Checkout Step 2
Checkout
Advertising Policy
download
sitemap.xml
adhdtest
Advertising
Nairns ad
Solgar
Cherry Active
York Test
Food Matters Live
Conference 2011 CD
preventionsteps
Friends
rsvp
Alzheimers' Prevention PLAN B
Newsletter update
appgdementia
alzriskfactors
igedstatement
thenutritionconnection
actiononalzheimers
enews
Admin Position
Nutrition for Children's Learning and Development
Nutrition for Depression
Overcoming stress and anxiety – how to stay calm, stop the energy drain and build resilience
accreditation-redirect
seminar-site redirect (1)
Free newsletter
Cognitive function test
Smart Kids test
We can help you
Twitter
FOOD FOR THE BRAIN
www.foodforthebrain.org
Follow
Go to full profile →
Dementia (including Alzheimer's disease) can be prevented:
Statement from international experts
A group of 112 international scientific and medical dementia experts from 36 countries have issued a statement today to the G8 dementia summit saying that effectively tackling known risk factors for dementia could perhaps prevent up to one-fifth of new cases by 2025. The experts call upon governments urgently to support more research into prevention and to adopt public health policies that arise from the outcomes of this research. They say that prevention is a powerful additional approach to the development of drugs for treating dementia. Drug development has so far cost around $40 billion without any benefit in slowing disease progression. The statement follows.
We call upon the governments of the G8 countries to make prevention of dementia one of their major health aims.
• The commonest dementia (Alzheimer’s disease) is irreversible, and develops slowly over many years.
• So far drugs have only relieved symptoms, but have not been effective against disease progression.
• About half of the large decline in deaths from heart disease and stroke over the past 50 years has been the result of public health measures to modify risk factors. We are confident that the same approach will work for dementia.
• We propose that a concerted effort be made to discover modifiable risk factors for dementia and to exploit those already identified.
• International collaboration is needed on large-scale clinical trials to test whether modifying risk factors will lead to prevention of dementia.
• Health authorities should aim to identify high risk individuals at an early stage, when intervention is more likely to help.
• There is already sufficient evidence to justify immediate action. Trials in those at risk of developing dementia should be done of the following: exercise; controlling blood sugar, including diabetes treatment; depression treatment; high blood pressure treatment; B vitamins; omega-3 fatty acids; cognitive training and social activities.
• Public health policies should encourage middle-aged people to stop smoking; exercise; eat diets rich in fruit and vegetables and fish (Mediterranean foods); avoid becoming obese and diabetic; avoid excessive alcohol intake; treat high blood pressure. In other words – tell people that adopting a healthy life-style may help to ward off dementia as it does for other diseases.
• It is notable that the prevalence of dementia and cognitive impairment in some Western countries is now less than anticipated, possibly as a result of changes in life-style and the reduction in cardiovascular risk factors, although this may not necessarily mean that worldwide trends in in the burden of dementia will be substantially reduced.
• We estimate that about half of Alzheimer disease cases world-wide might be attributable to known risk factors. Taking immediate action on the known risk factors could perhaps prevent up to one-fifth of predicted new cases by 2025.
• The world-wide costs of dementia in 2010 have been estimated to be $604 billion, most of it in G8 countries. Prevention of dementia would thus not only prevent a lot of human suffering but would save huge sums of money.
• We call upon the Health Ministers of the G8 countries to greatly increase government funding for research on the prevention of dementia.
The following have signed:
P Aisen (University of California, San Diego)
M Albert (Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD)
K Anstey (Australian National University, Canberra)
J Avila (Centro de Biologia Molecular Severo Ochoa, Madrid)
S Banerjee (University of Sussex, Brighton)
DE Barnes (University of California, San Francisco)
MS Beeri (Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York)
DA Bennett (Rush University Medical Center, Chicago)
S Black (University of Toronto)
C Brayne (University of Cambridge)
J Breitner (McGill University, Montreal)
M Breteler (German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Bonn)
H Brodaty (University of New South Wales, Sydney)
C Chen (National University of Singapore)
MJ Chiu (President Taiwan Alzheimer’s Association, National Taiwan University, Taipei)
M Combrinck (University of Cape Town)
CW Cotman (University of California, Irvine)
P Davies (Feinstein Institute, New York)
C deCarli (University of California Davis, Sacramento)
IV Damulin (I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Moscow)
P Dal-Bianco (Medical University of Vienna)
J de la Torre (University of Texas, Austin)
A de Silva (University of Kelaniya, Colombo, Sri Lanka)
B De Strooper (Catholic University of Leuven)
B Dubois (University of Paris VI)
K Engedal (University of Oslo)
S Engelborghs (University of Antwerp)
MM Esiri (University of Oxford)
RM Faull (University of Auckland)
H Feldman (University of British Columbia)
AM Fjell (University of Oslo)
L Flicker (University of Western Australia, Perth)
A Flöel (Charité-Universitätsmedizin, Berlin)
O Forlenza (University of Sao Paulo, Brazil)
L Fratiglioni (Karolinska Institute, Stockholm)
GB Frisoni (University of Geneva and IRCCS Fatebenefratelli, Brescia)
S Gauthier (McGill University, Montreal)
S.I. Gavrilova (Mental Health Research Center RAMS, Moscow)
H Hampel (Pierre and Marie Curie University, Paris)
H Hendrie (Indiana University, Indianapolis)
T Iwatsubo (University of Tokyo)
R Jacoby (University of Oxford)
J Jia (Beijing Capital Medical University)
KA Jellinger (Medical University of Vienna)
RN Kalaria (University of Newcastle. UK)
ZS Khachaturian (The Campaign to Prevent Alzheimer's Disease by 2020, Potomac. MD)
M Kivipelto (Karolinska Institute, Stockholm)
D Knopman (Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN)
T Kwok (Chinese University, Hongkong)
K Langa (University of Michigan, Ann Arbor)
EB Larson (University of Washington, Seattle)
L Launer (National Institute on Aging, Bethesda, MD)
N Lautenschlager (University of Melbourne)
BA Lawlor (Trinity College, Dublin)
J Lindesay (University of Leicester, UK)
A Lobo (University of Zaragoza, Spain)
J Lökk (Karolinska Institute, Stockholm)
O Makeeva (Institute of Medical Genetics, SB RAMS, Tomsk, Russia)
J Marksteiner (President, Austrian Alzheimer Society)
A McCaddon (Cardiff University Medical School)
K Meguro (Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan)
LT Middleton (Imperial College, London)
MC Morris (Rush University, Chicago)
DL Na (Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul)
MWS Nasrun (Indonesian Alzheimer Association, Universitas Indonesia, Jakarta)
A Ogunniyi (University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria)
S Pendelbury (Oxford NIHR Biomedical Research Centre)
G Perry (University of Texas, San Antonio)
RC Petersen (Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN)
VP Puzyrev (Institute of Medical Genetics, SB RAMS, Tomsk, Russia)
G Rebok (Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD)
G Rees (CEO, Alzheimer’s Australia)
H Refsum (University of Oslo)
E Reynolds (King’s College, London)
E Richard (University of Amsterdam)
J Rinne (University of Turku, Finland)
K Ritchie (INSERM, Montpellier)
WA Rocca (Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN)
IH Rosenberg (Tufts University, Boston)
PS Sachdev (University of New South Wales)
N Scarmeas (Columbia University New York and University of Athens)
S Scarpa (University of Rome La Sapienza)
R Schmidt (Medical University, Graz, Austria)
P Scheltens (VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam)
S Seshadri (Boston University)
A Singh-Manoux (INSERM, Villejuif)
I Skoog (University of Gothenburg)
AD Smith (University of Oxford)
T Sobow (Medical University of Lodz, Poland)
R Sperling (Harvard University, Boston)
P Srisuwan (Phramongkutklao Hospital and College of Medicine, Bangkok)
R Stewart (Institute of Psychiatry, London)
DY Suharya (Executive Director, Alzheimer’s Indonesia)
M Tripathi (All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi)
AM Troen (Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel)
J Trojanowski (University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia)
SJ van Rensburg (University of Stellenbosch, South Africa)
B Vellas (University of Toulouse)
G Waldemar (Director, Danish Dementia Research Centre, University of Copenhagen)
H Wang (Peking University Institute of Mental Health)
JZ Wang (Tongji Medical College, HUST, Wuhan, P.R. China)
M Weiner (University of California, San Francisco)
LJ Whalley (University Aberdeen, Scotland)
LR White (Honolulu-Asia Aging Study, Chaminade University, Hawaii)
PJ Whitehouse (Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH)
R Whitmer (Kaiser Permanente, Oakland, California)
A Wimo (Karolinska Institute, Stockholm)
R Wurtman (MIT, Cambridge, Mass)
K Yaffe (University of California, San Francisco)
S-Y Yoon (University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul)
VV Zakharov (I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Moscow)
NG Zhukova (Siberian State Medical University, Tomsk)
IA Zhukova (Siberian State Medical University, Tomsk)
Some selected references to recent relevant literature are:
Designing prevention programmes to reduce incidence of dementia: prospective cohort study of modifiable risk factors.
Ritchie, K., I. Carriere, C. W. Ritchie, C. Berr, S. Artero and M. L. Ancelin. Bmj (2010) 341: c3885.
The projected effect of risk factor reduction on Alzheimer's disease prevalence.
Barnes, D. E. and K. Yaffe. Lancet Neurol (2011) 10: 819-828.
Creating a transatlantic research enterprise for preventing Alzheimer's disease.
Khachaturian, Z. S., et al. Alzheimers Dement (2009) 5: 361-366.
Prevent Alzheimer's disease by 2020: a national strategic goal.
Khachaturian, Z. S. and A. S. Khachaturian. Alzheimers Dement (2009) 5: 81-84.
Developing a global strategy to prevent Alzheimer's disease: Leon Thal Symposium 2010.
Khachaturian, Z. S., et al. Alzheimers Dement (2011) 7: 127-132.
Efficacy of Souvenaid in mild Alzheimer's disease: results from a randomized, controlled trial.
Scheltens, P., et al. J Alzheimers Dis (2012) 31: 225-236.
Mediterranean diet, cognitive function, and dementia: a systematic review.
Lourida, I., M. Soni, J. Thompson-Coon, N. Purandare, I. A. Lang, O. C. Ukoumunne and D. J. Llewellyn. Epidemiology (2013) 24: 479-489.
Can we prevent Alzheimer's disease? Secondary “prevention” trials in Alzheimer's disease.
Carrillo, M. C., H. R. Brashear, V. Logovinsky, J. M. Ryan, H. H. Feldman, E. R. Siemers, S. Abushakra, D. M. Hartley, R. C. Petersen, A. S. Khachaturian and R. A. Sperling. Alzheimer's Dementia (2013) 9: 123-131.e121.
Midlife risk score for the prediction of dementia four decades later.
Exalto, L. G., C. P. Quesenberry, D. Barnes, M. Kivipelto, G. J. Biessels and R. A. Whitmer. Alzheimers Dement (2013) EPubahead of print.10.1016/j.jalz.2013.05.1772
Long-chain omega-3 fatty acids improve brain function and structure in older adults.
Witte, A. V., L. Kerti, H. M. Hermannstadter, J. B. Fiebach, S. J. Schreiber, J. P. Schuchardt, A. Hahn and A. Floel. Cereb Cortex (2013) June, Epubahead of print.
Preventing Alzheimer's disease-related gray matter atrophy by B-vitamin treatment.
Douaud, G., H. Refsum, C. A. de Jager, R. Jacoby, T. E. Nichols, S. M. Smith and A. D. Smith. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A (2013) 110: 9523-9528.
Nonpharmacologic treatment and prevention strategies for dementia.
Yaffe, K. and T. Hoang. Continuum (Minneap Minn) (2013) 19: 372-381.
Trends in the prevalence and mortality of cognitive impairment in the United States: is there evidence of a compression of cognitive morbidity?
Langa, K. M., E. B. Larson, J. H. Karlawish, D. M. Cutler, M. U. Kabeto, S. Y. Kim and A. B. Rosen. Alzheimers Dement (2008) 4: 134-144.
The effect of dementia trends and treatments on longevity and disability: a simulation model based on the MRC Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (MRC CFAS).
Jagger, C., R. Matthews, J. Lindesay, T. Robinson, P. Croft and C. Brayne. Age Ageing (2009) 38: 319-325;
Methodological challenges in designing dementia prevention trials - the European Dementia Prevention Initiative (EDPI).
Richard, E., S. Andrieu, A. Solomon, F. Mangialasche, S. Ahtiluoto, E. P. Moll van Charante, N. Coley, L. Fratiglioni, A. S. Neely, B. Vellas, W. A. van Gool and M. Kivipelto. J Neurol Sci (2012) 322: 64-70.
Trends in the incidence and prevalence of Alzheimer’s disease, dementia, and cognitive impairment in the United States.
Rocca, W. A., R. C. Petersen, D. Knopman, S. , L. E. Hebert, D. A. Evans, K. S. Hall, S. Gao, F. W. Unverzagt, K. M. Langa, E. B. Larson and L. White, R. Alzheimer's dementia (2011) 7: 80-93.
Is dementia incidence declining?: Trends in dementia incidence since 1990 in the Rotterdam Study.
Schrijvers, E. M., B. F. Verhaaren, P. J. Koudstaal, A. Hofman, M. A. Ikram and M. M. Breteler. Neurology (2012) 78: 1456-1463.
Twenty-year changes in dementia occurrence suggest decreasing incidence in central Stockholm, Sweden.
Qiu, C., E. von Strauss, L. Backman, B. Winblad and L. Fratiglioni. Neurology (2013) 80: 1888-1894.
A two-decade comparison of prevalence of dementia in individuals aged 65 years and older from three geographical areas of England: results of the Cognitive Function and Ageing Study I and II.
Matthews, F. E., A. Arthur, L. E. Barnes, J. Bond, C. Jagger, L. Robinson, C. Brayne, on behalf of the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study. Lancet (2013). 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61570-6. Epub ahead of print
The worldwide economic impact of dementia 2010.
Wimo, A., L. Jonsson, J. Bond, M. Prince, B. Winblad. Alzheimers Dement (2013) 9: 1-11 e13.
The global prevalence of dementia: a systematic review and metaanalysis.
Prince, M., R. Bryce, E. Albanese, A. Wimo, W. Ribeiro and C. P. Ferri. Alzheimers Dement (2013) 9: 63-75 e62.
A conceptual framework and ethics analysis for prevention trials of Alzheimer Disease.
Peters, K. R., B. Lynn Beattie, H. H. Feldman and J. Illes. Prog Neurobiol (2013) 110: 114-123.
New insights into the dementia epidemic.
Larson, E.B., Yaffe, K. and Langa, K.M. New Eng J Med (2013) on-line 27 November 2013
Some international and national initiatives:
European Dementia Prevention Initiative:
www.edpi.org
The Healthy Brain Initiative (CDC and Alzheimer’s Association, USA):
http://www.cdc.gov/aging/healthybrain/roadmap.htm
OECD Global Challenge of Alzheimer’s disease:
http://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/science-and-technology/emerging-trends-in-biomedicine-and-health-technology-innovation_5k44zcpt65vc-en
A National Alzheimer’s Strategic Plan (Alzheimer’s Association, 2009):
www.alz.org/documents/national/report_asg_alzplan.pdf
National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease: 2013 update:
http://aspe.hhs.gov/daltcp/napa/NatlPlan2013.pdf
National dementia strategies for the UK (Alzheimer’s Society):
http://www.alzheimers.org.uk/ndstrategies
National Prevention Research Initiative (UK):
http://www.mrc.ac.uk/Ourresearch/ResearchInitiatives/NPRI/index.htm
UK Department of Health statement (September 2013):
http://dementiachallenge.dh.gov.uk/2013/09/25/on-the-road-to-the-g8-dementia-summit/
This statement will appear in an upcoming issue of Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease.
For further information, contact Professor David Smith, Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Mansfield Rd., Oxford OX1 3QT, UK
Tel. +44-7768-611472
david.smith@pharm.ox.ac.uk
Back to top
Join us...
Contact Us
Make an appointment
Vacancies
About us
Board of Trustees
Our mission
Cookies Policy
Scientific Advisory Board
Advertising Policy
About this site
Site Map
Policies
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
is a not for profit educational charity
© 2012 Food for the Brain. All Rights Reserved
Food for the Brain is a registered charity (No: 1116438) and is limited by guarantee (Company Number 5885305)