Dementia study: Vitamin B12 and folic acid may not cut Alzheimer's disease risk - BelleNews.com
CLOSE
Home
World
Arts & Culture
Business
Economy & Politics
Finance
Entertainment
Fashion & Style
Health
Science & Technology
Social
Education
Home & Garden
How To…
Sports
Travel
Home
World
Arts & Culture
Business
Economy & Politics
Finance
Entertainment
Fashion & Style
Health
Science & Technology
Social
Education
Home & Garden
How To…
Sports
Travel
Home Health Dementia study: Vitamin B12 and folic acid may not cut Alzheimer’s disease...
Dementia study: Vitamin B12 and folic acid may not cut Alzheimer’s disease risk
Health
Nov 15, 2014
0
According to Dutch researchers, taking vitamin B12 and folic acid supplements does not seem to cut the risk of developing dementia in healthy people.
In one of the largest studies to date, there was no difference in memory test scores between those who had taken the supplements for two years and those who were given a placebo.
The new research was published in the Neurology journal.
However, other researchers say longer trials were needed to be sure.
B vitamins have been linked to Alzheimer’s for some years, and scientists know that higher levels of a body chemical called homocysteine can raise the risk of both strokes and dementia.
Vitamin B12 and folic acid are both known to lower levels of homocysteine.
That, along with studies linking low vitamin B12 and folic acid intake with poor memory,has prompted scientists to view the supplements as a way to ward off dementia.
Yet in the study of almost 3,000 people – with an average age of 74 – who took 400 micrograms of folic acid and 500 micrograms of vitamin B12 or a placebo every day, researchers found no evidence of a protective effect.
All those taking part in the trial had high blood levels of homocysteine, which did drop more in those taking the supplements.
On four different tests of memory and thinking skills taken at the start and end of the study, there was no beneficial effect of the supplements on performance.
The researchers did note that the supplements might slightly slow the rate of decline but concluded the small difference they detected could just have been down to chance.
Study leader Dr. Rosalie Dhonukshe-Rutten, from Wageningen University in the Netherlands, said: “Since homocysteine levels can be lowered with folic acid and vitamin B12 supplements, the hope has been that taking these vitamins could also reduce the risk of memory loss and Alzheimer’s disease.
“While the homocysteine levels decreased by more in the group taking the B vitamins than in the group taking the placebo, unfortunately there was no difference between the two groups in the scores on the thinking and memory tests.”
The researchers stressed the research cannot be extrapolated to people who already had cognitive problems and earlier research had suggested they may benefit.
alzheimer's
dementia
folic acid
homocysteine
neurology
vitamin b12
tweet
Previous article
Black Friday 2014: Walmart employees plan protests over wages
Next article
Romania to elect new president in run-off vote
Kathryn R. Bown
Kathryn - Our health specialist likes to share with the readers the latest news from the field. Nobody understands better than her the relation between healthy mind and healthy body.
Salvează
Salvează
RECOMMENDED
DHgate.com has Health Products
RECENT ARTICLES
Brain Bruised? Here’s What to Do After a Concussion
5 Ways You Can Help Manage Your Anxiety Condition Yourself
4 Things to Consider as You Shop for a New Car
Advantages of Visiting Museums
The Ultimate Camping Fridge Buying Guide
The Importance of Having Your Jackets Custom Made
Notre-Dame Cathedral on Fire!
Sudan Coup: Protesters Demand Full Dismantling of “Deep State” Left Behind by Ousted President Omar Al-Bashir
Dieselgate Scandal: Former VW Chief Executive Martin Winterkorn Charged with Fraud
Game of Thrones Returns for 8th and Final Season
What Is a Coworking Space? Use This Checklist for Finding the Right One
Blockchain, Africa, and E-Commerce: Business Trends 2019
7 Tips For Improving Health And Safety In The Workplace
Freelance Freedom: 4 Top Tips for Starting a Successful Freelance Business
5 Trends That’ll Shape the Oil and Gas Industry in 2019
Where’s My Money?: 7 Tips to Streamline Payroll Processing
SDF Troops Attack IS Fighters in Syria with Backing from United States
Home-Based Income: How to Start a Photography Business from Your House
The Art of Music: 5 Popular Music Genres Explained
Julian Assange Arrested In London Following Ecuador’s Withdrawal of Asylum
Black Hole Picture 2019: First Ever Image Revealed By Scientists
The Top 5 Social Media Tools to Make Your Job Easier
President Trump Describes Robert Mueller Inquiry as “An Attempted Coup”
Israel Elections 2018: PM Benjamin Netanyahu Likely To Secure Record Fifth Term
Iran and Iraq Relations: Set to Expand Ties in Energy, Agro, and More
Can Bitcoin Replace Traditional Finance?
Why Online Therapy is Growing in Popularity
How the world of venture capitalism is changing in 2019
President Trump Has the Right to Keep His Tax Returns Private, Says Lawyer
Study: Poor Daily Diet Is A Bigger Killer than Smoking
JOIN US ON FACEBOOK
Belle News
Current News
Brain Bruised? Here’s What to Do After a Concussion
5 Ways You Can Help Manage Your Anxiety Condition Yourself
4 Things to Consider as You Shop for a New Car
Advantages of Visiting Museums
The Ultimate Camping Fridge Buying Guide
November 2014
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Oct Dec »
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
© 2016 BelleNews.com
Contact
About Us
Advertise With Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Sitemap
DMCA Policy
This website has updated its privacy policy in compliance with EU GDPR 2016/679. Please read this to review the updates about which personal data we collect on our site. By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to our updated policy.
Accept Reject Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy