Lamisil AT cream Coupon and Discount - Pharmacy Coupons
Or Get a Pharmacy Discount Card
Drug Search
Conditions
Classes
How It Works
FAQ
Prices
Free Pharmacy Discount Card
Blog
Select Page Drug Search Conditions Classes How It Works FAQ Prices Free Pharmacy Discount Card Blog
Lamisil AT cream Coupon and Discount
You are here:
Home
Drugs
Lamisil AT cream Coupon and Discount
Get Coupon
Our Lamisil AT cream coupons, rebates, and discounts will help you save. Never pay full price on your prescriptions again.
* Please note that in order to use these Over-The-Counter coupons, you must first acquire a prescription from your doctor. You can then take your OTC prescription and Rebates' coupon to the pharmacy for a discounted price. However, you can also search the links below for discounted prices of Lamisil AT cream.
Drug Name: Lamisil AT cream
Generic Name(s): terbinafine
Drug Class: antifungal
Treats: athlete's foot, Jock itch , ringworm
Lamisil AT cream also known as Terbinafine is an antifungal over the counter cream that does not require a doctor's prescription for purchase. It treats fungal skin infections like athlete's foot (tinea pedis), Jock Itch (tinea cruris) and ringworm (Tinea Corporis). It works by interfering and killing of the cell membrane of fungi.
Coupon
Uses
Dosage
Side Effects
Interactions
Lamisil AT cream Discount Coupon - Save Up To 75%** Off!
The free Pharmacy Coupons Lamisil AT cream Coupon and Discount Card can save you up to 75%** off your prescription prices. All you have to do is print the coupon and bring it to the pharmacy to receive the benefits of our drug discount program. This coupon is not insurance and is not valid in combination with any government-sponsored drug plans.
Lamisil AT cream Coupon
Average Savings:
75%** Off
How to use your Lamisil AT cream Coupon:
Click the "Get Coupon" button below and choose to receive your Lamisil AT cream coupon by Print, Email, or Text Message.
Bring your discount coupon to the pharmacy and show it to your pharmacist when you fill your prescription.
Save up to 75%** off your prescription!
Lamisil AT cream Uses
Lamisil AT cream contains terbinafine hydrochloride which is vital in fighting fungal skin infections. Lamisil AT cream is used to treat Athlete's Foot, Ringworm and Jock Itch which mainly affects males. Lamisil AT cream kills fungi found in Athlete's foot, jock itch and ringworm by meddling with their cell membranes which in turn stops the production of ergosterol an asset of fungal cell membranes that ensures nothing leaks out or enters the cell. The use of Lamisil AT cream causes holes to the fungi cell membrane which in turn causes it to leak out and terbinafine hydrochloride an active ingredient in Lamisil AT cream to enter killing the fungi and eliminating the fungal infection.
Fungal Skin Infections
Jock Itch
Ringworm
Athlete's Foot
Lamisil AT cream Dosage
Cleanliness is vital while using Lamisil AT cream. Apply ample Lamisil AT cream twice a day to eliminate the fungus. This, however, should never replace your pharmacist or doctor's advice. If after two weeks of using Lamisil AT cream you still have the same symptoms caused by athlete's foot, ringworm or jock itch, consult immediate professional help. Lamisil AT cream is recommended for individuals from age 16 and above. Ensure you finish the dose despite your symptoms clearing up.
Dose for Athlete's foot
For Athlete's foot, apply Lamisil AT cream in-between the toes. You should use Lamisil AT cream for 1-2 weeks twice a day daily. If the sides of your feet or sole are affected, use Lamisil AT cream for at least two weeks.
Dose for Joke Itch and Ringworm
Lamisil AT Cream should be used once daily for one week if you are ailing from Joke Itch or ringworm.
Lamisil AT cream Side Effects
Certain side effects might result from the use of Lamisil AT cream depending on different individuals. If you happen to experience any disturbing side effects, ensure you consult with your doctor or pharmacist. There are some expected side effects and others that require urgent professional advice. Below is a list of both to help you monitor how your treatment with Lamisil AT cream is going.
Expected Side Effects
Skin irritation
Mild Stinging
Itching of the skin
Critical Side Effects
Inflammation
Throat, lips, face and tongue swelling
Inhalation Difficulties
Hash scorching of the treated skin area
Redness of skin
Shedding of skin
Dryness
Lamisil AT cream Interactions
Lamisil AT cream has not been proven to interact with any other specific medications. However, pregnant women should consult with their physician before using Lamisil AT cream. It should be noted that Lamisil AT cream is for external use only and you should prevent interaction with eyes and nose. Your Physician should be aware of any other medications you are taking or plan on taking while using Lamisil AT cream as a precaution. If you are ailing from Athlete's foot, try wearing comfortable feting shoes and change your socks daily or at least once per day if possible. Notify your doctor if you might be allergic to any ingredients used in the manufacturing of Lamisil AT cream.
Search Drug Coupons
Health Conditions
Search drug coupons by health condition
How It Works
Find out how we provide our members with the best discounted prices for their prescriptions.
Other Resources
Find other important RX info, including how to properly dispose of unused prescription
Free Pharmacy Discount Card
Get Your RX Discount Card!
How do you want your coupon?
Mail
Print
E-mail
Text
Company
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Advertising
About
Sitemap
Coupons.Pharmacy,
Attn: Rebates.com, LLC
304 S. Jones St. #1800
Las Vegas, NV 89107
Use of this website confirms your understanding that the information on coupons.pharmacy must not be used as a substitute for Doctor directed medical instruction. The content on this website is written by a staff of researchers without medical training. Our purpose is to save you money on your Prescribed Drugs! You agree to consult a physician or professional healthcare provider for your medical and prescription drug care. We do not endorse or recommend any of the drugs mentioned on this site.
This site is provided as an educational resource and is not affiliated with the drug manufacturers in any way. All copyrighted images and trademarks are the rights of their respective owners.
*This savings represents the maximum average discount on drugs using Coupons.Pharmacy for the period March 1, 2015 to March 1, 2016.