Yogurt, the Nutritiously sweet and healthy milk product | Health And Life Africa Healthy-living Initiative (HALA)
HOME
ABOUT US
HALA Team
PROGRAMS
HALA Magazine
Medical Events
Celebrity Health Ambassador
Young Health Professional Scholarship Scheme (YHPSS)
African Herald
Advocacy
BE A GUEST CONTRIBUTOR
VOLUNTEER
DONATE
ADVERTIZE WITH US
CONTACT US
Health And Life Africa Healthy-living Initiative (HALA)
Africa's foremost entertaining health and lifestyle resource
Navigation
HOME
#Healthy Africa
HIV/AIDS + TB
African Mother and Child
High Blood Pressure
Malaria
Foods/Diet
Lifestyle
Celeb Upshot
Med Talks
Mental Health
Stuff
You are here: Home > Yogurt, the Nutritiously sweet and healthy milk product
Yogurt, the Nutritiously sweet and healthy milk product
by Opeyemi Bolajoko
on November 5, 2012
in Drinks, Foods/Diet
Leave a comment
It turns out that Yogurt is actually healthier than you may think!
Yogurt is the semi white fermented cow’s milk with a peculiar acid or sour taste. This milk product is produced by inoculating milk at 2% proportion with a bacterium, lactobacillus between the temperatures of 40⁰C- 45⁰C. This process of bacteria fermentation converts lactose in milk to lactic acid and some proteins are broken down and converted to peptides particularly making yogurt easily digestible and better tolerated. Being a milk product already confers many nutrients in yogurt yet, its most peculiar health benefits comes from the presence of these live bacteria in the form of probiotics.
BASIC NUTRITIONAL FACTS ABOUT MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS
Probiotcs (meaning “for life”) are best defined by the FAO/WHO as: Live microorganisms which when administered in adequate amounts confer a health benefit on the host. These special types of microorganisms have been found to not cause any harm but in fact, studies have proven them to be very healthy because they are helpful in the treatment and prevention of certain ailments. The traditional way of eating probiotics is by fermenting foods (such as yogurt or dietary supplements) with these bacteria and lactobacillus is currently the best case for probiotic therapy.
SOYA MILK: THE CHEAP & HEALTHY NON-DAIRY MILK SOURCE
Health Benefits of Yogurt
Yogurt is better tolerated than milk because of the absence of lactose which has been predigested. This makes it a suitable option for even people who don’t ordinarily tolerate milk.
Thanks to the probiotics, yogurt is particularly helpful in shortening the course of anti-biotic associated diarrhoea
The probiotic content and acidity of yogurt also helps to prevent proliferation of pathogenic/harmful microorganisms thereby preventing gut infections.
Yogurt is a good companion for a healthy colon as it promotes the growth of healthy bacteria (microflora) and is even said to lower the of colon cancer
Being an excellent source of calcium, yogurt like cow milk, is very helpful in the prevention of osteoporosis.
It has higher nutrient contents compared to milk in terms of macro nutrients and micro nutrients (vitamins and minerals)
Yogurt comes in varying quantities of fat content including non-fat (0% fat), or low fat (2% fat) making it a really attractive healthy food companion for anyone on a weight loss diet
A very recent observational study showed that people who regularly eat yogurt (as a low-fat dairy product) where 31% less likely to develop High Blood Pressure as against those who ate no yogurt at all.
HALA Magazine on High Blood Pressure- FREE Download
Diet, Eating Right, Healthy living, Milk, Weight loss
About Opeyemi Bolajoko
Versatile and astute are character traits synonymous with Mrs. Bolajoko. She is a professional Dietitian, Lecturer in the Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, Ondo State, and she also pastors Christ Pavilion Church with her husband in Lagos. She handles the Food/Diet category and she is also on HALA Editorial Board. View all posts by Opeyemi Bolajoko →
← Steaming *Hott Celebrities with High Blood Pressure: Monica
Know the Benefits and possible harms of Breast Cancer Screening →
*NEW* Latest Edition
Get HALA MAGAZINE!
Get your FREE copy of HALA MAGAZINE here!
About HALA
HALA is your FREE one-stop entertaining health and lifestyle information portal dishing out free doctors' and experts' opinion with practical tips for healthy living. Read more
Get HALA Health tips
Must Watch Videos
(Watch) HALA TGIF! Video Pick: Malaria history- Herbs, Drugs & Empires through the generations
Watch: The single healthy-living solution! -HALA TGIF Video pick
Watch: Kenyan Condom Advert gone wrong? – HALA TGIF Video pick
TGIF HALA Video Picks: Amazing Sea Otter’s Basketball dunking exercise stunt to beat Arthritis
(Watch) HALA TGIF! Video Pick: Malaria history- Herbs, Drugs & Empires through the generations
Watch: The single healthy-living solution! -HALA TGIF Video pick
Watch: Kenyan Condom Advert gone wrong? – HALA TGIF Video pick
TGIF HALA Video Picks: Amazing Sea Otter’s Basketball dunking exercise stunt to beat Arthritis
Join HALA Community
Tweets by @halamag
Join in to Become a Guest Contributor today
Join Now
No comments yet.
Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply.
Comment
Name (Required)
Email (Required)
Website
Leave your opinion here. Please be nice. Your Email address will be kept private. (See Policy)
Related News
Fitness, Foods/Diet
SEE LIST: Common African Food sources of Good & Bad Fats
August 12, 2013
Fitness, Foods/Diet
I choose ‘Healthy Eating’ therefore, NO MORE FATS! Right?
July 29, 2013
Fitness, Foods/Diet
3 reasons why doctors & health professionals ‘beef’ Chicken Eggs!
July 16, 2013
HOME
ABOUT US
BE A GUEST CONTRIBUTOR
DONATE
ADVERTIZE WITH US
CONTACT US
Subscribe: RSS | Email
Receive FREE Health Tips!
Photos on flickr
©HALA 2012 I Privacy Policy I Terms and Conditions of Use I Funding Policy I Sitemap I Contact Us. The information contained in this web site is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment. Consultation with your doctor or health care professional is recommended.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
UA-26885773-1