How to get rid of Scars from ingrown hair - Ingrown Hair Solutions
Skip to content
Ingrown Hair Solutions
Learn what causes ingrown hairs, how to treat razor bumps and how to prevent bikini rash.
Menu
How can I treat ingrown hairs?
How to remove an ingrown hair
How to relieve razor bumps
The ultimate list of ingrown hair lotions, serums, creams and treatments
How to get rid of Scars from ingrown hair
Common home remedies to treat ingrown hairs
How to treat and prevent ingrown leg hairs
What causes ingrown hairs?
tips and facts about ingrown hair
Everything you need to know about ingrown hairs
How can I prevent ingrown hairs?
How scrub gloves can prevent ingrown hairs.
Herbs and Essential Oils Super Bundle
Home laser hair removal for ingrown hairs
Most common questions about ingrown hairs.
Free Body Scrub Recipes
Ingrown hair video playlist
Survey to win a prize
Our shop
The best hair removal options
Shaving kits are the perfect gift idea
Our top numbing cream picks
Top-selling pimple popper sets
Tweezer Sale
Coupons/Freebies
The ultimate list of ingrown hair lotions, serums, creams and treatments
The ultimate gift guide for a pimple popping addict
Holiday specials for Fans
Featured ingrown hair products on our social media
FREE: Ingrown hair protocol guide
How to get rid of Scars from ingrown hair
April 20, 2019 April 1, 2019 by admin
How to get rid of Scars from ingrown hair
“What exactly is a scar”?
“When you injure your skin, your body naturally repairs the damage. How your body repairs this damage depends on how deeply the injury penetrates your skin.
If the injury damages the top layer of your skin, you’ll likely see new skin when the wound heals. To repair the damage that goes deeper than the first layer, your body makes a tissue that’s thicker than your skin. This thicker tissue often becomes a scar.
New scars have a pink to reddish color. As a scar matures, it often turns lighter or darker than your skin.
Most scars are flat, and the skin on top tends to look wrinkled.” American Academy of Dermatology
Many of us who are plagued by ingrown hairs often see the end results for years. For most people, they are almost inevitable. They can be unsightly and embarrassing. If you want to know how to get rid of ingrown hair scars, keep reading.
You are probably reading this article because already have done the damage and want to know how to get rid of scars from ingrown hair. It won’t be easy and you may only get a slight reduction in scaring but the end results are worth it.
Preventing ingrown hair scars
Start with prevention. Chances are you got the scar from picking an ingrown hair bump or scab too much. Stop doing this!!! I know its easier said than done. So start preventing ingrown before they even get to the stage where you want to pick at them!
The best way to prevent ingrown hairs is to determine whether shaving or waxing irritates the skin and hair worse. Choose the method which irritates the area the least. You may have to experiment with a few hair removal methods over time but you should eventually find one that works.
Exfoliate the area every day. I know you’ve heard this a thousand times but you have to keep exfoliating off the dead skin cells so the new ones can come in healthy. Exfoliate, cleanse and moisturize every single day with a scrub glove or exfoliation brush.
Be gentle and use a good quality soap. Lather the soap in the glove and gently scrub the area. Do this every day until the bumps subside. Apply a light moisturizer or ingrown hair serum after.
Natural Scar Remedies you might find in your kitchen
Massage olive oil into the scar area. Olive oil is rich in vitamins E and K, and it will help your scars to fade faster. Virgin olive oil is high in anti-oxidants and has a higher acidity level, which helps to lighten the scars.
Rub a little bit on to the scar and massage into it for 15 minutes.
Raw honey is a natural moisturizer. It is a great treatment for wounds and stimulates new tissue growth.
Mix 1 tbsp. of raw honey with 21 tbsp. of baking soda
Massage for 5 minutes and wipe clean.
Apply lemon juice to the scar. Lemons contain alpha hydroxy acids(AHA) which help to remove dead skin cells, help new cells grow.
Put 2 teaspoons of lemon juice on to a cotton pad
Dab the cotton pad on the scarred area
Let it sit for about 10 minutes and then rinse it off
Commercial products we love to treat scars
Pure Tropix Scar and Blemish
Restore Clearer, Healthier Skin – This day and night anti-ageing formula helps tone and revitalize skin by diminishing the signs of acne scars, stretch marks, wrinkles, and blemishes with natural, organic ingredients.
Maximum Strength Support – A premier blend of Aloe, Shea Butter, Vitamin E, Green Tea, and Babasu Oil, our scar removal cream is safe and gentle on dry, flaking, cracking, or peeling skin of all types and ethnicities.
Health Priority Vitamin E
Healthy skin is beautiful skin and 100% Natural & Organic Vitamin E Oil really packs a punch. Here are just a few of the benefits Vitamin E oil delivers:
Prevents ageing
Reduces wrinkles & fine lines
Lightens dark spots and under-eye circles
Naturally hydrates and heals damaged skin while preventing future damage
Repairs stretch marks and acne/surgical scars
Promotes collagen & elastin to keep skin looking young
Your Vitamin E Oil is especially unique because it’s made with 100% Natural Vitamin E Oil and infused with additional healing and calming oils like organic jojoba, organic avocado, organic rice bran, organic palmarosa, and organic lavender
Fade Away
Silicone is the #1 Treatment for Scars, and FadeAway is the gold standard. FadeAway’s 100% Medical Grade Liquid Silicone comes in a massaging roller ball applicator that helps to break down scar tissue. The Liquid Silicone comes out clear, non-greasy and dries quickly. Great for discrete treatment and ideal for areas of high visibility. The Liquid Silicone Massaging Roller can be used in conjunction with FadeAway Scar Sheeting to provide a powerful system to reduce the appearance of scars. Choose FadeAway to not only get a discrete, perfectly fitting scar treatment but be confident knowing it’s the same product you’d be sent home with after a surgery.
Mederma scar gel
Mederma Advanced Scar Gel can help you ease the doubts because it’s clinically shown to improve the overall appearance, color, and texture of scars. More doctors and pharmacists recommended Mederma than any other brand for older and newer scars. It works for many types of scars, including acne scars, surgery scars, and scars from burns, cuts, and other injuries. And since you only have to apply Mederma Advanced Scar Gel once a day, it’s easy to use.
ScarAway
Clinically Proven Safe and Effective Scar Reduction
Significantly reduces the appearance of existing scars
Professional grade self-adhesive silicone sheeting with patented silicon technology
Safe and ideal for even nursing moms and those with drug sensitivities
Helps prevent the formation of new scars
Significantly improves the appearance of existing scars
With proven Silicon technology
Recommended by plastic surgeons and burn centers
Easy to use and comfortable to wear
Helps prevent the formation of new scars
Trilogy Rosehip oil
An efficacious reparative oil for face and body. Contains pure natural rosehip oil. Rich in essential fatty acid (omega 3 and 6). Provides all-over hydration. Strengthening and healing action. Remarkably corrects the appearance of scars, stretch marks, fine lines and wrinkles. Effectively treats dehydrated and ageing skin. Unveils a softer. smoother. more refined and healthier looking complexion.
MD Performance
Doctor recommended for scars after surgery, injury, and burns. Clinically proven to improve the overall appearance, colour, and texture of scars. Ultimate Scar Formula will begin to improve scar within two months when used twice daily and massaged until all pink is gone. A unique blend of medical grade silicone gels. Goes on clear and does not show.
Rejuvaskin
RejuvaSil Silicone Scar Gel is designed to reduce the appearance of scars by creating a semi-occlusive barrier that decreases collagen production. The result – a softer, flatter scar. RejuvaSil releases a soft, gentle gel that dries clear and leaves no sticky residue. It is also suitable for children and facial scars. RejuvaSil is transparent, odourless, and water resistant – a discreet option for scar management.
Scarguard
A patented formulation that combines multiple technologies into a product that is easy-to-use. That is why so many doctors use this product for old, raised scars, keloids, and to help prevent scar tissue from forming after surgery or injury.
Scarfade
Recommended by leading physicians around the world since 1997 for scar treatment
Easy to use, non-surgical treatment for improving the appearance of scars of all types.
Helps remove existing scars and prevent scars from new wounds.
TCM
Use the advanced Aliver acne scar removal cream, easy to penetrate the cortex, soften the scar tissue, promote the skin’s natural renewal and healing, quickly fade the scars. Our scar cream also has the anti-inflammatory, bacteria elimination, beauty and skin nourishing, scar and acne mark removal, and makes the skin smooth, soft, beautiful and texture.
Dermakr
Rapidly Heal Blemishes and Prevent Scarring Day and Night– The Hydrocolloid technology of the DERMAKR Discreet Acne Pimple Patch absorbs the pus, bacteria and liquid discharge of outbreaks through the permeable layers of your skin, soothing irritations all while protecting the troubled area from further infection and scarring.
Key ingredients to get rid of scars
No matter which treatment you choose to look for some of the key ingredients used to reduce scar formations:
Centella Asiatica
Glycerin,
Allantoin
Ginseng
White tea
Rhodiola
Tripeptol
Comfrey Root
Organic Aloe
Aloe
Silicone
Collagen
No matter which method you choose make sure to check with your skin care specialist or physician to choose a treatment right for you.
If you are going to pick at those scars please be clean, safe and gentle. We have an excellent resource on how to remove ingrown hairs. The article provides an indepth video as well as tool used to safely remove an ingrown hair.
Remember the best method for preventing scaring is to treat ingrown hairs as they appear and to be proactive about using serums to treat them.
Categories UncategorizedTags scars	Post navigation
Ingrown Hair Protocol Booklet
Our top numbing cream picks
ingrownhair.ca is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com
Featured Product
Footer Widget
Replace this widget content by going to Appearance / Widgets and dragging widgets into this widget area.
To remove or choose the number of footer widgets, go to Appearance / Customize / Layout / Footer Widgets.
Footer Widget
Replace this widget content by going to Appearance / Widgets and dragging widgets into this widget area.
To remove or choose the number of footer widgets, go to Appearance / Customize / Layout / Footer Widgets.
Footer Widget
Replace this widget content by going to Appearance / Widgets and dragging widgets into this widget area.
To remove or choose the number of footer widgets, go to Appearance / Customize / Layout / Footer Widgets.
© 2019 Ingrown Hair Solutions • Powered by GeneratePress