20 Health Benefits of Dates - PapaOrder Blog
Toggle navigation
Home
Food & Health
Food Recipes
Life in UAE
Contact
0 Comments
Stephanie D. Murillo
1351 Views Viewed
20 Amazing Health Benefits of Dates
The date is one of the sweetest fruits all around the world. It is very delicious and wholesome too. There are over 30 kinds of dates that are found on the earth. This healthy fruit falls into three broad types, such as dry, semi-dry and soft. It is very often used in dried form, resembling plums or raisins. But whether it is dry or fresh, the health benefits of dates are plentiful. These tiny treasures are a rich source of minerals and vitamins that are very beneficial for the body.
Though they come in different varieties, you can consume in various ways, such as raw, cooked or baked. In the Middle East, people eat this healthiest fruit as a staple food. It is also broadly consumed in Muslim countries during the Holy month of Ramadan. This miracle fruit does tons of good, offering instant energy to people. The American Cancer Society reveals that the need of 20-35 grams of dietary fiber per day can be fulfilled through this nutrient-dense food.
Image credit by beautyhealthtips
The Nutritional Value:
Dates are fully packed with lots of vitamins and minerals. This sweetest fruit is a good source of sugar, fiber, and energy. It is abundant in some powerful minerals such as iron, calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, zinc, and magnesium. Moreover, it also contains various vitamins including folate, vitamin A, niacin, riboflavin, vitamin K and thiamin.
The Nutritional Profile:
Dates are rich in many vital nutrients which can offer innumerable health benefits. Have a look at the nutritional profile of this healthiest fruit.
Nutrients Nutritional Value
Fiber 6.7 grams
Vitamin B6 0.2 milligrams
Magnesium 54 milligrams
Manganese 0.3 milligrams
Copper 0.4 milligrams
Potassium 696 milligrams
Note: Dates are completely packed with sugar content. According to a study, one serving of 100-gram dates provides 66.5 grams sugar. And it is recommended that you should limit the sugar consumption as much as possible, even the sugar is being consumed this fruit. So, you should eat this healthy food in moderation to get the ultimate health benefits.
20 Health Benefits of Dates
Followings are some significant reasons why you should eat dates regularly:
Lower cholesterol
READ: Eat an Apple a day and Stay Healthy
Along with having potassium, dates also contain zero cholesterol and a very little amount of fat. Therefore, it can reduce the cholesterol level and promote heart health. Incorporate this sweetest fruit to your diet and stay healthy.
Improve Bone Health
This fruit is also rich in manganese, magnesium, and selenium. All these minerals are beneficial for bones health. The protein found in dates helps not only to keep your muscles strong but also prevents arthritis and osteoporosis (a disease that increases the risk of a broken bone).
image credit by postila
Promote Digestive Health
If you’re experiencing an upset stomach problem, then you should eat dates. Soak a few dates in water overnight and eat them daily. It’ll improve digestion and overall health. The reason is that this sweetest fruit contains fiber which makes the stomach and intestines stronger than ever.
Relieve Constipation
It is a condition in which your bowel movement is less than three times a week. It is linked to hard stools or problems passing stools. If you’re facing constipation problems, then you should have dates. It’ll help relieve constipation and normalize the bowel movements. But why? This is because of the rich content of fiber.
Boost Heart Health
Dates are also helpful in boosting your heart health. This sugary fruit is also high in potassium content which may reduce the risk of stroke and other heart-related diseases. Moreover, some studies also show that they are a delicious way to lessen the bad cholesterol level which is a major cause of heart attack, stroke, and other heart diseases. Start eating this healthiest fruit twice a week and keep your heart healthy.
Reduce Blood Pressure
According to some research, Magnesium is linked to lowering the blood pressure. So, if you want to normalize your blood pressure, try indulging in dates. They have a large content of magnesium. Also, they also contain potassium which supports several functions in the body, aiding to reduce blood pressure.
Boost Brain Health
The vitamins found in dates give a boost to the nervous system which ensures its functionality and health. This fruit is a highly recommended for those who have weak and unsupported nervous system, as well as for those who want to keep their memory sharp. Potassium is one of the essential ingredients in promoting a healthy and responsive brain.
Protect Pregnancy Delivery
READ: 5 Reasons Why People Love Spicy Food
Dates are safe to eat in pregnant women. According to a study conducted by researchers at the University of Science and Technology, they can offer protection to the pregnancy. If a pregnant woman consumes this fruit in the last four weeks of her pregnancy, it’ll reduce the need for labour induction and cesarean delivery.
Improve Sexual Weakness
Some Studies have revealed that dates are also beneficial for boosting sexual stamina. Soak a few dates in milk overnight, blend them and consume the next morning. This mixture is very useful for increasing sexual power and minimizing the risk of various sexual disorders.
Help in Weight Gain
Dates are a complete diet containing all necessary nutrients needed for a healthy body. If you are underweight or slim and want to gain weight use dates regularly with milk. Dates have a high level of sugar, protein and vitamins necessary to gain weight. This high calories food can be used with the combination of cucumber to keep your weight normal.
Reduce the Allergic Reaction
Organic Sulfur is an important element to prevent seasonal allergies and to reduce allergic reactions. Several scientific studies show that it is quite helpful in allergy treatment. It is not so common nutrient and does not found in all foods. Dates have a sufficient amount of organic sulfur compounds.
Image credit by liveinternet
Prevent Anemia
Anemia is a common prevailing health issue faced by many people around the world. One of the reasons of this health disorder is a deficiency of iron. The date is a powerhouse of minerals and iron and an ideal supplementary food for the patients suffering from anemia. Eating dates on daily basis balances the iron deficiency and increase the energy level. It also decreases the sluggishness and tiredness which anemic patients mostly suffer from.
Improve Energy Level
Foods containing a high level of sugar help to maximize the energy levels. Dates are a perfect energy booster as they are in rich with natural sugars like glucose, sucrose, and fructose. You can take them any time to increase your energy level. Eating dates will leave healthy effects on your health without leaving you tired or sluggish.
Prevent Diarrhea
READ: 15 Reasons to Eat Bananas Daily
Eating dates in diarrhea is very beneficial to control the infection. It contains potassium and fiber that help to relieve diarrhea and regulates the bowel movement, as well as functions the excretory system.
Reduce the Risk of Abdominal Cancer
This healthiest fruit is also known as a natural food supplement. These supplements are free of negative side effects that medicines possess. They are easy to eat and quickly digest. Dates help to minimize the risk of abdominal cancer and equally beneficial for all age groups.
Recover the Night Blindness
Dates possess extensive health benefits and used as an alternate medicine to fight against night blindness. The massage of ground date palm leaves is very effective to reduce night blindness.
Protect Dental Care
Healthy teeth are important to enjoy all tastes of life. Dates are helpful to improve your dental care. They can provide a sufficient amount of manganese that helps to absorb calcium for healthy teeth and bones.
Offer Anti-ageing Benefits
Dates are comprised of some essential nutrients needed for healthy skin. An important factor for increasing aging signs is free radicals that damage the skin cells. They contain vitamin C that works as an anti-oxidant and reduces the amount of melanin in the body. The nutrients found in dates helps to reduce wrinkles leaving your skin glowing and blemish free.
Stop Hair Loss
This sweetest fruit is good for the healthy growth of hair. They contain vitamins and iron that are essential for strong and healthy hair. Deficiency of vitamins can cause hair loss. Eating 2-3 dates each day can maintain your hair health.
Fix Hangovers
Dates are considered as a home remedy for inebriation (alcohol intoxication). This miracle fruit offers instant relief and also makes you comfortable in case of over consumption of alcohol. And in the same way, it also helps to prevent or cure hangovers. For this purpose, just rub and soak a handful amount of dates overnight and then eat it.
Image credit by bobobibi
Stephanie D. Murillo
Stephaine D. Murillo is a Dubai-based American professional nutritionist who tells the secrets of a healthy and longer life. She is ambitious to find the significant benefits of a nutritional and balanced diet. She guides food lovers about the health benefits and drawbacks of vegetables, fruits and other types of food. She loves to share information about food & health through Papaorder Blog. So, subscribe Papaorder blog to get her health & food tips.
Subscribe Our Blog
We share great content on a daily basis including mouthwatering recipes, food and health-related articles. Submit your email and subscribe to our newsletter.
Email Address
About Blog
Papaorder Blog explores the food culture of various nations while the main focus is on Arabic culinary style and culture.
More about blog
Order Food Online
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
WE ARE SOCIAL
Copyright © 2019 Papaorder. All rights reserved.
Shares
Subscribe To Our Newletter
We share great content on a daily basis including mouthwatering recipes, food and health-related articles. Submit your email and subscribe to our newsletter.
Email Address
Secure and Spam free...