ronny gril
Calculatorhub
Calculatorhub
Home
Kimichi is a popular Korean dish, usually made from fermented cabbage, but it is made from other fermented vegetables just like the root.
It has various health benefits and when cholesterol and insulin can reduce its effectiveness.
Insulin is responsible for the release of glucose in the tissues from the blood. If you maintain a high level of insulin for time periods, your body usually discontinues the reaction, which results in high blood sugar and insulin resistance.
In one study, 21 people predict with a fresh or fermented kimchi for eight weeks. At the end of the study, insulin resistance, blood pressure and body weight reduced consumption of fermentation (24).
In another study, people either got high or low kimchi food for seven days. Interestingly, Kimie has reduced blood sugar, blood cholesterol and "bad" LDL cholesterol (25) in blood.
Kimchi is easy to prepare and can be added to a sandwich from a noodle bowl.
Summary:
Kimchi is made from pickled vegetables such as cabbage or radish. Studies have shown that it can help reduce insulin resistance and reduce blood cholesterol.
7. Football
Socrates is a popular spice, which includes chopped flowers which are made from fermented lactic acid bacteria. It contains low calorie, but contains many fiber, vitamin C and vitamin (26).
There are good amounts of lutein and xyaxanthin, two antioxidants that improve eye health and reduce eye disorders (27).
Sorcort's antioxidant content can also affect cancer prevention.
A test tube showed that the activity of certain enzymes associated with cancer formation (28).
However, the current evidence is limited and further research is necessary for how these findings can be applied to mankind.
You can use Sauerkraut for everything. Place it in your next casserole dish, place it in a heartbeat soup bowl or use it with a decent sandwich.
For most health benefits, do not forget to choose a Sauerkraut, because the parocharization process shoots beneficial bacteria.
Summary:
Socrates contains chopped cabbage, which is made of fermented. It is rich in antioxidants which are important for eye health, and it's easy to add many more suggestions.
8. Probiotics Quark
Yogurt is made from fermented milk, mostly with lactic acid bacteria.
It is rich in many important nutrients including calcium, potassium, phosphorus, riboflavin and vitamin B12 (29).
Quark is also associated with various health benefits.
A review of 14 studies shows that fermented dairy products such as probiotics can reduce blood pressure, especially in patients with high blood pressure (30).
Another study found that more consumption of quarks is associated with improved bone density and physical activity in older adults (31).
It can also help to check your waist. A recent study found that eating yogurt was associated with lower body weight, lower body fat and lower waist circumference (32).
Keep in mind that all types of yogurt are not probiotics, as these beneficial bacteria are often killed during the process.
Make sure you get probiotic supplements, see yoga cultures. Also, make sure to select yogurt with minimum added sugar.
Summary:
Probiotics Quark is made from fermented milk. It is rich in nutrients and can help reduce body weight, reduce blood pressure and improve bone health.
Bottom line
These fermentation can help raise many food shelf life and health benefits.
Probiotics found in fermented foods are associated with improved digestion, immunity, weight loss and more (1, 2, 3).
In addition to these useful probiotics, fermented foods can positively affect many other aspects of your health.