Copper: Health benefits, recommended intake, sources, and risks
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Health benefits and risks of copper
Last updated	 Mon 23 October 2017	 Last updated	Mon 23 Oct 2017
By Megan Ware RDN LD
Reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Table of contents
Health benefits
Requirements
Deficiency
Effects
Brain and nervous system
Foods sources
Supplements
Risks
Takeaway
Copper is an essential trace mineral necessary for survival. It is found in all body tissues and plays a role in making red blood cells and maintaining nerve cells and the immune system.
It also helps the body form collagen and absorb iron, and plays a role in energy production.
Most copper in the body is found in the liver, brain, heart, kidneys, and skeletal muscle.
Both too much and too little copper can affect how the brain works. Impairments have been linked to Menkes, Wilson's, and Alzheimer's disease
Deficiency is rare, but it can lead to cardiovascular disease and other problems.
This article looks at the health benefits of copper, sources, and any potential health risks.
Fast facts about copper:
Copper is necessary for a range of bodily functions.
Copper deficiency is rare except in specific conditions, such as Menkes disease.
Copper supplements are not usually necessary and may lead to an imbalance.
A copper imbalance has been linked to Alzheimer's disease.
Anyone who is considering copper supplements should first speak to a doctor.
Health benefits
Copper supplements are not normally necessary for a healthy person with a balanced diet.
Copper is an essential nutrient for the body.
Together with iron, it enables the body to form red blood cells.
It helps maintain healthy bones, blood vessels, nerves, and immune function, and it contributes to iron absorption.
Sufficient copper in the diet may help prevent cardiovascular disease and osteoporosis, too.
Cardiovascular health
Low copper levels have been linked to high cholesterol and high blood pressure. One group of researchers has suggested that some patients with heart failure may benefit from copper supplements.
Animal studies have linked low copper levels to CVD, but it remains unclear if a deficiency would have the same impact on humans.
Neuron signalling
In 2016, Prof. Chris Chang, a chemist who is part of the Sackler Sabbatical Exchange Program at Berkeley, CA, devised and used a fluorescent probe to track the movement of copper in and out of nerve cells.
Prof. Chang says: "Copper is like a brake or dimmer switch, one for each nerve cell."
His team found that, if high amounts of copper enter a cell, this appears to reduce neuron signaling. When copper levels in that cell fall, signaling resumes.
Immune function
Too little copper can lead to neutropenia. This is a deficiency of white blood cells, or neutrophils, which fight off infection.
A person with a low level of neutrophils is more likely to get an infectious disease.
Osteoporosis
Severe copper deficiency is associated with lower bone mineral density and a higher risk of osteoporosis.
More research is needed on how marginal copper deficiency may affect bone health, and how copper supplementation might help prevent and manage osteoporosis.
Collagen production
Copper plays an important role in maintaining collagen and elastin, major structural components of our bodies. Scientists have hypothesized that copper may have antioxidant properties, and that, together with other antioxidants, a healthful intake may help prevent skin aging.
Without sufficient copper, the body cannot replace damaged connective tissue or the collagen that makes up the scaffolding for bone.
This can lead to a range of problems, including joint dysfunction, as bodily tissues begin to break down.
Arthritis
Animal studies have indicated that copper may help prevent or delay arthritis, and people wear copper bracelets for this purpose. However, no human studies have confirmed this.
Antioxidant action
Copper may also have an antioxidant function. It may help reduce the production of free radicals.
Free radicals can damage cells and DNA, leading to cancer and other diseases.
Requirements: How much do I need?
The recommended daily allowance (RDA) is around 900 micrograms (mcg) a day for adolescents and adults.
The upper limit for adults aged 19 years and above is 10,000 mcg, or 10 milligrams (mg) a day. An intake above this level could be toxic.
Both copper deficiency and copper toxicity are rare in the United States (U.S).
Deficiency
While a copper deficiency is rare, some health conditions and other factors can increase the risk.
These include:
genetic defects of copper metabolism
absorption problems
too high an intake of zinc or vitamin C supplements
some conditions, such as central nervous system (CNS) demyelination, polyneuropathy, myelopathy, and inflammation of the optic nerve
Since copper is stored in the liver, deficiencies develop slowly over time.
Zinc and vitamin C
A high intake of zinc (150 mg a day or above) and vitamin C (over 1,500 mg a day) may induce copper deficiency by competing with copper for absorption in the intestine.
Causes of deficiency in infants
Copper deficiency has been seen in infants who consume cow's milk instead of formula. Cow's milk has a low copper content. Children under 1 year should be ideally breast fed and if not, fed manufactured formula. Cow's milk does not have the required nutrients for a human infant.
Effects of deficiency
Low levels of copper can lead to:
anemia
low body temperature
bone fractures
osteoporosis
loss of skin pigmentation
thyroid problems
Metabolic diseases can affect the way the body absorbs vitamins and minerals.
Menkes disease
Menkes disease, an X-linked recessive disorder, adversely affects how the brain metabolizes copper. This can result in failure to thrive and neurodevelopmental delays in infants from around 6 to 8 weeks of age. A child with this disease may not survive to the age of 3 years.
Subcutaneous copper injections can help normalize blood copper levels, but whether these help to normalize brain copper levels depends on the type of genetic mutation involved.
One clinical trial has found that treating infants before symptoms begin may help to improve gross motor skills, fine motor and adaptive skills, personal and social skills, and language neurodevelopment in children. It also improved growth.
Other effects of copper deficiency
Copper deficiency has also been linked to:
an increased risk of infection
osteoporosis
depigmentation of the hair and skin
anemia, as copper contributes to the creation of red blood cells
The brain and the nervous system
Too little or too much copper can damage brain tissue.
In adults, neurodegeneration has been observed as a result of a copper imbalance. This may be due to a problem with the mechanisms involved in metabolizing copper for use in the brain.
High levels of copper can lead to oxidative damage in the brain. In Wilson's disease, for example, high levels of copper collect in the liver, brain, and other vital organs.
Possible link with Alzheimer's
An excessive accumulation of copper has also been associated with Alzheimer's disease.
Prof. Chang and colleagues have hypothesized that when copper accumulates in unusual ways, this may cause amyloid plaques to build up on a nerve cell.
A buildup of amyloid plaques can lead to Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative disorders.
Food sources
Copper is found in a wide variety of foods.
Good sources include:
Cashews are a dietary source of copper.
oysters and other shellfish
whole grains
beans
potatoes
yeast
dark leafy greens
cocoa
dried fruits
black pepper
organ meats, such as kidneys and liver
nuts, such as cashews and almonds
Most fruits and vegetables are low in copper, but it is present in wholegrains, and it is added to some breakfast cereals and other fortified foods.
Supplements
Copper supplements are available, but it is best to first try to obtain essential vitamins and minerals through food in order to reduce the risk of an imbalance. Very few people need to take a copper supplement.
Additionally, the nutrients in food work together to create an effect that is more significant than that achieved by taking individual nutrients in isolation.
Most multivitamin supplements contain 2 mg of copper, which is halfway along the Safe and Adequate Range of Intake fixed by the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB).
Should I Take Vitamin And Mineral Supplements?
Is it a good idea to take supplements? Find out more.
Read now
Risks
Copper supplements can interact with the following:
birth control pills and hormone therapy
non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDS), such as aspiring and ibuprofen
penicillamine, used to reduce copper levels in Wilson's disease
allopurinol, a gout treatment
cimetidine, or Tagamet, use for gastric ulcers and gastric reflux
zinc supplements
These products may reduce or increase levels of copper in the blood, leading to an imbalance.
Copper toxicity
No adverse effects have been reported from normal dietary consumption of copper, but symptoms can appear if there is:
excessive supplementation
high levels of copper in drinking water, such as well water or water that is stored in copper pipes
exposure to chemicals containing high levels of copper
use of copper cooking pots
Signs of copper toxicity include:
nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and stomach pain
headache
dizziness
weakness
a metallic taste in the mouth
More serious effects are rare, but they include:
cirrhosis and jaundice
abnormalities in red blood cells and heart problems
Increased serum copper levels have been linked with a higher risk of cardiovascular disease.
Water that contains more than 6 mg of copper per liter may cause stomach problems. If drinking water appears to trigger symptoms, the individual should see about getting it tested.
Takeaway
A copper deficiency can have negative effects on health, but it is rare in healthy people who follow a balanced diet.
Nutrient requirements should first be met through foods, and then supplements can be used as a backup.
Anyone who is considering taking a supplement should first check with a health care provider. Supplements are not monitored by the food and drug administration (FDA) for quality or purity.
Related coverage
The uses and benefits of magnesium glycinate Magnesium glycinate is the best-absorbed form of magnesium and the gentlest on the stomach. Magnesium is a vital nutrient, essential to the body’s development and several of its processes. How much does a person need, how can it be added to the diet, and are there any risks? Find answers and more in this article. Read now
Elderly With Low Vitamin B12 Risk Brain Shrinkage And Cognitive Decline Elderly individuals with low blood vitamin B12 levels have a greater risk of brain shrinkage and losing their cognitive skills, researchers from Rush University Medical Center, Chicago reported... Read now
Calcium: Health benefits, foods, and deficiency Calcium is essential for living organisms, including humans. It is vital for preserving bone strength and preventing diseases of the skeleton, such as osteoporosis. Find out about calcium's role in human health and foods that contain calcium. Discover also the risks of calcium deficiency and possible remedies. Read now
Can zinc help treat erectile dysfunction? Erectile dysfunction occurs when a man is unable to perform sexually as he cannot maintain a successful erection. In this MNT Knowledge Center article, learn about zinc and its possible effects on erectile dysfunction. Also, find out more about zinc deficiency and zinc supplementation. Read now
Vitamin D supplements: are they really good for our health? Studies claim that vitamin D supplements offer extra health benefits, such as reducing pain and depression, while others challenge this belief. We look at these studies in detail. Read now
email email
print
share share
Nutrition / Diet
Bones / Orthopedics Immune System / Vaccines
Additional information
Article last updated by Yvette Brazier on Mon 23 October 2017.
Visit our Nutrition / Diet category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Nutrition / Diet.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Appendix 7. Nutritional goals for age-sex groups based on dietary reference intakes and dietary guidelines recommendations. (2015). Retrieved from https://health.gov/dietaryguidelines/2015/guidelines/appendix-7/
Copper. (2015, Janury 2). Retrieved from http://www.umm.edu/health/medical/altmed/supplement/copper
Copper. (2014, January). Retrieved from http://lpi.oregonstate.edu/mic/minerals/copper
Copper: A new player in health and disease. (2016, May 17). Retrieved from https://vcresearch.berkeley.edu/news/profile/chris_chang
Copper in diet. (2017, July 1). Retrieved from https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/002419.htm
Determinants of copper needs across the lifespan. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/News/Copper.aspx
Dietary reference intakes for vitamin A, vitamin K, arsenic, boron, chromium, copper, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, nickel, silicon, vanadium, and zinc. (2001). Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK222312/
Fusco, D., Colloco, G., Lo Monaco, M. R., & Cesari, M. (2007). Effects of antioxidant supplementation on the aging process. Clinical Interventions in Aging 2(3), 377-387 Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2685276/
Kaler, S. G. (2014, August 28). Neurodevelopment and brain growth in classic Menkes disease is influenced by age and symptomatology at initiation of copper treatment [Abstract]., SG Kaler, Journal of Trace Elements in Medicine and Biology, 28(4), 427-30. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25281031
Klevay, L. M. (2005, November 2). Heart failure improvement from a supplement containing copper. European Heart Journal, 27(1), 117. Retrieved from https://academic.oup.com/eurheartj/article/27/1/117/608121/Heart-failure-improvement-from-a-supplement
Özden, T. A., Gökçay, G., Serdar Cantez, M. Durmaz, Ö., İşsever, H., Ömer, B. & Saner, G. (2015, October 14). Copper, zinc and iron levels in infants and their mothers during the first year of life: a prospective study. BMC Pediatrics, 2015(15), 157. Retrieved from https://bmcpediatr.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12887-015-0474-9
Scheiber, I. F., Mercer, J. F. B., & Dringen, R. (2014, May). Metabolism and functions of copper in brain [Abstract]. Progress in Neurobiology, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301008214000124
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Megan Ware RDN LD. "Health benefits and risks of copper." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 23 Oct. 2017. Web.
20 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/288165.php>
APA
Megan Ware RDN LD. (2017, October 23). "Health benefits and risks of copper." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/288165.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
More evidence that being active extends life
A recent study concluded that 'regardless of age, sex, or starting fitness level,' increased physical activity of any type reduces overall mortality risk.
Through my eyes: My first 48 hours with hearing aids
I'm not even 30 years old, and I need hearing aids. The discovery was a shock, but just 48 hours in and an exciting new world of sound is unfolding.
Most people who die of natural causes do not seek medical help
A new study has found that a large number of people who die from natural causes do not seek medical attention during the month before.
Vitamin D may help fight colorectal cancer
A recent study concludes that when a person takes vitamin D alongside standard chemotherapy, it might reduce the growth rate of colorectal cancer.
Breast cancer: Reducing this amino acid could make drugs more effective
New research in cell cultures and mice reveals a surprising link between the essential amino acid leucine and resistance to tamoxifen in breast cancer.
Popular in: Nutrition / Diet
Eighteen ways to reduce bloating
Which foods are good for constipation?
What are the first signs of gluten intolerance?
Seven ways to do intermittent fasting
Which foods lower blood sugar?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/288165.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);