Products | Magnesium 250 mg | Sisu
en|fr
en|fr
Retailer Resources
Contact Sisu
Products
Ester-C®
Capsules/Tablets
Chewables
Powders
Bone and Joint Health
Bones
Inflammation
Joints
Pain Relief
Heart Health
CoQ10
Digestive Health
Enzymes
Probiotics
General Health
Antioxidants
Brain Health
Eye Health
Essential Fatty Acids
Liver Health
Multivitamins
Stress & Sleep
Sugar Balancing
Vitamins
Healthy Active Lifestyle
Weight Management
Immune Health
Allergies
Cold & Flu
Kids' Health
Cold & Flu
Multivitamins
Probiotics
Men's Health
Women's Health
Prenatal
Skin, Hair & Nails
About
Quality Assurance
Careers
Blog
Community
Where to Buy
Retailer Resources
Contact Sisu
Magnesium 250 mg
Supports heart function and muscle strength and aids in the prevention of headaches and migraines
Back to Heart Health
Where to Buy
100 & 200 | Vegetable Caps
Magnesium, the second most abundant mineral in the body’s cells, supports heart function and muscle strength and aids in the prevention of headaches and migraines. Dietary sources are easily destroyed through cooking and processing, so supplementation is vital. Sisu Magnesium 250 mg delivers 250 mg of elemental magnesium from magnesium malate along with the additional benefits of malic acid.
Benefits
250 mg of elemental magnesium
Additional benefits from malic acid
Supports heart function and muscle strength
Aids in prevention of headaches and migraines
Vegan
Non GMO
Gluten free
Dairy Free
Soy Free
Ingredients & Dosage
Advanced Information
Medicinal ingredients
Magnesium
(magnesium malate*, magnesium oxide)
250 mg
Non-medicinal ingredients
Magnesium stearate (vegetable), silicon dioxide, microcrystalline cellulose
Capsule shell
Hypromellose
Adult dosage
Take 1 capsule daily, or as directed by a health care practitioner
*Magnesium malate is made by reacting a magnesium complex with malic acid (approximately equivalent to 450mg of malic acid per capsule)
Contains no
Dairy, wheat, gluten, corn, or soy
Magnesium is the second most abundant mineral in the body’s cells; it is involved in over 300 biochemical reactions in the body and is crucial for the proper functioning of every organ. However, it is one of the nutrients lost in cooking and processing and the body is not good at storing magnesium, so it is vital to get enough of it through supplementation. Magnesium is also depleted by the use of certain medications including antibiotics, diuretics, and oral contraceptives, and magnesium levels are typically low in people who have irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), diabetes, hyperthyroidism, and kidney disease. Excess consumption of coffee, alcohol, salt, and soda drinks, as well as heavy menstrual periods, excessive sweating, and prolonged stress can also contribute to low magnesium levels, and ultimately to magnesium deficiency. Magnesium deficiency is difficult to diagnose and is not associated with any symptoms at first, but inadequate magnesium reserves may contribute to many conditions including muscle pain and weakness, restless leg syndrome, abnormal heart rhythms, low blood pressure, headaches, nausea and vomiting, agitation and irritability, poor nail growth, and more. Magnesium supplements are an easy and reliable way to ensure consistent adequate intake of this crucial mineral and some forms such as magnesium malate in Sisu Magnesium offer additional benefits from malic acid.
Product Highlights
250 mg of elemental magnesium from magnesium malate and the natural oxide form
Magnesium malate is made by combining a natural magnesium complex with malic acid
Provides the approximate equivalent of 450 mg malic acid per capsule
Malic acid is made in the body and is also found naturally in many fruits including apples and sour cherries. It is a safe food ingredient used to flavour sour candies and some wine
Malic acid is involved as a catalyst in the Krebs’ cycle to increase energy production in the cells and used in research in combination with magnesium to help relieve fibromyalgia pain
Take with food and spread the daily dosage throughout the day to reduce the likelihood of gastric side effects because too much magnesium can induce diarrhea
Share This Product
Related Products
New
Biotin 5000
Supports soft, clear skin, and strong, healthy hair and nails.
Co Q10 Vegetarian Capsules
A powerful antioxidant that supports muscle and heart strength, combats gum disease, and slows the...
Multi Expecting
A full range of vitamins and minerals to help support women's nutritional needs before, during,...
Cranberry Ultra
A high-potency extract that helps to prevent recurrent urinary tract infections
Back to Heart Health
Release your inner strength
Products
Ester-C®
Bone and Joint Health
Heart Health
Digestive Health
General Health
Healthy Active Lifestyle
Immune Health
Kid’s Health
Women’s Health
learn More
Where to Buy
Blog
Community
About
Careers
Contact Sisu
Get the Latest News
Enter your email...*
Phone
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.
Connect
604.420.6610 / Toll Free 1.800.663.4163
Burnaby, British Columbia
productinfo@sisu.com
Retailer Login
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Request Data
Crafted with love by Forge and Smith.
© 2019 Sisu / Ester-C and Ester-C logo are reg. TMs of The Ester C Company
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. View Privacy Policy.Ok