Common Rashes: Types, Symptoms, Treatments, & More
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
Is a New Remedy for Body Odor on the Horizon?
FDA Bans Sales of All Vaginal Mesh Products
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Rashes Home
Medical Reference
Features
Video
Slideshows & Images
Quizzes
Symptom Checker
More From WebMD
News Archive
Skin Topics
Acne
Bedbugs
Cold Sores
Eczema
Fungal Infections
Hair Loss
Healthy Beauty
Lice
Psoriasis
Psoriatic Arthritis
Poison Ivy
Rosacea
Shingles
Skin Cancer
More Related Topics
Skin Problems & Treatments Guide
Skin Discolorations
Chronic Skin Conditions
Acute Skin Problems
Skin Infections
Skin Conditions Resources
News
Medical Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Find a Dermatologist
Skin Problems and Treatments
Guide
Out in the Open With Severe Psoriasis
Common Skin Rashes
In this Article
In this Article
In this Article
Eczema and Your Skin
What Causes Atopic Eczema?
What Are the Symptoms of Atopic Eczema?
How Is Atopic Eczema Diagnosed?
How Is Atopic Eczema Treated?
Can Atopic Eczema Be Prevented?
Granuloma Annulare and Your Skin
What Causes Granuloma Annulare?
What Are the Symptoms of Granuloma Annulare?
How Is Granuloma Annulare Diagnosed?
How Is Granuloma Annulare Treated?
Lichen Planus and Your Skin
What Causes Lichen Planus?
What Are the Symptoms of Lichen Planus?
How Is Lichen Planus Diagnosed?
How Is Lichen Planus Treated?
Pityriasis Rosea and Your Skin
What Causes Pityriasis Rosea?
What Are the Symptoms of Pityriasis Rosea?
How Is Pityriasis Rosea Diagnosed?
How Is Pityriasis Rosea Treated?
A rash indicates an abnormal change in skin color or texture. Rashes are usually caused by skin inflammation, which can have many causes.
There are many types of rashes, including eczema, granuloma annulare, lichen planus, and pityriasis rosea.
Eczema and Your Skin
Eczema is a general term that describes several different conditions in which skin is inflamed, red, scaly, and itchy. Eczema is a common skin condition, and atopic dermatitis (also called atopic eczema) is one of the most common forms of eczema.
Eczema can occur in adults or children. The condition is not contagious.
What Causes Atopic Eczema?
The cause of atopic eczema is not known, but the condition often affects people with a family history of allergies. Many individuals with eczema also have hay fever and/or asthma or have family members with those conditions.
Some factors can trigger a flare-up of eczema or make eczema worse, but they do not cause the condition. Eczema triggers include stress, skin irritants (including soaps, skin care products, or some fabrics), allergens, and climate/environment.
What Are the Symptoms of Atopic Eczema?
The appearance of eczema can vary from person to person. In adults, eczema occurs most frequently on the hands and elbows, and in "bending" areas such as the inside of the elbows and back of the knees. In young children, eczema is often seen on the inside of elbows, behind the knees, face, back of the neck, and scalp. Signs and symptoms of atopic eczema include:
Itchiness
Skin redness
Dry, scaly, or crusted skin that might become thick and leathery from long-term scratching
Formation of small, fluid-filled blisters that might ooze when scratched
Infection of the areas where the skin has been broken
How Is Atopic Eczema Diagnosed?
Atopic eczema usually is diagnosed with an analysis of a person's history of symptoms and with an exam of the skin. A doctor might test an area of scaly or crusted skin to rule out other skin diseases or infections.
How Is Atopic Eczema Treated?
Atopic mineral oil can be treated with with moisturizers that are fragrance free and contain ingredients such as ceramides, glycerin, and mineral oil. Medications include over-the-counter creams and ointments containing the steroid hydrocortisone (for example, Cortizone-10, Cort-Aid, Dermarest Eczema, Neosporin Eczema). These products may help control the itching, swelling, and redness associated with eczema. Prescription-strength cortisone creams, as well as cortisone pills and shots, are also used for more severe cases of eczema.
Continued
For people with mild-to-moderate eczema, topical immunomodulators (TIMs) can help. TIMS -- including brand name products Protopic and Elidel -- work by altering the body's immune response to allergens, preventing flare ups. Crisaborole Eucrisa) ointment is indicated for mild to moderate psoriasis in patients 2 and older.
Dupilumab (Dupixent) is an injectable monoclonal antibody used in patients with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. It clears the itch quickly in most patients.
Other drugs that might be used for patients with eczema include antibiotics (to treat infected skin) and antihistamines (to help control itching).
Phototherapy is another treatment that helps some people with eczema. The ultraviolet light waves found in sunlight have been shown to benefit certain skin disorders, including eczema. Phototherapy uses ultraviolet light, either ultraviolet A (UVA) or ultraviolet B (UVB), from special lamps to treat people with severe eczema.
Risks associated with phototherapy include burning (usually resembling a mild sunburn), dry skin, itchy skin, freckling, and possible premature aging of the skin. Your health care professionals will work with you to minimize any risks.
Can Atopic Eczema Be Prevented?
Currently, there is no effective strategy for preventing atopic eczema, but the symptoms of the condition can improve. To improve the signs of eczema:
Reduce stress
Avoid scratchy materials (for example, wool) and chemicals such as harsh soaps, detergents, and solvents
Moisturize frequently
Avoid sudden changes in temperature or humidity
Avoid situations that cause sweating and overheating
Granuloma Annulare and Your Skin
Granuloma annulare is a chronic skin condition that consists of a circular-shaped rash with reddish bumps (papules).
Most often, the condition affects children and young adults. Granuloma annulare is slightly more common in girls and usually is seen in people who are otherwise healthy.
What Causes Granuloma Annulare?
The cause of granuloma annulare is unknown.
What Are the Symptoms of Granuloma Annulare?
People who have granuloma annulare usually notice a ring of small, firm bumps over the backs of the forearms, hands, or feet. More than one ring may be noticed in some cases. The rash may be mildly itchy.
Continued
How Is Granuloma Annulare Diagnosed?
The condition is diagnosed by a doctor who may use a skin biopsy to confirm the diagnosis.
How Is Granuloma Annulare Treated?
Treatment of granuloma annulare often is not necessary, except for cosmetic reasons. In some cases, steroid creams or ointments are used to help the bumps disappear. Some doctors may decide to freeze the lesions with liquid nitrogen or to inject steroids directly into the rings of bumps. Ultraviolet light therapy or oral drugs can be used in severe cases.
Lichen Planus and Your Skin
Lichen planus is a common skin disorder that produces shiny, flat-topped bumps that often have an angular shape and a reddish-purplish color. Lichen planus can occur anywhere on the skin but is often found on the insides of the wrists and ankles, the lower legs, the back, and the neck. Some people have lichen planus inside their mouth, genital region, scalp, and nails. Thick collections of bumps may occur, especially on the shins.
Lichen planus occurs most often in adults aged 30 to 70. It is not common in very young or elderly people.
What Causes Lichen Planus?
Lichen planus is believed to be an autoimmune process where the body’s immune system attacks its own tissues. In most cases, the cause of lichen planus is not known. When lichen planus is thought to be caused by a triggering agent such as hepatitis B or C, it is known as a lichenoid reaction.
Medications to treat high blood pressure, heart disease, and arthritis can cause lichen planus-type rashes that are allergic reactions to those drugs. Lichen planus is not contagious.
What Are the Symptoms of Lichen Planus?
Signs and symptoms of the condition include shiny, flat-topped bumps that are purple or a reddish-purplish color, and it is often itchy. When it appears on the scalp, lichen planus may cause hair loss. Lichen planus of the nails can cause brittle or split nails.
How Is Lichen Planus Diagnosed?
A doctor can diagnose lichen planus by its distinctive appearance or with the use of a skin biopsy. In a skin biopsy, a small bit of skin is taken from the affected area and is sent to a lab for testing.
Continued
How Is Lichen Planus Treated?
Although lichen planus cannot be cured, its symptoms can be treated with anti-itch products such as antihistamines (for example, Benadryl, or diphenhydramine). If lichen planus affects only a small part of the body, medicated cream can be applied to the affected area. Drugs such as steroid injections, prednisone, other drugs to suppress the immune system, or retinoids may be prescribed in more severe cases.
Another treatment for lichen planus is light therapy. Talk to your doctor about which treatment is right for you.
Pityriasis Rosea and Your Skin
Pityriasis rosea is a common skin rash that usually is mild. The condition often begins with a large, scaly, pink patch of skin on the chest or back. The patch usually is followed by additional pink patches of skin. There is itching and redness or inflammation of the skin. The number and sizes of the spots can vary.
What Causes Pityriasis Rosea?
The cause of pityriasis rosea is not known. However, there is evidence that suggests pityriasis rosea may be caused by a virus because the rash resembles certain viral illnesses. The rash does not seem to spread from person to person.
What Are the Symptoms of Pityriasis Rosea?
The primary symptom of pityriasis rosea is large, scaly, pink area of skin that is followed by additional skin lesions. The spots become itchy and there may be redness or inflammation of the skin. Pityriasis rosea affects the back, neck, chest, abdomen, upper arms, and legs, but the rash may differ from person to person.
How Is Pityriasis Rosea Diagnosed?
A doctor can usually diagnose pityriasis rosea by looking at it. He or she may order blood tests, scrape the skin, or do a skin biopsy to rule out other skin conditions.
How Is Pityriasis Rosea Treated?
Treatment may not be necessary in mild cases of pityriasis rosea, and even more severe cases can go away without treatment. Oral antihistamines (for example Benadryl or diphenhydramine) and topical over-the-counter medications or prescription steroids can help soothe itching.
Sores may heal faster with some exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light. Too much sun exposure should be avoided, however. In most cases, pityriasis rosea goes away within six to 12 weeks.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by Stephanie S. Gardner, MD on September 10, 2018
Sources
SOURCES:
American Academy of Dermatology.
Australasian College of Dermatology.
© 2018 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Next Article
Dermatitis
Skin Problems & Treatments Guide
Skin Discolorations
Chronic Skin Conditions
Acute Skin Problems
Skin Infections
Top Picks
Why Do I Have Sores on My Head?
7 Psoriasis Triggers to Avoid
Is Salicylic Acid Good For Your Skin?
What Causes Hives?
What Is Dyshidrotic Eczema?
Is It Acne or Eczema?
further reading
Slideshow: A Visual Guide to Viral Rashes
Guide to Contagious Rashes
Keratosis Pilaris
Skin Allergies: What Your Doctor Will Do
Do I Have a Nickel or Jewelry Allergy?
How Can You Stop an Itch?
Eczema Prevention
Rashes Topics
Today on WebMD
What Is Psoriasis?
Pictures and symptoms of the red, scaly rash.
Skin Infections
What you should know.
How Ticks Make You Sick
8 diseases you can catch from ticks.
The Facts About Bunions
What causes them, and what you can do about them.
Recommended for You
Slideshow
Spider Bites: What You Need to Know
Quiz
Skin Tags: What Are They?
Slideshow
What Your Face Says About Your Health
Slideshow
Warts: A Visual Guide
Video
Are You a Mosquito Magnet?
Slideshow
How to Use Essential Oils
Slideshow
9 Reasons Your Feet Are Swollen
Slideshow
Foot Problems From Bunions to Warts
Tools & Resources
Eczema: How To Control It
What Is Sweet Syndrome?
Things That Look Scary But Aren't
Do I Have a Skin Infection?
Why You Smell
Why Is My Skin Scaly?
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.