20 DIY Home Remedies for Burns
Home
Start Here
Acne
Weight Loss
About Us
Contact
Home Remedies For Life
Home / Skin Health & Whitening / Burns
20 DIY Home Remedies for Burns
Last Updated: April 3, 2018
Last Updated: August 27, 2018
Skin is an essential part and makes our body function properly. Therefore a burn can affect the skin quite severely, and this can be in the form of heat burns, cold temperature burns, thermal burns or liquid scald burns, electrical burns, chemical burns, tar or hot plastic burns, each of which will be mild, minor, moderate or severe.
There are three types of burns; First Degree Burns affect the outer layer of the skin called the Epidermis. They cause a pain and redness but they have a low chance of forming blisters and can be cured naturally at home.
Second Degree Burns affect the epidermis and dermis (middle layer of the skin) and causes redness, pain and swelling and forms blisters. Some can be treated at home and for some you have to seek medical attention.
Third Degree Burns affect the deeper skin layer called subcutaneous tissue where bones, muscles, nerves and blood vessels glands are located. You have to seek medical attention because it is life threatening.
Home Remedies for Burns:
There are no remedies for the third degree burns besides medical treatment. The following are the homemade natural remedies which help to cure first degree and second degree burns.
1. Cold Water
Cold water treats the burns and stops spreading.
Process:
Pour cold water over the burning area for few minutes.
You can also apply cold compress over the affected area and repeat several times a day.
Use cold whole milk in the place of cold water and follow the same process.
Note: Don’t use ice instead of cold water, as it can resist blood flow and cause damage.
2. Raw Potatoes
Raw potatoes have anti irritating and soothing properties. It reduces the pain and formation of blisters.
Process:
Cut a raw potato into slices and rub a slice on and around the burn.
Do not put too much pressure on it, but make sure the juice is releasing from the potato.
Use immediately after the burn occurs.
Repeat the rubbing process if it is necessary.
3. Honey
Honey disinfects the wounds and heals the burns. It soothes the pain, draws fluids out of the tissues and cleans the burned area.
Process:
Spread honey on the burnt area directly.
Leave on without disturbing.
Or spread honey on a bandage.
Apply directly on the burns.
Leave for a few hours.
Change the bandage 3 – 4 times a day.
Repeat regularly.
4. Black Tea Bags
Black tea contains tannic acid which helps to draw heat from the burn and reduces the pain.
Process 1:
Put three tea bags in a cup of cool water.
Allow it to steep for few minutes.
Dab the tea bags gently on the burnt area.
Or put cold, wet tea bags directly on the affected area and cover with gauze.
Process 2:
Add 3 – 4 tea bags and 2 cups of fresh mint leaves to 4 cups of boiling water and stir it well.
Steep for 15 minutes.
Strain the liquid into a jar and allow it to cool.
Dab the liquid on the burned area with a cotton ball.
5. Aloe Vera
Aloe Vera has painkilling, astringent, tissue – healing and soothing properties which cures burs.
Process:
Rinse the affected area with cold water or vinegar
Squeeze fresh gel from an aloe vera leaf.
Apply this on the affected area directly.
Leave it like that.
You can also use a cream containing Aloe Vera.
Repeat regularly to reduce burns.
6. Onion Juice
Onions contain sulphur and quercetin which helps to give relief from pain and heals the burns. It reduces the formation of blisters.
Process:
Cut an onion into small pieces.
Apply the onion juice on the burns and rub it gently.
Repeat several times a day.
Note: Use freshly onions for effective medical properties.
7. Vinegar
Vinegar contains astringent and antiseptic properties which helps to treat the minor burns and prevents infection.
Process:
Dilute vinegar with an equal amount of water.
Rinse your burned area with this.
Soak a cloth in the solution and cover the area with it.
Replace the cloth every 3 hours.
Repeat this process continuously.
8. Lavender Essential Oil
Lavender essential oil has antiseptic and painkilling properties, and also reduces the risk of scarring.
Process:
Apply a few drops of lavender oil directly on the burns several times a day.
Or pour lavender oil on a piece of clean cloth and place it on the burned area.
Replace cloth every 2 – 3 hours.
9. Milk
The fat content in the milk soothes the burns and speeds up the healing process. Non fat milk is also good to treat burns because it contains special enzyme which heals burn very effectively.
Process:
Soak the burned area in a bowl of milk for about 15 minutes.
Or apply a milk soaked wash cloth on the burnt skin.
Leave for a few minutes and continue the process for every 3 – 4 hours.
Wash the burned area and cloth after 24 hours with soap and water.
10. Plantain Leaves
Plantain leaves are rich in anti inflammatory, antimicrobial, anti hemorrhagic and expectorant properties which helps to heal the burns without scars.
Process:
Crush a few fresh plantain leaves to extract the juice.
Rub the juice directly on the burn.
11. Salt Solution
Salt treats the burns by drawing out all the liquid from the area.
Process:
Mix 1/2 teaspoon of salt in 8 ounces of warm water.
Rinse the burnt area with this solution ever 2 hours.
12. Yogurt
Yogurt acts as an antidote for the burns. It also soothes and cools the burned area.
Process:
Apply a cup of yoghurt directly on the burnt area.
Leave for about 15 – 20 minutes.
Gently wash the affected area.
Plain yogurt is recommended.
Repeat the process regularly.
13. Banana Peel
Lutein, present in banana peel, is a powerful anti oxidant which will help to reduce the swelling and inflammation caused by the burning.
Process:
Put a banana peel on the burned area and rub it gently.
Leave until the peel becomes black.
Repeat the process.
14. Soy Sauce
Soy sauce eases pain and prevents blisters.
Process:
Apply soy sauce gently on the burned areas.
Leave for about 30 minutes.
Wash it off after half an hour.
15. Vitamin E Oil
Vitamin E helps to heal the burns by reducing the pain. You can either take the food which has vitamin E or oil, Capsule that has vitamin E.
Process:
Apply vitamin E oil directly on the burns and leave.
Repeat the process continuously.
16. Mustard
Mustard reduces the pain and blisters and scarring.
Process:
Rub mustard on the burned skin gently.
Leave it for few minutes
Wash it off with cool water after an hour.
17. Turmeric and Mustard Oil
Turmeric is an antibiotic and helps to heal the burns. Mustard oil gives relief from the pain.
Process:
Mix 1 teaspoon of turmeric powder and 1 tablespoon of mustard oil.
Apply it on the burn.
Leave for 30 minutes and rinse it off.
Repeat twice a day.
18. Oatmeal
Minor burns cause itching while healing, oatmeal can help with this.
Process:
Add 1 cup of uncooked oatmeal to a bath of lukewarm water.
Soak for about 15 to 20 minutes.
Leave you skin to air dry.
Beware, as oatmeal can make surfaces slippery.
You can also apply body lotion to prevent itching.
19. Ice Cubes
Eating hot food can burn the tongue or inside of the mouth.
Process:
Rinse an ice cube in water.
Suck the cube to get relief from tongue burn.
20. Diet Plan
Planning your diet heals the burns and strengthens your immune system to make the healing process faster.
Vitamin C helps to heal the burns and other wounds quickly, so eat foods such as citrus fruits, potatoes, broccoli etc.
Vitamin A and Vitamin E also help to speed up the healing process so eat food such as green fruits and vegetables, cereals and nuts etc.
Drink plenty of water to stay hydrated.
Eat food high in proteins, calories, vitamins, minerals and zinc.
Tips to Cure the Burns:
Follow these tips to help with your burns.
Apply white toothpaste over your wound or burned area and leave overnight to dry out the inflammation.
Use Calendula based ointments, gels or creams as it contains anti inflammatory, antiseptic and gentle astringent properties which helps to heal the burns quickly.
Avoid touching burned skin directly with your finger tips as it will allow the bacteria to spread to it. If you have a second degree or third degree burns, don’t pop the blisters or pick the peeling skin around the wounds.
Don’t apply ice directly on the burned area as it will cause more damage to your burnt skin.
Don’t remove the clothes from the burned area if it is stuck to the burn as it leads to bleeding, but remove the jewellery and unburned clothing.
Wash your hands before and after treating burns or, if possible, wear gloves.
Quit smoking because it reduces the blood supply and slow down the healing process.
Apply sunscreen lotion and other body lotions on the burned area because it spreads like a layer over the burned area and avoid the pollution, dust, sun effect on it.
Apply baking soda paste (baking powder mixed with water) or egg white on the burned skin to get relief from the pain.
Replace wound dressings regularly to heal the wound and keep away infections.
Wear an apron while cooking, as a kitchen is the most common place to get burned.
Lower the temperature of the heater below 120 degrees F while heating water, as a second degree burn is more likely to happen in water hotter than 120 degrees.
Try to keep a fire extinguisher and a box of baking soda nearby.
Cover all your electrical outlets with special protective covers.
Burns from any radioactive material should not be treated at home. Consult the doctor immediately for medical treatment.
Consult the doctor immediately for medical treatment if you have any concerns.
Do you think we missed any effective remedies or do you know any other remedies (like butter) which worked for you? Please share with us.
Rajee Datti
Hi everyone, this is Rajee!
I live the beautiful city of Baltimore, where my husband works.
I’m from India. I have been visiting India on and off for past few years and my mom was an inspiration for me to start this site. She has a wealth of knowledge on home remedies for a large number of health problems, and we grew up in an environment where frequent visits to the doctor just wasn’t logistically or financially feasible.
Despite this, she managed to raise a family of healthy kids, and my goal here at Home Remedies for Life is to pass on some of her knowledge of natural remedies.
Comments
nik says
February 24, 2016 at 2:27 am
Can I treat burn cause due to garlic with antiseptic cream
Reply
Admin says
August 4, 2016 at 4:09 pm
Instead of antiseptic cream, apply aloe vera gel on the burn. It give relief and doesn’t leave a scar behind.
Reply
Rashmi borah says
March 27, 2016 at 6:46 am
By an anseptic solution a small part of my skin of face is burned….now how will i get cure?
Reply
Admin says
June 28, 2016 at 4:45 pm
Try the above mentioned remedies and let us know your experience.
Reply
zodwa says
May 12, 2016 at 5:47 pm
My daughter was burn buy water it been 5 days nw what can a put
Reply
Admin says
June 17, 2016 at 5:36 pm
Cold water, Potato, aloe vera methods mentioned above should be fine.
Reply
someone_who_worries says
July 24, 2016 at 7:16 pm
I burned my finger with a lighter yesterday and i removed the skin and water out of my burn cause it was a blister sort of thing,is warm salt water okay for it
Reply
Admin says
July 25, 2016 at 5:21 pm
As per your description, you have removed the skin so salt method may be a little painful. You can try cold water, raw potatoes, onion juice or banana leaf method.
Reply
Titilayo says
October 4, 2016 at 5:14 pm
My hand was burnt by fire and the scar refuse to go, what can I do to clear the scar? Thanks
Reply
Admin says
October 5, 2016 at 4:08 pm
Regular application of lemon juice, tomato juice or aloe vera juice helps in reducing the appearance of burn scars.
Reply
M says
October 13, 2016 at 3:57 pm
I burnt myself with a lighter and it left behind a small blister, I’m not worried about the pain or irritation but am worried about having it scar…what remedy is best in this case?
*the blister is no more than half a centimeter…less than a centimeter for sure.
Reply
Admin says
October 25, 2016 at 12:45 pm
Choose any remedy mentioned above in the article and try it regularly. Apart from that don’t apply ice directly on the burned area and don’t pop up the blisters or peel the skin around the burn wounds. Take cold water baths instead of hot water.
Reply
Rabia Iqbal says
December 22, 2016 at 7:40 am
experiencing burning sensation on my fingertips due to direct contact with shower mould cleaner…will definitely put in the glives next time..what should i do now?
Reply
Admin says
December 24, 2016 at 5:42 am
Apply some ice or soak your finger in ice water. It provides immediate relief from the pain. Apart from that try any other method mentioned above in the article to treat the burn safely.
Reply
Britany says
February 19, 2017 at 6:26 am
I was buneed with by a metal tip from a torch, and It took my skin off with it. . So it’s an open burn, whats the best remedy that I should use from the above?.
Reply
Admin says
February 20, 2017 at 9:23 am
You can try raw potato, onion juice, plantain leaves or yogurt method mentioned above in the article.
Reply
sushil dhamale says
April 9, 2017 at 4:30 am
You can also apply your toothpaste.
Reply
Mike says
May 18, 2017 at 7:50 pm
I have a large hot glue burn, which of the treatments works best for non open burns?
Reply
Admin says
May 20, 2017 at 12:13 pm
Follow Cold water, potato, onion juice and plantain leaves method mentioned above in the article.
Reply
Shan says
August 8, 2017 at 6:48 am
I have a second degree burn, caused by hot aliminium cooker on wrist, its damn painful n its open too. What would you sugget me?
Reply
Admin says
August 9, 2017 at 9:03 am
If the burn is open then we recommend consulting a doctor immediately.
Reply
Aj Beneett says
September 1, 2017 at 4:06 am
Sanded a bunch of dessers with light sand paper without any gloves on
My fingertips fell like they are burned how do I heal them
Reply
Admin says
September 2, 2017 at 12:32 pm
Apply cold compress for some time. Repeat the application few times in a day to get relief.
Reply
Brooke M says
September 21, 2017 at 3:31 am
I have a large blister on the center of my palm (1.5 inches wide x 2 inches) from the butt end of a shovel. Buy the time i felt a pain on my hand and removed it from my gardening glove the top layer of skin already fully detached. I have seen 2 different drs. and was treated with prescription antibiotics for 7 days. Both doctors said to treat it as a burn not a blister. For me to use neosporane, cover with non stick pad, add gauze and wrap with bandage. Unless is see red lines going up my arm its healing and it will take time as it needs to heal from the bottom up. Its been 2.5 months now and it keeps forming a soft skin layer but after a day or two it comes off while I’m gently cleaning it. the 2nd dr said this is just dead skin and it will do that while its healing, It has continuously drained a clear fluid which both confirmed its plasma. Ive been alternating emergency burn gel with aleocaine to help with the itching and to help limit scaring. I keep it wrapped during the day and unwrapped at night. My hand is becoming extremely dry and itchy all over my palm. The dr said to take advil or alive for the pain and swelling/itching that does seem to help. I also have been using benydrol cream on my palm on the surrounding area to help reduce the sensation to scratch my hand. Is there anything else i can try? The doctors keep saying this is all normal and its going to take a long time to heal. 2.5 months of this on my right hand is not easy when you’re a mom of 4 and one is an infant. Please Help!! I can send a picture of the current state to help.
Reply
Zoe says
November 11, 2017 at 8:42 am
Ive got fabric burn…it stings like crazy. Ive put cold water on it. Is there anything else that would help?
Reply
Appi Ekke says
March 17, 2018 at 6:13 pm
Mujhe ek mahine hogye aag se jalker…third degree h.,abhi bhi bht pain h or woond abhi bhi ni sukha h… hospital me admit hu abhi bhi.kya Kru?
Reply
Ask a Question Cancel reply
Comment
Name *
Email *
I accept the Privacy Policy *
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Our most recent posts!
Top Women’s Health Bloggers to Follow in 2019
6 Best Probiotic Supplements During Pregnancy (2019 Reviews)
9 DIY Home Remedies for Weight Loss Using Aloe Vera
The Best Psoriasis Bloggers to Follow in 2019 – Top 20
The Best Probiotics for Weight Loss: 2019 Reviews and Top Pics
Home | About me | Contact © Copyright 2018
Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions | Affiliate Disclosure
Homeremediesforlife.com does not give any medical advice. Tips and remedies specified here are strictly informational. Consult your doctor or health care expert before you try.
Home Remedies for Life is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site, we will assume that you are happy with it.OkRead our Privacy Policy