Prevention & Control - MMCRI
Skip to content
LinkedInTwitterEmail
Donate to Research
Careers
Contact MMCRI
About MMCRI
Careers
History & Mission
Locations & Directions
Leadership
Maine Medical Center
Research Centers
Center for Molecular Medicine
Center for Clinical & Translational Research
Center for Outcomes Research & Evaluation (CORE)
Center for Psychiatric Research
Lyme & Vector-Borne Disease
NNE Clinical & Translational Research Network
Research Services & Resources
Institutional Review Board (IRB)
Research Navigation
Core Facilities & Lab Instrumentation
Grants & Contracts Services
Clinical Trials Office
Technology Transfer & Intellectual Property
Education & Training
Courses & Workshops
Postdoctoral Training
Medical Students, Residents & Fellows
Visiting Scholars
Graduate Student Programs
Undergraduate Students
News & Events
News & Press
Seminars & Events
Search for:
Prevention & Control
Home » Lyme & Vector-Borne Disease Laboratory » Prevention & Control
Prevention & Controltyphoon2018-03-14T12:21:12-04:00
By far, the best way to avoid Lyme disease is to be aware of the risk of tick bites and to act accordingly. The good news is that deer ticks usually do not transmit Lyme bacteria right away.
Click on the link below, “Ticks in Maine: What do I need to know?” for further information.
This informational video about ticks and tick prevention was produced by the MaineDOT to increase awareness among its many employees who work outdoors each day. The video features Maine Medical Center Research Institute’s Chuck Lubelczyk, Vector Ecologist, from the Vector Borne-Disease Laboratory.
Tick Prevention
Few people are infected before the tick has been feeding for 36 hours. Diagnosed in early stages, both Lyme disease and anaplasmosis are easily and effectively treated with oral antibiotics. If Lyme disease is unrecognized and untreated, it may progress to cause arthritis and neurological problems, but treatment is still usually effective.
Precautions to Avoid Tick Bites
Tuck your pant legs into your socks and your shirt into your pants when walking in woods, brush, or tall grass. Deer ticks attach to clothing and then walk upward.
Wear light-colored clothing so ticks may be seen more easily.
Use an effective repellent such as DEET or picaradin according to label directions — particularly on shoes, socks, and pant legs. Avoid applying high-concentration products to the skin, especially on children.
People who must be in areas where ticks are prevalent may pre-treat clothing with a permethrin-containing product which both repels and kills ticks. Use only as directed on the label.
To protect pets, consult your veterinarian about tick repellents, acaricides and Lyme vaccines for dogs.
Inspect yourself, your clothing, your children, your companion, and your pets for ticks when you get in from the field. Ticks often attach in body folds, behind ears and in the hair. Showering removes unattached ticks, and heating in a clothes dryer is effective in killing ticks.
Mowing grass and cutting brush in yards may reduce tick habitats in problem areas.
When transporting pets or game, precautions should be taken to avoid bringing ticks into new areas.
How to Remove Attached Ticks [prompt removal is important]
Grasp the tick as close to the skin as possible, preferably with fine tweezers, and pull gently but firmly until the tick releases.
Do not handle ticks with bare hands.
Clean the bite with soap and water and apply an antiseptic or antibiotic cream.
Save the tick in a small bottle of 70% alcohol for identification if needed
Consult your physician if you remove an engorged deer tick.
Note: Folklore removal methods such as burning with a match or applying vaseline or nail polish do not work and may increase the likelihood of infection. It has been demonstrated that a single oral dose of the antibiotic doxycycline, if given within 72 hours of removal of a deer tick, may provide effective prophylaxis for Lyme disease.
Vaccine
The LYMErix vaccine, which was approved in 1998 by the Food and Drug Administration for use in adults, is no longer available. The manufacturer withdrew the product from the market in February 2002, citing insufficient demand as the reason for their action. A new vaccine effective against both U.S. and European strains of Borrelia is being developed overseas.
Tick Control
To control deer ticks, an integrated approach is recommended which involves personal protection, landscape management and, where the risk is high, application of acaricides to tick habitat. An excellent and comprehensive review of tick IPM will be found in the “Tick Management Handbook“, prepared by the State of Connecticut.
Deer ticks thrive in bushy, deciduous habitats with leaf litter that provide the shade and moisture needed to protect them from fatal desiccation. Removal of shrubs, especially of barberry, honeysuckle and other invasive species, is a very important first step in controlling ticks around the home. Further control, particularly where ticks abound, may require the use of tick-killing pesticides (acaricides).
Where relatively small areas are to be treated, homeowners may use over-the-counter sprays or granular products, but lower concentrations of active ingredients and inadequate application force may limit their effectiveness.
For larger properties, a professional applicator with specialized equipment to mix and apply product with a high pressure hose sufficient to disturb the leaf litter will be the most effective choice
Lyme & Vector-Borne Disease Laboratory
Lab Staff
Tick Species Found in Maine
Tick-borne Diseases
Prevention & Control
Publications
Contact Us
81 Research Drive, Scarborough, ME 04074
Phone: (207) 396-8246
Email: ticklab@mmc.org
Search for:
Site Admin
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Follow Us on LinkedIn
LinkedIn Company Updates
1 Day Agoview on linkedin
Maine Medical Center Research Institute
Annual Research Retreat one week away! The Costas T. Lambrew Research Retreat will be held on May 1, at Maine Medical Center’s Dana Center, bringing together more than 200 physicians, nurses, scientists and trainees from across MaineHealth for a day-long multi-disciplinary biomedical research symposium. Learn more about the retreat at: https://lnkd.in/dzcCHaC
Search MMCRI
Search for:
Contact MMCRI
81 Research Drive, Scarborough, ME 04074
Phone: (207) 396-8100
Email: mmcri_info@mmc.org
Search for researchers’ publications through MaineHealth’s Knowledge Connection.
Copyright 2017 Maine Medical Center Research Institute | All Rights Reserved | Powered by WordPress | Theme Fusion