23 Teas for Anxiety: Peppermint, Chamomile and Other Relaxing Tea
Newsletter
Try This: 25 Teas to Relieve Stress and Anxiety
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP on October 1, 2018 — Written by Healthline's Medical Network
Peppermint
Chamomile
Lavender
Kava
Valerian
Gotu kola
Lemon balm
Passionflower
Green tea
Ashwagandha
Holy basil
Turmeric
Fennel
Rose
Ginseng
Hops
Licorice
Catnip
St. John’s wort
Rhodiola
Herbal blends to try
Takeaway
Share on Pinterest
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
Things to consider
Some herbal teas can help take the edge off occasional stress and anxiety, while others may be better used as a routine complementary therapy for an underlying condition.
It’s important to remember that what works for one person may not work for you. Finding the right herbal tea or herbal tea blend can take time.
Although herbal teas are technically different from supplementary capsules, oils, and tinctures, interactions are still possible. You should always talk with a doctor or other healthcare provider before adding an herbal tea to your routine.
Read on to learn how these popular teas can help soothe and support your overall sense of well-being.
1. Peppermint (Mentha piperita)
This classic garden plant can be used for more than just seasoning. Some research suggests that the aroma may reduce feelings of frustration, anxiety, and fatigue.
Separate research finds that inhaling the scent of peppermint oil may soothe anxiety in people who were hospitalized for heart attack and child birth.
Shop for peppermint tea.
2. Chamomile (Matricaria chamomilla/Chamaemelum nobile)
Share on Pinterest
This daisy-like flower is synonymous with calm, making chamomile among the most well-known stress-soothing teas.
One found that long-term use of chamomile extract significantly reduced moderate-to-severe symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). However, it didn’t prevent future symptoms from occurring.
Shop for chamomile tea.
3. Lavender (Lavandula officinalis)
Lavender is widely known for its mood-stabilizing and sedative effects. But did you know that it may be as effective as some medications at relieving anxiety?
Researchers in found that Silexan, an oral lavender capsule preparation, was as effective as lorazepam in adults with GAD.
Shop for lavender tea.
4. Kava (Piper methysticum)
A Pacific Islands ritual tea, kava is widely used as an anxiety remedy. It by targeting GABA receptors in the brain that are responsible for feelings of anxiety.
One 2018 review suggests that kava extract pills may be mildly effective in treating generalized anxiety disorder, but more research is needed.
Shop for kava tea.
5. Valerian (Valeriana officinalis)
Valerian root is commonly used as an herbal remedy for insomnia and other sleep disorders. It may help relive anxiety-related sleeplessness, but research has been mixed.
One found that valerian extract reduced anxiety in women undergoing a medical procedure.
Shop for valerian tea.
6. Gotu kola (Centella asiatica)
Gotu kola is used as a traditional medicine and tonic in many Asian cultures. It’s often used to ease feelings of fatigue, anxiety, and depression.
One 2012 study on mice found that gotu kola extract may be an effective treatment for acute and chronic anxiety. More research is needed to fully understand its effects.
Shop for gotu kola tea.
7. Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis)
A mint relative with a lemony fragrance, lemon balm is a widely used treatment for sleeplessness, anxiety, and depression. It by boosting GABA, a neurotransmitter that soothes stress.
In one , lemon balm extract was shown to help with mild to moderate anxiety and insomnia.
Researchers in a 2018 study found that a lemon balm supplement reduced symptoms of anxiety, depression, stress, and insomnia in people with a heart condition called angina.
Shop for lemon balm tea.
8. Passionflower (Passiflora incarnata)
Share on Pinterest
Passionflower has long been used to improve . It may also help ease symptoms of anxiety.
Researchers in one found that a passionflower supplement worked as well as a mainstream medication for reducing anxiety in people having dental work.
Shop for passionflower tea.
9. Green tea (Camellia sinensis)
Green tea is high in l-theanine, an amino acid that might reduce anxiety.
One 2017 study found that students who drank green tea experienced consistently lower levels of stress than students in the placebo group.
Shop for green tea.
10. Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera)
Ashwagandha is an Ayurvedic herb said to help combat stress and fatigue.
One found that taking root extract significantly reduced stress levels over a two-month span.
A 2014 review of studies also concluded that Ashwagandha extract helped alleviate feelings of stress and anxiety, however more research is needed to confirm these effects.
Shop for ashwagandha tea.
11. Holy basil (Ocimum sanctum)
Also called tulsi, holy basil is related to European and Thai basils.
Research on its effects on anxiety or stress are limited. One found that taking a holy basil extract decreased symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder.
Shop for holy basil tea.
12. Turmeric (Curcuma longa)
Turmeric is rich in the anti-inflammatory compound curcumin. A found that curcumin may anti-anxiety and antidepressant effects.
Shop for turmeric tea.
13. Fennel (Foeniculum vulgare)
Fennel tea has traditionally been used to calm anxiety.
Although more research is needed, one did find that fennel had anti-anxiety and antidepressant effects in women who were postmenopausal.
Shop for fennel tea.
14. Rose (Rosa spp.)
Share on Pinterest
The smell of roses has long been associated with relaxation, and at least one study supports this.
Researchers in one found that rose water aromatherapy helped reduce feelings of anxiety in people with end-stage kidney disease.
Shop for rose tea.
15. Ginseng (Panax spp.)
Ginseng may not be a universal cure, but research does support certain benefits.
For example, one suggests that it may help protect the body against the effects of stress. Some also shows that it might reduce fatigue.
Shop for ginseng tea.
16. Hops (Humulus lupulus)
You can taste bitter hops in certain beverages, but hops are nothing to be bitter about.
A 2017 study shows that taking a hops supplement can reduce mild symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress.
And when combined with valerian, hops supplements may also improve sleep quality.
Shop for hops tea.
17. Licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra)
A popular herbal ingredient in colds and flu teas, licorice root has also become a widespread sweetener and candy.
People also take licorice to reduce stress and fatigue, but research is limited.
One 2011 study on mice suggests that licorice extract may reduce stress.
Researchers in a separate on mice found that licorice extract can increase the anti-anxiety effects of valerian and anxiety medications.
Shop for licorice tea.
18. Catnip (Nepeta cataria)
Although catnip is a stimulant for cats, it can be used to create a soothing drink for humans.
Catnip has been traditionally used to relieve anxiety. It contains compounds similar to those found in valerian, but it’s unclear whether they offer the same benefits.
Shop for catnip tea.
19. St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum)
St. John’s wort is one of the best studied herbal remedies for depression. It may also help with symptoms of anxiety.
The herb may interact with certain medications or result in other adverse side effects, so talk to a doctor or pharmacist before use.
Shop for St. John’s wort tea.
20. Rhodiola (Rhodiola rosea)
Rhodiola is often used to manage stress, anxiety, and certain mood disorders.
Although there’s some evidence to support this, the findings are . More research is needed to truly understand its potential uses.
Shop for rhodiola tea.
Herbal blends to try
Share on Pinterest
21. Traditional Medicinals Cup of Calm
This tea uses chamomile, catnip, lavender, and passionflower herbs to offer a host of sleep-enhancing and stress-relieving benefits.
Chamomile and lavender are better known for helping anxiety. Although catnip and passionflower are primarily used to improve sleep quality, they may also aid in anxiety relief.
Shop for Traditional Medicinals Cup of Calm.
22. The Republic of Tea Get Relaxed
Along with its principal ingredient rooibos, Get Relaxed includes rose petals, lavender, passionflower, and chamomile.
These selections may help smooth over mild anxiety and stress. You may also benefit from the overall health properties of rooibos tea.
Shop for The Republic of Tea Get Relaxed.
23. Yogi Stress Relief
Yogi offers two Stress Relief options: a tea containing kava kava and a tea containing lavender.
Kava kava may have more marked effects on anxiety, but the herb has been tied to mild side effects. Lavender typically offers more subtle benefits and is less likely to cause side effects.
Shop for Yogi Kava Stress Relief or Honey Lavender Stress Relief.
24. Numi Presence
Organic lavender is a key ingredient in Numi’s Presence. Lavender may offer a mild soothing effect and help relieve minor anxiety.
Other ingredients in the tea blend include elderflower, schisandra, blueberry leaf, lemongrass, spearmint, ginger, hawthorn, and bamboo.
Shop for Numi Presence.
25. Lipton Stress Less
Stress Less contains cinnamon, chamomile, and lavender. All are notable stress-relieving herbs, though chamomile and lavender boast the most scientific support.
Shop for Lipton Stress Less.
The bottom line
Although some herbal teas have a calming effect, more research is needed to fully assess their potential benefits. Herbal teas or supplements should never be used in place of a prescribed treatment.
Some herbal teas can cause uncomfortable side effects, especially when consumed in large amounts. Others can result in dangerous interactions with over-the-counter and prescription medication. Many herbal teas aren’t safe to drink during pregnancy.
You should always check with a doctor or other health provider before drinking herbal teas or taking herbal supplements.
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP on October 1, 2018 — Written by Healthline's Medical Network
related stories
18 Essential Oils to Soothe Stress and Anxiety
How to Identify and Treat Coexisting Anxiety and Depression
25 Vitamins, Herbs, and Other Supplements to Treat Anxiety Symptoms
What’s the Difference Between a Panic Attack and an Anxiety Attack?
6 Daily Hacks to Manage High-Functioning Anxiety
READ THIS NEXT
18 Essential Oils to Soothe Stress and Anxiety
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Aromatherapy is often used as a natural remedy to relieve anxiety and stress. Find out which essential oils you can use for anxiety symptoms.
READ MORE
How to Identify and Treat Coexisting Anxiety and Depression
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Depression and anxiety can occur at the same time. Although each condition has its own causes, they both share similar symptoms and treatments. Read…
READ MORE
25 Vitamins, Herbs, and Other Supplements to Treat Anxiety Symptoms
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
If your anxiety is less severe - or if traditional treatments aren't working - it may be time to talk to your doctor about how you can use supplements…
READ MORE
What’s the Difference Between a Panic Attack and an Anxiety Attack?
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Do you know the difference between a panic attack and an anxiety attack? We explain the symptoms and how to treat these conditions.
READ MORE
6 Daily Hacks to Manage High-Functioning Anxiety
If you have high-functioning anxiety, you may be constantly overthinking, overdoing, and overpreparing. You may seem fine to others, while inside you…
READ MORE
How to Stop a Panic Attack
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Panic attacks are sudden, intense surges of fear, panic, or anxiety. If you've experienced a panic attack, you know that they can be overwhelming and…
READ MORE
How the Sound of Rain Can Calm an Anxious Mind
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Why does the rain make you feel happy? How does it work to calm your anxiety? This writer looks to her life and asks several experts on the theory…
READ MORE
6 Pressure Points for Anxiety Relief
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Learn how to massage six pressure points for temporary anxiety relief. We'll tell you how to find these points and go over the research behind using…
READ MORE
Yoga for Anxiety: 11 Poses to Try
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
Many people turn to yoga when feelings of anxiety start to creep in or during times of stress. You may find that focusing on your breath and your…
READ MORE
What Are Some Homeopathic Options for Treating Anxiety?
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
If you've tried other treatments or if you want natural alternatives, you may be drawn to homeopathy for anxiety. There are many homeopathic products…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 154832 Client Version: 79747923c4e6e47c969e01afcf54d3679b99590b Build Number: 26773