Asthma Medications - Chronic Asthma, bronchial asthma, chronic pulmonary disease.
Tag Archives: Decrease in Emergency visit and hospitalization
Tips For Avoiding Acute Exacerbation Of COPD or Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Posted on July 24, 2012 by Kiran Viramgama M.D.
1
In this blog, we will review a few simple things that the patient and the patient’s family with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), emphysema, and chronic asthma may use to prevent COPD exacerbations.
Many patients with COPD may have underlying chronic asthma and many are active or
former smoker. Many may have associated emphysema in conjunction with intermittent symptoms of asthmatic bronchitis. Preventing a flare-up of COPD and/or underlying asthma may further help improve quality of life and may decrease use of acute care/hospitalization.
(1) Understanding severity of disease. One needs to understand underlying severity of COPD if underlying bronchial asthma or emphysema is present or not. There are no specific COPD cures, but controlling the symptoms helps improvement of respiratory symptoms and sense of wellbeing. One may consider pulmonary function test if not done to assess underlying severity.
(2) Understanding of acute or chronic COPD symptoms. Keeping a log of regular COPD symptoms and any changes may help to seek early medical treatment for control of COPD exacerbation in the early phase rather than later. The patient may get low-grade fever, increase in cough, quantity, change in the color, and/or increase shortness of breath.
(3) Home oxygen use. A few patients with COPD may need use of oxygen either at night or on exertion or continuously. This needs to be evaluated by their physician.
(4) Emergency plan. It would be good to have an emergency plan if there is worsening of the symptoms. If someone with severe asthma and/or COPD, it may be good to have a course of antibiotic and a tapering course of prednisone handy and start it with exacerbation of symptoms in conjunction with their primary care and/or pulmonologist. If there is worsening of COPD then it would be good to call 9-1-1 and go to the Emergency Room.
(5) Anxiety symptoms. Anxiety, COPD, asthma, emphysema symptoms go hand-in-hand. With the change in respiratory symptoms and an increase in air hunger there may be fluctuation in anxiety and depression symptoms. Relaxation is the key. Slow deep breathing exercise may help.
(6) Exercise. Regular walking, breathing exercises and moderate strenuous exercise, depending on heart condition may be considered based on physician advice. This has been shown to decrease exacerbation of COPD, and clearing of respiratory secretions in the morning.
(7) Avoiding certain foods. Usually cold water, cold drinks, dairy products, ice cream, and chocolate may trigger underlying COPD/asthma. Bananas increase mucus formation. This may be good to void. Many patients notice a change once they cut down the use or discontinue it.
(8) Medications. Use of inhalers, nebulizers, oxygen, its duration frequency and maximum dose, needs to be understood. The common mistake many COPD patients make is overuse of long-acting bronchodilators in place of short-acting inhalers or nebulizer treatment. This needs to be avoided. Correct inhaler technique is the key.
I hope this may help in understanding underlying symptoms of COPD and exacerbation factors and cut down any major flare-up.
Posted in Asthma prevention & cure, Asthma treatment and management, Chronic asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Integrative Medical approach -Bronchial asthma and COPD, Pulmonary Function Test	| Tagged Asthma - copd - emphysema and Ayurveda, Decrease in Emergency visit and hospitalization, night time asthma symptoms	| 1 Reply
Chronic Asthma Symptoms , Postnasal Drip , Sinus Congestion And its association of Asthma flare up
Posted on June 29, 2012 by Kiran Viramgama M.D.
1
In this blog, we will see the relation of postnasal drip and associated chronic symptoms of asthma and how asthma may improve with improvement in postnasal drip.
Chronic cough is one of the important symptoms in the patient with chronic asthma in association with wheezing and shortness of breath. More than one-third of patients with chronic asthma have associated postnasal drip and/or sinus congestion, which is present most of the days in a week. There may be a variation in seasonal pattern where it may exacerbate more in the spring and the fall, and may be less in the summer. Any associated infection, exposure to chemicals, dust, or perfumes may exacerbate the nasal symptoms and may further increase the need of rescue inhaler for a patient with chronic asthma.
The treatment of postnasal drip may vary from use of inhaled steroids to simple measures like Neti Pot, sinus rinse, or saline spray. Many patients have allergies to cats, rugs, birds, pollen, etc., and avoiding the allergens may further help decrease the sinus symptoms.
Many patients have associated constipation or irregular bowel movement or may have GERD-like symptoms. With improvement in regular bowel movement, the gastrocolic reflex decreases and thereby many chronic asthmatic patients may experience some improvement in the sinus symptoms.
The association of postnasal drip and GERD has a relation with control of asthma symptoms. In the previous blog, the relationship of GERD symptoms and asthma has been discussed. If one is experiencing either of these symptoms or its combination, the control of one of these symptoms may further help to control asthma. There is a significant relation between persistent postnasal drip and difficulty controlling asthma symptoms with increase need of a rescue inhaler.
Some simple breathing techniques like alternated nostril breathing, slow deep breathing exercises, and healing breath exercises may help to improve nasal symptoms and thereby improve the airflow through both nostrils, which improves the sense of well being in many asthmatic patients because of improvement of breathing. This will further help in decreasing the chest symptoms, nighttime wheezing and cough.
In a patient with chronic asthma, if they get a sinus infection, this
needs to be treated on an urgent basis and many may require 2 to 3 weeks of
antibiotics. Regular use of Neti Pot or sinus rinse in many patients with chronic sinus congestion may help keep the nasal passages open and thereby decrease asthma flareup. Many factors exacerbate asthma, and nasal sinus congestion or postnasal drip is among them so by improving the symptoms it may help in controlling asthma.
Posted in Asthma, Asthma prevention & cure, asthma seasonal variability, Asthma symptoms, Asthma treatment and management, Ayurveda, Chronic asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease	| Tagged adult onset asthma, Decrease in Emergency visit and hospitalization, treatments of asthma	| 1 Reply
Bronchial Asthma Assessment And Methacholine Challenge Test
Posted on May 23, 2012 by Kiran Viramgama M.D.
Reply
In this blog, we will look into methacholine challenge test and its importance and assessment of bronchial asthma.
Bronchial asthma is a reversible airway disease where there is an increase in FEV1 of 12% and increase of 200ml post bronchodilator in a pulmonary function test. The same may be true for FVC (force vital capacity).
In many situations there is a question if someone currently has asthma or not. Methacholine challenge test may help in assessing if somebody does not have asthma, especially if the methacholine challenge test negative. It has a negative predicted value; meaning, if the test is negative then the chances of having underlying bronchial asthma would be less likely. If the test is positive, it does not mean that the person has asthma and it may be other conditions like postnasal drip, gastroesophageal reflux disease, sinus congestion, etc., that may give a falsely positive methacholine challenge test.
Methacholine challenge test is performed in increasing concentrations of challenge with methacholine and if the highest concentration of 16 mg/ml does not show any bronchospasm then the underlying likelihood of bronchial asthma would be less likely.
Chronic asthma symptoms may be evaluated with methacholine and if the methacholine test is negative then it would make underlying bronchial asthma less likely although the person may be experiencing asthma-like symptoms and it could be related to other symptoms like postnasal drip or gastroesophageal reflux disease. A complete pulmonary function test needs to be performed or at least a spirometry with and without bronchodilator needs to be performed prior to the assessment of methacholine challenge test.
In summary, methacholine challenge test is an important test assessment of bronchial asthma and if there is a question of presence of an asthma or not, a negative methacholine challenge test may help in ruling out underlying bronchial asthma. The positive methacholine challenge test needs to be clinically assessed for the likelihood of underlying bronchial asthma.
Posted in Asthma prevention & cure, Asthma symptoms, Chronic asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Pulmonary Function Test	| Tagged adult onset asthma, Decrease in Emergency visit and hospitalization, treatments of asthma	| Leave a reply
Chronic Asthma Management and Use of Peak Flow Meter
Posted on April 30, 2012 by Kiran Viramgama M.D.
1
In this blog we will look into the peak flow meter, and its use and management of bronchial asthma.
A peak flow meter is a very good simple device that a patient with bronchial asthma may use for management of bronchial asthma to check the variability of airway responsiveness.
There is a predicted peak flow based on age, height, sex, and race which one may need to know. Obtain the predicted peak flow calculation through your healthcare provider or you can search on line for the formula. It is a general number for a guideline and may have some variations but it will be a good gauge to understand a person’s peak flow.
Generally, the variation is less than 20%. In patients with mild, intermittent asthma the peak flow is generally more than 80% of the predicted and the variation should be less than 20%.
The patient with asthma symptoms or experiencing acute on chronic asthmatic bronchitis may experience an increase in peak flow variation during the acute phase and should stabilize to the baseline. Generally, with mild intermittent asthma, the peak flow variation is less than 20%.
With mild persistent asthma, patients will have an increase in severity of asthma where they tend to have symptoms more than two times at night in a month and about twice a week. Although the predicted peak flow is greater than 80%, they may experience a peak flow variability of 20-30%.
For example, if a 35-year-old gentleman with a height of 5 feet 6 inches has a peak flow of 512 liters per minute, the 20% variation would be a peak flow range between 400 to 600 liters per minute. If it goes less than 400 liters per minute, it should be considered increased variability.
Also, there are some peak flows which are color coded with a green zone, a yellow zone and a red zone. This makes it a little simpler for people to follow. As long as they stay within the green zone, they should be okay; but once they change to the yellow zone, this may suggest increase bronchospasm, increase mucus formation or start of early infection, etc. One needs to contact the healthcare provider as it could be an early sign of asthma flare up.
The peak flow can help in asthma exacerbation prevention by monitoring very closely before it becomes worse. Patients with chronic asthma will find it helpful.
If the patient has bronchial asthma but also has associated chronic pulmonary disease, the variation in the peak flow may not be as much especially if one is a smoker.
In patients with moderate persistent asthma, the peak flow variability may be more than 30%.
This would be someone who has daily symptoms and uses a rescue inhaler at least twice a week or more and has a one-time nighttime symptom in a month. Also, patients with severe persistent asthma may have daily symptoms and frequent nighttime symptoms. The peak flow generally varies less than 60% of the predicted, and has increase variability to more than 30% in a day from a baseline.
As asthma improves with treatment, the variability may change and should become less than 20% with decrease in the need of rescue inhaler. Monitoring acute infections, avoiding drugs that produce bronchospasm, eliminating foods that increase mucus formation, and avoiding external factors that increase bronchospasm in conjunction with the standard treatment with inhalers and medication may further help chronic bronchial asthma treatment and management with monitoring of one’s own peak flow and keeping a log on a regular basis. This log may also help provide a chance for the healthcare professional to review the change and make adjustments in medications as needed and the person to better understand their own underlying asthma and its variability. A simple peak flow meter can give a lot of insight into one’s own bronchospasm and its management.
For more information on peakflow you can visit the following website.
http://www.lung.org/lung-disease/asthma/living-with-asthma/take-control-of-your-asthma/measuring-your-peak-flow-rate.html
If anyone interested in joining the asthma program please free to contact us at info@asthma-copd-care.com or call at 717-338-9797
Best wishes!
Posted in Asthma prevention & cure, asthma seasonal variability, Asthma symptoms, Asthma treatment and management, Chronic asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Integrative Medical approach -Bronchial asthma and COPD, peak flow meter use in chronic asthma	| Tagged Decrease in Emergency visit and hospitalization, treatments of asthma	| 1 Reply
ASTHMA ACTION PLAN
Posted on March 31, 2012 by Kiran Viramgama M.D.
1
In this blog we will briefly review the asthma action plan or different techniques one may use to control and manage asthma, better understand one’s own health with goal of prevention of asthma attack thereby helping control of asthma, decreasing need for medications, and decreasing exacerbation of asthma. This blog gives a general guideline and one may want to talk to their physician to better understand and coordinate the plan.
Also, different asthma action plans can be found on line for further developing your own plan and coordinate with the family member in case of an emergency on how it needs to be tackled.
Understanding ones own asthma. Have a clear picture from a physician whether the asthma is mild, moderate or severe. Understand the use of medications an correct inhaler technique. Know the difference between a maintenance inhaler and rescue inhaler or nebulizer. How frequently it can be used and what is the maximum dose in 24 hours. Are there other associated conditions with asthma that have been triggered such as postnasal drip, heartburn, etc.
Understand which inhalers your physician has recommended, and what is the regular dose. Is it twice a day? Is it once a day? Or, does it need to be used every 4 hours as needed? For example, Advair Diskus, Symbicort inhaler, Dulera inhaler are twice a day inhalers, but Albuterol inhaler as a rescue can be used every 4 to 6 hours if needed. Singular may be a once a day medication. Rinsing the mouth afte the use of inhalers may help in preventing oral thrush.
Family plan. Have a documented family plan with the family members if the asthma
gets worse, and how it should be tackled. In mild situations, the primary care can be contacted. How will moderate to severe asthma situations be tackled? Through primary care or the Emergency Room? Have this be clear with the primary care and family members, and what are the steps that can be taken to prevent an Emergency Room visit.
Prevention of exacerbation of asthma. Find out different triggers that have been exacerbating the symptoms like allergies, increasing the dripping and asthma symptoms, wheezing, smoking, smoke exposure directly or indirectly. If one is smoking then he/she needs to quit and at the same time prevent second hand smoke exposure, perfumes, cologne, etc., one needs to avoid this contact. If someone is working with dust or chemicals use a mask to prevent or to avoid symptoms altogether to avoid this kind of work exposure.
Peak flow meter. One may want to have a peak flow meter, which may have a green, yellow and red zone. Monitoring the peak flow may help to understand the severity of asthma and once there is change in the color may contact primary care. Example: A person with a peak flow in the green zone and if changes to
yellow zone may be a sign to contact a primary care.
Asthma education. Obtain asthma education through the primary care, other sources like the internet, and educational books and material that provide a basic
education for asthma. Also, there are foods that may trigger bronchospasm like yogurt, dairy products, cold water, cold drinks, cola, chocholate etc., which may be avoided. Fruits like bananas may trigger asthma or nasal congestion symptoms in many that may want to be avoided. Speak to your doctor about a change in diet before making any dietary changes.
Log of symptoms, inhalers. Keep a regular log of symptoms like wheezing, coughing, postnasal drip, gastroesophageal reflux disease, sleep symptoms one has and how frequent they are. Also, get input from the family members as many times the one coughing is not aware about the coughing, but the family member is aware. Also, keep a regular log of use of rescue inhaler and review with the primary care or your lung doctor if you have one.
Sleep symptoms. Are asthma symptoms waking you up at night? How frequent is
it? Is there nighttime use of inhalers? Are you coughing and wheezing? As asthma improves, the symptoms should resolve and one should be able to sleep regularly.
Exercise. Regular exercise further helps to control asthma. If someone has exercise-induced asthma, may use a rescue inhaler prior to that. Before you start an exercise program, check with your primary care.
Pranayama / yoga. Many breathing exercises such as slow deep breathing, alternated nostril breathing if done correctly over a period or time may further
decrease bronchospasm. If one is interested, he/she may learn many of the simple yoga exercises and by doing it may further help control asthma symptoms along with good sleep, regular exercise, avoiding the triggers of asthma, and remaining vigilant about the symptoms and its prevention.
11. Acute infection: In the event of an acute respiratory tract infection, see your primary care on an urgent basis or if there is an increase in severe symptoms call 9-1-1 or go to the nearest Emergency Room.
This is a general action plan or something similar one may develop. There are many different states which provide an asthma action plan or one may visit the Center of Disease Control Intervention website for different asthma plan and do ones own research. This is a general guideline that we have seen that has helped our patients and have found
useful. Please contact your primary care or your pulmonologist and review the asthma plan with your healthcare provider and make appropriate changes as they recommend.
I hope some of these simple measures as stated above help your asthma or someone you may share this information.
Best wishes!
Posted in Asthma prevention & cure, Asthma symptoms, Asthma treatment and management, Ayurveda, Integrative Medical approach -Bronchial asthma and COPD	| Tagged adult onset asthma, cures for asthma, Decrease in Emergency visit and hospitalization, decrease in health care cost, Pranayama and asthma, treatments of asthma, Yoga and asthma	| 1 Reply
Integrative Medical Treatment & Management Benefits in patients with Bronchial Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Posted on October 7, 2011 by Kiran Viramgama M.D.
37
This is the first blog for the web site asthma-copd-care.com discussing the need for the integrative medical management and treatment approach for patients with bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In this blog, we will discuss the standard approach for bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and the benefits of adding other modalities to further optimize medical treatment.
Bronchial asthma is a very common respiratory disorder. Almost everyone knows someone in his or her family, friend or co-worker who suffers from bronchial asthma. It has multiple facets and gets worse with time if remains untreated. If untreated, it leads to deterioration of health and increase in medical expenses. Similarly, the outcome is the same for those with COPD, but it is generally seen in smokers mostly, for which they themselves are responsible. There are a few patients who have COPD as a result of second hand smoke exposure.
Inhalers are key in the treatment of disease control. There are different groups of inhalers used to treat asthma and COPD. Many are common in its treatment as it is a similar disease but not completely the same either. Bronchial asthma is an airway reversible disease and has good response with bronchodilators but the same is not true in the case of COPD as the bronchodilator has less airway reversibility than asthma.
There are short-acting inhalers, long-acting inhalers, steroid inhalers and other medications, which are taken orally for control of the symptoms. These help to control the symptoms of asthma or COPD, but do not eliminate or decrease the need in the long run. If the disease is not under control then this increases the cost of health care and dependence on medication.
Standard medial therapy is excellent in helping to control the symptoms of asthma or COPD, but when other alternative modalities are added to the current standard medical management then the chance of slowly improving the asthma and COPD is there. This may help to overall improve the symptoms and cut down the need for inhalers. This may happen in many patients but not all, and still may show some clinical improvement. This may decrease the need for Emergency visits, urgent care visits or hospitalization.
The integrative medial treatment approach is an addition to other alternative modalities of treatment like Ayurveda, Yoga, Pranayama, exercise, special diet, etc., to the standard medical treatment that one is getting. The goal is to use the multidisciplinary approach to control the disease of asthma and/or COPD, as it is simple, yet a complex disease that has multiple mechanisms of manifestation and exacerbation. A multi-modality treatment approach helps rather than just using the standard treatment of just inhalers or nebulizers alone. This is our observation in our practice in the group of patients who prefer the approach of integrative modalities of treatment verses the standard medication treatment alone protocol.
One may think, can such kind of integrative treatment approach help? Why does adding a regimen like exercise, special diet, Ayurvedic herbs, improvement of sleep through good sleep hygiene and lifestyle, etc., help?
There are no standard medical trials or any head-to-head medical trials involving the findings found in medical literature to prove or disprove it, but it is our experience that it helps patients with asthma and/or COPD from our observation of hundreds of patients having been followed over many years in our Pulmonary and Sleep Medicine Clinic. We have taken many of the observations from the literature of Ayurveda and incorporated in current medical treatment. We have tried to incorporate two different medical systems for overall improvement of asthma or COPD. It is like using the parallel software of an Apple computer to connect two different operating systems of Microsoft and MAC to get the benefits of both software and operating systems.
We have seen that Ayurveda gets incorporated better with standard medical treatment and it helps the patient. Ayurveda is the oldest documented medical literature. Asthma is not a new disease it has existed for thousands of years so why not use that data and old observation of Ayurveda to help patients currently suffering from the disease and incorporate it with current medical science to further optimize the patient’s health?
By adding the basic principles of Ayurveda, the world’s oldest medical science, we have seen that gradually, over many months and in 2-3 years the body starts changing. One may say that toxins come out of the body or the airway reactivity decreases. Or it may be part of rejuvenation of the body. Thereby slowly the exacerbation of the asthma or COPD symptoms mayl decrease. One needs to improve the digestion, postnasal drip, heartburn symptoms, irritable bowel symptoms, excess gas or bloating sensation, irritability or lack of sleep or inadequate sleep one has with asthma and/or COPD.
Nature has pairs of opposites forces. As there is a disease in the body so exists a healing system in the body, also. We would like to tap into the second one. The body has inherent properties of healing on its own, it just needs adequate condition and time, and if it happens then there is a high chance that the body can get better. Although there are so many variable factors, there are few known and most of are unknown to us but the body has a tendency to heal and get better.
A disciplinary approach is needed with clinical monitoring of asthma and COPD treatment and management by addressing every issue of the symptoms one has one by one and giving time for the body to change. This will subsequently bring improvement in breathing, decrease respiratory infection, decrease in need of rescue inhaler or nebulizer, sleep improvement, etc.
Because of this kind of need for medical management of asthma and COPD, we have designed the bronchial asthma and COPD integrative medical treatment protocol to help patients who are interested in this kind of medical approach. The program is clinically monitored for underlying asthma and COPD disease progress.
The asthma and COPD program uses the best of eastern and the western medical science to optimize underlying bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. We have used this approach on hundreds of patient with excellent results.
Posted in Integrative Medical approach -Bronchial asthma and COPD	| Tagged Asthma - copd - emphysema and Ayurveda, Ayurveda and asthma, Ayurveda and COPD, Bronchial asthma integrative medical treatment approach, Decrease in Emergency visit and hospitalization, decrease in health care cost	| 37 Replies
April 2019
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Jul
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30
The information on this website is for information and educational purpose only. The methodology of treatment designed is based on the research of chronic fatigue patients by Dr. Viramgama. This is not an FDA evaluated and approved treatment protocol. It is based on the clinical observation and the documented evidence from Ayurvedic literature. Please consult your doctor before changing any treatment management.
Home | Asthma | COPD | Integrative Medical Treatment | Case Studies | About Us | Faq | Blog
Copyright © 2000-2011 Asthma. All rights reserved.
Design by infozoneinc.com