Anti-Cancer Diets: Why I’m Ditching Brazil Nuts | Eat and Beat Cancer
Eat and Beat Cancer
Anti-Cancer Advice from the World's Top Experts
Search
Main menu
Skip to primary content
Home
About/Contact
Chat with Others
Get the Book
In Treatment?
Read This First!
Sign up for Workshops
Visit Glowing Older®
Visit Zester Daily
Check out Your Plantastic Kitchen®
Post navigation
← Previous Next →
Anti-Cancer Diets: Why I’m Ditching Brazil Nuts
Posted on August 7, 2016 by hsugarmill
As if Brazil didn’t have enough to worry about, now comes a new study that exposes the shady side of selenium. The selenium in Brazil nuts, it turns out, is not the kind associated with anti-cancer qualities.
But first, let’s digress.
Strike 1: Copper and Meth
If you’ve been following this anti-cancer blog, you already know that Brazil nuts are lower in phytonutrients than many other nuts.
They’re rich in copper, a mineral that fuels the oxidation process, and of all nuts, the highest in methionine–an amino acid common in animal foods. Methionine gets into the mitochondria of your cells, that part that burns fuels for energy, and creates free radicals of oxygen, those buggers that accelerate cancer and aging.
“If I had cancer, I would certainly seek to restrict methionine in my diet, probably to 1 gram a day (so long as I don’t become deficient in key vitamins and nutrients),” Australian researcher Dr. Paul Cavuoto says.
We talked about copper and methionine in previous posts.
Strike 2: Palmitic acid
But we haven’t yet talked about palmitic acid.
That’s a type of saturated fat that leaves you looking like one big fat Brazil nut, with fat jiggling around your belly. Animals and some fatty tropical plants, Brazil nuts included, are rich in palmitic acids.
Palmitic acid damages the cells in your pancreas that make insulin, the hormone that acts like a freight train and carries glucose into cells, which burn it for fuel. If the train’s not working, then glucose starts to puddle in your bloodstream. And what does the body do with excess glucose?
In a process called de novo lipogenesis, the liver turns excess glucose (and fructose and even amino acids) into harmful fatty acids and stores them as fat—belly fat to be precise, the kind of fat that is biologically active and produces signals telling cancer cells to grow.
Many cancer cells thrive on de novo lipogenesis–turning glucose and glutamine, an amino acid, into fatty acids that they use for growth.
One of the stunning features of a well -planned plant-based diet, however, is that it inhibits de novo lipogenesis. Yes, many nutrients in plants keep the body from turning common fuels—sugars and amino acids—into nasty fatty acids.
Palmitic acid reverses the ability of plant nutrients to do that. (More on “Life in the FAS Lane–Using Plant Foods to Stop Fatty Acid Synthesis” coming soon)
Strike 3: Selenium
So what about selenium? For years now, Brazil nuts (from central –but not southern Brazil) have been touted as a good source of selenium, with one small nut supposedly satisfying daily selenium needs.
But the randomized controlled human trials on selenium and prostate cancer cracked open a vat of confusion. Men with high selenium levels who were taking selenium supplements doubled their risk of aggressive prostate cancer.
That led Professor Junxuan Lu, PhD (“Johnny,” that is) of the Pharmacology and Cancer Institute, Penn State College of Medicine to question the kind of selenium those men were taking.
It turns out those studies used selenium bound to methionine–the kind that’s in Brazil nuts. The better forms –in Professor Johnny’s words, the more “biologically appropriate approaches for cancer chemoprevention” are a different kind–and include selenium bound to cysteine.
So if not the rain forest, to where do we turn? Once again, alliums and crucifers prove their value in an anti-cancer diet. They contain selenium bound to cysteine. We onion and garlic lovers rest our case.
Share this:
Email
Print
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Tumblr
Reddit
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
This entry was posted in Fats--Good and Bad, Nuts and seeds, Snacks and tagged anti cancer dietary strategies, anti-cancer, anti-cancer diet, anti-cancer foods, anti-cancer recipes, anti-cancer resources, cancer, cancer and diet, cancer and food, cancer and nutrition, cancer foods, cancer prevention, foods that fight cancer, healthy eating, vegetarian by hsugarmill. Bookmark the permalink.
3 thoughts on “Anti-Cancer Diets: Why I’m Ditching Brazil Nuts”
Jason on March 5, 2017 at 4:52 pm said:
I have a very real and powerful testimony to Brazilian nuts (and a lot of other foods for that matter).
I have some type of growth in one of my toes, it’s a type of tumor.
Over the last two years though, my foot issue has been sort of a window into what foods work and don’t work. By not having it operated on, I can feel which foods make the condition better or worse. The moment of truth is always in the morning when I wake up. I’m in no way perfect in regards to what I eat. Some days I eat very clean (raw/vegan), and other days I will eat crap.
Here are the list of foods that make my toe feel like shit in the morning:
1.) Alcohol
2.) Fast food
3.) Ice Cream
4.) Candy
5.) Sugary baked goods
6.) More than a small serving of meat (large steak for example)
7.) Brazil nuts
and many others
LikeLike
Reply ↓
Ankur Majumdar on July 14, 2017 at 2:03 am said:
A potpourri of colours, aroma and nutrition! That’s what nuts are to us. These small fruits tastes awesome and are packed with fibre, protein, antioxidants, vitamins and minerals that boost good health. The only limitation is their high calorie content but small portions cannot hurt. Let’s know more:
LikeLike
Reply ↓
Pingback: The Amazing Anti- Ageing Benefits of Brazil Nuts - Future Proof Futures
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: