Foot Warts Duct Tape Home Remedy - Is It Really Working?
Foot Warts Duct Tape Home Remedy – Is It Really Working?
Home » Dermatology » Warts »
Does the foot warts duct tape home remedy really work? Out of all of the home remedies for wart removal available, this one does not seem like it would work otherwise why are all of the other products created? Foot warts removal can be done in a number of ways, and some of them are painful while others are expensive and require a dermatologist. Freezing warts can be done at home or by the dermatologist, but this method may not always be effective and the price range can vary from small for home kits all the way up to very expensive for medical procedures. Duct tape only costs a few dollars and may be just as effective as laser wart removal and other expensive methods, although there may be more time required for the wart to be completely removed.
The foot warts duct tape method will work on flat warts as well as those which are raised up, and the treatment is easy to use and follow. All you have to do is apply the duct tape completely over the wart, and then leave this on for six days. After this time period has passed you will remove the duct tape and then soak the affected area in water for ten minutes. Once the area has been completely soaked then take an emery board or nail file and start to remove the dead skin in the area. The foot warts duct tape home remedy really is that simple. Next you simply repeat these steps if the wart is still visible.
You can tell that the foot warts duct tape remedy is working because you will notice that the tissue of the wart starts to become a whitish color and appears crusty. This will happen within one or two weeks of starting the treatment, and the wart will gradually continue to disappear over time. This remedy can be very effective for almost all types of warts, including mosaic warts, and may work just as well as more expensive treatments or even those given by a dermatologist. Why not to try the foot warts duct tape home remedy and see if it works for your warts?
0 0 0 0
flat warts, foot warts duct tape, foot warts removal, freezing warts, home remedies for wart removal, laser wart removal, mosaic warts
Related Links
Recent Articles
Ankylosing Spondylitis Diagnosis and Treatment Options
Liver Fibrosis Symptoms and Alcoholism
Root Canal Alternative Treatments: Pros and Cons
Lower Blood Pressure Fast Naturally – What Products To Use?
Online Menstrual Cycle Calculator – Which One Is The Most Accurate?
Our Facebook Page
Our Google Plus Community
Health Topics
Heart Health
Digestive Health
Immune System
Ear, Nose and Throat
Bronchi and Lungs
Neurology
Mental Health
Blood Disorders
Cancer Types
Vision Problems
Dental Health
Speech Pathology
Skin Care
Rheumatic Diseases
Rectal Pain
Urinary System
Kidney Diseases
Glands and Hormones
Womens Health
Foot Problems
Orthopedic Surgery
Plastic Surgery
Stem Cells
Substance Abuse
Weight Loss
Healthy Diets
Dietary Supplements
Alternative Therapies
Herbal Remedies
Disclaimer
The information provided herein is intended for a general knowledge only and is not a substitute for medical advice or a treatment for specific medical conditions. You assume full responsibility for how you choose to use this information. Always consult with your doctor or other professional healthcare provider for a medical advice.
Popular Articles
Top 10 Cloudy Urine Causes
5 Reasons Why You May Be Coughing Up Yellow Mucus
Top 10 Foods that Increase Blood Circulation
Torn Labrum Surgery – 10 Things You Need to Know
Rooster Comb Injections vs. Knee Replacement
Blood on Toilet Paper after Bowel Movement – What Is Causing It?
10 Best Orthopedic Surgeons in US
7 Things to Know about Rotator Cuff Surgery Recovery
Blurry Vision After Cataract Surgery – What to Do?
Top 10 Natural Blood Thinners for Thick Blood
About
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
© 2019 Health Articles 101