7 Reasons Why Magnesium is Essential to Your Body – Vitamins3
Skip to content
Expand navigation
View cart
Home
Product Details
Vitamins3 Research
Log in
Create account
Search
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Search again
Apr. 26, 2018
7 Reasons Why Magnesium is Essential to Your Body
Why do we need magnesium?
Our body needs magnesium not only to maintain overall health, but also to create and strengthen bones and teeth. In addition to strengthening bones and teeth, magnesium keeps you away from depression, acts against Type II Diabetes, prevents hypertension, and there are other health benefits as well. Because magnesium plays important roles in our body, it is a good idea to take magnesium supplements.
1. Magnesium facilitates hundreds of biochemical reactions in your body
About 60% of your magnesium intake accumulates in your bone and teeth. Magnesium strengthens your bone and teeth. The rest of your magnesium intake is in your muscles, soft tissues, fluids, which includes blood.
Magnesium is contained in every part of your cell, and it acts as a ‘helper molecule’ in the biochemical and enzymatic reactions that take place in your cells.
Such reactions include:
Energy synthesis
Protein synthesis
Muscle sustenance
Nervous system regulation
When magnesium is deficient in your body, such body functions are not able to properly function.
2. Magnesium keeps you away from depression
Magnesium plays an important role in brain function and mood, and therefore is critical in lowering the risk of depression. According to a study, out of people those are under 65 years of age, people with lowest intake of magnesium had 22% more chance of suffering from depression. Therefore, supplementing with magnesium may help reduce symptoms of depression and mental illness.
3. Magnesium acts against Type II Diabetes
About 48% of diabetics are diagnosed with low levels of magnesium in their blood. Low levels of magnesium may impair insulin’s ability to regulate blood sugar levels in our body. In addition, according to a study that followed more than 4,000 people for 20 years, people with the highest intake of magnesium were 47% less likely to become diabetic.
In another study, diabetics who took high doses of magnesium each day had significant improvements to blood sugar and Hemoglobin A1c levels compared to those who did not.
4. Magnesium functions as anti-inflammatory component
Low magnesium intake may be linked to chronic inflammation, which is one of the main factors of aging, chronic disease, and obesity. According to a study, children with the lowest blood magnesium levels were diagnosed to have the highest levels of the inflammatory marker. They were also diagnosed with higher levels of blood sugar, insulin, and triglyceride levels.
Magnesium supplements can reduce factors of inflammation for those people who are likely to get diagnosed with diabetes.
5. Magnesium could help prevent migraines (Intense headache)
Migraines are known as debilitating headache with nausea and vomiting. People who suffer from migraines are more likely to be magnesium deficient than others.
Migraine headaches could be prevented by increasing magnesium intake. According to a study, supplementing with one gram provided a quicker relief from a migraine than common medication or treatments.
6. Magnesium could prevent hypertension
According to a study conducted at the Harvard School of Public Health, lower risk of hypertension was associated with diets with increased magnesium intake. In addition, higher intake of magnesium reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure, which helped sustain healthy heart.
7. Magnesium provides a short-term treatment of asthma attacks
Magnesium relaxes smooth, bronchial muscles by blocking excess calcium. Its influence over calcium channels across cellular membranes make it possible to soothe these inflamed muscles. After multiple experimentations, magnesium is found to be safe and beneficial for patients with acute asthma. Results have shown that, in severe cases, peak expiratory flow rates (PEFR) improved by 52 L/min and forced expiratory volume (FEV1) by 10%.
The benefits of magnesium that are mentioned above the most important benefits. Other than the benefits listed above, there are other benefits like relieving anxiety, preventing asthma, increasing energy levels, and stimulating the absorption of minerals. So taking magnesium supplements are highly recommended!
Get a Free Box
Share
Share Share on Facebook
Share
Share Share on Facebook
Leave a comment
Name
Email
Message
Private Policy
Terms of Services
Sign up for updates
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Copyright © 2019, Vitamins3. Powered by Shopify
Close Cart
Shopping Cart
Your cart is currently empty.
Enable cookies to use the shopping cart
t: e
Item Quantity
Remove
Subtotal
$0.00
You're saving $0.00
Shipping & taxes calculated at checkout
Checkout