How Do Vitamins For Skin Enter & Repair Skin Cells?
Home
CONTACT US
YOUR GREEN STORE
REWARDS
Life Extension
Rx For Health
10-min. Face Lift
COLIC in HORSES
Horse Colic ''Aid''
EQUINE Melanoma
GREEN Lifestyle
Horseback Riding
Tibetan YAK
HEALTHY PETS
ORGANIC WIPES
OFF THE GRID
BREAKFAST Club
Anti Aging SkinCare
Skin Nourshment
Sun Damage?
Dry Skin Care
MANIA, Bipolar
Healthy Weight Loss
BUFFALO Capture
Horse Care
Horse Vities
ANGELS
Green Clean
Automatic Water
Green & Organic
GREEN Fundraising
Anti Aging vities
DOG TREATS
Healthy Recipes
WEBSITE Building
Climate Change
Joint Health
Heart Health
Funny Videos
Favorite Links
the Ranch Blog
YOUR STORIES
Santa Fe ARTS
Pikes Peak
WE LIVE HERE
[?]Subscribe To This Site
How Do Vitamins For Skin Enter & Repair Skin Cells?
How do vitamins for skin enter skin cells?
Wrinkles, fine lines, discoloration, and dull, dry, flaky skin are the result of three facets of accelerated aging:
1) surface damage from free-radical induced reactions;
2) excessive loss of natural moisture from damaged skin; and
3) the breakdown of the skin’s natural support structure of collagen and elastin.
Working together day and night, there are extraordinary treatment formulas to boost your skin’s natural ability to repair its own appearance.
* Morning Repair is a 5-in-1 treatment that meets all your skin’s daytime needs for renewal, recovery, moisturization, nourishment, and protection.
• Evening Repair delivers high levels of pure, derma-available vitamins C and E to visibly firm skin without irritation.
with Pure vitamin C and exclusive anti-aging botanicals can soften the look of under eye circles and diminish the look of puffiness and fine lines.
A quick review of Skin Biology
If you'd like a quick reminder of the skin, it's layers, it's biology, & how vitamins for skin could help, check out Skin Facts!
The Most Important Part of Vitamin C to Skin
THE FOLLOWING ARTICLES ARE DETAILS ABOUT VITAMINS C and E.... as a science major in college, I love reading the ''juicy'' details --why do these nutrients get into the skin, into each cell of our bodies..... those AMAZING Mini-Factories that make us so Fearfully and Wonderfully Made!!!! This may be a bit too much for some of you, but I did want to include it for the ''scientific interest'' of some us! Thanks for understanding!!! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Benefits of Vitamin E for Skin
In terms of skin health and skin care, vitamin E benefits are numerous. In fact, skin care products that contain vitamin E have become an essential part of healthy skin care. Vitamins for skin must include E!
Antioxidant
First of all, because of its antioxidant activity, vitamin E is vital in protecting skin cells from ultra violet light, pollution, drugs, and other elements that produce cell damaging free radicals. It is believed that vitamin E is most effective in its natural alcohol form rather than its acetate form where it is a less effective antioxidant. Watch for this in the labeling of skin care products.
Regulator for Vitamin A
The benefits of vitamin E for healthy skin care also include its ability to regulate vitamin A in the body, which itself is important for healthy skin.
Anti-Aging Benefits of Vitamin E
Vitamins for skin, such as E, added to lotions, creams, and other skin care products, as well as taken orally, plays a role in the anti-aging of skin. It helps skin look younger by reducing the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles. Also, free radicals are believed to play an important role in skin aging and therefore the antioxidant activity is quite valuable for this skin problem.
Sun Protection and Sun Burn Treatment
Vitamin E lotions provide some benefit in preventing and treating sunburns. These lotions protect the epidermis layer of the skin from early stages of ultra violet light damage. Vitamin E preparations also increase the effectiveness of sunscreens. Such lotions do not work immediately. They must be applied about 20 minutes before sun exposure in order to allow the vitamin E to be absorbed deep into the epidermis layer.
Treatment of Skin Diseases
Vitamin E can aid in the treatment of various skin diseases or skin conditions. Topical applications such as those used to treat psoriasis is one of the benefits of vitamin E. Orally ingested vitamin E can help treat erythema (a skin inflammation that results in reddish, painful, and tender lumps).
Treatment of Scars
For decades, people have been looking for vitamins for skin that treat scars. This is one of the more controversial benefits of vitamin E. Initially, it was thought that vitamin E was very beneficial in the prevention and treatment of scarring (acne scars or surgical scars) and healing of skin from various forms of damage such as burns. Some recent research has questioned this benefit of vitamin E. In fact some studies have indicated that vitamin E creams do not help prevent surgical scarring and may actually make the scar look worse. This is in opposition to the experience of a number of individuals that claim vitamin E creams help soften the appearance of scars.
Skin Cancer
One of the most important benefits of vitamin E is the prevention of skin cancer. This occurs because of its sun protection quality and of course its powerful antioxidant properties, which help reduce or prevent sun damage.
Other
There are a variety of other benefits of vitamin E for skin care:
vitamin E products help reduce the appearance of stretch marks vitamin E can help prevent the appearance of age spots it helps maintain the skin’s oil balance during the cleansing process it reduces transepidermal water loss from skin and strengthens the skin’s barrier function
Overall for skin care, more benefit is obtained from topical application of vitamin E through creams or lotions rather than taking vitamin E orally. Skin is able to absorb natural vitamin E effectively. However, taking vitamin E orally is important for the good health of other areas of the body.
The recommended skin lotions and creams by many experts are those that contain the alcohol form of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) instead of the acetate form (alpha-tocopherol acetate). The acetate form does not penetrate the skin’s surface well and provides less of the benefits of vitamin E such as antioxidant activity for the skin. Finding the right vitamins for skin care is very important!
CONTACT ME HERE
Exploring the pathways leading to Total Health
Body, Mind, & Spirit
including the Environment that surrounds us
Join the Journey!!
SBI!