Black Pepper Essential Oil | Ageless Health
{{{ data.variation.price_html }}}
{{{ data.variation.availability_html }}}
[email protected]
My Account
My Account
Delivery Options
Payment Options
Wishlist
Checkout
Cart
Cart
0$0.00
Favourites
PLEASE NOTE THAT SALLAMANDER CONCEPTS WILL BE CLOSED FROM 30 APRIL TO 2 MAY 2019 DUE TO RELOCATION
Orders of $30 and over qualify for free shipping. Orders over $150 qualify for 10% discount - use coupon code get10off
Home
Shop All Products
Shop Oils
Shop Skincare
Shop Supplements
Additional Information
Safety with Essential Oils
Toxic Essential Oils
Various Free Recipes
Knowledge-Base
Essential Oils for Focus and Concentration
Care for your Hair
The Liver – elixir of life and retarding aging?
Migraines
Aromatherapy for Animals
Aromatherapy for Animals
Toxic Essential Oils – dogs and large farm animals
Safe Essential oils – dogs and large farm animals
Treatment Suggestions – dogs and large farm animals
Dilutions – Dogs and large farm animals
Safety Considerations – dogs and large farm animals
Recipes – dogs and large farm animals
Black Pepper Blended Essential Oil (10 ml and 100 ml sizes)
HomeAll OilsEssential OilsBlack Pepper Blended Essential Oil (10 ml and 100 ml sizes)
Black Pepper Blended Essential Oil (10 ml and 100 ml sizes)
$18.50 – $95.50
Black pepper essential oil can be used to help in the treatment of pain relief, rheumatism, chills, flu, colds, increase circulation, exhaustion, muscular aches, physical and emotional coldness, nerve tonic and fevers. It furthermore increases the flow of saliva, stimulates appetite, encourages peristalsis, tones the colon muscles and is a general digestive tonic.
size
Choose an option10ml100ml Clear selection
Add to cart
Add to Wishlist
Remove from Wishlist
Add to Wishlist
Remove from Wishlist
Categories: All Oils, Essential Oils Tags: black pepper, chills, colds, encourages peristalsis, exhaustion, flu, general digestive tonic, increase circulation, muscular aches, pain relief, physical and emotional coldness, rheumatism, tones the colon muscles SKU:N/A
Share this
Additional Information
Additional information
size
10ml, 100ml
Black pepper essential oil is extracted from the plant Piper nigrum of the Piperaceae family. The oil is made from the unripe red fruit of the plant, while white pepper for household use, is made from the same fruit, but the berry is picked when fully ripe and the outside layer (pericarp) is removed before drying. Black Pepper Essential Oil, warm and spicy, helps increase warmth of the body and mind, relieving sore muscles and joints, boost the immune and digestive system, stimulates the kidneys and disperses bruising by increasing circulation to the skin.
Pure essential oils are regarded as dangerous goods and cannot be sent via the mail.
We have blended our essential oils 50:50 with Grape Seed carrier oil, to enable us to send the blended oil via International post.
Should you require the pure essential oil, please view our Delivery Options
About Black Pepper
Oil Properties
It is a strong and sharp, spicy smelling oil and is faintly reminiscent of clove oil, yet more refined. It can range in color from light amber to yellow-green and has a watery viscosity.
Origin
The plant originated from India, Malaysia, Madagascar, China and Indonesia and the oil is mostly made in Singapore, India and Malaysia.
The plant is originally a forest plant and this climbing woody vine uses trees or other supports to grow to about twenty feet high, but is normally kept to about 12 feet for commercial purposes and has a lifespan of about twenty years. The word pepper is derived from the Latin word piper, which in turn is taken from the Sanskrit word pippali. It has been used since the times of the Ancient Romans and Greeks. Even the Turks levied a tax on pepper, while the French, Portuguese and Dutch often went to war in the middle ages to fight for this lucrative trade from the far east.
Extraction
The unripe, sun-dried peppercorns (fruit) are used for the extraction of the oil, using steam distillation which produces a yield of nearly 2%.
Therapeutic properties
The therapeutic properties of black pepper oil include analgesic, antiseptic, antispasmodic, antitoxic, aphrodisiac, diaphoretic, digestive, diuretic, febrifuge, laxative, rubefacient and tonic (especially of the spleen).
Chemical composition
Black Pepper Essential Oilis composed of various chemical constituents and includes the following; a-thujone, a-pinene, camphene, sabinene, b-pinene, a-phellandrene, myrcene, limonene, caryophyllene, b-farnesene, b-bisabolene, linalool and terpinen-4-ol.
Summary
This warming oil can be used to great effect to help circulation and bruising and specifically to help with muscle tone, aching limbs and rheumatoid arthritis. It further helps to promote digestion, the colon as well as the kidneys.
Precautions and Uses
Precautions
Black Pepper Essential Oil may cause irritation to sensitive skins and using too much could over-stimulate the kidneys. It should be avoided in pregnancy due to its possible skin sensitizing effect.
Uses
Black pepper essential oil can be used to help in the treatment of pain relief, rheumatism, chills, flu, colds, increase circulation, exhaustion, muscular aches, physical and emotional coldness, nerve tonic and fevers. It furthermore increases the flow of saliva, stimulates appetite, encourages peristalsis, tones the colon muscles and is a general digestive tonic.
Burners and vaporizers
In vapor therapy, Black Pepper Essential Oil can be used to help add warmth to chills and colds and to create an atmosphere of ‘getting things done’.
Blended Massage Oil and in the Bath
Black Pepper Essential Oil can be used in blended massage oil, or diluted in a bath, to assist with circulation, bruises, rheumatoid arthritis and muscular aches and pains.
Blended in Base Cream
As a constituent in a blended cream, Black Pepper essential oil can be used for tired aching limbs, sore muscles, rheumatoid arthritis, stimulating the appetite and to help sort out bowel problems. In small quantities it can be used to reduce high temperatures. It increases circulation to the skin and is therefore helpful in restoring proper functioning of the skin.
Blends
Although essential oils blend and mix well aroma wise with one another, Black Pepper oil does go very well with other essential oils such as Bergamot, Clary Sage, Clove, Coriander, Fennel, Frankincense, Geranium, Ginger, Grapefruit, Lavender, Juniper berry, Lemon, Lime, Mandarin, Sage, Sandalwood (Mysore) and Ylang-ylang.
Contact Us
Phone: +2721 591 1944
Fax: +2786-542-0381
Product queries:
[email protected]
Order queries:
[email protected]
Quick Links
About Us
Contact Us
Delivery Options
Payment Options
Essential Oil Flash Points
Privacy Policy
Payment Methods
© Copyright 1999 - 2019 Sallamander Concepts (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Website by Shift CTRL