Rheumatology for patients » Osteoarthritis
Rheumatology for patients
Arthritis, lupus and heart attack
Physiotherapy
Useful links and forms
Your comments on website content
Osteoarthritis
Exercise therapy may postpone total hip replacement surgery in patients with hip osteoarthritis: a long term follow up of a randomized trial.
Svege I. et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2013 Nov 20 (epub ehead of print)
Authors investigated the efficacy of exercise therapy and patient education versus patient education only on the 6 year cumulative survival of the native hip to total hip replacement in 109 patients with symptomatic and radiographic hip osteoarthritis. Both groups were similar at the baseline.
22 patients in the group receiving both, exercise therapy and education and 31 patients in the group receiving only education underwent total hip replacement during the period of the follow up. It corresponded to the 6 year cumulative native hip survival of 41% (exercise and education) and 25% (education only) respectively.
The conclusion was that the exercise therapy in addition to patient education can reduce the need for total hip replacement by 44% in patients with hip osteoarthritis.
.
Effect of home-based hand exercises in women with hand osteoarthritis: a randomized controlled trial.
Hennig T. et al. Ann Rheum Dis published on line 25 March 2014
Effect of hand osteoarthritis (OA) information plus home based hand exercises (exercise group) was compared with information only (control group) in women with hand OA. Exercise group women received 8 calls over 3 months of study. They reported adherence, pain after exercises and adverse effects recorded in diary. 40 women were enrolled in the exercise group and 40 women participated in the control group. Performance measured after 3 months by the Patient Specific Functional Scale. Hand exercises were well tolerated and improved activity performance, grip strength, pain and fatigue in women with hand OA.
« Ankylosing spondylitis
Osteoporosis »
Search for:
Diseases
Rheumatoid arthritis
Ankylosing spondylitis (spondyloarthritis)
Psoriatic arthritis
Systemic lupus erythematosus
Undifferentiated, mixed connective tissue diseases and overlaps
Sarcoidosis
Vasculitis
Raynaud’s phenomenon
Scleroderma
Sjogren’s syndrome
Inflammatory myopathy (myositis)
Antiphospholipid syndrome
Hypermobility syndrome
Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS)
Osteoarthritis and degenerative disc disease
Osteoporosis
Gout
Fibromyalgia
Trigger fingers and Dupuytren’s contractures
Medical news
Rheumatoid arthritis
CTDs (lupus, Sjogren’s, myositis, scleroderma)
Ankylosing spondylitis
Osteoporosis
Osteoarthritis
Others
Biologics
Research news
Medications
Methotrexate
Hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil)
Sulfasalazine
Leflunomide (Arava)
Prednisone
Biologics
Mycophenolate mofetil (Cellcept)
Azathioprine (Imuran)
Steroid injections
Colchicine
Febuxostat (Uloric)
Allopurinol
NSAIDs
Vaccinations and DMARDs
Surgery and DMARDs
Malignancy and DMARDs
Anesthetics in patients with Hypermobility syndrome
© 2019 - Rheumatology for patients. .
<?