Steam Inhalation: Cold, Sinuses, Procedure, Benefits, Cough, and
Newsletter
Steam Inhalation: What Are the Benefits?
Medically reviewed by Stacy Sampson, DO on July 20, 2018 — Written by Jacquelyn Cafasso
Benefits
How to
Side effects
Takeaway
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
What is steam inhalation?
Steam inhalation is one of the most widely used home remedies to soothe and open the nasal passages and get relief from the symptoms of a cold or sinus infection.
Also called steam therapy, it involves the inhalation of water vapor. The warm, moist air is thought to work by loosening the mucus in the nasal passages, throat, and lungs. This may relieve symptoms of inflamed, swollen blood vessels in your nasal passages.
While steam inhalation won’t cure an infection, like a cold or the flu, it may help make you feel a lot better while your body fights it off. But as with any home remedy, it’s important to learn best practices so you don’t hurt yourself in the process.
What are the benefits of steam inhalation?
A stuffy nose is triggered by inflammation in the blood vessels of the sinuses. The blood vessels can become irritated because of an acute upper respiratory infection, such as a cold or a sinus infection.
The main benefit of breathing in moist, warm steam is that may help ease feelings of irritation and swollen blood vessels in the nasal passages. The moisture may also help thin the mucus in your sinuses, which allows them to empty more easily. This can allow your breathing to return to normal, at least for a short period of time.
Steam inhalation may provide some temporary relief from the symptoms of:
the common cold
the flu (influenza)
sinus infections (infectious sinusitis)
bronchitis
nasal allergies
While steam inhalation can provide subjective relief from the symptoms of a cold and other upper respiratory infections, it won’t actually make your infection go away any faster.
Steam inhalation doesn’t actually kill the virus responsible for the infection. At best, steam inhalation might make you feel a little better as your body fights your cold.
One review of six clinical trials evaluating steam therapy in adults with the common cold had mixed results. Some participants had symptom relief, but others didn’t. Additionally, some participants experienced discomfort inside the nose from the steam inhalation.
Another recent clinical trial looked at the use of steam inhalation in treating chronic sinus symptoms. The study, however, didn’t find that steam inhalation was beneficial for the majority of sinus symptoms, except for headache.
Although the results of clinical studies have been mixed, anecdotal evidence claims steam inhalation helps alleviate:
headache
congested (stuffy) nose
throat irritation
breathing problems caused by airway congestion
dry or irritated nasal passages
cough
How to inhale steam
You’ll need the following materials:
a large bowl
water
a pot or kettle and a stove or microwave for heating up water
towel
Here’s the process:
Heat up the water to boiling.
Carefully pour the hot water into the bowl.
Drape the towel over the back of your head.
Turn on a timer.
Shut your eyes and slowly lower your head toward the hot water until you’re about 8 to 12 inches away from the water. Be extremely careful to avoid making direct contact with the water.
Inhale slowly and deeply through your nose for at least two to five minutes.
Don’t steam longer than 10 to 15 minutes for each session. However, you can repeat steam inhalation two or three times per day if you’re still having symptoms.
You can also purchase an electric steam inhaler (also called a vaporizer) online or at a drugstore. For these, you just need to add water to the level indicated and plug in the system. The vaporizer uses electricity to make steam that cools before exiting the machine. Some vaporizers come with a built-in mask that fits around your mouth and nose.
Steam vaporizers can get dirty with germs quickly, so you’ll need to wash it often to prevent bacterial and fungal growth. Wash the bucket and filter system every few days during use, too.
Side effects of steam inhalation
Steam inhalation is considered a safe home remedy if done right, but it’s very possible to hurt yourself unintentionally if you’re not careful.
There’s a risk of scalding yourself if you make contact with the hot water. The biggest risk is accidentally knocking over the bowl of hot water into your lap, which can cause severe burns in sensitive areas.
To avoid burns:
Make sure the bowl of hot water is on a level, sturdy surface and can’t be knocked over.
Don’t shake or lean on the bowl.
Avoid allowing the steam to make contact with your eyes. Your eyes should be closed and directed away from the steam.
Keep the bowl of hot water out of reach of children or pets.
Steam inhalation isn’t advised for children due to the risk of burns. In fact, found that most people who received burns from steam inhalation therapy were children. However, you can have your child sit in a steamy bathroom while you run hot water in the shower for a similar effect.
Steam inhalation systems that you can purchase online or in stores are generally safer, as the water is enclosed and can’t easily spill on your skin.
The takeaway
Steam inhalation may be an effective way to clear up your nasal and respiratory passages when you’re sick with a cold or the flu, but it won’t actually cure your infection. Your body’s immune system will still do the bulk of the work to get rid of the virus causing your symptoms.
Like many home remedies, always proceed with a grain of salt. What works for one person might not work for you.
If you experience any discomfort, pain, or irritation from using steam therapy, stop using it and look for other ways to alleviate your symptoms.
If you’re feeling under the weather for more than a week or have severe symptoms, make an appointment to see your doctor.
Medically reviewed by Stacy Sampson, DO on July 20, 2018 — Written by Jacquelyn Cafasso
related stories
Can Essential Oils Treat Sinus Congestion?
How to Stop a Runny Nose at Home
Is It Possible to Sweat Out a Cold?
How to Treat Nasal and Chest Congestion in a Newborn
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
READ THIS NEXT
Can Essential Oils Treat Sinus Congestion?
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Here's what the research says about using essential oils to treat sinus congestion.
READ MORE
How to Stop a Runny Nose at Home
Medically reviewed by Elaine K. Luo, MD
If you prefer using natural remedies, there are plenty of options that can help. Find out which remedies are the best at stopping a runny nose.
READ MORE
Is It Possible to Sweat Out a Cold?
You may have heard that you can sweat out a cold, but is this an effective remedy? Sweat may temporarily relieve your congestion, but it won't help…
READ MORE
How to Treat Nasal and Chest Congestion in a Newborn
Medically reviewed by Karen Gill, MD
Congestion occurs frequently in newborn babies. Newborn congestion is usually treated at home or resolves without treatment within a couple of days…
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From barre to TRX, there's a lot of ways to work out. But if you're someone who wants to keep it simple and effective, then this workout routine is…
READ MORE
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Approximately 1 in 6 U.S. adults experiences mental health issues each year. So chances are, you may benefit at some point in your life from talking…
READ MORE
Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead.
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From worsening anxiety to making depression more likely, sugar is seriously harmful to your mental health. Even trying to cut back on the sweet stuff…
READ MORE
Infrared Saunas: Your Questions Answered
Infrared saunas promise a number of health benefits, from weight loss and decreased stress levels to improved circulation and even better skin. But…
READ MORE
The Fuel-Good, Keto-Happy Shopping List for Beginners
Medically reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Our simple ketogenic shopping list is based off delicious recipes that'll launch your keto journey beyond the first week. It keeps to the basics, so…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 150893 Client Version: cdb63dc652210437a373a364814a92be03920246 Build Number: 26560