Magnesium
Skip to main content
Search
Home
Services
Behavioral Health
Bloodless Medicine
Brain & Spine
Cancer Care
Ear, Nose and Throat
Emergency Care
Senior Health
Heart & Vascular Care
Home Health Care
Medical Imaging
Minimally Invasive Surgery
Orthopedics
Pregnancy & Childbirth
Primary Care
Rehabilitation Services
Weight Loss Surgery
Wound Healing & Care
Women's Health
Doctors
Find a Primary Care Doctor
Find a Doctor
Physician Referral
Practices:
Baptist Primary Care
Baptist AgeWell
Baptist Behavioral Health
Baptist Endocrinology
Baptist ENT Specialists
Baptist Heart Specialists
Baptist Infectious Diseases
Baptist MD Anderson Cancer Physicians
Baptist Neurology
Baptist Pediatrics
Baptist Pulmonary Specialists (Nassau)
Baptist Rheumatology
Baptist Urology Group (Nassau)
Jacksonville Orthopaedic Institute
Lyerly Neurosurgery
Locations
Our Hospitals:
Baptist Medical Center Jacksonville
Baptist Medical Center South
Baptist Medical Center Beaches
Baptist Medical Center Nassau
Baptist Heart Hospital
Wolfson Children's Hospital
Imaging Centers:
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
Mammography and Bone Density
Medical Imaging
Freestanding Emergency Centers:
Baptist Emergency at Clay
Baptist Emergency at North
Baptist Emergency at Town Center
Urgent Care Locations:
Baptist Health Clinics at Walgreens
CareSpot Urgent Care
Health & Wellness:
4her Wellness Resources for Women
JCA Wellness Connexion
Y Healthy Living Centers
Outpatient Locations:
AgeWell Center for Senior Health
Baptist Clay Medical Campus
Baptist MD Anderson Cancer Center
Baptist Neurodiagnostic Center
Baptist North Medical Campus
Heart and Vascular Testing Centers
Hill Breast Center
Infusion Center
Pharmacy
Rehabilitation Centers
Robotic Spine Surgery
Sleep Centers
Stroke and Cerebrovascular Center
Surgery Centers
Wound Care
Patient Info
Billing & Insurance Information
Insurance Plans Accepted
Cost Estimate Request
Financial Assistance Program
My Baptist Connect (Patient Portal)
Medical Records
Classes and Events
Clinical Trials
Tell Us What You Think
Health Library
Diseases and Conditions
Symptoms
Tests
Surgeries and Procedures
Injuries
Nutrition
Poison
Drug Information
Drug Images
Health News
Video Library
About Us
Administration
Awards & Honors
Careers
Provider Opportunities
Baptist MD Anderson Provider Opportunities
Spiritual Care
Social Responsibility
Community Health Needs Assessment (CHNA)
Corporate Wellness (PATH)
Volunteering
Newsroom
Juice
Health News Overview:
Aging Well
Brain, Spine & Nerve
Cancer
Child Health
Community Health
Diabetes
Ear, Nose & Throat
Heart & Vascular
Lungs, Breathing & Sleep
Mental Health
Orthopedics, Bones & Muscles
Pregnancy & Childbirth
Primary Care
Wellness
Women's Health
Men's Health
Home
Health Library
Magnesium
Magnesium
Every organ in the body, especially the heart, muscles, and kidneys, needs magnesium. This mineral also contributes to the makeup of teeth and bones. Magnesium activates enzymes, contributes to energy production, and helps regulate levels of calcium, copper, zinc, potassium, vitamin D, and other important nutrients in the body.
You can get magnesium from many foods. However, most people in the U.S. probably do not get as much magnesium as they should from their diet. Foods rich in magnesium include whole grains, nuts, and green vegetables. Green leafy vegetables are particularly good sources of magnesium.
Although you may not get enough magnesium from your diet, it is rare to be deficient in magnesium. However, certain medical conditions can upset the body's magnesium balance. For example, an intestinal virus that causes vomiting or diarrhea can cause a temporary magnesium deficiency. Some health conditions can lead to deficiencies, including:
Gastrointestinal diseases, such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and ulcerative colitis
Diabetes
Pancreatitis
Hyperthyroidism (high thyroid hormone levels)
Kidney disease
Taking diuretics
Other factors that can lower magnesium levels include:
Drinking too much coffee, soda, or alcohol
Eating too much sodium (salt)
Heavy menstrual periods
Excessive sweating
Prolonged stress
Symptoms of magnesium deficiency may include:
Agitation and anxiety
Restless leg syndrome (RLS)
Sleep disorders
Irritability
Nausea and vomiting
Abnormal heart rhythms
Low blood pressure
Confusion
Muscle spasm and weakness
Hyperventilation
Insomnia
Poor nail growth
Seizures
Getting enough magnesium may enhance the effectiveness of conventional treatment for the following conditions:
Asthma
Several studies show that intravenous (IV) magnesium and magnesium inhaled through a nebulizer can help treat acute attacks of asthma in adults and children, 6 to 18 years of age. But there is no evidence that taking oral magnesium helps control asthma symptoms. Low levels of magnesium may increase the risk of developing asthma. A population-based clinical study of more than 2,500 children, 11 to 19 years of age, found that low dietary magnesium intake may be associated with the risk of asthma. The same was found in a group of more than 2,600 adults, 18 to 70 years of age.
Depression
Inadequate magnesium appears to reduce serotonin levels, and antidepressants have been shown to raise brain magnesium. One study found that magnesium was as effective as tricyclic antidepressants in treating depression among people with diabetes.
Diabetes
People who have type 2 diabetes often have low blood levels of magnesium. A large clinical study of more than 2,000 people found that getting more magnesium in the diet may help protect against type 2 diabetes. Some studies suggest that taking magnesium supplements may help blood sugar control and insulin sensitivity in people with diabetes or prediabetes.
Fibromyalgia
A preliminary clinical study of 24 people with fibromyalgia found that a proprietary tablet containing both malic acid and magnesium improved pain and tenderness associated with fibromyalgia when taken for at least 2 months. Other studies suggest the combination of calcium and magnesium may be helpful for some people with fibromyalgia. More studies are needed. Other studies suggest that magnesium supplementation helped improve muscle strength in children with cystic fibrosis.
Noise-related hearing loss
One study suggests that taking magnesium may prevent temporary or permanent hearing loss due to very loud noise.
Arrhythmia and heart failure
Magnesium is essential to heart health. Studies suggest a possible association between a modestly lower risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) in men and increased magnesium intake. In one study of women, higher dietary intake of magnesium was associated with a lower risk of sudden cardiac death. Magnesium helps maintain a normal heart rhythm and doctors sometimes administer it intravenously (IV) in the hospital to reduce the chance of atrial fibrillation and cardiac arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat). People with congestive heart failure (CHF) are often at risk for developing cardiac arrhythmia. For this reason, doctors may decide that magnesium should be a part of the treatment of CHF. One well-designed study found that taking magnesium orotate for a year reduced symptoms and improved survival rates in people with CHF when compared to placebo. Magnesium and calcium work together at very precise ratios to ensure your heart functions properly. Talk to your doctor before taking magnesium supplements if you have a history of cardiac issues.
Results of studies using magnesium to treat heart attack survivors have been mixed. Some studies reported lower death rates, as well as fewer arrhythmias and improved blood pressure when magnesium is used as part of the treatment following a heart attack. But one study found that magnesium slightly increased the risks of sudden death, the chance of another heart attack, or the need for bypass surgery in the year after a heart attack. If you have had a heart attack, your doctor will decide if magnesium supplementation is right for you.
High blood pressure (hypertension)
Eating low-fat dairy products and lots of fruits and vegetables on a regular basis is associated with lower blood pressure. All of these foods are rich in magnesium, as well as calcium and potassium. A large clinical study of more than 8,500 women found that a higher intake of dietary magnesium may reduce the risk of high blood pressure in women. A few studies also suggest that magnesium supplements may help lower blood pressure, although not all studies agree.
Migraine headache
A few studies suggest that taking magnesium supplements may help prevent migraine headaches. In addition, research suggests that magnesium supplements may shorten the duration of a migraine and reduce the amount of medication needed. People who have migraine headaches tend to have lower levels of magnesium compared to those with tension headaches or no headaches at all.
Some experts recommend combining magnesium with vitamin B2 (riboflavin) and the herb feverfew when you have a headache.
However, some studies suggest that magnesium sulfate may be less effective than prescription medications for preventing migraines in those who have 3 or more headaches per month. The only exception to this may be women who get migraine headaches around the time of their period.
Osteoporosis
Not getting enough calcium, vitamin D, magnesium, and other micronutrients may play a role in the development of osteoporosis. To prevent osteoporosis, it is important to:
Get enough calcium, magnesium, and vitamin D
Eat a well-balanced diet
Do weight bearing exercises throughout life
Preeclampsia and eclampsia
Preeclampsia is characterized by a sharp rise in blood pressure during the third trimester of pregnancy. Women with preeclampsia may develop seizures, which is then called eclampsia. Magnesium, given in the hospital by IV, is the treatment of choice to prevent or treat seizures associated with eclampsia or to prevent complications from preeclampsia. Some physicians also use magnesium sulfate to manage pre-term labor.
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS)
Scientific studies suggest that magnesium supplements may help relieve symptoms associated with PMS, particularly:
Bloating
Insomnia
Leg swelling
Weight gain
Breast tenderness
One study suggests that a combination of magnesium and vitamin B6 may work better than either one alone.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS)
A study including only 10 people found that magnesium improved insomnia related to RLS, a disorder characterized by uncomfortable sensations in the legs, which are worse during periods of inactivity, rest, or while sitting or lying down.
Colorectal cancer
Preliminary studies suggest that higher intakes of dietary magnesium are associated with a lower risk of colorectal tumors. While this is a new area of research, scientists say consuming magnesium-rich foods may be another avenue to explore in the search for cancer prevention strategies.
Dietary Sources
Rich sources of magnesium include:
Tofu
Legumes
Whole grains
Green leafy vegetables
Wheat bran
Brazil nuts
Soybean flour
Almonds
Cashews
Blackstrap molasses
Pumpkin and squash seeds
Pine nuts
Black walnuts
Other good dietary sources of this mineral include:
Peanuts
Whole wheat flour
Oat flour
Beet greens
Spinach
Pistachio nuts
Shredded wheat
Bran cereals
Oatmeal
Bananas
Baked potatoes (with skin)
Chocolate
Cocoa powder
Also, many herbs, spices, and seaweeds supply magnesium, such as:
Agar seaweed
Coriander
Dill weed
Celery seed
Sage
Dried mustard
Basil
Fennel seed
Savory
Cumin seed
Tarragon
Marjoram
Poppy seed
Available Forms
Magnesium is available in many forms. Recommended forms include magnesium citrate, magnesium gluconate, and magnesium lactate, all of which are more easily absorbed into the body than other forms. Time release preparations may improve absorption. Ask your health care provider.
Other familiar sources are magnesium hydroxide (often used as a laxative or antacid) and magnesium sulfate (generally used orally as a laxative or in multivitamins, or added to a bath). Some magnesium, such as Epsom salts, can be absorbed through the skin. Preliminary research suggests Epsom salts can relieve swelling, inflammation, and ease muscle aches and pains.
How to Take It
Be sure to check with your health care provider before taking magnesium supplements and before giving them to a child. Under certain circumstances, such as certain heart arrhythmias or preeclampsia, a doctor will give magnesium by IV in the hospital.
It is a good idea to take a B-vitamin complex, or a multivitamin containing B vitamins, because the level of vitamin B6 in the body determines how much magnesium will be absorbed into the cells.
Dosages are based on the dietary reference intakes (DRIs) issued from the Food and Nutrition Board of the United States Government's Office of Dietary Supplements, part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Pediatric
DO NOT give magnesium supplements to a child without a doctor's supervision.
Children, 1 to 3 years of age: 80 mg daily
Children, 4 to 8 years of age: 130 mg daily
Children, 9 to 13 years of age: 240 mg daily
Males, 14 to 18 years of age: 410 mg daily
Females, 14 to 18 years of age: 360 mg daily
Pregnant females, 14 to 18 years of age: 400 mg daily
Breastfeeding females, 14 to 18 years of age: 360 mg daily
Adult
Males, 19 to 30 years of age: 400 mg daily
Females, 19 to 30 years of age: 310 mg daily
Males, 31 years of age and over: 420 mg daily
Females, 31 years of age and over: 320 mg daily
Pregnant females, 19 to 30 years of age: 350 mg daily
Pregnant females, 31 and over: 360 mg daily
Breastfeeding females, 19 to 30 years of age: 310 mg daily
Breastfeeding females, 31 years of age and over: 320 mg daily
A person's need for magnesium increases during pregnancy, recovery from surgery and illnesses, and athletic training. Speak with your doctor.
Precautions
Because of the potential for side effects and interactions with medications, you should only take dietary supplements under the supervision of a knowledgeable health care provider.
Since magnesium is excreted by the kidneys, people with heart or kidney disease should not take magnesium supplements except under their doctors' supervision.
It is very rare to overdose on magnesium from food. However, people who ingest large amounts of milk of magnesia (as a laxative or antacid), Epsom salts (as a laxative or tonic), or magnesium supplements may overdose, especially if they have kidney problems. Too much magnesium can cause serious health problems, including:
Nausea
Vomiting
Severely lowered blood pressure
Confusion
Slowed heart rate
Respiratory paralysis
Deficiencies of other minerals
Coma
Cardiac arrhythmias
Cardiac arrest
Death
More common side effects from magnesium include upset stomach and diarrhea.
Magnesium competes with calcium for absorption and can cause a calcium deficiency if calcium levels are already low. Some medications may lower magnesium levels in the body. These include:
Chemotherapy drugs
Diuretics
Digoxin (Lanoxin)
Steroids
Certain antibiotics
Possible Interactions
If you are currently being treated with any of the following medications, you should not use magnesium without talking to your health care provider first.
Aminoglycosides: Concomitant use with magnesium may cause neuromuscular weakness and paralysis.
Antibiotics: Taking magnesium supplements may reduce the absorption of quinolone antibiotics, tetracycline antibiotics, and nitrofurantoin (Macrodandin). Magnesium should be taken 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking these medications. Quinolone and tetracycline antibiotics include:
Ciprofloxacin (Cipro)
Moxifloxacin (Avelox)
Tetracycline (Sumycin)
Doxycycline (Vibramycin)
Minocycline (Minocin)
Blood pressure medications, calcium channel blockers: Magnesium may increase the risk of negative side effects (such as dizziness, nausea, and fluid retention) from calcium channel blockers (particularly nifedipine or Procardia) in pregnant women. Other calcium channel blockers include:
Aamlodipine (Norvasc)
Diltiazem (Cardizem)
Felodipine (Plendil)
Verapamil (Calan)
Medications for diabetes: Magnesium hydroxide, commonly found in antacids such as Alternagel, may increase the absorption of some medications used to control blood sugar levels (particularly glipizide or Glucatrol and glyburide or Micronase). If you take these medications to control blood sugar, your doctor may need to adjust your dose.
Digoxin (Lanoxin): Low blood levels of magnesium can increase negative effects from digoxin, including heart palpitations and nausea. In addition, digoxin can cause more magnesium to be lost in the urine. A doctor will monitor magnesium levels in people taking digoxin to see whether they need a magnesium supplement.
Diuretics: Loop diuretics (such as furosemide and bumetanide) and thiazide (including hydrochlorothiazide) can lower magnesium levels. For this reason, doctors who prescribe diuretics may recommend magnesium supplements as well.
Fluoroquinones: Concomitant use with magnesium may decrease absorption and effectiveness. Fluoroquinones should be taken at least 4 hours before any products containing magnesium.
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT): Magnesium levels tend to decrease during menopause. Clinical studies suggest, however, that HRT may help prevent the loss of this mineral. Postmenopausal women, or those taking HRT, should talk with their doctors about the risks and benefits of magnesium supplementation.
Labetol: Concomitant use with magnesium can abnormally slow your heart beat and reduce cardiac output.
Levomethadyl: Concomitant use with magnesium may precipitate a heart condition called QT prolongation.
Levothyroxine: There have been case reports of magnesium-containing antacids reducing the effectiveness of levothyroxine, a medication that treats underactive thyroid.
Penicillamine: Penicillamine, a medication used to treat rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and Wilson's disease (a condition characterized by high levels of copper in the body), can deactivate magnesium, particularly when high doses of the medicine are used over a long period of time. Supplementation with magnesium and other nutrients may reduce side effects associated with penicillamine. If you take penicillamine, your doctor should determine whether magnesium supplements are right for you.
Tiludronate (Skelid) and alendronate (Fosamax): Magnesium may interfere with absorption of medications used for osteoporosis, including alendronate (Fosamax). Magnesium or antacids containing magnesium should be taken 1 hour before or 2 hours after taking these medications.
Others: Aminoglycoside antibiotics (such as gentamicin and tobramycin), amphotericin B, corticosteroids (prednisone or Deltasone), antacids, and insulin may lower magnesium levels.
Supporting Research
Aydin H, Deyneli O, Yavuz D, Gözü H, Mutlu N, Kaygusuz I, Akalin S. Short-Term Oral Magnesium Supplementation Suppresses Bone Turnover in Postmenopausal Osteoporotic Women. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2009 Jun 2. (Epub ahead of print).
Bartlett HE, Eperjesi F. Nutritional supplementation for type 2 diabetes: a systematic review. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 2008 Nov;28(6):503-23. Review.
Bendich A. The potential for dietary supplements to reduce premenstrual syndrome (PMS) symptoms. J Am Coll Nutr. 2000;19(1):3-12.
Bo S, Pisu E. Role of dietary magnesium in cardiovascular disease prevention, insulin sensitivity and diabetes. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2008 Feb;19(1):50-6. Review.
Borja-Del-Rosario P, Basu SK, Haberman S, Bhutada A, Rastogi S. Neonatal serum magnesium concentrations are determined by total maternal dose of magnesium sulfate administered for neuroprotection. J Perinat Med. 2014;42(2):207-11.
Bureau I, Anderson RA, Arnaud J, Raysiguier Y, Favier AE, Roussel AM. Trace mineral status in post menopausal women: impact of hormonal replacement therapy. J Trace Elem Med Biol. 2002;16(1):9-13.
Champagne CM. Magnesium in hypertension, cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, and other conditions: a review. Nutr Clin Pract. 2008 Apr-May;23(2):142-51. Review.
Chiladakis JA, Stathopoulos C, Davlouros P, Manolis AS. Intravenous magnesium sulfate versus diltiazem in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Int J Cardiol. 2001;79(2-3):287-291.
Chiuve SE, Korngold EC, Januzzi JL, Gantzer ML, Albert CM. Plasma and dietary magnesium and risk of sudden cardiac death in women. Am J Clin Nutr. 2011;93(2):253-60.
Ciarallo L, Brousseau D, Reinert S. Higher-dose intravenous magnesium therapy for children with moderate to severe acute asthma. Arch Ped Adol Med. 2000;154(10):979-983.
Crowther CA, Brown J, McKinlay CJ, Middleton P. Magnesium sulphate for preventing preterm birth in threatened preterm labour. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014;8:CD001060.
Dacey MJ. Hypomagnesemic disorders. Crit Care Clin. 2001;17(1):155-173.
Del Gobbo LC, Imamura F, Wu JH, de Oliveira Otto MC, Chiuve SE, Mozaffarian D. Circulating and dietary magnesium and risk of cardiovascular disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective studies. Am J Clin Nutr. 2013;98(1):160-73.
Demirkaya S, Vural O, Dora B, Topcuoglu MA. Efficacy of intravenous magnesium sulfate in the treatment of acute migraine attacks. Headache. 2001;41(2):171-177.
Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2005. Rockville, MD: US Dept of Health and Human Services and US Dept of Agriculture; 2005.
Duley L, Gulmezoglu AM. Magnesium sulphate versus lytic cocktail for eclampsia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2001;(1):CD002960.
Duley L, Henderson-Smart D. Magnesium sulphate versus phenytoin for eclampsia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2000;(2):CD000128.
Eby GA, Eby KL. Magnesium for treatment-resistant depression: a review and hypothesis. Med Hypothesis. 2010;74(4):649-60.
Eby GA, Eby KL. Rapid recovery from major depression using magnesium treatment.Med Hypotheses. 2006;67(2):362-70.
Ford ES, Mokdad AH. Dietary magnesium intake in a national sample of U.S. adults. J Nutr. 2003;133:2879-82. Fox C, Ramsoomair D, Carter C. Magnesium: its proven and potential clinical significance. South Med J. 2001;94(12):1195-1201. Review.
Getaneh W, Kumbi S. Use of magnesium sulfate in pre-eclampsia and eclampsia in teaching hospitals in Addis Ababa: a practice audit. Ethiop Med J. 2010;48(2):157-64.
Gilliland FD, Berhane KT, Li YF, Kim DH, Margolis HG. Dietary magnesium, potassium, sodium, and children's lung function. Am J Epidemiol. 2002;155(2):125-131.
Goldman. Goldman's Cecil Medicine. 24th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders; 2011.
Gontijo-Amaral C, Guimaraes EV, Camargos P. Oral magnesium supplementation in children with cystic fibrosis improves clinical and functional variables: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled crossover trial. Am J Clin Nutr. 2012;96(1):50-6.
Gontijo-Amaral C, Ribeiro MA, Gontijo LS, Condino-Neto A, Ribeiro JD. Oral magnesium supplementation in asthmatic children: a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2007 Jan;61(1):54-60.
Guerrera MP, Volpe SL, Mao JJ. Therapeutic uses of magnesium. Am Fam Physician. 2009;80(2):157-62.
Guerrero-Romero F, Rodríguez-Morán M. The effect of lowering blood pressure by magnesium supplementation in diabetic hypertensive adults with low serum magnesium levels: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. J Hum Hypertens. 2009 Apr;23(4):245-51.
Hassan TB, Jagger C, Barnett DB. A randomised trial to investigate the efficacy of magnesium sulphate for refractory ventricular fibrillation. Emerg Med J. 2002;19(1):57-62.
Hijazi N, Abalkhail B, Seaton A. Diet and childhood asthma in a society in transition: a study in urban and rural Saudi Arabia. Thorax. 2000;55:775-779.
Ince C, Schulman SP, Quigley JF, et al. Usefulness of magnesium sulfate in stabilizing cardiac repolarization in heart failure secondary to ischemic cardiomyopathy. Am J Cardiol. 2001;88(3):224-229.
Institute of Medicine. Food and Nutrition Board. Dietary Reference Intakes: Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin D and Fluoride. National Academy Press. Washington, DC, 2004.
Johnson S. The multifaceted and widespread pathology of magnesium deficiency. Med Hypotheses. 2001;56(2):163-170.
Joosten MM, Gansevoort RT, Mukamal KJ, et al. Urinary and plasma magnesium and risk of ischemic heart disease. Am J Clin Nutr. 2013;97(6):1299-306.
Kim DJ, Xun P, Liu K, et al. Magnesium intake in relation to systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, and the incidence of diabetes. Diabetes Care. 2010;33(12):2604-10.
Klevay LM, Milne DB. Low dietary magnesium increases supraventricular ectopy. Am J Clin Nutr. 2002;75(3):550-554.
Krauss RM, Eckel RH, Howard B, et al. AHA dietary guidelines. Revision 2000: A statement for healthcare professionals from the Nutrition Committee of the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2000;102:2284-2299.
Kushner JM, Peckman HJ, Snyder CR. Seizures associated with fluoroquinolones. Ann Pharmacother. 2001;35(10):1194-1198.
Liu S, Manson JE, Stampfer MJ, et al. A prospective study of whole-grain intake and risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus in US women. Am J Pub Health. 2000;90(9):1409-1415.
Lopez-Gonzalez B, Molin-Lopez J, Florea DI, et al. Association between magnesium-deficient status and anthropometric and clinical-nutritional parameters in posmenopausal women. Nutr Hosp. 2014;29(3):658-64.
Mathers TW, Beckstrand RL. Oral magnesium supplementation in adults with coronary heart disease or coronary heart disease risk. J Am Acad Nurse Pract. 2009;21(12):651-7.
Mauskop A. Alternative therapies in headache. Is there a role? Med Clin North Am. 2001;85(4):1077-1084.
Moulin DE. Systemic drug treatment for chronic musculoskeletal pain. Clin J Pain. 2001;17(4 Suppl):S86-S93.
Muir KW. Magnesium for neuroprotection in ischaemic stroke: rationale for use and evidence of effectiveness. CNS Drugs. 2001;15(12):921-930.
Nechifor M. Magnesium in major depression. Magnes Res. 2009;22(3):163S-166S.
Nygaard IH, Valbø A, Pethick SV, Bøhmer T. Does oral magnesium substitution relieve pregnancy-induced leg cramps? Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2008 Nov;141(1):23-6.
Orchard TS, Larson JC, Alghothani N, et al. Magnesium intake, bone mineral density, and fractures: results from the Women's Health Initiative Observational Study. Am J Clin Nutr. 2014;99(4):926-33.
Patrick L. Nutrients and HIV: part 2: vitamins A and E, zinc, B-vitamins, and magnesium. Alt Med Rev. 2000;5(1):39-51.
Pearlstein T, Steiner M. Non-antidepressant treatment of premenstrual syndrome. J Clin Psychiatry. 2000;61 Suppl 12:22-27.
Rowe BH, Edmonds ML, Spooner CH, Camargo CA. Evidence-based treatments for acute asthma. Respir Care. 2001;46(12):1380-1390. Review.
Sun-Edelstein C, Mauskop A. Foods and supplements in the management of migraine headaches. Clin J Pain. 2009 Jun;25(5):446-52. (Epub ahead of print).
Toraman F, Karabulut EH, Alhan HC, Dagdelen S, Tarcan S. Magnesium infusion dramatically decreases the incidence of atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting. Ann Thorac Surg. 2001;72(4):1256-1261.
Walker JJ. Pre-eclampsia. Lancet. 2000;356(9237):1260-1265.
Wark PA, Lau R, Norat T, Kampman E. Magnesium intake and coloretal tumor risk: a case-control study and meta-analysis.Am J Clin Nutr. 2012;96(3):622-31.
BACK TO TOP
Review Date: 8/6/2015
Reviewed By: Steven D. Ehrlich, NMD, Solutions Acupuncture, a private practice specializing in complementary and alternative medicine, Phoenix, AZ. Review provided by VeriMed Healthcare Network.
Daily Health and Medical News
Results for absorption, age, antibiotics, associated, asthma
More TV, Tablets, More Attention Issues at Age 5
April 17, 2019
Inactive Lifestyle Begins as Early as Age 7: Study
April 15, 2019
Insurers' Denials of Opioid Coverage Spurs CDC to Clarify Guidelines
April 09, 2019
Those Whitening Strips May Damage Your Teeth
April 09, 2019
Most Parents Want Age Limits on Football Tackling
April 01, 2019
© Copyright 2019 | All Rights Reserved
If you speak another language, assistance services
free of charge, are available to you.
Baptist Health Facebook Baptist Health Twitter Baptist Health on LinkedIn Baptist Health on Instagram Baptist Health on Youtube
Physician Login | Application Login | Employee Login
Quality Measures | Privacy | Non-Discrimination | Comments | Site Map