The Effects of Woman Using Rogaine for Men | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Diseases and Conditions
Blood Conditions
High Cholesterol
The Effects of Woman Using Rogaine for Men
Ian Kenney
About the Author:
Ian Kenney
Ian Kenney began his writing career in 1994 at a small daily in Florida covering the politics and crime beats. Kenney's fiction and poetry have appeared in "The Florida Review," "Kudzu" and "The Missouri Review." Currently, he is a writer and producer in documentary and reality television. Kenney holds a Bachelor of Arts from Florida State University
Step 1
There are many reasons women lose their hair, including menopausal complications and alopecia areata, an inherited condition that results in thinning hair and patchy hair loss. Minoxidil, the active ingredient in Rogaine for men, was approved for women's use at the 2 percent concentration in 1991. The more potent 5 percent dose approved for men in 1997 has yet to gain FDA approval for use in women.
Step 2
Efficacy
Step 1
In a double-blind study conducted by Anne W. Lucky, MD, et. al. and published in the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology in 2004, the 5 percent treatment group showed statistically significant improvement over the placebo and 2 percent solution groups. The study evaluated effects on three end points: nonvellous hair growth; scalp coverage; and patient perception of hair growth, an analysis of the psychosocial effect of female pattern baldness.
Step 2
Low Blood Pressure
Step 1
A side effect of any minoxidil for women is slightly lowered blood pressure, and using the 5 percent solution prescribed to men can intensify that affect. Low blood pressure can cause dizziness, fatigue or even fainting upon standing.
Unwanted Hair Growth
Step 1
Many women using the five percent Rogain for men experience unwanted hair growth, usually on the face. Some of this is due to the product dripping down to the face after application, but even careful use cannot prevent the effect entirely as the minoxidil enters the blood stream through contact with the scalp.
Pregnancy and Nursing
Step 1
Minoxidil falls into the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's category "C," meaning that in some animal studies, there have been adverse effects on the fetus, but there are no reliable human trials with pregnant women. Category "C" drugs should be avoided by pregnant women unless the benefits far outweigh the risks. Nursing mothers are also advised against using Rogaine in the company's literature as the drug is transmitted through breast milk. The patient should either discontinue Rogaine use or discontinue nursing depending upon treatment need.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Androgenetical Allopecia: Minoxidil for the Treatment of Female Pattern Hair Loss
Medicine Net: Rogaine
Drugs: Women's Rogaine Topical
Medicine Net: Alopecia Areata
Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology: Trial of 5 Percent and 2 Percent Minoxidil Solutions: Female Pattern Baldness
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
Propecia vs. Rogaine
2
Ketoconazole for Hair Loss
3
Rogaine & Pregnancy
4
Dangers of Rogaine for Women
5
How to Regrow Hair on a Receding Hairline
6
Propecia Vs. Saw Palmetto
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.