New Targeted Treatments Aim to Stop Migraines in Their Tracks
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Migraine & Headaches Health Home
News
Reference
Slideshows
Quizzes
Videos
Questions & Answers
Message Board
Medications
Find a Neurologist
Migraine & Headaches Guide
Overview & Facts
Types & Complications
Treatment & Prevention
Living & Managing
Support & Resources
Related to Migraine & Headaches
Allergies
Brain & Nervous System
Drug Interaction Checker
High Blood Pressure
Living Healthy
Stress Management
Migraine & Headaches
News
Slideshow: Ways to Prevent Migraines
Brain Research Fuels New Migraine Treatments
By Stephanie Watson
From the WebMD Archives
April 27, 2017 -- Migraines are intense, painful, and incredibly common, affecting nearly 960 million people worldwide.
Although several medications can treat migraines, they don’t work for everyone, and some could affect the heart.
To come up with other potential treatments, researchers are using new insights about the brain to target migraines in new ways. They talked about some of these drugs and other treatments in development at the recent 2017 American Academy of Neurology Annual Meeting.
These severe headaches are the seventh leading cause of disability globally. Many people who get migraines have trouble finding relief.
"An individual patient only has about a 45% chance of responding to any one therapy. And we're really bad at determining which individual is likely to respond to which specific therapy," Mayo Clinic neurologist Todd Schwedt, MD, said at the conference.
Migraines are complicated, and that's one of the reasons it's so hard to find a good treatment. "Migraine is not simply a headache, but a complex array of symptoms that can begin hours before the headache begins, and outlast the headache by hours," said Andrew Charles, MD, a professor of neurology at the UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine.
Brain Imaging Sheds Light on Migraine Causes
Doctors used to think of migraines as only a disease caused by widened blood vessels in the brain. Many of the drugs that now treat migraines -- like ergots and triptans -- work based on this principle, by narrowing blood vessels. But constricting the blood vessels can have some serious effects on the heart, making these drugs an unsafe choice for anyone with heart disease.
Schwedt says researchers now view migraine as a brain disease. "I think we've come a long way in the field of headache and migraine in the last few decades."
Tests like positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have allowed scientists to see firsthand the changes that take place in the brain during a migraine. These tests have offered a window into how the brain works during the different phases of these headaches.
For example, in the prodromal phase -- symptoms like irritability, fatigue, and food cravings that appear a day or two before the headache -- different areas of the brain "light up" on scans based on which symptoms a person has. People with light sensitivity, for example, have more activity in the area of their brain that deals with visual information. People with migraines have more activity overall in the regions in their brain that deal with pain.
Imaging scans have also highlighted the role of amino acids in triggering migraine attacks. Scientists have discovered that the levels of two amino acids -- calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) -- rise during migraines. This discovery has led to a new generation of more targeted migraine drugs that cut how often you have headaches without having risky effects on the heart.
Continued
New Migraine Drugs in the Pipeline
Researchers at the meeting discussed a few drugs under investigation that aim to stop migraines by blocking the action of CGRP. These include monoclonal antibodies like eptinezumab, erenumab, fremanezumab, and galcanezumab, which are given through a vein (IV) or as a shot under the skin. Another class of drugs, called CGRP antagonists, which include atogepant and ubrogepant, are taken by mouth.
A trial presented at the meeting is testing how safely and well erenumab treats episodic migraines (14 or fewer headaches a month). In the study, a once-a-month dose of the drug lowered the number of headache days and the need for migraine medicines.
Other monoclonal antibodies that have been tested in studies also seem to cut the number of migraine days. The most common side effects reported with some of these drugs included colds and other upper respiratory tract infections.
All of the drugs are still in clinical trials and are not yet available.
PACAP is another substance researchers are studying as a possible migraine treatment target. PACAP is in sensory nerves in the brain, and it may be involved in the pain signaling process.
A Stimulating New Way to Treat Migraines
Drugs aren't the only new therapy that stops migraine pain. Another new avenue of treatment, called neuromodulation, sends an electrical impulse to nerves that are involved in migraines. This technology can prevent and treat migraines without causing harmful side effects.
Single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (sTMS) is a portable device users hold against their head. It sends a pulse through the skin to halt migraine attacks. The Spring TMS device is FDA-approved to treat migraine with aura, with a doctor's prescription. It costs $750 for a 3-month rental, which often isn't covered by insurance. Side effects include ringing in the ears, dizziness, worsening of migraines, and tingling in the back of the head after using the device.
Transcutaneous supraorbital neurostimulation (t-SNS) treats episodic migraines with or without aura. It's placed on the forehead with a headband. A low-level electrical current stimulates the trigeminal nerve, which is partly responsible for the pain of a migraine. The Cefaly t-SNS device costs $349, plus around $30 for a set of electrodes to use with it. Some people who used the device say they had a skin reaction, or a prickling feeling on the skin.
Continued
Another new device uses an electrical current to stimulate the vagus nerve in the neck. The transcutaneous noninvasive vagus nerve stimulator (gammaCore) can prevent and relieve migraine attacks. A 2016 study found that vagus nerve stimulation lowered the number of headache days without causing any major side effects. The FDA recently approved gammaCore to treat cluster headaches, but not migraines. This device isn't yet available in the U.S.
WebMD Health News Reviewed by Neil Lava, MD on May 01, 2017
Sources
2017 American Academy of Neurology Annual Meeting.
American Academy of Neurology: "2017 Emerging Science Abstracts."
Cefaly.
National Headache Foundation: "Facts About Triptans."
Neurology: "Chronic migraine headache prevention with noninvasive vagus nerve stimulation: The EVENT study."
Pain and Therapy: "Transcutaneous supraorbital nerve stimulation (t-SNS) with the Cefaly device for migraine prevention: A review of the available data."
The Journal of Headache and Pain: "Single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (sTMS) for the treatment of migraine: evaluation of outcome data for the UK post market pilot program."
The Lancet: "Global, regional, and national incidence, prevalence, and years lived with disability for 310 diseases and injuries, 1990-2015: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015."
The Migraine Trust: "Transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation."
Current Opinion in Neurology: “Calcitonin gene-related peptide monoclonal antibodies for migraine prevention: comparisons across randomized controlled studies."
© 2017 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Pagination
Top Picks
How Migraine Affects Your Health
Treating and Preventing Migraine
When Migraine Runs in the Family
Daith Piercings and Other Alternative Treatments for Migraine
Home Remedies for Migraines
Thunderclap Headaches Explained
Today on WebMD
Guide to Migraine
What aura looks like, triggers, and more.
Myths and Facts
Get the truth about migraine.
Marijuana and Migraine
Could pot ease your pain?
Head Hurt?
Test your knowledge of triggers, types, and more.
Recommended for You
Quiz
Migraine Myths and Facts
Article
Is Your Diet Triggering Your Migraine?
Slideshow
Acupuncture for Pain Relief
Slideshow
Guide to Migraine Headaches
Article
Migraine or Sinus Headache?
Article
5 Lifestyle Changes to Manage Migraine
Article
Is It a Migraine or a Stroke?
Slideshow
How Migraine Affects Your Health
Tools & Resources
How Migraine Affects Your Health
Migraine Myths & Facts
Migraine: A Visual Guide
Treating and Preventing Migraine
12 Myths About Your Hangover
What Triggers Your Migraine?
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.