Effects of 12 weeks of treatment with fermented milk on blood
Toggle navigation
Research Tools
Research Dashboard
Search Abstracts
Search Articles
Search All Content (Google)
Topic Research Discovery
Diseases
Therapeutic Substances
Therapeutic Actions
Pharmacological Actions
Problem Substances
Problematic Actions
Adverse Pharmacological Actions
Trending Topics
Smart Search - Evidence Generator
Smart Search: Diseases
Smart Search: Therapeutic Substances
Smart Search: Pharmacological Actions
Articles
Most Recent
Most Popular
Find Articles
My Membership
Memberships
Compare Membership Plans
Join our Free Newsletter
Log in or Join us
Sayer Ji, Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Sayer Ji
Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Subscribe to our informative Newsletter & get two FREE E-Books
Our newsletter serves 500,000 with essential news, research & healthy tips, daily.
Depression: 21st Century Solutions + The Dark Side of Wheat
Ingestion of milk fermented with L. helveticus compared with placebo for 12 weeks lowered heart rates and fasting plasma glucose levels in T2D patients.	- GreenMedInfo Summary
Abstract Title:
Effects of 12 weeks of treatment with fermented milk on blood pressure, glucose metabolism and markers of cardiovascular risk in patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled study.
Abstract Source:
Eur J Endocrinol. 2015 Jan ;172(1):11-20. Epub 2014 Oct 9. PMID: 25300285
Abstract Author(s):
K D Hove, C Brøns, K Færch, S S Lund, P Rossing, A Vaag
Article Affiliation:
K D Hove
Abstract:
OBJECTIVE: Studies have indicated a blood pressure (BP)-lowering effect of milk-derived peptides in non-diabetic individuals, but the cardiometabolic effects of such peptides in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) are not known. We investigated the effect of milk fermented with Lactobacillus helveticus on BP, glycaemic control and cardiovascular risk factors in T2D.
DESIGN: A randomised, double-blinded, prospective, placebo-controlled study.
METHODS: In one arm of a factorial study design, 41 patients with T2D were randomised to receive 300 ml milk fermented with L. helveticus (Cardi04 yogurt) (n=23) or 300 ml artificially acidified milk (placebo yogurt) (n=18) for 12 weeks. BPs were measured over 24-h, and blood samples were collected in the fasting state and during a meal test before and after the intervention.
RESULTS: Cardi04 yogurt did not reduce 24-h, daytime or nighttime systolic or diastolic BPs compared with placebo (P>0.05). Daytime and 24-h heart rate (HR) were significantly reduced in the group treated by Cardi04 yogurt compared with the placebo group (P<0.05 for both). There were no differences in HbA1c, plasma lipids, C-reactive protein, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, tumour necrosis factor alpha, tissue-type plasminogen activator: Ag, and von Willebrand factor: Ag between the groups. The change in fasting blood glucose concentration differed significantly between the two groups with a larger increase in the placebo group (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Ingestion of milk fermented with L. helveticus compared with placebo for 12 weeks did not significantly reduce BP in patients with T2D. Our finding of lower HRs and fasting plasma glucose levels in T2D patients during ingestion of fermented milk needs further validation.
Article Published Date : Dec 31, 2014
Study Type : Human Study
Additional Links
Substances : Milk: Fermented : CK(507) : AC(75)
Diseases : Diabetes Mellitus: Type 2 : CK(3572) : AC(624), Hyperglycemia : CK(539) : AC(130)
Pharmacological Actions : Hypoglycemic Agents : CK(1446) : AC(342)
Additional Keywords : Significant Treatment Outcome : CK(3038) : AC(366)
Print Options
Some features are currently member only features. If you are already a member, please login. Otherwise, click here to become a member.
Printer-friendly version
Send to friend
PDF version
Key Research Topics
Disease
Diabetes Mellitus: Type 2
Hyperglycemia
Pharmacological Actions
Hypoglycemic Agents
Substance
Milk: Fermented
Sayer Ji, Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Sayer Ji
Founder of GreenMedInfo.com
Subscribe to our informative Newsletter & get two FREE E-Books
Our newsletter serves 500,000 with essential news, research & healthy tips, daily.
Depression: 21st Century Solutions + The Dark Side of Wheat
Links
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Services
Return Policy
Corrections
FAQ
Write For Us
Advertise
Research
Substances
Ailments
Problem Substances
Therapeutic Actions
Problematic Actions
Pharmacological Actions
Adverse Pharmacological Actions
Keywords
Articles
Most Popular
Most Recent
Store
eBooks
eCourses
Downloadable Documents
Donate
Join Us
Become a Member
Join our Free Newsletter
Log In
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
RSS Feed
This website is for information purposes only. By providing the information contained herein we are not diagnosing, treating, curing, mitigating, or preventing any type of disease or medical condition. Before beginning any type of natural, integrative or conventional treatment regimen, it is advisable to seek the advice of a licensed healthcare professional.
© Copyright 2008-2019 GreenMedInfo.com, Journal Articles copyright of original owners, MeSH copyright NLM.