Theanine: Uses, Side Effects, Interactions, Dosage, and Warning
Skip to main content
Check Your Symptoms
Find A Doctor
Find Lowest Drug Prices
Health
A-Z Health A-Z
Health A-Z
Common Conditions
ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes
Eye Health
Heart Disease
Lung Disease
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders
View All
Resources
Symptom Checker
Expert Blogs and Interviews
Podcasts
Message Boards
Questions & Answers
Insurance Guide
Find a Doctor
Featured Topics
Slideshow Get Help for Migraine Relief
Slideshow Things That Can Hurt Your Joints
Drugs &
Supplements Drugs & Supplements
Drugs & Supplements
Find & Review
Drugs
Supplements
Tools
Manage Your Medications
Pill Identifier
Check for Interactions
Drug Basics & Safety
Commonly Abused Drugs
Taking Meds When Pregnant
Featured Topics
Slideshow Vitamins You Need as You Age
Slideshow Supplements for Better Digestion
Living
Healthy Living Healthy
Living Healthy
Diet, Food & Fitness
Diet & Weight Management
Weight Loss & Obesity
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise
Beauty & Balance
Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care
Living Well
Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Teens
Fit Kids
Featured Topics
Slideshow Which Food Has More Saturated Fat?
Quiz Do You Know the Benefits of Walking?
Family &
Pregnancy Family & Pregnancy
Family & Pregnancy
All About Pregnancy
Getting Pregnant
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester
View All
Parenting Guide
Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids
View All
Pet Care Essentials
Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs
View All
Featured Topics
Expert Blog Dangers After Childbirth -- What to Watch For
Quiz Tips for Success ... Things Every Teen Should Know
News &
Experts News & Experts
News & Experts
Health News
2019 Measles Outbreak: What You Should Know
Too Much Vitamin D: A Cautionary Tale
'Superbugs' Hang Out on Hospital Patients
Can Weighted Blankets Really Help You Sleep?
More Kids Having 'Tommy John' Surgery
Experts & Community
Message Boards
Expert Blogs
News Center
Featured Topics
WebMD Investigates Why Can't We Sleep?
Newsletters Sign Up to Receive Our Free Newsletters
Mobile Apps
Subscriptions
Sign In
Subscribe
My Profile
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Vitamins & Supplements Center
Find a Vitamin or Supplement
Find a Vitamin by Condition
Assess Your Vitamin Needs
Drugs and Medications Center
Find a Drug
My Medicine
Pill Identifier
Interaction Checker
Latest Drug News
Find a Vitamin
Find a Pharmacy
First Aid Resources
First Aid A-Z
First Aid Kit & Wound Care
First Aid Mobile
Related to Vitamins & Supplements
Drugs & Medications
Pill Identifier
My Medicine
Interaction Checker
Diet & Weight Management
Food & Recipes
Vitamins & Supplements
THEANINE
OTHER NAME(S):
2-Amino-4- (ethylcarbamoyl) Butyric Acid, 5-N-ethylglutamine, Gamma-ethylamino-L-glutamic acid, Gamma-glutamylethylamide, Gamma-N-ethylglutamine, L-gamma-glutamylethylamide, L-Theanine, L-Théanine, N-Éthyl-L-Glutamine, Teanina, Théanine.<br/><br/>
Read Reviews (156)
Overview
Uses
Side Effects
Interactions
Dosing
Overview
Overview Information
Theanine is an amino acid found in tea. It is also found in some mushrooms. It is similar in structure to glutamic acid, another amino acid.
Some people take theanine by mouth for anxiety and stress, depression, schizophrenia, for preventing Alzheimer's disease, for treating attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and improving mental performance and attention. Theanine is also taken by mouth for reducing blood pressure, preventing the flu, and improving how well cancer drugs work as well as decreasing the side effects of cancer drugs.
How does it work?
Theanine has a chemical structure very similar to glutamate, a naturally occurring amino acid in the body that helps transmit nerve impulses in the brain. Some of the effects of theanine appear to be similar to glutamate, and some effects seem to block glutamate.
Uses
Uses & Effectiveness?
Possibly Effective for
Mental performance. Taking theanine before a test seems to help reduce errors. Taking theanine with caffeine seems to improve a person's ability to switch attention between different tasks.
Insufficient Evidence for
Attention. Early research shows that taking 200 mg of theanine before a test improves attention. Taking theanine with caffeine seems to work better than taking theanine alone. Taking lower doses of theanine might not improve attention.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Early research shows that taking 200 mg of theanine (Suntheanine by Taiyo Kagaku) by mouth twice daily for 6 weeks increases restful sleep and decreases nightly activity during sleep in boys ages 8-12 diagnosed with ADHD.
Mild mental impairment. Early research shows that taking a product containing theanine and green tea might improve memory or attention in people with mild mental impairment.
Colon cancer. Taking a product containing cysteine and theanine might reduce side effects such as diarrhea and loss of appetite cause by some cancer drugs. This might help people with colon cancer complete cancer drug therapy.
Depression. Early research shows that taking theanine by mouth at bedtime for 8 weeks decreases symptoms and improves sleep in people with depression.
Stomach cancer. Taking theanine plus cysteine doesn't seem to reduce side effects such as diarrhea and loss of appetite cause by some cancer drugs in people with stomach cancer. It also doesn't seem to help people with stomach cancer complete cancer drug therapy.
Influenza (flu). Early research shows that taking a combination of green tea extract plus theanine daily for 5 months may lower the risk of developing the flu.
Schizophrenia. Early research shows that taking theanine by mouth along with antipsychotic drugs reduces positive symptoms of schizophrenia. But it doesn't appear to reduce negative symptoms.
Stress. The effects of theanine on stress are conflicting. Some early research shows that taking 200 mg of theanine before an exam reduces anxiety and may prevent blood pressure from increasing due to stress. Other early research shows that taking 200 mg of theanine twice daily before and during pharmacy practice decreases stress levels. However, another early study shows that taking 200 mg of theanine helps promote tranquility in people who are already relaxed. But it doesn't work in people who are stressed. Reasons for the conflicting results are not clear.
Other conditions.
More evidence is needed to rate the effectiveness of theanine for these uses.
Side Effects
Side Effects & Safety
Theanine is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth, short-term. Doses of up to 400 mg of theanine daily have been safely used for 8 weeks. A specific product containing theanine and other green tea ingredients has also been used safely once daily for up to 5 months. It is not known if theanine is safe when used for longer periods of time. Theanine may cause mild adverse effects, such as headache or sleepiness.
Special Precautions & Warnings:
Pregnancy and breast-feeding:There is not enough reliable information about the safety of using theanine if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use.
Children: Theanine is POSSIBLY SAFE for children when taken by mouth, short-term. Doses of 200 mg of theanine have been safely used twice daily for up to 6 weeks in boys aged 8-12 years.
Low blood pressure: Theanine might lower blood pressure. In theory, theanine might increase the risk of blood pressure dropping too low in people prone to low blood pressure. If you have low blood pressure, discuss theanine with your healthcare provider before starting it.
Interactions
Interactions?
Moderate Interaction
Be cautious with this combination
!
Medications for high blood pressure (Antihypertensive drugs) interacts with THEANINE
Theanine seems to decrease blood pressure. Taking theanine along with medications for high blood pressure might cause your blood pressure to go too low.<br/><br/> Some medications for high blood pressure include captopril (Capoten), enalapril (Vasotec), losartan (Cozaar), valsartan (Diovan), diltiazem (Cardizem), Amlodipine (Norvasc), hydrochlorothiazide (HydroDiuril), furosemide (Lasix), and many others.
Stimulant drugs interacts with THEANINE
Stimulant drugs speed up the nervous system. By speeding up the nervous system stimulant medications can make you feel jittery and speed up your heartbeat. Theanine might work to slow down the nervous system. Taking theanine along with stimulant medications might decrease the effectiveness of stimulant medications.<br/><br/> Some stimulant drugs include diethylpropion (Tenuate), epinephrine, phentermine (Ionamin), pseudoephedrine (Sudafed), and many others.
Dosing
Dosing
The following doses have been studied in scientific research:
ADULTS
BY MOUTH:
For mental performance: A single dose of 100 mg of theanine before a test has been used. Theanine has also been used in combination with caffeine. Combination doses have ranged from 30-100 mg of caffeine and 12-100 mg of theanine.
Previous:
Next: Uses
View References
REFERENCES:
Borzelleca, J. F., Peters, D., and Hall, W. A 13-week dietary toxicity and toxicokinetic study with l-theanine in rats. Food Chem.Toxicol. 2006;44(7):1158-1166. View abstract.
Egashira, N., Ishigami, N., Pu, F., Mishima, K., Iwasaki, K., Orito, K., Oishi, R., and Fujiwara, M. Theanine prevents memory impairment induced by repeated cerebral ischemia in rats. Phytother.Res 2008;22(1):65-68. View abstract.
Giesbrecht, T., Rycroft, J. A., Rowson, M. J., and De Bruin, E. A. The combination of L-theanine and caffeine improves cognitive performance and increases subjective alertness. Nutr Neurosci. 2010;13(6):283-290. View abstract.
Haskell, C. F., Kennedy, D. O., Milne, A. L., Wesnes, K. A., and Scholey, A. B. The effects of L-theanine, caffeine and their combination on cognition and mood. Biol.Psychol. 2008;77(2):113-122. View abstract.
Kakuda, T. Neuroprotective effects of the green tea components theanine and catechins. Biol Pharm Bull 2002;25(12):1513-1518. View abstract.
Kakuda, T., Nozawa, A., Sugimoto, A., and Niino, H. Inhibition by theanine of binding of [3H]AMPA, [3H]kainate, and [3H]MDL 105,519 to glutamate receptors. Biosci.Biotechnol.Biochem. 2002;66(12):2683-2686. View abstract.
Kamath, A. B., Wang, L., Das, H., Li, L., Reinhold, V. N., and Bukowski, J. F. Antigens in tea-beverage prime human Vgamma 2Vdelta 2 T cells in vitro and in vivo for memory and nonmemory antibacterial cytokine responses. Proc Natl.Acad.Sci U.S.A 5-13-2003;100(10):6009-6014. View abstract.
Kimura, K., Ozeki, M., Juneja, L. R., and Ohira, H. L-Theanine reduces psychological and physiological stress responses. Biol Psychol. 2007;74(1):39-45. View abstract.
Matsumoto, K., Yamada, H., Takuma, N., Niino, H., and Sagesaka, Y. M. Effects of green tea catechins and theanine on preventing influenza infection among healthcare workers: a randomized controlled trial. BMC.Complement Altern.Med. 2011;11:15. View abstract.
Rogers, P. J., Smith, J. E., Heatherley, S. V., and Pleydell-Pearce, C. W. Time for tea: mood, blood pressure and cognitive performance effects of caffeine and theanine administered alone and together. Psychopharmacology (Berl) 2008;195(4):569-577. View abstract.
Sadzuka, Y., Sugiyama, T., Suzuki, T., and Sonobe, T. Enhancement of the activity of doxorubicin by inhibition of glutamate transporter. Toxicol.Lett 9-15-2001;123(2-3):159-167. View abstract.
Sugiyama, T. and Sadzuka, Y. Theanine and glutamate transporter inhibitors enhance the antitumor efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents. Biochim.Biophys.Acta 12-5-2003;1653(2):47-59. View abstract.
Sugiyama, T. and Sadzuka, Y. Theanine, a specific glutamate derivative in green tea, reduces the adverse reactions of doxorubicin by changing the glutathione level. Cancer Lett. 8-30-2004;212(2):177-184. View abstract.
Sugiyama, T., Sadzuka, Y., Nagasawa, K., Ohnishi, N., Yokoyama, T., and Sonobe, T. Membrane transport and antitumor activity of pirarubicin, and comparison with those of doxorubicin. Jpn J Cancer Res 1999;90(7):775-780. View abstract.
Terashima, T., Takido, J., and Yokogoshi, H. Time-dependent changes of amino acids in the serum, liver, brain and urine of rats administered with theanine. Biosci.Biotechnol.Biochem. 1999;63(4):615-618. View abstract.
Yang, Q. S., Xu, P. X., Li, Y. H., Jiang, S., Zhang, X., and Xue, M. [Effects of theanine and houpu extract in 7-day chick social separation-stress procedure]. Zhongguo Zhong.Yao Za Zhi. 2007;32(19):2040-2043. View abstract.
Yokogoshi, H., Kato, Y., Sagesaka, Y. M., Takihara-Matsuura, T., Kakuda, T., and Takeuchi, N. Reduction effect of theanine on blood pressure and brain 5-hydroxyindoles in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Biosci.Biotechnol.Biochem. 1995;59(4):615-618. View abstract.
Camfield DA, Stough C, Farrimond J, Scholey AB. Actue effects of tea constituents L-theanine, caffeine, and epigallocatechin gallate on cognitive function and mood: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Nutr Rev. 2014;72(8):507-522. View abstract.
Dodd FL, Kennedy DO, Riby LM, Haskell-Ramsay CF. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating the effects of caffeine and L-theanine both alone and in combination on cerebral blood flow, cognition and mood. Psychopharmacology. 2015;232(14):2563-2576. View abstract.
Einöther SJ, Martens VE, Rycroft JA, De Bruin EA. L-theanine and caffeine improve task switching but not intersensory attention or subjective alertness. Appetite 2010;54(2):406-9. View abstract.
Foxe JJ, et al. Assessing the effects of caffeine and theanine on the maintenance of vigilance during a sustained attention task. Neuropharmacology. 2012;62(7):2320-2327. View abstract.
Graham HN. Green tea composition, consumption, and polyphenol chemistry. Prev Med 1992;21:334-50. View abstract.
Hidese S, Ota M, Wakabayashi C, et al. Effects of chronic l-theanine administration in patients with major depressive disorder: an open-label study. Acta Neuropsychiatr 2017;29(2):72-9. View abstract.
Kahathuduwa CN, Dassanayake TL, Amarakoon AMT, Weerasinghe VS. effects of theanine, caffeine and theanine-caffeine combination on attention. Nutr Neurosci 2017;20(6):369-77. View abstract.
Kakuda T, Nozawa A, Unno T, et al. Inhibiting effects of theanine on caffeine stimulation evaluated by EEG in the rat. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 2000;64:287-93. View abstract.
Kakuda T, Yanase H, Utsunomiya K, et al. Protective effect of gamma-glutamylethylamide (theanine) on ischemic delayed neuronal death in gerbils. Neurosci Lett 2000;289:189-92. View abstract.
Kawada S, Kobayashi K, Ohtani M, Fukusaki C. Cystine and theanine supplementation restores high-intensity resistance exercise-induced attenuation of natural killer cell activity in well-trained men. J Strength Cond Res 2010;24(3):846-51. View abstract.
Kelly SP, Gomez-Ramirez M, Montesi JL, Foxe JJ. L-theanine and caffeine in combination affect human cognition as evidenced by oscillatory alpha-band activity and attention task performance. J Nutr 2008;138(8):1572S-1577S. View abstract.
Kimura R, Murata T. Effect of theanine on norepinephrine and serotonin levels in rat brain. Chem Pharm Bull 1986;34:3053-57.
Lu K, Gray MA, Oliver C, et al. The acute effects of L-theanine in comparison with alprazolam on anticipatory anxiety in humans. Hum Psychopharmacol 2004;19:457-65. View abstract.
Lyon MR, Kapoor MP, Juneja LR. The effects of L-theanine (Suntheanine®) on objective sleep quality in boys with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD): a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Altern Med Rev. 2011;16(4):348-354. View abstract.
Miodownik C, Maayan R, Ratner Y, et al. Serum levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and cortisol to sulfate of dehydroepiandrosterone molar ratio associated with clinical response to L-theanine as augmentation of antipsychotic therapy in schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder patients. Clin Neuropharmacol 2011;34(4):155-60. View abstract.
Miyachi T, et al. Perioperative oral administration of cystine and theanine enhances recovery after distal gastrectomy: a prospective randomized trial. JPEN. 2013;37(3):384-391. View abstract.
Murakami S, Kurihara S, Koikawa N, et al. Effects of oral supplementation with cystine and theanine on the immune function of athletes in endurance exercise: randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 2009;73(4):817-21. View abstract.
Owen GN, Parnell H, De Bruin EA, Rycroft JA. The combined effects of L-theanine and caffeine on cognitive performance and mood. Nutr Neurosci 2008;11(4):193-8. View abstract.
Park SK, Jung IC, Lee WK, et al. A combination of green tea extract and l-theanine improves memory and attention in subjects with mild cognitive impairment: a double-blind placebo-controlled study. J Med Food 2011;14(4):334-43. View abstract.
Ritsner MS, Miodownik C, Ratner Y, et al. L-theanine relieves positive, activation, and anxiety symptoms in patients with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder: an 8-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-center study. J Clin Psychiatry 2011;72(1):34-42. View abstract.
Sadzuka Y, Sugiyama T, Miyagishima A, et al. The effects of theanine, as a novel biochemical modulator, on the antitumor activity of adriamycin. Cancer Lett 1996;105:203-9. View abstract.
Sadzuka Y, Sugiyama T, Sonobe T. Efficacies of tea components on doxorubicin induced antitumor activity and reversal of multidrug resistance. Toxicol Lett 2000;114:155-62. View abstract.
Sadzuka Y, Sugiyama T, Sonobe T. Improvement of idarubicin induced antitumor activity and bone marrow suppression by theanine, a component of tea. Cancer Lett 2000;158:119-24. View abstract.
Sakato Y. The chemical constituents of tea: III. A new amide theanine. Nippon Nogei Kagakukaishi 1949;23:262-267.
Scheid L, et al. Kinetics of L-theanine uptake and metabolism in healthy participants are comparable after ingestion of L-theanin via capsules and green tea. J Nutr. 2012;142(12):2091-2096. View abstract.
Sugiyama T, Sadzuda Y. Enhancing effects of green tea components on the antitumor activity of adriamycin against M5076 ovarian sarcoma. Cancer Lett 1998;133:19-26. View abstract.
Sugiyama T, Sadzuka Y, Tanaka K, Sonobe T. Inhibition of glutamate transporter by theanine enhances the therapeutic efficacy of doxorubicin. Toxicol Lett 2000:121:89-96. View abstract.
Sugiyama T, Sadzuka Y. Combination of theanine with doxorobucin inhibits hepatic metastasis of M5076 ovarian sarcoma. Clin Cancer Res 1999;5:413-6. View abstract.
Tsuchiya T, Honda H, Oikawa M, et al. Oral administration of the amino acids cystine and theanine attenuates the adverse events of S-1 adjuvant chemotherapy in gastrointestinal cancer patients. Int J Clin Oncol 2016;21(6):1085-90. View abstract.
Unno K, et al. Anti-stress effect of theanine on students during pharmacy practice: positive correlation among salivary a-amylase activity, trait anxiety and subjective stress. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2013;111:128-135. View abstract.
Williams J, Kellett J, Roach PD, et al. L-theanine as a functional food additive: its role in disease prevention and health promotion. Beverages 2016;2(2):13.
Yokogoshi H, Kobayashi M. Hypotensive effect of gamma-glutamylethylamide in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Life Sci 1998;62:1065-8. View abstract.
Yokogoshi H, Mochizuki M, Saitoh K. Theanine-induced reduction of brain serotonin concentration in rats. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 1998;62:816-7. View abstract.
Yokozawa T, Dong E. Influence of green tea and its three major components upon low-density lipoprotein oxidation. Exp Toxicol Pathol 1997;49:329-35. View abstract.
Yokozawa T, Oura H, Nakagawa H, et al. Effects of a component of green tea on the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 1995;59:2134-6. View abstract.
Yoto A, Motoki M, Murao S, Yokogoshi H. Effects of L-theanine or caffeine intake on changes in blood pressure under physical and psychological stresses. J Physiol Anthropol. 2012;31:28. View abstract.
Zheng G, Sayama K, Okubo T, et al. Anti-obesity effects of three major components of green tea, catechins, caffeine and theanine, in mice. In Vivo 2004;18:55-62. View abstract.
Vitamins Survey
Have you ever purchased THEANINE?
Yes. I have purchased and intend to refill.
Yes. I have purchased but don't intend to refill right now.
No. I'm about to buy for the first time.
No. I don't intend to purchase.
Did you or will you purchase this product in-store or online?
In-store
Online
Where did you or where do you plan to purchase this product?
CVS
Target
Walgreens
Walmart
Health & Nutrition Specialty Store (e.g. GNC)
Supermarket
Other
Where did you or where do you plan to purchase this product?
Amazon.com
CVS.com
Target.com
Walgreens.com
Walmart.com
Health & Nutrition Specialty Store (e.g. GNC)
Supermarket website or app
Other
What factors influenced or will influence your purchase? (check all that apply)
Brand Name
Price
Online Research
User Reviews
Vitamins Survey
Where did you or where do you plan to purchase this product?
Amazon
CVS
Target
Walgreens
Walmart
Health & Nutrition Specialty Store (e.g. GNC)
Supermarket
Other
Do you buy vitamins online or instore?
In-store
Online
What factors are most important to you? (check all that apply)
Brand Name
Price
Online Research
User Reviews
Thanks for taking our survey!
Recommended For You
Vitamins and Minerals A-Z
More Resources for THEANINE
Reviews (156)
Interaction Checker
Search for another Vitamin
Alpha Lipoic Acid
Apple Cider Vinegar
Black Cohosh
Calcium
Chromium
Coenzyme Q ‒ 10
DHEA
Flaxseed
Folic Acid
Ginko
Glucosamine
Melatonin
Niacin
Magnesium
Probiotics
Red Yeast Rice
St. John's Wort
Vitamin C
Vitamin D
Vitamin E
Show More Show Less
You Might Also Like
Follow a Healthy Path
What Vitamins Do You Need as You Age?
Uncontrolled Blood Sugar: How Dangerous Is It?
Non-Drug Migraine Treatments
Alternative Treatments for Migraines
Alternative Treatments for IBS-D
15 Ways to Get Protein at Breakfast
Essential Nutrients for Healthy Skin
Dangers of High Potassium
When Is Potassium Too High?
Find More Vitamins Used to Treat these Conditions
Anxiety
Attention
Attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
Cognitive impairment
Cognitive performance
Colon cancer
Depression
Gastric cancer
Influenza
Schizophrenia
Stress
Show MoreShow Less
CONDITIONS OF USE AND IMPORTANT INFORMATION: This information is meant to supplement, not replace advice from your doctor or healthcare provider and is not meant to cover all possible uses, precautions, interactions or adverse effects. This information may not fit your specific health circumstances. Never delay or disregard seeking professional medical advice from your doctor or other qualified health care provider because of something you have read on WebMD. You should always speak with your doctor or health care professional before you start, stop, or change any prescribed part of your health care plan or treatment and to determine what course of therapy is right for you.
This copyrighted material is provided by Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Consumer Version. Information from this source is evidence-based and objective, and without commercial influence. For professional medical information on natural medicines, see Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Professional Version.
© Therapeutic Research Faculty 2018.
Today on WebMD
Vitamins Quiz
Do you know your vitamin ABCs?
11 Supplements for Menopause
Ease hot flashes and other symptoms.
Vitamin B12
Are you getting enough?
Vitamin D
Wonder pill or overkill?
Recommended for You
Video
Powerhouse Fruits and Veggies
Slideshow
Supplements You Shouldn't Try
Slideshow
Why You Need Vitamin E
Article
St. John's Wort for Depression
Article
Garcinia Cambogia: Is It Safe for Weight Loss?
Article
Vitamin K: How Much Do You Need?
Article
Fiber for Heart, Cholesterol, and Digestive Health
Slideshow
Are You Getting the Vitamins You Need?
WebMD Special Sections
Quiz: What Do You Know About Vitamin B12 Deficiency?
Vitamins and Supplements: The Facts
Health Solutions
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Heal Dry, Cracked Skin
More from WebMD
How Severe Is Your Psoriasis?
Live Better With MS Assessment
What Is Endometriosis?
Getting Pregnant Over 35
How Does Chemo Work?
Stuck Inside? Snow Day Activities
Beat Crohn's Flares
Ways to Prevent Migraines
Managing Diabetes at Work
Routine Checkups You Shouldn't Miss
Avoid Allergy Triggers
Treating Advanced Prostate Cancer
Immunotherapy for Lung Cancer
Test Your MS Care Routine
What's New in Psoriasis Research
Where Breast Cancer Spreads
Visit WebMD on Facebook
Visit WebMD on Twitter
Visit WebMD on Pinterest
Policies
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Advertising Policy
Correction Policy
Terms of Use
About
Contact Us
About WebMD
Careers
Newsletter
Corporate
WebMD Health Services
Site Map
Accessibility
WebMD Network
Medscape
Medscape Reference
MedicineNet
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth
WebMDRx
First Aid
WebMD Magazine
WebMD Health Record
Dictionary
Physician Directory
Our Apps
WebMD Mobile
WebMD App
Pregnancy
Baby
Allergy
Medscape
For Advertisers
Advertise with Us
Advertising Policy
© 2005 - 2019 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.