Treating Anemia Naturally (Top 10 Foods)
Books & Media
Eco-friendly
Natural Home
Garden
Herbs
Health
Cancer
Cleanses
Teas
DIY
Beauty
Pet Care
Toggle navigation
Books & Media
Eco-friendly
Natural Home
Garden
Herbs
Health
Cancer
Cleanses
Teas
DIY
Beauty
Pet Care
Treating Anemia Naturally (Top 10 Foods)
November 29, 2015
by Sasha
Health
No Comment
Anemia simply means that your body is deficient in iron. Some people are just born being anemic-prone, usually due to genetics. For many, however, it is a result of dietary choices. Either way, it is something that should be addressed promptly, because if anemia becomes too severe, it can lead to some harmful side effects.
Anemia Symptoms
Iron deficiency symptoms include:
• Weakness
• Headaches
• Fatigue
• Pale skin
• Dizziness
• Shortness of breath
• Tongue soreness or swelling
• Cold hands and feet
• Crawling or a tingling feeling in the legs
• Brittle nails
• Irregular or fast heartbeat
• Strange cravings to eat items, such as ice, dirt, or clay
Below are some natural remedies to help you overcome anemia.
Beetroot and Apple Juice
Because apples are rich in iron and beets are high in folic acid and fiber, these two make a great combination to help your body absorb the iron it needs. Simply combine 1 cup of organic apple juice, 1 cup of beetroot juice, and 1-2 teaspoons of honey and mix well, then drink up. You can enjoy this two times per day.
Sesame Seeds
A great snack or addition to many salads, and healthy snacks, sesame seeds are a very rich source of iron. For an easy remedy, soak 1 teaspoon of sesame seeds in water for two hours, strain and crush; combine the sesame seed paste with 1 tablespoon of honey and mix well, and then eat up.
Blackstrap Molasses
Blackstrap molasses is particularly one of the rich sources of iron, folate, and B vitamins. All of these components help your body increase its red blood cell production, which increases your iron levels and eliminates anemia.
For a great recipe, combine 2 teaspoons of molasses with 2 teaspoons of apple cider vinegar and 1 cup of water. Drink this mixture once per day. You can also opt to replace that fake-syrup on your breakfast table with the real molasses kind for additional benefits.
Spinach
Spinach is not only rich in vitamins A, B9, E, and C, but also fiber, calcium, and, of course, iron. You will get the most iron benefits by steaming your spinach first, as the nutrients in uncooked spinach is not absorbed as well by the body. You can simply have spinach by itself or add it to any dish.
Tomatoes
Tomatoes are not only rich in iron, but also in vitamin C which allows your body to absorb the iron. Try to eat one whole raw tomato every day. To make it easier, add tomato to your omelet, sandwich, salad, or dinner. You can also drink one full cup of tomato juice instead.
Pomegranates
Not only are pomegranates a sweet treat, but they also help your body get and process the iron your body needs. The remedy is pretty simple: eat one pomegranate or have a glass of pomegranate juice every day.
Parsley
Who knew this little dish decoration was actually rich in iron? Try adding parsley to salads, omelets and scrambles, sandwiches, or dinner plate to help your body reach both its iron and vitamin C requirements.
Dates
Dates are rich in iron as well as calcium, manganese, copper, and magnesium. These minerals and vitamins all help your body increase its production of red blood cells. You can snack on some dates first thing in the morning, either fresh or raw or having them soak in a cup of milk over night. Their close cousins, raisins, are also an excellent remedy for anemia.
Nuts
Not only are nuts an excellent source of protein, but they are also an excellent source of iron and folic acid. For a healthy snack, enjoy a handful of peanuts, almonds or walnuts to increase your body’s amount of iron.
Legumes
In addition to protein, legumes are also an excellent source of iron and folic acid. For a healthy protein source at dinner, include kidney, kima, green, or pinto beans into your meal.
Now that you know how to overcome anemia naturally, you should start including as many of these options into your daily routine as possible. You need to consume enough iron every day for your body to function at its best and to avoid the side effects of anemia, such as lethargy and irritableness.
Tagged: anemia causes, iron deficiency anemia, iron deficiency symptoms, symptoms of anemia
About Author
Sasha
Sasha has a zeal for the natural things in life. As a Certified Herbalist, she has injected pure naturalism into her diet by eating purely organic foods. She also writes for https://findthecureinnature.com/
No Comment
Leave A Comment
Click here to cancel reply.
Name (required)
Email (required)
Website
Comment...
Please enter your name. Please enter an valid email address. Please enter a message.
Post Comment
Previous10 Effective Home Remedies for Hair Growth	Next7 Powerful Health Benefits of Sesame Seeds
Related Posts
25 Natural Solutions for Heavy Periods (Menorrhagia)
Forget Dairy! 18 Herbs and Seeds High in Calcium
7 Health Benefits of Star Fruit (Carambola)
Food Cravings and What Your Body Needs In Return
20 Foods With High Levels of Folic Acid
Disclaimer
We are not licensed medical professionals. The information displayed is not intended for diagnosing or treating any disease or condition and is for educational purposes only.
Popular posts
How to Reduce Hypercalcemia (High Calcium Levels) Naturally
May 26, 2017 Sasha10
What They Don’t Want You to Know: Vitamin B17 Kills Cancer Cells
June 24, 2018 Sasha9
He Cured Himself of Leukemia Without Drugs or Radiation
January 22, 2016 Sasha8
Have you read it?
14 Amazing Benefits and Uses of Baking Soda
August 11, 2015 Sasha1
Colon Cleanse Recipe (the right one)
January 9, 2016 Sasha1
Medicinal Uses of Holy Basil (Tulsi)
July 22, 2015 Sasha0
Information
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Disclaimer
Affiliate Disclosure
Contributor Guidelines
Sitemap
Copyright © 2015-2018 Vox Nature. All rights reserved.