Ghia Site2
Ghia Site2
Foods for Anemia
Foods for All Deficiency Anemias (especially iron, folate, and B12)
No food in itself contains enough iron to treat iron deficiency anemia. An average-sized person with anemia would have to eat at least a ten-pound steak daily to receive the therapeutic amounts of iron needed to correct the condition. However, foods can help maintain health and aid supplementation.
The heme form of iron is more readily absorbed by the body; but, since it is found only in meat, it is not an option for vegetarians. The iron found in plant foods is a non-heme iron and, therefore, harder to absorb. In order to utilize this type of iron, consuming foods rich in vitamin C at the same time will greatly improve the absorption rate of iron since vitamin C converts non-heme iron into the usable form. Cooking in an old-fashioned iron skillet is said to help put some iron back into the diet, but this is debated.
Beetroot juice, made from raw beets, is an especially good addition to any green drink. Beetroot juice contains phosphorus, sodium, magnesium, calcium, iron, and potassium, as well as vitamins A and C, niacin, folic acid, and biotin. When these nutrients are captured in a juicing process, they remain in a form that is much easier to assimilate than synthetic nutrients. For many years in Europe, beetroot has been used as a treatment for cancer. Specific anti-carcinogens are bound to the red colouring compounds, which supposedly help to fight against cancer. As far as the anemic is concerned, beetroot increases the uptake of oxygen by as much as 400 percent.
Blackstrap molasses contains the iron and essential B vitamins necessary for red cell production.
Brewer's yeast is a good source of B vitamins -- just one way to include these nutrients in the diet, especially if there is folate- or B12-deficiency anemia present. Brewer’s yeast also comes in a fortified or vegetarian formula that includes the elusive vitamin B12. It mixes well in nutritious blender drinks, where other nutritional supplements can also be added.
Curry powder is a rich source of iron. Be aware, however, that there is a myriad of recipes for curry powder, so how much iron is actually in curry is anyone's guess; but it usually runs around 50-60 mg of iron per 100 grams.
Fermented foods like miso, tempeh, and bean pastes are rich sources of iron, as well friendly bacteria necessary for vitamin absorption.
Green foods and drinks are essential for anemia sufferers. They are rich in folic acid; and many of them are also rich in iron, particularly watercress, dandelion leaves, and the brassicas (cabbage family). Although beet greens and spinach are also rich in iron, they are also high in oxalic acid, which prevents minerals from being utilized by the body. Therefore, these foods should be eaten sparingly. Eating foods rich in vitamin C will help significantly in the absorption of the type of iron found in vegetables. Other vegetables which are especially beneficial for the anemic include parsley, green pepper, carrots, kale, and asparagus.
Herbs: Herbalists consider nettle (Urtica dioica) as a nutritious plant source of iron, as well as vitamin C, chlorophyll, and other minerals, and is an effective supplement in the treatment of iron-deficiency anemia. Other herbs that are also good are alfalfa, bilberry, cherry, dandelion, goldenseal, grape skins (only organic, as others are loaded with chemicals), hawthorn berry, mullein, Oregon grape root, pau d'arco, red raspberry, shepherd's purse, and yellow dock. Mothers can profit from drinking Rooibos tea during pregnancy and breast feeding when the baby's iron levels are likely to become depleted. Do not take goldenseal or Oregon grape root during pregnancy, and use only under supervision if there is a history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, or glaucoma.
Highest levels: Food that contain the highest iron content (over 5 mg per average serving) are: kidney and pinto beans, liver (eat only from organically raised animals; otherwise, it will contain all the toxic waste the animal has stored), blackstrap molasses, rice bran, raw beet greens (but not the roots), mustard greens, lentils, dried peaches (organic only), and prune juice.
Moderate levels: Foods with moderately high iron content (3-5 mg) include cooked dried unsulfured apricots, cooked beet greens, dates, very lean meat (organically raised), lima beans, chili, cooked spinach, and dry and fresh peas. Spirulina, or blue-green algae, has been used successfully to treat anemia. The standard dose is 1 heaping teaspoon daily. Sea vegetables are rich sources of iron.
Supplements
A good multi-vitamin and mineral supplement taken daily can help prevent and/or combat anemia.
B complex deficiencies are probably the second leading cause of nutritionally caused anemias. Taking all of the B vitamins is vital since supplementing only one can bring about a deficiency in one or more of the others. Therefore, if anemia results from folate or a B12 deficiency and supplements have to be taken, it is wise to include a vitamin B-complex capsule as well, but generally nothing more than 50 mg per day unless otherwise stated by your health care provider.
Since vitamin C aids in the absorption of iron and helps strengthen the blood vessels, the suggested amount of supplement, in addition to the foods high in the nutrient, is 500 mg. twice daily.
Copper acts as a catalyst in the formation of hemoglobin and the copper-binding protein, ceruloplasmin, plays a major role in the distribution of iron throughout the body, especially to the brain. Studies of patients with dementia were found to have inadequate levels of ceruloplasmin.
Calcium helps to regulate the timing release or intake of iron into the RBC, thus affecting its lifespan. Since calcium also competes for the same absorption sites as iron, zinc, and copper, deficiencies of these minerals can occur if one consumes great amounts of calcium. When taken supplementally, calcium should be taken separately at bedtime. The best form is calcium citrate or gluconate rather than carbonate since carbonate is the same as common chalk.
Zinc deficiencies are often seen in alcoholics, sickle cell patients, diabetics, and those with such bowel disorders as Crohn’s disease or short bowel syndrome. Zinc influences several aspects of vitamin A metabolism and a vitamin A deficiency is often seen in people with iron deficiency anemia. Taking too much, however, can also contribute to anemia; therefore, the key is moderation. Doses greater than 150 mg per day can result in sideroblastic anemia or iron deficiency, mainly because it interferes with copper absorption. Since a deficiency is just as bad as an overload, the optimal ratio of zinc to copper is 10:1, that is, 10 milligrams of zinc to one milligram of copper.
Unsulfured dried fruits are a rich source of iron, as well as B vitamins. However, because they are also high in fructose, eating too many at a time is not adviseable, but adding them to cereals or fruit drinks should provide as much iron and other nutrients as one needs in a day.
Foods that interfere with iron absorption
Additives interfere with iron absorption, as do coffee and tea, beer, candy bars, dairy products, ice cream, and soft drinks.
Alcohol can absorb twice the amount of iron. However, this is not a good thing for a number of reasons. Alcohol can interfere with blood cells, which can cause iron to accumulate in tissues rather than helping to form hemoglobin where iron will do the most good. Once iron builds in tissues, that particular organ begins to break down. Alcohol also rapidly depletes the body of valuable nutrients, ultimately causing more health problems, including anemia.
Calcium, vitamin E, zinc, or antacids should not be taken at the same time as iron supplements since they can interfere with iron absorption. (The iron already found in multivitamin supplements seems to pose no problem, however).
Coffee and tea: Coffee contains polyphenols and tea contains tannins, both of which render any iron found in food unusable. Drugs, as aspirin, steroids, and other drugs that tend to cause gastrointestinal bleeding will affect iron absorption. Fiber: Because iron is removed through the stool, do not eat foods high in iron (or take supplements) at the same time as fiber and avoid using bran as a source of fiber.
Milk and milk products, not only affect iron absorption, but can cause internal bleeding in infants.
Oxalates are found in almost all foods, but amounts vary. While oxalates do tend to bind minerals, including iron, they cannot be avoided altogether. Even vitamin C converts to oxalates in the body. It takes very high amounts consistently over a period of time to do damage as far as anemia is concerned, but such foods should be avoided if kidney problems are present. Foods generally found on the list containing high enough amounts of oxalates include: almonds, black pepper, buckwheat, cabbage, cashews, chocolate, cocoa, coffee, eggplant, garden sorrel, berries (most, especially strawberries and cranberries), beans, beets and their greens, bell peppers, black pepper, ginger, green beans, lentils, mango, mustard greens, nuts (most, especially peanuts), oats, parsley, parsnips, plantains, poppy seeds, pumpkin, rhubarb, soybeans, spinach, star fruit, sweet potatoes, Swiss chard, summer squash, sweet potatoes, tea, tomatillos, tomatoes, and wheat bran and germ. While this vast list appears to take in everything edible, the best thing to do if there is no kidney problem is to eat a large variety of foods and ignore the oxalate content.
Pancreatic enzymes may interfere with iron metabolism and should be taken at different times of the day than iron supplements.
Pork: On videotape, Dr. Olympio Pinto has recorded changes occurring in red blood cells caused by eating pork, smoking cigarettes, drinking caffeine, exposure to other toxic chemicals and heavy metals, or consuming any number of other potentially health-destructive substances. Just one hour after eating pork, for instance, more than half of the red blood cells began a transformation called "ghosting". Ghosts are red cells that have lost their hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is not only an oxygen-carrier but is also responsible for the red pigmentation of the blood. This could explain the sleepy feeling some people get after eating certain kinds of foods to which the body is particularly sensitive.
Gia Home
Gia websites click here
Gia
Garbage Enzymes Photo
Maps
Aloe Vera
Growing dragon fruits in the containers
How to Grow Dragon Fruit
How to grow dragon fruits
How to grow potato
How to Guide for Rotating Crops in the Vegetable
How to guide for Harvesting Vegetables
How to Harvest Peas
How to Grow Peas From a Seed
How to Presprout Pea Seeds
How to Rotate Crops to Improve the Soil in a Garde
How to Build Raised Beds for Planting
How to Solarize Soil
How to Prevent Soilborne Disease
How to Make a Twig Composter
How to Rid Your Home of Flies
How to Grow Grapes
How to Build A Grape Arbor
How to Easily Build an Arbor
How to Make Grape Arbors
How to build a sturdy grape arbor
How to Build a Grapevine Arbor
Homemade Hydroponics
Hydroponics
How Do Hydroponic Gardening Systems Work
The Benefits of Gardening the Hydroponic Way
Keep Your Food Safe From Deadly Pesticides
Hydroponic Theory
Getting the garden ready by Shift Gears
The Benefits of Using Hydroponics
How to Set Up a Hydroponic Aquaponic Indoor Grow
Growing Fruits Using Hydroponics
Gardening Products
How to Grow Persimmon Trees
How to Identify Male Persimmon Trees
How to Start Persimmon Trees
How to Select a Persimmon
How to Harvest Eat and Prepare Persimmon Fruit
How to Make Honey Persimmon Jelly
How to Make Grandma s Persimmon Cookies
How to Make Persimmon Bread
How to Fertilize Persimmon Trees
How to Harvest and Store Persimmons
Growing Mangoes
PROPAGATING DECIDUOUS AND EVERGREEN SHRUBS TREES
How to propagate trees from cuttings
How to propagate and care for your mango tree Part
Propagating Olive Trees
All About Carnivorous Plants Propagating
Hydroponic Lettuce
Hydroponic Onion
Vegetable and Fruit Gardening How to Grow Onions
Growing Vegetables by Seed Propagation
Fire and Spice Growing Hydroponic Chiles
How to Grow Chili Peppers in Hydroponics
Planting Potato
How To Grow Potatoes and How to Prepare Potatoes
How to Build a Small Hydroponics Tomato Grower
How to Build a Tomato Cage
Home Composting
Organic Materials Management
The Blood Gas Theory
Roasting Cashew Nuts
Introduction and life cycle of Cashew nuts
Separation of cashew nuts
Health Benefits of Pomelo 70
Improve Your Health with Goji Berries
Health Benefits of Lime
Health Benefits of Pomelo
Vegetables and Fruits for all ages
How is Dry Ice Made
How to Get a Flat Stomach in a Week 3 Easy Steps
Secrets on How to Get a Flat Stomach in One Week
Benefits Of Custard Apple
Benefits Of Sweet Potato
Benefits Of Chives
Stone Healing Quality Guide
Crystal and Gemstone Therapy
Health Benefits of Star Fruit
Health Benefits of Carrot
Health Benefits of Papaya
Health Benefits of Pineapple
Health Benefits of Soybean
Health Benefits of Spinach
Health Benefits of Avocado
Health Benefits of Kelp or Seaweed
Health Benefits of Onion
Health Benefits of Apple
Experience the Health Benefits of Sesame
Benefits Of Sesame Seeds
Sesame seeds
Health Benefits of Pomegranate Juice
22 Facts About Pomegranates
Can You Eat Pomegranate Seeds
How to Juice a Pomegranate
How Many Calories in Pomegranate
Pomegranates Have Many Health Benefits
Health Benefits of Cucumber
Pomegranates an amazingly healthy fruit
Six Horrifying Parasites
EATING RAW FISH THE DANGERS
Human Parasites in Raw Fish
Foods for Anemia
By Tommy Fassbender on September 18th 2008 Food
Anemia Cure with Natural Food By Dev Sri Platinum
Iron rich foods
Foods to Treat Anemia
How to Make Your Own Alkaline Drinking Water Read
How to Build Your Own Alkaline Water Ionizer
Food Side Effects Possible Negative Consequences
Strawberries Growing Fresh Strawberries
History of Strawberries
The Best Time to Plant Strawberries By Kenny Leone
Maqui Berry Fruit
Planting Pomegranate Trees
How to do budding plants
How To Graft Plants
Grafting and Budding Nursery Crop Plants
Grafting Techniques For Greenhouse Tomatoes
Grafting Plants How to Graft a Plant
Plant Grafting Technique
What Are The Tree Grafting Techniques
How to Play the Treble Clef Lines Note
How to Play the Bass Clef Lines Notes on the Piano
How to Read Notes Below the Bass Clef
How to Read the Notes Above the Treble Clef
This chart is awesome Everyone can use it
World's 50 most delicious foods
food
Top 10 Foods Highest in Vitamin B12 Cobalamin
9 Foods Rich in Vitamin B6
The healthy Foods
How to Best Absorb Vitamin E Supplements
5 Key Ingredients for Better Nutrient Absorption
10 Health Benefits of Ginger
Discover the Benefits Of Ginger
Learn the Health Benefits of Ginger for a Great Im
What Causes a Weak Immune System and Cancer Cell G
how to write a feasibility study
The Elements of a Good Feasibility Study
Feasibility-Study-Techniques
Onions are Beneficial for Your Health
Benefits Of Onion
The Health Benefits of Onion
How to Open a Watch Back
Energizer Watch Battery Replacement Guide
Fresh and Frozen Seafood Selecting and Serving it
Deed of Absolute Sale
Difference Between Iron and Steel
IRON AND STEEL
Beware of fake banana leaf meals
Tips How to Develop Film
Tamarind nutrition facts
Healthy herbs nutrition facts
Vegetable nutrition facts
Nuts nutrition facts
Healthy spices nutrition facts
Fruit nutrition facts
Phytonutrients in the diet
Kangkong
5 Swamp Cabbage or KangKong Health Benefits and It
Make a Free Website with Yola.