The Best Holistic Remedies for Asthma Symptoms - America's Allergist – americasallergist
Home
Products
Blog
About us
FAQ
Take the quiz
Contact
Article
The Best Holistic Remedies for Asthma Symptoms
April 09, 2018 • asthma remedies • asthma treatment
Medical treatment for asthma is a multi-billion-dollar business, but did you know that you can treat your asthma symptoms at home to prevent attacks? There are several holistic asthma remedies you can try to keep your breathing under control. They should lessen the number of doctor’s visits you make each year and prevent you from overusing your asthma medication.
Beneficial Foods
Certain nutrients and antioxidants can combat toxins in the environment to control inflammation and reduce dietary triggers. Try the following foods to build up a strong immune system for asthma treatment. Red and orange vegetables can reduce asthma attacks because they’re full of vitamin A. Vitamin B9, found in green leafy veggies, beans and nuts, can lower wheezing by regulating inflammatory responses. Magnesium can reduce the severity of attacks and relax bronchial muscles, so you should work greens, seeds, nuts, beans or cocoa into your diet. Antioxidants like Vitamin E & C may reduce inflammation and wheezing. You can find Vitamin E in nuts, seeds and plant oils, while Vitamin C is packed into leafy greens, berries and citrus fruit. Other foods such as cruciferous vegetables, garlic and onions, cultured dairy, fiber and oily fish also offer benefits to those with asthma. However, you should avoid things like added sugar, refined oils, processed carbs, traditional dairy and gluten according to studies.
Supplements
There are also a number of over-the-counter supplements that are good for asthma treatment. Start with Vitamin D to slow declining lung function and stop the narrowing of breathing passages over time. It also supports immune health as a natural anti-inflammatory. Some studies show that patients with mild to moderate asthma who took a Vitamin D supplement had fewer severe asthma attacks and required fewer steroids for treatment. Other vitamin and mineral supplements that work as asthma remedies are Vitamins C, B3 and B12, magnesium and zinc. They can increase immunity, reduce wheezing and lower stress levels which have been shown to contribute to asthma attacks.
Immunotherapy
Aside from home remedies, there are also two types of medical immunotherapy that don’t involve drugs that can be helpful in treating asthma. They are allergy shots and sublingual tablets. Allergy shots build your immunity to certain allergies which may be triggers and may eventually eliminate your allergy symptoms altogether. Sublingual tablets go under your tongue and reduce allergy symptoms, but right now they’re only available for certain grass and ragweed pollens. Still, if your hay fever causes your asthma to flare up, this may be an excellent treatment option.
When you have asthma, there are natural options available to you that may keep you from spending a lot of time in the doctor’s office. Holistic choices can reduce your need for medicine and medical care, but if you have a full-blown attack, be sure to seek a doctor’s care.
To learn more about allergies and asthma, please visit here!
Share Share on Facebook 0 Tweet Tweet on Twitter Pin it Pin on Pinterest 0 Fancy Add to Fancy +1 +1 on Google Plus
Quick Links
FAQ
About us
Catalog
Information
Product Return
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Follow Us
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
Google
Instagram
YouTube
Newsletter
Sign up for the latest news, offers and styles
Subscribe
Copyright © 2019, americasallergist.
paypal