Wonders of Steam Inhalation or Benefits of Inhaling Steam
Conditions
Allergy
Autoimmune Disorder
Blood / Hematology
Cancer
Cardiovascular System
Childhood Illnesses
Ear / Eye
Endocrinal System
Face, Mouth & Throat
Gastrointestinal System
Genetic Disorders
Genitourinary System
Infectious Diseases
Metabolic System
Musculoskeletal System
Nervous System
Psychiatric Disorders
Skin Problems
Women's Health Guide
All Topics
Sports Injuries
Ankle Injuries
Hip Injuries
Knee Injuries
Pelvic, Groin & Buttock Pain
Wrist Injuries
All Topics
Personal Injury
Auto Accident
Work Accident
Gunshot Wound
Disability
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Q & A
Erectile Dysfunction: Does Opioid Cause ED
Do I have Fibromyalgia?
Splitting Headache: Is It a Migraine?
Did I have a stroke?
Libido: Opioid Induced Female Sexual Dysfunction
All Topics
Articles
Travel & Health
Can a Right Diet Help With Fibromyalgia
Dietary Do’s & Don’ts for Migraine Sufferers
Home Remedies for Arthritis
Shirshasana (Headstand) Versus Inversion Therapy Using Inversion Table
Understanding Joint Pain and Tips to Get Relief Using Home Remedies
All Topics
Treatments
Opioids
Antidepressant Analgesics
Interventional Treatment
Local Applications
Antiepileptics Analgesics
Medications
Tests and Procedures
Allergy Meds
Alternative Therapy
Chakra and Aura
Home Remedies
Diet & Nutrition
Fitness and Exercise
Yoga
Tabata
Pilates
Manual Therapy
Chiropractic Treatment
Spa Therapy
Physical Therapy
Massage Therapy
All Topics
News
Navigation Menu
Menu
Global Notification
Global Search
Subscribe
Global Search
Home
Articles
Wonders of Steam Inhalation or Benefits of Inhaling Steam
Reviewed By: Board Certified Physician
Are you suffering from clogged sinuses or is it there is congestion in chest or want to have some relief from the head congestion? Why not try out one of the most effective home remedy for cough, cold, and the sinuses? In this current article today, we will be discussing about one of the most wonderful ways to treat such conditions in the most natural way with a therapy named steam inhalation for the cold and the irritable sinuses. We will talk about the various wonders of steam inhalation along with its additional therapeutic benefits of inhaling steam when reinforced with the essential oils in the following array of the article.
What Is Steam Inhalation and How Is It Done?
Steam inhalation involves the introduction of warm and moist air into the lungs through the nose and the throat and thus allowing the blocked passages to get cleared and provide relief from the congestion. apart from this, steam inhalation is beneficial in improving circulation and more importantly when done with essential oils or certain herbs added to the steam benefits you from eradicating the respiratory ailments in the most miraculous way.
You need a bowl of boiling hot water and keeping your head over it; covering with a towel and keeping eyes closed. you need to make sure steam or the warm moist air does not reach your eyes and take deep breath while doing steam inhalation. there are also electric steam inhalers that one can buy over the counter or on any of the popular e-commerce websites. all you need to do is add water to the electric steam inhalers up to the level indicated on it and plug it on.
Wonders of Steam Inhalation or Benefits of Inhaling Steam!
Here below are some of the most crucial therapeutic benefits of steam inhalation. Please note down the list of wonders of this therapy of steam inhalation and the additional benefits of inhaling steam with essential oils which are listed below.
Wonders of Steam Inhalation in Eradicating Various Respiratory Ailments:
The most common and major benefit seen through the natural steam inhalation therapy is its wonderful way of treating the respiratory problems or complications generated with the common cold, sinuses, blocked nose, flu, bronchitis, asthma etc. the warm and moist air while inhaling with this process of steam inhalation, assist you in clearing the nose and the throat. inhaling steam is thus known to be beneficial in clearing throat irritation, clearing blocked nose, problems of breathing and other noted inflammations.
Benefits of Steam Inhalation in Improving Circulation:
Body's blood vessels start dilating when the body's temperature increases. This further helps in an enhanced blood flow and a better circulation of the blood. A better circulation is known to be beneficial in treatment of headaches and migraines. Thus the benefits or the wonders of steam inhalation are also extended towards the improved circulation and treating migraines and serious headaches. Rise in body temperature can also be beneficial in stimulating the immune system and increasing the immune power in fighting against the germs.
Wonders or Benefits of Steam Inhalation as a Natural Expectorant:
An expectorant aids in increasing the amount of secretion and thus clearing the secretion and lubricating the respiratory passages. Thus, inhaling steam works as a great natural expectorant and is beneficial in improving the conditions in lungs and the throat.
Steam Inhalation and its Wonderful Benefits in Cleansing of Pores and Rejuvenation:
Your skin condition gets improved with an improved circulation of the blood. As discussed above that steam inhalation helps in increasing blood circulation, it can also be used as a treatment for pore cleansing and rejuvenation. When added with some natural oils, inhaling steam can work as one of the best wonders to provide you a glowing and young skin.
Additional Therapeutic Benefits of Inhaling Steam with Essential Oils:
It is true that steam inhalation acts as one of the greatest wonders for treating cold, cough and sinuses. However, an addition of certain essential oils to the steam inhaler works as a better therapy for treating various conditions including respiratory issues, congestion, skin improvement etc. Some of the most common essential oils used in steam inhalation include the peppermint, eucalyptus, lavender, camomile, lemongrass, rosemary, fennel etc.
Some Essential Oils for Treating Various Conditions via Steam Inhalation:
To treat respiratory issues and congestion: Add eucalyptus, peppermint, cedarwood, pine etc in to the steam inhalers and maximize the benefits of these essential oils in treating problems related to respiration and congestion via steam inhalation.
For relaxation: Add camomile, lemongrass and lavender to the steam inhalers. inhaling the steam of these essential oils is beneficial in relaxing your mind and body.
For cold: Adding some clove, peppermint, ginger, bay, myrrh, rosemary etc and inhaling its steam can be of benefit in treating common cold.
For cough: Peppermint, rosemary, cadamom, benzoin, etc.
For headaches/migraines: Adding the essential oil of camomile and lavendar in your steam inhalation therapy can help relieve headaches and migraine.
For dry skin: Rosemary, fennel, peppermint, sea buckthorn etc.
For oily skin: Chamomile, lavender, rosemary, fennel, lemongrass.
Certain Cautions to be Maintained with Steam Inhalation:
Steam inhalation is not advised for the kids because of the risk of scalding. Though children can have benefits from sitting in a hot or steamy bathroom.
Excess of hot water in the bowl while doing the steam inhalation can result in burns. so cautions must be taken before going for the steam inhalation therapy.
Also do not fill water to full when you add few drops of essential oil in to the electric steam inhalers as adding essential oils can cause few drops of water to splash out.
There are also strict advises from doctors for the pregnant women and the people with high blood pressure not to undergo steam inhalation.
Conclusion:
It is good to follow the doctors' advice in case if you have any kind of health ailments. but, "if something can be treated naturally, let it be natural!" common cold and sinuses can be treated effectively via steam inhalation with essential oils. so, one can try this out at home in case he/she wants to keep away from the medicines.
Also Read:
How Long Does A Stuffy Nose Last?
Addiction to Nasal Spray: Treatment & Recovery of Rebound Congestion
Side Effects of Afrin Nasal Spray in Treating Allergies|Afrin Dependency
Nasal Congestion: Causes, Treatments, Home Remedies
How Does Antihistamines and Decongestants Work in Treating Allergies?
What Can Cause Nasal Obstruction and How is it Treated?
What's App
Facebook
Twitter
Pintrest
Print
Email
Written, Edited or Reviewed By:
Pramod Kerkar, MD,FFARCSI
Pain Assist Inc.
Last Modified On: February 27, 2019
This article does not provide medical advice. See disclaimer
You May Also Like
Are Common Warts Contagious| Symptoms, Treatment & Home Remedies for Common Warts
READ MORE >>
Shirshasana (Headstand) Versus Inversion Therapy Using Inversion Table
READ MORE >>
Can a Right Diet Help With Fibromyalgia
READ MORE >>
Viagra (Sildenafil) Treatment for Opioid Induced Erectile Dysfunction
READ MORE >>
What is Psychotherapy?Indications, Objective, About Psychotherapist And Can They Prescribe Medications
READ MORE >>
ePainAssist Home
View More
Rib Pain Images
Symptom Checker
Find A Physician
Health Topics
Health News
Videos
Slideshows
Recent Post
Ways In Which Your Diabetes Changes After 50
What is Dry Drowning, Know Its Symptoms, Treatment, Prevention
Diet Tips For A Tuberculosis Patient: Foods to Eat & Foods to Avoid
Congenital Uterine Anomalies - Their Impact On Fertility
Which Chest Diseases or Illnesses Causes Pain Under Left Rib Cage?
>> More
Most Popular
Disability
Does Sickle Cell Disease Qualify For Disability Benefits?
Allergies
Sun Allergy: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Prognosis, Prevention, Recovery
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Medicare for Chiropractic Care: What Does it Cover & What It Doesn’t Cover|Medicare Advantage Plans
Travel & Health
Can You Fly With A Blood Clot & What are the Precautions to be Taken?
Home Remedies
Symptoms of Silent Reflux in Infant & its Natural Remedies
Symptom Checker
Get To Know What Possibly Could Be Causing Your Symptoms!
Men Women
Subscribe to Free ePainAssist Newsletters
I agree to the ePainAssist Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy.
Sign Up for Our Newsletter
We'll help you live each day to the healthiest
Email
Join
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram
Download Our Mobile Apps
Copyright © 2019 PainAssist Inc (ePainAssist) | All rights reserved.
Contact Us
Disclaimer
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertising Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Financial Disclosure Policy
Information Policy
Find Physician
Pain Blog
Images and Text Policy
Medical Quiz
Videos
Pain Discussion Board
Post A Question
Chiropractors
Pain Physicians
Orthopedic Surgeons
Neurological Surgeons
Neurologists
Neuromusculoskeletal Medicine Doctors
Physical Medicine and Rehabitation Specialists
Note: Information provided is not a substitute for physician, hospital or any form of medical care. Consult your medical care providers for medical advice, treatments and followup.