Should I Use Ice or Heat for My Lower Back Pain? - Reading ChiropractorReading Chiropractor
The Reading Chiropractor
Call now on01189 39 40 40The Reading Chiropractor, 61 Castle Street, Reading, RG1 7SNdavid@reading-chiropractor.co.uk
Home
Conditions Treated
Headaches
Neck Pains
Shoulder Pains
Mid Back pains
Pelvis/Hip Pain
Elbow Pain
Extremity Conditions
Low Back Pain
Knee Pain
Foot Pain
Other Conditions
About us
Our History
Meet the Team
Opening hours
Fees
How to find us
Testimonials
Contact Us
Blog
/
Home / The Reading Chiropractor Blog / Should I Use Ice or Heat for My Lower Back Pain?
Wednesday 24th April, 2019
Post navigation
← Previous
Should I Use Ice or Heat for My Lower Back Pain?
Posted on October 2, 2017 by David
Do you know when to use heat and when to use ice?
Cold and heat can both provide effective relief from injuries but do you know which to use and when to use it?
Read the full article by Andrew Moeller, here: https://www.spine-health.com/blog/should-i-use-ice-or-heat-my-lower-back-pain
Ice in the first 24 to 72 hours
Generally it is best to apply cold therapy to your back in the first 24 to 72 hours following an injury, and back injuries are no different. Cold can help to reduce the inflammation and swelling caused by the injury. This in turn will reduce your pain by numbing the area through the slowing the response of the nerve endings and also decrease the tissue damage caused by the inflammation.
Cold can be applied in numerous ways: a frozen bag of vegetables (peas work well) , frozen gel packs, and ice cubes in a damp towel. Regardless of which option you choose, make sure to note the following precautions:
To avoid burning the area, place a towel or tea-towel between the ice and your skin.
Apply cold therapy for no more than 15-20 minutes at a time. You can re-apply cold therapy every hour up to 8 to 10 times per 24 hour period.
Use heat to encourage healing
After the initial swelling and inflammation has eased, applying heat therapy will encourage healing in your lower back. Heat helps to stimulates blood flow in the area of injury, thereby allowing the inflammatory mediators and damaged cells to be removed whilst bringing oxygen and nutrients to help repair the damaged tissues. Heat can also inhibit the transmission of pain signals to your brain and decrease your stiffness by helping to relax tight scar tissue in the muscles and ligaments.
At the Reading Chiropractor, we would always recommend the use of moist heat therapy, this penetrates deeper and therefore will have more of an effect to the deeper tissues of the low back. This can be achieved with a hot water bottle wrapped in a moist towel, or a nice warm bath.
If you have diabetes, an open wound, or dermatitis it is best to avoid heat therapy altogether.
Additionally, if you do suffer from extended or chronic lower back pain make sure to receive care from a qualified medical professional, such as a chiropractor at the Reading Chiropractor. Relying on self-care for too long may make your back pain worse.
To read more on the on the use of ice-packs in the relief of low-back pain https://www.spine-health.com/treatment/heat-therapy-cold-therapy/ice-packs-back-pain-relief
This entry was posted in The Reading Chiropractor Blog by David. Bookmark the permalink.
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Please enter an answer in digits:
16 − 4 =
About us
About Us
Meet the Team
How to find us
How to contact us
Opening hours
Fees
Chiropractic
Conditions treated
About you
Patient testimonials
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
The Reading Chiropractor
61 Castle Street, Reading, Berkshire RG1 7SN, GB
01189 39 40 40
© The Reading Chiropractor 2019. All Rights Reserved. - Website by Digital-zest.com
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy