Imigran Imitrex Imitrix Sumatriptan
IMIGRAN-IMITREX-IMITRIX
(sumatriptan succinate)
The best in the world at the best price!
Home Page Anagen.net Shop on line - The available products
IMITREX is a medicine specifically designed to relieve all of the multiple symptoms associated with migraine including:
Painful, throbbing headaches
Nausea or
Sensitivity to light and sounds
IMITREX was created by Glaxo Wellcome specifically to treat migraines. Some medications may just dull pain. IMITREX is believed to target the nerves and blood vessels that can trigger the throbbing pain, nausea, and sensitivity to light and sound. Of course, IMITREX works anytime during a migraine. But when taken at the beginning of a migraine attack, it may be more effective without causing drowsiness.
And since IMITREX is not an addictive narcotic or barbiturate, your migraine pain can be relieved while you remain active, alert, and in control.
Only your Doctor can decide if IMITREX is right for you.
IMITREX is for the acute treatment of migraine attacks, with or without aura, in adults.
You should not take IMITREX if you have certain types of heart disease, a history of stroke or transient ischemic attacks, peripheral vascular disease, Raynaud’s syndrome, blood pressure that is uncontrolled, or are allergic to this medication. If you have risk factors for heart disease, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes, or are a smoker, you should be evaluated by your doctor before taking IMITREX. Very rarely, certain people, even some without heart disease, have had serious heart-related problems when taking IMITREX.
If you are currently taking other medications, particularly MAO inhibitors and ergotamines, or other migraine medications, or if you are pregnant, nursing, or thinking about becoming pregnant, you should talk to your doctor. If the headaches you are suffering from are not migraines, IMITREX is not for you.
Imitrex should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established. It is not intended for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or for use in the management of basilar or hemiplegic migraine.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA -- June 26, 1998 -- Glaxo Wellcome Inc.’s Imitrex(R) (sumatriptan) (sumatriptan succinate) provides fast and consistently effective relief of migraine, according to data being presented this week at the 40th annual meeting of the American Association for the Study of Headache (AASH).
It has been used to treat more than 160 million migraine attacks in eight million patients world-wide.
About Anagen.net | How to advertise | Privacy Policy | Legal Disclaimer | Site resolution
Recommend this site to your friends Anagen.net complete site in Italian language