▷ Snail: give yourself a new skin and say goodbye to stretch marks and more
Biomanantial
Todo sobre remedios naturales y plantas medicinales
Encabezado Derecho
Navegación principal
What would you like to find?
Search...
Browse by categories
Dietetics
Health
Beauty
Personal Development
Organic Farming
Sports nutrition
Recipes & Cooking
News
Hair Care
Facial Care
Skin
Natural Cosmetics
Chest, Legs and Buttocks
Snail: give yourself a new skin and say goodbye to stretch marks and more
Biomanantial
You are here: Home » Beauty » Natural Cosmetics » Snail: give yourself a new skin and say goodbye to stretch marks and more
By	K. Laura Garcés G 2 Comments
Published: 01/02/2013 - Updated: 07/04/2016
Did you know that the slime is one of the most beneficial substances to heal, repair and heal the skin? If you have acne scars, blemishes, wrinkles or spots on your skin, it's time to try this super effective and natural remedy to look your skin like new, as the snail, among other things, encourages the formation of collagen and elastin in the skin, and contain other wonderful and underutilized substances that were previously unknown.
Contents
Active components of the snail:
Uses in cosmetics and health:
Beware of the products you buy!
Treatment based on snail gel:
Active components of the snail:
Proteases: avoid that new blood vessels become damaged, besides favor the deposition of collagen in the layer of the arteries.
Fibrinolytic enzymes: have the function to clean the micro-capillaries, promote nutrition and oxygenation of cells and repair damaged tissues or in addition to vessel remodeling.
Natural Antibiotics: combat fungi and bacteria staying on the skin such as acne and dandruff.
Allantoin: substance that stimulates cell proliferation and the reconstruction of damaged tissues. In some preparations it is used to treat ulcers, wounds and burns.
Collagen: works as a powerful skin regenerator which causes cell reproduction leaving skin smooth and soft. This property helps to repair your own shell when it breaks.
Elastin: a substance that tightens the skin by producing rejuvenated cells, which quickly removes wrinkles around the eyes and lips, stretch marks, scars, etc.
Glycolic acid: an excellent exfoliant that removes dead cells and stimulates the birth of new, fighting spots, stretch marks, scars, Habosem, etc.
Vitamins: some creams or gels are added, along with the proper vitamins of slime, vitamin A and E, powerful antioxidants that enhance the results of this product.
Uses in cosmetics and health:
Effective treatment to remove wrinkles and prevent them.
Reduces stretch marks and scarred skin, even old acne scars, chickenpox, old cut, etc.
Rejuvenates potently skin.
Repairs skin tissue irritated when it was exposed to radiation, chemicals, etc.
Eliminates dandruff flakes as it has a keratolytic effect.
Helps repair skin from first degree burns.
Useful for combating acne, having a natural antibiotic that kills skin bacteria that cause acne.
It is an excellent exfoliant that removes dead cells and stimulates the emergence of the new.
Combats keloid formation and helps to remove it.
Reduces and removes stains caused by sun or age.
Helps fight cellulite.
Beware of the products you buy!
It's good to warn you that not all products that contain snail advertised are effective. A product that is effective and serve to repair and heal the skin should contain the slime when snail produces a stimulus for defense (as when in stress). The saliva secreted when they are moving is not effective for these purposes.
When under stress, snail secretes protein and rich in aforementioned components, which are responsible for the repair, regenerative and reconstructive activity in skin.
Treatment based on snail gel:
Most importantly, as we already explained, the gel or cream you get should be from quality and contain snail when under stress.
After then, you should apply the product on your clean skin, preferably after bathing or at night after washing your face or the area you want to repair or heal.
Apply the gel with gentle, circular movements on the affected area.
Repeat this twice a day if possible. Avoid applying the gel or cream if you expose yourself to the sun, if you apply it on your face, it is best at night after washing your face.
Repeat the treatment for a month to see results and remember that each skin is different and the results may be faster or take a little depending on skin type.
Apply the product based on snail until you see results. The product, if it’s from quality and natural, causes no side effects and can be applied daily.
If you perform this treatment for more than three months you will notice a marked improvement in your skin.
If you want to emphasize the results: drink two liters of pure water a day, remember that a well moisturized and hydrated skin is less prone to wrinkle. In addition, we recommend consuming vegetables or foods rich in vitamin A and E, as avocado, carrots, papaya, nuts, olive oil extra virginetc.
Related articles
Natural Remedies for the stretch marks Stretch mark is a defect formed in the skin, usually by constant weight variants. It [...]
Stretch Marks: How to make them disappear and prevent them Stretch marks are slight white-ish or reddish scars on the skin or tissues that appear as [...]
Diet and food to prevent and combat stretch marks Stretch marks are white lines marked on the skin, which has the property of being [...]
Stretch marks: Phytotherapy and other tips to prevent and combat When elastic fibers in the skin are broken, then stretch marks appear, which are small [...]
Oily skin: say goodbye to it with these natural secrets Oily skin is characterized by excessive accumulation of sebum or oil on the surface of [...]
Goodbye to Guilt A life can be ruined and lived with difficulty, limitation and pain if there are [...]
The best of Natural Cosmetics
The Cactus and its Beauty secrets This plant grows in arid and cold climates, but does not mean that it is [...]
How to prepare deodorant at home Sweating and axillary malodor are often linked, so to combat these problems we usually resort [...]
Garlic and Beauty Skin Garlic has a lot of medicinal properties for skin. Its healing elements help the skin [...]
Tepezcohuite Tepezcohuite or Tepescohuite is traditionally known as "skin tree". Toast of Tepezcohuite bark was used by [...]
Dyeing hair with Henna In addition to making beautiful scenery and doing tattoos on the skin, henna is a [...]
Collagen: recipes and foods to maintain its efficient production Collagen is the essential ingredient for the skin to stay young, healthy and beautiful. It [...]
Say goodbye to scars with these naturally effective tips Scars are visible marks on the body that are a kind of footprint after a [...]
Nail and skin fungus (cutaneous mycoses): Super effective remedy with cinnamon Have you tried everything to eliminate fungus? Can’t you stand anymore the itching? The nail [...]
Centella asiatica The Centella asiatica is a very hardy climbing plant that grows in tropical areas, as its [...]
Henna: Natural Dyes They say the hair is part of the face. Thus the dye is a good [...]
Send your e-mail to receive our newsletter offerings:
Name: Email:
Products related with Snail: give yourself a new skin and say goodbye to stretch marks and more
Stretch Mark Massage Oil with Arnica - Weleda - 100 ml Oil based on Arnica that prevents and helps to remove stretch marks Contributes to firm skin [...]
Eye Contour Snail HELIX ACTIVE - 15 ml Caracol concentrated extract Smoothing and firming treatment for the eye area, based on concentrated extract of [...]
Snail Facial Serum HELIX ACTIVE - 30 ml Dribble extract certified organic snail: specially selected for Harmony and obtained through a patented extraction [...]
Snail Body cream HELIX ACTIVE - 500 ml Moisturizing body lotion base and non-greasy texture easily absorbed daily body care. A formula without [...]
Regenerating Snail Cream HELIX ACTIVE SPF 30 - 50 ml SKIN BLEMISHES AND WRINKLES Organically certified snail slime extract-based regenerating cream, rich in allantoin, collagen, [...]
2 Reviews about Snail: give yourself a new skin and say goodbye to stretch marks and more
5
Stacy on
23/09/2014
ooh gross. I sure am glad I read this, but...I don't knooow. I live in Alaska where we have some of the biggest slugs on the planet. Big banana slugs that get up to 6 inches long. They're huge and slimy!! I've never thought of using them medicinally, but I guess since they abound here, perhaps I should try it@!
5
Allison on
02/01/2013
My mother told me about this treatment but I actually don?t feel good about having slime covering my face, yuk! But there are a lot of good results and people who could heal their skin from several problems, maybe I should investigate a little more and then just be safe and try this therapy!
Write Review
Name: (Required)
E-mail: (will not be published) (Required)
Your Review:
Rating:Poor Excellent
Confirmation code:
(Required)
I accept the rules of participation
You have not found what you were looking for?
 2See comments 
Advertising
Contact
Privacy policy
Cookies Policy
Rules and Disclaimer
Copyright ©2018 · biomanantial.com
RIVAS INTERNET S.L. CIF: ESB86492501 Travesía Fortuny, 2. 28300 Aranjuez. Spain.
This Site uses Cookies. Cookies are files stored in your browser and are used by most websites to help you personalize your web experience. More information. Accept