TrueB Plant Based Vitamin B Complex, View All Products: Store Name
My Account
Login or Register
1-800-593-2563
View cart [$ 0.00]
Close
Shopping Cart
0 Items Subtotal: $0
Continue Shopping
Checkout »
Home
Shop Now›
Shop by Categories
Active Nutrition Antioxidants & Multivitamins Blood Sugar Support Bone health Brain & Memory Circulation Digestive Health Energy & Weight Management Hair Skin & Nails Heart Health Immune Support Joint & Muscle Health Liver Health Mens Health Womens Health Vision
Shop by Products
3-2-1 Detox Package AloeCran AloeCran on the Go (out of
stock) Revitalizing Shampoo TrueALA TrueAloe True Aloe Cleansing Bar True Aloe Topical Gel TrueB TrueBerry7 TrueBP TrueC TrueCapros TrueCirc TrueCoq10 - 50mg
TrueCoq10 - 100mg TrueCurcumin TrueD3 TrueE TrueEZ-D TrueGlucoSP TrueGreenTea TrueHNS TrueJoint FLX TrueLife PB TrueMagnesium TrueMale TrueMilkThistle TrueMulti TrueMulti w/ Iron
TrueNOx TrueOC Quick Melt TrueOmega-3 TrueOsteo TruePR Roll-On TruePR Lotion TrueProstate TruePS TrueRecall TrueReGen TrueResveratrol TrueSlim TrueVision View All Products
About Us
Club Membership
News Blog
Special Offers
Active Nutrition
Antioxidants &
Multivitamins
Blood Sugar
Support
Bone
Health
Brain &
Memory
Circulation
Digestive
Health
Energy & Weight
Management
Hair, Skin
& Nails
Heart
Health
Immune
Support
Joint & Muscle
Health
Liver
Health
Men's
Health
Women's
Health
Vision
Home/View All Products/TrueB Plant Based Vitamin B Complex
+ ENLARGE
TrueB Plant Based Vitamin B Complex
Write Review
CLUB MEMBERLogin
(Not a Club Member?)
Units
NatureCity Value Price
NatureCity CLUB MEMBERS
1
$19.97 each
$14.98 each
3
$18.66 each ($55.97)
$13.99 each ($41.98)
6
$16.66 each ($99.97)
$12.50 each ($74.98)
Description
Supplements Facts
Scientific References
Client Reviews
TrueB™ Organic Plant Based B Vitamin Complex with Active B12 and Folate- 30 Veggie Capsules
The eight vitamins making up the vitamin B family work closely together to trigger many important body functions.
Cellular energy production is one of the most important functions of the B complex vitamins.
Others include aiding several aspects of cardiovascular and cognitive health, red blood cell creation, and supporting the immune system.
The eight nutrients that make up the vitamin B complex, including thiamine (B1), riboflavin (B2), niacin (B3), pantothenic acid (B5), vitamin B6, biotin, folate (B9), and vitamin B12.
B vitamins are water soluble which means they are not easily stored in the body. As a result, like vitamin C (the other main water soluble vitamin), B vitamins need to be replenished frequently.
Since the functions of the various B vitamins are so interrelated, it’s best to take them together as part of a B vitamin complex.
Most B vitamin formulas contain synthetic, lab made vitamins. This ignores what scientists have known for a long time – vitamins are most effective in their natural plant or food state, surrounded by co-factor nutrients.
In fact, when vitamins were first discovered, they were isolated from food.
This changed during World War II, when the need for nutrition overtook the need for remaining true to nature, giving rise to cheap synthetic vitamins.
Unfortunately, after the war ended, the food and supplement industry stuck with lab made synthetic vitamins instead of reverting back to food sources.
Till this day, most vitamin supplements are made with synthetic vitamins.
Like processed foods, processed vitamins have been stripped of their wholeness and integrity (i.e. they don’t provide the synergistic co-factors and co-nutrients found in nature).
We’ve turned back the clock with TrueB™, a novel vitamin B-complex made with vitamins produced by nature – from USDA organically certified plants (lemon peel, guava, holy basil and sesbania) grown in India.
These ingredients are provided by a company called Orgenetics®, who is also our product partner for other NatureCity® plant based vitamin products such as TrueMulti™ and TrueC™
Once Orgenetics® harvests the plants, it doesn’t use solvents, synthetics, or additives in their patent-pending extraction process.
Instead, they take vitamin dense fruits and plants and remove the water and fiber in a process that captures the nutrients intact, retaining the nutritional potency and integrity.
In addition to enhancing efficacy with the natural nutrient co-factors from the plants and fruits, food based vitamins are easier to absorb and gentler on the stomach.
Since vitamin B12 is not found it plants, we have to add it separately. We chose the “active” form of vitamin B12 from the MecobalActive™ brand.
MecobalActive™ is vegan, Non-GMO and made in Barcelona, Spain. It has superior absorption properties compared to other vitamin B12 options.
With active MecobalActive™ vitamin B12, no conversion in the body is necessary – it is already in the form your body needs and can be put to use immediately.
Finally, we fortify the natural folate in TrueB™ with the “active folate” branded is Quatrefolic®.
Quatrefolic® is also “ready to use” in the form of 5-methylfolate. Like the other ingredients in TrueB™, Quatrefolic® is vegan friendly and Non-GMO.
We added Quatrefolic® because about 20% of the population has a genetic deficiency that makes it difficult to convert some natural folates (and folic acid) to the active 5-methylfolate.
Having Quatrefolic® in TrueB™ ensures everyone will get the important benefits of active folate.
Back to Basics: Vitamins from Foods, Not Chemicals
Orgenetics®, Inc. was founded in 2007 by Dr. Jit Maheshvari (who has a Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry) on the principle that not all vitamins are equal. Instead, he introduced a much healthier option to the industry and the world: 100% USDA Certified Organic vitamins and minerals from fruits, vegetables, and botanicals.
This goal was made possible thanks to a new patent pending water extraction process invented by Orgenetics® and its partners. It gave the company the ability to extract a concentrated form of all-natural and 100% organic vitamins from various fruits and vegetables along with existing co-nutrients of the same botanicals – similar to what you consume from food.
Only water is used during this extraction process – there’s no solvents excipients or carriers. Absolutely no synthetics or additives are used – and nothing is fermented.
Since its founding, Orgenetics® has received many accolades and awards for continuing to innovate through a dedicated research program and maintaining an exceptionally high quality for organic ingredients.
And today Orgenetics® offers a fully vertically integrated organic solution, from organic farm to ingredient.
NatureCity® is proud to partner with Orgenetics® to offer a plant based vitamin B-complex using their Orgen-B’s® and Orgen-Bio®ingredients, which are made from USDA certified organic guava, lemon peel, holy basil and sesbania.
Along with the B vitamins, Orgen-B’s® and Orgen-Bio® naturally provide co-nutrients and co-factors like those found in food that allow for faster and easier absorption into the body, with minimal to no stomach irritation.
The plants and fruits are grown on a USDA certified organic 400 acre farm in India.
This farm does things the old fashioned way. You won’t find any chemical pesticides, fertilizers or GMOs here.
Instead of harmful chemi­cals, the farmers use methods like composting, crop rotation and inter-planting to control weeds and pests, replenish the soil and sustain the health of the environment.
This farm meets or exceeds all of the organic farming standards set by both the USDA National Organic Program and the European Union Organic Program. It is also certified Kosher.
What’s more, Orgenetics® adopted a cGMP standard far ahead of the guidelines proposed to the industry by the United States Food & Drug Administration (FDA). In fact, Orgenetics® has been asked to be part of creating analytical methods for the Indian Herbal Pharmacopeia by the Indian Food and Drug Administration.
To support quality control (QC), the company has built an in-house laboratory, which is furnished with state of the art equipment.
QC managers assure that quality standards are met at various steps of the manufacturing process. Prior to an ingredient being released, final checks using the following tests are performed:
Assay of standard by HPLC, HPTLC and/or GC.
Physical parameters like color, taste, identification, particle size, solubility etc.
Impurities check for heavy metals, organic volatile impurities, fertilizer and pesticides, organic solvents and related substances.
Microbiological counts for total plates, E. coli, S. aureus, P. aseudomonas, yeast and molds.
This commitment to quality and innovation makes Orgenetics® the perfect partner for TrueB™. Instead of man-made B vitamins created in some lab, you get pure, organic whole food B vitamins with cofactor nutrients for optimized health.
MecobalActive™: Vitamin B12 in the Form Your Body Needs
MecobalActive™ is Ferrer HealthTech’s brand for methylcobalamin, the active form of vitamin B12.
MecobalActive™ is vegan, Non-GMO and made in Barcelona, Spain using a patented process. MecobalActive™It has superior absorption properties compared to other vitamin B12 options.
Vitamin B12 is a nutrient in a family of biologically active compounds known as cobalamins.
In practice, the term “vitamin B12” is often misleadingly used to descirbe
the compound “cyanocobalamin.”
However, cyanocobalamin does not occur in nature. It is a synthetic form of vitamin B12 used in many supplements, pharmaceuticals and in the fortification of food.
In nature, cobalamins only occur in animal and human tissue, and solely as the methylcobalamin form.
Since humans are incapable of making cobalamins, you are entirely dependent
upon dietary sources and supplements.
In case of supplementation with cyanocobalamin, the human body must first remove and
detoxify the cyanide molecule. Then the body goes through a process to convert the cobalamin into methylcobalamin.
The methylcobalamin is then transported through the bloodstream to different tissues to execute the vital functions of vitamin B12.
With MecobalActive™ none of this is necessary because it is already in the active methylcobalamin form, so it can go right to work – and nothing is lost along the way.
Quatrefolic®: “Active” Folate Your Body Can Put to Work
The vitamin B9 is commonly known as folate. This vitamin is found in dark green leafy vegetables or “foliage”- which led to the name folate.
As you may know, folate is not typically found in supplements or fortified foods. Instead, most com­panies use a man made synthetic form of B9 called folic acid.
For folic acid to be useful, your body needs to convert it to the active form of folate called 5-methylfolate (5-MTHF). And that brings us to the first problem with folic acid - over 20% of Americans can’t make this conver­sion because we’re not genetically programmed to do so.
If you have this problem, folic acid does not help regulate homocysteine and worse the folic acid may accu­mulate in your body. This can lead to other health problems or increase free radical damage.
Second, even if this conversion is not a problem for you, the synthetic folic acid can’t cross your “blood brain” barrier which means your brain can’t optimally use folic acid.
Third, another shortcoming of folic acid is it may mask a vitamin B12 deficiency. This can put you at greater risk for conditions like ane­mia or nerve damage.
So why do most supplement companies use folic acid? The short answer is because it’s dirt cheap. Using real active folate is a lot more expensive because it’s hard to keep stable in a supplement bottle or food product.
You won’t find folic acid in TrueRecall™. Instead you get enhanced 5-methylfolate, the active form of folate your body uses. The brand name of this ingre­dient – which is made in Italy – is Quatrefolic®.
Here are the benefits of Quatrefolic® compared to folic acid:
No conversion in your body is needed. The active folate can be put to work immediately. In fact, Quatrefolic® is up to seven times morebioavailable than folic acid. Plus, no unused folic acid will be stored in your body.
Unlike folic acid, Quatrefolic® crosses the blood-brain barrier. This means you maximize the benefits of folate on memory and brain health.
Quatrefolic® does not interfere with vitamin B12 detection. You and your doc­tor won’t have to worry about a misleading vitamin B12 reading from taking folic acid.
SUPPLEMENT FACTS
Dietary Supplement / 30 Veggie Capsules
Serving Size: 1 Capsule
Servings per Container: 30
Amount Per Serving Percent Daily Value
Thiamin (Vitamin B1 from Orgen-B's® organic blend) 6.5 mg 542%
Riboflavin (Vitamin B2 from Orgen-B's® organic blend) 5.9 mg 454%
Niacin (Vitamin B3 from Orgen-B's® organic blend) 10 mg 63%
Vitamin B6 (from Orgen-B's® organic blend) 6.5 mg 382%
Folate (Vitamin B9 as 800mcg (6S)-methyltetrahydrofolic acid, glucosamine salt DFE 668mcg Quatrefolic® & from Orgen-B's® organic blend) 606 mcg 152%
Vitamin B12 (as methylcobalamin) (MecobalActive®) 250 mcg 10,417%
Biotin (from Orgen-Bio® organic sesbania) 500 mcg 1,667%
Pantothenic acid (Vitamin B5 from Orgen-B's® organic blend) 11.2 mg 224%
Orgen-B's® organic blend [guava (Psidium guajava), lemon peel (Citrus limon) and holy basil (Ocimum
sanctum) extracts] 295 mg *
Orgen-Bio® organic sesbania (Sesbania grandiflora) extract 100 mg *
* Daily Value not established.
Other ingredients: Hypromellose, silica, organic rice extract, organic rice hulls, organic gum arabic and organic sunflower oil.
Suggested Use: Take one (1) capsule serving per day after a meal or as directed by a health care professional.
Made from four organic plant sources. Fortified with Quatrefolic® active folate (5-methylfolate) and MecobalActive® vitamin B12.
Orgen-B’s® and Orgen-Bio® are trademarks of Orgenetics, Inc.
Quatrefolic® is a registered trademark of Gnosis S.p.A. U.S. Patent No. 7,947,662
Mecobalactive™ is a registered of trademark of Interquim S.A.
Keep out of reach of children.
Do not use if seal is broken or missing
Store in a cool dry place
†These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
- Gluten Free
- Non-GMO
- BPA Free
- Assembled in the USA
Manufactured for and Distributed by: NatureCity®
Boca Raton, FL 33487 www.naturecity.com
To re-order call toll free 1-800-593-2563
TrueB
B Vitamins
Petridou ET, Kousoulis AA, Michelakos T, Papathoma P, Dessypris N, Papadopoulos FC, Stefanadis C. “Folate and B12 serum levels in association with depression in the aged: a systematic review and meta-analysis.” Aging Ment Health. 2015 Jun 8:1-9.
Kim H, Kim G, Jang W, Kim SY, Chang N “Association between intake of B vitamins and cognitive function in elderly Koreans with cognitive impairment.” Nutr J. 2014 Dec 17;13(1):118.
Michelakos T, Kousoulis AA, Katsiardanis K, Dessypris N, Anastasiou A, Katsiardani KP, Kanavidis P, Stefanadis C, Papadopoulos FC, Petridou ET. “Serum folate and B12 levels in association with cognitive impairment among seniors: results from the VELESTINO study in Greece and meta-analysis.” Journal of Aging and Health. 2013 Jun;25(4):589-616.
Douaud G, Refsum H, de Jager C, Jacoby,R, Nichols T, Smith S, Smith D. “Preventing Alzheimer’s disease-related gray matter atrophy by B-vitamin treatment.” PNAS. 2013 Jun 4; 110(23): 9523–9528.
Vogiatzoglou A, Smith AD, Nurk E, Drevon CA, Ueland PM, Vollset SE, Nygaard HA, Engedal K, Tell GS, Refsum H. “Cognitive function in an elderly population: interaction between vitamin B12 status, depression, and apolipoprotein E ε4: the Hordaland Homocysteine Study.” Psychosomatic Medicine. 2013 Jan;75(1):20-9.
Ng TP, Aung KC, Feng L, Scherer SC, Yap KB. “Homocysteine, folate, vitamin B-12, and physical function in older adults: cross-sectional findings from the Singapore Longitudinal Ageing Study.” The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 2012 Dec;96(6):1362-8.
Blasko I, Hinterberger M, Kemmler G, Jungwirth S, Krampla W, Leitha T, Heinz Tragl K, Fischer P. “Conversion from mild cognitive impairment to dementia: influence of folic acid and vitamin B12 use in the VITA cohort.” The Journal of Nutrition Health and Aging. 2012 Aug;16(8):687-94.
Morris MS, Selhub J, Jacques PF. “Vitamin B-12 and folate status in relation to decline in scores on the mini-mental state examination in the framingham heart study.” Journal of the American Geriatrics Society. 2012 Aug;60(8):1457-64.
de Jager C, Oulhaj A, Jacoby R, Refsum H, Smith D. “Cognitive and clinical outcomes of homocysteine-lowering B-vitamin treatment in mild cognitive impairment: a randomized controlled trial.” International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry. Volume 27, Issue 6, pages 592–600, June 2012.
Moore E, Mander A, Ames D, Carne R, Sanders K, Watters D. “Cognitive impairment and vitamin B12: a review.” International Psychogeriatrics. 2012 Apr;24(4):541-56.
Walker JG, Batterham PJ, Mackinnon AJ, Jorm AF, Hickie I, Fenech M, Kljakovic M, Crisp D, Christensen H. “Oral folic acid and vitamin B-12 supplementation to prevent cognitive decline in community-dwelling older adults with depressive symptoms--the Beyond Ageing Project: a randomized controlled trial.” The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 2012 Jan;95(1):194-203.
Tangney CC, Aggarwal NT, Li H, Wilson RS, Decarli C, Evans DA, Morris MC. “Vitamin B12, cognition, and brain MRI measures: a cross-sectional examination.” Neurology. 2011 Sep 27;77(13):1276-82.
Kwok T, Lee J, Law CB, Pan PC, Yung CY. ”A randomized placebo controlled trial of homocysteine lowering to reduce cognitive decline in older demented people.” Clin Nutr. 2011;30:297–302.
Wald DS, Kasturiratne A, Simmonds M. “Serum homocysteine and dementia: Meta-analysis of eight cohort studies including 8669 participants.” Alzheimers Dement. 2011;7(4):412–417.
Smith AD, et al. Homocysteine-lowering by B vitamins slows the rate of accelerated brain atrophy in mild cognitive impairment: A randomized controlled trial. PLoS ONE. 2010;5(9):e12244.
Almeida OP, Marsh K, Alfonso H, Flicker L, Davis TM, Hankey GJ. “B-vitamins reduce the long-term risk of depression after stroke: The VITATOPS-DEP trial.” Annals of Neurology. 2010 Oct;68(4):503-10.
Skarupski KA, Tangney C, Li H, Ouyang B, Evans DA, Morris MC. “Longitudinal association of vitamin B-6, folate, and vitamin B-12 with depressive symptoms among older adults over time.” American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 2010 Aug;92(2):330-5.
Vogiatzoglou A, Refsum H, Johnston C, Smith S, Bradley K, de Jager CBudge, M, Smith A. “Vitamin B12 status and rate of brain volume loss in community-dwelling elderly.” Neurology. September 9, 2008 vol. 71 no. 11 826-832.
Erickson KI, Suever BL, Prakash RS, Colcombe SJ, McAuley E, et al. “Greater intake of vitamins B6 and B12 spares gray matter in healthy elderly: A voxel-based morphometry study.” Brain Res. 2008;1199:20–26.
Durga J, et al. “Effect of 3-year folic acid supplementation on cognitive function in older adults in the FACIT trial: A randomised, double blind, controlled trial.” Lancet. 2007;369(9557):208–216.
Homocysteine Lowering Trialist Collaboration. “Dose-dependent effects of folic acid on blood concentrations of homocysteine: a meta-analysis of the randomized trials.” Am J Clin Nutr. 2005;82:806–812.
Lewerin C, Matousek M, Steen G, Johansson B, Steen B, Nilsson-Ehle H. “Significant correlations of plasma homocysteine and serum methylmalonic acid with movement and cognitive performance in elderly subjects but no improvement from short-term vitamin therapy: a placebo-controlled randomized study.” Am J Clin Nutr. 2005;81:1155–1162.
Green R, Miller JW. “Vitamin B12 deficiency is the dominant nutritional cause of hyperhomocysteinemia in a folic acid-fortified population.” Clin Chem Lab Med. 2005;43(10):1048–1051.
Seshadri S, et al. “Plasma homocysteine as a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer’s disease”. N Engl J Med. 2002;346(7):476–483.
Weir DG, Scott JM. “Brain function in the elderly: Role of vitamin B12 and folate.” Br Med Bull. 1999;55(3):669–682.
Clarke R, et al. “Folate, vitamin B12, and serum total homocysteine levels in confirmed Alzheimer disease.” Arch Neurol. 1998;55(11):1449–1455.
Be the first to write a review
*The views and opinions expressed by contributors and or product reviews are their own and not
necessarily those of NatureCity. These reviews should not be taken as recommendations but rather
client opinions of the products that they have used.
Product Snapshot
TrueB™ features B vitamins from USDA certified organic guava, lemon peel, holy basil and sesbania (Orgen-B’s® and Orgen-Bio®).
Orgen-B’s® and Orgen-Bio® naturally provide co-nutrients and co-factors found in food that allow for faster and easier absorption into the body and enhanced efficacy.
TrueB™ is fortified with the “active” form of vitamin B12 from the MecobalActive™ which is vegan friendly and features enhanced absorption properties
TrueB™ also contains the active folate (5-methylfolate) branded is Quatrefolic®. Like the other TrueB™ ingredients Quatrefolic® is Non-GMO and vegan.
TrueB™ promotes cellular energy production and red blood cell creation and supports several aspects of cardiovascular, cognitive and immune system health.
Branded Clinically Studied Ingredients · Premium USA Manufacturing · 1 Year Money Back Guarantee
Company Info
About NatureCity®
Club Membership
Contact Us
Quality Commitment
1 Year Guarantee
Site Map
My Account
Log In
Create Account
My Favorites
Order Tracking & History
Loyalty
Savings Plus+ Auto Delivery
Catalog Request
Policies & Services
Privacy Policy
Shipping Rates Policy
Returns Policy
Terms of Use
Copyright 2002-2019 Naturecity®.
All rights reserved.
Online Payments
NatureCity provides the ‘In The News’ articles for information only. They are not approved or recommended by us, do not provide medical advice, diagnosis,
or treatment and are not meant to replace professional medical advice or apply to any products.
* The views and opinions expressed by contributors and or product reviews are their own and not necessarily those of NatureCity. These reviews should not
be taken as recommendations but rather client opinions of the products that they have used.
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
The information provided on this site is intended for informational purposes only and is not a substitute for professional medical advice or treatment for specific medical conditions. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified care provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. Never disregard medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this site. You should not stop taking any medication without first consulting your physician.
Products sold on this site are for personal use and not for resale. All orders placed through this website are subject to NatureCity’s acceptance, in its sole discretion.
This means that NatureCity may refuse to accept, or may cancel, any order, whether or not it has been confirmed, without liability to you or any third party. Product availability, pricing, and promotions are subject to change without notice.
NatureCity Club Membership
Already own a club membership? Click Here for validation.
If you don’t wish to join the Club today click here to continue shopping and take advantage of NatureCity Value pricing.
Extra 25% SAVINGS on ALL purchases!
FREE shipping and handling on each order!**
FREE Birthday Gift! Receive a birthday card and coupon for one FREE product of your choice.
Exclusive offers ONLY available to Club Members!
All this for only $39.00 per year* or save even more with a 3-year membership for only $89.99 - A savings of $27.00! Today is the perfect day to join thousands of others saving money every day!
* Non-refundable
** Contiguous United States, AK, HI, PR & US Territories.
NatureCity Club 1 Year Membership
$39.00
NatureCity Club 3 Year Membership
$89.99
NatureCity Club Membership Login
Not Registered Yet? Click Here
Account Login
* Email Address:
* Password:
Keep my login information
Forgot your password?
Attention NatureCity Account Holders: Due to the launch of our brand new website, we need you to update your password for the new site.
Please click on the "forgot your password?" link above and follow the steps to change your password.
*Please note your new password must be a minimum of 7 characters and contain at least one number or symbol.