Correlations Between Hearing Loss and Iron Deficiency Anemia - Medical News Bulletin | Health News and Medical Research
Medicine
Aging
Alzheimer’s & Dementia
Arthritis
Cancer
Cardiology
Chronic Pain
Complementary & Alternative Medicine
Cosmetology
Dental
Dermatology
Diabetes
Drugs
Genetics
HIV/AIDS
Internal Medicine
Mental Health
Medical Technology
Neurology
Obesity
Ophthalmology
Pediatrics
Public Health
Surgery & Regenerative Medicine
Viruses & Vaccines
Women’s Health
Health and Wellness
Fitness
Lifestyle
Diet
Clinical Trials
Pre-Clinical Research
In the Pipeline
Clinical Trials and Research
More
Medical Encyclopedia
Medical Jokes And Teasers
Medical Myths and Rumours
Medical History
Fun Tests
Mind Games
Medical IQ Tests
Medical Calculators
Medical News Quizzes
Other Languages
Français
普通話
Español
Português
Italiano
Deutsch
한국어
Русский
Search
Friday, April 19, 2019
Subscribe
Medical News Bulletin | Health News and Medical Research
Medicine
AllAgingAlzheimer’s & DementiaArthritisCancerCardiologyChronic PainComplementary & Alternative MedicineCosmetologyDentalDermatologyDiabetesDrugsGeneticsHIV/AIDSInternal MedicineMental HealthMedical TechnologyNeurologyObesityOphthalmologyPediatricsPublic HealthSurgery & Regenerative MedicineViruses & VaccinesWomen’s Health
How do plant-based meals benefit type 2 diabetes patients?
Are people with migraines destined to suffer from dry eye disease?
Quitting smoking: Are e-cigarettes or nicotine replacements more effective?
Are infertility treatments safe for the mother-to-be?
Health and Wellness
AllFitnessLifestyleDiet
Is evening exercise good for your sleep and appetite?﻿
What causes noise-induced hearing loss?
Benefits of fasting include anti-aging effects, study finds
Can we fix sleep debt by sleeping in on the weekends?
Clinical Trials
AllPre-Clinical ResearchIn the PipelineClinical Trials and Research
Clinical trial tests new diabetes drug with fewer side effects
New leukemia treatment shows promising results in phase-3 clinical trial
Is there a new drug to treat cannabis use disorder?
Breast cancer drug may help treat muscle paralysis
More
Medical Encyclopedia
Medical Jokes And Teasers
Medical Myths and Rumours
Medical History
Fun Tests
Mind Games
Medical IQ Tests
Medical Calculators
Medical News Quizzes
Other Languages
Français
普通話
Español
Português
Italiano
Deutsch
한국어
Русский
Home Medicine Internal Medicine Correlations Between Hearing Loss and Iron Deficiency Anemia
Medicine
Internal Medicine
Correlations Between Hearing Loss and Iron Deficiency Anemia
By
Medical News Bulletin
-
January 30, 2017
Hearing loss has been associated with poor health and potentially with treatable conditions such as iron deficiency anemia. A recently published study assesses the correlation between sensorineural and conductive hearing loss, and iron deficiency anemia in the US population.
Hearing loss has been reported among 15% of the US adult population, increasing in percentage by age. Potential risk factors for hearing loss include diabetes, tobacco use, and hypertension. A new study, published by the Journal of the American Medical Association Otolaryngology – Head & Neck Surgery looks into 2 categories of hearing loss: sudden sensorineural and conductive. Sudden sensorineural hearing loss is identified as an immediate onset of hearing loss occurring within a 72-hour period. Conductive hearing loss is characterized by a conflict of the ear in being able to conduct sound waves. The study attempts to distinguish a particular correlation between the two types of hearing loss and iron deficiency anemia, a condition resulting in a depletion of red blood cells in the body.
Data for the study was collected from a sample of 305,339 adults between the age of 21 and 90 years old from January 2011 to October 2015. Patients with sickle cell anemia were excluded due to previously discovered correlations with hearing loss. Iron deficiency anemia was quantified by measuring hemoglobin and ferritin levels for the patients. Patients with hearing loss were categorized into sensorineural, conductive, or combined hearing loss. Chi-squared tests were used to compare data for the varying types of hearing loss and iron deficiency anemia.
Iron deficiency anemia was present in 0.7% of the population while the prevalence of hearing loss was 1.6%, 0.7%, and 0.2% for combined, sensorineural, and conductive hearing loss, respectively. Results indicated that sensorineural hearing loss and combined hearing loss were both significantly correlated with iron deficiency anemia. Previous research has identified associations between healthy dietary habits and improved hearing. The study suggests that treatment of iron deficiency anemia, carried out through intake of iron supplements, may have beneficial effects towards correlated sensorineural and combined hearing loss as well.
Although significantly pointing out an association between iron deficiency anemia and sensorineural or combined hearing loss, the study does not provide sufficient proof of simultaneous treatment of both conditions. Nevertheless, the research provides insightful information for potential treatment methods that could target both conditions together, reducing prevalence of iron deficiency anemia and hearing loss in a cost-efficient manner. The correlation also provides a lead for scientists and medical professionals, encouraging an understanding of the underlying biological connections between the two conditions.
Written By: Shrishti Ahuja, BSc
Facebook Comments
TAGS
anemia
hearing loss
Previous articleMigraine Patients Have an Increased Risk of Stroke Following Surgery
Next articleThe Gene Editing Rumour
Medical News Bulletin
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Do age and weight now affect asthma treatment?
Is zinc useful as a non-antibiotic UTI treatment?
Is it important to have a primary care doctor?
Connect With Us
* Indicates Required
Your Name
Email Address*
Be the first to know about the latest medical and health research. Subscribe to our weekly newsletter.
10611
Fans
4626
Followers
2478
Followers
Disclaimer
The medical information on this site is provided as an information resource only, and is not to be used or relied on for any diagnostic or treatment purposes. This information should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis or treatment. Please consult your health care provider before making any healthcare decisions or for guidance about a specific medical condition. Medical News Bulletin, its writers and editors expressly disclaim responsibility, and shall have no liability, for any damages, loss, injury, or liability whatsoever suffered as a result of your reliance on the information contained in this site. Medical News Bulletin, its writers and editors do not endorse specifically any test, treatment, device, or procedure, or study results mentioned on the site.
ABOUT US
Medical News Bulletin is run by a not-for-profit organization "Medinfology" and committed to providing our readers with the most up-to-date, high-quality medical and research news.
Contact us: [email protected]
FOLLOW US
About Us
Editorial Team
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy & Terms and Conditions
© Medical News Bulletin, 2015 - 2019. All rights reserved.
MORE STORIES
How do plant-based meals benefit type 2 diabetes patients?
April 19, 2019
Are people with migraines destined to suffer from dry eye disease?
April 19, 2019
'); var formated_str = arr_splits[i].replace(/\surl\(\'(?!data\:)/gi, function regex_function(str) { return ' url(\'' + dir_path + '/' + str.replace(/url\(\'/gi, '').replace(/^\s+|\s+$/gm,''); }); splited_css += ""; } var td_theme_css = jQuery('link#td-theme-css'); if (td_theme_css.length) { td_theme_css.after(splited_css); } } }); } })();