Imitrex And Breastfeeding - How Safe Is The Medication While Nursing
Getting Pregnant >
How To Get Pregnant
Symptoms
Body Care
Infertility
Pregnancy>
Pregnancy Week by Week
Food
bio-oil
Second Pregnancy
Safety
Fitness
Giving Birth
Health
Post Pregnancy
Baby>
Product Reviews
Choose Gentle
Breastfeeding
Food
Development
Sleep
Health
Products
Safety
Baby Names
Browse Names
Play & Activities
Himalaya Baby Care
Baby Dove
Toddler>
Fisher Price
Development
Food
Pediasure
Sleep
Safety
Health
Behavior
Education
Play & Activities
Coloring pics
Kid>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
Teens>
Development
Food & Nutrition
Health & Fitness
Safety
Products
Education
Behavior
Play & Activities
Style & Beauty Care
For You>
New Parents
Single Parenting
Adoption
Relationships
Trending
Tools>
Baby Eye Color Calculator
Online Pregnancy Test
Chinese Gender Predictor
Implantation Calculator
hCG Calculator
Period Calculator
ovulation calculator
pregnancy due date calculator
Child Height Predictor
Pregnancy Weight Gain Calculator
Breast Milk Calculator
Child Growth Percentile Calculator
Baby Cost Calculator
BMI Calculator For Kids & Teens
Contraction Calculator
Immunization Scheduler and Chart
C-Section Checklist
Online Twin Pregnancy Quiz
Numerology calculator
Child Blood Type Calculator
Nakshatra Calculator
Diaper Bag Checklist
> हिंदी
गर्भावस्था
शिशु
×
Home » Baby » Breastfeeding
Is It Safe To Have Imitrex (Sumatriptan) While Breastfeeding?
Manjiri Kochrekar Written by Manjiri Kochrekar
March 26, 2019 March 26, 2019
Image: iStock
IN THIS ARTICLE
What Is Sumatriptan?
Can You Take Imitrex While Breastfeeding?
Forms Of Sumatriptan Available In The Market:
Imitrex And Breastfeeding - Health Benefits:
Side-Effects Of Sumatriptan While Breastfeeding:
Do you suffer from frequent migraine attacks while breastfeeding? Are you looking for some OTC options like Sumatriptan (Imitrex) for your condition, but are worried about the safety of taking Sumatriptan while breastfeeding?
If you can relate to either of the questions, reading our post could be a good idea. Here, we talk about Imitrex and breastfeeding, how it can relieve your migraine pain, and how safe is it while you are nursing a baby.
What Is Sumatriptan?
Sumatriptan, also popular as Imitrex, is a serotonin receptor that cures migraine headaches. The medicine belongs to a group of medicines popular as triptans. Sumatriptan nasal spray helps treat chronic migraine attacks. The medication works wonders on your brain to relieve migraine attacks (1).
Sponsored
Can You Take Imitrex While Breastfeeding?
Yes, it is safe to have the Sumatriptan while breastfeeding. Even though the medicine passes into the breast milk, only a minimal amount of medication passes to the infant. Studies reveal that one 6 mg administration of an Imitrex dose results in a transfer of about 0.24 % of the dose into the breast milk, and in turn to your infant.
Moreover, you can avoid this minimal transfer as well. Just, breastfeed your infant before you have your dose of Sumatriptan. Alternatively, you can breastfeed your baby 8 hours after having the dose. The safety precaution will ensure that the breastmilk your baby consumes is Imitrex-free. As a precaution, consult your doctor before you consider using Imitrex to treat migraine (2).
[ Read: Is It Safe To Take Painkillers While Breastfeeding ]
Forms Of Sumatriptan Available In The Market:
Sumatriptan is a migraine reliever, and is easily available in several different forms in the market. Here, we list some easily available forms of Imitrex:
• Pills
• Nasal spray
• Injection
• Patches (3)
Imitrex And Breastfeeding – Health Benefits:
Sumatriptan is a popular medication for curing migraine attacks. Here are some of the health benefits of taking Sumatriptan while breastfeeding.
1. A Highly Effective Pain Reliever:
Imitrex is not a common pain reliever. If your headache continues to trouble you even after having aspirin, acetaminophen, and other pain relievers, you need to go for Sumatriptan. The medication helps mitigate the painful migraine attack (4).
[ Read: Headache While Breastfeeding ]
2. Treats Associated Symptoms:
Sumatriptan also offers you a great relief from other symptoms of a migraine attack. The medicine helps treat vomiting, nausea, sound and light sensitivity, in nursing mothers. Imitrex minimizes the pain and helps nursing mothers to get back to their normal activities (5)
3. Reduces The Frequency Of Migraine Attacks:
Sumatriptan is highly beneficial in minimizing the frequency of migraine attacks while you are nursing your baby. Consult your doctor for appropriate dose that you need to alleviate the pain and frequency of headaches while breastfeeding (6).
[ Read: Medications To Cure Migraine During Breastfeeding ]
Side-Effects Of Sumatriptan While Breastfeeding:
Even though there are many benefits of having Imitrex to cure migraine headaches while nursing a baby, there are certain side-effects of the medications. Sometimes, new moms might suffer from the side-effects of Sumatriptan while some may not. Here is a list of potential side-effects of Imitrex breastfeeding.
• Chest or throat pain
• Slow speech or difficulty while talking
• Fatigue
• Dizziness
• Tingling
• Abdominal discomfort
• Flushing
• Nasal irritation
• Sweating
• Reactions to injections.
• Sudden weight loss
• Numbness or weakness in your leg or arm
• Rash
• Diarrhea
• Irregular heart beating
• Hives
• Seizures
• Allergic reactions
• Elevated blood pressure (7)
[ Read: Symptoms Of Sinus Infection While Nursing ]
If you experience any of the above side-effects after having the medicine, visit your doctor at once and get the right treatment for your condition.
Did you take any form of Sumatriptan while nursing your dear little one? How did you benefit from it? Did you suffer from any side effects? Tell us your story below.
Recommended Articles:
4 Health Benefits Of Wellbutrin (Buproprion) For Breastfeeding Mothers
Is It Safe To Use Benzoyl Peroxide While Breastfeeding?
Is Paroxetine (Paxil) Safe During Breastfeeding?
Is It Safe To Take Antibiotics While Breastfeeding?
The following two tabs change content below.
Latest Posts
Bio
Latest posts by Manjiri Kochrekar (see all)
32 Lovely Wedding Anniversary Gift Ideas - June 28, 2017
10 Clear Signs That You Need Marriage Counselling - April 28, 2017
25 Wonderful Peacock Facts And Information For Kids - October 3, 2016
12 Health Benefits And 10 Facts About Oranges For Kids - June 16, 2016
16 Joyous Luau (Hawaiian) Party Ideas For Kids - May 31, 2016
35 Lesser-Known Facts About Great White Sharks For Kids - May 31, 2016
30 Unknown Sound Wave Facts And Information For Kids - May 31, 2016
Can Kids Drink Kombucha? - Know Here! - May 27, 2016
Tea Tree Oil For Kids - 15 Uses And 9 Safety Tips - May 18, 2016
Top 10 Hockey Facts, Rules, And Safety Tips For Kids - May 13, 2016
Manjiri Kochrekar
Incnut Incnut Incnut
Hotpicks
How To Be A Good Parent: Simple Parenting Tips To Follow At Various Stages
20 Best Pre-Play Schools In Delhi For Your Kid
Why Do Babies Choke And How To Prevent It?
16 Signs You Are A Bad Parent And 7 Ways You Can Fix It
Related Articles
Breast Engorgement: Causes, Symptoms And Home Remedies
How To Treat Hives While You Are Breastfeeding?
5 Simple Tips To Help You Buy The Right Breast Pads
Is It Safe To Consume Colic Foods During Breastfeeding?
Chicken Pox While Breastfeeding – Causes. Symptoms & Treatments
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise with us
Doctors, Join Us
Mommy Influencer Network
Report Violation
Image Usage Policy
Privacy Policy
Editorial Policy
Disclaimer
Follow Us:
Our Sister Sites:
Copyright 2019 Mom Junction
MomJunction provides generic information on health for educational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional health services, and cannot be used as a replacement for personalized health consultation. If you or your child has any health concerns, you should consult a healthcare professional. Please read our Disclaimer before proceeding to use our website.