The Power Of Music To Reduce Stress By Jane Collingwood - Essay - 1647 Words - BrightKite
This website uses cookies to ensure you have the best experience.
Got it!
Learn more
Sign Up Sign In
Sign Up
Sign In
The Power Of Music To Reduce Stress By Jane Collingwood
1647 words - 7 pages
Music is a major part in society, and has been a driving force in humanity especially in todays world. People listen to music when they are out for a run or while taking a bath, even as background noise when working. Music has become a part of peoples everyday lifes. The reason music has played such an important role in almost every humans life is how it affects us. Listening to music makes people feel, whether it be a happy feeling or a sad feeling. Listening to music makes humans feel emotion and that is what we thrive on. Music has the tendency to impact an individuals mood and behavior.
People can benefit by acknowledging how music makes them feel and using it to their advantage. When ...view middle of the document...
Jane Collingwood says that for hundreds of years music has been used to treat mental illnesses “and restore harmony between mind and body” (Collingwood). Collingwood cited a study that shows “[l]istening to music can relieve depression and increase self-esteem ratings in elderly people”, and in a study done with adult cancer patients it was found that music therapy improved their quality of life emotionally (Collingwood). There has been studies done encouraging music therapy for depression (Swartz). Karren L. Swarts cited a Finnish study published in the British Journal of Psychiatry tested the effects of music therapy on adults suffering from depression (Swartz). Swartz stated that “79 depressed adults were randomly assigned to receive standard care plus 20 sessions of active music therapy […]patients who received music plus standard care experienced significantly greater improvement in depression and anxiety levels than those treated with standard care only” (Swartz). Music can be seen as very therapeutic when paired with other techniques of treatment.
Not only can music relax people, it can empower them. People are most likely to listen to music when they work out. In the article Let’s Get Physical: The Psychology of Effective Workout Music it states that “[w]hen listening to music, people run farther, bike longer, and swim faster than usual—often without realizing it” (Jabr). Psychologists have started to study more into workout music in the past ten years (Jabr). Listening to music helps motivate people to keep going. Scientists have found not only music affecting you mentally but also physically when working out. In Fara Rosenzweig’s article about music enhancing workouts, she talks about scientists observing data that music could affect heart rate, blood pressure, metabolic rate, physical stress, and fatigue (Rosenzweig). When working out, listening to music, could help you physically and mentally. According to Ferris Jabr, music that is most motivational depends on the individual and “[…] the extent to which they identify with singer’s emotional state and viewpoint” (Jabr). He goes on to explain that the most important assets of work out music are tempo and speed and that is what psychologists call the rhythm response (Jabr). Fast upbeat music seem to be very motivating and energizing.
Music is not only motivating but can help spark creativity and learning in individuals. Jane Collingwood explains that researchers found out that “[m]usic’s form and structure can bring order and security to disabled and distressed children. It encourages coordination and communication, so improves their quality of life” (Collingwood). Using music can help people focus on tasks and help their minds function. any studies have been performed showing how beneficial music can be on work productivity (Lesiuk 176). Some project directors and workers encourage listening to music in the work environment (Lesiuk 188). Music puts people in a state of enjoyment,...
Read more
Find Another Essay On The Power of Music to Reduce Stress by Jane Collingwood
The Power of Music Therapy Essay
1778 words - 7 pages is what makes music the perfect form of therapy. Music Therapy is the clinical and evidence-based use of music interventions to accomplish individualized goals within a therapeutic relationship by a credentialed professional who has completed an approved music therapy program (AMTA 2014). There is little know about why music therapy works as well as it does. However, “it is not new knowledge in the world of neurochemistry that the brain has a
The Healing Power of Music Essay
982 words - 4 pages health, but it can also improve your test scores. Campbell refers to a study conducted in which, after listening to ten minutes of mozart, thirty-six undergraduates scored “eight to nine points higher on [an] IQ test” (1). Campbell states that classical music, specifically by Mozart, has the ability to “improve your concentration”(1). This boost of brain power is credited to the complex, harmonic, and organized symphonies of classical music
The Healing Power of Music
1537 words - 6 pages healing power (Podolsky). It gained resurgence during World Wars I and II, when volunteers played instruments and sang for wounded soldiers in hospitals. Music is integral to our culture and emotional health. Barbara Crowe, president of National Association for Music Therapy stated, "Music therapy can make the difference between withdrawal and awareness, between isolation and interaction, between chronic pain and comfort.” More research is clearly
Stress and Music: Music Stimulates Multiple Areas of the Brain
1718 words - 7 pages both a physiological and psychological response, resulting in cognitive and behavioral benefits that make it an ideal therapeutic tool in handling stress in normal daily activities as well as in the health care setting. Music stimulates multiple areas of the brain by provoking auditory, emotional, autonomic, and cognitive processing. Once the sound waves from the music are heard, signaling travels from the auditory system to the areas
Using Music Therapy in the Treatment of Stress and Anxiety
2260 words - 9 pages ). Stress and anxiety can also be found in hospital patients facing surgery, or recovering from a prolonged illness. Using music therapy in these settings can have a profound effect on creating positive outlooks that are detrimental to the healing process. The Journal of Music Therapy stated that frequently stress and anxiety can play a major role in preventing patients from ventilator weaning, and can be compounded by difficulty in
How To Reduce The Cost Of College Education
735 words - 3 pages Statistics, the unemployment rate in California rises from 6.4 % to 12.1 % over the past seven months. As the economy gets worse, students that come from families with low earnings will have a harder time gaining entrance to and graduating from college or university. Much of the problem that students are facing today is caused by government spending on Iraq. Because of the government’s interest in oil and its assumption that Iraq possesses weapons of
How to Reduce the Rate of Domestic Violence
2320 words - 9 pages his partner from visiting or speaking with family members or friends. The woman is usually talked out of, or convinced not to communicate with loved ones by the use of threats or manipulation from her partner. Socially isolating a woman from family is just the abusers’ way to gain more power and control over his woman or what he sees as his “property”. Some abusers even go as far as moving to another state in order to prevent his partner from
Alternative Treatment at Menopause to Reduce the Risk of Osteoporosis
2431 words - 10 pages prescribe higher doses for people who are deficient in vitamin D.HRT is a means of continuing to provide estrogen (the female sex hormone) after its production by the ovaries has started to fail at the menopause or "change of life". HRT is prescribed at the time of the menopause (mainly to reduce troublesome symptoms such as flushing and sweating) or at any time thereafter to prevent long term complications of which osteoporosis is among the most
Participating in Sports Helps to Reduce the Levels of Depression
1256 words - 5 pages people to a very low minimum. Purpose of the Study The purpose of my study to find out if participating in sports helps to reduce the levels of depression in college students. I am hoping to find out if there is a relationship between playing a sport and controlled levels of depression in college students, so that depression can be controlled and monitored in a different way. This will lead up to the need for physical activity needed throughout
Strategic Plan to Reduce the Number of Fires in Lancashire
2481 words - 10 pages Initiation stageFires in LancashireLancashire Fire and Rescue Service designed a good Strategic Plan; the aim of the plan was to reduce the number of fires which take place in Lancashire. Among the performance indicators which was utilized to help in reducing the amount of deaths caused by accidental fire of the people of Lancashire. The management prepared a report based on the death due to fire in Lancashire in from the year February 2008
Power Of Music
2204 words - 9 pages The Power of Music Listening to music can bring one peace and harmony an escape from the world around them. Beginning in early childhood people are taught the importance of music as a tool. Some have taken it to a new level taking the world of music and using it to heal. Music Therapy is a practice that uses music techniques to assist and motivate a child or adult towards specific non-musical goals such as cognitive, social, communicative and
Similar Essays
Stress Management, Ways To Reduce Stress
1821 words - 8 pages Q9. What is meant by "Stress"? What are the ways to reduce the stress?Stress is the "wear and tear" our bodies experience as we adjust to our continually changing environment; it has physical and emotional effects on us and can create positive or negative feelings. As a positive influence, stress can help compel us to action; it can result in a new awareness and an exciting new perspective. As a negative influence, it can result in feelings of
The Power Of Music Essay
2748 words - 11 pages down by the grief that he is consumed with earlier in the poem. What is the significance of Coleridge turning Joy into a musical attribute, though? As already mentioned, it might be because music is the language of the soul, and it does have that power to elicit a powerful change in a person. By giving Joy this quality it only enhances the power that it has over the narrator, and it can allow the reader to more easily understand why the narrator is
The Power Of Music Essay
1890 words - 8 pages Brain/ Stanford study Finds It Helps the Understanding of Language” by Carrie Sturrock, it states that, “musical training improves how the brain processes the spoken word.” It then goes on to say that musical training could help children with dyslexia and other reading problems by improving the language portion of the brain. So children would be able to understand and excel in their language oriented classes just by studying music and children
The Healing Power Of Music Essay
3133 words - 13 pages help increase their memory? Music has a greater impact on human lives than we think; it assists in releasing or creating strong emotions, strengthens the brain increasing the ability to learn, and has the power to heal. Music has a larger affect on feelings and emotions than most people realize. It is an automatic response for the human body to react to music in certain ways. Miller explains that “By the age of five, almost all healthy
Other Popular Essays
How to Deal with Drug Resistant Bacteria
Do Horror Films Mirror Our Society’s Fears and Social Problems?
Is Concealed Carry Good For Illinois?
National Security Agency's Power Essay
Polarization in Congress: A Dichotomy of Unity and Division within the Legislative Branch
Is it Beneficial to Lower the Legal Drinking Age?
Autobiography of Chief Black Hawk Essay
Fashion Company: Zara and Inditex Essay
Get inspired and start your paper now!
Contact Plagiarism Legal
© BrightKite.com 2012-2019