Achilles Tendon Rupture The Woodlands | Ankle Fracture The Woodlands
For Appointment: 281 367 0400
After Hours Number: 281-298-1122
Sports Medicine & Orthopedic Surgery
Joint Replacement
Spine Surgery
Hand and Wrist
Foot and Ankle
Diagnostic and X-Ray Facilities
Bracing and Orthotics
Fractures/ Trauma
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Home
About Us
:: The Woodlands Sports Medicine Centre
:: Our Physicians
:: Hospital Affiliations
:: Staff
:: Careers
:: Practice Location
Services
Patient Information
:: Multimedia Patient Education
:: Conditions and Procedures
:: Hand and Wrist
:: Shoulder
:: Elbow
:: Spine
:: Hip
:: Knee
:: Foot and Ankle
:: Sports Medicine
:: Joint Replacement
:: Articles
:: Worker’s Compensation
:: Fractures and Trauma
:: Patient Testimonials
:: Patient Forms
:: Useful Links
Appointments
:: General Appointment
:: Online Appointment
:: Patient Forms
FAQs
Contact Us
Home » Patient Information » Conditions and Procedures » Foot and Ankle » Achilles Tendon Rupture
Achilles Tendon Rupture
Achilles Tendon Rupture web based movie
Achilles tendon is a strong fibrous cord present behind the ankle that connects the calf muscles to heel bone. It is used when you walk, run and jump. When the Achilles tendon becomes thin, weak, or if it is not used, it may be susceptible to injury or damage. Achilles tendon rupture occurs most often in middle-aged athlete participating in sports that involve running, pivoting, and jumping. Recreational sports that may cause Achilles rupture include tennis, racquetball, basketball, and badminton.
If Achilles tendon is ruptured you will experience severe pain in the back of your leg, swelling, stiffness, and difficulty to stand on tiptoe and push the leg when walking. A popping or snapping sound is heard when the injury occurs. You may also feel a gap or depression in the tendon, just above heel bone.
Your doctor diagnoses the rupture based on symptoms, history of the injury and physical examination. Your doctor will gently squeeze the calf muscles, if the Achilles tendon is intact, there will be flexion movement of the foot, if it is ruptured, there will be no movement observed.
Achilles tendon rupture is treated using non surgical method or surgical method. Non surgical treatment involves wearing a cast or special brace which is changed after some period of time to bring the tendon back to its normal length. Along with cast or brace, physical therapy may be recommended to improve the strength and flexibility of leg muscles and Achilles tendon. Surgical procedure involves opening the skin and suturing the torn tendon together. Surgery helps to decrease the recurrence of the Achilles tendon in comparison to the non-surgical treatment.
To help prevent an Achilles tendon injury, it is a good practice to perform stretching and warm-up exercises before any participating in any activities. Gradually increase the intensity and length of time of activity. Muscle conditioning may help to strengthen the muscles in the body.
Other Foot and Ankle Procedures
Foot & Ankle Anatomy
Ankle Arthroscopy
Ankle Fracture
Bunion Surgery
Achilles Tendon Rupture
Ankle Sprain
Common Toe Deformities
Sports Medicine & Orthopedic Surgery
Joint Replacement
Spine Surgery
Hand and Wrist
Foot and Ankle
Diagnostic and X-Ray Facilities
Bracing and Orthotics
Fractures/ Trauma
Meet Our Physicians
Shoulder
Elbow
Hip
Knee
Foot
Ankle
Patient Forms
Testimonials
Outside Services
Location & Directions
Instructional Workshops
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Youtube
© The Woodlands Sports Medicine Centre, The Woodlands, TX
Home
Privacy
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Feedback
Tell a Friend
Contact Us
X
Tell a Friend