Can ovarian cysts occur even when your not on your period? - Ovarian Cysts Question
It looks like you have javascript turned off. This Can ovarian cysts occur even when your not on your period? page on EmpowHER Women's Health works best with javascript enabled in your browser.
Toggle navigation
Women's Health & Wellness
Get HER Health News
Would You Consider Biphasic Sleep?
courtneysunday
Sleep Disorders
Log in | Register
Health A-Z
Bones & Joints
Breast Cancer
Cancer
Diabetes
Ears, Nose & Throat
Financial Health
Healthy Eating
Menopause
Menstrual Cycle
Mental Health
Pregnancy
Sex & Relationships
Sexual Health
Skin, Hair & Nails
Sleep Disorders
HER Health Questions
Ask a Health Question
HER Health Stories
Post your Health Story
HER Health News
HER Healthy Living
HER Health Hubs
HER Health Communities
Featured Tools
Advocacy Checklists
HER Podcast
HER Health Meter
SkinSAFE
Home
>
Conditions
>
Reproductive System
>
Ovarian Cysts
>
Can ovarian cysts occur even when your not on your period?
Q:
Can ovarian cysts occur even when your not on your period?
By Anonymous August 8, 2011 - 6:15am
Average Select ratingPoorFairAverageGoodExcellent
Rate This
`
4 comments View Comments
Print
Text Size
This Article
Vote Improved My Health 0
Vote Changed My Life
Vote Saved My Life
In the past I have had lower abdominal pain, tight, bloating and even my ovaries hurt. I have seen my doctor for it each time and even had a ct scan and ultrasound of my abdomin. The doctor said it is probably just an ovarian cyst that has ruptured. That was a few months ago and now for the past week I have pain again. I already had my period 10 days ago. I am missing work today because I'm so uncomfortable. I dont want to pay anymore money for another ultra sound or ct scan. Please help!
Add a Comment4 Comments
retro1girl
Oh.. Ok. I was curious about that. I work at a doctors office. I have the day off because of this but I left a message for my doctors nurse to call me back so I can know what to do next. I will keep you posted. I appreciate your quick responses.
August 8, 2011 - 8:26am
reply
Flag as offensive
This Comment
Improved My Health
Changed My Life
Saved My Life
retro1girl
Thank you for the reply. I was on birth control pills for 10 years. I just stopped my birth control pills 8 days ago. Could this be the reason for possible cyst? Can stopping birth control pills cause this pain? And I am sexually active and not using protection. Thank you.
August 8, 2011 - 7:57am
reply
Flag as offensive
This Comment
Improved My Health
Changed My Life
Saved My Life
Empowered
Rosa Cabrera RN (reply to retro1girl)
Birth Control Pills are sometimes used to treat symptoms of cysts, endometriosis, etc. Basically what they do is mask the symptoms of an underlying condition but don't treat the condition. When you come off the pills, that when the symptoms like excruciating pain and cramping may be felt and this would require a medical evaluation.
Please keep us posted-- you may not need another CT scan but definitely see your doctor. We can help look for a public health clinic in your area that you can afford.
Best Wishes,
Rosa
August 8, 2011 - 8:07am
reply
Flag as offensive
This Comment
Improved My Health
Changed My Life
Saved My Life
Empowered
Rosa Cabrera RN
Hi Anon,
Thank you for your post! Ovarian Cysts occur during your menstrual cycle, this doesn't mean that it happens only during your period, your cycle is the entire month. With this being said, symptoms are usually felt either before or after your period.
The two most common symptoms are:
Pelvic pain
Menstrual bleeding
Pain is usually caused by:
Direct pressure from the cysts on the ovaries and surrounding structures
Causing chronic pelvic fullness or a dull ache
Bleeding from a cyst into and around the ovary
Causing more intense, sharp pain as the blood irritates the lining of the abdomen
Pain may come and go on a regular basis. Or, you may notice the pain more:
Just before or after your period
During sex
The main types of treatment are:
Wait and See
The doctor waits a few months to see if the cyst goes away on its own.
Medication
Birth Control Pills
If you have a functional cyst, your doctor may prescribe birth control pills . The pills may prevent other cysts from developing during the "wait and see" period. If you get cysts often, birth control pills decrease the chance of new ones forming.
Pain Medication
If your cyst is causing a lot of discomfort, your doctor may prescribe pain medication.
Laparoscopic Surgery
Pelvic laparoscopy may be recommended to remove a cyst if it:
Grows larger or reaches a size greater than two inches
Has some solid material in it, or other features
Causes persistent or worsening symptoms
Lasts longer than two or three menstrual cycles
Disrupts blood flow
If the cyst is not cancerous, often just the cyst can be removed. However, in some cases, your whole ovary may need to be removed. If the cyst is cancerous, you may have both ovaries and uterus removed. This requires an open surgical procedure .
If you are diagnosed with an ovarian cyst, follow your doctor's instructions .
For more information, visit our Ovarian Cysts page: https://www.empowher.com/condition/ovarian-cysts/definition
August 8, 2011 - 7:27am
reply
Flag as offensive
This Comment
Improved My Health
Changed My Life
Saved My Life
Do you really want to post anonymously?
Are You a Member? Log InConnect your comment to your member profile. It only takes a second!
Not a Member? Join Now!You'lll be automatically notified when someone else comments on your post.
Tell us what you think Write your comment here *
Leave this field blank
Receive email notifications of new comments Email Addresss
Sign me up for EmpowHER Updates
What code is in the image? *
Enter the characters shown in the image.
By submitting this form, you agree to EmpowHER's terms of service and privacy policy
Add a Comment
Recent Posts
Sex with an Uncircumcised Man
Treatment Options for a Cerebrospinal Fluid Leak
Would You Consider Biphasic Sleep?
Tips for Being in a Relationship With a Man Who Has Asperger's or Autism
All user-generated information on this site is the opinion of its author only and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment for any medical conditions. Members and guests are responsible for their own posts and the potential consequences of those posts detailed in our Terms of Service.
Ovarian Cysts
Get Email Updates
Definition & Overview
Prevention
Causes & Risks
Symptoms & Diagnosis
Treatments
News & Opinion
Community & Groups
Related Topics
Reproductive System
Dysmenorrhea
Hypermenorrhea
Join a Group Now
Talk to women like you
about Ovarian Cysts
Ovarian Cysts Guide
Empowered
Rosa Cabrera RN
Have a question? We're here to help. Ask the Community.
ASK
Health Newsletter
Receive the latest and greatest in women's health and wellness from EmpowHER - for free!
Improved
5909 Health
Changed
3687 Lives
Saved
3485 Lives
0 lives impacted in the last 24 hrs Learn More
ASK A Health Question
POST Info, Tips and Stories
Company
About HER
Press
Advertise
Policies
Feedback
My Account
Log in
Register
Get Email Updates
Subscribe
Follow HER
All content is Copyright © 2019 HER Inc. dba EmpowHER unless otherwise noted. All Rights Reserved. EmpowHER does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. View more info
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.