Bauerfeind Ankle Braces | Burnaby Orthopaedic & Mastectomy
Toggle navigation
Products
Knee Braces
Foot Orthotics
Mastectomy
Compression Therapy
Lower Extremity
Upper Extremity
Wound Care
Rehab Braces and Equipment
Footwear & Modifications
Services
Resources
Links
Lymphedema Resources
Mastectomy Resources
Wound Care Management
About Us
Hours of Operation
The Team
Billing Options
Giving Back
Appointment
Contact
Referrals
中文翻译
(604) 436-6092
Ankle Braces
Bauerfeind Ankle Braces
Ankle Braces
/
Bauerfeind Ankle Braces
Knee Braces
Foot Orthotics
Custom-Made Orthotics
OTS Foot Orthotics
Mastectomy
Compression Therapy
Lower Extremity
Upper Extremity
Wound Care
Rehab Braces and Equipment
Footwear & Modifications
Bauerfeind Ankle Braces
MalleoTrain
The MalleoTrain® orthopedic brace is used to treat a sore ankle joint following injury, surgery or osteoarthritis. Two individually fitted and contoured cushions (pads) on the inner and outer malleolus help to reduce effusions. The three-dimensional knit sits comfortably and stimulates circulation.
Helps to relieve pain
Helps to reduce swelling
Breathable material, gentle on your skin
The Rebound hinged ankle brace offers more stability than soft ankle supports, and is perfect for transitioning out of a walker boot. Application is simple and reduces plantar flexion, making it ideal for patients with limited range of motion. The low-profile design is comfortable and fits easily in most shoes.
MalleoTrain S
After an operation or in the event of slight sprains or repeated overloading, the ligaments of the foot are often weakened and require increased stabilization, which is provided by MalleoTrain S. The orthopedic brace with individually adjustable strap system gives your ankle reliable support even whilst in motion and protects against the lateral twisting of the foot.
Increased stability of the ankle on the move
Breathable Train Active Knit for high wearing comfort
Protection against lateral twisting
AchilloTrain
In cases of pain or inflammation in the Achilles tendon (e.g. due to excessive strain or after operations), the AchilloTrain® orthopedic brace helps to relieve the Achilles tendon without restricting mobility. An anatomically contoured insert (pad) produces a massage effect, thus stimulating the surrounding tissue. An integral heel cushion relieves the tendon. Edemas and effusions can thus subside more quickly.
Anatomically optimal shape
Breathable material
Promotes circulation
Our Address
We are located in Burnaby at the Corner of
Bennett and Nelson Ave near Metrotown The Bay,
close to the Skytrain.
Burnaby Orthopaedic & Mastectomy
Corner of bennett and nelson
300-6411 Nelson Ave, Burnaby B.C. V5H 4H3
Tel	(604) 436-6092
Fax	(604) 436-6094
Copyright © 2019, Burnaby Orthopaedic Source Inc. All rights reserved.