L-Theanine and Breastfeeding
Share:
eMedTV Login
eMedTV Home
TOPIC HOME
HEALTH CHANNELS
HEALTH TOPICS A-Z
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
Alzheimers Home > L-Theanine and Breastfeeding
Until more information is available about the safety of L-theanine, breastfeeding women are advised to avoid using the supplement. Although many people assume that "natural" products are safe, that is not always the case. Before taking L-theanine, breastfeeding women should talk to their healthcare providers about the benefits and potential risks in their particular situation.
An Overview of L-Theanine and Breastfeeding
It is not known whether L-theanine (also known as just theanine) is safe for use in breastfeeding women. L-theanine is a dietary supplement that is sometimes used to treat anxiety or numerous other conditions. Until more information is available, it is probably a good idea to avoid L-theanine while breastfeeding. Although L-theanine is an amino acid, it is not essential to human nutrition and should not be assumed to be safe just because it is an amino acid.
Is L-Theanine Safe for Breastfeeding Women?
At this time, there is no information available to suggest that L-theanine is safe (or unsafe) for breastfeeding women. Although it is a "natural" product, this does not necessarily mean that it is safe for use during breastfeeding. Many women try to avoid medications while breastfeeding and turn to herbal remedies as an alternative, assuming that "natural" automatically means "safe." However, natural products can be quite toxic. For instance, many poisons and toxins are natural products. It just does not make sense to use an herbal supplement for which there is no information available about safety during breastfeeding.
Talking With Your Healthcare Provider About L-Theanine and Breastfeeding
You should talk with your healthcare provider about L-theanine and breastfeeding. Each woman's situation is different, and you and your healthcare provider understand your situation best. After considering what you want and expect, as well as your current health situation, you and your healthcare provider can make a shared decision about L-theanine and breastfeeding in your particular situation.
Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD
Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD;
Last updated/reviewed:
List of references (click here):
Jellin JM, editor. Pharmacist's Letter/Prescriber's Letter Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database Web site. Available at: http://naturaldatabase.com/. Accessed March 4, 2008.
Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation
Page continues after the advertisement
Advertisement
L-Theanine
Benefits of L-Theanine
Does L-Theanine Work?
L-Theanine Side Effects
L-Theanine Dosage
L-Theanine Drug Interactions
L-Theanine Safety
L-Theanine and Pregnancy
L-Theanine and Breastfeeding
L-Theanine Overdose
Topics & Medications
Acetyl-L-Carnitine
Alzheimer's Disease
Aricept
Binswanger's Disease
Cognex
Dementia
Exelon
Ginkgo Biloba
L-Theanine
Lecithin
Lewy Body Dementia
NADH
Namenda
Namenda XR
Phosphatidylserine
Razadyne
Vitamin E
Quicklinks
Alzheimer's
Lewy Body Dementia
Dementia
Aricept
Symptoms of Dementia
Causes of Dementia
Vitamin E
Benefits of Vitamin E
Namenda
Exelon
Cognex
L-Theanine
Phosphatidylserine
Ginkgo Biloba
Lecithin
Related Channels
Depression
Mental Health
Nervous System
Senior Health
eMedTV Links
Exit Mobile View
Terms of Use
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
About eMedTV
Privacy Policy
Copyright © 2006-2019 Clinaero, Inc.
eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind. Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with their own physician. Click Terms of Use for more information.
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.