Multimedia Encyclopedia - Penn State Hershey Medical Center - When your baby or infant has a fever - Penn State Hershey Medical Center
Library Home
Find A Physician
Find A Practice
Request An Appointment
Search Clinical Studies
Classes and Support Groups
Ask A Health Librarian
Subscribe to eNewsletters
Bone and Joint
Cancer
Children
Heart
Men
Neurology
Pregnancy
Seniors
Women
• Encyclopedia Home
• Self-Care A-Z
• Printer-friendly version
Penn State Hershey Services
• Children's Hospital
• Find a Physician
Care Points
• Colds and the flu - what to...
Care Points
• Colds and the flu - what to...
Read More
• H1N1 influenza (Swine flu)...
• Flu
• Pneumonia - adults (communi...
• Immune response
• Stuffy or runny nose - chil...
• Cough
• Fever
• Acute respiratory distress ...
In-Depth Reports
• Colds and the flu
When your baby or infant has a fever
Definition
The first fever a baby or infant has is often scary for parents. Most fevers are harmless and are caused by mild infections. Overdressing a child may even cause a rise in temperature.
Regardless, you should report any fever in a newborn that is higher than 100.4°F (38°C) (taken rectally) to the child's health care provider.
Alternative Names
Fever - infant; Fever - baby
What to Expect at Home
Fever is an important part of the body's defense against infection. Many older infants develop high fevers with even minor illnesses.
Febrile seizures occur in some children and can be scary to parents. However, most febrile seizures are over quickly. These seizures do not mean your child has epilepsy, and do not cause any lasting harm.
Eating and Drinking
Your child should drink plenty of fluids.
DO NOT give your child too much fruit or apple juice. Dilute these drinks by making them half water and half juice.
Popsicles or gelatin (Jell-O) are good choices, especially if the child is vomiting.
Children can eat foods when they have a fever. But DO NOT force them to eat.
Children who are ill often tolerate bland foods better. A bland diet includes foods that are soft, not very spicy, and low in fiber. You may try:
Breads, crackers, and pastas made with refined white flour
Refined hot cereals, such as oatmeal or cream of wheat
Treating Your Child's Fever
DO NOT bundle up a child with blankets or extra clothes, even if the child has the chills. This may keep the fever from coming down, or make it go higher.
Try one layer of lightweight clothing, and one lightweight blanket for sleep.
The room should be comfortable, not too hot or too cool. If the room is hot or stuffy, a fan may help.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) help lower fever in children. Your child's doctor may tell you to use both types of medicine.
In children under 3 months of age, call your child's provider first before giving them medicines.
Know how much your child weighs. Then always check the instructions on the package.
Take acetaminophen every 4 to 6 hours.
Take ibuprofen every 6 to 8 hours. DO NOT use ibuprofen in children younger than 6 months old.
DO NOT give aspirin to children unless your child's provider tells you it is OK.
A fever does not need to come all the way down to normal. Most children will feel better when their temperature drops by even one degree.
A lukewarm bath or sponge bath may help cool a fever.
Lukewarm baths work better if the child also gets medicine. Otherwise, the temperature might bounce right back up.
DO NOT use cold baths, ice, or alcohol rubs. These often make the situation worse by causing shivering.
When to Call the Doctor
Talk to your child's health care provider or go to the emergency room when:
Your child does not act alert or more comfortable when their fever goes down
Fever symptoms come back after they had gone away
The child does not make tears when crying
Your child does not have wet diapers or has not urinated in the past 8 hours
Also, talk to your child's provider or go to the emergency room if your child:
Is younger than age 3 months and has a rectal temperature of 100.4°F (38°C) or higher
Is 3 to 12 months old and has a fever of 102.2°F (39°C) or higher
Is under age 2 and has a fever that lasts longer than 48 hours
Has a fever over 105°F (40.5°C), unless the fever comes down readily with treatment and the child is comfortable
Has had fevers come and go for up to a week or more, even if they are not very high.
Has other symptoms that suggest an illness may need to be treated, such as a sore throat, earache, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting, or a cough.
Has a serious medical illness, such as a heart problem, sickle cell anemia, diabetes, or cystic fibrosis
Recently had an immunization
Call 9-1-1 if your child has a fever and:
Is crying and cannot be calmed down
Cannot be awakened easily or at all
Seems confused
Cannot walk
Has difficulty breathing, even after their nose is cleared
Has blue lips, tongue, or nails
Has a very bad headache
Has a stiff neck
Refuses to move an arm or leg
Has a seizure
Has a new rash or bruises appear
References
Mick NW. Pediatric fever. In: Walls RM, Hockberger RS, Gausche-Hill M, eds. Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice. 9th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2018:chap 166.
Nield LS, Kamat D. Fever. In: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, St Geme JW, Schor NF, eds. Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics. 20th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier; 2016:chap 176.
Review Date: 10/18/2017
Reviewed By: Neil K. Kaneshiro, MD, MHA, Clinical Professor of Pediatrics, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, Brenda Conaway, Editorial Director, and the A.D.A.M. Editorial team.
The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. © 1997- A.D.A.M., Inc. Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited.