symptomviewer - HealthyChildren.org
You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.
Turn on more accessible mode
Turn off more accessible mode
Skip Ribbon Commands
Skip to main content
Turn off Animations
Turn on Animations
Our Sponsors
Log in | Register
Menu
Log in | Register
Home
Our Sponsors
Ages & StagesAges & Stages
Ages and Stages
Prenatal
Baby (0-12 mos.)
Toddler 1-3yrs.
Preschool 3-5yrs
Grade School 5-12yrs.
Teen 12-18yrs.
Young Adult 18-21yrs.
Healthy LivingHealthy Living
Healthy Living
Nutrition
Fitness
Sports
Oral Health
Emotional Wellness
Growing Healthy
Sleep
Safety & PreventionSafety & Prevention
Safety and Prevention
Immunizations
At Home
At Play
On The Go
All Around
Family LifeFamily Life
Family Life
Medical Home
Family Dynamics
Media
Work & Play
Getting Involved in Your Community
Health IssuesHealth Issues
Health Issues
Conditions
Injuries & Emergencies
Vaccine Preventable Diseases
NewsNews
Tips & ToolsTips & Tools
Tips and Tools
Ask The Pediatrician
Find a Pediatrician
Newsletters
Symptom Checker
Apps
E-Magazine
Webinars
Our MissionOur Mission
Our Mission
AAP in Action
Medical Editor & Contributors
Sponsors
Sponsorship Opportunities
Spread the Word
Shop AAP
Find a Pediatrician
Healthy Children > Tips & Tools > KidsDoc Symptom Checker > symptomviewer
select new symptom
Warts
Related Symptoms:
Molluscum
Definition
When To Call
Care Advice
Photos
Select New Symptom
Listen
Definition
Small raised growths that have a rough surface
Viral infection of the skin
Symptoms of Warts
Raised, round, rough-surfaced growths on the skin
Skin-colored or pink
Most commonly occur on the hands, especially the fingers
Not painful unless located on the sole of the foot (plantar wart). Also can be painful if on part of a finger used for writing.
Cause of Warts
Warts are caused by several human papilloma viruses
Different types of warts are caused by different papilloma viruses
Prevention of Spread to Others
Avoid baths or hot tubs with other children. Reason: Warts can spread in warm water.
Also, avoid sharing washcloths or towels.
Contact sports: Warts can spread to other team members. Warts should be covered or treated.
Time it takes to get warts after close contact: 3 months
Select New Symptom
Listen
When To Call
Call Doctor or Seek Care Now
Redness or red streak spreading from wart with fever
Your child looks or acts very sick
Call Doctor Within 24 Hours
Redness or red streak spreading from wart without fever
Boil suspected (painful, non-itchy, red lump)
You think your child needs to be seen
Call Doctor During Office Hours
Wart on bottom of foot (plantar wart)
Wart on face
Wart on genitals or anus
4 or more warts
Pus is draining from the wart (Apply antibiotic ointment 3 times per day until seen)
On treatment more than 2 weeks and new warts appear
On treatment more than 8 weeks and warts not gone
You have other questions or concerns
Self Care at Home
Common warts - 3 or less
Select New Symptom
Listen
Care Advice
What You Should Know About Warts:
Warts are common (10% of children).
Warts are harmless and most can be treated at home.
The sooner you treat them, the less they will spread.
Here is some care advice that should help.
Wart-Removing Acid:
Buy a wart medicine with 17% salicylic acid (such as Compound W). No prescription is needed.
Apply the acid once a day to the top of the wart. If there are many warts, treat the 3 largest ones.
Since it's an acid, avoid getting any near the eyes or mouth. Also try to keep it off the normal skin.
The acid will turn the wart into dead skin (it will turn white).
Duct Tape - Cover the Wart:
The acid will work faster if it is covered with duct tape. Do not use regular tape.
If you don't want to use an acid, use duct tape alone.
Covering warts with duct tape can irritate the warts. This will turn on the body's immune system.
Cover as many of the warts as possible. Cover at least 3 of them.
The covered warts become red and start to die. Once this happens, often all the warts will go away.
Try to keep the warts covered all the time.
Remove the tape once per day, usually before bathing. Then replace it after bathing.
Some children object to having the tape on at school. At the very least, tape it every night.
Remove Dead Wart:
Once or twice a week, remove the dead wart material. Do this by paring it down with a disposable razor.
This is easier to do than you think. It shouldn't cause any pain or bleeding.
Soak the area first in warm water for 10 minutes. Reason: The dead wart will be easier to remove.
Some children won't want you to cut off the layer of dead wart. Rub it off with a washcloth instead.
Prevention of Spread to Other Areas of Your Child's Body:
Discourage your child from picking at the wart. Picking it and scratching a new area with the same finger can spread warts. A new wart can form in 1 to 2 months.
Chewing or sucking on them can lead to similar warts on the face.
If your child is doing this, cover the wart. Use a bandage (such as Band-Aid).
Keep your child's fingernails cut short and wash your child's hands more often.
What to Expect:
Without treatment, warts go away in about 2 years.
With home treatment, they can usually be cleared up in 2 to 3 months.
There are no shortcuts to treating warts.
Return to School:
Your child doesn't have to miss any child care or school for warts.
There is only a mild risk that warts spread to others.
Call Your Doctor If:
Warts develop on the feet, genitals, or face
New warts develop after 2 weeks of treatment
Warts are still present after 12 weeks of treatment
You think your child needs to be seen
And remember, contact your doctor if your child develops any of the 'Call Your Doctor' symptoms.
Select New Symptom
Listen
Photos
Warts
A wart is a growth caused by a virus. Warts can be spread easily as show in this picture. The wart was spread from the finger to the lip. Children often chew on warts which caused them to spread.
Source: Self Care Decisions, LLC
From the Dr. James Fitzpatrick Collection of Pediatric Dermatology. Used with permission.
Barton Schmitt MD, FAAP
Disclaimer: this health information is for educational purposes only. You, the reader, assume full responsibility for how you choose to use it.
Copyright 2000-2019 Schmitt Pediatric Guidelines LLC.
select new symptom
Share
Facebook
Twitter
MySpace
Digg
More
Email
Print
Buy App
Articles
News
Books
Find a Pediatrician
Tip: Expand your results into surrounding areas by only using the first 3 or 4 digits of your zip.
Advanced Search
terms & conditions
Find Us
Donate
Contact Us
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Editorial Policy
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
© Copyright 2019 American Academy of Pediatrics. All rights reserved.