Aleve and/or Tylenol for Migraine Pain Management - Migraine Headaches and Social Security Disability
April 23, 2019
Migraine Headaches and Social Security Disability
Home
FAQ
Case Strategies
Case Studies
About Us
Blog
Claim Review
Contact Us
Aleve and/or Tylenol for Migraine Pain Management
April 16, 2010 by Jonathan Ginsberg Leave a Comment
Most people will go to any length imaginable in order to make the pain associated with a migraine headache go away. They are often relegated to taking an assortment of prescription medications to ease the pain and possibly prevent a migraine attack from occurring. Despite the relative success of these drugs, many migraine sufferers find they cannot take them because of the severe side effects associated with them. Unfortunately, most individuals must take something in order to combat the migraine because its effects often result in being absent from work, school, and other activities – which is why people with migraines often end up applying for social security disability. Two new studies published in the journal Headache, however, give some hope to those migraine sufferers who simply cannot take or do not respond well to the traditional drug therapies. Each of these studies concluded that taking naproxen (or Aleve) and acetaminophen (or Tylenol) reduced migraine pain and recurrence, as well as other migraine symptoms, such as nausea.
In the first study, researchers from Taiwan examined the results of previous studies using naproxen at a dosage level of 500 to 825 milligrams for approximately 2,168 migraine patients. The researchers found that naproxen reduced the migraine intensity, pain, and symptoms within two hours of taking it, according to Reuters. This resulted in a “desirable outcome” as defined by the International Headache Society. Despite this favorable outcome, the researchers also found that naproxen did not always offer the same clinical benefits as triptans, the traditional migraine drugs. Moreover, the researchers also found that aspirin provided better relief than naproxen in regulating migraine pain. In fact, according to Reuters, the research team concluded that a 1,000 milligram dose of aspirin was the best treatment option for migraines when compared to naproxen or acetaminophen. However, many people cannot take triptans or aspirin because of their harsh side effects. Because of this, Aleve and Tylenol may provide the best alternative to migraine pain management.
In the second study, the manufacturers of Tylenol conducted an examination 378 migraine sufferers who were randomly given Tylenol or a placebo. Over ninety days, the researchers found that those taking the Tylenol reported reduced pain within an hour of taking the pill, and after two hours, fifty-two percent report little to no pain. Conversely, those in the placebo group continued to report pain after two hours at a rate of sixty-eight percent. They also found that Tylenol reduced other migraine associated problems such as nausea and light sensitivity, whereas the placebo did not.
This is great news for migraine sufferers who have reached their wits’ end about how to effectively counter the effects of a migraine. Taking Tylenol or Aleve are low cost, effective alternatives to the traditional migraine drugs on the market. Further, it may be easier for people to purchase and take them without having to wait for a prescription or worry about injecting a medication while at work or school. Because these medications are not approved by the FDA as a migraine treatment, it is best to speak with your doctor about taking them as part of your migraine therapy. Hopefully, you will get the green light to take something already in your medicine cabinet and get the relief you have been looking for.
Filed Under: Migraine pain management, Migraine research, migraine treatment Tagged With: Migraine pain management, Migraine research, migraine treatment
Speak Your Mind Cancel reply
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
Wordpress Hashcash needs javascript to work, but your browser has javascript disabled. Your comment will be queued in Akismet!
Case Review
First Name*
Last Name*
Email
Phone
City
State
Are you currently represented by an attorney?
NoYes
Have you already applied for benefits?
Yes, I have an active claimYes, a long time ago but I never appealedNo - never applied
Why do you feel that you are disabled and unable to work?
Comments
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Follow us on YouTube
Categories
Categories Select Category Case Studies Living with Migraines Medical news Migraine causes Migraine issues in the news Migraine medications Migraine pain management Migraine research Migraine resources migraine treatment Predicting Migraines Strategies for Winning
Follow Us on Twitter
Blogroll
Jodi Ginsberg's Workers' Compensation Law blog
Social Security Disability Blog
Social Security Disability podcast
Web Sites
Ginsberg's Social Security Disability Law web site
Social Security Grid Rules
Social Security's Listings Deciphered
The Daily Headache
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2019 · Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in