Krames Online - Treatment for Ovarian Cysts
Skip to main content
Krames Online Home
HealthSheets™
Medications
Library Search
Advanced Search
Español (Inicio)
HealthSheets™
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
Click a letter to see a list of conditions beginning with that letter.
Treatment for Ovarian Cysts
An ovarian cyst is a fluid-filled sac that forms on or inside an ovary. The ovaries are a pair of small, oval-shaped organs in the lower part of a woman’s belly (abdomen). About once a month, one of the ovaries releases an egg. The ovaries also make the hormones estrogen and progesterone. These hormones are part of pregnancy, the menstrual cycle, and breast growth.
Ovarian cysts are very common in women of all ages, however they are unusual in women who have reached menopause. Young girls can also get them, but this is less common. There are different types of ovarian cysts. They can occur for various reasons, and they may need different treatments. A cyst can vary in size from half an inch to more than 4 inches.
Types of treatment
Treatment for an ovarian cyst will depend on the type of cyst, your age, and your general health. Most women will not need treatment. You may be told to watch your symptoms over time. An ovarian cyst will often go away with no treatment in a few weeks or months.
In some cases, you may need to have follow-up ultrasound tests. These are to check if your cyst has gone away or is not growing. You may not need any other treatment.
If your ultrasound or blood tests show signs of cancer, your healthcare provider may advise surgery. This is done to remove part or all of your ovary. Your healthcare provider might also advise surgery if:
Your cyst causes ongoing pressure or pain
Your cyst appears to be growing
You have a very large cyst
You have endometriosis and want the cyst removed to help with fertility
Can an ovarian cyst be prevented?
If you have hormone problems, your healthcare provider may advise taking birth control pills. These may help prevent ovarian cysts. Taking antibiotics for a pelvic infection may also prevent a cyst.
Possible complications of an ovarian cyst
An ovarian cyst can sometimes break open (rupture). This may not cause any symptoms. Or it may cause sudden, sharp pain in the lower belly. A ruptured cyst can cause a lot of blood and fluid loss. This can lead to low blood pressure. In some cases, surgery may be needed.
Rarely an ovarian cyst can also cause twisting (torsion) of the fallopian tube. This can block normal blood supply to the ovary. This can lead to sudden pain and may need emergency surgery.
When to call the healthcare provider
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these:
Sudden belly pain
Other severe symptoms
© 2000-2019 The StayWell Company, LLC. 800 Township Line Road, Yardley, PA 19067. All rights reserved. This information is not intended as a substitute for professional medical care. Always follow your healthcare professional's instructions.
Related Items
HealthSheets™
Discharge Instructions for Oophorectomy
Ovarian Cysts
Treating a Ruptured Ovarian Cyst
Understanding Laparoscopic Surgery for Ovarian Torsion
Understanding Ovarian Cystectomy
View All 6
Powered by
Copyright © 2009 - The StayWell Company, LLC. except where otherwise noted.