Herbs and Vitamins for Vitiligo_Vitiligo Disease Treatment
FREE INQUIRY Facebook
Contact us
About us
Email:bjzkhospital@gmail.com
SiteMap
Email : bjzkhospital@gmail.com
WhatsApp:008618519108583
Vitiligo Cure Chinese Medicine for Vitiligo
Home
Vitiligo ▼
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Vitiligo Treatment
Psoriasis
Our Hospital▼
Vitiligo Hospital
Psoriasis Hospital
Environment
Equipment
Expert Team
Online Doctor
Healthy Living
Patients Stories
FAQs
Contact us
Home > Skin Disease > Vitiligo > Vitiligo Treatment >
Menu
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Patients Stories
A Malaysian Female Treated In Our Hospital
Indian Vitiligo Patient Treatment Process In Our Hospital
A Mongolia Woman Vitiligo Treatment Experience In Our Hospital
Contact Us
bjzkhospital@gmail.com/a>
008618519108583
bjmeidi
Hot Article
Why Erythrodermic Psoriasis Is Severe Than Other Types Of Psoriasis
Tian An Men Square
What If Vitiligo Patients Eat Eggs
How To Deal With The Dry Skin For Psoriasis Condition
White Patches Disappear: I Can Visit My Girlfriend Family
Does Vitiligo Has Connection With Environment
Can Psoriasis On Hands And Feet Be Cured
Herbs and Vitamins for Vitiligo
Vitiligo is a kind of local skin melanin pigment apoptosis common chronic skin disease, it caused by melanin production environments was destroyed, so what is melanin production environment? It’ s our body’s immune system, endocrine, internal organs, qi and blood disorder all these can induce vitiligo, so if we want to treat vitiligo from the root, we must treat the vitiligo production environment, the herbs and vitamins have a good effect to treat vitiligo. In this article, I’d like to briefly introduce this to you for your reference.
In the follow part, I’d like to introduce two experiments, after the experiments, you will have a more clear understand of the herbs and vitamins for vitiligo.
The experiment of Improvement of vitiligo after oral treatment with vitamin B12 and folic acid and the importance of sun exposure.
Acta Derm Venereol. 1997. The aim of this 2-year study was to test the hypothesis that folic acid, vitamin B12 and sun exposure could be helpful in treating vitiligo. One hundred patients with vitiligo were treated with oral folic acid and vitamin B12 after being informed that sun exposure might enhance repigmentation. They were requested to keep a record of sun exposure in summer and UVB irradiation in winter. The minimal treatment time suggested was 3-6 months but should be longer if improvement was achieved. Clear repigmentation occurred in 52 patients, including 37 who exposed their skin to summer sun and 6 who used UVB lamps in winter. Repigmentation was most evident on sun-exposed areas, where 38% of the patients had previously noted repigmentation during summer months. Total repigmentation was seen in 6 patients. The spread of vitiligo stopped in 64% of the patients after treatment. Folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation combined with sun exposure can induce repigmentation better than either the vitamins or sun exposure alone. Treatment should continue as long as the white areas continue to repigment. Further studies are needed to determine ideal minimal dosages of vitamins and UV exposure, as well as treatment time.
The experiment of gingko as a natural treatment for vitiligo skin condition
Drs. Orest Szczurko and Heather S. Boon of the University of Toronto reviewed published research regarding natural vitiligo treatment and found 15 controlled studies. Three of the studies looked at L-phenylalanine with UVA or UVB therapy, and one looked at L-phenylalanine in combination with other drugs. While all these studies showed benefits, there were a high number of dropouts and the lack of a control group. Drs. Orest Szczurko and Heather S. Boon report that there is mild to moderate evidence for the benefit of Gingko biloba as a natural vitiligo treatment. BMC Dermatology, 2008.
After the two experiments, you must have a clear understand the effects of vitamins and herbs for vitiligo.
Email: bjzkhospital@gmail.com
Skype: bjmeidi
WhatsApp: +86 18519108583
Tag: Vitiligo Vitiligo Treatment
Pre：Melanin Pigment and Vitiligo
Next：Supplements for Vitiligo
As for you own illness conditions, you can get some guidance related to diet, exercise, medicines or some natural remedies. The online consultation service is free. Please remember to leave your email address, or phone number so that we can contact you and help you!
Please leave the patient's FULL name in case of a duplicate, and to make our doctor give timely response and help.
Full Name：
Country：
Email:
Skype：
Whatsapp:
Viber：
Phone Number：
Disease：
Vitiligo Psoriasis Acne Hair Loss Eczema Dermatitis
Message：
Related Articles
The traditional chinese medicine therapy for vitiligo
Systemic Treatments For Vitiligo Patients
Best Remedies For Vitiligo Patients
Attentions For Patients With Vitiligo On Face
How To Treat Vitiligo Scientifically
Whether The Folk Prescriptions Can Treat Vitiligo
Quick Links
Vitiligo
Vitiligo Causes
Vitiligo Symptoms
Vitiligo Diet
Vitiligo Treatment
Vitiligo Cure
Web map
Treatmet
Chinese Medicine Treatment for Vitiligo
Acupuncture Treatment for Vitiligo
Laser for vitiligo
PUVB
Contact Address
NO 18, Santai Mountain Streat Intersection South, Daxing Dirtrict,China.
Phone
008601087626355
WhatsApp
008618519108583
Email
bjmeidi@hotmail.com
Helpline
0086-01087626355
Follow us
Website content statement: the information on this website is for reference only, and can not be used as a medical basis for diagnosis and treatment.
Friendly Links : Vitiligo Cure