HealthWarehouse Archives - The Daily Headache
Home
About
Archives
Resources
Contact
-- Main Menu --HomeAboutArchivesResourcesContact
Sep
24
By Kerrie Smyres
Great Price on Sumatriptan (Imitrex) at Health Warehouse
Category: Meds & Supplements, Resources, Treatment Tags: HealthWarehouse, imitrex, prescription drugs, sumatriptan, triptans 4 Comments
HealthWarehouse, a licensed U.S. pharmacy based in Kentucky, charges even less for sumatriptan than Inhouse Pharmacy Europe, which I told you about last week. Bonus: it’s entirely legit and there’s no question if it’s legality, though you’ll need to send them a prescription.
I’ve ordered other meds from Health Warehouse and have been pleased with the service. The prices are low and shipping is prompt. The only drawback is that they don’t take manufacturer’s coupons.
Wherever you buy sumatriptan, you can try to simulate the effect of Treximet by taking naproxen sodium (Aleve) along with it. (See paragraph five of Save Money on Sumatriptan (Imitrex/Imigran/Treximet) for details.) Some people find mixing their own medication cocktail is as effective as Treximet, others swear by the all-in-one Treximet. It’s worth a try to save money, but be sure to let your doctor know what you’re up to — safety is even more important than frugality!
Thanks to The Daily Headache reader on Facebook who told me about HealthWarehouse’s price on sumatriptan. And thanks to Timothy who suggested asking your doctor for triptan samples at every visit and thanking them profusely for them. He also pointed out that if you take a low dose of a medication, you can ask your doctor to write a prescription for a higher dose and split the pill in half. This doesn’t work with every medication (some have a time-release coating, others aren’t tablets, others don’t come in a dose that’s easily halved, etc.), but it’s something to ask your doctor about.
If you know any other sources for good prices on sumatriptan — or any other meds! — please leave a comment. Your help is invaluable to me and to other readers as well.
Welcome to Kerrie Smyres' writings about chronic migraine, headache disorders, chronic illness & depression. Here you'll find coping strategies, resources, news & more to help you live a fabulous life with chronic illness.
Topics
30 Things Meme
Books & Products
Chronic Migraine
Community
Coping
Diet
Doctors
Exercise
Favorites
Friends & Family
Meds & Supplements
Mental Health
News & Research
Patient Education
Reader Stories
Resources
Society
Symptoms
Treatment
Triggers
© 2019 The Daily Headache
Powered by WordPress and the Designfolio Pro Theme.