Treatment of vitiligo | Vitiligine: Sintomi, Terapia e Cura
Home
Vitiligo
What is vitiligo?
Causes of vitiligo
Types of vitiligo
Vitiligo and melanoma
Recommended blood tests
Video testimonials
Symptoms
Symptoms of vitiligo
Where vitiligo appears
Treatment and recovery
Treatment of vitiligo
Cold-light microphototherapy
The Bioskin system
Bioskin therapy
Recovering from vitiligo
Advice
News and research on vitiligo
Camouflage
Exposure to sun
Photographs before and after
Contacts
Where to find us
Treatment of vitiligo
There are many treatments that can be used for the problem of vitiligo.
One fact that has been determined is that treatment of vitiligo is aided by exposure to sun, even though sunlight often causes erythema; real sunburns should, however, be avoided. The reasons why light rays are important in the treatment of vitiligo are not completely clear, although two of the main effects of sunlight on the skin are undeniably melanocyte pigmentation and local immunosuppression.
According to recent studies, ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation at 311 nm would be much more important in the treatment of vitiligo than ultraviolet irradiation with other wavelengths, mainly because of its particular direct and indirect actions on the cutaneous immune system.
BIOSKIN EVOLUTION® therapy has been developed on the basis of this type of research. This therapy involves innovative equipment that is unparalleled in terms of technology and therapeutic effects.
BIOSKIN EVOLUTION® is based on a technique of microphototherapy capable of conveying a beam of light, of the wavelength that scientific studies have demonstrated to stimulate melanocytes to duplicate and produce melanin most effectively, exclusively onto the patches of vitiligo, without creating the damage caused by other radiation in sunlight, in particular infrared and ultraviolet A (UVA) rays. The other undeniable advantage is the possibility of creating a system of treatment that is personalised according to the spread and sensitivity of the areas affected and based on the response to treatment of each individual.
Home
Vitiligo
Symptoms
Treatment
Advice
Photographs before and after
Contacts
Where to find us
Copyright© 1999-2019 BIOSKIN® EVOLUTION all rights reserved - P.I. 01841420472