Hair Loss Medicines for Men: What Works?
Skip to content
Check Your Symptoms Find a Doctor
Sign In Sign Up Subscribe
My ProfileWelcome
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Check Your Symptoms
Find a Doctor
Health
A-Z
Drugs &
Supplements
Living
Healthy
Family &
Pregnancy
News &
Experts
Mobile
Apps
Subscribe to Free
Newsletters
Sign In
Sign Up
My ProfileWelcome
My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out
Help for Men's Hair Loss
Why Am I Losing My Hair?
Slow Down the Follicle Fallout
Tricks to Make Your Mop Look Thicker
What About a Transplant?
Foods for Healthy Hair
Causes and Treatments for Male Pattern Baldness
Why Do Some Men Go Bald?
The Basics: Men's Hair Loss
Nonsurgical Treatments
Medications to Slow Men’s Hair Loss
Lots of products claim to help guys bring back the shiny mane of their younger days. But only a handful of those seem to work. And you don’t need to lighten your wallet on worthless shampoos and supplements in the quest for a fuller head of hair.
There’s no cure for baldness, but these options may help you keep it at bay if you’re gradually losing hair. The best time to use them is before you’ve lost a lot. So when you start to notice thinning locks, check in with your doctor about what you can do.
A Pill to Stop Hair Loss
Popping a pill to thwart thinning hair may sound too good to be true, but it’s possible with finasteride (Propecia). The drug works by lowering levels of a hormone that shrinks hair follicles, called dihydrotestosterone (DHT).
It slows hair loss in about 88% of men and helps hair regrow in about 66%. You need a doctor’s prescription to get finasteride, which you take every day. Be patient, though: It can take 6 months to see results, because hair loss and growth happen slowly.
In clinical trials for the drug, about 3% of men had some side effects, including a lower sex drive and other sexual problems. It’s possible that these issues can continue after you stop taking the drug. Keep in mind, too, that pregnant women shouldn’t handle the pills -- touching broken or crushed tablets can cause birth defects in babies.
A Rub-In Remedy
It’s not as easy to use as a daily pill, but minoxidil (Rogaine), a liquid or foam that you rub into your scalp, is another option. The 5% strength seems to work best. Studies show it can help hair grow, but it may also help you hold on to the strands you already have.
The earlier you start using minoxidil, the more likely it is to help. You have to use it for at least 4 months, and possibly for up to a year, before you can see if it’s working. While you may grow more hair with finasteride, it tends to have more side effects than minoxidil. You also don’t need a prescription for minoxidil.
You apply the medicine twice a day to dry hair. Applicators make the process less messy. The main side effect is scalp irritation.
WebMD Medical Reference
Reviewed by Michael W. Smith, MD on December 06, 2017
Sources
SOURCES:
American Hair Loss Association: “Men’s hair loss/introduction,” “Men’s hair loss/treatment.”
MedlinePlus Drug Information: “Finasteride,” “Minoxidil topical.”
FDA: “Questions and Answers: Finasteride label changes.”
American Academy of Dermatology: “Hair loss: Diagnosis and Treatment.”
© 2017 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
NEXT IN THE SERIES
From WebMD
More on Male Pattern Baldness
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Treat Your Cancer Today
Precision Cancer Care
Cancer Breakthroughs
Cancer Center 101
Addiction Relapse & Recovery
Cutting Edge Cancer Treatment
Specialized Gynecologic Oncologists
Pain Relief Methods
Bent Fingers?
Find WebMD on:
Facebook
Twitter
Pintrest
AdChoices AdChoices
About WebMD
Advertise With Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Contact Us
©2005-2018 WebMD LLC. All rights reserved.
WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
See additional information.