Learn about the medical treatment of hair loss which involves minoxidil | Hair Loss
Hair Loss Regrow Your Hair Naturally
Home
Women’s hair loss
Causes of Hair Loss
How to hide hairloss
Prevention
Featured Articles
Categorized | Medical treatment
Minoxidil
Posted on 17 July 2014.
Minoxidil is a drug first invented as an antihypertensive medicine. However, during testing, a curious side effect was noticed. Men using this drug who had early stages of male pattern hair loss noticed that their hair had started to grow back. Since the patent for the medicine has now expired, many companies began manufacturing this drug which lowered the costs, allowing many people around the world to be treated for hair loss. Similar to finasteride,the only other medicine that is used to treat male and female pattern baldness, minoxidil has to be used indefinitely. Otherwise, after discontinuing treatment for two months, hair loss will resume.
The most common form of minoxidil is a solution that is applied topically. Men usually use a 5% concentration solution, while women use a 3% concentration solution.
How does the minoxidil work?
Currently, scientists do not have a clear picture as to how minoxidil actually promotes hair growth. It is believed that hair growth is promoted by the nitric oxide released by this medicine as well as the opening of potassium channels. These two factors widen the blood vessels located in the scalp and allow for more oxygen and nutrients to reach the hair follicles. At first, this effect causes the hair follicles in telogen phase to shed; however, this hair is soon replaced by thicker hairs in an anagen phase.
Minoxidil works best for younger men who have experienced central (vertex) hair loss for no more than 5 years. A large area of hair loss makes the use of minoxidil less effective.
Side effects
Minoxidil is usually well tolerated. However, some patients may experience symptoms associated with irritation of the treated area, which includes a burning sensation, redness and itching.
Another common side effect of minoxidil is hair loss. This hair loss is associated with shedding of the hair in the telogen phase and manufacturers do not guarantee that the hair that falls out will grow back.
People with dry or normal skin can experience dandruff or contact dermatitis as a result of using a solution of minoxidil since alcohol and propylene glycol are usually used in its manufacture. In order to reduce this effect, some manufacturers use lipid nanosomes instead of alcohol and propylene glycol.
Users who experience symptoms of severe allergic reaction should immediately discontinue the treatment and seek medical attention. These symptoms include:
Difficulty breathing
Hives
Rash
Tightness and pain in the chest
Swelling of the tongue, lips, face and mouth
Dizziness and fainting
Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia)
Sudden unexplained weight gain
Swelling of hands and feet.
An oral form of minoxidil should be avoided since, as stated above, it is an antihypertensive medicine. Moreover, side effects from using an oral form of minoxidil include swelling of extremities, lightheadedness, irregular and rapid heartbeat, cardiac lesions, and, in rare cases, necrosis of the papillary muscles located in the left ventricle. Another rare side effect of oral minoxidil includes pseudoacromegaly. This condition causes the person to acquire acromegaloid features while the levels of growth hormone remain normal.
Application
In order to achieve maximum effect, minoxidil should be used twice per day, making sure that the hair does not get wet for 4 hours following the application. Although this medicine promotes hair growth, it does not affect dihydrotestosterone, which is the initial cause of hair loss. This is the reason why many people use a combination of two drugs – minoxidil and finasteride. While minoxidil should only be applied topically, finasteride should be taken orally. There is still debate as to whether finasteride yields results when applied topically.
In Conclusion
Minoxidil is the only other medicine aside from finasteride that has been proven to combat hair loss. All the other medicines that claim to do so, are either scams or they weren’t tested in laboratory settings. Regardless, either can be detrimental to your health. Although finasteride and minoxidil have a whole array of unpleasant side effects, they are the only two options available to treat hair loss, aside from surgical treatment.
← The Thyroid gland’s impact upon hair
Finasteride →
Hairloss Cure Review
Mistakes in Treatment
Follicular unit transplantation (FUT)
Follicular unit extraction (FUE)
Folk remedies for hair loss
External therapy
Medical treatment
Reflexology
Mesotherapy
Physiotherapy methods
Platelet-Rich Plasma
Leech Therapy
Scalp cryomassage
Low-Level Laser Therapy
Recent Posts
test
Prostaglandin D2 and Its Role in Hair Growth
Postpartum Hair Loss: What is it and is there a cure?
Finasteride
Minoxidil
The Thyroid gland’s impact upon hair
Hair Loss: Another Disturbing Symptom of Menopause?
Can anesthesia cause Hair Loss
Scalp Massage: The Best Remedy to Strengthen Your Hair?
Do birth control pills induce hair loss?
© 2019 Hair Loss.
Hairloss-i.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.