Hindustanlink.com: Health Care Blog » Anemia
Hindustanlink.com: Health Care Blog
Hindustalink.com Health Care Blog, Healthcare issues & problems, diseases, health care resources, care tips
Archive for the ‘Anemia’ Category
Symptoms of Iron Deficiency Anemia
Friday, February 27th, 2015
Who Is at Risk for Iron-Deficiency Anemia?
Anemia is a common condition and can occur in both men and women, in all ages and ethnic groups. The risk for iron-deficiency anemia is higher in the following groups:
1. women of child-bearing age
2. pregnant women
3. people with poor diets
4. frequent blood donors
5. infants and children, especially those born prematurely or experiencing a growth spurt
6. vegetarians who do not replace meat with another iron-rich food
Symptoms of Iron Deficiency Anemia
Symptoms of iron-deficiency anemia can be very mild at first, and may go completely unnoticed. In fact, most people do not realize they have mild anemia until it is identified in a routine blood test .
Symptoms of moderate to severe iron-deficiency anemia include:
general fatigue
weakness
pale skin
shortness of breath
dizziness
strange cravings for non-food items, such as dirt, ice, and clay
tingling or a crawling feeling in the legs
swelling or soreness in the tongue
cold hands and feet
fast or irregular heartbeat
brittle nails
headaches
Posted in Anemia, Iron deficiency, Iron Deficiency | No Comments »
Factors which Affect Iron Absorption and Retention
Saturday, February 14th, 2015
The most important factor is your existing iron level. A low iron level will increase absorption, while a high iron level will decrease absorption. In general, you absorb 10-15% of the iron from foods.
Vitamin C will increase the absorption of nonheme iron by as much as 85%.
Tannins, oxalates, polyphenols, and phytates found in tea and coffee can reduce the absorption of non-heme iron by up to 65%. Black tea reduces absorption more than green tea and coffee.
The following teas and beverages also inhibit iron absorption: Peppermint tea, penny royal, cocoa, vervain, lime flower, chamomile, and most other herbal teas with polyphenols.
Calcium, polyphenols, and phytates found in legumes, whole grains, and chocolate can reduce absorption of nonheme iron.
Some protein from soy products may inhibit nonheme iron absorption.
Calcium, milk, and antacids can inhibit absorption of iron supplements.
High fiber foods, such as whole grains, raw vegetables, and bran can inhibit absorption of iron supplements.
Foods or drinks with caffeine can inhibit absorption of iron supplements.
Posted in Anemia, Iron deficiency | No Comments »
Home Remedies for Iron Deficiency
Monday, December 30th, 2013
Iron is a mineral needed by our bodies. Iron is a part of all cells and does many things in our bodies. For example, iron carries oxygen from our lungs throughout our bodies. Having too little hemoglobin is called anemia. Iron also helps our muscles store and use oxygen. Iron is a part of many enzymes and is used in many cell functions. Enzymes help our bodies digest foods and also help with many other important reactions that occur within our bodies. When our bodies don’t have enough iron, many parts of our bodies are affected.
Iron deficiency is a condition resulting from too little iron in the body. Iron deficiency is the most common nutritional deficiency and the leading cause of anemia in India.
The terms anemia, iron deficiency, and iron deficiency anemia often are used interchangeably but equivalent. Iron deficiency ranges from depleted iron stores without functional or health impairment to iron deficiency with anemia, which affects the functioning of several organ systems.
Iron deficiency can delay normal activity and movement or mental function.
Iron deficiency anemia during pregnancy can increase risk for small or early preterm babies. Small or early babies are more likely to have health problems or die in the first year of life than infants who are born full term and are not small.
Iron deficiency can cause fatigue that impairs the ability to do physical work in adults. Iron deficiency may also affect memory or other mental function in teens.
In generally, you can eat a healthful diet that includes good sources of iron. A healthful diet includes fruits, vegetables, whole grains, fat free or nonfat milk and milk products, lean meats, fish, dry beans, eggs, nuts, and is low in saturated fat, trans fats, cholesterol, salt, and added sugars. For example, you can eat a fruit or vegetable that is a good source of vitamin C with a food or meal that contains non -heme iron. Vitamin C helps your body absorb the non-heme iron foods you eat, especially when the food containing non-heme iron and the vitamin-C rich food are eaten at the same meal.
Posted in Anemia, Healthcare, Iron deficiency | No Comments »
Remedies For Anemia
Saturday, May 22nd, 2010
Anemia is a decrease in your blood cell count, and/or a decreased hemoglobin content in the blood. Since red blood cells are the ones responsible, for carrying oxygen to the cells via the hemoglobin, a lower amount, would mean low oxygen in all your body’s tissues, and if you are pregnant your baby gets less oxygen as well. Anemia can be caused by blood loss, which means that not enough red cells are being produce, or that too many red cells are being killed off. Home remedies for anemia are a great solution.
Home Remedies for anemia 1 : It’s very important to get the proper nutrients into the body. Eating a diet rich in cereals, rice, pastas, dairy products (milk, yogurt and cheese), vegetables and fruits, meat, poultry and fish, and finally dry beans, eggs, and nuts. Has been proven to help boost the immune system.
Home Remedies for anemia 2 : Make sure you are eating plenty of iron rich food, such as, liver, green leafy vegetable, beets, dried fruits, bran flake, oysters, brown rice, lentils and molasses, raisins, prunes; breads and pastas made from hole grain flour.
Home Remedies for anemia 3 : Avoid drinking coffee, tea and ingesting antacids, because they decrease iron absorption.
Home Remedies for anemia 4 : Try to cook in iron pots; it is proven that doing it can significantly increases the amount of iron in your foods.
Home Remedies for anemia 5 : During your pregnancy it’s important to take the correct vitamins that will help you and your baby to be healthy.
Posted in Anemia | No Comments »
Treatment of Anemia
Tuesday, April 3rd, 2007
The successful treatment of anemias depends on identifying and treating the underlying cause: blood loss, a nutritional deficiency, cancer, bone marrow infiltration, chronic illness, inflammation, or decreased response to erythropoietin. Through laboratory test results and a physical examination, a physician can determine the cause of your anemia and identify the best approach to treating it.
This may include:
1. Nutritional supplements – Iron, B12 or folic acid
2. Treatment of infections, inflammations or malignancies
3. Erythropoietin
4. Blood transfusions
Full Article
Posted in Anemia | No Comments »
Anemia: Overview
Monday, January 29th, 2007
Anemia, one of the most common blood disorders, occurs when the level of healthy red blood cells (RBCs) in the body becomes too low, or the RBCs don’t have enough hemoglobin. Hemoglobin carries oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. In anemia, the blood does not carry enough oxygen to the rest of the body. As a result, people with anemia can face variety of complications, including fatigue and stress on bodily organs. In severe or prolonged cases of anemia, the lack of oxygen in the blood can cause serious and sometimes fatal damage to the heart and other organs of the body.
Posted in Anemia | No Comments »
Causes of Anemia
Saturday, January 27th, 2007
Causes of Anemia are as follows:
Blood loss: excessive bleeding such as hemorrhages or abnormal menstrual bleeding.
Chronic illness secondary to refractory anemia: inflammatory GI/GU diseases, malignancies (cancer), arthritis, kidney or liver failure, and acute and chronic infections.
Cancer therapy: surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy.
Infiltration (replacement) of bone marrow with cancer.
Hemolysis: Breakdown or destruction of red blood cells.
Decreased red cell production due to low levels of erythropoietin which promotes red blood cell production.
Source: www.cancersupportivecare.com
Posted in Anemia | No Comments »
Anemia: Symptoms
Saturday, January 27th, 2007
The symptoms of anemia will vary according to the type of anemia, the underlying cause, and the underlying health problems. Symptoms common to many types of anemia are:
Fatigue
Weakness
Shortness of breath
Dizziness or fainting
Pale skin, including decreased pinkness of the lips, gums, lining of the eyelids, nail beds and palms
Rapid heart beat (tachycardia)
Feeling cold
Sadness or depression
Decreased sexual function
Difficulty sleeping
Decreased appetite
Posted in Anemia | No Comments »
Search for:
Swine Flu / H1N1
Swine Flu Contacts / Helpline
Click here for Influenza H1N1
List of State Nodal Officers and contact details of Control Room / Helpline / Centers
Swine Flu - Guides, Ebooks, Downloads
Click here Swine Flu - Guides, Ebooks, Downloads
Swine Flu - Some Important Links
WHO H1N1 Site
MoHFW Swine Flu Site
Wikipedia
Hospitals in India
Click here for the details and List of Hospitals in India
You are currently browsing the archives for the Anemia category.
Pages
14 Health Benefits Of Green/ Raw Mango
3 Ways to Choose Nuts Low in Fat
5 Home Remedies for Seasonal Allergies
9 Benefits Of Eating Watermelon During Pregnancy
Benefits Of Eating Apples During Pregnancy
Eat more or eat often?
How should your diet change as you age?
How to Deal With Fainting Spells
How To Treat Gallstones
Know about VITAMIN D
Nuts or dry fruits – which is healthier?
Pain Management and Physical Therapy
Papaya
Swine Flu – Guides & e-books. Downloads
The wonder of whole grains
Top 10 Health Benefits of Dates
What are the benefits of Fibre
Categories
Acidity (9)
Allergies (18)
Cotton Allergy (1)
Dust Allergies (1)
Mosquito Bite Allergy (2)
Pollen alergy (2)
Alopecia (Hair Loss) (4)
Amblyopia (4)
Amebiasis (4)
Amnesia (6)
Anosmia (4)
Anti Ageing (3)
Appendicitis (4)
Asthenia (3)
Babesiosis (4)
Back Pain (6)
Beauty Tips (263)
Beer (2)
Benefits of Apples (1)
Benefits of Baby Corn salad (3)
Benefits of Banana (2)
Benefits of Barley (1)
Benefits Of Beetroot (1)
Benefits of Bhindi (1)
Benefits of Bitter Gourd (1)
Benefits of Carrots (2)
Benefits of Figs (1)
Benefits of Grapes Juice (1)
Benefits of Guava (2)
Benefits of Honey (1)
Benefits of Mangoes? (1)
Benefits of Plums (1)
Benefits of Pomegranate (1)
Benefits of Pumpkin (1)
Benefits of Strawberries (1)
Bird Flu (5)
Blackheads (2)
Bloating (1)
Blood Pressure (14)
Brain Disorder (3)
Schizophrenia (3)
Bronchitis (2)
Bulimia (3)
Cancer (9)
cardiac health (2)
Cavity (3)
Breathing refresh (2)
Cellulitis (8)
Ear Pain (4)
Chickenpox (12)
Vomiting (3)
Chlamydia (5)
Cold and Flu (16)
Cosmetics advice (1)
Crash diet (5)
Crohn's Disease (5)
Dandruff (9)
Dark circle (1)
Deficiency Diseases (15)
Calcium Deficiency (3)
Iron Deficiency (2)
Magnesium Deficiency (2)
Vitamin Deficiency (8)
Dehydration (4)
Dementia (4)
Dengue (7)
Dermatitis (5)
Diabeties (5)
Diet for healthy pregnancy (8)
Dysentry (Blood Flux) (4)
Eye Care (8)
Face Care (6)
FAST FOOD AND HEALTH (3)
Fracture (6)
Gastritis (10)
Hair Loss (10)
health care (51)
skin care (9)
Healthcare (651)
Achalasia (2)
Addison's Disease (5)
Alcohol (9)
Anemia (8)
Iron deficiency (3)
Anxiety Disorders (4)
Arthritis (6)
Asthma (13)
Bipolar disorder (6)
Blood cancer (4)
Brain Tumors (3)
Breast Cancer (7)
Cholesterol (8)
Constipation (7)
Dental Care (3)
Depression (11)
Migraine (3)
Diabetes (13)
Diarrhea (10)
Diarrhea treatment (3)
Ear Infection (3)
Fast diet (2)
Headaches (5)
Hepatitis (8)
Kidney Infection (4)
Kidney Stones (6)
Lung cancer (5)
Malaria (7)
Menopause (8)
Mesothelioma (10)
Nutrition (10)
Cholera and its common remedies (2)
Sinusites (8)
Skin rash (5)
Sleep Disorder (13)
Smoking (5)
Sore Throat (2)
Stress Management (10)
Thyroid (10)
Hyperthyroidism (2)
Hemorrhoids (4)
High Blood Pressure (2)
HIV AIDS (5)
Home remedies (2)
Jaundice (5)
Leprosy (4)
Low Blood Pressure (3)
Morning Sickness (3)
Mouth Ulcer (4)
Mumps (3)
Muscle cramps (1)
Narcolepsy (3)
Obesity (4)
Osteoporosis (3)
Plaque (2)
Pneumonia (6)
Probiotics (3)
Rashes (2)
reduce weight (1)
Rosacea (1)
Scoliosis (4)
Side effects of Cocoa Butter (1)
Skin care (6)
Foot Care (2)
Skin Diseases (27)
Acne (7)
Eczema (5)
Psoriasis (5)
Vitiligo (4)
Sore Throat (7)
STD's (3)
Strawberries benefits (2)
Swine Flu (34)
symptom and remedies (1)
Tennis Elbow (3)
Thalassemia (4)
Toe Problems (2)
Toothache (8)
Toothache pain (2)
Treatment of Toe and nail (2)
Tuberculosis (5)
Ulcer (3)
Viral (6)
Warts (5)
Weight Loss (12)
Indian diat char (2)
Coconut and Coconut water (2)
Wrinkles (3)
Disclaimer - The contents of this site are for informational purposes only.
Above articles / notes provides general overview on the topic and may not apply to everyone.
Always seek the advice of a qualified physician for any treatment / doubts
NOT meant to be used for self-diagnosis / treatment or as a substitute for consultation with a health care provider.
Hindustanlink.com nor its any of the owners, employees, other representatives will be liable for damages / inconvenience arising
out of or in connection with the use of this site /blog.
Home | Health Care Blog Home | Send Gifts to India | Beauty| Mehendi | Recipes | CareersJobs | Matrimonials
| Horoscope | Personal Problems | Sex Education | Doctor Online | E-Greetings | E-Shopping| Yoga |
Destination India | India Virtual Tour | Kids Corner Baby Names | Jokes Indian Universities & Colleges |Contests | Weather |News
|World Guide | World Time | | Currency Converter| Classified Ads | Bollywood | Yoga Blog
Copyright 2006 Hindustanlink.com. Terms of Use & Privacy Policy Hosted by Web-link
Hindustanlink.com: Health Care Blog is proudly powered by WordPress
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS).