Light Therapy Review | Archive | March 2016
Light Therapy Review
Red light therapy, light therapy products, light therapy reviews
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Home/
Archives / March 2016
Archives For March 2016
Blue Light Therapy For Acne
What Is Blue Light Therapy?
Light Therapy is the process of using sunlight or a form of light that is meant to mimic the benefits of sunlight in order to treat a wide array of conditions. Blue Light Therapy, specifically, is known to treat conditions such as acne, skin cancer, seasonal depression, difficulty with seasonal changes, and a long list of skin conditions. Although Blue Light Therapy has proven effective for all of these conditions, it is most commonly known and used for treating acne.
What Is Acne?
Acne can show up in all different forms and sadly, it can show up all over your body. It is the most common skin condition in the world, affecting more than 50 million Americans. 94% of females struggle with acne. That’s a pretty high percentage, huh?! Acne is caused by hair follicles plugging with oil and dead skin cells. The not to pleasant result appears in the form of pimples, blackheads, bumps, white heads, and other blemishes.
The truth is…no one wants acne. Everyone has to deal with it throughout their life. Some people are lucky, it only shows up during puberty. While others struggle their whole lives. And some people, no matter how healthy they eat, and no matter how often they wash their face, just can’t seem to say goodbye to the blemishes. This is where Blue Light Therapy comes into play.
Blue Light Therapy For Acne…
Blue Light Therapy can be used to help treat acne no matter what age you are and no matter how the skin condition appears on your body. The treatment process has no known side affects. It is drug free, chemical free, non-invasive, and quite simple. Dermatologists are swearing by Blue Light Therapy, claiming that it can help rid of the blemishes we thought we could never get rid of. While treatments can be conducted in a doctor’s office, it can get quite expensive. At home devices are typically recommended because they are a one time cost and can be used every day at your own leisure.
How It Works…
Judith Hellman, M.D., a NYC based dermatologists who practices medical dermatology did a question and answer piece with SkinInc. She specializes in dermatological surgery, laser surgery, and anti-aging skin treatments. In Hellman’s answers for the website, she explains how Blue Light Therapy works and what it’s effects are. Hellman explains,
“Blue light kills the acne-causing bacteria known as Propioni­bacterium acnes, (P. acnes), which can cause inflammation. P. acnes is sensitive to blue light. Using the blue light eliminates the bacteria found in the oil glands in the skin. The added presence of infrared light (heat) in the home device causes the oil glands to shrink in size. The result is less oil in the skin and less bacteria, leading to the resolution of acne in the treated areas.
Eliminating the bacteria from the skin with help from blue light decreases the inflammation associated with red pimples (papules) seen in acne. After a number of treatments, the blemishes disappear and skin regains its normal appearance.” (SkinInc.com)
If Blue Light Therapy treatments are being conducted at home, they are typically performed one to two times each day. Depending on the skin, times will vary. But the treatment will not be more than an hour long, making it so easy to fit into your daily routine. There are a few different forms of Blue Light Therapy so it is important to do your research to decide what device is going to work best for you. Handheld devices are typically simple and portable while lamps and panels take up a bit more space. There are pros and cons to all options so speaking to your Dermatologist and thinking about your routine is important
Important Words…
“My clients have experienced a very significant decrease in the number of acne lesions, both pimples and cysts, with the home device. Not only have they achieved better skin, but there has been a huge improvement in their self-confidence. Since most sufferers are young, the success of the treatment and reduction of their acne also helped their social life and interactions with others, both in a personal and a professional setting. I consider this a very big treatment success beyond just improving the condition itself.”
-Judith Hellman, M.D.
Are You Sold?
$99.00
ReVive Clinical 40 Acne Light Therapy System
Boscovs.com
This handheld device is perfect for practicing at home Blue Light Therapy treatments. The ReVive Clinical 40 Acne Light Therapy System is hand held, portable, and easy to use. Not only is the head detachable so that it can be swapped with other ReVive Light Therapy products, but the head contains 60 415 nanometer LEDs. The LEDs are powerful enough to kill the bacteria in your pores that is causing acne. Thank goodness!
The kit also includes a travel bag and goggles to keep your eyes safe. For just under $100, and being small enough to pack away, this Blue Light Therapy device is perfect for dealing with acne.
Are you sold? I think you’re sold. Blue Light Therapy is sure to surprise you.
Posted on March 31, 2016	In Acne, Blue Light Therapy, Skin Treatments, Uncategorized
Top 10 Light Therapy Products For Depression Under $100
Light Therapy is being used to help treat depression all over the world. Many people struggle with Seasonal Affective Disorder, which is a form of depression that occurs annually during the fall and winter months. Due to the fact that there is little to no sun during these months and the time changes make it difficult to keep track of what time of the day it is, it is easy for depression to settle in. For people that struggle with depression regardless of the time of year, Light Therapy has also been proven effective. Light has the power to lift energy levels, making it easier to live with depression. Also, typically depression and insomnia go hand in hand. Light Therapy helps keep the brain’s internal clock in check which can help fight insomnia. Waking up to “sunlight” in your room can awake you in the right mood and remind your body that it is time to wake up and get the day started.
Whether you’re struggling with Seasonal Affective Disorder, depression, insomnia, or any other disorder that’s got you down, Light Therapy might be the right path for you. A simple light box that you leave on your desk may flip your life around. Spending as little as thirty minutes in front of a light box while you read, work, eat, write, or knit may be what you need to feel like yourself again. We know that many people struggle with all different forms of depression and we know that time, money, and convenience all play a role in our treatment options. This is why we made a list for you. Below you will find the Top Ten Light Therapy Products For Depression Under $100. These products are highly reviewed, easy to use, and inexpensive.
1.) Sphere Gadget Technologies Lightphoria 10,000 Lux Energy Light Lamp
$69.99
If your mood could be bumped up a few notches and your space is limited, this is the light therapy lamp for you. The Sphere Gadget Technologies Lightphoria 10,000 Lux Energy Lamp is not only portable and sleek, it’s also well made and sturdy. It emits 10,000 Lux of light energy and is made with 72 energy efficient LEDs that consume 7.2 watts. This is impressive considering it’s size. The lamp has options for different intensity levels and a timer that can be set for 15, 30, or 45 minutes.
2.) NatureBright SunTouch Plus Light and Ion Therapy Lamp
$39.99
The NatureBright Sun Touch Plus Light and Ion Therapy Lamp uses 10,000 lux light therapy and negative ion therapy which is worth pointing out after seeing it’s price point. This lamp was created to balances your body’s internal clock which is the main reason why Seasonal Affective Disorder exists. Once your mind and body are back on track you start to feel refreshed, energized and youthful. Ion therapy has also been proven effective when used as anti depressant and can show results in as little as three days. This lamp is recommended by the Columbia Department of Psychiatry and the New York State Psychiatry Institute. Definitely a product you should add to your cart!
3.) Philips Wake-Up Light
$69.99
A dawn/dusk simulator is necessary for anyone struggling with Seasonal Affective Disorder, depression, insomnia, or jet lag. The Philips Wake-Up Light is intended to be an all natural and highly effective alarm clock. Instead of blasting a loud alarm in your ear to wake you up in the morning, this Light Therapy device slowly begins to mimic an outdoor sunrise when it reaches the time you set it to. The purpose is to awake you naturally, leaving you refreshed, energized, and ready for the day. There are also 10 light settings, a snooze option, and an alarm beeping option in case you sleep through the light.
4.) Verilux VT10WW1 HappyLight Liberty Personal Portable Natural Spectrum Energy Lamp
$39.95
Light Therapy Lamps are intended to improve your mood and outlook naturally, drug free, and harm free. The Verilux VT10WW1 HappyLight Liberty Personal Portable Natural Spectrum Energy Lamp is highly reviewed and trusted for doing just that. The LED light panel on the lamp is only 8″ in height and width and it emits 5,000 lux of light energy. This is a moderate output range, making this lamp ideal for mild to moderate cases of Seasonal Affective Disorder and other forms of depression. The size and intensity of the lamp make it perfect for desk, office, and travel use.
5.) Aura Light Therapy Lamp
79.89
The Aura Light Therapy Lamp is sleek, modern, and highly reviewed. This lamp emits 10,000 lux of light energy and has a 6 inch photopic measurement. This lamp is a must have for anyone dealing with the winter blues. The company recommends performing light therapy treatments as early as possible in the morning and credits itself for being highly effective in lifting moods, stabilizing energy levels, and treating depression. The high number of happy reviewers on Amazon agree too!
6.) Nature Bright Sun Bliss 2 in 1 Portable Light Therapy & Wake-Up Light
$60.30
The Nature Bright Sun Bliss 2 in 1 Portable Light Therapy & Wake-Up Light is perfect for someone who needs a little help keeping their circadian rhythm in check. This light is made with a 10,000 lux bright light which is meant to mimic the sun no matter what time of day it is. It can be used as a simple light box that you spend some time in front of to raise your energy levels or you can use it as an alarm clock. Set the time you’d like to start waking up and the light will slowly start to turn on, mimicking the sunrise and keeping your mind’s internal clock in check. The Nature Bright Sun Bliss Light is light weight and portable, weighing in at only 15.5 ounces and 1.2 inches in height. This lamp is perfect for your desktop, bedside table, or carry on bag!
7.) Lighten Up! Sunrise / Dawn Simulator
$39.95
This sunrise and sunset simulator is a little different than most. The Lighten Up! Model 308 Sunrise Simulator actually does not include a lamp. Instead, this device plugs into the light source of your choice, turning it into a simulator. With this device you can control your own lamp and have it on a specific timer, staying in tune with the outdoor light, thus keeping your internal body clock in check. This simulator is perfect for helping treat seasonal depression, jet lag, insomnia, and more. For people who live in areas that deal with long periods of darkness, for example Alaska in the winter, this simulator can help your body remember what time it is and where your brain should be at at that time. This simulator is very well priced and the fact that you can control just about eveything about it including the light source isn’t too bad either.
8.) Zadro Sunlight 365
$34.95
The Zadro Sunlight 365 was specially designed for the winter blues victim on the go. This light consists of 35 blue LEDs and has 10,000 lux of light which is quite impressive considering the size. The light is adjustable from 0 to 100% and has a small panel on the front that shows the time and other optionable settings. This Light Therapy lamp is plastic, small, and portable, making it a necessary addition to your carry on bag.
9.) Verilux VT15WW1 Happy Light Liberty 7,500 Lux Energy Lamp
$43.99
Okay, we’ll admit it. This lamp isn’t too different from all the other ones we’ve discussed. But when a light is this powerful and this cheap, it’s worth pointing out! The Verilux VT15WW1 Happy Light Liberty 7,500 Lux Energy Lamp emits 7,500 lux light energy at an 8 inch photopic measurement. It’s also UV free, flicker free, and small enough to put on your desk, but not small enough to not give you the power you need to fight the blues. HappyLight has been making Light Therapy devices since 1956 and all of their devices are worth your hard earned money. We promise!
10.) Hammacher Schlemmer Desktop Light Therapy Lamp
$99.95
Yes, this is another light therapy box, and yes, this one is more expensive. But didn’t your parents ever tell you “you get what you pay for!” The Hammacher Schlemmer Desktop Light Therapy Lamp is sleak, clean, and effective. The lamp is equipped with 10,000 LUX of daylight spectrum light, which is rare for a product of its size. The high level of light being emitted is perfect for counteracting seasonal depression, seasonal change, jet lag, and more. Spending just 30 minutes a day in front of this light therapy lamp can help stop the release of melatonin in your brain. Melatonin is a sleep hormone and when it is stopped from being released throughout the day, you will find yourself with a much higher energy level from sun up to sun down. The Hammacher Schlemmer Desktop Light Therapy Lamp uses a 36 watt bulb rated for 10,000 hours. It also includes an electronic ballast to stop buzzing while operating and flicker elimination technology. This light therapy lamp definitely needs to be added to your cart!
Posted on March 29, 2016	In Depression, Light Therapy, Mental Health, Products, Top 10's
Best Books on Light Therapy
Whether you’re interested in Light Therapy, currently practicing the therapy, a doctor wanting to learn more, a student researching the topic for class, or basically anyone with a little light going off in their brain in regards to Light Therapy, there is a book for you. We have taken the liberty to compile our favorite books on Light Therapy in hopes that you’ll give them a chance. So keep on reading…and then read some more!
“Light – Medicine of the Future” by Jacob Liberman, Ph.D
Amazon for $15.76
Jacob Liberman wrote this wonderful book in 1990. While that might make you feel like it’s outdated, aren’t the best books always the classics? Liberman’s book challenges the modern myth and assumption that the sun and it’s rays are harmful. He claims that the sun isn’t actually dangerous, but the products we use in order to avoid it, for example, fluorescent lighting, sunglasses, indoor lifestyles, and sunscreen, are actually more harmful. Liberman also uses his book to explain how Light Therapy can be used in the treatment of various cancers, depression, visual problems, stress, sexual dysfunction, learning disabilities, PMS, our immune systems, and so much more. Liberman successfully integrates scientific research clinic experience, and his own outlook to create a book that’s easy to read and intensely interesting. This book is definitely worth a read.
“The Healing Sun” by Richard Hobday, Ph.D.
Amazon for $11.94
Richard Hobday’s, The Healing Sun, is wise and insightful. This book focuses on how the human race has lost touch with the sun. We evolved with the sun and for thousands of years we lived in sync with it’s rays and heat. In the past it was used to help prevent and treat diseases and helped heal us. However, our present day outlook on the sun is negative. Hobday explains that in the past fifty years we have lost this close contact and bond with the sun as well as it’s healing powers. Hobday explains that the sun is crucial to our well being and health but somehow, we have become afraid of it. This book does a wonderful job of explaining why we should bring sunshine back into our every day lives and how we can do so safely and effectively. The sun is pretty incredible and Richard Hobday knows just how to explain that to his readers.
“Health and Light – The Extraordinary Study That Shows How Light Affects Your Health and Emotional Well Being” by John N. Ott
Amazon for $20.00
John Ott is a strong believer in the sun and it’s wonderful powers. Ott was a developer of time lapse photography and he developed his love for the sun through that. Much of Ott’s work was featured in Walt Disney’s nature films. As Ott created these projects, he discovered and began to appreciate what a major role the sun played in helping certain flowers grow. While experimenting, he discovered that exposure to light affects animal and human growth as well. Ott’s research is causing science to revise their opinions about the light and it’s use as therapy. This is why John N. Ott’s book is so important. He is changing the world with his studies and his book is a personal and intense look into that discovery. Health and Light – The Extraordinary Study That Shows How Light Affects Your Health and Emotional Well Being, is the beautiful story of a man who acted on his observations and experiments and then went on to support them with scientific evidence and exploration. Ott is brilliant, observant, and intelligent, just like this book.
“Light Therapy: Teach Me Everything I Need To Know About Light Therapy in 30 Minutes” by 30 Minute Reads
Amazon for $7.95
This book is extremely informative and well written. It’s meant to inform you and get it’s point across quickly and effectively. The book touches on all topics of Light Therapy is a very intellectual and scientific fashion. Light Therapy is a very wide and sometimes exhaustive topic so this book separates out the key points. Readers will learn the basic overlay of what Light Therapy is and how Light Therapy can be used. It explains the dynamics of Light Therapy being used to treat Seasonal Affective Disorder and other conditions as well as the possible side affects. It also explains the factors that influence the success rate of Light Therapy and the different benefits from the treatment. For people looking to dive right into Light Therapy and learn all of the details of the practice, this is the book for you.
“Winter Blues: Everything You Need To Know To Beat Seasonal Affective Disorder” by Norman E. Rosenthal, MD.
Amazon for $14.26
The New York Times called this piece by Norman E. Rosenthal “A landmark book.” Does it get much better than that? Here’s why the New York Times praises this book. Winter Blues: Everything You Need To Know To Beat Seasonal Affective Disorder, is a book that makes people feel like they’re not alone. Millions of people suffer from Seasonal Affective Disorder, but it’s not discussed nearly enough. Most people just push their winter blues aside but Seasonal Affective Disorder is serious and there is a cure. The first step to treatment is buying this book. Dr. Normal E. Rosenthal’s book is intelligent, engaging, full of scientific wisdom, and very compassionate. All of these adjectives have helped make this book a best seller. The book explains how to evaluate your own level of seasonality, how to get the most out of Light Therapy devices and learn about other self-help options. The book also aims to help readers make educated and informed decisions about psychotherapy and anti-depressants. There is also a chapter on meditation practices and their benefits. As Amazon quotes, “picking up this book is the first step to feeling more energized, productive, and alive–all year long.” What are you waiting for?
“A Clinicians Guide To Using Light Therapy” by Raymond W. Lam and Edwin M. Tam.
Amazon for $55.27
Raymond W. Lam is Professor and Head of the Mood and Anxiety Disorders Program in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of British Columbia. He’s also the director of the Mood Disorders Centre of Excellence at UBC Hospital in Vancouver, Canada. Edwin M. Tam is Clinical Associate Professor at the Department of Psychiatry at the University of British Columbia and UBC Hospital in Vancouver, Canada. I think it’s safe to say both of these men are highly qualified to write a book about Light Therapy. This brilliant and highly reviewed book is a step by step guide to helping busy health clinicians work Light Therapy into their every day work life. This book helps clinicians and other health professionals better diagnose Seasonal Affective Disorder, educate their patients on the condition, and effectively work the Light Therapy practice into their every day practice. The book includes many additional resources. For example, a list of frequently asked questions and patient educational handouts. This book is highly acclaimed and a must read for busy clinicians looking to step up their game!
“Chronotherapy: Resetting Your Inner Clock To Boost Mood, Alertness, and Quality Sleep” by Michael Terman Ph.D. And Ian McMahan Ph.D.
Amazon for $9.95
Sleep disorders and depression are usually a package deal. It’s hard to have one without the other. Chronotherapy: Resetting Your Inner Clock To Boost Mood, Alertness, and Quality Sleep is an enlightened approach to helping treat insomnia, depression, fatigue, and other sleep related problems that affect your every day life. Michael Terman Ph.D. And Ian McMahan Ph.D., wrote this book because they believe that we can embrace the power of Light Therapy to reset our natural internal clock. Both of these doctors have been studying Light Therapy and our circadian rhythms for quite awhile. Their studies and insights are being considered game changers and their research is helping struggling people every day. The book begins with a questionaire that pinpoints the problem areas in our lives. This questionaire helps readers figure out when their natural internal light begins and ends. After this is deciphered, the treatment process can begin. This book helps readers incorporate natural light as well as supplemental light into their lives to battle a wide array of conditions and disorders. Are you reading to start learning? Are you ready to start healing? Are you ready to start sleeping again? This is the book for you.
Posted on March 25, 2016	In Light Therapy, Products, Uncategorized
Light Therapy & Cancer Survivors
Did You Know…
that a great deal of cancer survivors are diagnosed with clinical depression? Some survivors struggling with depression have been cancer free for years. Even though the cancer is gone, patients still struggle immensely. Is it going to come back? What happens if I does? What do I do with all of these debt? How do I become myself again? Will I ever be happy again? All of these questions are one hundred percent valid which is why we should never except cancer survivors to constantly be leaping with joy with no other thoughts in their minds. That is just not fair.
Depression…
is a much more than feeling just feel low for a couple days. Everyone has their moments where they feel sad and low, sometimes even depressed. These feelings can be brought about by rejection, loss, drastic lifestyle changes, low self esteem, every day struggles, and more. However, when these feelings don’t fade away as the days go on, and your mood is always as low as the dirt, it is very likely that your sadness has transformed into something far more serious. These are signs of being clinically depressed. Clinic depression is difficult to conquer and therefore should never be ignored. However, when sadness turns into depression, it becomes a condition that is medically treatable.
The Symptoms…
of depression are not necessarily anything that you wouldn’t expect. Imagine your worst day, when you feel so sad and low, helpless and anxious, and then morph that into a lifestyle. This is depression for most people. Web MD, a scholarly website dedicated to helping us understand our bodies, has a section on their website explaining depression and all of the details surrounding the condition. In their section on depression, there is a chapter titled, “How Do I Know If I Have Depression?” The site continues to list signs that point towards depression followed by some important key signs…
• A depressed mood during most of the day, particularly in the morning
• Fatigue or loss of energy almost every day
• Feelings of worthlessness or guilt almost every day
• Impaired concentration, indecisiveness
• Insomnia (an inability to sleep) or hypersomnia (excessive sleeping) almost every day
• Markedly diminished interest or pleasure in almost all activities nearly every day
• Recurring thoughts of death or suicide (not just fearing death)
• A sense of restlessness or being slowed down
• Significant weight loss or weight gain
Light Therapy…
is slowly becoming a total game changer for our world. It is helping treat Seasonal Affective Disorder, depression, skin disorders and conditions, and a whole lot more. Lucky for cancer survivors everywhere, Light Therapy is most definitely helping kick depression’s butt.
New studies conducted in colleges across the world have shown that Light Therapy can decrease symptoms of depression in cancer survivors. It is also helping to balance the circadian rhythms in their brains.
According to Psych Central, a very credible website dedicated to the interworkings of our brains, the studies were extremely enlightening. The website explains,
“For the study, researchers from the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, Northwestern University, University of Iowa, University of California in San Diego, and Reykjavik University in Iceland randomly divided 54 cancer survivors into two groups. Participants were provided with a light box and asked to use it for 30 minutes every morning for four weeks. The boxes either had a bright white light or a dim red light. Depressive symptoms and circadian activity rhythms were measured before, during, and three months after completing the light exposures to determine the effectiveness of the light therapy. The study found that patients exposed to the bright light experienced improvements in depressive symptoms, while those exposed to the dim red light experienced no change in symptoms. “Our findings suggest light therapy, a rather non-invasive therapy, may provide an innovative way to decrease depression among cancer survivors,” said William Redd, Ph.D., a professor of oncological sciences at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and co-author of the study.” (PsychCentral.com)
It is important that whatever treatments occur post cancer for these patients remains non-invasive and very positive. This is why Light Therapy being effective for treating depression is so important to acknowledge. Light Therapy is harm free and can seriously improve the quality of life that cancer survivors are experiencing.
Posted on March 25, 2016	In Light Therapy, Mental Health, Uncategorized
Light Box Therapy & Your Lifestyle
Why Would You Need A Light Therapy Box?
Most people underestimate the power of the sun. Light Therapy helps remind us why sunlight is so crucial to our every day lives. Light Therapy is the process of the using light in all different forms to help treat a diverse array of conditions and disorders. Light Therapy Boxes are typically used in order to treat Seasonal Depression, Seasonal Affective Disorder, other forms of depression, jet lag, insomnia, unhealthy sleep patterns, BiPolar Disorder, and more.
It’s easy to assume that a box giving off a source of light is not going to solve your problems, but along with an open mind, Light Therapy Boxes can really help. Seasonal Affective Disorder, which is a condition that uses Light Therapy Boxes the most, is more common than most people assume. Seasonal changes can severely affect the brain natural energy levels and the way it reacts to day and night. Before choosing a Light Therapy Box, a diagnosis first needs to be made. What are you struggling with?
Do you have trouble getting to sleep at night when it’s been dark and dreary all day?
Is it impossible for you to wake up without the sun?
Is dealing with being BiPolar taking over your life?
Do you travel for work and are constantly battling jet lag?
Are you feeling depressed because the sun has been hiding for winter?
Time To Choose A Product…
Before purchasing a Light Therapy Box, it is important to look at your every day life. What product would fit best into your every day schedule? If you decide to try a Light Therapy Box that doesn’t fit into your every day routine, you will never use it. Which means you will never receive the results your body needs.
It is important to consider the time of your day you would like to use the treatment. What would you be doing during this time? This will help you find a product that lets you continue to perform your activity while undergoing treatment. For example, if you always sit down in your lounge chair to read around 7 o’clock every night, size may not matter too much and you can choose a powerful, self standing Light Therapy Lamp to place next to your chair. If you work at a desk for a period of the day, a desktop Light Therapy Box may fit your lifestyle best. It can be small, portable, and hardly take up any space…allowing you to go about your normal work routine. If the activity that seems best fit to pair with treatment is something like excercising, where you need to be a bit farther than a desktop length away from the Light Therapy Box, that’s okay too. There are some products that have more powerful bulbs, for example, 10,000 Lux, and these will allow you to be farther than 2 feet away from the source of light. For many people, a set up like this may be more convenient.
There are a few other factors to consider as well…
Are your eyes sensitive to light?
Are you new to Light Therapy?
What has your doctor recommended?
Are you on a budget?
Is portability crucial?
On That Note…
Is it important to take all of these examples into consideration before purchasing a Light Therapy Box. Light Therapy is capable of being magical and changing your life in ways you never thought possible…but if you don’t find a product that works into your lifestyle, you will never be able to experience these effects.
So go ahead! You’re ready. Start searching!
Posted on March 23, 2016	In Light Therapy, Products, Uncategorized
Red Light Therapy
Red Light Therapy is commonly associated with anti-aging. Skin Rejuvination, to be exact. And while this is true, Red Light Therapy can works wonders in that department, the treatment has a long list of benefits. Ranging from acne to chronic back pain, Red Light Therapy may be the new magical elixir…except this actually works.
Red Light Therapy For Cosmetic Purposes…
Red Light Therapy devices can be used to help slow down our natural cosmetic aging. Treatment can reduce fine lines and wrinkles while also tightening and firming the skin. Proper treatment can rid of age spots and hyper pigmentation, which usually occurs on the face, neck, and hands. There’s no need for face lifts when you can go the natural route. Red Light Therapy can also diminish blemishes and red spots, along with acne. Thought you could never get rid of those blackheads around your nose? Or those zits that keep showing up around your chin? How about those scars that acne left you with? Regularly scheduled treatment can help you say goodbye to those.
Red Light Therapy For Severe Conditions…
Medications always come with a giant slew of side affects and everyone reacts differently. Red Light Therapy have proven to have little to no side affects while effectively treating serious conditions that people struggle with every day.
Proper light treatment can be used to treat skin problems you thought you would never get to say adios to. For example, burns and scars. Over time, Red Light Therapy can treat your skin and bring it back to it’s once undamaged self. It can also help with more serious conditions, such as Rosacea, Eczema, Athlete’s Foot, Psoriasis, and more. If you are currently taking medication for any of these conditions or similar ones, it may be worth discussing Red Light Therapy with your doctor and finding a better option for your body.
Red Light Therapy For Pain…
It probably goes without asking, but who wants to take pain killers every day? They’re dangerous, your body becomes overly reliant, and they make your stomach a wreck. An even better condition, who can lead a happy life when living with chronic pain? The answer is no one.
Red Light Therapy is very commonly used for pain relief. It’s used in doctor’s offices all over, athlete’s swear by it, Chiropractor’s praise it, and it’ll be hard to find someone with a negative opinion on the matter. It’s gentle, drug-free, non-invasive, and 100% awesome. In most cases, it has proven extremely effective in reducing pains and aches. In some cases, Red Light Therapy has actually totally eliminated aches and pains.
Red Light Therapy can treat herniated and bulging disks, muscle related back pain, Osteoarthritis, pulled and strained muscles, Fibromyalgia, muscle spasms, inflammation, bone fractures, chips, and sprains, nerve injuries, neck pain, neck stiffness, and more.
Forms Of Red Light Therapy…
Red Light Therapy can be used in a few different forms. The first decision that needs to be made is whether treatment is preferred at home or not. This answer can rely on the severity of the condition, budget, or what is being treated on the body.
If possible, it will be easier and more cost effective to perform light therapy treatments at home. Doctor’s office light therapy sessions can be extremely extreme as well as difficult to work into a daily schedule. If Red Light Therapy treatments are preferred at home, they can occur at your own convenience, have a one time cost, and be performed as many times as deemed necessary. There are hand held devices that are great for treating acne. There are also pads and wraps that are great for muscle and joint relief. If space isn’t an issue, there are large panels that can be used to treat a vast area on the body.
Tanning salons have recently undergone major criticism, making them frowned upon and practically irrelevant in the past few years. The salons have caught up with the times and many of them have been replacing the bulbs in their tanning beds withThere proper Red Light Therapy bulbs. If you are looking for an all over body treatment, this may be a good option for you. It won’t be very cost effective, but laying in a bed once a week for a set amount of time could help reduce body acne, cellulite, wrinkles, etc. It can also help with aching muscles, severe conditions such as Fibromyalgia, Arthritis, and more.
How It Works…
According to JustLuxe, a lifestyle and wellness website…
“Red light easily penetrates the skin, boosts circulation and bringing more blood and nutrients to the area. It also stimulates vital collagen and elastin production. Collagen helps plump the skin, while elastin firms the skin. The red light is energizing and repairing damaged cells, stimulating collagen and elastin and giving the skin back its youthful look.
Home devices for skin rejuvenation typically use visible red light at a wavelength of 660nm – That penetrates tissue to a depth of about 8-10 mm – Making it more beneficial for treating problems close to the surface of the skin.” (JustLuxe.com)
As for chronic pain and muscle and joint relief, infrared light is always used. This form of light penetrates deeper into the body and repairs cell components. The light also increases the productions of endorphins. This blocks the chemicals that transmit pain. If you’re using an at home treatment, the infrared light typically penetrates the skin at 880 nanometers at a depth of 30-40 milometers. Devices or beds in doctor’s offices will likely be stronger because they can be more controlled and take up more space.
A Word From The Experts…
“Penetrating red light is possibly the fundamental anti-stress factor for all organisms. The chronic deficiency of such light is, I think, the best explanation for the deterioration which occurs with aging.” – Ray Peat
“The important biological effects of red light were known even back in the 19th century, yet very few of the biologists seem to know about those findings nowadays. The knowledge of the physiological effects of light is mainly limited to blue light’s effects on circadian rhythm, yet the importance of red and near-infrared light is probably a more important topic for the public health. The general therapeutic usefulness of red light reminds me of the therapeutic uses of thyroid hormone, the topic about which I’ve written before. This connection is actually quite logical, considering that thyroid hormone also increases Cox activity, by increasing the cardiolipin concentration in the mitochondria.[76,77] Time will tell whether various treatments based on red and near-infrared light will gain popularity in the near future. But they should, because the study results are thoroughly so positive.” -Vladmir Heiskanen
Posted on March 16, 2016	In Red Light Therapy
Features
30 Most Charming Small Lakefront Towns in America 2017
30 Most Underrated Spring Break Towns 2017
30 Great Underrated Sunny Vacation Destinations 2017
30 Most Relaxing Underrated Beach Towns on the West Coast 2017
Recent Posts
How Light Therapy Can Get You Through Daylight Savings
Finding New Uses for Light Therapy
Light Therapy : Switching From Tanning Beds to Red Light Therapy!
New Light Therapy Device : The Valkee Human Charger LED Headset
Best Light Therapy Devices For A College Dorm
How To Use Light Therapy – Only The Facts!
Light Therapy & Healthy Skin
Creating A Light Therapy Home…
Neutrogena Light Therapy Mask Is Fighting Acne!
How Light Therapy Works – Part 2!
How Light Therapy Works!
Don’t Believe The Myths About Light Therapy!
Understanding and Appreciating Vitamin D
What Everyone Needs To Know About Light Therapy
Light Therapy is Boosting Libido in Men!
Recent Comments
Archives
December 2017
August 2017
March 2017
February 2017
November 2016
September 2016
August 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
Categories
Acne
Blue Light Therapy
Celebrities
Children
Chronic Pain
Color Light Therapy
Daylight Savings Time
Depression
Devices
Experiments
Hair Loss
Infrared Red Light Therapy
Insomnia
Jetlag
Libido
Light Therapy
Men's Health
Mental Health
Pain
Products
Psoriasis
Red Light Therapy
Seasonal Affective Disorder
Skin Rejuvenation
Skin Treatments
Small Space
Studies
Sunlight
Top 10's
Travel
Uncategorized
Vitamin D
Weight Loss
Wound Healing
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
© 2019 Light Therapy Review — foundly by Foundly