Consumer Health Digest, October 29, 2009
Home
Search
Enhancing Freedom of Choice through Reliable Health Information
Consumer Health Digest #09-44
Your Weekly Update of News and Reviews
Oct 29, 2009
Consumer Health Digest is a free weekly e-mail newsletter edited by Stephen Barrett, M.D., and cosponsored by NCAHF and Quackwatch. It summarizes scientific reports; legislative developments; enforcement actions; news reports; Web site evaluations; recommended and nonrecommended books; and other information relevant to consumer protection and consumer decision-making.
Yet another study debunks vaccination-autism link. New findings from the CHildhood Autism Risks from Genetics and the Environment (CHARGE) study have found no difference in the blood levels of mercury among children ages 2-5 with autism spectrum disorders and children who were developing normally. [Hertz-Picciotto I and others. Blood mercury concentrations in CHARGE Study: Children with and without autism. Environmental Health Perspectives, Oct 19, 2009] The complete report is available online.
Vaccination crusader honored and libeled. Paul Offit, M.D., has received the American Academy of Pediatrics President’s "Certificate for Outstanding Service," in recognition of his ongoing commitment to promote immunization." Offit, a pediatrician, is chief of infectious diseases and the director of the Vaccine Education Center at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. His 2008 book, Autism's False Prophets, exposed the opportunism of lawyers, journalists, celebrities, practitioners, politicians, and miscellaneous cranks who are promoting the myth that vaccines cause autism. Vaccine opponents, enraged by both the book and the award, have responded by making false and misleading statements about him.
Wrist bracelets ineffective against osteoarthritis pain. A study has found no significant differences in the amount of pain, stiffness, or physical function experienced by osteoarthritis patients during periods when they wore either a commercially available magnetic wrist strap, a weak magnetic wrist strap, a demagnetized wrist strap, or a copper bracelet. During the 16-week study, each of the 45 participants wore all four devices. The authors concluded: "Magnetic and copper bracelets are generally ineffective for managing pain, stiffness, and physical function in osteoarthritis. Reported therapeutic benefits are most likely attributable to non-specific placebo effects." [Richmond SJ. Therapeutic effects of magnetic and copper bracelets in osteoarthritis: A randomized placebo-controlled crossover trial. Complementary Therapies in Medicine, Aug 28, 2009]
New book debunks "pop psychology" myths. Four psychology professors have produced a book that debunks 50 "pop psychology" myths and briefly mentions many more. [Lilienfeld SO and others. 50 Great Myths of Popular Psychology: Shattering Widespread Misconceptions about Human Behavior. Wiley-Blackwell, 2009] The myths include :
Hypnosis is useful for retrieving memories of forgotten events.
Lie detector tests can accurately detect dishonesty.
Our handwriting reveals our personality traits.
Electroconvulsive ("shock") therapy is a physically dangerous and brutal treatment.
It's generally better to express anger to others than to hold it in.
Previous Issue || Next Issue
This page was posted on October 27, 2009.
2019 Archive | 2018 Archive | 2017 Archive | 2016 Archive | 2015 Archive | 2014 Archive | 2013 Archive |
2012 Archive | 2011 Archive | 2010 Archive | 2009 Archive | 2008 Archive | 2007 Archive
2006 Archive | 2005 Archive | 2004 Archive | 2003 Archive | 2002 Archive | 2001 Archive
Subscribe to CH Digest | NCAHF Home Page | Search All Our Affiliated Sites
Links to Recommended Companies
PharmacyChecker.com: Compare drug prices and save money at verified online pharmacies.
ConsumerLab.com: Evaluates the quality of dietary supplement and herbal products.
OnlyMyEmail: Award-winning anti-spam services.
10 Types: Website design, development, and hosting with superb technical support.