Migraine vs. Headache: Difference in Sinus, Tension & Others
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/ neurology health center/neurology a-z list/migraine vs headache whats the difference center /migraine vs headache whats the difference article
Migraine vs. Headache: How to Tell the Difference
How do I know if I have a migraine or a another type of headache?
Migraine vs. headache pain: Similarities and differences
Symptoms and signs: Similarities and differences between migraine vs headache
Differences in causes between migraine vs headache
Triggers: Differences between migraine vs. headache
How is migraine vs. headache diagnosed (tests)?
Pain treatments: Similarities and differences in migraine vs headache
Can migraines and headaches be cured?
Medical Author: Danette C. Taylor, DO, MS, FACN
Danette C. Taylor, DO, MS, FACN
Dr. Taylor has a passion for treating patients as individuals. In practice since 1994, she has a wide range of experience in treating patients with many types of movement disorders and dementias. In addition to patient care, she is actively involved in the training of residents and medical students, and has been both primary and secondary investigator in numerous research studies through the years. She is a Clinical Assistant Professor at Michigan State University's College of Osteopathic Medicine (Department of Neurology and Ophthalmology). She graduated with a BS degree from Alma College, and an MS (biomechanics) from Michigan State University. She received her medical degree from Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine. Her internship and residency were completed at Botsford General Hospital. Additionally, she completed a fellowship in movement disorders with Dr. Peter LeWitt. She has been named a fellow of the American College of Neuropsychiatrists. She is board-certified in neurology by the American Osteopathic Board of Neurology and Psychiatry. She has authored several articles and lectured extensively; she continues to write questions for two national medical boards. Dr. Taylor is a member of the Medical and Scientific Advisory Council (MSAC) of the Alzheimer's Association of Michigan, and is a reviewer for the journal Clinical Neuropharmacology.
Medical Editor: Charles Patrick Davis, MD, PhD
Charles Patrick Davis, MD, PhD
Dr. Charles "Pat" Davis, MD, PhD, is a board certified Emergency Medicine doctor who currently practices as a consultant and staff member for hospitals. He has a PhD in Microbiology (UT at Austin), and the MD (Univ. Texas Medical Branch, Galveston). He is a Clinical Professor (retired) in the Division of Emergency Medicine, UT Health Science Center at San Antonio, and has been the Chief of Emergency Medicine at UT Medical Branch and at UTHSCSA with over 250 publications.
Migraine vs. Headache: How to Tell the Difference Center
A Visual Guide to Migraine Headaches Slideshow
Headache and Migraine Triggers Slideshow
Take the Migraines Quiz
Patient Comments: Migraine vs. Headache - Experience
Patient Comments: Migraine vs. Headache - Triggers
Find a local Doctor in your town
How do I know if I have a migraine or a another type of headache?
Migraine vs. headache pain: Similarities and differences
Symptoms and signs: Similarities and differences between migraine vs headache
Differences in causes between migraine vs headache
Triggers: Differences between migraine vs. headache
How is migraine vs. headache diagnosed (tests)?
Pain treatments: Similarities and differences in migraine vs headache
Can migraines and headaches be cured?
How do I know if I have a migraine or a another type of headache?
Readers Comments 1
Share Your Story
Headaches are one of the most common health problems doctors and other health care professionals treat. Although many people describe all moderate to severe headaches as “migraine,” there are specific criteria used to identify migraine, tension, and other less-common headache varieties. Doctors and other health professionals consider most headaches painful, annoying, or even transiently debilitating to a patient, but they cause little risk.
Tension headache, also known as tension-type headache, is the most common form of headache. Most people have experienced a tension headache at some point in their lives.
Migraine headache or migraine pain is also common, but occurs far less frequently than tension headache. The pain associated with migraine headache is different from tension-type headache and can help determine which type of headache a person is experiencing.
Cluster headache, chronic daily headache, and medication overuse headache occur much less frequently than tension and migraine headache.
Migraine headaches tend to have some marked differences from other headaches, which helps your doctor determine which type of headache you have. There are also several different types of migraine headaches. Migraine with aura and migraine without aura are the most common. An aura is a neurological symptom such as vision changes, numbness, tingling, or even difficulty speaking which precedes the onset of the headache.
Although many people believe that any moderate to severe headache is a migraine, there are specific criteria regarding the type of pain and associated symptoms, which lead to the diagnosis of migraine.
Migraine vs. headache pain: Similarities and differences
Share Your Story
The pain of migraine and tension headache are similar and tend to be mild, moderate, or severe in nature. The pain for each type of headache may be located on one side of the head or on both sides of the head.
The differences between the pain of migraine and headache are that migraine pain has a throbbing quality, and many people report even slight physical exertion (such as walking up a flight of stairs) may worsen their pain.
In contrast, the pain associated with tension-type headaches tends to be more chronic and steady. Many people with tension headache describe a band-like tightness or pressure.
If your are experiencing a headache very different in quality or severity (the worst headache of your life) than your usual headaches, or which is associated with unusual symptoms, or is associated with an elevated temperature, you need medical evaluation immediately to exclude serious underlying causes.
Symptoms and signs: Similarities and differences between migraine vs headache
Share Your Story
The only similarity between a migraine and a headache are that both cause pain. The headache may come on gradually or suddenly.
Migraine is different from other headaches because it may cause symptoms including:
Nausea or vomiting
Sensitivity to light, sound, or smells
Worsening of the headache with slight physical exertion
These symptoms are often considered to be an acute migraine attack.
Tension-type headaches may be associated with tenderness of the muscles of the head, neck, and shoulders. If you have this type of headache, you do not have a change in pain with physical activity, and there are no associated sensitivities to light, sounds, or smells.
Differences in causes between migraine vs headache
Doctors believe the underlying cause of migraines is related to changes in the blood flow in certain areas of the brain, with subsequent alterations in the blood vessels in that region. Chemical reactions may lead to swelling and irritation of the blood vessels (thought to contribute to the characteristic “throbbing” quality of a migraine headache).
The specific cause of tension-type headache is unknown. Doctors believed at one time that chronic muscle tension was the underlying factor, but there now appears to be a more complicated combination of factors that are involved.
Triggers: Differences between migraine vs. headache
Readers Comments 1
Share Your Story
Certain factors are common migrain triggers, including:
Foods like red wine, chocolate, peanut butter, dairy products, and citrus fruits.
Hormonal swings associated with menstrual cycles or pregnancy.
Weather changes
Certain smells
Lack of sleep
Gluten can be a migraine trigger for people who have true celiac disease. If you are concerned about this issue, eliminate gluten from your diet for a test period and keep a log for a possible trigger.
The cause of tension-type headache tends to be related to stress and associated tightness or tension in the muscles of the neck or scalp.
How is migraine vs. headache diagnosed (tests)?
Although there are no specific tests for migraine headaches, your doctor may order tests to exclude other conditions or problems that are triggering your headaches. This may include blood work or different brain imaging, such as CAT scan or MRI. In rare cases, your doctor may order a spinal tap to exclude causes of more serious, severe headaches.
A doctor who is experienced in treating various headaches can help differentiate the type of headaches that you have. A sinus headache (caused by sinus infection or allergic rhinitis) often mimics some signs and symptoms of migraines.
Monitoring the duration of your headache can provide important information that can help diagnosis the type of headache you are experiencing. Migraine headaches may last a few hours to three days, while tension headaches may last only 30 minutes or linger for up to a week.
Keep a headache diary to help identify triggers that lead up to the onset of the headache, for example, menstrual cycles for women, hormone treatments, and alcohol intake.
Keep track of when a headache begins, the severity of the pain, any associated symptoms, how long the headache lasts, and any medications that you have taken.
If there does not seem to be any clearly identifiable cause for your headaches, maintain a diet diary, and keep track of any foods or drinks that you may have consumed the day before a headache to identify possible triggers.
What is a headache?
Headaches, or head pain, can be classified as one of three types. 1) Primary; 2) secondary; and 3) cranial neuralgias (for example, trigeminal neuralgia), facial pain, and other headaches. Examples of common primary headaches are migraine, tension, and cluster. Secondary headaches usually are a symptom from an injury or other medical problem. Types of secondary headaches include "rebound headaches" from overuse of medication, hangovers, meningitis, and post-concussion headaches.
Click for more detailed information about the types of headaches »
Pain treatments: Similarities and differences in migraine vs headache
Treatment of migraines often focus on reversing the inflammatory changes of the blood vessels thought to be the source of the migraine pain.
Migraine pain treatment
Triptans are a class of drugs effective at helping reduce inflammation and decrease the swelling of the inflamed vessel, which tends to lead to decreased head pain in a relatively short time. Many of these medications also can reduce the associated nausea, light-, and sound - sensitivity that occur with migraines. Examples of triptans include sumatriptan (Imitrex, and Sumavel DosePro), eletriptan (Relpax), zolmitriptan (Zomig), and rizatriptan (Maxalt). These drugs are available as a pill, nasal spray, or injection.
Botox. If you have chronic migraines (defined as migraine headache occurring more than 4 hours in one day and more than 15 days for 1 consecutive month), Botox® (botulinum toxin) may help you to decrease the frequency and severity of your migraines. This treatment has not been shown to be of benefit in treating other types of frequent headache.
Erenumab (Aimovig) is a new class of drug called a calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor (CGRP-R) antagonist approved in 2018 for the preventative treatment of migraine. It is a monthly injection used to prevent migraines.
Your doctor may prescribe other drugs to relieve your migraine pain, for example, high blood pressure drugs, antidepressants, anti-seizure drugs, or natural supplements.
Foods that help decrease migraine frequency
Foods in the diet: Some people with frequent migraines find that avoiding eating certain trigger foods can help alleviate some of their headaches. For others, consuming products high in magnesium, riboflavin, and omega-3 fatty acids (spinach, whole grain or enriched breads, almonds, salmon) helps decrease some migraine frequency.
Drugs that treat migraine and headache pain
Over-the-counter (OTC) medicine. The blood vessel changes identified in migraine headache do not occur with other headaches, including tension-type headache. Simple over-the-counter (OTC) pain relieving medications such as acetaminophen (Tylenol and others), or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil, Midol) or naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn, Anaprox) can be extremely effective in alleviating tension headache pain.
Home remedies and essential oils for migraine and headache pain
Essential oils are a home remedy used to treat migraines and other types of headaches. Some people benefit by using lavender oil and peppermint oil as aromatherapy. You can even apply the oils to your scalp. Other home remedies include:
Basil oil
Feverfew
Buckwheat
Flaxseed
Consult your doctor before using any home remedies.
Can migraines and headaches be cured?
Migraine headache and tension-type headaches can occur frequently, even daily. If you have a headache for at least 15 days each month, your doctor or other medical healthcare professional may recommend daily medication. These may include:
Antidepressants
Anti-seizure medications
Certain types of muscles relaxants, depending on the underlying headache.
Botox® injections for people with chronic migraine headache.
Patients who experience migraine headache often will respond extremely well to therapeutic intervention, and their ultimate prognosis (which is good) is no different from patients who experience other types of headache.
Although it may be tempting to treat headaches at home, repeated or recurrent use of medication can lead to a condition known as Medication Overuse Headache, a condition in which headaches occur near daily.
If you are experiencing frequent headache or head pain, it is important to seek appropriate evaluation and treatment. Doctors trained in identifying different types of headaches, for example, internal medicine specialists, neurologists, or allergists, can help diagnose the cause of your headaches.
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Migraine vs. Headache: Differences and Similarities Center
Medically Reviewed on 8/15/2018
References
REFERENCES:
Headache Classification Committee of the International Headache Society. The International Classification of Headache Disorders, 3rd edition. Cephalalgia 2013, 33:629.
Steiner, TJ, et al. Guidelines for All Healthcare Professionals in the Diagnosis of Management of Migraine, Tension-Type, Cluster and Medication-Overuse Headache. 3rd edition. British Association for the Study of Headache. 18 Jan 2007.
Steiner TJ, et al. The Global Campaign, World Health Organization and Lifting The Burden: collaboration in action. J Headache Pain. 2011;14(3):273–274. doi: 10.1007/s10194-011-0342-4
Related Article
Headaches Quiz: Learn About Headache Pain
Ease the pain with our Headaches Quiz. Learn common symptoms like throbbing, light sensitivity, and aura. Find out what causes your pain and learn about treatments and remedies to ease the discomfort in your head.
Read more: Headaches Quiz: Learn About Headache Pain
Patient Comments
Migraine vs. Headache - Experience
Please share your experience with migraines or other types of headaches.
Post View 1 Comment
Migraine vs. Headache - Pain
What type of pain, and where is your pain when you have migraine or other type of headache?
Post
Migraine vs. Headache - Symptoms and Signs
What signs and symptoms do you experience with migraine or another type of headache?
Post
Migraine vs. Headache - Triggers
What foods or other things trigger your migraines?
Post View 1 Comment
Complete List
Top Migraine vs Headache Whats the Difference Related Articles
Insomnia Slideshow
What is insomnia? Are you an insomniac? Learn 10 tips on how to get a good night's sleep and avoid sleep disorders such as insomnia.
CAT Scan
A CT scan is an X-ray procedure that combines many X-ray images with the aid of a computer to generate cross-sectional and three-dimensional images of internal organs and structures of the body. A CT scan is a low-risk procedure. Contrast material may be injected into a vein or the spinal fluid to enhance the scan.
CT Scan vs MRI
CT scan (computerized tomography) is a procedure that uses X-rays to scan and take images of cross-sections of parts of the body. CT scan can help diagnose broken bones, tumors or lesions in areas of the body, blood clots in the brain, legs, and lung, and lung infections or diseases like pneumonia or emphysema.
MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) is a procedure that uses strong magnetic fields and radiofrequency energy to make images of parts of the body, particularly, the organs and soft tissues like tendons and cartilage.
Both CT and MRI are painless, however, MRI can be more bothersome to some individuals who are claustrophobic, or suffer from anxiety or panic disorders due to the enclosed space and noise the machine makes.
MRI costs more than CT, while CT is a quicker and more comfortable test for the patient.
Stress-Reducing Foods
While there are many ways to cope with stress, one strategy is to eat stress-fighting foods. Find out which foods to eat as part of a stress management diet.
Headache
Headaches can be divided into two categories: primary headaches and secondary headaches. Migraine headaches, tension headaches, and cluster headaches are considered primary headaches. Secondary headaches are caused by disease. Headache symptoms vary with the headache type. Over-the-counter pain relievers provide short-term relief for most headaches.
Migraine Triggers
Painful headaches can ruin your productivity and quality of life. But what triggers headaches and migraines? Learn some surprising causes of headaches and migraines plus how to find relief.
Headaches Quiz
If you're plagued with headaches, our Headaches Quiz may help you identify causes, triggers, symptoms, and treatments for headache pain caused by different types of headaches such as migraines, sinus, cluster, tension, or stress.
Lumbar Puncture
A lumbar puncture or "LP" is a procedure whereby spinal fluid is removed from the spinal canal for the purpose of diagnostic testing. It is particularly helpful in the diagnosis of inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system, especially infections, such as meningitis. A lumbar puncture is also known as a spinal tap.
Migraine
Migraine headache is a type of headache associated with a sensitivity to light, smells, or sounds, eye pain, severe pounding on one side of the head, and sometimes nausea and vomiting. The exact cause of migraine headaches is not known.
Triggers for migraine headaches include certain foods, stress, hormonal changes, strong stimuli (loud noises), and oversleeping.
Treatment guidelines for migraines include medicine, pain management, diet changes, avoiding foods that trigger migraines, staying hydrated, getting adequate sleep, and exercising regularly. Prevention of migraine triggers include getting regular exercise, drinking water daily, reducing stress, and avoiding trigger foods.
Migraines Slideshow
What does a migraine feel like? Discover the difference between headaches and migraines. Learn to spot migraine symptoms early, how to identify your triggers, and get more information on migraine medications and treatments.
MRI Scan
MRI (or magnetic resonance imaging) scan is a radiology technique which uses magnetism, radio waves, and a computer to produce images of body structures. MRI scanning is painless and does not involve X-ray radiation. Patients with heart pacemakers, metal implants, or metal chips or clips in or around the eyes cannot be scanned with MRI because of the effect of the magnet.
MS (Multiple Sclerosis) Symptoms and Treatments
Multiple sclerosis (MS) symptoms vary from person to person, and can last for days to months without periods of remission. Symptoms of MS include sexual problems and problems with the bowel, bladder, eyes, muscles, speech, swallowing, brain, and nervous system. The early symptoms and signs of multiple sclerosis usually start between age 20 and 40. MS in children, teens, and those over age 40 is rare. Treatment options for multiple sclerosis vary depending on the type and severity of symptoms. Medications may be prescribed to manage MS symptoms.
Nausea and Vomiting
Nausea is an uneasiness of the stomach that often precedes vomiting. Nausea and vomiting are not diseases, but they are symptoms of many conditions. There are numerous cases of nausea and vomiting. Some causes may not require medical treatment, for example, motion sickness, and other causes may require medical treatment by a doctor, for example, heart attack, lung infections, bronchitis, and pneumonia.
Some causes of nausea and vomiting may be life threatening, for example, heart attack, abdominal obstruction, and cancers.
Treatment of nausea and vomiting depends upon the cause.
Sinus Headache
Sinus headache is caused by a sinus infection or inflammation of the sinus cavities. Symptoms of a sinus headache include pain, runny or stuffy nose, and chronic cough. There are many causes of sinus headaches including sinusitis or sinus infection, allergies, smoke, infections, or colds. Treatment for sinus headache depends on the cause. Some home remedies may relieve sinus headache pain symptoms.
Sleep Quiz
Take our Sleeping Quiz to learn which sleep disorders, causes, and symptoms rule the night. Trouble falling or staying asleep? Find out which medical treatments fight sleep deprivation, apnea, insomnia, and more!
Stress Quiz
Stress creeps into everyone's life at one time or another, while some people will suffer from poorly managed chronic stress. If you're suffering, there are things you can do. Take the Stress Quiz to learn what you can do to beat the long-term effects of chronic stress.
Tension Headache
A tension headache s one of the most common types of headaches, and the exact cause is not known. Factors that may contribute to tension or stress headaches are lack of sleep, increased stress (referred to as a stress headache), skipping meals, dehydration, medical diseases or conditions, anxiety, or changes at home, work, or school. Treatment of tension headaches include prescription and OTC medications, stress management, and treating any underlying illness or condition.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth