When to Call the Doctor If Your Child Is Sick | What to Expect
Log In / Join
Hi,
Log Out
Search
{{! searchComponents_input_tpl will be added here }}
{{! searchComponents_tranding_tpl will be added here }}
{{/object}}
CLEAR
{{! searchComponents_typeahead_tpl will be added here }}
{{/object}}
{{/phraseList}}
{{/object}}
{{#trandingList}}
{{.}}
{{/trandingList}}
{{/object}}
Log In / Join
Getting Pregnant
Fertility
Ovulation
Preparing for Pregnancy
Pregnancy
Week By Week
Symptoms
Baby Names
Baby Shower
Complications
Due Date Calculator
Labor & Delivery
Screenings & Tests
Signs of Labor
First Year
Month By Month
Milestones
Breastfeeding
Childproofing
Newborn
Vaccinations
Toddler
Month By Month
Milestones
Child Care
Feeding
Growth
Potty Training
Sleep
Vaccinations
Family
Finances
Celebrity Parents
Kids' Health
Relationships
Baby Products
Strollers
Maternity
Car Seats
Monitors
Baby Carrier
Baby Furniture
Nursing & Feeding
Registry
Community
Featured & Popular
Birth Month Groups
Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy
First Year
Family
Health
Stages
International
US Local
All Groups A-Z
News
Toddler > Health
When to Call the Doctor If Your Child Is Sick
Reviewed February 15, 2019
Getty Images
It's easy to get frantic when it’s late at night, your little one isn't quite herself and you're wondering what to do. The good news is, oftentimes you can safely treat your little one at home. Here are five of the most common symptoms of illness, and when each warrants a call to the doctor.
Every veteran parent has been there at least once: Sitting up late at night with a sniffling, feverish, coughing child, whose symptoms seemingly pop up out of nowhere or get worse as the hours wear on. Like most parents, you’re left wondering what to do. Call your child’s doctor? Go to the emergency room? Wait until the morning?
To make matters worse, your guard may well be up over the latest bug making headlines. A few years ago, it was swine flu (which, if you and your child have received your annual influenza vaccine this year, you’re protected against, along with two or three other more common strains of the flu). More recently, Ebola and enterovirus-D68 (EV-D68) have been cause for hand-wringing among concerned parents. Fortunately while Ebola is dangerous, it does not pose a significant risk in the US — and while EV-D68 infections have been more widespread, in all likelihood the virus will not be a problem for your child.
So while you may not be able to exactly rest during a bout of 3 a.m. coughs, you can feel a bit more relaxed knowing that more likely than not, the symptoms your child experiences are related to a common seasonal virus that your child’s immune system will eventually take care of on its own. Still, it doesn’t hurt to know the difference between symptoms that warrant a trip to the emergency room versus those you can treat at home.
Keep in mind that although many practices have a doctor on-call who can help you and answer questions, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, the person who answers may not be the doctor you see regularly, and you may have to wait for someone to return your call. Rule of thumb: if you’re worried about your little one and your doctor’s office is taking too long to get back to you, or if symptoms are getting worse, do not hesitate to head to the emergency room.
More on Caring for a Sick Kid
Easing Childhood Ear Infections
Colds in Babies: Causes, Symptoms, Tips and Remedies
The Flu (Influenza Virus) in Children
Easing Childhood Ear Infections
Colds in Babies: Causes, Symptoms, Tips and Remedies
The Flu (Influenza Virus) in Children
Read on for tips to recognize and treat five of the most common symptoms in kids.
Coughs
Coughing is a very common cold symptom — and while it sure sounds awful, it’s generally not a sign of anything serious. The main cause behind a cough is mucus, which drains down the nose to irritate the back of the throat.
When to monitor it yourself:
It’s infrequent (she's coughing on and off and not continuously) and dry. This probably means your child has a sore throat caused by a cold or allergies. Run a cool-mist humidifier, give your child lots of fluids and use saline drops. The American Academy of Pediatrics advises against using cough and cold medications if your child is under 6 years old, since studies show they’re no more effective than a placebo at controlling symptoms, and they can result in dangerous side effects.
It has a "barking" sound. This probably indicates croup, which is also usually a viral infection. First, try to calm your baby. Then run the shower and let her breathe in the steamy air; within 15 to 20 minutes, the warm, moist air should help breathing. Sometimes, however, a barky cough may take longer to improve. If steamy air doesn’t do the trick, call the doctor as she may need a breathing treatment (an aerosol with medication). A cool mist humidifier in her nursery also helps; keep her in an upright position, and offer a pain reliever if she is 6 months or older. Croup can reoccur in the same night, so don't be alarmed. Just treat it the same way.
It’s related to a cold. That means your child’s cough produces mucous and is accompanied by a runny nose and sore throat. Give her saline nose drops if she’s too young to blow her nose; a cool mist humidifier in her nursery and a warm bath also help. A spoonful of honey can soothe coughs — but it’s only safe if your child is 1 year or older. If you’d like to try an over-the-counter cough medicine, check with her doctor first.
It only happens in certain circumstances. If your child’s cough is dry, doesn’t appear to be related to a cold, and crops up only at night or in the morning or when your toddler is active, it could be a sign of asthma. Keep track of what seems to trigger the cough (exercise, cold air, allergies) and make an appointment with your doctor.
When to call the doctor:
It’s accompanied by fever (see below). Your baby has an infection, which could be as mild as a cold — or more serious, like the flu.
Your baby is 4 months or younger. Small infants are more vulnerable to infections, and coughing is uncommon in small infants.
It’s severe (hard and rapid), dry and comes in "spells" that may last up to a minute, followed by a "whoop" sound. Extreme coughing can even cause vomiting when the spell is over. Your child may have pertussis (or whooping cough), especially if there have been cases reported in your community and she hasn't yet completed the full vaccine series.
Coughing and wheezing develop after what seems to be common cold symptoms. It could indicate either asthma or bronchiolitis. Asthma is uncommon in children under the age of 2, while the vast majority of cases of bronchiolitis are in babies under the age of 1. It is always a good idea to call your doctor if you hear wheezing, especially if there hasn't been a previous diagnosis of asthma. Bronchiolitis can usually be treated at home, but again, best to touch base with your doctor if she develops a cough with wheezing. Call 911 if your child starts breathing rapidly (50 breaths per minute or more if your child is 2 months to 1 year, and 40 breaths per minute or more if your child is 1 to 5 years old), or if breathing is labored and/or the color of her skin turns pale or dusky.
It started out as a cough, runny nose, muscle aches but now there's wheezing and she's breathing a little harder. These symptoms could indicate EV-D68, especially if there have been cases in your community. Most cases are mild and go away with time and rest, but some children are more prone to serious illness (especially if they already have asthma or other airway problems). If you can't reach your doctor's office after hours, and her breathing is becoming more labored, head to the ER.
What else to know:
If your child is under 4 months old, coughing is less common and could be the sign of something more serious — so it always warrants a visit to the doctor. And if she ever seems to be in distress or is having trouble breathing, call for medical help right away.
Phlegm
Phlegm is usually caused by a common seasonal virus and often accompanies a cough or cold. Even if it’s green, your child doesn’t necessarily need antibiotics — instead, it usually indicates her immune cells are fighting a viral infection (which can’t be helped with antibiotics), not a bacterial infection (which can). Either way, it’s still worth a trip to the doctor to check it out.
When to monitor it yourself:
Your child is congested. Whether your child has clear, white, yellow or green mucus, she likely has a run-of-the-mill cold. Moisten the air with a humidifier or cool air vaporizer, use saline drops, and encourage her to drink plenty of fluids.
When to call the doctor:
Your child has a fever or swollen glands. If nasal mucus or coughing is accompanied by either of these symptoms, she may have a bacterial infection that needs to be treated with antibiotics.
Her nasal discharge is bloody. Bloody nose discharge is usually a sign that the nose is irritated, which is very common in a cold. But it could also be a sign of other problems, such as a sinus infection (especially if discharge is thick, she has a low-grade fever, and she’s experiencing pain around eyes and nose), a foreign object is lodged in there, or there’s been trauma to the nose. If there’s a lot of bleeding (more than just bloody tinges in the mucus), it’s only coming from one side (especially if it’s foul-smelling), or your child has other symptoms suggesting a sinus infection (headaches, fever, cough, fatigue, sore throat, postnasal drip), your doctor needs to diagnose and treat your child.
What else to know:
Remember, in most cases, phlegm accompanied by congestion is just the body’s way of fighting off some type of infection — which means it’s most important to keep an eye on the accompanying symptoms.
Fever
A fever is any temperature over 98.6 degrees (though healthy body temperature can vary slightly, and your little one’s baseline might normally be a few tenths of a degree under or over). While fevers can be worrisome, fortunately most can be handled at home — though your child's age plays a major role in whether you should seek medical care.
When to monitor it yourself:
Generally it’s OK to monitor your child yourself if she doesn’t have any other symptoms (chills, sore throat, ear pain, diarrhea etc.) and is:
3 to 6 months and has a fever under 101 degrees
Over 6 months and has a temperature of 102 degrees or less
In these cases, give her age-appropriate fever reducers to ease the discomfort, lukewarm baths, and encourage her to drink plenty of fluids that are appropriate for her age (breast milk, formula and water for babies until they are 1 year old; clear soup and broth, and foods with high water content like fruit or applesauce for older kids) to keep her hydrated.
When to call the doctor:
Always call the doctor if your child is:
3 months or younger and has a temperature of 100.4 degrees or higher, since her immune system hasn’t had as much experience fighting infections yet (if you can’t reach your doctor after office hours, head to the ER)
3 to 6 months and has a temperature of 101 degrees or more
6 months or younger and has a fever of 103 degrees or higher
Under the age of 2 and has had an elevated temperature for more than 24 hours
Any age and her temperature climbs to 104 or 105 degrees
Has other symptoms with fever, such as:
Sore throat, which can indicate a bacterial infection such as strep
Fever and crying when urinating, signs of a urinary tract infection
Swollen glands, which can indicate tonsillitis
Ear pain or pulling on ear, suggesting an ear infection
Diarrhea and/or vomiting, which usually mean a tummy bug — though there is an increased risk of dehydration with a fever
Sever stomach pain that's more than an average tummy ache could indicate something serious like appendicitis
When to head to the ER:
If your child has a fever and is also extremely short of breath, refuses food, is vomiting, cries inconsolably, has difficulty waking, has a stiff neck or develops a rash or bruised-looking purple spots, she could have a more serious condition including meningitis, septicemia or a bloodstream infection that requires immediate medical treatment, so head to the ER right away.
What else to know:
A good rule of thumb to go by (which varies depending on your child’s age): A low fever is any temperature under 102 degrees, a moderate fever is 102 to 104 degrees, and a high fever is 104 degrees and over.
Vomiting or diarrhea
In kids, the culprit behind nausea, vomiting and diarrhea that occur together is usually a no-fun (but relatively harmless) virus (like rotavirus) that hitches a ride in the gastrointestinal tract, though occasionally it could be food poisoning from salmonella or E. coli (especially if other family members have the same symptoms). In most cases, your main priority is to make sure your child doesn’t become dehydrated — which is more likely to happen if she’s younger and especially if she has both vomiting and diarrhea. Signs of dehydration include no or minimal urination (more than six hours without a wet diaper in an infant, or not urinating about every 4 hours or so in toddlers during waking hours and urine that’s darker and scant), lethargy, dry mouth and fewer (or no) tears when crying. In babies, also look out for fussiness or a sunken soft spot on the top of the head.
When to monitor it yourself:
If your child is over 2 months old and has no other symptoms (such as severe stomach pain, high fever (see above), reduced urination, vomiting blood, etc.), keep an eye out for signs of dehydration. If she’s under 1 year old, give her oral rehydration fluids (a mixture of water, salts, sugar and minerals, such as Pedialyte); if she’s older, offer clear liquids (water, diluted juice, broth, Jell-O, Pedialyte, Popsicles or water).
When to call the doctor:
Always call your doctor if your child:
Is under 2 months old and is not just spitting up, as babies can more easily become dehydrated
Appears to be getting dehydrated and continues to have vomiting or diarrhea (she’ll need treatment right away)
Is projectile or forceful vomiting — especially if she’s under 3 months old — as this may indicate a more serious problem including intestinal blockage
Is vomiting and has a fever, especially if she’s less than 6 months old, as she may have a more serious infection and is at an elevated risk of becoming dehydrated
Has severe stomach pain, or her stomach seems hard or bloated, as this can indicate an intestinal blockage or another more serious condition
Has blood in her vomit or diarrhea or bile (a yellow-green liquid) in her vomit
What else to know:
If your child is vomiting or has diarrhea, do not force her to eat — she will let you know when she’s hungry. You should also call your doctor if vomiting is not better in 12 hours, or diarrhea isn't better after three days.
Read Next:
Heidi Murkoff: A Healthy Dose of Perspective on Keeping Your Little One Healthy
7 Games for Sick Children
From the What to Expect editorial team and Heidi Murkoff, author of What to Expect the Second Year. Health information on this site is based on peer-reviewed medical journals and highly respected health organizations and institutions including ACOG (American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists), CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) and AAP (American Academy of Pediatrics), as well as the What to Expect books by Heidi Murkoff.
View Sources
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Enterovirus D68, November 2018.
National Institutes of Health, U.S. National Library of Medicine, MedlinePlus, Cough, February 2019.
Nemours, KidsHealth, Coughing, May 2018.
National Institutes of Health, U.S. National Library of Medicine, MedlinePlus, Croup, January 2019.
American Academy of Pediatrics, Healthychildren.org, Coughs and Colds: Medicines or Home Remedies? November 2018.
American Academy of Pediatrics, Healthychildren.org, Fever, 2019.
Nemours, KidsHealth, Fevers, September 2018.
Mayo Clinic, Sick Baby? When to Seek Medical Attention, September 2016.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Rotavirus, April 2018.
Nemours, KidsHealth, Diarrhea, January 2019.
American Academy of Pediatrics, Healthychildren.org, Signs of Dehydration in Infants and Children, November 2015.
What to Expect the First Year, 3rd Edition, Heidi Murkoff and Sharon Mazel.
Whattoexpect.com, Hand Washing: Teaching Kids the Basics, October 2014.
Related Topics
Health
Toddler
Toddler Groups
Go to Your Toddler's Month
Month
12
Month
13
Month
14
Month
15
Month
16
Month
17
Month
18
Month
19
Month
20
Month
21
Month
22
Month
23
Month
24
Month
25
Month
26
Month
27
Month
28
Month
29
Month
30
Month
31
Month
32
Month
33
Month
34
Month
35
Trending On What to Expect
Raising Girls In 3 Words
Help Me, Heidi! How Much TV Time Is Okay for My Toddler?
⚠️ You can't see this cool content because you have ad block enabled.
Please whitelist our site to get all the best deals and offers from our partners.
Tips on Starting Potty Training
Parents Don't Need to Apologize for Traveling With Their Babies
Best Double Strollers
Breastfeeding Your Toddler: Tips for Extended Nursing
Follow Us On
Find advice, support, and good company (and some stuff just for fun).
What to Expect Apps
Popular Topics
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise With Us
About Heidi Murkoff
Accessibility
What to Expect Foundation
What to Expect Awards
What to Expect Bookstore
Advertising Policy
Help
AdChoices
The educational health content on What To Expect is reviewed by our team of experts to be up-to-date and in line with the latest evidence-based medical information and accepted health guidelines, including the medically reviewed What to Expect books by Heidi Murkoff. This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information. This educational content is not medical or diagnostic advice. Use of this site is subject to our terms of use and privacy policy. © 2019 Everyday Health, Inc
A property of