 Sepsis and Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever - Sepsis Alliance
About
What is Sepsis?
Sepsis is the body's overwhelming and life-threatening response to infection which can lead to tissue damage, organ failure, and death. Learn more about the symptoms of sepsis, which kills 258,000 Americans each year.
Learn More
Sepsis Facts
Definition of Sepsis
Prevention
Risk Factors
Symptoms
Testing for Sepsis
Treatment
Post-Sepsis Syndrome
Sepsis and...
FAQs
Glossary
Public Service Announcements
About Sepsis Alliance
Who We Are
Mission Statement
Erin's Campaign for Kids
Board of Directors
Advisory Board
Sepsis Alliance Team
Careers
Global Sepsis Alliance
Reports and Returns
Medical Disclaimer
Media Kit
Contact Sepsis Alliance
How You Can Help
Help Spread Awareness
Volunteering for Sepsis Alliance is a great way for people to become involved in the promotion of sepsis awareness. Discover ways to get involved.
Learn More
Get Involved
Find an Event
Host an Event
Give
Share Your Sepsis Story
Sponsors
Partners
Sepsis Heroes
Sepsis Awareness Month
Sepsis 911 Education Kit
Find Local Events
Participate in a local fundraising event. Check our community events listings to see if there is an event in your area.
Learn More
Donate
We are very grateful for all of your support! To find out more about how you can contribute to Sepsis Alliance, please visit our donation page.
Learn More
Resources
Have Questions About Sepsis or Sepsis Alliance
Visit the Sepsis Alliance FAQ for answers.
Learn More
Patients and Family
Diagnosed with Sepsis
FAQ
Faces of Sepsis™
Life After Sepsis
It's About TIME™
Mental Health
Military and Veterans
Posters and Infographics
Caregiver Resources
Sepsis Information Guides
Video Library
Sepsis 911 Education Kit
Medical Professionals
Sepsis Awareness Month
Speaking to Patients
Nurses' Station
Sepsis Coordinator Network
Sepsis Information Guides
Video Library
Posters and Infographics
Public Service Announcements
Sepsis Alliance Webinar Series
Sepsis 911 Education Kit
Sepsis: First Response
Newsroom
Events
Shop
Search
Donate
Sepsis and Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
Return to Sepsis and...
Sepsis Heroes
Sepsis Information Guides
Faces of Sepsis
Donate Now
Anything You're Looking For?
Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever is an infection spread by tick bites. The infection is named after the area where it was first detected, the Rocky Mountains. Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever (RMSF) is still most often found in the U.S. Southeast, but people have been infected in all other states, except Alaska and Hawaii. The infection has also been found in Canada, Mexico, Central America and South America. Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever is a rare illness, affecting between 250 to 2,000 people per year in the U.S., but it can be fatal if not treated.
As with all infections, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever can trigger sepsis. Sometimes incorrectly called blood poisoning, sepsis is the body’s often deadly response to infection. Sepsis kills and disables millions and requires early suspicion and rapid treatment for survival.
Sepsis and septic shock can result from an infection anywhere in the body, such as pneumonia, influenza, or urinary tract infections. Worldwide, one-third of people who develop sepsis die. Many who do survive are left with life-changing effects, such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), chronic pain and fatigue, organ dysfunction (organs don’t work properly) and/or amputations.
How Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever is spread
You cannot catch RMSF from another person. It can only be transmitted by a tick that is carrying R. rickettsia. Most commonly these ticks are the American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis), Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni), or brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus).
A tick must be attached to your skin and remain there for between four and 10 hours to transmit the infection to you. Unfortunately, you probably won’t know you have been bitten you because it’s unlikely you would feel it, and the tick may fall off after the bite. Or, you may find the tick, but only after it has been there for several hours.
Ticks are found most often in areas such as woods and areas with brush, shrubs and low tree branches. Dogs that run in these areas could bring ticks to you, as well.
Symptoms of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
The signs and symptoms of RMSF usually start to appear two to 14 days after infection. They may include:
Fever
Rash on your wrists, ankles, palms, and soles. It may appear as small, flat, pink, non-itchy spots.
Headache
Nausea and vomiting
Abdominal pain
Muscle pain
Poor or no appetite
Red eyes
Most people with RMSF (up to 90%) develop a rash two to five days after the tick bite, although some people may see the rash appear later. Ten percent of infected people never notice a rash.
Tests and treatment
Most times, a diagnosis of RMSF is made based on your history and your signs and symptoms. Early treatment of RMSF is important, so while your doctor may order blood tests, treatment is often given before your test results are received.
Treatment for RMSF should begin as soon as possible to avoid complications. The usual medication used to treat RMSF is the antibiotic doxycycline. A different antibiotic may be prescribed however, depending on your individual situation. It is important that you complete your course of antibiotics as prescribed, to ensure the infection is gone.
Complications of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
Untreated RMSF can cause severe, life-threatening complications, such as:
Encephalitis, inflammation of the brain
Inflammation of the heart
Inflammation of the lungs
Kidney failure
Sepsis
Preventing Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
The only way to prevent contracting RMSF is to avoid bites from ticks that carry the infection. Experts recommend that if you must go into grassy or bushy areas, to take these precautions:
Wear long pants, socks, closed shoes, and long sleeves.
Tuck your pant legs into yours socks.
Use insect repellents.
Check your pets for ticks before playing with them or allowing them indoors.
Check your body thoroughly for ticks after you have been in an area prone to ticks. Check the folds of your skin, such as behind your knees, in your groin, and in areas like behind your ears, specifically. If you find a tick, it’s important that you remove it properly to avoid further risk of infection.
Removing a tick
Do not try removing a tick using methods like “painting” it with Vaseline or some other product. Do not try to burn it with a match or any of the methods that people claim have been passed down by generations. The only safe way to remove a tick is with this method:
Using a pair of narrow, sharp tweezers, grab hold of the tick as close to your skin as possible.
Pull directly up – do not twist or turn the tick. If you do this, the mouth part of the tick may stay under your skin. If this does happen, do not try to dig it out. Simply clean and disinfect the area, and watch for signs if infection.
Once the tick has been removed, if you wish to bring it to be identified, place it in a sealed container that has some rubbing alcohol in it. The alcohol will kill the tick.
Do not crush the tick if you are going to dispose of it. Place it in a sealed container or flush it down the toilet.
Wash the bite area with soap and water and disinfect it with rubbing alcohol or iodine.
Wash your hands well.
Not all ticks carry infectious bacteria but if you know you’ve been bitten by a tick, watch for signs and symptoms of infection. If you experience any of the symptoms listed above, see a doctor right away.
The 2017 Erin K. Flatley Spirit Award was given to Liz and Tony Galbo, whose daughter died of sepsis. Her sepsis was triggered by Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. To read their story, click here.
If you suspect sepsis, call 9-1-1 or go to a hospital and tell your medical professional, “I AM CONCERNED ABOUT SEPSIS.”
Updated December 14, 2017
News & Events
Resources
More
Give
Definition of Sepsis
Sepsis Alliance
STAY INFORMEDSepsis News & Updates Join Our Newsletter
We use cookies on our website to improve your experience. To learn more about cookies, how we use them on our site and how to change your cookie settings please view our cookie policy. By continuing to use this site without changing your settings you consent to our use of cookies in accordance with our cookie policy.I accept cookiesI refuse cookies
Revoke cookies
Contact | Privacy | Medical Disclaimer | Funding and Sponsorship Policy
Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn YouTube
Copyright © Sepsis Alliance. All rights reserved.
0 people are diagnosed with sepsis.
Give Today Raise Awareness
We use cookies on our website to improve your experience. To learn more about cookies, how we use them on our site and how to change your cookie settings please view our cookie policy. By continuing to use this site without changing your settings you consent to our use of cookies in accordance with our cookie policy.I accept cookiesI refuse cookies
Revoke cookies