The Pediatric Center | Thomasville & Cairo, GA | Child Care | Thomasville & Cairo, GA | The Pediatric Center
509 Gordon Avenue Thomasville, GA 31792 Phone: (229) 226-7544
|
980 4th Street, SE Cairo, GA 39828 Phone: (229) 377-8560
Menu
Home
About Us
History and Mission
Team
Services
Well Visits
New Patients
Insurance
Policies
Resources
Is Your Child Sick
Medicine Dosages
Medical Library
Get Our Mobile App
Useful Links
Forms
Pay My Bill
Contact Us
Patient Portal
Is Your Child Sick?TM
Fever
Is this your child's symptom?
An abnormal high body temperature
Fever is the only symptom. Your child has a true fever if:
Rectal (Bottom), Ear or Forehead temperature: 100.4° F (38.0° C) or higher
Oral (Mouth) temperature: 100° F (37.8° C) or higher
Under the arm (Armpit) temperature: 99° F (37.2° C) or higher
Caution: Ear temperatures are not accurate before 6 months of age
Caution: Forehead temperatures must be digital. Forehead strips are not accurate.
If NOT, try one of these:
Colds
Colds
Cough
Cough
Diarrhea
Diarrhea
Earache
Earache
Immunization Reactions
Rash or Redness - Widespread
Sinus Pain or Congestion
Sore Throat
Sore Throat
Vomiting Without Diarrhea
Causes of Fever
Overview. Almost all fevers are caused by a new infection. Viruses cause 10 times more infections than bacteria. The number of germs that cause an infection are in the hundreds. Only a few common ones will be listed.
Viral Infections. Colds, flu and other viral infections are the most common cause. Fever may be the only symptom for the first 24 hours. The start of viral symptoms (runny nose, cough, loose stools) is often delayed. Roseola is the most extreme example. Fever may be the only symptom for 2 or 3 days. Then a rash appears.
Bacterial Infections. A bladder infection is the most common cause of silent fever in girls. Strep throat is also a common cause of unexplained fever.
Sinus Infection. This is a problem caused by a cold. The main symptom is the return of fever after it has been gone for a few days. The sinus congestion also changes to sinus pain. Color of nasal discharge is not very helpful for making this diagnosis.
Vaccine Fever. Fever with most vaccines begins within 12 hours. It lasts 2 to 3 days. This is normal and harmless. It means the vaccine is working.
Newborn Fever (Serious). Fever that occurs during the first 3 months of life can be serious. All of these babies need to be seen as soon as possible. The fever may be due to sepsis (a bloodstream infection). Bacterial infections in this age group can get worse quickly. They need rapid treatment.
Meningitis (Very Serious). A bacterial infection of the membrane that covers the spinal cord and brain. The main symptoms are a stiff neck, headache and confusion. Younger children are lethargic or so irritable that they can't be consoled. If not treated early, can suffer brain damage.
Overheated. The fever is usually low grade. Can occur during heat waves or from being overdressed. The temp becomes normal in a few hours after moving to a cooler place. Can also occur during hard exercise. Fever goes away quickly with rest and drinking extra fluids.
Not Due to Teething. Research shows that "getting teeth" does not cause fevers.
Fever and Crying
Fever on its own shouldn't cause much crying.
Frequent crying in a child with fever is caused by pain until proven otherwise.
Hidden causes can be ear infections, kidney infections, sore throats and meningitis.
Roseola: Classic Cause of Unexplained Fever in Young Children
Most children get Roseola between 6 months and 3 years of age.
Cause: human herpes virus 6
Rash: pink, small, flat spots on the chest and stomach. Rash is the same on both sides of the body.
Then spreads to the face.
Classic feature: 2 or 3 days of high fever without a rash or other symptoms.
The rash starts 12 to 24 hours after the fever goes away.
The rash lasts 1 to 3 days.
By the time the rash appears, the child feels fine.
Normal Temperature Range
Rectal. A reading of 98.6° F (37° C) is just the average rectal temp. A normal low can be 96.8° F (36° C) in the morning. It can change to a high of 100.3° F (37.9° C) late in the day. This is a normal range.
By mouth. A reading of 97.6° F (36.5° C) is just the average mouth temp. A normal low can be 95.8° F (35.5° C) in the morning. It can change to a high of 99.9° F (37.7° C) late in the day. This is a normal range.
When to Call for Fever
When to Call for Fever
Call 911 Now
Not moving or too weak to stand
Can't wake up
Trouble breathing with bluish lips or face
Purple or blood-colored spots or dots on skin
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Doctor or Seek Care Now
Trouble breathing
Great trouble swallowing fluids or spit
Not alert when awake ("out of it")
Acts or talks confused
Age less than 12 weeks old with any fever. Caution: do NOT give your baby any fever medicine before being seen.
Fever over 104° F (40° C)
Shaking chills (shivering) lasting more than 30 minutes
Nonstop crying or cries when touched or moved
Won't move an arm or leg normally
Dehydration suspected. No urine in more than 8 hours, dark urine, very dry mouth and no tears.
Pain or burning when passing urine
Weak immune system. Examples are: sickle cell disease, HIV, cancer, organ transplant, taking oral steroids.
Your child looks or acts very sick
You think your child needs to be seen, and the problem is urgent
Call Doctor Within 24 Hours
Age 3-6 months old with fever
Age 6-24 months old with fever that lasts more than 24 hours. There are no other symptoms (such as cough or diarrhea).
Fever lasts more than 3 days
Fever returns after being gone more than 24 hours
Recent travel outside the country to high risk area
You think your child needs to be seen, but the problem is not urgent
Call Doctor During Office Hours
You have other questions or concerns
Self Care at Home
Fever with no other symptoms and your child acts mildly ill
Call 911 Now
Not moving or too weak to stand
Can't wake up
Trouble breathing with bluish lips or face
Purple or blood-colored spots or dots on skin
You think your child has a life-threatening emergency
Call Doctor or Seek Care Now
Trouble breathing
Great trouble swallowing fluids or spit
Not alert when awake ("out of it")
Acts or talks confused
Age less than 12 weeks old with any fever. Caution: do NOT give your baby any fever medicine before being seen.
Fever over 104° F (40° C)
Shaking chills (shivering) lasting more than 30 minutes
Nonstop crying or cries when touched or moved
Won't move an arm or leg normally
Dehydration suspected. No urine in more than 8 hours, dark urine, very dry mouth and no tears.
Pain or burning when passing urine
Weak immune system. Examples are: sickle cell disease, HIV, cancer, organ transplant, taking oral steroids.
Your child looks or acts very sick
You think your child needs to be seen, and the problem is urgent
Call Doctor Within 24 Hours
Age 3-6 months old with fever
Age 6-24 months old with fever that lasts more than 24 hours. There are no other symptoms (such as cough or diarrhea).
Fever lasts more than 3 days
Fever returns after being gone more than 24 hours
Recent travel outside the country to high risk area
You think your child needs to be seen, but the problem is not urgent
Call Doctor During Office Hours
You have other questions or concerns
Self Care at Home
Fever with no other symptoms and your child acts mildly ill
Care Advice for Fever
What You Should Know About Fever:
Having a fever means your child has a new infection.
It's most likely caused by a virus.
You may not know the cause of the fever until other symptoms develop. This may take 24 hours.
Most fevers are good for sick children. They help the body fight infection.
Use the ranges below to help put your child's level of fever into perspective:
100° - 102° F (37.8° - 39° C) Low grade fever: helpful, good range. Don't treat.
102° - 104° F (39 - 40° C) Average fever: helpful. Treat if causes discomfort.
Over 104° F (40° C) High fever: causes discomfort, but harmless. Always treat.
Over 106° F (41.1° C) Very high fever: important to bring it down. Rare to go this high.
Over 108° F (42.3° C) Dangerous fever: fever itself can be harmful.
Treatment for All Fevers - Extra Fluids
Fluids alone can lower the fever. Reason: being well-hydrated helps the body give off heat through the skin.
Offer your child extra water or other fluids by mouth. Cold fluids are better. Until 6 months old, only give extra formula or breastmilk.
For all children, dress in 1 layer of light weight clothing, unless shivering. Reason: also helps heat loss from the skin.
Caution: if a baby under 1 year has a fever, never overdress or bundle up. Reason: babies can get over-heated more easily than older children.
For fevers 100°-102° F (37.8° - 39°C), fever meds are rarely needed. Fevers of this level don't cause discomfort. They do help the body fight the infection.
Exception: if you feel your child also has pain, treat it.
Fever Medicine:
Fevers only need to be treated with medicine if they cause discomfort. Most often, that means fevers above 102° F (39° C). Also use for shivering (shaking chills). Shivering means the fever is going up.
For fevers above 102° F (39° C), give an acetaminophen product (such as Tylenol).
Another choice is an ibuprofen product (such as Advil).
Goal of treatment: Bring the temperature down to a comfortable level. Most often, the fever meds lower the fever by 2° to 3° F (1 - 1.5° C). They do not bring it down to normal. It takes 1 or 2 hours to see the effect.
Do not use aspirin. Reason: Risk of Reye syndrome, a rare but serious brain disease.
Do not use both acetaminophen and ibuprofen together. Reason: Not needed and a risk of giving too much.
Sponging With Lukewarm Water:
Note: Sponging is an option for high fevers, but not required. It is rarely needed.
When to Use: Fever above 104° F (40° C) AND doesn't come down with fever meds. Always give the fever medicine at least an hour to work before sponging.
How to Sponge: Use lukewarm water (85 - 90° F) (29.4 - 32.2° C). Sponge for 20-30 minutes.
If your child shivers or becomes cold, stop sponging. Other option: You can also make the water warmer.
Caution: Do not use rubbing alcohol. Reason: Can cause a coma.
Return to School:
Your child can return to school after the fever is gone. Your child should feel well enough to join in normal activities.
What to Expect:
Most fevers with viral illnesses range between 101° and 104° F (38.4° and 40° C).
They may last for 2 or 3 days.
They are not harmful.
Call Your Doctor If:
Your child looks or acts very sick
Any serious symptoms occur such as trouble breathing
Fever goes above 104° F (40° C)
Any fever occurs if less than 12 weeks old
Fever without other symptoms lasts more than 24 hours (if age less than 2 years)
Fever lasts more than 3 days (72 hours)
You think your child needs to be seen
Your child becomes worse
And remember, contact your doctor if your child develops any of the 'Call Your Doctor' symptoms.
Disclaimer: this health information is for educational purposes only. You, the reader, assume full responsibility for how you choose to use it.
Copyright 2000-2019 Schmitt Pediatric Guidelines LLC.
Fifth Disease
Is Your Child Sick?TM
Illnesses and Symptoms... Abdominal Pain - Female Abdominal Pain - Male Acne Animal or Human Bite Antibiotics: When Do They Help? Arm Injury Arm Pain Asthma Attack Athlete's Foot Back Pain Bed Bug Bite Bee or Yellow Jacket Sting Blisters Boil Bottle-Feeding (Formula) Questions Breast-Feeding Questions Breath-holding Spell Bronchiolitis-RSV Bruises and Cuts Burn Chest Pain Chickenpox Circumcision Problems Colds Constipation Cough Coughs: Meds or Home Remedies? Cracked or Dry Skin Cradle Cap Croup Crying Baby - Before 3 Months Old Crying Child - 3 Months and Older Cut, Scrape, or Bruise Diaper Rash Diarrhea Diarrhea Diseases From Travel Dizziness Drinking Fluids - Decreased Dry Skin Ear - Congestion Ear - Discharge Ear - Pulling At or Rubbing Ear - Swimmer's Ear Infection Questions Ear Injury Earache Earwax Buildup Ebola Exposure Eczema Emergency Symptoms Not to Miss Eye - Allergy Eye - Foreign Object Eye - Pus or Discharge Eye - Red Without Pus Eye Injury Eye Swelling Fainting Fever Fever - How to Take the Temperature Fever - Myths Versus Facts Fifth Disease Finger Injury Fire Ant Sting Flu Fluid Intake Decreased Food Allergy Foreskin Care Questions Frostbite Genital Injury - Female Genital Injury - Male Hair Loss Hand-Foot-And-Mouth Disease (HFMD) Hay Fever Head Injury Head Lice Headache Heat Exposure and Reactions Heat Rash Hives Human or Animal Bite Immunization Reactions Impetigo - Infected Sores Infection Exposure Questions Influenza - Seasonal Influenza Exposure Insect Bite Jaundiced Newborn Jellyfish Sting Jock Itch Leg Injury Leg Pain Lice - Head Lymph Nodes - Swollen Medicine - Refusal to Take Menstrual Cramps Menstrual Period - Missed or Late Mental Health Problems Molluscum Mosquito Bite Mosquito-Borne Diseases from Travel Motion Sickness Mouth Injury Mouth Ulcers Neck Pain or Stiffness Newborn Appearance Questions Newborn Illness - How to Recognize Newborn Rashes and Birthmarks Newborn Reflexes and Behavior Nose Allergy (Hay Fever) Nose Injury Nosebleed Penis-Scrotum Symptoms Pinworms Poison Ivy - Oak - Sumac Puncture Wound Rash or Redness - Localized Rash or Redness - Widespread Reflux (Spitting Up) Ringworm Roseola RSV-Bronchiolitis Scabies Scorpion Sting Scrape Sinus Pain or Congestion Skin Foreign Object Skin Injury Skin Lump Sliver or Splinter Sore Throat Spider Bite Spitting Up - Reflux Stomach Pain - Female Stomach Pain - Male Stools - Blood In Stools - Unusual Color Strep Throat Exposure Strep Throat Infection Sty Sunburn Suture Questions Swallowed Foreign Object Swallowed Harmless Substance Swimmer's Itch - Lakes and Oceans Tear Duct - Blocked Teething Thrush Tick Bite Toe Injury Toenail - Ingrown Tooth Injury Toothache Umbilical Cord Symptoms Urinary Tract Infection - Female Urination Pain - Female Urination Pain - Male Vaginal Bleeding Vaginal Symptoms Vomiting With Diarrhea Vomiting Without Diarrhea Warts Weakness and Fatigue Wheezing (Other Than Asthma) Wound Infection
Medicine Dosages... Acetaminophen Benadryl/Diphenhydramine Ibuprofen Prescription Medicines and Your Child Using Liquid Medicines
The Pediatric Center
Thomasville Office
509 Gordon Avenue
Thomasville, GA 31792
(229) 226-7544
Business Office (229) 558-9055
Fax: (229) 226-0314
The Pediatric Center
Cairo Office
980 4th Street, SE
Cairo, GA 39828
(229) 377-8560
Fax: (229) 377-4606
X
X