Insect bites: Reactions, types, and images
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Insect and spider bites and how to deal with them
Last updated	 Tue 19 February 2019	 Last updated	Tue 19 Feb 2019
By Christian Nordqvist
Reviewed by Karen Cross, FNP, MSN
Table of contents
Which insects bite?
Reactions
Spider bites
Insect bites
Images
Risk factors
Diagnosis
Treatment
Complications
Prevention
Insect bites are puncture wounds or lacerations made by insects. An insect may bite in self-defense or when looking to feed.
Insects typically inject formic acid. This can lead to blisters, inflammation, redness, swelling, pain, itching, and irritation.
The reaction depends on the type of insect and the individual's sensitivity.
Bites from fleas, mites, and mosquitoes tend to cause itching rather than pain.
In this article, we look at the types of insect that bite, how people react, and how to manage a bite.
Which insects bite?
The effect of an insect bite can range from mild irritation to a serious disease.
In the northern United States and Canada, biting insects include:
bedbugs
fleas
flies, such as horseflies
gnats
midges
mosquitoes
ticks
In the southern states, sand flies are among the insects that bite. Spiders are not strictly insects but can also bite.
Individuals react in different ways. In one person, a bite might cause a small, itchy lump that resolves in a few days. In another, the same bite can have a more serious effect.
Infection might occur at the site of a bite, causing redness, warmth, and a hardening of the skin around the area, with pus draining from the wound.
Scratching the wound can also lead to infection and leathery, thick skin. This process is called "lichenification."
People who work outdoors or regularly participate in outdoor activities are more at risk of insect bites.
In colder climates, the risk of catching diseases from insect bites is low. However, nearer the equator, temperatures are much higher. Here, insect bites can lead to malaria, sleeping sickness, dengue fever, or the Zika virus.
All you need to know about spider bites
Learn more about spider bites here.
Read now
Reactions
Insect bites normally cause a small itchy lump to develop on the skin. Sometimes, the bite itself may be visible, as a tiny hole. The lump may fill with fluid. Inflammation sometimes occurs around the area around the lump.
Insect bites normally disappear within a few days without any need for medical attention.
Some people have an allergic reaction to insect bites. However, bites rarely cause a severe allergic reaction, unlike insect stings.
The following may indicate a severe allergic reaction:
an often blotchy rash can spread to other parts of the body
breathing difficulties
chest pain
cramps
faintness or dizziness
nausea
rapid heartbeat
severe swelling, which might occur in a body part some way from the bite area, such as the tongue or lips
very severe itching
wheezing.
These symptoms require immediate medical attention.
Some people may have a stronger reaction the second time a particular type of insect bites them. The individual might have experienced sensitization, in which an individual becomes more sensitive to the insect's saliva.
An insect bite that develops infection can lead to:
pus inside or around the bite
swollen glands
fever
a feeling of being unwell
flu-like symptoms.
The bite area may become redder with more pain and swelling.
An itchy papule or wheal may develop and persist for several days. Eventually, most people become immune and insensitive to the saliva after receiving a number of bites.
Allergic reactions to insect bites do not normally last more than a few hours, but sometimes they can linger for months. In this case, the individual should consult a doctor.
Spider bites
The brown recluse spider can inflict a damaging bite.
Spiders are not insects, but they can and do bite. Some spider bites are quite dangerous to humans.
The bite of the brown recluse, for example, produces only a mild sting at the time of the bite. However, it can be very damaging, causing tissue destruction and severe pain.
Redness develops in the bite area. Pain may become intense within about 8 hours.
A fluid-filled blister forms at the puncture site. The blister then sloughs off, leaving a deep, enlarging ulcer.
Sometimes, this ulceration resolves without any further problems. However, on other occasions, this ulceration spreads, or bacteria superinfect the ulcer.
Symptoms include a mild fever, listlessness, nausea, and, sometimes, a rash. Death is rare but possible, especially in small children. Seek medical attention after recent contact with a brown recluse if a spreading ulceration or redness and infection occur.
The black widow is the most venomous spider in the U.S., but its bite is rarely deadly. The bite feels like a pinprick in the skin. A slight swelling and faded red marks might develop, but, within a few hours, stiffness and extreme pain may come on.
A person might also experience:
chills
fever
nausea
extreme abdominal pain
Anyone who believes they have been bitten by a black widow spider and who is experiencing severe pain and stiffness near the area of the bite should seek emergency care.
Depending on the severity of the reaction to the venom, doctors may decide to use antivenom to treat the bite.
The following spiders are common in the U.S.:
Black widow
Black widows occur throughout the U.S. and are most common in warm, dry areas. A black widow bite will often show fang marks and a person may experience swelling, muscle aches, and cramps in the areas surrounding the bite.
Brown widow
Brown widows are prominent in southern California and are common in buildings, cars, and vegetation. They are generally less aggressive than black widows, but their venom is stronger. Brown widow bites are relatively harmless.
Funnel-web (Dipluridae)
Funnel-web spiders have distinctive funnel-shaped webs that make them easy to identify. They are found throughout North America and are one of the deadliest spiders in the world. An antidote is available, but an individual needs a dose almost immediately after the bite.
Wolf spider (Lycosidae)
The wolf spider is common all over the United States and is unique for not weaving webs. They are large and hairy, and people often mistake them for tarantulas. Wolf spider bites are poisonous and often very painful. However, they are not lethal.
Yellow sac (Cheiracanthium inclusum)
Yellow sac spiders occur throughout the U.S., often indoors. Redness and swelling are the most common symptoms of a yellow sac bite.
Brown recluse spider
The brown recluse spider most commonly inhabits the darkest parts of a house. Warm and dry climates attract it, so they occur mainly in the south and central areas of the United States. Brown recluse spider bites are usually minor but can cause hemolysis, or the rupturing of red blood cells, in rare cases.
Hobo spider
The hobo spider first emerged in Europe and now inhabits various North American states. It is most common in tight spaces and cracks, both inside and outside. A person with a hobo spider bite will often experience redness and swelling in the affected area.
Camel spider
Camel spiders are desert creatures that people often mistake for scorpions. In the United States, they are most common in southwest deserts. While painful, their bites are not deadly to humans.
Insect bites
Insect bites can have different effects.
Tick bites
The effects of a tick bite normally resolve within 3 weeks, but if mouth parts remain on the skin, symptoms might persist. Ticks commonly occur in long grass and around deer habitats.
Tick bites are not generally painful, but a lump may develop. However, ticks can cause Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF), ehrlichiosis, and babesiosis, among others. These conditions can cause serious health problems.
Midges, mosquitoes, and gnats
Bites normally cause small, itchy lumps, or papules. Blisters or weals may develop in sensitive individuals.
Mosquito bites can transfer diseases, such as malaria, Zika, dengue fever, yellow fever, and encephalitis.
Fleas
A flea bite typically leads to a wheal that peaks in 5 to 30 minutes and then becomes a hardened papular lesion within 12–24 hours. People who are sensitive to insect bites might experience itching around the site for a week or more.
Fleas can transmit diseases, such as typhus and Yersinia pestis (Y. pestis), or the plague.
Horseflies
Horseflies can deliver a painful bite. The following symptoms might accompany a horsefly bite:
dizziness
possible itchiness of the eyes and lips, with pink or red swellings
fatigue
general weakness
hives, or urticaria, a rash of wheals
wheezing
Horsefly bites may take a long time to heal, because the insect cuts into the skin when it bites.
Bedbugs
Initial bedbug bites do not generally cause a reaction, but individuals with high sensitivity may develop weals or papules after a subsequent bite. Find out more about bedbugs.
Bed bugs are a major public health problem.
Getting rid of bed bugs includes throwing away the mattress and washing sheets and clothes in very hot water.
Sand flies
Sand flies are very small flies that occur mostly in tropical and subtropical areas, from the rainforests of Brazil to the deserts of Western Asia.
They are around 3 millimeters (mm) long and gold, brown, or grey in color.
In the past, they were uncommon in the U.S., but they now might occur in the southern states. In 2012, people reported sandflies in Kansas and Missouri. They favor hardwood forests and tend to bite from dawn to dusk.
People may also receive sandfly bites while traveling or serving overseas in a military capacity.
The bite of the sandfly can be painful and itchy. Red bumps and blisters may develop. Sometimes, ulceration might result.
The fly can also transmit diseases, such as leishmaniasis and the Heartland virus. Leishmaniasis is a serious disease that can result in skin sores, a fever, and a low white blood count, depending on the type.
The Heartland virus is another serious infection that normally requires hospitalization.
Images
The following images show what can happen with some types of bite. However, the effects may differ between individuals.
Tick bites
A bite from a tick with Lyme disease often leaves a bullseye pattern.
Mosquito bites
Mosquito bites can be itchy. Infection occurs through scratching.
Flea bites
Flea bites may itch for a week or more.
Horsefly bite
A horsefly bite can take time to heal, as the insect cuts into the skin. Image credit: Citron, 2011
Bedbug bites
Bed bug bites can form a distinctive pattern.
Brown recluse spider
The impact of a brown recluse spider bite can seem small at first, but it lasts for several months.
Sandfly bite
Sandfly bites can spread leishmaniasis and other diseases.
Risk factors
The risk of receiving an insect bite depends on the environment.
Common sources of fleabites include pets, crowded communities with low hygiene standards, and birds' nests. Moving into a new home that has been empty for a while can activate dormant fleas.
Bedbugs favor old properties and upholstery. They commonly occur in low-income rental properties and hotels. They live in mattresses, clothing, and so on.
Some people are more prone to bites from ticks and mice because of their occupation.
Traveling and camping can also increase the risk of insect bites.
Diagnosis
Insect bites are normally easy to diagnose, but a person will only contact the doctor in cases that involve a severe reaction.
Treatment
If symptoms persist or are severe, it is a good idea to see a dermatologist.
A mild and limited reaction normally passes within a few days.
A cold compress on the affected area, oral painkillers, a steroid cream, or anesthetic cream may soothe the discomfort.
Antihistamine sometimes helps. A variety of bite treatments are available to purchase over the counter (OTC) or online.
A more serious local allergic reaction may require oral antihistamines or oral painkillers.
In more severe cases of swelling, the doctor may prescribe oral steroids.
A person can treat small, itchy lumps or lesions near a bite with an oral corticosteroid, such as prednisolone, or an oral antihistamine.
Scratching the skin or bursting a blister might allow bacteria to enter and cause an infection.
If severe reactions in the skin and more generalized symptoms occur, the doctor may refer the individual to a specialist for desensitization, or treatment for an allergic reaction.
If symptoms get worse or do not improve, seek medical attention.
If bites come from fleas, mites, or bedbugs, try to find the source of the infestation. If these insects come from a pet, the pet will need treatment, as well as its bedding, soft furnishings, and carpets throughout the house.
Bedbugs will mean calling out a pest control company to decontaminate the home. To prevent bedbugs, wash bedding at a high temperature, and replace old pillows and mattresses.
Tick bites
Remove the tick immediately to reduce the risk of an infection, such as Lyme disease.
The best way is to hold the tick as close to the skin as possible, preferably with a pair of tweezers, and pull it straight upward, being sure all its parts.
Do not twist or jerk the tick, as this can break it, leaving parts behind in the skin. Petroleum jelly, alcohol, or a lit match are also not effective.
Wash the hands and the bite area with soap and water after removing the tick, and apply an antiseptic.
Scratching increases the chance of swelling and increases the risk of infection. Most tick bites heal within 2 to 3 weeks.
If a rash develops around the armpit, thighs, or groin, or an individual experiences flu-like symptoms after a tick bite, seek medical attention. The doctor will probably prescribe antibiotics to prevent Lyme disease.
Complications
A secondary bacterial infection, such as cellulitis, lymphangitis, or impetigo, can result if a person scratches the bite area and breaks the skin. Antibiotics can treat these infections.
Some ticks carry diseases, such as RMSF and Lyme disease.
Borrelia burgdorferi, a bacterium that some ticks carry, causes Lyme disease. The individual develops a red rash that spreads outwards. Antibiotics can also help treat Lyme disease.
Without treatment, Lyme disease might lead to meningitis, facial palsy, radiculopathy, and, in rare cases, encephalitis. Other risks include joint damage, leading to arthritis, and heart problems.
Different types of mosquito transmit different diseases, such as West Nile virus and malaria.
Prevention
To prevent insect bites, especially in warm weather, the following steps may help:
using structural barriers, such as window screens or netting
avoiding wooded, brushy and grassy areas
avoiding heavily scented cosmetics and bright colored clothing
covering drinks and garbage cans
Wearing long sleeves and long pants, tucking these into shoes or socks, and wearing a hat
checking containers for stagnant water, as this provides a breeding ground for mosquitoes.
Insect repellents
Using an insect repellent may be necessary. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) should have issued approval for the active ingredient in the spray. A person can spray repellent onto their clothes but should avoid the face. Follow the product's instructions carefully.
Insect repellent is not suitable for infants. If a child is under 10 years old, the repellent should contain no more than 10 percent DEET. Oil of eucalyptus can be effective, but it is not suitable for children under 3 years of age.
Insect repellents are available to purchase online. Check that it contains a maximum of 10 percent DEET if it is to be used for children.
Do not apply repellent to children's hands, areas around the eyes, or to cuts and irritated skin.
When using an insect repellent and a sunscreen, apply the sunscreen first.
A person can buy clothes, shoes, and camping gear to which manufacturers have added permethrin. Permethrin spray is available for purchase online. Pitch tents away from water or swamps.
Travelers should check whether the area they are visiting has a risk of infection and take the necessary precautions.
Local health departments and park authorities can provide information about tick-infested areas. If a person cannot avoid a tick-infested area, they should walk in the center of paths to avoid contact with vegetation.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
Hobo spider bite: What you need to know The hobo spider is a type of funnel-building spider. It is not usually aggressive unless provoked. Learn more about hobo spider bites. Read now
What can I do about head lice? Head lice are tiny, parasitic insects that live on the scalp, usually on young children. They are not dangerous but are highly contagious and can be difficult to remove. Treatment involves OTC or prescription medication, but resistance to these treatments is growing. Learn more about treatment and home remedies here. Read now
Everything you need to know about bedbugs Bedbugs are small wingless insects that feed exclusively on the blood of warm-blooded animals. They need to feed regularly to reproduce, lay eggs, and survive. Two species eat human blood, usually feeding during the night. In this article, we explain the typical signs of bedbugs in the home and how to remove them. Read now
Everything you need to know about fleabites Fleas reproduce quickly and can live in fabrics and carpets. Their bites are itchy and painful, and they can transfer disease to humans. Fleabites tend to be very small, with central red spots, and they often appear in clusters. Here, learn to identify fleabites, treat them, and rid the home of these pesky parasites. Read now
Creepy crawlies: Why you were born to fear spiders and snakes Do you have a fear of spiders or snakes? A new study of 6-month-old babies suggests that many of us may be predisposed to such phobias. Read now
email email
print
share share
Bites and Stings
Dermatology Tropical Diseases
Additional information
Article last updated by Adam Felman on Tue 19 February 2019.
Visit our Bites and Stings category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Bites and Stings.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Bitam, I. et al. (2010). Fleas and flea-borne diseases. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1201971210000299
Heartland virus: Transmission. (2017). https://www.cdc.gov/heartland-virus/transmission/index.html
Insect bites and stings. (2017). https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/000033.htm
Leishmaniasis: Causal agent. (2017). https://www.cdc.gov/dpdx/leishmaniasis/index.html
Sand flies. (n.d.). https://www.orkin.com/flies/sand-flies/
Travelers' health: Avoid bug bites. (2016). http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/avoid-bug-bites
Weng, J. et al. (2012). First report of Phlebotomine sand flies (Diptera: Psychodidae) in Kansas and Missouri, and a PCR method to distinguish Lutzomyia shannoni from Lutzomyia vexator. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3533249/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Nordqvist, Christian. "Insect and spider bites and how to deal with them." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 19 Feb. 2019. Web.
18 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/174229.php>
APA
Nordqvist, C. (2019, February 19). "Insect and spider bites and how to deal with them." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/174229.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Seaweed extract may help design new drugs
Drug resistance is a large and growing problem. On the hunt for fresh sources of drugs, scientists have turned to the seaweed in underwater forests.
Some brain functions may be restored after death, pig study suggests
Scientists have restored some brain function in a pig's brain 4 hours after the mammal has died. The findings open new avenues for researching the brain.
Stimulating brain with ultrasound can influence decisions
A study in macaques reveals that targeting a brain region with noninvasive, low-intensity ultrasound can alter a specific decision-making process.
House dust microbes degrade cancer-causing chemical
A new study finds that the microbes in our household dust can break down cancer-causing environmental chemicals. However, this benefit comes at a cost.
Study debunks 3 common sleep myths
From how many hours of sleep we need each night to whether or not loud snoring is normal, new research examines widespread beliefs about sleep.
Popular in: Bites and Stings
Eight home remedies for bee stings
How do you make mosquito bites go away faster?
What does a wolf spider bite look like? Is it dangerous?
How to identify and treat snake bites
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/174229.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);