Flat Warts On Hands Treatment
Beauty Products
Anti Aging Products
Baby Skin Care
Beauty Cosmetics
Skin Cleansing
Skin Moisturizers
Tanning Products
Hair and Nails
Damaged Hair
Fingernail Problems
Hair Care
Hair Loss
Hair Removal
Nail Care
Toenail Problems
Skin Conditions
Acne
Bites and Stings
Cellulite
Dry Skin
Excessive Sweating
Hives
Itchy Skin
Oily Skin
Pigmented Skin
Sagging Skin
Scars
Skin Allergies
Skin Rashes
Stretch Marks
Tattoos
Varicose Veins
Wounds
Wrinkles
Skin Diseases
Dermatitis
Eczema
Psoriasis
Rosacea
Vitiligo
Skin Infections
Bacterial Skin Infection
Fungal Skin Infection
Herpes
Shingles
Warts
Sun Damaged Skin
Age Spots
Skin Cancer
Sunburn
Flat Warts On Hands Treatment
Flat warts are very commonly referred as juvenile warts and are very often seen on hands, face or elbows. Flat warts are contagious and could be passed on to other people through sharing objects, hand shakes or direct contact. If you or your children have flat warts, it’s very important to start treating warts early before they are spread out and form mosaic warts with wart growths clustered together. If you notice small calloused skin growth on your feet or around toes with small distinct black dots inside them, you might have a case of seed warts that are usually contracted from wet public areas like showers, bathroom, pools and locker rooms.
When it comes to removing warts, you have a plethora of choices depending on your budget and how fast you would like to get rid of these warts. The most common approach in removing them in children is the duct tape method which is quite inexpensive and easy to use. It does take some time for the treatment to start working. The duct tape method uses a dual approach to remove warts by suffocating the wart growth and triggering an immune system response. You can cut a small piece of duct tape and put it over flat warts for approximately one week. After one week you can carefully clean the area with soap and scrub with pumice stone to remove dead skin. A new piece of duct tape is applied for another week. The treatment may take a month of two before you start seeing results.
Salicylic acid applications are other very common treatments to remove flat warts. However, this treatment is inappropriate for kids younger than 2 years of age. Salicylic acid ointments work over time to gradually kill warts. You many require many repetitive treatments for them to start working.
Freezing warts is another common method you doctor may use in his office in case you have unsuccessfully tried many other methods. Your doctor will carefully apply liquid nitrogen over your flat warts causing a freeze burn. You wart will eventually fall off when the skin heals.
Not all skin growths are necessarily warts, some can merely look like warts but could in fact be molluscum warts or molluscum rash that is caused by an entirely different skin virus. It’s best to refer to your doctor to prescribe you a treatment if you can not identify your skin condition.
0 0 0 0
flat warts, freezing warts, molluscum warts, removing warts, seed wart
Related Links
Popular Posts
10 Most Common Skin Rashes In Adults
Itchy Stretch Marks After Rapid Weight Loss – What To Do?
Moisturizer For Rosacea: Top 10 Picks
Skin Cancer on Nose Symptoms vs Nose Cancer
Rosacea Treatment Over The Counter – 5 Best Choices!
Top 5 Face Moisturizers For Black Women
Over The Counter Steroid Cream – Is It Effective?
Skin Allergy Symptoms To Unknown Source – What To Do?
Freezing Warts Side Effects
Dry Skin Between Fingers – What Is The Likely Cause?
Our Facebook Page
About This Website
About Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Social Profiles
© Skin Care Articles