Can Oxycontin be taken for osteoarthritis?
Are you a Doctor?
Login
Register
Facebook
Twitter
Toggle navigation MENU
My Dashboard
My Transactions
Services
Testimonials
Doctors
Topics
Blog
Ask a Doctor Now 131 Doctors Online
search
Register for a New Account as a
×
User
Doctor
Your Name :
Your e-mail :
Password :
Confirm Password :
Your information is secure
I Agree to Terms & Conditions
Remember me
Register Already registered? Login
Your Name :
Your e-mail :
Continue Already registered? Login
Sign-in to HealthcareMagic
×
Your e-mail :
Password :
Remember me
Forgot password?
By proceeding further you accept the Terms and Conditions
Login
OR
Sign in with Google
Don't have account? Register
Get your health question answered instantly from our pool of 18000+ doctors from over 80 specialties
Write your health question
Choose a specialty
Pay & get an answer
131 Doctors Online
Ask a Doctor Now
MD
Dr. Andrew Rynne
Family Physician
Exp 50 years
I will be looking into your question and guiding you through the process. Please write your question below.
A Doctor will be with you shortly
Hi, I am Dr. Amitkumar Sharma (Internal Medicine Specialist). I will be looking into your question and guiding you through the process. Please write your question below.
Premium Questions Home Ask an Internist / Hospitalist
Can Oxycontin be taken for osteoarthritis?
Answered by
Dr. Naval Mendiratta
Rheumatologist
Practicing since :2007
Answered : 748 Questions
Ask me a question
Posted on Thu, 5 Nov 2015 in Pain Management
226715
Question: I am on tale in in for pain for Otheo arit. It's not working after many years I'm at wits end with pain. Would OxyContin really hep I would be careful I know all the bad and as it isright now life is not much worth living n this amount. Of constant pain. I exercise, eat right so on. Hoe do I pay?
Answered by Dr. Naval Mendiratta 35 minutes later
Brief Answer:
OSteoarthritis
Detailed Answer:
Good evening
Thank you for writing on health care magic
Well, just wanted to clarify..That you have Osteoarthritis of the knee joints right?
Well for the management of pain due to osteoarthritis, it is a bit of a difficult disease.
Firstly yes exercise and weight reduction are helpful
2. Oxycontin or Tylenol you can try. These 2 drugs are safe and wont harm your liver or kidneys
3. But if the pain is too intense, I would suggest you get an intra articular injection in both the knee joints. We normally give a tiny dose of steroids along with local anesthetic in the joints. It is known to work well and provides good relief
4. The last resort remains surgery only.
But do let me know which joints are more painful for you and if you have any recent X Rays
Await your reply
Regards
DR Naval
Above answer was peer-reviewed by : Dr. Chakravarthy Mazumdar
Follow up: Dr. Naval Mendiratta 1 hour later
I have had the surgery and replacements In all joints. I have been ex rayed as well as bone scans several times. The athritus is all encompassing. The surgery did help for awhile and got me out of a wheelchair.
I have the surgery in all joints.been ex rayed and bone scanned.this helped to get me out of a wheelchair , but the pain continues in the entire body. I am five three and weigh 130 lbs. what do you suggest for pain control? I am taking800mg of ibruprophen plus 2 50mg tablets of talwin every four hours. Still no relief. I,m really worn out and discouraged. Thanks. XXXXXXX XXXX
Answered by Dr. Naval Mendiratta 9 hours later
Brief Answer:
Chronic pain syndrome
Detailed Answer:
good evening.
Well the sort of pain you are having is called as chronic pain syndrome/fibromyalgia. it is very common after surgery and doesn't improve with routine nsaids.
I won't suggest you take that much of ibuprfoen is it can harm the kidneys. Tylenol will be a safer option
secondly I would suggest you to try with duloxetine or amitryptilline. these drugs are quite good for the chronic pain.but you will need a prescription for the same.
You can read up about it on the net, but yes please stop the other strong painkillers before it gets more harmful
do let me know for more queries. would be happy to help out
regards
dr naval
Above answer was peer-reviewed by : Dr. Chakravarthy Mazumdar
The User accepted the expert's answer
Ask an Internist / Hospitalist
Share on
Question is related to
Diseases and Conditions Chronic pain
Drug/Medication Tylenol, Oxycontin, Talwin, Steroid
Medical Topics Liver, Anesthetic
Recent questions on Anesthetic
How long does it take to wake up after proposal is administered?
MD
I was give propofol for a procedure and was curious how long it normally takes patients to actually wake up. I was apparently in the recovery room for close to 30 minutes before I was actually awake, although the nurse thought I was awake before that because she complained that I had already asked her a certain question 3 times.
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Pain in left side, pain in chest. What could this be?
MD
For the last few months Ive been having symptoms of GERD , thats what my PCP is treating me for. I told him I have pain on the left side just above my clavicle in the hollow area. He felt to see if I have any swollen lymph nodes and says I dont. Now the pain has spread to my right side, and feels like it is in my collarbone towards my sternum and Im having bad pain in my chest just below collarbone on right side. At its peak I feel bubbling. Any idea what this could be? It is not relieved with any pain killers.
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Is Hospira propofol- the anesthetic being recalled?
MD
I recently received an email alert that Hospira propofol?(the anesthetic) was being recalled. My dr said that was settled in 2012, but the article says it was distributed between Aug.2013 and dec. 2013 . I am scheduled for surgery with this dr. for my eyelid.why is my dr. not concerned?
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Is it dangerous to take different generic brands of the medication?
MD
I am looking at the different generic brands of Fentanyl Transdermal Patches and saw the differences in the amount of fentanyl that is released into the bloodstream. Mallinckrodt is 2.75mg, DAVA is 2.75mg, Actavis is 2.5mg, Watson is 2.5mg and PriCara is the most at 4.2mg. Is that dangerous when we as patients get whatever comes in from our pharmacies (and what is covered by our insurance)?
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
What causes swollen gums and lesions in the mouth after taking Metronidazole?
MD
I have swollen gums , ulcers on my tongue, and my lower lip has several canker sores. I have been taking metronidazole for the last 3 days. Is this a side effect of the medicine or something else?
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
What does pain at the base of the penis indicate while using a catheter?
MD
I have a bladder that is not functioning and have been self cathing for almost 7 weeks. The problem is not with the actual cathertization but after I finish...and not always immediately...I seem to have what I would term an ache or almost like a...
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
Suggest effective over the counter mouthwash
MD
Is there a Benadryl -Malox- L:idocaine mouthwash available without prescription?
Not relevant? Ask a doctor now
View answer
People also viewed
Can paracetamol be taken with tramadol for osteoarthritis
Diagnosed with rheumatoid and osteo-arthritis taken fentanyl suggestion
Can sazo be taken for osteoarthrities
Painful osteoarthritis done x ray taken norco is that suitable
Juvenile osteoarthritis
All the information, content and live chat provided on the site is intended to be for informational purposes only, and not a substitute for professional or medical advice. You should always speak with your doctor before you follow anything that you read on this website. Any health question asked on this site will be visible to the people who browse this site. Hence, the user assumes the responsibility not to divulge any personally identifiable information in the question. Use of this site is subject to our Terms & Conditions
Ask a Doctor Online
Ask a Specialist
Health Questions and Answers
Health Resources
Browse Health Indexes
Recently Updated Questions
Contact us
FAQs
In the News
Advertise with us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap