Regular Exercise Fights Depression - International College of Chiropractic Neurology
Navigation
International College of Chiropractic Neurology Engaging researchers and clinicians in the field of chiropractic neurology
Home
Main Menu
ICCN Home
About the ICCN
What is Chiropractic Neurology
Who the ICCN Serves
Strategic Plan
ICCN Board of Directors
Empowering Resolution
Articles
Contact
Diplomates
Member Benefits
What is a Chiropractic Neurologist?
Return to Content
You are here: Home › Articles › Regular Exercise Fights Depression
Regular Exercise Fights Depression
By Richard Cole on February 16, 2015 in Member Content
Exercise may reduce depression in adults with arthritis and other rheumatic conditions, states a systematic review conducted by researchers at West Virginia University, Morgantown, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta.
Given the improvement in reducing depression with exercise along with the lack of adverse events, “it would appear plausible to suggest that exercise might be a valuable addition to the treatment of adults with arthritis and other rheumatic conditions,” they wrote online in the Journal, Arthritis Research and Therapy.
Arthritis Research and Therapy
Twenty-nine randomized controlled trials were identified in which exercise interventions (aerobic, strength training, or both) lasting at least 4 weeks were used for 2,449 adults with either fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis (OA), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
Of the 29 studies, 20 were patients with fibromyalgia, five suffering OA, and two with RA. Other studies combined the arthritis types. Patients suffered symptom duration ranging from 4.7 years to 24.0 years.
Fifteen studies included both males and females, while 14 studies were limited to women.
The exercise interventions studied varied considerably in frequency, duration, exercise regimen and intensity. Fifteen of the exercise groups focused on aerobic exercise, five on strength training, and 11 on both. Overall, groups assigned to exercise had a statistically significant reduction in depressive symptoms. Further analysis revealed that studies that included only women showed greater reductions in depressive symptoms with exercise than studies with mixed genders.
Depression was not the only symptom to improve with exercise.
Improvements were also observed for several secondary outcome measures, including physical function, pain, quality-of-life, anxiety, aerobic fitness and upper and lower body strength.
Starting points for an exercise regimen would conform to Centers for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines, which would include:
150 minutes per week of moderate-intensity aerobic activity
75 minutes per week of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity
or an equivalent combination of both moderate and vigorous-intensity activity
muscle strengthening is recommended on 2 or more days per week
balance exercises at least 3 days per week.
Since exercise will not only help depression, but has other excellent health benefits, exercise is a preferred treatment over a pharmacological approach.
***
Thanks to Wayne Kuznar for his assistance with this article.
About Richard Cole
Richard L. Cole, DC, DACNB, DAAPM, FICCN, FICC is a doctor of chiropractic, with advanced training in chiropractic neurology and pain management. Also, he is a fellow of the International College of Chiropractic Neurology and a fellow of the International College of Chiropractors.
View all posts by Richard Cole →
depression, exercise, rehabilitation
International College of Chiropractic Neurology Establishes Strategic Plan
ICCN Created to Support Chiropractic Neurologists
Comments are closed.
Log In
Username or Email Address
Password
Remember Me
Recent Articles
Mediterranean Diet Is Associated With Lower Probability of Prodromal Parkinson’s Disease
Multiple joint pains associated with poor psychosocial health and increased medication use.
Ultrasound Is a Reproducible Diagnostic Tool in Peripheral Neuropathy
ICCN President Challenges UHC Policy on Headache
Manipulation Does Not Cause Dissection
Tags
chiropractic neurologist deflame depression exercise ICCN news ICCN Resolution joint pain neurology neuropathy opioid use rehabilitation Resolution to Establish the International College of Chiropractic Neurology stroke Ultrasound
© 2019 International College of Chiropractic Neurology. All Rights Reserved.