EU approves Sanofi and Regeneron's dupilumab in eczema - Reuters
Discover Thomson Reuters
FinancialGovernment SolutionsLegalReuters News AgencyRisk Management SolutionsTax & AccountingBlog: Answers OnInnovation @ Thomson Reuters
Directory of sites
Login
Contact
Support
Business
Markets
World
Politics
TV
More
United States
Health News
September 28, 2017 / 9:25 AM / 2 years ago
EU approves Sanofi and Regeneron's dupilumab in eczema
2 Min Read
FILE PHOTO: The logo of French drugmaker Sanofi is seen in front of the company's headquarters in Paris, France, March 8, 2016. REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer/File Photo
PARIS (Reuters) - The European Commission approved Regeneron Pharmaceuticals’ and Sanofi’s key biologic treatment dupilumab for moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, the two companies said on Thursday.
The move comes after the U.S Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulator had also approved the injectable antibody drug in March. The product is sold as Dupixent.
Atopic dermatitis is a chronic type of skin inflammation also known as eczema, which in severe cases causes constant, and often unbearable, itching.
A human monoclonal antibody, Dupixent is designed to specifically inhibit two key proteins which are believed to be major drivers of the disease.
Sanofi plans to submit an application to the FDA for a use of dupilumab in asthma by the end of the year and hinted recently at a possible use of the drug in nasal polyps.
Analysts on average expect Dupixent to reach annual sales of 4.7 billion euros ($5.53 billion) by 2023, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Shares of Regeneron and Sanofi slid earlier this month after late-stage trial data for dupilumab in asthma fell short of investor expectations. Analysts said the data appeared less impressive than the drug’s mid-stage data.
Investors had also expressed disappointment with the sales take-up of Dupixent when Sanofi published its second quarter-results in July, although but Sanofi expressed confidence that the drug would sell well.
Reporting by Matthias Blamont; Editing by Sudip Kar-Gupta
Our Standards:The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
0 : 0
narrow-browser-and-phone
medium-browser-and-portrait-tablet
landscape-tablet
medium-wide-browser
wide-browser-and-larger
medium-browser-and-landscape-tablet
medium-wide-browser-and-larger
above-phone
portrait-tablet-and-above
above-portrait-tablet
landscape-tablet-and-above
landscape-tablet-and-medium-wide-browser
portrait-tablet-and-below
landscape-tablet-and-below
Apps
Newsletters
Advertise with Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2019 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.