Magnesium for migraines: Does it work?
For full functionality, it is necessary to enable JavaScript. Here are instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Welcome to Medical News Today
Healthline Media, Inc. would like to process and share personal data (e.g., mobile ad id) and data about your use of our site (e.g., content interests) with our third party partners (see a current list) using cookies and similar automatic collection tools in order to a) personalize content and/or offers on our site or other sites, b) communicate with you upon request, and/or c) for additional reasons upon notice and, when applicable, with your consent.
Healthline Media, Inc. is based in and operates this site from the United States. Any data you provide will be primarily stored and processed in the United States, pursuant to the laws of the United States, which may provide lesser privacy protections than European Economic Area countries.
By clicking “accept” below, you acknowledge and grant your consent for these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form. Learn more in our Privacy Policy.
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Top categories
Blood / Hematology
Bones / Orthopedics
Breast Cancer
Colorectal Cancer
Depression
GastroIntestinal
Hypertension
Lymphoma
Men's Health
Neurology / Neuroscience
Nutrition / Diet
Pain / Anesthetics
Prostate / Prostate Cancer
Psoriasis
Respiratory
Sexual Health / STDs
Stroke
Tuberculosis
Urology / Nephrology
Women's Health
All categories
A - B
C - D
E - G
H - L
M - O
P - R
S - Z
All Topics
More
Sign up for our newsletter
Discover in-depth, condition specific articles written by our in-house team.
Newsletter
MNT - Hourly Medical News Since 2003
Search
Go
Loading...
Please accept our privacy terms
We use cookies and similar technologies to improve your browsing experience, personalize content and offers, show targeted ads, analyze traffic, and better understand you. We may share your information with third-party partners for marketing purposes. To learn more and make choices about data use, visit our Advertising Policy and Privacy Policy. By clicking “Accept and Continue” below, (1) you consent to these activities unless and until you withdraw your consent using our rights request form, and (2) you consent to allow your data to be transferred, processed, and stored in the United States.
ACCEPT AND CONTINUE TO SITE
Deny permission
Scroll to Accept
Get the MNT newsletter
Enter your email address to subscribe to our most top categories
Your privacy is important to us.
FINISH
Does magnesium relieve migraines?
Last reviewed	 Thu 26 July 2018	 Last reviewed	Thu 26 Jul 2018
By Bethany Cadman
Reviewed by Lindsay Slowiczek, PharmD
Table of contents
Overview
How to use
Side effects and risks
Takeaway
Migraines can be challenging to treat using traditional painkillers, so many people look for alternative ways to help prevent them. One potential remedy is magnesium.
Magnesium is a natural mineral that helps keep blood pressure stable, promotes heart health, regulates nerve and muscle function, and builds bone, DNA, and protein. A lack of magnesium may also contribute to headaches and migraines.
Some people use magnesium to treat and prevent migraine symptoms, including a severe headache, visual disturbances, sensitivity to light and sound, and nausea and vomiting.
Does magnesium help get rid of migraines?
Studies suggest that magnesium may help prevent headaches.
Some research has indicated that taking a magnesium supplement could be an effective way to prevent headaches. Other studies have also suggested that the magnesium levels in a person's brain may be low during a migraine.
The American Migraine Foundation suggest taking a 400–500 milligram (mg) supplement of magnesium oxide daily to prevent migraines.
Some researchers think that magnesium's effectiveness as a preventive against migraines increases when a person takes higher doses — over 600 (mg) — for at least 3 to 4 months.
However, taking high doses of magnesium as a supplement may cause adverse effects in some people.
Taking magnesium may be more effective for people whose migraines include aura, or visual disturbances.
How to use magnesium for migraines
People with migraines can take magnesium oxide in the form of a pill to supplement their magnesium intake.
Alternatively, a doctor may administer 1–2 grams (g) of magnesium sulfate intravenously if a person is having problems absorbing it.
Other forms of magnesium include:
magnesium carbonate
magnesium chloride
magnesium citrate
The body absorbs these different types of magnesium at different rates. The body has difficulty absorbing magnesium unless it is bound to something else, so magnesium supplements often contain other substances, such as amino acids, that also provide health benefits.
Some people prefer to boost their magnesium intake through their diet.
Can CBD oil help with migraines?
Cannabidiol oil may relieve pain and shows some promise as a treatment for migraines. Learn more about the research here.
Read now
Foods that contain magnesium include:
nuts and grains
black beans and lentils
cereals
spices
cocoa
tea and coffee
green leafy vegetables
avocado
seeds, such as pumpkin or squash seeds
almonds
mackerel, tuna, and Pollock
low-fat yogurt or kefir
bananas
figs
dark chocolate
The average recommended daily intake of magnesium is 310–320 mg for women and 400–420 mg for men.
Side effects and risks
Magnesium supplements may cause cramps and vomiting.
Magnesium occurs naturally in many foods. Increasing magnesium levels by eating more of these foods does not appear to have any associated risks.
However, taking too many magnesium supplements can cause some adverse effects, including diarrhea, cramps, and vomiting.
If a person experiences diarrhea due to a magnesium supplement, they should stop taking it. It is also essential for a person with diarrhea to stay hydrated.
People should also avoid taking magnesium supplements alongside a type of antibiotics known as aminoglycosides. Taking these substances together can cause muscle weakness and other problems.
Magnesium can also interfere with how a person absorbs antibiotics. Therefore, a person should take any necessary antibiotics at least 2 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after taking these supplements.
Magnesium can also lower a person's blood pressure. People on medication for high blood pressure who take magnesium supplements could be at risk of hypotension, which is when the blood pressure dips dangerously low.
An excessive buildup of magnesium in the body can lead to severe side effects, including:
an irregular heartbeat
slowed breathing
coma
Magnesium supplements may also cause additional side effects in people with certain medical conditions, such as:
bleeding disorders
diabetes
kidney problems, including kidney failure
gastrointestinal conditions, such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) or a stomach infection
Anyone thinking about taking magnesium supplements should discuss it with a doctor first. A doctor can advise an individual on whether the supplement is safe based on their medical history.
Pregnant women should also consult a doctor before taking a magnesium supplement. They should also avoid taking high doses of magnesium sulfate intravenously, as it may cause bone thinning in the developing fetus.
Takeaway
When taken correctly, magnesium could be a safe treatment option for people with migraines. It has a lower potential for adverse side effects than some traditional medical treatments.
People with a history of aura may find the use of magnesium oxide particularly helpful.
Anyone considering taking magnesium supplements should speak to a doctor first, as they may interact with a person's medication or make symptoms of an existing condition worse.
Magnesium supplements are available in many pharmacies, health food stores, and online.
We picked linked items based on the quality of products, and list the pros and cons of each to help you determine which will work best for you. We partner with some of the companies that sell these products, which means Healthline UK and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link(s) above.
Related coverage
What is a basilar migraine? Basilar migraines can cause severe pain and are often accompanied by visual disturbances. Symptoms include slurred speech, loss of muscle control, and vomiting. Complications include a higher risk of ischemic stroke. Get some tips on treatment that may help reduce symptoms and lifestyle remedies to prevent a migraine. Read now
Can CBD oil help with migraines? Some researchers suggest that cannabidiol (CBD) oil can treat a range of complaints and conditions. While CBD is a compound in cannabis, the oil cannot get a person high. In some people, it may relieve pain associated with migraines. Here, learn about the potentially healthful properties of CBD oil and how to use it. Read now
What is a vestibular migraine? A vestibular migraine is a type of migraine that involves dizziness and vertigo. As with other migraines, triggers may include stress, caffeine consumption, sleep factors, lighting, and hormonal influence. Symptoms can last from 5 minutes to 72 hours. Treatment is available, but preventing exposure to triggers is key. Read now
What's to know about hemiplegic migraines? Often confused with a stroke, hemiplegic migraines are a rare form of migraine. It is a type of migraine triggered by certain foods or trauma that can also cause neurological difficulties, such as weakness on one side of the body. Learn about the motor weakness and visual disturbances they can cause. Read now
What's the link between birth control and headaches? Forms of hormonal birth control, such as contraceptive pills, can cause headaches and migraines in some people. In others, these contraceptives can improve headaches. A person who has a history of migraines with auras should avoid certain hormones. Learn more about the link between birth control and headaches here. Read now
email email
print
share share
Headache / Migraine
Complementary Medicine / Alternative Medicine
Additional information
Article last reviewed by Thu 26 July 2018.
Visit our Headache / Migraine category page for the latest news on this subject, or sign up to our newsletter to receive the latest updates on Headache / Migraine.
All references are available in the References tab.
References
This content requires JavaScript to be enabled.
Headaches: In depth. (2018, June 9). Retrieved from http://nccam.nih.gov/health/pain/headachefacts.htm?nav=gsa
Kuruvilla, D. (n.d.). Complementary and integrative medicine in the management of headache. Retrieved from https://americanheadachesociety.org/news/complementary-and-integrative-medicine-in-the-management-of-headache/
Magnesium. (2014, May). Retrieved from http://lpi.oregonstate.edu/mic/minerals/magnesium
Magnesium: Fact sheet for consumers. (2016, February 17). Retrieved from https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Magnesium-Consumer/
Magnesium: Fact sheet for health professionals. (2018, March 2). Retrieved from http://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Magnesium-HealthProfessional/
Magnesium…the invisible deficiency. (2016, September 7). Retrieved from http://dining.nd.edu/whats-happening/news/69490-magnesiumthe-invisible-deficiency/
Supplements and herbs. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.migrainetrust.org/living-with-migraine/treatments/supplements-and-herbs/
Tepper, D. (2013, October 15). Magnesium. Retrieved from https://americanmigrainefoundation.org/understanding-migraine/magnesium/
Types of migraine. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.migrainetrust.org/about-migraine/types-of-migraine/
Citations
Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report:
MLA
Cadman, Bethany. "Does magnesium relieve migraines?." Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 26 Jul. 2018. Web.
18 Apr. 2019. <https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322596.php>
APA
Cadman, B. (2018, July 26). "Does magnesium relieve migraines?." Medical News Today. Retrieved from
https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322596.php.
Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead.
Recommended related news
Latest news
Seaweed extract may help design new drugs
Drug resistance is a large and growing problem. On the hunt for fresh sources of drugs, scientists have turned to the seaweed in underwater forests.
Some brain functions may be restored after death, pig study suggests
Scientists have restored some brain function in a pig's brain 4 hours after the mammal has died. The findings open new avenues for researching the brain.
Stimulating brain with ultrasound can influence decisions
A study in macaques reveals that targeting a brain region with noninvasive, low-intensity ultrasound can alter a specific decision-making process.
House dust microbes degrade cancer-causing chemical
A new study finds that the microbes in our household dust can break down cancer-causing environmental chemicals. However, this benefit comes at a cost.
Study debunks 3 common sleep myths
From how many hours of sleep we need each night to whether or not loud snoring is normal, new research examines widespread beliefs about sleep.
Popular in: Headache / Migraine
What are some tips for instant migraine relief?
What causes a headache with nausea?
What is a cervicogenic headache?
Can CBD oil help with migraines?
Which foods help prevent migraines?
Scroll to top
Popular news
Editorial articles
All news topics
Knowledge center
Newsletters
Share our content
About us
Our editorial team
Contact us
Advertise with MNT
get our newsletter
Health tips, wellness advice and more.
Subscribe
Your privacy is important to us.
Healthline Media UK Ltd, Brighton, UK.
© 2004-2019 All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
Privacy | Terms | Ad policy | Careers
This page was printed from: https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/322596.php
Visit www.medicalnewstoday.com for medical news and health news headlines posted throughout the day, every day.
2019 Healthline Media UK Ltd. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
var deferCSS_place = document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]; // 3. insert object before
deferCSS_place.appendChild(deferCSS);