Systematic Fungus | Antifungal Blog
Home | About Us | Contact Us
Antifungal Blog
Back to Store
Follow Me
Most Popular Posts
Sporanox and Lamisil Anti-Fungal Pills are a short-term fix
How to control Cracked, Yellow, Thick Nails and Itchy, Peeling Skin
Anti-Fungal Toenail Treatment Topical Lacquers: Formula 3 vs. PediMD
Anti fungal Foot Bath: Vinegar vs. Listerine
4 Tips to Treat Peeling, Cracking, Itchy, Smelly Skin on Heels & Feet
Fungal Infections on the Skin: Treatment and Prevention
Toenail Fungus Diagnosis, Causes, Symptoms and Treatment Cost
Onychomycosis: Causes, Symptoms, and Common Treatments of Nail Fungus
Ultimate Anti-Fungal Approach: Combining Laser and Lacquer
Tea Tree Oil, Jojoba Oil and Menthol fight Toe Nail and Foot Fungus
Subscribe by Email
Your email:
Welcome to Dr. Bob's Anti-Fungal Blog
Current Articles | RSS Feed
Stop Athlete's Foot Fungus From Returning
Posted by Sam Shoosh on Tue, Aug 09, 2011 @ 04:40 PM
Email Article
Tweet
delicious
40 Million Americans suffer from Athlete's Foot Fungus every year and around half of them will successfully treat the fungal infection, only to have it return within a couple months. 25% of individuals who suffer from Athlete's Foot Fungus have a systematic condition. This means that they must continually protect their feet from fungus breakouts and from Athlete's Foot Fungus From Returning or they will perpetually suffer the effects of fungus such as: peeling skin under toes, itchy feet, and thick, cracking heels.
Preventing Athlete's Foot and Foot Fungus from returning is an on-going battle.
There are many treatments designed to eliminate Athlete's Foot. The most prominent ones are Anti-Fungal Creams and Sprays. Unlike the treatment of Toenail Fungus, Athlete's Foot Fungus treatments are actually highly effective at eliminating fungus on the skin.
Systematic foot fungus sufferers need to use an anti-fungal agent at least three times a week in order to stop the Athlete's Foot Fungus From returning. For people who suffer from a systematic condition or are worried about contracting another fungal infection widely distributed creams such as Lamisil and Lotromin can have some adverse side effects. Frequent use of creams such as Lamisil and Lotromin can dry out and even irritate the skin. It is essential that if one were to use these treatments on a regular basis in order to prevent future fungal infections that they pair them with another moisturizing foot cream.
It is also not recommended to use Lamisil and Lotromin anti-fungal cream's when one does not show any signs of fungus; even if one has had a fungal infection in the past and the feet are still susceptible to contracting another fungal condition. For this very reason PediMD engineered a Moisturizing Foot Cream that has anit-fungal properties and is designed for everyday use.
Click Here to learn more about PediMD Foot Cream!
Advantages of PediMD Foot Cream:
Doctor Formulated Formula combines FDA Approved Anti-Fungal Medicine with natural oils and extracts
designed for everyday use to prevent fungal infections from returning
moisturizes skin on heels and feet
treats cracked heals
rehabilitates red, peeling skin under toes
relieves itching
controls foot odor
0 Comments Click here to read/write comments
Tags: Lamisil, Prevent Athlete's Foot Fungus, Athletes Foot Fungus Cream, Lotromin, Systematic Fungus
All Posts
Error sending email
Email sent successfully
Email article
Email To :
Email From :
Message :
[Click to edit WebVoter title]
RSS Feed
Submit a link
URL (optional)
Title * Get title from URL
Description (optional)
Tags (comma-separated, optional)
Submit Link
Antifungal Blog | Back to Store
© 2011 PediMD, 2010. All Rights Reserved.