Follicular Cyst | Definition & Patient Education
Newsletter
Follicular Cyst
Medically reviewed by Judith Marcin, MD on September 23, 2016 — Written by Amber Erickson Gabbey
Symptoms
Causes
Risk factors
Diagnosis
Treatment
Takeaway
What are follicular cysts?
Follicular cysts are also known as benign ovarian cysts or functional cysts. Essentially they’re fluid-filled pockets of tissue that can develop on or in your ovaries. They commonly occur in women of reproductive age, as a result of ovulation. It’s rare for prepubescent girls to develop follicular cysts. Postmenopausal women don’t get them at all. Any cyst that occurs in a woman after menopause needs to be evaluated.
Most follicular cysts are painless and harmless. They are not cancerous. They often resolve on their own, within a few menstrual cycles. You may not even notice you have a follicular cyst.
In rare cases, follicular cysts can lead to complications that require medical attention.
What are the symptoms of follicular cysts?
Most follicular cysts don’t cause any symptoms.
If you have a follicular cyst that becomes large or ruptures, you may experience:
pain in your lower abdomen
pressure or bloating in your lower abdomen
nausea or vomiting
tenderness in your breasts
changes in the length of your menstrual cycle
Seek medical treatment immediately if you feel sharp or sudden pain in your lower abdomen, especially if it’s accompanied by nausea or fever. It may be a sign of a ruptured follicular cyst or a more serious medical emergency. It’s important to get an accurate diagnosis as soon as possible.
What causes follicular cysts?
Follicular cysts develop as the result of normal menstrual cycles. If you’re a fertile woman of reproductive age, your ovaries develop cyst-like follicles every month. These follicles produce the important hormones, estrogen and progesterone. They also release an egg when you ovulate.
If a follicle doesn’t burst or release its egg, it can become a cyst. The cyst can continue to grow and fill with fluid or blood.
What are the risk factors for follicular cysts?
Follicular cysts are much more common among women of reproductive age than prepubescent girls.
You’re more likely to develop a follicular cyst if you:
have had ovarian cysts in the past
have irregular menstrual cycles
were 11 years old or younger when you had your first menstrual cycle
use fertility drugs
have hormone imbalances
have excess body fat, especially around your torso
have high levels of stress
You’re also less likely to develop follicular cysts if you use oral contraceptives, or birth control pills. Sometimes these drugs don’t allow your ovaries to create a follicle and ovulate. Without a follicle, a follicular cyst can’t develop.
How are follicular cysts diagnosed?
Most follicular cysts are asymptomatic and clear up on their own, without treatment.
In some cases, your doctor may learn you have a follicular cyst during a routine physical exam. If you’re of childbearing age, otherwise healthy, and don’t exhibit any symptoms, your doctor will likely leave the cyst to resolve on its own. They may monitor it during routine check-ups to ensure it doesn’t grow. In some cases, they may also recommend a vaginal sonogram or other testing.
If you’re experiencing pain in your lower abdomen or other symptoms, your doctor may conduct a pelvic examination to diagnose the cause. Depending on your symptoms and medical history, they may also recommend an ultrasound, CT or MRI scan, or other tests. It’s important for your doctor to make an accurate diagnosis. The symptoms of a ruptured cyst are often similar to those of appendicitis and several other conditions.
How are follicular cysts treated?
If a follicular cyst is discovered, but it hasn’t caused any symptoms, your doctor may recommend that it be left alone. Often times these cysts resolve on their own. Your doctor may simply monitor it during routine check-ups. Although you may be advised to get a pelvic ultrasound to make sure the cyst isn’t growing.
If you develop a follicular cyst that becomes large enough to cause pain or block the blood supply to your fallopian tubes or ovaries, your doctor may recommend surgery. Surgery may also be recommend if you develop any type of cyst after you’ve gone through menopause.
To help prevent future cysts, your doctor might prescribe contraceptives or other treatments to manage your hormone levels.
Follicular cysts
Follicular cysts typically go away on their own, without treatment. This usually occurs within a few months. Follicular cysts aren’t cancerous and generally pose few dangers. Most are never even noticed or diagnosed.
Medically reviewed by Judith Marcin, MD on September 23, 2016 — Written by Amber Erickson Gabbey
related stories
Cysts and Ovarian Cancer
Ovarian Cysts: Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment
Excessive or Unwanted Hair in Women
What You Should Know About Complex Ovarian Cysts
Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH) Test
READ THIS NEXT
Cysts and Ovarian Cancer
Though most ovarian cysts are benign, some are cancerous. Learn about the symptoms, treatment options, and outlook for ovarian cysts and ovarian…
READ MORE
Ovarian Cysts: Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Developing an ovarian cyst is usually not a cause for concern. There are two different types of ovarian cysts and both may cause symptoms such as…
READ MORE
Excessive or Unwanted Hair in Women
Hirsutism is the growth of excessive or unwanted hair on a woman’s body and face. This may be the result of a hormone imbalance that can compromise…
READ MORE
What You Should Know About Complex Ovarian Cysts
A complex ovarian cyst is usually benign. Your doctor may recommend removing it if the cyst becomes too large or symptomatic.
READ MORE
Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH) Test
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is an important part of men and women’s reproductive systems. The FSH test looks at the level of the hormone in…
READ MORE
Hormonal Acne: Traditional Treatments, Natural Remedies, and More
Hormonal acne is tied to fluctuations in your hormones, whether from puberty, menopause, or stress. It’s typically associated with puberty, but can…
READ MORE
Hysterectomy
A hysterectomy is a surgical procedure to remove a woman’s uterus. Learn about how it’s performed, what its risks are, and what recovery is like.
READ MORE
4 Benefits of Estrogen Therapy
Estrogen plays many important roles in your body. Learn about the benefits and risks of estrogen hormone therapy.
READ MORE
Are Low-Dose Birth Control Pills Right for You?
Medically reviewed by Holly Ernst, PA-C
Low-dose birth control pills contain less estrogen and progestin than other birth control pills. As a result, they’re associated with fewer health…
READ MORE
Chronic Pain Isn’t a Side Effect We Should Have to 'Just Live With'
See how two women bond over their experiences living with endometriosis and learn how they — and you — aren't alone.
READ MORE
CMS Id: 38377 Client Version: cdb63dc652210437a373a364814a92be03920246 Build Number: 26560