The 5 Best Ice Packs for Foot and Ankle Pain On the Market Your SEO optimized title
Home
Live
Active Lifestyle
Health and Wellness
Love
Relationships
Parenting
Thrive
Motivation
News & Opinions
Wander
Universe
Clean planet
Scroll down to content
HerbalPharmal
Living a Healthier, Earth Friendly Lifestyle.
Search
Menu
Home
Live
Active Lifestyle
Health and Wellness
Love
Relationships
Parenting
Thrive
Motivation
News & Opinions
Wander
Universe
Clean planet
Scroll down to content
The 5 Best Ice Packs for Foot and Ankle Pain On the Market
There are days when you happen to stand on your feet for hours. On getting home, you can’t wait to get those shoes off and allow your feet to relax. A bag of frozen peas will alleviate swelling if any, but if this occurs regularly, then it’s high time you look for the best ice packs for foot and ankle pain.
A Comparison Chart of the Best Ice Packs for Foot and Ankle Pain
Aside from relieving the pain of everyday wear and tear, ice packs provide fast relief for swelling and pains following surgery or a fall. Medical conditions such as plantar fasciitis and arthritis will also be significantly relieved by regular icing of the feet.
Ice therapy is not only an alternative therapy, but it is also medically proven to reduce Inflammation and pain. It is also essential to note that incorrect application of ice can worsen your pain. Therefore, we will also consider when you should use ice therapy for optimal results. But first, these are the top rated ice packs at a glance.
Product Name
Cold and Hot Therapy
Reusable
Best Feature
Price
Customer Rating
THE BEST ICE PACKS FOR FOOT AND ANKLE PAIN
Ankle Cold Compression Therapy Wrap by the pain soother
Yes
Yes
Compression therapy
$49.95
4.4/5
THE ICE PACKS WEARABLE AS SOCKS
NatraCure Cold Therapy Socks
No
Yes
Soft and Stretchy
$24.99
4.4/5
THE LARGEST ICE PACK
Thermopeutic Reusable Ice Pack for Injuries and Pain Relief
Yes
Yes
Neoprene strap
$20.00
4.7/5
5 Of The Best Ice Packs for Foot and Ankle Pain
Ankle Cold Compression Therapy Wrap by the pain soother – Top Rated
The description of this product states “Ankle,” but it is actually a boot-like ice pack that covers the whole foot.
This ice pack is made from state-of-the-art resistant materials, it stays cold for long. It remains cool for two or more hours, unlike others that need re-chilling after about 40 minutes. This provides more time to enjoy soothing relief from pain and aches.
Not many ice packs come with unique compression therapy, this feature is found in this product. It allows you to inflate the ice pack until it is comfortably tight. Its tightness is uniformly regulated so as not to rupture the inside bladder.
This foot and ankle pain soother does not only act as a superior cold therapy wrap, but it also has a ball pump for quick inflation of the gel pack to apply targeted pressure to the foot. You are set to experience a faster relief by the unique combination of cold and compression therapy.
The Ankle Cold Compression Therapy Wrap is designed according to the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeon’s specifications for pain treatment and relief. This ice pack is effective for managing sore feet, ligament pulls, Achilles tendon injuries, plantar fasciitis, swelling, arthritis, breaks, sprains and many more.
It is easy to mount on the left or right foot and provides full leg coverage for easy, and fast recovery. With this ice pack, you can manage foot injuries without leaks and mess which is a feature of old fashioned ice packs.
Pros
Ankle Cold compression therapy
Stays colder much longer
One-size-fits-all
Provides full coverage for either your left or right foot
Cons
Can only be used on foot.
Pricey
Air can seep out and may need regular pumping.
BUY FROM AMAZON
NatraCure Cold Therapy Wrap – The Versatile Ice Pack
If you require an ice pack that can be applied to other body parts such as the elbows, wrists, and hands, this is for you.
This versatile ice pack features a removable gel pack that uses a Velcro compression strap to ensure your ice pack stays in place. For people with wide and maybe very-wide feet, the large size is a better alternative to a one size fits all feet ice pack.
It has a stretchable 14 inches long nylon strap which provides an adjustable compression therapy to alleviate inflammation and swelling. This nylon can also be used to lift the plantar fascia tissue for fast pain relief.
During emergencies, this ice pack can be applied straight out of the freezer or heated in a microwave to improve blood circulation to soothe stiff joints and for pain relief.
The NatraCure Cold Therapy Wrap provides a terrific chilling source as cold therapy, providing instant relief from inflammation, swelling, and pain. Always keep a few in your freezer.
You can apply it anywhere you hurt, it Is reusable, a perfect cold wrap for any injury. Most people consider this ice pack as first aid and is used for managing body aches, muscle pains, and sports injuries. This ice pack is made from a non-toxic gel pack and a flexible leak-proof material.
Pros
Can be used both hot and cold.
Adjustable compression.
Hook-and-loop closure ensures a secure fit.
Comes in 14 or 24-inch strap and can be used on multiple parts of the body.
Cons
It has a poor fold when wrapped around the ankle.
The removable gel pack is small and doesn’t cover the entire foot
BUY FROM AMAZON
Foot & Ankle Ice Wrap with Hot & Cold Gel Pack by TheraPAQ – The Ice Pack capable of Cold and heat Therapy
If you need a reusable ice pack capable for both hot and cold therapy, then this is for you. It can be re-microwaved, re-heated or re-frozen for multiple uses. Suitable for basketball, football, and lacrosse players and perfect for dancers.
This is a one size fit all adjustable ice pack. Designed with a breathable neoprene foot wrap with loops and hook straps.
Either hot or cold, it offers compression support and covers the sides and front of the ankles allowing for mobility while relieving your pain.
This gel ice pack delivers up to 30 minutes of heat to relief arthritic, weak, sprained, broken or injured ankles or feet. The ice can also be applied above the foot to relieve ankle pain, or below the foot to reduce arch pain. You can store this ice pack in a freezer or microwaved for emergency use.
The Foot & Ankle Ice Wrap with Hot & Cold Gel Pack by TheraPAQ is recommended by Sports Trainers and Chiropractors, Doctors, and Physical Therapists. It contains a non-toxic gel in a leak-proof Medical grade gel pack.
It freezes within two hours and can be reheated in a microwave for 30 seconds for heat therapy. The ice pack is flexible when frozen and allows for easy walking when placed on your foot.
Pros
Ice is flexible and allows for movement.
The large ice pack can be used for ankle or foot arch pain.
Velcro straps keep the ice pack in place
Usable for hot or cold therapy.
Cons
Ice pack doesn’t extend to the back of the ankle.
Ice pack only remains cold for 30 minutes.
BUY FROM AMAZON
NatraCure Cold Therapy Socks – The Ice pack Wearable as Socks
If you regularly suffer from swollen feet, with this comfortable pair of ice pack socks – you can slip it on for an ice relief therapy.
This pair of socks has a gel pack running through the length of the sole, with a half-sized gel pack which slips into a pouch behind your ankles or over your toes.
If you experience daily wear and tear on your feet, just slip into these socks while you relax on your sofa watching tv in the evening. Or you could possibly be having your ice therapy while you take a nap.
The gel packs are easy to position in the pouches and removal is super easy. This means the socks can be washed like any other socks, you can even machine wash it.
This product works super-fast, within seconds, you will experience chills on the whole foot, relieving you of conditions such as arthritis, plantar fasciitis, aching feet, tired feet, hot feet, and sore feet. You can use it anytime and anytime even during pregnancy and chemotherapy.
If you spend the day on your feet, leading to neuropathy, ball-of-foot, heel, sprains or strains of the arch, swellings or any other foot injury, this ice pack will relieve your feet ills.
Available in small and medium size and can be worn by both men and women. With the gel pack beneath the length of your foot, and a smaller pack on the top catering to your ankle and behind the heels needs, your foot problem will be consigned to the past.
Pros
Larger size includes an optional strap for compression.
Instantly cools the entire foot.
Additional ice pack offers added relief.
Soft, comfortable sock with a full foot-length ice pack
Cons
Not suitable for people with wider feet.
Sizing may run small with some customers finding the socks tight
BUY FROM AMAZON
Thermopeutic Reusable Ice Pack for Injuries and Pain Relief – The largest Ice pack
From the name of this company, one can deduct this company manufacture products that provide therapeutic reliefs through temperature. It is a product capable of both hot and ice therapy.
The Thermopeutic Reusable Ice Pack can be frozen or microwaved as the case may be. It is large and can be used by an adult to cover the knees and the lower back.
This pack stays extremely cold with a long-lasting formula which makes it trump many of its competitors. It also features a high-quality neoprene strap which makes strapping in with one hand possible. This strapping also provides maximum compress on the area requiring treatment.
It is perfect for all body parts such as the neck, ankle rotator cuff, knee, foot, leg, thigh, hip, waist, back, chest, wrist, elbow, arm, shoulder, and the head.
The gel is non-toxic, and it is safely housed in a high-quality leak-proof material. If you are not satisfied with this product for any reason, you can return it to the manufacturer while you get a full refund.
It is one of the most expensive on the list, but considering its use and versatility, it is worth the extra dollar. Recommended by orthopedics, you can’t go wrong with this product. It is recommended for managing Spinal Stenosis, herniated/slipped disk, Osteomyelitis, stiffness, throbbing, spasms, abdominal cramps, Coccydynia, Lumbar strain, shoulder and neck pain, athletic, sports sprains/strains, neuralgia and many more.
Pros
Non-toxic gel
Neoprene strap
Lifetime warranty
Long cooling life
Cons
Pricey
BUY FROM AMAZON
When should Ice Packs be used?
In a report by the American Podiatric Medical Association (APMA), 77 percent of Americans have at one time or the other suffered foot pain. Only about a third of this number seek a podiatrist for expert care. If not properly taken care of, an ankle or foot injury can quickly deteriorate into something worst.
Ankle or foot injuries have moderate symptoms and do not require extensive medical intervention. On most occasion, a cold therapy combined with rest is enough to treat the pain and inflammation. Just elevate your feet and stay cool or RICE your feet (rest, ice, compress and elevate).
Cold treatment is most effective in the first few days after an injury. And it works best on cases of acute trauma associated with swelling or bruises. In cases of severe trauma, extreme pain is always instantaneous, like spraining your ankle.
Watch the video below to learn when to use ice or heat treatment for foot pain and injuries:
How to use Cold Therapy
Do not place the ice on your skin directly for risk of ice burns. Ensure there is a fabric in between the ice and your skin or use an ice pack specially designed to be applied directly on the skin. Ice burns will reverse the relieving process set in motion by the ice pack, by opening the blood vessels leading to increased flow of blood to the affected area.
To avoid ice burns, you can also reduce the time you apply the ice pack to your foot. Optimal advised time for ice therapy is 15 to 20 minutes. It is highly recommended you allow the affected area to return to its normal temperature before reapplying the ice.
Apply the ice pack as soon as possible after an injury, and continue to apply on the affected area for up to five days. The AMPA advises against using ice alone to treat injuries, rather it should be paired with rest, ice, compression and elevation (RICE).
When you should not apply Ice Therapy
All situations do not necessarily call for ice therapy. In conditions where there is a risk of ice burn, for instance, don’t use ice therapy. If you have high blood pressure and associated problems. Do not use ice therapy due to a vasoconstrictive effect on your blood flow.
Ice therapy should not also be applied to young children or the elderly. Do not place ice directly on an open wound. If you suffer from Raynaud’s disease, stay away from ice therapy altogether.
Editor’s Choice
Sore and tired feet can negatively affect an active lifestyle. Standing on your feet, or walking all day can take its toll. Pain should not be a reason to become inactive the next day. It is therefore essential you choose the best ice packs for foot and ankle pain to reduce the swelling, inflammation, and pain and speed up the healing process.
The above-reviewed ice packs are great for your feet, they will get the required cold to the affected area fast and stays there too.
In my opinion, Ankle Cold Compression Therapy Wrap by the pain soother is the best ice packs for foot and ankle pain. It’s temperature resistant fabric ensures the cold last longer with a unique compression technology for maximum pain relief.
If there is any other from the above-listed which makes your number one choice, please indicate in the comment box.
Share this post: on Twitter on Facebook on Google+
Get Free Email Updates!
Signup now and receive an email once I publish new content.
I agree to have my personal information transfered to MailChimp ( more information )
I will never give away, trade or sell your email address. You can unsubscribe at any time.
Facebook Comments
« These Are the Best Insoles for Work Boots on The Market	» 6 Healthy Reasons Why You Should Not Shave Your Pubic Hair
↑
About
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Affiliate Disclosure
© HerbalPharmal 2019