Action plan for overcoming depression
Like most websites, we use cookies.
If this is okay with you, please close this message.
read more about your options.
Cookies policy | Easy Read | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] | [A] Reset
Championing optimum nutrition for the mind
Call us on 020 8332 9600
My account | Basket (0 Items)
Home
Nutrition solutions
Clinic
Smart kids
Alzheimer's prevention
Accreditation
Publications
Support us
Nutrition solutions > Depression > Action plan for overcoming depression
Nutrition solutions
ADHD and hyperactivity
About ADHD/hyperactivity
Action plan to overcome ADHD/hyperactivity
Do you need help?
Hyper activity test
Autism
About autism
Action plan for managing autism
Do you need help?
Bipolar disorder
About bipolar disorder (manic depression)
Action plan for bipolar disorder
Do you need help?
Dementia and Alzheimer’s disease
About dementia/Alzheimer’s disease
Action plan for dementia & Alzheimer’s
Do you need help?
Cognitive Function Test
Support Our Campaign
Depression
About depression
Action plan for overcoming depression
Do you need help?
Depression Test
Food Intolerance Test
Dyslexia and dyspraxia
About dyslexia/dyspraxia
Action plan for managing dyslexia/dyspraxia
Do you need help?
Insomnia
About insomnia
Action plan for insomnia
Do you need help?
Parkinson's disease
About Parkinson's disease
Action plan for Parkinson's disease
Do you need help?
Schizophrenia and psychosis
About schizophrenia and psychosis
Action plan for managing schizophrenia
Do you need help?
Stress
About stress
Action plan for becoming more resilient to stress
Do you need help?
Brain Bio Centre
The Clinic
About the clinic
Clinic costs
The Complete Packages
Get in touch
Contact us
Book a consultation
Book a Skype consultation
Patient Information Forms
Consultations
Skype Consultations
Tests
Supplements
Meet the team
The Clinical Team
The Board
Our Experts
Scientific Advisory Board
How to find us
FAQs
Stress
Cognitive decline and neurological disorders
Depression and anxiety
Learning and behaviour
Psychotic disorders
Tune up your brain
Testimonials
In the media
Auction
AuctionProduct3
AuctionProduct7
AuctionProduct10
AuctionProduct11
AuctionProduct14
AuctionProduct17
AuctionProduct18
AuctionProduct21
AuctionProduct22
AuctionProduct23
AuctionProduct24
AuctionProduct25
AuctionProduct26
AuctionProduct27
AuctionProduct28
AuctionProduct29
AuctionProduct33
Alzheimer's prevention
About Alzheimer’s Prevention
Action on Alzheimer's
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Take the test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the test
Interpreting results
Lowering homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
Previous scores
6 Prevention Steps
Make a donation
Modifying Risk Factors
Homocysteine and B Vitamins
Methylation and homocysteine
Play Your Part
For business
Events
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Declarations of interest
Cognitive Function Test
Smart Kids
Is your childs diet healthy?
Child Survey
Child Survey on GMTV
Q and A on the child survey
How to build a healthy brain?
Where are the hidden sugars?
Smart shopping
Healthy recipes and ideas
Smart weaning
Supplements for smart kids
Children's food allergies
Schools Project
SAQ Training System
Cricket Green
Chineham Park
What children say
What the experts say
Research
Alzheimer's Prevention Project
Cognitive Function Test
About the Cognitive Function Test
Take the Test
Interpreting Results
Lowering Homocysteine
Frequently Asked Questions
10 Alzheimer's Prevention Steps
Declarations of interest
Medical centres specialising in mental health
Alzheimer’s Prevention Conference
Methylation and Homocysteine
Testing for Mild Cognitive Impairment
Information for Health Professionals
Alzheimer's - there is no cure. Prevention is the way.
Schizophrenia project
Evidence database
A review of the current evidence (2005) suggests that essential fatty acids, particularly EPA and DHA may benefit a variety of mental health conditions.
ADHD teens have higher need for Omega-3 fats. Colter A L et al., Nutr J. 2008 Feb 14;7:8.
An omega-3 fish oil combined with phosphatidylserine improved impulsiveness in ADHD kids...
Essential fat levels lower in boys with ADHD compared to 'healthy' controls...
Essential fats reduce ADHD-related symptoms in children with specific learning difficulties...
Feeding the autistic brain - Multi-nutrients reduce symptoms and improve biological function...
Foods and additives are common causes of the attention deficit hyperactive disorder in children...
Gut disorders are more prevalent in children with developmental disorders...
Keep it simple - Healthy diet best for ADHD...
Magnesium supplementation improved ADHD symptoms...
Physical symptoms of fatty acid deficiency unreliable in ADHD...
Restricted diet linked to 78% reduction in ADHD...
Supplementation of fatty acids improved ADHD symptoms in children aged 7 to 12 years...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves juvenile delinquency among American schoolchildren...
A very low carbohydrate diet improves memory function for older adults at risk of Alzheimer's disease...
Dementia costs the UK £23 billion a year and is preventable...
Efficacy of a medical food in mild Alzheimer's disease...
Lower reported nutritional status is associated with increased risk to physical and mental health and well-being in School-aged Children...
Nutrients, cognitive function, and MRI measures of brain ageing.
Omega 3 helps ageing brain
Supplements of omega-3 and omega-6 improve reading, spelling and behaviour in children ages 5-12 years with Developmental Coordination Disorder.
Allergy to milk proteins could be linked to autism...
Consumption of fish and n-3 fatty acids and risk of incident Alzheimer disease...
DHA may slow progression of Alzheimer’s in a mouse model...
Dietary intake of omega-3 fatty acids and weekly consumption of fish may reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Dietary intake of vitamin E associated with lower risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Fish oils stave off alzheimers...
Fruit and vegetable juice may protect against Alzheimer's...
Genetic link between vitamin D and Alzheimer's discovered...
Good diet staves off dementia and alzheimers...
Higher folate intake associated with lower risk of Alzheimer Disease in the elderly...
Homocysteine and dementia – a clear association...
Homocysteine effects on brain volumes mapped in 732 elderly individuals...
Medication prescribed to Alzheimer's patients may hasten their decline...
Mineral imbalances in Alzheimer's brains...
Sugar may speed up alzheimers...
Supplements of Vitamin E and Vitamin C reduce risk of Alzheimer’s Disease...
Targeting risk factors could cut Alzheimer’s by a quarter...
Vitamin E antioxidants to slow the progression of Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E slows progression of moderately severe Alzheimer's Disease...
Vitamin E supplementation may lower mortality in Alzheimer's patients...
Elevated homocysteine found in women with eating disorders, independent of folic acid or B12 levels...
Supplementation with folic acid enhances effect of antidepressant medication...
Reduced risk of depression associated with mediterranean diet...
An autistic patient has abnormal red blood cell fatty acid composition compared to control subjects...
Autistic children benefit from a gluten and casein free diet...
Autistic children frequently suffer from digestive complaints and inflammation in the digestive system...
Autistic children show possible imbalance of fatty acids...
Behaviour deterioration seen in autistic children upon vitamin B6 withdrawal...
Damage to gut wall maybe a cause of autism...
Effect of gluten and casein free diets on food choice and nutrition in autism...
Food hypersensitivity linked to digestive disturbances in autistic children...
Gluten-free diet can improve behavioural symptoms of autistic children...
Immune reaction to both gliadin and brain proteins may explain an autoimmune basis for autism...
More than 1 in 100 children and adults have autism...
Opioid theory may explain food and gut-related symptoms of autism...
Opioid theory may explain role of diet and digestion in autism...
PCBs may contribute to Autism – rat study...
Review investigates links between immune system activity and autism...
Review of 12 studies suggest positive effect of vitamin therapy in autism...
Review of trials of gluten/casein elimination diets in children with autism...
Studies show a gluten and/or casein free diet reduces autistic behaviour...
Study finds no significant improvement in autistic children’s clinical symptoms whilst on a gluten-free and casein-free diet...
Vitamin A may help reverse a genetic predisposition to autism...
Vitamin B6 and magnesium improve childhood autism in combination...
Lowering homocysteine improved symptoms in chronic schizophrenia patients with elevated homocysteine...
Supplementation with essential nutrients may benefit symptoms of depression in elderly patients...
Elevated homocysteine associated with increased risk of mild cognitive impairment in the elderly...
High folate intake alongside low B-12 status may worsen risk for dementia...
Vitamin B12 deficiency may affect the brain through multiple mechanisms...
Association with vitamin D levels and depressive symptoms.
Could early vitamin C deficiency impair development?
Downside of acid drug...
Lack of B vitamins linked to PMS...
Lower blood levels of vitamin C in people with schizophrenia...
U.S. Study confirms homocysteine linked to brain shrinkage...
Vitamin and mineral supplementation improves intelligence in some American schoolchildren...
Vitamin D deficiency in pregnancy may have implications for mental health of children – rat study...
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with low mood and worse cognitive performance in older adults...
Vitamin D deficiency linked to Parkinson's...
Vitamin D linked with depression in elderly...
Vitamins and minerals improve learning and memory in 'normal' school children...
Diet has positive impact on anti-social, violent and criminal behaviour – a review...
Folic acid may boost baby's behaviour...
Iron, zinc, and lead are associated with behaviour and cognition in preschool children...
Sweets for kida means violent adults. Moore et al. (2009) 195: 366-367
Omega 3 fish oil good for depression and bipolar...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA improves depression in people with bipolar alongside their existing medication...
Beta carotene helps brain function and memory...
Breast feeding is best food for your child's brain...
Depressed brain deficient in Omega-3 fatty acid DHA...
Dietary choline, cognitive performance and brain volume...
Fish consumption associated with better brain volume and memory...
Fish oil supplementation supports mood and brain function in the elderly...
Homocysteine associated with brain atrophy in the healthy elderly...
Omega 3 good for cognitive performance in older adults...
Omega-3 in pregnancy boosts baby's brain development...
Use it or lose it - Cognitive activity throughout life supports a healthy brain...
Fish-eating mothers’ milk highest in DHA...
Chromium improves atypical depression...
Update on chromium for depression.
Cognitive performance among the elderly and dietary fish intake: the Hordaland Health Study, Nurk E et al...
Elderly people with the highest blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids had the least decline in verbal fluency...
Excess calcium speeds cognitive decline in the elderly...
Folic acid improves concentration and cognitive performance in healthy elderly...
Folic acid improves memory and mental agility in over-50s. ...
Higher intakes of fish oil from diet associated with slower rates of cognitive decline in elderly men...
Does raised homocysteine cause dementia?
Acne treatment could cause depression...
Beneficial gut bacteria reduce anxiety and depression in mice...
Breakfast, Academic Performance and Mental Distress...
Depression linked to processed food...
Fish oil boosts mood in depressed seniors...
Folic acid improves recovery in major depression and schizophrenia...
Low Iron may contribute to depression in women who are not anaemic...
More folate may mean less depression in men. Daniells 2010
Multivitamin and mineral supplement improves mood in hospitalised elderly...
Omega-3 helps depressed children, A Controlled, Double-Blind Pilot Study...
Review of research suggests folate may be effective for depression...
Sleep deprivation may cause depression in adolescents...
Tryptophan supplementation induces a positive bias in processing of emotional material...
Cochrane Review of essential fatty acids for schizophrenia inconclusive but recommends more research needed...
Children with healthier diets do better in school...
Good food boosts school performance...
Poor diet associated with worse mental health in teens...
Schizophrenia symptoms may be helped by a gluten free, low carb diet...
Drug treatment for Schizophrenics may induce diabetes...
Fish oil may reduce psychotic disorders in high risk individuals...
Omega-3 fatty acid EPA helps schizophrenia symptoms...
Dietary sources of fat associated with schizophrenia...
Low essential fats worse for Schizophrenia symptoms...
Benefits may outweigh risks for seafood consumption in pregnancy...
Certain combinations of food additives are linked to hyperactivtiy in young children...
Food additives and hyperactivity in children...
Good food in infancy boosts earning power ...
Elevated homocysteine is a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's Disease...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Homocysteine implicated in Schizophrenia...
Supplement combination helps the elderly get a good night’s sleep...
Omega 3 concentrations relationship to physical and mental well being...
Omega-3 supplementation reduces anxiety and inflammation in healthy young adults...
Efficacy and cost of micronutrient treatment of childhood psychosis
Publications and events
Current events
Food for the Brain Alzheimer's Conference 2011
More information of the speakers
Food for the Brain Conference 2008
Nutritional Strategies for Breaking Addiction - Speakers
FfB Mental Health Masterclass with Bill Walsh PHD from the Pfeiffer Treatment Centre
The Gut Brain Link in Autism, Depression and Mental Health
E-news
June 2013
May 2013
March 2013
October 2012
September 2012
July 2012
June 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
Further support
Reports
Nutritional interventions for the adjunctive treatment of schizophrenia: a brief review
The Links Between Diet and Behaviour
Food for the brain child survey report
Nutrients and Alzheimer's Disease Prevention: 2011 Review
Depression - the nutrition connection
Alzheimer's and Dementia - the nutrition connection
Oxidative Stress in Autism
Double blind placebo-controlled study of zinc sulfate in the treatment of ADHD
Effect of consumpton of soft drinks on hyperactivity and behaviour
Effect of Omega 3 supplementation on visual and cognitive development in childhood
Glucose tolerance predicts performance on tests of memory and cognition
Inositol deficiency deit and lithium effects
LC PFAs in Childhood Development and Psychiatric Disorders
Major Depressive Disorder, NEJM, 2008
O-3 Treatment of Childhood Depression - double blind controlled pilot study
Omega 3 for recurrent Unipolar Depressive Disorder
Raising IQ through vitamin and mineral supplementation
Supplementation with PFAs and Micronutrients on learning & behaviour in ADHD
The NEMO Study Group, 2007
Unhealthful Eating Patterns and overall school performance in Children
Zinc in Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder
Resources
Accreditation in catering
Support us
Support us by donating
Support us by fundraising
Partners
About us
Who we are
Board of Trustees
Scientific Advisory Board
Current vacancies
Donate
Friends of Food for the Brain
Register
Donate today
Donate through legacy
Donate by volunteering
Why donate?
Newsletter Signup
Site Map
Terms and Conditions
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Easy Read
Cookies policy
My Profile
Payment
3D Landing
3D Validate
Payment Result
Checkout Step 2
Checkout
Advertising Policy
download
sitemap.xml
adhdtest
Advertising
Nairns ad
Solgar
Cherry Active
York Test
Food Matters Live
Conference 2011 CD
preventionsteps
Friends
rsvp
Alzheimers' Prevention PLAN B
Newsletter update
appgdementia
alzriskfactors
igedstatement
thenutritionconnection
actiononalzheimers
enews
Admin Position
Nutrition for Children's Learning and Development
Nutrition for Depression
Overcoming stress and anxiety – how to stay calm, stop the energy drain and build resilience
accreditation-redirect
seminar-site redirect (1)
Free newsletter
Cognitive function test
Smart Kids test
We can help you
Twitter
FOOD FOR THE BRAIN
www.foodforthebrain.org
Follow
Go to full profile →
Action plan for overcoming depression
Up your intake of essential omega 3 fats
This means eating oily fish at least twice a week, seeds on most days and supplementing omega 3 fish oils.
The best fish for EPA, the type of omega 3 fat that’s linked with improving mood, are:
Mackerel (1,400mg per 100g/3oz), Herring/kipper (1,000mg), Sardines (1,000mg),fresh tuna (900mg), Anchovy (900mg), Salmon (800mg),Trout (500mg). Tuna, being high in mercury is best eaten not more than three times a month.
The best seeds are flax seeds and pumpkin seeds. Flax seeds are so small they are best ground and sprinkled on cereal. Alternatively, use flax seed oil, for example in salad dressings. While technically providing omega 3 only about 5% of the type of omega 3 (alpha linolenic acid) in these seeds is converted in your body into EPA. Omega-3 seeds and seed oil should not be cooked.
When supplementing omega 3 fish oils you are aiming for about 1,000mg of EPA a day for a mood boosting effect. That means supplementing a concentrated Omega 3 Fish Oil capsule providing 500mg, once or twice a day and eating a serving of any of the above fish three times a week.
Check your homocysteine level and get enough B vitamins
Your homocysteine level is an indicator of your B vitamin needs. , You can be tested through your GP or using a home test kit. If your level is above 9mmol/l take a combined ‘homocysteine’ supplement of B2, B6, B12, folic acid, zinc, and TMG, providing at least 400mcg of folic acid, 250mcg of B12 and 20mg of B6. If your homocysteine score is above 15mmol/l double this amount. Also eat B vitamin rich whole foods – whole grains, beans, nuts, seeds, fruits and vegetables. Folic acid is particularly rich in green vegetables, beans, lentils, nuts and seeds, while B12 is only found in animal foods – meat, fish, eggs and dairy produce. A good starting point is also to supplement a multivitamin providing optimal levels of B vitamins, which means 25mg-50mg of B1, B2, B3 (niacin), B5 (pantothenic acid), B6 (pyridoxine) and at least 100mcg of folic acid and 10mcg of B12 and biotin.
Consider supplementing the amino acid 5-HTP
Most of the effective studies used 300mg of 5-HTP, however we ideally recommend testing if you are low in serotonin with a platelet serotonin test and starting with 100mg, or 50mg twice a day. If 5-HTP is not available, you could supplement the amino acid tryptophan in amounts of 500mg – 2g per day – again, we would suggest starting at the lower end. Tryptophan is best absorbed either on an empty stomach or, ideally, with a carbohydrate snack such as a piece of fruit or an oatcake. 5-HTP is well-absorbed with or without food. Also, make sure you eat enough protein from beans, lentils, nuts, seeds, fish, eggs and meat, which are all high in tryptophan. Do not take 5-HTP or tryptophan if you are currently taking an anti-depressant without your doctor’s permission.
Avoid or reduce caffeine, sugar, refined carbohydrates and alcohol
Eat a diet that will stabilise your blood sugar (known as the Low GL diet). The key points are:
Only eat low GL carbohydrates;
Always combine your low GL carbohydrates with protein in a ratio of 1:1;
Eat at regular intervals, including snacks that include low GL carbohydrate and protein such as fresh fruit with a handful of nuts, oatcakes with homous or celery and cottage cheese;
Only eat sweet foods as a very occasional treat and only after a meal or healthy snack.
To really get to grips with this type of eating plan, we highly recommend Patrick Holford’s Low GL Diet book.
Consider supplementing chromium
If you suffer from ‘atypical depression’ (see above) studies show that 600mcg of chromium a day is effective. Supplements generally come in 200mcg pills. Take two with breakfast and one with lunch. If this works, after a month reduce to one with breakfast and one with lunch. If this works, reduce to one with breakfast after a further month. Don’t take chromium in the evening as it can be stimulating.
In addition to supplementing chromium, you should adopt the low GL Diet style of eating as outlined above.
Have a vitamin D test
Ask your GP or nutritional therapist for a vitamin D test. If your level is below 75 nmol/litre, supplement 2,000 iu per day for 12 weeks, and then get a retest.
Get some sensible sun exposure, without sun-block, but don’t risk your skin health by allowing yourself to get sunburned!
Investigate food intolerances
You may suspect some foods which may or may not be one of the usual suspects - are gluten (wheat, rye, barley), wheat, dairy (all types – cow, sheep, goat, milk, cheese, cream etc), soya, yeast and eggs. If this is the case, you could try an exclusion of the food or foods for a brief trial period.
Alternatively, you could undertake an IgG ELISA blood test to determine whether you have raised antibody levels to specific foods in your blood which is a good indication. Either way, don’t make dramatic changes to your diet or cut out whole food groups without professional guidance to ensure your diet remains healthy and balanced – this is especially important for the frail and for children. Finding help
If you would like further help, you can visit our clinic the Brain Bio Centre which specialises in optimum nutrition for mental health recovery. We have helped many people with depression, by working with them to create personalised nutritional programmes based upon their health history, symptoms and test results. If you would like to learn more about how we can help you, please click here.
Alternatively a register of nutritional therapists in your local area can be found by visiting the British Association for Applied Nutrition and Nutritional Therapy (BANT).
Further reading
Optimum Nutrition for the Mind
Patrick Holford, 2010
Optimum Nutrition for the Mind is the classic guide to improving your mood, boosting your memory, sharpening your mind and solving mental health problems through nutrition.
£2 from each book sale is donated to Food for the Brain.
Feel Good Factor
This book provides practical advice on how to improve your mood without the need for medical drugs. It includes lifestyle and life management techniques, as well as revealing the right foods to eat, and those to avoid. It is supported by substantial research, and backed up by poignant and motivating case histories.
£2 from each book sale is donated to Food for the Brain.
Feeding Minds
Mental Health Foundation, 2006
This report lays out the evidence linking trends in food consumption with mental ill-health, and supports the case for an integrated approach to the treatment of mental health problems, identifying nutrition as a key component.
Back to top
Join us...
Contact Us
Make an appointment
Vacancies
About us
Board of Trustees
Our mission
Cookies Policy
Scientific Advisory Board
Advertising Policy
About this site
Site Map
Policies
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
is a not for profit educational charity
© 2012 Food for the Brain. All Rights Reserved
Food for the Brain is a registered charity (No: 1116438) and is limited by guarantee (Company Number 5885305)