generic Archives - The Daily Headache
Home
About
Archives
Resources
Contact
-- Main Menu --HomeAboutArchivesResourcesContact
Apr
3
By Kerrie Smyres
FDA Approves Generic Version of Migraine Preventive Drug Topamax (Topiramate)
Category: Meds & Supplements, News & Research, Treatment Tags: epilepsy, FDA, generic, migraine, patent, preventive meds, preventives, seizure, topamax, topiramate 23 Comments
The FDA has approved production of topiramate, the generic version of migraine preventive drug Topamax. It will be available in multiple strengths from 17 different manufacturers.
This is great news for the many people who have found relief from migraines or headaches with Topamax. Except for the side effects, which many find intolerable, Topamax is often called as a “miracle drug.” I don’t believe in miracle drugs, but one that can help so many people is pretty impressive.
Ortho-McNeil Neurologic’s patents on Topamax began expiring last year.
Related posts:
Trouble Thinking on Topamax? Study Finds “Language Disturbances”
Antiepileptic Drugs Linked to Increased Risk of Suicidal Behaviors and Thoughts
Preventive Drugs Improve Quality of Life for People With Migraine
[via Somebody Heal Me]
Jan
30
By Kerrie Smyres
Generic Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Tablets & Injections Available in US
Category: Meds & Supplements, News & Research, Treatment Tags: drugs, generic, imitrex, medication, sumatriptan, triptans 79 Comments
Tablet and injection versions of generic Imitrex (sumatriptan) are available in the US. Doses are 25mg, 50 mg, and 100mg tablets and 4mg and 6mg injections (kits or pre-filled syringes). Patients have reported prices between $35 and $200! Imitrex’s patent doesn’t actually expire until February; a reader suggested it might be less expensive then.
The generic hasn’t been as effective as the brand name drug for some patients. In Generic Imitrex (Sumatriptan) — Is it as Effective as Brand Name Imitrex, blogger Doc Shazam writes:
…I have taken 2 of “Dr. Reddy’s” generic sumatriptan tablets with almost no relief of headache symptoms, but a plethora of side effects, including aching muscles, nausea, “light headed” feeling and general dis-ease.
Read about other patients’ experiences in their comments on earlier posts on The Daily Headache:
11/18/08: Generic Injectable Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Now Available
2/4/08: Generic Form of Migraine Abortive Imitrex Available By December 2008
Nov
18
By Kerrie Smyres
Generic Injectable Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Now Available
Category: Meds & Supplements, Treatment Tags: generic, imitrex, injection, sumatriptan 12 Comments
The generic version of Imitrex Injection (called sumatriptan) is now shipping in the US. I don’t know if it is available in other countries, nor do I know when/if the tablets will be available. I doubt all pharmacies have it in stock yet. I recommend calling your pharmacy before taking your prescription in.
From Par Phamaceutical’s press release:
Par Pharmaceutical Begins Shipment of Sumatriptan Injection
November 6, 2008 – Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. today announced that it will begin shipping generic versions of Imitrex® Injection (sumatriptan succinate injection) 4mg and 6mg starter kits and 4mg and 6mg prefilled syringe cartridges to the trade immediately. In addition, Par anticipates launching the 6mg vials early next year.
Feb
4
By Kerrie Smyres
Generic Form of Migraine Abortive Imitrex Available By December 2008
Category: Meds & Supplements, Treatment Tags: abortives, generic, imitrex, migraine, sumatriptan 87 Comments
Sumatriptan, the generic form of Imitrex, is scheduled to be available by the end of 2008. Although Imitrex is available as a tablet, nasal spray and injection, sumatriptan will only be available in tablets of 25, 50 or 100 mg. It will be distributed by Ranbaxy.
GlaxoSmithKline no longer offers coupons for Imitrex. In the meantime, you can save on the pricey prescription by signing up for $25 off Imitrex coupons from GlaxoSmithKline. I was skeptical because your mailing address is required to receive the coupons. I signed up a couple years ago and it hasn’t been intrusive. Mailings are about four times a year and there’s no indication they’ve sold my address.
[via Dealing With Headaches]
Update: Other posts on sumatriptan availability:
11/18/08: Generic Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Injections Now Available
1/30/09: Generic Imitrex (Sumatriptan) Tablets & Injections Available in US
Welcome to Kerrie Smyres' writings about chronic migraine, headache disorders, chronic illness & depression. Here you'll find coping strategies, resources, news & more to help you live a fabulous life with chronic illness.
Topics
30 Things Meme
Books & Products
Chronic Migraine
Community
Coping
Diet
Doctors
Exercise
Favorites
Friends & Family
Meds & Supplements
Mental Health
News & Research
Patient Education
Reader Stories
Resources
Society
Symptoms
Treatment
Triggers
© 2019 The Daily Headache
Powered by WordPress and the Designfolio Pro Theme.