High Humidity Doesn't Ease Croup
Follow Us On
Sign Up For Free Newsletter
Menu
Health Conditions
AIDS INFORMATION
ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE INFORMATION
BONE AND JOINT INFORMATION
CANCER INFORMATION
CARDIOVASCULAR HEALTH INFORMATION
CAREGIVING INFORMATION
CIRCULATORY SYSTEM INFORMATION
CLINICAL TRIALS INFORMATION
COGNITIVE HEALTH INFORMATION
COSMETIC INFORMATION
DENTAL AND ORAL INFORMATION
DIABETES INFORMATION
» View All »
HealthDay Video
HealthDay TV
HealthDay TV en Español
HealthDay Living
Wellness Library
HealthDay en Español
Physician&apos;s Briefing
License Our News
Follow Us On
Sign Up For Free Newsletter
High Humidity Doesn't Ease Croup
Cold air and medical treatments probably more effective, study suggests
Please note: This article was published more than one year ago. The facts and conclusions presented may have since changed and may no longer be accurate. And "More information" links may no longer work. Questions about personal health should always be referred to a physician or other health care professional.
En Español
By Serena Gordon
HealthDay Reporter
TUESDAY, March 14, 2006 (HealthDay News) -- A time-honored treatment to ease the seal-like bark of croup is to bring your child into a steamy bathroom or run a cool-mist vaporizer in her room until symptoms subside.
However, a new study suggests that these measures probably won't have much effect on croup symptoms.
"The use of humidity failed to show any improvement in croup symptoms," said the study's lead author, Dr. Dennis Scolnik, an associate professor at the Hospital for Sick Children and the University of Toronto in Canada.
Results of the study appear in the March 15 issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association.
Croup, which is the swelling of the tissues around the voice box, is actually a response to a viral or bacterial infection rather than a distinct illness. Croup is characterized by a cough that often sounds like the bark of a seal. Sometimes, the inflammation can get so bad that it obstructs the airway.
Croup caused by viruses is one of the most common causes of upper airway blockage in youngsters, affecting as many as 5 percent of children under 6 years old, according to the study.
The idea behind the use of humidity is that the moisture would soothe the irritated airway and thin mucous secretions, making breathing easier. However, Scolnik said there's no good scientific evidence available to support the use of humidity.
To put this theory to the test, Scolnik and his colleagues randomly divided a group of 140 children diagnosed with moderate to severe croup into three treatment groups. One group, the control group, received "blow-by" humidity for 30 minutes. According to the study, the amount of humidity in the blow-by technique is variable and often equivalent to room air. A second group received controlled delivery of 40 percent humidity, and the third group was treated with 100 percent humidity.
Symptoms were assessed at 30 minutes and 60 minutes after treatment. The researchers found no statistically significant differences between the groups.
"I think it's important that parents not rely on a treatment which we don't think helps," said Scolnik.
Why then, do so many people rely on humidity and believe that it helps?
Probably because croup symptoms often go away on their own with no treatment at all, said Scolnik.
"The illness has a tendency to get better, and if it gets better while you're giving humidity, you'll think it was the humidity," he said, adding that another likely scenario is that while administering humidity to children, parents often sit with them and try to calm them. As they calm the child, some of the coughing and crying stop. The worst symptoms probably have some component of airway spasm, said Scolnik, so calming a child would help relieve those spasms, making breathing easier.
Not everyone is convinced, however, that there is no place for humidity in croup treatment.
"This is a good study, but it's not going to change anything here," said Dr. Mehmet Karliyil, a pediatric emergency physician at Nyack Hospital in Nyack, N.Y.
"Humidity is useful. What this study shows is that 40 percent isn't any more effective than 100 percent," said Karliyil, who added that just means more humidity isn't better.
Both Scolnik and Karliyil said that other treatments are available for croup. Going out into the cold night air, or opening a window and breathing in the cold air may help shrink swollen airways, said Scolnik.
Doctors can also prescribe steroid medications or inhaled epinephrine to lessen inflammation, he added.
Karliyil said it's a good idea to take your child to the doctor the first time he has croup to confirm the diagnosis and make sure nothing else is wrong. After that, parents don't need to immediately go to the doctor at the first sign of croup, he said.
Both experts said at the first sign of breathing trouble, you should seek medical attention, either at the doctor's office, at the emergency room, or by calling 911.
More information
To learn more about croup, visit the National Library of Medicine.
SOURCES: Dennis Scolnik, M.B., Ch.B., associate professor, Hospital for Sick Children and University of Toronto, Canada; Mehmet Karliyil, M.D., pediatric emergency physician, Nyack Hospital, Nyack, N.Y.; March 15, 2006, Journal of the American Medical Association
Last Updated: Mar 14, 2006
Copyright © 2006 ScoutNews LLC. All rights reserved.
Gen Xers in Despair?
Related Articles
More TV, Tablets, More Attention Issues at Age 5
Hot-Car Deaths Hit Record High in 2018
Vehicle Exhaust Drives Millions of New Asthma Cases Annually
More Americans Now Think Vaping Is Harmful
Home
HealthDay TV
Wellness Library
HealthDay en Español
Privacy Policy
Physician&apos;s Briefing
License Our News
About HealthDay
Ad Policy
Contact Us
Copyright ©2019 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
Legal Statement
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.