Effects of exercise training on older patients with major depression. | Scholars@Duke
Scholars@Duke
Search form
Search
Advanced Search
Support
Index
Subscribe to Announcements
Menu Search
Home
People
Schools / Institutes
Research
About
Home
People
Schools / Institutes
Research
Effects of exercise training on older patients with major depression.
Published
Journal Article
BACKGROUND: Previous observational and interventional studies have suggested that regular physical exercise may be associated with reduced symptoms of depression. However, the extent to which exercise training may reduce depressive symptoms in older patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) has not been systematically evaluated. OBJECTIVE: To assess the effectiveness of an aerobic exercise program compared with standard medication (ie, antidepressants) for treatment of MDD in older patients, we conducted a 16-week randomized controlled trial. METHODS: One hundred fifty-six men and women with MDD (age, > or = 50 years) were assigned randomly to a program of aerobic exercise, antidepressants (sertraline hydrochloride), or combined exercise and medication. Subjects underwent comprehensive evaluations of depression, including the presence and severity of MDD using Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition criteria and Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) scores before and after treatment. Secondary outcome measures included aerobic capacity, life satisfaction, self-esteem, anxiety, and dysfunctional cognitions. RESULTS: After 16 weeks of treatment, the groups did not differ statistically on HAM-D or BDI scores (P = .67); adjustment for baseline levels of depression yielded an essentially identical result. Growth curve models revealed that all groups exhibited statistically and clinically significant reductions on HAM-D and BDI scores. However, patients receiving medication alone exhibited the fastest initial response; among patients receiving combination therapy, those with less severe depressive symptoms initially showed a more rapid response than those with initially more severe depressive symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: An exercise training program may be considered an alternative to antidepressants for treatment of depression in older persons. Although antidepressants may facilitate a more rapid initial therapeutic response than exercise, after 16 weeks of treatment exercise was equally effective in reducing depression among patients with MDD.
Full Text
Published version (via Digital Object Identifier)
Pubmed Central version
Duke Authors
Babyak, Michael Alan
Blumenthal, James Alan
Doraiswamy, P. Murali
Forman, Leslie M.
Krishnan, K. Ranga Rama
Waugh, Robert Andrew
Cited Authors
Blumenthal, JA; Babyak, MA; Moore, KA; Craighead, WE; Herman, S; Khatri, P; Waugh, R; Napolitano, MA; Forman, LM; Appelbaum, M; Doraiswamy, PM; Krishnan, KR
Published Date
October 1999
Published In
Archives of Internal Medicine
Volume / Issue
159 / 19
Start / End Page
2349 - 2356
PubMed ID
10547175
Pubmed Central ID
10547175
Electronic International Standard Serial Number (EISSN)
1538-3679
International Standard Serial Number (ISSN)
0003-9926
Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
10.1001/archinte.159.19.2349
Language
eng
Subject Areas on Research
Aged
Antidepressive Agents
Anxiety
Cognition
Combined Modality Therapy
Depressive Disorder
Exercise
Female
Humans
Lung
Lung Volume Measurements
Male
Middle Aged
Physical Fitness
Quality of Life
Self Concept
Severity of Illness Index
Attention Stats
About
Support
Index
Manage Scholars Data
©2019 Duke University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO