3 Ways to Stay Active with Hip Arthritis This Winter
Skip to main content
Spine-health.com Sports-health.com
Arthritis Types
Living with Arthritis
Treatment
Surgery
Forums
Arthritis Types
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Bursitis
Fibromyalgia
General Arthritis
Gout
Juvenile Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
Polymyalgia Rheumatica
Pseudogout
Psoriatic Arthritis
Reactive Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Living with Arthritis
Chronic Pain
Coping with Fatigue
Managing Depression
Treatment
Alternative Treatments
Arthritis Specialists
Diet and Nutrition
Exercise
Injections
Joint Aspiration
Medications
Surgery
Hip Surgery
Knee Surgery
Shoulder Surgery
Forums
All Forums
Alternative Treatments Forum
Chronic Pain Forum
Exercises Forum
Medications Forum
Osteoarthritis Forum
Rheumatoid Arthritis Forum
Surgery Forum
Quick Links
Blog
Find a Doctor
Find an Arthritis Center
Videos
Free Newsletters
You are here
Blog
3 Ways to Stay Active with Hip Arthritis This Winter
3 Ways to Stay Active with Hip Arthritis This Winter
share pin it Newsletters
By Carrie DeVries
Updated: 12/22/2015
There’s no doubt about it: Exercise helps manage the symptoms of hip osteoarthritis.
Studies have shown that a regular exercise program helps you maintain mobility and flexibility. In addition, a new survey of 19 studies shows that exercise decreases short-term pain from hip osteoarthritis too.1
Read more: Hip Osteoarthritis Treatment
Save
The progress of hip osteoarthritis may be slowed by exercising the joint regularly. Watch: Hip Osteoarthritis Video
However, you might be hesitant to try exercising in the winter. Between your joints already being stiff because of the cold weather and the danger of slipping when it’s icy or snowy, you may feel like you’re better off waiting until spring to be active.
Read more: Does Cooler Weather Affect Your Joints?
Before you give up on being active in the winter, consider these options for ways to keep moving through the cold months.
Take a dip.
The pool is an ideal place for someone with hip osteoarthritis to be active in the winter. Not only does the warm, moist air help joints stay more loose and flexible, but when you’re in the water, the weight on your hip joint is greatly reduced.
See Water Therapy for Osteoarthritis
You can join a water aerobics class that will take you through a gentle exercise routine or you can swim laps. If your hip hurts too much to kick during lap-swimming, use a flotation device held between your knees so you can focus just on your stroke.
Read more: Exercising with Arthritis
Article continues below
Advertisement
Add stability.
If you’re ready to take a walk but you’re worried about falling because of your hip and/or slippery conditions, consider giving Nordic walking a try. Nordic walking involves using trekking poles to stabilize your steps and take some of the pressure off your hips with each stride. Many trekking poles come with adjustable rubber-to-metal tips, so you can customize them for dirt or asphalt surfaces.
Read more: Hike to Better Health with Nordic Walking
Build resistance.
Winter is a perfect time to focus on your strength training, also known as resistance training. By strengthening the core and leg muscles that surround your hip joint, you can decrease pain and increase strength and function.
See 7 Core Exercises to Relieve Back and Hip Arthritis Pain
Strength training can be done comfortably inside, either at home or in the gym. You can use weight machines, barbells, resistance bands, or even gravity. Aim to do it 2 to 3 times a week for 30 minutes. Don’t forget to warm up with gentle stretching first, and stop immediately if you feel sharp pain from any exercise.
Read more: Strength Training Can Crush Arthritis Pain
Once you’re done exercising in the winter, you can use heat therapy to warm up and soothe muscles and tissue that may feel sore.
See 9 Easy Ways to Apply Heat to an Arthritic Joint
Learn more:
Hip Pain and Arthritis
Hip Osteoarthritis Diagnosis
Reference:
Effects of exercise and manual therapy on pain associated with hip osteoarthritis: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J Sports Med doi:10.1136/bjsports-2015-095255
Editor's Top Picks
Hip Osteoarthritis Video
What Is Hip Osteoarthritis?
Hip Anatomy
Weight Loss for Hip Osteoarthritis Video
Hip Osteoarthritis Symptoms
Hip Osteoarthritis Treatment
Arthritis Topics
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Bursitis
Fibromyalgia
General Arthritis
Gout
Joint Anatomy
Juvenile Arthritis
Osteoarthritis
Pseudogout
Psoriatic Arthritis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Exercise
Glucosamine and Chondroitin
Diet and Nutrition
Joint Aspiration
Joint Injections
Medications
Shoulder Surgery
Hip Surgery
Knee Surgery
Arthritis Specialists
Glossary
Arthritis Image Gallery
Arthritis Topics A-Z
advertisement
advertisement
Most Popular Blog Posts
Does Cracking Your Knuckles Cause Arthritis?
7 Core Exercises to Relieve Back and Hip Arthritis Pain
4 Types of Arthritis That Cause Sacroiliac Joint Pain
Is My Hand Pain Caused by Arthritis or Carpal Tunnel Syndrome?
Top 4 Supplements to Treat Arthritis Pain
Is My Hip Pain From Arthritis or Bursitis?
6 Ways to Deal with Painful Gout Attacks
Latest
Top Videos
Top Articles
What Is Hyaluronic Acid?
Hyaluronic Acid Injections for Knee Osteoarthritis
Do Hyaluronic Acid Injections Work for Knee Osteoarthritis?
Hyaluronic Acid Injection for Knee Osteoarthritis: Procedure and Risks
Knee Exercises for Arthritis
Lumbar Osteoarthritis Video
Learn how osteoarthritis occurs and how it can cause lower back pain and other symptoms.
Lumbar Osteophytes (Bone Spurs) Video
Learn how bone spurs occur and how they can cause lower back pain and other symptoms.
Ankylosing Spondylitis Video
Watch an overview of the development and progression of ankylosing spondylitis.
Topical Pain Relief for Arthritis
What Is Pannus?
Hand Pain and Rheumatoid Arthritis
Integrative Medicine for Arthritis Pain Relief
Dietary Supplements for Treating Arthritis
Turmeric and Curcumin for Arthritis
Sacroiliac Joint Pain and Inflammation
Applying Heat vs. Cold to an Arthritic Joint
advertisement
Health Information (Sponsored)
Arthritis Resources
Become a Doctor Member
Glossary
Image Gallery
Find a Joint Pain Specialist
Find an Arthritis Center
Sign up for our Newsletter
About Arthritis-health
Accessibility
Authors
About Us
Contact Us
Awards
Careers
Site Map
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertising
Other Veritas Health Websites:
Spine-health
Sports-health
Pain-health
View site: Desktop‌ | Mobile
Veritas Health publishes original and accessible health related content written by more than 100 physician authors and peer-reviewed by a 16 member Medical Advisory Board. The Veritas Health platform comprising of Spine-health.com, Arthritis-health.com, Sports-health.com, and Pain-health.com, provides comprehensive information on back pain, arthritis, sports injuries, and chronic pain conditions. For more information visit Veritashealth.com.
The information on Arthritis-health.com is not intended as a substitute for medical professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding arthritis and arthritis related conditions.
© 1999-2019 Veritashealth.com. All rights reserved.
version.2019.01.051-2019.01.019