Anemia Herbal Treatment, Prevention, Symptoms, Causes, Cured By
Toggle navigation
Home
Vibrant Health
E-Club
Blogs
Sell Herbs
Download App
Find Doctors
Homeowiz
Disease
Herb
Action
Nutrient
Massage Therapy
Glossary
Disease Herb Action
More
Nutrient
Origin
Grown In
Glossary
Download Herbpathy App in 3 Easy Steps
Step 1
Enter 10 digit mobile number.
+91
Send
Step 2
Check your mobile for SMS
(Didn't get the message, repeat Step 1).
Step 3
Click on the link and download.
Ask / Answer a Query
Sponsored Links
Anemia Herbal Treatment, Prevention, Symptoms, Causes, Cured By
Repertory
Send Link
Send Link
Please send this link to:
https://herbpathy.com/Herbal-Treatment-for-Anemia-Cid146
Email Id
x
General Name
Anemia
Medical Name
Anemia
Hindi Name
Arktta, Khoon Ki Kami
Anemia Symptoms
Fatigue
Headache
Blue Fingers
Shortness of breath
Extremities go to sleep
Tingling in extremities
Pallor
Dizziness
Wounds heal slowly
Bruising
Depression
Palpitations of the heart
Shallow fast breathing
Nervousness
Nails become brittle
Loss of Libido
Chronic Lethargy (lack of energy)
Hormonal Imbalance
Cardiac Problems
Respiratory Difficulties
Digestive Problems
Sensitivity to Temperature
Chronic Joint and Intramuscular Pain
Anemia Cured By
Super Effective
Carrot
Most Effective
Acerola
Amaranth
Balloon Vine
Beetroot
Chlorella
Dandelion
Dong Quai
Heerak Bhasma
Jackfruit
Parsley
Pigeon Pea
Pink Trumpet...
Plum
Rehmannia
Spirulina
Stinging Nettle
Strophanthus...
White Peony
Yellow Dock
Highly Effective
Acacia Nilotica
Aerva Lanata
Agrimony
Alfalfa
Apple Cider Vinegar
Arsenicum Album
Artemisia Absinthium
Asteracantha Lo...
Barberry
Boerhavia Diffusa
Carcinosin
Carissa Carandas
Catnip
Celery
Chicory
Fenugreek
Ferrum Metallicum
Gentiana Lutea
Goji Berry
Laminaria Japonica
Lemon
Lemon Balm
Mango
Marsh Orchid
Myrrh
Navara Rice
Pomegranate
Punarnavarishta
Raisin
Rhodiola
Royal Jelly
Sage
Sea Buckthorn
Swarna Bhasma
Sweet Flag
Taro
Thyme
Triphala
Turmeric
Watercress
Withania Somnifera
Effective
Abuta
Acacia Chundra
Acai Palm
Adenia Cissampe...
Adhatoda Vasica
Adina Cordifoli...
African Cabbage
African Pear
Agave
Ajwa Date
Alchornea
Aletris Farinos...
Almond
Alstonia Schola...
Ambrette
American Ginsen...
Amomum Aromatic...
Angelica Essent...
Anthocephalus C...
Apricot
Argyreia Nervos...
Aristolochia In...
Arjuna
Arrabidaea Chic...
Artemisia Marit...
Asparagus
Asparagus Racem...
Asphaltum
Ass Hide Glue
Astragalus
Avocado
Baby Watermelon
Bacopa Monnieri
Bael
Baliospermum Mo...
Banana
Baobab
Barleria
Barley
Basil
Bayberry
Bee Pollen
Benincasa Hispi...
Bitter Gourd
Bitter Orange
Bitter Quassia
Black Bean
Black Goji Berr...
Black Pepper
Black Plum
Black Seed
Black Seed Oil
Blackberry
Bladderwrack
Bodhi Tree
Bombax Ceiba
Bridelia Stipul...
Broad Bean
Broccoli
Bullock’s Heart
Calcarea Phosph...
Calcium Carbona...
Calumba
Campeche
Caper
Carboneum Sulph...
Carqueja
Cascarilla
Casearia Toment...
Cassia Absus
Cassia Occident...
Castor
Catechu
Centaury
Chenopodium Alb...
Cherry
Chickpea
Chinese Date
Chinese Spinach
Chinese Tinospo...
Chive
Cicely
Cichorium Endiv...
Clarified Butte...
Clerodendrum Ph...
Clinacanthus Nu...
Cocoa
Coconut
Codonopsis
Comfrey
Commiphora Muku...
Common Milk Hed...
Common Salt
Condurango
Contrayerva
Copper
Costus Speciosu...
Cressa Cretica
Cucumber
Cumin
Curry Leaf
Cynodon Dactylo...
Dates
Detarium Senega...
Dichrostachys C...
Drumstick
Drumstick Leaf
Early Marsh Orc...
East Indian Arr...
Ebony Tree
Echium Vulgare
Eclipta
Egg Fruit
Elephantopus Sc...
Epazote
Euphorbia Hirta
Euryale Seed
False Acacia
False Unicorn
Fennel
Ficus Hispida
Fig
Finger Millet
Formosan Gum
Fox Grape
Fumaria Indica
Galega Officina...
Galium Verum
Garlic
Garlic Pear Tre...
Gaub Tree
Genipap
Glycosmis Penta...
Gmelina
Goat Milk
Golden Shower
Grape
Green Amaranth
Grewia Asiatica
Gymnema
Haematoxylum Ca...
Hawthorn
Hazelnut
Henna
Hibiscus Canabi...
Hibiscus Tiliac...
Himatanthus Suc...
Honey
Horse Gram
Horseradish
Indian Gooseber...
Indian Pennywor...
Indigo
Inula Racemosa
Ipecacuanha
Iridium Metalli...
Jaggery
Jarrinha
Jatoba
Jurubeba
Kale
Key Lime
Kidney Beans
Lady Finger
Land Caltrops
Lemon Essential...
Lentil
Levant Wormseed
Lindera Benzoin
Long Pepper
Luffa Echinata
Lychee
Maca
Maerua Arenaria
Marigold
Marijuana
Mica
Milk
Molasses
Morus Alba
Morus Nigra
Mugwort
Myrica Rubra
Naregamia Alata
Nepali Hog Plum
Olive
Onion
Operculina Turp...
Orange
Oregano
Oregon Grape
Pandanus Amaryl...
Panicled Cassin...
Papaya
Peach
Pearl Millet
Phosphoricum Ac...
Phyllanthus Ret...
Picricum Acidum
Pineapple
Pistia Stratiot...
Plumbago Zeylan...
Pomegranate Rin...
Pomelo
Portulaca Quadr...
Premna Tomentos...
Psoralea
Psoralea Oil
Pumpkin
Pyrrosia Lingua
Quail Egg
Quinine
Rhaponticum Car...
Rhus Coriaria
Roselle
Rubus Parviflor...
Rukam
Safflower
Salvia Divinoru...
Sapodilla
Sappan Wood
Sargassum Fusif...
Sargent Gloryvi...
Scarlet Bush
Schrebera Swiet...
Securinega Viro...
Senna
Shiitake
Shoe Flower
Shorea Robusta
Sida Cordifolia
Silicea
Simarouba
Simarouba Amara
Snake Gourd
Snake Wood
Snow Lotus
Soapnut
Solanum Xanthoc...
Sorghum
Soursop
Southernwood
Spatholobus Sub...
Sphaeranthus In...
Spikenard
Spinach
Spondias Mombin
St John's Wort
Stonebreaker
Strawberry
Strychnos Potat...
Sugar Apple
Sugarcane
Suma
Sunhemp
Swamp Pea
Sweet Potato
Swietenia Macro...
Swietenia Mahag...
Swiss Chard
Tamamuri
Tayuya
Teff
Teramnus
Terminalia Bell...
Terminalia Cheb...
Terminalia Pani...
Tetrapanax Papy...
Tinospora Cordi...
Trianthema Port...
Tribulus Alatus
Trikuta
Tropaeolum Minu...
Turkey Berry
Urtica Urens
Vanadium Metall...
Veratrum Album
Verbascum Thaps...
Vetiver
Vinegar
Walnut
Water Chestnut
Wedelia Chinens...
Wheat
Wheatgrass
Winter's Bark
Yarrow
Ziziphus Oenopl...
Alafia Barteri
Albertisia Cord...
Albizia Glaberr...
Albizia Versico...
Aloe Lateritia
Amaranthus Blit...
Amaranthus Dubi...
Amphimas Pteroc...
Anthocleista Sc...
Bird Flower
Brahma Kamal
Casearia Ellipt...
Chamaecrista Ab...
Cherry Stem
Codonopsis Tang...
Cordeauxia Edul...
Crowberry
Dipterocarpus G...
Dried Dates
Euadenia Eminen...
Ferry Sulphaz
Gaillardia Pinn...
Galeopsis Tetra...
Gongronema Lati...
Grewia Mollis
Grewia Scleroph...
Guibourtia Tess...
Hedychium Thyrs...
Hedychium thyrs...
Hibiscus Acetos...
Hibiscus Asper
Jatropha Glandu...
Largeleaf Gloch...
Malabar Tree Ne...
Mattha
Pedicularis Can...
Pineappleweed
Piper Chaba
Polianthes Tube...
Pulsatilla Alpi...
Salvia Leaved C...
Sarcostemma Vim...
Scoparia Dulcis
Sea Grapes
Shallot
Shrubby Sea Bli...
Tamarack
Torch Tree
Vachellia Xanth...
Weeping Lovegra...
Sponsored Links
Description
Anemia is a disease of the Red Blood Cells.
The deficiency of the Red Blood Cells in the blood is called Anemia.
Red Blood cells (RBC) carry oxygen to various parts of the body.
Hemoglobin is a red protein responsible for transporting oxygen in the blood.
The ability of the RBCs to carry oxygen may be impaired. Hemoglobin problem.
The number of RBCs may have decreased. Low RBC count.
In either case, the body organs are starved of oxygen and become diseased.
Normal parameters for an adult are as follows:
RBC Count 4 to 5.5 Million per Milliliter
Hemoglobin 12 to 16.5 Grams per Deciliter
Anemia will appear as paleness on your face.
Anemia may be genetic.
Women during pregnancy are particularly affected from iron-deficiency anemia due to the blood loss from menstruation and the increased blood demands in the later stages of pregnancy.
One of the primary causes of Anemia is the lack of iron.
This deficiency is not due to less than normal intake of iron but probably due to the lack of assimilation.
Treatment should focus on correcting the metabolism rather than increasing the iron intake.
If the Anemia is caused due to abnormal breakdown of the RBCs, we call it Hemolytic Anemia.
Types of Anemia
More than 400 types of Anemia exist. Few common types are :
Iron deficiency Anemia : It is caused by shortage of iron in the body. Iron is needed for making hemoglobin.
Vitamin deficiency Anemia : A lack of folate and B12 vitamin in diet may cause Vitamin deficiency anemia. These nutrients are needed for making red blood cells.
Anemia of chronic disease : Cancer, Rheumatoid Arthritis, HIV/AIDS may affect the production of red blood cells. It may result into chronic anemia.
Aplastic Anemia : It is a rare form of anemia. The Bone Marrow fails to produce healthy red blood cells. It may be caused by an infection, drug and autoimmune disorder.
Sickle cell Anemia : It is a serious condition. A defective hemoglobin produces abnormal shaped red blood cells. These RBC's die prematurely and result into a chronic condition.
Causes of Anemia
Poor Diet
Pregnancy
Hemophilia
Hemorrhoids
Loss of Blood
Hormonal Imbalance
Deficiency of Iron
Less production of the Red Blood Cells
Differential Diagnosis
Anemia : is the decrease in the Red Blood Cells. The Hemoglobin in the Blood goes down.
Haemophilia : is the inability of the body to clot or coagulate the Blood. Normally when the body is cut the Blood clots or coagulates and the bleeding stops. If a Blood Vessel breaks, the Blood will automatically clot or coagulate and bleeding will stop. Haemophilia is generally hereditary and passed down from the mother to son.
Sickle Cell Anemia : When the normal shape of the Red Blood Cells becomes abnormal it is Sickle Cell Anemia.
Common Names
Anaemia
Anemia
Arktta
Bloodlessness
Chlorosis
Hemolytic Anemi...
Khoon ki kami
Pandu
Body Part(s)
Blood
Blood Diseases
Anoxia
Aplastic Anemia
Blood Cancer
Blood Disorders
Blood Impurity
Dengue
Haemophilia
Hematoma
Hemoglobin High
High Triglycerides
Hyperinsulinemia
Hypoxia
Leucopenia
Low Platelet Count
Septicemia
Thalassemia
Uremia
Sponsored Links
Materia Medica for Anemia
Single Herb
Panicled Cassine for Anemia
Bark of Panicled Cassine is found to be useful even in extreme cases of Anemia.
Coarsely grind the bark of Panicled Cassine. Boil 2 tablespoons of powdered roots in 2 cups of water until it remains half. Stain and store. Take 10 ml of of the prepared decoction twice a day.
Golden Shower for Anemia
Take the flowers. Grind them properly. Add one tablespoon honey in one tablespoon paste. Have it once a day.
Indian Pennywort ( Brahma Manduki ) for Anemia
Iron content of Indian Pennywort ( Brahma Manduki in India ) helps to treat Anemia.
Take a teaspoon of Indian Pennywort ( Brahma Manduki ) extract twice a day.
Long Leaved Barleria for Anemia
Grind the seeds. Take 1/4 teaspoon with water once a day
Yellow Dock ( Churka) for Anemia
The root of Yellow Dock ( Churka in India ) is a natural source of Iron. Iron is responsible for the formation of red blood cells.
Add one tablespoon of coarsely grind roots in a cup of water. Boil for 10 minutes. Have a cup of decoction once in a day.
Or : Purchase capsules from the market. Have one Capsule every day.
Dandelion ( Dudal ) for Anemia
Dandelion ( Dudal in India ) is rich in Vitamin B, Vitamin C, Manganese and Iron. These all nutrients are helpful in the formation of blood and it also maintain the balance of blood.
Prepare tea from Dandelion leaves. Add Honey or Lemon for taste. Drink twice a day.
Raisin ( Kishmish ) for Anemia
Raisins ( Kishmish in India ) contain Iron, Copper and Vitamin B. These nutrients are essential for the formation of Red blood cells.
Soak 15 to 25 Raisins ( Kishmish) in water. Leave it overnight. Next morning, eat the Raisins ( Kishmish) and drink the water. Repeat the process everyday.
Drumstick For Anemia
Cook the leaves of Drumstick and eat as a vegetable. It is a very good source of Iron.
Genipap for Anemia
Prepare a juice of Genipap fruit. Take it, twice a day.
Horseradish for Anemia
Cook Horseradish leaves as vegetable. Take it once a day.
Tinospora Cordifolia ( Guduchika ) for Anemia
Tinospora Cordifolia ( Guduchika in India ) assists the regeneration of Red Blood Cells.
Take the fresh whole Tinospora Cordifolia ( Guduchika ). Coarsely grind the herb and squeeze out the juice. Have 2 tablespoon of juice daily for a month and get your Red Blood Count tested.
Beetroot ( Chakundar ) for Anemia
Beetroot ( Chakundar in India ) is a good source of Iron. It helps in the production of Red Blood Cells.
Have Beetroot in Salad, Juice or in soup form.
Terminalia Chebula for Anemia
Heat Ghee and add Terminalia Chebula powder. Mix Honey. Give two tablespoon once a day to an Anemic patients.
Papaya ( Papita ) for Anemia
Take one small bowl of Papaya pulp once a day.
Onion ( Pyaj ) for Anemia
Take Onion juice with Honey.
Or
Consume 1 tsp Onion juice with Jaggery and water.
Commiphora Mukul ( Guggul ) for Anemia
Take 1/2 teaspoon powder of Commiphora Mukul. Add one teaspoon each of honey and Lime juice to it. Take it in the morning before breakfast.
Figs ( Anjeer ) for Anemia
Eat 2 figs a day.
Indian Gooseberry ( Amla ) for Anemia
Consuming Amla either in raw or juice form helps in increasing hemoglobin.
Turmeric ( Haldi ) for Anemia
Turmeric ( Haldi ) is a good source of Iron. Iron is the main element for the growth of Red Blood Cells.
Take a teaspoon of raw turmeric juice with honey. It is an effective way to treat Anemia.
Caution : As Turmeric ( Haldi ) is warm in potency, thus, it is not suggested to have it in summers.
Turkey Berry for Anemia
Take 5 to 6 Turkey Berry. Fry them in Ghee. Powder. Have 1/4 teaspoon thrice a day.
Verbascum Thapsus for Anemia
Prepare a decoction of Verbascum Thapsus leaves. Have it, once a day.
Basil ( Tulsi ) Leaves for Anemia
Mix one drop extract of Basil ( Tulsi ) Leaves in a glass of water. Drink it twice a day.
Aristolochia Indica for Anemia
Take 4 g dried leaves powder of Aristolochia Indica twice a day. Have it with lukewarm water.
Apricot ( Khubani ) for Anemia
Have 6-8 Apricots daily. It is a good source of Iron.
Jaggery ( Gur) for Anemia
Have a piece of Jaggery daily. It contain iron in high quantity.
Fenugreek ( Methi ) for Anemia
Consume Fenugreek ( Methi ) leaves in cooked form helps in curing Anemia.
Cherry ( Gilas ) for Anemia
Cherry ( Gilas ) contains iron which prevents Anemia.
Eat 8 to 10 Cherry ( Gilas ) once a day.
OR : Take one glass juice of fresh Cherry ( Gilas ).
Wheatgrass for Anemia
Drink half glass of Wheatgrass juice daily.
OR : Powder dried Wheatgrass. Have one teaspoon powder with normal water.
Mango ( Aam ) for Anemia
Mango ( Aam ) is rich in iron.
Consume a Mango ( Aam ) a day or take it in the form of juice or shake.
Arjuna for Anemia
Boil Arjuna bark in water for 10 minutes. Consume 5 ml when bearable hot. Have it two times a day.
Banana ( Kela ) for Anemia
Prepare root infusion of Banana ( Kela ) plant. Have 2 tsp of it once a day.
Morus Nigra for Anemia
Drink 5 ml fruit juice of Morus Nigra everyday.
Broccoli for Anemia
Eat Broccoli once a day either in raw or cooked form.
Agave for Anemia
Take 1 tsp dried leaf powder of Agave once a day. Have it with lukewarm water.
Chickpea for Anemia
Soak 50 gram of Chickpea overnight in water. Eat them as raw in the morning or fry them in ghee, once a day for a week.
Dates ( Khajur ) for Anemia
Add 2 to 3 Dates ( Khajur ) in a cup of milk. Soak it overnight. Eat the dates in the morning on an empty stomach.
OR : Eat 3 to 4 dates with warm milk before going to bed. You may also add 1 teaspoon Clarified butter in the milk.
Spinach ( Palak ) for Anemia
Spinach ( Palak ) consists of Vitamin C, Iron and Beta Carotene. These nutrients are essential to prevent and treat Anemia. Add Spinach (Palak) in your daily diet to enhance blood flow in the body.
Add Spinach ( Palak ) in salads.
OR : Have it in soup from. Add Spinach ( Palak ) leaves to 2 cups of water. Boil for 10 to 15 minutes. Add required seasoning for taste. Drink the soup twice a day. It helps to fight Anemia.
Sorghum ( Jowar ) for Anemia
Sorghum ( Jowar ) is a good source of Iron, Vitamin C and Dietary Fiber. These all help in formation of Red Blood Cells.
Eat it in any way. You may have Sorghum ( Jowar ) in bread form or any other way.
Alfalfa ( Vilaiti Gawuth ) for Anemia
Alfalfa ( Jungli Lucerne) contains Vitamin C and Phytochemicals. Phytochemicals help the body to absorb Iron from the food.
Add Alfalfa ( Vilaiti Gawuth ) in your diet.
You may add two tablespoons of sprouted Alfalfa ( Jungli Lucerne ) in sandwich or salads or cook as a vegetable.
OR : Add two teaspoons of Alfalfa ( Jungli Lucerne ) seeds in a cup of water. Boil for 15 to 20 minutes. Drink this tea everyday for a month.
Turkey Berry ( Titbaigun ) for Anemia
Turkey Berry ( Titbaigun in india ) possesses Anti-anemic property. It helps to increase the red blood counts.
Take dried Turkey Berry ( Titbaigun in india ). Roast 8 to 10 berries in Clarified Butter ( Desi Ghee in India ). Grind the roasted berries. Sprinkle the powder over whole day meals. Repeat the process daily for a month and then go for your hemoglobin tested.
Boerhavia Diffusa for Anemia
Extract juice from the whole plant of Boerhavia Diffusa. Consume 10 to 15 ml of juice for 45 days. Consult with your medicinal practitioner before taking the dose.
Kale for Anemia
Consuming Kale in your diet provides energy boosting nutrients to your body to fight against anemia.
Almond ( Badam ) for Anemia
Soak 10 Almonds in water for 2 hours. After 2 hours, peel off the skin and make a paste by grinding them. Consume this mixture for 3 months.
Curry Leaf ( Karipatta ) for Anemia
Consume one teaspoon of Dried Curry leaves with one cup of Hot water.
You can also consume it with warm Milk.
Fennel ( Saunf ) for Anemia
Boil two cups of water. Add three tablespoons of Fennel seeds and Rose petals in equal proportion. Let it boil for 10 minutes. Strain and drink it, two times a day.
Sesame for Anemia
Soak 1 tablespoon of black Sesame seeds in water over night. Next day make a paste and add 1 teaspoon of Honey in it. Have it every day.
OR : You may add Sesame seed paste and Honey to a cup of milk. Add 1 teaspoon of Jaggery to it.
Tomato for Anemia
Eat 2 to 3 Tomatoes daily. Do not forget to remove their skin and seeds.
Parsley for Anemia
Eat fresh or dried Parsley daily. You can also add it to soups and salads.
OR : Have a cup of fresh Parsley tea daily.
Bottle Gourd for Anemia
Have a glass of fresh Bottle gourd juice daily.
OR : Add 1 beetroot and a half bottle gourd. Make a soup and have it every day.
Rosehip for Anemia
Rosehip contains a good amount of Iron. This is beneficial for Anemic patients.
Have a cup of Rosehip tea every day.
Sponsored Links
Multiple Herbs How to Use Herbal Treatment? Click Here +
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 1
Take 1 tablespoon each of Acacia Nilotica gum, Basil and Purslane. Fry in some Olive oil for 10 Minutes. Now soak it in 1 cup Rose Water. Take One tablespoon Thrice a day.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 2
Crush the leaves of Adhatoda Vasica . Make its decoction. Add 5 g Honey in it. Have 20 ml of it twice a day. Use for 40 days.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 3
Take Gum Acacia, Purslane and Basil. Grind them together. Fry powder in equal quantity of Olive oil. Cool it. Soak it in Rose Water for one hour. Have one teaspoon thrice a day for a month.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 4
Prepare tea from Stinging Nettle, Lemon or Raspberry leaf. Drink twice a day.
Or : Use Stinging Nettle capsules.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 5
Mix two tablespoon Honey in Banana. Have it once a day.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 6
Prepare juice of Celery leaves and Carrot. Strain. Drink.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 7
Mix Indian gooseberry, Honey, Sugarcane juice, in equal quantity. Drink this cup once a day.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 8
Take Catechu gum, Basil leaves and Purslane in 3:1:1 ratio. Fry them in Olive oil for 6-7 minutes. Soak the fried mixture in bowl full of Rose Water. Let it stand for one day. Take 1 tsp once a day.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 9
Blend a teaspoon of Turmeric ( Haldi ) in a cup of Yogurt.
Eat on an empty stomach in the morning and before meals in the afternoon.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 10
Mix equal quantity of Apple ( Seb ) juice with Beetroot ( Chukander ) juice. Add some Honey for good taste and drink daily.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 11
Soak One tablespoon Sesame seeds ( Til ) in some water for 2-3 hours. Now crush them well to make a paste. Mix One tablespoon of Honey and take two times a day.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia 12
Mix 15 g of Chicory roots with similar amount of Celery and Parsley. Add this to your daily diet. Eat this combination twice a day.
Herbal Treatment For Anemia
Mix the juice of Drumstick Leaf in one small cup with 1 to 2 teaspoons of Lemon juice. Drink it once a day.
Or
Mix fresh juice of Drumstick Leaf with 1 tablespoon of Honey ( Shehad ) and 2 tablespoons Coconut water. Consume it once a day for 2 to 3 week.
Sponsored Links
Queries on Anemia
Monika Sharma
01 Jul 2015
Sir/Ma'am
Recently I have gone through my regular check up. My Hemoglobin was 8.5 g/dl. I want to increase my Hb. Please suggest me something.
Reply
Herbapthy Research Team
02 Jul 2015
Dear Monika,
There is a very a simple solution to this problem. Just soak 20 to 30 raisins in water and leave it over night. Next morning, drink that water and also, eat those Raisins. Repeat the process for at least one month.
Regards,
Herbpathy Research Team
( Make Life Healthy )
Reply
Mukesh singh ( India/uttrakhand )
27 Mar 2016
Mem my brother suffering Anemia ....His Hb is 8.5. Please suggest me how to increase his hemoglobin level.... Please we are waiting your suggestion.
Reply
Herbpathy
28 Mar 2016
Dear Mukesh
Your mother is advise to follow the regimen.
Take 20 to 30 raisins and soak them in water for whole night. Next morning eat those raisins and drink that water too.
Take a fruit diet also. Add Kiwi, Pomegranate and Carrot juice to her diet. Take these things for at least 1 month. Study the results. Write us back with results.
This advice is for educational purpose only. It is not intended to replace a doctor. Please consult your doctor before taking any herb.
Reply
Elis ( Ghana/Takoradi )
05 Oct 2016
I can't eat well and am therefore having anaemia amidst dizziness,please what should I do
Reply
Herbpathy
06 Oct 2016
Dear Elis
Don't worry, we suggest you to follow the regimen.
1. Eat a healthy fruit diet like Kiwi, Pomegranate and an apple every morning.
2. Drink fresh lemon water every day.
3. Eat a bowl of curd every day.
4. Eat vitamin C rich foods.
5. Eat more green Vegetables.
6. Buy Aloe vera and Aamla ( Indian Gooseberry ) juice and take 1 tablespoon each of them at every morning.
Things to avoid :
1. Avoid White sugar, White bread, white rice and all purpose flour.
2. Avoid Junk food and caffeine.
Also do some exercise daily. It will set your metabolic activities right. You need to be have patient and follow the regimen regularly to get better results. Write us back after 2 months.
This advice is for educational purpose only. It is not intended to replace a doctor. Please consult your doctor before taking any herb.
Reply
Alex ( Ghana )
07 Oct 2016
I have Sickle Cell Anaemia and my Hb is 6.0. Please what should do to increase it. I also learnt that too much iron is not good for sickle cell patients.
Reply
Bhushan
21 Oct 2016
Dear Alex I suggest you a glass of green juice daily. Get a handfull leaves of Carrot, Beetroot and Spinach. Take out fresh juice and have one glass daily.
Reply
Bhushan
21 Oct 2016
Take it for 15 days only
Reply
Marie
19 Oct 2016
My iron is low and so is ferritin. RBC and Hemoglobin are in normal range. Anything specific that I should take?Been reading to take turmeric in honey, and add lemon and black pepper and have it as a tea. Is that recommended for this?
Reply
NMC
21 Oct 2016
Dear Marie
You better take leaves juice of vegetables daily.
Take a hand full of Carrot leaves, Beetroot leaves and Spinach. Take out juice and have one glass every day for 15 days only.
Reply
Charmine williams ( Trinidad and Tobago )
30 Oct 2016
I have iron deficiency anemia, whenever I have my monthly cycle makes it worse. I seem to be constantly trying to build my iron in take. How can I manage/control/get rid of this condition so my iron level will stabilize, and not be feeling tired, fatigue,depressed constantly.
Reply
Jagdeep
09 Nov 2016
Dear Charmine
I suggest you to try the following herbs.
Take Dong Quai capsule every day for 15 days. It will help to tone up your reproductive organs.
Take 1 glass of Green leaf juice every day for 15 days only. You may add Carrot leaves, Beetroot leaves and spinach. You may make it as a soup also and add Tomatoes. Have Beetroot juice and Pomegranate juice daily.
Soak Sesame seeds in water over night. Next morning grind the Sesame seeds and make a paste. Add 1 teaspoon of Honey into it. Consume it every day.
Reply
Susantha ( Sri Lanka )
13 Jan 2017
my sister 25 years old.. she is suffering rheumatoid arthrities since 6 years.. she is suffering chronic anemia..hb = 9.0
Reply
Herbpathy
01 Feb 2017
Dear Susantha
We advise her the following
Take Bosewellia tablet 1 every day.
Buy mother tincture of Tinospora Cordifolia from a Homeopathy and take 10 drops in a glass of water 2 times in a day.
Write us back after 1 month.
This advice is for educational purpose only. It is not intended to replace a doctor. Please consult your doctor before taking any herb.
Reply
Jaren ( USA/ MI )
09 Mar 2017
My 20 month old daughter has sickle cell anemia and her hemoglobin fluctuates. Which dosages are safe for her with her young age?
Reply
Herbpathy
10 Mar 2017
Dear Jaren
Buy Ceanothus Americanus in LM potency of 0/1, 0/3 and 0/5.
Start with 0/1 : Give her one dose once in a day for 10 days.
Then give her 0/3 : One dose once in a day for 10 days.
0/5 : one dose once in a day for 10 days.
If you did not find LM potency then, Buy Ceanothus Americanus 1M. You may get this from a Homeopathy shop. Give her 1 dose once in a week and give her for 6 weeks.
You may write us with results after 1 month.
This advice is for educational purpose only. It is not intended to replace a doctor. Please consult your doctor before taking any herb.
Reply
Eunice ( Nigeria/abuja )
14 Jun 2017
I have anaemia because of cancer treatment, what can I use
Reply
Herbpathy
14 Jun 2017
Dear Eunice
Have a glass of Carrot and Beetroot use every day.
Have 1 capsule of Echinacea and Goldenseal every day for 1 month. It will boost your immunity.
Have a fresh shot of Wheat grass juice every day. And also include Carrots, Beetroots and Celery in your daily diet. They fight to prevent the cancer growth in the body.
Have a cup of fresh Aamla ( Indian Goose Berry ) juice every morning.
This advice is for educational purpose only. It is not intended to replace a doctor. Please consult your doctor before taking any herb.
Reply
Lori ( RI )
30 Jul 2017
Hello. I have a bone marrow disease called Paroxsmyal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria and now how hypochromic anemia which is an overload of iron in my system. Is there anything I can do/take to help my system get rid of the overload? Any help here would be greatly appreciated.
Reply
Herbpathy
31 Jul 2017
Dear Lori
Buy Tribulus Terrestris tincture from a Homeopathy shop and have 10 drops in a glass of water 2 times in a day.
Take it for 1 month and see the results.
This advice is for educational purpose only. It is not intended to replace a doctor. Please consult your doctor before taking any herb.
Reply
Krishna ( India )
03 Oct 2017
My mother suffering from severe aplastic anemia (past 3months) and she is in hospital for the past 3 months. Her WBC is very low .68, Platelets count 5000. For past 10 years she had taken medicines for Rhumetoid Arthritis.
Hence request to suggest some remedial measures for the same!!!!
Reply
Kirat
08 Nov 2017
Dear Krishna
Buy Nyctanthes mother tincture from a Homeopathy shop and give your mother 5 drops 2 times in a day. Try it for 15 days and see the effects.
Reply
Kezia ( Guyana )
15 Mar 2018
I'm 22 and troubling from sickle cell anemia since age 3, doctors claim i shouldn't take iron n caffeine but they never said why....and my HB always low around 5.0 - 6.0 once reaches 7.0 but don't be higher than 7.0, it cause me to have a painful foot ulcer on both my ankle 3 years now and not healing...
Please what can i used to help my situation?
Reply
Manika
05 Apr 2018
Dear Kezia Buy Ceanothus Americanus mother tincture from a Homeopathy shop and have 10 drops in a glass of water 2 times in a day.
Soak a few Raisins in a bowl of water and have it every morning on empty stomach. Drink that water too in which they are soaked.
Reply
LAMWAKA ALICE VERONICA ( UGANDA )
19 Feb 2019
I AM FROM UGANDA. MY HB IS ONLY 8 AND I HAVE ARTHRITIS. WHICH MEDICINE SHOULD I USE.
Reply
Your Query - This is a community service. You may ask and answer a query.
Suggestion
Review Suggestion
Your Query
Ok, I Understand
x
[Note: You are requested to write correct English only. Please do not use SMS English, Short Text and Words like hi, hello.]
Gender
Male Female
Name
*
Enter Text
*
Country / State
[Optional: For better guidance]
Email
[Optional: To get email Alert]
Phone Number
[Optional: To get message Alert]
Sponsored Links
Recently Posted Reviews
Equisetum Hyemale Herb - I have nocturia.Frequent urination at night. Kindly suggest ...Cancer Bush Herb -
I can’t believe my GENITAL HERPES and HIV is really cu...Indian Rosewood Herb - Dear team
Will you please tell me my brother is having a...Pyrogenium Herb - Sir I am suffering from typhoid repeated from one year again...Arjuna Herb - i am 47 years old .currently I am taking benazepil 20 mg pe...Sacha Inchi Herb - Can we use Sacha inchi leaves for medicine? Is it good for...Cancer Bush Herb - What parts are used to make cancer Bush powder to make capsu...Phyllanthus Amarus Herb - Good evening Ma/Sir....
please, how can I prepare dry P...Blocked Fallopian Tubes Disease - my name is Palmer Amanda from London, Am here to share how l...Herpes Disease - I have been using this herbal cure remedy for 3 months now. ...Syphilis Disease -
I can’t believe my GENITAL HERPES and HIV is really cu...Aplastic Anemia Disease - My son was diagnosed with AA which also gave him Paroxysmal ...Sexually Transmitted Diseases Disease - Can Where cure venereal diseases...HIV AIDS Disease - I am indeed very happy for my life; I never thought that I w...Premature Ejaculation Disease - I have been having premature ejaculation for over 10 years n...Bradycardia Disease - I am 74 years old. I practice pahdmasana in the mornings th...
Loading...
Message *
Email
Mobile Number
© 2019 Herbpathy – About Us Privacy Policy Contact Us Disclaimer Download App
Downlaod App
Continue to Mobile Site
'; // div_add2.innerHTML += ' '; // div_add2.innerHTML += '
'; // div_add2.innerHTML = ' ';
"; }