Eczema: FDA approves Dupixent injection - Outbreak News Today
Follow
About Us
Privacy Policy
US News
Europe
Asia
Africa
Latin America and the Caribbean
Canada
Indian subcontinent
Australia
Middle East
BREAKING
Ontario: York Region lists possible measles exposure sites
Measles exposure advisory for LAX
Sri Lanka dengue cases near 14k year-to-date, Expert warns of DEN-3
Reunion reports more than 1,000 dengue cases in a week
Karachi reports 1st Naegleria fowleri death of the year
Outbreak News Radio
Interviews
Drugs and antibiotics
Vaccines
Research
Blogs
Write for us
Become a Patron
TRENDING
US News
Latin America and the Caribbean
Animal diseases
Home » Drugs and antibiotics » Eczema: FDA approves Dupixent injection
Eczema: FDA approves Dupixent injection
by Press Release
March 28, 2017
Drugs and antibiotics, Non-Communicable Health News
1 Comment
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved Dupixent (dupilumab) injection to treat adults with moderate-to-severe eczema (atopic dermatitis). Dupixent is intended for patients whose eczema is not controlled adequately by topical therapies, or those for whom topical therapies are not advisable. Dupixent can be used with or without topical corticosteroids.
Image/ Jambula at English Wikipedia
“FDA’s approval of Dupixent demonstrates our commitment to approving new and innovative therapies for patients with skin disease,” said Julie Beitz, M.D., director of the Office of Drug Evaluation III in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. “Eczema can cause significant skin irritation and discomfort for patients, so it is important to have a variety of treatment options available to patients, including those patients whose disease is not controlled by topical therapies.”
Atopic dermatitis, a chronic inflammatory skin disease, is often referred to as “eczema,” which is a general term for several types of inflammation of the skin. Atopic dermatitis is the most common of the many types of eczema; onset typically begins in childhood and can last through adulthood. The cause of atopic dermatitis is a combination of genetic, immune and environmental factors. In atopic dermatitis, the skin develops red, scaly and crusted bumps, which are extremely itchy. Scratching leads to swelling, cracking, “weeping” clear fluid, and finally, coarsening and thickening of the skin.
Dupixent is administered as an injection under the skin. Dupixent’s active ingredient is an antibody (dupilumab) that binds to a protein [interleukin-4 (IL-4) receptor alpha subunit (IL-4R)], that causes inflammation. By binding to this protein, Dupixent is able to inhibit the inflammatory response that plays a role in the development of atopic dermatitis.
The safety and efficacy of Dupixent were established in three placebo-controlled clinical trials with a total of 2,119 adult participants with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis not adequately controlled by topical medication(s). Overall, participants who received Dupixent achieved greater response, defined as clear or almost clear skin, and experienced a reduction in itch after 16 weeks of treatment.
Dupixent can cause side effects such as serious allergic reactions and eye problems, such as pink eye (conjunctivitis) and inflammation of the cornea (keratitis). If patients experience new or worsening eye symptoms such as redness, itching, pain or visual changes, they should consult a health care provider. The most common side effects include injection site reactions; cold sores in the mouth or on the lips; and eye and eyelid inflammation, including redness, swelling and itching.
The safety and efficacy of Dupixent have not been established in the treatment of asthma. Patients who also have asthma should not adjust or stop their asthma treatment without talking to their physicians.
The FDA granted the application for Dupixent Priority Review and Breakthrough Therapy designation.
The FDA granted the approval of Dupixent to Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
One thought on “Eczema: FDA approves Dupixent injection”
Pingback: Eczema: FDA approves Dupixent injection | World Wide Outbreak
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Newsletter
Subscribe to our periodic Newsletter
* indicates required
Email Address *
Recent Posts
Ontario: York Region lists possible measles exposure sites
Measles exposure advisory for LAX
Sri Lanka dengue cases near 14k year-to-date, Expert warns of DEN-3
Reunion reports more than 1,000 dengue cases in a week
Karachi reports 1st Naegleria fowleri death of the year
Cholera update: Yemen and Somalia
Ukraine closes in on 40,000 measles cases
Streptococcus suis infections in Thailand, 10 deaths in first three months
Japan syphilis update and other infectious diseases
Opioids: Generic naloxone nasal spray gets FDA nod to treat overdose
Chikungunya outbreak affects 8,000 in the Republic of the Congo
Connecticut: Bobcat that attacked golfer, horse had rabies
Tennessee reports 1st measles case of 2019
Hepatitis A outbreak: Pinellas and Pasco counties account for 38 percent of Florida cases
Maryland: 4th measles case reported in Baltimore, Pikesville area
Measles in California update, Pertussis death in Orange County infant
Indiana University mumps cases rise to 17
San Francisco reports big syphilis increases in women
Global measles up 300 percent in 2019
Measles: Without renewed focus on vaccination efforts, the disease may rebound in full force
© Copyright Outbreak News Today
This website uses cookies to provide you with the best browsing experience.
Find out more or adjust your settings.
Accept
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
disable
If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.
Enable All
Save Changes