Blog - Exercise Physiologists in Melbourne | Inspire Fitness for Wellbeing - EXERCISE PHYSIOLOGY SERVICES AT INSPIRE FITNESS FOR WELLBEING
Call our Exercise Physiologists on (03) 9857 3007
EXERCISE PHYSIOLOGY SERVICES AT INSPIRE FITNESS FOR WELLBEING
Home
About Inspire Fitness
Exercise Physiologist Profiles
Case Studies
Testimonials
About Exercise Physiology
What is an Exercise Physiologist?
When should I see an Exercise Physiologist?
Common Conditions
Exercise Is Medicine
Medicare and Exercise Physiology
Services
Chronic Disease Management
Private Exercise Physiology Sessions
Diabetes
Pain Management
Injury Rehabilitation
Pre- and Post-Surgery Exercise
Gym in Balwyn / Doncaster
FAQs
Contact Us
Blog
Exercise and Arthritis
21/3/2019
0 Comments
Osteoarthritis is a deliberating and painful disorder which can affect one or multiple joints of the body. Careful management of Arthritic symptoms should include a structured exercise program to gently strengthen and stretch the muscles surrounding and supporting the joint/s effected.
​
​
Overwhelming evidence in the medical literature supports the role of keeping active and exercising the effected joints. The following video Hip Arthritis Stretches & Exercises - Ask Doctor Jo overviews some strength and mobility exercises for individuals impacted by arthritis in the hip.
​
Source; You Tube - Hip Arthritis Stretches and Exercises
0 Comments
Exercise for Arthritis
7/11/2018
0 Comments
Arthritis is a term coined for a range of musculoskeletal conditions where joint inflammation causes stiffness, pain and disability. Whether you’re only experiencing mild arthritis, or you’re suffering from more severe arthritis, it is likely impacting on your everyday life in some shape or form.
Facts about Arthritis:
Arthritis is more common in women than men.
More than half of people diagnosed with arthritis have osteoarthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis is the second most common form of arthritis.
There are more than 100 other types of arthritis, some more commonly known, such as gout and psoriatic arthritis, whilst many other types are less commonly known.
It is possible to have more than one type of arthritis.
Let’s take a look at the difference between osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
Osteoarthritis is an inflammatory disease that often develops with age. It progressively, but slowly worsens as articular cartilage degradation outweighs biosynthesis of new cartilage.
Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease where the body is attacked by bacteria or viruses. The speed of Rheumatoid arthritis is much more rapid than osteoarthritis, as it may travel through your circulation to other joints in the body.
Exercise Tips for Arthritis;
The primary goals for treating arthritis with exercise are to:
Increase muscular strength to improve joint stability
Maintain or restore joint flexibility and range of motion
Reduce weight bearing through weight loss methods such as resistance and aerobic training
Improve psychological state and decrease risk of health comorbidities (such as additionally having cardiovascular disease or obesity)
What Exercise is best for Arthritis?
1. Resistance Training:
Weight training is important to strengthen the muscles around the affected joint. This will help you to maintain your ability to perform day to day tasks with less difficulty. Weight training should target the muscles surrounding the affected joint/s. For example, for an individual with hip osteoarthritis, exercises should be aimed at strengthening the hamstrings, quadriceps and gluteal muscles.
2. Aerobic Training:
This form of training is extremely important to aid in weight loss and increase blood circulation. Reducing weight helps to remove the extra stress placed on the joint, especially if the arthritis is common in the lower limbs. The best form of aerobic training for weight loss is HIIT (high-intensity interval training).
3. Weight bearing activities:
Strengthening the muscles, bones and joints through weight bearing is encouraged. However, this should be kept to a suitable level as a high-level of weight bearing may cause further issues. For example, walking rather than cycling on an exercise bike may have greater benefits. However, activities such as jumping with heavy landings should be avoided.
4. Additional considerations:
Morning stiffness may last for several hours after waking up, therefore you should aim to exercise later in the day for greater benefits.
Slight pain or discomfort felt during exercise may be ok, however, if pain persists beyond 2 hours post exercise, then exercise should be modified.
Fatigue may be especially present once you begin an exercise program.
Extra flexibility training should be performed within a cool down.
Aquatic exercise may be helpful for a short period after diagnoses of hip or knee osteoarthritis, however, there is limited evidence for any longer term benefits.
​
0 Comments
How Exercise Can Help Manage Chronic Arthritic Pain
23/7/2013
1 Comment
One in three Australians are affected by arthritis. This equates to 3.1 million people Australia-wide. Due to the major burden it places on the health of our population, the health sector, and subsequently our economy, arthritis was identified as an Australian National Health Priority Area in 2002.
What is arthritis?
Arthritis itself is a broad term used to describe a range of conditions that affect joints and generally result in damage, stiffness, and persistent pain. The two most common types of arthritis are Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis.
Osteoarthritis occurs due to thinning of cartilage between joint surfaces, resulting in what is often termed "bone on bone" action. Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis with 1.6 million Australians currently living with it. The most common joints affected by osteoarthritis are the hips and knees.
Rheumatoid Arthritis is the second most common type of arthritis, affecting 428,000 Australians. Compared to osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that results in swelling, tenderness to touch, stiffness, and persistent pain in smaller joints such as the hands and feet. In rheumatoid arthritis, the body’s immune system attacks the lining of the joints and causes inflammation.
Exercise and Arthritis
Clients with arthritis often say to us that the pain they experience due to their condition has stopped them from being physically active. However, whether you live with osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, or any other form of arthritis, exercise can actually help manage the persistent pain caused by arthritis.
Engaging in an exercise program can reduce pain levels associated with arthritis by increasing joint mobility, increasing the strength of muscles that support the joints, which in turn assists reducing the load on joints, and correcting postural imbalances that may be contributing to additional stress placed on joints.
A common concern for people living with arthritic pain that exercise will increase their pain levels. In order to manage this, it is imperative that you begin your exercise routine with a slow warm up and gentle range of motion exercises. These activities preserve joint mobility and assist in increasing core body temperate while reducing stiffness. Following on from there, your exercise routine should consist of exercises that are specifically tailored to increase joint stability and muscle strength, without raising your pain levels too much (although a slight increase in pain may occur due to the de-conditioning that has typically occurred to surrounding muscles). However, it is important to not push into stronger pain! Your exercise routine should finish with a slow and gradual cool down to avoid or limit post-exercise stiffness.
Key Points About Exercising With Arthritic Pain
1.	Consult your local Exercise Physiologist about safe exercises for your condition.
2.	Ensure that you warm up and cool down slowly to assist in managing stiffness.
3.	Start low and go slow.
4.	Don’t push into stronger pain.
Contact Inspire Fitness for Wellbeing on (03) 9857 3007 or info@inspire-fitness.com.au to start an exercise program with us in order to manage your arthritic pain.
Written by Nicole Marlow, Accredited Exercise Physiologist.
1 Comment
Exercise Physiology blog updates
* Indicates required field
Name *
First
Last
Email *
I agree to receiving marketing and promotional materials
Submit
exercise physiologist Categories
All
Arthritis
Back Pain
Cancer
Chronic Disease Management
Chronic Disease Management
Chronic Pain
Corrective Exercise
Dementia
Diabetes
Exercise Physiology
Healthy Ageing
Heart Disease
Hypertension
Infographics
Injury Prevention
Inspire Fitness News
Mental Health
Nutrition
Obesity
Osteoporosis
Resistance Training
Sleep
RSS Feed
Exercise Physiologist Blog Archives
April 2019
March 2019
February 2019
January 2019
December 2018
November 2018
October 2018
September 2018
August 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018
April 2018
December 2017
November 2017
October 2017
August 2017
June 2017
May 2017
March 2017
January 2017
October 2016
September 2016
August 2016
June 2016
May 2016
April 2016
October 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
November 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
RSS Feed
What is an Exercise Physiologist?
© 2019 Inspire Fitness for Wellbeing
Clinical Exercise Physiology
Accredited Exercise Physiologists
​
Exercise Physiology | Personal Training | Gym
North Balwyn, Melbourne, Australia
Contact Us: (03) 9857 3007
317 Doncaster Rd,North Balwyn VIC 3104