Selenium is an essential micronutrient that we need to stay healthy
Selenium.ie
Pharma Nord Ireland
Home
What is selenium?
Selenium deficiency
Selenium and the thyroid gland
Skin, hair & nails
Immune system
How to choose the right supplement
What is selenium?
Selenium is an essential micronutrient that both humans and animals depend on in order to stay healthy. It is a so-called trace element, which means that we only need it in microscopic (or trace) quantities to support our health by controlling various biological functions.
In the human body there are 25-30 different selenium-dependent enzymes called selenoproteins. They are assigned to undertake specific functions. Selenoproteins cannot function properly without selenium. Selenoproteins are needed to:
support normal function of the immune system
support normal thyroid function
support normal hair and nails
support the production of normal sperm cells
support the protection of cells from oxidative stress
Where is selenium found?
Selenium is found in such things as fish, shellfish, nuts (especially Brazil nuts), and whole-grain. People who do not consume these food items on a regular basis may benefit from taking a supplement as a way of ensuring a sufficient selenium intake. The recommended daily allowance (RDA) for selenium is around 50-70 micrograms (guidelines can vary from one country to another). Men generally need a slightly higher selenium intake than women.
Different forms of selenium
Selenium occurs in two forms: Inorganic (selenate and selenite) and organic (selenomethionine and selenocysteine). Selenium in the soil is inorganic, but as soon as plants absorb the selenium, they convert it into organic selenium, which is more readily available to humans. In human (and animal) tissues, most selenium is in the form of selenomethionine that can be embedded in different protein compounds in the body.
Organic selenium compounds are generally absorbed and utilised better in the body. Organic selenium compounds are not reduced when ingested together with vitamin C, which is otherwise the case with inorganic selenium compounds.
Latest News
Beauty care in the form of a tablet
Irish crops are lacking a vital micronutrient
Can what a man eats really affect his sperm quality?
Check your thyroid health – look at your fingernails
Climate change may cause widespread selenium deficiency
About Us
The combination of documented products and exclusive retail through retailers and pharmacies has ensured Pharma Nord notable success and worldwide recognition. Over the years, Pharma Nord has received a number of honorary awards from branch and retail organisations on the different markets.
Latest News
Beauty care in the form of a tablet
Irish crops are lacking a vital micronutrient
Can what a man eats really affect his sperm quality?
Check your thyroid health – look at your fingernails
Climate change may cause widespread selenium deficiency
Search Here
Search for:
Copyright © All rights reserved.