Home | About Us | FAQ | Reviews | Search | Connect with us @pedseducation on and @pedsimaging on
Additional pediatric resources: GeneralPediatrics.com | PediatricEducation.org | SearchingPediatrics.com
Virtual Pediatric Hospital: CQQA: Scalds
Pediatrics Common Questions, Quick Answers
Scalds
Donna D'Alessandro, M.D.
Lindsay Huth, B.A.
Peer Review Status: Internally Reviewed
Creation Date: May 2002
Last Revision Date: May 2002
Common Questions, Quick Answers
What is a scald?
What causes scalds?
Who can get scalds?
What are the symptoms?
How are scalds treated?
How long does a scald last?
Can scalds be prevented?
When should I call the doctor?
What is a scald?
There are many different types of burns.
A scald is a burn from coming into close contact with moist heat, such as hot water or steam.
Scalds are the most common kind of childhood burns.
What causes scalds?
Any hot water or steam can cause a scald.
Some common risks include bath water, liquids cooking on the stove, and hot drinks.
Who can get scalds?
Scalds are the most common type of burn that children get.
Children are more likely than adults to suffer from severe scalds.
What are the symptoms?
Like other burns, a scald can be minor, moderate or severe.
How serious a burn is depends on the depth of the burn, the size of the burn, where the burn is, the age of the child, what caused the burn, and the child's health before the burn.
Burns to the head, neck, chest, and groin are the most dangerous.
A mild skin burn is a first-degree burn. It turns the skin pink or red. There are no blisters or peeling. It is similar to a sunburn.
A more serious burn is a second-degree burn. It can leave open or peeling skin or form blisters.
A third degree burn is the most serious. It leaves the skin charred (black).
How are scalds treated?
Do not put butter or oil on burns.
Do not break blisters.
Do not treat blisters at home.
Some burns can be cared for at home. Some burns require emergency care or treatment by a doctor.
If you are not sure of the kind of burn, call your doctor or go to the emergency room.
First Degree Burns
First degree burns (pink and red, no blisters) can be treated at home.
Take off hot clothes or metal rings. Cut clothing if needed.
Put the burned area under cold water. Do not use ice.
To prevent infection, keep the area clean and dry.
Do not put butter or cream on the burn.
Give acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) for pain.
If blisters form, call your doctor.
Keep your child away from the cause of the burn. For example, after a scald, bathe your child using only cool water.
Second Degree Burns
Burns that form blisters are second degree burns. They should be seen by a doctor.
If the skin is opened, peeling, or blistered, see a doctor.
If the area is small, cover it with a clean, wet cloth and take the child to the emergency room or your doctor.
If the burned area is large, call 911. Cover the child with a cloth or a clean sheet.
Do not move the child unless needed for safety.
Give acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) for pain.
If the child shivers, stop cooling and keep her warm.
Third Degree Burns
Third degree burns are the most serious. They leave the skin charred (black).
Your child's breathing should be checked first. Take care of burns after.
Take your child to the emergency room immediately.
Cover the child with a clean cloth or sheet.
Do not move unless needed for safety.
Do not give any medicine.
If the child shivers, stop cooling and keep her warm.
In an emergency, dial 911.
How long does a scald last?
How long a scald takes to heal depends on how bad it is, where it is on the body, and how it was treated.
Can scalds be prevented?
Do not set your water heater higher than 120 degrees F.
Turn the hot water tap off first and let cold water cool the tap.
Always test bath water on your wrist before setting a child in it. Or, test the water temperature with a thermometer.
Do not hold hot drinks or liquids when children are around. For example, never drink a cup of hot coffee while a child is sitting on your lap or playing at your feet.
Never leave children unsupervised in the kitchen, especially while things are cooking.
Turn pot handles inward on the stove, so children cannot bump them.
Avoid using tablecloths. Your child might yank on the table cloth and pull hot liquids down on himself.
Teach your toddler what the word "hot" means.
Teach older children what causes burns and how to avoid burns.
When should I call the doctor?
Go to the emergency room if your child has a burn that leaves open skin or blisters.
Severe burns or burns that cover a large area are an emergency. Call 911.
Call the doctor if you are concerned about your child's burn.
Call the doctor if you have questions about your child's treatment or condition.
Quick Answers
There are many different types of burns. A scald is a burn from coming into close contact with moist heat, such as hot water or steam.
Some common risks include bath water, liquids cooking on the stove, and hot drinks.
Scalds are the most common type of burn that children get.
How serious a burn is depends on the depth of the burn, the size of the burn, where the burn is, the age of the child, what caused the burn, and the child's health before the burn.
Some burns can be cared for at home. Some burns require emergency care or treatment by a doctor.
How long a scald takes to heal depends on how bad the burn is.
To prevent scalds, test the temperature of bath water, keep children away from hot liquids, and supervise children in the kitchen.
Call the doctor if you are concerned about your child's burn.
References
The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Scald Burns. (cited 2002 April 8). URL: http://www.chop.edu/consumer/your_child/wellness_index.jsp?id=-8856
Allen P. Pediatric Burns. Fire Fighters Safety Magazine. 1997 (cited 2001 December 6). Available from: URL: http://www.safety-network.com/ffsm/pedburns.htm
Virtual Naval Hospital. Environmental Injuries. (cited 2002 April 8). URL: http://www.vnh.org/StandardFirstAid/chapter7.html
Title Page
Home | About Us | FAQ | Reviews | Search | Connect with us @pedseducation on and @pedsimaging on
Additional pediatric resources: GeneralPediatrics.com | PediatricEducation.org | SearchingPediatrics.com
Virtual Pediatric Hospital is curated by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and by Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D.
Please send us comments by filling out our Comment Form.
All contents copyright © 1992-2019 Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. and the authors. All rights reserved.
"Virtual Pediatric Hospital", the Virtual Pediatric Hospital logo, and "A digital library of pediatric information" are all Trademarks of Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D.
Virtual Pediatric Hospital is funded in whole by Donna M. D'Alessandro, M.D. and Michael P. D'Alessandro, M.D. Advertising is not accepted.
Your personal information remains confidential and is not sold, leased, or given to any third party be they reliable or not.
The information contained in Virtual Pediatric Hospital is not a substitute for the medical care and advice of your physician. There may be variations in treatment that your physician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
URL: http://www.virtualpediatrichospital.org/