Sleeping Stretch Boot | Achilles Tendonitis & Plantar Fasciitis Splint
Easy Exchanges
Free Shipping on U.S. Orders $50 or More
Next Day / 2 Day Shipping Available
Help Sign In / Track
866-712-7808
View Cart
(0) Items
Menu
Abdominal Ankle Back Elbow Finger & Thumb Foot & Toe Knee Shoulder Thigh & Groin Wrist
All Plus Size Supports Plus Size Knee Braces Plus Size Back Braces Hernia Belts Hip Supports Night Splints Pediatric / Kid's Plantar Fasciitis Posture Correctors Walker Boots
Shop by Injury/Condition On Sale View All Braces
BRACES
Abdominal Ankle Back Elbow Finger & Thumb Foot & Toe Knee Shoulder Thigh & Groin Wrist
All Plus Size Supports Plus Size Knee Braces Plus Size Back Braces Hernia Belts Hip Supports Night Splints Pediatric / Kid's Plantar Fasciitis Posture Correctors Walker Boots
View All Braces
Shop By:
Injury / Condition
ON SALE
Home / Products / Sleeping Stretch Boot for Plantar Fascia, Achilles Tendonitis & Heel Spur Treatment
Sku # 10A0102S
Sleeping Stretch Boot for Plantar Fascia, Achilles Tendonitis & Heel Spur Treatment
Previous Next
$27.99
Size Chart
Size S M L
Quantity:
Add to Cart
Safe & Secure
Videos
L Code: L4396
Detailed Description
Ease Pain & Accelerate Healing: Sleeping Stretch Boot for Achilles Tendonitis Treatment
Experiencing severe tenderness or sharp pain around your heel with your first steps in the morning?
During the day, connective foot tissues, know as your plantar fascia and Achilles tendon, commonly develop microtears. Then, while you sleep, unknowingly pointing your toes, your foot begins to heal. So when you take your first steps in the morning, you instantly stretch out and retear these tissues, causing stabbing pains.
Luckily, this versatile stretching splint is specifically designed to hold your foot at a 90-degree angle or less, allowing your foot to heal properly overnight to make for a more pleasant experience when you get out of bed.
Supporting a neutral foot position, this soft orthopedic night splint reduces irritation and pain caused by foot conditions including:
Plantar fasciitis
Achilles tendonitis
Heel Spurs
Although these conditions might seem similar, they have different symptoms and causes. Below are the various symptoms and causes of each condition:
Plantar Fasciitis: Pain and stiffness in the bottom of the heel, usually in the morning. Pain can inflame again during the day after prolonged activity or exercise. This condition can be from being plus size, having high arches or flat feet, or being a long distance runner.
Achilles Tendonitis: Pain, swelling, tenderness in the back of your foot above your heel. This pain can be a result of overuse activity, increasing your physical activity too quickly, wearing the wrong shoes (high heels), having flat feet, or if your muscles are too tight.
Heel Spurs: This condition often doesn’t have any symptoms. You may have chronic pain from walking, jogging, or running and inflammation may develop in the area. Heel spurs are from calcium deposits built up from the heel bone and can occur over many months. They are a result of strains on the foot muscles and ligaments.
Wearing this boot at night also provides a stretch to tight calf muscles, preventing legs cramps, muscle spasms, and charley horses.
Looking for a brace to wear during the day? Shop our plantar fasciitis day brace or daytime Achilles tendonitis support.
Can This Night Splint Help Prevent Foot Drop in Bed?
Although there are no products currently that can “cure” or "fix" drop foot, wearing this rigid bed shoe at night or while resting will help reduce the pains and symptoms associated with drop foot.
Your doctor may also recommend physical therapy to strengthen your muscles or surgery to minimize harm to your nerves or transfer weight to healthier muscles.
Unsure whether you have foot drop? Take this foot drop test to find out!
5 Reasons Why People Love This Plantar Fasciitis Brace for Sleeping
Lightweight, Low-profile Fit
This bedtime support brace has a low-profile and open design, keeping patients cool and dry for better quality sleep. Its lightweight fit makes it a more comfortable option compared to standard, plantar fasciitis boots.
Soft Padded Lining
The drawback to many braces for plantar fasciitis is that they can be confining, uncomfortable, and interfere with your sleep, which is counterproductive when it comes to healing. This splint is generously padded with a breathable foam and covered with an ultra soft fabric for optimal comfort. Removable for washing, the extra soft lining eliminates skin irritations, preventing blisters and abrasions, making our night splint much more comfortable than many rigid AFO alternatives for sleeping.
Regardless of the comfortable padded lining, please understand that wearing a boot to sleep in will likely take some adjusting to. For at least the first week, some podiatrists discourage their patients from trying to sleep with it on. Instead, wear it while lounging. After you feel comfortable you can start wearing the boot at night and gradually increasing dorsiflexion stretch.
Removable Foam Stretch Wedge
Holding your ankle in gentle dorsiflexion, this splint keeps your foot at a 90° angle to your leg. For an even greater stretch, you can add the soft, foam dorsiwedge insert, which elevates your foot to better relieve inflammation. The wedge should be inserted under the padded liner beneath your toes.
Customizable, dual tension straps from your toe to calf also provide increased dorsiflexion for optimal pain relief.
Versatile Design
Sized for both men and women, the comfortable night splint can be used on either your left or right foot, with or without a sock. The soft night boot is secured with three quick-release buckles and medical-grade Velcro. These wide and adjustable wrap-around straps allow you to adjust the tightness of the brace to your own specifications. This device is easy to put on and strap up in bed or while sitting down, making your nightly routine quick and easy.
Hard Shell & Non-Slip Tread
Its durable exterior shell provides additional support to ensure proper foot positioning throughout the night, making this boot one of the best remedies for heel pain.
The slip-resistant sole is suitable for walking short distances without removing, such as trips to the bathroom in the middle of the night. However, we strongly recommend removing the splint if you plan on walking further than a few steps around the house.
Frequently Asked Questions About This Achilles Tendon Stretcher
What conditions / injuries does this ankle brace treat? This nighttime boot is the perfect foot support for many different conditions including plantar fasciitis, Achilles tendonitis, heel spurs, and foot drop.
How does it work? This splint for foot drop and plantar fasciitis helps prevent the painful tearing that you endure after you wake up and take your first steps. It holds your foot at a 90-degree angle or less while you sleep, gently stretching your plantar fascia, Achilles tendon, and calf muscle.
When should I wear it? This plantar fasciitis stretching boot is meant to be worn while sleeping or kicking your feet back on the couch. It is not intended to be worn while walking long distances. Please remove this brace if you plan on walking further than a few steps around the house.
What is it made of? This latex-free night splint is made of polyethylene, nylon, spandex, polyester, polyurethane, EVA, and polyoxymethylene.
Who can wear this boot? Men and women of all ages can benefit from the stretch provided by this nighttime boot.
What size should I buy? Please refer to our sizing chart (the second image above) to select your size.
How do I put it on? Unhook buckles on 3 straps across front. With splint resting on floor, place foot into splint, sliding heel snugly against back. Place optional wedge underneath liner for extra stretch. Attach bottom strap and adjust until snug. Continue by attaching remaining 2 straps, adjusting for tightness. Over time, gradually adjust side, dorsiflexion straps for greater stretch.
How tall is this brace? About 15 inches tall.
Washing Instructions: Remove liner from boot. Hand wash liner in warm water with mild soap. Allow liner to air dry completely before reapplying. Wipe plastic shell with a damp cloth.
Other features:
Can be worn on your right or left foot, with or without socks
Includes optional, soft foam wedge
Highly adjustable, 3-strap system for a secure fit
Color: Black.
Weight: Small weighs 15 ounces, Medium weighs 1 pound 1 ounce, Large weighs 1 pound 3 ounces.
Show More Information
Show Less Information
Information
About Us
Blog
Customer Help Center
Injury Library
Security & Privacy
Terms of Use
Join our Product Advisory Team
Social Media
Facebook
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
My Account
Log In
Return/Exchange Policy
Easy Online Returns
View Cart
Contact Us
BraceAbility, Inc.
115 East 2nd St.
Cedar Falls, Iowa 50613
United States
Contact Us
Frequently Asked Questions
866-712-7808
Copyright 2018 - BraceAbility
The advice and information contained in this website is not intended as a substitute for medical counseling.
If you have any questions about treatment for a specific condition, please check with a health care professional.
Customer Service
Customer Support
Our customer support team is available Monday - Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Central time.
Give Us a Call
866-712-7808
Send Us an Email
Use our contact form to submit an email to customer support team. Click the “Support” icon on the bottom right of any page on our website. We typically respond within one business day (or faster).
Holidays
BraceAbility.com is closed on the following United States holidays. This may affect your shipping time and they will be accounted for in the estimated ship date listed on each product page.
New Year's Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
Helpful Links
Easy Online Returns
Return/Exchange Policy
Frequently Asked Questions
body
Close