Wart | definition of wart by Medical dictionary
Wart | definition of wart by Medical dictionary
https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/wart
Printer Friendly
Dictionary, Encyclopedia and Thesaurus - The Free Dictionary 11,520,735,149 visitors served
Search / Page tools
TheFreeDictionary
Google
?
Keyboard
Word / Article
Starts with
Ends with
Text
A
A
A
A
Language:
EnglishEspañolDeutschFrançaisItalianoالعربية中文简体PolskiPortuguêsNederlandsNorskΕλληνικήРусскийTürkçeאנגלית
Twitter
Get our app
Flashcards ?
My bookmarks ?
+ Add current page to bookmarks
Register Log in
Sign up with one click:
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Yahoo
Get
our app
Dictionary
Thesaurus
Medical
Dictionary
Legal
Dictionary
Financial
Dictionary
Acronyms
Idioms
Encyclopedia
Wikipedia
Encyclopedia
Tools
A
A
A
A
Language:
EnglishEspañolDeutschFrançaisItalianoالعربية中文简体PolskiPortuguêsNederlandsNorskΕλληνικήРусскийTürkçeאנגלית
Mobile Apps:
apple
android
For surfers:
Free toolbar & extensions
Word of the Day
Help
For webmasters:
Free content
Linking
Lookup box
Close
wart
Also found in: Dictionary, Thesaurus, Acronyms, Idioms, Encyclopedia, Wikipedia.
Related to wart: plantar wart
wart
[wort]
an epidermal tumor of viral origin; the term is also applied loosely to any of various benign epidermal proliferations of nonviral origin. Called also verruca. Warts are generally more common among children and young adults than among older persons. Most are less than 0.6 cm (a quarter of an inch) in diameter; they may be flat or raised and dry or moist. Usually they have a rough and pitted surface, either flesh-colored or darker than the surrounding skin. They usually develop on the fingers and hands, but may also occur on the elbows, face, scalp, or other areas. When on especially vulnerable parts of the body, such as the knee or elbow, they are subject to irritation and may become quite tender. Two specific types are plantar warts and venereal warts.
A wart develops between 1 and 8 months after the virus becomes lodged in the skin. The virus is often spread by scratching, rubbing, and slight razor cuts. In more than half the cases, warts disappear without treatment, but some remain for years.
Treatment. Many popular “cures” for warts have been suggested, but are generally useless. Furthermore, self-treatment by cutting, scraping, or using acids or patent medicines may cause bacterial infection, scarring, and other harm without eliminating the warts. A troublesome wart should be removed only by a health care provider, who may use acids, electrodesiccation, or freezing with liquid nitrogen. Warts are notoriously stubborn. Often the virus remains in the skin, and the wart grows again.
genital w's condylomata acuminata.
plantar wart a viral epidermal tumor on the sole of the foot, sometimes the result of going barefoot; unlike other warts, this type is usually sensitive to pressure and may be painful during walking. Called also verruca plantaris.
venereal w's condylomata acuminata.
ver·ru·ca
, pl.
ver·ru·cae
(vĕ-rū'kă, -kē),
A flesh-colored growth characterized by circumscribed hypertrophy of the papillae of the corium, with thickening of the malpighian, granular, and keratin layers of the epidermis, caused by human Papillomavirus; also applied to epidermal verrucous tumors of nonviral etiology.
Synonym(s): verruga, wart
[L.]
wart
(wort) verruca; a hyperplastic epidermal lesion with a horny surface, caused by a human papillomavirus; also loosely applied to any of various wartlike, epidermal proliferations of nonviral origin.wart´y
anatomical wart tuberculosis verrucosa cutis.
flat wart a small, smooth, usually skin-colored or light brown, slightly raised wart sometimes occurring in great numbers; seen most often in children.
genital wart condyloma acuminatum.
juvenile wart flat w.
moist wart condyloma latum.
mosaic wart an irregularly shaped lesion on the sole, with a granular surface, formed by an aggregation of contiguous plantar warts.
necrogenic wart tuberculosis verrucosa cutis.
Peruvian wart verruga peruana.
pitch warts precancerous, keratotic, epidermal tumors occurring in those working with pitch and coal tar derivatives.
plantar wart a viral epidermal tumor on the sole of the foot.
pointed wart condyloma acuminatum.
postmortem wart , prosector's wart tuberculosis verrucosa cutis.
soot wart a sign of chimney-sweeps' cancer, which occurs beneath the wart.
venereal wart condyloma acuminatum.
wart
(wôrt)
n.
1.
a. A hard rough lump growing on the skin, caused by infection with certain viruses and occurring typically on the hands or feet.
b. A similar growth or protuberance, as on a plant.
2. A genital wart.
wart′ed, wart′y adj.
wart
See verruca.
wart
Verruca Dermatology A typically rough round or oval raised bump on mucocutaneous surfaces that may be lighter or darker than the surrounding normal skin, skin colored or rarely black induced by papovaviruses, and single most common reason for dermatologic consultation; warts are most common in children and adolescents, and rarely develop de novo in adults Types Common wart–verruca vulgaris, filiform wart, plantar wart, juvenile flat wart Location Anyplace, most common on hands, feet–plantar wart, around and under the fingernails or toenails–periungual or subungual warts–very difficult to treat, face; numerous very small smooth flat warts–pinhead size often in large numbers on children's faces, foreheads, arms and legs are called verrucae planae juvenili Clinical Ranges from spontaneous involution, common in flat warts to extreme recalcitrance, typical of periungual and moist plantar warts; plantar warts are identical to common warts but, because of their location on the soles of the feet, they can become extremely painful, especially if they are numerous, compromising running and walking; dermatologic consult is usually triggered by cosmetic considerations; genital/venereal warts are located on the genitals and are sexually transmitted Management 'Benign neglect' and 'abracadabra therapy' are most effective in young children–implying a component of biofeedback control of the immune system, chemocautery–5-20% formalin, phenol-nitric acid-salicylic acid, podophyllin, electrodissection, X-ray–narrow field, low dose, rarely used; DCNB immunotherapy Prognosis Recurrence is common, as is spontaneous involution within 2 years. See Genital wart, HPV, Mosaic wart, Musician's wart, Prosector's wart.
ver·ru·ca
, pl. verrucae (vĕr-ū'kă, -kē)
A flesh-colored growth characterized by circumscribed hypertrophy of the papillae of the corium, with thickening of the malpighian, granular, and keratin layers of the epidermis, caused by human papillomavirus; also applied to epidermal verrucous tumors of nonviral etiology.
Compare: verruga peruana
Synonym(s): verruga, wart.
[L.]
wart
(wort)
COMMON WARTS
A circumscribed cutaneous elevation resulting from hypertrophy of the papillae and epidermis. See: illustration
COMMON WARTS
common wart
Verruca vulgaris.illustration
GENITAL WARTS
genital wart
A wart of the genitalia, caused by strains of human papillomavirus (HPV) some of which are transmitted by sexual contact. In women they may be associated with cancer of the cervix and vulva. An estimated 1 million new cases of genital warts occur each year in the U.S., making genital warts the most common sexually transmitted illness. They commonly occur with other genital infections, and grow rapidly in the presence of heavy perspiration, poor hygiene, or the hormonal changes related to pregnancy. Synonym: venereal wart See: illustration
Treatment
A variety of therapies, including topically applied chemicals such as podophyllin (10% to 25% in compound tincture of benzoine), trichloroacetic acid, or dichloroacetic acid usually remove small warts; other treatments include CO2 laser therapy, cryosurgery, electrocautery, 5-fluorouracil, imiquimod, and recombinant interferon alfa-2a. Nevertheless, there is no completely safe and effective therapy available for genital warts.
Patient care
A history is obtained for unprotected sexual contact with a partner with known infection, a new partner, or multiple partners. Standard precautions are used to examine the patient, to collect a specimen, or to perform associated procedures. The health care professional inspects the genitalia for warts growing on the moist genital surfaces, such as the subpreputial sac, the urethral meatus, and less commonly, the penile shaft or scrotum in male patients and the vulva and vaginal and cervical wall in female patients. Multiple warts have a cauliflower-like appearance. The patient usually reports no other symptoms, as the warts are generally painless, but a few complain of itching and pain. Diagnosis usually is made by visual inspection, but darkfield examination of wart cell scrapings may be used to differentiate HPV warts from those associated with second-stage syphilis. Biopsy is indicated if cancer is suspected. A nonthreatening, nonjudgmental atmosphere is provided to encourage the patient to verbalize feelings about perceived changes in sexual behavior and body image. Sexual abstinence or condom use during intercourse is recommended until healing is complete. The patient must inform sexual partners about the risk for genital warts and the need for evaluation. The patient should be tested for human immunodeficiency virus and for other sexually transmitted diseases. Genital warts can recur and the virus can mutate, causing warts of a different strain. The patient should report for weekly treatment until all warts are removed and then schedule a checkup for 3 months after all warts have disappeared. If podophyllin is applied, the patient is taught to remove it with soap and water 4 to 6 hrs after the application. Female patients should have a Papanicolaou test on a schedule recommended by their health care providers.
PLANTAR WART
plantar wart
A wart on a pressure-bearing area, esp. the sole of the foot. Synonym: verruca plantaris
See: illustration
seborrheic wart
Seborrheic keratosis.
venereal wart
Genital wart.
ver·ru·ca
, pl. verrucae (vĕr-ū'kă, -kē)
Flesh-colored growth characterized by circumscribed hypertrophy of papillae of corium, with thickening of malpighian, granular, and keratin epidermal layers, caused by human papillomavirus; also applied to epidermal verrucous tumors of nonviral etiology.
Synonym(s): wart.
[L.]
wart,
n See verruca vulgaris.
wart
see fibropapilloma.
Want to thank TFD for its existence? Tell a friend about us, add a link to this page, or visit the webmaster's page for free fun content.
Link to this page:
Facebook
Twitter
Feedback
Flashcards & Bookmarks ?
Please log in or register to use Flashcards and Bookmarks. You can also log in with
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Yahoo
Flashcards ?
My bookmarks ?
+ Add current page to bookmarks
TheFreeDictionary presents:
Write what you mean clearly and correctly.
Mentioned in ?
actinic keratosis
acuminate wart
Aldara
Anal Warts
anatomical wart
angiokeratoma
asbestos corn
Butcher's Warts
cantharidin
cardiac cycle
condyloma
Condyloma acuminata
condyloma acuminatum
condylomata acuminata
condylomatous
cryotherapy
digitate wart
electrocoagulation
epidermodysplasia verruciformis
References in periodicals archive ?
Treatment of warts is complicated by low success rates, prolonged duration of therapy, and the potential for recurrence.
RXi Pharmaceuticals Completes Enrollment for Clinical Trial of Samcyprone for Cutaneous Warts
It is known there are more than 100 types of HPV that can cause warts, but only a small number of strains can cause warts.
How To Treat Genital Warts?
Viral warts are common, benign lesions that are caused by different strains of human papilloma virus (HPV), and involve epithelium of the skin and mucus membrane.
Auto-wart inoculation: An easy and effective treatment of multiple, recalcitrant and genital warts
Results: Genital warts were relieved in 107 out of the 110 cases (cure rate: 97.
Therapeutic effects of topical 5-aminolevulinic acid photodynamic therapy
In general, side effects from laser treatment of warts were highest with C[O.
Laser treatment effective for nongenital warts
No recurrence of wart was observed during six months post observatory period in clinically cured animals.
Autogenous vaccination for management of cutaneous papillomatosis in bovines
Cover the wart with duct tape: Although studies conflict about whether this gets rid of warts, changing the tape every few days may peel away layers of the wart-ridden skin and trigger the immune system to fight off the wart.
Tips for treating warts
Because the wart on Delila was in contact with the milker, Wayne decided to dry her up a month early.
There's nothing magical about cow warts
68%), whereas there was no significant correlation between the size of the wart and the number of treatment sessions required to clear it.
Mucocutaneous warts in children: clinical presentations, risk factors, and response to treatment
Candida antigen injections are not her first-line treatment choice, and injections aren't desirable for some warts (such as those on the face), but Candida antigen is effective.
Candida antigen injections clear pediatric warts
Grace-way Pharmaceuticals, which manufactures imiquimod, developed the formulations "to allow daily dosing to treat external genital warts as well as actinic keratoses," explained Dr.
Daily imiquimod topped placebo for genital wart treatment
QIt's not something I've encountered before but I suddenly seem to have developed warts on my hands - two on both - and I can't think how or why this should suddenly happen.
The best way to deal with warts
Medical browser ?
▲
Warmblood
warm-blooded
warm-blooded animal
warmblut
warm-cold hemolysin
warm-down
warmup
warm-up
warmup phenomenon
warm-up phenomenon
warm-up rotation
warm-ups
warning
warning coloration
warning leak
warning letter
Warning Signs
warp
warranties
warranty
Warren
Warren, W. Dean
warrior stance
Warriorobics
WARSS
wart
wart hog
Wartenberg
Wartenberg neurological pinwheel
Wartenberg sign
Wartenberg symptom
Wartenberg, Robert
Wartenberg's disease
Wartenberg's phenomenon
Warthin
Warthin tumor
Warthin, Aldred S.
Warthin-Finkeldey cells
Warthin's tumor
Warthin-Starry silver stain
Warticon
warts
warty
warty caltrop
warty cicatricial tumour
warty dyskeratoma
warty tuberculosis
WAS
wasabi
Wasatch milk vetch
WASF1
▼
Full browser ?
▲
Warszawa
Warszawa
Warszawa
Warszawa Wojewodztwo
Warszawa Województwo
Warszawa Z Lotu Orla
Warszawa-Okecie Airport
Warszawianka 1905
Warszawska Akademicka Pielgrzymka Metropolitarna
Warszawska Fabryka Farb Graficznych
Warszawska Gielda Papierow Wartosciowych
Warszawska Grupa Inwestycyjna
Warszawska Grupa Konsultingowa
Warszawska Izba Lekarsko-Weterynaryjna
Warszawska Kolej Dojazdowa
Warszawska Opera Kameralna
Warszawska Szkola Jezyka Japonskiego
Warszawski Akademicki Klub Kajakowy
Warszawski Indeks Gieldowy
Warszawski Klub Field Target
Warszawski Klub Kolarski
Warszawski Klub Kyokushin Karate
Warszawski Nurt Basketu Amatorskiego
Warszawski Okregowy Zwiazek Narciarski
Warszawski Uniwersytet Medyczny
Warszawskie Alternatywy Filmowe
Warszawskie Centrum Pomocy Rodzinie
Warszawskie Przedsiebiorstwo Robót Telekomunikacyjnych
Warszawskie Zaklady Sprzetu Ortopedycznego
Warsztaty Fotograficzne Hejber
wart
Wart cress
wart hog
wart hog
wart hog
wart hog disease
wart hog disease
wart hog1
Wart Snake
Wart Snake
wart snakes
Wart spurge
Wart turbans
Warta
Warta
Warta
Warta River
Warta River
Wartburg
Wartburg
Wartburg Castle
Wartburg Castle
Wartburg College Concert Bands
Wartburg Demonstration
Wartburg, Walter Von
warted
warted
warted
warted
Wartegg Zeichen Test
Wartenberg
▼
Facebook Share
Twitter
CITE
Site: Follow:
Facebook
Twitter
Rss
Mail
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Mail
Open / Close
More from Medical Dictionary
Mobile Apps
Apple
Android
Kindle
Windows
Windows Phone
Free Tools
For surfers:
Free toolbar & extensions
Word of the Day
Word Finder
Help
For webmasters:
Free content
Linking
Lookup box
Terms of Use
Privacy policy
Feedback
Advertise with Us
Copyright © 2003-2019 Farlex, Inc
Disclaimer
All content on this website, including dictionary, thesaurus, literature, geography, and other reference data is for informational purposes only. This information should not be considered complete, up to date, and is not intended to be used in place of a visit, consultation, or advice of a legal, medical, or any other professional.