Lotrisone for Fungal Infections: Side Effects, Dosage, & Uses
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/skin health center/skin a-z list/clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate article
clotrimazole and betamethasone
What is Lotrisone (clotrimazole and betamethasone)?
Is Lotrisone available as a generic drug?
Do I need a prescription for Lotrisone?
Uses for Lotrisone
Lotrisone side effects
How much Lotrisone should I use (dosage)?
What drugs or supplements interact with Lotrisone?
Is Lotrisone safe to use if I'm pregnant or breastfeeding?
What else should I know about Lotrisone?
Pharmacy Author: Omudhome Ogbru, PharmD
Omudhome Ogbru, PharmD
Dr. Ogbru received his Doctorate in Pharmacy from the University of the Pacific School of Pharmacy in 1995. He completed a Pharmacy Practice Residency at the University of Arizona/University Medical Center in 1996. He was a Professor of Pharmacy Practice and a Regional Clerkship Coordinator for the University of the Pacific School of Pharmacy from 1996-99.
Medical and Pharmacy Editor: Jay W. Marks, MD
Jay W. Marks, MD
Jay W. Marks, MD, is a board-certified internist and gastroenterologist. He graduated from Yale University School of Medicine and trained in internal medicine and gastroenterology at UCLA/Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
Bacterial Infections 101 Pictures Slideshow
Take the Tummy Trouble Quiz
Hepatitis C Slideshow Pictures
What is Lotrisone (clotrimazole and betamethasone)?
Is Lotrisone available as a generic drug?
Do I need a prescription for Lotrisone?
Uses for Lotrisone
Lotrisone side effects
How much Lotrisone should I use (dosage)?
What drugs or supplements interact with Lotrisone?
Is Lotrisone safe to use if I'm pregnant or breastfeeding?
What else should I know about Lotrisone?
What is Lotrisone (clotrimazole and betamethasone)?
Lotrisone is a cream or lotion consisting of a combination of the drugs clotrimazole and betamethasone. Clotrimazole is an anti-fungal drug related to:
fluconazole (Diflucan)
ketoconazole (Nizoral)
itraconazole (Sporanox)
miconazole (Micatin, Monistat)
Is Lotrisone available as a generic drug?
Yes, it is available as a generic.
Do I need a prescription for Lotrisone?
Yes, you need a prescription from your doctor for this topical medication.
Uses for Lotrisone
Lotrisone is a combination of the drugs clotrimazole and betamethasone, and is used for the treatment of local fungal infections such as:
Tinea pedis ("athlete's foot")
Tinea cruris ("jock itch")
Tinea corporis (fungal infections elsewhere on the body).
It also is used for the treatment of allergic or inflammatory conditions.
Lotrisone side effects
The most common side effects include:
Local redness
Stinging
Blistering
Peeling
Swelling (edema)
Itching
Tingling or prickling sensation
Hives
Burning at the area of application
Other important side effects include:
Water retention (edema)
Decreased pigmentation
Stretch marks
Possible serious side effects include:
Growth retardation
Intracranial hypertension
Infection due to bacteria
Cushing's syndrome
Skin atrophy
How much Lotrisone should I use (dosage)?
Lotrisone cream is gently massaged into the affected skin and surrounding area in the morning and evening. The treated skin should not be bandaged, covered, or wrapped in order to avoid excessive absorption of Lotrisone into the body.
Lotrisone cream or lotion should not be used for more than 2 weeks for treatment of tinea corporis or tinea cruris. If there is no clinical improvement after one week of treatment, the diagnosis should be reviewed.
Lotrisone should not be used longer than 4 weeks for treatment of tinea pedis. If there is no clinical improvement after 2 weeks of treatment, the diagnosis should be reviewed. These limits on duration of use are based on the clinical studies that were used by the FDA to approve Lotrisone and concerns that with longer use absorption of betamethasone might be enough to have effects on the body.
Amounts greater than 45 g per week of Lotrisone cream or amounts greater than 45 mL per week of Lotrisone lotion should not be used.
Daily Health News
Obesity Shrinks Brains
Sitting More, Tech to Blame
Cervical Cancer Rates Decline
Electrical Stimulation for Parkinson's
Toy Recall Choking Hazard
More Health News »
Trending on MedicineNet
Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID)
Listeria (Listeriosis)
Food Poisoning
Whooping Cough and Vaccine
Measles (Rubeola)
What drugs or supplements interact with Lotrisone?
Long-term use or withdrawal of topical corticosteroids may aggravate psoriasis. Therefore, there should be an interval of at least 1 week between the discontinuance of topical steroids and the starting of psoriasis treatment with anthralin (Psoriatec).
Is Lotrisone safe to use if I'm pregnant or breastfeeding?
Safety of using Lotrisone during pregnancy has not been evaluated.
It is not known whether clotrimazole or betamethasone is secreted in breast milk.
What else should I know about Lotrisone?
What preparations of are available?
Cream or lotion: 1% clotrimazole and 0.05% betamethasone
How should I keep this medicine stored?
Lotrisone can be stored at room temperature, cream at 2 C to 30 C (36 F to 86 F) and lotion at 15 C to 30 C (59 F to 86 F).
How does Lotrisone work?
Lotrisone prevents growth of several types of fungi by preventing production of the membranes that surround fungal cells. Betamethasone is a synthetic corticosteroid that is used topically on the skin. Corticosteroids suppress inflammation as well as the body's immune response.
When was Lotrisone approved by the FDA?
The FDA approved Lotrisone cream in July 1984.
Subscribe to MedicineNet's General Health Newsletter
By clicking Submit, I agree to the MedicineNet's Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of MedicineNet's subscriptions at any time.
Summary
Lotrisone (clotrimazole and betamethasone) is a drug prescribed for the treatment of jock itch, athlete's foot, and tinea corporis (fungal infections elsewhere on the body). Side effects include:
Itching
Hives
Peeling
Blistering
Stinging
Water retention
Drug interactions, dosage, and pregnancy and breastfeeding information should be reviewed prior to using this medication.
Multimedia: Slideshows, Images & Quizzes
Fungus Among Us: What to Know About Fungal Infections in Pictures
Protect yourself from different fungal infections like ringworm, athlete's foot, and jock itch. Discover how to treat fungal...
Ringworm Quiz: Test your Medical IQ
...
Picture of Ringworm of the Nails
This is the most common fungal infection of the nails, also called onychomycosis. See a picture of Ringworm of the Nails and...
Picture of Onychomycosis (Fungal Nail Infection)
The most common fungus infection of the nails is onychomycosis. See a picture of Onychomycosis (Fungal Nail Infection) and learn...
Picture of Ringworm Tinea Corporis (Faciei)
Superficial fungal infections of the skin are among the most common of all pediatric dermatoses. See a picture of Ringworm Tinea...
Picture of Ringworm Tinea Pedis
Superficial fungal infection of the feet is somewhat unique because of the location. See a picture of Ringworm Tinea Pedis and...
Picture of Ringworm of the Hand
Ringworm may involve the hands, particularly the palms and the spaces between the fingers. See a picture of Ringworm of the Hand...
Picture of Athlete&apos;s Foot 2
Athlete's foot is a fungus that causes itching, redness, and cracking. See a picture of Athlete's Foot and learn more about the...
Picture of Fungal Nail Infection
Nails that are infected with a fungus may become discolored (yellowish-brown or opaque), thick and brittle, and may separate from...
Picture of Types of Ringworm
Ringworm is a common skin disorder otherwise known as tinea. See a picture of Types of Ringworm and learn more about the health...
Picture of Ringworm Illustration
Ringworm is a fungal infection of the skin previously thought to be due to a parasite (worm). See a picture of Ringworm and learn...
Picture of Ringworm
This superficial skin infection, also known as tinea, is caused by fungi called dermatophytes. See a picture of Ringworm and...
Picture of Athlete&apos;s Foot 1
Athlete's foot is caused by a fungus that grows on or in the top layer of skin. See a picture of Athlete's Foot and learn more...
Bad Gross-outs for Teen Boy&apos;s Locker Room in Pictures
Team spirit isn't the only thing that grows in locker rooms. From yellow toenails and itchy rashes to body odor and smelly gear,...
Related Disease Conditions
Ringworm
The term "ringworm" or "ringworms" refers to fungal infections that are on the surface of the skin. A physical examination of...
Jock Itch
Jock itch is an itchy red rash that appears in the groin area. The rash may be caused by a bacterial or fungal infection. People...
Fungal Nails
Fungal nails (onychomycosis) may be caused by many species of fungi, but the most common is Trichophyton rubrum. Distal subungal...
Athlete&apos;s Foot
Athlete's foot (tinea pedis) is a skin infection caused by the ringworm fungus. Symptoms include itching, burning, cracking,...
Balanitis (Inflammation of the Head of the Penis)
Balanitis is a condition in which the skin of the head of the penis becomes inflamed. If the foreskin is also inflamed, it is...
Is Balanitis Contagious?
Balanitis is a condition in which the head of the penis and/or foreskin that surrounds the head of an uncircumcised penis becomes...
Is Jock Itch (Tinea Cruris) Contagious?
Jock itch is a fungal infection in the groin area that causes a raised, itchy, red rash. Jock itch can typically be treated with...
Treatment & Diagnosis
Symptoms & Signs FAQs & Doctor's Views
Doctor: Checklist to Take To Your Doctor's Appointment
Ringworm FAQs
How To Reduce Your Medication Costs
Pharmacy Visit, How To Get The Most Out of Your Visit
Indications for Drugs: Approved vs. Non-approved
Drugs: The Most Common Medication Errors
Medication Disposal
Dangers of Mixing Medications
Drugs: Buying Prescription Drugs Online Safely
Generic Drugs, Are They as Good as Brand-Names?
Medications & Supplements
Medications FDA Drug Labels on RxList.com
Drugs: Questions to Ask Your Doctor or Pharmacist about Your Drugs
Drug Interactions
itraconazole, Sporanox
ketoconazole, Nizoral, Extina, Xolegel, Kuric
Lotrisone
Prevention & Wellness
Health Features
Drug Name Confusion: Preventing Medication Errors
From
Infectious Disease Resources
8 Serious HIV Symptoms to Watch For
Is It a Cold, Strep, or Tonsillitis?
Tips to Prevent Cold Sores
Featured Centers
How Is Your MS Care Routine? Assess Yourself
11 Things Not to Do If You Want to get Pregnant
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration
You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088.
See more info: clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate on RxList
References
Reference: FDA Prescribing Information
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth