Freezing Warts: Efficacy, What to Expect, and More
Newsletter
Cryotherapy: Is Freezing Warts an Effective Treatment?
Medically reviewed by Elaine Luo, MD on May 4, 2017 — Written by Neel Duggal
Usage
Candidate
Procedure
Home treatments
Recovery
Efficacy
Complications
Outlook
Overview
One way doctors can remove warts is by freezing them. This is also known as cryotherapy. During treatment, a doctor directly applies liquid nitrogen, a very cold substance, to the warts. This causes the warts to freeze off.
Read on to learn about cryotherapy, including how it compares to other treatments for warts, what the procedure is like, and the recovery process.
Learn more: What’s causing this raised bump on my skin? »
What types of warts can be treated by freezing?
Most warts that aren’t in the genital area can be treated using cryotherapy. Research suggests that cryotherapy may be particularly effective in treating warts of the hand, even when compared to traditional topical creams. Cryotherapy be helpful in treating plantar warts on feet.
Who’s a good candidate for this type of treatment?
You may be a good candidate if over-the-counter (OTC) treatments like salicylic acid haven’t successfully treated your warts. Cryotherapy may also be a good option if you want to quickly treat your wart.
People who are sensitive to pain, such as young children and the elderly, may have difficulty with the procedure.
What happens during this procedure?
Cryotherapy can usually be done at your doctor’s office. During the procedure, your doctor cuts your wart with a small, sharp knife. Then they apply the freezing substance with a cotton swab or spray. Liquid nitrogen is usually used as the freezing substance, though carbon dioxide may also be used.
Cryotherapy may hurt. In some cases, your doctor may apply a local anesthetic to your wart to avoid causing pain during the treatment. The procedure doesn’t take much time. For larger warts, you may need follow-up sessions to reapply cryotherapy to those warts.
Can you freeze them at home?
Cryotherapy involving liquid nitrogen should only be performed by a healthcare professional.
You may be able to use an OTC product, such as Compound W Freeze Off or Freeze Away Easy Wart Remover, to treat smaller warts at home. These kits use a mixture of propane mixed in dimethyl ether. Typically, a foam applicator is soaked with this mixture. You apply the applicator directly to your wart. Remember to follow all instructions carefully for optimal results and minimal pain.
What should I do after the treatment?
You may have some pain for up to three days following the procedure. You should be fully recovered within two weeks.
There’s a chance for minimal scarring. You may also develop a blister over the site of the wart. If the blister breaks, clean the area with an antiseptic wipe. This will minimize the spread of virus from the wart.
In most cases, the blister and wart will disappear within a few days. If the blister is still giving you pain or still contains fluid after this, call your doctor for a second evaluation.
How effective is this treatment?
There’s limited research on the effectiveness of cryotherapy for the treatment of warts. An older from 2002 found that duct tape occlusion therapy was more effective at treating the common wart than cryotherapy. According to the study, cryotherapy successfully treated warts in 60 percent of participants. Duct tape occlusion therapy was successful for 85 percent of participants. Duct tape occlusion therapy should only be performed by a certified professional.
More research is needed to better understand the efficacy of cryotherapy in the treatment of warts.
Are there any complications?
Cryotherapy for warts is generally safe, but it has some risks. The biggest possible complication is infection of the wound, usually by bacteria. Symptoms include:
increased swelling
throbbing pain
fever
yellow discharge
pus
Bacterial infections can be treated using oral antibiotics.
Some other possible complications of cryotherapy include:
damage to your nerves, which can lead to temporary numbness
slow healing
ulcer formation
long-lasting scar or altered pigmentation
skin lesions
Outlook
Cryotherapy can be an effective treatment for nongenital warts that provides minimal scarring. It’s typically used if topical treatments aren’t effective alone in treating warts. More research is needed to understand its efficacy, but most dermatologists offer it as a potential treatment.
Medically reviewed by Elaine Luo, MD on May 4, 2017 — Written by Neel Duggal
related stories
Salicylic Acid for Wart Treatment
12 Ways to Remove a Wart on Your Finger
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
READ THIS NEXT
Salicylic Acid for Wart Treatment
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Wart removal treatments are as varied as the types of warts they treat. Salicylic acid is considered an effective remover for the most common types of…
READ MORE
12 Ways to Remove a Wart on Your Finger
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
There are many different kinds of warts, but removing a wart from your finger is something you can probably do at home. Here's how, and when to see a…
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, RD
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
10 Exercises to Tone Every Inch of Your Body
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From barre to TRX, there's a lot of ways to work out. But if you're someone who wants to keep it simple and effective, then this workout routine is…
READ MORE
8 Reasons Your Friends (and Twitter) Should Never Replace Therapy
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
Approximately 1 in 6 U.S. adults experiences mental health issues each year. So chances are, you may benefit at some point in your life from talking…
READ MORE
Your Anxiety Loves Sugar. Eat These 3 Things Instead.
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
From worsening anxiety to making depression more likely, sugar is seriously harmful to your mental health. Even trying to cut back on the sweet stuff…
READ MORE
Infrared Saunas: Your Questions Answered
Infrared saunas promise a number of health benefits, from weight loss and decreased stress levels to improved circulation and even better skin. But…
READ MORE
The Fuel-Good, Keto-Happy Shopping List for Beginners
Medically reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
Our simple ketogenic shopping list is based off delicious recipes that'll launch your keto journey beyond the first week. It keeps to the basics, so…
READ MORE
7 Everyday Tonics that Help Your Body Adjust to Stress and Anxiety
Medically reviewed by Natalie Olsen, RD, LD, ACSM EP-C
On top of getting your daily dose of regular exercise, there's ways that a simple tonic could reduce your stress and anxiety, or that afternoon…
READ MORE
Myth vs. Reality: What Does a Panic Attack Feel Like?
Medically reviewed by Timothy J. Legg, PhD, CRNP
There are many misconceptions about what panic attacks look and feel like. Understanding panic attacks and learning how best to support yourself and…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 120793 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582