Pure Copper Magnetic Bracelet For Men And Women. Natural Pain Relief From Arthritis and Joint Pain (Medium Size)
Ainfo
Arthritis Information And Advice
Home
Arthritis Advice
Arthritis Treatments
Navigate to:
» HomeArthritis AdviceArthritis Treatments
Pure Copper Magnetic Bracelet For Men And Women. Natural Pain Relief From Arthritis and Joint Pain (Medium Size)
Get The Best Deal
See Special Price
£13.99
BUY NOW
Looks Like Jewellery, Feels Like Jewellery, Works Like Magic!
“I don’t write many reviews, but I felt that this product truly deserves one.
I must admit I was very skeptical about the possible benefits of wearing this but it seems to work, I have arthritis in both hands, with stiffness in fingers and thumbs. The pain has not gone but is much less, and the stiffness has reduced. Also I think I am getting a better nights sleep now. If all of this is just ‘in my mind’ then I don’t really care because it’s helping.”
WE GUARANTEE that you’re pain is also going to reduce, your joints will feel less stiff, and your sleep and general wellbeing will improve, or you will get ALL of your money back.
This copper magnetic bracelet can reduce the pain felt by a multitude of conditions such as Arthritis, Rheumatism, RSI, Tendonitis, Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, Golfers and Tennis Elbow, Poor Circulation, Muscle Soreness and Wrist Pain.
It’s made from PURE Copper and contains 6 high-powered magnets, each offering 3000 gauss in strength. After capping, the strength of each magnet may vary from 2600g-2800g, delivering in excess of 15,000 gauss.
It comes in a stylish black jewellery box, making it an ideal gift.
This represents exceptional value for money, when compared to the financial and health costs of pain relief medication.
You can also benefit from the pain relief that a copper magnetic bracelet can bring now, click the order button above to experience this for yourself ABSOLUTELY RISK FREE!
EASES JOINT PAIN – Reduces inflammation by improving blood circulation, opening the flow of blocked energy and detoxifying the body, placing it in the best environment possible for it to heal itself. I personally have arthritic knees that constantly ache, more so in the colder months, and was taking a minimum of 2 x 400mg Ibuprofen daily to combat my pain, and that’s not only unhealthy but costly! However, after starting to wear my Copper Magnetic Bracelet I’ve not needed to take them at all!
PROVIDES NATURAL PAIN RELIEF – Magnets have been used as part of the healing process since ancient Greece. They increase blood flow and circulation, alleviating pain and speeding up the healing process. Copper has been used in Jewellery for a hundred years or more. It is known to encourage the body to produce more endorphins that relieve pain, and been found to relieve the symptoms of arthritis and circulation problems.
SIZE – The bracelet is size Medium which fits a wrist size from 6¼” (160mm) to 7½” (190mm). It can be made to fit perfectly by gently squeezing or opening so that it feels comfortable to wear and can be worn either tight or loose to the skin, although the maximum benefits are attained if the magnets are as close to the skin as possible. Although worn on the wrist, the bracelet is beneficial to stiff joints throughout the entire body. It is also available in a Large size.
FREE eBOOK – Comes with a FREE eBook ‘Learn To Heal Through Magnetic Therapy’ which explains the science and theory behind how and why magnetic therapy works.
HOLIDAY COUNTDOWN SUPER SALE – Buy 2 Bracelets and get £4 off your purchase, buy 3 Bracelets and get £7 off your purchase – the more you buy, the more you save – see the Special Offers below for more great savings! Makes a GREAT holiday gift for your friends and family. Buy with confidence with our Lifetime Guarantee!
Posts related to Pure Copper Magnetic Bracelet For Men And Women. Natural Pain Relief From Arthritis and Joint Pain (Medium Size)
ON SALE! Mens Magnetic Bracelet With Fold Over Clasp - Pewter Coloured. Best Natural Pain Relief For Arthritis. Ideal Gift.
On Sale!!!! Pure Copper Magnetic Bracelet For Men And Women. Natural Pain Relief From Arthritis and Joint Pain (Medium Size)
Pure Copper Magnetic Bracelet For Men And Women. Natural Pain Relief From Arthritis And Joint Pain (Medium, Copper)
Pure Copper Magnetic Bracelet For Men And Women. Natural Pain Relief From Arthritis and Joint Pain (Large Size)
Mens Magnetic Bracelet With Fold Over Clasp - Copper Coloured. Best Natural Pain Relief For Arthritis. Ideal Gift.
Men's Pure Copper Magnetic Bracelet Bangle, Arthritis Aid, With 6 Super Strength Magnets Each 3000 Gauss. Adjustable Size, Natural Pain Relief, Rheumatism, RSI, Tendonitis, Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, Sports Injuries. Includes FREE Magnetic Therapy eBook (Large Size)
Tags: Arthritis, Bracelet, Copper, from, joint, Magnetic, Medium, Natural, Pain, Pure, Relief, Size, Women
MENU
Home
Arthritis Advice
Arthritis Treatments
Recent Posts
Help Your Arthritis Pain With This Advice
Arthritis: Don’t Let It Rob You Of Life!
Good Tips For Keeping Your Arthritis From Getting Bad
How You Can Enjoy Life Even With Arthritis
Proven Tips For Dealing With Your Arthritis
Ainfo is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon. Certain content that appears on Ainfo comes from Amazon Services LLC. This content is provided 'as is' and is subject to change or removal at any time.
Product prices and availability are accurate as of the date/time indicated and are subject to change. Any price and availability information displayed on Amazon at the time of purchase will apply to the purchase of this product.
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Pictures courtesy of Flickr | Creative Commons License 2 | Creative Commons License 4
Disclaimer: Ainfo is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com/Amazon.co.uk