How to Lower a High Fever in a 6-Month-Old Baby | Livestrong.com
Sign Up Log In
Log In
Keep me logged in Forgot your password?
Log In
Recipes
Fitness
Health
MyPlate
Stronger Women
More
News
Food
Diseases & Conditions
Lifestyle
Style & Beauty
Parenting
Relationships & Family
Weight Management
BMI Calculator
Livestrong
Health
Family Health
Babies Health
How to Lower a High Fever in a 6-Month-Old Baby
Lillian Downey
About the Author:
Lillian Downey
A Jill-of-all-trades, Lillian Downey is a certified Responsible Sexuality Educator, certified clinical phlebotomist and a certified non-profit administrator. She's also written extensively on gardening and cooking. She also authors blogs on nail art blog and women's self esteem.
View Full Profile
A baby's average temperature is a little higher than an adult's. Healthy lies somewhere between 97 and 100.4 F, according to the BabyCenter website. Fevers are particularly dangerous in babies because they typically indicate the presence of an infection your baby's limited immune system may not be able to fight off on its own. If a baby's fever gets too high, he could experience seizures and other serious complications. Aside from determining the underlying cause of the fever, there are a few strategies you can employ at home to bring temperatures into the normal range.
Step 1
Hold off treating a mild fever if your baby is still eating, sleeping and behaving normally. Allow the fever to assist in defeating infection, recommends BabyCenter, but monitor his temperature and behavior closely for changes.
Step 2
Remove extra layers of clothing and avoid covering your baby with blankets while indoors. Set your thermostat to around 70 F.
Step 3
Give babies older than 3 months a baby-sized dose of an over-the-counter fever reducer that contains acetaminophen. Give acetaminophen or ibuprofen to children older than 6 months, FamilyDoctor.org instructs. Always carefully follow the dosing instructions on the label. Discuss appropriate medications and dosages regularly with your doctor during your child's early months.
Step 4
Provide formula, breast milk, low-sugar fruit juice and other age-appropriate fluids to prevent dehydration that can accompany fevers.
Step 5
Sponge room-temperature water over your baby or give him a bath in lukewarm water one hour after administering fever-reducing medication, FamilyDoctor.org recommends. Avoid giving baths independent of medicine, as they can cause shivers and chills in your baby.
Tip
Call your doctor any time a baby younger than 3 months old has a fever higher than 100.4 F. For babies between 3 and 6 months, call when the temperature exceeds 101 F. At 6 months or older, your baby should see a doctor if his fever exceeds 102 F for two or more days, or if he shows other signs of sickness. Call your doctor immediately if his temperature is 103 F or higher.
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
BabyCenter; Fever; April 2007
FamilyDoctor.org; Fever in Infants and Children; September 2010
MayoClinic.com; Sick baby? When to seek medical attention; Feb. 5, 2011
HealthyChildren; Fever and Your Baby; Dec. 10, 2010
Load comments
People Are Reading
1
How to Treat an 11 Month Old's Cold
2
Will Milk Hurt a Baby With a Fever?
3
Baby Vaccinations Side Effects
4
How to Decrease Mucus Production in Babies
5
How to Get Rid of Children's Fevers
6
Nine-Month-Old Baby With a Fever
Get the latest tips on diet, exercise and healthy living.
Woman
Man
Sign Up
MORE
Contact & FAQ
About
Advertise
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
PARTNER & LICENSEE OF THE LIVESTRONG FOUNDATION
Copyright © 2019 Leaf Group Ltd. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the LIVESTRONG.COM Terms of Use , Privacy Policy and Copyright Policy . The material appearing on LIVESTRONG.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. LIVESTRONG is a registered trademark of the LIVESTRONG Foundation. The LIVESTRONG Foundation and LIVESTRONG.COM do not endorse any of the products or services that are advertised on the web site. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the advertisements are served by third party advertising companies.