How to Do a Steam Inhalation with Essential Oils
Home
About
Advertising
Free Book
Editorial Calendar
Privacy/Terms
Newsletters
Join Us
The Books!
Favorite Resources
Community
Login
The Community
Untrained Housewife
Community, Help, and Encouragement for Active Parents
Email
Facebook
Google+
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
DIY
Sewing
Self-Sufficiency
Arts and Crafts
Scrapbooking
Photography
Family
School
Faith
Parenting
Marriage
Finances and Budgeting
Cooking
Meal Plans
Preserving and Storage
Recipes
Free Time
Computers
Reading
Travel
Holidays
TV and Movies
Playtime
Garden
Fruits
Ornamentals
Vegetables
Herbs
Health
Health Care
Alternative Remedies
Nutrition and Exercise
Pregnancy and Childbirth
Home
Cleaning
Decorating
Organization
Time Management
Improvement
Animals
Pets
Livestock
Chickens
How to Do a Steam Inhalation with Essential Oils
December 11, 2010 By SatuR
A steam inhalation is one of the best home remedies for cold and for coughs and an effective sinus infection home remedy. Steam inhalations can also to relieve sore throats and catarrh.
Inhalations are easy to do and can be made more effective by adding essential oils, especially oils with decongestant, antibacterial and antiviral properties. Some of the most useful oils are Eucalyptus, Pine, Lavender, Rosemary, Peppermint and Tea Tree.
How to Make a Steam Inhalation
Simply heat up water up to boiling point on a stove or in an electric kettle. Remove from heat and pour the water into a large bowl. Add 3-4 drops of essential oil, cover your head and the bowl with a large bath towel, place your face above the bowl but not so close that the steam will burn your face, and inhale the hot steam for several minutes. I do up to ten minutes or until the water cools down.
Make sure you don’t burn yourself, and keep the kids and pets away from the steaming bowl. If you have a cold, a persistent cough or a sinus infection, steam inhalations can be done several times a day.
Essential Oils for Steam Inhalations
Colds: Eucalyptus (Eucalyptus globulus or radiata) is one of the best oils for colds; it is antiviral, antibacterial and decongestant. Other useful oils are Lavender (Lavandula angustifolia) –antibacterial, antiviral, decongestant and relaxing, Pine (Pinus sylvestris) – a good decongestant, Tea Tree (Melaleuca alternifolia) – one of the best antiviral oils but not as good for clearing up the nasal passages as Eucalyptus. Peppermint (Mentha piperita) is an effective decongestant but it is quite strong and not everyone can take it.
Coughs: Eucalyptus steam inhalation is one of the easiest home remedies for coughs. The oil relieves congestion and if there is an infection, it also fights the bacteria. For dry and irritating coughs, try Benzoin (Styrax benzoin) or Frankincense (Boswellia carterii).
Sinus infection: a steam inhalation several times a day can relieve the pain, the congestion and the infection. Try Eucalyptus, Lavender, Peppermint, Pine, Thyme (Thymus vulgaris) or Tea Tree.
Sore throat: steam inhalations can ease irritation and soreness in the throat, whether it is caused by an infection or if you’ve just been talking too much. Benzoin, Lavender and Thyme are all good choices.
Safety Precautions for Steam Inhalations
Steam inhalations are usually not recommended for asthma sufferers. The same goes for hayfever and other similar allergies. If you are worried about an adverse reaction, start with a very small amount of time, just half a minute.
The oils mentioned above are meant for adults. Always check possible contra-indications if you’re using essential oils and have a health condition or are pregnant. The Illustrated Encyclopaedia of Essential Oils by Julia Lawless is a good guide to using essential oils at home.
Photo: Stephanie (Wikimedia Commons)
My Google+ profile
About SatuR
has written 139 posts in this blog.
I am a freelance writer, a qualified aromatherapist and an authorized ashtanga yoga teacher. Making, trying out and learning about herbal and natural home remedies is a life-long passion for me.
View all posts by SatuR →
Blog
Twitter
Google+
Filed Under: Alternative Remedies, Reviews Tagged With: aromatherapy, cold remedies, essential oil, essential oil uses, essential oils, home remedies, natural remedies, steam inhilation
You might also enjoy...
A Beginner's Guide to Essential Oils
Sinus Steam Inhalation
4 Home Uses for Peppermint Oil
6 Home Uses for Rosemary Essential Oil
Get the Free Manifesto!
The Untrained Housewife Manifesto
Subscribe to Untrained Housewife Weekly Newsletter and get a free copy of the Untrained Housewife Manifesto; 7 Principles of Intentional and Self-Sufficient Living.
See:
~ Why I think that wet hair might be one of the best ingredients for parenting
~ The best agriculture design for total health
~ How to respect your food
...and so much more.
You will get the free download and be subscribed to my email list which will include periodic emails with favorite posts, tips and tricks, and special offers. We never sell your email to other people and you are free to unsubscribe any time.
Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription and get the copy of the book!
There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.
First Name
Email Address
We use this field to detect spam bots. If you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer.
Subscribe
We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time. Powered by ConvertKit
Comments
Meadow Walker says
August 22, 2013 at 6:52 AM
I consider myself a Renaissance woman as well.
I love eucalyptus and lavender. And, tea tree in my opinion is the best for treating infections and minor wounds. It’s also a great insect repellent as well.
I love your articles. Come and visit my website when you have a moment. Everyone is welcome to come and study and learn more about the wonderful world of herbs.
Trackbacks
Culinary Herbs as Home Remedies: Rosemary says:
July 13, 2011 at 9:24 PM
[…] muscles. Rosemary oil can stimulate circulation, relieve pain and it is a very effective oil for steam inhalations during colds and in sinusitis: this oil really clears the head. Rosemary should not be used during […]
Culinary Herbs as Home Remedies: Basil says:
July 13, 2011 at 9:36 PM
[…] for the same purpose. Inhaling the essential oil from the bottle or from a napkin, or using it in a steam inhalation can help to relieve colds and to clear the […]
Essential Oils: Natural Cold Remedies says:
September 2, 2011 at 6:16 AM
[…] SatuR Essential oils are effective natural home remedies for cold and flu. They can be used in steam inhalations, in baths and essential oil burners to relieve the symptoms of colds and flus and to prevent […]
Gold, Frankincense and Myrrh: What is Frankincense? says:
October 21, 2011 at 1:17 PM
[…] problems in the respiratory system, such as coughs, bronchitis and asthma. It can be added to steam inhalations (although steam may not be suitable in asthma) and it can be made into a chest rub. Because it […]
Gold, Frankincense and… What is Myrrh? says:
November 21, 2011 at 10:40 AM
[…] Like frankincense essential oil, myrrh oil is used for respiratory problems, for example in steam inhalations or in chest rubs to help relieve coughs and to expel mucus. The essential oil has the same […]
Home Remedies for Sinus Infection says:
December 1, 2011 at 8:56 AM
[…] the easiest natural remedies for sinusitis, whether acute or chronic, is a steam inhalation. Read How to Do a Steam Inhalation with Essential Oils for step-by-step instructions. Three inhalations a day can bring relief fast and you could do up to […]
Essential Oils You Need to Know: All About Aromatherapy Home Remedies says:
January 12, 2012 at 2:24 PM
[…] How to Do a Steam Inhalation with Essential Oils […]
Food Advertising by
ConvertKit Form
The Untrained Housewife Manifesto
Subscribe to Untrained Housewife Weekly Newsletter and get a free copy of the Untrained Housewife Manifesto; 7 Principles of Intentional and Self-Sufficient Living.
See:
~ Why I think that wet hair might be one of the best ingredients for parenting
~ The best agriculture design for total health
~ How to respect your food
...and so much more.
You will get the free download and be subscribed to my email list which will include periodic emails with favorite posts, tips and tricks, and special offers. We never sell your email to other people and you are free to unsubscribe any time.
Success! Now check your email to confirm your subscription and get the copy of the book!
There was an error submitting your subscription. Please try again.
First Name
Email Address
We use this field to detect spam bots. If you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer.
Subscribe
We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time. Powered by ConvertKit
Recent Posts
Great Herbal Courses to Learn Alternative Wellness (Plus Giveaway)
How Technology Is Transforming the Way We Manage Our Health
Long Distance Moving? Three Strategies For Success!
Celebrate Mother’s Day With These Simple Gift Ideas
Bring a Tactile Wubble Fun to Your Home for HOURS of Play!
March is National Kidney Awareness Month!
Math, Sports, Music…Who Has Time to Drive?
Food Advertising by
Grab the button!
Garden
Edible Landscaping Resources
Animals
Mail-Order Baby Chicks Arrive at the Ranch
Recipes
Berry & Cream Cheese Cobbler Muffins #Recipe
Family
Math, Sports, Music…Who Has Time to Drive?
DIY & Crafts
25 Ways to Use a Mason Jar
Health
How to Use Medicinal Herbs at Home: Making Herbal Infusions, Decoctions and Salves
»
«
Copyright © 2019 Untrained Housewife
All photos and posts are the property of their creators. Untrained Housewife grants non-exclusive use of one photo and up to 50 words quote from any post with attribution and link back to the original post on this site. Enjoy!
Course Students Login
Username
Password
Remember me
Forgot Password?
Join Us
Password Reset
Please enter your e-mail address. You will receive a new password via e-mail.
Email: