Topical Black Seed Oil Beats Tylenol for Pain Relief in Osteoarthritis – Openhearted Rebellion
Openhearted Rebellion
Love is our revolution
Menu Skip to content
Home
Activism
8 Facts About the Dakota Access Pipeline
Addiction and the New Activism
Humor in Activism: Washington Protestors Temporarily Stop Fracking
Oppose the System with Awareness
Stay Strong
This Is How the U.S. Creates Terrorist Groups Like ISIS
Why You Should Care About the Meat Industry
Cannabis & Hemp
8 Cannabis Facts That Defy Traditional Stereotypes
A Step in the Right Direction: Texas Republicans Support Cannabis/Hemp Decriminalization
Anecdotal Evidence That Cannabis Treats Tinnitus, Epilepsy, Ulcerative Colitis and More
Can Marijuana Treat Depression and PTSD?
Cannabis, Consciousness and Common Sense
Cannabis: Religious Reverence Throughout History
Cannabliss: The Spiritual Benefits of Marijuana
Hemp: An Industrially Versatile Plant
Stand up for Cannabis; Stand up for Freedom
Vaporizing: A Healthier Way to Use Cannabis
Video: How Does Marijuana Help the Body?
Would Cannabis Legalization Confuse Kids About Drugs?
Consciousness & Evolution
5 Obstacles on the Spiritual Path
5 Pitfalls of New Age Thinking That Can Actually Help You
5 Profound Quotes on Meditation and Enlightenment
5 Things to Release on the Path of Enlightenment
5 Things We Can Appreciate About Rastafari
Exploring Consciousness: Our Only Hope
Higher Consciousness and the Power of “No-Mind”
Indications of a Global Shift in Consciousness
Synchronicity
Tap into the Source
The Biggest Obstacle
Wake Up!
Why Write? A Spiritual Perspective
Conspiracy
A Brief Rockefeller/Rothschild History
Declassified Documents Disclose CIA Mind Control Programs
Giordano Bruno: Disinfo Tactics
Contact Us – Submit Articles
Enlightened Afterlife (Ebook)
Environment
5 Facts About the World’s First “Forest City”
Flint Water Activist Awarded Environmental Prize
Sea Turtles Stunned by Cold Weather Rescued in Florida
Health & Wellness
5 Ways Meditation Helps the Mind and Body
Laughter in an Insane World
The Benefits of Organic and Alkaline-Rich Foods
Tired of Coffee? Try Some Tea
Vaporizing: A Healthier Way to Use Cannabis
Which Foods Are Alkaline and Which Are Acid-Forming?
Karma Yoga
I Know Nothing
Karma Yoga Decoded – Part 1
Part 2
Part 3
More Kindness, Less Hate
Writing with Purpose
Karma Yoga Podcast
Episode 1: Cannabis, Hemp, and Buddhism
Episode 2: Addiction, Spirituality, and Manipulation
Old-School Spirituality
7 Krishnamurti Quotes On… Nothing
Alan Watts on Love and True Spirituality
Franklin Merrell-Wolff Describes Enlightenment
Franklin Merrell-Wolff on Deep Breathing and Bliss
Franklin Merrell-Wolff on the Inner Fire
Language and Enlightenment
The Buddha’s Life Story
Paranormal & Mystery
5 Kids Who Recall Having A Past Life
Ancient Kazakh Earthworks Defy History: Will NASA Tell the Truth?
Are UFOs Manifestations of the Oversoul?
Cahokia: Mystery of the Mounds
Did the First UFO Sighting Occur in 1801?
Extraterrestrials on Earth? Reported ET Contacts
Introducing… The Phoenix Lights
Out-of-Body Experiences: Is It Possible to Leave the Body?
Peter Tosh and the Sleep Paralysis Phenomenon – Part 1/3
Peter Tosh and the Sleep Paralysis Phenomenon – Part 2/3
Peter Tosh and the Sleep Paralysis Phenomenon – Part 3/3
The Rendlesham Forest UFO Incident – What Happened?
Photo Gallery
A New Picture After So Long
A Beautiful Picture With A Picture Within
A beautiful tree giving a clear view to the sky
A Fall Day Walk
A Sunny, Snowy Day
A Walk In The Field
A Winter’s Tree
Beautiful Clouds
Blue Sky
Cute Kitten Backyard Infestation
Full Bloom
Get Some Fresh Air In The Comfort Of Your Computer Chair
I Know Someone Could Use This Right Now
I Really Enjoy This Picture I Hope You Will To
Icy Waterfall
Injured but Has Pride
Light In The Sky
Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays
My Favorite Part Of The Day
Oh How I Love The Night Sky
Sky Leaves
Snow Day
Snowy Heart
Some Beautiful Flowers
Sunset
Winter’s Beauty
Religion of Love
I Accept You as You Are
I Stand for Love
Love Gives Life Meaning
Love Is Everything
Love Rebels, Unite!
Love: My New Religion
Love: Our New Way of Life
One More Light: Loss, Grief, and Love for Life
Spiritual Revolution Is Driven by Love
This Reggae Song Reminds Us to Love Life
Unity Doesn’t Mean Conformity
Weekly Awareness Guide
Subscribe & Unsubscribe
September 6, 2018 Wes Annac
Topical Black Seed Oil Beats Tylenol for Pain Relief in Osteoarthritis
By Sayer Ji, Wake Up World
Study: Black Seed Oil Beats Paracetamol for Osteoarthritis Pain
The tiny black seed strikes again! Even orally administered Tylenol can’t compete with the topical application of this potent healing oil to reduce symptoms of one of the most common health complaints of our time.
Recently, over-the-counter “pain killing” drugs like ibuprofen and Tylenol have been found to have a battery of serious adverse side effects, some even life-threatening. Even aspirin, commonly believed to be a life-saving cardioprotective agent, has come under scrutiny as perhaps doing far more harm than good. Even more astounding is the recent discovery that some of these drugs have soul-numbing properties not unlike psychotropic medications.
Due to the growing concern about both the physical and psychological harms of these pharmaceutical agents, interest in natural, evidence-based alternatives has been exploding. In order to satisfy the demand for scientifically validated alternatives to drugs GreenMedInfo has accumulated hundreds of abstracts on the topic, which can be viewed on GreenMedInfo’s various related database pages, such as Pain, Aspirin Alternatives, and Ibuprofen Alternatives.
Why is Everyone Using NSAIDs and Tylenol?
The reality is that because millions suffer from pain and inflammation on a daily basis, the promise of popping a pill to relieve discomfort is an ever-present temptation. It doesn’t help that the US is one of three countries that permit drug companies and pharmacies to advertise these medications directly to the consumer through television and other mainstream media channels.
But is it logical to expect a potent chemical to positively alter symptoms that aren’t caused by a lack of that chemical? If poor diet, lifestyle, chemical exposures, and a suboptimal mindset are the basis of most chronic health issues, then shouldn’t the focus be on addressing and reversing these underlying variables instead? This would be the goal of so-called “root cause resolution” medicine. Instead, palliative medicine — where the goal is to suppress symptoms — is the default approach; but it’s not sustainable and the collateral damage to one’s health is often not worth the risk of the intervention.
When Food (Applied Topically) is More Powerful Than Pharmaceutical Medicine
A recent clinical trial, entitled “Effect of Topical Application of Nigella Sativa Oil and Oral Acetaminophen on Pain in Elderly with Knee Osteoarthritis: A Crossover Clinical Trial,” compared topical black seed oil with oral Tylenol on pain in elderly osteoarthritis patients.
Study participants were divided into two groups of 10:
One group received 1 milliliter of black seed oil applied on the knee joint 3 times a day every 8 hours for 3 weeks.
One group was given 1 tablet of 325 mg acetaminophen also 3 times a day every 8 hours for 3 weeks.
This study was performed on 40 elderly patients, average age 77, 18 (45%) men and 22 (55%) women.
The criteria for inclusion in the study included the following common symptoms related to knee osteoarthritis:
“Age over 65 years diagnosis of knee osteoarthritis, according to American College Rheumatology diagnostic criteria, included 1) knee pain on most days of the last month; 2) crepitus (joint sound in active motion); 3) morning stiffness less than 30 minutes; and 4) inflation in the examination of the knee bone, respectively (15).”
The promising results of the intervention were reported as follows:
“Study results showed that topical application of Nigella sativa oil and oral acetaminophen reduced pain in elderly with knee osteoarthritis; after using Nigella sativa oil, the reduction of pain was higher (p=0.01).”
The researchers concluded:
“This study showed that topical use of Nigella sativa oil can be more effective in reducing knee pain in elderly patients than acetaminophen, which is typically used as a safe supplement for the elderly.”
Related reading: Turmeric Extract Puts Drugs For Knee Osteoarthritis to Shame
What Gives Black Seed its Remarkable Power?
Unlike pharmaceutical agents which are comprised of either singular chemicals or simple combinations of them, black seed is a complex food which contains a wide range of nutritional and phytochemical components. These all act in concert to produce complex physiological responses in the human body. The study described some of the known constituents of black seed as follows:
“Nigella sativa oil is composed of 30% by weight of p-cymene, which is the most original composition, and 61.48% of the weight is composed of the volatile oil. Nigella sativa seeds contain fat, vitamins, minerals, proteins, essential amino acids, and carbohydrates (8). Nigella sativa seed is a rich source of essential fatty and unsaturated acids. The main unsaturated fatty acids are linoleic acid and oleic acid. There are also other compounds in seeds, such as phospholipids, carotene, calcium, iron, and potassium (9).”
One of the reasons why the pharmaceutical industry and mainstream medicine will not invest in food-based solutions for preventing and treating disease is because these common foods and spices do not lend themselves to being easily understandable, nor patentable. We may never know exactly why the relatively infinitely more complex concentrate of a food like black seed oil produces superior effects when compared to drugs like Tylenol. But knowing how something works should be of secondary importance to the fact that it does work, shouldn’t it?
“Mother Nature’s formulas are proprietary, but she does not grant patents.” ~ Sayer Ji
The primary reason why we will never see conventional physicians prescribing food as medicine is because the FDA defines anything that “prevents, cures, diagnoses or cures disease” as a “drug,” and FDA drug approval can cost up to 11 billion dollars per drug. Can you imagine a walnut company investing that much money in order to prove the obvious: namely, that its product has health benefits? Chemicals, on the other hand, are ideal for this kind of commercialization, even if they almost invariably carry debilitating and deadly side effects.
Closing Comments
This study illustrates the power of natural, food-based alternatives for reducing symptoms in a way that does not produce the risks associated with drug-based interventions. In fact, given that pain killers such as Tylenol actually increase the risk of serious diseases such as asthma, and black seed oil has been shown to reduce asthma, the superiority of black seed oil over conventional drugs like Tylenol may be far more profound than overtly discussed in this study.
For more information on the “side benefits” of black seed oil, please visit GreenMedInfo’s Black Seed database which contains research on over 100 health conditions that it has been studied to have potential therapeutic application in improving. Also, please use GMI’s extensive Osteoarthritis database to learn more about natural and/or integrative approaches to treating the condition.
It should also be noted the highly therapeutic ritual of massaging the oil into the knee may have played a significant role in producing the observed positive outcome. Here is the specific method used:
“In the first stage, for the first group about 1 ml Nigella sativa oil was applied on the knee joint three times a day every 8 hours for 1 week. The massaging method was done with the entire palm in a way that continued for 5 minutes, massaged in a clockwise direction at the front and sides of the knee joint. It should be noted that the Nigella sativa oil used was owned by Barij-e-Kashan; for all subjects, it was maintained away from sunlight and at ambient temperature.”
Consider also that 1 millimeter is only about 1 gram. That’s a very small amount of oil. One teaspoon would have about 5 grams, or 5 servings worth of black seed oil.
Black seed oil is clearly a perfect example of an ancient healing substance which has undergone a modern day Renaissance of scientific validation. As the old world drug-based paradigm of symptom suppression continues to be proven inadequate, especially outside of the emergency setting (where drugs can sometimes have life-saving applications), interest is growing in evidence-based natural alternatives like black seed. Black seed is only the tip of a massive iceberg of thousands of science-backed natural compounds that could be used to alleviate human suffering. Please use the GreenMedInfo.com Research Dashboard to search over 10,000 health topics and share your findings with friends, family, and practitioners who may be interested in this topic.
Recommended articles by Sayer Ji:
The Powerful Aspirin Alternative Your Doctor Never Told You About
13 Evidence-Based Medicinal Properties of Coconut Oil
Group Drumming Better Than Prozac, Study Suggests
25 Cancer Stem-Cell Killing Foods That Are Smarter Than Chemo and Radiation
How Pomegranate Puts Chemo and Radiation to Shame
How Turmeric Can Save the Aging Brain From Dementia and Premature Death
Dramatic Recovery in Parkinson’s Patient with Gluten Free Diet
6 Bodily Tissues That Can Be Regenerated Through Nutrition
Fluoride Literally Turns the Pineal Gland to Stone, Research Suggests
Why All Diabetics Should Know About Turmeric
Wheat Contains Not One But 23K Potentially Harmful Proteins
About the author:
Sayer Ji is the founder of Greenmedinfo.com, a reviewer at the International Journal of Human Nutrition and Functional Medicine, Co-founder and CEO of Systome Biomed, Vice Chairman of the Board of the National Health Federation, and Steering Committee Member of the Global Non-GMO Foundation.
For more, visit GreenMedInfo.com and Facebook.com/GreenMedInfo, or sign up for GreenMedInfo’s free e-Newsletter.
© August 26th, 2018 GreenMedInfo LLC. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of GreenMedInfo LLC. Want to learn more from GreenMedInfo? Sign up for their newsletter here.
Advertisements
Share this:
Facebook
Twitter
Email
LinkedIn
Reddit
Print
Tumblr
Pinterest
Pocket
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related
Awareness
Health and Wellness
beats tylenol
black seed oil
osteoarthritis
pain relief
topical
Post navigation
Previous How To Stop Negative Thoughts From Getting You Down
Next Rekindling the Human Spirit with Lemons
One comment
Iconoclast says:
September 7, 2018 at 3:37 pm
Reblogged this on Infinite Shift.
LikeLike
Reply
Share your thoughts Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (Address never made public)
Name
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Advertisements
Search
Search for:
Latest
The Creator Writings: Your Toolbox
5 Profound Quotes on Meditation and Enlightenment
The Creator Writings: Well Worth the Work
Why Is Everything Coming Down On Me, All At Once?
Building the Future
The Gift of Growth & Manifesting Your Own Metamorphosis
We Are the Ignition for the New
The CBD Secret: What Big Pharma Doesn’t Want You to Know About CBD Oil
April is National Alcohol Awareness Month — Time for Education and Action about Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism
Your Soul Has Been Preparing For This Moment
Follow Openhearted Rebellion via Email
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 3,795 other followers
Sign me up!
Support the Blog: Subscribe to the Weekly Awareness Guide for $11.11 a month
Support the blog by subscribing to the Weekly Awareness Guide. Credit and debit cards accepted if you have a PayPal account.
Connect With Us On Facebook
Connect With Us On Facebook
Miss a Day? Check Here For That Day’s Posts
September 2018
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
« Aug Oct »
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
Top Posts & Pages
Groundbreaking Research Links Autism with Histamine, Inflammation and Mast Cell Activation
Researchers Demonstrate How Cancer Cells Are Obliterated By Resonant Frequencies
The Negative Effects Of Cutting Your Hair
The Gatekeeper's Role: Ascending and Returning to Earth
5 Profound Quotes on Meditation and Enlightenment
The Best Kind Of Relationship For Empaths To Be In
This Syrup Is 10x More Powerful Than Penicillin – Kills All Infections And Bacteria From Your Organism
Defensiveness Is One Of The Biggest Reasons We Don't Embrace Healthy Behaviors
The Creator Writings: Your Toolbox
Musical Wisdom: 5 Inspiring Lyrics from Reggae Songs
Our Community
All-Time Views
6,636,217 hits
Support the Blog: Donate
Donations help us keep the site running, and every contribution is appreciated.
Blogroll
Anti-Media
Body Mind Soul Spirit
Collective Evolution
Conscious Life News
Era of Wisdom
Golden Age of Gaia
In5D
Natural Blaze
Natural Society
Oracles and Healers
About Wes Annac and Openhearted Rebellion
Wes Annac
I'm a twenty-something writer & blogger with an interest in spirituality, love, awareness, activism, and other crazy stuff. I operate Openhearted Rebellion, a blog dedicated to sharing wisdom and encouraging a revolution that begins in the heart. I've contributed to a few awesome websites that include Waking Times, Wake Up World, Golden Age of Gaia, and The Master Shift. I can be found on Facebook (facebook.com/wesannac, facebook.com/cultureofawareness) and Twitter (twitter.com/Wes_Annac, https://twitter.com/love_rebellion)
Personal Links
Wes Annac's Personal Blog
Openhearted Rebellion
Marijuana Millennial
View Full Profile →
RSS Links
RSS - Posts
RSS - Comments
Advertisements
Create a website or blog at WordPress.com
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this: