Chicken pox scars treatment: 18 useful tips
Toggle navigation
Crypto Reviews
Health
Nutrition
Food & Recipes
Sexual Health
Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Home Remedies
Home Remedies Index
How To
Relationships
Love & Sex
Men’s Dating
Women’s Dating
Marriage & Relationships
Parenting & Families
LifeStyle
Crypto Reviews
Health
Nutrition
Food & Recipes
Sexual Health
Beauty
Hair Care
Skin Care
Home Remedies
Home Remedies Index
How To
Relationships
Love & Sex
Men’s Dating
Women’s Dating
Marriage & Relationships
Parenting & Families
LifeStyle
Home
Health
0 Shares
0 0
Chicken pox scars treatment: 18 useful tips
Chicken pox scars are the marks usually caused by the varicella-zoster virus. This condition can result from itchy and fluid blisters on the skin. They lead to scars on the skin and they are hard to eliminate. Prevention is better than treatment, however, whenever getting this disease, you should try to use natural remedies to cure it first, avoid using drugs as much as possible. In this article, VKool.com will show you chicken pox scars treatment and hope that you will cure it best at home. This writing is for informational purpose only, so you should ask the doctor’s consult if the problem is more serious.
18 Tips About Chicken Pox Scars Treatment You Should Know
1. Drink Water
Drinking water is a necessary routine if you want to have a good health and a good immune system. Drinking water will keep the skin hydrated and speed up the healing process. When getting chicken pox scars, your skin will be dry and it is very important to drink fresh water every day. Moreover, you can add fluids through vegetables, fruits, fluids in daily meal. Make sure that you eat healthy foods and drink properly when having scars.
2. Baking Soda
Baking soda is a natural alkaline and it can help you soothe the irritation, itching on the skin effectively. This ingredient also prevents the scratching the scabs on the skin. This is the useful method of chicken pox scars treatment with baking soda.
You need to have some water and some tablespoons of baking soda.
Now, add some water into baking soda.
Mix the mixture well and apply it on the affected skin.
Leave until it is dry naturally and wash with fresh water.
You use this treatment every day to exfoliate the skin and remove the chicken pox scars fast.
Learn more: Treatments For Moles, Warts, And Skin Tags
3. Coconut Water
Coconut water is a fruit with full of nutrients, minerals, and vitamins that can improve the immune system, support skin functions and help you moisturize the skin, reduce wrinkles, wounds, and scars. It has sodium, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, and magnesium can beautify the skin well. Also, coconut water can balance pH level, maintain the connective tissues, and remove the bacteria, toxins, dust from the skin due to its anti-fungal, anti-microbial, and anti-viral properties. Here are some ways to treat chicken pox scars with coconut water:
– Method 1:
You need to prepare some coconut water, a cotton ball.
Dip the cotton ball into the coconut water and apply on the marks.
Do this method every day to get rid of chicken pox scars.
– Method 2:
Add some coconut water in bathing water.
Stir it well and soak the body to clear the scars well.
You also can drink coconut water each day to strengthen your health.
Make sure you ask the doctor before drinking coconut water if you have lower blood pressure.
4. Lemon Juice
Lemon juice is one of the most effective remedies for skin problems including chicken pox scars. This ingredient can prepare the damaged tissues on the skin and your body will release collagen, which can keep the skin resilient, flexible, and strong. Lemon juice is great in vitamin C that contributes to the production of collagen. This also helps the skin brighter when the chicken pox scars appear. How to treat chicken pox scars at home with lemon juice? Here is the way of chicken pox scars treatment you should know.
The ingredients you have contained water, cotton ball, and a teaspoon of lemon juice.
You dip the cotton ball in the mixture of lemon juice and water.
Dab it on the affected area for 10 minutes.
Then you wash with fresh water.
You should apply this remedy in the night time to prevent sun exposure as well as the irritation of the skin.
5. Oats
Chicken pox scars might dry out the skin so it is necessary to keep the skin moisturized. Oats are very helpful in this task as it can reduce the redness, exfoliate the skin discoloration. Here are the methods to eliminate the chicken pox scars with oats:
– Method 1:
You have a cup of raw oats and two cups of warm water.
Add the oats into the warm water.
Mix it as a good paste and cool it down.
Apply the mask on the chicken pox scars and leave it for 10 minutes.
– Method 2:
You take some lemon juice, some yogurt, and oatmeal powder.
Now mix all the ingredients well in a bowl.
Then apply it on the skin.
Dry it naturally and wash with cold water.
Repeat the remedy every day to get rid of the chicken pox scars.
– Method 3:
The ingredients you have include ½ cup of oatmeal, a cup of water, some drops of lemon juice, warm water, and a teaspoon of cinnamon powder.
Boil the water and add oatmeal.
Then add lemon juice and stir it well.
Cool down and put the cinnamon powder into the mixture.
Apply it on the affected skin for 20-30 minutes.
Wash with lukewarm water and do it every day.
6. Vitamin E
Vitamin E contains antioxidants that can repair the damaged skin, protect the skin from dirt, bacteria, and free radicals. In addition, vitamin E can hydrate the skin and you should take advantage of this excellent vitamin for health and scar treatment. What is the chicken pox scars treatment with vitamin E?
– Method 1: You should consume vitamin E through foods such as avocado, spinach, almonds, etc.
– Method 2:
You make a good paste with some tablespoons of apple cider vinegar, honey, and avocado.
Mix all the ingredients well as a thick paste.
Apply it on the scars for 15-20 minutes.
Then you wash with water and do it regularly to remove chicken pox scars.
– Method 3:
You have some vitamin E oil capsules.
Take the oil and apply it on the skin for some minutes.
Massage it gently.
Do this treatment twice per day to cure the problem fast.
7. Honey
Honey is a perfect natural moisturizer for the skin as it includes essential nutrients inside. This ingredient can remove dead skin cells and speed up the healing process fast.
To treat the chicken pox scars, you should prepare a tablespoon of water, a tablespoon of oats, and a tablespoon of honey.
Mix the water and oats together.
Pour it soft and thick, then you add the honey.
Apply it on the affected area for 15-20 minutes.
Wash with water and you should do it frequently.
8. Papaya
Papaya has papain, which is an enzyme to help remove dead skin cells, exfoliate the skin, and keep the skin hydrated. This fruit is high in vitamin C that can stimulate the collagen production and repair the damaged tissues. You can follow these methods to remove chicken pox scars.
– Method 1:
You need some tablespoons of fresh milk, brown sugar, and a cup of mashed papaya.
Mix papaya, milk, brown sugar together.
Blend them well and apply it on the scars.
Massage it gently and leave it for 15-20 minutes.
Wash with water.
– Method 2:
The ingredients are honey and papaya.
Now, you mash the papaya and add some honey in it.
Apply the mixture on the scars and leave until it is dry.
Do it every day to improve the skin health as well as get rid of chicken pox scars.
Keep reading if you want to discover other useful chicken pox scars treatment solutions.
9. Coconut Oil
Coconut oil includes healthy fatty acids that can encourage the healing process. It will stimulate the production of collagen, hydrate the skin. Here is the chicken pox scars treatment with the coconut oil.
You just need some coconut oil.
Now apply it on the scars and massage it gently.
Do this method 2-3 times each day to get rid of the problem soon.
10. Aloe Vera
Aloe vera is considered as the excellent herb to moisturize the skin, moisturize the skin, soothing the skin problem. This ingredient has anti-microbial, anti-oxidant properties that can treat the wounds, infections, and allergies like chicken pox scars. It also has anti-inflammatory property that can reduce irritation, redness, and itching on the skin well. aloe vera can stimulate the production of collagen and make the skin look lighter.
You take some aloe vera leaves and extract its gel.
Apply the gel on the affected region.
Dry it naturally and wash with fresh water.
You can do 3-4 times daily to clear the chicken pox scars.
11. Cocoa Butter
Cocoa butter is great in fat that can help your skin moisturized. This ingredient also soothes the scars well and makes the skin look more glowing.
You need some cocoa butter.
Apply it on the affected skin.
Massage it in a circular motion to help the skin absorb the ingredient well.
Wash with fresh water.
You should do it 2-3 times each day if you want to remove the scars soon.
12. Lavender Oil
Lavender oil has anti-fungal and antiseptic properties that can heal the infections and wounds on the skin effectively. This ingredient is also useful in removing chicken pox scars to you can take advantage of this oil to treat the problem at home.
All you need is some drops of lavender essential oil and some tablespoons of carrier oil like almond oil, coconut oil, or olive oil.
Now you mix the lavender oil and carrier oil.
Stir it well and apply on the scars.
Massage it gently, leave it for several minutes and wash with water.
You can do this remedy 2-3 times per day to relieve the problem.
13. Sandalwood
Sandalwood is usually used in the cosmetics industry and it can be used to cure irritated skin and remove chicken pox scars.
– Method 1:
You prepare some honey or rose water, some sandalwood.
Now you mix all the ingredients together.
Stir it well and apply it on the skin.
Do this process every day to reduce the scars fast.
– Method 2:
You take some sandalwood oil and apply it on the affected skin.
Massage it gently and leaves it.
Apply the oil regularly to cancel chicken pox scars.
– Method 3:
You prepare a cotton ball, a kind of carrier oil like grapeseed oil, almond oil, and sandalwood oil.
Now you mix the sandalwood oil and carrier oil.
Blend them and dip the cotton ball into the mixture.
Apply on the skin to remove the chicken pox scars.
– Method 4:
The ingredients include rose water, fuller’s earth, a teaspoon of lime juice and some drops of sandalwood oil.
Now you mix sandalwood oil, lime juice, rose water, and fuller’s earth together.
Mix it well to a thick paste.
Apply in on the scars for 15-20 minutes.
Then you wash with cold water.
Do it every day to remove chicken pox scars.
14. Essential Oils
The mixture of essential oils will keep the skin moist and boost up the healing process. Here is the useful natural chicken pox scars treatment with essential oils.
The ingredients include 5 teaspoons of distilled water, 5 teaspoons of witch hazel, 5 drops of bergamot oil, 5 drops of chamomile oil, 5 drops of lavender oil, and 5 drops of tea tree oil.
Now you prepare a bottle and put all the oils in it.
Then apply the oil on the scars.
Do not apply the method if you have allergy with any oil.
15. Calendula Salve
Calendula salve is also called pot marigold and it has anti-inflammatory, anti-bacteria, and anti-fungal properties that can heal the wounds fast. This ingredient also encourages the collagen productions and reduces the risks of forming the scars on the skin. Calendula salve is also used in treating burns, bruises, conjunctivitis, cuts, fevers, and amenorrhea
You need to have a jar, a cheesecloth, a saucepan, 10 drops of any essential oil, 2 cups of coconut oil, 2 cups of beeswax, and 2 cups of calendula flowers.
Now you put beeswax, coconut oil, and calendula flowers in a boiler.
Simmer it for 1 hour.
Then you add the essential oil into it.
Strain through the cheesecloth or a coffee filter.
Cool it down and apply on the skin.
Store the remaining portion in the jar and use it every day to relieve the chicken pox scars.
16. Natural Cream
By using natural ingredients like coconut oil, cocoa butter, vitamin E, or lemon, you will have a beneficial cream to remove the scars. They will hydrate the skin, improve the healing process, and stimulate the production of collagen. Here is the way to make a good homemade cream.
You need a container, a saucepan, ½ cup of cocoa butter, 1 teaspoon of lemon essential oil, 2 tablespoons of vitamin E oil, 10 tablespoons of coconut oil.
Now you put the cocoa butter and coconut oil in the saucepan.
Turn the heat and warm it until the mixture is melted.
Turn off the heat and add lemon essential oil, vitamin E in the mixture.
Cool it down and apply the cream on the scars.
Put the remaining cream in a container.
You should apply the cream 3-4 times each day to relieve the scars.
17. Take Vitamin K
Vitamin K is very important in treating a blood clot, preventing the bleeding, treating osteoporosis, reducing the risks of bone loss. Vitamin K is good for treating the morning sickness and you will lack this vitamin if you drink alcohol heavily, take a lot of drugs, and have the diseases like Crohn’s disease. For treating scars, you should intake more vitamin K through the foods such as tomatoes, cabbage, lean meat, spinach, broccoli, green turnips, dairy products, and liver. You can take vitamin K supplements after asking your doctor.
18. Keep Clean
Is there any chicken pox scars treatment at home? you just keep the affected areas clean by avoid touching the marks or the scars with dirty hands. Make sure that you wash your hands before applying any remedy and have the bath every day, especially in children. When going out, you can wear the long dress or cover the scars with the clothes to prevent sunlight, dirt, and bacteria.
Treat Chicken Pox Naturally
If you want to get more useful tips and tricks to take care of your health, you might visit out the main Diseases & Conditions page. After reading the article about the useful chicken pox scars treatment, I hope that you have got the useful home remedy to get rid of the scars naturally at home. If you have any question, please leave your comments below.
Related articles about scars:
Natural Treatments For Acne Scars
Home Remedies For hypertrophic Scars
Home Remedies For Scars On Face
Natural Solutions For Eczema Scars
Home Remedies For Chicken Pox Scars
Ways To Treat Keloid Scars
Chicken Pox Scars Prevention
Want More Content Like This In Your Inbox?
ALSO ON VKOOL
Eye Floaters No More Review – Can The Book Work?
H Miracle System Review – Does Holly Hayden’s Book Work?
Heartburn No More Review – Will Jeff’s Guide Be Useful?
Start Plan One Program Review – Will Ancore Digital’s Guide Work?
Quantum Confidence With Tmm Review – Is It Reliable?
Muscle imbalances revealed review – is Rick’s system reliable?
Eye Floaters No More Review – Can The Book Work?
H Miracle System Review – Does Holly Hayden’s Book Work?
Heartburn No More Review – Will Jeff’s Guide Be Useful?
Start Plan One Program Review – Will Ancore Digital’s Guide Work?
Quantum Confidence With Tmm Review – Is It Reliable?
Muscle imbalances revealed review – is Rick’s system reliable?
The Future Of Health Now Review – Is The Program Really Helpful?
Learn Photoshop Now PDF Download Review – Does This Guide Work?
TagsConditions & DiseasesHealthy LivingHerbal Remedies
Last Updated: January 22, 2017 by Brown
Join The Discussion
VKool encourages comments, but please remember: Play nice, keep it clean, stay on-topic, and avoid promotional content. For additional, read our full comment policy. To report spelling errors, misinformation, or corrections in general, please contact us
JOIN THE CONVERSATION
 Comments JOIN THE CONVERSATION
TRENDING POSTS
42 Foods That Cause Miscarriage in Early Pregnancy
46 Weird Ways To Lose Weight Fast Without Exercise
Top 10 Best Foods To Increase White Blood Cells Count
27 Tips To Get Rid Of Man Boobs Fast In A Week At Home
23 Foods That Cause Heartburn, Acid Reflux, Indigestion, Gas
Top 25 Nutritional And Health Benefits Of Corn
CRYPTO REVIEWS →
ICO REVIEWS →
What's News
Viritenz Review (UPDATED 2019) – New Penis Enlargement Supplement.
Top 5 Benefits Of Vaping Instead Of Smoking Revealed
Top 10 Best Foods To Increase White Blood Cells Count
Top 13 Ways On How To Use Almond Milk For Acid Reflux Relief
Top 9 Common Early Testicular Cancer Symptoms
Benefits Of Kiss On The Lips – Top 19 Biological Advantages
11 Early Vascular Dementia Symptoms And Signs
17 Fresh Pineapple Smoothie Recipes For Thirsty Dealt And Health
You May Also Like
21-Day Sugar Detox PDF Cookbook Review – Is It Reliable?
Eye Floaters No More Review – Can The Book Work?
H Miracle System Review – Does Holly Hayden’s Book Work?
Heartburn No More Review – Will Jeff’s Guide Be Useful?
Jump Manual PDF Review – Can Jacob’s Program Work For You?
Double Edged Fat Loss 2.0 Review – Kareem Samhouri’s System
Bodybyboyle online review – is Mike Boyle’s online course useful?
Start Plan One Program Review – Will Ancore Digital’s Guide Work?
Quantum Confidence With Tmm Review – Is It Reliable?
Become A Figure Coach Review – Does Terrence Stokes’ Guide Work?
Popular on social
0
SHARES
18 Ways On How To Cure Dry Eyes Naturally At Home
0
SHARES
Signs of iron deficiency in women and men – 14 signs
0
SHARES
Rice bran oil benefits for skin, hair, health & side effects
0
SHARES
6 Common signs and symptoms of myopia
0
SHARES
Conquer stress forever review – is Chris Green’s program useful?
0
SHARES
8 Signs and symptoms of calcium deficiency in humans
0
SHARES
6 low fat recipes to lose weight with full of nutrients
0
SHARES
Top 15 easy office yoga poses to survive work
View more in
Everything on vkool.com
GENERAL HEALTH
Fitness
Low Carb
Ear Health
Eye Health
Oral Health
Kid’s Health
Bone Health
Liver Health
Heart Health
Men’s Health
Dental Health
Body Building
Kidney Health
Mental Health
Women’s Health
Digestive Health
Strength Training
HEALTH CONDITIONS
Diabetes
Addictions
Skin Issues
Skin Disorders
Health Diseases
Lose Belly Fat
Health Products
Sexual Health
Sexual Conditions
Arthritis Treatment
Respiratory Health
Brain Enhancement
Common Skin Issues
High Blood Pressure
Men’s Sexual Health
Women’s Sexual Health
Anxiety and Depression
BEAUTY TIPS
Workouts
Hair Care
Fat Loss
Anti-Aging
Body Care
Hair Loss
Skin Care
Beauty Tips
Paleo Diet
Hair Growth
Makeup Tips
Weight Loss
Yoga & Pilates
Foods & Recipes
General Beauty
Beauty Products
Fashion and Styles
HOME REMEDIES
Nail Care
Nutrition
Meditation
Back Pain
Knee Pain
Vegan Diet
Hair Health
Facial Skin Care
Skin Care Tips
Healthy Living
Skin Lightening
Herbal Remedies
Natural Remedies
Natural Treatments
Pregnancy & Childbirth
Weight Loss Products
Fitness & Exercise Products
RELATIONSHIPS
Love
Inspiration
Languages
Self-Esteem
Men’s Dating
Romantic Love
Body Language
Healthy Lifestyle
Women’s Dating
Child Development
Joy and Happiness
Habits and Hobbies
Parenting & Families
Stress Management
Teenagers and Parenting
Marriage & Relationships
Relationships & Dating Products
LIFESTYLE
Music
Diy Tips
Hobbies
Intelligence
Cooking Tips
Environment
Photography
Entertainment
Home Recipes
Success Skills
Lifestyle Products
Home Gardening
Home Decoration
Sport and Activities
Home And Gardening
Animal Care & Pets
Education and Learning
Copyright © 2009-2019
VKOOL
. All Rights Reserved.
105 Lonetree Court, Milpitas, CA 95035, USA.
View VKool on Google Maps[email protected] VKool - Health, Fitness, Beauty, News, Lifestyle Magazine
Follow VKool on Google Plus
VKool.com Today | Follow us:
About
Advertise
Write for Us
Contact
VKool.com Today | Follow us:
We deliver. Get the best of About VKool in your box
Get the best of About VKool in your box.Get the best of About VKool in your box.
You can opt-out at any time. Please refer to our Terms - privacy policy for more information.
Advertising Disclosure
Displayed content is offered by businesses which have been compensated. There is a potential effect on how, what, and where products may appear. All effort is made into providing full transparency, not all available products or companies are highlighted. Published material is offered without any slant or bias no matter what affiliation there is with sponsorship or association.
/html>