‘Ask Evan’: Does feeding a cold and starving a fever really work? | WPMT FOX43
GoSearch
Replay: FOX43 News First at 4 & FOX43 News at 5 FOX43 TV Schedule Autos
Search
Contact Us
WPMT FOX43
Menu
News
Morning
Sports
HS Football Frenzy
Community Calendar
Submit a Story
Contests
Weather 71°
71°
Low 50°
High 71°
Tue
50° 78°
Wed
56° 72°
Thu
48° 70°
See complete forecast
‘Ask Evan’: Does feeding a cold and starving a fever really work?
Posted 10:30 PM, January 9, 2018, by Evan Forrester, Updated at 06:38AM, December 4, 2018
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
Please enable Javascript to watch this video
This week's 'Ask Evan' comes from Rob T in York County. Rob asks, "My entire life I`ve been told to feed a cold and starve a fever when I`m sick. Is there any medical truth to this adage or is it medical folklore?
The origin of "feed a cold and starve a fever" actually goes back centuries-- back to the 1500`s when writer John Withals suggested that fasting would cure a fever. The belief was that eating would activate digestive processes which would lead to more fever-- because digestion would take away a body`s energy to fight fever. So, it was thought that eating less would stop stoking the heat of a fever. Also at the time, common colds were blamed on a drop in body temperature, which could be helped by eating and drinking.
However, research shows the opposite may be true-- that eating fewer calories may actually make it more difficult for your body to fight off the flu virus. Research also suggests that eating less during the early stages of an infection can actually be dangerous because the body requires large amounts of energy to create and assemble the large number of immune cells necessary to fight the enemy. Good nutrition and calories provide that energy.
As with other types of infections, individuals with less robust immune systems may suffer more serious colds and infections by an inadequate intake of high-quality calories in the early stages of an infection.
The body also requires additional fluids above the norm in the presence of illness, including colds or flu. Water, juice, and hot liquids along with food will help fight cold infections by keeping the body well-hydrated and nourished.
So experts say cold or flu-- fever or not-- drink plenty of fluids to replace lost electrolytes. Also eat well-balanced meals when you're hungry, and get plenty of rest.
Thanks for the question. If you have a question you'd like to ask send me an email at AskEvan@FO43.com. Put 'Ask Evan' in the subject line. You can also reach out to me on my Facebook page, Evan Forrester FOX43. Whatever the topic I'll do my best to track down answers you are looking for.
Filed in: Ask Evan, News
Topics: Ask Evan
Suggest a correction
×
Suggest A Correction
Your name
Your email
Report a typo or grammatical error
Cancel
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Email
Popular
Parents/guardians of 5-year-old found wandering alone in Lower Paxton Township have been located
All lanes of Interstate 83 NB reopen after overturned truck
State Police: Man barricades himself with gun inside home in Adams County
Update: Coroner’s Office IDs three people killed in York County crash
Latest News
National Weather Service: Part of Franklin County damaged due to ‘tornadic wind’ on Friday
White Rose Bar & Grill at Bridgewater opens; economic boom near homes at Bridgewater
Coroner on scene of crash in Lancaster County, dispatch says
Police: Passenger exits vehicle, fires shots into home in Susquehanna Township, Dauphin County
Ask Evan
‘Ask Evan’: “Is there any truth to the ‘feed a cold, starve a fever’ adage?”
Ask Evan
‘Ask Evan’: “Why don’t PA State Police wear badges?”
Ask Evan
‘Ask Evan’: “Why aren’t snow fences used anymore?”
Ask Evan
‘Ask Evan’:” What do I need to do to get a Real ID from PennDOT?”
Ask Evan
‘Ask Evan’: “Where did the proceeds from the sale of the York County home go?”
FOX43 Finds Out News
FOX43 Finds Out: Success Stories
News
It’s not just measles: Tetanus, Mumps and other vaccine-preventable diseases are still in the US
News
Video shows police storming home with guns drawn to take unvaccinated 2-year-old with fever to the hospital
Ask Evan
‘Ask Evan’: “Why is PennDOT installing wire barriers in highway medians?”
News
Wake up, people: You’re fooling yourself about sleep, study says
Ask Evan
‘Ask Evan’: “Why doesn’t PennDOT replace license plates every few years?”
Ask Evan
‘Ask Evan’: “Why are other state’s police car lights blue?”
News Technology
Human health can be ‘mostly sustained’ for a year in space, NASA Twins Study concludes
Mobile Apps
Android App
iPhone & iPad App
Site Map
Jobs
Politics
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
About & Contact
Untitled-2Covers
Online Public File	• Terms of Service • Privacy Policy
• 2005 S. Queen St. York, PA 17403
• Copyright © 2019, WPMT
• A Tribune Broadcasting Station • Powered by WordPress.com VIP
×
Email Alerts
Notice: you are using an outdated browser. Microsoft does not recommend using IE as your default browser. Some features on this website, like video and images, might not work properly. For the best experience, please upgrade your browser.
Read more ›
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.