Login / Register
HOME
FAQ
ORDER STATUS
REORDER
LIVE HELP
SHOPPING CART
Home/Pain relief/Imitrex
Imitrex
Delivery Time: ~7 days
Delivery Time: ~7 days
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is a migraine remedy of the triptan class. It works by narrowing blood vessels in the head, thus helping to reduce factors that may trigger nausea, sensitivity to light, and other migraine symptoms. The median effective dose for treating migraines in adults is 50mg taken by mouth once the migraine headache starts. The drug doesn’t prevent future migraines and mustn’t be taken on a regular basis.
Delivery Time: ~7 days
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is an oral antimigraine drug to treat and reduce the severity of migraine headaches in adults. Acting as an agonist on certain receptors in the brain, it helps to reduce vascular inflammation associated with migraines. The 100mg strength tablet is the maximum single dose that should be received early after the onset of pain. If necessary, a second tablet can be received 2 hours after the first one.
25 mg
50 mg
100 mg
Generic Imitrex 25 mg
Q-ty
Price
per unit
Bonus pills
30 pills $127.60 $ 4.25 SOLD OUT
60 pills $219.80 $ 3.66 SOLD OUT
90 pills $294.80 $ 3.28 + 8 Bonus pills SOLD OUT
Generic Imitrex 50 mg
Q-ty
Price
per unit
Bonus pills
30 pills $183.80 $ 6.13 ADD TO CART
60 pills $283.00 $ 4.72 ADD TO CART
Generic Imitrex 100 mg
Q-ty
Price
per unit
Bonus pills
30 pills $391.00 $ 13.03 ADD TO CART
What is Imitrex?
Imitrex (Sumatriptan) is a drug that belongs to the triptan class, which was developed to treat patients who suffer from migraine headaches. It affects the levels of serotonin, which allows normalizing the blood flow in the brain. It also influences certain nerve endings in the brain, which also contributes to mitigating symptoms of migraine. Aside from relieving headache, it also reduces sensitivity to sounds and light, nausea, and vomiting. Prompt administration of this drug will allow you to quickly return to your daily routine.
What are the indications for using Imitrex?
Imitrex is used for the treatment of the following conditions:
Migraine headache is characterized by intense pulsing or a throbbing sensation in a single area of the head that is usually accompanied by extreme sensitivity to sounds and light, nausea and vomiting.
Cluster headaches occur in clusters or have a cyclical pattern. It is one of the most painful types of headaches. People with cluster headaches report that the pain feels like a hot rod being inserted into their eye socket, pushing out the eye.
Imitrex can only be used for the treatment of headaches that already began. It cannot prevent a headache or reduce the frequency of attacks. Moreover, it shouldn’t be used to treat regular tension headaches. This medicine should only be used if your headache was identified by a doctor as a migraine or cluster headache.
What is the dosage for Imitrex?
Imitrex tablets come in the dose of 25mg, 50 mg, and 100mg. Though higher doses of Imitrex may increase its effectiveness, they also increase the risk of adverse reactions. If you take a tablet after your migraine has started and the pain doesn’t subside in the next 2 hours, you may take another Imitrex tablet.
A single dose of Imitrex for people with hepatic impairment shouldn’t exceed 50mg.
What are the contraindications for using Imitrex?
People who are regularly taking Duloxetine, Tramadol, Trazodone, Ondansetron, and Sertraline should avoid taking Imitrex, since the risks of such interaction will outweigh the benefits. Imitrex should be avoided by people with high cholesterol levels and obesity. Additionally, people with cardiovascular diseases, liver diseases, coronary artery disease (CAD) risk factors, and seizure disorders should consult their doctor before taking Imitrex.
What are the adverse effects of Imitrex?
Contact your doctor immediately if after taking Imitrex you experience dizziness, confusion, nightmares, anxiety, chills, shivering, sweating, trouble breathing, fast or racing heartbeat or pulse, changes in rhythms of speech, muscle cramps, neck, throat, or jaw pain, chest pain or tightness, and swelling of extremities.
Men's Health
Sildenafil Citrate
Tadalafil
Vardenafil
ED Trial Packs
view all
Antibiotics
Amoxil
Zithromax
Flagyl
Doxycycline
view all
Women's Health
Womenra
Clomid
Nolvadex
Premarin
view all
Acne Products
Roaccutane
Retin-A
Zineryt
view all
Weight Loss
Xenical
Lipitor
Lopid
view all
Herbal
VP-GL
ManXXX
Slimfast
view all
VIEW ALL CATEGORIES
TERMS of USE
FAQ
INFO
PRIVACY
DISCLAMER
REFUND POLICY
CONTACT US
Copyright © 2019 selectmeds.org. All rights reserved.
selectmeds.org does not offer medical and pharmaceutical recommendations. See more information.