Top 10 Non Prescription Athlete's Foot Creams, Powders, & Treatments
Healthy Ways to Heal Your Feet and Toenails!
Home
Toenail Fungus Treatment
Home Remedies
Q&A Sessions
Feet
Sweaty Feet
Shoe Comfort
Dry Skin on Feet
Toenails
Antifungal Polishes
Nail Clippers
Home
Toenail Fungus Treatment
Home Remedies
Q&A Sessions
Feet
Sweaty Feet
Shoe Comfort
Dry Skin on Feet
Toenails
Antifungal Polishes
Nail Clippers
Athlete's Foot
Top 10 Non Prescription Athlete’s Foot Creams, Powders, & Treatments
Written by Jalal Thwainey, MD on May 17, 2017 (Updated: March 21, 2019)
Athlete’s foot, known as tinea pedis, is a fungal infection. Symptoms include burning, stinging, itchiness, and blistering. It affects the feet, particularly between the toes and the soles, and is highly contagious. It can even spread to your toenails if left alone.
You don’t have to be an ‘athlete’ to get this infection. People can get it from going barefoot in public pools, taking showers at the gym, pedicures, wearing sweaty shoes, and a variety of other reasons. As it’s so common, there is an abundance of good OTC athlete’s foot treatments that will clear up the condition quickly.
It isn’t a serious medical condition. With the right treatment, it can be completely cured. So, the two most important factors to remember, no matter which cream, spray or powder you choose, is not to give up on treatment before the fungus is completely removed from your feet and toes. If you stop treating athlete’s foot too early, the condition will likely return. You should also deodorize old footwear to remove the fungus.
Tinea pedis can be treated with essential oils and non-prescription medications. These are usually topical agents that have antifungal properties. In some cases, your doctor may prescribe a stronger topical antifungal agent, such as fluconazole or itraconazole, but this is for more stubborn infections.
Table of Contents:
1 What Are the Top 10 Over-the-Counter Treatments for Athlete’s Foot?
1.1 The Yellow Bird’s All-Natural Foot Cream
1.2 Clotrimazole Antifungal Cream
1.3 Puriya Wonder Balm
1.4 Tea Tree Oil Therapeutic Foot Soak
1.5 Tolnaftate Cream
1.6 Derman Antifungal Cream
1.7 Elizabeth Parker Naturals Organic Foot Cream
1.8 Zeasorb Athlete’s Foot Powder
1.9 Desenex Antifungal Foot Powder
1.10 Theratree Therapeutic Balm
2 What Can I Do to Prevent Athlete’s Foot?
3 What’s the Difference Between Toenail Fungus & Athlete’s Foot?
4 Use a Good Treatment for Tinea Pedis Right Away
5 Read Our Latest Posts:
What Are the Top 10 Over-the-Counter Treatments for Athlete’s Foot?
If you are infected, knowing the best treatments for athlete’s foot can make a difference. Use this list to find out more about popular solutions. Let’s take a closer look at the top ten picks:
The Yellow Bird’s All-Natural Foot Cream
As more people start to look for natural treatment options, more effective solutions step up to the plate. This All-Natural Antifungal Foot Cream is the perfect example. It only contains ten ingredients, but the formula is designed to not only soothe and moisturize feet but get rid of fungus quickly.
Some of the therapeutic-grade oils included in the formula are:
Tea tree oil
Peppermint (According to the National Institute of Health, peppermint can help to kill most major strands of fungi.)
Eucalyptus
Lavender
The other key ingredients are:
Coconut oil
Shea butter
Beeswax
Because the cream is so thick, it remains on the foot and has time to penetrate the skin. It’s the beeswax that makes it possible. This creates a longer-lasting consistent treatment than many other options.
Athlete’s foot can cause dryness and peeling. The moisturizing properties of this natural cream can help to leave your feet looking and feeling healthy, even when you’re dealing with this unsightly and uncomfortable condition. Shea butter and beeswax will keep moisture locked in, without causing it to be excessive.
It is made in the United States and comes with a satisfaction, money-back guarantee. Because there are only ten ingredients, it’s easy to look through them to determine if you may have any allergies. If not, you shouldn’t have to worry about any adverse side effects. This is a cream that truly exposes itself for what it is, and believes in the way it works. If you’ve been searching for a natural solution to heal your athlete’s foot, it doesn’t get much better than this formula by All Natural Antifungal Foot Cream. Moisturizing Organic Relief for Dry Cracked Heels, Callused Feet, Athletes Foot. Best Therapeutic Grade Essential Oils: Peppermint, Lavender, Eucalyptus, Tea Tree..
Clotrimazole Antifungal Cream
Clotrimazole helps to alleviate symptoms like burning, itching, cracking, and scaling that are associated with athlete’s foot and other fungal infections. Applied topically, this antifungal cream kills fungi by disrupting the cell membranes.
It keeps the fungi from producing an essential substance for growth, called ergosterol. Without the production of ergosterol, the infection can’t continue to grow and thrive. This interference causes holes to form within the cell membranes, compromising the overall structure of the fungus and causing it to weaken. When the fungus becomes vulnerable and weak, your feet can begin to heal.
Side effects when using clotrimazole cream are rare. However, some of the most common include burning, stinging, redness, or general irritation in the area where it’s being used. While it is typically okay to use with other oral medications, avoid ‘mixing’ if you’re using another topical agent on the same area. If you use two different types of topical treatments, they may have an adverse reaction to one another.
For best results, you can use Clotrimazole cream two or three times each day, rubbing it directly onto the infected area. Be sure to wash your hands after direct application, to reduce the risk spreading.
Puriya Wonder Balm
The formula for Puriya’s Wonder Balm contains antifungal and antimicrobial properties. They help to reduce irritating symptoms like itching and redness associated with athlete’s foot. The cream also helps to prevent the spreading of fungal infection to other areas of the body with regular use.
Ingredients like tea tree oil (a natural antifungal agent) and lavender oil help to keep the skin moisturized with each use. Beeswax and olive oil ensure that the formula will stay on your skin longer than many other solutions. This gives the formula a chance to really penetrate the fungus and heal it faster.
With a promise of immediate relief and faster healing results, Puriya backs up their claim with a satisfaction guarantee. It’s a natural solution for fungal problems like athlete’s foot, ringworm, jock itch, and more. If it doesn’t work for you, you can return it for a full refund.
With stubborn conditions, it can sometimes be hard to find a natural solution that really works. However, more and more people are looking for ingredients they can feel confident in. Not only do the natural ingredients in Puriya's Wonder Balm work quickly, but unless you have certain allergy sensitivities to them, there are very few side effects to worry about.
Tea Tree Oil Therapeutic Foot Soak
Tea tree oil has been used for a variety of skin conditions for hundreds of years. More recently, people have found it to be extremely effective for fungal infections. It is an antifungal agent, but it also has antiseptic, antibacterial, and anti-inflammatory properties. Not only does it help to get rid of the fungus, but it can soothe symptoms quickly.
This foot soak also contains ingredients like Epsom salts, peppermint oil, camphor oil, rosemary oil, and lavender oil. They are all designed to soften and soothe feet while getting rid of the infection.
This therapeutic foot soak can be used in a standard basin, or in an electric foot spa machine. Sometimes, athlete’s foot can cause discomfort and pain. Using a foot soaking treatment can help to alleviate that discomfort.
One of the problems associated with athlete’s foot and fungus is the foul odor it can give off. The soothing oils within this soak will also help to get rid of the bad smells that can linger from a fungal infection.
Because it is a natural solution, there are no side effects. Because you only need to add a scoop at a time to each foot soak, this is a treatment that is made to last. That’s beneficial, considering the fact that it can sometimes take a while for a fungus to be fully killed off.
You’ll notice that several additional treatments in this list contain tea tree oil. You can also use 100% natural tea tree oil as a treatment option. However, you must also use a carrier oil to mix with it. Additionally, the extra ingredients in these solutions are designed to help soothe symptoms specifically associated with athlete’s foot. Choosing one of these special formulas, such as a Purely Northwest foot soak, may yield faster results.
Tolnaftate Cream
This is an antifungal agent. It is commonly used to heal and prevent athlete’s foot, jock itch, and ringworm. Its effectiveness is so strong because it actually blocks the cells of fungi from growing. When a fungus can’t grow and spread, it makes it easier to kill.
In addition to actually treating the fungus, tolnaftate cream helps with the unpleasant symptoms associated with athlete’s foot. Unfortunately, the fungus can cause itching and burning. This cream soothes those sensations, allowing you to be comfortable while it gets rid of the infection.
There are few known side effects associated with this cream. For best results, use the cream as directed, and don’t miss any doses. Continue to use it for a full course of treatment, without stopping early if it looks like the infection has cleared up. Fungus comes back quickly when it’s not fully treated. Even if you feel as though most of the symptoms are gone, keep using tolnaftate cream until the treatment is complete.
Derman Antifungal Cream
This antifungal cream uses a specialized formula with zinc undecylenic acid and zinc undecylenate ointment to help clear up athlete’s foot. These are fatty acids that prevent fungal growth. Derman Antifungal Cream prides itself on these antifungal ingredients to get rid of fungal infections quickly.
Though it is not a natural solution, it is easy to use, and effective. Its two main ingredients have strong antifungal properties, and it can be applied daily for best results.
Derman’s cream suggests using it for four weeks straight. If the condition hasn’t cleared up, talk to your doctor about other possible options. Because it isn’t completely natural, you may want to talk to your doctor before using it, to begin with, to make sure it’s safe for your particular situation. It may not interact well with other medications or topical solutions. In some cases, it may cause irritation, itching, or burning.
However, if you’re looking for an antifungal cream that works quickly, you’ll find it here. With two powerful main ingredients, and inactive ingredients that help to soothe itching, cracking, and scaly skin, you can keep athlete’s foot under control almost immediately.
Elizabeth Parker Naturals Organic Foot Cream
Some of the active ingredients in this organic foot cream, including Manuka honey, are specifically included in the formula to combat against fungal infections that cause athlete’s foot. Additional ingredients like Triketones and Sesquiterpenes contain antifungal, antibacterial, and antiseptic properties to speed up the healing process.
Aside from helping to get rid of athlete’s foot, it can also soothe and repair your feet during the process. With the cracked, scaly skin that can sometimes appear with athlete’s foot, it’s important to use a cream that helps to heal and rejuvenate quickly. You’ll notice soft, supple skin after just a few uses with Elizabeth Parker Naturals cream.
To use correctly, simply rub the foot cream onto the affected area up to twice each day. It should be used topically only.
Zeasorb Athlete’s Foot Powder
Zeasorb is a dermatologist-recommended foot powder for athlete’s foot. It deals with this condition by relieving inflammation and flat-out killing the infection. Its key ingredient is miconazole nitrate. That helps to stop the growth of fungi.
Because it is a powder, Zeasorb also helps to wick away unwanted moisture from the feet. Fungus tends to grow best in warm, moist environments. What is a better environment than a shoe – especially for someone who may sweat quite a bit? Keeping your feet as dry as possible can help to slow the growth and spreading of a fungal infection.
This powder dries up excess moisture from your feet, making a harsher environment for fungi. It also relieves itching, scaling, and burning because it is so absorbent. If you’re prone to athlete’s foot or fungal infections of any kind, you can use this powder as a preventative measure. Because Zeasorb Antifungal Powder Treatment For Athletes Foot - 2.5 Oz (3 Pack) so well, you can constantly create a harder environment for fungi to grow.
Desenex Antifungal Foot Powder
Like Zeasorb, Desenex also uses Miconazole as its main ingredient to fight back against fungal infections. It helps to cure athlete’s foot, and soothe the negative symptoms associated with it. This includes cracking, itching, and burning. It also helps to wick away moisture from the feet, leaving them clean and dry.
For best results, use Desenex exactly as directed on the package. It’s meant for external use only. You shouldn’t use more than directed, and you shouldn’t use it continuously for four weeks straight without consulting your doctor first. You can sprinkle the powder directly on your feet, or in your shoes overnight for an extra boost of antifungal power.
Side effects are rare with this foot powder. However, if you experience additional redness or irritation, stop use immediately and see your doctor for an alternative treatment option.
Theratree Therapeutic Balm
Another natural solution to athlete’s foot, Theratree’s Therapeutic Balm contains antifungal ingredients designed to soothe the effects of a fungal infection. Not only does it help to reduce inflammation and redness, but it also works to create a barrier around the skin. This barrier helps to wick away moisture, but keep your feet properly hydrated.
The key ingredients are:
Australian tea tree oil
Aloe vera
Jojoba oil
Vitamin E
This combination of ingredients leads to soft, soothed feet that don’t crack or scale, even if athlete’s foot is present. It also helps prevent foot odor sometimes associated with fungal infections. If the symptoms of athlete’s foot are really getting to you, this is a natural way to soothe them quickly and increase the right kind of moisture for your feet. You can continue to use it even after the infection as cleared up, as a protective barrier.
Side effects are rare. However, this should be used as a topical agent only. The ingredients are all-natural, but if used improperly, or ingested, some of them may be harmful. Do not use on children under the age of two unless approved by a doctor.
What Can I Do to Prevent Athlete’s Foot?
Unfortunately, because fungi grow and spread quickly, we can never prevent it completely. Most of the products listed above can be used as preventative resources. That’s especially true with the all-natural products. If you find that you’re prone to athlete’s foot, using them regularly can help to lower your chances of contracting it so frequently.
There are also precautionary steps you can take in your everyday life. So, what can you do to help prevent it in the first place?
Wash your feet regularly and practice proper hygiene.
Keep your feet and toes as dry as possible. Dry between your toes after you shower, go to the pool, etc.
If you are extremely active, or you tend to perspire a lot, make changes to how you take care of your feet. You may want to change out your socks more than once a day if they become wet. Never re-wear socks without washing them, even if they have dried out. Additionally, you can alternate the shoes you wear each day, giving each pair a chance to ‘air out’ as much as possible. Wear special antifungal socks, if possible.
Give your feet a chance to dry out whenever possible by going barefoot at home. If you’re stuck in shoes and socks all day, moisture can easily get trapped. Give your feet some time to breathe when you can.
Try to avoid going barefoot in public places. Athletes often use public pools and showers.
Don’t share your shoes or socks with someone else. Again, a fungus can be very contagious. If someone else has athlete’s foot, and you slip on their shoes, you could contract it. Use a shoe deodorizer machine to remove fungus from footwear.
Check your shoes periodically. Sometimes, you might leave your dirty socks in your shoes. That moisture can create fungus just as easily as a sweaty shoe itself. It never hurts to sprinkle some antifungal powder inside your shoes, just to be safe.
There is no guaranteed way to avoid athlete’s foot. However, these simple steps can be used as precautionary measures.
What’s the Difference Between Toenail Fungus & Athlete’s Foot?
Toenail fungus and athlete’s foot are both fungal infections. Sometimes, you can even use similar solutions to treat them. A toenail fungus treatment should focus on the nail bed. Athlete’s foot can occur all over the skin of the foot and needs to be treated slightly differently. However, it’s important to know which condition you’re facing, so you can choose the right solution.
First, let’s look at the symptoms of athlete’s foot:
It grows on the top layer of the skin
It can cause itching, burning, and redness
Your skin may start to appear as scaly, or flaky
If not treated properly, it can lead to toenail fungus/infections
The main symptoms of toenail fungus are:
Grows within the nail bed
Creates crumbly, brittle, and thick nails
Discoloration of the toenail
While athlete’s foot may lead to a toenail fungus, toenail fungus doesn’t lead to athlete’s foot. As you can see, the differences between the two are very subtle. The similarities include things like:
Easily contagious
Thrives in damp, warm environments
Fungal infections
The preventative measures to keep them at bay are also similar. We will cover a few of those precautionary tools in this article. Once you’re sure you’re dealing with athlete’s foot, and not toenail fungus, you can find the best treatment solution, like the ones listed here.
Use a Good Treatment for Tinea Pedis Right Away
The best foot creams for athlete’s foot all feature strong antifungal agents. That’s the key ingredient in making sure it’s a treatment option that will really work. Athlete’s foot can cause a lot of discomfort due to symptoms like cracking skin and inflammation. So, choosing a treatment that can also soothe those symptoms is essential.
We hope this list has been helpful and informative. If you know you have athlete’s foot, the sooner you treat it, the better. If left untreated, the symptoms can get worse, and it may eventually lead to toenail fungus. Unfortunately, that can make the infection even harder to get rid of. Soothe your feet with Yellow Bird's All-Natural Foot Cream.
Read Our Latest Posts:
How to Tell the Difference between Foot Eczema and Athlete's Foot
Foot eczema and athlete's foot (tinea pedis) have similar symptoms, but require a completely different approach to treatment. The most significant difference between these two conditions is that athlete's foot…
How to Use Essential Oils to Cure Athlete's Foot
Essential oils for athlete's foot can be beneficial due to the antifungal properties of the formula. If you regularly experience sweaty feet, athlete's foot could be a problem for you.…
10 Quick Ways to Fix a Shoe That Rubs the Top of the Foot
Do you have a pair of shoes digging into the top of your feet? Are they rubbing against your skin, causing discomfort and irritation? If you do, you're not alone.…
Best Electric Vibrating Foot Massagers [Review of the Top 5 for 2019]
Electric foot massagers provide more than just a way to relax. After a day of standing or walking in tight shoes, it’s nice to use a vibrating foot massager to soothe…
What Are the Best Probiotics for Foot & Toenail Fungus?
Probiotics are live, active bacteria and yeasts. They are commonly associated with promoting good health for your digestive system. But there’s more that probiotics can do for the body. Recently,…
Ways to Get Some Quick Relief from Foot and Toe Cramps
We tend to ignore our feet until they demand our urgent attention. Pain, discomfort, and cramping in the feet and toes can feel unbearable. Perhaps you get foot cramps while…
Written, Edited or Reviewed By:
This article does not provide medical advice. See disclaimer
Jalal Thwainey, MD
Thwainey MDPC
Published On: May 17, 2017 (Updated: March 21, 2019)
This article does not provide medical advice. See disclaimer
Search This Site:
Legal Information:
YellowToenailsCured.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for me to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Follow us
facebook
pinterest
twitter
Search the Site:
Home
Website Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Affiliate Disclosure
Medical Disclaimer
Jalal Thwainey, MD
About Us
Contact Us
Copyright © 2019 Yellow Toenails Cured — Designed by WPZOOM
This site uses cookies: Find out more.
Okay, thanks