Imitrex for Migraines | Acute Treatment of Migraines
Skip to Accessibility Tools Skip to Content Skip to Footer
Menu
SearchSearchCreated with Sketch.
GO
Community
Q&A
Stories
Forums
Member Search
Community Advocates
Holly Baddour
Bill Bartlett
Lisa Robin Benson
Nancy Harris Bonk
Alene Brennan
Gretchen Church
Kelly Crabb
Maria De Leon
Janet Geddis
Katie Golden
Sarah Hackley
Tonilyn Hornung
Marci Kallick
Joanna Kempner, PhD
Kyky Renee Knight
Khalid Moomand
Tom Picerno
Olivia Rehberger
Elizabeth Roberts-Zibbel
Jaime Sanders
Kerrie Smyres
Amanda Workman
Steven Workman
William B. Young, MD, FAHS
Editorial Team
Community Rules
Basics
What Is Migraine?
Migraine Statistics
Migraine Types
Abdominal Migraine
Acephalgic Migraine
Basilar-Type Migraine
Cyclic Migraine Syndrome
Familial Hemiplegic Migraine
Gastric Stasis Migraine
Hemiplegic Migraine
Infantile Colic
Hormonal Migraine
Migraine Aura Without Pain
Migraine with Aura
Migraine with Brainstem Aura
Migraine with Typical Aura
Migraine Without Aura
Ocular Migraine
Retinal Migraine
Seasonal Migraine
Silent Migraine
Sinus Migraine
Stress Migraine
Tension Migraine
Vestibular Migraine
Migraine Diagnosis
Causes & Triggers
Migraine Causes
Migraine Triggers
Emotions & Stress
Environmental
Exercise
Food & Drinks
Hormonal Changes
Sexual Activity
Migraine Phases
Chronic Migraine
Exertion Headache
Hangover Headache
Hypertension Headache
Other Headache Types
Living with Migraine
Children & Teens
Disability
Applying for Disability
Family Medical Leave Act
ADA & the Workplace
Getting Help
Health Insurance
Insurance Denials
Insurance Limits
Prescription Drug Insurance
Quality of Life
Avoiding a Migraine
Sleep
Social Life
Work
Risk of Stroke
Transient Ischemic Attack
Women's Health & Migraine
Menstrual Headaches
Hormonal Changes
Migraine & Menopause
Infertility & Migraine
Migraine During Pregnancy
Migraine During Labor
Migraine After Childbirth
Symptoms
Aura
Diarrhea & Constipation
Difficulty Concentrating
Fatigue
Feeling Lightheaded
Fever
Food Cravings
Hives
Mood Changes
Nausea
Neck Pain
Numbness & Tingling
Pain on One Side of the Head
Puffy Eyelid
Sensitivity to Light
Sensitivity to Smells
Sensitivity to Sound
Throbbing Pain
Vertigo
Vision Changes
Weakness
Symptom Checker
Treatment
CGRP: A New Direction for Migraine Treatment
Complementary Therapies
Acupressure
Acupuncture
Biofeedback
Chiropractic Therapy
Cold Therapy
Darkness & Rest
Exercise
Heat Therapy
Massage
Migraine Diet
Seeking Quiet
Yoga
Medication Relief
OTC Medicine
NSAIDs
Natural Remedies
Butterbur
Caffeine
Coenzyme Q10
Feverfew
Fish Oil
Flaxseed
Ginger
Ginkgo Biloba
Magnesium
Medical Marijuana
Peppermint Oil
Potassium
Riboflavin
Tea
Valerian
Vitamins
Prescription Drugs
What are CGRPs?
Alsuma™ (Sumatriptan Injection)
Amerge®
Anticonvulsants
Axert®
Antidepressants
Beta Blockers
Botox®
Depakote®
Calcium Channel Blockers
Ergomar®
Fioricet®
Frova®
Imitrex®
Maxalt®
Narcotic Analgesics
Nasal Spray
Onzetra™
Propranolol
Relpax®
Sumavel®
Topiramate
Triptans
Treximet®
Trokendi XR™
Zecuity™
Zembrace®
Zomig®
Prevention Medications
Migraine Research
Clinical Trials 101
Mental Health & Migraine
Migraine Effects on Mental Health
Depression
Psychotherapy
Medications
Suicide Prevention
Complementary & Alternative Therapies
General Resources
Recovery from Mental Health Conditions
Myths & Misconceptions
Frequently Asked Questions
Special Sections
Register
Log In
SearchCreated with Sketch.
Search
Accessibility
A
A
A
T
T
T
T
Reset
Subscribe
Imitrex® (Sumatriptan Succinate)
SHARE
Email Created with Sketch.
Heart
Imitrex® (sumatriptan succinate) is a selective 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine, with or without aura, in adults who have a clear migraine diagnosis. It is taken by mouth for the relief of migraine severity, from moderate or severe pain to mild or no pain.
Imitrex generally works within 2 hours. It is intended to reduce acute migraine symptoms, as it will only treat a migraine that has already begun. It should not to be used as a prophylactic therapy to prevent the onset of migraine.
Overuse of acute migraine drugs can cause medication overuse headaches. Overuse is considered dosing on more than 10 days per month. Symptoms of overuse may need to be treated and detoxification from migraine medications may be required.
What are the ingredients in Imitrex?
The active ingredient in Imitrex is sumatriptan succinate.
How does Imitrex for migraine work?
Imitrex works by binding with 5-HT1B/1D receptors on blood vessels in the brain. It narrows the blood vessels (constriction) in the brainstem. It also reduces the inflammatory substances in the body that can trigger head pain, nausea, sensitivity to light and sensitivity to sound, and other migraine symptoms. Imitrex works best if it is taken as soon as migraine symptoms appear.
What are the possible side effects of Imitrex for migraine?
Many clinical trials evaluated the safety and efficacy of Imitrex. The most common side effects experienced by those taking Imitrex include:
Pain or tight feeling in the chest, throat, jaw, or neck
Feeling weak, drowsy, or tired
Pressure or heavy feeling in any part of your body
Numbness or tingling in the fingers and toes
Feeling hot or cold in the extremities
This is not an exhaustive list of all potential side effects of Imitrex. For more information, consult your doctor or healthcare provider. If you notice any new or worsening side effects when taking Imitrex, contact your doctor or healthcare provider immediately.
Things to note about Imitrex for migraine
Imitrex tablets come in 25 mg, 50 mg, and 100 mg. Before starting Imitrex talk with your doctor if you:
Have a history of hypersensitivity to sumatriptan succinate
Have a history of coronary artery disease (CAD), angina or heart attacks
Have a history of high blood pressure or high cholesterol
Have a history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine
Have a history of stroke, transient ischemic attacks (TIAs), or circulatory problems
Are a female who has gone through menopause
Are a man over 40
Are overweight, smoke, or have diabetes
Have taken ergot-containing medication or other triptans within the 24 hours prior to migraine
Have taken a MAO-A inhibitor within 2 weeks prior to your migraine
Take anti-depressant medicines including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), or tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)
Have severe hepatic (liver) impairment
Have severe renal (kidney) problems
Are pregnant or planning to get pregnant, as there is limited information on the use of Imitrex in pregnancy. It should be used only if the potential benefit of Imitrex therapy exceeds risk to the fetus.
Individuals with the above conditions should be monitored closely while taking Imitrex.
If there is no response to the first migraine attack treated with the Imitrex, a physician should reconsider the migraine diagnosis prior to using the medication in any subsequent attacks.
A cardiovascular evaluation should be performed on patients who have never taken a triptan medication but who have multiple cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., increased age, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, obesity, strong family history of CAD) before starting Imitrex. For those with a cardiac history, the first dose of Imitrex should be administered in a medically supervised setting and an electrocardiogram (ECG) should be performed immediately following the dose.
Dosing Information of Imitrex for migraine
Imitrex tablets are taken by mouth with water or other liquids. Imitrex tablets of all strengths come in 9-tablet blister packs and should be stored at room temperature.
A physician will determine the appropriate dose for each patient. If only partial migraine relief is attained or it returns quickly, a second dose may be taken 2 hours after the first. The maximum dosage in a 24-hour period is a total of 200 mg.
Keep track of when you have migraine and when you take Imitrex so you can monitor its effectiveness, and communicate with your doctor about how the medication is working for you.
Before taking Imitrex make sure to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including prescription and nonprescription, vitamins, and herbal supplements. Imitrex and other medicines may affect each other, causing side effects.
Because Imitrex can cause dizziness, weakness, and drowsiness, do not drive a car, use machinery, or do anything requiring you to be fully alert when taking this medication.
For additional details, read the full prescribing information of Imitrex.
Sign up for emails from Migraine.com:
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Written by: Linda Saxl Minton | Last reviewed: March 2019
View References
IMITREX prescribing information available at: https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/2012/020132s024s026lbl.pdf. Accessed 4/27/18.
Recommended Reading
Chronic Migraine: The Body’s Slow Leak
by Holly Baddour
The Differences Among Us: What I Wish Others With Migraine Knew
by Sarah Hackley
Migraine In America 2017: Migraine Frequencies – Exactly How Different Are They?
by Editorial Team
When Migraine Whispers Poison in Your Ear
by Anna Eidt
Sign up for emails
Subscribe
By providing your email address, you are agreeing to our privacy policy. We never sell or share your email address.
Thanks! You're all set!
Good news - you're already subscribed! Need help? Let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Something's not right... Try again or let us know at contact@Migraine.com.
Follow us
About Us Contact Us Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Community Rules Help Center Ad Choices
© 2010–19 Health Union, LLC. All rights reserved. This information is not designed to replace a physician’s independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions. Migraine.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the site is conditional upon your acceptance of our terms of use.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.