What is Inflamed Achilles Tendon & How is it Treated?
Conditions
Allergy
Autoimmune Disorder
Blood / Hematology
Cancer
Cardiovascular System
Childhood Illnesses
Ear / Eye
Endocrinal System
Face, Mouth & Throat
Gastrointestinal System
Genetic Disorders
Genitourinary System
Infectious Diseases
Metabolic System
Musculoskeletal System
Nervous System
Psychiatric Disorders
Skin Problems
Women's Health Guide
All Topics
Sports Injuries
Ankle Injuries
Hip Injuries
Knee Injuries
Pelvic, Groin & Buttock Pain
Wrist Injuries
All Topics
Personal Injury
Auto Accident
Work Accident
Gunshot Wound
Disability
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Q & A
Erectile Dysfunction: Does Opioid Cause ED
Do I have Fibromyalgia?
Splitting Headache: Is It a Migraine?
Did I have a stroke?
Libido: Opioid Induced Female Sexual Dysfunction
All Topics
Articles
Travel & Health
Can a Right Diet Help With Fibromyalgia
Dietary Do’s & Don’ts for Migraine Sufferers
Home Remedies for Arthritis
Shirshasana (Headstand) Versus Inversion Therapy Using Inversion Table
Understanding Joint Pain and Tips to Get Relief Using Home Remedies
All Topics
Treatments
Opioids
Antidepressant Analgesics
Interventional Treatment
Local Applications
Antiepileptics Analgesics
Medications
Tests and Procedures
Allergy Meds
Alternative Therapy
Chakra and Aura
Home Remedies
Diet & Nutrition
Fitness and Exercise
Yoga
Tabata
Pilates
Manual Therapy
Chiropractic Treatment
Spa Therapy
Physical Therapy
Massage Therapy
All Topics
News
Navigation Menu
Menu
Global Notification
Global Search
Subscribe
Global Search
Home
Sports Injuries
Ankle Injuries
What is Inflamed Achilles Tendon & How is it Treated?
Reviewed By: Board Certified Physician
What is Inflamed Achilles Tendon?
The Achilles tendon is an extremely important structure of the body. This tendon joins the calf muscle to the heel bone and traverses behind the lower leg. Any sort of excessive pressure or strain to this tendon can cause it to get inflamed or swell resulting in what is termed as Inflamed Achilles Tendon or Achilles Tendonitis. The Achilles tendon is the largest tendon in the body. It is immensely powerful and can withstand any impact but is still susceptible to injuries.
High impact exercises are believed to be the primary cause for Inflamed Achilles Tendon. Running long distances repetitively also is one of the causes for Inflamed Achilles Tendon or Achilles Tendonitis. If this condition is left untreated then it may lead to a tendon tear which may cause severe disabling pain behind the leg and make it difficult for the affected individual to even ambulate normally.
Some of the presenting features of Inflamed Achilles Tendon or Achilles Tendonitis are constant nagging pain behind the leg just at the level of the calf. The lower leg will feel stiff and sore, especially after exercising. There may be swelling of the area behind the leg and in some cases there may be formation of a bump.
How Do You Treat An Inflamed Achilles?
The treatment for Inflamed Achilles Tendon or Achilles Tendonitis is aimed at providing pain relief and calm down the swelling and inflammation. The treatment rendered will depend on the severity of the injury and the activities of the individual. Some of the treatment options available for treating Inflamed Achilles Tendon are:
Application of Ice: This can be done for 15-20 minutes two to three times a day, especially after exercising to reduce pain and inflammation.
Rest: Giving the affected leg ample amount of rest to allow the tendon to heal is yet another treatment option available for Inflamed Achilles.
For mild cases, just reducing the intensity of exercises is good enough but for more severe cases complete abstinence from any workout may be required for treating Inflamed Achilles Tendon or Achilles Tendonitis. To reduce swelling, it is recommended to elevate the affected leg above the level of the heart to reduce swelling.
Medications: NSAIDs in the form of ibuprofen and Tylenol may be prescribed to control pain and reduce inflammation. It is recommended that individuals with a history of renal problems or asthma first check with the physician before embarking on this form of treatment.
Steroids: if the above modes of treatment are ineffective then the physician may recommend steroid injections to decrease pain and inflammation associated with Inflamed Achilles Tendon.
Compression Bandages and Orthotics: In some cases, shoe inserts and ankle supports are quite useful in taking the pressure off of the tendon and allowing the Inflamed Achilles Tendon to heal.
Surgery: This option is considered when all other conservative modes of treatment fail to provide any relief from the symptoms of Inflamed Achilles Tendon or Achilles Tendonitis. The surgery of choice to treat this condition is called gastrocnemius recession. This procedure involves lengthening of the muscle of the calf and provides the ankle a wider range of motion which in turn provides symptom relief.
Exercises: This is yet another way to treat Inflamed Achilles Tendon or Achilles Tendonitis. The best exercise to do for this condition is the calf stretch. This can be done by leaning forwards with the hands against the wall.
The individual needs to keep one foot on the ground straight and the other foot with the knee bent in front of it. Now the hips need to be pushed toward the wall and main this position for about 15 seconds. Come back to the original position and repeat the exercise for about 15 times.
This exercise will hasten the recovery of the tendon and allow the affected individual to get back to normal activities at the earliest possible time after Inflamed Achilles Tendon or Achilles Tendonitis.
Also Read:
Is Achilles Tendon Rupture a Common Injury|Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Surgery for Achilles Tendon Rupture
Retrocalcaneal Bursitis or Achilles Tendon Bursitis: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Exercise, Recovery
Achilles Tendon Rupture: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Rehabilitation, Sports Massage
Achilles Tendon Stretches To Heal Achilles Tendinitis
What Causes Achilles Tendon Rupture & How is it Repaired?
How Do You Know If You Have Damaged The Achilles Tendon?
What's App
Facebook
Twitter
Pintrest
Print
Email
Written, Edited or Reviewed By:
Pramod Kerkar, MD,FFARCSI
Pain Assist Inc.
Last Modified On: October 17, 2018
This article does not provide medical advice. See disclaimer
You May Also Like
Sprained Ankle or Twisted Ankle: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Exercises, Risk Factors, Recovery Period, Complications
READ MORE >>
What is High Ankle Sprain : Treatment, Recovery, Exercises, Causes, Symptoms
READ MORE >>
Ankle Avulsion Fracture: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, Recovery Time, Exercises
READ MORE >>
What is Ankle Impingement: Symptoms, Causes, Treatment, Recovery Period, Exercises
READ MORE >>
What is Haglund's Syndrome: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Recovery Period, Exercises
READ MORE >>
ePainAssist Home
View More
Rib Pain Images
Symptom Checker
Find A Physician
Health Topics
Health News
Videos
Slideshows
Recent Post
Is Multiple Myeloma A Death Sentence?
Does Multiple Myeloma Go Into Remission?
Does Multiple Myeloma Cause High White Blood Cell Count?
Fitness and Exercise
Can You Exercise With Multiple Myeloma & What Exercises Are Better?
Pain Under Left Rib Cage & Abdominal Diseases: Causes, Treatment, Diagnosis
>> More
Most Popular
Disability
Does Sickle Cell Disease Qualify For Disability Benefits?
Allergies
Sun Allergy: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Prognosis, Prevention, Recovery
Healthcare Payer & Provider
Medicare for Chiropractic Care: What Does it Cover & What It Doesn’t Cover|Medicare Advantage Plans
Travel & Health
Can You Fly With A Blood Clot & What are the Precautions to be Taken?
Home Remedies
Symptoms of Silent Reflux in Infant & its Natural Remedies
Symptom Checker
Get To Know What Possibly Could Be Causing Your Symptoms!
Men Women
Subscribe to Free ePainAssist Newsletters
I agree to the ePainAssist Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy.
Sign Up for Our Newsletter
We'll help you live each day to the healthiest
Email
Join
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Youtube
Instagram
Download Our Mobile Apps
Copyright © 2019 PainAssist Inc (ePainAssist) | All rights reserved.
Contact Us
Disclaimer
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertising Policy
Cookie Policy
Editorial Policy
Financial Disclosure Policy
Information Policy
Find Physician
Pain Blog
Images and Text Policy
Medical Quiz
Videos
Pain Discussion Board
Post A Question
Chiropractors
Pain Physicians
Orthopedic Surgeons
Neurological Surgeons
Neurologists
Neuromusculoskeletal Medicine Doctors
Physical Medicine and Rehabitation Specialists
Note: Information provided is not a substitute for physician, hospital or any form of medical care. Consult your medical care providers for medical advice, treatments and followup.