The Products
about
services list
appointments
the products
contact
shop green
about
services
appointments
contact
shop
products used at citrus
With your health & wellbeing in mind, all products used at Citrus are Eco-friendly and are free of: parabens, sulfates, sulfites, glycols, artificial or synthetic fragrances, fillers & dyes, formaldehyde and petrochemicals.
• All products are Vegan and never tested on animals •
Organic Color Systems
Calura
Organic Color Systems is 100% Ammonia-Free hair color that maintains the hair’s essential moisture and protein levels, so the hair is not damaged by the coloring process. It is considered one of the more natural, organic, vegan and cruelty-free lines worldwide. This revolutionary haircolor minimizes the use of questionable ingredients while maximizing its overall performance. It is also free of Resorcinol, Formaldehyde, or P-toluenediamine (2,5 diamine toluene or 4-Methoxytoluene-2,5-diamine as banned by the European Union CAS No. 56496-88-9) or any other ingredient banned from use in professional hair color by any Government Authority regulating ingredients. OCS contains natural soothing & anti-inflammatory agents, such as certified organic Chamomile (Anthemis Nobilis) and certified organic Comfrey (Symphytum Officinale) and Antioxidants such as certified organic Orange (Citrus Dulcis) & Grapefruit (Citrus Grandis), as well as vitamins C and E to prevent and repair damage done to the body by free radicals.
Citrus' choice for haircolor is Calura by the Canadian company Oligo. (Our friends in Canada, like those in the EU have a very strict and wonderful policy on banning many and restricting the use of harsh chemicals in beauty products! Thank you Canada!) Calura is completely PPD FREE an AMMONIA FREE! It uses an innovative exothermic technology to maximize color penetration and minimize hair damage. Calura also uses the purest USDA certified organic oils and essences, each chosen for their renowned benefits to the hair and scalp.
Avocado Oil : Rich in beneficial nutrients like Biotin, Vitamins A, B-5 & E, which hydrate, nourish and strengthen the hair shaft
Evening Primrose oil : Rich in Omega 6 fatty acids that nourish the scalp, fights hair loss, heals eczema
Pomegranate Seed Oil : Rich in antioxidants that protect hair against free radicals
Shea Butter: Hydrates for radiant shine
Keratin: To protect and strengthen the hair
reduce, reuse, recycle
A message
from Citrus.
WHERE to find citrus organic salon
12872 Highway 9,
Suite 200. Studio 106.
Alpharetta, Ga 30004
site made by
Spark and Craft Studio
social media
© Copyright 2016 Citrus Organic Salon. Home / Privacy / Rewards / Contact / Shop
© 2016 Citrus Organic Salon Studio.