The 7 Best Hair Loss Treatment Options That Really Work - Sweet Captcha
Home
About
Tips
Technology
Marketing
Lifestyle
Traveling
Successful
Contact
Tips June 26, 2018
The 7 Best Hair Loss Treatment Options That Really Work
The 7 Best Hair Loss Treatment Options That Really Work
Are you suffering from thinning hair? It’s a common problem that is fairly easy to treat if you know which methods to use. Here’s a run-down of the seven best hair loss treatment options that actually work.
Have you noticed that your hair has been thinning lately? You’re not alone.
By the age of thirty-five, two-thirds of American men will experience some degree of hair loss, and by the age of fifty, 85% of men notice significantly thinning hair.
Don’t wait, solve your hair loss problem today. It’s fairly easy to treat if you know the right methods to keep your hair healthy, so here’s a breakdown to help you find the best hair loss treatment for you.
1. Minoxidil
Minoxidil is the only FDA-proven ingredient to help fight hair loss. There’s a lot of research to back up its effectiveness.
Minoxidil also works really well on women, as 50 percent of women using this ingredient saw improvement in their hair loss.
Minoxidil works because it helps slow the hair loss process, which in turn helps you keep the hair you have. You may even notice a little bit of peach fuzz growing in place of your hair loss.
People also found minoxidil to be the most effective in regrowth around the crown of the head, instead of the front of the hairline.
The one downside to this ingredient is that you have to keep taking it. People found the second they stopped using Minoxidil, they lost the hair they were trying to save. In other words, it’s a lifetime commitment.
2. Laser Treatments
You can also try laser treatment for hair loss. This treatment can reduce the inflammation of follicles that can prevent new hair from growing.
Like Minoxidil, this method can also be a time-consuming commitment. A recent study found this treatment to be the most successful in improving the density of hair, after 26 weeks of twice weekly procedures.
3. Viviscal
Sometimes, hair loss can be fixed simply with a supplement. Viviscal is a supplement made up of fish protein, vitamin C, zinc, biotin, and niacin. All of these vitamins and minerals encourage your scalp to produce healthier and thicker strands of hair.
4. Shampoos
Shampoos can also be a great option. Here are two different types that seem to work really well.
DHT-Blocking Shampoo
Your hair loss might be caused by a hormone called DHT. The DHT hormone has been found to restrict blood supply to hair follicles, which in turn causes them to fall out. When shopping for a shampoo to prevent hair loss, make sure it’s a DHT-blocking shampoo, like Art Naturals Organic Argan Oil Hair Loss Shampoo.
Nioxin Shampoo
Nioxin is a brand of hair care products, that is focused on fighting thinning hair. Nioxin products work well because they help keep your scalp in good shape. This helps the look and feel of any hairs you do have left.
Nioxin shampoos have natural ingredients like rosemary and mint that can help stimulate your scalp and boost blood circulation which helps nourish your hair follicles. Another pro to Nioxin shampoo is their formulas don’t contain any harsh chemicals like sulfates or parabens, so it’s safe on the hair you have.
5. Propecia
Propecia or Finasteride seems to be the go-to solution to hair loss, but it requires a prescription from your dermatologist. Currently, Propecia is the only other FDA-approved medicine to treat hair loss.
Propecia was actually not originally created to help hair loss. The drug was actually designed to help prevent prostate cancer.
This pill works by blocking the production of a male hormone in the scalp known as androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT). This hormone shuts down follicles that cause male pattern baldness. The only downside to Propecia is that some men have reported side effects like impotence lack of sexual desire.
6. The Best Hair Loss Treatment Might Be a Lifestyle Change
There’s also a couple of lifestyle changes you can make that might help prevent hair loss.
Eat the Right Nutrients
Your hair needs protein, iron, zinc, and vitamin B12 to really thrive. Get these nutrients from lean meats, leafy greens, nuts, beans, fish.
Eating a nutrient-rich diet can help make the hair you have, appear thicker and shinier. Definitely make sure you’re loading up on B vitamins, as this can help the formation of hair cells and hair growth.
Massage Your Scalp
When you’re shampooing, be sure to give your head a little massage. This will improve blood flow in the scalp, making it a better place for hair growth. This also helps any treatment shampoos you’re using actually penetrate your scalp, instead of going down the drain.
Let Your Hair Air-Sry
This is a super easy fix. Stop putting heat on your hair! This means hair dryers, and irons, which can be especially harsh on your hair if you’re already coloring your hair.
These hot styling tools can cause breakage and thinning. Cut back on your use of heat on your hair and you might find yourself losing less of it.
De-stress
Take a deep breath! Seriously, it can help. Both sudden and chronic stress can stop hair growth.
If you’re going through a big life change like a move or job change, your hair should grow back once you settle down. But if you’re under constant pressure, try to master meditation or find another way you can channel your stress.
7. Get Help from Your Doctor
If all these options aren’t working it might be time to see a doctor. Also, be aware that sometimes hair loss can mean that something else is off with your body.
If your hair loss is sudden and excessive. If you’re finding that solutions aren’t making any difference, then it might be time to talk to your doctor. You could be experiencing hormone irregularities, thyroid abnormalities, lupus or anemia. Here’s what your doctor might do to help.
Blood work
Routine blood work can tell you about your ferritin (which is iron stored in the blood) and vitamin D levels. Low levels in iron and vitamin D can lead to hair loss. The fix for these deficiencies could be as simple as adding an iron or vitamin supplement to your diet.
Cortisone shots
It’s been found that injecting cortisone directly into the scalp can block the hormonal activity that promotes hair thinning. Sure it might hurt, but it works! Cortisone shots are the most effective with patients with inflammatory scalp disease.
Get Help Today
Now that you know some different methods, it’s time to find the best hair loss treatment for you. It could be as simple as some lifestyle changes, or you may have to try a shampoo, pill or laser treatment.
Whatever it is, know there is a solution and you will find it over time. For more information and posts to help improve your life, check out our blog.
Related Article
5 Reasons Ergonomic Equipment Is Worth Investing In For Your Small Business
Prev Post
Basic Self-Defense Moves Everyone Should Know
Next post
How to Look Expensive on a Budget: 10 Tips for a Chic Look
admin
Related Posts
Tips
Preventing Accidents at Home in Four Steps
Tips
Dr. Kami Hoss – How To Get Through Dental Treatment
Tips
Integrity Heating and Cooling, The Only Choice You Need to Make
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
About Me
Sweet Captcha is about living the sweet life. I’m Alexa and I’m all about travel, life, design, blogging, business, marketing and more. There is a lot to life and I don’t think you should put yourself in a box.
Follow Us Online
Latest Stories
5 Reasons Ergonomic Equipment Is Worth Investing In For Your Small Business
April 18, 2019
Life in the Finance Lane
April 17, 2019
Fact or Myth: Can You Get a UTI From Hot Tubbing
3 Things To Do If You Think Your Teen Is Using Drugs
April 14, 2019
Follow us on Facebook
Newsletter
First Name E-Mail Address
About Me
Sweet Captcha is about living the sweet life. I’m Alexa and I’m all about travel, life, design, blogging, business, marketing and more. There is a lot to life and I don’t think you should put yourself in a box.
Explore By Category
Blog
Lifestyle
Marketing
Money
relationship
Successful
Technology
Tips
Traveling
Follow us on Facebook
© Sweet Captcha 2018.
Latest Stories
All Categories
5 Reasons Ergonomic Equipment Is Worth Investing In For Your Small Business
April 18, 2019
Life in the Finance Lane
April 17, 2019
Fact or Myth: Can You Get a UTI From Hot Tubbing
3 Things To Do If You Think Your Teen Is Using Drugs
April 14, 2019
3 Key Tips For Making Divorce Mediation Work
3 Tips For Taking on a DIY Home Improvement Project
Load More
Search stories by typing keyword and hit enter to begin searching.