11 Top Home Remedies to Remove Acne Scars
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to content
Rapid Home Remedies
Alternative/Natural Home, Health & Beauty Remedies
Home
Home Remedies
Herbal Remedies
Hair Care
Skin Care
Weight Loss
Start Here
11 Top Remedies to Remove Acne Scars
June 4, 2018 By Sara 38 Comments
Who likes scars and that too on the face! Getting rid of acne scars is a little tougher than eliminating acne actually. Pimples can be naturally treated with many ingredients having anti-inflammatory or antibacterial properties which are in abundance in nature. However, pimple scars are a little stubborn as they don’t go easily. However, as the saying goes, nothing is impossible. It may take some time but your regular efforts using certain natural bleaching agents as well as other ingredients may lighten your acne scars and gradually remove them permanently.
Prevention is better than cure…
Before I go on to share some really beneficial home remedies to remove acne scars naturally, I want to share some words of wisdom. There are certain things that you should avoid in order to prevent forming scars in the first place. It’s not essential to have scars even if you get pimples!
Don’t play with your acne
Yes, keep your hands off your acne! Don’t play with them, don’t pick them or squeeze them, just leave them alone when you are not applying any remedy on them. Whatever you are doing to remove pimples, do it with gentle hands. Why? I’ll tell you.
When you get acne, there is intense inflammation of your facial skin and there is a loss of collagen. Collagen is the protein fiber, one of the components of skin which gives skin its elasticity. When you pick or squeeze your pimples, it leads to further inflammation and injury to your skin. It also leads the bacteria and pus in your pimple go deep down into your skin resulting in more loss of collagen which means even deeper scars on your face.
Don’t expose scars to the sun
Your body is capable of taking care of your scars and they will get lighter with time. However, if you expose them to the sun, their healing process will slow down and the scars will get darker. So, avoid the sun. If it’s essential to go out in sun, use sunscreen to guard your skin and also cover yourself with hat, umbrella, clothes- whatever you can lay hands on.
Natural remedies to Remove Pimple/Acne Scars
There are various natural ingredients that you can apply to scars to remove scars from your face.
1. Lemon Juice for Acne Scars
Lemon is a natural bleach. Vitamin C in lemon helps in rebuilding collagen. When you use lime juice on your acne scars, the spots get lighter day by day.
Lemon juice is an excellent skin lightening agent. It is the acid in lemon juice that helps brighten your skin and make the scars less visible. It can, in fact, fade away freckles and lighten the dark scars faster. Not only scars, if you have swollen pimples, lemon juice can help reduce its redness too. And it is probably the most easily available ingredient lying there in your fridge. So, you just need to get it from there and squeeze out some of its fresh juice to apply to your acne scar, every day! However, just do not step out in sun after applying lemon juice to your skin. It makes your skin sensitive to sun’s rays. Even hours after when you step out of your home, do not forget to apply sunscreen to shield your skin.
How to use lemon Juice for acne scars
Take a fresh lemon and squeeze out its juice. Apply this juice directly on your scars with fingertips or a cotton ball, leave it for ten minutes and wash it off with water. Do this once a day for two to three weeks during which you can see your scars diminish considerably. If you want, you can also mix honey with your lemon juice to make it some more effective in reducing the acne scars.
If your skin is very sensitive, dilute lemon juice by mixing some rose water and then apply on your scars.
You can even mix a teaspoon of lemon juice with two teaspoons of Vitamin E oil and then apply this to your acne scars. Vitamin E is a very good emollient with a lot of antioxidants that protects and even improves your skin texture.
I. Make a lemon mask to remove pimple scars
You will need:
Lemon juice – 1 tbsp
Honey – 1 tbsp
Almond oil – 1 tbsp
Milk – 2 tbsp
Directions:
Mix them all and apply on the scars once daily for about 7-10 days. You’ll see the difference.
After applying lemon juice, never ever step out in sun!
II. Lemon and Honey for acne scars removal
Get this:
Lemons- 1-2
Honey (optional)- 1 tsp
Cotton ball
Do this:
Squeeze the lemons to take out the fresh juice in a bowl.
Add the honey to this lemon juice and mix well.
Dip the cotton ball in this mixture.
Now apply this mixture on your cotton ball to the whole of your face or the area where you have acne scars.
Leave for about 10-15 minutes.
Wash off with water and pat dry.
Do this once every day for at least 2-3 weeks.
2. Honey for Acne Scars
Honey, along with acne, is also capable of treating acne scars.
How to use honey for acne scars
Apply honey on the scars and leave it overnight. Wash off in the morning.
Mix 2 tablespoons of honey with a ¼ cup of oatmeal. Apply this mixture gently on pimple scars. Leave it for about 15-20 minutes then wash off with lukewarm water.
Add ½ tsp of cinnamon powder with 1 tbsp of honey and apply to scars. Leave it for an hour. You can even use it overnight. Then wash off.
Make a honey-aspirin mask to remove pimple scars
Although aspirin is not a natural ingredient you can always use it with honey to get rid of your acne scars. The salicylic acid in aspirin does wonders and its gritty texture gives you perfect exfoliation.
You will need:
Honey- 2 tbsp
Aspirin-2-3
Water- few drops
Directions
Put the aspirins in a few drops of water till they get dissolved into it and form a paste. Don’t use too much water as you need a gritty texture for exfoliation.
Add honey to this aspirin-water paste and mix
Apply on your scars and leave for 15 minutes.
Now wash it off.
Here are the more ways to get rid of acne and its scars with honey
3. Aloe Vera
This wonder herb, Aloe Vera, not only soothes swollen skin but also helps in regenerating damaged tissues boosting the healing process. It’s better to use a fresh gel-like substance directly from the aloe vera leaf than to use over the counter products containing aloe vera
How to use aloe vera for acne scars
Take an aloe vera leaf and peel its outer green cover. You’ll see a gel-like substance beneath its green outer cover. Take out this gel and apply it on your scars. Leave it for about half an hour and then wash off.
Apply aloe vera gel twice daily to see the results in just a few days. Not only will your acne scars diminish but also your skin will start glowing and will become tighter.
4. Olive Oil
Olive oil can be said to be the most skin friendly oil because it contains a whole lot of vitamins ( A, D, E, C, B1 and B2), iron and antioxidants. The anti-inflammatory properties of olive oil also help remove acne scars.
How to use olive oil for acne scars
You need to apply olive oil to your scars before going to bed.
You will need:
Olive oil
Warm Water
A clean cloth or towel
Direction:
Take a little olive oil and gently massage your face with this. Focus more on the pimple scars.
Massage for a few minutes till the time you can feel that all the oil has been absorbed by your skin.
Now take a clean towel or cloth and drape it into warm water.
Put the warm wet cloth on to your face to get the steam.
Now wipe away the excess oil gently with the cloth. Don’t rub though.
After 1-2 minutes, wash off your face with normal water.
5. Baking Soda
Baking soda is yet another popular remedy for removing acne scars through its exfoliating effects. The gentle coarse granules of soda mixed with water remove the dead skin layer off your face without any inflammation caused by the application.
How to use baking soda for acne scars
Take a couple of teaspoons of baking soda and using water make a consistent paste.
Gently massage your face with this paste focusing on pimple scars.
After massaging for 1-2 minutes, leave the paste there on the face for few minutes.
Now wash off with warm water.
Apply some moisturizer, preferably olive oil.
Repeat the process twice or thrice a week.
6. Raw Potato
Raw potato can do wonders in removing your pimple scars if you allow them to work for days with patience.
How to use raw potato for acne scars
Take a potato and cut it into round slices.
Take a slice and rub it gently over your face in circular motion.
Keep doing this until you feel that your slice of potato has gone dry.
Take another slice and do the same.
Repeat this for about 15-20 minutes.
Now leave the face as it is so that the leftover potato juice is absorbed by your skin.
Now wash off.
Apply some moisturizer that suits your skin.
Do this raw potato massage 3-4 times a week for at least 1-2 months depending upon the intensity of your scars. This and even other remedies for pimple scars need your patience to show results.
7. Raw Tomatoes
The red good tomatoes too can eliminate the scars from your face.
How to use raw tomatoes for acne scars
There are two ways you can do this -simple and one which is not that simple. First, the simple way.
Take a ripe red tomato and cut it into pieces.
Crush the pieces to make a pulp of the tomato.
Apply this tomato pulp on your face and leave for 15-20 minutes.
Wash off your face.
Repeat this daily for a week or two.
Now the second method for using tomatoes by making its mask
Make a tomato mask to remove pimple scars
You will need:
Tomatoes- 2
Cucumber- 1
Avocados -2
Directions:
Get the pulp out of tomatoes
Grate the cucumber and avocados and squeeze out the juice.
Mix all of them.
Apply on your face.
Leave for 15-20 minutes.
Wash off with water.
8. Tea Tree Oil for Acne Scars
Derived from the Melaleuca alternifolia plant of Australia, tea tree oil is an excellent antiseptic, antibacterial, antifungal and antiviral essential oil. As such, not only for acne scars, tea tree oil is, in fact, one of the best remedies for acne too. As far as scars are concerned, this oil is most beneficial in healing the hypertrophic scars that are generally raised and red, such as those we get after burn injury or a surgery. Raised acne scars too are not very uncommon. So if you have such raised or hypertrophic acne scars, you can effectively use tea tree oil to heal them. Tea tree oil, due to its anti-inflammatory effects would definitely help you in getting rid of such acne scars. This oil is also hydrating. It provides moisture and helps hydrate the scar which gradually diminishes the scar and make it disappear.
Get this:
Tea tree oil- 2-4 drops
Water- 1-2 tbsp
Cotton ball
Adjust the quantity as per the area of your acne scars
Do this:
Add the tea tree oil to the water.
Take the cotton ball and dip it in the diluted tea tree oil.
Apply this solution to your acne scars.
Repeat 2-3 times a day
Precaution: Never use tea tree oil undiluted. It is too strong to be handled by your skin. Always dilute it with water, more so if your skin is sensitive.
9. Apple Cider Vinegar for Acne Scars
Apple cider vinegar has many properties. It is an astringent and a natural disinfectant that makes it a good natural antiseptic. It also balances the pH level of your body and of your skin when applied topically. And because it is anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory, it is effective in the treatment of acne too. All of these properties of apple cider vinegar are granted by its beneficial components that include vitamins, minerals, carbolic acid, ketones, aldehydes, amino acids, anti-oxidant, acetic acid and many more. It is therefore a known remedy for acne. You can also heal acne scars considerably with apple cider vinegar. As this vinegar scrapes off the dead skin cells, it may fade away the acne scars to a great extent. You can either use apple cider vinegar with water or with honey.
1st way to use apple cider vinegar: with water
Get this:
Apple Cider Vinegar- 1 part
Water- 1 part
Cotton ball
Do this:
Mix apple cider vinegar and water
Dip the cotton ball in it.
Apply this to your acne scars.
Leave it for 5-10 minutes.
Wash it off with water.
Do this once daily
2nd way to use apple cider vinegar: with honey
Get this:
Apple Cider Vinegar- 2 tbsp
Water- 2/3 cup
Honey- 1-2 tsp
Cotton ball
Do this:
Mix all the three ingredients well.
Dip the cotton ball in the solution.
Apply this solution to your acne scars.
Leave it for about half an hour.
Wash it off with water. If you feel sticky due to honey, you may even wash it off with lukewarm water.
Do this once daily.
10. Use Vitamin E on Acne Scars
In the recent times, Vitamin E has been considerably recognized as one of the very beneficial vitamins for human skin. It can thoroughly moisturize your skin and in this process, it makes the scars or spots on your skin less noticeable. This is all because it hydrates your skin well with its moisturizing properties. There is one more theory regarding vitamin E and its effectiveness in reducing acne scars. This theory says that vitamin E assists vitamin A in your body. Vitamin A is thought to be vital for a good skin. When you have vitamin E, present in many fruits and vegetables, the fat in your body absorbs this vitamin E. It then works with vitamin A to give you soft, supple and blemish free skin. Deficiency of vitamin E can even lead to dry skin and acne breakouts. Therefore, it is always advisable to provide your body with sufficient vitamin E. Now the question arises, how to use vitamin E on acne scars! Here’s how to do so.
Get this:
Vitamin E oil or Vitamin E capsule
Do this:
Give steam to your face so that the pores open up.
Take few drops of vitamin E oil. If you have bought vitamin E capsule, puncture it and extract the oil out of it.
Apply this oil to your skin having acne scars.
Now massage the area with this oil in gentle circular strokes for about 10 minutes or till the oil is absorbed into the skin.
Leave for about 15-20 minutes.
Now wash it off.
Do this daily.
Precaution: If you have a sensitive skin, you should always do the patch test before applying vitamin E oil or any other oil on to your skin.
11. Cocoa Butter to Remove Acne Scars
Cocoa butter, the fat derived from cacao seeds, is an excellent natural moisturizer and due to its moisturizing properties, it not only heals scars but also prevents them. But does cocoa butter remove acne scars? Yes, it can of course! Let’s know how it does it.
How does cocoa butter remove acne scars?
Cocoa butter is a fat and an excellent moisturizer as well as emollient. It can quickly melt due to the body temperature. This quality makes it easily absorbable into the skin. In fact, it not only penetrates the top layer of your skin but it goes deep into the skin into the dermis. Thus, it reaches the site where your skin can retain the moisture for the longest time. A well-moisturized skin is a skin that makes spots and scars less visible!
This unique ability of cocoa butter to lock moisture at deeper levels of your skin makes it effective in healing your acne scars. This way, it keeps your skin hydrated. A well-hydrated skin can only regrow skin tissue. New skin tissue in place of scarred ones definitely will give you a blemish free skin. Thus, when you apply cocoa butter daily, you help your damaged skin to get repaired.
Cocoa butter softens and moisturizes your skin. Apart from this, it also smoothes out the tone and texture of your skin. This makes your acne scars less noticeable.
Get this:
Cocoa butter
Do this:
At night, before going to bed, wash your face properly and pat it dry.
Take some cocoa butter and apply this to your face gently massaging it onto your skin for a couple of minutes.
Leave it overnight.
Wash off in the morning.
Do this daily.
You may also apply cocoa butter once more during the daytime. Only do not apply too much of it as you may do at night. This will keep your skin looking greasy.
Keeping your skin well hydrated and moisturized is the first step towards removing acne scars. Cocos butter is perhaps one of the best natural moisturizers that you can use on your skin to not only get rid of acne scars but also to keep your skin soft and smooth!
All the above remedies for acne scars are good but there are some that will be more suitable for your skin type. Find out them by experimenting with each and every remedy for scars. Have patience and treat your scars with these remedies and you will definitely get rid of your acne scars. Patience will be the main ingredient though, whatever remedy you adopt for your acne scars!
Frequently Asked Question & Answers:
Q: Do all acne scars go away? (OR) Do all scars fade?
Ans: No, the scars will not fully disappear why because scars are formed when the skin gets damaged in the dermal level in which the new skin cells originate in this layer. As time goes, the body heals the wound by creating new collagen fibers and this repair of damaged tissue results in a scar.
Unfortunately, if you have a scar on the skin then it will for lifelong but the good news is that you can reduce its size, color and appearance on the skin by lightening them up to the point of undetectable. In general, there are 5 types of acne scars like an ice pick, boxcar, rolling, hyperpigmentation, and keloid scars. So, consult your dermatologist for proper treatment.
Q: What causes acne scars?
Ans: When the follicle or pore becomes clogged due to excess oil, bacteria and dead skin cells then the pores swell by causing a break in the follicle wall. If the rupture occurs near the skin’s surface then lesion will be minor and gets healed quickly. Then this infected material extends into the dermis and destroys the healthy skin tissue then it forms scars on the skin.
If these scars are not treated properly then there is a chance of getting the acne back in that affected area. Other reasons include genetics, picking or popping or touching the pimples, hormonal imbalance, stress and improper skin care.
Q: How do you get rid of acne scars?
Ans: There are various natural remedies that help you a lot in getting rid of acne scars. Here are a few best remedies for clearing these acne scars.
Lemon juice
Aloe vera
Baking soda
Tea tree oil
Apple cider vinegar
Along with these remedies, take proper care on your skin, drink plenty of water, consume a healthy diet and perform some regular exercises.
Q: Is bio oil good for acne scars?
Ans: Yes, bio oil works well in fading the acne scars due to its large content of plant extracts. It is designed to improve the skin from stretch marks, acne scars and other skin imperfections. This oil works as an emollient that aims at reducing the appearance of acne scars by simply keeping the skin hydrated.
It won’t clog the skin pores and gets easily absorbed into the skin. This oil-based skin care product will keep out oxygen and leave moisture and vitamins on the skin to reduce the redness and appearance of scars. Simply apply it twice daily on the scars to fade them completely.
Q: Can dermatologist get rid of acne scars?
Ans: Yes, dermatologist can help you to get rid of acne scars with various modern treatments like laser resurfacing, dermabrasion, fractional laser treatments, skin needling, dermal fillers, chemical peel, intralesional injections, punch excision and subscision surgery, cryosurgery, etc. in which you’re dermatologist will suggest the treatment as per the effect of acne scars effect on the skin.
Q: Are acne scars really permanent?
Ans: Acne scars are permanent why because it causes damage to the collagen deep in the skin. However, it depends upon the type of acne scar left behind and the skincare you’re taking but you can fade and slowly remove the acne scars on the skin with some natural remedies and cosmetic treatments over a period of time.
Q: Is chemical peel good for acne scars?
Ans: Chemical peels (or alpha-hydroxy acid, AHA or beta-hydroxy acid, BHA) will exfoliate the skin and eventually peel off to make it smooth and glow with an even skin tone. Yes, for certain cases of acne scars, chemical peel works well in fading them from the skin.
Be sure to consult your dermatologist before undergoing the chemical peel treatment why because it includes some side effects like redness, irritation and swelling due to the usage of different acid solutions.
Q: Can lemon remove pimples?
Ans: Yes, lemon is very effective in removing pimples. It has a mild astringent property that reduces the oil production and tightens the skin. The vitamin C rich content will trigger the collagen production and thereby encourages the formation of new skin cells. Its natural bleaching property helps to reduce the appearance of acne marks on the skin.
It exhibits antibacterial, antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties that help to clear the bacteria (causing acne or pimples), reduces redness and swelling. Make sure that not to steep out in the sun after an hour or two of applying lemon juice on the skin why because it causes photosensitivity and make your skin looks dark.
Q: Which cream is best for pimples?
Ans: Although, there are various products or creams available in the market for treating pimples/acne, here we are mentioning some creams that work best for removing pimples.
Biotique Bio Chlorophyll Gel
Jovees Anti – Acne and Pimple Cream
Keeva Organics Tea Tree Oil Acne Cream
Burt’s Bees Herbal Blemish Stick
Q: What is acne scars?
Ans: Acne scars occur as a result of inflamed blemishes that are caused due to clogging of skin pores with excess oil, bacteria and dead skin cells, which makes the skin pores to swell and thereby causes a break in the follicle wall. If it causes deep break then it causes damage to the surrounding tissue by creating deeper lesions.
So, acne scars are the permanent textural changes that are caused due to severe acne on the skin. However, the formation of new collagen fibers in the skin will help to repair these lesions but it won’t be as smooth as original skin.
Q: Types of acne scars
Ans: Before treating acne scars, you should know what type of acne scars they are why because each type will respond differently to treatment. There are two main types of acne scars…
Atrophic or depressed scarring – This is a most common type that is formed when there is not enough collagen is made by the skin while the wound is healing. You can notice three types of atrophic scars like a boxcar, ice pick & rolling.
Boxcar – These are depressed scars that are usually round or oval in shape with steeply angled sides and they are deep or shallow.
Ice Pick – They are narrow, V-shaped scars that go deep into the skin. These are most difficult scars to treat among other types why because it extends far under the skin’s surface.
Rolling – These are wide depressions with round edges which are irregular and have rolling appearance.
Hypertrophic or raised or keloid scars – These scars are formed commonly with back and chest acne. They result in a mass of raised tissue on the skin’s surface due to too much production of collagen during the healing process.
You can also find other types of acne scars like mixed acne scars, macular scars and lumpy hypertrophic scars.
Filed Under: Home Remedies, Skin Care Tagged With: Acne, Acne/Pimples, Scars
Reader Interactions
Comments
Lilian Dominguez says
January 5, 2014 at 10:15 pm
this sounds so good loved it.
Log in to Reply
Eula Pablo says
January 5, 2014 at 10:53 pm
very informative ♥♥♥
Log in to Reply
Aurelia Garbonita says
January 9, 2014 at 7:58 pm
its great is can help thanks
Log in to Reply
Murugan Virat says
January 10, 2014 at 4:18 pm
nice
Log in to Reply
Hamelet Mersha Tadesse says
January 22, 2014 at 6:50 am
thanks
Log in to Reply
Hamelet Mersha Tadesse says
January 22, 2014 at 6:50 am
thanks
Log in to Reply
Rich Konjo A says
January 22, 2014 at 9:02 am
good information
Log in to Reply
Rich Konjo A says
January 22, 2014 at 9:02 am
good information
Log in to Reply
Paulita Vergara says
January 22, 2014 at 10:10 am
tnx for d info. . .
Log in to Reply
Cabaobao Lea says
January 27, 2014 at 8:37 pm
Tnx
Log in to Reply
Sharif Hossan says
February 20, 2014 at 5:22 am
Wow really amazing
Log in to Reply
PÜnie Duque says
February 20, 2014 at 6:20 am
thank u,..for the good information I will try all of this info thanks again and God bless,..
Log in to Reply
Imelda Aguilar says
March 7, 2014 at 1:39 pm
very good i read this for home remedies i have problem about. my face coz have a drk spot. Im using China cream but gone.. im glad to read this. Now im trying to use potato 2X daily i make..i. hope this is b-come good.Thanks.
Log in to Reply
Debrah Fuentes says
March 8, 2014 at 12:39 am
what if i mix the potato, honey and lemon alltogether?
Log in to Reply
Lovely Ann says
April 3, 2014 at 2:34 am
Verry nice to know abt it
Log in to Reply
Umesh Bhandage says
May 4, 2014 at 7:40 am
these are the excellent home remedies solution, if it is properly and regularly uses,
Log in to Reply
Debrah Fuentes says
May 10, 2014 at 11:07 am
no honey yet until it all dries up. thankd
Log in to Reply
Doreen Mbayi says
May 16, 2014 at 7:29 am
Wow amazing,its good to learn.
Log in to Reply
Saf Naz says
May 28, 2014 at 4:29 pm
dnt ever try baking soda if u have a sensitive skin it will result irritation,swelling and creating a red scar around ur face.i have tried this a few minutes ago,and my skin has burned.!!!!!!!!
Log in to Reply
Syed Tauseef says
June 9, 2014 at 1:33 pm
Thnk u vry vry mch
Log in to Reply
Ridhi Jm says
June 19, 2014 at 2:48 am
Has anyone tried any of the remedies and how long does it take to get rid of the dark spots?
Log in to Reply
Emily Kristina says
July 1, 2014 at 7:46 am
Yes, Aloe vera is a wonder plant to treat acne scars. Massage your face with aloe vera gel for 2-3 minutes over the affected area and leave for 15 minutes. Acne scars will banish in couple of days.
Log in to Reply
Raj Kiran says
July 2, 2014 at 1:08 pm
gonna try dose….''''
Log in to Reply
Raj Kiran says
July 2, 2014 at 1:10 pm
gonna try dose….''''hope dey do wrk 4 me
Log in to Reply
Sahir Sahab says
July 11, 2014 at 9:37 pm
Mix All :
Lemon juice – 1 tbsp
• Honey – 1 tbsp
• Almond oil – 1 tbsp
• Milk – 2 tbsp
plz tel me that wha'ts duration for apply this Tips??
Log in to Reply
Janlee Carillo says
July 19, 2014 at 9:24 am
good job bro
Log in to Reply
Baros Cristian says
July 19, 2014 at 11:38 am
Janlee Carillo thanks
Log in to Reply
Marie Balbin Pascua says
August 28, 2014 at 8:17 pm
I will try lemon juice.i just started 3 days ago.26 of august.i have few acne scars but mostly on my chin . very worst.due to on and off acne.
Log in to Reply
Dzikry's D's says
October 8, 2014 at 4:26 pm
how if i feel itchy on my face skin? waht should i do ..
Log in to Reply
Randeep Kaur says
October 13, 2014 at 8:36 am
Hlo m randeep kaur .. Its relii a gud for us.. I used aloe vera on mah acnes relii its magic for me
Log in to Reply
Abhilash GN says
February 5, 2015 at 6:18 am
After applying leamon juice do v need to wash.. if yes after Hw many minutes
Log in to Reply
Abhigna Beaulah says
February 20, 2015 at 7:29 am
I tried many of the natural remedies to remove pimples but none of them worked for me. Then I used Truskin, which removed all the pimples and cleared my skin perfectly, try it to have a clear skin.
Log in to Reply
Sofia Begum says
March 12, 2015 at 12:01 pm
Try Truskin. it's the best one
Log in to Reply
Neeraj Singh says
March 21, 2015 at 11:54 am
Abhilash GN yup
Log in to Reply
Abhilash GN says
March 22, 2015 at 2:30 am
Neeraj Singh thank u so much sir
Log in to Reply
Neeraj Singh says
March 23, 2015 at 1:26 am
Abhilash GN Welcome
Log in to Reply
Marcelino Flores says
April 9, 2015 at 6:32 pm
how much does he charge
Log in to Reply
Jasmine Dio says
April 17, 2015 at 3:14 pm
I use potato, tea tree oil ang moisturize with coconut oil or vit e. So effective in just 2 uses of tea tree oil along with potato and moisturizer with vco
Log in to Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
You must be logged in to post a comment.
Copyright © 2018 - Rapid Home Remedies