Tips to prevent prostate cancer - DIY Health | Do It Yourself Health Guide by Dr Prem
Home
DIY
Real Stories
Research
Get reviews
Diseases
Diagnosis
Causes
Symptoms
Prevention
Healthy Living
Fitness
Mental Health
Skin Health
Children’s Health
Off Beat
More
Women’s Health
Alternative Medicine
Alternative Therapy
Diet and Nutrition
Contact
DrPrem.com
About Dr Prem Jagyasi
Dr Prem and Associates
Dr Prem’s Client and Testimonial
Carve Your Life
Motivation Guide
Success Guide
Happiness Guide
Challenge Guide
Personality Development Guide
Personal Branding Guide
Love Guide by Dr Prem
Dating Guide
Love And Relationship Guide
Love And Sex Guide
Romance Guide
Goal Guide
Passion
Health
Healthy Eating
Healthy Living Guide
Womens Health Guide
Wellness
Wellness Tourism Guide
Alternative Therapy
Wellness Therapy
Business & Tech
Business Guide
Marketing Guide
Social Media
Branding
Advertising
Personal Technology Guide
Computers
Reviews
App Review
Technology Review
Wearable Review
Gaming
Photography
Mobile
Travel
Events Articles
Travel Guide
Culinary Tourism Guide
Cultural Tourism Guide
Dark Tourism Guide
EcoTourism Guide Book
Festival Tourism Guide
Hoilday Tourism Guide
Khajuraho Guide
Photography Tourism Guide
Religious Tourism Guide
Rural Tourism Guide
Travle Guides 2
Romantic Tourism Guide
Senior Tourism Guide
Sex Tourism Guide
Space Tourism Guide
Sports Tourism Guide
Sustainable Tourism Guide
Travel Medicine Guide
War Tourism Guide
Wild Life Tourism Guide
Wine Tourism Guide
Ten Travel Spots
Medical Tourism
Medical Tourism Destinations
More Guides
Parenting Guide
Pregnancy
Family
Teenage
Personal Branding Guide
Sex Health Guide
Kamasutra Guide
Sex & Relationship
Sex Health Tips
Sex Addiction Guide
Sex Guide
Sex Life
Sex News
Global Healthcare
Green Living Guide
Green Living
DIY Green
Green Fashion
Green Guide
Green Living
Green Tips
Review
Home Guides
Home Ideas
Home Improvement Tips
Home Decor
Services
Dr Prem Web Services
Web Development Services
Social Media Marketing Services
Online Reputation Management Services
Search Engine Optimisation Services
Web Network Services
Medical Tourism Consultancy
Personal Branding Services
Clients & Testimonials
Gallery
Dr. Prem’s Photography
Dr Prem’s Video Gallery
Dr Prem Jagyasi Photos
Dr Prem’s Presentations
Contact
Ask A Question
Join our community
Connect on Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google Plus
Pinterest
Home
DIY
Real Stories
Research
Get reviews
Diseases
Diagnosis
Causes
Symptoms
Prevention
Healthy Living
Fitness
Mental Health
Skin Health
Children’s Health
Off Beat
More
Women’s Health
Alternative Medicine
Alternative Therapy
Diet and Nutrition
Contact
Home Diseases	Tips to prevent prostate cancer
Diseases
Tips to prevent prostate cancer
Of the many serious illness that afflict men, prostate cancer is a very important one. This form of cancer affects the prostate gland, which is a part of the male reproductive system. Your genetic predisposition, advancing age, lifestyle and environmental conditions are considered to be the major factors that lead to the manifestation of this condition. In order to deal with this cancerous condition, one can resort to many methods of treatments like chemotherapy, surgery and hormonal therapy. But these treatments may not be suitable for everyone as they can lead to the development of many long term side effects like skin diseases, hair loss, impotency and urinary incontinence.
In order to avoid all these complications and to lead a healthy life, it is necessary that one adopts certain preventive measures. Given below are 9 such preventive tips which can be adopted by men so as to avoid contracting the undesirable condition of prostate cancer.
1. Increase your coffee intake
Recent research has shown that men who have the regular habit of coffee consumption are around 59 percent less likely to contract prostate cancer, as compared to their non-coffee drinking counterparts. Not only regular coffee, but the de-caffeinated ones are also found to be effective in keeping prostate cancer at bay. Therefore, men are advised to drink 2 to 3 cups of their favorite coffee on a daily basis, so as to be free from prostate cancer.
2. Have cooked tomatoes
Incorporating cooked tomatoes in your diet is an effective means of preventing prostate cancer. The cancer fighting action of the tomatoes can be attributed to the presence of the pigment lycopene in them. Since this pigment becomes more potent and active when the tomatoes are cooked, it is essential that you consume tomatoes only in the cooked form. To be benefited by the action of tomatoes you can have tomato based sauces or else you can cook tomatoes in olive oil and consume them twice a week.
3. Eat more fish
The tumor inhibiting omega 3 fatty acids which are present in fishes are seen to be very effective in prevention of prostate cancer. Studies have shown that men who eats fish for 3 times a week have a 25 percent less chance of developing cancer than their non- fish eating counterparts.
4. Consume broccoli
Consuming broccoli is seen to be a very effective step to prevent prostate cancer. By eating broccoli, one can also enjoy the added advantage of an increased protection from heart diseases. This amazing health benefit of broccoli can be attributed to the presence of the compound isothiocyanates, which are seen to activate the genes involved in cancer prevention. To avail the benefits of this healthy vegetable, you can have 4 servings of this vegetable a week, either in the raw form or in the cooked form.
5. Avoid junk food
It is seen that consuming junk foods like doughnuts and cookies increases the risk of development of prostate cancer many times, owing to the presence of trans fat in them. These fatty acids are seen to increase insulin resistance and organ inflammation, which in turn pave way for the development of prostate cancer. To avoid this occurrence, one should avoid consuming packed food items which contain hydrogenated oils and commercially available baked goods.
6. Stay away from selenium supplements
It was believed that the mineral Selenium had prostate cancer fighting properties, which lead to a huge population of men to consume its supplements as a cancer prevention measure. But recent studies have shown that the mineral has no profound effect in reducing the risk of the disease. Not only that, having 200 mg of Selenium supplement a day will make men more prone to the condition of diabetes. Not only Selenium, but even having Calcium supplements may sometimes lead to the development of undesirable situations. Therefore, to be on the safer side, it is recommended that you do not have any nutritional or vitamin supplements without consulting your doctor.
7. Develop an exercise routine
In order to prevent the occurrence of prostate cancer, one can very well follow a regular exercise routine. It is seen that regular exercises reduces the risk of prostate cancer development by around 40 percent. Workouts like jogging and swimming, will help to keep the body weight under control, and will thus reduce the chance of prostate cancer development. Apart from reducing the incidence of the disease, regular exercises also assist in the recovery of prostate cancer survivors and will also help in reducing the risk of death from the disease by about 56 percent.
8. Have an active sex life
Men having an active sex life are found to be less prone to develop prostate cancer. According to research, sexually active men, who have more than 20 orgasms are 30 percentage less risky to develop cancer, than their not so active counterparts.
9. Watch out for STDs
Studies have shown that men, who have the sexually transmitted disease, Trichomoniasis, are at a very high risk of developing prostate cancer. Therefore to cure the infection and to reduce the risk of prostate cancer, it is recommended that you go in for a medical examination. Upon diagnosis of the disease, physicians will usually prescribe a single dosage of the drugs tinidazole or metronidazole in order to curb the STD.
Tips to prevent prostate cancer was last modified: April 4th, 2013 by Community Writer | Community.Drprem.com
DR PREM WEB MAGAZINE NETWORK
With 18 Years of experience in publication, having millions of readers and half a million social media followers, we are one of the biggest, oldest and the most trusted web magazine network with 50+ web magazines. Allow us to provide the ethical marketing push to your products / services through guest posts, content marketing, focused reviews, targeted traffic, quality ranking and promotional solutions.
Connect with us for more info.
You may also like
8 Common side effects of symbicort which...
How does oxycodone apap act?
Right Bundle Branch Block-How Serious?
A possible diagnosis for Autism at 2...
Should I do only rotator cuff muscles...
Is circumsision a safe surgery?
Health mythbuster: Migraine headache indicates a stroke
Bloating, belching and intestinal gas: Cause and...
How should I treat my ulcer problem?
What are the possible side effects of...
← 10 Uncommon allergy triggers
A DRPREM.COM NETWORK SITE
DIYHealth.com - Community Driven Site
A Dr Prem Network Website
DR PREM ON FACEBOOK
Facebook
Recent Posts
How to Handle Your Medical Bills after a Car Accident
Exercises to avoid following IVF treatment
Common side effects associated with Otrivin nasal spray
7 precautions to be taken after undergoing an hernia surgery
7 side effects of dulcolax medication
Understand how to prevent heart diseases and halt their progression
9 effective home remedies for shingles
11 must have foods for pregnant women in the first trimester
9 Exercises to avoid if you have ankylosing spondylitis
Foods to avoid for people with hyperthyroidism
Facebook
Twitter
Email
A Dr Prem Network Website | Powered by Global Community | Designed & Developed by Dr Prem Web Services | Network Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Applied | All right reserved | (c) 2014
Back To Top