SMD - Vitamin D helps treat lethal drug-resistant TB - Queen Mary University of London
Study
About
Research
Home Back to home
Study
Areas of study
Foundation courses
Biological and biomedical sciences
Business and management
Chemical sciences
Comparative literature
Computer and data science
Dentistry
Drama
Economics and finance
Engineering
English
Film studies
Geography and environmental science
Global health
History
Law
Linguistics
Materials science
Mathematics
Medicine
Modern languages and cultures
Physics and astronomy
Politics and international relations
Psychology
Study at Queen Mary
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Online study
International students
A-Z undergraduate courses
A-Z postgraduate taught courses
A-Z PhD subjects
Experience Queen Mary
Why Queen Mary?
Accommodation
City campuses
Student life
The London advantage
About
About home
Welcome
How to find us
Calendar
Our history
Local community
Global
Facts and figures
Freedom of information
Who's who
Sustainability
Research
Research home
Strategy and Policies
About our research
News
Major grants
PhDs
Leading academics
Research facilities
Animal Research
Support for QMUL researchers
Publications
Toolbox
News
News Section home
News
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
Brexit
Expert comment
Experts on camera
Find an expert
Social media
For journalists
For staff
2018 news highlights
Contact the PR team
PR team contacts
Queen Mary University of London
News
News
2019
SMD
News story
Vitamin D helps treat lethal drug-resistant TB
Vitamin D has been found to speed up the clearance of tuberculosis (TB) bacteria from the lungs of people with multi-drug resistant TB, according to a study of 1,850 patients receiving antibiotic treatment, led by Queen Mary University of London.
7 February 2019
Tweet
Vitamin D has been found to speed up the clearance of tuberculosis (TB) bacteria from the lungs of people with multi-drug resistant TB, according to a study of 1,850 patients receiving antibiotic treatment, led by Queen Mary University of London.
Lead researcher Professor Adrian Martineau from Queen Mary's Blizard Institute said: “Multi-drug resistant TB is on the rise globally. It’s notoriously difficult to treat, and it carries a much worse prognosis than standard TB.
“Our study raises the possibility that vitamin D – which is very safe and inexpensive – could benefit this hard-to-treat group of patients by taking a novel approach to their treatment. By adding vitamin D to antibiotic treatment, we can boost the immune system to help the body to clear TB bugs, rather than relying on antibiotics on their own to kill the bacteria directly.
“This is a novel approach, as it contrasts with the conventional tactic of developing new antibiotics in an attempt to ‘keep up’ with the emergence of drug-resistant bacteria – an arms race that is proving hard for us to win.”
The World Health Organisation estimates that 10.0 million people developed active tuberculosis in 2017, and that 1.6 million people died of this disease. Multi-drug resistant (MDR) TB is caused by bacteria that are resistant to treatment with at least two of the most powerful first-line anti-TB drugs, causing around 500,000 cases and 150,000 deaths per year worldwide. Existing antibiotic treatments for MDR TB are lengthy, costly and often toxic due to their serious side effects.
Boosting the immune system
Vitamin D has shown potential in boosting the immune system, but randomised controlled trials of vitamin D in TB treatment have yielded conflicting results.
In the new study, published in European Respiratory Journal, the research team pooled data from 1,850 TB patients who took part in clinical trials of vitamin D in eight countries (the UK, Pakistan, Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Mongolia, Republic of Georgia and Guinea Bissau). They then ran an analysis to see whether there were particular groups of patients who responded better to vitamin D than others.
When added to antibiotic treatment, vitamin D was found to accelerate TB clearance specifically in patients with MDR TB, even though no acceleration of TB clearance was seen when looking at the entire study population as a whole.
The vitamin D supplementation was also found to be safe at the doses administered, with no links to serious adverse events.
Host-directed therapies
The researchers say these results illustrate the potential for so-called ‘host-directed therapies’ - treatments that boost the immune system - to improve outcomes in patients with drug-resistant bacterial infections.
The researchers caution that the analysis is not sufficient on its own to justify a clinical recommendation of the use of vitamin D in the treatment of MDR TB, as it is based on a relatively small number of participants. However, they say these results now provide a rationale to carry out new clinical trials to see if vitamin D really can benefit patients who are taking standard antibiotics for MDR TB.
The findings add to a growing list of health benefits for the ‘sunshine vitamin’. While vitamin D is best known for its effects on bone health, previous studies by Queen Mary researchers have revealed its role in protecting against colds, flu, asthma attacks, and last month, that it can protect COPD patients from deadly lung attacks.
The study was supported by funds from the Higher Education Funding Council for England.
More information:
Research paper: ‘Adjunctive vitamin D in tuberculosis treatment: meta-analysis of individual participant data’. David A. Jolliffe, Davaasambuu Ganmaa, Christian Wejse, Rubhana Raqib, Md. Ahsanul Haq, Nawal Salahuddin, Peter K. Daley, Anna P. Ralph, Thomas R. Ziegler and Adrian R. Martineau. European Respiratory Journal.
Related items
For media information, contact:
Joel Winston
Public Relations Manager
Queen Mary University of London
email: j.winston@qmul.ac.uk
Accommodation
Alumni
A-Z Schools and institutes
Business
Careers & Enterprise
Contact
Events
Global
How to find us
International students
Jobs
Library
MyQMUL
New students
News
Order a prospectus
Our brand
Parents
Professional services departments
Public Engagement
QMplus
Staff directory
Staff intranet
Student life
Students' Union
Teachers
Term dates
Trade Union Facility Time
Accessibility
Disclaimer
Privacy and cookies
Site map
Modern Slavery Statement
Supplier fraud alert
Contact the university
Queen Mary University of London
Mile End Road
London E1 4NS
+44 (0) 20 7882 5555
Follow us:
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Edit Page