men – Better Hair with Hair Transplant and Hair Rejuvenation
Better Hair with Hair Transplant and Hair Rejuvenation
menu
Cart
Checkout
contact
Guest Post
My Account
Shop
Category: men
How to Treat Male Pattern Baldness
Posted on December 26, 2013 by admin
In the United States and even in other countries, there are a lot of people who are suffering from hair loss. The trend is continuously increasing every year. Majority of them have androgenetic alopecia or also known as pattern baldness. But with the recent developments in technology, patients now get the chance to have surgical hair restoration. For hair loss, this is the most popular treatment being offered.
How to Prevent Baldness
Baldness is a result of a wide variety of factors. Age is one of them. When men reach the age of 30, half of them start to lose hair. Unlike in their teenage years, their hairline starts to diminish.
In addition to your age, your genes will also determine if you are at risk of becoming bald. According to Steve Latham Hair Clinic of Alabama, genes can be a contributing factor but this is not the only reason why many people go bald.
The Truth About Hair Loss Treatments
With the increasing number of people who are experiencing hair loss, for sure you have come across various advertisements in particular magazine and television advertisements claiming that they offer effective and guaranteed hair loss solution.
But the problem with these offers is that they do not look at the root cause of the problem.
These so-called miracle treatments do not work for prevention and hair loss treatment. Make sure that before you spend any money, the treatment or the product you intend to buy is approved by the FDA and endorsed by the American Hair Loss Association.
With so many hair loss products being marketed today, you would not want to end up wasting money on pricey products that would only disappoint you. While the problem is still manageable, you should start working on preventing from further hair loss.
Effective Treatments
There are two highly recommended treatments that are clinically proven to treat and prevent hair loss. The first treatment is Finasteride. This is the generic name for the brand name for Proscar and Propecia. The said product was created by the company Merck. Originally, Finasteride was developed to cure enlarged prostate glands.
While the products underwent clinical trials to treat prostate problems, there was a surprising side effect. Men who used the product experienced hair growth. With the approval of FDA, Merck finally decided to develop Finasteride as a pill to cure male pattern baldness. FDA approved 1mg dose of Finasteride for alopecia treatment in December 1997. That time Minoxidil was already available in the market. But Propecia is the very first drug aimed at helping cure male pattern baldness.
How Does it Work?
Finasteride works by inhibiting the 5-alpha-reductase. This is an enzyme that converts testosterone into DHT or androgen dihydrotestosterone. DHT is responsible for shrinking the hair follicle which in turn affects hair growth. With 1 mg dose of Finasteride, you can lower the levels of DHT in your scalp by 60%. Based on studies, 865 of men who tried the drug recorded effective prevention of hair loss.
The Use of Minoxidil (Rogaine)
Another popular treatment is through the use of Minoxidil. This is also a drug approved by the FDA to treat male pattern baldness. The drug was originally developed to treat people who have high blood pressure. Eventually, clinical trials and series of tests recorded that those who are using the drug experienced hair growth. You can easily apply Minoxidil directly on your head.
These are the two treatments highly recommended by hair experts and by other people who have already tried them. If you want to find the best hair loss solutions, you should try Minoxidil or Finasteride. But just in case you are not sure, it helps if you can consult a medical professional.
Posted in menTagged finasteride for hair growth, hair loss in men, how to regrow hair in men, men hair treatment, minoxidil for hair loss
Propecia and Rogaine to treat hair loss in men
Posted on December 9, 2013 December 10, 2013 by admin
In the United States and even in other countries, there are a lot of people who are suffering from hair loss. The trend is continuously increasing every year. Majority of them have androgenetic alopecia or also known as pattern baldness. But with the recent developments in technology, patients now get the chance to have surgical hair restoration. For hair loss, this is the most popular treatment being offered.
How to Prevent Baldness
Baldness is a result of a wide variety of factors. Age is one of them. When men reach the age of 30, half of them start to lose hair. Unlike in their teenage years, their hairline starts to diminish. In addition to your age, your genes will also determine if you are at risk of becoming bald. According to the chief dermatologist at North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System located in Lake Success, New York, genes can be a contributing factor but this is not the only reason why many people go bald.
The Truth About Hair Loss Treatments
With the increasing number of people who are experiencing hair loss, for sure you have come across various advertisements in particular magazine and television advertisements claiming that they offer effective and guaranteed hair loss solution. But the problem with these offers is that they do not look at the root cause of the problem.
These so-called miracle treatments do not work for prevention and hair loss treatment. Make sure that before you spend any money, the treatment or the product you intend to buy is approved by the FDA and endorsed by the American Hair Loss Association. With so many hair loss products being marketed today, you would not want to end up wasting money on pricey products that would only disappoint you. While the problem is still manageable, you should start working on preventing from further hair loss.
Effective Treatments
There are two highly recommended treatments that are clinically proven to treat and prevent hair loss. The first treatment is Finasteride. This is the generic name for the brand name for Proscar and Propecia. The said product was created by the company Merck. Originally, Finasteride was developed to cure enlarged prostate glands.
While the products underwent clinical trials to treat prostate problems, there was a surprising side effect. Men who used the product experienced hair growth. With the approval of FDA, Merck finally decided to develop Finasteride as a pill to cure male pattern baldness. FDA approved 1mg dose of Finasteride for alopecia treatment in December 1997. That time Minoxidil was already available in the market. But Propecia is the very first drug aimed at helping cure male pattern baldness.
Finasteride decreases scalp and serum DHT levels in men with male pattern baldness or androgenetic alopecia. Finasteride interrupts the main factor in the development of androgenetic alopecia in men who are genetically predisposed
How Does it Work?
Finasteride works by inhibiting the 5-alpha-reductase. This is an enzyme that converts testosterone into DHT or androgen dihydrotestosterone. DHT is responsible for shrinking the hair follicle which in turn affects hair growth. With 1 mg dose of Finasteride, you can lower the levels of DHT in your scalp by 60%. Based on studies, 865 of men who tried the drug recorded effective prevention of hair loss.
The Use of Minoxidil (Rogaine)
Another popular treatment is through the use of Minoxidil. This is also a drug approved by the FDA to treat male pattern baldness. The drug was originally developed to treat people who have high blood pressure. Eventually, clinical trials and series of tests recorded that those who are using the drug experienced hair growth. You can easily apply Minoxidil directly on your head.
These are the two treatments highly recommended by hair experts and by other people who have already tried them. If you want to find the best hair loss solutions, you should try Minoxidil or Finasteride. But just in case you are not sure, it helps if you can consult a medical professional.
How men use Rogaine
Some men use rogaine singularly while others find it more effective to use the product with a combinations pills such as NuHair Regrowth Tablets or shampoo for dandruff since rogaine leaves over a white flaky elements that resembles dandruff. After a few weeks of using rogaine most men say they begin to see noticeable results with new hair beginning to grow in bald spots. Withing a few months of constant use some men report that hair growth was within 80% to 90%. Like many medical products on the market today, rogaine is not for everyone. If you are suffering from hair loss, you may have to experiment with a number of products before finding the one that is most effective for you.
Posted in Alopecia, hair products, menTagged propecia, rogaine, treating hair loss in men
Recent Posts
The Do’s & Don’ts of Choosing a Hair Transplant Clinic. December 31, 2018
Laser Technique – The Technological Innovation for Hair Transplantation October 24, 2016
Teenage Hairloss Problems and Remedies October 17, 2016
7 Main reasons that cause hair loss August 13, 2015
Why body needs Zinc for hair growth June 23, 2015
Recent Comments
Archives
December 2018
October 2016
August 2015
June 2015
May 2015
March 2015
November 2014
October 2014
December 2013
November 2013
Categories
Alopecia
avodart
biotin
hair care
hair products
hair restoration
hair transplant
laser hair comb
laser treatment
men
minoxidil
propecia
shampoo
women
Meta
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
Built in sunny Cape Town, South Africa
Theme: Sabino by Kaira
Cart
Checkout
contact
Guest Post
My Account
Shop