Proper Way to Use Magnesium for Migraines - MIGRAINENET
Skip to content
Skip to secondary menu
Skip to primary sidebar
Skip to secondary sidebar
Skip to footer
Home
Donate
Resources
Site Map
Contact Us
Migraine Herbal Mix For You
MIGRAINENET
Heal Your Migraine Naturally!
Migraine News
Migraine Tools
Migraine Recipes
Proper Way to Use Magnesium for Migraines
April 6, 2018 By Sanjay Sharma Leave a Comment
Magnesium is a vital mineral that is essential for proper functioning of a body. It improves bone health, maintains healthy heart rhythm, nerve function, and stabilizes blood pressure. Common symptoms of magnesium deficiency include loss of appetite, fatigue, muscle cramping, nausea, muscle contractions, and tingling.
Low magnesium also induces migraines and headaches. It’s estimated that millions don’t get sufficient magnesium through their daily diets. In one study carried out in 2006, it was found that 78 percent of Americans aren’t getting enough magnesium in their diets. Do you know, magnesium dioxide is widely used by doctors to prevent and treat migraines.
Types of magnesium
There are different types of magnesium, which can be used to treat different conditions. This mineral doesn’t get easily absorbed in the body without binding with some other substance. Due to this property, supplements often combine magnesium with other substances, such as amino acids.
Most supplements in the market may contain the following types of magnesium in them:
Magnesium sulfate-An inorganic form of magnesium, and only small amount can be absorbed by the body.
Magnesium oxide-It has high magnesium levels and is mostly used to treat migraines and headaches.
Magnesium carbonate-It’s high magnesium levels can cause gastrointestinal upset.
Magnesium chloride-It’s easily absorbed by the body.
Magnesium citrate-It’s easily absorbed by the body and can induce bowel movements.
Magnesium and migraines
Research shows that people with migraines have much lower magnesium levels than those without them. In one study in 2003, it was found that regular intake of magnesium helped in reducing frequency of migraine attacks by 54.2 percent. In another research carried out in late 90s, it was found that daily intake of magnesium is effective in tacking menstrual migraines.
Mostly magnesium dioxide is used to treat migraines. It can be taken in pill form, and dosage ranges from 450-550 milligrams a day. Magnesium, in the form of magnesium sulfate, can also be administered intravenously.
Being a completely natural element, and so vital for our health, it can be a good migraine treatment. This is especially true when compared to migraine medications that can be very expensive in the long run. They also come with so many side effects.
Side effects
Though magnesium intake is generally considered safe for most people, but its regular intake through supplements may lead to some side effects. The most common ones include vomiting, abdominal cramping, and diarrhea. If you experience any of these symptoms, try lowering intake for some relief.
Another side effect of magnesium is reduced blood pressure. If you’re already a person with low blood pressure, it’s important to talk to your doctor before taking this supplement on a regular basis.
Taking excessive magnesium can lead to life-threatening buildup, and may result in many side effects, such as:
unsafe low blood pressure
irregular heartbeat
coma
slowed breathing
Therefore, its important to discuss this your doctor before you start taking magnesium on daily basis. You doctor will suggest you the ideal dosage.
Foods rich in magnesium
If you don’t want to take magnesium supplements, switch to some magnesium rich foods.
Many dark leafy greens such as chard and spinach contain lots of magnesium. Just one cup may contain between 3-45 percent of daily recommended value of magnesium.
Other foods that contain decent amounts of magnesium include:
almonds
seeds, like pumpkin or squash seeds
low-fat yogurt or kefir
mackerel, tuna, and Pollock fish
black beans and lentils
figs
dark chocolate
avocado
bananas
Though supplements ensure a powerful boost, it’s best to get your required magnesium through natural means by incorporating many magnesium-dense foods.
Potential risks
Some people cannot take magnesium, especially those with some pre-existing medical issues. This includes those who have:
diabetes, as poorly controlled diabetes will affect the way magnesium is stored in the body
bleeding disorders, as it can slow down blood clotting
heart blocks
kidney issues, including renal failure
People with digestive conditions such as stomach infection or inflammatory bowel disease should seek their doctor’s advice before taking magnesium. These conditions affect the body’s magnesium absorption rate.
Magnesium can sometimes interact with other medications, including:
antibiotics
diuretics or water pills
heart medications
muscle relaxants
Pregnant women should consult their doctor before taking any magnesium supplement. However, dosage of 340-450mg is considered safe for them. Avoid taking magnesium intravenously, as it can lead to bone thinning in fetus.
Takeaway
If you take magnesium in safe doses, preferably through natural means, it can help prevent migraines and headaches. Since it has fewer side effects than common prescription medicines, it is a more suitable option to naturally heal your migraine.
If your migraine has increases in frequency or severity, quickly seek advice from your doctor. They can help you determine the precise amount of magnesium you can take and what other treatment options you have.
Related posts:
Acupuncture shows promise in effective migraine treatment, study says
Six Valuable Tips for Parenting with a Migraine
6 Valuable Sleep Tips for People With Cluster Headaches and Migraines
Proven Natural Cures for Chronic Migraines
New Studies Reveal the Link between Yawning and Migraine
Water Chemicals Pose a REAL Danger because then Water becomes your Enemy
How to Use Magnesium to Heal your Migraine Attacks
It’s better if You Get your Migraine Minerals and Vitamins through Diet
These Tricks can Reduce your Daily Salt (Sodium) Intake and Banish Hypertension and Stress Induced M...
Filed Under: Migraine Supplements Tagged With: Magnesium Heals Migraine
About Sanjay Sharma
40+ year migraine warrior, patient advocate, nature lover, and now Migrainenet author, Sanjay's mission is to help worldwide sufferers while boosting awareness about natural migraine cures.
Reader Interactions
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Primary Sidebar
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Search the site ...
About Author
I'm a married man in my 40's and live in India with my wife and a cute little daughter Gauranshi. I've been experiencing ocular migraine attacks since 2003. Initially, I tried western medicine with no positive results. My migraine worsened with time and it was then that I decided to give Ayurvedic herbs a try in 2009.
The experience was pleasant. I won't say my migraine attacks have stopped, but there is definitely a 96-98- percent improvement. Earlier I had an attack every 4-6 days, but now that's a thing of past, I rarely get attacks anymore. Whenever I experience migraine attack it is usually very light and I'm back to work within 10-15 minutes. I feel absolutely no pain during or after the episode.
I understand the perils of life with migraine and have vowed to spend rest of my life mitigating the sufferings of all those who experience migraine attacks from around the world.
Topics
General Pain Control (1)
Kimberly (1)
Migraine Foods (7)
Migraine Herbs (13)
Migraine in Women (4)
Migraine Medicines (7)
Migraine News (22)
Migraine Pain Control (71)
Migraine Recipes (14)
Migraine Supplements (21)
Migraine Tips (63)
Migraine Tips For Kids (5)
Migraine Tools (7)
We Recommend
Top Migraine Bloggers In 2017
Ways to Quickly Stop a Migraine Aura
Did you know Reverse Osmosis Water is actually a Pure Dead Water
6 Tips on Ways to Use your Mind to Reduce Migraine Pain
Suffering From Migraine? These Tips Can Ensure A Sound Sleep.
Suffering from Migraine—Eat your Spinach!
Ten Natural Headache Remedies that can Insure Instant Relief
This Common Nutritional Deficiency May Cause Severe Migraine Headaches
These Foods can Help Eliminate your Tension Headaches
Grape Juice Can Relieve Migraine Symptoms in Some People
Acupuncture shows promise in effective migraine treatment, study says
Five Simple Foods that Can Fight Migraines
Migraine With Aura-Is There Any Risk Of Stroke?
Manage Your Migraines With The Right Massage
Valuable Tips to Succeed in your School with Migraine
5 Tips to Use Less Salt Resulting in Less Migraine Attacks due to Hypertension and Imbalanced Body Salts
Hydrotherapy has the POWER to Heal Migraines
Gingko Biloba Offers some Hope to the Migraine Patients
Important Pressure Points for Migraines and Tension Headaches
Twelve Powerful Tips to Prevent Migraine Attacks
Ultimate Power Smoothie for Migraineurs
How to Use Magnesium to Heal your Migraine Attacks
Six Valuable Tips for Parenting with a Migraine
The Feldenkrais Method Can Treat Your Chronic Migraine Pain
Diet Suggestions For Migraine
Headaches That Demand Emergency Attention
Intense Pain in the Back of Head – Causes and Treatments
Weather Related Migraines- Tips To Avoid Them Successfully
Signs your Recent Headache may be actually a heat stroke!
It’s better if You Get your Migraine Minerals and Vitamins through Diet
What Exactly Is this Link Between Gluten and Recurring Migraines?
Yes, It’s Possible To Make Your Sweet Home a Migraine or Headache-Free Zone!
Pressure Points That Can Heal Migraines
There is a direct Connection Between your Skin Sensitivity and Migraines
A New Drug Free Device “Caloric Vestibular Stimulation Device” Can Prevent Episodic Migraine
Is There Any Connection Between Arthritis And Migraine Headaches?
You can Use An Apple to Get Rid of Your Migraine Headaches Instantly
Occipital Nerve Stimulation, And Five More New Migraine Treatments That Hold Promise
Enjoy a Good Sex Life even with Migraine Headaches
Cayenne Pepper for Migraine Management
Email Newsletter (bi-monthly)
Your E-Mail Address
Latest Migraine News
Beware-Stripes can Trigger Migraines-and sometimes even Seizures!
May 3, 2018
Pioneering Stem Cell Research Holds Promise For Lasting Migraine Treatment
August 12, 2017
Specially Designed Earplugs Can Handle Weather Migraines
August 15, 2017
The New Migraine Drugs on the Horizon- They Promise A Relief but at a Steep Price!
April 8, 2017
A Narrow Band of Green Light has the potential to Improve Migraines
April 20, 2017
Innovative Wireless Smartphone Device Could Reduce Your Migraine Pain!
April 13, 2017
Occipital Nerve Stimulation, And Five More New Migraine Treatments That Hold Promise
April 4, 2017
Innovative sound therapy can successfully treats acute hypertension and migraine
April 5, 2017
More Posts from this Category
Secondary Sidebar
Most Recent Posts
Heal Your Migraine With Natural Riboflavin!
Eliminate Migraine Headaches Within A Week-It’s Possible!
Homemade Muscle Rub For Migraine
How to Manage Stress?
LED Green Lights offer a New Hope to Doctors who want to Treat Migraine Pain
A Narrow Band of Green Light has the potential to Improve Migraines
Is Aromatherapy Helpful with Migraine?
Try These Easy-To-Use Natural Remedies To Get Rid Of Migraine Pain Instead Of Popping Pills
Apple Cider Vinegar Diet can Heal Migraine: It works!
These Innovative Treatments Can Reduce Your Migraine Headaches
Top Herbal Teas For Speedy Migraine Relief
Electronic Patches May Work for your Migraine Headaches
Being Either Underweight Or Overweight May Increase Your Risk Of Migraines
The Best Migraine Apps of 2017
Innovative Wireless Smartphone Device Could Reduce Your Migraine Pain!
Tips to Beat Anxiety to get a Better Night’s Sleep and Avoid Migraines and Headaches
Valuable Tips To Handle Your Migraine Fatigue
Foods That Can Give You Headache
Yes, FREE Music is available to handle your Stress, Sleep and Migraines
How to Use Magnesium to Heal your Migraine Attacks
These Medications can cause Headaches
Is There Any Reason For Migraine Patients To Avoid Nightshade Vegetables?
Ten Natural Headache Remedies that can Insure Instant Relief
These Foods Help Eliminate Even the most Stubborn Tension Headaches
Wary of Dizziness or Headaches due to Polarized Lenses?
This Natural Cluster Headache Treatment is Very Promising
These Are the Causes of Waking Up With a Headache
Useful Non-Invasive Techniques For Effective Pain Management
Ways To Pamper Yourself After That Grueling Migraine Attack
Why People Avoid Triptans for their Every Migraine Attack
Some Yoga Positions Can Also Provide Lasting Migraine Relief
Pain at the Base of the Head During or after the Exercise
CBD Oil Can Handle Some Migraine Headaches
These Unique Tips will help you in getting Rid of your Migraine Headaches FAST
There’s a Link between Migraine and Heart Disease: Critical Things You Must Know Now
Proven Natural Cures for Chronic Migraines
Tasty Migraine Milkshake
Know Your Headache Season For Better Pain Management
Migraine in Kids- In-depth Guide for Parents and Carers
Five Signs your Migraine Treatment is not Working
Pioneering Stem Cell Research Holds Promise For Lasting Migraine Treatment
Wearable Ice Packs- A Gentler Way To Cool Your Throbbing Migraine
How To Use Yoga To Cure an Intense Migraine Headache?
Hydrotherapy has the POWER to Heal Migraines
The ADAM System for Migraine Management Medication Zolmitriptan is Coming Soon!
Allergens that Can Cause Migraines and Make Them Worse
Soda And Migraine Connection
Migraine Diet- A Completely Natural Approach to Handle Migraines
Healthiest Migraine drinks in the World!
Pressure Points That Can Heal Migraines
Hypnotherapy-A Natural Cure for Headaches and Migraines
Six Formidable Pain Fighters for Migraine Patients
Important Things to Do After Your Migraine Appointment
You can Use An Apple to Get Rid of Your Migraine Headaches Instantly
Researchers want to Cure Headaches During Flight
Walking for Migraine Control? Avoid those Traffic-Clogged Streets
A Comprehensive List of Migraine Safe Foods (by category)
Top Herbal Teas for Lasting Migraine Relief
Migraines More Likely for all those who have Celiac Disease
Easy Tips to Stay Hydrated throughout the Day and Remain Migraine Free
Footer
Tags
acupuncture for migraine apple ginger butter from migraines aromatherapy for migraine best cheese for migraines botox for migraines children migriane treatment Eptinezumab reduces migraines Feverfew butter Flight headahce treatmnet folate for migraine grape juice for migraine Green light headahce cure handling migraine auras HIRREM and migraine hypnosis migraine pain control Innovative migraine treatments intense headache treatment latest migraine treatments migraine control migraine control with cayenne migraine foods migraine management tips Migraine Minerals And VItamins migraine pain control migraine pressure points migraine recipes migraines and almonds migraines and soda migraine supplements migraine tips for kids migraine treatment with gingko biloba migraine triggering foods migraine triggering vitamin deficiency migriane diet Moringa for migraine natural pain fighters new migraine treatmnet 2018 obesity and migraine right migraine treatment save money on migraine treatment sound threapy for migraine top migraine bloggers Triptans For Migraine Vitamin C for migraine yoga positions for migraine relief
Archives
Archives Select Month February 2019 (1) January 2019 (1) September 2018 (2) August 2018 (4) July 2018 (1) June 2018 (9) May 2018 (13) April 2018 (6) March 2018 (10) February 2018 (6) January 2018 (9) December 2017 (15) November 2017 (19) October 2017 (17) September 2017 (26) August 2017 (19) July 2017 (6) June 2017 (10) May 2017 (22) April 2017 (34) March 2017 (5)
© 2016-2019 Migrainenet Powered by Inmotion hosting
All rights reserved.