Philips Hue Go... The Therapy Light | Peanut Recovery
ABOUT ME
Q & A
Contact
MENTAL HEALTH
Anorexia
Anxiety
Autonomy
Borderline
Depression
LIVING
MINIMALISM
GOALS
RECIPES
TRAVEL
PHOTOGRAPHY
Search for:
Philips Hue Go… The Therapy Light
September 18, 2018	by Peanut Recovery
I got a Philips Hue Go lamp for my birthday last year, I’m fell in love with for many reasons. The Philips Hue Go lamp is a connected and portable lamp that you can turn on with a button directly on but the best it’s when you use the Philips Hue app. Information: to connect the lamp in the app the bridge is necessary. The app gives you a smart, easy, fun system with many functionalities for directe your lamp. A billion of different colors, change the intensity of the light, make a bedtime routine for fall asleep, morning routine for wake up slowly and many other options like use a timer to turn your light on automatically, control your lights in function of the time of the day and to do when you come home your light is on… but I do not use really these options. After many months of using it, I can tell that it’s a therapy light and that can help all peoples with mental health particularly depression, borderline personality disorder, bipolar, anxiety.
Philips Hue Go is clearly a therapy help for many reasons. First, I had a big fear to sleep in the dark and now almost not anymore, second I can change the color in function of my mood and feeling myself better, the other cool thing it’s to change the color for movie nights in function of the kind of movie. Currently, I love to use orange during I watch Halloween movies. That can be used as a light therapy during day for struggle depression or sad mood.
I was so much in love with my Philips Hue Go lamp and the Philips Hue system that this summer I extended and bought a bulb at my other regular lamp in my bedroom.
I have fear to sleep in the dark and the Philips Hue Go lamp helped me to fight slowly by changing the intensity of the luminosity. In the beginning, I slept with 80% intensity and few weeks later I managed step by step to about 18% of intensity. I use the bedtime routine timed on 1h30, that left me the time to fall asleep and she turns off alone.
When I only had a lamp in my bedroom without the hue system, I felt not comfortable on evenings because I found not soothing to have one lamp with a big intensity. Since that I have my Philips Hue Go, I love to change the intensity of the luminosity in function of where I’m in my bedroom and of the time of the day… because during the evenings when I use already many sources of lights (my laptop, tv,…) in the same time, I need of a light but not with a normal (big) intensity so I can reduce at about 60% of intensity at the place of 100%. Now that I bought a Philips Hue bulb for my other lamp I can use two sources of lights during my evenings at each about 50% of intensity, I feel so better comfortable with few small lights sources in the same room that just with one big, my mood and borderline personality disorder feelings are better also.
One thing that I love, it’s to use my Philips Hue Go during movie nights. Pick up one color in function of what movie it is. I added a new scene color with orange for use it when I watch Halloween movies, it’s really so fun!
Do you have already hear about light therapy? Well, I think that can to be used for therapy light for depression. The fact that this lamp is mobile and battery time is about 1h30 it’s easy to place it next to you on your desk during work time. I can tell that this lamp set up on the white color act as a therapy light box because my mom has to one and that gives the same thing.
I love to connect the lamp with the colors of my mood and that can change my bad mood. My favorite color is clearly Arctic Aurora, that calming, I feel just in peace with this color but I love use differently like Starlight,… and generally if I turn off my lamp in red color when I feel angry and I switch the colors to Arctic Aurora, I can feel myself calmer is appeased in only few minutes.
Do you think that lights colors and intensity can change the mood? Do lights change your feelings on your depression days?
1
Like this:
Like Loading...
September 18, 2018	in Me
Peanut Recovery
I'm Marion! I'm photographer, minimalist, lifestyle blogger with borderline personality disorder, anorexia, depression, social anxiety,... on the way of recovery. Read more articles by: Peanut Recovery
« Previous Story
What I wear… Fall
September 17, 2018
Next Story »
Fall Boards
September 19, 2018
You Might Also Like
How My Apple Watch Improves My Mental Health
April 19, 2019
Away In Solo
April 15, 2019
Five Favorites Of The Moment
April 10, 2019
2 Comments
Reply	ashleyleia September 18, 2018 at 7:31 pm
I have a light box for seasonal affective disorder that I use in the winter, but my Himalayan salt lamp is a much more relaxing light.
Loading...
Reply	Peanut Recovery September 18, 2018 at 8:35 pm
Thank you for sharing your experience!
Loading...
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
ABOUT ME
I'm a french girl, minimalist, photographer, lifestyle blogger with borderline personality disorder, anorexia, depression, social anxiety.
DON’T MISS A POST!
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Bloglovin
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
YouTube
INSTAGRAM
TOPICS
Anorexia
Anxiety
Autonomy
Borderline
Christmas
Depression
Fall
Fashion
Friday Favorites
Goals
Holidays
Home
Living
Me
Minimalism
Movies
Pet
Photography
Recipes
Recovery
Skin
Summer
Travel
What's Up
Winter
ARCHIVES
ARCHIVES Select Month April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 July 2017 June 2017
POPULAR POSTS
The most EASY Cream Cheese Frosting
Gift Guide – Anxiety & Depression peoples
Why going in solo at Disneyland
4 Recipes for celebrate St Patrick with Anorexia
Cultivating Happiness
AWARDS
FOLLOW ME ON INSTAGRAM
© 2019 Peanut Recovery. Please do not use photos without permission.
WordPress Design by Themes Art
%d bloggers like this: