How to Get Rid of a Cold?
The Top Remedies Best Home & Natural Remedies Guide
HOME
HEALTH
HOME REMEDIES
BEAUTY
CLEANING
SKIN CARE
FOODS
HAIR CARE
HOUSE
Home / Health / How to Get Rid of a Cold?
How to Get Rid of a Cold?
Gerry Health Comments Off on How to Get Rid of a Cold?
One of the most common infections that happen to all human is a common cold. That pain in the throat, mucus in the nose and the chest and the subsequent coughing after that happens to give us a lot of trouble. While itвЂ™s definitely not something which is dangerous or indication of a threatening disease, it does provide a lot of discomfort and indicates about the bodyвЂ™s inability to fight infections, in other words our bodyвЂ™s low immunity. It is important to understand here that it is really easy to get rid of a cold at home through natural methods; you donвЂ™t need to rush off to the doctor for that and get hold of over the counter medicines.
WhatвЂ™s a Cold? Know More
A cold is nothing but a viral ailment caused by any of the 100 types of rhinoviruses, which account for nearly 50% of the respiratory problems. It affects people of all age groups and includes some common symptoms like a runny nose, sore throat and sneezing. However, it is important to treat a cold before it leads to other infections like strep throat, bronchitis, and pneumonia.
Symptoms of Cold:
Runny or stuffy nose
Congestion
Cough
Sore throat
Sneezing
Slight body aches or a mild headache
Generally feeling unwell
Low-grade fever
Risk Factors of Cold Sores:
В The below factors increase your chances of getting a cold:
Smoking вЂ“ Smoking increases chances of getting a cold.
Weakened Immune system вЂ“ Indicates inability of the body to fight viruses and infections.
Time of year вЂ“ although you can get a cold anytime, the winter season is more susceptible.
Exposure вЂ“ Surrounded by too many people increases chances of contracting the virus.
Home Remedies to Get Rid of a Cold:
Get hold of the below home remedies to get rid of a cold at home:
Honey
Honey is one of the most effective remedies for getting rid of a cold and has been sued since ages for this purpose. The Nutrients and enzymes present in honey help to kill the bacteria and the viruses that cause the common cold. It also helps in soothing the irritated throat really well and shortens the lifespan of a cold. The best way is to consume two teaspoons of honey with a teaspoon of lemon juice every two hours. You can also opt for taking a teaspoon of honey every two hours if you donвЂ™t want to take the lemon juice. Do this continuously for 2-3 days and watch the relief you get in the cold, sore throat and the runny nose. Honey is one of the best grandma remedies and used widely by a lot of people the world over to get rid of a cold naturally.
Garlic
Garlic is a super ingredient from the kitchen to get rid of a cold at home. It is good for the immune system and has excellent antiviral and antibacterial properties that open up the respiratory passages and flush out toxins from the body. To benefit from garlic, mix one crushed clove of garlic with two teaspoons of lemon juice, one teaspoon of honey and half a teaspoon of red chili powder. Consume his daily till you get rid of the cold. You can also boil three cloves of crushed garlic in a cup of water and add a teaspoon of honey to it. Drink this two or three times a day. Or you can simply eat a clove of garlic or add a few drops of garlic oil in your food to benefit from it.
Red Onion
A simple red onion soup made with red onions and honey or brown sugar can be really beneficial for getting rid of a cold quickly. To use this, slice two or three onions horizontally. Now take a bowl and put one slice of onion in a soup and add raw honey to it. Keep repeating this until the bowl is full. Now cover the bowl and leave it for about 12-15 hours. When you open the bowl there will be a thick syrup like liquid formation in it. Drink a spoonful of this syrup several times a day to get rid of a cold really fast. This is a really effective remedy to make that cold away completely in a shorter span of time.
Ginger
Ginger has excellent antiviral and anti-inflammatory properties and is one of the most common and effective ingredients used to get rid of a cold. To benefit from this, eat ginger or drink ginger tea several times a day. You can also make a mixture some ginger, salt, and cloves and eat half a teaspoon of this several times a day. For a really runny nose, mix equal quantity of ginger powder, clarified butter and jaggery and consume this mixture every day on an empty stomach. Keep doing that till this cold goes away completely.
Black Pepper
Black pepper is one of the most effective agents for getting rid of a cold really fast. It helps to thin the mucus and provides relief from the congestion as well. When you suffer from a runny nose, itвЂ™s best to take black pepper in your food to get rid of it. You can mix one teaspoon of black pepper powder in some warm water and gargle with it. This is really effective to get rid of the excessive cold. If you think you are not comfortable eating or drinking pepper, then smell the vapors of black pepper. This will help in thinning the mucus and getting rid of congestion.
Lemon Juice
Lemon has a high content of citric acid, which helps to dissolve the mucus and get rid of the cold really fast. It also helps to get rid of a sore throat and provides a lot of relief in a runny nose as well. To be fit from a lemon, just take a glass of warm water; add a tablespoon of lemon juice and one teaspoon of honey in it. Mix this well and have it at least 3-4 times a day. In about 3 days time, you should get rid of the cold completely.
Eucalyptus
Eucalyptus has anti-cough and anti-asthmatic effects. It is one of the best remedies to open a blocked nose and get rid of the congestion as well. Inhaling the vapors of eucalyptus helps a lot to get rid of a cold easily at home. To use eucalyptus, you can a simply boil some water and pour it in a bowl. Now add a few drops of eucalyptus oil in it and take the steam covering your head with a towel. Do this at least 3-4 times a day and watch the relief yourself. It is one of the most recommended remedies to treat a cold and its symptoms.
Yogurt
Yogurt is one of the best sources of probiotics. It helps a lot in killing the bacteriaвЂ™s and viruses and regular consumption of yogurt can also prevent you from catching a cold. Simply take one cup of yogurt and add a few slices of strawberries to it. Now eat this at least twice a day when you have that cold. The combination of yogurt and strawberries is extremely useful to get rid of a cold and helps to provide you a lot of relief from all its symptoms. Make sure you have the yogurt at room temperature and not cold yogurt.
Echinacea
Echinacea has been known as an effective remedy to get rid of a cold really fast. It is one of the age-old remedies and is an extremely safe remedy to use as well. To use Echinacea, just take two cups of water and put it to a boil. When it starts boiling, take it off the pan. Now add a teaspoon of Echinacea leaves to it along with a teaspoon of lemon juice and a teaspoon of honey. Mix all these well and then sips this tea slowly several times a day. Keep having it till you get relief from the cold and the congestion. Echinacea is extremely beneficial in providing you relief from almost all the symptoms of a cold.
Tea Tree Oil
Tea tree oil works just as the eucalyptus oil in getting rid of the cold almost instantly. It has excellent anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties as well that helps in proving relief from a sore throat and the congestion as well. To benefit from tea tree oil, take some water and put it to a boil. When it starts boiling, take it off the heat and transfer the water to a bowl. Add a few drops of tea tree oil to it and inhale its steam. Take the steam at least 2-3 times a day till you get rid of the cold completely.
Pumpkin Seeds
This is one of the easiest remedies you will ever get hold of for getting rid of a cold really quickly. Just get some pumpkin seeds handy from the market for this. You may not like the taste of it, but you will thank them anyways once you get relief from the cold. Eat a tablespoon of pumpkin seeds at least 3-4 times a day. Pumpkin is a rich source of zinc and several other nutrients as well. It is really effective in thinning the mucus and clearing the excessive congestion. Eating pumpkin seeds on a stretch of 3 days will help you get rid of a cold completely.
Chicken Soup
Chicken soup is really rich in a lot of essential nutrients and vitamins that are very effective in treating a common cold. It also has antioxidant properties that help in the healing process. Not only this chicken soup also boosts your immunity and gives you strength.В To benefit from chicken soup, make fresh chicken soup at home using fresh organic vegetables and chicken.В Have it at least two times a day for 3 days to extract the maximum benefits.
Other Ways to Get Rid of Cold:
Apart from the above remedies, you can always get hold of allopathic medicines and homeopathic medicines as well to get rid of a cold. However, understand that with a little patience you can easily treat a cold at home rather than running to a doctor and spending on the doctor fees and medicines.
If you still think you are not a believer in natural remedies, take an expert advice and only then opt for the medicines. They will also show results in a span of 3-4 days, so be well prepared for it. Stop eating anything cold and sip hot water throughout a day, even when you opt for the medicines to fasten the healing process.
Tags Fever Get Rid of Cold Without Using Medications Home remedies for a cold treatment Home remedies for cough Remedies for cold Remedies for Cold and Flu Treatment Remedies for Common Cold Treatment Remedies for fever Remedies for flu Remedies for stuffy nose Remedies for vomiting Remedies to get rid of runny nose Tips to cure cold and fever Ways to Cure Cold Sore Fast Ways to get rid of a cold naturally Ways to get rid of sore throat Ways to get rid of throat ache Ways to treat cold fast and overnight
Previous How to Get a Splinter Out?
Next How to Get Rid of a Double Chin?
Related Articles
How to Get Rid of a Sore Throat Fast?
How to Stop Sneezing?
How to Get Rid of Phlegm?
How to Get Rid of Mucus? (Home Remedies)
How to Get Rid of a Runny Nose? (Home Remedies)
Home Remedy for Cough
How to Clear a Stuffy Nose Easily at Home?
How to Remove Tonsil Stones at Home?
How to Soothe a Sore Throat? (Home Remedies)
Popular Posts
How to Get Rid of Dark Circles?В
How to Curl Your Hair at Home?
Vitamins for Hair Growth
How to Stop Hair Loss?
How to Lose Thigh Fat?
How to Lose Belly Fat?
How to Get Rid of Carpenter Ants? (Natural Remedies)
Probiotics for Women вЂ“ Foods with Probiotics
How to Cure an Ear Infection Naturally at Home?
How to Stop Diarrhea?В В В В В
© Copyright 2018, All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use