Buy Generic Imitrex online without a prescription
Live Chat
Your Cart is empty
Home
Order Tracking
F.A.Q.
Policy
Contact Us
By name:
» Pain Relief » Sumatriptan » Generic Imitrex
Buy Generic Imitrex Online
Category: Pain Relief
Active ingredient: Sumatriptan
Medical form: Pill
Payment Options: VISA, Mastercard, Amex, Dinners, JCB
Delivery time: Airmail (10 - 21 days), EMS Trackable (5-9 days)
Availability: In stock
Product Rating: 4.8 made by 26 customers
Other Known Names of Generic Imitrex
Generic Imitrex Product Information
Sumatriptan is a drug used for treating migraine attacks.
Generic Imitrex 100mg
Package Price Per Pill Shipping Order
100mg x 10 pills $112.99 $11.32 Add to Cart
100mg x 20 pills $214.99 $10.75
Free Airmail shipping
Add to Cart
100mg x 30 pills $307.99 $10.26
Free Airmail shipping
Add to Cart
100mg x 60 pills $569.99 $9.50
Free Airmail shipping
Add to Cart
Generic Imitrex 25mg
Package Price Per Pill Shipping Order
25mg x 10 pills $66.99 $6.66 Add to Cart
25mg x 20 pills $124.99 $6.23 Add to Cart
25mg x 30 pills $174.99 $5.82 Add to Cart
25mg x 60 pills $325.99 $5.44
Free Airmail shipping
Add to Cart
25mg x 90 pills $465.99 $5.18
Free Airmail shipping
Add to Cart
25mg x 120 pills $591.99 $4.93
Free Airmail shipping
Add to Cart
Generic Imitrex 50mg
Package Price Per Pill Shipping Order
50mg x 10 pills $113.99 $11.44 Add to Cart
50mg x 20 pills $213.99 $10.69
Free Airmail shipping
Add to Cart
50mg x 30 pills $299.99 $9.99
Free Airmail shipping
Add to Cart
50mg x 60 pills $559.99 $9.34
Free Airmail shipping
Add to Cart
Medical Conditions
Generic Imitrex is used to treat or prevent the following medical conditions or diceases:
Cluster Headache, Migraine
Generic Imitrex Information
Common use
Sumatriptan is a drug that is used for treating migraine attacks with or without the presence of an aura, to relieve cluster headache attacks. Sumatriptan is a Specific and selective agonist of 5-HT1-serotonin receptors localized mainly in blood vessels of the brain. Migraine headaches are believed to be stipulated by widening of blood vessels in the brain. Sumatriptan causes vasoconstriction of the carotid arterial bed which provides extracranial and intracranial tissues with blood without a significant impact on cerebral blood flow. It also inhibits activity of receptor which are responsible for transmission of pain signals by nerves to the brain.
Dosage and direction
Treatment with Sumatripan should be done just before the starting of a migraine attack. Recommended oral dose of adults is 25-50 mg, the dose maybe increased up to 100 mg if necessary. The medication is effective at any stage of the attack but if it does not help during the attack additional dose should not be taken. Treatment with Sumatriptan should be continued to prevent the next attack. Tablet of Sumatriptan should be swallowed whole, take it with a big glass of water. Usual intranasal dose of 5-20 mg may be increased to the maximum dose of 40 mg daily.
Precautions
Sumatriptan is used only to treat an acute, classic migraine attack or a cluster headache, it should not be used for treatment of certain unusual types of migraine. Patients with uncontrolled high blood pressure should not use Sumatriptan.
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity, basal, ophtalmoplegic, hemiplegic forms of migraine, ischemic heart disease (including suspected it), angina (including angina Printsmetala), myocardial infarction (also in history), hypertension, peripheral arterial occlusive disease, stroke or transient cerebrovascular accident (also in history), liver and kidney failure. Cautiousness should be exercised in patients with epilepsy (including any condition with low epileptic threshold), hypertension, pregnancy, breastfeeding, in infants and adolescents (younger than 18 y.o.), in patients older than 65 y.o.; simultaneous intake of medications which contain ergotamine and its derivatives, MAO inhibitors, and also during the period of 14 days after their cancellation.
Possible side effect
This medication is usually well tolerated and adverse reactions are not expected. Most frequent side effects include pain or tightness in the chest or throat, tingling, flushing, weakness, dizziness, abdominal discomfort, sweating, nasal irritation, and injection site reactions. Allergic reactions as adverse reactions of organism to Sumatriptan are also possible.
Drug interaction
Co-administration with ergotamine and medications containing ergotamin may develop a continued spasm of blood vessels (the interval between administration of these medications must be at least 24 h). Interaction of Sumatriptan and MAO inhibitors (isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), tranylcypromine (Parnate), and procarbazine (Matulane)) is also possible resulting in increased concentration of Sumatriptan. Concomitant use of Sumatriptan with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or SSRIs, including fluoxetine (Prozac), citalopram (Celexa), paroxetine (Paxil), and sertraline (Zoloft) or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, including venlafaxine (Effexor), duloxetine (Cymbalta), and desvenlafaxine (Pristiq) may promote weakness, hyperreflexia and poor coordination of movements.
Missed dose
Sumatriptan is not meant for regular use, it is taken only during an attack.
Overdose
Be especially attentive to such symptoms as bluish tinge to the skin, convulsions, dilated pupils, inactivity, lack of coordination, paralysis, redness in the arms and legs, skin changes at the site of injection, slow breathing, sluggishness, tremor as they may be signs of Sumatriptan overdose. Inform your health care advisor immediately about your condition nor seek for emergency medical help.
Storage
Store this medication at a temperature of 2-30 C (36-86 F) in a tight container resistant to light and moisture.
Disclaimer
We provide only general information about medications which does not cover all directions, possible drug integrations, or precautions. Information at the site cannot be used for self-treatment and self-diagnosis. Any specific instructions for a particular patient should be agreed with your health care adviser or doctor in charge of the case. We disclaim reliability of this information and mistakes it could contain. We are not responsible for any direct, indirect, special or other indirect damage as a result of any use of the information on this site and also for consequences of self-treatment.
Alternative names or trademarks of Generic Imitrex
Imitrex may be marketed under different names in various countries. All of them contain Sumatriptan as main ingredient. Some of them are the following:
Imigran, Micranil, Migraneitor, Suvalan, Glaxotriptan, Sumax, Somatran, Imigrane, Imiject, Suminat, Cinie, Diletan, Amigrenin, Migraval
Information about ordering Generic Imitrex in online pharmacy asia
Please note that this medicine is a generic version of Imitrex.
One can buy Generic Imitrex online by accepting the following conditions:
Buyer is above or equal 18 years old;
Buyer does't have any contraindications to sumatriptan and fully familiar with medication Imitrex;
No prior doctors consultation is offered online. We assume that buyer consulted with their doctor before using this medication as we do not ask for a prescription (rx);
No paper instructions about side effect warnings or usage directions are sent with Generic Imitrex medication. They are available online on our website for information purposes only;
Ordered medication will be shipped in anonymous discreet package without disclosing its content;
Generic Imitrex medication will be sent in a valid condition and safely packed.
Please note we may not guarantee worry free delivery to some countries where strict customs rules may apply. If you have questions please call us or use Live chat. After you place your order we may call you back for verification purposes. We may also call you back if we suspect that there may be a problems with delivery to your country. Please also refer to our FAQ page for more details. Below is a sample list of safe counties in Asia where delivery is usually worry free: Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Singapore, Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, China, Hong Kong, Pacific islands and many others outside of asia.
Generic Imitrex quality guarantee
We guarantee quality of Generic Imitrex - sumatriptan medication that is sold through our site.	It is manufactured in Indian government and WHO cerified facilities by gloablly known manufacturers and also used for export to other countires.
Related Medicines
Customers who purchased Generic Imitrex also purchased the following medications:
Generic Cialis, Generic Topamax, Generic Lipitor, Generic Cipro
Generic Imitrex popular keywords
imitrex pills for sale , buy generic imitrex online pharmacy , buy imitrex online paypal mastercard , imitrex aletrnatives , where to buy imitrex in australia , where to buy imitrex in singapore , where to buy imitrex in nz new zealand , where to buy imitrex in malaysia , where to buy imitrex in philippines , where to buy imitrex in indonesia , where to buy imitrex in thailand , where to buy imitrex in japan , where to buy imitrex in korea , where to buy imitrex in hk hong kong , where to buy imitrex in manila , where to buy imitrex in sydney , where to buy imitrex in malbourne , where to buy imitrex in perth , where to buy imitrex in adelaide , where to buy imitrex in kuala lumpur , where to buy imitrex in jakarta , where to buy imitrex in bangkok , where to buy imitrex in seoul , where to buy imitrex in tokyo , sumatriptan generic , cheap sumatriptan , buy sumatriptan online , buy imitrex online , imitrex for sale online , order imitrex online , cheap imitrex , imitrex 100mg , sumatriptan 100mg , imitrex 25mg , sumatriptan 25mg , imitrex 50mg , sumatriptan 50mg
Browse by Category
Bestsellers
Allergy
Anti Fungal
Anti Viral
Anti Depressants
Antibacterial
Antibiotics
Arthritis
Asthma
Birth Control
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cardiovascular
Cholesterol
Diabetes
Diuretics
Erectile Dysfunction
Eye Drop
Gastro Health
General Health
Hair Loss
Hepatitis C Virus (HCV)
Herbals
HIV
Hormones
Men's Health
Mental Illness
Motion Sickness
Muscle Relaxant
Pain Relief
Quit Smoking
Skin Care
Sleeping Aids
Weight Loss
Women's Health
Payment Methods
Shipping Options
© 2010 - 2019 Imitrex Online Pharmacy Asia. All Rights Reserved.
Potentie pillen levitra bestellen Belgie goedkoop - erectpillen.com. Find how to buy kamagra singapore online.