Melatonin Plus Theanine Dosage for Sleep | Serenity Station
Skip to content
The go-to portal for all relaxation and mood enhancing supplements
Taking Melatonin Plus L-Theanine for Sleep
-Yawn-
The work week can be exhausting. Add on some school and family obligations and you may as well kiss a relaxing evening goodbye.
Not only is it difficult to get enough sleep, but finding time to adequately relax before sleep is next to impossible. This impossibility can lead to poor sleep-quality, which can lead to increasing levels of stress and exhaustion. L-Theanine and Melatonin show promise in securing you a solid night’s sleep.
L-Theanine for Sleep
L-Theanine, also known as just theanine, is a non essential amino acid and glutamic acid analog that is usually found in many different types of tea. It is similar in structure to glutamine which is one of the most abundant amino acids in the human body.
Theanine was originally extracted from green tea leaves and has been commonly researched for its potential sedative properties and ability to have a calming effect. Theanine is an analog of glutamate which is a critical neurotransmitter that has been implicated in improving memory and learning processes.
Theanine stimulates the GABA receptor and it is also a fat soluble nootropic. Since theanine is an analog of glutamine it has been proven to be effective for both physical stress and mental stress.
Additionally, there have been multiple studies that show theanine is anxiolytic, which can potentially be attributed to raising dopamine levels.
In addition to helping theanine users improve their scores on tests and improve their memory, theanine can also lower blood pressure and boost health.
Reports have shown that theanine can help assist the body in improving the efficiency of the immune system by increasing antibacterial proteins and increasing the amount of fighting gamma delta T-cells.
There was one study that showed that theanine can promote memory improvement and health in cases that were related to repeated cerebral ischemia in rats.The study also showed that theanine has neuroprotective qualities and helped to promote neuronal cell health.
L-Theanine Dosage
The standard Theanine dosage is between 200mg and 400mg per day (taken in two 200mg doses throughout the day).
What About Melatonin?
Melatonin is made by the pineal gland and is a natural hormone. The pineal gland is very small and around the size of a pea, it is located in the center of the brain. The pineal gland helps to regulate sleeping cycles on 24 hour cycles which helps tell the body when it is tired and needs sleep.
Melatonin is suppressed by light and stimulated by darkness and this is the reason we usually want to sleep at night but stay awake during the day. Melatonin controls the circadian rhythm in the body which makes us feel tired and lets us know when it is time to get some rest. When there is a change in our schedule, melatonin can be disrupted and thrown off very easily. Jetlag also disrupts our normal melatonin cycles.
Melatonin supplements are available for people who would like to fix their sleeping schedule and get back on track the natural way. Some benefits of melatonin in addition to its sleep inducing properties include alleviating anxiety and depression.Melatonin affects the serotonin levels in the body which lowers the effects of depression, sadness and anxiety.
Additional studies on melatonin effects have shown that there is less of it in people who have cellular irregularities, heart problems, and joint pain. Combining theanine and melatonin can be very effective and many people have reported positive effects but taking them in combination are usually not necessary. However if you take one and it is not as effective, adding the other can sometimes work wonders.
Where to Buy Quality Melatonin and L-Theanine for Sleep
I’m sure that you’ve seen tea labeled as featuring Melatonin with L-Theanine on the shelves of your local supermarket, but what quality L-Theanine and Melatonin are you purchasing? Many companies use shady practices in order to use lower-quality supplements.
There are a few decent companies who put their products to the test via a third-party to ensure quality. Don’t risk your health for a dirt cheap price tag. Find a store that has reasonable prices as well as third party testing.
Sources:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18681988
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11083131
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9243626
Author:
David Johnson is a freelancer with an avid interest in supplements that help relax, enhance mood, and provide cognitive enhancement. Most days he can be found researching innovative ways to bring his readers sounder sleep, better moods, and more.	View all posts by
Author Posted on Tags l-theanine, melatonin, nootropic, sleep, stress
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: Top 3 Mood Boosting Nootropics
Next Next post: Green Tea for Anxiety
Search
Search for:
Search
Search for:
Search
Recent Posts
PRL-8-53: Get a Mega-Memory
Picamilon
L-Theanine and Caffeine: Benefits and Effects
Phenylethylamine Effects & Benefits
Theanine Serene with Relora: Side Effects, Benefits, and Reviews
Top Posts
PRL-8-53: Get a Mega-Memory
ALCAR/ALA Stack: Benefits and Side Effects
Where to Buy Phenibut Powder (with a 2017 update)
Phenibut vs GABA
DMAE Benefits and Dosage for Better Sleep
Theanine and Inositol Combo for Anxiety
Taking Melatonin Plus L-Theanine for Sleep
Schisandra to Boost Mood and Relieve Anxiety
Valerian Root vs Melatonin
Theanine Serene with Relora: Side Effects, Benefits, and Reviews
L-Theanine and Caffeine: Benefits and Effects
Caffeine and L-Theanine: Coffee, Tea, or Supplements?
Phenylethylamine Effects & Benefits
Picamilon
ALCAR/ALA Stack: Benefits and Side Effects
Proudly powered by WordPress