8 Ways to Make Your Dull Skin GLOW
8 Ways to Make Your Dull Skin Glow
1. Hydrate
A well hydrated skin is the most beautiful skin. A skin devoid of water looks tired and completely dull. Prevent such a situation by drinking lots of water.
Gulp down a 2-3 glasses first thing in the morning. And continue this practice all day long. This will nourish the skin cells, making the outer surface soft, smooth and plump. And it will glow with a radiance.
Ask any makeup expert or a celebrity who is bound to live with make up all day long. He will tell you how important it is to have a hydrated skin for the makeup to last longer.
2. Ice Treatment
Water will take time to show its effect. An instant fix for your dull skin is an ice treatment. It improves the skin texture and alleviates skin dullness.
Take an ice cube. Hold it in your hand if you can or wrap it in a clean cloth and then move it all over your face till it feels a little numb. You can also use ice cold water for splashing your face.
This treatment is great for improving blood circulation and henceforth brightens your face, which was looking dull hitherto.
3. Cold Makeup Products
For the same reason you should apply makeup products that are cold. First, they are cold and second, they are makeup products meant to enhance your looks. This process will revive a dull skin and make it glow like a baby.
You are required to refrigerate (not freeze) the products. Do this the previous night, especially moisturizer and eye makeup.
4. Exfoliation
Often times, a dull and tired skin is a result of accumulation of dead skin cells and dirt. Though the problem looks grave but can be resolved by exfoliating aka scrubbing
Pick a natural scrub or if at all you have to use a product, apply the one especially formulated for your skin. Make sure it is gentle. It will turn your skin fresh and beautiful.
4 Home Remedies for Dull Skin
Well, quite admittedly, these kitchen pantry ingredients can make a big difference in the revival of your dull skin.
5. Sugar & Honey
Mix the two to get a smooth consistency. Apply on the face. Rub gently and rinse away. Once a week is sufficient.
6. Yogurt Face Mask
Add nutmeg powder to yogurt. Add small amount of turmeric to it. You can also add lemon juice to it. Mix and apply. Wash away after 10 minutes.
7. Cucumber Mask
Cucumbers are good for tired skin and they are also good for a dull skin. Apply the juice over your face or rub slices over your skin. Allow it to dry and rinse.
8. Milk Cream
Add flour to milk cream followed by some turmeric powder to it. Mix and apply. Let it dry. Wash this face pack with lukewarm water.
Skin Brighteners
This has been written purposely at the bottom because when you think you don’t have the time or inclination towards the above, you should pick a Revitol skin brightening cream with natural ingredients in it. It will definitely bring in the desired results.
More Skin Care Tips
49 Skin Care Tips
Instantly Get Better Looking Skin
5 Korean Skin Care Secrets
7 Tricks to Fix Flaky Skin
Skin Care Foods
27 Foods for Clear Beautiful Skin
DIY Coffee Scrubs for Acne & Cellulite
Using Honey for Better Looking Skin
5 Beauty Benefits of Avocado for Skin
302 Weight Loss Foods
More Tips
11 Home Remedies for Puffy Eyes
22 Ways to Get Rid of Dark Circles
37 Ways to Remove Age Spots
NowLoss.com Created by Adrian Bryant
Leave a Comment
Type your comments or questions here
Back to Top
Tap to Look Better or…
NowLoss.com
Lose Weight ▼
Easy Weight Loss Plans
Weight Loss Workouts
Quick Weight Loss Tips
Best Diet Foods & Supplements
Weight Loss Tools
FAQ
Start Here: How to Lose Weight Fast
Permanent Weight Loss Plans
How to lose 50 pounds in 5 months
How to lose your last 10 pounds
How to lose weight at home
Perfect for stay at home moms, busy schedules or can't afford a gym
How to lose weight in college
Beginner Weight Loss Plans
The NowLoss Diet
Eat whatever you want, whenever you
want & still lose weight fast
Weight loss workout for beginners
Use this 95 day workout plan if you're
lazy or not in shape
5 diet rules to lose weight fast
Use this plan to lose weight without counting calories
Emergency Weight Loss Plans
How to lose 20 pounds in 3 weeks
How Beyonce lost 20 lbs in 2 weeks
How to lose 5 pounds in 2 days
Only use the emergency plans to temporarily lose a lot of weight REAL FAST in a short amount of time
Free diet meal plans
1200-to-3500 calorie meal plans
Custom Weight Loss Plans
How to lose weight after giving birth
Hypothyroidism weight loss guide
7 ways to lose weight with PCOS
Fibromyalgia weight loss plan
How to lose weight during Ramadan
Weight Loss Workout Videos - Get Them On DVD
Jumping Jack Workout #4
15 Minute HIIT Workout
Walking Workout
See More Workout Videos →
Quick Weight Loss Tips
Important Weight Loss Tips
40 fast weight loss tips
How to lose 10 lbs. every 3 weeks w/ HIT
Get a flatter stomach in 1 week
How to get motivated to lose weight
11 ways to increase your metabolism
37 ways to curb cravings
More Quick Weight Loss Tips
8 ways skinny women got slim & stay thin
How to burn fat faster when working out
3 ways to burn more calories
Intermittent Fasting How to Burn more fat in 14 hours than most people do in 1 week of dieting
More Helpful Weight Loss Tips
Top 100 celebrity diet tips
How celebrities lose weight fast
How to lose weight while you're injured
How to help your kids lose weight
100 ways to burn 100 calories fast
33 ways to get more energy
Best Weight Loss Foods & Diet Supplements
Best diet supplements
Top 5 types of weight loss supplements
Green Tea
Lipo-6
Hydroxycut
Best Things To Eat
732 foods to make you look better
200+ Weight Loss Foods
11 best foods to eat to lose weight fast
Good fats that burn fat
5 reasons why chocolate isn't so bad
28 foods that'll flush out water weight
Chia Seeds
Foods not to eat if trying to lose weight
Best Things To Drink
7 Weight Loss Drinks
13 Ways Green Tea Burns Fat
How to Lose weight drinking coffee
How to stop drinking soda
8 reasons why alcohol makes you fat
Weight Loss Tools
Food Journal
Fat Loss Workout Log
Weight loss calorie calculator
See how many calories you need to eat lose weight
Carb, protein & fat calculator
See how many carbs, protein & fats you need in your diet to lose weight
Check your body fat %
Stop your cravings chart
Get rid of your cravings for Sweets, Chocolate, Alcohol & much more
Height / Weight Chart
See how much you're supposed to weigh
Free Food Calorie Calculator
See how many calories are in the foods you're eating along with the amount of carbs, protein & fats
How to lose weight doing anything
See how much weight you can lose by doing anything from having sex all the way to running as fast as you can
Answers To Help You Lose Weight
Confused? Start Here
How to pick the best weight loss plan
Why can't I lose weight?
How to break out of a weight loss plateau
Why it's tougher to lose your last 10 lbs.
Have I gone into starvation mode?
How To Eat To Lose Weight
How much do I need to eat to lose weight?
How many meals per day to lose weight?
Can I eat what I want & still lose weight?
How many carbs, protein and fats?
How do I count calories?
Will I gain weight if I eat at night?
How To Workout To Lose Weight
I'm I working out hard enough?
What are the best workouts?
Do I do Cardio or weights first?
The best piece of cardio equipment?
Do I lose weight before building muscle?
Do I Eat Back the Calories I Burn Exercising?
What Works For Weight Loss
Why most diets don't work
Will Sit-ups flatten my stomach?
Do body wraps work for weight loss?
Does hCG work?
How Fast Can You Lose Weight
See how fast you can lose weight
Can I lose 10 pounds in 1 week?
Will I gain back the weight I lost?
How do I prevent & get rid of loose skin?
See 28 More Answers To Help You Lose Weight Fast →
Build Muscle ▼
Skinny or Fat?
Get Bigger Arms, Back, Chest, Shoulders & Legs
Muscle Building Tips
FAQ
Skinny Guys: Start Here
Fat Guys: Start Here
Click Here to put on lots of extra muscle mass on your skinny frame while gaining very little or no fat at all.
Click Here to lose weight (burn fat) and build muscle at the same time but… Start here If you're extremely overweight.
Get Bigger Arms, Back, Chest, Shoulders & Legs
How to Get Bigger Shoulders
How to Get Bigger Arms
How to Get a Bigger Back
How to Get a Bigger Chest
How to Get a Six Pack
How to Get Bigger Legs
Fast Muscle Building Tips
26 Tips To Gain Muscle Fast
Top 7 Muscle Building Supplements
79 muscle building foods
Increase Your Testosterone by 350%
Best Exercise for Bigger Arms & Chest
This Curling Trick for Bigger Biceps
7 Steps to Build Muscle as Fast as Possible
Get Bigger Muscles Without Working Out
16 Fast Muscle Building Tricks
Increase your Human Growth Hormone
Answers To Help You Build Muscle
Confused? Start here…
How Fast Can I Gain Muscle?
Why Can't I Gain Any Muscle?
How Do I Build Muscle Fast?
How to Workout Correctly
How much weight to lift to build muscle?
How many reps to build muscle?
How many sets to build muscle?
How long do I rest between sets?
How to Eat Right
How much do I eat to gain muscle mass?
How much Protein, Carbs & Fats to eat?
Do you need to eat carbs for muscle?
See 28 More Answers To Help You Build Muscle Fast →
Get Curves ▼
Fat Women: How To Get The Perfect Body
Skinny Women: How To Gain Weight & Get Curves
Exercises To Get Sexy Curves
FAQ
Exercises To Get Sexy Curves
How To Get Firmer Arms
How To Get A Bigger Butt
Workouts & Exercises for
a bigger butt
How To Get Firmer Bigger Breast
How To Get Rid Belly Fat
Exercises to tone up your abs
How to get rid of love handles
How To Get Thicker Thighs or…
How To Get Thinner Thighs
Answers To Help You Get Curves
Confused? Start Here
Can I Lose Weight & bigger butt at once?
How do I get rid of loose skin
Do body wraps help you lose inches?
I'm gaining muscle & burning fat?
Will protein shakes make me fat?
Will I lose my butt if I lose weight?
How can I check my body fat percentage?
How to Workout To Get Curves
How much weight should I start off with?
Should I lose weight before toning up?
Will Crunches flatten my stomach?
How do i maintain muscle tone?
Will lifting weights make me bulky?
Use free weights or machines?
What are sets & reps?
How do you warm-up & stretch?
More Answers To Get Curves
How can I reduce my breast size?
Get your body back after a C-section
How to get rid of diastasis recti
How do I get rid of cankles?
See 21 More Answers To Help You Get Curves Fast →
Look Perfect ▼
How To Get Rid Of Imperfections
How To Look Younger
How To Get Better Looking Skin
How To Get Rid Of Imperfections
How to get rid of cellulite
How to get rid of stretch marks
How to get rid of wrinkles
How to make your teeth whiter
How to get rid of warts for good
How to lose belly fat
How to get rid of acne
How to Shrink Large Pores
9 fastest ways to remove Acne scars
How to get rid of dark circles naturally
Home remedies for puffy eyes
How to get rid of baggy eyes
How to get rid of a double chin
How to get rid of age spots
How to get rid of cankles without surgery
How to get rid of spider veins
How to get rid of your turkey neck
Remove a tattoo
Is it possible to grow taller?
How To Look Younger
12 ways to look younger
How to get rid of wrinkles
How to use sunscreen
Is botox right for me?
How to make your teeth whiter
How to get rid of age spots
How to stop smoking
How to Use Almond Oil for Hair Loss
Increase your Human Growth Hormone
100 ways to reduce stress
5 makeup tips to look younger
10 ways to look 10 pounds slimmer
How To Get Better Looking Skin
Basic Skin Care
Basic skin care routine
49 Skin care tips
18 foods for better looking skin
Skin care tips for men
How to determine your skin type
Shaving
How to shave without getting razor bumps
Men: Shaving pubic hair for a bigger penis
Women: How to shave pubic hair
How to get rid of & prevent razor bumps
How to get rid of & prevent ingrown hairs
More Skin Care Tips
Dry Skin Care Tips
Oily Skin Care Tips
Combination Skin Care Tips
Sensitive Skin Care Tips
How to use sunscreen
About | Contact | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer
Write for NowLoss.com
© 1996-2019 NowLoss.com