Don’t be SAD – Health Continuum
Skip to content
Health Continuum
Your journey to better health.
Primary Menu
Home
About Julie
Search for:
Press Enter / Return to begin your search.
Don’t be SAD
January 11, 2015 January 2, 2016 by Julie Zimmer
Last November, my husband John went on a business trip to Helsinki, Finland. Our friend, Timo, his wife Nora and two daughters Iida and Matilda, invited John to live with them during his stay.
Since it was late Autumn, many Finns were getting ready for those long dark winter days. Timo and Nora had taken out their sunlamp and had started their indoor light therapy.
John was impressed by the modern design of the lamp and took pictures, including a snapshot of Iida and Matilde standing next to the boxes of bright light (see below).
What is light therapy?
Light therapy mimics sunlight. It’s also called phototherapy. Phototherapy uses special fluorescent lights, which are brighter than regular indoor lights but not as bright as sunlight. Phototherapy can boost your energy, regulate your sleep and help prevent those winter blues or seasonal affective disorder, known as SAD.
How can reduced exposure to sunlight cause SAD?
Natural sunlight stimulates cells in the retina of your eyes that connect to the hypothalamus, a part of the brain that controls mood, appetite and sleep. Reduced sunlight can disrupt brain chemicals, such as serotonin and melatonin, and disrupt your mood, energy levels, sleep patterns, appetite and other circadian rhythms. As a result, you feel sluggish and moody. Light therapy, at a certain time every day, can help reset your internal rhythm and stabilize your mood.
Who can get SAD?
People who live far from the equator, where winter daylight hours are very short, are at the greatest risk of getting SAD.
SAD symptoms
SAD usually starts in late autumn; it lasts all winter but goes away in the spring and summer. If you live in a northern country and have been feeling depressed during the winter season for at least 2 years in a row, then you should talk with your doctor.
SAD symptoms include low energy, a loss of interest or pleasure, not wanting to see people, difficulty concentrating, insomnia, sadness, feelings of heaviness, worthlessness or helplessness, weight gain and cravings for foods high in sugar and carbohydrates.
How to use the light
Iida and Matilda next to the big bright light
Usage varies from person to person. Some people respond best by sitting close to a sunlamp for 30 minutes every day, right after waking up in the morning. Others do better with evening light. Some people only need 15 minutes a couple of times a day whereas others might use a lamp for up to three hours. If you are using a sunlamp for the first time, see what works best for you.
You shouldn’t look directly at the light; however, you should keep your eyes open when next to it. You can read, write, chat, have breakfast (or a glass of wine in the evening) while sitting close to the lamp. Symptoms can be relieved in a few days, but it can also take several weeks. What’s important is to keep up with the daily light ritual until spring comes and the outdoor light is stronger.
If you suffer from major depression, talk to your doctor. In some cases, light therapy can be combined with antidepressant drugs, talk therapy or with cognitive behavioral therapy.
Precautions
For SAD, you don’t need a prescription for a light, but should buy a medically approved lamp. Ultraviolet lights, full-spectrum lights, tanning lamps or beds or heat lamps are ineffective for treating SAD.
It’s worth talking to a health professional before purchasing a lamp. Light therapy may not work for everyone. For example, people with skin cancer or disease, bipolar disorder, lupus and diabetes or with eye disease may be advised to avoid light therapy.
Phototherapy may not be suitable with certain drugs or supplements, such as antibiotics, anti-inflammatories, anti-psychotics or ST. John’s wort. These drugs can increase your sensitivity to the light and can cause skin reactions. Also, consult your doctor before taking melatonin supplements for SAD.
Additional things you can do to prevent SAD
Do regular exercise that raise your heart rate, such as brisk walking or biking.
Include muscle training exercises, like weights or stair climbing, at least 2 times a week.
When the sun is out, exercise or walk outside or do outdoor chores.
Move your work desk next to a window.
Supplement with Vitamin D during winter months (SAD may be related to a Vitamin D deficiency).
For more information on SAD, please read here.
First photo credit: Grace Hancock
Advertisements
Please share if you find this post helpful.
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
Like this:
Like Loading...
Tags: Circadian rhythm Light therapy Phototherapy Reduced sunlight and depression SAD Seasonal Affective Disorder
Julie Zimmer
Julie has extensive experience in nursing practice and education in a wide range of fields from intensive/coronary care, to medical-surgical to community and public health. Julie has Bachelor Degrees in Psychology and Nursing, and a Master’s Degree in Community Health Nursing Education. She has taught in faculties of nursing and in various communities in Toronto, Canada and in Geneva, Switzerland, and is a consultant to the International Council of Nurses (ICN). Julie also has years of experience teaching English as a foreign language (EFL) in addition to coordinating an English department in a Swiss private school.
Related
3 thoughts on “Don’t be SAD”
Pingback: Sleep your way to the top | Health Continuum
Pingback: Here comes the sun! | Health Continuum
Pingback: The mighty banana | Health Continuum
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.	( Log Out / Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.	( Log Out / Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email.
Notify me of new posts via email.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Welcome to Health Continuum, the site that helps you on your journey to better health. – Julie Zimmer
Featured in leading magazines and sites
Follow Health Continuum on WordPress.com
Follow Health Continuum
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,198 other followers
Follow
Connect on social media
View @Julie_Zimmer’s profile on Twitter
View healthcontinuum’s profile on Instagram
Connect with me on Instagram
Turmeric, ginger, lemon and honey (or pure maple syrup for vegan) for sore throat. I’ve been sick with a viral infection for six days. I rarely call in sick and I got a medical certificat to stay home and not be at the workplace on Friday. It can get somewhat complicated here when we call in sick, but I can honestly say, that I’m not someone who abuses or takes advantage of the system. Anyhow, what prompted me to stay home was to avoid spreading what I had (and still have) and to stop taking analgesics /Ibuprofen so regularly just to mask the symptoms so that I can teach and face my classes. I just got fed up with all of it because it just isn’t fair for me or for those with whom I’m in contact with. For 2 days now, I’ve been resting at home, taking it slow and drinking/ sipping this beverage that has natural healing properties that help reduce those nasty symptoms. It’s now midday here and things are starting to lighten up for me. There’s a feeling of relief running through my veins. I plan to go out for a forest walk later today with husband John who just came back from a full week’s work abroad. If you are suffering from cold or flu symptoms, stop pushing yourself. I highly recommend lots of rest at home and this golden beverage! The recipe is up on my blog in my profile @healthcontinuum . Have a wonderful weekend and take care! Julie . . . #flu #colds #sorethroat #swollenglands #workplace #ginger #turmeric #honey #lemon #naturalremedies #illness #workplaceissues #sickleave #superbugs #medicine #infections
Lemon yoghurt poppy seed loaf. A yoghurt based loaf made with ground oats, almond flour, lemon, maple syrup and poppy seeds — of course it’s health food! Can be made vegan or vegetarian. Lemony, light and moist, I’ve been having this for breakfast! Great with coffee or tea ☕️! Recipe is now up on blog for you to enjoy in @healthcontinuum profile. . . . #oats #oatflour #healthfoodporn #poppyseedcake #breads #breakfast #snacks #desserts #veganfood #vegetarianrecipes #nutrition #healthfood #healthfoods #glutenfreerecipes #soyyoghurt #lemoncake #lemonpoppyseed #vegetarianfoodshare
Sesame ginger noodles! A fragrant bowl of brown rice noodles, baby bok choy and fresh mung beans. A quick and easy (and very tasty) recipe for this stir fry is up on my blog @healthcontinuum in my profile. . . . #vegan #healthyfood #vegetarianrecipes #asianstirfry #babybokchoy #ricenoodles #brownrice #brownricepasta #brownricenoodles #ginger #sesame #plantbased #plantbasedmeal #stirfry #veganstirfry #meals #healthyfamilymeals #healthymealshare
Pattie’s Smoothie. Have a Happy St Patrick’s Day ☘️! The recipe is on the blog @healthcontinuum. Cheers!! . . . #stpatricksday #stpattysday #greensmoothies #vegan #healthyfood #healthybeverages #smoothierecipes #smoothies #plantbased #plantbasedpower #vegetarianrecipes #veganrecipes #beverages
Blueberry smoothie. Blueberries are very high in antioxidants making them a key food in the fight against heart disease, cancer, diabetes and cognitive impairment. I refer to them as nature’s health bullets. This has got to be one of my favourite smoothies. Check out the free recipe on the blog @healthcontinuum . . . #smoothies #healthysmoothies #blueberry #antioxidants #plantbaseddiet #plantbased #beverages #healthfood #nutrition #healthyfood #vegan #vegetarianrecipes #healthylifestyle #foodsthatfightcancer
Moroccan red lentil soup. I had a day off from work and had all the ingredients necessary to make and feature this yummy recipe. After taking the picture and posting it up on my blog, what did I not include (type) among the list of ingredients? The red lentils. Hmmmmm... 🤔Something tells me that I need to relax and meditate 🧘‍♂️ in a very quiet place. At least I didn’t forget to add the lentils to the soup. 🙃The good news is that this soup is soooo delicious and a real picker upper (especially on a grey rainy day like today). Made with fragrant warm spices, herbs, veggies, lemon juice and a hint of mint, you don’t need to add any synthetic bouillon cubes in this recipe. It’s also easy to make and a complete healthy meal. The recipe is up on the blog and all good and ready if you want to make it! . . . #soup #redlentils #moroccanfood #redlentilsoup #vegan #vegetarianrecipes #plantbaseddiet #healthyfood #wholesomefoods #nutrition #healthyeating #healthandfitness #healthandwellness
All agreed? We are getting up at 6:00 to ski all 4 valleys in Verbier, Switzerland tomorrow . . . #ski #Verbier #Switzerland
Getting ready for a big ski day tomorrow #Verbier #ski #Swiss
Vegan teff pancakes. We had a slow start to the day today with pancakes for breakfast. Sunday is our day to take it easy. These beauties were still warm when I took the picture. I’ve been cooking with teff flour lately. What a great thing! Teff flour is very nutritious and I’ve written about it in my blog. Unfortunately, the Apple Oatmeal Chocolate Chunk Cookies 🍪 that I made with the flour got deleted on Instagram 🤨🧐today, but you can view the recipe in my blog - just go to the blog link in my profile. The pancake recipe will be up on the blog soon! . . . . #teff #tefflour #pancakesunday #pancakes #veganpancakes #veganrecipe #healthyfood #vegetarianrecipes #brunch #maplesyrup #breakfastideas #breakfast #plantbasedmeals #healthylifestyle #rawalmondmilk #pancakerecipe
Visits
52,923 people, including you!
Categories
Disease and Illness Prevention
Health Flash
Lifestyle and Fitness
Mental Health
Nutrition
Stress Management
Uncategorized
Post navigation
Previous Post What’s in a pomegranate, and how to get it out
Next Post Sleep your way to the top
Tags
Anxiety brain health Cashews Catherine Katz depression diets Dr. David Katz featured happiness Healthy snacks heart health lifestyle Mindfulness nutrition physical exercise Plant-based foods sleep Stress sugar Vegan Vegan dessert Vegan food Vegetarian Vegetarian food World Health Organization
Top Posts & Pages
Miso-glazed aubergine made easy
Lemon yoghurt poppy seed loaf
Vegan Alfredo cream sauce
Supporting Education for Orphaned Girls
Supporting Lisa’s School in Kenya
Please help feed others
Please help feed others
Blog at WordPress.com.
Post to
Cancel
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address
Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: