“Hot Head” Cures | Health Tips Website
Community (Coming)
Go Home
Anti-Aging
Diseases
Dr. Oz
Foods
Diet Tips
Recipes
Healthy Drinks
Health Tips
Treatments
Vitamins
Site
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Search
0 October 16, 2012 Written by Susan Wilson
“Hot Head” Cures
You’ve probably heard the phrase: “Feed a cold, starve a fever.” Well, even though cutting back on food consumption is wise when you’re battling a fever, feeding your fever certain things should help it go away quickly.
Source: http://farm1.staticflickr.com/12/16452109_b0aca519c8_o.jpg
Fevers are usually short-lived, so cures may be unnecessary. However, sometimes the body needs a little extra push to help it heal. These remedies are not meant to take the place of your doctor’s care.
What’s Considered a Fever?
Normal body temperature is 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit, and there is little room for temperature fluctuations before it’s considered a fever. In fact, anything 100 degrees or higher is considered a fever. The worst and most dangerous fevers soar past 104 degrees. Prolonged temperatures (a few hours) above 104 can damage major organs and cause death.
Fevers can be caused by infections, injuries, chronic medical conditions and adverse reactions to some medicines. Similar to inflammation, fevers are one of your body’s defense mechanisms when some sort of germ or disease invasion is going on in the body. It’s your body’s way of trying to burn off what’s causing the internal problem. Usually, fevers succeed and, thus, they subside in a few short days. You can choose to ride it out or take measures to help restore your body’s temperature to normal.
Starve a Fever
The idea behind starving a fever seems to be that eating less (but drinking more fluids) will lower body temperature since it gives the digestive system the chance to rest and recover. Starving, however, is never a good solution. Instead, cut back on the amount of food you’re eating or only eat when you’re hungry.
Feed a Fever, Too
To speed your recovery, drinking lots more clear fluids is essential. In addition to water, soup and the like, you can try any one of these great herbal remedies for fever:
Elderberry – This herb not only stimulates the immune system so that your body is better able to fight disease, it also causes the body to sweat more – and guess what? Increased sweating equals a decrease in body temperature and, therefore, a reduction in fever. You can make a delicious tea using elderberry, yarrow and peppermint leaves that you can drink throughout the day as needed until your fever subsides.
Eucalyptus – The leaves of the eucalyptus plant apparently have antiviral and antiseptic powers, such that drinking 1-2 cups a day of tea made from these leaves or soaking in a warm bath containing the leaves or eucalyptus oil will greatly help to reduce fever.
Willow Bark – Willow bark is another powerful herb that, when steeped to make a tea, can help bring down a fever. Its power lies in its active ingredient – salicylates, which are also the active ingredient in aspirin, a known fever reducer.
Filed Under: Diseases & Symptoms
Tagged:
Most Commented
Did you like the Dr. Oz Show?
Healthy Waist Size for Women
How to treat fibromyalgia naturally?
The Dr. Oz Show Airs - 1st Week Schedule
Is colon cleansing a necessity to get a healthy digestive system?
Dr. Oz Green Drink Recipe As Seen on tv
Dr. Oz: Best Vitamins for Women
Dr. Oz's Top 5 Health Tips For Women
Dr. Oz's Grocery List - Vegetables
You: On A Diet - Diet Plan & Review
Antioxidant drinks - Dr. Oz's Anti-Aging Checklist
Dr. Oz Fish Oil - A great source of Omega 3 DHA
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
List of Foods to Avoid
1. Sugar
2. High-fructose corn syrup
3. Enriched wheat flour (white flour)
4. Saturated fats
5. Hydrogenated oil
Recommended Foods
Grocery List Veggies
Grocery List Fruits
Grocery List Frozen Foods
Top 10 Healthy Foods
Copyright © 2009-2015 Peakstone Media Ltd. - We are not affiliated with Dr. Oz or Oprah. If you have any complaints, ideas, suggestion, contact us!
Warning: We do NOT give medical advice on this site. Our site is for entertainment and informational purposes only. If you need medical advice please consult a doctor Privacy Policy
Categories
Categories Select Category Anti-aging Diet Diseases & Symptoms Dr. Oz Foods Health Benefits Of Foods Health Tips Healthy Drinks Healthy Exercises To Lose Weight Natural Sources Recipes Treatments Uncategorized Vitamins
Prevent Osteoporosis Now
Skin Tags: Cause For Alarm?
Help For Irregular Menstrual Periods