19 Tips on How to Stop Coughing Including Nighttime Cough
MedicineNet
SYMPTOM CHECKER
Disease & Conditions
Conditions A-Z
Procedures A-Z
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Cholesterol
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Eyesight
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Lung Conditions
Menopause
Men's Health
Mental Health
Migraine
Neurology
Oral Health
Pregnancy
Senior Health
Sexual Health
Skin Problems
Sleep
Thyroid
Travel Health
Women's Health
Gastroenterology
Hemorrhoids
Diabetes
Diabetes (Type 1 and Type 2)
Teen Health
Bullying
Dermatology
Jock Itch
Drugs & Supplements
Medications
Supplements and Vitamins
ADHD
Vyvanse vs. Strattera
Sleep Disorder
Benzodiazepines
Depression
Zoloft
Health & Living
Diet & Weight Management
Exercise & Fitness
Nutrition, Food & Recipes
Prevention & Wellness
Digestive Problems
Low Fiber Diet
Fitness, Exercise, Sports
Aerobic Exercise
Digestive Problems
Probiotics
Media
All
Slideshows
Adult Skin Conditions
Common Eye Problems and Infections
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
All
Quizzes
Diet and Nutrition Quiz
Heart Disease Quiz
Kidney Disease Quiz
All
Images
Genital Warts
Scabies
Alopecia Areata
MedTerms Dictionary
Slideshows
Quizzes
Images
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
home/cold and flu health center/cold and flu a-z list/how to stop coughing center /how to stop coughing article
19 Tips on How to Stop a Cough
What causes coughing?
19 natrual and home remedies to cure and soothe a cough
What over-the-counter (OTC) products cure or soothe a cough?
What prescription drugs cure a cough?
How can I get rid of a nighttime cough?
What kind of a doctor treats a cough?
When should I see a doctor about a cough?
Medical Author: John P. Cunha, DO, FACOEP
John P. Cunha, DO, FACOEP
John P. Cunha, DO, is a U.S. board-certified Emergency Medicine Physician. Dr. Cunha's educational background includes a BS in Biology from Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, and a DO from the Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences in Kansas City, MO. He completed residency training in Emergency Medicine at Newark Beth Israel Medical Center in Newark, New Jersey.
Medical Editor: William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR
William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR
Dr. Shiel received a Bachelor of Science degree with honors from the University of Notre Dame. There he was involved in research in radiation biology and received the Huisking Scholarship. After graduating from St. Louis University School of Medicine, he completed his Internal Medicine residency and Rheumatology fellowship at the University of California, Irvine. He is board-certified in Internal Medicine and Rheumatology.
19 Tips on How to Stop a Cough Center
Take the Cold & Flu Quiz
Do Flu Shots Cause Flu?
Is It a Cold or The Flu?
Patient Comments: How to Stop Coughing - Experience
Patient Comments: How to Stop a Cough - OTC and Prescription Medicine
Find a local Doctor in your town
What causes coughing?
19 natrual and home remedies to cure and soothe a cough
What over-the-counter (OTC) products cure or soothe a cough?
What prescription drugs cure a cough?
How can I get rid of a nighttime cough?
What kind of a doctor treats a cough?
When should I see a doctor about a cough?
What causes coughing?
Share Your Story
A cough is a reflex that helps clear your airways of irritants. Nerves in the airways become stimulated by allergens, medical conditions, medications, and other irritants, resulting in a forceful expulsion of air from the lungs.
There are numerous causes for coughing. Common causes of cough include:
Allergens: pollen, dust, animal dander, mold, etc.
Irritants: smoking, inhaling secondhand smoke, pollution, chemical fumes, perfumes, air fresheners
Medical conditions: common cold, upper respiratory tract infection, flu, pneumonia, whooping cough, asthma, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), sinus infections, postnasal drip, acute bronchitis, chronic bronchitis, bronchiectasis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), lung cancer, heart failure
Medications: ACE inhibitors, beta blockers.
A dry cough is usually the result of cold and flu viruses, allergies, acid reflux, ACE inhibitor medications, and irritants such as cigarette smoke.
A wet cough is often caused by cold or flu viruses, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
A persistent, or chronic, cough is one that lasts more than 3 weeks and may be caused by heart disease, asthma, lung disease, bronchitis, and whooping cough.
Is a Cough Contagious?
Not all coughs are "contagious." Knowing the type of cough you have will help in finding the underlying cause (infectious or noninfectious). Which of the following causes of a cough do you think are contagious?
Allergies
Croup
Secondhand smoke
Post-nasal drip
Sore throat
Strep throat
Find out what conditions cause a contagious cough »
19 natrual and home remedies to cure and soothe a cough
Share Your Story
Once the cause of your cough is diagnosed and you have ruled out any serious underlying medical conditions that need to be treated, symptoms of cough often may be treated or cured with home remedies. Talk to your doctor before using any herbal remedies or natural supplements as some may interact with medications you take.
Stay hydrated: Drink lots of water to thin mucus.
Inhale steam: Take a hot shower, or boil water and pour into a bowl, face the bowl (stay at least 1 foot away), place a towel over the back of your head to form a tent and inhale. Stop at any time if you feel uncomfortable. Note: do not do this if cough is due to asthma, as steam may make symptoms worse.
Use a humidifier to loosen mucus.
Cough drops or lozenges soothe an irritated throat (do not use in young children).
Saltwater gargle clears mucus from the throat.
Use an extra pillow to elevate your head at night.
Don't smoke and avoid secondhand smoke.
Avoid inhaled irritants such as dust, perfumes, or pollutants.
Use honey. It can be used alone in adults and children over 1 year of age, and acts as a cough suppressant.
Ginger tea soothes throat inflammation.
Eucalyptus oil: Use it in a vaporizer or rub on your chest to help break up mucus.
Mint: Often taken as a tea, it helps loosen mucus in the lungs.
Menthol is commonly found in lozenges, and it can soothe a cough.
Licorice root acts as an expectorant.
Slippery elm coats and soothes the throat.
Apple cider vinegar (diluted or mixed with honey) helps thin mucus.
Turmeric may help ease digestive problems and can help if cough is caused by GERD.
Chicken soup may ease symptoms of upper respiratory tract infections.
And because we saved the best for last...save some chocolate! Theobromide, and ingredient in chocolate, may actually suppress vagus nerve activity that causes coughing.
QUESTION
Which illness is known as a viral upper respiratory tract infection? See Answer
What over-the-counter (OTC) products cure or soothe a cough?
Readers Comments 1
Share Your Story
There are a number of over-the-counter (OTC) cough medicines available to soothe or cure coughs. There are two main types of cough medicines, 1) cough suppressants, and 2) expectorants. These can be found in tablet or cough syrup form.
Cough suppressants
Cough suppressants, also called antitussives, block the cough reflex to relieve cough. A common OTC cough suppressant is dextromethorphan, which can be found in products such as
Triaminic Cold and Cough,
Robitussin Cough,
Delsym, and
Vicks 44 Cough and Cold.
Expectorants
Expectorants work by thinning mucus. The only OTC expectorant is guaifenesin, found in products such as Mucinex and Robitussin Chest Congestion.
Combinations (cough suppressants and expectorants)
Dextromethorphan and guaifenesin are often found in combination products, for example, combined with each other in Robitussin DM. These medications also may be combined with other medicines that help relieve other symptoms of colds such as pain relievers, decongestants, or antihistamines. If your main symptom is cough, it usually is best to avoid products that contain antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl), or decongestants, such as ephedrine (Sudafed) because these have a drying effect, making mucus thicker and harder to clear from your airways, which can worsen cough symptoms.
Other OTC cough medicine
For cough due to postnasal drip, decongestants such as pseudoephedrine (Sudafed) or antihistamines such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl) may improve symptoms.
Cough that is a result of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) may be helped by
famotidine (Pepcid),
cimetidine (Tagamet),
ranitidine (Zantac)
omeprazole (Prilosec OTC),
lansoprazole (Prevacid, Prevacid 24-Hour), and
esomeprazole (Nexium).
Daily Health News
Two Drugs for Men Up Diabetes Risk
Experimental Blood Thinner
Veggies vs. Steak for Heart
Meals and Heart Attacks
'Bubble Boy' Disease Cure
More Health News »
Trending on MedicineNet
Appendectomy
Candida Auris
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
Ebola Virus
Hepatitis A
What prescription drugs cure a cough?
When cough is severe, over-the-counter (OTC) medications and home remedies may not be enough to relieve symptoms, and prescriptions may be needed.
Codeine and other narcotic medications are often prescribed as effective cough suppressants. Many times these are combined with the cough suppressant dextromethorphan, or the expectorant guaifenesin.
If cough is due to whooping cough, bacterial pneumonia, complicated bronchitis, or sinusitis it is usually treated with antibiotics such as penicillin, cephalosporins, or azithromycin (Zithromax).
For cough due to allergies, such as hay fever, inhaled nasal steroids may be prescribed.
For postnasal drip that does not respond to OTC drugs, nasal inhalers such as ipratropium bromide (Atrovent) can help.
If cough is a result of asthma, prescription inhaled bronchodilators and inhaled steroids help decrease inflammation of the airways. Short-term oral steroids, which help reduce inflammation, are sometimes prescribed to relieve chronic cough.
When gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) causes a cough, prescription medications that may help symptoms include proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), for example
omeprazole (Prilosec),
rabeprazole (Aciphex), and
pantoprazole (Protonix).
SLIDESHOW
Cold and Flu: Finding Relief for Your Cough See Slideshow
How can I get rid of a nighttime cough?
Share Your Story
Many times cough symptoms will worsen at night. This may be due to postnasal drip (from a cold, bronchitis, or allergies) or acid from the stomach backing up into your throat from acid reflux. There are some strategies and home remedies you can use to help ease nighttime cough:
Use extra pillows for postnasal drip or if you have acid reflux to prop up the head of your bed. When you lay flat, the mucus or acid reflux irritates your throat. Raising your head allows it to drain.
Take a steamy shower before bed (note: if your cough is due to asthma, steam may make it worse).
Use a humidifier. Moist air can help relieve cough. However, if cough is due to allergies such as dust mites or mold, which thrive in damp air, be careful not to make the room too moist.
Keep your bedding clean. If your cough is due to allergies, it is important to make sure dust mites don't have a place to sleep as well. Wash all bedding at least weekly in hot water, and dry in a dryer, not a clothesline.
Drink decaffeinated tea with honey before bed. The warmth of the tea will soothe a sore throat and the fluid will help thin secretions. Herbal teas with ginger, peppermint, or licorice root may also soothe cough.
Use a vapor rub, such as one with menthol, to help open airways.
Keep everything you need near your bed. If you have a cough, make sure you keep your cough medicine, lozenges, a glass of water, or anything else that helps you, on your nightstand for immediate relief.
Don't smoke.
Avoid using perfume, air freshener sprays, or other irritants in the bedroom.
Try (OTC) cough medicines that contain cough suppressants (which block the cough reflex) or expectorants (which loosen mucus). Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a recommendation.
Subscribe to MedicineNet's General Health Newsletter
By clicking Submit, I agree to the MedicineNet's Terms & Conditions & Privacy Policy and understand that I may opt out of MedicineNet's subscriptions at any time.
What kind of a doctor treats a cough?
Your primary care provider (PCP) such as a family practitioner, internal medicine specialist, or pediatrician may diagnose and treat a cough. If cough is severe an emergency medicine specialist may see you in a hospital's emergency department.
People suffering from chronic or persistent cough may be referred to different specialists depending on the underlying cause. If you have allergies, you may be referred to an allergist. If your cough is due to gastroesophageal reflux disorder (GERD) you may be referred to a gastroenterologist, who specializes in diseases of the digestive tract. If you have lung disease you may need to see a pulmonologist, a lung specialist who treats diseases of the airways. If your cough is due to an underlying heart condition, you will be referred to a cardiologist, a specialist in diseases of the heart and circulatory system.
When should I see a doctor about a cough?
Cough often is not serious, but in some situations you should see a doctor and not try to treat the cough on your own. If you have a cough and the following symptoms, see your doctor:
Fever higher than 101 F/38.3 C
Coughing up blood
Coughing up yellow or green phlegm
Shortness of breath
Difficulty swallowing
Loss of appetite
Weight loss
Excessive production of mucus
Chest pain that is not a result of the cough
Wheezing
Fatigue
Weakness
Night sweats
Your cough is getting worse when you should be getting better
If you know you have been exposed to the flu, whooping cough, or other infections
These signs and symptoms in addition to cough may indicate a more serious condition that needs treatment by a doctor.
From
Cold and Flu Resources
Track Cold and Flu Symptoms Near You
Can Getting More Sleep Help Ward Off Illness?
Can Colds and Allergies Cause Tinnitus?
Featured Centers
How Is Your MS Care Routine? Assess Yourself
11 Things Not to Do If You Want to get Pregnant
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
19 Tips on How to Stop a Cough Center
Medically Reviewed on 5/4/2018
References
REFERENCES:
American Academy of Pediatrics. "Coughs and Colds: Medicines or Home Remedies?" Updated: July 13, 2015.
<https://www.healthychildren.org/English/health-issues/conditi>
Harvard Health Publications. "That nagging cough. 27 August 2015." Updated May 17, 2016.
<http://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/that-nagging-cough>
Meneghetti, A, MD. Upper Respiratory Tract Infection. Medscape. Updated: Feb 17, 2018.
<https://emedicine.medscape.com/article/302460-overview>
New Scientist. "Persistent coughs melt away with chocolate." Nov 22, 2004.
<https://www.newscientist.com/article/1919209-persistent-coughs-melt-away-with-chocolate/>
NIH. "What Causes Cough?" Updated Oct 1, 2010.
<https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/cough/causes>
NIH. "Licorice Root." Updated: Dec 01, 2018..
<https://nccih.nih.gov/health/licoriceroot>
NIH. "Eucalyptus." Updated: Dec 19, 2017..
<https://medlineplus.gov/druginfo/natural/700.html>
NIH. "Slippery elm." Updated: Nov 05, 2017..
<https://medlineplus.gov/druginfo/natural/978.html>
NIH. "Turmeric." Sep 2016.
<http://umm.edu/health/medical/altmed/herb/turmeric>
Science Daily. "New Study Supports Chicken Soup As A Cold Remedy." Oct 19, 2000.
<https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2000/10/001018075252.htm>
Related Article
Cold & Flu Quiz: Influenza vs. Common Cold
Learn flu symptoms, common cold symptoms, the difference between influenza and the common cold, and other facts. Find out how to prevent and avoid the contagious viruses that cause cold and influenza, and learn treatments for associated aches, pain, and fever.
Read more: Cold & Flu Quiz: Influenza vs. Common Cold
Patient Comments
How to Stop Coughing - Experience
Please share your experience with an excessive or chronic cough.
Post View 1 Comment
How to Stop Coughing - Home Remedies
What natural or home remedies have you found helpful in getting rid of an excessive cough?
Post
How to Stop Coughing - OTC Drugs
What over-the-counter medicine have your found helpful in getting rid of an excessive cough?
Post
How to Stop Coughing - Nighttime Cough
What have you found to be helpful in getting rid of a nighttime cough?
Post
How to Stop a Cough - Experience
Please share your experience with a cough, including chronic coughing. Your experience may help others.
Post
How to Stop a Cough - Natural Remedies
What natural or home remedies do you find helpful to sooth a cough?
Post
How to Stop a Cough - OTC and Prescription Medicine
What over-the-counter or prescription medicine helped or cured your cough?
Post View 1 Comment
How to Stop a Cough - Nighttime
What things have you found to be effective in soothing a nighttime cough?
Post
Complete List
Top How to Stop Coughing Related Articles
Aches, Pain, Fever
Although a fever technically is any body temperature above the normal of 98.6 F (37 C), in practice, a person is usually not considered to have a significant fever until the temperature is above 100.4 F (38 C). Fever is part of the body's own disease-fighting arsenal; rising body temperatures apparently are capable of killing off many disease-producing organisms.
Bronchitis Picture
Acute bronchitis usually comes on quickly and gets better after several weeks. See a picture of Acute Bronchitis and learn more about the health topic.
Bronchitis Slideshow
Is bronchitis contagious? Learn about bronchitis, an inflammation of the lining of the lungs. Bronchitis can be aggravated from colds, cigarette smoking, COPD, and other lung conditions. Explore bronchitis symptoms and treatments.
Kids' Illnesses Slideshow
Is your child at risk for these childhood diseases? Know what to look for and when to call the doctor for conditions such as measles, mumps, ringworm, pink eye, strep throat, cough, ear aches, and more.
Chronic Rhinitis
Chronic rhinitis and post-nasal drip symptoms include an itchy, runny nose, sneezing, itchy ears, eyes, and throat. Seasonal allergic rhinitis (also called hay fever) usually is caused by pollen in the air. Perennial allergic rhinitis is a type of chronic rhinitis and is a year-round problem, often caused by indoor allergens, such as dust, animal dander, and pollens that may exist at the time. Treatment of chronic rhinitis and post nasal drip are dependent upon the type of rhinitis condition.
Cold & Flu Quiz
Aches? Pain? Fever? This Cold & Flu Quiz tests your knowledge on the difference between coming down with the common cold and sickness from influenza virus.
COPD Slideshow
COPD is a pulmonary disorder caused by obstructions in the airways of the lungs leading to breathing problems. Learn about COPD symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment options. COPD may be complicated by chronic bronchitis or emphysema.
GERD Quiz
Who is at risk for developing GERD? Are you? Take this quiz to learn what GERD is, if you're at risk, and what you can do about it.
Laryngitis
Laryngitis is an inflammation of the voice box (vocal cords). The most common cause of acute laryngitis is infection, which inflames the vocal cords. Symptoms may vary from degree of laryngitis and age of the person (laryngitis in infants and children is more commonly caused by croup). Common symptoms include
a "barky" cough,
a hoarse cough,
fever,
cold,
runny nose,
dry cough, and
loss of voice.
Chronic laryngitis generally lasts more than three weeks. Causes other than infection include smoking, excess coughing, GERD, and more. Treatment depends on the cause of laryngitis.
Lung Cancer Slideshow
Learn about lung cancer symptoms and treatments. Get more information on small cell lung cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and the diagnosis of lung cancer stages.
Pneumonia Facts
Pneumonia is inflammation of the lungs caused by fungi, bacteria, or viruses. Symptoms and signs include cough, fever, shortness of breath, and chills. Antibiotics treat pneumonia, and the choice of the antibiotic depends upon the cause of the infection.
Do I Have Pneumonia Quiz
Pneumonia can be deadly. Take the Pneumonia Quiz on MedicineNet to learn more about this highly contagious, infectious disease.
Sinus Surgery
Sinus surgery involves the precise removal of diseased sinus tissue with the improvement in the natural drainage channels by the creation of a pathway for infected material to drain from the sinus cavities. The sinus surgery information is provided to help you prepare for sinus surgery and to help you understand more clearly the associated benefits, risks, and complications.
Sinusitis
Sinus infection (sinusitis) is caused by allergies, infection, and chemicals or other irritants of sinuses. Signs and symptoms are headache, fever, and facial tenderness, pressure, or pain. Treatments of sinus infections are generally with antibiotics and at times, home remedies.
Sore Throat (Pharyngitis)
Sore throat (throat pain) usually is described as pain or discomfort in the throat area. A sore throat may be caused by bacterial infections, viral infections, toxins, irritants, trauma, or injury to the throat area. Common symptoms of a sore throat include a fever, cough, runny nose, hoarseness, earaches, sneezing, and body aches. Home remedies for a sore throat include warm soothing liquids and throat lozenges. OTC remedies for a sore throat include OTC pain relievers such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen. Antibiotics may be necessary for some cases of sore throat.
Sore Throat Home Remedies and Treatment
Natural and home remedies for sore throat symptoms and pain relief include essential oils, licorice gargles, slippery elm leaves, raw garlic, Throat Coat tea, sage, and acupuncture. Typical symptoms of a sore throat include throat pain, coughing, sneezing, fever, and swollen lymph nodes. Sore throats are caused by viral (common cold, flu, mumps), bacterial (tonsillitis, some STDs), toxins, allergens, trauma or injury, or "mechanical causes" (breathing through the mouth).
Upper Respiratory Infection
An upper respiratory infection is a contagious infection of the structures of the upper respiratory tract, which includes the sinuses, nasal passages, pharynx, and larynx. Common causes of an upper respiratory infection include bacteria and viruses such as rhinoviruses, group A streptococci, influenza, respiratory syncytial, whooping cough, diphtheria, and Epstein-Barr. Examples of symptoms of upper respiratory infection include sneezing, sore throat, cough, fever, and nasal congestion. Treatment of upper respiratory infections are based upon the cause. Generally, viral infections are treated symptomatically with over-the-counter (OTC) medication and home remedies.
What Is Mucus
Mucus is a normal substance produced by lining tissues in the body. Excess mucus or mucus that is yellow, green, brown, or bloody may indicate a problem. Mucus production may increase when allergies, a cold, flu, cough, or sore throat are present. Antihistamines and cold and flu medications may help alleviate excess mucus. A neti pot may be used to decrease nasal congestion and clear mucus.
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Featured Slideshows
Type 2 DiabetesCan you reverse type 2 diabetes?
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)What's the difference between RA and arthritis?
Deep Vein ThrombosisHow to know if you have a blood clot in your leg
Recognize These Skin Conditions?
What Bit Me?
What is Crohn's Disease?
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
19 Eye Conditions You Need to Know
Why Do I Pee So Often?
What Can Turmeric Do for You?
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
Is It an STD?
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
Early Signs of Thyroid Problems
17 Worst Belly Fat Foods
How to Get Rid of Hemorrhoids
Living With AFib
See a Baby Develop in the Womb
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
Put an End to Nail Fungus
Ringworm Means I’ve Got Worms?
How Do You Get Scabies?
13 Baking Soda Uses for Your Body
Coping With IBS
Telltale Signs of Child ADHD
The Stigma of Psoriasis
Cancer Symptoms Not to Ignore
What Feet Say About Your Health
Most Expensive Medical Conditions
Early Signs of Heart Disease
Clues You Could Have MS
How to Lower Your Cholesterol
Which Fruits Have the Most Sugar?
14 Healthy Foods on a Budget
ADHD in Adults
What Poop Type and Color Mean
MedicineNet
©1996-2018 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Health Categories
Medical Slideshows
Diseases & Conditions
Symptoms & Signs
Procedures & Tests
Medications
Healthy Living
Vitamins & Supplements
Image Collection
Quizzes
MedTerms Dictionary
Pet Health
Popular Health Centers
Allergies
Arthritis
Blood Pressure
Cancer
Chronic Pain
Cold & Flu
Depression
Diabetes
Digestion
Health & Living
Healthy Kids
Hearing & Ear
Heart
HIV/AIDS
Infectious Disease
Men's Health
Mental Health
Neurology
Pregnancy
Sexual Health
Skin
Thyroid
Women's Health
More...
MedicineNet
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Site Map
WebMD Corporate
WebMD
WebMDRx
Medscape
Medscape Reference
eMedicineHealth
RxList
OnHealth