Imitrex treats acute migraine attacks with or without aura in adults.
Skip to content
Application Analogs Dosage Description Reviews Prices
Information site, where to buy cheap medical supplies, brands, generic drugs. Without Prescription and Free Shipping!
Menu
HOME PAGE
SITE MAP
ABOUT
FAQ
CATEGORIES part 1
Anti Fungal
Allergies
Anti Viral
Antibiotics
Asthma
Arthritis
Birth Control
Bestsellers
Depression
Cholesterol Lowering
Diabetes
Blood Pressure
Erectile Dysfunction
CATEGORIES part 2
Anxiety
Gastrointestinal
Hair Loss
Heart Disease
Man’s_Health
Muscle Relaxant
Order Pills Online
Other
Pain Relief
Skincare
Sleep Aid
Weight Loss
Womans Health
CONTACT
Posted on June 24, 2014 August 13, 2018 by Доктор Пилюлькин
Imitrex treats acute migraine attacks with or without aura in adults.
Imitrex is used to treat migraine headaches. Imitrex will only treat a headache that has already begun. It will not prevent headaches or reduce the number of attacks.
The active substance of Imitrex-Sumatriptan. In one tablets Sumatriptan contains 140 mg. Active sumatriptan succinate compounds medicinal.
In addition to product contains such connections as:
mannitol,
calcium,
hydrogen giproloza dihydrate,
magnesium stearate,
microcrystalline cellulose.
In the composition of the shell consists of pills makrolog, selekout AQ-02003. as well as titanium dioxide. The drug belongs to a group of serotonergic drugs, providing protivomigrenoznoe impact.
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics.
Active medicinal compound sumatriptan. Contained in the chemical composition of the drug, refers to specific selective agonist 5-NT1-serotonin receptors. concentrated mainly in the blood vessels of the brain. The medication affects certain subtypes of serotonin receptors. for example, 5-HT 2-7 and thereby promotes vasoconstriction of blood. expansion which leads to swelling and causing migraine.
It is worth noting that Sumatriptan does not have any significant impact on blood flow in the brain and, in so doing suppress excessive activity of receptors of the trigeminal nerve. Which leads to a decrease in allocation of sensory nejropeptido in. The drug quickly eliminates such migraine symptoms like bouts of nausea. As well as photophobia.
Medication can effectively suppress migraine attacks already in a single application in the dose to 100 mg. Sumatriptan begins after a maximum of half an hour since its intake.
Side effects Imitrex.
While using medication side effects can be expressed:
in some cases Sumatriptan can cause Raynaud’s syndrome. As well as the manifestations of symptoms of myalgia.
Manuals Sumatriptan (method and dosage). In accordance with the instructions on the drug Sumatriptan is inside immediately after the onset of a migraine attack. If necessary, the acute attack treated adult patients can take 50-100 mg. the drug, squeezed water pills.
When rebuilding a fit of migraines can be taken again the minimum recommended dose Sumatriptan (50 mg.) after at least 2:00 since the first use of the medicinal product. It is worth noting that the maximum permissible dose of medical drugs should not be greater than 300 mg/day.
Overdose.
Overdose drug for patients are having adverse reactions described above. In such cases, consult a physician immediately and stop using the medication.
Interaction.
To avoid development of serotonin syndrome. Increase the bioavailability of moclobemide, the risk of hyperstimulation additive. As well as the development of side effects Sumatriptan should not be used in conjunction with lithium salts, moclobemide, rizatriptanom and zveroboem.
Storage conditions.
Sumatriptan should be stored at a temperature of no higher than 25° c, protected from light and out of reach of children.
This medicine is not intended for prophylaxis of migraine attacks. It is worth remembering that after taking Sumatriptan may develop an allergic reaction in patients with hypersensitivity to sulfanilamidam.
Because using the drug could have a negative effect on the cardiovascular system. The drug does not appoint patients from the so-called risk groups (a factor in the development of ISCHEMIC HEART DISEASE after age 40 for men as well as women in the postklimatičeskij period) without prior examination.
Prior to the appointment of the drug should be deleted the first time other neurological diseases in patients. In addition, it is worth remembering that patients with migraines may develop stroke. that hurt blood circulation in the brain.
While using this medication, you should be very careful to approach the management of vehicles and any other activities that require focused attention.
Reviews about Imitrex(Sumatriptane).
While some patients are satisfied with the drug and leave good comments about Sumatriptane, the other as a negative factor to note the existence of quite an impressive list of side effects. Therefore, many detract from effective in combating migraine medication only to avoid the development side of ailments and diseases.
Share this:
Share
Telegram
Tweet
Pocket
WhatsApp
Print
Share on Tumblr
Email
CategoriesPain Relief Tagsbest painkiller for migraine headache, does imitrex make you feel high, how does imitrex work, imitrex contraindications, imitrex reviews for cluster headaches, imitrex reviews for migraines, is imitrex a controlled substance, is imitrex a pain killer, what is imitrex
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Please enter an answer in digits:
4 + 14 =
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Post navigation
Previous PostPrevious Buy Cheap Motilium (Domperidone) Tablets Online Without a Prescription
Next PostNext Arimidex (Anastrozole) will reduce the size and growth of the tumor breast cancer.
Search for:
Search
Proudly powered by WordPress
Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.