Have a Migraine Headache? Just Place a Banana Peel on Your Forehead! - World Health Info
Privacy Policy
Contact US
Terms And Conditions
Home
Useful Tips
Beauty Tips
Weight Loss
Traveling
Natural Remedies
skip to main | skip to sidebar
Home Unlabelled Have a Migraine Headache? Just Place a Banana Peel on Your Forehead!
Have a Migraine Headache? Just Place a Banana Peel on Your Forehead!
Health Tips
Over 47 million Americans suffer from intense headaches, which are accompanied by light sensitivity, nausea, throbbing pain, and tension in the neck and back.
Most commonly, over-the-counter treatments, like Aspirin, Aleve or Excedrin, fail to provide relief or cause other side-effects.
Therefore, it is always better to use other, healthier alternatives to soothe headaches.
These are some of the most effective ones:
Caffeine
Caffeine soothes the migraine pain, so it is often included in medications.
Namely, it alleviates the inflammation that causes a migraine.
Moreover, when combined with an over-the-counter headache medicine, it relieves the pain even quicker, as it becomes 40 percent more effective.
However, note that you should always be careful not to become addicted to it, as its lack might also trigger headaches.
Ginger
A study conducted in 2014 found that ginger root powder had comparable benefits with other prescription migraine drugs, and causes no side effects.
Banana & Ice Compress
The Mayo Clinic reports that the application of a cold compress to the head and neck relieves migraines.
Also, place a banana peel on the forehead, and as the skin absorbs potassium, your pain will disappear.
Feverfew
The use of feverfew, either as a supplement, tea, or an extract, prevents and treats migraines.
Flaxseed
Recurring migraine headaches are often a result of inflammation, which can be treated by the increased intake of omega-3 fatty acids.
As ground flaxseeds and flaxseed oil are rich in omega-3s, you can try adding ground flaxseed to your soups or salads or use flaxseed oil as a salad dressing base.
Lavender Oil
You should boil 6 cups of water, and then add 8 drops of lavender oil.
This soothing vapor will soothe tension headaches as you inhale. Moreover, you can also massage the temples with a few drops of lavender oil.
Butterbur
To treat a migraine, take 50 to 75 milligrams of butterbur (or meta sites) in pill form two times daily, as the extract of these flowers stimulates the blood flow to the brain.
Basil Oil
Basil oil is a powerful natural muscle relaxant, which soothes headaches which result from muscle pain and tension.
You can substitute olive oil with this one in cooking in order to relax the muscles and alleviate migraine pain.
Buckwheat
It is a rich source of rutin, which is a flavonoid that has been proven to soothe inflammation, as the main culprit for migraine headaches.
Therefore, make sure you incorporate it into your daily diet.
Despite these natural remedies, make sure you make some lifestyle changes in order to solve the problem with headaches.
You can make some dietary changes, and try yoga, meditation, exercise, and walks in nature. This will manage stress, provide the needed nutrients for the body, and soothe migraine pain.
You can also try acupuncture or biofeedback treatments in case your migraines are too intense and persistent.
However, before you reach for over-the-counter medications, make sure you have tried all natural ways to help yourself.
What's Popular Now
Have a Migraine Headache? Just Place a Banana Peel on Your Forehead! Reviewed by Health Tips on April 30, 2017 Rating: 5
Share This:
Facebook Twitter Google+ Pinterest Linkedin
Popular Now
&
Powered by Blogger.