Selenium and Cancer - Cancer Therapy Advisor
Skip to navigation Skip to main content
Menu
Close
Search...
Submit
Breast
CML
Gastrointestinal
GYN
Lung
Multiple Myeloma
Prostate
RCC
Skin
More
Open Submenu
More
Back
Bladder Cancer
Bone Cancer
Brain Cancer
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
Endocrine Cancer
General Oncology
Head and Neck Cancer
Hematologic Cancers
Lymphoma
Pancreatic Cancer
Pediatric Cancer
Practice Management
Sarcoma
Supportive Care
Urologic Cancers
Toggle Search Menu
Headlines
Regimens
Drugs
Conferences
Clinical Resources
Tools
Multimedia
CME
Jobs
Login
Register
Get the App
Submit Cases
Home » Tools » Fact Sheets
Publish Date August 31, 2017
Selenium and Cancer
Andrea S. Blevins Primeau, PhD, MBA
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on LinkedIn
Share on Reddit
Print
Share by Email
There has been great interest in selenium as a potential chemopreventative agent against various types of cancers, particularly of the prostate.
Selenium is an essential trace element that is present in its inorganic forms (selenate and selenite) in soil and in its organic forms (selenomethionine and selenocysteine) in plants.1 Selenomethionine is also present in animal tissues. Selenium is a component of over 24 different selenoproteins, which are important for reproduction, thyroid hormone metabolism, and DNA synthesis, as well as protection from infection and oxidative damage.
There has been great interest in selenium as a potential chemopreventative agent against various types of cancers, particularly of the prostate. Though many studies demonstrated an inverse association between serum selenium levels and prostate cancer incidence,2,3 there have been conflicting results from randomized controlled trials with selenium supplementation.
Prostate Cancer
In a meta-analysis, selenium supplementation did not affect prostate cancer incidence (relative risk [RR], 0.78; 95% CI, 0.41-1.48) or prostate cancer–specific mortality (RR, 2.98; 95% CI, 0.12-73.16).4
Similar findings were demonstrated by several large, randomized, controlled trials (1 of which was included in the meta-analysis).
The multicenter, double-blind Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT) randomly assigned 35,533 men aged 50 (if African American) or 55 (all other ethnicities) and older to receive selenium (200 µg/day of L-selenomethionine), vitamin E (400 IU/day of all rac-α-tocopheryl acetate), selenium plus vitamin E, or placebo for 7 years.5 Supplementation was discontinued at the interim 7-year analysis due to futility. Neither selenium nor vitamin E provided a significant benefit during a median follow-up of 5.46 years (hazard ratio [HR] for prostate cancer with selenium, 1.04; 95% CI, 0.83-1.30).
A Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) S9917 trial of 423 men with high-grade prostatitic intraepithelial neoplasia were randomly assigned to receive selenium (200 µg/day of selenomethionine) or placebo for 3 years.6 There was no significant difference in progression to prostate cancer or Gleason scores of those who developed cancer between study groups.
A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial also demonstrated no significant difference in PSA velocity with selenium supplementation (200 or 800 µg/day) among men with localized nonmetastatic prostate cancer who were undergoing active surveillance.7
The Nutritional Prevention of Cancer Trial, however, demonstrated a protective effect of selenium supplementation against the development of prostate cancer.
The double-blind Nutritional Prevention of Cancer Trial randomly assigned 1312 subjects with confirmed history of nonmelanoma skin cancer from low-selenium areas in the Eastern United States to receive selenium (200 µg/day from 0.5-g high-selenium yeast) or placebo with a mean follow-up of over 7 years.8 The primary endpoint was incidence of nonmelanoma skin cancer, but the incidence of prostate and other cancers were secondary endpoints. Selenium supplementation resulted in significantly lower incidence of prostate cancer compared with placebo (adjusted RR, 0.48; 95% CI, 0.28-0.80; P = .005), with no differences in clinical stage or metastatic disease between groups.
Pages:
1 2
Topics:
Fact Sheet Male Reproductive Cancers Prostate Cancer
Related Articles
Statin-use May Decrease Mortality Risk in Prostate Cancer
Prostate Cancer: Metastasis-free Survival Is A Surrogate for OS
Recommended For You
Popular
Emailed
Recent
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Want to read more?
Please login or register first to view this content.
Login
Register
Open
Next post in Fact Sheets
Close
Magnesium and Cancer
Back to Top
CancerTherapyAdvisor.com is a free online resource that offers oncology healthcare professionals a comprehensive knowledge base of practical oncology information and clinical tools to assist in making the right decisions for their patients.
Our mission is to provide practice-focused clinical and drug information that is reflective of current and emerging principles of care that will help to inform oncology decisions.
Resources
Submissions
Advisory Board
Useful Links
User Center
About Us
Advertise
Contact Us
Staff
Other Haymarket Medical Websites
Clinical Advisor
Clinical Pain Advisor
Dermatology Advisor
Endocrinology Advisor
Hematology Advisor
Infectious Disease Advisor
McKnight’s Long Term Care News
McKnight’s Senior Living
Medical Bag
MPR
myCME
Neurology Advisor
Oncology Nurse Advisor
Psychiatry Advisor
Pulmonology Advisor
Renal and Urology News
Rheumatology Advisor
The Cardiology Advisor
Copyright © 2019 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization.
Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media’s Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
Close more info about Selenium and Cancer
Loading...
Close more info about Selenium and Cancer
Loading...