Physiotherapy for Hip Osteoarthritis | Physiotherapy Notes
Sponsors l Privacy Policy
Physiotherapy Notes - PT Notes
All about physiotherapy including physiotherapy (PT) notes, documentations, rehabilitation and health and wellness.
Pages
Home
Conditions & Injuries
All About Physiotherapy
About Us
Home » Physiotherapy for Hip Osteoarthritis » Physiotherapy for Hip Osteoarthritis
Physiotherapy for Hip Osteoarthritis
Posted By: David Mangusan Jr., PTRP
Hip osteoarthritis can affect your daily activities and your quality of life. Physiotherapy can help you decrease your hip osteoarthritis symptoms; improve your joint range of motion and muscle strength; and improve your quality of life.
Learn more About Hip Osteoarthritis
The physiotherapy treatments that you will receive depends on your specific problems and goals, which may include a combination of any of the following
Cold therapy
Heat therapy
Electrotherapeutic modalities (e.g. ultrasound, TENS)
Joint mobilization
Stretching
Physiotherapy exercises
Range of motion (ROM) exercises
Stretching exercises
Conditioning exercises
Strengthening exercises
Recommend use of walking device (e.g. cane or walker)
Gait or walking training
Patient education
About hip osteoarthritis
Precautions to observe
Injury prevention
Activity modification
Aquatic physiotherapy
Your physiotherapist may also teach you how to manage your symptoms when your get home. In addition, your physiotherapist may provide you with a list of home exercises that you can do at the comfort of your home as a part of your home management and exercise program.
Don’t hesitate to ask your physiotherapist about questions that you might have about hip osteoarthritis and what appropriate exercises that you can safely do.
Suggested Readings
Physiotherapy for Hip Pain
Types of Physiotherapy Treatments
Read More On
Conditions and Injuries l All About Physiotherapy
P.S.: Thank you for visiting our website. If you found this information helpful, please share it with your family or friends by clicking on the Share Buttons below. Thank You!
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Physiotherapy / Physical Therapy Topic Filed In: Physiotherapy for Hip Osteoarthritis
Newer Post Older Post Home
All About Physiotherapy
Physiotherapy SOAP Notes
All About Tendonitis
Hip Osteoarthritis
All About Muscle Strains
Muscle Injuries
Rotator Cuff Tendonitis
Ankle Sprains
Physiotherapist Job Outlook
Privacy Policy
Tweet
Back to Top
Affiliates
Advertisements
Anatomy and Physiology Materials Master Human Anatomy & Physiology Topics in 3 days or less
Popular Articles
Physiotherapy Abbreviations List
Physiotherapy Abbreviations P - T
Severity of Muscle Strains – Muscle Strain Grading
Canada Physiotherapy Schools - List of Canadian Physiotherapy Schools
Physiotherapy SOAP Notes
Physiotherapy Abbreviations A - C
Physiotherapy Abbreviations I - O
Parts of the Physiotherapy SOAP Notes
Physiotherapy Evaluation and Examination
Types of Physiotherapy Treatments - Physiotherapy Interventions
Disclaimer: The information obtained on Physiotherapy Notes - PT Notes is not intended as a substitute for professional help or advice but is to be used only as an aid in understanding physiotherapy, physical therapy treatments and what you might expect from a physiotherapy rehab program. A qualified healthcare provider should always be consulted for any health problem prior to self-treatment.
This website provides links to other organizations and websites as a service to our readers and is not responsible for the information, services, or products provided by these web sites, health professionals, or companies.
Disclosure: Advertisements and Affiliate links are included on our site. These ADs, Sponsors and Affiliates are clearly stated as such and ,thereby, we may receive earnings from those ADs and Affiliates if you decided to follow those links, and in some cases buy from them. We, at Physiotherapynotes.com, assure you that advertisements presented on our website does not, in any way, affect or influence editorial physiotherapy articles presented here. Thank you for trusting us.
© 2011 - 2018 Physiotherapy Notes - Love and Abundance - For the greatest good of all.