Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 Review (UPDATE: 2019) | BrainReference.com
Menu
CATEGORY
Memory Disorders
Movement Disorders
Mood Disorders
Hormone Disorders
Attention Disorders
Anxiety Disorders
Autism Disorders
Addictive Disorders
Pain Disorders
Other Disorders
Disorder Tools
Disorder Ingredients
Disorder Research
ABOUT
About Us
Medical Disclaimer
Advertising Disclosure
CONTACT
Company
About Us
Topics
CATEGORY
MEMORY DISORDERS
MOVEMENT DISORDERS
MOOD DISORDERS
HORMONE DISORDERS
ATTENTION DISORDERS
ANXIETY DISORDERS
AUTISM DISORDERS
ADDICTIVE DISORDERS
PAIN DISORDERS
OTHER DISORDERS
DISORDER TOOLS
DISORDER INGREDIENTS
DISORDER RESEARCH
ABOUT
MEDICAL DISCLAIMER
ADVERTISING DISCLOSURE
CONTACT
Close Menu
Last updated: 02/25/2019 - Advertising Disclosure
×
Advertising Disclosure
BrainReference is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com.
We aim to provide consumers with helpful, in-depth information about brain health products. Whether we make money or not on a certain page does not influence the core mission of our writers and medical reviewers, which is to publish content that is accurate and informative.
All product names, logos, and brands are the property of their respective owners.
Home Memory Disorders Total EFA Omega 3-6-9
Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 Review
By Razvan Radu, Senior Writer - Last updated: Feb 25, 2019
0 User Comments
Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 is a blend of essential fatty acids extracted from fish, flaxseed and borage oil. The formula manufactured by a company called Health from the Sun is advertised to support the health of the brain, joints, skin and cardiovascular function, to assist the nervous system and to increase focus, memory and attention. Health from the Sun was founded in 1976 and claims to be a leader in Omega essential fatty acids and phytonutrients. The company’s product range includes a complete line of premium quality nutritional supplements designed to support the needs of their health-conscious consumers.
Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 is recommended to adults who wish to provide extra support for their heart, brain, joints and skin. The manufacturer claims the fish oil is molecularly distilled, hence ensuring the product’s purity.
Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 Ingredients
Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 includes the following ingredients: Organic flaxseed oil, fish body oil concentrate (sardine, anchovy), borage seed oil, gelatin, glycerin, water, and mixed tocopherols (vitamin E).
Product Features
Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 is a mixture of essential fatty acids, particularly Omega-3’s ALA, EPA and DHA, the Omega-6’s Gamma Linoleic Acid (GLA) and Linoleic Acid and the Omega-9 Oleic Acid. Omega-3 fatty acids are Alpha Linoleic Acid (ALA), Eicosapentaenoic Acid (EPA) and Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA). They are considered essential because are not naturally produced by the body and hence have too be supplied from food or supplementation.
While ALA is found in vegetable sources (flaxseed, borage, canola, soy, etc), EPA and DHA can be most abundantly foud in fish and seaweed. These fatty acids are known for their blood thinning properties. They may reduce the risk of stoke, or coronary artery disease and other conditions affected by poor blood function. DHA is a structural component of the brain and eyes (retina), hence its presence is important to their normal functioning. EPA is believed to influence mood and preliminary evidence indicates it might be able to reduce depression, alleviate symptoms of bipolar disorder, borderline personality disorder, and schizophrenia.
Because they work to improve peripheral circulation, Omega-3’s help maintain a healthy cognitive function, especially memory and attention. Research shows that patients with ADHD and Alzheimer’s disease may benefit from supplementation.
Product testimonials and reviews are limited in number. The manufacturer recommends taking 1 to 2 soft-gels with each meal. There are no side effects reported by the manufacturer, however Omega-3’s might interfere with blood thinning medication.
Continue Your Brain Product Research: See Our Featured Product.
Advantages
Molecularly distilled and tested fish oil
Cold pressed organic flaxseed and borage oil
Positive consumer reviews
Affordable price (roughly $40 for a 3 months’ supply)
Disadvantages
There are certain side effects and special precautions associated to Omega-3 which should be taken in consideration
The formula received a small number of consumer reviews
Conclusion
Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 contains a combination of Omega-3, 6 and 9, essential fatty acids for a number of human functions. The company behind the formula has the reputation of one of the best manufacturer of Omega-based formulations. Although there is a limited amount of reviews on the product, we may conclude that it is very likely that it accomplishes its purpose, by supplying adequate quantities of these nutrients. We advise that you research the potential health implications and adverse effects associated to Omega-3, 6 and 9 before using this product.
Product
Star Rating
10yrs or More
Proven Product
Less Than
$6 Shipping
Testimonials
HCF Quality (4.8) (4.8)
Ginkgo Standardized (3.5) (3.5)
Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 (3.4) (3.4)
Weyland Focus (3.3) (3.3)
beMore Be Focused (2.8) (2.8)
OcuEye Multi-Vites (1.5) (1.5)
Explanation of Our Quality Comparison Table
×
The main issue with synthetic ingredients is that you don’t always get what you pay for. In reality, synthetic ingredients are well known for their low absorption, poor bioavailability, and the fact that they drain the body’s reserves of other minerals and vitamins (e.g., cofactors) required for proper absorption of other nutrients.
read more
×
At BrainReference we recognize that dietary supplements can be the source of many allergic responses either due to cross-contamination with high-allergen compounds during the manufacturing process or because they incorporate ingredients obtained from high-risk allergenic foods (milk, eggs, or fish).
read more
×
Companies with less integrity will use dangerous fillers as a “grease or lube” to aid in easier and faster production. Artificial dyes and colors are used to make supplements more appealing to the eye. Coatings are added to make capsules easier to swallow. How do these fillers impact your body and health?
read more
×
Independent testing labs are not associated with the producing company, ingredients supplier, the company whose name appears on the product, or with the consumer. This means independent testing labs have no vested interest in the result of the testing and are less likely to “dry lab” or manipulate test results for self-serving reasons.
read more
0 Reviews
Leave a Reply
Product rating
Have you tried this product?
Yes
No
United States
About
About Us
Contact Us
Medical Disclaimer
Advertising Disclosure
Receive New Brain Research Updates
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Copyright © 2012 BrainReference.com. All rights reserved.
BrainReference does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Research Library | Ingredients Library
Total EFA Omega 3-6-9 or HCF?
Click Here to Find Out Menu
wpDiscuz