Ayurveda Health Benefits of Dates | Dates Benefits
New ?
Existing ?
Register Register
Log in Log in
Wishlist 0 Wishlist
Shopping cart 0 Cart
You have no items in your shopping cart.
Currency: INR BHD KWD OMR QAR SAR EUR AED USD
Track your order:
Menu
Search
Personal menu
Filters
Category Search Login
Close
Dry Fruits & Nuts
Back
Dry Fruits Gift Box (25)
Almonds (3)
Cashew (8)
Pistachio (4)
WalNuts (2)
Mix Nuts (5)
Hazelnuts (1)
Pine Nuts (1)
Seeds (5)
Dates
Back
Dates Gift Box (12)
Chocolate Coated Dates (7)
Sagai Dates (4)
Ajwa Dates (1)
Khulas dates (1)
Safawi dates (3)
Khudri Dates (1)
Sukkary Dates (2)
Dried Fruits
Back
Raisins (9)
Berries (2)
Apricot (1)
Figs (1)
Gift Cards
Back
Upto 2000 Rupees (3)
Above 2000 Rupees (3)
Corporates
Back
E-Gift Card (0)
E-Vouchers (0)
VRK Diet
Back
VRK Diet Kit (1)
Dry Fruits for VRK Diet (3)
Seeds for VRK Diet (5)
Coconut Oil for VRK Diet (2)
Salt for VRK Diet (1)
How to start VRK Diet? (0)
వీరమాచనేని డైట్ (తెలుగులో) (0)
Others
Back
Olive Oil (1)
Ayurveda Health Benefits of Dates
Sunday, April 9, 2017
Ayurveda Health Benefits of Dates
Dates are fruits of date palm. These are known as “Kharjura” in Sanskrit. This fruit is favored worldwide and its medicinal properties are appreciated by scientists and Ayurveda Acharyas.
Based on principles of Ayurveda, dates are sweet (madhura rasa) to taste and increase moistness of tissues. It is heavy to digest and acts as body coolant. It balances pitta (fire and water) and vata (space and air).
Therapeutic benefits of dates are as follows.
In arthritis and Joint pain: Dates help to balance vata, which is the root cause of joint pain and inflammation. These fruits are also rich in potassium. Hence people suffering from joint pain and arthritis get benefited by the consumption of these fruits.
In constipation: Dates are rich in fiber and also increase the bulk of stool. Consume 5- 10 dates daily to get relieved from constipation.
In cystitis: Dates act as diuretic and body coolant. They are very helpful in conditions like cystitis (inflammation of bladder), urinary tract infections and burning urination.
In erectile Dysfunction: Ayurveda acharyas recommend dates in vajikarana therapy. Many ayurvedic preparations which are used as remedy for erectile dysfunction contain these delicious fruits. The Vajikarana recipe “Ayurveda Vrishya Ksheera” is one of them. These fruits are rich in potassium. Erectile dysfunction can occur in potassium deficiency and also when there is imbalance between levels of sodium and potassium. Potassium rich dates help men to overcome these conditions effectively.
In low sperm count: According to ayurvedic text “Bhava Prakasha”, Kharjura or Dates are known to function as “Shukrala” (the herbs which increase shukra dhatu or semen). The nutrient rich fruit help to increase quality and quantity of semen.
In Weight gain: Dates are high in calories. Hence they help to gain healthy weight. Eat around 10 to 15 dates per day followed by a glass of milk to increase body bulk.
In acidity: Dates are known to pacify acidity. Its alkaline nature helps to reduce discomfort caused due to excessive acid secretion in stomach.
In Anemia: These fruits are excellent source of iron. People who have tendency to get anemia can consume dates regularly to prevent this condition. In Arabic native medicine pregnant women are encouraged to eat these daily and this regimen is strictly followed for few months even after delivery. Consuming dates in pregnancy helps in three ways. It prevents occurrence of anemia and eases the delivery pains. It reduces bleeding after delivery.
In Diarrhea: The potassium in this fruit effectively controls diarrhea. Ripe ones are useful in chronic diarrhea.
Can diabetics use Dates? - These fruits have high glycemic index. Spiking of blood sugar has been observed when these are consumed in more numbers. Eating 2 dates per day is beneficial in diabetes. But more than this can cause increase in blood sugar level.
Blog archive
2014
December (2)
2017
April (6)
May (1)
June (1)
July (1)
2019
March (1)
Popular blog tags
e-commerce
money
nopCommerce
This Web site is secured & Transactions on this site are protected with up to 256-bit Secure Sockets Layer(SSL) encryption.
Payment Options
Need Assistance? Call +91-40-66028834, +91-7989062483 Skype: sookmarket
Newsletter
Wait...
Company Info
About Us
Privacy policy
Shipping & Returns
Terms & Conditions
Customer Services
Contact us
FAQ's/ how to
Corporate Orders
Sitemap
My Account
Customer info
Addresses
Orders
Wishlist
Our Offers
New products
Recently viewed products
Search
Copyright © 2019 Absaaz and company. All rights reserved.
Powered by nopCommerce
Items in cart()
Product added to your shopping cart