L-Theanine and Anger Management - 88Herbs
Home
Store
Education
Home
What is magnesium bisglycinate (glycinate)?
Sleep
Ashwagandha
L-theanine
Anxiety
About Us
Contact
0 items
SUPPLEMENT
STORE
SLEEP-X
SLEEP AID
L-Theanine and Anger Management
We’ve experimented a lot with L-Theanine – it’s one of our absolute favorite supplements.
When we look at the wide range of effects it has on people, one of the most strikingly obvious ones is that it seems to control people’s anger, and almost “short circuit” their “short fuse” mechanism.
So, does supplementing with L-Theanine seem to help control anger?
Yes. Absolutely yes.
I’ve even gone as far as trying to tease a few close friends and willing participants who were experiencing the affects of L-Theanine. I was almost trying to make them angry by getting under their skin – it didn’t work, I couldn’t make them angry very easily at all.
We all know that some people get angry and snappy more easily than others, but from what we’ve seen time and time again, those who are on L-Theanine seem to find getting angry and “blowing up for no reason” much more difficult.
It’s well documented that L-Theanine is great for making people feel calm and relaxed. But what is newer is that it now also seems to be really effective at keeping them in this state. Once they are calm and relaxed from the effects of L-Theanine, its significantly more difficult for them to “switch gears” and get into their usual patterns of explosive and needless anger.
L-Theanine is great for anyone who has anger issues, and it’s great to recommend to anyone you know who is may have trouble with anger management. (Note: They might be more willing to try if you tell them it will make them more relaxed and improve their mood, rather than tell them it’s for their “anger problems”)
There are many ways in which L-Theanine may help control anger. One simple one is that it increases the effects of GABA, thus putting people in a calmer and more relaxed state. GABA is inhibitory, so a normal event or stimulus which may typically induce anger will be ignored.
It also makes people feel happier by slightly increasing dopamine. It’s difficult to feel happy and angry at the same time. Dopamine is released after sex for example – and think about how difficult it is to become angry for no reason right after sex.
L-Theanine also causes nice long and stable alpha brain waves. These long and stable alpha brain waves are the furthest type of brain activity from anger. Once your mind is in this state, it’s not easy to get out of it. Amazingly, L-Theanine doesn’t cause drowsiness, so you don’t need to worry about taking it during the day. You’ll be relaxed but clear headed.
L-Theanine is also helpful with liver metabolism, and a sluggish and poorly functioning liver is well known to be associated with anger as well.
Main conclusion here is that based on modern scientific literature, and also an incredible amount of first hand evidence and experiences, we highly recommend giving a premium grade L-Theanine a try for anger management issues, as well as for increasing relaxation and improving mood. It really and truly is a wonderful supplement.
RELATED PRODUCTS
ZEN-X
Is a natural supplement to help reduce anxiety
SLEEP-X
Is a natural supplement to help you sleep
RELATED ARTICLES
Leg Cramps at Night – Type of Magnesium that Actually Works!
Probiotics for Depression associated with IBS
What is the best fish oil for pregnant women?
Fish oil supplements – How to choose the best one
Which probiotic should I take?
Best Natural Supplements to help Studying for Exams
Probiotics for Common Colds and Immune Health
Best probiotic for IBS – Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Probiotics for Diarrhea
Bacillus Coagulans
How to Quickly Get Rid of Caffeine Jitters
How to Sleep Better Naturally
Rhodiola Rosea for Reducing Anxiety and Stress
Best Magnesium Supplement to Avoid Diarrhea
5-HTP for Weight Loss
Canadian Health Supplement Company Exporting Premium Natural Health Products to Europe
Rhodiola for Energy and Stamina
Supplements for Parkinson’s – L-Theanine, Caffeine, Ashwagandha
Alternatives to Adderall – 10 Natural Supplements
Ashwagandha and Rhodiola – Combination
Ultimate Guide to Natural Sleep Supplements
L-Theanine and Caffeine
Natural Supplements for ADHD
Complete Guide to Non-Drowsy Anxiety Supplements
Ashwagandha and Weight Loss
KSM-66 Ashwagandha
Passion Flower and Sleep
L-theanine and Sleep
What is magnesium bisglycinate (glycinate)?
Social Anxiety Disorder – Best Natural Supplements
L-Theanine – Education and Overview
L-theanine: Change your Mood
L-Theanine and Anger Management
Ashwagandha and Stress – Anxiety, Depression, and Sleep
Do I need a Vitamin Supplement
Ashwagandha
Thermogenisis
Supplements for approach anxiety
Best supplement for Anxiety
B Vitamins – An Important Overview
5-htp
Do Anxiety Supplements Work?
EARLY BIRD DISCOUNT
15% OFF
Just enter your email below
Latest ARTICLES
Leg Cramps at Night – Type of Magnesium that Actually Works!
Probiotics for Depression associated with IBS
What is the best fish oil for pregnant women?
Fish oil supplements – How to choose the best one
Which probiotic should I take?
Best Natural Supplements to help Studying for Exams
EARLY BIRD DISCOUNT
15% OFF
Just enter your email below
Email
Sleep
Anti-Anxiety
Ashwagandha
L-Theanine
Education
30 DAY MONEY
BACK GUARANTEE
Investor Relations
Retailer
Affiliates
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Refunds
Contact
(US): +1 888 265 2577
© 2016 88Herbs, a brand entirely owned by BB&G HEALTH CORP. an all-Canadian Premium Health Corporation. The statements on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA or Health Canada. Our products and information are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.