depression | Vita Sciences
Healthier Lives Through Science. ™
Welcome to Vita Sciences
Register Login View Cart
1-877-212-7282
Home
About VitaSciences
Creams
Capsules
Patches
Powders
Blog
Contact Us
Category Archives: depression
Move more to fight depression …and diabetes
January 30, 2019 alternative medicine, anxiety, cardiovascular, cognitive function, depression, diabetes, diabetes medicine, exercise, headache, Health, Health News, heart health, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, Diabetes, exercise, heart health, mental healthStaci
When most people start an exercise program, they may be trying to do one of a few things. Most people move more to lose weight, some exercise to gain muscle, and some just want to tone up. However, the benefit from exercise that most may not think of is improved mood. A recent study shows that moving more each day may have prevent depressive symptoms. Not to mention, that research also shows that preventing or improving such symptoms can help improve health outcomes in those with diabetes.
What is depression?
Depression is a mood disorder that can greatly impact daily life. It can make daily activities seem impossible by impacting the way you feel, think, sleep, eat, and work. There are various forms of depression such as persistent depressive disorder, which involves symptoms lasting two years or more.
On the other hand, there are forms of depression that occur as a result of certain environmental changes such as in climate like with seasonal affective disorder, or after pregnancy like with postpartum depression. Some people with depression may also experience other serious mood symptoms like with bipolar disorder or psychotic depression.
No matter what type of depression a person may have, they all share certain serious symptoms for more than two weeks at a time that may include:
persistent “empty” mood or sad feelings
irritability
hopelessness
loss of interest in hobbies or daily activities
decreased energy or fatigue
restlessness
moving or talking more slowly
difficulty concentrating
trouble sleeping or eating
digestive problems or headaches without a medical cause
thoughts of death or suicide
Not everyone with depression experiences every symptom. However, if you have a few of these symptoms and you feel that daily life has become hard to handle, then it may be time to reach out to a healthcare professional for help.
Antidepressant medications and psychotherapy, like talk therapy are typical primary treatments for depression. However, if these treatments alone are not helping all of your symptoms, then there are some other things you can try. Experts suggest asking for help from a trusted friend, family member, or counselor as well as taking steps to take part in your community for social support.
Another treatment option is to join a study through the National Institutes of Health where new treatments will be tested. If you need help now, then reach out to someone today for advice through one of the resources found on this website. Exercise can also be something you can do now to help improve your depressive symptoms.
Exercise and depression research
The American Heart Association suggests that most adults exercise at least 150 minutes a week. This means that for most days of the week, you should move at least thirty minutes a day. This doesn’t have to be all at once, but can be a few minutes at a time. And this exercise should be at a moderate pace. Therefore, if you walk briskly for a few minutes here and there for a total of thirty minutes a day, then you can keep your heart strong. Not only that, but you can also keep your mind healthy too.
A recent study shows that exercise may help improve depressive symptoms. This study looked at data from over 600000 adults. Study results show that there is a protective relationship between exercise and risk for major depressive disorder. And what makes this finding stronger is that this data was taken from actual measured movement, not self-reported exercise. Therefore, experts suggest that exercise could be an effective adjunct strategy to help treat and prevent depressive symptoms.
Exercise and diabetes research
If you exercise to help improve your depressive symptoms, you could also help improve your diabetes risk. Experts report that depressive symptoms correlate strongly with a risk of incident diabetes. A study of data from the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) looked at whether positive behavior could help lower risk of type 2 diabetes in postmenopausal women.
The study looked at data from over 100000 women over 14 years. Study results show that those who were the most optimistic had a 12-percent lower risk of developing diabetes versus those in the lowest quartile of optimism. Also, those who showed more hostile and negative behaviors, were at higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Therefore, prevention strategies to help target such negative mood and personality traits may help lower risk of type 2 diabetes in these persons.
Take home message
If you suffer from depression, then there are many steps you can take to help improve your quality of life. The first step is to ask for help. I know this is not an easy ask, but there are many resources out there where people want to help you take back your life.
And if you have diabetes, it may be worth it to be screened for depression to see if such strategies listed above may help you not only feel better in your mind, but also help improve your diabetes symptoms.
Changes in diet such as consuming more antioxidant-rich foods and taking supplements such as Elevia by Vita Sciences may also help. Elevia contains GABA and 5-HTP to help calm your mind and boost serotonin levels. This could be another tool in your belt to help you improve your depressive symptoms and start feeling better inside and out.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD
References:
American Heart Association (last reviewed April 18, 2018) “American Heart Association Recommendations for Physical Activity in Adults and Kids.”
Choi KW, Chen C, Stein MB, et al. (Published online January 23, 2019) “Assessment of Bidirectional Relationships Between Physical Activity and Depression Among Adults: A 2-Sample Mendelian Randomization Study.” JAMA Psychiatry, doi:10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2018.4175
National Institute of Mental Health (February 2018) “Depression.”
Sandoiu, A. (January 27, 2019) “Diabetes: How optimism may influence your risk.” Medical News Today, https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/324297.php
A lonely mood could be worse for your health than obesity
June 7, 2018 alternative medicine, anxiety, brain health, cognitive function, depression, Health, Health News, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain fog, Brain health, Depression, health, mental healthStaci
So much focus is placed on diet and exercise to stay healthy, that sometimes mental health care can be forgotten. However, the health of both mind and body is important to be in your best state of health. In fact, a recent report has found that being lonely may be a greater hazard to public health than obesity.
What is mental health?
Mental health considers the well-being of the emotional, social, and psychological parts of one’s life. Although mental health issues can affect the mood of a person, it can also impact important life factors. The way we feel can affect the way we think, act, make decisions, and how we handle relationships with others, among other things. Therefore, it mental health should be taken just as seriously as physical health.
How can being lonely affect your health?
A recent report has found that being lonely is a serious public health issue. The health insurance company Cigna reports that most American adults consider themselves lonely, or feel disconnected from the world and people around them. Younger American, such as those in Generation Z and millennials, report being the most lonely.
Since loneliness is not necessarily a condition on your diagnosis sheet, health care providers may overlook it. However, left untreated, loneliness can lead to more serious mental health conditions such as depression. Experts suggest “social cognitive retraining” to combat loneliness. This is because the brains of lonely people can make the negative feelings worse if left untreated. A qualified psychologist or psychiatrist can perform this type of brain retraining.
Ways to help improve your mood
If you feel that your lonely mood is starting to affect your daily life and relationships, then you should contact a health care provider or counselor to get proper treatment. However, if you feel that your lonely feeling is in its early stages, then you may be able to take steps to improve this feeling on your own.
Extend yourself in the community: By volunteering or attending social events, you can feel more engaged in your community. This can help you feel less lonely and perhaps make some new friends and contacts.
Find groups to join that involve your hobbies: Whether you like to read, run, or play music, find local groups in your community to join. These groups can help you meet like-minded people that like the same things that you do. This can help you get out of your comfort zone at home a little and find others to talk with that you have something in common with. One app to help with this is Meetup, which provides you access to local clubs and events in your community.
Take a mood lifter supplement: Elevia by Vita Sciences is a mood lifting supplement. It contains compounds such as GABA (gamma amino butyric acid) and 5-HTP that research shows to calm the mind and body, while boosting levels of the feel good hormone serotonin.
Stay positive: As the saying goes, energy creates energy. If you exude negative energy, then that negative energy will likely remain within you. However, if you go into life and situations with a positive attitude, then it is likely that before long, that positive energy will become a part of you. Certain mental health issues may make staying positive nearly impossible. However, with the help of a mental health professional, counselor, and a network of family and friends to reach out to, you can start to create more positive energy in your life and mind.
Be sure to call the following hotlines if you are experiencing a mental health crisis or have questions about getting started on treatment for your mental health condition.
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) National Helpline: 1-800-662-HELP (4357)
National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) Helpline: 1-800-950-NAMI (6264)
Sources:
Loria, K. ( June 3, 2018) “Loneliness may be a greater public health hazard than obesity- here are 4 psychology-backed tips to combat it.” Business Insider, http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-feel-less-lonely-2018-5
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (August 29, 2017) “What is Mental Health?”
Could your sleep patterns affect your mental health?
May 29, 2018 anxiety, blood pressure, Blood pressure, Boost energy!, brain health, cognitive function, depression, digestion, exercise, Health News, heart health, hypertension, Mental Health, stress, supplementsanxiety, blood pressure, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, hypertension, mental health, sleepStaci
Sleep. Work. Eat. Repeat. Does that sound like your day, or something like it? Sleep is often set aside as just something that a person does at the end of the day. It is often overlooked as a very important part of optimal health. A recent study found that it is so important in fact, that not getting enough sleep may increase your risk for mental health disorders.
The Importance of Sleep
The average adult needs at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep a night. This may seem like a lot if you live a busy life which many of us do. And you may shrug it off and say, “Who needs sleep. I don’t need sleep.” The fact is that sleep is more important than you think, and without it your health could suffer.
So many things happen while you sleep. For example, at rest your body conserves energy, regulates blood pressure, and restores tissues and muscles. Furthermore, your body regulates fluids and controls hormone levels in the body while you sleep. Without enough sleep, your circadian rhythm can go off course. In turn, this can lead you to eat when you’re not hungry, which can lead to weight gain and increased chronic disease risk over time.
And if these weren’t enough reasons to hit the snooze button, sleep also has an impact on the immune system. Lack of sleep can cause yo to get sick more often, which in turn could put more stress on your body and mind.
Sleep and Mental Health
A recent study looked at about 90,000 residents from the United Kingdom in regards to sleep patterns. Study subjects between the age of 37 and 73 years wore accelerometers for 24 hours a day for 7 days. In other words, these devices measured the rest and activity levels of participants. Those with reduced activity during the day or increased activity at night were described as having a disrupted circadian rhythm, or lower amplitude. Comparing these patterns with questionnaires filled out by participants found links between lower amplitudes and health measures such as:
higher risk of unstable moods
lower levels of unhappiness
lower health satisfaction
greater reported loneliness
Among other findings, it is clear that this study shows that lack of sleep can greatly impact mental health measures, and in turn quality of life.
Ways to Help You Get More Sleep
There may not be enough hours in the day to get everything done. However, it is really important to make sure sleep gets a priority on your to-do list. Therefore, if you have trouble sleeping, try some of the methods below to help.
Stick to a sleep schedule: Just like your other daily tasks, put sleep on your daily planner. Although it can be hard to do sometimes, setting a time to prepare for bed each night can help you develop a new healthy sleeping pattern over time.
Start a bedtime ritual: When it is coming close to that time of night, start a bedtime ritual that will help your body prepare for bed. Whether it is drinking a cup of herbal tea after dinner, or diffusing some lavender essential oils to relax your body, this type of ritual can reduce your risk of tossing and turning into the night. It is also helpful to reduce caffeine, sugar, and alcohol intake in the latter part of the day as well as turning off any screens during your bedtime ritual to help your eyes and mind rest.
Exercise each day: Any type of movement for at least 30 minutes each day can tire your body out a bit, so you can rest better in the evening. Otherwise, your body will have energy to expend with no outlet to provide it with. In turn, you will likely stay up late and have trouble sleeping. Besides that, exercise is good for keeping your body and mind healthy.
Take a supplement for sleep like Somnova by Vita Sciences. Somnova contains melatonin and l-theanine to help relax your mind, feel refreshed, and get more peaceful sleep. Add a sleep supplement to your bedtime routine about 30 minutes before you plan on going to sleep.
Visit your healthcare provider: If you have tried all of the above, or feel particularly tired upon waking, you may need to see your healthcare provider. This is because your sleep problems may be related to other conditions such as pain issues, sleep apnea, or other health conditions and should be treated under medical supervision.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Division of Sleep Medicine at Harvard Medical School (December 18, 2007) “Why Do We Sleep, Anyway?”
National Sleep Foundation (accessed May 16, 2018) “How Much Sleep Do We Really Need?”
NIH News in Health (April 2018) “Tick Tock: Your Body Clocks.”
Paddock, Ph.D., C. (May 16, 2018) “Sleep-wake disruption strongly linked to mood disorders.”
Could a walk in the park lower stress levels?
March 14, 2018 alternative medicine, blood pressure, Blood pressure, Boost energy!, brain health, cardiovascular, cognitive function, depression, exercise, Health News, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, heart health, hypertension, lower stress, mental healthStaci
Staying active has many benefits. In particular, you may have been told by a healthcare provider to move more to help manage weight or improve heart health. However, a recent study has found that a walk in the park may also reduce stress levels in the body.
How Much Exercise Do I Need?
The Department of Helath and Human Services recommends that most adults exercise 30 minutes a day for most days of the week. In particular, it is suggested that most adults should engage in:
150 minutes of moderate activity a week or 75 minutes of vigorous activity a week, or a combination of both levels of activity.
2 days each week of resistance or strength training that involves a single set of exercises that includes 12 to 15 repetitions at a weight that will tire the muscles by the end of the set.
This thirty minutes does not have to be all at once. Five minutes here and ten minutes there is enough as long as it adds up to 30 minutes by the end of the day. Also, you may be wondering what moderate activity is. Moderate activity is any exercise that allows you to hold a conversation, but does not allow you enough breath to sing. In addition, you should break a light sweat within 10 minutes of a moderate activity, while vigorous activity will have you breaking a sweat in a few minutes or less. Moderate activities include:
walking
water aerobics
gardening
light dancing
slow bicycling
Walking to Lower Stress
A study by researchers at the Center for Nature and Health at the University of California San Francisco looked at the effects of exercise on a group of 78 parents and children. This group of parents and children were encouraged to visit local parks as often as possible over the course of the study period. They were either provided maps to local parks and bus schedules or invited to group outings at local parks.
Follow-ups were done at one month and three months after the start of the study. During these follow-ups, self reports, journalling, and salivary cortisol levels were used to measure stress levels. It was found that every increase in park visits each week was linked to decreases in stress. In addition, it was found that those who visited the parks often saw:
increased physical activity
decreased loneliness
increased interest in nature
Other Ways to Lower Stress
Besides getting fresh air and exercising, there are many ways you can try to lower your stress levels.
Deep breathing can help relax the mind during stressful times and can also help improve sleep. This type of breathing involves breathing from the diaphragm, which means your stomach should inflate as you inhale and deflate as you exhale. Inhale for several seconds, hold your breath for several seconds, and exhale for several seconds. You may feel a bit lightheaded when starting this practice, so do not perform deep breathing when driving a car or operating machinery.
Simplifying your life by donating items in your home that you do not use such as clothes, excess furniture, or decorative items. Also, delegate tasks when possible at both home and work if possible to lighten your load. Finally, write upcoming events on a calendar and keep a running shopping list so you can lighten the burden on your mind.
Getting enough sleep is important not only for lowering stress, but for overall health. The average adult should get at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night.
Eating a balanced diet that is low in sugar, high in fiber, and high in other nutrients such as iron, B12, and vitamin C will help your body perform better in many ways. Some benefits of a healthy, balanced diet include improved cognitive function, better heart health, and an enhanced ability to handle stress. This balanced diet also includes lowering caffeine, increasing water intake, and reducing alcohol intake as well as eating a minimally processed diet.
Spending more time with others in your family, circle of friends, and/or community since social engagement can help boost “feel good” serotonin levels in the body.
Taking mood-boosting supplements like Elevia by Vita Sciences. Elevia contains GABA, chamomile, and 5-HTP. These compounds can calm the mind and boost serotonin levels.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Burton, M.D., N. (February 11, 2017) “How to Reduce Stress.”
Healthline (accessed March 5, 2018) “Parl Prescriptions Can Help Lower Stress Levels.”
Laskowski, M.D., E.R. (August 20, 2016) “How much should the average adult exercise each day?” Mayo Clinic.com
Mayo Clinic (May 19, 2017) “Exercise intensity: how to measure it.”
National Sleep Foundation (accessed March 5, 2018) “How Much Sleep Do We Really Need?”
Razani, N., et al (2018) “Effect of park prescriptions with and without group visits to parks on stress reduction in low-income parents: SHINE randomized trial.”
Watson, S. (June 18, 2014) “Caffiene and a healthy diet may boost memory, thinking skills; alcohol’s effect uncertain.”
Could Having a Pet Improve Your Anxiety?
February 21, 2018 alternative medicine, anxiety, Boost energy!, brain health, cognitive function, depression, exercise, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stressanxiety, Cardiovascular health, Depression, heart health, hypertension, mental healthStaci
There’s nothing better than coming home after a long and stressful day of work or school, and having a happy wagging tail waiting at the door for you. Owning a pet involves a lot of work and cost. However, studies show that a pet may be worth the time and money for the good of your health. A recent study review has shown that having a pet can decrease anxiety and provide overall benefits to anyone suffering from mental health issues.
About Mental Health and Anxiety
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), mental health is a “state of well being” in which a person can lead a productive life while being able to deal with the normal daily stresses of life. The National Alliance on Mental Illness reports that mental illnesses are not just the result of one event. However, such a state of being involves multiple factors such as genetics, environment, and lifestyle.
Examples of mental health conditions include:
Anxiety Disorders
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Eating Disorders
Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizophrenia
According to the American Psychiatric Association, anxiety disorders are the most common mental health disorders. In particular, about 30-percent of adults deal with such a disorder at some point in their life. Anxiety disorders are not just everyday stress or worry. On the contrary, those with such disorders worry or fear that may be seen as “abnormal” in certain situations. This fear or worry can result in disruption of their daily life.
For example, it may be “normal” to worry about taking a test. However, someone with anxiety disorder may have a similar level of worry and stress when having to talk with someone at the store. On the other hand, a person with the disorder may lose sleep because they worry that if they leave the house tomorrow that something bad may happen to them. These are just some examples of how anxiety disorder can manifest. However, this condition can come in many forms such as:
generalized anxiety disorder
panic disorder
phobias, or fears, such as agoraphobia (fear of public places)
social anxiety disorder
separation anxiety disorder
Pets and Mental Health Benefits
An analysis of 17 studies reported in BMC Psychiatry found that having a pet may help those with mental health disorders. Results of this study review found that pets had the following positive impacts on mental health:
One study interviewed some people who had depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or post-traumatic stress disorder. Subjects reported feeling more secure and stable with a pet in their lives.
Another study reported that those with a pet had lower levels of anxiety and a lower average body mass index.
Pets can provide unconditional love as well as support without judgment. In turn, this can help those with mental health issues cope if they are not getting such support from their family and friends.
Pets forced their owners to stay connected with the outside world and be more active. Besides helping those with mental health issues to connect with others, the act of going outside is also very helpful to overall health. For one thing, getting outside can help people get sunlight that helps make sure they get enough vitamin D, which can affect mental health. Also, mental health may benefit from the act of exercise.
Researchers suggest that mental health care plans should include asking patients with mental health issues to get a pet. However, more studies need to be done to figure out how pets could play in the lives of patients and in treatment plans.
Other ways to help improve your mental health
Besides having a pet, there are some other things you can do to help your mental health.
Be mindful by living in the present moment. Talk with a counselor if you have troubles in your past that are stopping you from living in the moment. Also, take a yoga class, learn relaxing breathing techniques, or get a wellness app to help you find ways to stay calm each day and night.
Eat balanced meals since sometimes low levels of certain vitamins or nutrients can make you feel more tired or nervous. Eat plenty of fiber-rich fruits and veggies to help keep your gut healthy. Also, make sure to eat enough protein each day such as meats, beans, low fat dairy products, nuts, and seeds. Low protein intake can cause you to feel tired. This is because protein-rich foods contain dopamine and tyrosine which keep you alert. Finally, make sure to eat some carbohydrate foods such as whole grains and cereals. This is because such foods increase “feel-good” serotonin in the body.
Volunteer or help out a friend or loved one since such acts can help you feel better about yourself. Also, such acts can help you connect with others and perhaps help you to see how much you have to be grateful for.
Get plenty of sleep since lack of sleep can greatly impact your mood. Set a bed time each night, avoid caffeine in the latter half of the day, and limit screen time at night to help you get more sleep.
Visit your doctor to make sure your vitals are healthy and to get help for any symptoms that may be bothering you or affecting your daily life.
Take a supplement such as Sereneo by Vita Sciences. Sereneo contains ingredients such as magnesium, chamomile, and valerian that promotes a boost in serotonin and supports stress and anxiety relief.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
American Psychiatric Association (January 2017) “What are anxiety disorders?”
Greenblatt, M.D., J.M. (November 14, 2011) “Psychological Consequences of Vitamin D Deficiency.”
Medical News Today (February 19, 2018) “It’s official: Pets benefit our mental health.”
National Alliance on Mental Illness (accessed February 20, 2018) ” Mental Health Conditions.”
Psychology Today (October 27, 2015) “9 Ways You Can Improve Your Mental Health Today.”
Weir, K. (December 2011) “The exercise effect.”
World Health Organization (August 2014) “Mental health: a state of well-being.”
Could Vitamin D Help IBS Symptoms?
January 31, 2018 alternative medicine, blood pressure, Blood pressure, bone health, Boost energy!, calcium, depression, diabetes, digestion, fiber, gut health, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, joint pain, medication, medicine, supplements, vitamin D, vitamin deficiencyBone Health, Cardiovascular health, constipation, Diabetes, diarrhea, heart health, ibs, vitamin DStaci
Do you get stabbing abdominal cramps after eating a fatty meal? Does dairy or gluten cause uncomfortable gas and bloating? Are doctors unsure of the origin of your chronic constipation or diarrhea? If you answered yes to any of these questions, then you may have what is called Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). Although changes in the diet may be helpful in many cases of IBS, research shows that vitamin D may also help those with this condition.
What is Irritable Bowel Syndrome?
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a disorder of the large intestine. If someone is suffering from the following symptoms, then they may have IBS.
abdominal pain, cramping, or bloating
less pain after bowel movement
excess gas
diarrhea or constipation, or a little of both
mucus in the stool
A diagnosis of IBS is usually given after testing has found that such symptoms are not related to another condition. Other conditions where such symptoms may be present include:
inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) like Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis
celiac disease
malabsorption
colon cancer
What is Vitamin D?
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin that is well-known for its link to bone health. D rich foods include:
vitamin D-fortified milk, orange juice, and yogurt
fatty fish like tuna and salmon.
cod liver oil
However, sunlight exposure can also provide vitamin D. Those who live in cloudy climates may have trouble doing this though. Therefore, vitamin D-rich foods and supplements may be needed for some to meet their vitamin D needs. Research suggests that just 5 to 30 minutes of sunlight twice a week can help a person meet their vitamin D needs.
Ostoeporosis is a common condition linked to vitamin D deficiency. However preliminary evidence has also linked low vitamin D to diabetes, hypertension, and glucose intolerance. Recent recommendations suggest that most adults should consume at least 600IU a day. Although, those with a low vitamin D level may require up to 4000 IU/day to help them normalize their levels.
It is important to ask your doctor for a vitamin D test at your annual visit. This is because vitamin D is not a typical test that healthcare providers include in your common annual visit lab panel. If you fail to get a vitamin D level test, then you may never know if symptoms such as weakness or bone pain could be helped with vitamin D treatment.
Vitamin D and IBS Research
A study in the European Journal of Clinical Medicine has found a possible link between vitamin D deficiency and IBS. An analysis of four observational studies and three randomized controlled trials found a link between vitamin D deficiency in IBS patients. Furthermore, high dose vitamin D supplements were found to help ease IBS symptoms such as bloating, diarrhea, and constipation.
Even though evidence is limited, researchers suggest that anyone with IBS symptoms should get tested for vitamin D. If you have low vitamin D, you may be prescribed a Vitamin D supplement, or asked to purchase an over-the-counter softgel or liquid supplement. You can also purchase vitamin D in an absorbable cream like Maxasorb by Vita Sciences. Maxasorb comes in 1000IU or 2000IU and provides a convenient way to take your vitamin D daily.
Other Ways to Help Your IBS
In addition to keeping an eye on your vitamin D levels, there are other ways to help control your IBS symptoms.
Increase fiber intake by adding in more whole grains like oats and quinoa, along with plenty of fruits and vegetables. Fiber can help bulk stool and make it easier to pass.
Drink plenty of water each day to help flush waste out of your body, along with water’s other very important functions. It is especially important to increase water intake as you increase fiber intake. If you increase fiber intake without drinking enough water, this could worsen constipation symptoms in some people. An easy rule of thumb is to drink half of your body weight (in pounds) in ounces. For example, if you weigh 200 lbs, you should drink 100 ounces, or about 12 cups of fluid each day. This fluid could include:
water or low-calorie flavored water
unsweetened tea, hot tea, or herbal tea
broth or boullion
decaf coffee
other low-calorie, low sugar drinks that do not contain caffeine or alcohol
Exercise on a regular basis. Exercise can help promote healthy bowel movements in those who have constipation. Any movement counts, so get outside and take a walk, dance in your living room to a workout tape or to the radio, or go to the gym and join a group class. Whatever movement is fun to you, is movement that you will stick with for the long run.
Get plenty of sleep. Most adults need at least seven hours of sleep each day for good health. Sleep helps your body regulate fluids, blood pressure, blood glucose levels, as well as digestion. Therefore, not enough sleep could be affecting your gut health.
Start on a probiotic since the gut may be lacking the good bacteria it needs for healthy digestion. Ask your healthcare provider for specific brands of probiotics they may recommend. You can also check out Vita Sciences for gut health aids such as Biovia 30.
Eliminate certain foods from your diet. These foods may vary from person to person, depending on your specific allergies or intolerances. However, some common food triggers of IBS include:
FODMAPs, or fermentable oligo-, di-, and monosaccharides and polyols found in certain fruits, vegetables, grains, or dairy products
gluten-containing foods such as breads, pastas, and baked goods
gassy foods such as alcohol, carbonated beverages, or certain vegetables such as cauliflower and cabbage
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Mayo Clinic (November 18. 2017) “Irritable Bowel Syndrome.”
Medline Plus (accessed January 29, 2018) “Digestive Diseases.”
National Institutes of Health: Office of Dietary Supplements (February 11, 2016) “Vitamin D- Fact Sheet for Health Professionals.”
Williams CE, et al. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2018;doi:10.1038/s41430-017-0064-z.
Could Women’s Hearts be More Sensitive to Stress?
December 27, 2017 alternative medicine, anxiety, blood pressure, Blood pressure, brain health, cardiovascular, cognitive function, depression, digestion, headache, Health, Health News, heart health, hypertension, medication, medicine, Mental Health, stress, stroke, supplements, women's healthanxiety, Brain health, Cardiovascular health, Depression, heart health, hypertension, Insomnia, Magnesium, stressStaci
Stress of the mind can hurt your heart.
Your heart is racing. Your palms are sweaty. Sometimes you may feel dizzy, disoriented, or nauseous. These are all potential symptoms when you are faced with a stressful situation. However, one of the most dangerous symptoms of stress is constriction of blood vessels. A recent study has found that women may be more at risk for heart-related health problems in response to stress.
What is stress?
Stress is a normal reaction to the demands of life that can affect both the body and mind. A little bit can be healthy to remind you to be more alert or more motivated. However, too much can contribute to a variety of health conditions such as:
ulcers
digestive issues such as irritable bowel syndrome
asthma
headaches
back pain
In addition to such conditions, stress can also increase blood pressure, which can in turn increase risk of heart disease. This is due to the body’s response to a perceived threat. The body goes into “fight-or-flight” mode in which the body constricts blood vessels to provide more blood flow to the major organs. Also, digestion slows to keep the body focused on providing blood to the brain and the heart. However, if anxiety or chronic exposure to the perceived threat(s) occurs, then this response can negatively impact health.
Women, Stress, and the Heart
A recent study in the journal Arteriosclerosis looked at 678 people with coronary artery disease, or plaques in the major arteries that affects blood flow. Each person was asked to engage in public speaking, a commonly known fear of many, to see if it triggered myocardial ischemia, or a reduction of blood flow in the heart.
About 15-percent of study subjects triggered myocardial ischemia. Men and women were affected by this condition at a similar rate, but the cause was different. In men, blood flow was mostly affected by high blood pressure and increased heart rate. On the other hand, in women it was caused by a constriction of blood vessels, also known as microvascular dysfunction. The difference between the two reactions is that in men, the perceived fear increased workload on the heart. However, in women, the dysfunction of vessels impaired blood flow. It is not known whether this increased incidence of myocardial ischemia can increase risk of heart disease, but such studies are being planned.
Healthy Ways to Deal With Stress
You can help decrease stress, and in turn, lower risk of heart disease in a variety of ways. The following list includes way you can lower stress on both your body and mind.
Limit coffee and caffeine since such constrict blood vessels, thus impacting blood flow. Two to three cups a day is suggested for adequate health benefit.
Quit or don’t smoke since smoking can also constrict blood vessels, and in turn blood flow, this increasing heart disease risk.
Live a balanced life. It is important to make sure that as hard as you work in your job and in exercising, you should also rest your body just as readily. A good balance of rest and activity is around 30 minutes a day of moderate activity such as walking combined with about 7 hours of sleep each night. Being both active and resting well each night are important for the regulation of body fluids, blood pressure, and blood glucose levels in the body, among other things.
Be mindful in everything you do. When you are more mindful and aware of the choices you make each day, it can eliminate a lot of stress on the body. The following are a list of small things you can do each day to be more mindful and in turn reduce stress on your body inside and out.
Plan and prep meals and snacks ahead of time.
Make healthy choices at meal and snack time such as less processed food and more fresh foods.
Portion out food choices to prevent excess intake.
Set a designated bedtime to help your body get more rest.
Make a to-do list to keep track of your weekly tasks and delegate any tasks that you can to others.
When you get stressed, give yourself a time-out with relaxation breathing to help you better face the situation at hand.
Make time for yourself in your schedule by setting aside 15 minutes a day to meditate, read, or do something your enjoy to give your body and mind a break.
Take supplements to help with sleep and managing stress. There are many herbal supplements on the market that claim to help with sleep and stress. However, it is important to do your research. Perhaps the supplement most well-known for its sleep-inducing properties is melatonin. It is actually a hormone produced by the brain’s pineal gland that affects the sleep/wake cycle and produces drowsiness. Those that may be deficient in this hormone may experience trouble sleeping or insomnia. However, it is important to remember that since it is a hormone, it may not be suitable for everyone, so be sure to check with your doctor first before starting a melatonin regimen.
Another supplement to try is Sereneo by Vita Sciences. Sereneo contains a combination of magnesium, chamomile, and valerian to help promote a feeling of calm by working to help reduce stress and anxiety. Valerian and chamomile have been found to be safe, natural herbal remedies to help induce sleep, while magnesium has been found to help promote reduced anxiety and irritability. Be sure to let your healthcare provider know before starting any new supplement regimen to be sure it does not interact with any of your currently prescribed medications.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
American Heart Association (June 2014) “Fight Stress with Healthy Habits”
American Heart Association (June 2014) “Stress and Heart Health”
Berkeley Wellness (October 1, 2013) “Can Supplements Help You Sleep?”
Centers for Disease Control (March 2, 2017) “How Much Sleep Do I Need?”
Deans, M.D., E. (June 12, 2011) “Magnesium and the Brain: The Original Chill Pill.” Psychology Today.
Harvard Medical School: Division of Sleep Medicine (December 18, 2007) “The Characteristics of Sleep”
Mayo Clinic (March 31, 2017) “Stress Management”
Medline Plus (December 21, 2017) “Are Women’s Hearts More Vulnerable to Stress?”
Rodale Wellness (August 25, 2017) “4 Sleep Supplements That Actually Work”
Can One Day of Exercise Protect Your Heart for Days?
December 12, 2017 alternative medicine, blood pressure, Blood pressure, Boost energy!, cardiovascular, depression, diabetes, exercise, Health News, heart health, hypertension, medication, obesity, stress, stroke, supplements, weight loss, yogaCardiovascular health, Diabetes, heart health, hypertension, weight lossStaci
If you have ever tried to lose weight, you have likely been told to move more and exercise. This statement may sound pretty generic, however it is true. Although the Health and Human Services suggests working out at moderate intensity for 150 minutes a week, a recent report has found that even just one high-quality session of pre-conditioning the heart could keep your heart healthy all week long.
What is moderate exercise?
According to the Mayo Clinic, moderate exercise is an intensity in which you can carry a conversation, but cannot sing. For example, if your breathing quickens, but you are not quite out of breath, then you are engaging in moderate exercise. Examples of moderate exercise may include:
walking briskly
gardening
ballroom dancing
water aerobics
biking slower than 10 miles per hour
Exercise and Heart Health Research
Animal studies have shown that one session of exercise can protect the heart for the rest of the week. This is based on infarct size, or size of an area of necrosis in an organ caused by obstruction of blood circulation. The pre-conditioning exercise studied has been shown to reduce infract size, in turn reducing risk of heart disease. This pre-conditioning involves training the heart during periods of ischemia, or reduced blood flow. In turn, the training is expected to reduce infarct size during periods of occlusion, or vessel blockage.
These types of studies have not yet been done in humans. However, researchers feel that there is great promise for this type of therapy to be done with patients in the days before a scheduled heart surgery or procedure. It is thought that such “cardio protection” could help lower risk of complications or death and improve overall health outcomes.
Other Heart Healthy Things You Can Do Each Week
Besides exercise, there are plenty of things you can do each week to help improve your heart health.
Eat more fruits and vegetables: The fiber and nutrients found in fruits and vegetables has been shown to help lower risk of heart disease. Some examples of these nutrients include folate, magnesium, potassium, as well as vitamins A, C, and K. Also, non-starchy vegetables, or those vegetables other than corn, peas, and potatoes, are low in calories. Therefore, such foods can be eaten in great volumes to fill you up without putting you over your suggested calorie intake for the day.
Eat less processed foods: Boxed goods, frozen or prepackaged convenience meals, and canned soups are just some examples of processed foods that can hurt your heart. The reason you should limit such foods is because they can often be high in sodium, fat, and sugars that are used to make these products last longer in your pantry or refrigerator. High sodium foods in particular can contribute to high blood pressure, which is a risk factor for heart disease.
Manage stress: Stress can also contribute to high blood pressure. In addition, when you are stressed, you may eat more sweets and other comfort foods more often. Over time, this emotional eating can lead to weight gain. In turn, weight gain can increase your risk of high blood pressure, diabetes, and heart disease. You should find ways to manage stress such as:
talking to a friend or counselor
taking a yoga or meditation class
performing relaxation breathing
listening to music
using essential oils
engaging in some sort of “me time” every day. “Me time” involves some time each day in which you engage in an activity you enjoy that gives you time to yourself to breathe.
Take heart-healthy supplements: Besides a multivitamin each day, you may want to consider a heart healthy supplement such as Circova if you are at risk for heart disease. Circova is a supplement by Vita Sciences that contains Hawthorne extract as well as antioxidants such as flavonoids and catechins that have been shown to improve blood flow and blood pressure.
Visit your doctor regularly: Be sure to visit your healthcare provider on a regular basis to get your blood pressure checked and to assess your heart disease risk. For most people, once a year is sufficient. However, if you have high blood pressure or a history of heart disease or diabetes, then you may want to visit more often such as every 6 months.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
American Heart Association (March 2014) “Moderate to Vigorous: What is Your Level of Intensity?”
American Heart Association (May 15, 2015) “Can antioxidants in fruits and vegetables protect you and your heart?”
Lou N. (November 30, 2017) “One Workout May Protect Heart from Ischemia for Hours or Days.” Medpage Today
Mayo Clinic (May 19, 2017) “Exercise Intensity: How to Measure It”
Mayo Clinic (July 25, 2015) “Myocardial Ischemia”
Merriam-Webster Dictionary (accessed December 11, 2017) “Infarct”
Could No Sick Leave Cause Poor Health?
September 26, 2017 alternative medicine, anxiety, brain health, cognitive function, depression, Health, Health News, Mental Health, stress, supplements, unemploymentanxiety, cold, Depression, flu, health, mental health, wellnessStaci
It’s about that time of year. Cold and flu season is greatly approaching. Although some employees may have paid sick leave, they may be afraid to use it for risk of ruining their reputation. On the other hand, maybe there is no one to cover their shift. Employees do not have a choice in workplaces where there is no paid sick leave. If these employees stayed home, they would risk losing pay, or in some cases, their job. A recent study has shown that workplaces without paid sick leave are at risk for harming the health of their employees.
Paid Sick Leave and Health Statistics
A 2013 report by the National Partnership for Women and Families looked at the effect of paid sick leave on health outcomes. They found that four of ten private sector workers and eight of ten low-income workers do not have access to paid sick leave. Also, these workers were 1.5 times more likely to go to work with the flu or a viral infection. In the fall of 2009, nearly eight million workers went to work with H1N1. In turn, these people are thought to have infected seven million of their co-workers. This string of events was likely the cause of the peak of the pandemic.
Furthermore, parents who do not have paid sick leave are more likely to send their sick kids to school or daycare. This is because the parents have no other form of childcare and cannot afford to stay home unpaid. This situation puts care givers, teachers, and classmates of the child at risk. Therefore, paid sick leave is important for the health of not only the worker, but many others as well.
Recent Research
A study of nearly 18000 workers between the ages of 18 and 64 years of age looked at the effects of paid sick leave on overall health. Those without paid sick leave were more likely to have mental distress than those who did. In fact, those without sick leave had nearly 150-percent more mental distress. This distress can disrupt the daily life and activities of those with no paid leave. Young, Hispanic, low-income, and poorly educated groups were at greatest risk. These results suggest that lack of paid sick leave is a social justice and health disparity issue.
Protect Yourself Against Cold and Flu Season
Access to paid sick leave may not be under your control. However, you can take steps to prevent sickness.
Eat a balanced diet with plenty of immune-friendly fruits and vegetables.
Stay active each day since exercising can boost heart health, keep weight at a healthy level, and in turn protect overall health.
Practice good hygiene by washing your hands regularly, especially if you have contact with others in your daily life. Caregivers, healthcare workers, and teachers are just some examples of workers who may be at most risk for exposure to germs. Therefore, these workers will need to be even more diligent about washing hands often and perhaps keeping sanitizer close at hand.
Take immune-friendly supplements such as Biovia30 by Vita Sciences. Biovia30 is full of 30 million colony-producing units of probiotic strains to promote health digestive and immune health.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Harvard Health Publishing (September 2014) “How to Boost Your Immune System”
National Partnership for Women and Families (April 2013) “Paid Sick Days Improve Our Public Health”
Preidt, R. (September 22, 2017) “Workers Without Paid Sick Leave Suffer Ill Effects”
Could Estrogen Help Depression?
August 1, 2017 Aging, alternative medicine, anxiety, ashwagandha, Boost energy!, cognitive function, depression, Health News, menopause, Mental Health, stress, women's healthanxiety, Brain fog, Brain health, Depression, estrogen, menopause, mental health, women's healthStaci
Every once in a while, you may feel a bit gloomy, disappointed, or stressed. However, depression is much more than just having a bad day. Depression is a serious mood disorder that can make simple tasks such as eating, working, and sleeping much more difficult. A recent study has found that low estrogen levels in some women may be linked to depression.
According to the National Institutes of Mental Health (NIMH), depression occurs when you have several of the following symptoms for more than two weeks.
persistent sad mood
hopelessness
loss of interest in things that were once enjoyable
decreased energy
trouble focusing or making decisions
appetite or weight changes
thoughts of taking one’s own life
aches or pains with no clear cause
Also, a person may be at higher risk for depression if they have a family history of the condition. Major life changes or chronic health problems may also increase their risk. Most recently, a study in Menopause showed that a lack of estrogen exposure may put women at higher risk for depression.
The study looked at 1300 women and their level of estradiol exposure related to their depression risk. It was found that those with higher levels of estradiol exposure from the onset of menstruation to menopause had lower levels of depression. Also, those women who had longer term use of birth control had a lower risk of the condition. It is important to know that the number of pregnancies and use of breastfeeding did not impact these results.
There is no cause and effect of low estrogen and depression, but these study results are still important. This is because those with earlier menopause, more frequent hot flashes, and less frequent periods all were at higher risk for depression. Hormone changes are likely to blame for this. During such times during and after menopause, women are at much higher risk for depression than others.
Therefore, if you feel you may be dealing with depression, there are many resources for help. There is no one treatment that will help everyone. First of all, let your doctor know if you are feeling depressed. Your doctor may be able to provide medicines that may make dealing with your depression easier to deal with. Also, they could test your hormone levels and provide hormone supplements that may reduce symptoms. Other resources for depression are listed below.
Talk therapy with a licensed health care provider can help you talk about your feelings. Such counseling can help you manage your stress better and cope with life issues in a healthy way.
Being more active through walking, running, gardening, or other exercises. The fresh air from nature and the “feel good” hormones released during exercise can help improve mood.
Spending time with other people such as family, friends, or support groups can improve your mood. Talking with others that care about you and your health can help you see that you are not alone in dealing with life’s issues.
Setting realistic goals for yourself can make life easier to deal with. Taking small steps towards your goals can make life seem less overwhelming. You should celebrate each small victory and don’t be afraid to ask others for help along the way.
Ask your doctor about trying certain supplements such as Estrosa by Vitasciences. Estrosa contains compounds such as Black Cohosh that have been found to help relieve the hot flashes, weight gain, bloating, and mood swings related to menopause. For both women and men, Elevia by Vitasciences helps boost serotonin levels which can improve mood and calm the mind.
Also, foundations such as Hope for Depression provide valuable resources to help those with depression learn more about the condition. Also, this foundation helps support research efforts to find better treatments for those with depression.
-written by Staci Gulbin, MS, MEd, RD, LDN
Sources:
Medline Plus (July 21, 2017) “Estrogen May Influence Women’s Depression Risk” https://medlineplus.gov/news/fullstory_167353.html
National Institute of Mental Health (October 2016) “Depression” https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/depression/index.shtml
Posts navigation
← Older posts
Search
Search the blog with this form:
Special Offers
Sign-up for Email Offers with this form:
Subscribe
Tags
Tags Select Category Aging (20) alternative medicine (66) antioxidant (31) anxiety (17) arthritis (7) ashwagandha (3) back pain (5) blood pressure (40) Blood pressure (50) bone health (11) Boost energy! (23) brain health (28) breakfast (12) calcium (7) cardiovascular (56) chondroitin (2) Chronic Pain (11) coffee (2) cognitive function (30) depression (14) diabetes (41) diabetes medicine (17) digestion (26) exercise (40) eye health (6) Fertility and Pregnancy (2) fiber (39) garlic (2) Gastrointestinal (GI) Disorders (6) glaucoma (3) gut health (22) Hair, Skin, and Nails (3) hawthorn (2) headache (3) Health (77) Health News (110) healthy fats (21) heart health (70) Help for Tinnitus (4) herbs (1) high cholesterol (13) hydration (11) hypercholesterolemia (14) hypertension (53) Hypothyroidism (2) insulin (8) joint pain (8) l-arginine (1) medication (39) medicine (39) memory (10) menopause (2) Mental Health (28) migraine (2) Migraine Headaches (12) Neuropathy (14) niacin (2) obesity (34) omega-3 (2) osteoporosis (2) pain (3) Pernicious Anemia (PA) (1) probiotic (11) probiotics (11) retinopathy (2) Sciatica (2) stress (40) stroke (18) supplements (56) unemployment (3) unsaturated fat (7) vision (6) vitamin A (1) vitamin A deficiency (1) Vitamin B12 Benefits (4) Vitamin B12 Deficiency (10) vitamin D (8) vitamin deficiency (8) Vitamin Deficiency Risk Factors (9) water (12) weight loss (34) women’s health (4) yoga (4)
Recent Posts
Could eating breakfast could lower your heart disease risk? April 24, 2019
Reduce carbs at breakfast to lower blood sugar April 17, 2019
Improve your diet, extend your life April 10, 2019
Add nuts to your diet for better brain health April 4, 2019
Could weight loss help lower risk of migraine? March 27, 2019
Could sugary drinks reduce life expectancy? March 20, 2019
Could your yo-yo diet lifestyle be hurting your heart? March 12, 2019
A plant-based diet may help treat diabetes March 6, 2019
Could too much fat in your diet harm your gut health? February 27, 2019
Could preventing or treating hypertension protect your mind? February 20, 2019
Could eating processed foods increase risk of death? February 13, 2019
Heart Health Month: How to protect yourself from heart attack February 6, 2019
Move more to fight depression …and diabetes January 30, 2019
Could fish oil lower your risk of stroke? January 24, 2019
A team approach may help diabetes health and your relationships January 16, 2019
Eat less red meat in your diet for better heart health this new year January 8, 2019
Could sleep help you meet your New Year’s weight loss goals? January 2, 2019
Could a Mediterranean diet improve your brain health? December 27, 2018
Drinking less alcohol could help weight loss goals this new year December 18, 2018
Do you have good metabolism? If not, try this December 12, 2018
Products
Migravent
B12 Patch
Nervex
Maxasorb B12 Cream
Maxasorb D3 Cream
Maxasorb Melatonin Cream
Nurenza
About Us
Company History
Practitioners
Wholesale
Quality Assurance
Help
Terms and Conditions
Product Index
Category Index
Store Locator
Copyright © 2016 Vita Sciences / All rights reserved. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.