Symptoms Zinc Wellness 22181
CVS.comMinuteClinicPhotoOptical
myWeekly Ad
Store Locator|
Welcome to the Health Information Center|
Pharmacy
Shop
Deals
ExtraCare
Search Search
Close
Close
Home
|
Health Information Center
Medical Condition Library
In-Depth Reports
Fact Sheets
Resource Centers
Condition Navigator
Tests, Procedures & Surgery
Videos & Animations
Additional Wellness Videos
Symptom Checker
Information Centers
Allergy
Arthritis
Asthma
Cancer
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
Colds & Flu
Diabetes
Heart Disease
Hepatitis
Stroke
Weight Management
View All
Wellness Centers
Aging & Health
Women's Health
Men's Health
Kids' & Teens' Health
Diet Center
Food & Nutrition
Weight Management
Mental Health
Fitness
Oral Health
Wellness Animations
View All
Helpful Resources
Medical Dictionary
Healthcare Provider Management
Medical News and Research
Health Myths
Health Calculators
Anatomy Navigator
Medication Management
Zinc
by Karen Schroeder Kassel, MS, RD, MEd
Functions
Recommended Intake
Zinc Deficiency
Zinc Toxicity
Major Food Sources
Health Implications
En Español
Zinc is an essential mineral that is found in almost every cell of the body. It is necessary for proper growth and immune function. Since zinc is not stored in or manufactured by the body, it must be ingested in proper amounts each day.
Oysters are well known for their zinc content. But, other animal foods are also excellent sources of zinc. Although you can get zinc from plant-based foods, it is not as well absorbed.
Functions
Zinc's functions include:
Supporting normal growth and development during pregnancy, childhood, and adolescence
Playing a role in tissue repair, including promoting wound healing
Helping the body use carbohydrate, protein, and fat
Helping to maintain proper immune function
Maintaining a sense of taste and smell
Recommended Intake
Age Group
Recommended Dietary Allowance
(mg/day)
Male
Female
0-6 months 2 2
7-12 months 3 3
1-3 years 3 3
4- 8 years 5 5
9-13 years 8 8
14-18 years 11 9
19+ years 11 8
Pregnancy: < 18 years n/a 12
Pregnancy: 19-50 years n/a 11
Lactation: < 18 years n/a 13
Lactation: 31-50 years n/a 12
Zinc Deficiency
The human body is able to adapt to a short-term mild zinc deficiency by absorbing greater amounts from the foods you eat and excreting less. However, sustained inadequate zinc intake will affect bodily functions. While relatively rare in the US among most people, a zinc deficiency can have the following effects:
Poor growth
Hair loss
Diarrhea
Delayed sexual maturation
Erectile dysfunction
Male infertility
Eye lesions
Loss of appetite
Reduced sense of taste and smell
Reduced resistance to infections
Poor wound healing
Mental lethargy
People who may be at risk for a zinc deficiency include:
Pregnant or lactating women
Vegetarians
People with sickle cell disease
Alcoholics or others with chronic liver disease
People with malnutrition from a variety of causes, including cancer and digestive diseases, that cause malabsorption and/or diarrhea, for example:
Celiac disease
Crohn's disease
Short bowel syndrome
Zinc Toxicity
Zinc toxicity is rare in the US. However, people who take zinc supplements may reach toxic levels. Oversupplementation with zinc can cause a copper deficiency. Excess zinc may also cause the following:
Diarrhea
Cramps
Nausea
Vomiting
Loss of appetite
Suppressed immune function
Impaired formation of red blood cells
Reduced levels of HDL ("good") cholesterol
Major Food Sources
Most of what we eat on a daily basis can give us the amount of zinc we need. Here are some common foods that have zinc:
Food
Serving size
Zinc content
(mg)
Oysters, cooked, breaded, fried 3 ounces 74
Beef , chuck or roast, cooked 3 ounces 7
Crab, Alaska king, cooked 3 ounces 6.5
Pork chop, loin, cooked 3 ounces 2.9
Breakfast cereal fortified with 25% of the Daily Value of zinc ¾ cup 3.8
Chicken, dark meat, broiler or fryer, cooked 3 ounces 2.4
Baked beans, canned ½ cup 2.9
Yogurt, fruit, low-fat 1 cup 1.7
Remember to read labels. If there is zinc in the food product, it will be listed with the amount.
Health Implications
Infections
Sufficient levels of zinc are essential for your immune system to function properly. For example, zinc is required for the development and activity of T-lymphocytes. These are a type of white blood cells that help fight infection.
When people deficient in zinc are given zinc supplements, their immunity improves. These effects are most clearly seen among children in developing countries. For example, when these children are given zinc supplements, they have shorter courses of infectious diarrhea and are at a decreased risk of developing pneumonia.
The Common Cold
Zinc lozenges, nasal sprays, and nasal gels may help to decrease the duration and severity of cold symptoms. They are believed to directly inhibit viruses in the nose and throat. However, this topic is still controversial, since the findings from scientific studies have been mixed. Moreover, nasal gels and sprays may cause permanent loss of smell when used incorrectly.
Some studies of oral zinc have found that the duration of cold symptoms to be shorter when zinc was taken, but each study had different doses, which can affect the outcomes. Age also plays a factor in whether or not zinc relieves cold symptoms. In a review of 17 trials, there was little effect on children and the duration of their cold symptoms.
Zinc has also been studied for its possible preventive effects. A review of zinc studies involving almost 400 children found that daily zinc supplements may reduce the risk of getting a cold.
Some of the more common side effects included bad taste in the mouth, and nausea. If you want to take zinc on a daily basis or at the start of a cold, keep in mind the safe upper intake levels for this mineral:
Age Group
Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (ULs) for Zinc
(mg/day)
Male
Female
0-6 months 4 4
7-12 months 5 5
1-3 years 7 7
4- 8 years 12 12
9-13 years 23 23
14-18 years 34 34
19+ years 40 40
Absorption of Calcium, Iron, and Copper
Minerals can compete with one another for absorption in the body. This is especially a concern when they are taken at high doses, such as those in supplements.
If you take calcium supplements, but consume little or no zinc, you might need to take a multivitamin/mineral containing zinc. Most multivitamin/mineral pills contain 100% of the Recommended Daily Allowance for zinc.
Large doses of zinc can interfere with the body's absorption of copper and iron, other minerals that are essential. If you are taking a zinc supplement, talk to your doctor about your need for other supplements.
Pregnancy Nutrition Support and Prevention of Preterm Birth
Good nutrition is important during pregnancy for the mother and the baby. This includes eating plenty of fruits, vegetables, and healthy proteins. Your doctor may recommend supplements like a zinc supplement if you are having a hard time with nutrition during pregnancy. Getting correct amounts of zinc may help prevent delivering a baby prematurely.
RESOURCES:
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
http://www.eatright.org/
National Institutes of Health
http://www.nih.gov/
CANADIAN RESOURCES:
Dietitians of Canada
http://www.dietitians.ca/
Health Canada
http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca
References:
Caruso TJ, Prober CG, Gwaltney JM Jr. Treatment of naturally acquired common colds with zinc: a structured review. Clin Infect Dis. 2007;45(5):569-574.
Copper deficiency. EBSCO DynaMed Plus website. Available at: http://www.dynamed.com/topics/dmp~AN~T113792/Copper-deficiency. Updated June 20, 2014. Accessed January 20, 2017.
Nutrition in pregnancy. EBSCO DynaMed Plus website. Available at: http://www.dynamed.... Updated November 16, 2016. Accessed January 20, 2017.
Zinc. EBSCO Natural and Alternative Treatments website. Available at:
...(Click grey area to select URL)
Updated December 15, 2015. Accessed January 20, 2017.
Zinc. National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements website. Available at: https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Zinc-HealthProfessional. Updated February 11, 2016. Accessed January 20, 2017.
2/4/2011 DynaMed Plus Systematic Literature Surveillance
...(Click grey area to select URL)
Lassi Z, Haider B, Bhutta Z. Zinc supplementation for the prevention of pneumonia in children aged 2 months to 59 months. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;12:CD005978.
2/25/2011 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillancehttp://www.dynamed...: Sing M, Das R. Zinc for the common cold. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011;2:CD001364.
10/25/2012 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.dynamed...: Mori R, Ota E, Middleton P, et al. Zinc supplementation for improving pregnancy and infant outcome. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;(2):CD000230.
Last reviewed January 2017 by Michael Woods, MD, FAAP
Last Updated: 1/20/2017
EBSCO Information Services is fully accredited by URAC. URAC is an independent, nonprofit health care accrediting organization dedicated to promoting health care quality through accreditation, certification and commendation.
This content is reviewed regularly and is updated when new and relevant evidence is made available. This information is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with questions regarding a medical condition.
To send comments or feedback to our Editorial Team regarding the content please email us at healthlibrarysupport@ebsco.com. Our Health Library Support team will respond to your email request within 2 business days.
Copyright © EBSCO Information Services
All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy | Editorial Policy
advertisement
Email Newsletter Signup
Sign up for our email newsletter
Go
Follow us on:
Pharmacy Services
Drug Information Center
Health Information Center
New Prescriptions
Refill Prescriptions
Transfer Prescriptions
View/Print Prescription History
Rapid Refill
New York Patient Bill of Rights
Questions?
Call 1-888-607-4287
CVS/pharmacy Stores
Store Locator
CVS/pharmacy Gift Cards
CVSphoto
Money Center
MinuteClinic
My Account
Order Status
Deals
myWeekly Ad
Online Offers
In-Store Offers
ExtraCare
Mobile
Mobile Sites
Mobile App
Help
Contact Us
Return Policy
Shipping Information
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Security
NY Prescription Drug Price List
Prescription Benefit Management
Caremark.com
Corporate Information
CVSHealth.com
Investors
Newsroom
Social Responsibility
Careers
Patient Privacy
Ethics & Human Rights
Real Estate
Sell Your Pharmacy
Suppliers
SilverScript.com
Terms of Use| Accessibility| Privacy Policy| © Copyright 1999 - 2016 CVS.com
Symptom Checker