What Are The Best Essential Oils For Scars and Home Remedies for It?
Beauty Care
Health Care
Natural Care
Reviews
Home » Beauty Care » What Are The Best Essential Oils For Scars and Home Remedies for It?
What Are The Best Essential Oils For Scars and Home Remedies for It?
July 26, 2017
Hannah Hall
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Google+
Linkedin
Table of Contents [ Hide ]
1. How scars formation?
2. Why do we have scars?
2.1. Scratches, cuts, and small wounds
2.2. Boils or acne
2.3. Burn
2.4. Surgery and serious injuries
3. Essential oils for scars
3.1. 1. Menthol essential oil for scar tissue
3.2. 2. Tea tree essential oil for acne scars
3.3. 3. Olive healing essential oil
3.4. 4. Lemon essential oil for scars
3.5. 5. Coconut essential oil for cuts
3.6. 6. Sunflower essential oil
3.7. 7. Spring seed essential oil for burn scars
3.8. 8. Lavender essential oil for dark spots
4. Home remedies for scars treatment
4.1. 1. Turmeric for scars removed
4.2. 2. Honey is considered as frankincense for acne scar
4.3. 3. Fresh lemonade removes dark scars
4.4. 4. Aloe vera works as natural scars healing cream
4.5. 5. Onions-an useful ingredient for scars
4.6. 6. Strawberries brighten the scars
4.7. 7. Cucumber for scars lightening
5. DIY acne scars treatment cream
6. The surgery to remove scars
7. Conclusion
Scars are considered as the most annoying defect on the skin. The dark scars may cause the losing confidence with friends and colleagues for many women because of the not- perfect for the skin.
However, scars can be removed by some way likely surgery or using some oils, ingredients that can be found in your kitchen.
Essential oil for scars will bring a bright skin for you. So do you know what are the best home remedies and essential oils for scars? This article below will show you everything you need to know about scars.
And remember, regardless of the method you use, you will also regularly massage the scars, as it will make your scars softer, less pruritus, and redness.
How scars formation?
When the skin is damaged, the body produces specialized tissue to heal the wound [1]. The skin that is restored is called a scar, unlike the normal skin of the body.
Age: The older you are, the slower your recovery, so the scar will grow
Skin type: In general, people with black or white skin have the ability to leave the same scar
Hormone: The different hormone levels will affect different scars
Region: In some regions of our body where our skin is stretched, the ball is on the shoulders or joints, the scar is more likely to form.
Complexity: The complications of wounds such as infection/inflammation during healing are a high risk of scarring.
Genetic factors: They also play a role in wound healing and, therefore, can make the skin susceptible to scarring.
There are some kinds of scars which contain too much collagen and other tissues, so the scar is protruding. Some have too little collagen, causing scars on the surrounding skin [2].
Skin lesions may not have hair follicles, are less elastic (not flexible), and from longer fibers than the surrounding skin. These changes create different types of scars.
Why do we have scars?
Scarring is caused by damaged skin, but it can also get worse if the wound’s grinding layer is formed but is removed too early.
You can identify your scars through the following wounds [3]:
Scratches, cuts, and small wounds
Small skin lesions can due to scars. The scratches or cuts only affect the outer layers of the skin. Injuries heal from deep inside cells when new tissues are formed, first the skin is pink and then may be yellowish.
When the wounds heal, the original new skin is formed on the outer edge of the wound and the whole. They can form scabs and take a long time to heal.
Boils or acne
Not all scarring is caused by acne, but when the hair follicle is inflamed or pus, it is more likely to leave scarring. The most typical type of scar is scars.
Burn
Burns might damage the deep layers of skin and another tissue. Scars caused by burns are usually scar-cramped, stretch the burn after healing.
Surgery and serious injuries
Surgery and injuries can lead to deep wounds to the skin and scars will form. Your doctor may use a variety of techniques to fix damaged tissues, help heal wounds properly, and reduce scarring.
Essential oils for scars
The more scars left after acne breakouts make you lose confidence in your appearance and directly affect your daily life. But do not be too worried, just use one of the following natural oils, anxiety about scars will be improved somewhat.
1. Menthol essential oil for scar tissue
Mint oil not only removes odor on the body but also miraculous effect in the darkening caused by acne scars. In addition, menthol also supports effective blackheads.
How to do:
Take a little mint essential oil on the morning scars gently massage in circular motion, after about 15 minutes rinse with warm water.
Frequent application of this method from 1-2 weeks, you will see the bruised marks are fading, returning you smooth whitening color and fresh.
Check Current Price
2. Tea tree essential oil for acne scars
Many women use tea tree oil for cooking, to create delicious taste as well as to remove the fishy smell of fish meat. In addition, many women also often use tea tree oil for acne scars or treatment of wrinkles. And now, you will know one more use of tea tree essential oil for scar.
In addition to being known for its, acne, and blotting effects, tea tree oil also has the potential to effectively to whiten the skin [4].
Tea tree oil is one of the most popular ingredients for curing acne and acne lesions such as scarring. You only need to apply tea tree oil to acne scar affected area persistently daily will soon see the effect.
How to do:
You take a few tea tree oil on the area of scar tissue, then use fingertips to press lightly push the nutrients into the deep penetration into the skin.
Let for 10-15 minutes and then rinse again with cool water.
Performed regularly every day, after only a week, you will really surprise with soft pink skin soft.
Tea tree oil will darken the scars daily and disappear completely. Certainly, apply regularly women will get the skin as beautiful as desired.
Check Current Price
3. Olive healing essential oil
Olive oil is rich in vitamin E, K, especially antioxidant and high acidity, which helps to brighten the scar.
Olive oil also acts as one of the healing natural oils for your skin and is an essential oil to prevent the scarring [4].
How to do:
Use a teaspoon of olive oil on your scars (use less if the scar is small).
Massage for 5 minutes to help loosen the scar tissue.
Leave the oil on the skin for 10 minutes, then wipe with a clean cloth.
Check Current Price
4. Lemon essential oil for scars
Lemon is used to help brighten the skin, treat bruises and eliminate acne. In addition, lemon is also a white bath material for sisters summer days.
When extracted into essential oils, lemon essential oil is a powerful antioxidant that helps to smooth out dark spots, safely and effectively.
Lemon oil also contains some anti-bacterial chemicals, so it is considered as one of the most effective healing oils that we need to know.
How to do:
You only need to apply lemon oil to the skin scars, then massage gently for about 10 minutes and leave for another 10 minutes.
Then wash face with warm water. Apply 2 times a day and night you will see bright white skin and no more scars.
In addition, you can also combine with rose water to get a mixture and a mask of bright white skin, not afraid of sunburn on summer days.
Check Current Price
5. Coconut essential oil for cuts
Coconut oil has long been used by women in the care of body and skin. Regularly massaging the skin with deep scarring with coconut oil will brighten the dark scars [4].
Coconut oil for scars is an easy-to-buy ingredient that is extremely safe for your skin. The essence in coconut oil not only smooth hair, smooth skin, but also effective bruising.
How to do:
Get the coconut oil on the acne scars daily.
Simultaneously combine the massage for 15 minutes, then rinse with lukewarm water.
Persist 3 to 4 months of use, the acne scars will gradually be removed, your skin will become bright color see.
Check Current Price
6. Sunflower essential oil
Sunflower essential oils not only bring a pleasant scent to help the body to relax comfortably but also help to fight with deep scar and freckles.
In addition to helping to nourish the skin smooth and white gradually, sunflower essential oil is also engraved by the scar, freckles, spots on the skin.
How to do:
Apply a little oil to the skin on the skin with a deep scar, then massage within 10-15 minutes and then rinse with cleanser.
You should apply persistently twice a day in the evening before going to bed and waking up in the morning.
After 1 week, dark scars, hyper pigmentation or freckles fade away.
Check Current Price
7. Spring seed essential oil for burn scars
Spring Seed Oil is often used in many different cosmetic industries and is particularly effective in treating severe scarring.
How to do:
Apply the oil to the skin
You need to massage the spring oil into scarred areas twice a day with a 15-minute massage
Then, rinse with clean water
8. Lavender essential oil for dark spots
Lavender oil is one of the best oil for scars that you need to know. Lavender oil does not only bring the relaxing feeling for you but it is also helpful in scar treatment.
How to do:
You can apply lavender essential oil on the scar by leaving a cotton ball dipped in lavender essential oil about 2 times a day on acne scars.
Then rinse with water.
It may get the effective result after a few weeks.
Check Current Price
Home remedies for scars treatment
1. Turmeric for scars removed
Because of its freshness, curcumin stimulates the production of collagen and elastin, which stimulates the regeneration of new skin cells, stimulating the skin to replace old skin cells.
At the same time, curcumin also helps to “break down” melanin and inhibit the production of high melanin, thereby helping the skin to become more bright and more color with neighboring skin.
To remove scars, you should prepare: fresh turmeric and 1 tablespoon of honey.
Fresh turmeric you choose the old turmeric, dark yellow color, washed and then put in the bar.
You mix turmeric and honey in a bowl to make a paste mixture.
In the evening, you apply this mixture to the scar area, for 20 minutes to penetrate the essence into the skin and rinse again with warm water. You should persist in the treatment of this keloids 3 times a week, continuously for 1 month to get the best effect.
2. Honey is considered as frankincense for acne scar
Honey contains antioxidants, anti-bacterial. It is a natural moisturizer, effective in treating wounds and stimulating tissue regeneration.
The nutrients inside the honey also help moisturize, soften the skin, quickly recover the keloids.
Besides, honey is also benign, suitable for all skin types including sensitive skin so they are absolutely safe to use.
How to do:
Mix two teaspoons of pure honey with two teaspoons of baking soda.
Use the mixture to massage for 3 minutes and then place a hot towel on the scar, when the towel is cool to pick up and clean.
This method is also very suitable for acne scars left.
With this honey remedy, you should do every day to get results as expected. In addition, you can combine honey with other ingredients such as oats, lemons, eggs also have the effect of dimming effective scars.
3. Fresh lemonade removes dark scars
Lemon contains alpha hydroxy acids (AHA), eliminating dead skin cells, helping new cells to grow and increase skin elasticity.
As a natural bleaching agent, it can help brighten scars, brighten skin, freckles, age spots.
You just put a cotton swab in lemon juice and apply to your scar every night before going to sleep to be highly effective.
However, use a sunscreen because lemons make your skin more sensitive and easier to catch the sunlight.
4. Aloe vera works as natural scars healing cream
Pure aloe helps reduce aches, redness caused by acne and blurring the scars left.
Aloe vera’s anti-inflammatory properties help to reduce skin irritation and eliminate dead skin cells, to aid the production of new cells [4].
Aloe vera is considered one of the beauty herbs, providing many essential nutrients, vitamins, help you recover damaged skin, blurred the scars.
Using aloe vera is the way to remove scars by natural methods many people apply today.
How to do:
Aloe vera clean the dust, clean the outer shell.
Use transparent crystal inside of aloe vera, apply to the scar area.
Leave for about 20 minutes then rinses with water.
With aloe vera, you need to apply for a long time to be able to remove scars effectively. The method applies to those with oily skin, extremely good.
You can use aloe vera in many forms including gel, ointment, fresh aloe vera… Apply directly to the scars and massage several times a day to get the best effect.
5. Onions-an useful ingredient for scars
Onions are considered an anti-inflammatory, which inhibits the production of collagen in the scar.
Cut the onion and squeeze the water, use the cotton was soaked in water on the scar several times a day.
This method is not effective immediately so you need to persist for several months to get the expected results.
6. Strawberries brighten the scars
Ripe strawberries contain the natural form of salicylic acid, which helps brighten the skin, causing scarring.
Simply slice thin strawberries and rub the scars for a few minutes to fade scars in a very short time.
7. Cucumber for scars lightening
Cucumber is also used to lighten the skin and is particularly benign due to the absence of acid, detergent.
You can grind or crush the cucumber, then rinse the water and gently apply it to the scar, leave it for a few minutes and rinse it off with lukewarm water.
Do it twice a day for about a week for a quick new scar.
DIY acne scars treatment cream
The essential oils for scars are useful. They will help you getting confident back when you want to show beautiful and show off the beauty of nature on the body.
However scar cream and the oils on the market is not pleasant at all. So why do not you make your own scare cream by the essential oils at home? Here is how to make effective scar creams effective.
Materials to be prepared:
Onions: a half bulb
Olive oil: 30ml
White emulsion: 20g
Aloe Vera: 30ml
Vitamin E: 5 tablets
Glycerin: 10ml
Rose Essential Oil: 10ml
Lotus oil: 10ml
Raspberry oil: 10ml
Cosmetic preservative: 10 drops
With this amount of raw materials, you can make about 70ml of scar cream.
How to make:
Step number 1: With Onion.
Put onion and puree in a box, add 30ml of olive oil to the mixture.
Soak this mixture for 20 days, every day to bounce around many times for them to intertwine
After 20 days, you filtered on 50ml of this onion essence.
Step 2: Mix white emulsion and honey
Mix 20ml emulsified white and 5ml pure honey into 50ml freshly picked onion essence.
Mix the above water mixture until emulsified melts or put into microwave oven rotate about 2 minutes.
Step 3: Make the scar cream
Mix aloe vera, glycerin, essential oils, vitamin E and cosmetic preservatives into the mixture, stirring. Note that your vitamin E must be molded into drops of essential oil.
Put the mixture in a smoothed blender or use a whisk until the mixture is smooth.
You have finished the way to do scars cream. In addition to the effect of scar, this cream also moisturizes the skin which can be used as a foundation.
The surgery to remove scars
Besides the top home remedies and essential oils for scars about, you can try some other modern surgeries below to remove scars. Although surgery is a complicated and expensive method, it is still the most effective and fastest measure that you can try.
Nowadays, with scars surgery, people are based on these following methods [5]:
Cosmetic sutures: If the scar is small, after cutting, the doctor will sew it under the skin so that the thread does not come out, no bite. There is no need to use only the biological glue paste the two edges. This method is ideal for face areas.
Skin transfers: Used for scars, protrusions. After cutting the scar, use the skin next to the skin to insert.
Skin grafting itself: Get other skin grafts to the cut area due to scarring.
Artificial skin grafts: Used in cases where the scars are too wide. After artificial skin grafts, the doctor will cover a thin layer of skin from the thighs or head.
Skin relaxation: Apply to scars and complex positions such as head, face, neck, and arms. In order to have a grafted skin, the doctor does not cut elsewhere but puts a water bag under the skin next to the scar, then pours water gradually. The skin there will develop dilated until enough graft.
Surgery: The surgeon passes a raised muscle vein (such as in the thighs and arms, back) to the area of large scars that connect the blood vessels by microsurgery.
Conclusion
Whatever kind of home remedies, essential oils or surgeries, you should consider the advantages and disadvantages to choosing the suitable scar removed.
Hopefully, this article helps you to have a great way in saying goodbye with scars. And don’f forget LIKE and SHARE this article on socials.
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Google+
Linkedin
What Are The Best Essential Oils For Scars and Home Remedies for It?
5 (100%) 2 votes
References
[ 1 ] http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166223609001532
[ 2 ] http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1357431097805412
[ 3 ] http://www.medicinenet.com/abdominal_adhesions_scar_tissue/page2.htm
[ 4 ] https://draxe.com/how-to-get-rid-of-scars/
[ 5 ] http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1524-4725.2007.33280.x/full
About the author
Comment
Close
Fullname
Email
Comment
Related Post
Why and How To Shave Your Buttcrack Hair Effectively
May 16, 2018
Jelly Bell
What Are The Best Essential Oils For Dandruff?
April 12, 2018
Jelly Bell
What’s The Difference Between Deodorant And Antiperspirant?
April 11, 2018
Jelly Bell
0
Shares
CareKees
Sign Up for Our Newsletter
Subscribe
Page
About us
Contact
Write for Us
Privacy Policy & Disclaimer
Category
Beauty Care
Health Care
Natural Care
Reviews
Amazon Associates Program
CareKees.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. Additionally, CareKees.com participates in various other affiliate programs, and we sometimes get a commission through purchases made through our links.