Can Magnesium Help With Migraine?
Menu
Home
Resources
Migraine Management Book
Pain Management Course
Pain Relief Store
The Latest Migraine News
Site Search
The Basics
Migraine Types
Symptoms
Causes
Triggers
All Articles
Treatment & Prevention
Treatments
Medications
Prevention
Fast Relief
Alternative Treatments
All Articles
Hope & Cope
My Help
Your Stories
Food & Recipes
Meditation
A Cure
Associated Conditions
All Articles
About
About Holly
Contact Me
Newsletter
Legal Pages
Blog
Want the best migraine education? Click here >>
Can Magnesium Help With Migraine?
Written by Holly Hazen
Can Magnesium Help With Migraine... Can It Really?
Many migraine sufferers are magnesium deficient, so can magnesium help with migraine? Can it stop your next attack?
When looking for migraine causes, magnesium has become a hot topic among researchers, physicians and migraine sufferers. Some studies have led physicians to believe that a magnesium deficiency may be one of the root causes of migraines, since many migraine sufferers have low levels of magnesium.
In fact, the connection between magnesium and migraines has even led some individuals to begin taking magnesium supplements, while others focus on increasing magnesium in their diet. Are magnesium levels really tied to migraines? Can magnesium provide an effective treatment for migraines?
Let's take a closer look at this topic to help answer these questions.
About Magnesium
What is magnesium?
It’s a mineral that is essential to the body’s ability to produce proteins, the function of more than 300 enzyme systems, strong bones, muscle operations, energy transport and even energy production.
Magnesium is also essential for proper nerve function, a strong immune system and a healthy heart rhythm. This mineral has one of the highest levels within the body and is definitely essential for good health.
Can Magnesium Help With Migraine?
So, what is the connection between magnesium and migraines?
When migraine attacks occur, some studies have shown that certain individuals have low levels of magnesium within the brain. Since magnesium is so crucial for nerve function, some physicians think that a deficiency in magnesium may be a root cause of migraines. Today, researchers are continuing to study magnesium and migraines, working to find how magnesium can be used to reduce the occurrence of migraines.
According to the National Institute of Health (NIH), "Magnesium deficiency is related to factors that promote headaches, including neurotransmitter release and vasoconstriction. People who experience migraine headaches have lower levels of serum and tissue magnesium than those who do not." [4]
The research findings on the efficacy for using magnesium for migraines is mixed. So to answer the question "Can magnesium help with migraine?" we need to dig a little deeper.
Please keep in mind that migraine supplements are not abortive, the are used for prevention. They can take some time (2-6 months) to rebalance your body’s chemistry and reach levels effective enough to reduce your migraine attacks.
Magnesium is used for prevention... it's not a cure. And it's not an abortive.
What Studies Have to Say
What Do You Think... Can Magnesium Help With Migraine?
According to Migraine.com, one study conducted back in 1996 showed that some migraine sufferers who took magnesium supplements daily saw a reduction in the frequency of migraines after 9-12 weeks.
While about 41% of those taking the magnesium saw a reduction in migraine frequency, some experienced unfavorable side effects, such as stomach irritation and diarrhea. However, one other study performed in the same year did not show any results among migraine sufferers who took a magnesium supplement.
Studies from 1998 found that "up to 50% of patients during an acute migraine attack have lowered levels of ionized magnesium. Infusion of magnesium results in a rapid and sustained relief of an acute migraine in such patients. Two double-blind studies suggest that chronic oral magnesium supplementation may also reduce the frequency of migraine headaches."[3]
"Because of an excellent safety profile and low cost and despite the lack of definitive studies, we feel that a trial of oral magnesium supplementation can be recommended to a majority of migraine sufferers.” (source)
The NIH still says research on the use of magnesium supplements to reduce or prevent migraines is limited. [4]
"Three of four small, short-term, placebo-controlled trials found modest reductions in the frequency of migraines in patients given up to 600 mg/day magnesium. The authors of a review on migraine prophylaxis suggested that taking 300 mg magnesium twice a day, either alone or in combination with medication, can prevent migraines."
"In their evidence-based guideline update, the American Academy of Neurology and the American Headache Society concluded that magnesium therapy is "probably effective" for migraine prevention. Because the typical dose of magnesium used for migraine prevention exceeds the UL, this treatment should be used only under the direction and supervision of a healthcare provider." [4]
Now that's all a bit technical and mixed but, overall you have nothing to lose by testing it out. You might just be in the percentage that gets results. Meaning a reduction in your attacks and a reduction in the amount of pain medication you require.
And you can happily answer the question "can magnesium help with migraine?" with yes, it helps me!
41.6% did find it effective.
Ways to Boost Magnesium Levels
Although studies are not yet conclusive on the connection between magnesium and migraines, some anecdotal evidence does show that certain individuals have experienced relief after increasing their magnesium levels.
Magnesium is important for many bodily functions, so boosting magnesium levels by eating more foods high in magnesium may be a great idea.
Can Magnesium Help With Migraine? NIH Food Sources of Magnesium
Foods high in magnesium include:
soy products, brown rice, yogurt, milk.
nuts* and seeds: raw almonds, cashews, Brazil nuts, pumpkin seeds and sunflower seeds. (P.S. These are easier to digest if you soak them overnight in filtered water).
green leafy vegetables: spinach, silver beet and kale.
whole grains: rye, quinoa, oats, wheat and buckwheat.
legumes: peas and beans.*
fruits: avocados*, bananas*, and dried apricots.
* These foods (or any foods for that matter) can be a migraine trigger for some people.
Supplements are also available, but it is important to consult a physician before taking any supplement. Read my post on Which Magnesium is Best for Migraines?
Important Warnings
It is important to note that magnesium, particularly when taken in high doses, may cause side effects. The most common are abdominal cramps and diarrhea. Other side effects may include low blood pressure, weak muscles, loss of appetite, mental changes, irregular heartbeat, nausea and problems breathing.
If symptoms are serious, you may need to seek emergency medical attention. Also, individuals who have been diagnosed with kidney failure should not take magnesium. Magnesium can also interact with certain medications, so consulting with your physician is very important if you want to try magnesium supplements.
So yes, it has the potential to help! But check with your doctor first, before taking any supplements... just to be sure.
Can Magnesium Help With Migraine Resources:
1. Migraine.com (2016) Magnesium for the treatment of migraine headaches: an introduction [Online], Available at: https://migraine.com/migraine-treatment/natural-remedies/magnesium-for-migraine-headaches/ Accessed Feb. 4, 2018.
2. WebMD.com (2015) Magnesium [Online], Available at: https://www.webmd.com/vitamins-supplements/ingredientmono-998-MAGNESIUM.aspx?activeIngredientId=998&activeIngredientName=MAGNESIUM Accessed Feb. 4, 2018.
3. Mauskop A, Altura BM. (1998) Role of magnesium in the pathogenesis and treatment of migraines. Clin Neurosci. 1998;5(1):24-7. Review. [Online], Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9523054
4. National Institutes of Health, Office of Dietary Supplements (2016) Magnesium: Fact Sheet for Consumers. [Online], Available at: https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Magnesium-healthProfessional/ Accessed Feb. 5, 2018.
Home
›
Migraine Relief
›
Can Magnesium Help With Migraine?
If you like this article, please share it on your favorite social channels...

AFFILIATE PRODUCTS
FTC Affiliate Disclosure - in some of my posts I recommend carefully chosen, evidence based, migraine relief products. If you buy something through one of those links, I may earn a commission. There are NO extra costs to you.
About
Holly Hazen
The Migraine Coach
Qualified Professional Counselor, Migraine Relief Warrior, Author of www.MigraineSavvy.com
20 Years experience in Counseling
University qualified with Master’s Degree in Counseling and Applied Psychotherapy (MCAP)
Find out more
See my: eBook and eCourse
Ways I can help right now...
Recent Articles
Migraine Treatments: How To Formulate An Effective Plan
Apr 21, 19 08:23 PM
Overwhelmed by your choice of migraine treatments? Click here to find 10 tips to help formulate an effective plan. Be prepared for the next attack so you can stop it as fast as possible.
Read More
Practical Headache Relief Tips From 10 Top Migraine Experts
Apr 21, 19 07:08 PM
What gets rid of migraines fast? The right medications and knowing what to do. Check out these headache relief tips from 10 leading experts. Some tips might surprise you.
Read More
20 Migraine Comments I Never Want to Hear Again
Apr 18, 19 10:59 PM
Some things people say to me around having migraines shocks me. Click here for 20 migraine comments I never want to hear again. Use this as venting therapy with people who understand. Completely!
Read More
Emotional Phases of Migraine: Brace for Impact
Apr 18, 19 10:38 PM
I bet you can tell me how your physical symptoms manifest themselves. But what about the emotional chaos that ensues? Click here for help with the emotional phases of migraine and tame the chaos.
Read More
Causes of Migraine Headache: Parasites
Apr 06, 19 12:40 AM
Can having parasites be one of your causes of migraine headache? A small amount of evidence points to yes. Learn what to watch for and get some natural treatments now. Don’t ignore the signs.
Read More
The Pain Relief Store: How to Manage Your Attacks Better
Apr 05, 19 11:34 PM
Get everything you need all in one spot. The Migraine Savvy Pain Relief Store has tips and tools for instant pain relief and long-term comfort aids. Don’t wait to stop an attack. Act asap.
Read More
Focusing With Chronic Pain
Apr 05, 19 11:22 PM
Intense pain or symptoms driving you crazy? Feeling lost and confused? Learn focusing with chronic pain so you can transform overwhelm and confusion into life forward energy. Your life is waiting!
Read More
Stay in touch... Join me on Facebook
Follow me on Pinterest
Top
↑ Back To Top ↑
Expert help
The Basics
Treatment & Prevention
Medications
My Help
My Book
My Course
Get around
Home
All Articles - The Basics
All Articles - Treatment & Prevention
All Articles - Hope & Cope
All Articles - Associated Conditions
Site Search
Legal stuff
Privacy / Cookie Policy
Disclaimer
Terms and Conditions
Affiliate Disclosure: I earn a commission from the products I recommend
Advertise
Donate
Stay in touch
Join my mailing list
About Me
Contact Me
My Services
Guest Post
Shop
Want to follow me?
Copyright© 2010- MigraineSavvy.com. All rights reserved.
The information appearing on MigraineSavvy.com is intended for educational purposes only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Use of this website constitutes acceptance of the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
Powered by Solo Build It