Evening Primrose Oil | NCCIH
Skip to main content
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
National Institutes of Health
NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health
Search the NCCIH Website
Información en Español
Site Menu
Home
Health Info
Topics A–Z
Herbs at a Glance
Statistics on Use
Información en Español
Be An Informed Consumer
What Is Complementary, Alternative or Integrative Health?
Safety Information
Know the Science
For Health Care Professionals
Clinical Practice Guidelines
Literature Reviews
All Health Information
Research
Research Results
Selected Results by Date
Sponsored by NCCIH
Division of Extramural Research
Conducted at NCCIH
Labs at NCCIH—Division of Intramural Research
NCCIH Research Blog
Clinical Trials
Resources for Researchers
All Research Information
Grants & Funding
What Will NCCIH Fund?
Overview
Funding Opportunities
Clinical Trial Funding
Grant Policies & Guidance
Application Resources
Program Directors
Clinical Research Toolbox
Types of Grants and Contracts
General Award Mechanisms
Small Business Research Grant Program (SBIR)
Funding for:
Natural Product Research Mind and Body Research Pain Research
All Grant Information
Training
About Research Training and Career Development
Awards & Opportunities
Institutional Training Sites
Training Grant Application, Review, and Award Process
More Training Resources
CME/CEU and Online Lectures
Online Continuing Education Series
Distinguished Lecture Series
Integrated Medicine Research Lecture Series
All Training Information
News & Events
Press Releases
Alerts & Advisories
Events
Multimedia
(Video, Images, and Audio)
NCCIH Clinical Digest
A monthly newsletter with evidence-based information on complementary and integrative practices and a health condition
All News & Events
About NCCIH
NCCIH At a Glance
Mission and Vision
Organizational Structure
Director's Page
Strategic Plans & Reports
Budget & Legislation
Advisory Council
Job Opportunities
All About NCCIH
Health Topics A-Z
#
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Evening Primrose Oil
Share:
On This Page
Background
How Much Do We Know?
What Have We Learned?
What Do We Know About Safety?
Keep in Mind
For More Information
Key References
© Steven Foster
This fact sheet provides basic information about evening primrose oil—common names, usefulness and safety, and resources for more information.
Common Names: evening primrose oil, EPO
Latin Name:
Oenothera biennis
Background
Evening primrose is a plant native to North America, but it grows in Europe and parts of the Southern hemisphere as well. It has yellow flowers that bloom in the evening. Evening primrose oil contains the fatty acid gamma-linolenic acid (GLA).
Native Americans used the whole plant for bruises and its roots for hemorrhoids. The leaves were traditionally used for minor wounds, gastrointestinal complaints, and sore throats.
Today, people use evening primrose oil dietary supplements for eczema (a condition involving red, swollen, itchy skin, sometimes caused by allergies), rheumatoid arthritis, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), breast pain, menopause symptoms, and other conditions.
Evening primrose oil is obtained from the seeds of the evening primrose and is usually sold in capsule form.
How Much Do We Know?
Many studies in people have evaluated evening primrose oil for eczema, PMS, or breast pain. Smaller numbers of studies have evaluated it for other health conditions.
What Have We Learned?
There’s not enough evidence to support the use of evening primrose oil for any health condition.
According to a comprehensive 2013 evaluation of the evidence, evening primrose oil, taken orally (by mouth), is not helpful for relieving symptoms of eczema.
Most studies of evening primrose oil for PMS have not found it to be helpful.
Studies of evening primrose oil for breast pain have had conflicting results.
A small amount of evidence suggests that evening primrose oil might be helpful for diabetic neuropathy (nerve problems caused by diabetes).
What Do We Know About Safety?
Evening primrose oil is probably safe for most people when taken for short periods of time. There can be mild side effects, such as stomach upset and headache.
The safety of long-term use of evening primrose oil has not been established.
Evening primrose oil may increase the risk of some complications of pregnancy. Talk with your health care provider if you’re considering using evening primrose oil during pregnancy.
Evening primrose oil may increase bleeding in people who are taking the anticoagulant (blood thinning) medication warfarin (Coumadin).
Keep in Mind
Tell all your health care providers about any complementary or integrative health approaches you use. Give them a full picture of what you do to manage your health. This will help ensure coordinated and safe care.
For More Information
Using Dietary Supplements Wisely
Know the Science: How Medications and Supplements Can Interact
Know the Science: 9 Questions To Help You Make Sense of Health Research
NCCIH Clearinghouse
The NCCIH Clearinghouse provides information on NCCIH and complementary and integrative health approaches, including publications and searches of Federal databases of scientific and medical literature. The Clearinghouse does not provide medical advice, treatment recommendations, or referrals to practitioners.
Toll-free in the U.S.:
1-888-644-6226
TTY (for deaf and hard-of-hearing callers):
1-866-464-3615
Website:
nccih.nih.gov
Email:
info@nccih.nih.gov
PubMed®
A service of the National Library of Medicine, PubMed® contains publication information and (in most cases) brief summaries of articles from scientific and medical journals. For guidance from NCCIH on using PubMed, see How To Find Information About Complementary Health Approaches on PubMed.
Website:
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed
Office of Dietary Supplements (ODS), National Institutes of Health (NIH)
ODS seeks to strengthen knowledge and understanding of dietary supplements by evaluating scientific information, supporting research, sharing research results, and educating the public. Its resources include publications (such as Dietary Supplements: What You Need to Know), fact sheets on a variety of specific supplement ingredients and products (such as vitamin D and multivitamin/mineral supplements), and the PubMed Dietary Supplement Subset.
Website:
http://ods.od.nih.gov
Email:
ods@nih.gov
Key References
Bamford JTM, Ray S, Musekiwa A, et al. Oral evening primrose oil and borage oil for eczema. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2013;(4):CD004416. Accessed at http://www.thecochranelibrary.com on April 9, 2015.
Evening Primrose Oil. Natural Medicines Web site. Accessed at naturalmedicines.therapeuticresearch.com on April 6, 2015. [Database subscription].
Shahidi F, Miraliakbari H. Evening primrose. In: Coates PM, Betz JM, Blackman MR, et al., eds. Encyclopedia of Dietary Supplements. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Informa Healthcare; 2010:256-266.
This publication is not copyrighted and is in the public domain. Duplication is encouraged.
NCCIH has provided this material for your information. It is not intended to substitute for the medical expertise and advice of your health care provider(s). We encourage you to discuss any decisions about treatment or care with your health care provider. The mention of any product, service, or therapy is not an endorsement by NCCIH.
NCCIH Publication No.:
D341
Updated:
September 2016
Print this page
Health Topics A–Z
Related Topics
Find Active Medical Research Studies on Evening Primrose Oil (ClinicalTrials.gov)
Menopause Information
Using Dietary Supplements Wisely
Herbs at a Glance
This publication is not copyrighted and is in the public domain. Duplication is encouraged.
NCCIH has provided this material for your information. It is not intended to substitute for the medical expertise and advise of your primary health care provider. We encourage you to discuss any decisions about treatment or care with your health care provider. The mention of any product, service, or therapy is not an endorsement by NCCIH.
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, National Institutes of Health, National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health
nccih.nih.gov
This page last modified November 30, 2016
Follow NCCIH:
Read our disclaimer about external linksTwitter
Read our disclaimer about external linksFacebook
Read our disclaimer about external linksYouTube
Read our disclaimer about external linksPinterest
Read our disclaimer about external linksInstagram
Read our disclaimer about external linksLinkedIn
E-mail Updates
NCCIH Home
Privacy and Policies
Accessibility
en Español
FOIA
Site Map
Contact Us
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, National Institutes of Health, USA.gov
National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH), 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892