Minoxidil: Miracle drug or not? - Oxford Biolabs®
Skip to content
Research
Products
Reviews
- Professional Reviews
- Case Studies
About
- Oxford Heritage
- Media
News
Help
Buy Now
FREE TRIAL for DRM4® 1-month supply is now available. Learn more.
Get Free eBook support@oxfordbiolabs.com +44 800 808 5251 +49 32211 001656 +43 720 11 66 79 +41 44 580 2205 +1 702 728 3097 +1 855 586 3440 +38 032 253 0108 +7 499 609 14 75
+44 800 808 5251
+49 32211 001656
+43 720 11 66 79
+41 44 580 2205
+1 702 728 3097
+1 855 586 3440
+38 032 253 0108
+7 499 609 14 75
expand/collapse
Research
Products
Reviews
Case Studies
About
Help Log in Cart Cart Buy Now
Switch store: UK International US
TRX2® Classic Pack
Melaniq® Classic Pack
DRM4® Classic Pack
Androgenetic Alopecia
Hair Pigmentation
Skin Ageing
Oxford Biolabs is committed to employing safe and efficient therapies for the management of hair loss, particularly when caused by Androgenetic Alopecia. The research is ongoing to continuously improve and update the current TRX2® formula as well as create supporting products to further improve the effectiveness of TRX2®...
Continue Reading
Hair colour is not only a critical element of appearance, but also an indicator of personal health status and psychological harmony. Not surprisingly, the appearance of grey hair and the phenomenon of salt and pepper hair are usually associated with ageing, so it is our primary concern to ensure that something can be done...
Continue Reading
Oxford Biolabs’ mission to develop therapies promoting well-being extends into the field of youthful ageing. We are exploring natural, low-risk strategies to trigger a slowdown of ageing, and reverse age-associated cell damage...
Continue Reading
Customer Reviews
Professional Reviews
At Oxford Biolabs, we value and analyze every single review and opinion about our products and services. Our customer's feedback is a powerful source for our improvement and advance
Continue Reading
Oxford Biolabs and hair care professionals aspire to reach one aim together - to enhance our customers' quality of lives and give more confidence. We are thrilled to be acknowledged and respected by some of the best professionals in the industry
Continue Reading
Team
Oxford Heritage
Media
The Oxford Biolabs® team has experience in product development, a potent scientific background, and the capabilities of providing customers with real value.
Continue Reading
Oxford Biolabs® vision builds upon truthfully engaging consumers with credible science. Read more about Oxford Biolabs® heritage and history.
Continue Reading
We have been featured in dozens of newspapers and magazines worldwide. Our following extends to famous bloggers and media personalities.
Continue Reading
TRX2® Molecular Food Supplement for Hair
TRX2® Post Menopause Hair Pack
TRX2® Hair Revitalising Lotion
TRX2® Efficacy+ Autodelivery
TRX2® Hair Revitalising Foam
TRX2® Thickening & Styling Cream
TRX2® Volumising Shampoo
TRX2® Protective Shampoo
TRX2® Stimulating Shampoo
TRX2® Bio-active Conditioner
Melaniq® Molecular Food Supplement For Hair Pigmentation
DRM4® Molecular Food Supplement For Skin
Oxford Biolabs® Hand Cream
Oxford Biolabs® Ionic Brush by Kent
Oxford Biolabs® Handmade Comb by Kent
Hair Growth
Active
Capsules Post Menopause Lotion Efficacy+ Foam (out of stock)
Supporting
Thickening Cream Volumising Shampoo Protective Shampoo Stimulating Shampoo Conditioner
Greying Hair
Capsules
Youthful Skin
Capsules
Other
Hand Cream Brush Comb
OXFORD BIOLABS RESEARCH
TRX2 Clinical Study
In the randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 87% of people reported significant improvement after using TRX2®. ...continue reading
Potassium Channel Theory of Hair Loss
Scientists have demonstrated that as people experience hair loss the function of potassium channels within hair follicles diminishes. By restoring the functionality of potassium ion channels that have broken down over time, our proprietary TRX2® formula helps to maintain normal, healthy hair on a molecular level.* ...continue reading
View all scientific publications
RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS
Biotin for Hair Growth
Biotin is beneficial for beautiful hair, skin, and nails, but is it enough to help with hair growth? It is well-known that Biotin deficiency can lead to brittle nails, hair loss, and even seborrheic dermatitis. Although considered rare, Biotin deficiency may actually be much more common that once thought. Studies have demonstrated that almost 40% of women complaining of hair loss were Biotin deficient. ...continue reading
5α-Reductase Inhibitors
5α-Reductase inhibitors have helped lots of men suffering from hair loss and thinning, but in recent years they have come under harsh criticism and a large number of lawsuits have ensued. Recently there has been increasing evidence that 5α-Reductase inhibitors cause impotence and mental confusion. ...continue reading
Vitamins for Hair Growth
About 60% of hair loss sufferers would rather have more hair than money or friends. This goes to show that identifying deficiencies is unavoidable when seeking a complex hair loss regimen. Only by getting the right balance of nutrients, knowing what vitamins are good for healthy locks, and implementing lifestyle changes, can one attain hair goals and improve self-confidence. ...continue reading
View all publications
Minoxidil: Miracle drug or not?
Minoxidil is prescribed to men and women suffering hair loss, but how effective is it really?
July 06, 2017 by Oxford Biolabs
News
|
Minoxidil: Miracle drug or not?
hair growth hair loss minoxidil
Everyone wants that fresh, youthful look and many are willing to go to great lengths to get it. When hair loss hits, it’s a struggle to stay positive. So why not get all the facts and make an informed decision?
Minoxidil had a unique path to development. Its aim is to help men and women with general hair loss and androgenetic alopecia. Unfortunately, all drugs come with an array of side effects, and minoxidil has its fair share.
How was minoxidil developed?
Initially, researchers developed the predecessor to minoxidil to treat high blood pressure, but during animal testing, one of the dogs died due to a lethal heart lesion. Undisturbed, they synthesised many more analogues and eventually stopped at minoxidil. During clinical trials, some people experienced an increase in hair growth, a side effect of the drug, and from then on minoxidil has been on the hair loss treatment market.
Does the scientific community still trust in minoxidil to treat hair thinning and loss? What has science learned since then?
Does minoxidil work for treating hair loss?
Minoxidil is a popular hair loss treatment that can be applied topically. The normal dosage (which started to lose their prescription-only status from the 1990s) varies depending on sex - men use a 5% topical solution, whereas women are generally offered a milder 2% formula. Higher dosages, for example 15%, are not generally available over-the-counter in most countries, and would be available prescription only.
The exact way minoxidil helps with hair loss remains unclear. One of the leading theories is that, as a vasodilator (opener of blood vessels), it increases blood flow to the hair follicles, and in this way prolongs the growth phase (anagen) of the hair cycle.
Like TRX2®, minoxidil also acts as a potassium-channel opener . These small protein structures control the transport of potassium ions across the hair follicle’s cell membrane and are essential for retaining the follicle’s full biological activity and function. Indeed, there are some (happy with the risks of a minoxidil-based topical product) who may take TRX2®’s food supplement alongside the minoxidil-based topical for perceived additional impact.
Does minoxidil work for everyone?
Although minoxidil is a potent drug in higher dosages and has been involved in countless studies, it does not work for everyone. Generally, it takes months of daily use to see results. But, most won’t get the benefits they expect. Some people will quit using it because of side effects, or no signs of improvement, and others will discontinue minoxidil because it can actually make hair shedding worse.
Evidence published in the Journal of Dermatological Treatment showed some stunning results based on routine clinical practice. Of the 1,495 men in the study, almost all of them gradually avoided continuing the treatment. Only a handful of the patients stopped treatment due to side effects. About 95% of the patients discontinued use because they didn’t see signs of hair regrowth or stabilisation of shedding.
This is explained by the fact that most published studies impose strict conditions. In routine practice, the results are very different, as shown in the above example.
What are the side effects of minoxidil?
Minoxidil treatment is prescribed for an unlimited period, and interrupting this regimen can cause devastating consequences like rapid hair shedding, rebounding back to pretreatment status within a few months of stopping.
So does it make sense to even start using minoxidil? For some, it may work, but for many it won’t provide any help at all, or make their hair loss even more severe.
What are the alternatives to minoxidil?
Natural hair support regimens offer a unique solution to a complex problem. People want results. They want fuller, thicker hair, with no side effects, and they want a scientifically proven formula that tackles hair loss at its roots. This includes regimens which include both food supplements and topicals.
TRX2® is one of the leading 100% natural formulations with the key components of potassium chloride, zinc, niacin, biotin and L-carnitine among others, that stimulate the potassium ion channels within hair follicles. This combination provides the hair follicles with an abundance of nutrients essential for maintaining thicker hair.
Join the 87% of people who saw significant improvement after using TRX2® !
Share Share on Facebook Tweet Tweet on Twitter Pin it Pin on Pinterest
Oxford Biolabs Shop
Discover the best products created at Oxford Biolabs
TRX2® Autodelivery
Regular price €159.95 / 3-month supply
€194.85
One-time purchase
Subscribe & Save
Deliver every 90 Days
Subscription details
x
How subscriptions work
Products are automatically delivered on your schedule. No obligation, modify or cancel your subscription anytime.
Learn more...
Add to cart
3 bottles of TRX2® every 90 days
Free Shipping (EU and US only)
Free Samples of Future Products
Cancel anytime
+ BENEFITS
3 Bottles of TRX2® capsules every 90 days
No worries about running out
Consistent use = Better results
Cancel subscription at any time
Free Shipping (EU, US only)
Melaniq® Autodelivery
Regular price €142.95 / 3-month supply
€164.85
One-time purchase
Subscribe & Save
Deliver every 90 Days
Subscription details
x
How subscriptions work
Products are automatically delivered on your schedule. No obligation, modify or cancel your subscription anytime.
Learn more...
Add to cart
3 bottles of Melaniq® every 90 days
Free Shipping (EU and US only)
Free Samples of Future Products
Cancel anytime
+ BENEFITS
3 Bottles of Melaniq® capsules every 90 days
No worries about running out
First visible results after 5 months of regular use
Cancel subscription at any time
Free Shipping (EU, US only)
DRM4® Autodelivery Free Trial
Regular price €0.00 / 3-month supply
€142.95
One-time purchase
Subscribe & Save
Deliver every 90 Days
Subscription details
x
How subscriptions work
Products are automatically delivered on your schedule. No obligation, modify or cancel your subscription anytime.
Learn more...
Add to cart
1 bottle of DRM4® for FREE
3 bottles of DRM4® every 90 days after trial
Free Shipping (EU only) after trial
Cancel anytime
+ BENEFITS
Free 1-month Supply of DRM4
3 Bottles of DRM4® capsules every 90 days after trial
No worries about running out - shipped right to your door
Cancel subscription at any time
More products
See also other news
skin health
The Dangers of Indoor Skin Tanning
July 05, 2018
Discover the healthiest way to get a tan.
skin care
The Dangers of Using Skin Whitening Products
June 21, 2018
Some skin lightening products contain harmful ingredients. Learn what they are and why one should avoid skin whitening completely.
niacin
The Link Between Niacin and Hair Growth
June 04, 2018
How can a simple vitamin improve grey hair and hair growth at the same time?
More news
STAY INFORMED
Sign up for e-mail and get news and offers from the Oxford Biolabs® family of brands
Country Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia, Plurinational State of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Cook Islands Costa Rica Côte d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Réunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe
Male
Female
By clicking Subscribe you agree to subscribe to our marketing communications and other promotions. Please refer to the company's Privacy Policy for details and your rights with respect to how Oxford Biolabs manages your personal data.'
About
Oxford Heritage
Media
Affiliate Program
Careers
Products
Customer Reviews
Professional Reviews
Case Studies
Research
News
Shop
Contact Us
Shipping and Delivery
Sitemap
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
YouTube
Switch store: UK International US
© 2019 Oxford Biolabs Ltd.. All rights reserved. Robert Robinson Ave, The Oxford Science Park, Oxford OX4 4GA, United Kingdom. Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions
Any statements made on this website have not been evaluated by any medical regulatory agencies. These products are not drugs or medicine, and are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. TRX2® products are food supplements and cosmetic products that help users to manage the condition of their hair. They include zinc, selenium and biotin, which contribute to the maintenance of normal hair. Normal hair is also characterised by healthy hair growth and non-excessive hair loss. Results may vary and are subject to your individual metabolism. If you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your doctor/physician before using this product. For risks and side-effects, please see the product package insert or info leaflet and consult your doctor/physician or healthcare specialist. Read full disclaimer and Legal Notices.
Disclaimer: The entire contents of this website are based upon the opinions and research of Oxford Biolabs Ltd., unless otherwise noted. Individual articles are based upon the opinions of the respective author, who may retain copyright as marked. Statements related to the rejuvenation, activation and stimulation of potassium channels are not intended to promote any specific ingredient, regimen, or use and should not be construed as evidence of the safety, effectiveness, or intended uses of the TRX2® products. It is purely presented as information about Oxford Biolabs's research focus and rationality behind formulating the TRX2® food supplement and cosmetics. The information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice. It is intended as a sharing of knowledge and information from the research and experience of Oxford Biolabs Ltd. and its community. Oxford Biolabs Ltd. encourages you to make your own health care decisions based upon your research and in partnership with a qualified health care professional. See our terms of service and privacy policy and full disclaimer here.
Shipping Info and Rates
UK (GBP)
America (EUR)
Germany (EUR)
Zone 1 (EUR)
Zone 2 (EUR)
Zone 3 (EUR)
Zone 4 (EUR)
Autodelivery Supersaver Programme FREE €32.90 FREE FREE €28.90 €32.90 €38.90
One-time purchase £5.95 €32.90 €6.95 €16.90 €28.90 €32.90 €38.90
FREE SHIPPING (Total order value) ⩾ £100 ⩾ €380 ⩾ €100 ⩾ €129 ⩾ €260 ⩾ €380 ⩾ €380
Benefits:
- Worldwide shipping
- Includes liability as per the conventions of the Universal Postal Union
- Shipment tracking included
- Shipping times can significantly vary between countries: Usually 3-8 days within EU and 8-15 days for most the international orders.
Zone Germany
- Germany
Zone UK
- United Kingdom (excluding Gibraltar)
Zone America
- United States
Zone 1
Belgium Monaco
Bulgaria Netherlands (except non-EU territories)
Denmark (except the Faroe Islands, Greenland) Austria
Estonia Poland
Finland (except the Aland islands) Portugal
France (except overseas departments and territories) Romania
Greece (except Mount Athos) Sweden
Malta Slovakia
Ireland Slovenia
Italy (except Livigno and Campione d'Italia) Spain (except the Canary Islands, Ceuta+Melilla)
Latvia Czech Republic
Lithuania Hungary
Luxembourg Cyprus
Zone 2
Andorra Croatia
Belarus Liechtenstein
Bosnia and Herzegovina Macedonia
Georgia Moldova
Gibraltar (UK) Montenegro
Greenland (Denmark) Norway
Iceland Russian Federation
Kazakhstan San Marino
Ukraine Switzerland
Vatican City Serbia
Turkey
Zone 3
Egypt Kuwait
Algeria Lebanon
Bahrain Libya
Iran Morocco
Iraq Oman
Israel Saudi Arabia
Yemen Syria
Jordan Tunisia
Qatar UAE
Singapore New Zealand
Brazil Australia
Chile Philippines
China South Korea
India Malaysia
Mexico Canada
Zone 4
All countries and territories not covered by zones Germany, UK, America, 1, 2 or 3.
Enter your e-mail to receive
THE DEFINITIVE HAIR LOSS EBOOK
by Dr. Thomas Whitfield, DPhil.
By clicking this button you agree to subscribe to our marketing communications and other promotions. If you do not agree, but still wish to receive the free eBook, please contact customer support directly at support@oxfordbiolabs.com. Please refer to the company's Privacy Policy for details and your rights with respect to how Oxford Biolabs manages your personal data.
You are trying to visit our International store
Based on your delivery location, please select the appropriate store:
UK International North America
X