Treatment and healing with copper
Treatment and healing with copper
The use of copper to treat rheumatism and arthritis goes back some way. The body needs trace quantities of copper, for a variety of purposes including the regeneration of bone tissue, both hard and soft. Complementary medicine practitioners recognize copper as being able to reduce inflammation in joints and also to eliminate destructive chemicals in the body known as free radicals.
One of the problems that some people have with copper bracelets is that it causes discolouration of the skin at the point of contact. This discolouration can be mistaken for dirt or a bruise. Of the two, the dirt analogy is more precise, because although the discolouration is in no way unhealthy, it can be washed off easily sometimes with water and scrubbing alone or with a combination of soap and water – with mild rubbing.
However arthritis sufferers needn’t be in any hurry to wash it off as the discolouration, caused by the copper reacting with sweat coming through the pores of the skin. The compound formed is known as a chelate which has been found to be used for the alleviation of rheumatic and arthritic pains.
Scientific studies testing the effectiveness of copper, using aluminium as a control, have established that copper can alleviate not only pain (which is highly subjective) but also actual swelling. Studies have also shown exposure to copper in saline form accelerates bone cell replenishment. Copper combined with aspirin has been identified as a prophylactic for stomach ulcers, whilst in both that and its trypophahanate form it can heal not only ulcers but also surface wounds.
This does not mean that traditional pain killers are rendered obsolete by copper. Indeed, copper often works best in conjunction with analgesics, better than either the medication or copper alone. The reason for this is that some of the analgesics actually reduce the body’s natural healing rate, whilst offering purely pain-killing effects and anti-inflammatory. In contrast, combining copper with the analgesic allows the latter to do the lion’s share of the painkilling work while the former promotes and encourages the healing process.
Whilst modern medicine is slow to accept this evidence, the good news is that patients do not have to rely solely on the prescribed medical treatments available for these conditions. Copper bracelets are readily available and if one wishes to combine them with the proven health benefits of magnetism, one can acquire copper magnetic bracelets for men and women from any magnetic products store.
Shopping Basket
Magnetic Therapy Info
THE SPOTLIGHTS ON PRODUCTS
RESOURCES
BUYING MAGNETIC BRACELETS
GENERAL INFO
MAGNETS IN THERAPY
HISTORY
MAGNETS & MAGNETISM
ANIMALS & MAGNETS
SPORT & MAGNETIC POWER
HEALTH & MAGNETS
› Arthritis and Alternative Therapies
› Magnetic Bracelets and Arthritis
› Using magnetic bracelets to treat rheumatic disorders
› Blood circulation and magnetism
› Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and magnet therapy
› Conditions treated by magnetic therapy
› Copper, cramp and crippling pain
› Magnetic bracelets cure wrist pains – especially copper
› Magnetic bracelets – do they work?
› Magnetic effects on the endocrine system
› The effect of magnetism on the nervous system
› Treatment and healing with copper
› Magnetic therapy for post-polio patients
Advanced Search
STRENGTH (Highest strength 5):
All Results12345
SUITABLE MOSTLY FOR:
All ResultsMenUnisexWomen
PRODUCT TYPE:
All ResultsAnkletBangleLinks BraceletPendant
METAL:
All ResultsCopperGrade 2 TitaniumPlated Copper AlloyStainless Steel
Shop by Price
All Results£0 - £15£15 - £30£30 - £60£60+
Recently Viewed
Evo-Flow Energy Bands
Only £19.99 !
Available in White, Red and blue, the energy band represents superb value for money. Will make a great gift.
Click here to see the full range.
White Ceramic Bracelets
£29.99
Ceramic bracelet are most elegant and will stand scratches better than Titanium & Stainless Steel.
Click here to see the full range.
DID YOU KNOW?
You can send the item in
any condition
for the first 30 days after receiving it, or if new and unused,
any time!
LICK HERE FOR DETAILS
SUPER STRONG MAGNETS !
Booster bangles features two mega size magnets that makes all the difference - boosting the magnetic strength, and with the addition of four standard size magnets.
From £11.95 !
LASER ENGRAVED COPPER
From £ 7.99
Wide copper bangles, laser engraved with amazing patterns, with 6 powerful magnets. Shipped with luxury gift pouch.
JET-BLACK MEN'S TITANIUM
ONLY £ 27.00
Men's classic magnetic bracelets with two super strong magnets in each link.
SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR HER
£22.99 - £39.99
Classic range for ladies, offer wide range of prices and styles. Man, you cannot go wrong if you give one of those bracelets for St. Valentine's Day.
Treating Arthritis with Magnetic Bracelets
It appears to us from the feedback we are receiving from our customers that they proud supporters of using the unique benefits of treating arthritis with magnetic bracelets. Many others, mostly people that never used magnetic therapy, remain sceptic.
For this reason, it has become an issue of controversy between those that did not try magnetic therapy and do not believe in it, and those who actually used magnetic therapy.
And so it remains a hot topic in the world of medicine today.
With an estimated 8.5 million people in the UK suffering from different forms of arthritis, the suggestion that the inflammation that arthritis brings can be eased with something as simple as magnetic bracelet, it is no wonder that it is such a debated issue.
According to Arthritis-Relief.co.uk, there has been in recent years, and continues to be large volume of research conducted about using magnets to eliminate arthritic ailments which has demonstrated that magnetic bracelets, can be an effective method of pain management.
In the United States alone it is reported that as many as one in three adults are being affected by different forms of arthritis, with more than 70 million Americans suffering from the disease.
The Arthritis and Glucosamine Resource Centre reported that in a research carried out to whether or not magnetic bracelets are effective in fighting arthritis pain which questioned whether a ‘placebo effect’ of wearing a magnetic bracelet is the cause for arthritis patients endorsing that the bracelets create pain relief, it was concluded that arthritis patients should embrace magnetic bracelets with an open mind.
GENERAL
Go Top
All Products
Latest Products
Advance Search
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Return Policy
Resizing Links Bracelets
Spending Points
Bracelet Care
SITE INFORMATION
Postage
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map
HELP
Contact Us
Read Our Blog
About Magnetic Therapy
© 2019 Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
ALL PRODUCTS
Special OffersBlack RangeTitanium BraceletsStainless Steel BraceletsBio 4 in 1 ElementsEnergy PendantsNew Items
For Him For Her Bangles Anklets
Contact UsRecent Product Reviews
View Cart | Wish List | New Account | Sign In