What is SAD? Symptoms of Seasonal Affective Depression
About Laurie
Living
Identity & Life
Inspiration
Personality Traits & Types
Psychology
Quips & Tips
Self-Esteem & Self-Confidence
Grieving
Healing
Breakups
Resilience
Happiness
Goals
Achieving & Setting Goals
College & University Tips
Education & Student Tips
Money Tips for Students
Entrepreneur & Small Business Tips
Managing Money
Money
Financial Goals
Advice From Experts
Budget Tips
Credit Cards
Debt & Debt Payment Tips
Money Tips
Healing
Fitness Tips
Brain Health
Emotional Health
Natural Health
Men’s Health
Pets
Pet Care
Dogs
Cats
Pets
Loving
Marriage
Love
Remarriage
Relationship Problems
All Articles
Home » Mind & Soul » Emotional Health » What is SAD? Symptoms of Seasonal Affective Depression
What is SAD? Symptoms of Seasonal Affective Depression
Here’s an easy-to-understand definition of what Seasonal Affective Depression (SAD) is, plus the most common symptoms and tips for treating this type of depression.
NatureBright’s Light Therapy Lamp is an inexpensive, nontoxic, non-invasive way to treat SAD. Since it doesn’t involve taking antidepressant medication, you won’t risk the negative effects of drugs or natural supplements interacting. It’s as simple as turning the light therapy lamp on and sitting close to it for at least 30 minutes. Doing this consistently can help ease the symptoms of seasonal affective disorder.
If you’re sad in the long cold winter days and nights, you’re not alone. Luckily, SAD can be treated easily, effectively, and inexpensively — depending, of course, on the degree of your sadness. If you’re dealing with moderate or severe depression, a light therapy lamp won’t help! You need to talk to a doctor, and discuss other treatment options.
What is SAD?
Here’s the best answer from one of my favorite health websites, WebMD.
Seasonal affective disorder, or SAD, is a type of depression that affects a person during the same season each year. If you get depressed in the winter but feel much better in spring and summer, you may have SAD.
Anyone can get SAD, but it is more common in:
People who live in areas where winter days are very short or there are big changes in the amount of daylight in different seasons.
Women.
People between the ages of 15 and 55. The risk of getting SAD for the first time goes down as you age.
People who have a close relative with SAD.
I always thought SAD included people who live in cold climates, but I was wrong. I live in British Columbia – it’s not too cold in the winter, but SAD is definitely a struggle for many of us! SAD is what gets me down in February or March, after three or four months of gray skies and rain. No snow…just no sunlight.
Do You Have SAD? Signs of Seasonal Affective Disorder
“Long nights and cold weather days are upon us which means the ‘winter blues’ could be setting in,” says Oz Garcia, Ph.D., co-author of Redesigning 50: The No-Plastic Surgery Guide to 21st Century Age Defiance. “The winter blues are clinically diagnosed as Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD), a mild seasonal depression that affects many people during the long and dark winter months. SAD can affect your mood, energy level, and diet.”
Carbohydrate cravings
During the fall and winter, the signal to the area of the brain that registers a sensation of fullness is suppressed. Our brain signals encourage us to eat and gain weight in order to insulate our bodies and survive the cold weather. Since it’s common for people to gain between five and ten pounds every winter, one way to treat seasonal depression is to deal with your carb cravings.
Depression (which is what SAD is all about)
Connections between mood and the seasons are well documented even in healthy individuals. During cold winter days our serotonin levels drop due to lack of exposure to light. Low serotonin levels can cause depression. Serotonin levels increase with exposure to bright light — so one effective way to treat Seasonal Affective Disorder is to get as much light exposure as possible.
You may also gain weight, feel grumpy, and lose interest in your usual activities.
Want to Blossom?
Free weekly Blossom Tips! One email a week, short and sweet.
* indicates required
Your First Name *
Email *
Treatments for SAD
It’s important to check with your doctor if you’re unsure what SAD is, or if you’re dealing with Seasonal Affective Disorder. A light therapy box is a great way to treat SAD because it won’t harm you, but it’s still a good idea to check with your doctor first.
Natural sunlight – or a light therapy lamp or box
Since SAD symptoms are triggered by lack of light, it’s important to get as much sunlight as you can. If you live in gray rainy city, think about getting a light therapy lamp or light box.
The Philips HF3500/60 Wake-Up Light is a gentle way to wake up in the morning. The sunrise simulation wakes you gradually; it’s a bedside light and “alarm clock” with 10 light settings. Since it looks like a sunrise, it offers light and warmth when you wake up. Its gentle beep ensures you get up on time, and it has a snooze function.
A light box provides a measured amount of balanced spectrum light equivalent to standing outdoors on a clear spring day. This has been shown to help regulate the body clock. The light from the box can help synchronize sleep/wake patterns.
To learn more about the effects of light therapy, read Seasonal Depression – How Light Therapy Helps.
Make connections with other people
I’m not talking about connecting with people at Christmas parties or holiday events!
A natural treatment for SAD is to make connections that renew your spirit. Interact with people less fortunate than you, perhaps by volunteering at a shelter or hospital. Connect spiritually at your church or temple. Connect with nature by taking a walk through a park or along the coast. Part of what makes SAD worse is feeling isolated.
Take good care of yourself
You’ve heard it a zillion times: get enough sleep, eat healthy foods, and exercise for at least 20 minutes a day. Exercise, fresh air and natural light are a powerful combination for elevating your spirits.
Set reasonable expectations
We often set irrationally high standards especially during the holidays: shopping, cooking, baking, decorating, sending cards, and attending every event we’re invited to. It can be hard enough to keep up even if you’re feeling great! Give yourself a break-and permission to say no. Coping with Seasonal Affective Disorder can involve prioritizing who you want to be around and how to spend your time.
Acknowledge that you feel sad
Research shows that when we are able to identify and label how we are feeling, we activate other parts of the brain-with very healthy and positive effects. Science shows us that if you label your feelings and express them to someone else, both your mood and your immune system will benefit. So now that you know what Seasonal Affective Disorder is, you might want to ask people in your life if they experience it, too.
Train your brain to be positive
If you focus too much on what’s wrong in your life, your brain can get stuck in a “negative” rut. Fortunately, with just a little effort, you can condition your brain to balance your moods and overcome seasonal depression disorder. One way is to create a daily “gratitude list.” Every day, take a minute or two to make a conscious effort to name things in life you are grateful for: your family, dog or cat, warm bed, a hot shower, ocean waves, music, coffee, and so on. You’ll condition your brain for appreciation and happiness.
Be kind to others – and gentle with yourself
I bet you didn’t think an article on what SAD is would include a paragraph on being nice to yourself!
What is SAD? Symptoms of Seasonal Affective Depression
But what ranks high in the studies of what helps people to be optimistic and healthy is helping others. Recently, a customer in the drive-thru line at a Pittsburgh-area Starbucks paid for the coffee of the customer behind her. That customer was so pleased that she then paid for person behind her. The chain continued for two hours! You don’t have to make a grand gesture. To cope with SAD feelings, smile at someone on the street, hold a door open, wave someone into you lane on the freeway. Just try it!
Laugh – even if you feel too sad
Laughter is invigorating. It recharges your battery. There are all kinds of studies showing how good laughter is for your brain, your health and your immune system. It’s good for your mood, your immune system, and holiday depression. To overcome seasonal depression disorder, find a reason to laugh every day — all the better if you can find the humor in your relatives’ annoying habits or the little things that usually stress you out!
Quick Tips for Coping With SAD Feelings
A few more ways to deal with Seasonal Affective Depression:
Look into a natural mood enhancer, such as Natrol’s 5-HTP (my massage therapist raves about it – she would be sad and lost without it, she says).
Avoid sugary snacks. Eat whole grains, vegetables and fruits because they stabilize your energy.
Exercise regularly. Staying fit and keeps your metabolism burning fat and calories, and lifts your mood.
Eat low-fat dairy products. When cooking hearty dishes in the winter months; reach for skim milk instead of whole milk. This natural treatment for Seasonal Affective Depression will help keep your weight down, too!
Avoid butter, margarine, and high salt intake. Season your foods with olive oil, fresh herbs and spices instead. The food will taste better, and you’ll avoid extra fat and calories.
Get enough vitamin D – take supplements if you don’t see sunlight for at least 20 minutes a day.
Simply knowing what SAD is and how to deal with it doesn’t make feelings of hopelessness or sadness just disappear! If you know you need more help than a light therapy lamp, call your doctor or make an appointment with a therapist who has experience helping people cope with Seasonal Affective Depression.
If you’re trying to help someone with SAD, read How to Deal With a Depressed Boyfriend.
I welcome your thoughts on coping with symptoms of SAD, but I can’t offer advice.
xo
Related Articles
Need marriage help? Get free relationship advice from Marriage Coach Mort Fertel.
Want to Blossom into who God created you to be? Sign up for my free weekly "Blossom Tips" email!
Leave a comment Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Notify me of new posts by email.
2 thoughts on “What is SAD? Symptoms of Seasonal Affective Depression”
Reply ↓
Laurie Pawlik-Kienlen Post author October 28, 2011 at 10:22 am
Thanks for your comment, Sam! Knowing what SAD is, is the first step to finding the best treatments. A light box is such a great solution because it’s easy and inexpensive.
Reply ↓
Sam October 20, 2011 at 5:02 am
This is a great article, my mother actually suffers from SAD and she uses one of those light boxes when it gets dark at around 5pm whilst she goes about her daily activities. It can be quite upsetting, especially when people don’t treat SAD as the serious disorder that it is.
Post navigation
← Family Fights at Christmas – Tips for De-Escalating Conflict
Invited to a Thanksgiving Potluck? Ideas for What to Bring →
Welcome
I'm Laurie, author of Growing Forward When You Can't Go Back. I survived a schizophrenic mom, foster care, infertility, and three years in Africa! I follow Jesus, share Blossom Tips, and live in a treehouse in Vancouver, Canada.
About Me.
Want to grow forward?
Get my weekly "Blossom Tips" email - free!
* indicates required
Your First Name *
Email *
Recent Comments
Lisa on Help and Hope for Living Alone After Your Husband’s Death
Dakota on Are You Ready to Adopt Another Cat?
Chelsea on Healing Your Heart When You Miss Your Cat
teresa Ann d'alessandro on About Laurie
Deb on How to Decide if You Should Give Your Dog Away
sravana on “Happy Retirement” Gifts for Coworkers or Family
Susannah Leach on How to Cope When You Want Your Old Life Back
Popular Articles
15 Gifts and Ideas to Help a Patient Recover After Surgery
How to Comfort and Console Your Grieving Boyfriend
30 Delightful Gifts for Older Parents Who Have Everything
How to Be With a Boyfriend Who Isn't Ambitious or Motivated
How to Decide if You Should Give Your Dog Away
How to Accept a Breakup You Didn't Want
20 Comforting Gifts for Someone at the End of Life
New Articles
Are You Struggling With Guilt and Grief After Your Pet’s Death?
10 Tips for Staying Focused at Work When You’re Distracted
7 Ways to Start Preparing for College Today
6 Ways to Cope With Being a Foster Kid
How to Cope With Guilt When Your Dog Kills Squirrels
15 “Thank You” Gifts for Family Caregivers
20 Cheerful Gifts for People With Alzheimer’s or Dementia
As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.
· © 2019 She Blossoms · Powered by · Designed with the Customizr theme ·