Overview of Headaches in Children
icon-circle-arrow-right
Menu
Verywell Health
Overview of Headaches in Children
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Headaches
Symptoms
Causes & Risk Factors
Diagnosis
Treatment
Living With
Prevention
Related Conditions
View More
Tools & Resources
Thyroid Test Analyzer
Doctor Discussion Guides
Hemoglobin A1c Test Analyzer
Lipid Test Analyzer
Types of Lung Cancer
Scar Tissue
What Is Sacroiliitis?
Tips to Treat Acne
Eye Exams
Blood in Stool
Health A-Z
Arthritis
Type 2 Diabetes
Heart Disease
Digestive Health
Lung Cancer
Multiple Sclerosis
View All
Prevention & Treatment
Vaccines
First Aid
Surgery
Herbal Medicine
Supplements
Healthy Aging
View All
Health Care
Health Insurance
Public Health
Patient Rights
Health Technology
For Caregivers & Loved Ones
For Healthcare Professionals
View All
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Brain & Nervous System Headaches
Overview of Headaches in Children
Print
By Rosalyn Carson-DeWitt | Medically reviewed by a board-certified physician
Updated April 08, 2019
PhotoAlto/Laurence Mouton / Getty Images
More in Headaches
Symptoms
Causes & Risk Factors
Diagnosis
Treatment
Living With
Prevention
Related Conditions
Headaches are pretty common in children and are more common in boys prior to puberty and in girls after puberty (due to hormonal changes associated with the menstrual cycle).
Let's gain a basic understanding of headaches in children, so you can hopefully feel at ease, but also know when to contact your child's doctor.
Can Headaches in Children Be a Sign of Something Serious?
Although parents tend to worry about the possibility that a headache indicates something serious, like a brain tumor, the vast majority of headaches are not due to a serious underlying condition. In fact, the most common cause of headaches in children is the onset of an ordinary short-term illness, such as a cold or flu.
Kinds of Headaches Children Have
There are two major categories of headaches in children:
Primary Headaches: Headaches not caused by an underlying medical problem, including migraine, tension headache, and the less common, cluster headache.
Secondary Headaches: Headaches that occur as a byproduct of some other condition such as a viral illness or sinus, ear, or eye infection, meningitis, head injury, brain tumor, stress, anxiety, depression, or a side effect of some medications.
Migraines
Migraines tend to run in the family. In fact, the majority of children who experience migraine headaches without aura have family members who share the condition.
As is true for adults, such children may find that their migraines are triggered by a variety of things, such as:
Processed foods
Cured meats
Aged cheese
Nuts
Chocolate
Sodas
Citrus fruits
Hunger
Dehydration
Fatigue
Disruption of normal sleep patterns
Overactivity
Stress and anxiety
Motion sickness
Certain medications
Compared to adults, in children, migraines tend to be much shorter in duration, sometimes lasting as little as two hours.
The symptoms of migraine headaches in children may also include:
Presence of aura (a period of time just prior to the head pain during which the child may notice odd flashes of light or color)
Throbbing or pounding headache on both sides of the head (a one-sided headache is more common in adults)
A headache in the forehead or temples
Increased pain with physical activity
Sensitivity to light or sound, or both—children may have a difficult time articulating this
Sensitivity to smell
Autonomic symptoms (e.g., runny nose or tearing eyes)
Abdominal pain
Nausea and vomiting
Lightheadedness
Difficulty thinking
Tension Headaches
Children with tension headaches describe their pain as feeling like a tight, squeezing band of pain around their head, and their headaches are often accompanied by tight or painful muscles in the neck and shoulders.
Tension headaches may occur when a child is under stress or having a hard time handling anxiety or an emotional situation. The length of such headaches can vary widely, from 30 minutes or less, to several days.
Cluster Headaches
Although very uncommon in children, cluster headaches seriously interfere with a child's ability to function normally. These headaches feel like a severe, sharp, piercing pain on one side of the head. Even though these headaches are extremely painful, they are typically brief and usually gone in about three hours.
When Your Child Should See a Doctor
If your son or daughter has a headache that's clearly associated with something like a cold or ear infection, you don't need to rush your child to the doctor's office. But if he or she has regular bouts of headaches that aren't associated with a mild illness, you should call the child's doctor to see whether an evaluation is needed.
By all means, make an immediate appointment if the headaches begin after your child has experienced a head injury or if the headaches apply to any of the following conditions:
Severely disabling
Described by your child as the "worst headache" of his or her life
Increasing in frequency
Occurring monthly or more often
Causing your child to wake up from sleep, or your child wakes up with a headache
Accompanied by:​
Vomiting
Changes in vision
Any other odd or worrisome symptoms, including mood or personality changes, weakness, difficulty walking or talking, memory problems, loss of bowel or bladder control, or confusion
Fever, stiff neck or neck pain
How to Help Your Child Avoid Headaches
The simplest steps to avoiding a headache are the most important. Make sure your daughter or son eats regularly, stays hydrated, and gets sufficient sleep. Try to identify sources of stress in your child's life at home or at school, and help to alleviate them.
If your child gets regular headaches, consider keeping a headache diary. This is a place where you and/or your child should record in some detail what happened on a headache day as a way of spotting the "triggers" that might be responsible for bringing on the headaches.
Use the diary to write down information about each headache, such as the date it occurred, how long it lasted, and how severe it was. Also, include information about what was happening with your child that day, including details about meals, sleep, exercise, stress, any unusual activities, or exposures to smells or chemicals.
Once you've identified factors that might be involved in triggering your child's headaches, you can try to eliminate those triggers from your child's life or find strategies that help your child cope with their unique triggers.
Medications
Over-the-counter analgesics, like Tylenol (acetaminophen) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) like ibuprofen, can be used to relieve headache pain. But remember that you should never give aspirin or aspirin-containing preparations to children or teenagers for viral infections (with or without fever) because it increases their risk for a serious illness called Reye's syndrome.
It's important to note that migraines can vary considerably from child to child and as a child grows. Moreover, some children's headaches are more resistant to treatment through medications. Depending on your son or daughter's age and whether the headaches are resistant, your doctor may prescribe a stronger prescription medication called a triptan, such as the Imitrex (sumatriptan) nasal spray. Moreover, Sumatriptan plus naproxen sodium (called Treximet) may be effective in treating migraines in adolescents.
If your child has very frequent migraine episodes, you may want to inquire whether he or she might benefit from a daily preventive medication like Topamax (topirimate).
Other Options
If your son or daughter seems to have a high level of stress, or if you feel that anxiety is contributing to their headaches, consider looking into ways to help your child learn to relax. Biofeedback and meditation can help your child cope with stress in a self-soothing manner. ['; at school can also be useful. Cognitive behavior therapy may help teach your child how to replace negative, stressful thoughts and behavioral patterns with more positive ones.
A Word From Verywell
In the end, most children with headaches know what they need, which usually includes a quiet, dark room, away from any noise or excitement. Some children are soothed by a cool cloth placed on the forehead. Sleep is often the best medicine. Lastly, regular exercise and a nutritious diet may go a long way in helping to thwart off your precious one's head pain.
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Sign up for our Health Tip of the Day newsletter, and receive daily tips that will help you live your healthiest life.
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Gelfand AA, Reider AC, Goadsby PJ. Cranial autonomic symptoms in pediatric migraine are the rule, not the exception.Neurology. 2013 Jul 30;81(5):431-6. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31829d872a.
Headache Classification Committee of the International Headache Society. The International Classification of Headache Disorders: 3rd Edition (beta version).Cephalalgia 2013;33(9):629-808. doi: 10.1177/0333102413485658
Mariani, R., et al. Cluster headache in childhood: case series from a pediatric headache center. Journal of Child Neurology. 2014 Jan;29(1):62-5. doi: 10.1177/0883073812470735
Richer L et al. Drugs for the acute treatment of migraine in children and adolescents.Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Apr 19;4. CD005220. https://www.cochrane.org/CD005220/SYMPT_drugs-acute-treatment-migraine-children-and-adolescents
Winner, P. (n.d.). American Headache Society: Pediatric and Adolescent Migraine.
Continue Reading
Article
How to Cure Tension Headaches in Kids
Article
Overview of Headaches
Article
What to Do About Your Child's Migraines
Article
Teen Migraines and Headaches: What's Normal and Dangerous
Article
'I Suffer from Headaches. What Are My Therapy Options?'
Article
Can Chewing Gum Cause A Headache in my Child?
Article
What Does a Headache or Migraine Feel Like?
Article
What May Be Causing Your Headaches at Work
Article
Childhood Abuse and Headaches as Adults
Article
Does Your Child Get Migraines?
Article
The Link Between Headaches and Obesity in Children
Article
How to Ease Your Headache Naturally in Pregnancy
Article
5 Tips to Avoid a Headache on Vacation
Article
What Are the Symptoms of a Headache?
Article
Treating Headache May Differ in People With Multiple Sclerosis
Article
What is this Headache in My Forehead?
Verywell Health
Daily Health Tips to Your Inbox
Email Address
Sign Up
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you, , for signing up.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Health A-Z
Prevention & Treatment
Health Care
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Fit Verywell Mind Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family:
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more