14 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Chicken Pox Scars - HealthRemediesforLife.com
HealthRemediesforLife.com
Health
Remedies
Home Remedies
Natural Remedies
Traditional Medicine
Weight Loss
Beauty
Recipes
Healthy Food
General
Menu
Home » Chicken Pox » 14 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Chicken Pox Scars
14 Home Remedies to Get Rid of Chicken Pox Scars
[ad_1]
chicken pox scars are unsightly marks, sometimes left by the viral infection caused by the virus varicella-zoster we know as chickenpox. This infection leads to itchy blisters filled with fluid in the skin. These blisters break and finally form the crust (scab) that can leave scars on the skin. Once formed, the chickenpox scars are very difficult to remove and therefore always try not to scratch when the infection is in a state of crusting. It is always best to prevent than to cure! But what if you can not resist scratching all the time and thus get some scars on your skin! There are a number of medical procedures such as dermabrasion, microdermabrasion, facial photo, etc. cleavage eliminate these ugly marks chickenpox skin. But why go to these expensive treatments when natural home remedies for chicken pox scars are there for your help!
remedies to get rid of Varicella
scars
1. Coconut water for Chickenpox scars
Coconut water is a treasure trove of nutrients including vitamins, minerals and a lot of trace elements. It is a rich source of magnesium, potassium, calcium, sodium and phosphorus along with many other trace elements. But what is more important when it comes to the skin and problems such as scars, wrinkles, dehydration, etc., are lauric acid and cytokines present in the coconut water. Cytokines help regulate cell growth and pH balance along with maintaining connective tissues. Coconut water is also an anti-viral, anti-microbial and anti-fungal that helps heal and soothe the skin agent. When used coconut water a day, you may be able to lighten the pockmarks and wells that are obtained from chicken pox and even Smallpox and acne.
ways to use coconut water for Chickenpox scars
Apply coconut water directly on your scars. Start doing this right after chickenpox infection has run its course. You can use a cotton ball to apply the coconut water brands or simply poured onto the skin where scars appear. Repeat this several times a day.
Add 2 cups of coconut water to bath water.
Drink a glass of coconut water every day. However, if you suffer from low blood pressure, consult your doctor before consuming coconut water because it tends to lower blood pressure.
2. Chickenpox scars porridge
Oats can moisturize the skin miraculously. This helps speed up the healing process of the scars left lighten over time. Not only oatmeal moisturizes the skin, but also helps reduce redness while gently exfoliating the skin discoloration. This makes oatmeal is a good remedy for scars, even those who get chickenpox.
ways to use oatmeal for Chickenpox scars
Take 1 cup of raw oatmeal and 2 cups of warm water. Make a paste using this oatmeal and water. Allow to cool. Now apply this to your scars and rub gently for about ten minutes.
Mix yogurt and oatmeal powder to obtain a paste-like consistency. Add a few drops of lemon juice to this. Apply this package to your scar affected skin. Let it dry before washing with cold water.
also can simply rub some raw oats on wet skin. To do this, just for 1-2 minutes. This will remove dead skin and also lighten the scars.
Take half a cup of oatmeal, a glass of water, 2 drops of lemon juice and 1 teaspoon cinnamon powder. Bring water to a boil and add oatmeal to this. Add the lemon juice and stir until the thing becomes a thick paste. Let it cool down a bit. Add cinnamon this paste oatmeal. Apply this to your scar affected area. Leave for 20-30 minutes and then rinse with warm water.
3. Baking soda for Chickenpox scars
Sodium bicarbonate because of its alkaline nature, keeps the pH level of your skin. As host itching and irritation, it is a great remedy to prevent scabs you so that you do not get scars in the first place scratch. Even when you get the scars, baking soda comes to your help as a natural exfoliating agent.
get this:
Baking soda 2 tablespoons
Water
Do following:
Add a splash of water to baking soda.
as an exfoliant Apply this paste to the affected areas of the scar.
Gently rub in this position for 1-2 minutes.
wash with water.
4. Lemon Juice for Chickenpox scars
Any scar or mark on the form of the skin during the healing process of a skin or damaged tissues. Your body releases a protein called collagen to repair the damage to the skin or tissues. Collagen also maintains strong, flexible and resilient skin. Lemon juice is a rich source of vitamin C contributes to collagen production. Also, like any other citrus fruit, lemon juice contains alpha hydroxy acids (AHA) that have the ability to heal your skin. Lemon juice, which is classified as a natural whitening can also lighten any scar marks including chickenpox.
Do the following:
Take 1 teaspoon of lemon juice and pour on a cotton ball.
Apply this to the scar on the affected skin.
is left for 10 minutes.
wash with water.
Remember, regular use of lemon juice on the skin makes your skin photosensitive. Therefore, always apply sunscreen before going out in the sun. The best way would not use lemon juice on the skin during the day. Use overnight.
5. Honey Chicken pox scars
honey, full of natural nutrients, is not only a good moisturizer, but also has some bleaching properties that lighten your scars. In fact, it promotes regeneration of the skin at the site of healing, providing the necessary nutrients for your skin. It runs through osmotic effect whereby blood and nutrients is drawn into the scars removing dead skin cells and promote faster healing of wounds and skin regeneration. There is one more way that honey promotes regeneration of the skin, providing the acidity of the scars that releases oxygen from red blood cells. For maximum benefit, flush honey oatmeal to get rid of scars from chickenpox.
Related Post: Homemade Face Mask for Dark Circles Under Eyes
get this:
Honeywell 1 tablespoon
Oats- 1 tablespoon
Water 1 tablespoon
Do the following:
Add water to oats and continuously pounding, so it gets soft and thick.
Now add the honey and mash which is fully integrated.
Apply this to the scar affected area.
Leave for 15-20 minutes.
wash with water.
Read also 18 simple home remedies for Chickenpox
6. vitamin E from natural sources for Chickenpox scars
vitamin E is especially good for the skin because it has a lot of antioxidants to support skin cells by repairing the damage caused to it. These antioxidants help protect skin against free radicals, bacteria, dirt and other environmental hazards that damage skin cells and collagen. Although oils vitamin E are available along with capsules that can be drilled and vitamin E inside can be used to rejuvenate the skin, it is better if you use natural sources of vitamin E such as almonds, spinach, papaya, avocado, etc. . Include in your daily diet. Along with this, you can also apply some of these sources of vitamin E for scars damaged skin. Here it is one of the ways they use avocado.
get this:
avocado (ripe) – 1
Honeywell 2 tablespoons
vinegar apple cider 2 tablespoons
Do the following:
Take the avocado in a bowl.
Add honey and apple cider vinegar to this puree of avocado.
Apply this to the scar affected area.
Leave for about 15 minutes.
wash.
7. Chickenpox scars papaya
enzyme present in papaya
Papain has the ability to remove dead skin cells and skin exfoliation so the layer of discolored skin dry falls. The moisturizing properties of papaya are well known. Due to low sodium in it, papaya keeps skin hydrated for long. Papaya is also a rich source of vitamin C which helps in the production of collagen which gives a new lease of life to your skin. While you can always grind some ripe papaya and apply this to your skin for a few minutes before washing, the addition of some other ingredients to make a scrub that gets rid of scars seems to be more beneficial.
get this:
pieces- 1 cup fresh papaya
Brown sugar 5 tablespoons
Fresh milk- 5 tablespoons
Do the following:
Add brown sugar to milk and stir until melted.
Shredded pieces of papaya for its pulp.
Add this paste of mashed papaya to the mixture of milk and sugar.
mix well.
Now Wash the body part that has chicken pox scars with mild soap and water.
apply the scrub of papaya prepared for your skin.
Leave it for about 15-20 minutes.
wash.
8. Aloe Vera Gel for Chickenpox scars
Aloe vera is a miraculous herb of our time, with excellent soothing, moisturizing and healing properties. Full of antioxidants and anti-microbial properties, the gel trapped inside the aloe vera leaves is immensely helpful in the healing of skin wounds, allergies and infections such as chickenpox. The anti-inflammatory aloe gel to get rid of irritation due to skin wounds properties and also removes dead skin from there. Since it can penetrate deep into the skin, aloe vera gel moisturizes your skin efficiently and also helps increase collagen producing skin for your skin heals faster and no mark on it can get lightened.
Do the following:
Take some aloe vera gel.
Apply this to the scar on the affected skin.
rub gently for a couple of minutes.
let it dry out.
You can not do anything with this now, but if you feel a bit sticky, it can be washed with a little water.
Repeat this 3-4 times a day.
9. Cocoa butter for chicken pox scars
Cocoa butter, which is a highly concentrated fat extracted from cocoa beans, is widely used for treatment of various scars. It is one of the best moisturizers and emollients to human skin. Cocoa butter penetrates deep into the dermis layer of the skin and thus help retain moisture for a longer period. the scar and surrounding skin in a way that marks become less visible softens. A well hydrated skin is a first condition for the growth of new healthy skin tissue. As cocoa butter moisturizes the skin effectively from deep inside and keeps it hydrated all the time, which is one of the best remedies to lighten the scars even those who get chickenpox.
Do the following:
Take some cocoa butter.
Rub this scar on the affected skin with a circular motion.
Do this until the butter is absorbed through the skin.
Repeat this 3-4 times a day.
10. Coconut oil for Chickenpox scars
The medium chain fatty acids present in coconut oil can accelerate the process of wound healing. These fatty acids not only keep skin hydrated, but also stimulate the production of collagen. This oil also helps form new blood vessels at the fastest pace which in turn helps free your skin marks.
Do the following:
Get coconut oil, extra virgin coconut oil preference.
Apply this to the scar on the affected skin.
Massage gently so that the oil penetrates the skin.
Repeat this 3-4 times a day.
11. Making cream scar removal at home
From the above description of several natural remedies for chicken pox scars, they have come to know about the beneficial properties of lemon, cocoa butter, vitamin E and coconut oil. How do these ingredients work to keep skin hydrated and promote wound healing and collagen production is simply amazing. When any of these ingredients can lighten your scars, which would be the result when you combine all these to make your own cream scar removal! This cream can also be used by those who have dry skin because it makes your skin super smooth. Here is the recipe for cream scar removal at home and believe me, it is too simple!
Related Post: Home Remedies for Sore Throat in Kids
get this:
cocoa butter ½ cup
coconut oil 12 tablespoons
Vitamin E 2 tablespoons oil
½ teaspoon lemon essential oil
You can increase or decrease the amount as per your requirement but keep the proportion of ingredients.
Do the following:
Take a pot and place the coconut oil and cocoa butter in it.
Simmer this. You just need to melt.
Once the mixture is melted, remove pan from heat.
Add vitamin E oil and essential oil of lemon oil mixture and melted butter.
let it cool until it becomes solid and then save it in your choice of container. However, it can also be poured into the storage container and then let it cool.
Apply this cream daily to their scars 3-4 times a day.
12. Unscented for Chickenpox scars
The essential oil
Lavender not only has antiseptic and anti-fungal properties, it also prevents your skin from scars, apart to heal wounds faster. It is especially beneficial in the stage of crusting of chickenpox. When the lavender essential oil is applied, improves scar tissue formation. While essential lavender is said to be safe when applied undiluted, it is always better to dilute it with a little carrier oil before applying to the skin, especially in the case of children.
get this:
1-2 drops lavender essential oil
olive oil or coconut oil 1-2 tablespoons
Do the following:
Add 2 drops of lavender oil to 1 tablespoon of carrier oil for adults.
Add 1 drop of lavender oil to 2 tablespoons of carrier oil for children.
Apply this to your chicken pox marks.
Repeat 2-3 times a day.
13. Mixture of essential oils for chickenpox scars
Aromatherapy uses a variety of oils to treat various conditions. When it comes to skin scarring due to chickenpox, there is a remedy in aromatherapy that uses a blend of essential oils along with witch hazel to accelerate wound healing in a way that does not leave scars on the skin. Here’s how and what to do to use these essential oils.
get this:
oil tea tree – 6 drops
bergamot – 10 drops of eucalyptus oil or 5 drops
chamomile oil – 10 drops
lavender 10 drops of oil
Witch Hazel – 50 ml (about 3 ¼ tablespoon or teaspoon 10)
distilled water – 50 ml (about 3 ¼ tablespoon or teaspoon 10)
glass bottle to store
do the following:
Pour all oil, witch hazel and distilled water in the bottle storage.
Each time this apply to the affected skin chickenpox, they shake well.
Start using this oil blend in the last stages of chickenpox infection, since it will accelerate the healing process and reduces the chance of healing of blisters.
If you are allergic to any of the oils, to leave it and use other oils in the mix. Do not increase or decrease the amount of other oils.
As an essential oil of bergamot is used, it is necessary to avoid the sun for at least 12 hours after applying this mixture of oils otherwise get sunburn. If you can not avoid the sun, simply replace it with eucalyptus oil as mentioned in the ingredients.
Use the mixture of oils 1-2 times daily.
14. Make Calendula Salve for chickenpox scars
The bright yellow or orange flowers of calendula, also called pot marigold, are not only a treat for the eyes, but the skin as well. This herb has antifungal, antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties, along with the ability to heal wounds faster. Above all, this is a safe herb that can be used in the child’s skin too. It is especially effective in treating Varicella because it stimulates the production of collagen in wounds having thus minimizing the risk of scarring. Calendula is not only a folk remedy, but it is used by doctors moder too. Calendula ointment used for conditions such as amenorrhea, conjunctivitis, fever, cuts, scrapes, bruises and burns, and also for minor skin infections. This is a simple recipe to make at home calendula ointment.
get this:
dried calendula flowers-2 cups
coconut oil 3 cups
Beeswax- 2 – ½ cups
Any of essential oils (galbanum, lavender or neroli) – 10 drops
double or in a heavy-bottomed saucepan boiler and a small crockpot
coffee filter or cheesecloth or wire mesh strainer
Do the following:
When double boiler is used, calendula flowers fire slow, coconut oil and beeswax on it for an hour and a half.
Add essential oil to this.
The strain with the help of coffee filter or wire mesh strainer.
thing Pour the filtrate into a glass jar.
let it cool before applying it to your skin.
When you do not have a double boiler, place the flowers of calendula oil and little screwy.
Heat this over low heat for 3 hours.
strain with the help of a gauze.
pour oil in heavy saucepan.
turn the heat to low temperature and add beeswax for this.
beeswax melt stirring occasionally.
Once melted, the fire goes out and add the essential oil.
Store in a jar or bowl and let it cool before covering with the lid.
Always use smaller amounts of essential oils in the preparation of calendula ointment for children. For them, 10 drops is enough. In preparing this balm for adults, you can increase the amount of lavender essential oil to a maximum of 40 drops.
One important thing to note is that these natural home remedies for chicken pox scars can lighten their brands to the extent that they become less visible, but it is difficult to completely get rid of deep scars on the skin.
[ad_2]
Source link
You May Also Like :
Share on: Facebook Google+ Pinterest Reddit Digg LinkedIn Del.icio.us
You may also like
It Destroys Cholesterol and Burns Fat: The Drink That Comes Highly Recommended From Doctors
stroke and heart disease are two diseases caused in part by high cholesterol the blood. Cholesterol is a fat basic property that exists in all living
Best Essential Oils For Swollen Ankles, Legs & Feet
Peripheral edema is a condition that causes swelling in the lower extremities such as the ankles, legs and feet and usually appears due to the accumulation
How to Remove Parasites, Viruses, and Fungal Infections Using Coconut Oil
we live in a world we are constantly exposed to toxins without even knowing it. Exposure to toxic substances is everywhere around us, from the environment
Top 10 Home Remedies For Ear Infections
Ear infections are something that affects both adults but especially children are prone to it, especially under two years of age. The causes of ear infections
Advert & Popular Posts
22 DIY Home Remedies for Weight Loss
How to Treat Acne Quickly with Green Tea
Health Benefits of Banana (Kela)
Recent Search
who should i give my love to my mother mp3 download
parent7qi
Discuss the interdependence of the components of wellness
kannina noho mane maddu in kannada
tamil auntykalai opathu eppadi picture
urad dal side effects
tamil auntykalai opathu eppadi vedios
tamil auntykalai opathu eppadi
mytime methodisthealth org
breast increasing tips in malayalam
nedram pazam health benefits
she had no clue why the crowd started cheering
tamil auntykalai opathu eppadi images
liquid paraffin for skin lightening
kamakkataikal tamil
Sitemap
Contact
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
DMCA Notice & Policy
Copyright © 2019 HealthRemediesforLife.com.
==[Click 2x to CLOSE X]==
Trending Posts!
How to Treat Acne Quickly with Green Tea 200 views