Patella Tendon Rupture - Sportsinjuryclinic.net
Skip to content
Main Menu
Sports Injuries
Menu Toggle
Foot
Menu Toggle
Plantar Fasciitis
Heel
Toes
Top of the foot
Midfoot Pain
Forefoot Pain
Ankle
Menu Toggle
Sprained Ankle
Acute Ankle Injuries (Sprains & Fractures)
Lateral Ankle (Outside)
Medial Ankle (Inside)
Achilles
Menu Toggle
Achilles Tendonitis
Achilles Tendon Rupture
Shin Pain
Menu Toggle
Shin Splints | Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome
Calf Pain
Menu Toggle
Calf Strain | Torn Calf Muscle
Knee
Menu Toggle
Knee joint injuries & sprains
Back of the knee
Outside of the knee
Inside Of The Knee
Front of the knee
Thigh
Menu Toggle
Hamstring Strain
Thigh Strain
Thigh Contusion
Hip
Groin
Menu Toggle
Groin Strain
Buttock
Shoulder
Menu Toggle
Rotator Cuff Strain
Thoracic Outlet Syndrome
Stingers and Burners
Rotator Cuff Tendonitis
Elbow
Menu Toggle
Tennis Elbow
Golfer’s Elbow
Wrist
Menu Toggle
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Wrist Fracture
Wrist Tendonitis
Wrist Sprains & Strains
Hand & Finger
Menu Toggle
Sprained Thumb
Sprained Finger
Fractures
Abdominal Pain
Menu Toggle
Hernia
Chest Pain In Athletes
Menu Toggle
Rib Fractures & Contusions
Head & Face Injuries
Menu Toggle
Nosebleed & Facial Injuries
Concussion
Headaches
Back & Neck
Symptom Checker
Rehabilitation & Exercises
Menu Toggle
Cold Therapy
Sports Taping
Sports Massage
Knee Rehabilitation
Shoulder Rehabilitation
Proprioception
Stretching Exercises
Quizzes
About Us
Menu Toggle
Contact Us
Search
Search for:
Patella Tendon Rupture
November 17, 2016 March 25, 2019 - Written by Mike Walden
The patella tendon connects the kneecap to the shin bone. A partial rupture of this tendon is often from a jumping or explosive load on the tendon. People who have previously suffered from patella tendon injuries are more at risk as the tendon is weakened. This knee injury causes swelling and is very painful.
Symptoms
Patella tendon ruptures are extremely painful and may be accompanied by an audible ‘pop’ at the time of injury. There will be swelling of the knee, particularly at the bottom of the knee over the tendon. The athlete will be unable to put weight on the knee or hold the knee in a straightened position.
Explained
The patella tendon or patella ligament as it is sometimes called connects the patella or kneecap to the front of the tibia or shin bone at a protrusion called the tibial tuberosity. Its function is to act as a lever arm for the quadriceps muscles. The quadriceps themselves insert into the upper surface of the patella and when the contracted pull on the patella, and thus the patella tendon, to straighten the knee joint.
The patella tendon is prone to rupturing in individuals with a history of patella tendon injuries such as jumpers knee or degeneration due to age. Injuries of this type serve to weaken the patella tendon and in the event of strong eccentric quadriceps contraction which is where the muscle contracts while it lengthens such as landing from a jump, the patella tendon may snap or rupture most commonly at the lower end of the patella.
Corticosteroid injections given to address the inflammation seen in jumpers knee type injuries are also known to increase the risk of a patella tendon rupture.
Treatment
What can the athlete do?
Apply PRICE technique as soon as possible. Rest and protect the knee from further injury. Apply ice or cold therapy as soon as possible after the injury. Ice should not be applied directly to the skin but use a wet tea towel or similar. Cold can be applied for 10 minutes every hour for the first 24 to 48 hours depending on how bad the injury is.
A doctor may prescribe NSAID’s or anti-inflammatory medication, for example, Ibuprofen for pain relief and to help decrease swelling. Seek professional medical assistance, especially if the injury is very painful or prevents walking.
Treatment & Rehabilitation
If the patella tendon becomes completely ruptured across its width and thus surgical intervention is required to repair the damage. This involves suturing (stitching) the torn tendon.
Following surgery, the patient will be advised on a specific rehabilitation plan which normally involves little or no weight-bearing on the affected knee and wearing a knee brace to prevent the knee from bending. This may be required for more than 6 weeks.
Once the knee brace has been removed exercises to regain full range of movement and build up the strength of the quadriceps muscle group should be carried out.
Rehabilitation after a patella tendon rupture is extremely slow and it may take between 6 and 12 months before the patient is able to return to sports.
This article has been written with reference to the bibliography.
Related articles
Housemaid’s Knee & Knee Bursitis
Acute Patella Injury
Jumper’s Knee | Patella Tendinopathy
Knee Joint Muscles
Perforated Eardrum
Tags
Local knee swelling Sudden onset knee pain
Copyright © 2019 Sportsinjuryclinic.net
Who are we?
Feedback
Cookies & Privacy policy
Disclaimer
Terms & conditions
Acceptable use policy
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. You can opt-out if you wish.Accept Reject Read More
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Scroll to Top