Removing a Tick
Residents
Children & Family Interest
Lawson Lake County Park
Consumers
In an Emergency
Employment & Volunteering
Environment & Agriculture
Financial Assistance
Forms, Applications & Permits
Health & Mental Health
Historical Records
Property Owners & Real Estate
Libraries
Radio
Newspapers
Seniors
State and Federal Government
Students
Television
Volunteer Emergency Services
Veterans
Businesses
Employment
Environment
Maps
Farms and Agriculture
Legal Matters
Women and Minority-Owned Businesses
Forms, Applications, and Documents
Facts, Statistics and Demographics
Government Contracts
Taxes and Finance
Inspections
Real Estate
Chambers of Commerce
Starting, Expanding or Relocating
Albany County IDA
Government
Departments and Offices
County Legislature
Charter Review Commission
Contract Administration Board (CAB)
County Budget
County Government at Work
Courts & Justice
Documents & Archives
Environment
Fraud Reporting
Laws & Resolutions
Municipalities
State and Federal Government Links
See Through Albany County
Team Green
Lawson Lake County Park
Visitors
Environment & Historic Preservation
Lawson Lake County Park
Albany County Helderberg-Hudson Rail Trail
Colleges & Universities
Finding a Home
Arts & Entertainment
Regional Information
Senior Housing Opportunities
Shopping Centers & Malls
Events
County Calendar
Albany County Cares About Our Businesses
News & Updates
Notices
Alerts
News
RSS Feeds
About
NY Connects
Historic Albany County
Medical Reserve Corps
Videos
Contact
Home
Sitemap
Search
How May We Help?
County Clerk Document Search
Directions to the Times Union Center
Contact a Department
FOIL Request
Report Medicaid Provider Fraud
Department Directory
Search Our Site
Where Can I Find?
News
Social Services
Children, Youth & Families
Assessment Rolls
Digital Tax Maps
Albany County Land Bank
Civil Service Exam Announcements
Deeds & Mortgages Online
State of the County Address
County Budget
County Directory
Site Map
You are here: Home > Government > Departments and Offices > Department of Health > Programs & Services > Lyme Disease > Removing a Tick
Albany County
DEPARTMENT of HEALTH
175 Green Street | Albany, NY 12202
Phone: (518) 447-4580 | Fax: (518) 447-4698
Elizabeth F. Whalen, MD, MPH, Commissioner
Removing a Tick
A tick has bitten you and is embedded in your skin.
Now what?
Don't panic. Your chances of acquiring Lyme disease are low if the tick is removed during the first 24 to 36 hours after attachment.
Remove the tick promptly and properly:
Using tweezers, grasp the tick as close to the skin as possible.
Gently pull the tick in a steady, upward motion.
Wash the area with a disinfectant.
When trying to remove the tick:
DO NOT touch the tick with your bare hands.
DO NOT squeeze the body of the tick as this may increase your risk of infection.
DO NOT put alcohol, nail polish remover or Vaseline on the tick.
DO NOT put a hot match or cigarette on the tick in an effort to make it "back out."
DO NOT use your fingers to remove the tick.
These methods do not work and only increase the likelihood the tick will transmit Lyme disease to you. Applying alcohol, nail polish remover, or a hot match can irritate a tick and cause it to regurgitate its stomach contents into your skin. The stomach contents of a tick can contain the Lyme disease-causing bacterium.
Instead of tweezers, you may also use a special tick removal device, which is usually shaped like a slotted spoon. These tick removal devices can be purchased at a pharmacy or other retail outlet.
Under no circumstances should you try to remove an embedded tick by using your fingers. It is better to wait a little while, if necessary, until you have access to tweezers or a tick removal device and remove the tick properly, than to increase your risk of infection by trying to remove it with your fingers.
While removing a tick, if the tick's mouthparts break off and remain in your skin, don't worry. The mouthparts alone cannot transmit Lyme disease, because the infective body of the tick is no longer attached. The mouthparts can be left alone. They will dry up and fall out by themselves in a few days, or you can remove them as you would a splinter.
After cleaning the area, watch the site of the bite for the appearance of a rash 3 to 30 days after the bite. The rash will usually be at least 2 ½ inches in diameter initially and will gradually expand to several inches in size. Rashes smaller than the size of a quarter are usually a reaction to the bite itself and do not mean you have Lyme disease.
Above all, be patient. Firmly embedded ticks are difficult to remove and it may take some time.
American Lyme Disease Foundation's Educational Videos
Learn how to remove a tick by visiting the American Lyme Disease Foundation website and viewing one of their educational videos. CLICK HERE »
Albany County ExecutiveDaniel P. McCoy
Home
Residents
Business
Government
Visitors
About
Events
News & Updates
Contact
Copyright © Albany County, New York. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy
Search
Sitemap
Website Services Provided by Aeon Nexus Corporation