15 Effective Home Remedies To Treat Anemia Naturally - Home Remedies Blog
Home
Contact Us
Advertise With Us
All Remedies
Home Remedies Blog
Alternative Medicine Hub
Home
Food Suggestions
Yoga
Home Remedies
DIY
Essential Oils
Questions and Answers
You are here: Home / Home Remedies / 15 Effective Home Remedies To Treat Anemia Naturally
15 Effective Home Remedies To Treat Anemia Naturally
May 4, 2018 by Dr. Remedy Hunter
Pin
Share
Tweet
+1
12 Shares
Anemia is a common health condition in which patients feel fatigue and stay tired all the time. Most people suffer from iron deficiency anemia. It occur when your body’s red blood cell count falls below a certain level. People who suffer from iron deficiency are likely to get anemia symptoms and may feel dizziness all the time. Fortunately there are natural treatments for anemia which can restore your energy levels and boost iron levels.
It is better to get yourself checked for different types of anemia such as hemolytic anemia, sickle cell anemia or sideroblastic anemia. All of them are not curable with home remedies. Some of them require modern medications and proper diagnosis for complete recovery.
Treating anemia at home is effective in the case of iron deficiency anemia. These remedies are effective enough to boost your metabolic rate and help you improve your red blood cell count.
Hemoglobin is an iron based protein which is essential to keep your blood healthy. One need to understand that lack of iron in our body can trigger lower hemoglobin and acute fatigue.
Table of Contents
Anemia Symptoms
1. Blackstrap Molasses For Anemia Treatment
2. Increase The Intake of Vitamin C
3. Eat Iron Rich Dates
4. Yogurt with Turmeric
5. Beetroot for Anemia
6. Pomegranate
7. Sesame Seeds
8. Copper Water to Cure Anemia At Home
9. Spinach
10. Banana
11. Green Leafy Vegetables
12. Tomato For Anemia
13. Parsley For Anemia
14. Foods For Anemia
15. Raisins For Anemia
Risk Factors And Side Effects of Anemia
How To Prevent Anemia
Anemia Symptoms
When you will suffer from this blood related condition? According to the World Health Organization, Anemic men have less than 13 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter and anemic women have less than 12 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter. Here are some of the signs and symptoms which will help you to find out if you are suffering from anemia or not.
Always feeling tired
Extreme fatigue
Cognitive issues
Confusion
Stress or anxiety
Suffering from pale skin
Fast or irregular heartbeat
Severe hair fall
Dullness of skin
Cold hands and feet
Shortness of breath
Chest pain and congestion
Mood swing
Episodes of migraine and headache
People with chronic diseases are at higher risk of getting anemia. Chronic disease increase the fatigue and also push your immune system to limits.
Anemia is curable by improving diet, exercises and by making some little lifestyle changes. Here are some of the best home remedies for anemia that will improve your condition and tiredness.
1. Blackstrap Molasses For Anemia Treatment
Blackstrap molasses is extremely nutritional source of food which may help treat anemia at home. It is an amazing source of iron which will eliminate iron deficiency and improve your blood cell count. It is a by product of sugarcane refining process which is beneficial for our health. Blackstrap molasses can boost your energy levels and promote healthy circulation.
It contains high amount of vitamin B6, manganese, magnesium, potassium, iron and selenium. All of its nutritional values are essential for improving your immune system and fight back anemia.
First of all it is a great alternative to refined sugar.
Now take one cup of lukewarm water or skimmed milk.
Mix one tablespoon of blackstrap molasses.
Drink it before going to bed.
It is also beneficial for treating anemia in pregnancy.
Pregnant women can drink blackstrap molasses as it is considered safe.
2. Increase The Intake of Vitamin C
Anemia is know to affect your immune system and vitamin C is the best way to cure anemia. It improves our immune system and boost metabolic rate which aids in easy digestion. Vitamin C can help with anemia by improving the iron absorption rate of intestine. You can consult with your nutritionist for proper doses of vitamin C supplements.
Alternatively, you can start eating foods rich in vitamin C.
Drink 2 glass of fresh orange juice in a day.
You can also mix 2 tablespoon of lemon juice in one cup of lukewarm water.
Drink it every morning on empty stomach.
3. Eat Iron Rich Dates
Dates are one of the best source of iron. It is sweet and tasty which can help you get rid of iron deficiency. Adding dates to your salad or in your diet is an amazing anemia home treatment. It is also helpful in easy stool removal and increase body’s iron absorption rate.
If you are pregnant then dates are good news. It provide energy and high amount of nutrients that is essential to carry the child.
Take one cup of warm milk and soak 3 dates overnight.
Drink the milk and eat the dates in the morning.
Alternatively, you can blend those date to make a shake.
If you like the taste of it. then eat dry dates when ever you feel fatigue.
4. Yogurt with Turmeric
Both these ingredients are helpful in treating a specific type of anemia in which patients suffer from cold limbs and swelling. Turmeric is powerful anti-inflammatory agent which keeps your body warm and reduce inflammation. On the other hand, yogurt is one of the best probiotics which promote healthy immune system.
Eat 2 bowls of plain unsweetened yogurt in a day.
Mix 1 tablespoon of roasted turmeric powder in one glass of lukewarm milk.
Drink it before going to sleep.
Use this remedy until your condition improves.
5. Beetroot for Anemia
People suffering from iron deficiency anemia can get benefited from drinking beetroot juice. It is an amazing source of iron which will help you cure common type of anemia that produces symptoms like fatigue, confusion, weakness and migraine during pregnancy. It also help increase the red blood cell count.
Oxygen in blood is essential for the production of hemoglobin. It is proven through studies that beetroot increases the amount of oxygen in blood which help fast recovery from disease such as anemia in women and men. You can also include other vegetables and fruits for better healing speed.
Throw 100 grams of beetroot and 2 carrots in a blender.
Blend them for 2-3 minutes to make a smoothie.
Drink it once in the morning and again before going to bed.
6. Pomegranate
Pomegranate is another popular natural treatment for anemia as it contains high amount of iron. Eating pomegranate fruit or drinking its juice can eliminate iron deficiency problem. It re-energies your body and help you get rid of common symptoms such as weakness, fatigue and palpitation.
Extract juice from 2 pomegranate fruit and drink it twice a day.
Alternatively, you can mix carrot or beetroot to make it more effective.
You can prepare a blend by mixing one cup of pomegranate juice, 1 teaspoon of cinnamon powder and 1 tablespoon of lemon juice.
Drink this blend after eating your breakfast.
7. Sesame Seeds
Sesame seeds are another effective iron deficiency anemia home remedy. It contains minute yet high amount of this mineral to support healthy hemoglobin formation. It keeps your body full of energy and makes you feel active. Sesame seed is not safe for pregnant women. However, any other women can enjoy sesame seed tea for its health benefits.
Pour one cup of water in a saucepan.
Add 1 tablespoon of sesame seed and bring water to boiling point.
Allow it to simmer for 5 minutes.
Then pour and strain the water in a new cup.
Add 5-6 parsley leaves, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice, and 1 teaspoon of honey.
Mix them together and allow it to steep for 5 more minutes.
Drink this herbal to to cure anemia naturally.
8. Copper Water to Cure Anemia At Home
Copper is an essential mineral required by our body for proper functioning. It help cure anemia symptoms such as hair loss and low energy. It is also essential for supporting other minerals to get absorbed easily during digestion. You don’t have to mix it in water, however here is the trick which works perfectly.
Take one copper tumbler or bowl.
Fill it with chilled water and leave it overnight.
Drink this water every morning on empty stomach to cure anemia naturally.
9. Spinach
Spinach is one of the most known iron rich food which help boost your energy and stamina. Increasing the intake of spinach will help treat anemia and its common symptoms such as tiredness, back pain, headaches and dizziness. It help increase blood cell production and boost hemoglobin levels.
This green leafy vegetable also contains other vital minerals that promote strong immune. It contains vitamin A, folic acid, vitamin C, magnesium and vitamin B-6 and all these nutrients are essential for healthy immune system.
Take 50-100 grams of spinach and chop out the branch.
Puree it by adding water and apply heat.
Add 3 pinches of salt, 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon, and 1 teaspoon of turmeric powder.
Mix 3 chopped garlic and allow it to simmer for 10 minutes.
Once the leaf is melted then collect the soup in a fresh bowl.
Drink spinach soup daily to recover from anemia quickly.
10. Banana
Are you sick of feeling tired from anemia? then banana is the good news. It is not only high in calories but also a good source of iron and micro nutrients that are essential for treating anemia. Incorporating banana in your diet will not only make you feel energized but also improve blood cell count. Thanks to high amount of magnesium in banana, it is proactive in our hemoglobin synthesis and improve blood color.
Just eat two ripe banana before going to bed.
People watching their weight should cut the ratio in half.
Alternatively, take one bowl of yogurt and mix 1 chopped ripe banana.
Eat this early morning on empty stomach to kick start your metabolism.
11. Green Leafy Vegetables
Apart from spinach there are other green leafy vegetable which help increase generation of blood cell count. Broccoli and celery are two other common green leafy vegetables you should include in your diet.
Always cook green vegetables properly to avoid indigestion. Most of them contains oxalic acid which can reduce the absorption rate of nutrients.
If possible boil them properly and use it to prepare soup or add them to your favorite salad recipe.
12. Tomato For Anemia
Iron is good for improving your hemoglobin, however, it is important to eat more diverse nutrients to boost your energy. Eating tomato is beneficial for your skin, eyes and help you absorb iron more efficiently. It is anti-inflammatory that is why it help reduce skin inflammation or paleness.
It contains high amount of vitamin C and lycopene and both of them are essential for boosting immune strength.
Eat 1-2 ripe tomatoes daily to cure anemia naturally.
Including them into any salad is the best way to eat tomatoes.
You can also make their soup and have them before every meal.
13. Parsley For Anemia
Parsley contains high amount of flavonoids which help flush out excessive toxin from body. It is popularly used to get rid of bad vaginal odor. Eating parley leaves can help you cure anemia by improving oxygen levels in blood. It increases the blood cell count and help you feel better.
Apart from being an excellent detoxing agent, parsley supplements can provide sufficient amount of daily body’s iron requirement. It will also boost your body’s strength by supplying vitamin C.
Pour half cup of lukewarm water in a blender.
Add handful of parley leaves.
Mix 1/4 cup of orange juice and few berries.
Blend them together for 2-3 minutes.
Drink this parsley smoothies two times in a day.
Alternatively, use parley leaves in salad or in preparation of your meal.
14. Foods For Anemia
Our body reacts exactly how we feed ourselves. Modernization has changed the way we eat and so our daily nutritional intake. Lack of iron consumption causes one of the common type of anemia. It will makes patients feel low all the time.
Here is the summarized list of foods high in iron for anemia that you should include in your diet plan.
Spinach
Beetroot
Dates
Blackstrap Molasses
Tomatoes
Banana
Pomegrnate
Sesame Seeds
Dried Black Currant
Green Leafy Vegetables
Apple
Fenugreek
15. Raisins For Anemia
Raisins are dried grapes that changes its nutrition composition during the process. It contains detoxing agents and high amount of digestive nutrition which increases body’s iron absorption capacity. It belongs to the list of foods good for anemia treatment.
Raisins nutritional chart shows that it contains calcium, potassium, sodium, protein, fiber and iron. It improve the health by increasing oxygen supply in our blood stream. This dry fruit is widely used in herbal medicines for anemia which boosts patient mood and prevent them from falling into depression.
In one cup of water soak 15-20 raisin overnight.
Now strain and collect them in a bowl.
Add 1 tablespoon of honey and crush them to make a thick paste.
Eat it directly or use it as spread on your bread.
Risk Factors And Side Effects of Anemia
Patients suffering from other condition are at higher risk of developing chronic anemia. Diabetics shows same side effects and suffering from low iron levels can make condition worse.
People suffering from IBS(Irritable Bowel Syndrome) are also at high risk because they are not able to absorb iron properly which makes them vulnerable to iron deficiency diseases.
Typically almost one-third of american population suffer from mild iron deficiency, however, in case of sever iron deficiency the side effects of anemia will be more evident and severe.
Freezing palm and feet
Constant headache
Migraine with ringing sound in the back of your head
Heart pumps more blood which can lead to heart failure
If left untreated then it can damage liver and kidneys.
Lack of oxygen in the blood
Some inherited anemias, such as sickle cell anemia, can be serious and lead to life-threatening complications.
How To Prevent Anemia
Increase the intake of foods rich in iron, vitamin C and folic acid.
Divert yourself by doing your favorite things when you get the symptoms of anemia.
Eat liver and red-meat on regular basis.
Take cold water bath to promote better blood circulation.
Avoid beverages like coffee or tea.
Eat green leafy vegetable rich in potassium such as celery, broccoli, kiwi, banana and whole grains.
Drink water from iron bowls.
Increase the intake of fresh fruits in your diet.
Follow a diet plan for anemia which contains balanced amount of iron, vitamins and other essential minerals.
Workout daily to increase your strenght.
Detox your body with the help of lemon juice.
Natural treatments for anemia will only work on few types of anemia. People suffering from iron deficiency will get the most benefit from above listed home remedies. It will re-boost your energy levels and help you feel better over the periods of time. Eat healthy food and stay active.
Pin
Share
Tweet
+1
12 Shares
Filed Under: Home Remedies Tagged With: Anemia Home Remedies, Anemia Treatment, Iron Deficiency, Natural Remedies
DISCLAIMER: The remedies outlined in this site is of general information and is not intended to constitute medical advice, probable diagnosis, or recommended treatment. Stay fit- Stay Happy
Important Pages
Advertise With Us
Ask Question
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Questions and Answers
Terms of use
© Copyright 2018 Home Remedies Blog · All Rights Reserved