Studies: How effective is topical minoxidil for hair loss? | Profolus
BUSINESS AND MARKETS
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
SOCIETY AND CULTURE
Browse Topics
Studies: How effective is topical minoxidil for hair loss?
Posted on January 18, 2018 August 23, 2018 by Giovanni Alesio
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Reddit
email
Print
Androgenic alopecia is hair loss resulting from androgenic miniaturization of hair follicles. It is also known as male-pattern hair loss when it affects men or female-pattern hair loss when it affects women. Nonetheless, this condition can lead to psychological distress due to diminished body image satisfaction.
There are several treatment options aimed at managing androgenic alopecia. One of which is the topical application of minoxidil: an over-the-counter antihypertensive vasodilator medication used for slowing or stopping hair loss and promoting hair regrowth.
The effectiveness of topical minoxidil for treating hair loss
A comprehensive review of literatures authored by K. Franca et al. mentioned that the application of topical minoxidil is the most widely recommended treatment for androgenic alopecia. It is available in 2 and 5 percent solutions. However, the United States Food and Drug Authority only allows 2 percent solution for use in female patients.
There is a 30-year scientific consensus attesting to the effectiveness of topical minoxidil in stimulating hair growth. However, its mechanism of action remains unclear. According to a review by A. G. Messenger and J. Rundegren, previous animal studies revealed an effect centered on shortening telogen or the resting phase of hair follicles that in turn, cause premature entry into an anagen phase or growth phase. It can also prolong this growth phase and increase the size of follicle resulting in thicker hair. Researchers believe that these effects are similar in humans.
Messenger and Rundegren also mentioned several in vitro effects of topical minoxidil in monocultures of skin and hair follicles. These effects include stimulation of cell proliferation, inhibition of collagen synthesis, and stimulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and prostaglandin synthesis. Accordingly, these effects might be relevant to hair growth although direct correlations remain unknown.
Another common explanation of the effectiveness of topical minoxidil centers on its property of being an antihypertensive vasodilator. Hypothetically, because it widens blood vessels, it thereby allows more oxygen, blood, and nutrients to the hair follicle.
Several clinical trials involving human subjects have been conducted to probe further the effects of topical minoxidil. For example, a dated 1990 study by A. Goren et al. revealed that 40 percent of observed patients had positive response to 5 percent of topical minoxidil after three to six months of use. Another 2002 study by Olsen et al. revealed that men who used 5 percent topic minoxidil had an earlier treatment response than those who use 2 percent minoxidil solution.
Limitations to the effectiveness of topical minoxidil
But the effectiveness of topical minoxidil in inducing hair growth and treating androgenic alopecia only lasts during the period of continued application. In other words, this medication must be used indefinitely to continuously support existing hair follicles and maintenance of continued hair growth. A study by V. H. Price, E. Menefee, and P. C. Strauss concluded that cessation of topical minoxidil treatment resulted in reduction of hair weight and number count after 28 weeks, with levels similar to placebo group.
Olsen et al. also made an interesting study that followed patients who underwent topical minoxidil treatment within a period of five years. The study revealed that hair regrowth peaked at one year before slowing down over subsequent years. Note that during the mid fourth and fifth years, hair regrowth remained evident albeit at a slowed phase. The study concluded that topical minoxidil is effective in maintaining non-vellus or terminal hair in men with androgenic alopecia.
A literature review by T. Scow, R. S. Nolte, and A. F. Shaughnessy revealed another setback. Their review revealed that the effectiveness of topical minoxidil in treating hair loss has been largely demonstrated in men aged 18 to 41. In addition, this medication is mostly effective on men who have experienced hair loss for less than five years. Further studies are needed to assess its effects on middle-aged to late-aged men and women.
Takeaway: How effective is topical minoxidil for hair loss?
In conclusion, there is a sizeable body of literatures detailing the effectiveness of topical minoxidil as hair loss medication and in promoting hair regrowth. Despite these studies however, its mechanism of action remains unclear. Despite this, its mechanism of action remains unclear. Animal models and human clinical trials have generally revealed that topical minoxidil is effective for treating or more appropriately, managing androgenic alopecia.
FURTHER READINGS AND REFERENCES:
Franca, K., Rodrigues, T. S., Ledon, J., Savas, J., & Chacon, A. 2013. Comprehensive overview and treatment update on hair loss. Journal of Cosmetics, Dermatological Sciences and Application. 3(3A): 1-8. DOI: 10.4236/jcdsa.2013.33A1001
Goren, A., Shapiro, J., Roberts, J., McCoy, J., Desai, N., Zarrab, Z., Pietrzak, A., & Lotti, T. 2014. Clinical utility and validity of minoxidil response testing in androgenic alopecia. Dermatologic Therapy. 28(1): 13-16. DOI: 10.1111/dth.12164
Messenger, A. G. & Rundegren, J. 2004. Minoxidil: Mechanisms of action on hair growth. British Journal of Dermatology. 150(2): 186-194. DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2004.05785.x
Olsen, E. A. F. E. Dunlap, Funicella, T., Koperski, J. A., Swinehart, J. M., Tschen, E. H., & Trancik, R. J. 2002. A randomized clinical trial of 5% topical minoxidil versus 2% topical minoxidil and placebo in the treatment of androgenetic alopecia in men. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology. 47(3): 377-385. DOI: 10.1067/mjd.2002.124088
Olsen, E. A., Weiner, M. S., Amara, I. A., & DeLong, E. R. 1990. Five-year follow-up of men with androgenetic alopecia treated with topical minoxidil. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology. 22(4): 643-646. DOI: 10.1016/0190-9622(90)70089-Z
Price, V. H., Menefee, E., & Strauss, P. C. 1999. Changes in hair weight and hair count in men with androgenetic alopecia, after application of 5% and 2% topical minoxidil, placebo, or no treatment. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology. 41(5): 717-721. DOI: 10.1016/S0190-9622(99)70006-X
Scow, D. T., Nolte, R. S., Shaughnessy, A. F. 1999. Medical treatments for balding in men. American Family Physician. 59(8): 2189-2194. Available online
BUSINESS & MARKETS
The pros and cons of nepotism
Advantages and disadvantages of cryptocurrency
Difference between GDPR and Data Protection Directive
Johnson: Five I Format of ethical decision-making
Paine Manager’s Compass for decision-making
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Diesel Fuel vs. Petrol Fuel: The Difference
Difference between diesel engine and gasoline engine
Advantages and disadvantages of diesel engine
Water desalination: Advantages and disadvantages
Facial recognition: Advantages and disadvantages
HEALTH & MEDICINE
Jellyfish sting: How to avoid them?
Causes of Ebola outbreak
Explainer: Why Ebola virus disease is so deadly?
Studies: How smoking affects the skin?
Roles of electrolytes in the human body
SOCIETY & CULTURE
Analysis: Themes in Game of Thrones
Explainer: Predictive Policing
Pros and cons of legalizing recreational marijuana
The purpose of the European Union
Explainer: The reasons for Brexit
ABOUT OUR COMPANY
Profolus operates as a media and publication unit of Esploro Company. At the heart of our business is a pronounced commitment to empower business, organizations, and individuals through our informative contents.
Esploro Company is a research and consultancy firm catering to markets in Asia-Pacific, Europe, Middle East, Latin America, and North America. We strongly believe that research and consultancy form the backbone of informed decisions and actions.
We are dedicated to empower individuals and organizations through the dissemination of information and open-source intelligence, particularly through our range of research, content, and consultancy services delivered across several lines of business. Esploro embraces the responsibility of doing business that benefits the customers and serves the greater interests of the community.
Home | About | Terms | Privacy | Konsyse | Esploro Profolus. Information Hub. An imprint of Esploro Company. 2019 All Rights Reserved.
Our website uses cookies to provide us with data and information that can help us understand our website traffic, customize advertisements, and improve user experience and service delivery. You agree to our terms and privacy policy by consuming our contents. Read our Privacy Statement.