Herbal Supplements Better Than Drugs for Migraine - Palm Springs, CA Chiropractor - Chiropractic Works
Chiropractic Works
Dr. Chris Rapoff, DC, QME
(760) 327-2488
Home
About Us
About Dr. Rapoff
Testimonials
Privacy Notice
Services
Spinal Treatment
Epley Maneuver
Physiotherapy
Off site X-Rays
Massage Therapy
Your Massage Therapist
Blood Testing
DOT Medical Exam and Commercial Motor Vehicle Certification
New Patient Info
Your First Visit
Payment Options
Medicare Information
Medicare Information 2
How We Help
Auto Injuries
Back Pain
Neck Pain
Headache and Migraine
Hip and Joint Pain
Work Injuries
Wellness
About Chiropractic
Chiropractic for Kids
Chiropractic for Seniors
Exercise
Nutrition
Pregnancy and Chiropractic
Massage Therapy
Sports Injuries
Dizziness and Vertigo
Fibromyalgia
Knee and Leg Pain
Location
Contact Us
Appointments
Email the Doctor
Blog
Home About Us – About Dr. Rapoff – Testimonials – Privacy Notice Services – Spinal Treatment – Epley Maneuver – Physiotherapy – Off site X-Rays – Massage Therapy –– Your Massage Therapist – Blood Testing – DOT Medical Exam and Commercial Motor Vehicle Certification New Patient Info – Your First Visit – Payment Options – Medicare Information – Medicare Information 2 How We Help – Auto Injuries – Back Pain – Neck Pain – Headache and Migraine – Hip and Joint Pain – Work Injuries – Wellness –– About Chiropractic –– Chiropractic for Kids –– Chiropractic for Seniors –– Exercise –– Nutrition –– Pregnancy and Chiropractic – Massage Therapy – Sports Injuries – Dizziness and Vertigo – Fibromyalgia – Knee and Leg Pain Location Contact Us – Appointments – Email the Doctor Blog
Herbal Supplements Better Than Drugs for Migraine
New research has revealed that butterbur, a natural herbal supplement, may be better at preventing migraines than several commonly-prescribed non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (frequently called NSAIDs).
Researchers analyzed 49 studies on migraine treatments performed from 1999 to 2009. They then rated the various treatments on their ability to prevent migraines. The research was part of new set of guidelines for treating migraines developed by the American Headache Society and the American Academy of Neurology.
The researchers concluded that among natural and over-the-counter preventative treatments, herbal supplements of butterbur were the most effective for preventing migraines. Taking supplements containing magnesium, feverfew, and riboflavin were also shown to be as effective as some drugs at preventing migraine occurrences. The researchers rated these supplements, along with NSAIDS like ibuprofen and naproxen, “probably effective” for preventing migraines.
Many treatments are available for migraine prevention. However, few patients actually take them. The journal Neurology has published research showing that while 38 percent of migraine sufferers would benefit from preventive medication, but only 3-13% use it. As a result, the American Academy of Neurology has placed a new emphasis on preventing in their new guidelines.
Preventive medications are taken daily to reduce the severity and frequency of migraines. Many of these treatments are available without a prescription. However, Stephen Silberstein of the AAN
says patients should consult their doctors to determine correct dosage to control their migraines. This can change, since migraines can become better or worse over time. Chiropractic care and regular exercise are two additional natural treatments that have been shown to reduce the severity and frequency of migraines.
Photo by Adam KR via Creative Commons.
References
Holland S, Silberstein S, Freitag F, et al. Evidence-based guideline update: NSAIDs and other complementary treatments for episodic migraine prevention in adults: Report of the quality standards subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the American Headache Society. Neurology 2012; 78 (17): 1346-1353.
Lipton RB, Bigal ME, Diamond M, Freitag F, et al. Migraine prevalence, disease burden, and the need for preventive therapy. Neurology 2007; 68(5): 343– 349.
New guidelines: treatments can help prevent migraine. American Academy of Neurology. Press Release. April 23, 2012. Accessed May 30,2012. http://www.aan.com/press/index.cfm?fuseaction=release.view&release=1062.
Newsletter
Sign up for our newsletter!
Name
Email
Submit
Chiropractic
Location
Videos
3D Spine
About Us
About Us
Location and Hours
Contact Us
More Info
About Chiropractic
Request an Appointment
Disclaimer - Privacy - Copyright
2145 Tahquitz Canyon Way, Ste 4
Palm Springs, CA 92262
(760) 327-2488
©2019
Powered by ChiroHosting
Home
Contact Us
Appointments
Call our office at (760) 327-2488 for an appointment today!