Face Scars Archives - Page 2 of 9 - Scars and Spots
Scars and Spots
Advanced Treatment for Scars and Dark Spots developed by a leading plastic surgeon
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
About INVICIBLE
Press
Subscribe
Buy NOW
April 20, 2019
InviCible Scars June 10, 2015 Leave a Comment
5 Surprising Causes of Adult Acne
It’s an unfortunate fact for many that blemishes don’t magically disappear at the age of 18, with high school’s end signaling the arrival of a flawless complexion and vanishing pores. Acne follows men and women throughout their adulthood, affecting approximately one-third of the total population. It ranks among the most common – and most frustrating – conditions in the world.
What is Acne?
Acne is a long-term skin infection. It occurs when the glands are clogged by oil, dead cells, or ingrown follicles. This interferes with the body’s sebum production and causes a series of bumps and blemishes to appear.
Read More: Acne
What are Five Unexpected Causes of Adult Acne?
Most adults are familiar with the common causes of acne – stress, hormones, or a diet high in dairy, to name just a few. There are other ways to experience breakouts, however, and these can be easily overlooked.
Salt
Salt contains iodines. These properties are sometimes difficult to sweat out, leading to them being embedded inside the pores. This causes inflammation and, subsequently, the development of pimples.
Styling Products
Sprays and gels, conditioners and lifters – there are endless styling options. When these options are applied to skin instead of hair, however, acne tends to occur. This is because heavy formulas cause a sudden imbalance of oil, clogging the pores with serums, creams, and pomades due to the alcohol content and the build-up of chemicals over time. Breakouts happen.
Liver Toxins
The liver is natural “detoxifier”. It processes harsh toxins and converts them into less harmful substances that the body can then get rid of safely. When this organ cannot perform at optimum levels, acne can occur. This is because toxins remain in the bloodstream, eventually circulating to the pores and causing inflammation.
Sweat
Sweating is a necessary process. It purifies the body, flushing away contaminants, bacteria, and other toxins. These toxins can sometimes cause irritation within the glands and form pimples. This typically occurs when sweat isn’t properly washed away, but is instead allowed to stay on the skin. Always shower and/or wash your face after a good work out.
Tight Clothing
Acne is often associated with the face. However, adults can experience full-body blemishes due to tight clothing. Fabric that constantly touches the skin (such as undergarments, athletic wear, or slender-cut jeans) can aggravate the pores. This – when combined with harsh dyes or detergents – can cause breakouts.
Solutions
These causes are frustrating. Their solutions, however, aren’t. Treat these acne-issues through:
Salt – Eliminate table-salt whenever possible. Rely on sea salt or other flavor alternatives.
Styling Products – Try not to use them daily and when possible, look for styling aids with a low alcohol content, are oil-free and contain more natural ingredients.
Liver Toxins – Consult with a doctor to test the liver’s performance. A change in diet – such as reducing alcohol or eliminating fatty acids – may be needed.
Sweat – Wash skin thoroughly after any excessive sweating. Use cold water to improve pore appearance and maintain moisture balance.
Tight Clothing – Eliminate tight fabrics. Be sure to launder necessary clothing items such as undergarments regularly, and use all-natural detergents.
Read More: Acne Tips
Try InviCible Scars to fade acne scars.
Want to know more about the causes of acne? Send us a line! We’ll be happy to answer your questions. Be sure to subscribe to Scars and Spots as well for email updates.
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Acne Tips, Face Scars, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars Tagged: acne scars, acne tips, get rid of acne scars, scar treatment
InviCible Scars June 4, 2015 39 Comments
Why is my Scar Darker Than my Normal Skin?
Scarring can lead to rough texture in the skin, an increase of collagen bundles, and a lack of hair follicles or sweat glands. However, it may also create discoloration within the skin, with damaged tissue taking on a darker shade. This is known as post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation and it ranks among the most common effects of hypertrophic, keloid, and atrophic scarring.
What is Post-Inflammatory Hyperpigmentation?
Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation occurs when a body’s cellular process is changed. Damaged tissue is detected and several chemical responses occur, with a sudden increase of collagen, protein, and melanin (the property that determines the color of a person’s skin, eyes, and hair). These elements are meant to heal the scar. However, they often trigger a sudden darkening of the skin.
Read More: Hyperpigmentation
How Does Post-Inflammatory Hyperpigmentation Affect Scars?
Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation directly targets scars, sending an excess of melanin to the damaged tissue. This causes instant discoloration, especially around the edges, and can create a variety of shades: brown, black, gray, or even red. Spotting, freckling, or patching can also occur.
It should be noted that no pain is associated with post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation. Its effect on scars is purely cosmetic. However, those suffering from the condition may still wish to treat it.
What Solutions are Available for Post-Inflammatory Hyperpigmentation?
Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation has no cure, but it does have several treatments – all of which can lessen its severity and restore most of the skin’s original texture. These include:
Topical Scar Creams
Topical scar creams prove ideal for treating most post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation cases. They offer much-needed nutrients (such as Vitamin C) that penetrate the skin and restore balance to the melanin production cycle.
Chemical Peels
Those experiencing extreme post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation may find topical creams lacking. Chemical peels may instead be needed to address the issue. These options remove layers of damaged skin, softening both the appearance of scars and the starkness of discoloration.
Sunscreen
Ultra-violet rays can exacerbate the effects of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation. Those wishing to correct the issue must therefore protect their skin. Use lotions with high SPF counts and avoid extended exposure to the sun.
These methods have been proven as successful in the treatment post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation. However, it is important to note that the healing process can never be guaranteed. Results will vary.
Hydroquinone: A Warning
A common treatment for post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation is Hydroquinone. This skin-bleaching agent is meant to counter discoloration and lighten skin’s overall appearance, but these results come with a cost.
Hydroquinone has a high toxicity level. This means it can cause severe damage to the skin, including blistering, burn marks, new discoloration, and extreme tightness. While the product is legal and available without a prescription, it should be avoided. There are better, safer alternatives.
Read More: The Dangers of Using Hydroquinone to Fade Scars and Hyperpigmentation
Want to know more about post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation? Leave a comment! We’ll be happy to respond. Don’t forget to also subscribe to Scars and Spots. Our posts will be sent directly to your inbox.
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Acne Tips, Chemical Peels, Dark Scars, Face Scars, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, Hyperpigmentation, New or Old Scars, Scar Healing Tips Tagged: dark scars, fade scars, post inflammatory hyperpigmentation, scar cream, scar treatment
InviCible Scars June 2, 2015 Leave a Comment
5 Ways to Get Rid of Acne Scars
Scars used to be untreatable. Skin, once damaged, could not return to its former texture, and redness was permanent. This has been a source of lingering discomfort for many faced with acne in their teens and the remaining acne scars throughout adulthood, making it a problem that never really goes away.
However, times have changed, and individuals now have a seemingly endless array acne scar solutions – but which solutions actually work? Five in particular have been proven to provide superior results.
Topical Scar Cream
Topical creams combine natural ingredients (such as Vitamin C or Aloe) with fortified synthetics (such as silicone) to heal, protect, and restore skin. They infuse the body with much-needed hydration and soothe irritation through their antibacterial properties. They provide non-invasive results and can be obtained without prescriptions.
Read More: Topical Scar Lotion
Facial Scar Revision
Facial scar revision redefines the appearance of scars, combining topical treatments – which expedite the healing process and improve pigmentation – with surgery. The procedure, known also as layered closure, involves cutting out the old scar and reclosing it, repositioning the edges of the scar so it heals better. This is a medical procedure and must be conducted by a certified plastic surgeon.
Dermabrasion
Dermabrasion is a process that involves the removal of scarred skin. It utilizes a series of sharp-edged brushes, rotating them quickly across tissue to “sand away” uneven areas and promote more even texture as the skin heas. This bolsters the body’s ability to heal (as exposing unaffected dermal layers restores balance to collagen production) and helps to improve the appearance of scars. Dermabrasion is a medical procedure but does not require a plastic surgeon. Many dermatologists also perform it.
Read More: Dermabrasion
Micro-Needling
Micro-needling is aptly named. It utilizes countless tiny needles, pricking the skin again and again in a series of controlled bursts. These bursts are intended to stimulate the healing process (as the body will respond to the minor injuries, producing collagen to fill in the minuscule holes). This reduces the appearance of scars by improving facial contours and enhancing the skin’s elasticity. Micro-needling is typically performed by a dermatologist.
Chemical Peel
Chemical peels deliver a low concentration of acid to the skin. They’re typically composed of glycol or TCA (trichloroacetic acid), and they’re used to (gently) remove affected dermal layers. The peels are spread across scars and penetrate the ridges, revealing the softer tissue beneath. These treatments can be done at home, but due to potential risks with improper acidic balances, it is strongly recommended that individuals visit their dermatologists for treatment instead.
Read More: Chemical Peel
Treatment Successes – Patience Required
All scars are different, and will therefore respond differently to treatments. The healing process is determined by a variety of factors, including genetics, collagen production, metabolism, nutrition, stress levels, and age, and it’s impossible to accurately calculate the amount of time needed to experience results from creams, peels, and other solutions. Some individuals may see instant improvements. Others may instead have to try multiple avenues before seeing real results.
When attempting new treatments, it’s important to be patient and allow the body to heal at its own pace. Don’t give up, and don’t try to rush the effects.
Are you curious about the scar solutions mentioned here? Contact us today! We’ll be happy to provide you with more information. Don’t forget to subscribe to our blog as well for instant inbox updates!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Chemical Peels, Face Scars, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, New or Old Scars, Scar Healing Tips Tagged: acne scar treatment, acne scars, acne tips
InviCible Scars April 9, 2015 Leave a Comment
Do Over the Counter Scar Treatments Really Work?
There are so many different types of over the counter scar treatments that it can be difficult to know whether or not they actually work. The ingredients of the treatments play a significant role in their effectiveness. The right ingredients, especially in the right combination, will facilitate the natural healing process, reducing the appearance of the scar, while other ingredients may not work, or even cause more damage.
Vitamin E
Vitamin E is commonly found in skin care ingredients since it is a powerful antioxidant that promotes beautiful skin. However, there is no real evidence that using vitamin E actually improves the scar. Instead, the benefits are most likely due to continued moistening of the area, rather than the infusion of the vitamin. Many people also develop contact dermatitis from vitamin E, so it is another ingredient to avoid.
Vitamin C
Vitamin C is another powerful antioxidant, and it plays an important role in the body’s healthy immune response, which includes wound healing. Furthermore, it is essential for proper formation of collagen and elastin in skin, which helps build healthy skin cells, rather than damaged scar tissue, after the skin is injured. Vitamin C also fades the hyperpigmentation that can come with scarring. Therefore, it is an effective and safe ingredient in an over the counter scar treatment.
Silicone
Silicone is another ingredient that has been shown in studies to aid in the treatment of scars, while not promoting any danger. It reduces any redness, pain and itching associated with the scarring, while also improving the elasticity of the skin.
Aloe Vera
Another beneficial, and effective, ingredient for over the counter scar treatment creams is aloe vera. This plant has long been used in cosmetics and first aid creams due to its moisturizing and healing effects. It protects the wound while also promoting healing, reducing inflammation, and strengthening the collagen structure.
Hydroquinone
Many popular over the counter scar treatment creams contain hydroquinone, and it has a reputation for effectively lightening scars. However, it is a very dangerous ingredient that has been banned in several countries. Even in the smaller doses found in over the counter creams, it can lead to problems such as impaired wound healing, irritation, nail discoloration, and ochronosis (permanent skin darkening).
Kojic Acid
Another seemingly effective scar treatment ingredient that is commonly found in over the counter creams is kojic acid. Like hydroquinone, it may work, but the negative effects are not worth its lightening abilities. Studies have found that prolonged use leads to more sensitive skin and contact dermatitis. It also is not effective at improving the appearance of scars, beyond lightening the skin color.
When OTC Treatments Do Not Work
If you have a keloid, indented scar, or certain other scars, then over the counter treatments will not work. These scars require more invasive treatments, such as laser therapy, collagen injections, microdermabrasion, chemical peels, dermabrasion, or microneedling. If you are unsure about the best form of treatment for your scar, then you should discuss it with your dermatologist.
When looking for an effective over the counter scar treatment, you should look for all natural ingredients that do not include preservatives or fragrances, as this could also aggravate the skin. You do not want to use any harsh ingredients; instead, you want to support your skin’s natural healing process, which will reduce the appearance of any scars.
Have a question about your scar or a particular ingredient? Leave a comment and we’ll be happy to answer.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Burn Scars, C Section Scars, Chemical Peels, Dark Scars, Face Scars, Get Rid of Dark Spots, Get Rid of Scars, Hyperpigmentation, Hypertrophic Scars, Melanoma Scars, New or Old Scars, Plastic Surgery Scars, Scar Healing Tips, Surgery Scars Tagged: get rid of scars, scar cream, scar treatment
InviCible Scars March 18, 2015 Leave a Comment
Scars Heal Differently. Here’s Why
After the skin becomes injured, scar tissue forms as a part of the natural healing process. This tissue looks and feels different than normal skin tissue because there is excess collagen produced. Different scars also appear different and heal differently based upon the amount of collagen produced during the healing process. Lifestyle, genetics, age, depth and size of the injury, the location, and the treatment of the wound all affect how the scar heals.
Read: Scar Tissue is Different Than Normal Tissue
Genetic and Lifestyle Influences on Scar Healing
As with any body function, your genetics, which include your ethnicity and gender, influence how your body heals from injury, which is why each person scars differently. These genetic influences cannot be changed, but they can be mitigated through lifestyle changes and certain treatments. Your age will affect scarring as well, because your ability to regenerate cells and heal is reduced.
Lifestyle factors, including exercising, drinking plenty of water, and eating a healthy diet, influence your skin’s natural healing process as well. To heal properly, you need to be strong and healthy. Your skin also needs certain nutrients that it can get from food, especially vitamin C and E. You skin also needs plenty of moisture to heal correctly, which is why keeping your scar moisturized is vital. You should also keep active, as long as it does not disturb your wound and your doctor approves it, to promote healing.
The Affect of Wound Treatment
Because scars are caused by injury to the skin, the element that has the greatest influence on its healing process is the treatment of the wound. When you experience a deep cut, including an incision from surgery, the skin needs to be aligned correctly when it is glued, stapled, or stitched back together, or else it will have a larger scar. Your scar will look different whether you have staples, glue, or stitches as well. If the injured skin is brought back together perfectly, then the chance of scarring is reduced, although you may still have a small, almost invisible line. You also want to allow the area to heal completely, and not reopen the wound or get it infected, as this will increase the chance of a larger scar.
How the Type of Scar Alters the Healing Process
There are different types of scars that affect the ability for the scar to heal over time. You may have a hypertrophic scar, acne scar, contracture scar, or keloid scars. Keloid scars are the most difficult to heal, because they are raised scars due to excess collagen that extend beyond the original injury. Contracture scars typically occur after a burn, and they often tighten the skin and can make it difficult to move. Hypertrophoic scars are also raised, similar to keloids, but remain within the area of the wound. Some of these different types of scars occur because of the type of wound, while others form due to genetics, the environment, or other factors.
Read: Scar Healing Time
There is no real way to predict how a scar will heal, as it is highly influenced by genetics, environment, lifestyle factors, and treatment. Regardless of the type of scar, you can help it heal by taking care of the wound, eating a healthy diet, and drinking plenty of water.
Do you have a question about your scar? Leave us a comment and we’ll be happy to answer.
Subscribe to Scars and Spots to get our posts delivered directly to your inbox!
Please follow and like us:
Filed Under: Acne Scars, Burn Scars, C Section Scars, Dark Scars, Face Scars, Get Rid of Scars, Hypertrophic Scars, Keloid Scars, Melanoma Scars, New or Old Scars, Plastic Surgery Scars, Surgery Scars Tagged: fade scars, get rid of scars, scar healing
« Previous Page
Next Page »
EMAIL NEWSLETTER
Sign up to receive our free monthly newsletter with tips and advice on how to treat dark spots and scars.
Enter your email address...
Subscribe to Scars and Spots
Enter your Email
Preview | Powered by FeedBlitz
Buy Now
See Our Studies
See the results of our Clinical Studies
See Before and Afters
View Images of real results!
Popular Posts
Can You Tattoo Over Scars?
How to Remove Dark Spots from Razor Bumps and Ingrown Hair
How Do You Soften Scar Tissue?
Why Does a Scar Turn White?
Are Second Degree Burn Scars Permanent?
How to Fade Shingles Scars
How to Get Rid of Mosquito Bite Scars
Why Do Scars Itch?
Is a Red Scar a Permanent Scar?
Why Do Surgical Scars Itch?
Press
About INVICIBLE
InviCible has a superior safety profile and is also hypoallergenic. It contains NO hydroquinone, preservatives, fragrances, petroleum, mineral oil, or alcohol. It is not tested on animals.
Privacy Policy Cookie Policy
RECENT POSTS
Scar Cream Available Internationally on Amazon
Cosmetic Surgeon Red Flags You Should Not Ignore
Pediatric Sun Exposure – Tips from St. Jude to Protect Your Child
How to Get Rid of Scars Fast
How Long Does it Take a Hypertrophic Scar to Heal?
My Scar Won’t Stop Itching, Is This Normal?
SEARCH
Search Tags
Acne Scars Acne Tips Age Spots Breast Cancer Scars Breast Surgery Scars Burn Scars Chemical Peels C Section Scars Dark Scars Exercise Facelift Scars Face Scars Get Rid of Dark Spots Get Rid of Scars Hyperpigmentation Hypertrophic Scars InviCible Scars Reviews Keloid Scars Mastectomy Scars Melanoma Scars Melasma New or Old Scars Nutrition Plastic Surgery Scars Scar Healing Tips Skin Care Tips Skin Resurfacing Skin Spots Skin Treatments Sun Spots Surgery Scars Tummy Tuck Scars Uneven Skin Tone
Return to top of page
Copyright © 2019 · Streamline Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in