This Caffeinated Beverage Reduces Anxiety and Lowers Blood Pressure: from an ongoing series by
Join Now! Login
Whole Person Wellness Program
Personal Wellness more
Employee Wellness more
Certified Coach Training more
Home
Healthy Living
Wellness
Alternative Therapies
Health A-Z
Expert Columns
Event Calendar
About Us
AdvisoryBoard
Contact Us
Healthy Kitchen
Healthy Woman
Healthy Man
Healthy Child
Healthy Aging
Fitness Center
Expert Columns
Wellness Center
Emotional Health
Healthy Brain
Healthy Relationships
Healthy Sleep
Healthy Stress
Healthy Weight
Mind/Body Health
Spiritual Health
Tai Chi & Qigong
Wellness Inventory
Yoga
Expert Columns
Acupuncture
Aromatherapy
Ayurveda
Breath Therapy
Chinese Medicine
Chiropractic
Energy Medicine
Guided Imagery
Herbal Medicine
Holistic Dentistry
Homeopathy
Massage & Bodywork
Mind/Body Medicine
Music & Sound Healing
Natural Vision Care
Naturopathic Medicine
Nutritional Medicine
Osteopathy
Reiki
Professional Center
Expert Columns
More Alternative Therapies
ADHD
ADHD
Allergies
Alzheimer's
Arthritis
Asthma
Back Pain
Brain Health
Breast Health
Cancer
Depression
Diabetes
Emergency /First Aid
Eye Health
Fibromyalgia
Headaches
Heart Health
High Cholesterol
Menopause
Obesity & Weight Loss
Pregnancy
Prostate Health
Sleep Health
Expert Columns
All Conditions
FREE NEWSLETTER
Health Centers
Aging Well
Alternative Medicines
Brain Health
Children
Eating Well
Emotional Health
Fitness
Healthy Weight
Men
Relationships
Sleep Well
Spirituality
Stress
University
Wellness
Women
Key Services
Event Calendar
Expert Columns
First Aid
Recipes
Wellness Inventory
Welcome Center
Breathing ?
Which of the following health conditions is not directly benefited by breathing exercises?
Anxiety
Fatigue
Diabetes
High blood pressure
This Caffeinated Beverage Reduces Anxiety and Lowers Blood Pressure
Share
The following is one in an ongoing series of columns entitled Women's Nutrition Detective by . View all columns in series
When my mother was in her early 90s, she was so tired some mornings that she could hardly move. She had eliminated caffeine years before, so she avoided coffee and other caffeinated drinks. But I suggested she begin her day with a cup of a popular beverage that has a little caffeine.
She soon felt "herself" again. Mother had high blood pressure and insomnia, yet this drink didn’t raise her blood pressure one bit. Nor did it keep her awake at night. In fact, it helped her relax more and sleep a bit better. The drink I suggested was green tea.
Green tea contains much less caffeine than coffee — 15 mg a cup compared with 80-100 mg in coffee. More importantly, it contains high levels of an amino acid called l-theanine, and l-theanine counteracts some of the negative effects of caffeine.
Caffeine is a double-edged sword. It has beneficial qualities, like helping burn fat faster, and boosting both mental and physical performance. But it also increases anxiety and can contribute to high blood pressure in people with hypertension. A number of people find they can’t drink caffeinated drinks after noon because it keeps them from getting a good night's sleep. But green tea seems to be the exception to this rule, unless you're exceptionally sensitive. It can give you the positive qualities of caffeine — like mental alertness — along with the benefits of l-theanine.
L-theanine's actions
L-theanine increases the production of dopamine and serotonin, two brain chemicals associated with alertness, pleasure, and a good mood. Around half an hour after drinking a cup of green tea, you may notice that you feel calmer. This is because the l-theanine increases alpha waves — the very same relaxing brain waves that are produced during meditation.
At the same time, its mild stimulating effect can wake you up. Green tea is a perfect beverage for a pick-me-up afternoon break. It can restore your mental alertness and calm you down from the day’s pressures at the same time.
Studies found that l-theanine significantly reduces blood pressure in hypertensive animals. The more they were given, the more their blood pressure dropped. How can this be possible if tea also contains caffeine? In addition to its ability to make relaxing alpha waves, l-theanine seems to cancel out some of the jittery effects of caffeine.
The amount of l-theanine in a cup of green tea varies from 15-30 mg. Here’s why. The tea plant converts this amino acid into antioxidants when tea leaves are exposed to sunlight. So the longer the leaves remain on the tea plant, the lower the theanine levels. This explains why young, more expensive green teas will contain higher amounts of l-theanine than less expensive varieties.
If you don’t like green tea, or if you want to take higher levels of l-theanine than you can get in a drink, there are always supplements. Try taking 200 mg from one to three times a day. It could make you feel more relaxed and alert than the tea itself.
Personally, I always prefer using whole foods or herbs whenever possible. They contain co-factors, such as beneficial antioxidants. Use supplements only if drinking a few cups of green tea per day doesn’t give you the results you’re looking for or you just plain don’t like it. You can, of course, combine green tea with other herb teas, such as peppermint and ginger, to mask its taste.
If you thought that green tea’s caffeine would keep you up at night, now you know it probably won’t. Besides, you can always drink decaffeinated green tea. It's still high in l-theanine. Just look for good quality teas, such as those from Traditional Medicinals or The Republic of Tea. You can find these and other quality teas in most health food stores and in some supermarkets.
Huber, Luke G., ND. "Green tea catechins and l-theanine in integrative cancer care," Alternative & Complementary Therapies December 2003.
Juneja, L.R., et al. "L-theanine – a unique amino acid of green tea and its relaxation effect in humans," Trends in Food Science and Technology, June 1999.
L-theanine: Monograph, Alternative Medicine Review, vol. 10, no. 2, 2005.
Yokogoshi, Hidehiko, et al. "Effect of theanine, r-glutamylethylamide, on brain monoamines and striatal dopamine release in conscious rats," Neurochemical Research, May 1998.
View all "Women's Nutrition Detective " columns
Comments Add your comment
About The Author
Nan Fuchs, Ph.D. is an authority on nutrition and the editor and writer of Women's Health Letter, the leading health advisory on nutritional healing for......more
Related Articles & Links
Health Conditions Center
Healthy Woman Center
From Our Friends
Popular Related Articles/Areas
2Nutritional Program for Arthritis
3Coenzyme Q10
4Accessory Nutrients - A Few Others
5Burns
6An Integrated Approach to Cancer Treatment
7Living Safely in a Polluted World: Your Home Should be a Haven
8St. John's Wort Ancient Herbal Protector
9Cranberries
10Jicama
Popular & Related Products
Certification Training
Consumer Direct Labs Services
ZENMED Skin
Repair System
Comprehensive Wellness Profile Save on Lab Test
Employee Wellbeing
Whole Person Wellbeing
Popular & Featured Events
2019 National Wellness Conference
October 1-3, 2019
Kissimmee, FL USA
Additional Calendar Links
Dimensions of Wellness
Home Wellness Health A-Z Alternative Therapies Wellness Inventory Wellness Center
Healthy Kitchen Healthy Woman Healthy Man Healthy Child Healthy Aging Nutrition Center Fitness Center
Discount Lab Tests First Aid Global Health Calendar Privacy Policy Contact Us
Disclaimer: The information provided on HealthWorld Online is for educational purposes only and IS NOT intended as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek professional medical advice from your physician or other qualified healthcare provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
Are you ready to embark on a personal wellness journey with our whole person approach?
Reduce stress
Improve work-life balance
Enhance your health/wellbeing
Learn More/Subscribe
Are you looking to create or enhance a culture of wellness in your organization?
Whole person approach
Increase engagement
Enhance performance
Learn More
Do you want to become a wellness coach?
Whole person focus
Dimensional wellness model
ICF Approved
Learn More
Free Webinar