H3U | We help you manage your health. Today, tomorrow and forever.
ABOUT H3U
HEALTH SERVICES
MedHealth Card
Health Checkups
Preventive Programs
Femme Connect
Moba Connect
Corporate Health Solutions
Online Opinions
TOOLS & TRACKERS
NETWORK
BLOGS
Anemia of Pregnancy
27 October 2018 Administrator Pregnancy (0)
Anemia is a medical condition in which there is not enough healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen to the tissues in the body. When the tissues do not receive an adequate amount of oxygen, many organs and functions are affected. Anemia during pregnancy is especially a concern because it is associated with low birth weight, premature birth and maternal mortality.
During pregnancy, the body produces more blood to support the growth of your baby. If you're not getting enough iron or certain other nutrients, your body might not be able to produce the amount of red blood cells it needs to make this additional blood. It's normal to have mild anemia when you are pregnant. But you may develop severe anemia from low iron or vitamin levels or from other reasons.
Anemia can leave you feeling tired and weak. If it is severe but goes untreated, it can increase your risk of serious complications like preterm delivery.
Here's what you need to know about the causes, symptoms, and treatment of anemia during pregnancy.
Types of Anemia during Pregnancy
Several types of anemia can develop during pregnancy. These include:
Iron-deficiency anemia
Folate-deficiency anemia
Vitamin B12 deficiency
Here's why these types of anemia may develop:
Iron deficiency anemia- Iron deficiency is the most common cause of anemia in pregnancy.
Iron is a mineral found in the red blood cells and is used to carry oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body, as well as helps the muscles store and use oxygen. This type of anemia occurs when the body doesn't have enough iron to produce adequate amounts of hemoglobin. That's a protein in red blood cells which carries oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. When too little iron is produced, the body can become fatigued and have a lowered resistance to infection.
In iron-deficiency anemia, the blood cannot carry enough oxygen to tissues throughout the body.
Folate deficiency anemia- Folate is the vitamin found naturally in certain foods like green leafy vegetables A type of B vitamin, the body needs folate to produce new cells, including healthy red blood cells.
During pregnancy, women need extra folate. Folic acid is a common supplement taken by pregnant women, but it can also be found in fortified foods such as cereals, leafy vegetables, bananas, melons, and legumes. A diet lacking folic acid can lead to a reduced number of red blood cells in the body, therefore leading to a deficiency. When that happens, the body can't make enough normal red blood cells to transport oxygen to tissues throughout the body.
Folate deficiency can directly contribute to certain types of birth defects, such as neural tube abnormalities (spina bifida) and low birth weight.
Vitamin B12 deficiency- The body needs vitamin B12 to form healthy red blood cells. When a pregnant woman doesn't get enough vitamin B12 from her diet, her body can't produce enough healthy red blood cells. Women who don't eat meat, poultry, dairy products, and eggs have a greater risk of developing vitamin B12 deficiency, which may contribute to birth defects, such as neural tube abnormalities, and could lead to preterm labor.
Symptoms of Anemia during Pregnancy
Symptoms of anemia during pregnancy can be mild at first and often go unnoticed. However, as it progresses, the symptoms will worsen. It is also important to note that some symptoms can be due to a different cause other than anemia, so talking with your doctor is important.
The most common symptoms of anemia during pregnancy are:
Pale skin, lips, and nails
Feeling tired or weak
Dizziness
Shortness of breath
Rapid heartbeat
Trouble concentrating
In the early stages of anemia, you may not have obvious symptoms. And many of the symptoms are ones that you might have while pregnant even if you're not anemic. So be sure to get routine blood tests to check for anemia at your prenatal appointments.
Risks of Anemia in Pregnancy
Severe or untreated iron-deficiency anemia during pregnancy can increase your risk of having:
A preterm or low-birth-weight baby
A blood transfusion (if you lose a significant amount of blood during delivery)
Postpartum depression
A baby with anemia
A child with developmental delays
Untreated folate deficiency can increase your risk of having a:
Preterm or low-birth-weight baby
Baby with a serious birth defect of the spine or brain (neural tube defects)
Untreated vitamin B12 deficiency can also raise your risk of having a baby with neural tube defects.
Risk Factors for Anemia in Pregnancy
All pregnant women are at risk for becoming anemic. That's because they need more iron and folic acid than usual. But the risk is higher if you:
Are pregnant with multiples (more than one child)
Have had two pregnancies close together
Vomit a lot because of morning sickness
Are a pregnant teenager
Don't eat enough foods that are rich in iron
Had anemia before you became pregnant
Tests for Anemia
During your first prenatal appointment, you'll get a blood test so your doctor can check whether you have anemia. Blood tests typically include:
Hemoglobin test. It measures the amount of hemoglobin an iron-rich protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to tissues in the body.
Hematocrit test. It measures the percentage of red blood cells in a sample of blood.
If you have lower than normal levels of hemoglobin or hematocrit, you may have iron-deficiency anemia. Your doctor may check other blood tests to determine if you have iron deficiency or another cause for your anemia.
Even if you don't have anemia at the beginning of your pregnancy, your doctor will most likely recommend that you get another blood test to check for anemia in your second or third trimester.
Treatment for Anemia
If you are anemic during your pregnancy, you may need to start taking an iron supplement and/or folic acid supplement in addition to your prenatal vitamins. Your doctor may also suggest that you add more foods that are high in iron and folic acid to your diet.
In addition, you'll be asked to return for another blood test after a specific period of time so your doctor can check that your hemoglobin and hematocrit levels are improving.
To treat vitamin B12 deficiency, your doctor may recommend that you take a vitamin B12 supplement.
The doctor may also recommend that you include more animal foods in your diet, such as: meat, egg, dairy products.
Preventing Anemia
To prevent anemia during pregnancy, make sure you get enough iron. Eat well-balanced meals and add more foods that are high in iron to your diet.
Aim for at least three servings a day of iron-rich foods, such as:
lean red meat, poultry, and fish
leafy, dark green vegetables (such as spinach, broccoli, and kale)
iron-enriched cereals and grains
beans, lentils, and tofu
nuts and seeds
eggs
Foods that are high in vitamin C can help your body absorb more iron. These include:
citrus fruits and juices
strawberries
kiwis
tomatoes
bell peppers
Try eating those foods at the same time that you eat iron-rich foods. For example, you could drink a glass of orange juice and eat an iron-fortified cereal for breakfast.
Also, choose foods that are high in folate to help prevent folate deficiency. These include:
leafy green vegetables
citrus fruits and juices
dried beans
breads and cereals fortified with folic acid
Follow your doctor's instructions for taking a prenatal vitamin that contains a sufficient amount of iron and folic acid.
Vegetarians and vegans should talk with their doctor about whether they should take a vitamin B12 supplement when they're pregnant and breastfeeding.
Tweet
Getting Ready For a New Change!
22 October 2018 Administrator Pregnancy (0)
Getting a healthy start on your pregnancy can do a lot to ensure that you have a smooth nine months ahead of you. The earlier you find out that you are pregnant, the better. Taking a pregnancy test is the only surefire way to know, but there are earlier signs of pregnancy that can help you decide if you should take the test!
You may have missed a period or perhaps observing spotting or bleeding between six and 12 days after conception which hints towards the embryo becomes implanted in your uterine wall. This is known as implantation bleeding and is one of the first signs of pregnancy.
After that, your periods will likely become delayed or stop altogether. This is when most women suspect pregnancy. However, some women continue to experience bleeding even while pregnant, though it is rarely like a normal period. Because of that, you shouldn't wait for menstruation to end as the only sign you need a pregnancy test.
You may notice that your breasts are tender, sore, tingly or fuller than usual. This usually sets in one or two weeks after conception. Additionally, your areolas—or the skin around your nipples—may become darker due to hormonal changes.
Morning sickness is another telltale sign of pregnancy. This can occur two to eight weeks after implantation. Nausea tends to happen because elevated hormone levels may cause food to empty the stomach slowly. Also, pregnancy may make you more sensitive to smells, making certain odors more likely to trigger nausea.
If you've been feeling overwhelmingly sleepy or tired lately, this may be a symptom that you have successfully conceived. While it's true that many conditions or factors can cause fatigue, pregnant women tend to experience this due to changes in hormone levels, blood sugar, blood pressure and higher blood production.
You've probably heard that pregnant women have strange food cravings, and this is no wives' tale. Like many other symptoms of pregnancy, your unusual cravings can be chalked up to fluctuating hormones. Conversely, these changes may cause aversions to certain foods or beverages, such as coffee or fatty foods. Keep in mind that every pregnancy is different and you may or may not experience the symptoms mentioned here.
What’s there in second phase?
Now that your fertilized egg has made its way to your uterus, things are really starting to get interesting!
This cluster of cells is dividing into two parts: one that will form an embryo and the other a placenta. The embryo will eventually turn into a fetus, but for now it's about the size of a very small freckle, and the amniotic sac is forming around it. Encapsulating the tiny new life is the placenta, which will help deliver nutrients to your developing baby and carry away waste.
Embryos have three layers, which will ultimately make up specialized organs and body parts. The innermost layer is the endoderm. This part will become your child's digestive system, liver and lungs. The second layer is the mesoderm, and it is the early stages of a heart, sex organs, bones, kidneys and muscles. The outermost layer is known as the ectoderm, which will comprise the nervous system, skin, hair and eyes.
As all of these important little details are developing, you may just now be suspecting that you’ve successfully conceived. Because you're going to need a doctor to confirm your pregnancy even after receiving a positive at-home test, week four may be a good time to choose a health care professional.
Choosing a health care professional is an important decision, so you may want to talk to family and friends about their recommendations, as well as conduct interviews with prospective health care providers.
HOW FAR ALONG ARE YOU?
OK, now that you've calmed down some from the initial excitement, wiped out the pregnancy shelf at your local bookstore, and made a down payment on a new maternity wardrobe, it's time to focus on the most important thing here: your health and the baby's health.
Your first assignment: Pick up the phone and call your doctor, nurse practitioner, or midwife—whomever you plan to see throughout your pregnancy and delivery—and make an appointment. It's time to begin prenatal care!
It is observed that babies of mothers who don't get prenatal care are three times more likely to have a low birth weight and five times more likely to die than babies born to mothers who do get care. Need any better reason?
The First Visit and Beyond
In a normal pregnancy, you will see your health care professional every month until about the sixth month; then every two weeks during the seventh and eighth months, and then weekly until labor.
During the first visit, your health care professional will take a full health history, including a history of any previous pregnancies. You will also receive a full physical exam, including a pelvic exam and Pap test in most cases, and will be weighed and measured and have your blood pressure taken. Your health care provider should also test for any sexually transmitted infections.
You will get a due date, officially called the "estimated date of delivery," typically 266 days from the first day of your last period if you have regular menstrual cycles. Otherwise it is customary to assign the due date based on ultrasound.
During every future visit, you will be weighed, have your belly measured and blood pressure taken, have your urine tested for protein or sugar (signs of potential complications), and, most exciting, hear your baby's heart beat.
First Trimester Issues
So how are you feeling? If you're like most women, the answer is exhausted and nauseous. Let's deal with the fatigue first.
Do you have any idea what your body is doing right now? It is building a home that can nourish and protect that baby for the next nine months—that is, the placenta. This is really hard work. It takes a lot of energy—your energy. So stop being superwoman for once and listen to what your body is telling you.
That means :
Napping on the weekends and when you get home from work.
Slowing down at work if possible.
Putting your feet up as much as possible.
Turning over housework, cooking, errands, etc., to your partner, friend or a professional agency—or just letting things go for a while.
Now, about that nausea or morning sickness, which is not confined to morning only, but for many women it lasts all day. You may never throw up—just feel like you're occasionally (or continually) seasick—or you may throw up every morning as soon as your feet hit the floor. Don't worry! This is normal. There is even some evidence that the nausea is nature's way of protecting the baby from potentially harmful foods. Most morning sickness disappears by the end of the first trimester.
Until then:
Eat small meals throughout the day so you're never too full or too hungry.
Avoid rich, spicy, greasy or fatty foods, and foods whose smells bother you.
Eat more carbohydrates (plain baked potato, white rice or dry toast).
Eat bland foods when you feel nauseous (saltine crackers, gelatin desserts, popsicles, chicken broth, ginger ale). Keep some crackers by your bed and eat one before you get up.
Use acupressure wristbands.
Take additional vitamin B6 (25 mg three times a day), which some studies find can help with nausea.
If your prenatal vitamins make your nausea worse, talk to your health care provider about prescribing a vitamin without iron.
Some women experience a severe form of morning sickness called hyperemesis gravidarum. If you experience any of the following, you may have more than just "morning sickness" and should call your health care professional:
You have lost more than two pounds
You vomit blood (which can appear bright red or black)
You have vomited more than four times in one day
You have not been able to keep fluids down for more than one day
Eating Right throughout Pregnancy
You know you're supposed to follow a "healthy" diet during pregnancy (think lots of fruit and veggies, low-fat forms of protein, high fiber, etc). But do you know why?
Beyond the obvious—maintaining enough calories to keep you healthy and ensure the baby keeps growing—we're learning that in-utero nutrition, including whether the mother is overweight or has pregnancy-related diabetes, can impact a child's health throughout his life.
Tweet
A diet that will make you go happy, thin and 'SAY CHEESE!
20 January 2018 Administrator Health Days (0)
Happy Cheese Lover Day
There are multitudes of fad diets that are available in the market but their authenticity and workability are always under question. Hollywood fad diets like consuming only juices deprive you of basic nutrients and work only for short spans. It, in fact, leads to faster weight gain and makes you bloat quicker.
Ketogenic diet or diet that makes you indulge in cheese and dairy products is often known as a low carb high-fat diet that shocks your body into a ketosis state. Ketosis is a natural process in which the body produces ketones, which are produced from the breakdown of fats in the liver.
When you eat something high in carbs, your body produces glucose and insulin. Glucose, being the easiest molecule to convert into an energy source for your body, gets chosen over any other energy source in our body. Through insulin, the glucose in our body gets processed in our bloodstream. Thus, the fats that we consume remain stored in our body causing a sensation of bloating and creates weight gain issues.
When you deprive your body of any carbohydrates and sugar content of any sorts, your body looks for other sources from which it can get the energy to perform its daily functions. This is when your body turns to ketones which, as mentioned above, are produced due to the breakdown of fats in the liver. The weight loss happens by restricting your daily calorie needs and thus your body is forced to use stored fats in your body which also results in instant inch loss. The idea behind a ketogenic diet is not starvation of calories but starvation of carbohydrates.
Avoidance of complex or refined carbohydrates is a must in this diet. Whatever carbohydrates one gets in this diet should be from the leafy green vegetables and nuts. The diet should constitute the following macros: 70% fats, 25% proteins and 5% carbohydrates. However, it is imperative that one calculates and follows the macros, as stated above, religiously in order to get into ketosis.
Do Not Eat
Grains – wheat, corn, rice, cereal, etc.
Sugar – honey, agave, maple syrup, etc.
Fruit – apples, bananas, oranges, etc.
Vegetables with high sugar content like potato, yams, etc.
Do Eat
Meats – fish, beef, lamb, poultry, eggs, etc.
Leafy Greens – spinach, kale, etc.
Above ground vegetables – broccoli, cauliflower, etc.
High Fat Dairy – hard cheeses, high fat cream, butter, etc.
Nuts and seeds – macadamias, walnuts, sunflower seeds, etc.
Avocado
Sweeteners – stevia and monk fruit.
Other fats – coconut oil, high-fat salad dressing, saturated fats, etc.
One needs to consume micronutrients such as vitamins, zinc and Omega-3 such as cod liver oil in order to make up for the lack of micronutrients in the ketogenic diet.
When you are the body is transitioning to a Keto based diet, you might go through a phase called ‘Keto Flu’ in which you may feel a sense of drowsiness, cramps and constipation. A strong advice given by dieticians is to have at least a gallon of water during this diet for a smooth transition.
Post adjusting to this diet, your body will feel less bloated, you will have a balanced state of mind, controlled blood sugar increased energy and normalized hunger, control over cholesterol and blood pressure and improved insulin levels, and a clearer skin.
So all cheese lovers UNITE and follow this fantabulous diet starting from this ‘Cheese Lovers’ Day’!
Tweet
Buy Cigarettes, get a wide range of Cancers free!
17 November 2017 Administrator Health Days (0)
Spin the wheel of cancer and choose:
Throat, oral cavity, larynx, esophagus, lung, liver, pancreas, stomach, kidney, bowel, ovary, bladder, cervix or blood?
Do you really want to play this deadly game?
Smoking is the most common habit across the world with extensive use of both types of tobacco (gutka or khaini) or smoking tobacco like bidi or cigarettes. Tobacco smoke is made up of over 5000 plus chemicals, of which at least 70 are known to be cancer causing. Tobacco is also a risk factor for oral cancer, periodontal disease and congenital defects in children whose mothers smoke during pregnancy. Tobacco use may cause many types of cancer including cancer of the lung, larynx, mouth, esophagus, throat, bladder, kidney, liver, stomach, pancreas, colon, rectum and cervix. But smoking tobacco is not the only deadliest way to get cancer. People who even chew tobacco are also at an increased risk of cancers of the mouth, esophagus and pancreas. With no safe level of tobacco use, it is imperative for people who use any type of tobacco product to quit.
The chemistry and toxicology of cigarette smoke and its effects are clearly understood now. It is proven that the temperature reaches up to 900 degrees Celsius at each cigarette puff. The high temperature constricts the blood flow to mouth mucosa and increases the bacterial breeding causing yellowing of teeth and calcium deficiency. Calcium deficiency also leads to severe bone loss.
There is no proven way to prevent the harmful effects of tobacco whether you smoke or chew it. Even smoking mild, ultra-mild or low tar cigarettes with or without filters is nowhere better; rather the risk for getting dangerous diseases remains the same. This risk can be reduced only when tobacco in any form is stopped consuming completely. It is the only definite way you can do best for your health. Smoking is not an easy way to quit because nicotine is highly addictive and one may need self-determination and a strong will to quit.
Tweet
Speak up India
17 October 2017 Administrator Health Days (0)
In India, we often have this tendency to not go to a psychologist or a psychiatrist. Forget about even seeing a medical expert, it is actually a stigma to talk about mental health issues for the fear of being branded as “demented” or “insane”. This stigma is now unfortunately becoming deadlier each passing day. It is reported that by 2025, 38.1 million in India will be lost due to this horrendous stigmatisation.
The cases of Robin Williams or the recent death of Chester Bennington, is a prime example of how mental disorders remain hidden from even our closed loved ones. The stigmatisation and the feeling of inherent guilt people feel when they come to realise that they might be suffering from something seriously psychological can make people hide their issues. They keep on having a sense of vacuum in themselves or a sense of fear that no one will be able to understand what they are going through. This isolation makes them feel helpless and exacerbates the disease to the point of no return.
Life is an arduous process for everyone. But for people suffering from a mental disorders or diseases, it is an arduous process that they feel they have to undertake in isolation. Thus, one needs to become aware of the symptoms of common mental disorders that affect most people. This can actually help us recognise these symptoms in our loved ones and offer them the crucial support they need. People suffering from such disorders need to be conveyed that they are not alone in this battle.
Symptoms related to mental disorders can actually just look like normal behavioural pattern changes, but a careful analysis can actually help you recognise a difference between a normal change and a serious issue that need our concern.
Depression is a disease and sadness is an emotion. The symptoms can include a significant weight loss or decrease or increase in appetite, along with sleep disturbances, low energy levels and fatigue. Such a depressed individual might experience feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt. An individual might have a difficulty in concentrating and making informed choices. A pensive sad mood and a pattern of talking about death or idolising it to escape problems is a major symptom. People also tend to mask their depression by being overtly happy over normal situations.
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is a disease that a lot of people do not know about. And when they come to know about this disorder, they just confuse with being punctilious about doing one’s job. But, it is evidently more than just paying attention to detail. It is a compulsion to a certain activity and constantly pondering over that activity. Cases like constant hand washing, walking in a certain path or a pattern and cleaning your room constantly and unable to purge that feeling out is one of the common symptoms. An inability to concentrate over important tasks because of one’s compulsions to a certain task is a sign too. People tend to dismiss OCD as a quirky habit that an individual possesses and something that is a part of his or her personality. But OCD traits should never be confused with personality traits of an individual. Serotonin imbalance is a primary cause of OCD and that is a serious issue for an individual suffering from it. Thus, OCD traits should not be looked over. Any attempt to normalise OCD traits stops the person suffering from it to reach out and get help.
Bipolar disorder, is one of the disorders in which extreme moods swings or a depressive manic episode happens over a period of time. Abnormal bursts or extremely low spouts of energy, interchangeably and for no reason justifiable by the person suffering from it, can be a sign of a serious issue.
Schizophrenia and the psychotic spectrum of disorders is one of the mental disorders in which a person has hallucinations, delusions and unwarranted suspicions towards their close family members and sometimes also disorganised speech and thinking. Diagnosis of schizophrenia also does not mean that a person can never be his or her normal self. Proper medication, counseling and support of loved ones can actually bring a reform in person’s diagnosis.
The curtain that continues to cover our society’s silence over mental illnesses and disorders, needs to uplifted. An understanding that mental illnesses is akin to a physical illness and can be treated needs to inculcated at the grassroot levels . But a pertinent understanding of the fact that mental illness is not just a “phase” that one get out of easily is necessary. A comprehensive and an empathetic understanding over the seriousness of mental disorders by the society as a whole can make it easier for a person to get diagnosis and get treated at the earliest.
Tweet
Wash your hands off all ills this Diwali
17 October 2017 Administrator Health Days (0)
Brightly lit up roads, guilt-free dessert eating, and a festive vibe all around! What’s not to love about Diwali? The most awaited festival is just around the corner but along with it also comes the stress of cleaning your house to make it Diwali ready. But just a clean house wouldn’t help you get that auspicious and a healthy start to your new year. A pledge to be more careful about your health and inculcating a strong hygiene practice in your kids can actually help you keep yourself and your loved ones safe. But even as adults, we often tend to miss out or ignore the habitual practice of washing one’s hands before eating.
We tend to think that washing hands as adults is inconsequential, but your hands are a birth ground for germs to flourish. It can create an environment for innumerable diseases to spread around you and your loved ones. There are an estimated 1,500 bacteria per square centimetre of skin on your hand.
Washing hands is the best way to prevent bacteria related illnesses and other infectious diseases. As 80% of communicable diseases are transferred by touch, a regular habit of handwashing as a rule can help create a safe environment for you and your loved ones. Introduce a habit of washing hands as mandatory especially before or after these activities:
Before eating and cooking
After using the bathroom
After cleaning around the house
After touching animals, including family pets
Before and after attending to sick children or other family members.
After blowing one's nose, coughing, or sneezing
After being outside (playing, gardening, walking the dog, etc.)
After smoking
Also, remember to:
Cover cuts with bandages and wear gloves for added protection (cuts are very vulnerable to infections).
Artificial nails and chipped nail polish have been associated with an increase in the number of bacteria on the fingernails. Be sure to clean the nails properly.
Keep your hands away from your eyes, nose or mouth.
Assume that contact with any human body fluids is infectious.
Liquid soap in disposable containers is best. If using a bar of soap, be sure to set it on a rack that allows water to drain or use small bars that can be changed frequently.
Most bacteria on our hands are on the fingertips and under the nails. It actually doubles in number after using the restroom. Thus, it is especially advisable to wash your hands after using restroom for 20 seconds.
You must not underestimate the power of hand washing! The few seconds you spend at the sink could save you trips to the doctor's clinic.
Tweet
Why psychological aid is also important for breast cancer
09 October 2017 Administrator Health Days (0)
The psychological distress that anyone faces during cancer is insurmountable. And with breast cancer, it becomes even more problematic. First, the element of fear, pre-diagnosis comes into play which causes fear and anxiety into the minds of young women. Post diagnosis, it becomes almost impossible to have an equilibrium and clear thought process. The myths revolving around breast cancer perpetuates stigma and shame causing women to jump into an even deeper pit of the depression well.
It is estimated that mortality rates were as much as 26 times higher in patients with depressive tendencies and 39 times higher in patients who has been diagnosed with major depression issues. This lead us to the conclusion that depression can actually lead to lessening the chances of survival for women who have breast cancer. And it is not just the women who get depressive tendencies but their spouses too. Male spouses, whose partners were diagnosed with breast cancer, were nearly 40 percent more likely to be hospitalised for severe depression. It can also cause create psychological problems for the children too.
Thus, there is a persistent need for women to seek psychological help along with medical help to combat their cancer. Support groups of women with the same stages of cancer and group therapy sessions are the best way to combat depression along with mental health issues.
Psychologists may ask you to deal with one’s negative emotions, they help in focusing on solution and problem solving techniques rather than just simple problems. In addition to just helping your mental well being, psychologists can also help in decreasing the nausea and vomiting and teach women relaxation and meditative exercises.
Cancer needs to be treated with the help of people around you and a positive approach, as hard as it can be. It is upto the people around the person diagnosed with breast cancer to make them feel that there is still HOPE.
Sources:
All the statistics and facts have been checked from American Psychological Association website.
https://www.cancer.org/cancer/breast-cancer/living-as-a-breast-cancer-survivor/emotions-and-breast-cancer.html
Tweet
Myths regarding Breast Cancer that NEED to be shattered!
03 October 2017 Administrator Health Days (0)
Breast cancer ranks as the most prevalent cancer amongst Indian women. Yet, Indian women are still unaware of it with the mortality rate due to this disease increasing day by day. 1 And since prevention is better than cure, it is time to understand that breast cancer can happen to anyone; irrespective of what you do and whether you have a family history of breast cancer or not.
The best way to get aware about breast cancer is to have a self-test every month to check for any lumps or swelling to skin changes. For women above 40, it is best to get a mammogram test done annually for identifying a type of breast cancer that may have no obvious symptoms at all.
The actual process of diagnosis can take weeks and involve many different kinds of tests but it is better to be safe than sorry. Nonetheless, if you do feel any lumps or swelling to skin, that DOES NOT necessarily mean that you have cancer.
Which brings us to the 5 MAJOR myths of Breast Cancer that one need to bust about breast cancer:
1) Myth: Having dairy product causes breast cancer.
The Truth:
Several myths persist about the correlation between dairy intake and the increased risk of breast cancer. Over many decades, studies have shown that dairy consumption does not increase the risk of breast cancer. For more information about these studies, please visit:
https://academic.oup.com/ije/article/31/1/78/655928/Meat-and-dairy-food-consumption-and-breast-cancer.
2) Myth: Finding a lump in your breast means you have breast cancer.
The Truth:
Only a persistent lump in your breast or noticeable changes in breast tissue may be suggestive of breast cancer. Such signs should never be ignored. Finding a lump in breast is very common and mostly they are benign, but still it’s important to get it checked.
3) Myth: Men do not get breast cancer.
The Truth:
While the percentage of men getting breast cancer is still small, men should also self check themselves while they are in shower. Men carry a higher mortality rate and are less likely to assume a lump is a breast cancer and thus it is pertinent that we bust this myth.
4) Myth: A mammogram can cause breast cancer to spread.
The Truth:
According to the National Cancer Institute, “The benefits of mammography, however, nearly always outweigh the potential harm from the radiation exposure. Mammograms require very small doses of radiation. The risk of harm from this radiation exposure is extremely low.”So get an annual mammogram test when you cross the age of 40.
5) Myth: Deodorants cause breast cancer.
The Truth:
Researchers at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) are still not aware of any conclusive evidence that can link the growth of cancer cells to the usage of deodorants.
Sources:
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajco.12661/full
International Journal of Epidemiology:
https://academic.oup.com/ije/article/31/1/78/655928/Meat-and-dairy-food-consumption-and-breast-cancer
All the data has been checked from www.nationalbreastcancer.org and www.cancer.org
Tweet
Why busting stress is important for a healthy heart!
29 September 2017 Administrator Health Days (0)
The heart wants what it wants. Or to be more precise, the heart wants what you want to give it. Unnecessary stress is the one of the reasons of heart attacks and it actually accentuates the other factors associated with heart diseases. Smoking, physical inactivity and overeating can lead to high blood pressure and cholesterol which can eventually lead to heart attack. But these things increase when a person is stressed or his or her anxiety levels are above par.
According to a research published in The lancet1 and published in major newspapers like The Telegraph2, the brain’s amygdala (an area of the brain that deals with stress) signals to the bone marrow to produce extra white blood cells when one is stressed. This results in arteries to become inflamed and inflammation of the heart is one of the sole reasons for heart attacks, angina and strokes. People who were more stressed had much more activity involved in the amygdala. In another small study, the researchers again found that due to increased bone marrow activity and arterial inflammation caused due to stress, people were getting prone to heart related disease.
Emily Reeve, senior cardiac nurse at the British Heart Foundation, in fact mentions how the brain’s management of stress will help cardiologists understand the combination of heart diseases with other psychological stresses.
Effective ways to reduce stress can be through various exercises. Yoga styles like Ashtanga and Bikram can offer cardiovascular benefits, as your heart rate is elevated throughout the class. Circuit training exercises can help in stretching the arteries and improves the elasticity for better cardiovascular fitness. High intensive exercises like weight lifting and lane swimming can help in increasing our cardiovascular aptitude. But even a 30-minute job in the park and a proper diet can help you keep your heart fit.
For a stress-free lifestyle, an 8-hour sleep and drinking adequate water is essential but indulging in a hobby or a craft and being open about how you feel can help you have a burden less lifestyle and is actually a great way to keep your heart healthy.
Sources:
http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(16)31714-7/fulltext
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/2017/01/11/scientists-finally-discover-stress-causes-heart-attacks-strokes/
http://www.besthealthmag.ca/best-you/heart-health/the-6-best-exercises-for-heart-health/3/
Tweet
Alzheimer’s: How creative mediums can help
21 September 2017 Administrator Health Days (0)
Often number of times, we associate Alzheimer’s with just the element of senility. And even with old age, it is just considered as a natural process or as a part of growing old.
It is not.
Alzheimer’s causes problems with memory, thinking and behaviour. But it is much more than that. In the early stage, dementia symptoms may be minimal, but as the disease causes more damage to the brain and the symptoms worsen over a time period, it becomes too late to control the disease in its later stages.
Stages:
The first stage, sparse signs of forgetfulness as well in thinking and planning start to show. Generally, this is NOT the phase where people get diagnosed.
In the second stage, individuals may experience changes in personality and behaviour and now have trouble recognizing friends and family members. They also have an acute problem in understanding speech and even speaking and one is more prone to get lost on a street. This the phase where people where are diagnosed.
In the third stage, individuals lose the ability to communicate completely. They are unable to discern or identify the objects around them as well as loved ones and family members.
Art as a Medium of Communication:
The epidemic that is Alzheimer’s continues to increase and span across the globe. It is estimated that by the year 2020, approximately 70% of the world’s population aged 60 and above will be living in developing countries, with 14.2% in India.
What we as individuals can do is understand that Alzheimer’s, though incurable as of now, can happen to anyone irrespective of their age, and can be managed through a proper understanding of the disease by the loved ones of the diagnosed. For communication process when the diagnosed person loses the ability to communicate, mediums of art can be used for the patients to communicate. The American artist, William Utermohlen started drawing self-portraits when he was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s. Prodded by his nurse, she wanted him to communicate through art and as his disease deteriorated, one can see how what he was trying to communicate.
In the later stages, he felt that he was trapped in a black box. Judy Holstein, a drama therapist with almost two decades of experience working with Alzheimer’s and other patients in Chicago also spoke of how art—a painting, drawing, or piece of music—can be used as a stimulus to work with patients’ memories.
Since the verbal part of the brain is more affected than the visual and the creative part, it makes sense to communicate through art.
As researchers continue to search for ways to better treat Alzheimer’s and other progressive dementias, there is a definite need to spread awareness and education regarding this illness in India. Treatment of other co-existing diseases and following proper advice from a doctor which can help in managing the behavioural changes associated with Alzheimer, is an absolute must.
The relationship between brain activity and creativity is still little understood, and yet with the ever-changing scientific discoveries year after year, it might just help in managing Alzheimer’s diseases. In the short-term, as a therapeutic activity, art and music can help people suffering from this disease to not just be in complete frustration on how to communicate with their loved ones.
Sources & Info:
For more information on how to manage AD, please visit:
Dementia alzheimers
#1. World Health Organization. Fact Sheet No 135. Geneva: World Health Organization; 1998. Population Ageing – A Public Health Challenge.
#2. https://www.artsy.net/article/artsy-editorial-doctors-making-art-help-combat-alzheimers
Tweet
Newer posts >>
Newer posts
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Older posts
Category List
Baby Trackers (7)
Child Care (3)
Diet (1)
Health (1)
Health Days (8)
Immunization (1)
Nutrition (2)
Pregnancy (9)
Pregnancy FAQ (1)
Pregnancy Weeks (37)
Post List
Growth Patterns and Monitoring in Children
Prenatal Tests @ Which Trimester
12 to 18 Months Old
9 to 12 months old
6 to 9 months old
128 days to 180 days
60 days to 119 days
29 days to 60 days
First month of Life 2 days to 28 days
Right Nutrition
Newsletter
Get notified when a new post is published.
Enter your e-mail
Comment List
None
Month List
2018
November (55)
October (7)
January (1)
2017
November (1)
October (4)
September (2)
HEADQUARTERS
534, Udyog Vihar, Phase V,
Gurgaon, Haryana
Pincode: 122016
GET IN TOUCH
Phone: 1800-1234-438
Email: enquiry@h3u.com
ABOUT H3U
H3U
Why Wellness
Mission - Vision
TOOLS & TRACKERS
Health Risk Assesment
Salt Meter
Smoke Meter
Body Mass Index
HEALTH SERVICES
MedHealth Cards
Health Checkups
Preventive Programs
Femme Connect
Moba Connect
Corporate Health Solutions
Online Opinions
All Right Reserved © 2019 - h3u