Health& - Ask a question | Can tinea pedis be prevented? Navigation
LOG IN
Topics A-Z
Ask Questions
LOG IN
GET STARTED FREE
LOG IN
Topics A-Z
Ask Questions
About Health&
[TITLE]
[MESSAGE]
[BUTTONS]
[MESSAGE]
[BUTTON_LABEL]
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Content
Home
Diseases and conditions
Eye health
Healthy living
Men's health
Mental health
Oral and dental health
Parenting and child health
Pregnancy and birth
Procedures and treatments
Sexual health
Symptoms
Travel health
Women's health
Common health questions...
Beta
Content
Close settings panel
Ask settings
Enable/Disable "how ask works"
Save
Cancel
Can tinea pedis be prevented?
You can reduce your risk of getting it, or sharing it if you already have it, by not walking barefoot in public showers or spaces such as gyms and pools.10213
Author: Jonathan Meddings
First answered: 18 Sep 2014
Last reviewed: 19 May 2018
Rating: 4.2/5 Votes: 243
View the Tinea report page.
View the Athlete's foot report page.
Related questions
What is tinea pedis?
Tinea pedis is a contagious fungal infection of the foot, known commonly as athlete's foot . It usually begins with itchy, fluid-filled blisters between the toes and is spread by direct or indirect contact with the skin. However, it can also present as dry, scaly …
What are the symptoms of tinea pedis?
Symptoms of tinea pedis are itchy blisters that contain a clear fluid, which most commonly occur between the toes. Other types of tinea pedis include pustules on the side of the feet (caused by tinea interdigital), and scaly, dry patches on the sole, …
What causes tinea pedis?
Tinea pedis is caused by a group of fungi called dermatophytes (also known as ringworm). Dermatophytes use keratin, a component of the skin, as an energy source. Depending on the species and strain of dermatophyte causing infection, the severity of your response …
How is tinea pedis diagnosed?
A skin scraping from the affected area is added to potassium hydroxide (KOH). KOH destroys fungal cells, which makes it easier to see if any fungal cells are present under a microscope.
How is tinea pedis treated?
Tinea pedis is treated with topical antifungal creams such as ketoconazole and terbinafine, applied directly to the affected area, or oral antifungal medications such as fluconazole. Treatment for a while after symptoms have disappeared is needed to prevent it …
Who gets tinea pedis?
Although anyone can get tinea pedis, it is more common in males in their late teens and early adulthood.
Can tinea pedis heal on its own?
No. If you have tinea pedis you will need to use antifungal medication to clear the infection.
Are there any side effects of antifungal medication for athlete's foot?
Long-term use of oral antifungal medications can cause nausea and liver damage. Topical antifungals can cause itching and burning.
Will tinea pedis keep coming back?
It is important to keep taking your medication for some time after symptoms have disappeared, otherwise tinea pedis can come back.
All Health&'s health information is accredited by international standards and approved by our world-class Health& Medical Advisory Board.
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on LinkedIn
Topics A-Z
Diseases and conditions
Eye health
Healthy living
Men's health
Mental health
Oral and dental health
More (7)
Ask Questions
Popular questions
About Health&
Corporate Sales
About us
Medical Advisory Board
Terms and policies
Privacy policy
FAQs
Blog
For more information or to provide feedback, please contact us at:
Copyright © 2019 Health& Pty Ltd. (ABN 45 153 743 643)
All rights reserved. Health& provides health information and is not to be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Always ask your doctor or healthcare provider any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. In case of emergency, call your doctor or dial 911 (for USA & Canada), or dial 112 (for UK & Europe), or dial 000 (for Australia) immediately.
Disclaimer
Welcome to Health&. We aim to help keep you healthy and well.
We provide helpful information and guidance to manage your health. The information is personalised to allow you to make better decisions about your health. We use the latest medical guidelines and provide information that has been reviewed by doctors at Health&. It is important to note that we only provide information - we do not provide medical diagnosis, treatment or advice. The health information provided should not be a substitute for professional medical care. Before acting on the information, please consult your doctor to make sure it is right for you. In the event of a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or emergency services - dial 000 (in Australia) or 911 (in the United States of America).
At Health&, you can securely store your health records. We respect the need for privacy and security of personal information. We are bound by legal requirements for privacy in Australia. Health& is also a registered Healthcare Provider Organisation (just like your doctor), so we will not share your personal information with anyone. We apply the highest levels of security for the storage, management and access of your personal information, using industry standards for encryption. To further safeguard your information, we recommend that you use a strong password and take care to protect it.
Health& is the first consumer-led population health study in Australia. We collect anonymous health data to support medical research and population health initiatives. The information contributes to major improvements in the health of communities. Your participation helps others to also benefit.
You need to be at least 18 years old to sign up. Please read the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy before using Health&.
×
Content goes in here.