The healing potential of music therapy in pain relief in cancer patients
Home
About MedWorm
Health News
Specialties
Conditions
Cancers
Infec. Diseases
Procedures
Therapies
Nutrition
Drugs
Vaccines
Management
Training
Countries
any words all words exact phrase advanced  Advanced search can include the following:
• OR operator: |
• NOT operators: - OR !
• phrase search: "breast cancer"
• AND is implied so listing two words without another operator will search for records where both words are present.
• use () to group words together:
eg.(cancer|cancers)(cervical|cervix)!("Squamous cell carcinoma"|SCC)
will return records where either the words 'cancer' or 'cancers' are present, plus the words 'cervical' or 'cervix', but not the phrase 'squamous cell carcinoma' or 'SCC'.
• order operator: word1 << word2 << word3
eg. chronic << (leukemia|leukaemia)
here the word 'chronic' must come somewhere before either the work 'leukemia' or 'leukaemia'.
• search on a specific field using any of the following: @item_headline @item_description @source @author @tags
eg1. @item_headline "kidney cancer" @item_description (trial|trials)
this searches for the phrase 'kidney cancer' in the title as well as either the word 'trial' or 'trials' in description.
eg2. @(item_headline,item_description,tags) heart
this searches for items where the word 'heart' exists in all of the headline, description and tags fields.
eg3. @source "Journal of the American College of Cardiology"
this searches for items where "Journal of the American College of Cardiology" is listed as the source.
news research blogs podcasts video events funding alerts forums clinical trials
The healing potential of music therapy in pain relief in cancer patients
(Natural News) Cancer patients suffer from physical pain, emotional pain, and even social suffering. In order to improve the lives of cancer patients, some undergo music therapy. Research has shown that music therapy has the potential to relieve pain in cancer patients. A study review published in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews confirmed that...
http://www.naturalnews.com/2018-10-04-the-healing-potential-of-music-therapy-in-...
Source: NaturalNews.com - October 4, 2018 Category: Consumer Health News Source Type: news
Related Links:
Feeling the sound - short-term effect of a vibroacoustic music intervention on well-being and subjectively assessed warmth distribution in cancer patients-A randomized controlled trial.
Abstract OBJECTIVES: So far, the effects of vibroacoustic music therapy in cancer patients are unknown. However, used in anthroposophic medicine, it could be an approach to enhance well-being. The goal of this study was to evaluate the immediate effects of a sound-bed music intervention with respect to the subjective well-being as well as body warmth and pain. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We treated 48 cancer patients with 10 min of sound-bed intervention in a cross-over design. Primary outcome was the total sum of the Basler Mood Questionnaire (BMQ), secondary outcomes were subscales of the BMQ and questions addr...
Source: Complementary Therapies in Medicine - September 18, 2018 Category: Complementary Medicine Authors: Bieligmeyer S, Helmert E, Hautzinger M, Vagedes J Tags: Complement Ther Med Source Type: research
Study finds music therapy brings effective pain relief for sickle cell patients
(University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center) In a randomized controlled trial, patients with sickle cell disease were assigned to one of three 20-minute conditions: a session with a music therapist, an iPod to listen to pre-selected music themselves, or no music at all. While passively listening to music improved mood, music therapy had a significantly stronger impact on aiding in pain management for patients actively engaged with a music therapist.
Source: EurekAlert! - Cancer - June 13, 2018 Category: Cancer & Oncology Source Type: news
Integrative Therapies During and After Breast Cancer Treatment: ASCO Endorsement of the SIO Clinical Practice Guideline.
Abstract Purpose The Society for Integrative Oncology (SIO) produced an evidence-based guideline on use of integrative therapies during and after breast cancer treatment that was determined to be relevant to the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) membership. ASCO considered the guideline for endorsement. Methods The SIO guideline addressed the use of integrative therapies for the management of symptoms and adverse effects, such as anxiety and stress, mood disorders, fatigue, quality of life, chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, lymphedema, chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, pain, and sleep ...
Source: Clinical Genitourinary Cancer - June 11, 2018 Category: Cancer & Oncology Authors: Lyman GH, Greenlee H, Bohlke K, Bao T, DeMichele AM, Deng GE, Fouladbakhsh JM, Gil B, Hershman DL, Mansfield S, Mussallem DM, Mustian KM, Price E, Rafte S, Cohen L Tags: J Clin Oncol Source Type: research
Music Offers Many Cognitive, Emotional and Physical Benefits to Young and Old
“Music is therapy. Music moves people. It connects people in ways that no other medium can. It pulls heart strings. It acts as medicine.” — Macklemore Much research over the years has centered on the potential, perceived and realized benefits of music. In fact, the area of study has blossomed, growing from the preliminary findings of earlier studies to recent ones that built upon them. What’s exciting is the widespread and diverse benefits that music offers to everyone, young, old and in-between. Musical training gives babies’ brains a boost. Even before babies can walk or talk, they can benef...
Source: World of Psychology - May 14, 2018 Category: Psychiatry & Psychology Authors: Suzanne Kane Tags: Brain and Behavior Creativity Happiness Health-related Motivation and Inspiration Research Self-Esteem Stress Coping Emotional Support Music Therapy musical therapy Source Type: blogs
No between-group difference but tendencies for patient support: A pilot study of a resilience-focused music therapy protocol for adults on a medical oncology/hematology unit
Publication date: September 2017 Source:The Arts in Psychotherapy, Volume 55 Author(s): Lorissa Letwin, Michael J. Silverman During hospitalization for cancer treatment, patients can experience adversities that negatively impact quality of life and hinder recovery. Thus, it is important for patients to develop resilience to help them adapt, cope, and potentially overcome stressors within hospital and home environments. The purpose of this study was to determine if and how a two-day resilience-focused music therapy (RFMT) support program would impact resilience of adults on a medical oncology/hematology unit. Participants ...
Source: Arts in Psychotherapy - June 27, 2017 Category: Psychiatry & Psychology Source Type: research
No Between-Group Difference but Tendencies for Patient Support: A Convergent Parallel Mixed Methods Pilot Study of a Resilience-Focused Music Therapy Protocol for Adults on a Medical Oncology/Hematology Unit
Publication date: Available online 17 June 2017 Source:The Arts in Psychotherapy Author(s): Lorissa Letwin, Michael J. Silverman During hospitalization for cancer treatment, patients can experience adversities that negatively impact quality of life and hinder recovery. Thus, it is important for patients to develop resilience to help them adapt, cope, and potentially overcome stressors within hospital and home environments. The purpose of this study was to determine if and how a two-day resilience-focused music therapy (RFMT) intervention might impact resilience in adults on a medical oncology/hematology unit. Participants...
Source: Arts in Psychotherapy - June 20, 2017 Category: Psychiatry & Psychology Source Type: research
Cancer-Related Acute Pain: A Systematic Review of Evidence-Based Interventions for Putting Evidence Into Practice.
This article presents current evidence supporting interventions to reduce cancer-related acute pain. . METHODS: PubMed and CINAHL® databases were searched to identify studies addressing interventions to manage acute pain in patients with cancer. The interventions are categorized according to the Putting Evidence Into Practice classification schema. . FINDINGS: Interventions that are recommended for practice in the management of acute pain include epidural analgesia and local anesthetic infusions. Interventions likely to be effective include pharmacologic interventions, such as gabapentin and intraspinal ...
Source: Clinical Journal of Oncology Nursing - May 21, 2017 Category: Nursing Authors: Sundaramurthi T, Gallagher N, Sterling B Tags: Clin J Oncol Nurs Source Type: research
Perceptions of family members of palliative medicine and hospice patients who experienced music therapy
ConclusionsFamily members of patients in palliative medicine and hospice settings reported an immediate positive impact of music therapy on the patient and on themselves. More research needs to be conducted to better understand the benefits of music therapy for family members.
Source: Supportive Care in Cancer - April 25, 2017 Category: Cancer & Oncology Source Type: research
Music therapy improves the mood of patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cells transplantation (controlled randomized study)
AbstractPurposeThe allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is a therapeutic medical treatment for various neoplastic hematologic, congenital, genetic, or acquired disorders. In this procedure which combines high-dose chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and has a high degree of cytotoxicity, the patient experiences solitary confinement, which causes psychological distress, pain, anxiety, mood disorders and can lead him/her to depression. Music therapy was applied with the purpose of decreasing this social confinement. This is a randomized controlled trial.MethodPatients (n = 100) were selected ...
Source: Supportive Care in Cancer - January 25, 2017 Category: Cancer & Oncology Source Type: research
Outcomes of Music Therapy Interventions on Symptom Management in Palliative Medicine Patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the importance of music therapy for addressing symptoms and behaviors of palliative medicine patients. Statistically and clinically significant effects were noted. The most effective interventions were identified. More research needs to be conducted to better understand the benefits of music therapy for palliative medicine patients. PMID: 28274132 [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]
Source: The American Journal of Hospice and Palliative Care - January 1, 2017 Category: Palliative Care Authors: Gallagher LM, Lagman R, Rybicki L Tags: Am J Hosp Palliat Care Source Type: research
More News: Cancer | Cancer & Oncology | Databases & Libraries | Music Therapy | Pain | Study
MedWorm Privacy Policy Disclaimer Copyright © MedWorm 2006-2019