Health Benefits of African Traditional Fermented Foods and probiotic
TOP MENU
Sponsored Post
Terms and Conditions
Privacy policy
About us
Contact us
MENU MENU
SEARCH
Home
DENTAL HEALTH
ORAL HEALTH
CHILDREN’S DENTAL HEALTH
SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS
GUM DISEASE
TEETH WHITENING
ORAL HEALTH RESOURCES
Sleep Apnea
HEALTH CARE
FITNESS AND WELLNESS
HEALTHY RECIPES
HOME REMEDIES
SKIN CARE
HomeHEALTH CARE
Health Benefits of African Traditional Fermented Foods and probiotic
Isreal Olabanji DST RN 0
Recently, a research study implies that probiotics may lower blood pressure, ease infants undergoing stomach ailments, improve immunity, increase men
Recently, a research study implies that probiotics may lower blood pressure, ease infants undergoing stomach ailments, improve immunity, increase mental well-being, boost weight loss, lessen side effects caused by antibiotics, tackle allergies, and even clear acne.
Advertisements
Table of Contents
1.Lower blood pressure
2. Allergy
3. Certain probiotics could help women lose weight
4. Acne and probiotic
Probiotics supplements
RECOMMENDED PROBIOTICS SUPPLEMENTS
Probiotics side effects
1.Lower blood pressure
Eating probiotics foods regularly improve your blood pressure, according to new research in the American Heart Association journal Hypertension.
The little set of studies suggest daily consumption of African Traditional Fermented Foods as part of your daily diet and well-being which may help lessen high blood pressure, as well as supporting healthy blood pressure levels. This combines probiotics in yogurt, fermented and fermented milk and cheese, and probiotic supplements.
They decided on the last studies and now understands that African Traditional Fermented Foods might help lower blood pressure and other well-being advantages, including improving complete cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, cholesterol; lessening blood glucose and insulin resistance; and by assisting us to regulate the hormone system that regulates blood pressure and juicy balance in the body.
2. Allergy
Probiotic genomic and proteomic research identified several genes and specific compounds derived from probiotics, which mediate immunoregulatory effects. Subjects regarding the biological consequences of probiotics in host immunity suggested that they regulate the functions of systemic and mucosal immune cells and intestinal epithelial cells. Thus, probiotics showed therapeutic potential for diseases, including several immune response-related diseases, such as allergy, eczema, viral infection, and potentiating vaccination responses.
Summary
It may provide novel approaches for both disease prevention and treatment.
3. Certain probiotics could help women lose weight
According to studies, Fermented Foods function by modifying the permeability of the intestinal wall. By keeping certain proinflammatory molecules from entering the bloodstream, it might help to stop the chain effect that leads to glucose intolerance, type 2 diabetes, and obesity.
The studies focused more on only one strain of Lactobacillus rhamnosus, but they believe that other probiotics found in dairy products could have a similar effect. They emphasize, however, that the benefits of these bacteria observed has a major and helpful nutritional context that favors low fat and adequate fiber intake.
In brief, women eating probiotics lost twice as much weight over the 24-week period of the research.
4. Acne and probiotic
Probiotic can be discovered in goods ranging from yogurt to facial creams. In this section, have discussed the role of probiotics in the improvement of the immune system ahead, the treatment of acne and rosacea, and protection upon aging and photodamage.
Oral ingestion of certain probiotic efforts has been shown to repair the skin wall and change skin hydration and transepidermal water loss influenced by interactions with oral probiotics, to the tone and well-being of the skin
Special probiotic with proven health benefits are available in Africa and now affordable to the majority of the population. Moreover, they are now used in food fermentation processes.
If such products could be produced in large quantity particularly for household food preparation, such as cereal or milk foods, it could make a serious impact on the strength and well-being of adults and children. This can weigh the impact of probiotics on customers’ diet and well-being, and increase the number of bodies who can profit.
Probiotics supplements
Registered dietitian, reveals that you can think of prebiotics as food for probiotics. You can get prebiotics from foods including asparagus, bananas, garlic, and onions, she says
Provided that you can get it from the food you eat, you don’t necessarily need to take a supplement, I prefer food sources of probiotics to supplements.
However, “There are times when you really need to increase your need.” For example might be during or after a course of antibiotics, as long as you ask your doctor’s since antibiotics kill both good and bad bacteria: “Seeding your gut with good bacteria can lay the groundwork for a faster recovery and less constipation and diarrhea,”
But also says that supplements can also play a useful role in “maintaining a healthy gut bacteria colony.”
RECOMMENDED PROBIOTICS SUPPLEMENTS
Jigsaw Health Essential Blend Probiotics (shop now) 39$
Thrive Market Probiotic Complex with Acidophilus (shop now) 8.99$
Probiotics side effects
Side effects, if it happens, tend to be mild and digestive (such as gas or bloating). More severe effects have been noticed in some individual. Probiotics might probably cause infections that need to be treated with antibiotics, particularly in people with underlying health conditions.
They could also produce harmful metabolic activities, too many stimulations of the immune system, or gene transfer (insertion of genetic material into a cell).
Probiotic products taken by mouth as a dietary supplement are manufactured and regulated as foods, not drugs.
These give us a good understanding that all of these proven probiotic benefits helped every individual in African who didn’t have access to antibiotics or don’t want to take drugs. Just because we now live in a world where antibiotics are readily available doesn’t mean the old ideas are irrelevant.
RELATED READING
Advertisements
Top 10 herbal superfoods and their health benefits
Could African foods benefit your health?
How to Use Clove Basil (Efinrin) to Cure Major Types of Ailments
REFERENCES
Accessed Online: 29 Aug 2018;
https://doi.org/10.1089/jmf.2008.0163
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/20041769/
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168160514004371?via%3Dihub
https://www.sbs.com.au/food/article/2017/02/22/what-ancient-african-fermentation-techniques-reveal-about-probiotics
https://theconversation.com/what-ancient-african-fermentation-techniques-reveal-about-probiotics-61221
FOODS 23 HEALTH CARE 147
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
Loading...
Newer Post
5 Types of Tooth Pain (and When to Take It Seriously)
Older Post
Top 10 herbal superfoods and their health benefits
COMMENTS
WORDPRESS: 0
Leave a Reply	Cancel reply
FACEBOOK: 0
DISQUS:
POPULAR
DENTAL HEALTH
What can cause white spots on teeth?
Isreal Olabanji DST RN 2018-08-25
White Spots on teeth may vary from one dot on a single tooth to marks or spots on a lot of teeth. The very first step would be to work out the reaso [...]
DISEASES
Ebola Virus: Causes, Symptoms, Prevention and treatment
Isreal Olabanji DST RN 2018-02-09
Ebola Virus: Causes, Symptoms, Prevention and treatment Ebola virus is one of the deadly diseases mostly in African and some part of the world. T [...]
DENTAL HEALTH
HOW TO MASSAGE THE GUM AND ITS BENEFITS.
Isreal Olabanji DST RN 2018-09-03
Gum disease is easy to prevent with gum massage. That’s true, with the act of massaging the soft tissue of the mouth and jaw. Most people don’t re [...]
HEALTH CARE
Foot problems: How Your Shoes Affect Your Health (Infographic)
Isreal Olabanji DST RN 2018-07-09
9 in 10 people experience some sort of foot problems at some point during their lives. This is a shocking statistic when you consider that many foot [...]
DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT PLANNING
Understanding Urinalysis Tests and urine in the laboratory
Isreal Olabanji DST RN 2017-07-17
Your health evaluation is incomplete without the findings of laboratory tests of blood and urine. Your doctor or his assistant may give special inst [...]
HEALTH CARE
Why you may want to become a laser tattoo removal technician
Isreal Olabanji DST RN 2018-11-11
Tattoo Removal Technician There are people who may want to become laser tattoo removal experts. Well, the laser tattoo removal technician is a very [...]
Trending
Isreal Olabanji DST RN: Home remedies to get rid of canker sores and promote healing.
2019-04-17
Isreal Olabanji DST RN: Tongue problems: Home remedies to get rid of Black hairy tongue
2019-04-15
Isreal Olabanji DST RN: How to get rid of Oral Thrush. Best Home Remedies for Thrush
2019-04-13
Isreal Olabanji DST RN: 7 easy way to treat cold sores naturally at home within 2 to 3 days
2019-04-12
Isreal Olabanji DST RN: How Does Chiropractic Help with Headaches?
2019-04-11
Isreal Olabanji DST RN: Can Chewing sticks help cure bad breath and tooth decay?
2019-04-10
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information:
verify here.
Recent Posts
Home remedies to get rid of canker sores and promote healing.
Tongue problems: Home remedies to get rid of Black hairy tongue
How to get rid of Oral Thrush. Best Home Remedies for Thrush
7 easy way to treat cold sores naturally at home within 2 to 3 days
How Does Chiropractic Help with Headaches?
© 2019 Health soothe. All rights reserved.
Type something and Enter
Advertisements