Magnetic therapy – the basics
Magnetic therapy – the basics
Magnetic therapy is a set of complementary medicine techniques involving the use of magnetic fields (from either electromagnets or permanent magnets). By exposing the body or selected areas of it to magnetic fields better health is encouraged and wellbeing is promoted. These effects are well-attested to by healers and patients alike and a number of health and healing effects have been identified.
For example haemoglobin, a protein molecule in red blood cells that acts as an oxygen transporter in the body, is diamagnetic and is repelled by magnetic fields. This does not refer to uniform magnetic fields as you might find in one of those large scanner machines but rather the field gradients created by small powerful magnets such as rare earth magnets. Indeed, field gradients are used in biomedical processes to separate different types of blood cell.
Most skilled magnet therapy healers identify different processes and consequences depending on the polar orientation of the magnet. These health benefits can be achieved not only through healing sessions with a magnets therapy healer but also via the self-help route through the purchase of any of a huge range of items from a magnetic products store.
Such products may include copper magnetic bracelets for men, titanium magnetic bracelets for men and women, i balance silicone magnetic bracelets, hematite bracelets, magnetic straps and supports for limbs, joints, neck and back, magnetic blankets and magnetic water.
Proponents and critics alike of magnetic therapy admit that it is very hard to conduct true double blind studies as it is easy to determine if a device is magnetic or not. However such studies as have been undertaken suggest that pain relief is one area where the effect of magnetic therapy is undeniable. Some critics and sceptics have attempted to argue that these apparent benefits are due to the placebo effect.
However recent research has thrown a spanner in the works, because the placebo effect has itself been called into question by a study that showed that patients benefit from a placebo even when they are told that it is a placebo! This suggests that the placebo affect is itself potentially mythical and thus cannot be used to refute the measurable and proven claims of pain relief from magnet therapy.
Shopping Basket
Magnetic Therapy Info
THE SPOTLIGHTS ON PRODUCTS
RESOURCES
BUYING MAGNETIC BRACELETS
GENERAL INFO
MAGNETS IN THERAPY
› Getting the polarity right in magnet therapy
› How effective is magnetic therapy?
› How to use magnets to treat illness
› Magnetic diagnosis
› Magnetic therapy for complex disorders
› Magnetic therapy – the basics
› Magnetic therapy: for and against
› Magnetism – good and bad
› Prevention and cure with magnetic treatment
› The scope and limits of magnetic therapy
› The versatility of magnetic therapy
HISTORY
MAGNETS & MAGNETISM
ANIMALS & MAGNETS
SPORT & MAGNETIC POWER
HEALTH & MAGNETS
Advanced Search
STRENGTH (Highest strength 5):
All Results12345
SUITABLE MOSTLY FOR:
All ResultsMenUnisexWomen
PRODUCT TYPE:
All ResultsAnkletBangleLinks BraceletPendant
METAL:
All ResultsCopperGrade 2 TitaniumPlated Copper AlloyStainless Steel
Shop by Price
All Results£0 - £15£15 - £30£30 - £60£60+
Recently Viewed
Evo-Flow Energy Bands
Only £19.99 !
Available in White, Red and blue, the energy band represents superb value for money. Will make a great gift.
Click here to see the full range.
White Ceramic Bracelets
£29.99
Ceramic bracelet are most elegant and will stand scratches better than Titanium & Stainless Steel.
Click here to see the full range.
DID YOU KNOW?
You can send the item in
any condition
for the first 30 days after receiving it, or if new and unused,
any time!
LICK HERE FOR DETAILS
SUPER STRONG MAGNETS !
Booster bangles features two mega size magnets that makes all the difference - boosting the magnetic strength, and with the addition of four standard size magnets.
From £11.95 !
LASER ENGRAVED COPPER
From £ 7.99
Wide copper bangles, laser engraved with amazing patterns, with 6 powerful magnets. Shipped with luxury gift pouch.
JET-BLACK MEN'S TITANIUM
ONLY £ 27.00
Men's classic magnetic bracelets with two super strong magnets in each link.
SOMETHING SPECIAL FOR HER
£22.99 - £39.99
Classic range for ladies, offer wide range of prices and styles. Man, you cannot go wrong if you give one of those bracelets for St. Valentine's Day.
Treating Arthritis with Magnetic Bracelets
It appears to us from the feedback we are receiving from our customers that they proud supporters of using the unique benefits of treating arthritis with magnetic bracelets. Many others, mostly people that never used magnetic therapy, remain sceptic.
For this reason, it has become an issue of controversy between those that did not try magnetic therapy and do not believe in it, and those who actually used magnetic therapy.
And so it remains a hot topic in the world of medicine today.
With an estimated 8.5 million people in the UK suffering from different forms of arthritis, the suggestion that the inflammation that arthritis brings can be eased with something as simple as magnetic bracelet, it is no wonder that it is such a debated issue.
According to Arthritis-Relief.co.uk, there has been in recent years, and continues to be large volume of research conducted about using magnets to eliminate arthritic ailments which has demonstrated that magnetic bracelets, can be an effective method of pain management.
In the United States alone it is reported that as many as one in three adults are being affected by different forms of arthritis, with more than 70 million Americans suffering from the disease.
The Arthritis and Glucosamine Resource Centre reported that in a research carried out to whether or not magnetic bracelets are effective in fighting arthritis pain which questioned whether a ‘placebo effect’ of wearing a magnetic bracelet is the cause for arthritis patients endorsing that the bracelets create pain relief, it was concluded that arthritis patients should embrace magnetic bracelets with an open mind.
GENERAL
Go Top
All Products
Latest Products
Advance Search
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Return Policy
Resizing Links Bracelets
Spending Points
Bracelet Care
SITE INFORMATION
Postage
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Site Map
HELP
Contact Us
Read Our Blog
About Magnetic Therapy
© 2019 Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
Magnetic Therapy Bracelets
ALL PRODUCTS
Special OffersBlack RangeTitanium BraceletsStainless Steel BraceletsBio 4 in 1 ElementsEnergy PendantsNew Items
For Him For Her Bangles Anklets
Contact UsRecent Product Reviews
View Cart | Wish List | New Account | Sign In