Osteoarthritis (OA): Treatment, Symptoms, Diagnosis
Drugs A-Z Pill Identifier Supplements Symptom Checker Diseases Dictionary Media
Slideshows Images Quizzes
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Advertising Policy
Copyright © 2018 by RxList Inc. RxList does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.
Osteoarthritis (OA): Treatment, Symptoms, Diagnosis
home > slideshows a-z list > osteoarthritis overview slideshow
What Is Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis is a progressive form of arthritis characterized by breakdown of the cartilage in joints. Osteoarthritis (OA), also known as degenerative joint disease and "wear and tear" arthritis, causes pain in the joints with activity. The knees and the hips are common locations for osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis is common in people over 60 years of age, but it can affect younger people, particularly where they have had joint injury or joint surgery.
Osteoarthritis Symptoms
Symptoms of osteoarthritis typically develop slowly. The most common symptoms include:
Pain - Pain with use of the involved joint is a common symptom.
Stiffness - Stiffness and pain immediately after being sedentary is a feature of osteoarthritis and is referred to as a "gel phenomenon." The morning stiffness of osteoarthritis typically lasts no more than 30 minutes.
Bone grating - A common sign of osteoarthritis is a crunching feeling or grating sound of bone rubbing against bone.
Knobby fingers - Hand involvement with osteoarthritis leads to knobby enlargements of the small joints of the fingers. Small, bony knobs on the middle joints of the fingers are called Bouchard’s nodes. When they occur at the joints closest to the nail, they are known as Heberden’s nodes.
Bone Spurs - Small bony extensions known as osteophytes sometimes grow on the edges of osteoarthritic joints.
Where Does Osteoarthritis Hurt?
Osteoarthritis is common in large weight-bearing joints such as the knees, hips, and spine. It is also common at the base of the thumb, the small joints of the fingers, and the neck.
What Causes Osteoarthritis?
Osteoarthritis is most commonly a result of aging cartilage. Aging cartilage progressively becomes stiffer and more vulnerable to wear and tear. Severe osteoarthritis can cause the cartilage to wear away virtually completely so that the adjacent bones in the joint rub together with use. This is referred to a "bone on bone" joint disease.
Osteoarthritis Risk Factors
Osteoarthritis risks come from a variety of factors—some inevitable and some preventable.
Growing Older
Aging is the major risk factor for osteoarthritis. The condition is rare in people under age 40, but increases in likelihood as we age, up to age 75.
Genetics
Some genes may interfere with joint health. For example one rare genetic defect (Stickler syndrome) interferes with the body’s natural ability to produce the cartilage protein collagen XI. Other genes predispose people to slightly improperly designed joints that can wear away faster than usual.
Gender
Men are more likely to have osteoarthritis before age 45. After age 45, women are more likely targets for the condition.
Weight
The bodies of overweight people bare more stress and strain on their joints. That can cause the natural cartilage cushions at their hips and knees to wear down faster.
Congenital Defects
Some people are more prone to osteoarthritis symptoms at birth. These include those born with one leg shorter than the other, as well as those born with mismatched joint surfaces.
Joint Injury
Those who have suffered joint injury or undergone joint surgery are predisposed to the development of osteoarthritis of those joints. This is often the cause when osteoarthritis occurs in younger people.
Preventing Osteoarthritis
Activities that can injure the joints can increase the risk of future osteoarthritis. Over-use of joints and years of heavy impact can often make osteoarthritis worse. Lifestyle changes may be necessary to relieve osteoarthritis symptoms.
Osteoarthritis Dangers
Your job - Certain job hazards can increase the risk for osteoarthritis. If your job requires you to kneel or squat for more than one hour each day, your likelihood of developing osteoarthritis increases.
Sports - Some sports are more likely to lead to osteoarthritis. Football, gymnastics, skateboarding, basketball, and soccer are a few popular American sports known to be osteoarthritis risks.
Coping With Osteoarthritis in Daily Life
The symptoms of osteoarthritis vary from patient to patient. Some people with osteoarthritis have no symptoms, while others have significant pain and stiffness when the joints are used. Depending on which joints are affected, osteoarthritis can cause difficulty standing, walking, turning knobs or keys, opening jars, etc. Osteoarthritis involving the spine can lead to nerve irritation associated with numbness, tingling, and weakness.
Osteoarthritis Diagnosis
To diagnose osteoarthritis, the doctor will review your symptoms and examine your joints for swelling, redness, warmth, and range of motion. X-rays or other imaging tests can be used to determine the extent of joint damage and/or rule out other joint problems. Blood tests can exclude other conditions that affect the joints.
Long-Term Complications
Osteoarthritis does not affect internal organs like rheumatoid arthritis can. However, osteoarthritis can cause significant deformity and loss of function and mobility.
Bowing Knees
Bowing of the knees can result from severe loss of cartilage in the knee from osteoarthritis.
Spinal Bone Spurs
Bony spurs in the spine can irritate adjacent nerves to cause numbness, tingling, and pain in areas supplied by the nerves affected.
Physical Therapy Treatment
There is no specific treatment that can stop the progressive degeneration of cartilage from osteoarthritis. However, joint function can be improved by many therapies, including physical therapy that is designed to increase flexibility and strengthen muscle power. Hot or cold applied topically as compresses can relieve aches and pains from osteoarthritis.
Supportive Devices
Finger splints and braces can reduce joint stress, relieve pain, and improve function and mobility. Crutches or walkers can improve walking ability. Symptoms of osteoarthritis of the spine can be relieved by using a firmer mattress and with back bracing or with a neck collar.
Medication for OA
The pain and stiffness of osteoarthritis can be relieved with over-the-counter pain and anti-inflammatory medication, including aspirin, ibuprofen, or acetaminophen. Pain-relieving creams or sprays can also help when applied directly to the sore area. Persisting pain can be eased by injection of steroids or hyaluronans into the affected joint.
Supplements for Osteoarthritis
While data showing significant long term benefit of glucosamine and chondroitin is limited, some individuals with osteoarthritis feel these food supplements help to reduce their joint pain. But beware, chondroitin can affect the actions of certain blood thinners.
Osteoarthritis and Weight
Obesity is a risk factor for osteoarthritis and aggravates existing osteoarthritis. Weight should be reduced in those who have osteoarthritis and are overweight. Interestingly, even modest amounts of weight reduction can be associated with significantly less joint pain from osteoarthritis. Losing weight can also reduce the risk of rapid joint damage from osteoarthritis.
Osteoarthritis and Exercise
Low-impact exercise activities can improve mobility and strength and ultimately reduce pain. Strengthening the muscles around affected joints by training with light weights can be helpful to also reduce pain. For example, strengthening the quadriceps muscle of the knee can reduce osteoarthritis knee pain. See your doctor for the optimal exercise routine.
Low-Impact Exercises for Osteoarthritis
Swimming
Walking
Bicycling
Yoga
Water aerobics
Outdoor chores like gardening and raking leaves
Osteoarthritis Treatment: Joint Replacement Surgery
When osteoarthritis symptoms persist despite other therapies, joint replacement surgery is often considered. This surgical procedure is an option for those who are healthy enough and who have severe osteoarthritis. Joint replacement surgery replaces a damaged joint with an artificial one. The most common joints replaced are the knees and the hips.
Osteoarthritis Prognosis
Keeping weight in control is very helpful for preventing osteoarthritis in the long-term. Excessive weight adds stress to weight-bearing joints such as the hips and knees. Osteoarthritis can be prevented if injuries are avoided. Proper occupational and sports equipment along with safety precautions can also prevent joint degeneration.
Reviewed by William C. Shiel Jr., MD, FACP, FACR on 7/9/2016
Osteoarthritis (OA): Treatment, Symptoms, Diagnosis
Sources:
IMAGES PROVIDED BY:
Peter Dazeley/Photographer's Choice
Nisian Hughes/The Image Bank
ISM/Phototake/Dr. P Marazzi/Photo Researchers Inc
Carol Donner/Phototake
Zave Smith/Photographer's Choice
Erik Isakson/Tetra Images
Skip Nall/White
BSIP/Photo Researchers Inc.
Bart's Medical Library/ISM/Phototake
John Lund/Blend Images
Stockbyte
I Love Images
Cordelia Molloy/Photo Researchers Inc
Cappi Thompson/Flickr
Armwell/Riser
Dr. P Marazzi/Photo Researchers, Inc.
Altrendo Images
REFERENCES:
Arthritis Foundation: "Osteoarthritis Causes"
CDC: "Arthritis Risk Factors"
HH Public Access: "Epidemiology of Osteoarthritis"
Johns Hopkins Medicine: "Managing Your Arthritis"
Medscape: "Light Exercise May Delay or Prevent Osteoarthritis of the Knee"
National Institute of Health: "Handout on Health: Osteoarthritis"
Springer: "The Primer on the Rheumatic Diseases"
This tool does not provide medical advice. See additional information:
THIS TOOL DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE. It is intended for general informational purposes only and does not address individual circumstances. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment and should not be relied on to make decisions about your health. Never ignore professional medical advice in seeking treatment because of something you have read on the RxList Site. If you think you may have a medical emergency, immediately call your doctor or dial 911.
© 1996-2019 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Source slideshow at OnHealth
Health Solutions From Our Sponsors
Clinical Trial Q&A
Childhood Brain Tumors
Penis Curved When Erect
How Immunotherapy Fights Cancer
Overcoming Breast Cancer
Medical Alert System
CONTINUE SCROLLING FOR RELATED SLIDESHOW
Pill Identifier Tool Quick, Easy, Pill Identification
Drug Interaction Tool Check Potential Drug Interactions
Pharmacy Locater Tool Including 24 Hour, Pharmacies
RxList Home Drugs & Medications Slideshows Pill Identification Tool Vitamins, Herbs, & Dietary Supplements Images Diseases Symptom Checker Dictionary Quizzes
About RxList Consumer Contact RxList Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sponsor Policy Pharmaceutical Companies A-Z Site Map
WebMD Medscape Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth MedicineNetOnHealth WebMDRx
Copyright © 2019 by RxList Inc. RxList does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.