Ice Burn: Symptoms, Treatment, and More
Newsletter
Everything You Need to Know About Ice Burn
Medically reviewed by Graham Rogers, MD on May 22, 2017 — Written by Traci Angel
Symptoms
Causes
Risk factors
Diagnosis
Treatment
Outlook
Prevention
Healthline and our partners may receive a portion of revenues if you make a purchase using a link on this page.
What is an ice burn?
An ice burn is an injury that can happen when ice or other cold things contact and damage your skin. Ice burns usually occur after prolonged exposure to freezing or below-freezing temperatures. For example, if you apply a cold pack directly to your skin, you might get an ice burn.
What are the symptoms of an ice burn?
An ice burn often looks like other types of burns, such as sunburns. You might notice a change in the color of the affected skin. For example, it might appear bright red. It might also turn a white or yellowish-gray color.
Other potential symptoms include:
numbness
itchiness
tingly feeling
pain
blisters
unusually firm or waxy skin
What causes ice burns?
An ice burn occurs when your skin comes into direct contact with ice or something else that’s very cold for an extended period of time. Ice or cold packs that are used to treat sore muscles and injuries can cause ice burns if you press them directly against bare skin. Prolonged contact with snow, cold weather, or high-velocity winds can also cause ice burns.
When you get an ice burn, the water in the cells of your skin freezes. It forms sharp ice crystals, which can damage the structure of your skin cells. Blood vessels near your skin also begin to constrict. This reduces the flow of blood to affected areas, causing further damage.
What are the risk factors for ice burns?
You may be at higher risk of ice burns and other cold-induced injuries if you spend a lot of time in cold conditions or high-velocity winds and don’t dress appropriately for those conditions.
Lifestyle habits and conditions that negatively affect your circulation or ability to detect injuries can also raise your risk of ice burns. For example, you’re at heightened risk if you:
smoke
take medications that decrease blood flow to your skin, such as beta-blockers
have diabetes, peripheral vascular disease, or other conditions that impair your circulation
have peripheral neuropathy or other conditions that lower your ability to detect injuries
Due to their fragile skin, younger children and older people are also at higher risk of developing ice burns.
How are ice burns diagnosed?
If you think you might be getting an ice burn, remove the source of cold immediately and take steps to gradually warm your skin up. Seek medical help right away if you experience any of the following:
Your skin remains numb and doesn’t begin to burn or tingle as it warms up.
Your skin is white and doesn’t regain a pinkish complexion as it warms up.
Your skin is white, cold, and hard when you touch it.
These may be symptoms of severe tissue damage that require treatment. You might also need medical attention if you develop blisters on a large area of skin. Your doctor will examine the affected area to determine an appropriate treatment plan.
How are ice burns treated?
To treat an ice burn, remove the source of cold and slowly warm your skin to bring it back to its normal temperature. To warm your skin:
Soak the affected area in warm water for 20 minutes. The water should be around 104˚F (40˚C), and no more than 108˚F (42.2˚C).
Repeat the soaking process if needed, taking 20-minute breaks between each soak.
Apply warm compresses or blankets, in addition to the warm-water treatments.
Be careful not to use too much heat. That can make your burn worse.
If you develop blisters or an open wound, clean the area and bandage it to help keep it free from dirt or germs. Use gauze that won’t stick to your skin. It may also help to apply a soothing ointment to the affected area.
To relieve pain, consider taking an over-the-counter pain reliever. Once your skin begins to heal, you may apply aloe vera or other topical gels to help ease discomfort.
Seek medical attention if you develop signs of severe tissue damage, such as skin that remains white, numb, cold, or hard after you try to gently warm it. Your doctor might prescribe medications, remove damaged tissue, or recommend other treatment options.
You should also contact your doctor if you develop symptoms of an infection, such as changes to the color of your burn, pus or greenish discharge, or fever. Your doctor might prescribe antibiotics or other treatments.
What is the outlook for ice burns?
Depending on the severity of your burn, it could take a few days or even weeks to heal. You might have a scar afterward. In rare cases, your doctor might need to surgically amputate damaged tissues. But in most cases, you can expect a full recovery.
To help the healing process, keep the burned area away from ice and covered in the sun.
How can you prevent ice burns?
To prevent ice burns, keep a layer of clothing or a towel between your skin and sources of cold. For example, don’t apply a cold pack directly to your skin. Instead, wrap it in a towel first. Using a bag of frozen vegetables instead of a cold pack may also lower your risk of ice burns.
It’s also important to dress appropriately for cold weather and shelter your skin from high-velocity winds.
Medically reviewed by Graham Rogers, MD on May 22, 2017 — Written by Traci Angel
related stories
Rug Burns: What You Should Know
Using Essential Oils for Burns
Does Sweating Help You Burn More Calories?
Home Remedies for Burns
What Burns Cause Scars and How Are Burn Scars Treated?
READ THIS NEXT
Rug Burns: What You Should Know
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, PhD, RN, CRNA
Also called a friction burn or carpet burn, rug burn occurs when the skin rubs or slides against an abrasive surface like a rug or carpet.
READ MORE
Using Essential Oils for Burns
Medically reviewed by Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT
Some types of oils can be used for treating minor burns. We show you the best kinds of essential oils for burns, particularly first-degree burns.
READ MORE
Does Sweating Help You Burn More Calories?
Medically reviewed by Daniel Bubnis, MS, NASM-CPT, NASE Level II-CSS
Does the amount you sweat during a workout correlate to the calories you burn? Here's what the research says.
READ MORE
Home Remedies for Burns
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
You can treat most first-degree and second-degree burns at home by running cool water over the area for 20 minutes. Relieve pain with cool compresses…
READ MORE
What Burns Cause Scars and How Are Burn Scars Treated?
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, CNE, COI
Second- and third-degree burns can cause scars. Treatment options depend on the severity of your burn. Learn more.
READ MORE
10 Ways to Get Rid of or Prevent Razor Burn
Medically reviewed by Debra Sullivan, PhD, MSN, RN, CNE, COI
Whether you're after a quick aloe vera fix or ready to take an oatmeal bath, soothe your skin with one of these 10 tips on how to get rid of razor…
READ MORE
The Best Interval Training Videos of 2016
Medically reviewed by Peggy Pletcher, MS, RD, LD, CDE
Get toned on your own schedule with these awesome interval training videos.
READ MORE
The Benefits of Online Workout Videos
Online workout videos, like Daily Burn, can help you reach your fitness goals, no matter what your lifestyle, fitness level, or schedule.
READ MORE
9 Unexpected Uses for Honey
Medically reviewed by Jeanne Morrison, PhD, MSN
Honey is commonly used as a sweetener, but it has more uses. Here are nine ways honey can benefit your health, from soothing sore throats to improving…
READ MORE
The No BS Guide to Good, Healthy Carbs
Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, RD
What makes a carb good and what makes it bad? Turns out carbs alone can't be faulted for any weight issues - it's the combination of how and what you…
READ MORE
CMS Id: 121809 Client Version: 2b2d7909d0829945d526197a820652017194dca8 Build Number: 26582