Magnesium: A Natural Treatment for Migraines - Healthy Living How To
Home
About
About Vanessa
How I Healed from Adrenal Fatigue
Blog
Healthy Body
Healthy Business
Healthy Food
Healthy Home
Healthy Life
Healthy Mind
Healthy Recipe
Recipes
Main Dishes
Side Dishes
Soups, Salads & Dressings
Desserts
Breads & Muffins
Snacks & Beverages
Syrups & Sauces
Miscellaneous
Essential Oils
How To Order Young Living Essential Oils
Shop
Connect
Search
Healthy Living How To
Vanessa Rae Romero
Magnesium: A Natural Treatment for Migraines
November 2, 2013 By Vanessa Rae Romero
According to the National Headache Foundation, migraines affect more than 28 million people. Almost half experience chronic migraines. And magnesium deficiency could be one of the main causes.
Migraine sufferers typically experience pain on one side of the head, accompanied by nausea and sensitivity to both light and sound.
Migraines can occur at any time, but morning time is typical and can last from hours to days.
There are two types of migraines; classic and common. Classic migraines are characterized by an aura, light spots that occur just before the onset of the headache. A common migraine is one that occurs without the aura.
During a migraine, blood vessels in the head go through a cycle of constriction and dilation. The nerve pathways in the brain change and the blood vessels become inflamed.
Common “triggers” of migraine headaches include:
Food allergies and sensitivities, the most common being gluten
Food additives like MSG and nitrates
Medications
Stress
Hormone changes
The best treatment for migraine headaches is one of prevention.
Migraine prevention may include changes in diet, implementing healthy stress management techniques, getting adequate sleep, regulating hormones, and proper supplementation, specifically magnesium.
More than 50% of migraine sufferers have low levels of magnesium!
Magnesium deficiency in migraine sufferers is not surprising at all, since studies have consistently shown Americans in general are not getting enough magnesium. In fact, nearly 80% don’t get the RDA.
Magnesium is involved in over 300 enzymatic reactions in the body.
It is a necessary mineral for the transmission of nerve impulses, temperature regulation, detoxification and energy production.
Besides migraines, some other commons signs of low magnesium status include, muscle spasms, restless legs, fatigue, anxiety, insomnia, constipation, menstrual cramps, arrythmias and palpitations.
The neurotransmitter serotonin regulates pain messages in the brain via the trigeminal pathway.
There is evidence linking changes in serotonin levels and receptor activity, to the occurrence of migraine headaches.
Magnesium concentration has a positive effect on serotonin receptors as well as a variety of other migraine related receptors and neurotransmitters.
The role of magnesium therapy has been studied extensively as natural preventative treatment for migraine sufferers.
Two double blind trials found that oral magnesium reduces the incidence of migraine headaches. In one study, a 20-day treatment of oral magnesium normalized 90% of the patients.
Summary
Persons with migraine headaches may have lower levels of serum magnesium which affects serotonin receptors. Serotonin regulates pain messages in the brain. Daily supplementation of 500-1000 mg of magnesium is recommended. If you are looking for a high-quality, highly absorbable, magnesium supplement, click HERE for the one we recommend.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. ~Benjamin Franklin
About Vanessa Rae Romero
A Christ-follower, wife, mom, grandma, entrepreneur, city slicker, purple lover, and health nut who inspires women to live healthy, love intently, lead purposefully, and to have fun along the way.
Previous Post
Next Post
Filed Under: Healthy Body Tagged With: alternative medicine, magnesium, migraines
Related Posts
Vanessa’s VIP List
Stay up-to-date with Healthy Living How To and Vanessa by signing up for Vanessa's VIP List.
Name Email Address
16,947,614
website views
117,892
52,891
14,606
Search Healthy Living How To
Let’s Connect
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
YouTube
ABOUT VANESSA
Hello, I'm Vanessa! I once had someone tell me they did not like my purple hair, said it was for the birds. My nickname is Birdie. Sometimes, The Bird. I am a Christ-follower, wife, mother, grandmother, business owner, city slicker, purple lover, and health nut. I blog about healthy living; from food freedom to financial freedom and everything in between.
SHOP HLHT
5-ml Essential Oil Bottle with Amethyst Gemstone Roll-On and Matte Silver Cap
Faux Leather Essential Oil Pouch
hang out with me on instagram
Follow on Instagram
SHOP AMAZON
In January 2019, I took Adsense ads off Healthy Living How To. The biggest reason being it provides for a more pleasant reader experience. If you find value in our content and would like to support Healthy Living How To, you can do so by using our affiliate link when shopping Amazon.
Copyright © 2011-2019 Healthy Living How To™ · Vanessa Rae Romero · All Rights Reserved · Disclosure/Disclaimer