Natural Fever Remedies for Children - Earth Clinic®
Menu
Skip to right header navigation
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to secondary navigation
Skip to content
Skip to primary sidebar
World's Largest Collection of Natural Cures
Home
Old Version
Shop
About
Who We Are
What People Say
Our Books
Help Us
Search
Close
Search Earth Clinic
Archive Site (Old Version)
Shop
Contact Us
Ailments
Remedies
Pets
Latest Posts
Help Us
Ted’s Remedies
About
Videos
Terms of Service
Returns
Shop
Remedies
All Remedies
Ted’s Remedies
Supplements
Herbs
Beauty Remedies
Children’s Remedies
Articles
World
Green
Ailments
Pets
Latest Posts
Contact Us
You are here: Home / Children Remedies / Natural Fever Remedies for Children
Natural Fever Remedies for Children
October 23, 2018 // by Earth Clinic Creative Team// 85 Comments
Apple Cider Vinegar
Our readers have posted about some effective natural fever remedies that actually help a child’s body cope with the illness it is fighting, as well as lowering the fever. The next time your child spikes a fever, consider using apple cider vinegar, egg whites, garlic, or any number of other natural remedies that you will learn below from reading our feedback. Please let us know about remedies that have worked for you in treating childhood fevers.
The goal should be to keep the child comfortable more than to just reduce the fever, in most cases. Use popsicles, ice chips and fluids to keep the child hydrated. Tepid baths and light clothing aid in comfort. Do not use is rubbing alcohol, as it is absorbed into the skin.
When the correct remedy is used, the fever may break very quickly. The child may feel much better after only 2-3 doses. While most childhood fevers respond well to treatment at home, if the child’s temperature is over 104 degrees F. or the child becomes confused or even unconscious, call the doctor.
Average rating is: 4.8
Add New Post
Reader Interactions
Add a Post Cancel reply
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name
Email
Location
Rate it: 5 4 3 2 1 0
* Earth Clinic, LLC Terms of Service agreement
* Earth Clinic, LLC Online Privacy Statement
* I am age 13 or older
By clicking "Post Comment" you agree to the terms of the Earth Clinic LLC service agreement and the privacy policy statement, and that you are 13 or older.
Don't subscribeAllReplies to my comments Notify me of follow-up comments to my post via e-mail. Note: you can also receive notifications to this thread without commenting.
Reviews From Our Readers
Cool Water
Doug from Nj
November 6, 2018 at 7:13 pm
Lukewarm baths work.
Reply to Doug
Potato
Famesha from Memphis, Tn
April 5, 2018 at 12:59 pm
Trying the raw white potatoes remedy for the first time on baby. She is 9 months, had a bad fever and chest congestion.
Now it's all going away and fever went down.
Reply to Famesha
Egg Whites
Tracy from Singapore
May 19, 2017 at 10:07 am
Hi, my 2 yr old had been having a fever since yesterday at 38.9 to 38.0. Earlier, I gave her the egg white treatment as recommended and follow. I leave it on by soaking the socks in egg whites and give her wear and cover her feet in ziploc bag for 15 mins. Then I took the temp, from 38degree to 38.7. I immediately took off and gave her a ACV bath. Usually when I do the ACV, the temp will go down by a couple. However, this time it shoot up to 39.0. But she seems even active and better than yesterday with a much lower grade fever. Can anyone assist me??
Reply to Tracy
Apple Cider Vinegar
Yeshai from Brooklyn, Ny
February 24, 2017 at 1:15 pm
My 2 year old woke up with 105.2. I quickly went to the site while waiting for his doctor to call us. I saw the apple cider vinegar cure. I quickly filled up a bath and dumped a little less then a half a bottle of organic apple cider vinegar, and with in 10-15 minutes he was down to 101.7. Amazing!!!!!
P.S. I'm still waiting for the doctor to call me back.
Reply to Yeshai
Enemas
Carol M from Louisville, Ky
June 24, 2016 at 12:40 pm
For fever in children — enemas! I give either a cool water – tap water temp – enema. Or, give a catnip tea enema. Catnip will bring a fever down. It soothes and calms as well.
You can find this remedy in book Prescription For Nutritional Healing. Not medical advice. See your dr before giving any home remedies.
Reply to Carol
Sue A from Virginia
August 2, 2016 at 6:43 pm
I also have given enemas for fevers. I have that book as well! Every mom should have a copy in the home. Enemas are a wonderful safe home remedy.
Reply to Sue
ACV Bath, Egg Whites, Hydrogen Peroxide
Melissamd from Md, United States
December 5, 2015 at 7:32 pm
My 7 year old daughter went from playing happily to burning up almost instantly.
Using one of those forehead to ear thermometers, I took her temperature.
106.5
That can't be right…
I popped out the batteries and reset the thermometer. I swiped my forehead first and it read 98.7. Good, it's working. I swiped hers again… 106.3
I tore down the hall into the bathroom with her in one hand and a carton of eggs in the other, put her in the bathtub, turned on the water, dumped in 1/2 a bottle of apple cider vinegar with the mother, grabbed a new trash bag, cracked 2 eggs into it (without the yolk) and put her feet in.
My daughter wasn't lethargic.
Other than her body trying to catch itself on fire internally, she had no signs of sickness.
While waiting for my son to bring my phone to the bathroom, I found an oral thermometer and put it under her tongue.
105.3
It was working and fast. Still, it's dangerously high.
Obviously, I called 911 because fibril seizures are no joke and I've never seen a thermometer go that high. We have never experienced either and I certainly hope we never will/will again.
By the time EMS arrived, (and they were quick), she was down to 103.
Upon returning home from the hospital, I laid her down and filled her ear with peroxide. Usually, it takes 10 minutes on each side until the bubbling stops.
It took 30. Each.
THIS is how to minimize something brewing (and brewing large).
1. Peroxide in each ear until it stops bubbling. The sooner you do this, the less your body will have to fight.
2. Egg whites on the feet.
3. ACV in the bath water.
It works.
Reply to Melissamd
Nancy from Sugar Land
April 27, 2017 at 10:11 am
You said you called EMS and returned home from the hospital, but didn't mention what the medical staff said. Did EMS technicians or the ER doctor or nurse tell you anything related to the fever? Thanks.
Reply to Nancy
Immune Boosters
Sadia from Uae
January 3, 2015 at 12:07 am
my granddaughter is having on and off fever for 4 days . Her mother have been putting garlic paste on the child's feet. Yesterday they went to see their GP which told them to give more water. No meds prescribed which is a good thing. Is there more immune booster we can use for a one year old? Is Colloidal Silver safe for her and what is the dosage/how to apply? Any suggestion will be highly appreciated.
Reply to Sadia
Mama To Many from Tennessee
January 3, 2015 at 4:01 pm
Dear Sadie,
Astragalus root is a great herb for the immune system. In some countries it is used as food. I feel comfortable giving it to little ones. If you could get the powder form, you could add 1/4 teaspoon into some yogurt or applesauce once a day.
One way I have use colloidal silver for little ones is several drops into the ears and nose a few times a day. 25ppm.
The garlic your daughter is using is great. So happy to hear the doctor suggested more water.
Red raspberry Leaf tea is gentle and healing. It can be sweetened wit honey.
Baking soda or epsom salt baths are great for little ones. 1/2 cup of either in warm bath for 20 minutes. Adding a drop or two of lavender essential oil is nice, too.
Extra Virgin Coconut Oil – 1/2 teaspoon on some toast a couple of times a day is great for viruses.
I hope your granddaughter is better soon!
~Mama to Many~
Reply to Mama
Mama To Many from Tennessee
January 3, 2015 at 4:43 pm
Sadie,
A quick PS – if your grandchild is under a year old, honey should not be used to sweeten tea, or internally at all.
Reply to Mama
Sadia from Uae
January 4, 2015 at 11:19 am
Mama to many; thank you very much.
Reply to Sadia
Chronic Fever Remedies
Forloveford from Alberta, Canada
December 18, 2013 at 7:23 am
My poor nephew has been suffering from an ongoing fever for about 1-1 1/2 months. After blood work and scans Dr's cannot find out what is going on with him. The fevers have recently triggered a seizure, he was rushed to emerg where Dr's said that the fever was the only cause and to give him Advil every few hours and check his temp.
There has to be a better way, he is coming to stay with us tomorrow and I am looking up everything I can for fever and seizure remedies. I will be trying 1 tsp ACV in water (this is what I give to my daughter instead of juice) as well as on a cloth if his temp gets high, egg white for a more severe temp and a tsp of coconut oil a day for the seizures.
Funny thing, my 3 year old daughter loves coconut oil and sneaks it whenever she can. Our family has a history of seizures yet nether myself, nor my daughter have ever experienced one even with dangerously high fevers. We have consumed and applied coconut oil almost everyday since before she was born, perhaps this is the answer to our mystery.
Anyways I was wondering if anyone might have some experience with these symptoms and perhaps a cause? I would like to be able to send him home without a trip to emerg, some new knowledge about the issue and some remedies to try.
Thank you all.
Reply to Forloveford
Suseeq from Sydney Australia
December 18, 2013 at 3:23 pm
Just a thought for your nephew… I had a dog that had seizures, 3 or 4 a week, so I gave her a zinc tablet in her food every evening, the kind I take myself. She only from there on had about two a year and they were only mild.
Reply to Suseeq
Mt from Ottawa, Ontario
December 19, 2013 at 7:48 am
His body is fighting an infection – it may be an urinary infection. Try the cranberry juice (no sugar but you can add honey) and also keep his feet in warm water with smashed garlic. Give him Manuka honey and bee Propolis tincture in water.
Reply to Mt
Egg Whites
Mom from Massachusetts
November 12, 2013 at 1:58 pm
Well, we tried the egg whites for fever remedy and I'm sorry to say, it didnt work In fact, my child's fever climbed to 103.4 from 102.8 🙁 I used 4 eggs whites and soaked a handtowel in the egg whites and put on his feet and covered with socks. I was hoping that this would work.
Reply to Mom
Tracy from Singapore
May 19, 2017 at 10:07 am
Hi,
I tried the same method on my 2 yr old whom is having a fever at 100.4. And it spike up to 101.6 in 15mins time. I quickly bring her for a ACV lukewarm bath and after that ar 10mins later, her fever shoot to 102.74. Any idea why it doesnt works for ours?
Reply to Tracy
Mama's Remedies
Mom2many from Albuquerque, New Mexico
October 10, 2013 at 9:00 am
Our 2 yr old Son has had high fever for a week. He also has very red swollen gums and white spots only on his tongue. We give him Honey in chamomile tea and lots of vitamin C. What is interesting to me is that his two older Sisters also had this at about the same age. His illness seems to last longer. Our Girls weathered through it with no sugar, no carbs, and a high protein diet. No cavities or long term affects from it. What is this? What else can we treat this illness with? (all of our children are highly allergic to peanuts. We do NOT vaccinate) Thank You for your help.
Reply to Mom2many
Egg Whites
Sunny from Lansing, Michigan
July 17, 2013 at 3:28 pm
Yaa. My 18 month old son has had a high fever for over 24 hours. Wouldn't drink anything and didn't want me to touch him with anything. Finally I got a rag and wiped egg whites on it. I wiped it on his feet. He complained, but allowed it. I held him for a few minutes and his fever was gone!. Now resting quietly. Thank you earth clinic!
Reply to Sunny
Tracy from San Augustine, Texas
July 23, 2013 at 11:47 pm
I have read stories about infants and children in olden times who were sick & had various warm poultices applied to the bottom of their feet repeatedly through the night by kin folk or neighbors who had knowledge of healing herbs. In all the instances I read about, the children were recovered & out of danger by the next day. There was once a form of therapy using herbal extracts & a heated footbath, gradually increasing the temperature over a period of a few hours. Unfortunately, I have never been able to find complete instructions to it, only a brief reference. The art of Reflexology has a part devoted entirely to various areas of the feet & their relation to all the organs & other parts of the body. I think that the use & application of natural remedies to the bottom of a person's feet, infants & childred especially, can be an alternative form of natural treatment for various ailments, providing that the right combination of remedies & wet heat is used.
Reply to Tracy
Sadsagitarian from Finger Lakes, New York, Usa
July 24, 2013 at 12:49 pm
Tracy, please post if you find more information. My 5 month old granddaughter sweats immensely from her feet, so I am interested in this area.
Reply to Sadsagitarian
Egg Whites
Donna from Warren County Ny
July 9, 2013 at 8:30 am
Many thanks… Great site. It is coming up on 3am and my 6 year old has had a temp for twelve hours. Tried the apple cider vinegar – too impatient, my child at this point had the flushed cheeks.I moved on to the egg whites and temp came down within 20 minutes. Thank you!!
Reply to Donna
Egg Whites
Bobplumber from Zeigler, Illinois
April 27, 2013 at 8:41 pm
One day my child was running a 105 temperature, so I thought of something that I just knew would work. I took an egg, and literally cracked it onto his forehead. By way of conduction, the heat will transfer to the egg, thus lowering fever. It worked VERY well. Within 30 minutes, his fever was down to 100. I highly recommend this remedy.
Reply to Bobplumber
Egg Whites
Via Vapor from Bentonville, Arkansas
January 28, 2013 at 11:57 am
Another yay! I love this site. My father in law had a fever of 102 one night at about 7pm. I dipped paper towels in egg whites, wrapped his feet with them, put a large zip — bag over his feet, then put his socks on so I he wanted to walk around he could. By 9pm (2 hours later) his fever went down to 99.1. Thank you earth clinic! I used earth clinic for years and would never submit yay or nays. Now I will because after all earth clinic wouldn’t be what it is with out all the feedback. So let everyone know yay or nay if it works for you:-) k?
-Via Vapor in Bentonville, Arkansas
Reply to Via
Shazia from Maryland
January 20, 2015 at 12:18 pm
Question for you: was the egg whites raw or was this from a hard boiled egg? I am going to try this so am wondering which method you used? Thx.
EC: The egg whites should be raw.
Reply to Shazia
Egg Whites
Amber from Mesa, Arizona
December 23, 2012 at 12:08 pm
My 21 month old son had a fever all day yesterday and after letting it do it’s thing all day, it got worse last night before bed. It kept fluctuating, but the highest temperature I read on the thermometer was over 106. I’ve taken previous kids to the ER for high fevers and they did what I could have done at home. I alternated Motrin and Tylenol every 4 hours, gave him tepid baths, kept damp cool rags on his back, tummy, neck, and forehead, and things helped, but never for long.
At 3 am as I was monitoring him sleeping, I came across this website. I love holistic healing so I decided to try it. I got 2 egg whites and cut a large paper towel in half. I soaked the paper towels, wrapped his feet, put little plastic sandwich baggies on over them, and then socks. He whined at first because they were cold but I just cuddled him and he went back to sleep. I checked after 15 minutes, no real change, maybe slightly lower. After 30 minutes, no real temp changes, after an hour, still no big change. But I noticed that his breathing was less labored, his nose was clearer, and he was sleeping a little more normally.
I fell asleep next to him at 4 am with the egg still on his feet (I could feel his feet were especially warm) and at 7am, he woke me up bright eyed, happy, and rested. I was so relieved! It is almost 11am and he has been running a low grade fever this morning, but he’s playing and happy so I’m not worried. If it gets up there again, I will repeat the process. Thank you EC, thank you folk remedies, and thank you everyone who left comments, they’re the reason I gave it a try! So grateful this morning!
Reply to Amber
Apple Cider Vinegar
Andreea from Grimsby, On
September 11, 2012 at 4:02 pm
Hello, I know of apple cider vinegar for fevers and I now do it for my son as well. It works. I mix the vinegar with water though as I think vinegar alone is too strong, and I heat it up a little and after rubbing it in I wrap my son in a warm blaket and let him sweat.
Reply to Andreea
Apple Cider Vinegar
Kb from San Diego, Ca
September 11, 2012 at 8:45 am
When I was a kid and had a fever my grandmother would always strip me down to my underwear and rub vinegar all over my body. I use to hate it because of how bad it smelled but it worked incredibly well. I have always been looking for people who have heard of doing this before and never have until now.
Reply to Kb
Egg Whites
Vimbai from Harare, Zimbabwe
July 30, 2012 at 5:23 pm
My daughter has had a bad fever for the past 2days now & have been giving her paracetamol to no avail. Saw your web and tried the egg remedy. Within 15mins, her temp dropped from 39degrees to normal. Worked for me… There is no harm in trying. Thank u so much…
Reply to Vimbai
Egg Whites
Liz from Dallas, Texas
July 26, 2012 at 8:43 am
Thank you!! Its 1am here in dallas, tx my baby has had a fever for 4 days!! I was looking for something to help me help her. And I came across this web site!!! From 102.3……… 20min have pass and she is at 98.7. Is that amazing or what!!!!!!!! ??? Thank you sooo much! Definitely keeping this advise.
Reply to Liz
Egg Whites
Itzeleptx from El Paso, Tx, Usa
June 6, 2012 at 9:43 am
My 12yr old nephew had 103fever, after 2nd dose of advil liquid gels, 2 bottles of pedialyte n ice pops. At 11pm, I put him in the tub w/luke warm water for 20mins n fever was 102.9. I looked up remedies n decided to try this one. I put 4egg whites in a bowl n soaked 2handkerchiefs in it. Wrapped 1 around each foot n put a sock on. I checked temp after 15mins n it had dropped to 99.3. By this time the handkerchiefs were already drying. I removed them n put cold washcloth on top of his head n temp was 97.3 for bout 1hr, then it spiked up again to 102. Did the egg whites 2more times through out the nite n by 1:30am his temp was 101.3. Did remedy again w/wet towel on his head n temp dropped to 97.3. Thanks for the tip. I will use this remedy from now on.
Reply to Itzeleptx
Egg Whites
Maud from Auckland, New Zealand
April 12, 2012 at 5:21 pm
My 13 month old was suffering from Fever/cold and had been up and down all night so at around 3.00am in the morning I found your website. Looked up fever and read about using Egg Whites on the feet. My husband was skeptical but our sons temp was rising and very distressed. I soaked paper towels with the egg whites, put his feet into zip lock bags then his sock over the bags. A bit of crying at the beginning but within 30 minutes the red flush had gone from his checks and he was not burning all over. I was unsure how long to leave it on so kept them on for a few hours just for good measure. His body temperature returned to normal and cooled enough to put his clothes back on and sleep for the rest of the night. Egg Whites worked wonders for my child and have passed on your website to others.
Reply to Maud
Egg Whites
Ksukat from Chicago, Il
March 1, 2012 at 2:48 pm
Have an 8 y/o with strep. Ran such a high fever on Tuesday night he started hallucinating. Last night the fever started to spike again. I had tried to give him ibuprofen before bed, but he threw it right back up. I tried to wake him up and get him to drink some Tylenol. No luck, couldn’t get him to take anything! Went searching on the web and found this amazing site!! Soaked to dish rags in 4 egg whites. Wrapped his feet. Made a HUGE mess…. Should of read on and saw the posts about using plastic bags… Oh well. He screamed and kicked and fussed, but I finally got him to leave them be for a bit. Added a rag soaked in ACV to his forehead for good measure. That pushed him over the edge though and he started screaming about the smell. I think in all we made it 10 minutes with the egg whites on his feet. But it woke him up enough that I got him in a nice tepid bath. Back to bed… Slept through the entire night… Woke this morning… no fever and felling 100 times better!!! I’m still is disbelief.
Reply to Ksukat
Egg Whites
Stephanie from Lindenhurst, New York
February 4, 2012 at 9:53 am
This remedy worked for me when my daughter had a fever of 104.5 and had already been given ibruprofen and next dose was still 3 hrs away. Mixed up those egg whites and after 10 minutes on her feet the fever had already come down 1 degree… left them on for 20 minutes and the fever was 101.5.
Reply to Stephanie
Egg Whites
Imcinnamon from Orlando, Fl
January 16, 2012 at 4:40 pm
My 4 yr old who is never ill, suddenly spiked a fever, so I knew it had to be an infection of some sort. When I questioned him, he said both his ears and his throat hurt. He was burning up. I put hyrdogen peroxide in each ear, and left it in for 1/2 hr each ear. In the past, when I have a raging sore throat, that has competely removed the pain. I also gargle with it, and make sure to spit it out. I did not let my 4 yr old gargle with it, as it was not food grade, and I didn’t want him swallowing it. This removed his ear pain, but he had a raging fever yet.
I used the egg whites on paper towels and put a pair of my footies on over them. Within 10 minutes his fever was down. I then used the washclothes soaked in apple cider vinegar on his chest and head, and within 15 minutes he was down to a normal temperature. That was amazing! I then made him a organic black cherry tea, (simply bcuz that was what I had on hand) with Apple Cider Vinegar and honey and a bit of lemon (he loved it) just to aid things along. Love this site. Our ancestors had it right. We need to go back to those old fashioned ways.
Reply to Imcinnamon
Egg Whites
Rose from Belleville, Nj
January 6, 2012 at 9:38 am
Thank you, thank you, my son had a terrible high fever i soak his socks in egg white put it on him his fever dropped. i also gave him ac vinegar i put it in a cloth. thanks, i’m going to pass this remedy to my family today.
Reply to Rose
Egg Whites
Cameron from Brisbane, Qld, Australia
January 4, 2012 at 10:19 am
Yea!!!!!! My daughter has Chicken Pox and a temperature of 39.6 degrees C, I tried the Egg White on the feet, also some ACV on a cotton rag on the forehead and belly for safety. My Wife thought this was surely the strangest remedy ever, in 10 minutes she was down to 38.8 Degrees C. Thank you EC.
Reply to Cameron
Egg Whites
Sofawoman from Scotch Plains, NJ
December 1, 2011 at 10:32 pm
Sadly the egg remedy didn’t work for us. My 6 year old has a 104 temp. And we tried the egg whites and didn’t work. I looked for the ACV and the store didn’t have any. Had to resort to the motrin just to try to get it down. Will try to find he ACV tomorrow.
Reply to Sofawoman
Egg Whites
Tbeebs from Hilliard, Oh
November 28, 2011 at 5:47 pm
I’m a believer! My 10 yr old son who was just diagnosed with strep throat this morning has been on Motrin and Tylenol, alternating all day and his fever only has been on the rise. It peaked at 102. 8 when I finally tried this egg white remedy. Within 15 min of wrapping his feet with egg white-soaked paper towels, his temperature dropped to 101.7 and now 60 minutes later, is 99 degrees. Life is back in his eyes again. I will keep this on all night tonight and have to say when nothing else worked all day (including cool baths, wet cloth on his head, etc.), this really worked.
Reply to Tbeebs
Apple Cider Vinegar
Caco_girl from Cebu City, Philippines
November 16, 2011 at 9:23 am
<P>My brother is really chilling and shivering to death with a 40 degrees centigrade.. His fever lasted for 3 days and continuoulsy taking lots of medicine.. Until someone told us to use vinegar ( not the ACV but the real liquid vinegar) as an alternative for water.. So instead of soaking the towel with a water while applying tepid sponge bath all over his body we use the vinegar.. I was really amazed upon using it especially that I am into a medical field.. It may sound so awful but geeeezzz, I dunno what happened but trust me. On the next day he was well with a normal body temperature.. It’s not expensive and very effective.. There’s no harm on trying anyways.. But as a first timer, hands up on this…
Reply to Caco_girl
Apple Cider Vinegar
Naturmom from Slidell, La
February 27, 2011 at 12:10 pm
My mom has sworn by ACV for years now. After getting up with my 8 year old son about 6 times throughout the night and awaking to a 104. 1 fever. We had been giving acetominaphen and ibuprofin. I immediately searched/found this website. To ensure things moved quickly I gave him about 4oz ACV, honey, water to drink and soaked a wash cloth with ACV and switched between his forehead and stomach/chest. Within 30 minutes he was back down to 102. 3 and still falling. From here on out I will use ACV before I turn to over the counter fever reducers.
Reply to Naturmom
Egg Whites
Joe from New York, Ny
February 10, 2011 at 9:50 am
My 6 yr old son had a fever on and off for 4 days. I did the egg white and his temp dropped from 100.3 to 98.7. Now he is resting. Thank you all for your contributions.
Reply to Joe
Potato
Grace from Portland, Or
September 3, 2010 at 11:11 pm
Growing up, my parents always used potatoes in our socks for fevers. This past year, I had a fever of 102 that wouldn’t drop after 2 days. I put potatoes in the fridge for 30 minutes, then sliced them, put them in my socks and started a movie. By the end of the movie my temperature had dropped to 99.9 and the potatoes were baked! After this treatment, the fever did not rise again. Cheap and healthy cure!
Reply to Grace
Egg Whites
London from Sandusky, Ohio
August 8, 2010 at 10:55 am
Workss!! Both my mother and three year old daughter have had fevers and egg whites work!!
Reply to London
Egg Whites
Sarah from Denton, TX
July 24, 2010 at 8:00 pm
Tried egg white this morning with my son (5yr), fever dropped from 103.5 to 102 within 10 minutes, reapplied and kept on for another hour, fever dropped to 101. I also put ice pack behind his knees and armpits. After treatment from ME, he is active and eating better. I also put some egg white on my face for whiting/tighten purpose. Egg white is also works well for sunburn.
Reply to Sarah
Potato
Amy from Bluffdale, Utah
May 27, 2010 at 7:32 pm
My 17 month old daughter had a fever of 104F and the egg whites didn’t reduce her fever so I tried the potato. I put slices of potato in her socks, (about 2mm thick)and left them there. I made it big enough to cover her whole foot. I started at 6pm and at 10pm she woke up sweaty as her fever broke. She was so miserable before and she slept well after that. Thank you so much for this wonderful site. I come here for everything.
Reply to Amy
Baking Soda Bath
Diana from Eureka, Ks.
April 23, 2010 at 10:12 am
Baking soda bath to drop fevers
You can use a small bowl and bath [face-head], neck, chest, & back or submerge body in tub. If using a small bowl, use 2 parts baking soda to 1 part (cool water-the colder it can be, the better). BE CAREFUL & LIGHTLY APPLY, AS NOT TO SHOCK THE PERSON. Do not rinse and apply often, fever should go down fairly fast. Once person is feeling better, bath to wash off baking soda. If submerging bath, tub does not have to be full. 2-1 parts, same as above. Just enough water to get wet good, (have water as cool as can be stood). Only stay in tub long enough, to soak or wet down entire body,(just a couple minutes). Do not rinse off, wait til fever has dropped. I have personally used this for many years, as my children grew up, passed down in my family. IT WORKS!
Reply to Diana
Amber from Washington Dc
May 7, 2015 at 9:28 am
It worked for me, I tried this last night for the 1st time with my 7 month old he was having 100.7 fever for 24 hours. One mother told me to try it. I did, and it worked! he is now at the normal temperature! very thrilled!
Reply to Amber
Skittles from Clinton, Nc
March 1, 2017 at 10:45 am
I know for a fact baking soda bath works to reduce fever. My mother used it on me from small child because I was a very ill child have a genetic immune prob so I would get sick often. But it's not just for children – I was running over 103 fever – high dosage of pain reliever wasn't reducing it so had my bf use warm baking soda water (not cold to prevent horrible pain) within in less than 2 hrs I had no fever.
Reply to Skittles
Potato
Limajean from Near Cleveland, Oh
November 21, 2009 at 8:19 am
Potato as fever reducer
I sliced potatoes and put them in tight fitting socks as I put my feverish daughter to bed. She had a slight fever for most of the night. At 5:30 a.m. the fever spiked high. I removed the potato slices and put new ones in the socks. The fever instantly went down. At 8 a.m., she woke up and I removed the second slices from her socks. With each pair of potato slices, when I removed them, they were totally dry and strangely discolored (gray tinged) when I removed them. The first slices, that were in her socks the longest, continued to blacken and by 8 a.m. they were totally black. At 5:30, when I sliced the potato for the second installment, I also sliced a “control group.” That control group looks like a regular sliced potato, now, 3 hours later. The second pair of potato slices that were in her socks, look very, very different from this control group. I am definitely impressed. By the way, I didn’t refrigerate the slices as others have done. My naturopathic doctor told me about this remedy first. I then came to this site to see if anyone else had ever heard of it.
Reply to Limajean
Chinese Hard Boiled Egg Massage
Helen from Southport, Australia
November 8, 2009 at 12:16 am
This is another way of applying egg white for reducing fever that I learnt from my Chinese Grandma. Hard boil the egg and remove the egg yolk. Put the hard boiled egg white including the shell in a handkerchief. Twist the content into a ball and massage body from head to toe. Brings the temp down instantaneously. My Grandma would also insert a silver ring in the egg white content when massaging. Silver would change to different colours when rubbed on different patients. This was used to diagnose the cause of the fever and then she would use (ying/yang) herbal treatment for the illness. Sadly, I am unable to read the silver ring. My children always ask for an egg massage when they have high temperature and it always does the trick.
Reply to Helen
Karina from Munich, Bavaria
November 8, 2009 at 12:17 am
Dear Helen, I just heard from a Chinese friend about this method in order to heal upset stomachs and was fascinated. Do you still remember some of the knowledge of your grandma in order to bring the ying/yang into harmony? If you ever find resources about this kind of treatment I would love to hear about it. It is so simple and effective. Blessings & Thank you!
Reply to Karina
Tia from Oaxaca, Mexico
January 12, 2011 at 5:01 pm
Tried this on my husband as he had a fever, with chills and aches. After about 15 minutes, his fever broke and he started sweating. It’s been two hours and he is still cool to the touch and says he feels stronger. Amazing! Thank you so much for sharing this great remedy!!
Reply to Tia
Toby from Tampa, Fl, Usa
December 28, 2011 at 2:27 pm
Hello, I just tried this hard boiled egg massage on my 4 year old son, when I was massaging all of a sudden he started breaking up, I mean, very bad reaction, by the time I reliazed his reaction I had massaged his face neck arms and chest, I stopped, panicked and put him into a bath tub, washed him through. I put some oatmeal in the tub, lotion him with aveeno body lotion- it soothes for a little while and now 40 mins later it’s coming back. Then I gave him claritin.
Reply to Toby
Apple Cider Vinegar
Rocketruiz from San Jose, Ca
October 26, 2009 at 10:36 am
I am totally a believer in apple cider vinegar. My mom would use home remedies with us in Africa as healthcare was either not available or very expensivee. My 18 month daughter had a high fever of over 100.2 degrees. I freaked out since she has never really been sick with a fever before. I called my mom, who still lives in South Africa, for advice the next morning, as my daughter’s fever still had not broken. She advised me to bath her in a tub of lukewarm water (not hot, but cooled down) with a cup of apple cider vinegar. I did it this evening before bedtime, a 7 pm. At 9pm my daughter woke up crying. I went into the room, to find her wet from sweat, and cooler! Her fever had broken!
Reply to Rocketruiz
Potato
Heather from New Orleans, Louisiana
April 5, 2009 at 12:00 am
We have been using potatoes in my family to break fever for many years. My mother is 65 and HER mother used to do it when she was a little girl. I tell all of my friends about it b/c it does work and many people do not know about. Get an old pair of socks that fit snugly. Purchase larger sized potatoes. Cute them in half and keep them in the FRIDGE to make them cold! Then, slip them into your socks and keep them on your feet until they cooked! They will turn brown or black from drawing the fever out of your body. I have done this many times throughout my life and only once did my fever not break. I was very, very sick when that happened. But, 95% of the time will work for you. You can even stick the used potatoes in a bag back into the fridge to get cold again…then reapply to the feet within a half hour or so. Please try this…it’s been in my family for two generations and there is a reason why.
Reply to Heather
Beverly from Elkhart, In
March 11, 2017 at 12:15 pm
Thank you!
Reply to Beverly
Jaecey from Markham, Ont
May 3, 2017 at 10:48 pm
Thank you so much, Heather! ..White potato really worked! ..my daughter's fever dropped from 100 to 99.0 in 15 min!
Reply to Jaecey
Cool Water
Nicole from San Diego, CA
July 26, 2008 at 12:00 am
My soon to be two year old has the flu and this is the third night that she has had a temp and it started to rise. I tried the wash cloths soaked in apple cider vinegar with one on her tummy and one on her forehead for an hour, but there was no change. It just went up. Then I tried the egg whites. I got some cloth all goopy with the stuff and tried it for an hour reapplying once and there was no change. A tepid bath is what helped her. Now her temp went from over 104 to now it’s 99.9. We didn’t stay in the bath long. I hope it lasts, but I’m prepared to give her another if I need to! She hates the doctors and having stuff stuck up her butt! Even though most of the remedies didn’t work for me, thank you for the ideas. It gave me something to do other than go crazy with worry.
Reply to Nicole
Potato
June from Sheboygan Falls, WI
June 13, 2008 at 12:00 am
My daughter had a fever of 103. I came to Earth Clinic to find a natural remedy as we don’t take any over the counter or prescription medications in our family. I found several suggestions, the sliced potatoes being my first choice because they were the least messy.
I sliced some potatoes, placed them on the bottom of my daughter’s feet and wrapped her feet in towels. Within an hour her temp was down to 99. Another success story for us! Thanks so much to Earth Clinic for helping!
Reply to June
Egg Whites
Thankful from UpperMarlboro, MD
April 1, 2008 at 12:00 am
This works, my 3yr old had a fever of 102.5 for hrs with no success using meds (tylenol, motrin). I googled on the internet for assistance and found this site. I went to the kitchen, used two eggs, clothes, plastic bags and socks. Soaked the egg yolks on the clothes, wrapped the clothes around his fet one at a time, put them in plastic ziploc bags and socks over them and an in about 20 mins his fever went down to 100.5. In and hour to 99.7. It works. Next time i will use saran wrap instead of ziploc for a tighter fit. I placed a towel in his bed because the yolks leaked. But it works.
Reply to Thankful
Egg Whites
Mariah from Mayberry, USA
March 31, 2008 at 12:00 am
My daughter is 7 months old, nearly 8 months old. This morning she woke up VERY cranky, which is unusual for her. The past couple of days she has been warm, so I gave her some Motrin yesterday. When I checked her temperature today, she was at 102.3. While I was searching for information on line, I stumbled upon this website. Within 30 minutes, she was back to her normal, happy-go-lucky self. Her temp is back down to 96.7!
THANK YOU SO MUCH for this information. I’m not a huge fan of Doctors and they aren’t a huge fan of me because I appreciate what the Earth provides for us naturally. Love & light to you all!
Reply to Mariah
Egg Whites
Lisa from Fort Sill, Oklahoma
March 23, 2008 at 12:00 am
Egg Whites on your feet for a fever. My 2 year old son had a 103 Temp. Out of desperation I put two egg whites in a bowl, soaked a baby wash cloth in it, then wrapped his foot in it, put is in a plastic sandwich bad the a sock over it. I repeated it on the other foot and with in 20 mins he has stared to cool down. I have not takeen his temp yet, but you can see that he’s feeling a little better! Thank you SO SO much!!!
Reply to Lisa
Hold the Child
Michelle from Lamora, Mexico
March 6, 2008 at 12:00 am
To hold a child brings down the fever. When the babies get sick if you hold them in the position you would were you breastfeeding them it helps to bring down the fever…something to do with the energy flow. also you can lay them on a bed and place one hand under their head and one under their bottom and let them lay on your hands for a while. this works as well
Reply to Michelle
Bebe from Elkhart , In
February 8, 2016 at 8:31 pm
My granddaughter would keep a fever til I put my hand on the top of her head and left my hand there, it started her to sweating, I was amazed at this, I guess if their little head is exposed and not covered the heat escapes, just hold your hand on top of their head for a little while and you will began to see the difference, the fever even broke after that helped, it took a little time, just be patient and keep your hand on their little head, it will work and don`t remove your hand til you know for sure the child is sweating real good and their fever will start to slowly go down, repeat it later next time if needed.
Reply to Bebe
Mmsg from Somewhere, Europe
February 9, 2016 at 9:33 am
Bebe, how interesting! I remember lying in bed as a child, with the worst headache – I don't remember if I had fever – but my grandmother came and sat next to me with her hand on my forehead and after a while I was up and about with no headache!
Reply to Mmsg
Marnee from Duluth, Mn
December 18, 2017 at 12:02 pm
Maybe she was using energy healing and siphoning the headache away? It works for breaking fevers too.
Reply to Marnee
Egg Whites
Juanna from La Porte, Indiana
February 24, 2008 at 12:00 am
Egg whites and socks-for a fever! My 5 year old son was sent home last monday for having a fever/headache. Well this past week, he hasn’t been to school; because of a on and off again fever. I had trouble getting him to break a sweat to reduce the fever. Did the Ibuprofen and tylenol; rotation. Didn’t really help. So tonight; I placed, egg whites on the soles of his feet with a baby washcloth and put socks on him and I went to his room to check on him about an hour later and he was sweating like a pig; literally!!! And his feet were very hot too! So thank god, for our ancestors!
Reply to Juanna
Egg Whites
Leslie from Perry, Georgia
February 16, 2008 at 12:00 am
Egg white treatment for high fever….my daughter was runnin a 102.2 fever this mornin and i couldnt get it to go down,i tried a warm shower,fever reducer,and i came across this site and tried it…. i used 5 egg whites and soaked two thin wash clothes in it and wrapped them around her feet……it worked it was messy but within an hour her fever was down and almost normal……thanks…..
Reply to Leslie
Egg Whites
kallie from Gulfport, Mississippi
February 14, 2008 at 12:00 am
Thank you so much the egg white remedy worked extremely well. My 23 year old boy friend is such a ninny, and refuses to listen to any medical advice that’s not mainstream. But when he came down with the flu, laid up in bed and almost in tears from fever and aches; I googled the quickest way to cure a fever from the flu. This website was one of the first 3 to show up. I took the last of our eggs and cut an old sock of his in-half. Then, I drenched them in the egg whites. (The socks weren’t that absorbant, being that they were thin and worn) Lastly, I placed plastic bags around each foot, and then large socks. He thought I was nuts. But within 15 minutes he was saying that he felt cooler and less achy all over. Thank you so much for helping with my “grown” baby!
Reply to kallie
Egg Whites
Kris from Delray Beach, FL
February 14, 2008 at 12:00 am
My daughter woke up crying and screaming with an extremely high fever. I tried the egg whites on the bottom of her feet. I put 1 egg white directly into each of the plastic ziploc bags (saw this recommendation on the other comments) and put her foot right in each one. Even though she was still screaming, we kept her feet in the bags for for 5 minutes. It was amazing…the fever went down to 101. She went back to sleep and woke up the next morning with only a low grade fever. We are going to let the body do its work. Thank you for your site. We are on here EVERY DAY! GOD BLESS!
Reply to Kris
Egg Whites
Lisa from Madera, US
February 9, 2008 at 12:00 am
Thank you soooo much for the eggwhites remedy. My 11 yr. old son had a fever of 104.5 and tylenol was not bringing it down at all. He was starting to feel strange, dizzy and lightheaded. I was going to take him to the hospital when I found this website. I SOAKED 2 thin cloths with egg whites and wrpped his feet He went to 102 within 20 minutes(which is a big releif after seeing 104.5!) . I had to re-soak every 20 minutes thereafter because his hot feet were drying out the cloth. I’m so grateful, thank Again!
Reply to Lisa
White Potato
Wyndy from Atlanta, GA
January 26, 2008 at 12:00 am
I have my grandson visiting from Birmingham; he had been sick for two weeks with a terrible congestion and cough, and most recently worsened with a high fever (103oF) so I searched on line for a natural remedy to break fever. I came across this site and these suggestions. After reading all, I decided on the less messy potato remedy. I slice a white potato into pieces about the size of his little foot and ut them into his socks. It worked in 30 minutes! The fever is completely gone and he is back to a normal reading. Further, I am using apple cider vinegar with natural blue agave sweetener to loosen the congestion and a juice mixture of fresh lemon with grated ginger and sweetener to sooth his cough. Natural is always better! Thanks to all of you for sharing.
Reply to Wyndy
Baking Soda and Lard
Rudy from Hollister, CA
April 3, 2007 at 12:00 am
(Remedy) Fever. “When we were small growing up my parents alway used home remedies and one which I recall using on my own children. Baking soda and Lard. You rub it on their stomach,feet and back and add the baking soda and rub it in and it reduces the fever instantly.My wife was a non beleiver till she saw it with her own eyes.
Reply to Rudy
Margarita from Los Angeles, Ca
June 10, 2010 at 1:27 pm
My grandmother always made a paste of lard and baking soda to reduce fever. She’d apply it on the inside of the elbows, back of the knees, chest, bottom of the feet … and it always worked — it reduced a high fever.
Reply to Margarita
Grateful from Houston Tx
June 10, 2013 at 12:12 am
It’s a old Mexican home remedy for fever. It actually works, after 1.5 days of fever and giving her motrin and tyleno l and the fever just keep returningl. My mother in law covered my 1 year old in a paste of baking soda and crisco lard right before bed. She woke up fresh with no fever. And the fever didn’t return! She said when u didn’t have money in Mx. You had to believe and go by home remedies handed down.
Reply to Grateful
Liquid Calcium
Chris from Denver, CO
December 3, 2006 at 12:00 am
My son had a relatively high fever and was lying on the couch, not doing very well at all. I had heard about calcium for fever, so I gave him some liquid calcium in apple juice and thought I’d let him sleep. 25 minutes later I went to check on him and he was outside, riding his roller up and down the sidewalk, no sign of fever! The chiropractor who first told us about calcium said that fever is actually an attempt by the body to heat up the bones and teeth so it can remove calcium and use it for the white blood cells. So taking calcium seems to make a fever unnecessary.
Reply to Chris
Cool Water
Tamika
November 30, -0001 at 12:00 am
Put the person in a tub of cool lukewarm water for about thirty minutes.
Reply to Tamika
White Vinegar
Michelle from Culver City, CA
November 30, -0001 at 12:00 am
I was able to break a fever using white vinegar on cloths placed on my throat & both wrists. Yes, it did smell but it broke my 104 degree temp in no time. Amazing!
Reply to Michelle
Jp from Houston, Tx
March 6, 2010 at 4:54 pm
From what my mother had done since I was young was take some white vinegar and use some old socks that we had lying around. We would bath the socks in the vinegar and then put it on the feet for about 15 mins then let it rest for 30 then repeat so long as needed. For the most part we only needed to do it i would say twice. Brought a 104.6 fever down to about 99.8 in about an hour. Hope this helps.
Reply to Jp
Jenny from Perth, Western Australia
February 5, 2012 at 9:57 am
White vinegar socks worked wonderfully for my 5yo son at night, who had a terrible fever – even the Panadol wasn’t cutting it. So I soaked his socks in vinegar, sqeezed them out and put them on him (with a towel underneath to protect the bed). 20 mins later they were bone dry (practically baked on) and he was much, much cooler. Repeated the process, then took them off him. We tried this every night (when the fever was highest) for another 2 nights and on the 3rd night, the fever broke. Worked great! 😀
Reply to Jenny
Patricia from Florida
March 11, 2016 at 9:43 am
Do you do straight white vinegar or mix with water?
Reply to Patricia
Apple Cider Vinegar
Ratazayah from Newark, NJ
November 30, -0001 at 12:00 am
When I was an infant the Dr’s told my mom I was going to die, due to a particularly high fever. She was told by an elderly friend to soak a wash cloth in apple cider vinegar and place one on my forehead and one on my stomach, while it smells like all get out, my mom was able to check me out of the hospital and from that day onward, it’s literally been a life saver to all the children in our family with high fevers. It takes about an hour to break the fever.
Reply to Ratazayah
Apple Cider Vinegar
Ratazayah from Newark, NJ
November 30, -0001 at 12:00 am
When I was an infant the Dr's told my mom I was going to die, due to a particularly high fever. She was told by an elderly friend to soak a wash cloth in acv and place one on my forehead and one on my stomach, while it smells like all get out, my mom was able to check me out of the hospital and from that day onward, it's literally been a life saver to all the children in our family with high fevers. It takes about an hour to break the fever.
Reply to Ratazayah
Primary Sidebar
Add New Post
Facebook
Google+
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
Returns
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Medical Disclaimer
About Us
Site Footer
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest
Twitter
YouTube
The information on this website has not been evaluated by the FDA and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease.
By accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the Medical Disclaimer, Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Affiliate Disclosure.
Content may not be reproduced in any form.
COPYRIGHT ©2019 EARTH CLINIC. ALL RIGHT RESERVED.
This site uses cookies to ensure we can provide the best experience for you on our website. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. For details, please read our Privacy Policy.OkPrivacy policy