Evening Primrose Oil Benefits | Herbal Treatment Remedies
Herbal Treatment Remedies
For a Healthier Lifestyle
Menu
Skip to content
Home
Herbs
Conditions
Herbal Teas
Essential Oils
Bitters
Search
Blog
Contact
Evening Primrose Oil Benefits
Evening Primrose Oil benefits are well known, as it is one of the most popular supplements on the market today.
Uses of evening primrose oil include:
Treatment for skin conditions such as eczema and rashes. It has a healing and calming effect on the skin. It can protect the skin from environmental damage and has value as a moisturizer.
Evening primrose oil benefits include combating the symptoms of menopause and PMS. It is also beneficial for easing tenderness associated with menstruation.
Counteracting the effects of free radicals, which can stimulate the aging process.
Easing the pain associated with arthritis, as it has anti-inflammatory properties
Strengthening nails, skin, and hair. It can also strengthen bones, therefore is useful in combating osteoporosis. It is useful for combating hair loss which has been caused by hypothyroidism. If hair loss is caused by hormone imbalance, then evening primrose oil can also address those symptoms.
Easing the symptoms of depression by producing prostaglandins, which are similar to hormones and are essential for some of the chemical processes in the body, including those which can cause depression.
Aiding fertility issues by improving the quality of cervical fluid. This ensures that sperm is able to move easily towards the fallopian tubes. It also helps to keep a balance in hormone levels.
Its anti-inflammatory properties can ease the symptoms of multiple sclerosis.
What is Evening Primrose Oil?
Evening primrose is a plant, and the oil is extracted from the seeds. The most popular way to administer the herb is as a capsule, though evening primrose tea is available, and it is also an effective addition to skin creams.
Evening primrose contains gamma-linolenic acid – referred to as GLA – which is an essential fatty acid. The body requires EFAs for development, and evening primrose oil is a good source of these.
It is recommended that adults should ensure that around 3% of daily calories should be in the form of EFAs. Children and pregnant women require higher amounts. Modern diets often do not provide enough with high quantities of processed foods.
Evening Primrose Oil Dosage
Evening primrose oil benefits can be appreciated as a one-a-day capsule, which may be enough to nutritionally support those with no underlying medical conditions.
For those who have a specific ailment that they wish to treat, higher doses will be of more benefit. Guidance on amounts should be sought from a qualified herbal practitioner to ensure maximum benefit. The tea can be used to support any supplement being taken.
Evening Primrose Side Effects
Most people will be able to take evening primrose with no ill effects at all. Some may experience an upset stomach or a headache, but these are mild and rare.
If in any doubt, users should consult their medical practitioners for advice, particularly if they are taking any prescription medication, to ensure that it will not interfere with the medicine.
Patients being treated for schizophrenia should not take evening primrose oil, as it will counteract the effects of their medication.
Visit Mountain Rose Herbs for the freshest organic herbs, teas, spices, and essential oils.
HERB DIRECTORY
HERBAL TEAS
HERBAL ENCYCLOPEDIA OF REMEDIES
SEARCH THIS SITE
Follow Us!
Herb Directory
Conditions Encyclopedia
Herbal Teas
Essential Oils
Herbal Bitters
Dog Herbs
Cat Herbs
Cold, Flu, & Allergies
Flu
Ear Infections
Colds
Antiviral Herbs
Allergies
Mood Disorders
Anxiety
Stress
Depression
Pain Relief
Arthritis
Headaches
Anti-Inflammatories
Other Popular Pages
Acne
ADHD
Diabetes
Constipation
Menopause
Return To Top
Home
Privacy
Search
Copyright © 2009-2019 Herbal Treatment Remedies. No duplication.
Site for informational purposes only. If you feel that you have a health problem,
you should seek the advice of your physician or health care provider.
Proudly powered by WordPress