Why Evening Primrose Oil is woman’s best friend – anatomé
Select currency GBPCAD USD AUD JPY
Make an appointment
0203 916 0050
46 Charlotte Road
Shoreditch
London
EC2A 3PD
My Account
Bag (0)
View Bag Check out
Checkout
Therapeutic Oils - Mind
Sleep + Recovery
Classic - English Lavender
Light Sleeper - Seaweed
Overactive - Frankincense
Insomnia- Blue Chamomile
Sleep Accessories
Emotional Wellbeing - Daytime
Daytime Oils
Travel Set
Diffusers + Accessories
Therapeutic oils explained
Supplements - Body
Female Health
Male Health
Vegan Friendly Supplements
Detox + Cleanse
Digestive + Gut Health
Bone + Joint Health
Sports nutrition + support
Hair, Skin + Nails
Single vitamins + nutrients
Botanical Skincare
Facecare
Bath + Shower
Skin + Muscle Recovery
Anti-Ageing
Handmade Soaps
Bath + Body Accessories
Gifts
Gift Certificates
Gifts to Support Sleep
Gifts for Energy, Strength & Movement
Plant Store
Appointments
The Live Your way+ appointment
Choose your a+Appointment
What Happens at your a+ appointment
DNA + Blood Testing
Book your Appointment
Corporate Wellness Days
THE JOURNAL
About
Our Story
Our Values
The Founder
The anatome Team
Current Home - St James
Past Pop-up - Shoreditch
Events
My Account
Bag (0)
HOME_PAGE
All blogs / HOME_PAGE / Why Evening Primrose Oil...
Categories
Why Evening Primrose Oil is woman’s best friend
Mar 18, 2019
It wasn’t until recently that evening primrose oil was used for its amazing health benefits, so you may be surprised to learn about the impact it can have on your hormone health, skin, hair and bones.
Native Americans and European settlers used evening primrose, a wildflower that grows in eastern and central North America, for food. The seeds of the flower are gathered and cold pressed for their oil; the oil is then encapsulated for dietary supplement use so people can take advantage of the evening primrose oil health benefits. The oil is high in essential fatty acids — which provide the building blocks for cell membranes and a variety of hormones and hormone-like substances.
Talking about hormones, statistics reveal about 80% of women suffer from some kind of hormonal imbalance, which results in a mix of physical and mental health challenges due to low oestrogen and progesterone levels (female sex hormones), among many others.
Here are 5 great reasons why all women should be using the miraculous evening primrose oil
Easy Menopause
Evening primrose oil menopause use is also quite common because, this natural oil can help to balance hormones and improve unwanted menopause symptoms.
In 2013, the results of a randomized clinical trial which looked at the effects of evening primrose oil on 56 menopausal women (aged 45–59 years), was published. These women took two 500 milligram capsules of evening primrose oil or a placebo every day for a total of six weeks. The researchers then compared hot flashes between the two groups and found that oral evening primrose oil decreased the intensity of hot flash attacks and decreased the life disruption that results from these attacks.
Improve Skin Health and Acne
Evening primrose oil has proved to be a valuable treatment choice for people suffering from skin conditions, such as eczema, psoriasis and atopic dermatitis. Studies published in the International Journal of Cosmetic Science have even shown that evening primrose oil can help with age-related structural and functional changes in skin tissues, such as redness, firmness, roughness and fatigue resistance.
Is evening primrose oil acne clearing?
Even though there aren’t a lot of studies to prove evening primrose’s benefits for acne, dermatologists are known to recommend it as part of an anti-acne regimen and first-hand accounts by acne sufferers also celebrate its skin-clearing benefits when used externally and/or internally.
Hormonal acne can be troublesome for many people, especially women suffering from hormonal imbalance. This is especially true for women because they go through regular periods of hormone fluctuations — this includes the menstrual cycle and menopause.
Help with Fertility
An omega-3 fatty acid, GLA, has been shown to increase the production of cervical mucus, a factor in successful reproduction and thus a natural treatment for infertility. Cervical fluid is vital for allowing the sperm to swim freely through the cervix. Having a healthy pregnancy is more difficult for women with little or no cervical fluid because the sperm have trouble moving and there may not be a friendly environment for the sperm to sustain themselves
Hair Loss
Women struggle with hair loss, and sometimes the best way to prevent this issue is with diet or supplements. Hormones are responsible for many body processes. When it comes to hair, hormones play a significant role — including in the hair pattern found on your head, as well as the rest of your body.
While there hasn’t been much research to date on using evening primrose specifically as a hair loss remedy, since the oil has been shown to improve skin inflammation and dryness, it makes sense that these benefits would transfer to the skin on our scalps and likely help to boost hair growth and quality.
Meet the Menopausal + Renewal, the new women’s health anatome blend.
A perfect combination of plant extracts and vitamins to support women not only through menopause but also any hormonal imbalance.
Leading with Primrose oil combined with Soy Isoflavones + Siberian Ginseng powerful to support the effect of hormonal imbalance and its implications, including flashes and mood swings. Providing a plethora of B vitamins (B3, B6, B12 and Folic Acid) these are essential for normal psychological function and healthy metabolism.
References:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23625331
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18492193
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1814184
Share
ABOUT
Terms & Conditions
Privacy
Copyright & Warranties
Social
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Newsletter
You can unsubscribe at any time through the link in each communication we send. We’ll use your data to send you personalized emails, and for analytics. For more information on how we use your personal data, please see our privacy policy.
Copyright © 2019 anatomé .
Cookies on Anatomē
We want to give you the best service by using cookies. Carry on browsing if you’re happy with this, or read our privacy policy for more information.
Ok