Iron-deficiency anemia in pregnancy | BabyCenter
advertisement
Expert Advice Home
Log in or Sign up
COMMUNITY
GETTING PREGNANT
PREGNANCY
BABY
TODDLER
PRESCHOOLER
BIG KID
HEALTH
VIDEO
PRODUCTS & GEAR
FOR YOU
Join now to personalize
BabyCenter for your pregnancy
Pregnancy
Health Problems in Pregnancy
High-Risk Pregnancy
Iron-deficiency anemia in pregnancy
Written by BabyCenter Staff
Updated July 2016
En español
IN THIS ARTICLE
What is iron-deficiency anemia?
Am I at risk of becoming anemic?
What are the symptoms of iron-deficiency anemia?
How is anemia diagnosed?
How will anemia affect my pregnancy?
Will my baby be affected?
What can I do to have a healthy pregnancy?
Approved by the Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine
What is iron-deficiency anemia?
Iron-deficiency anemia (IDA) is a type of blood disorder. The red blood cells in your body contain hemoglobin, which is responsible for carrying oxygen throughout your body. Your body needs iron to build enough healthy red blood cells and keep your hemoglobin at the right level. If your body lacks the right amount of iron, you could become anemic.
As a woman, it's not unusual to have anemia, especially when you're of childbearing age. Iron deficiency is by far the most common cause of anemia in pregnancy and accounts for 75 to 95 percent of all cases.
But it's not the only cause: You could also develop anemia from not getting enough folic acid or vitamin B12, by losing a lot of blood, or from having certain diseases or inherited blood disorders, such as sickle cell disease or thalassemia.
Am I at risk of becoming anemic?
Yes. Pregnancy increases your likelihood of becoming anemic.
During pregnancy, the recommended amount of iron increases from 18 milligrams (mg) per day to 27 mg per day. You need extra iron to support additional red blood cells, the placenta, and your growing baby. Plus, the extra iron prepares your body for any blood loss that may occur when you give birth.
But there are other factors outside pregnancy that increase your risk further, including:
Heavy menstrual periods
A diet low in iron-rich foods
A diet low in vitamin-C-rich foods (which help with iron absorption)
Eating too many foods or drinks that reduce iron absorption (like dairy products, foods containing soy, coffee and tea)
A short gap between pregnancies
Being younger than 20 when you become pregnant
Having a stomach or intestinal disease that affects how your body absorbs nutrients
Having certain types of gastric bypass surgery, which alters the gut and absorption of nutrients
Taking medication that affects the way your body absorbs iron from food
Losing more blood than normal when giving birth previously
What are the symptoms of iron-deficiency anemia?
You might not have any symptoms, especially if your anemia is mild. Sometimes tiredness is the only symptom you notice. And it's common to feel tired during pregnancy, so many women don't realize that a lack of iron is making them feel more tired than normal.
Fatigue and weakness are the most common symptoms of severe anemia. Other symptoms include:
Shortness of breath
Dizziness
Headache
Pale complexion
Palpitations
Chest pain
Irritability or poor concentration
An unpleasant urge to move your legs during periods of inactivity (restless legs syndrome)
Leg cramps
Craving nonfood items (pica) or ice to suck or chew on
Pale lips, inner eyelids, and the inside of your mouth
Spoon-shaped nails
Glossy tongue
Cracks in the corners of your mouth
How is anemia diagnosed?
At your first prenatal appointment, your provider will evaluate your medical history, give you a physical exam, and test your blood for anemia.
One of the blood tests you'll have is a complete blood count (CBC). Among other things, the CBC measures:
The percentage of red blood cells in your bloodstream (hematocrit or Hct)
The amount of hemoglobin (Hgb or Hb) in those red blood cells
Blood test results
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control give guidelines for diagnosing anemia. In the first and third trimesters, an Hct less than 33 percent and an Hgb level less than 11 grams (g) of hemoglobin per deciliter (dL) of blood suggest anemia. In the second trimester, the levels are a little lower: 32 percent Hct and 10.5 g/dL Hgb.
Your provider may follow up your CBC with more tests to determine if iron deficiency is the cause of your anemia.
Even if you're not anemic at the start of your pregnancy, it's not unusual to develop anemia as your pregnancy progresses, so you may be tested again later on.
How will anemia affect my pregnancy?
It's normal to feel worried about being diagnosed with anemia, but mild anemia that's diagnosed and treated early shouldn't pose a problem during your pregnancy. Most experts agree that anemia in pregnancy is more of a concern if it's severe, untreated, or lasts a long time.
If your provider advises you take iron supplements, and you take them as prescribed, your condition should improve. If you have a more severe case of anemia, you may be treated with IV iron supplements, or possibly even a blood transfusion if your hemoglobin falls to 6 g/dL or less.
If you have severe anemia, and it doesn't get better with initial treatment, your healthcare provider may refer you to a specialist for care. You may need to see a hematologist or a maternal-fetal medicine (MFM) specialist to figure out if another condition is causing your anemia.
When you have a low level of iron, you may find yourself getting more tired or fatigued more easily during your pregnancy. Pregnancy can be exhausting anyway, so take extra care of yourself if you're feeling the added strain of having low iron.
Will my baby be affected?
A mild iron deficiency shouldn't affect your baby while you're pregnant. But research also suggests that mild iron-deficiency anemia that goes untreated and becomes more severe during pregnancy – especially in the first two trimesters – is linked to an increased risk of a baby being born with a low birth weight.
Having severe iron-deficiency anemia may even increase the risk of stillbirth and newborn death.
What can I do to have a healthy pregnancy?
Let your provider know if you were diagnosed with iron-deficiency anemia before you became pregnant. That way, she can manage your condition and treat you effectively during preconception and throughout your pregnancy.
As with any pregnancy, go to all your appointments, take your prenatal vitamins, and follow the advice of your healthcare provider. She may suggest that you take iron supplements or modify the foods you eat.
You can improve your anemia by eating iron-rich foods, such as shrimp, beef, turkey, enriched breakfast cereals, beans, and lentils. Foods that enhance iron absorption are also beneficial to include, such as orange juice, strawberries, broccoli, grapefruit, and peppers.
Avoid consuming too many foods or drinks that prevent your body from absorbing iron properly, such as dairy products, soy products, coffee, and tea. If you do consume these foods or drinks, it may be best to have them an hour before or two hours after an iron-rich meal.
Also, when you take an iron supplement, have it with a small snack. Eating a large amount of food hinders iron absorption.
Visit the Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine's website for more information and to find an MFM specialist near you.
Show sources
Hide sources
AAP and ACOG. 2012. Guidelines for Perinatal Care. 7th ed. Elk Grove Village, IL: American Academy of Pediatrics and The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. http://ebooks.aappublications.org/content/guidelines-for-perinatal-care-7th-edition [Accessed June 2016]
ACOG. 2015a. Practice bulletin 95: Anemia in pregnancy. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. [Accessed June 2016]
ACOG. 2015b. Good health before pregnancy: Preconception care. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. http://www.acog.org/Patients/FAQs/Good-Health-Before-Pregnancy-Preconception-Care [Accessed June 2016]
AND. 2014. Practice paper: Nutrition and lifestyle for a healthy pregnancy outcome. Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. http://www.eatrightpro.org/resource/practice/position-and-practice-papers/practice-papers/practice-paper-nutrition-and-lifestyle-for-a-healthy-pregnancy-outcome [Accessed June 2016]
CDC. 1998. Recommendations to prevent and control iron deficiency in the United States. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report: Recommendations and reports. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/PDF/rr/rr4703.pdf [Accessed June 2016]
NHLBI. 2011. Your guide to anemia. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/public/blood/anemia-yg.pdf [Accessed June 2016]
NHLBI. 2014. What are the signs and symptoms of iron deficiency anemia? National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/anemia/signs [Accessed June 2016]
ODS. 2016. Iron. Office of Dietary Supplements. https://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Iron-HealthProfessional/ [Accessed June 2016]
USPSTF. 2015. Iron deficiency anemia in pregnant women: Screening and Supplementation. U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. http://www.uspreventiveservicestaskforce.org/Page/Document/RecommendationStatementFinal/iron-deficiency-anemia-in-pregnant-women-screening-and-supplementation [Accessed November 2015]
WHO. 2012. Guideline: Daily iron and folic acid supplementation in pregnant women. World Health Organization. http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/micronutrients/guidelines/daily_ifa_supp_pregnant_women/en/ [Accessed November 2015]
page continues below
advertisement | page continues below
View comments (3)
advertisement
Featured video
All pregnancy, parenting, and birth videos >
advertisement
You might also like
Iron in your pregnancy diet
Learn why you need iron when you're pregnant, how much iron you need in your pregnancy diet, food sources, and when you need an...
Secrets of maternity dressing
Maternity clothes are expensive and the more you can beg, borrow, and steal from formerly pregnant friends, the better.
Shortness of breath during pregnancy
Pregnancy hormones and normal bodily changes can cause shortness of breath during pregnancy, but here's how to tell when this m...
Should I try to toughen up my nipples for breastfeeding?
Find out what lactation expert Susan Condon says you can do to prepare your breasts for breastfeeding.
1:12
Baby kicks during pregnancy
Wondering if your baby is kicking you too much or too little? Learn all about fetal movement with ob-gyn Dr. Calhoun.
Gestational diabetes
When you have gestational diabetes, the right information can help you have a healthy pregnancy and baby. Learn the symptoms of...
Birth plan: Your expectations and preferences
Our birth plan worksheet provides a list of labor, delivery, and postpartum options to discuss with your practitioner.
Glucose screening and glucose tolerance tests
Find out why you need to have a glucose screening during pregnancy and what the results mean.
How will iron-deficiency anemia affect my birth options?
Find out how iron-deficiency anemia could affect your options for labor and delivery, what the health risks are, and whether yo...
7 common pregnancy aches and pains
Headaches, heartburn, and hemorrhoids are all normal (and usually harmless) pregnancy symptoms. Learn more about these and othe...
Load more
Freebies & Coupons
Get coupons
Editor's picks
Is it safe to take opioids for a c-section?
0:29
Is it safe to have sex during my pregnancy?
See the hottest baby name trends
advertisement
Get the BabyCenter pregnancy & baby app
ABOUT BABYCENTER
ABOUT BABYCENTER
About us
Awards
Careers
Advertise with us
Press Center
Mission Motherhood
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Ad Choices
Free Stuff & Great Deals
Love us?
GET HELP
GET HELP
Help Center
Contact Us: General inquiries
Contact Us: Community
Community Guidelines
Email Subscriptions
Account Details
Family Information
OTHER SITES
OTHER SITES
BabyCenter en Español
Baby.com
Pregnancy.com
Arabia
Australia
Brazil
Canada
France
Germany
India
Malaysia
UK
BABYCENTER APPS
BABYCENTER APPS
Pregnancy & Baby
Baby Names for iOS
My Pregnancy Alexa Skill
BabyCenter Roku Channel
Connect with us
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resource, delivered via email, our apps, and website.
Join now
XO,
Your friends at BabyCenter
This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 1997-2019 All rights reserved.
This Internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult with a physician or other healthcare professional. Please review the Terms of Use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the Terms of Use.
This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in the Terms of Use.
New to BabyCenter? Join now
Log in to continue
Email address
Password
Forgot your password?
Keep me logged in
Log in
Track your baby's development
Get expert guidance from the world's #1 pregnancy and parenting resources, delivered via email, our apps, and website.
Track my baby
Community Community
TOP RESOURCES
Birth Clubs
Groups
Topics
Birth Stories
Mom Answers
POPULAR GROUPS
Bargain Hunters
Trying to Conceive
Breastfeeding Support
Miscarriage Support
Plus Size and Pregnant
Teaching Your Child to Sleep
Cooking For Your Family
Parenting Advice
Large Families
Preemie Parenting
See all in Community
Getting Pregnant Getting Pregnant
TOP RESOURCES
Ovulation Calculator
Pregnancy Symptoms
How to Get Pregnant
What Cervical Mucus Looks Like
When Do I Ovulate?
How Long it Takes to Get Pregnant
Am I Pregnant?
In Vitro Fertilization
Ovulation Symptoms
Pregnancy Tests
Implantation Bleeding
Chart Your Cycle
POPULAR TOPICS
Timing Sex for Pregnancy
Tips for Getting Pregnant
Infertility & Trouble Conceiving
See all in Getting Pregnant
Pregnancy Pregnancy
TOP RESOURCES
Due Date Calculator
Baby Name Finder
Popular Baby Names
Pregnancy Week by Week
Sex During Pregnancy
Weight Gain Tracker
Signs of Labor
Morning Sickness
Cramping During pregnancy
C-Sections
Gestational Diabetes
POPULAR TOPICS
Labor & Delivery
Aches & Pains
Pregnancy Safety
Health Problems in Pregnancy
Prenatal Care & Tests
See all in Pregnancy
Baby Baby
TOP RESOURCES
Feeding Guide
Sleep Basics & Training
Soothe a Crying Baby
When Babies Start Talking
When Babies Roll Over
When Babies Crawl
Diaper Rash
Postpartum Depression
Breastfeeding
First-Year Baby Costs Calculator
POPULAR TOPICS
Your Newborn
Baby Development
Solids & Finger Foods
Sleep & Feeding Schedules
Your Postpartum Health
See all in Baby
Toddler Toddler
TOP RESOURCES
Average Weight & Height
Autism Signs
Child Growth Chart
Night Terrors
Moving from Crib to Bed
Development Milestones
Toddler Feeding Guide
Toddler Tantrums
Separation Anxiety
How Much Sleep? (Birth to Age 2)
Fine Motor Skills
POPULAR TOPICS
Toddler Development
Toddler Behavior
Toddler Sleep & Naps
Potty Training
See all in Toddler
Preschooler Preschooler
TOP RESOURCES
Height Predictor
Potty Training: Boys
Potty training: Girls
How Much Sleep (Ages 3+)
Ready for Preschool?
Tantrums
Thumb-Sucking
Gross Motor Skills
Napping (Ages 2 to 3)
POPULAR TOPICS
Development (Ages 2 to 4)
Preschooler Behavior
Eating & Nutrition
Picky Eaters
Discipline Strategies
Preschool Basics
See all in Preschooler
Big Kid Big Kid
TOP RESOURCES
Jokes for Kids
Growth Spurts
Aggression
Nail-Biting
Defiance
Is Your Child Gifted?
Bed-Wetting
Talking Back
Talking to Kids About Divorce
POPULAR TOPICS
Activities & Play
Behavior
Discipline
School
Parenting Strategies
Talking About Difficult Subjects
See all in Big Kid
Health Health
TOP RESOURCES
Photos: Rashes & Skin Conditions
Symptom Checker
Vaccine Scheduler
Reducing a Fever
Teething
Acetaminophen Dosage Chart
Constipation in Babies
Ear Infection Symptoms
Infant CPR
Head Lice 101
POPULAR TOPICS
Cold, Cough, Fever & Flu
Teething & Tooth Care
Injuries & Accidents
Childproofing
Food Allergies
See all in Health
Video Video
TOP RESOURCES
Live Birth: Natural
How to Bathe a Baby
Getting Pregnant: When to Have Sex
Water Birth
Breastfeeding Positions
Getting an Epidural
How to Burp a Baby
How to Swaddle a Baby
Potty Training in 3 Days
Breast Changes During Pregnancy
How to Use a Breast Pump
POPULAR TOPICS
Weekly Pregnancy Series
Childbirth
Baby Care Basics
Celebrations
See all in Video
Gear Gear
TOP RESOURCES
Baby Registry Checklist
2018 Best Baby Products
Best Breast Pump
Best Convertible Car Seat
Best Infant Car Seat
Best Baby Bottle
Best Baby Monitor
Best Stroller
Best Diapers
Best Baby Carrier
Best Diaper Bag
Best Highchair
POPULAR TOPICS
Toys & Activities
Baby Clothes
Cribs, Bassinets & Beds
See all in Gear
For You For You
TOP RESOURCES
First Birthday Ideas
Second Birthday Ideas
Quick and Healthy Snacks
Paternity Leave
Can Pets Sense Pregnancy?
Chinese Gender Predictor
Gender Reveal Parties
Baby Shower Games
Lullabies
POPULAR TOPICS
Family Finance
House & Home
Travel
Life as a Mom
Meal Planning & Recipes
Age & Fertility
See all in For You
Connect with us
Already a member? Log in
Due date or child's birthday
mmJanFebMarAprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovDec dd12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031 yyyy202020192018201720162015201420132012201120102009200820072006200520042003200220012000
Trying to conceive
Calculate my due date Calculate my due date
First day of your last period
Select date
Receive FREE or discounted products and offers from BabyCenter’s trusted partners
Privacy Policy | Terms
Sign in