Exercise Can Improve Spinal Osteoarthritis Pain | Back Pain Research
Connect with Others:
Log In or Sign Up Now!
Conditions
All Spine Conditions
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Back Pain
Chronic Pain
Degenerative Disc Disease
Fibromyalgia
Herniated Discs
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis
Kyphosis
Lower Back Pain
Neck Pain
Osteoporosis
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Sacroiliac Joint Pain
Sciatica
Scoliosis
Spinal Cord Injury
Spinal Fractures
Spinal Stenosis
Spinal Tumors
Spondylolisthesis
Spondylosis (Osteoarthritis)
Sprains and Strains
Upper Back Pain
Whiplash
Treatments
Alternative Treatments
Chiropractic
Drugs and Medications
Mental & Emotional Therapy
MIS Surgery
Pain Management
Physical Therapy
Spinal Bracing
Surgery
Wellness
Ergonomics
Exercise
Weight Loss
Pain Community
Find a Doctor
Resources
Clinical Trials
Exams and Tests
Patient Guides
Spinal Anatomy
SpineUniverse en Español
Video Directory
Expert Blogs
Recommended Books
Spine Specialist Center
Spine Image Library
For Professionals
Join Our Back Pain Community
Share your story. Ask questions. Get help!
SIGN UP NOW!
Conditions › Spondylosis › Home Exercise Can Improve Spinal Osteoarthritis Pain
Email
Print
This page is best viewed with JavaScript enabled.
Home Exercise Can Improve Spinal Osteoarthritis Pain
Every Little Bit Can Help Reduce Spondylosis Pain
Written by Allison Robinson
Email
Print
If you have spinal osteoarthritis (also called spondylosis), your doctor may send you for physical therapy to help alleviate some of the pain. But what happens when your physical therapy sessions are over? It turns out that picking up a home exercise program, such as yoga or doing the exercises your physical therapist taught you, has long-term benefits in reducing your spinal osteoarthritis pain.
Doing back exercises at home after you finish physical therapy can help you keep spondylosis pain at bay. Always discuss with your doctor and/or physical therapist what exercises you should be doing.In a recent study out of California, researchers examined how often people exercise on their own 6 months after being in a physical therapy program. The study focused on patients with osteoarthritis in the spine or the knee. The researchers wanted to know whether the frequency of home exercise programs had any bearing on the amount of pain relief the people reported. The study, titled “Effect of home exercise program performance in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee or the spine on the visual analogue scale after discharge from physical therapy,” was published in the September 2012 issue of the International Journal of Rehabilitation Research.
How the Study Was Conducted
The researchers examined data on 48 adults who were diagnosed by their doctors as having osteoarthritis of the knee or spine and were then discharged from physical therapy for at least 6 months. In all cases, the physical therapists recommended that everyone do a home exercise program following their release from physical therapy.
Investigators recorded several factors to see how much pain relief patients experienced related to their home exercise programs. They evaluated patient demographics, how much pain each person felt on a scale of 1 to 10 (1 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain ever felt), and how many days per week each person performed their home exercise programs.
What the Researchers Found
In a nutshell, the more often people in the study did home exercises each week following their discharge from physical therapy, the less pain they felt. Those who did home exercises 4 to 7 times per week rated their pain 5 out of 10 on the pain scale, whereas those who didn’t do any exercises at all in a week rated their pain at 6.9 out of 10 on the pain scale.
What This Study Means for You
The results of this study suggest that just by adding an exercise plan for at least 4 days per week to your at-home routine following physical therapy, you can improve your pain relief. There are several different kinds of exercises out there and each one is suitable for different kinds of conditions. In fact, our video series on exercises for lumbar spondylosis offers specific stretches you can do at home that may help your spondylosis back pain.
Before starting any at-home exercise routine, however, be sure to check with your doctor to see whether certain exercises you have in mind might be best suited for your body and conditions.
Taking control of your own treatment by adding a home exercise routine is a great way to manage your own pain at your own pace. Even if 4 days per week of home exercise is too challenging to start, something is better than nothing and it’s a simple thing you can do to help improve your osteoarthritis pain.
For more information on exercises to prevent back pain, flip through our slideshow on how to keep a healthy spine.
View Sources
Chen H, Onishi K. Effect of home exercise program performance in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee or the spine on the visual analog scale after discharge from physical therapy. Int J Rehabil Res. 2012;35(3):275-277.
Updated on: 01/25/18
Continue Reading
5 Weight-Loss Goal-Setting Tips from SpineUniverse
Related Articles
Spondylosis (Spinal Osteoarthritis) Center
Non-surgical Treatment of Spondylosis (Spinal Osteoarthritis)
Cervical Spondylosis: Patient History and Case
Arthritis: Medications to Relieve Pain
You May Also Like...
Slideshow
Spondylosis (Spinal Osteoarthritis) Basics
Video
Video Series: Exercises for Lumbar Spondylosis
Video
Video Series: Exercises for Cervical Spondylosis
Slideshow
Spinal Inflammatory Arthritis Overview
Find a Back Pain Specialist Near You
Find: All Spine Specialists- Physicians- Chiropractors- Other Spine Specialists
Near:
Advanced Search
Stay Informed with SpineUniverse
Sign up to receive free updates on back pain treatments, research, and doctor-reviewed spine health information.
Vertical Health Websites
Editorial Board
About SpineUniverse
Advertising Policy
Advertising Opportunities
Contact Us
Editorial Guidelines
Partners and Sponsors
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© 1999-2019 Vertical Health, LLC
This information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem. SpineUniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the SpineUniverse.com site is conditional upon your acceptance of our User Agreement
Don't Miss Out!
Sign Up for FREE to spineadvisor, SpineUniverse's monthly eNewsletter and receive back and neck pain news, treatment updates, and lifestyle tips on managing your pain.
Subscribe
No, thanks. Please take me back to the article.
SpineUniverse.com is a Vertical Health, LLC web property. Please add newsletters@verticalhealth.com to your address book to ensure delivery.
SHOW MAIN MENU
SHOW SUB MENU
Cancel
Delete
Continue Reading:
5 Weight-Loss Goal-Setting Tips from SpineUniverse
Goal-setting is the first step in establishing your personalized weight-loss plan that may help you better manage your back pain and/or sciatica and improve your health.
Read More