<http://www.cinedulce.com/?p=24>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Aloe Vera for Cancer Treatment | Medical Science and Health Medical Science and Health Home « Prostate Cancer – Common Symptoms and Possible Treatments Cholesterol Lowering Foods List » Aloe Vera for Cancer Treatment The herb Aloe has more than 300 species, but the best known of them all is the ‘Aloe Vera’. It is a short, stemless succulent plant with thick and fleshy stems. For the purpose of healing, it’s used both internally and externally. Chemical compounds such as lectins, acemannan, polysaccharides and anthraquinones along with vitamin C, amino acids, germanium etc. make the aloe vera very useful in the maintaining and toning of dry skin, blood vessels, liver, stomach, kidney and to treat various diseases like diverticulitis, ulcers, asthma and heartburn. It also helps in healing cuts and wounds. Many researchers claim that it has the power to help cure HIV/AIDS. It is mostly used in beauty products such as moisturizers, cleansers, and soaps. No wonder it is proving useful in the healing of cancer too. Corrosion causes the damage to the genes. These adducts multiply themselves in a cell (mitosis) and possess the power to damage that cell permanently. They are not initially recognized by the immune system. Hence, they keep on dividing in each cell and the possibility of cancer increases. At the time of mitosis, the cells make the same adducts. This is how cancer cells are produced. Though all the cells, except the nerve cells from the central nervous system, need to get replaced, it becomes impossible for the healthy neighboring cells to grow. Once the cancer turns malignant, it conquers the whole body of the host. This ability makes cancer the most life-threatening disease of them all. But the early detection of the disease and the proper nourishment of the patient can help him survive happily. This nourishment is done by growing the cells in a controlled body environment. This is termed as ’tissue culture’. Cancer treatment therapy, called ‘Chemotherapy’, entails a close examination of the cells. If found infected, they are killed immediately. Aloe Vera is proved to be useful in the treatment of cancer patients, for whom the chemotherapy doesn’t work. The chemotherapy can’t differentiate between the damaged and the healthy cells. So, healing from cancer as well as the chemotherapy, both become very essential. As aloe vera contains a little amount of the cancer-healing substance, it works magic when used in a combination with the chemotherapy. The radiations from chemotherapy are sometimes too toxic for the patients to survive. Aloe vera works as a soothing agent in the patients undergoing the therapy. The unique mixture of aloe vera in aloeride works as the best cancer suppressor. It prevents cancer by suppressing the tumor causing cells. The aloeride is made up of aloe barbarensis miller, that has the same medical characteristics as the Aloe vera plant. Aloe vera is a great detoxifier. It also enriches the immune system. The acemannan present in it promotes the production of the lymphocytes and the helper cells which prevent the infection from spreading to the healthy cells. Aloe vera slows down the growth of cancerous tumors, as it contains lectins and emodines, which are two tumor resistant chemicals in aloe vera. It actually checks the growth of malignant tumors and also gives a soothing effect in the patients of skin cancer. Aloe vera is not always used in its direct form, but also in the various forms available in the market, such as – aloe vera gel, capsules, creams and drinks. All these different products are chemically tested and they certainly prove beneficial for the cancer treatment. From all these products, aloe vera gels and creams are used on a larger basis. Aloe Vera Creams These creams are odorless and are best used to reduce the itchiness of the skin in psoriasis (a type of skin cancer). It also protects the skin from the damage caused by the exposure of the skin to the ultraviolet rays, that are very harmful for the cancer patients. Aloe Vera Juice A regular intake of aloe vera juice helps to prevent the production of cancer cells in the body. For the patients already suffering from cancer, it soothes intoxication caused by the radiotherapy. Aloe vera juice has proved helpful in healing many types of cancers, including breast cancer, ovarian cancer and blood cancer (leukemia). Basically, aloe vera proves useful in healing the side effects caused by chemotherapy and radiotherapy. What we must understand though, is about the amount of the aloe vera extracts that should be used. Aloe vera, though clinically tested, has a drawback that not all people can withstand its chemicals. They also may suffer from a few serious side effects like hepatitis, diarrhea, stomach pain, nausea, problems in blood clotting, thyroid problems and so on… Aloe vera is said to be a good healing agent for the cancer but it becomes necessary to check your compatibility with it, by consulting your physician and then start its use. cancer cells , cancer increases , chemical compounds , nerve cells , proper nourishment This entry was posted on November 21, 2011, 10:55 am and is filed under Cancer . You can follow any responses to this entry through RSS 2.0 .
                Both comments and pings are currently closed. Comments are closed. Our Partners Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 Recent Posts Resources Concerning How To Relieve Red Eyes Join the Anger Management for Better Anger Control Ativan is atop this list within the anti-stress family of drug treatments Never Get Old! How to Easily Get Your Completed Essay Categories Abdominal Exercises Acid Reflux Acne Arthritis Asthma Breath and Allergies Business Products & Services Cancer Cholesterol Colds and Flu Constipation Definition Health Dental Problems Depression Detox Diabetes Diets Gallbladder Gout Hair Loss Headaches Health & Fitness Health Care & Medical Health Programs Healthy Sports Heart Healthy Herbal Medicine High Blood Pressure HIV/AIDS Holistic Health Hypnotherapy Hypokalemia Immune System Infectious Diseases Info Kidney Disease Management Counseling Medical Malpractice Medical Terminology Medicine Meditation Mental Health Mental Illnesses Muscle Pain Nursing Nutrition Obesity Physical Education Physical Therapist Pneumonia Pregnancy Prostate Cancer Prostate Health Skin Care Sleep Disorder Stress Supplement Thyroid Toothache Traditional Medicine Ulcers Uncategorized Vita