
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 04:10:46 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.8 (Ubuntu) mod_jk/1.2.25 mod_ssl/2.2.8 OpenSSL/0.9.8g
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8

​ Surgery for Metabolic Syndrome - Medical City Hospital Skip to content Medical City Hospital Find a Physician BillPay Contact Us Quick Links ---> About Search Medical City GO About Medical City About Medical City Department Directory Classes & Events Community Involvement Give to Medical City Leadership Maps & Directions Mission, Vision and Values Need a Second Opinion? Contact Us Careers Careers Join Our Team Volunteering Job Opportunities Medical Professionals Medical Professionals Physicians Nurses Research Research Cardiovascular Institutional Review Board Learning and Research Library Oncology Our Specialties Our Specialties Medical City Children's Hospital Emergency Services Women's Services Heart and Vascular Cancer Brain and Spine Transplant Orthopedic Care Family Care Other Specialties Patients & Family Patients & Family Admissions Procedures Advance Directives Area Hotels Case Management Find a Physician Billing Information Discharge Information Flu Season Guidelines Guest Services Insurance Information Health Info Health Info Health Information Radiation Right Home Health Info Surgery for Metabolic Syndrome Surgery for Metabolic Syndrome Back to Previous Page Main Page Risk Factors Symptoms Diagnosis Treatment Screening Reducing Your Risk Talking to Your Doctor Resource Guide Weight loss is very important in preventing metabolic syndrome .  Before surgery is considered, lifestyle changes, dietary changes, and medicines are often recommended. Bariatric surgery is recommended if a person: Is severely obese ( BMI greater than 40) and  diet and exercise treatment has been ineffective Is obese (BMI 35-40) with cardiovascular disease, cardiomyopathy (disease of the heart muscle), high blood pressure , uncontrolled type 2 diabetes , lipid disorders , sleep apnea , or osteoarthritis that  interferes with daily activities There are several types of bariatric surgery options that can help you lose weight if you are obese and meet the other criteria: Roux-en-Y gastric bypass —Roux-en-Y gastric bypass involves stapling the stomach to make it smaller. A major part of the intestines that absorb food are bypassed. This allows you to eat only small portions of food and prevents some of the calories from being absorbed by bypassing some of the intestines. You should not have this surgery if you: Have a drug abuse problem (past or present) Have a major psychiatric disorder (past or present) Have end-stage liver, heart, or lung disease Are unwilling to make commitments to lifestyle change This surgery results in significant weight loss, but it also carries the risk of a lot of complications. Laparoscopic vertical banded gastroplasty —With this surgery, several keyhole incisions are made in the abdomen. The doctor uses a laparoscope (a thin, lighted tube with a tiny camera) and other tools to operate. Both staples and a band are placed around the stomach, making it a smaller pouch. This allows you to only eat small portions of food. Laparoscopic adjustable gastric band (LapBand)—With the aid of a laparoscope, an adjustable band is placed around the stomach. The surgery causes weight loss by decreasing the size of the stomach and amount of food you can eat. But, there is no interruption with the absorption of nutrients. The band is adjustable, so the doctor can change the size of the stomach. Biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch—This procedure makes the small intestine shorter. This decreases the absorption of calories and nutrients. Outcomes have been favorable for all of these surgery options in the majority of patients. Studies have found that weight loss through bariatric surgery significantly reduced the risk factors for metabolic syndrome. The surgery can result in: Weight loss—To get the most benefits, it is very important that the weight loss be maintained. Decrease or eliminate insulin resistance and diabetes Lower blood pressure Improve cholesterol Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of bariatric surgery. The most important risk is vitamin and mineral deficiency and should be carefully monitored.  Most patients should be taking a vitamin and mineral supplement. References Bennett J, Mehta S, Rhodes M. Surgery for morbid obesity. Postgraduate Med J . 2007;83:8-15. Cornier MA, Dabelea D, Hernandez TL, et al. The metabolic syndrome. Endocr Rev . 2008;29:777-822. Laparoscopic adjustable gastric band.  EBSCO Patient Education Reference Center website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/pointOfCare/perc-about . Updated February 2010. Accessed March 4, 2010. Li Z, Maglione M, Tu W, et al. Meta-analysis: pharmacologic treatment of obesity. Ann Intern Med . 2005;142:532-546. Maggard MA, Shugarman LR, Suttorp M, et al. Meta-analysis: surgical treatment of obesity. Ann Intern Med . 2005;142:547-559 Morinigo R, Casamitjana R, Delgado S, et al. Insulin resistance, inflammation, and the metabolic syndrome following Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery in severely obese subjects. Diabetes Care . 2007;30:1906-1908. National Institutes of Health. Gastrointestinal surgery for severe obesity. NIH Consensus Development Conference; March 25-27, 1991. Robles-Cervantes JA, Yanez-Diaz S, Cardenas-Camarena L.  Modification of insulin, glucose and cholesterol levels in non-obese women undergoing liposuction: Is liposuction metabolically safe? Annals of Plastic Surgery . 2004;52:64-67. Shikora SA, Kim JJ, Tarnoff ME. Nutriton and gastrointestinal complications of bariatric surgery. Nutr Clin Pract . 2007;22:29-40. Vásquez LA, Pazos F, Berrazueta JR, et al. Effects of changes in body weight and insulin resistance on inflammation and endothelial function in morbid obesity after bariatric surgery. J Clin Endocrinol Metab . 2005;90:316-322. Vertical banded gastroplasty—laparoscopic surgery. EBSCO Health Library website. Available at: http://www.ebscohost.com/healthLibrary/ . Updated December 2009. Accessed March 4, 2010. Wei-Jei L, Huang MT, Wang W, Lin CM, Chen TC, Lai IR.  Effects of obesity surgery on the metabolic syndrome. Arch Surg . 2004;139:1088-1092. Vetter ML, Cardillo S, Rickels MR, et al. Narrative review: effect of bariatric surgery on type 2 diabetes mellitus. Ann Intern Med . 2009;150(2):94-103. Revision Information Reviewer: B. Gabriel Smolarz, MD Review Date: 03/2011 - Update Date: 03/10/2011 - This content is reviewed regularly and is updated when new and relevant evidence is made available. This information is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with questions regarding a medical condition. Copyright © EBSCO Publishing All rights reserved. Health Information Radiation Right Quick Links Find a Physician Classes & Events Directions Our Services Careers Find a Physician Use our online search  physicians by specialty, name, city, or zip code. find now Call 972-566-7111 if you need help with a Physicians referral Schedule an Appointment Request a new patient appointment online Join Our Team Find job opportunities at Medical City Medical City Children's Hospital Built by Specialists, Loved by Kids badge 1 badge 2 badge 3 badge 4 badge 5 badge 6 © 2011 ehc.com ;  All rights reserved. 7777 Forest Lane, Dallas, TX 75230 Telephone: (972) 566-7000 Terms & Conditions of Use Privacy Statement Facebook Twitter YouTube Our Blog Caring Bridge About Medical City Our History Patient Promise Leadership How We Measure Up Community Involvement Event Planning Maps & Directions Our Specialties Emergency Services Women's Heart & Vascular Cancer Neurosciences Transplant Family Care View All Careers About Us Job Opportunities Volunteering Events Calendar FAQ Research General Information The Institutional Research Board How To Get Involved Patients & Family Find a Physician Patient Advocate Admissions Procedures Patient & Family Guide City Gourmet Hotel Accommodations Blood Conservation Center Discharge Information Billing Information Guest Services Flu Season Guidelines Patient Health Resources Other Links Medical Professionals Physicians Nurses Clinical Support Physician Opportunities Con