Connection: Close

Herbs for Diabetes LoveToKnow » Health & Fitness » Herbs » All About Herbs » Herbal Remedies » Herbs for Diabetes Herbs for Diabetes By Jeanne Grunert Herbs for diabetes include herbs that help regulate insulin levels as well as herbs to use instead of sugar. About Diabetes According to the American Diabetes Association , nearly eight percent of the American population, or 23.6 million adults and children, have diabetes. Diabetes is a serious medical condition in which the pancreas, part of the endocrine system, produces insufficient amounts of insulin, or the cells in the body are no longer receptive or responsive to insulin. Insulin is a hormone used to regulate glucose or blood sugar levels. In a healthy person, the pancreas secretes just the right amount of insulin to keep blood sugar levels steady whether you've just eaten a donut or you're sound asleep. In a diabetic person, something disrupts or damages the delicate balance of insulin, hormones, and cell receptivity. Blood sugar levels rise and the extra glucose is secreted in the urine. Why is this so serious? Too much sugar circulating in the blood bathes the organs in glucose. It can cause serious damage to blood vessels. Left untreated, diabetes can cause blindness and lead to complications such as amputation and runaway infections. Diabetics may also be more prone to heart attacks and strokes. Fortunately, most diabetics can control their blood sugar levels through a combination diet, exercise, and medication. Many Herbs for Diabetes Diabetes can strike at any time, but most adults will grapple with what is called Type II diabetes. In this type of diabetes, the body produces insulin, but the cells are not responding properly to the insulin. Another type of diabetes, called Type I diabetes, occurs when the pancreas is damaged and cannot produce enough insulin. Type I diabetes usually strikes children and teens, while Type II diabetes occurs most frequently in people over age 40. Gestational diabetes is another term you may hear and refers to diabetes that strikes pregnant women. It usually goes away after the baby is born. Most herbs for diabetes address Type II diabetes. Usually doctors recommend that patients diagnosed with Type II diabetes lose weight if they are overweight, begin an exercise program, and follow a special diet that is low in carbohydrates and refined sugars. In addition, some people with Type II diabetes require medication to help their bodies use insulin efficiently. Herbs play an important role in Type II diabetes control. Talk to an Herbalist Because diabetes is such a serious condition, it is highly recommended that you speak with an herbalist. Schedule an appointment and share your medical information with the herbalist. While herbalists cannot diagnose disease, they can work hand in hand with your medical doctor to help you select herbs to improve your body's ability to use insulin. Some herbalists also have certification as dieticians or are registered nutritionists, and such a combination of skills, credentials and experience are invaluable to the diabetic. While most of the herbs recommended here are safe, you must continue to follow your doctor's advice for your own condition. Do not stop taking your diabetes medication unless advised to do so by your doctor. Ayurvedic Herbs Ayurveda, a system of herbal medicine dating back centuries in India, uses many herbs for diabetes. The most commonly used herb is Gymnema ( Gymnema sylvestre ). This herb has two different properties to help diabetics. First, it stimulates the pancreas. This helps the pancreas produce more insulin. When you chew the leaves of gymnema or place some powdered herbs on the tongue, it blocks the taste buds that help you sense sweetness. This can help you stop eating sweets or craving sweets to better control your diet. Fenugreek Fenugreek is another ancient herb used to treat diabetes. It's used not just as herbal medicine but also as spice for cooking. Fenugreek can reduce high insulin levels, lower blood glucose levels, and help improve cholesterol. If you want to try fenugreek to help your diabetes, you should consult with an herbalist, since the dose depends on many factors. Grapeseed Extract Grapeseed or grape seed extract provides many heart-healthy benefits, but it also helps regular blood sugar levels. Several laboratory studies suggest that the tiny seeds of the common grape can help diabetics regulate their blood sugar levels. Cinnamon The latest herb shown to help Type II diabetics is cinnamon. According to published reports in Diabetes Health , cinnamon may help the cells in muscle tissue and other cells receptive to insulin become more sensitive to insulin. You can easily add more cinnamon to the diet by simply adding a teaspoon of powdered cinnamon to your breakfast oatmeal or smoothie. Other Herbs Useful for Diabetics A discussion of herbs for diabetics wouldn't be complete without mentioning stevia. Stevia provides a healthy, herbal alternative to artificial sweeteners for diabetics. Leaves of the stevia plant are dried, crushed, and formed into powder or tablets that can be added to coffee, tea or other beverages or foods. The flavor is similar to sugar but can have a licorice-like taste if you use a large amount. Stevia is considered a safe herb, and can be used in most foods and beverages in place of sugar. Go easy the first time you use it and adjust the amount according to your taste. More Information Your doctor may have mentioned to you that you'll need to follow a special diet to help control your diabetes. The following resources may help. Dozens of articles on diabetic diets. Foods that Lower Blood Sugar Sample Diet for Gestational Diabetes Insulin Resistance Diet Related Topics What Are the Benefits of Taking Acai Chinese Herbs for Diabetes Control Cinnamon Pills Herbal Medicine in the Philippines Cinnamon and Blood Sugar Levels Fenugreek Herbal Remedies Health & Fitness Browse Herbs Categories All About Herbs Cooking Herbs Herbal Products Herbal Salves Herbal Teas Herbs for Women Herbs Slideshows Homeopathic Remedies Information on Acai Berry Interviews on Herbs Herbs Slideshows Herbal Medicinal Plants Identifying Herbs LoveToKnow Expert Interview Antiviral Herbs Learn what herbalist Michael Tierra recommends to combat cold and flu season. New in Herbs Oil of Oregano Facts Herbal Pain Relief Herbal Remedies for Hay Fever Turmeric for Arthritis What Is Turmeric? Follow Us Home Beauty & Style Entertainment & Hobbies Health & Fitness Home, Garden & Events Internet & Technology Money & Business Parenting 