Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Calf Muscle Cramp Calf Muscle Cramp UWCLUB Amazon.co.uk Widgets Home Pages Domestic Savings Internet Security Holidays Shopping Mall Care Costs Mortgages Insurance Business Opportunities E-Learning Healthy Living Resources Software Houses for Sale Business Services Link Exchanges Linked Sites Cramps in the Leg Leg cramps are common. The cause is not known 
                in most cases. However, some drugs and diseases sometimes cause 
                leg cramps. Regular calf stretching exercises may prevent leg 
                cramps. Quinine tablets may be advised as a last resort if you 
                have cramps regularly. What are leg cramps? A leg cramp is a pain that comes from a leg muscle. It is due 
                to a muscle spasm which is when a muscle contracts too hard. It 
                usually occurs in a calf muscle, below and behind a knee. The 
                small muscles of the feet are sometimes affected. A cramp pain typically lasts a few minutes. In some cases it 
                lasts just seconds, but in some cases it lasts up to 10 minutes. 
                The severity of the pain varies. The muscle may remain tender 
                for up to 24 hours after a leg cramp. Leg cramps usually occur 
                when you are resting - most commonly at night when in bed. (They 
                are often called night cramps.) They may wake you. It can become 
                a distressing condition if your sleep is regularly disturbed..
                . Who gets leg cramps? Many people have an occasional leg cramp. However, they occur 
                frequently in some people. They are more common in older people. 
                About 1 in 3 people over the age of 60, and about half of people 
                over the age of 80, have regular leg cramps. About 4 in 10 people 
                who have leg cramps have at least three per week. They occur every 
                day in some people..
                . What causes leg cramps?. Unknown cause (idiopathic leg cramps) In most cases the cause is not known. One theory is that cramps 
                occur when a muscle that is already in a shortened position is 
                stimulated to contract. As the muscle is already shortened, to 
                contract further may cause the muscle to go into spasm. This commonly 
                happens at night in bed, as the natural position we lie in is 
                with the knees slightly bent (flexed), and with feet pointing 
                slightly downwards. In this position the calf muscle is relatively 
                shortened and may be prone to cramps. This theory explains why 
                stretching exercises may cure the problem..
                . Secondary causes In some cases, the cramps may be a symptom of another problem. 
                For example:. •Some drugs can cause cramps as a side-effect, or make cramps 
                occur more often. These include: diuretics (water tablets), nifedipine, 
                cimetidine, salbutamol, statins, terbutaline, lithium, clofibrate, 
                penicillamine, phenothiazines, and nicotinic acid. •Over-exertion of muscles. •Dehydration. •Conditions that cause alterations in the balance of salts 
                in the bloodstream (such as a high or low sodium or potassium 
                level). •Some people who have renal (kidney) dialysis get leg cramps. •Pregnancy - usually in the later stages. •An untreated underactive thyroid gland. •Peripheral vascular disease (narrowing of the leg arteries 
                which causes poor circulation). •Excess alcohol. •Some uncommon disorders of nerves. •Rare causes include: cirrhosis of the liver; lead poisoning; 
                sarcoidosis. With the above conditions the cramps would just be one of various 
                other symptoms. Therefore, if you are otherwise well, and have 
                no other unexplained symptoms, then the leg cramps are likely 
                to be idiopathic (unknown cause) and not due to a secondary cause. Note: leg cramps are different to a condition called restless 
                legs syndrome. In this condition the legs can be uncomfortable, 
                you feel creeping sensations in the legs, and it is relieved by 
                walking about. See separate leaflet called 'Restless Legs Syndrome' 
                for details..
                . What is the treatment for a leg cramp? Stretching and massaging the affected muscle can usually relieve 
                an attack of cramp. Most cramps soon ease off. Painkillers are 
                not usually helpful as they do not act quickly enough. However, 
                a painkiller such as paracetamol may help to ease muscle discomfort 
                and tenderness that sometimes persists for up to 24 hours after 
                a cramp has gone..
                . What are the options for preventing leg cramps? If cramps do not occur often, then no particular treatment is 
                usually needed. However, if you have frequent cramps, you may 
                wish to consider ways of preventing them..
                . Consider your medication (where appropriate) or other conditions Tell your doctor if you take any of the drugs listed earlier. 
                It may be causing the leg cramps, or making them recur more often. 
                Alternative drugs may be available. Also, if you have other symptoms 
                apart from cramps, see your doctor who may examine you or do some 
                checks to rule out a secondary cause for the cramps.. . Stretching exercises Stretching exercises are commonly advised. However, there is 
                a lack of good research evidence to prove that they work. One 
                research study concluded that stretching exercises did reduce 
                the number and severity of cramps, but another study did not confirm 
                this. However, many doctors feel that regular calf stretching 
                does help. So, as it may help, it is worth trying if you are able 
                to do the exercises. If it works, you will not need any tablets 
                to prevent the cramps. At first, do stretching exercises of affected muscles for about 
                five minutes, three times a day. Do the last exercise shortly 
                before bedtime. If the cramps ease off, you may then only need 
                to do the exercise once or twice a day to keep the cramps away. To stretch calf muscles, stand about 60-90 cm from a wall. Then, 
                keeping the soles of your feet flat on the floor, bend forward 
                and lean on the wall. You will feel your calf muscles stretch. 
                Do this several times, each time for as long as you can manage. 
                It may take a week or so of exercises before you notice an improvement. 
                So, it is worth giving yourself a 2- to 4-week trial of regular 
                calf stretching exercises to see if your cramps ease off. The 
                cramps may not go completely, but their frequency and/or severity 
                may reduce..
                . Posture of the legs when resting in bed Positions which prevent the calf muscle from shortening when 
                you are asleep may help. The following are not proven treatments 
                (from research studies), but some experts believe that they help 
                to prevent cramps.. •Using a pillow to prop the feet up in bed while sleeping 
                on your back. •Hanging the feet over the end of the bed while sleeping 
                on your front. •Keeping blankets loose at the foot of the bed to prevent 
                toes and feet from pointing downwards during sleep.
                . Quinine is used as a last resort - and you need to be aware of 
                the risks If you take quinine you have a good chance of reducing the number 
                and/or severity of leg cramps, but it may not stop them altogether. 
                One tablet at bedtime is the normal dose. Most people can take 
                quinine, but do not take it if you are pregnant or may become 
                pregnant. There are also some rare conditions where you should 
                not take quinine. These include: a previous reaction to quinine; 
                a previous haemolytic anaemia; optic neuritis; glucose 6-phosphate 
                dehydrogenase deficiency. Side-effects are uncommon at the low dose used to treat leg cramps. 
                However, serious side-effects do sometimes occur. For example, 
                a serious blood disorder which is potentially fatal is a known 
                rare side-effect. Also, a small number of people who take quinine 
                long-term develop a condition called cinchonism (a complex of 
                nausea, vomiting, dizziness, visual disturbance, and hearing impairment). 
                Read the drug packet leaflet for a full list of possible side-effects. 
                Note: quinine is dangerous in overdose, particularly in children. 
                Keep tablets away from children. Therefore, quinine is only used as a last resort when other treatments 
                have not worked, and leg cramps are frequent and are affecting 
                your quality of life. When quinine is first prescribed it may be done on a trial basis 
                for 4-6 weeks. You should be aware of the small risk of serious 
                side-effects. Also, it is best to objectively assess how well 
                the quinine works. For example, by keeping a sleep and cramp diary. 
                Ideally, this should be for a few weeks before and after the start 
                of treatment so as to gauge its effect. If quinine is found to 
                help then you may be advised to continue with it for a few months. 
                You should consider stopping quinine every three months or so 
                to see if it is still needed. This is because, in some people, 
                the cramps go away and so the treatment may no longer be needed. 
                If the cramps return, you can always re-start the tablets.. . Other treatments Other drugs have been suggested as possible treatments for leg 
                cramps. These include: magnesium, diltiazem, vitamin B complex, 
                vitamin E, naftidrofuryl, orphenadrine, and verapamil. In general, 
                these are not currently recommended, as most studies involving 
                them found that they do not work very well in most people. Quinine 
                remains the main treatment. However, your doctor may suggest a 
                trial of one of these drugs if quinine has not worked or has caused 
                troublesome side-effects. References •Leg cramps, Clinical Knowledge Summaries (November 2008) •J V Butler, E C Mulkerrin, S T O’Keeffe; Nocturnal 
                leg cramps in older people Postgrad Med J 2002;78:596–598 •El-Tawil S, Al Musa T, Valli H, et al; Quinine for muscle 
                cramps. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Dec 8;(12):CD005044. 
                [abstract] •Daniell HW; Simple cure for nocturnal leg cramps. N Engl 
                J Med. 1979 Jul 26;301(4):216. •Coppin RJ, Wicke DM, Little PS; Managing nocturnal leg 
                cramps--calf-stretching exercises and cessation of quinine treatment: 
                a factorial randomised controlled trial. Br J Gen Pract. 2005 
                Mar;55(512):186-91. [abstract] . Disclaimer: This article is for information only and should 
                not be used for the diagnosis or treatment of medical conditions. 
                EMIS has used all reasonable care in compiling the information 
                but make no warranty as to its accuracy. Consult a doctor or other 
                health care professional for diagnosis and treatment of medical 
                conditions. For details see our conditions. © EMIS 2011 Reviewed: 13 May 2011 DocID: 4303 Version: 40 For the planned review period see the Data Creation and Quality 
                Control Process.... The authors and editors of this article were employed to create 
                accurate and up to date content reflecting reliable research evidence, 
                guidance and best clinical practice. They are free from any commercial 
                conflicts of interest. Find out more about updating. The above information originates from http://www.patient.co.uk/health/Cramps-in-the-Leg.htm Gizoo is home to some of the world's most useful, entertaining
		        and affordable gadgets, gifts and gizmos. With award-winning products,
		        a great reputation, over 200,000 satisfied customers, plus experts
		        who scour the globe to bring you the latest products. Sector: Gifts, Gadgets & Toys Serif is the leading
		          independent developer and publisher of desktop publishing, design
		          and graphics software Sector: Computers & Software,
		      Electronics Wickes is one of the
		          major brands in the building and home improvement market
                Sector: Home & Garden, Garden, DIY PCWorld.co.uk
                  - The UK Computer Store
                  Sector: Electronics, Computers & Software Maplin
                  Electronics Ltd 
                  With 250,000 unique visitors a day, Maplin Electronics is a
		      top 10 UK site in it's sector (Hitwise).
                Sector: Computers & Software, Electronics 7dayshop.com 
                  Wide range of products offers 1% commission on sales. 
                Sector: Electronics, Computers & Software, Office Supplies Prezzybox offer 1000´s of fantastic gifts. 
                Sector: Games, Gifts, Gadgets & Toys Firebrand
                  Training 
                  Accelerated information technology training. 
                Sector: Business Services A and P Business Solutions Ltd Click 
              here to subscribe to our free e-zine Safe Search Search Celtic Trails Search www.aandp.co.uk All pages copyright © A & P Business Solutions Ltd Developed by AP4Internet A & 