
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 08:11:37 GMT
Server: Apache
Cache-Control: private, no-cache="set-cookie"
Expires: 0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Osteopaths UK • View topic - foot pain help Osteopaths UK South Cheshire Osteopathic Clinics Skip to content Advanced search Board index ‹ Osteopathic Clinic ‹ Your Stories Change font size Print view FAQ Register Login foot pain help Tell us about yourself Post a reply 1 post
			 • Page 1 of 1 foot pain help by Wanda Fish » Tue Sep 02, 2008 11:35 pm The Gait Scan and Orthotic Analysis Foot Posture Analysis When a problem develops in your feet, the subtle change in the way you walk will cause a chain reaction of adjustments in your posture and walking mechanics. These changes can put stress on joints higher up in your body, and can lead to more serious problems. The Orthotic Group (TOG) custom orthotics help rebalance your feet, reducing pain and discomfort by enhancing your natural movement. On the left is a typical scan which shows a dynamic foot scan on the left and how the patient's scan should look optimally on the right. Gaitscan can identify many foot problems and their causes - such as foot pronation, supination and pes planus. Custom Made Orthotics Prescription orthotics look like insoles but are in fact biomechanical appliances that are custom made to correct your specific foot imbalance. They reduce stress and strain on the body by bringing your feet back into proper alignment. They are made from precise imprints of your feet and gently correct foot abnormalities and can reduce problems associated with pressure points, muscle strain and abnormal forces on the ankles, knees, hips and spine. They can be used for walking, sports, children’s foot problems and everyday use. The symptoms of faulty foot mechanics can include any one of the following: ·          Plantar Fasciitis ·          Metatarsalgia ·          Localised foot pain ·          Bunions, hammer toes ·          Arch / heel pain ·          Leg / knee pain ·          Hip or back pain- even neck pain Having your feet scanned and analysed may give you relief and prevent further episodes of pain and degeneration of the condition. Your foot posture is as individual as your fingerprints, custom made orthotics are tailor-made to support and correct your feet.  Off the shelf orthotics do not fit your individual prescription in the same way. The Gaitscan can help identify and treat chronic and acute sports injuries due to poor foot posture. www.osteopaths.uk.com http://www.glodark.com Wanda Fish Posts: 25 Joined: Fri Feb 01, 2008 9:33 am Location: UK Website Top Post a reply 1 post
			 • Page 1 of 1 Return to Your Stories Jump to: Select a forum ------------------ Osteopathic Clinic Announcements and Welcome Seeking Advice Your Stories South Cheshire Local Discussions Local Services Local Events Who is online Users browsing this forum: No registered users and 1 guest Board index The team • Delete all board cookies • All times ar