Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

"What Can the New Gene Tests Tell Us?" What Can the New Gene Tests Tell
Us? by Denise
Casey an updated (Oct. 1997) version of an article that
originally appeared in a special genetics issue of The Judges' Journal of the American Bar Association Summer 1997, Vol. 36:3 Some
Currently Available
DNA-Based Gene
Tests Gene
tests for the disorders listed below were available as of 1996 from clinical
genetics laboratories approved by New York State. Test names and a description
of the diseases or symptoms thereof appear in parentheses. Susceptibility
tests are noted by an asterisk and provide only an estimated risk for developing
the disorder. Alpha-1-antitrypsin
deficiency (AAT; emphysema and liver disease) Amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis (ALS; Lou Gehrig's Disease; progressive motor function
loss leading to paralysis and death) Alzheimer's
disease* (APOE; late onset variety of senile
dementia) Ataxia
telangiectasia (AT; progressive brain disorder resulting in loss of
muscle control and cancers) Gaucher
disease (GD; enlarged liver and spleen, bone
degeneration) Inherited
breast and ovarian cancer* (BRCA 1 and 2; early onset tumors of breasts
and ovaries) Hereditary
nonpolyposis colon cancer* (CA; early onset tumors of colon and sometimes
other organs) Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT; loss of feeling in ends of limbs) Congenital
adrenal hyperplasia (CAH; hormone deficiency; ambiguous genitalia and
male pseudohermaphroditism) Cystic
fibrosis (CF; disease of lung and pancreas resulting in thick mucous
accumulations and chronic infections) Duchenne
muscular dystrophy/Becker muscular dystrophy (DMD;
severe/mild muscle wasting, deterioration, weakness) Dystonia (DYT; muscle rigidity, repetitive twisting
movements) Fanconi
anemia, group C (FA; anemia, leukemia, skeletal
deformities) Factor
V-Leiden (FVL; bleeding disorder) Fragile
X syndrome (FRAX; leading cause of inherited mental
retardation) Hemophilia
A and B (HEMA and HEMB; bleeding disorders) Huntington
disease (HD; usually midlife onset; progressive, lethal, degenerative
neurological disease) Myotonic
dystrophy (MD; progressive muscle weakness; most common form of adult
muscular dystrophy) Neurofibromatosis
type 1 (NF1; multiple benign nervous system tumors that can be disfiguring;
cancers) Phenylketonuria (PKU; progressive mental retardation due to missing enzyme; correctable
by diet) Adult
Polycystic Kidney Disease (APKD; kidney failure and liver
disease) Prader
Willi/Angelman syndromes (PW/A; decreased motor skills, cognitive impairment,
early death) Sickle
cell disease (SS; blood cell disorder; chronic pain and
infections) Spinocerebellar
ataxia, type 1 (SCA1; involuntary muscle movements, reflex disorders,
explosive speech) Spinal
muscular atrophy (SMA; severe, usually lethal progressive muscle wasting
disorder in children) Thalassemias (THAL; anemias - reduced red blood cell levels) Tay-Sachs
Disease (TS; fatal neurological disease of early childhood; seizures,
paralysis) A cartoon appearing almost half
a century ago in The New Yorker featured a young boy watching his
father review his report card. "What do you think the trouble with me is,
Dad?" he asks with artful innocence. "Heredity or environment?" In one
timeless scene, the cartoonist conveyed our fascination with genetics and
the ongoing debate over just how much we can attribute to the genes we
inherit from our parents. Lately we have learned a lot about
our genetic legacy. We now know that, in fact, all diseases have a genetic
component, whether inherited or resulting from the body's response to environmental
stresses like viruses or toxins. The successes of the Human
Genome Project (HGP) have even enabled researchers to pinpoint errors in genes--the
smallest units of heredity--that cause or contribute to disease. The ultimate goal is to use this
information to develop new ways to treat, cure, or even prevent the thousands
of diseases that afflict humankind. But the road from gene identification
to effective treatments is long and fraught with challenges. In the meantime,
biotechnology companies are racing ahead with commercialization by designing
diagnostic tests to detect errant genes in people suspected of having particular
diseases or at risk for developing them. An increasing number of gene tests
are becoming available commercially (SEE BOX: Some Currently Available
DNA-Based Gene Tests ), although the scientific community continues
to debate the best way to deliver them to a public and medical community
that are unaware of their scientific and social implications. While some
of these tests have greatly improved and even saved lives, scientists remain
unsure of how to interpret many of them. Also, patients taking the tests
face significant risks of jeopardizing their employment and/or insurance
status. And because genetic information is shared, these risks can extend
beyond them to their family members as well. Even so, many more tests are in the
works as dozens of new biotechnology companies vie to spin genetic data
into gold. In the United States alone over four hundred laboratory programs
aim to develop gene tests for disorders ranging from arthritis to obesity,
and the list grows daily. The technology continues to advance rapidly,
and future versions will allow simultaneous testing for hundreds of different
genetic mistakes. The volume of available personal genetic data is on the
brink of exploding, increasing the urgency of addressing ethical, legal,
and social implications thereof. This was not unexpected. From its start
over six years ago, HGP planners have dedicated at least 3 percent of the
budget to grappling with just these issues. Beginning with a short introduction
to ground the reader in the DNA science underlying gene tests, this article
explains some of the tests, their limitations, and the extraordinary potential
of DNA medicine for the twenty-first century. A GENETIC SCIENCE
PRIMER A gene is simply a piece of DNA,
the chemical responsible for storing and transferring all hereditary information
in a cell. Genes accomplish this by containing recipes for making proteins,
the true workhorses of all our trillions of cells. All living organisms
are made up largely of proteins, which provide the structural components
of all our cells and tissues as well as specialized enzymes for all essential
chemical reactions. Through these proteins, our genes determine how well
we process foods, detoxify poisons, and respond to infections. Although
our cells have the same genes, not all genes are active in all cells. Heart
cells synthesize proteins required for that organ's structure and function,
liver cells make liver proteins, and so on. In humans and other higher organisms, a DNA molecule consists of two ribbon-like strands that wrap around each other, resembling 
        a twisted ladder. The ladder rungs are made up of chemicals called bases, 
        abbreviated A, T, C, and G. Each rung consists of a pair of bases, either 
        A and T or C and G. We have three billion base pairs (six billion bases) 
        of DNA in most of our cells; this is our genome. With the exception of 
        identical twins, the sequence of the bases--the order of As, Ts, Cs, and 
        Gs--is different for everyone, which is what makes each of us unique. 
        Variation in base sequence, along with environmental factors, accounts 
        for all our diversity, including disease. The DNA making up our genome is divided 
        into tightly coiled packets called chromosomes , 
        which reside in the nucleus of each cell. Each chromosome is a single 
        DNA molecule, and lengths range from 50 million to 250 million bases. 
        Scientists can distinguish the chromosomes by size, distinctive staining 
        patterns, and other characteristics. Most cells have 46 chromosomes, 23
from each parent. A set of 23 contains 22 numbered chromosomes (1-22) plus
either an X or Y sex-determining chromosome. Females receive an X from
each parent, and males get one X and one Y. Sperm and egg cells only have
23 chromosomes, and mature red blood cells have none. Chromosomes are not continuous strings of 
        genes. Genes are interspersed among millions of bases of DNA that do not code for proteins 
        (noncoding DNA) and whose functions are largely unknown. In fact, genes 
        constitute only a tiny fraction of the human genome, a mere 3 percent. 
        Scientists estimate that we have about 60,000 to 80,000 genes, whose sizes 
        range from fewer than one thousand to several million bases. We have two 
        copies of every gene, one from each of our parents. FROM DIVERSITY TO
DISEASE For all our outward variation, we
are surprisingly alike at the DNA level. Differences account for only one
tenth of 1 percent of our DNA (about three million base pairs). Yet DNA
base sequence variations are responsible for all our physical differences
and influence many of our other characteristics as well. Sequence variation
can occur in our genes, and the resulting different forms of the same gene
are called alleles. People can have two identical or two different alleles
for a particular gene. Variation also occurs outside the genes in the noncoding
part of our DNA. Mutations. While most DNA
variation is normal, harmful sequence changes sometimes occur in our DNA
that cause or contribute to disease. All DNA sequence changes--called mutations--are
either passed down from parent to child (in the sperm or egg cells) or
acquired during a person's lifetime. The vast majority of diseases are
due to acquired changes, known as sporadic mutations. These mutations can
arise spontaneously during normal functions, as when a cell divides, or
in response to environmental stresses such as toxins, radiation, hormones,
and perhaps even diet. Nature provides us with a system of finely tuned
repair enzymes that find and fix most DNA errors. But as we age, our repair
systems may become less efficient and allow us to accumulate uncorrected
mutations. This can result in diseases such as cancer. Depending on where in our genome
they occur, mutations can have devastating effects or none at all. If they
are small and fall in the vast sea of noncoding sequences, no one might
be the wiser. Changes within genes, however, can result in faulty proteins
that function at less-than-normal levels or those that are completely nonfunctional,
causing disease. (For a list of some of the most commonly inherited disorders,
SEE BOX: Some of the Most Common Inherited
Disorders ). Sometimes only a tiny change in DNA
sequence will lead to a serious disease. The substitution of just a single
base, for example, leads to sickle cell anemia. Other diseases are caused
by deletions or additions of single or multiple bases. Too many repetitions
of a particular sequence of three DNA bases can doom a person to Huntington's
disease, a fatal neurological disorder; Fragile X syndrome, the most common
form of inherited mental retardation; or myotonic dystrophy, a muscle-wasting
disease. Other diseases can result from large rearrangements of
DNA. Some of
the Most Common Inherited Disorders Congenital
heart defects (encompasses a variety of
malformations) Familial
adenomatous polyposis (colon cancer) Polycystic
kidney disease Hemochromatosis (iron storage disease) Neural
tube defects Hypercholesterolemia Diabetes,
type 1 Breast
and ovarian cancer Cleft
lip and palate Down
Syndrome Fragile-X
mental retardation Sickle
cell anemia Cystic
fibrosis Duchenne
Muscular Dystrophy Hemophilia
A Marfan
Syndrome Single-Gene and More Complex
Diseases. Some four thousand diseases are thought to be caused by a
mutation in a single gene that is inherited from one or both parents. Most
of these disorders are very rare, accounting for only about 3 percent of
all disease. Some occur more frequently in particular ethnic groups. Among
the more common inherited disorders for which single, causative genes have
been identified are sickle cell anemia (African Americans and Hispanics),
cystic fibrosis (Caucasians), and Tay Sachs (Ashkenazi Jews). For most diseases the causes are
much more complex. The common scourges afflicting Western civilization
are thought to be due to a variety of gene mutations, perhaps acting together,
or to a combination of genes and environmental factors. Heart disease,
diabetes, hypertension, cancers, Alzheimer's disease (AD), schizophrenia,
and manic depression are all examples of complex diseases. Except for rare forms of these disorders
that are inherited in some families, single mutated genes associated with
complex diseases are not considered causative. Rather, they confer a susceptibility
to their bearers and, given the right combinations of genes and environmental
factors, will allow a disease to develop. Untangling the genetic and environmental
contributions to complex disease will be one of the greatest challenges
for medical researchers in the next century. Finding Disease Genes. To
find a gene that is a likely candidate for involvement in disease, scientists
must search for DNA changes that are linked only with people who have a
particular disease. Searching randomly through three billion base pairs
of DNA for tiny changes that may be linked with disease is no easy task.
Scientists labored through 10 years of tedious, painstaking work to find
the genes for both Huntington's disease and cystic fibrosis. Thanks to
the HGP, researchers now have some guidance from chromosome maps. Generated
within the last two years, these maps specify thousands of unique DNA regions
that act as mile markers along the chromosomal highways. These types of
markers, which form a grid of known locations across every chromosome,
are especially informative to researchers searching for small differences
in DNA sequence among the members of large families. The high-quality maps
have dramatically sped up the discovery of disease genes, reducing the
hunt from years (at a cost of several million dollars) to months in some
cases. Luck plays an important part in any
gene hunt. Researchers studying large families with several cases of an
inherited disease scan the genomes of all family members for any changes
in marker DNA sequence that correlate with the presence of disease. How
long it takes to find a disease gene this way depends in large part on
the particular markers chosen. In fall 1996, a region on chromosome
1 was found to be associated with a form of prostate cancer that runs in
families. Researchers examined over 300 DNA marker regions in the genomes
of some 100 families and compared the DNA sequences of affected individuals
with healthy ones. The location of the implicated region containing the
mutation was made available to the entire research community via the Internet.
This region is now the focus of an intensive search for the causative gene
by many groups around the world. Although the type of prostate cancer studied
in these families is rare, researchers expect it will lead to insights
into how the more common forms arise. Once the disease genes themselves
or their approximate chromosomal regions are finally identified, academic
and commercial laboratories often translate these findings into gene tests
that can detect the particular mutations associated with a disease. Cheating
the Fates: Making Healthy Babies Through
Science Several
in vitro fertilization (IVF) clinics offer prospective parents who are
at high risk for some genetic diseases (such as Tay Sachs and Huntington's
disease) a way to ensure that they will not pass on the defective gene
to their children. The clinics also offer them the option of remaining
ignorant of their own genetic status, which many choose. After fertilization
of the egg outside the mother's body, scientists test resulting embryos
for gene mutations associated with a particular disease, and embryos without
the mutation are selected preferentially for uterine implantation. Peace
of mind does not come cheap, though. One company estimates that parents
can expect to pay about $25,000 for one child conceived this
way. GENE TESTS Gene tests, also called DNA-based
tests, are the newest and most sophisticated of the techniques used to
test for genetic disorders, and involve direct examination of the DNA molecule
itself. Other genetic tests include biochemical tests for such gene products
as enzymes and other proteins, and microscopic examination of stained or
fluorescent chromosomes. Genetic tests are used for several reasons,
including: carrier screening, which involves identifying
unaffected individuals who carry one copy of a gene for a disease that
requires two copies for the disease to be expressed; prenatal diagnostic testing; newborn screening; presymptomatic testing for predicting
adult-onset disorders such as Huntington's disease; presymptomatic testing for estimating
a risk for developing adult-onset cancers and Alzheimer's disease; confirmational diagnosis of a symptomatic
individual; and forensic/identity testing. In gene tests, scientists scan a patient's
DNA sample for mutated sequences. A DNA sample can be obtained from any
tissue, including blood. For some types of gene tests, researchers design
short pieces of DNA, called probes, whose sequences are complementary to
the mutated sequences. These probes will seek their complement among the
three billion base pairs of an individual's genome. If the mutated sequence
is present in the patient's genome, the probe will bind to it and flag
the mutation. Another type of DNA testing involves comparing the sequence
of DNA bases in a patient's gene to a normal version of the gene. Cost
of testing can range from hundreds to thousands of dollars, depending on
the sizes of the genes and the numbers of mutations tested. Gene testing already has dramatically
improved lives. Some tests are used to clarify a diagnosis and direct a
physician toward appropriate treatments, while others allow families to
avoid having children with devastating diseases (SEE BOX: Cheating the
Fates) or identify people at high risk for conditions that may be preventable.
Aggressive monitoring for and removal of colon growths in those inheriting
a gene for familial adenomatous polyposis, for example, has saved many
lives. On the horizon is a gene test that will provide doctors with a simple
diagnostic test for a common iron storage disease, transforming it from
a usually fatal condition to a treatable one.(SEE BOX: A Twenty-first
Century Diagnostic Meets a Dark Ages Treatment ). A
Twenty-first
Century Diagnostic Meets a Dark Ages Treatment In
the summer of 1996, researchers reported finding a gene flaw associated
with hemochromatosis, a common hereditary disorder characterized by excess
iron storage. Hemochromatosis appears in midlife, when the iron that has
accumulated in various organs begins to wreak damage resulting in a range
of problems from diabetes and cirrhosis to liver cancer and cardiac dysfunction.
A simple and effective treatment has been available for centuries: excess
iron is depleted through bloodletting, or phlebotomy. But diagnosis is
difficult, and if the condition is left untreated, an early death will
ensue. Yet when the disease is identified at an early stage, life expectancy
can be normal. Because
it is one of the most common inherited diseases, and easily treated if
diagnosed early (or even prevented in siblings and children of those affected),
this disease stands as a model of the great potential of gene-based
diagnostics. The recently commercialized gene
tests for adult-onset disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and some cancers
are the subject of most of the debate over gene testing. These tests are
targeted to healthy (presymptomatic) people who are identified as being
at high risk because of a strong family medical history for the disorder.
The tests give only a probability for developing the disorder. One of the
most serious limitations of these susceptibility tests is the difficulty
of interpreting a positive result because some people who carry a disease-associated
mutation never develop the disease. Scientists believe that these mutations
may work together with other, unknown mutations or with environmental factors
to cause disease. A limitation of all medical testing
is the possibility for laboratory errors. These might be due to sample
misidentification, errors resulting from contamination of the chemicals
used for testing, or other sources. Many in the medical establishment
feel that uncertainties surrounding test interpretation, current lack of
available medical options for these diseases, their potential for provoking
anxiety, and risks for discrimination and social stigmatization could outweigh
the benefits of testing. Some complexities of current gene tests are outlined
below in discussions of tests for Huntington's disease and cystic fibrosis,
two disorders caused by single-gene defects, and the tests that may detect
predispositions to the more complex Alzheimer's disease and breast
cancer. Huntington's Disease (HD). The
test for HD costs about $275 not including the costs for doctor and genetic
counseling appointments, which can run several thousand dollars. It predicts
with chilling certainty the future development of this devastating neurological
condition that strikes in midlife, causing progressive and unrelenting
physical and mental deterioration. While taking the genetic test would
help high-risk people--those with an affected parent--better plan their
lives, the great majority choose not to be tested when they understand
all the implications. These include the psychological impact of knowing
that they will (or will not) get the disease, the absence of preventive
treatments, and the risk of affecting insurance and employment
status. Cystic Fibrosis (CF). Although
CF is also a single-gene disease, the issues involved in testing for mutations
in this large gene are much more complex than those for HD. An astounding
six hundred mutations have been found, and few correlations have been made
between specific mutations and disease severity. In its most severe form,
CF causes an accumulation of thick mucus in the lungs, creating an ideal
breeding ground for bacteria, and damage to the gastrointestinal and reproductive
systems. Someone with a mild form might have a tendency toward
bronchitis. Interpretation of a positive test
is difficult, as it usually cannot predict the severity of the disease.
Sometimes the disease is diagnosed in people who had no previous clue that
they were "genetically ill." Another limitation of current CF gene tests
is that they probe for only the most common mutations. (An example is one
DNA testing company that tests for 70 CF mutations for $150.) A negative
test, therefore, could not rule out CF. These limitations pose difficult
quandaries for people making reproductive decisions. They gain little information
in return for the costs, including social risks, involved in testing. Early this year an independent consensus
panel sponsored by the National Institutes of Health recommended that testing
for CF gene mutations be offered as an option to pregnant couples and to
those planning a pregnancy, as well as to those individuals with a family
history of CF and partners of people with CF. The panel did not, however,
advocate testing of newborns or those in the general population. Education,
counseling, and informed consent were emphasized. Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Information available from the current susceptibility test for AD is even
less informative. AD is a progressive brain disorder usually striking in
mid- to late life and causing devastating memory loss and impaired thinking.
There are two forms of AD. A rare, early-onset, simply inherited type (occurring
between 35 to 60 years) accounts for about 5 percent of all cases. The
much more common form of AD (sporadic AD), the subject of a controversial
gene test, is a complex disease characterized by a later onset (around
70 to 80 years). Scientists believe it is caused by a combination of genes
and environmental factors. The most common form of mental impairment of
old age, sporadic AD now affects some four million people in the United
States, and predictions are for fourteen million cases by 2040. Researchers have found three different
forms (alleles) of a gene called ApoE that appears to modify the risk of
developing sporadic AD. The ApoE gene codes for a protein, called apolipoprotein
E, that appears to be involved with transporting cholesterol in the blood.
People with the ApoE2 allele appear to be at lowest risk of AD, those with
ApoE3 have an intermediate risk, and those with ApoE4 have the highest
risk. A gene test for the ApoE alleles
has been marketed to doctors since 1995 for $195.  As a predictive test on healthy people, no
definitive information can be gained because AD is known to develop without ApoE4, some
people with ApoE4 never develop the disease, it cannot be used to predict age of onset or
severity, and no current treatments or preventive methods are available.  People being tested run
the usual social risks concerning family and psychological issues, as well as insurance and
employment discrimination. For these reasons, use of this test to predict a predisposition to AD
has been discouraged by professional genetics groups. Breast Cancer. Predisposition
tests for people at high risk for a rare, inherited form of breast cancer
have been marketed to doctors and patients since 1996. Only about 10 percent
of breast cancer cases are inherited (familial). The majority are sporadic,
occurring in women with no family history of the disease. This year some
185,000 U.S. women will be diagnosed with breast cancer and 44,000 will
die of it. The estimated lifetime risk of breast cancer for all U.S. women
(without regard to family medical history) is 12 percent by age 65. No
gene tests yet exist for diagnosing or determining a susceptibility to
sporadic breast cancer, but at least 50 genes have been suggested for involvement
in the disease. Mutations in two genes, called BRCA1
and BRCA2 (for BReast CAncer), have been implicated in the rare familial
breast cancer. Research has suggested that women with a strong family history
of the disease who carry these mutations run an increased risk of developing
breast cancer, although just how much is the subject of continuing controversy.
Some women with the mutations never develop breast cancer. Women with BRCA1
mutations also face a high risk of ovarian cancer compared with those in
the general population. Men with BRCA1 mutations show no increased risk
of breast cancer but a slightly increased risk of prostate cancer. Men
with BRCA2 mutations have a slightly higher risk of breast
cancer. Over two hundred mutations have been
found in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, and each family typically carries its
own characteristic mutation. The tests for BRCA1 and BRCA2 run
as high as $2,400 and can involve examination of more than 16,000 DNA base
pairs for mutations. Researchers say interpreting the results is very difficult,
as nothing is known about the risk associated with each mutation. Also,
no proven preventive or management strategies exist, so doctors do not
know what follow-up to recommend. Increased surveillance, including frequent
mammograms, is a possibility, but studies have not shown their usefulness
in women under 50. Some women opt to remove healthy breasts (or ovaries)
as a preventive measure, although there can be no assurance that all tissue
has been removed. Women taking the gene tests run the usual psychological
and social risks already mentioned, and these risks will very likely reach
their daughters as well. Because of profound uncertainties
surrounding the breast cancer tests, their use outside the research laboratory
has been discouraged by the American Society for Human Genetics and the
National Breast Cancer Coalition, among others. In an editorial in The
New England Journal of Medicine this spring, former NIH director Bernadine
Healy noted that the use of the test in everyday clinical practice "violates
a common-sense rule of medicine: don't order a test if you lack the facts
to know how to interpret the result." On a more optimistic note for the
future, researchers are now conducting clinical trials on advanced breast,
ovarian, and prostate cancer patients using the normal version of the BRCA1
gene (SEE BOX: Using Genes to Treat Disease ). While this research
is at a very early stage, the hope is that this and other similar trials
will pave the way to completely new ways of treating previously intractable
diseases and usher in an age of gene-based therapies. Using Genes
to Treat
Disease Researchers
have taken an intriguing step toward developing new treatments for breast,
ovarian, and prostate cancers. Last year, reports demonstrated that injecting
a normal version of the BRCA1 gene could stop unwanted cell growth and
inhibit tumor growth when introduced into human tumors grafted onto lab
mice. Researchers are now testing the effects of injecting a normal BRCA1
gene into women with advanced breast and ovarian cancer and men with prostate
cancer; this type of treatment is called gene therapy. The goal of these and most current gene-therapy studies is not yet therapeutic; their primary
objectives are to demonstrate safety of the procedure, not its
efficacy. GENE-BASED MEDICINES AND
GENE
THERAPY FOR A NEW MILLENNIUM Within the next decade, researchers
will find most human genes. Explorations into the function of each one
--a major challenge extending far into the next century --will shed light on
how faulty genes play a role in disease causation. With this knowledge
in hand, commercial efforts will shift away from diagnostics and toward
developing a new generation of therapeutics based on genes. Drug design
will be revolutionized as researchers create new classes of medicines based
on a reasoned approach using gene sequence and protein structure information
rather than the traditional trial-and-error method. The drugs, targeted
to specific sites in the body, will not have the side effects prevalent
in many of today's medicines. The potential for using genes themselves
to treat disease--known as gene therapy--is the most exciting application
of DNA science, and has captured the imaginations of the public as well
as the biomedical community for good reason. This rapidly developing field
holds great potential for treating or even curing genetic and acquired
diseases, using normal genes to replace or supplement a defective gene
or to bolster immunity to disease (e.g., by adding a gene that suppresses
tumor growth). Over 150 clinical gene therapy trials are now in progress
in the United States, most for different kinds of cancers. Performed on
patients in advanced stages of disease, the goal of most current studies
is establishing the safety of gene therapy rather than its effectiveness.
The technology itself still faces many obstacles before it can become a
practical approach for treating disease. The atlas of human biology generated
by the HGP will provide an enormous store of genes for studying, and ultimately
preventing, the ills that beset us. As the factors underlying the maladies
and vagaries of the human condition slowly come to light, the challenge
will be to use the information responsibly. Return to Judges' Journal Table of Contents Return to Human Genome Project Inform