Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Westminster Chiropractor, Westminster Maryland: Spinal Decompression The Westminster Chiropractor to see - Chiropractor Westminster Frequently Asked Questions What is Spinal Decompression Therapy? Spinal decompression therapy is a non-surgical, comfortable traction therapy for the relief of back and leg pain or neck and arm pain. During this procedure, by cycling through distraction and relaxation phases and by proper positioning, a spinal disc can be isolated and placed under negative pressure, causing a vacuum effect within it. What can this vacuum effect do? The vacuum effect accomplishes two things. From a mechanical standpoint, disc material that has protruded or herniated outside the normal confines of the disc can be pulled back within the disc by the vacuum created within the disc. Also, the vacuum within the disc stimulates in growth of blood supply, secondarily stimulating a healing response. This results in pain reduction and proper healing at the injured site. What machine is used for this purpose? There are a number of spinal decompression machines presently used in the United States. After significant research, Dr. Puritz has chosen to use the TX1 machine manufactured by Chattanooga, Inc., the premier manufacturer of physical therapy machines. Who can benefit from Spinal Decompression Therapy? Spinal decompression therapy is designed to unload the spinal disc. Any back pain or neck pain caused in whole or in part by a damaged disc may be helped by spinal decompression therapy. These conditions include herniated, protruding or bulging discs, spinal stenosis, sciatica or radiculopathy (pinched nerves). Are there conditions where Spinal Decompression is not indicated? Spinal decompression therapy is usually not recommended for pregnant women, or patients who have severe osteoporosis, severe obesity or severe nerve damage. It is not recommended for patients over 70. However, every patient is evaluated on an individual basis.  Spinal surgery with instrumentation (screws and metal plates or “cages”) is also contraindicated.  Surgery to the discs without fusion or fusion using bony replacement is not contraindicated. How often do I take treatment sessions?  How long does each session last? Each session includes decompression therapy and spinal stabilization exercises and takes about 1 hour. Spinal decompression is usually performed 3-5 times a week for 15-20 sessions. What are the results of Spinal Decompression Therapy? Over 70% of patients have good pain relief. This success rate is similar to surgical results. I have had spinal surgery, but continue to have pain.  Can I try Spinal Decompression Therapy? Spinal decompression therapy can help people with back pain after failed spinal surgery. It can be performed in most patients who have not been left with an unstable spine after surgery. How can I be scheduled for Spinal Decompression Therapy? Simply call our office at 410-848-8022 and tell the receptionist that you are interested in decompression therapy.  An initial consultation can usually be scheduled within 48 hours. Make an Appointment Email Doctor Search: Patient Login Free Newsletter Receive free professional health tips on topics that interest you. Name: Email: Select Topics: Backaches & Sciatica Headaches & Neck Pain Wellness Topics Diet & Nutrition Exercise & Fitness Women's Health Issues Children's Health Issues Stress Management Dr. Allan Asks... What's the difference between sick care and health care? Sick care is largely about relieving or suppressing symptoms. Health care is about improving performance. While sick care is about how you feel , health care is about how you function . Sick care is what you do to treat an obvious problem, and health care is what you do to avoid the problem and advance your well-being. What's a side effect? It may sound like a bonus; something extra, but chiropractors know it should more accurately called an "unintended effect," and "unwanted effect" or in some cases an "adverse effect." A pill can't come close to matching your body's ability to create and deliver the essential compounds it needs. That's when it's important to make sure your nervous system is working correctly—the purpose of chiropractic care! Perfect Patients Chiropractic Website Design . Copyright | Legal | Privacy | Sitemap | Westminster Chiropractor HOME About Us Meet the Doctor Our Techniques What To Expect First Visit Second Visit Regular Visits Spinal Decompression FAQ Indications and Use R