Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Kent Family Dentistry K ent Family Dentistry Evening & Saturday Appts Home Page :: New Patients :: About Us :: Services :: FAQs :: Hours/Map :: Contact Us :: Account Access :: Frequently Asked Questions 1. How does a sealant help prevent decay? A sealant is a plastic material that is usually applied to the 
			chewing surfaces of the back teeth—premolars and molars. This 
			plastic resin bonds into the depressions and grooves (pits and 
			fissures) of the chewing surfaces of back teeth. The sealant acts as 
			a barrier, protecting enamel from plaque and acids. Thorough brushing and flossing help remove food particles and 
			plaque from smooth surfaces of teeth. But toothbrush bristles cannot 
			reach all the way into the depressions and grooves to extract food 
			and plaque. Sealants protect these vulnerable areas by "sealing out" 
			plaque and food. 2. Is sealant application a complicated procedure? Sealants are easy for your dentist to apply, and it takes only a 
			few minutes to seal each tooth. The teeth that will be sealed are 
			cleaned. Then the chewing surfaces are roughened with an acid 
			solution to help the sealant adhere to the tooth. The sealant is 
			then 'painted' onto the tooth enamel, where it bonds directly to the 
			tooth and hardens. Sometimes a special curing light is used to help 
			the sealant harden. As long as the sealant remains intact, the tooth surface will be 
			protected from decay. Sealants hold up well under the force of 
			normal chewing and usually last several years before a reapplication 
			is needed. During your regular dental visits, your dentist will 
			check the condition of the sealants and reapply them when necessary. 3. Sealants are just for kids, right? The likelihood of developing pit and fissure decay begins early 
			in life, so children and teenagers are obvious candidates. But 
			adults can benefit from sealants as well. Key ingredients in preventing tooth decay and maintaining a 
			healthy mouth are twice-daily brushing with an ADA-accepted fluoride 
			toothpaste; cleaning between the teeth daily with floss or 
			interdental cleaners; eating a balanced diet and limiting snacks; 
			and visiting your dentist regularly. Ask your dentist about whether 
			sealants can put extra power behind your prevention program. Previous Next Kent Dentist, Dentists Hugh Leung DMD DDS Family Dentistry 431 East Ward Street, Kent, Washington, WA 98030 Family 
	Dentist, Dentists serving Kent WA Washington and the surrounding areas. Implants, Cosmetics, Veneers. Auburn, Renton, Covington, Des Moines, Tukwi