Content-Type: text/html; Charset=iso-8859-1
Set-Cookie: lastprod=778; path=/
Cache-control: private

Superfeet Orange Trim-to Fit (7400) | Best Insoles Items in Cart: 0 Sub Total: $0.00 All Insoles Arch Supports Arthritis Insoles Cushioned Insoles Diabetic Insoles Foot Health Foot Pain / Blister Care Gel Insoles Industrial Insoles Just for Women Kids Insoles Office/Dress Insoles Performance Socks Sandals Shoes Running / Walking Hiking Biking Skiing / Snowboarding Golf Baseball Hockey Football Soccer View All Spenco Medical Othaheel SuperFeet Lynco New Balance Insoles Sole Sof Sole PowerStep Aetrex Shoes Shock Doctor Insoles Teva Sandals Feetures Socks HTP Heel Seats Sorbothane MEDI-DYNE WigWam ArchCrafters Scott Hawaii Cobian eSoles FootPetals Shoe Goo Spira Red Rock Products More >> Layman's Guide to Insoles Do I Need Arch Supports? Pain Identifier Plantar Fasciitis Blog Glossary of Terms Links - Foot Health Site Map Interactive Pain Identifier helps find the right products for you foot pain. ARCH SUPPORTS Insoles Orthotic Sandals CUSHIONED Insoles Shop by BRAND PAIN RELIEF for Feet Diabetic / Arthiritis SPORT - Insoles Foot Health INDUSTRIAL - Insoles OFFICE / DRESS Comfort Shoes & Sandals Orthopedic SHOES Kid's Casual Shoes Men's Dress Shoes Men's Running Shoes Women's Dress Shoes Women's Running Shoes Men's Walking Shoes Women's Walking Shoes Women's Casual Shoes Men's Casual Shoes Women's Ballet Flats Women's Water Shoes Men's Water Shoes Socks Gift Guide Winter Footwear Plantar Fasciitis Subscribe to our mailing list for coupons and more... Home > SPORT - Insoles > Superfeet Orange Trim-to Fit 7400 Superfeet Orange Trim-to Fit 7400 Retail Price: $49.95 Your Price: $44.95 $40.45 Your Savings: $9.50 Product Code: 7400 see reviews Choose Sizes & Quantity Below: Shoe Sizes Shoe Sizes Mens 5 1/2 - 7 (C) Mens 7 1/2 - 9 (D) Mens 9 1/2 - 11 (E) Mens 11 1/2 - 13 (F) Mens 13 1/2 - 15 (G) Quantity We Accept: Credit Card | Pay Pal | Google Checkout Description Share | Superfeet Orange Trim-to Fit 7400 Specifically designed to address the unique qualities of men's feet and footwear, NEW Superfeet T rim-to Fit ORANGE is ideal for men who run, walk or stand for extended periods of time. Provides maximum support with a new forefoot shock pad for added comfort. Features Agion® antimicrobial top cover treatment to reduce bacteria and help prevent foot odor. Ideal for men's feet with medium to high arches. Recommended footwear: Industrial and athletic footwear with a removable insole and more volume. Superfeet Patented Features: Heel cup encapsulates fat pad for natural shock absorption, initiating proper bone alignment from first impact. Contour shape developed from biomechanical principles of podiatric medicine properly adapts footwear to your foot Stablizer
cap (the firm foundation under the foam) provides firm support for
maximum stability and ideal alignment to reduce over-pronation. More about Ag ION ® Technology: AgION ® Antimicrobial is an environmentally-friendly, silver-based solution! How it works : Agion's customized antimicrobial solutions incorporate silver ions in a
zeolite carrier(your superfeet insole) that exchange with other
positive ions (often sodium) from foot moisture, creating a release of
silver “on demand”. Zeolite crystals containing silver ions are
randomly oriented and distributed through the surface of a fiber,
polymer or coating in the insole. In conditions that support bacterial
growth, positive ions, in ambient moisture, exchange with silver ions
at reversible bonding sites. The exchanged silver ions are now
available to control microbial growth. Result: Silver
ions attack multiple targets in the microbe to prevent it from growing
to a destructive population. Microbes are fought in three ways: 1. Prevents respiration by inhibiting transport functions in the cell wall 2. Inhibits cell division (reproduction) 3. Disrupts cell metabolism Depending
on the microorganism, Agion’s antimicrobial technology has been shown
to initially reduce microbial populate ions within minutes to hours! Average Rating Customer Reviews Green vs Orange...I have flat feet with a slight arch 12/8/2011 Reviewed by: JM from New York, NY. After I did a shootout with Superfeet Green (G) vs my 2 custom insoles, Aetrex Custom, Lynco 400, Spenco, and ArchFlexSystem insoles where "G" won flat out, I decided to compare "G" to Superfeet Orange (O).  While "O" is more cushiony and hence initially more comfortable than "G", it lacks the hard rigid support of the "G" to keep heel and arch pain away. After walking a mile in "O", I noticed soreness in the arch and heel areas whereas with "G" I do not. I now use "O" in my slippers. Superfeet 6/17/2011 Reviewed by: bill from Bethesda. These are my  6th, 7th and 8th pairs of Superfeet Orange insoles.  I do not play tennis without these inserts in my tennis shoes.  I also use them in my  Rockport deck shoes to make the deck shoes an all purpose walking shoe.  These inserts are the best! Insoles 5/15/2011 Reviewed by: Antonio Negron from Aibonito,Puerto Rico . excellent product Superfeet are really Super! 12/18/2010 Reviewed by: CELESTE BOVE from NEVADA. I've tried many insoles and Superfeet consistently deliver. When I buy a new pair of shoes I yank out the crummy non-supportive insoles and insert Superfeet.  It adds to the cost of the shoe, but it is still cheaper than doctor bills for aching feet. Superfeet Orange 7400 11/24/2010 Reviewed by: Ray from Tacoma, Wa.. My physical therapist recommended these insoles to me while recovering from knee surgery. I wished I'd heard of them earlier. They are unbelievable for how much they have helped. I've since purchased 3 additional pairs so I don't have to move them between shoes. Plantar fasciitis 11/2/2010 Reviewed by: Nelson Foster from Franklin,TN. Pain from plantar fasciitis down about 90% within a week. Superfeet Products 10/22/2010 Reviewed by: John from Arizona. I have been using the Green inserts in my military and hiking boots for years. Many miles put on them and never a disappointment. I recently purchased Orange inserts for my running shoes. WOW, what a great product. My plantar fasciitis is gone and my archs no longer hurt. Highly recommend for anyone that puts some miles on their feet and have high archs. Definitely WILL buy again. Love this inosole! 10/12/2010 Reviewed by: Catherine Moore from New Iberia, La.. Love this inosole! Had surgies that left 1 side of my hip out align with the other; this insole takes care of all back pain and aligns my body! orange is better 10/11/2010 Reviewed by: Scott L.Huegel from lancaster pa.. I always buy the green superfeet so a thought i would try the orange superfeet. Iam glad i did they are a bit more softer. They are worth the price. 10/7/2010 Reviewed by: K Powell from Los Angeles. They are worth the price.  My knee pain has disappeared since I put these insoles in my shoes. Evidence Specialist 9/29/2010 Reviewed by: marc from west seattle, WA. I have purchased these insoles several times, they are simply the best off-the-shelf insoles (even much better than the "custom fit" insoles I received from a chiropractor at 6 times the cost)!

Once I needed new insoles for a family vacation.  Due to short notice, I called Best Insoles rather than go online; the rep said he'd pull the item and ship them by the end of the day so I'd get them before I departed; I had them the next day!

Thanks for the great products, value and service! Miracle cure for my plantar fasciitis 9/23/2010 Reviewed by: Deana Volker from Port Angeles, WA. I love Superfeet Orange. I was advised to get them and some specific athletic shoes about 4 years ago by a podiatrist. Miracle cure for my plantar fasciitis (sp??). Superfeet Orange Trim-to Fit (7400) 6/17/2010 Reviewed by: Makul Amin from calif. I'm on my feet all day and these insole are great very comfortable Superfeet Insoles Review 6/15/2010 Reviewed by: Tena Pillow from Montpelier, Virginia. My husband is on his feet all day at work and walks a lot of the time.  He could not do his job and walk without the Superfeet Insoles in his shoes everyday.  We will continue to order these for his comfort to his feet while working. Email this page to a friend Related Items Superfeet Green Insoles $39.99 $35.95 Sole Platinum Orthopedic Sandals - Men's JAVA $79.95 $69.95 Sandals that are good for your feet. Foot Health Resources Layman's Guide to Insoles Plantar Fasciitis & Heel Pain Blog Arch Supports - Do I need them? Foot Pain Identifier Glossary of Foot Health Terms follow us Best Insoles - Div. of Red Rock Products, Inc. Best Insoles.com Call Us Toll-Free 888-473-3762 Home | Products | Brands | Sports | Foot Care | Contact | Sitemap 1381 N Kraemer Blvd., Anaheim, CA 92806 © Copyright 2012 Red Rock Products, Inc. - All Rights Res