Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes, type two diabetes mellitus, herbal treatment for Diabetes Submit your articles About Us | Business Opportunities | Shipping &   Return Policy | Resources | Testimonials Herbs A to Z Secure site View Cart Home About Ayurveda Herbal Products Pure Herb Powders Herbal Tablets Home Remedies Nutrients A to Z Site Map Contact Us Herbal supplements Heart Care Weight Loss Female Health Memory Enhancing Herbs Diabetes Natural Remedies Male Sex Health Cancer Care Kidney Care Stress Relievers Joint Pain Cholesterol Care Liver Cleanse Asthma & Allergy Care Digestion care Acne Arthritis Anxiety Ankylosing Spondylitis Anti-Ageing Allergy & Asthma Blood Pressure Back Pain Constipation Colon Cleanse Cervical Spondylitis Diabetes,Detox Depression Programme Erectile Dysfunction Fibroids (Uterine) Fibromyalgia Gout Hair Loss Impotence Joint Pain Kidney Failure Low Immunity Low Sperm Count Osteoarthritis Ovarian Cysts Obesity / weight Loss Psoriasis Parkinsonism Premature Ejaculation Rheumatoid Arthritis Sex Problems Uric Acid Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes When the fiend called Type2  Diabetes has already got one in its clutches; often, natural cures act better  than most drugs and pills. They can effectively and naturally help reduce  blood-glucose levels and monitor insulin sensitivity. However, natural remedies  available for Type-2 Diabetes aren’t effective for Type-1 Diabetes, because  they can’t produce insulin at all. There are many natural remedies  for Type-2 Diabetes, some scientifically proven effective and some utter quack!  Careful selection of alternative medication is as absolutely necessary as  understanding its functions. The first magical herb for Type-2  Diabetics is Ginseng. Ginseng has many varieties according to where it is  growing; but for Diabetes, the North American variety (Panax quinquefolius) is  best successful. North American Ginseng acts in regulating blood-glucose levels  by working on glycosylated haemoglobin which is blood cells that monitor  blood-glucose levels. In conducted studies, Ginseng dosages have considerably  lowered blood-glucose levels, revitalized general and mental health and shown  improvement on new non-insulin using Type-2 Diabetics. They have also shown  consistent improvements in their HbA1C tests. Chromium is a metal present in the  human body in traces. It helps carbohydrate and fat metabolism and increasing  insulin sensitivity. Also, Chromium deficiencies have been found in Type-2  Diabetics to indicate some relativity to its functions in patients. The  information available however, isn’t conclusive. Sulfonylurea was used with a  placebo against 1000 mcg of Chromium with good results relative to insulin  sensitivity and body weight regulations. However, no conclusive result could be  drawn on tests conducted on insulin users using a placebo and Chromium on  body-mass-index, blood pressure or insulin sensitivity. Chromium is an essential trace  mineral that plays an important role in carbohydrate and fat metabolism and  helps body cells properly respond to insulin. In fact, studies have found low  levels of chromium in people with diabetes. There are many promising studies  suggesting chromium supplementation may be effective, but they are far from  conclusive. For example, a small study published in the journal Diabetes  Care compared the diabetes medication sulfonylurea taken with 1,000 mcg of  chromium to sulfonylurea taken with a placebo. After 6 months, people who did  not take chromium had a significant increase in body weight, body fat, and  abdominal fat, whereas people taking the chromium had significant improvements  in insulin sensitivity. Another study published in the same journal, however, examined the effect of  chromium on glycaemic control in insulin-dependent people with type2 diabetes.  People were given either 500 or 1,000 mcg a day of chromium or a placebo for  six months. There was no significant difference in glycosylated haemoglobin,  body mass index, blood pressure, or insulin requirements across the three  groups. Magnesium is another mineral  commonly present in leafy vegetables, nuts and whole grains that has shown  efficacious positive results on Type2 Diabetics. Since Magnesium is necessary  for more than 300 biochemical reactions and muscle and nerve functions; its  positive effects on a Diabetic are obvious. With regulated heart control, blood-pressure  regulations and immunological effects, Magnesium dosages have shown consistent  improvement in the blood-glucose control of test Diabetics with Type2 Diabetes.  Being naturally present in foods inclusive in a healthy diet, Magnesium is also  a natural part of the plan of a Diabetic’s road to health and well-being  without going through weight loss surgery. Magnesium is needed for more than  300 biochemical reactions. It helps regulate blood sugar levels and is needed  for normal muscle and nerve function, heart rhythm, immune function, blood  pressure, and for bone health. Some studies suggest that low  magnesium levels may worsen blood glucose control in type2 diabetes. There is  also some evidence that magnesium supplementation may help with insulin resistance. High doses of magnesium may cause  diarrhoea, nausea, loss of appetite, muscle weakness, difficulty breathing, low  blood pressure, irregular heart rate, and confusion. It can interact with  certain medications, such as those for osteoporosis, high blood pressure  (calcium channel blockers), as well as some antibiotics, muscle relaxants, and  diuretics. Zinc is another metal that has  convincing results on Type-2 Diabetics because it helps in storage of and  retaining of insulin in the blood. The mineral zinc plays an important role in  the production and storage of insulin. There is some research showing that  people with type 2 diabetes have suboptimal zinc status due to decreased  absorption and increased excretion of zinc. Food sources of zinc include fresh  oysters, lamb, pecans, split peas, egg yolk, rye, beef liver, lima beans,  almonds, walnuts, chicken, buckwheat, fresh oysters, ginger root, pecan, lima  beans and sardines are some important sources of Zinc. Cinnamon is another very good  natural remedy to use against Type-2 Diabetes. In tests, Cinnamon has shown  statistically significant evidence of helping control fasting blood-glucose  levels, triglycerides and total cholesterol. However, there was no noted change  in lipid profiles or glycosylated haemoglobin. As a part of oral combination  therapy, however, Cinnamon has a noted beneficial function. A couple of studies  have found that cinnamon improves blood glucose control in people with type 2  diabetes. In the first study, 60 people with type 2 diabetes were divided into  six groups. Three groups took 1, 3 or 6 g of cinnamon a day and the remaining  three groups consumed 1, 3 or 6 g of placebo capsules. After 40 days, all three  doses of cinnamon significantly reduced fasting blood glucose, triglycerides, LDL  cholesterol, and total cholesterol. In another study, 79 people with  type2 diabetes (not on insulin therapy but treated with other diabetes  medication or diet) took either a cinnamon extract (equivalent to 3 g of  cinnamon powder) or a placebo capsule three times a day. After four months, there was a  slight but statistically significant reduction in fasting blood glucose levels  in people who took the cinnamon compared with the placebo group; however, there  was no significant difference in glycosylated haemoglobin or lipid profiles. Aloe Vera Gels, commonly used in  curing cuts and for skin health has shown some effects in regulation of  blood-glucose levels. Recent studies in Japan has shown how active  phytosterol compounds in Aloe Vera Gels act on glycosylated haemoglobin levels.  However, all the tests happen to be yet on animals; human testing is still to  be conducted on this issue. Natural Remedies for diabetes, on the whole,  can be used parallel to drugs and insulin for steady maintenance of mental and  physical health of a Type-2 Diabetic. It may not be effective in a natural way  to provide complete medical support or replace drugs with a natural remedy, but  it can help considerably to reduce drug dependency when natural remedies are  resorted to when possible. Often, the harmful side-effects of the drug itself  can be countered by such natural remedies. Herbs for Diabetes - Diabetic Neuropathy and Sugar Control PRODUCT DIABETA PLUS BUY NOW Excellent herbal supplement for Diabetes. Each Capsule contains  500 mg standardized herbal extract of best quality. Therefore the effects are visible in no time Diabeta Plus -Kills the Dragon of Diabetes Naturally Price: $ 19.95 for 1 Quantity : 60 Vegi Caps ( Minimum 2 ) WE PROVIDE THE BEST QUALITY HERBAL SUPPLEMENTS IN THE WORLD ! Dosage - 2 capsules twice daily, with plain water, 1/2 hr. before meals 1 Bottle lasts 15 days with the above dosage. Purchase of 2 bottles or more is recommended Diabeta Plus - 60 Vegetarian Capsules containing standardized extracts of rare and effective herbs to keep sugar under control   (Free Shipping) Description Price Sale Price Shipping Order Now 1 Bottle $ 19.95 $ 19.95 Standard Minimum 2 2 Bottles $ 39.90 $ 39.95 Standard 3 Bottles $ 59.85 $ 55.95 Express 5    Bottles $ 99.75 $ 89.95 Express 10    Bottles $ 199.50 $ 169.95 Express 20    Bottles $ 399.00 $ 319.95 Express Maintain sugar levels naturally so that you can live healthy and peaceful life ! ! This herbal blend called Diabeta plus is going to work slowly.  Diabeta plus  is not going to lower down sugar immediately or cause hypoglycemia. The effects are slow but sustained and can be monitored. Over the period of time, You may need to reduce the dosage of your other drugs, supplements or herbs for diabetes being used. Effective herbal remedy for sugar control and diabetic neuropathy prevention The Best herbal formula for Diabetes - Diabeta plus is a mixture of various herbs for diabetes, which are described in Ayurveda for taking care of diabetes naturally. The herbs not only help to control sugar levels but also help to rejuvenate overall health, bring back stamina and help to overcome fatigue. Diabeta plus contains herbs like momordica, Gymnema, Salacia, Pterocarpus marsupium which are long know to have beneficial effects in diabetes.The herbs are not only good to control sugar levels but also excellent for preventing diabetic neuropathy . This product has its roots in Ayurveda-ancient herbal healthcare system of India . According to Ayurveda the balance of 3 energies- Vata, Pitta and Kapha (Kinetic, Thermal and Potential energy) in the body is a disease free state whereas their imbalance causes diseases. In Ayurveda, imbalance in “Vata” and “Kapha” is considered as root cause of diabetes. Herbs in this formula control both “Vata” and “Kapha” and thus good in controlling sugar levels. Herbs in Diabeta Plus: Diabeta Plus is purely a herbal formulation without any chemicals added into it. The ingredients are frequently used in Ayurvedic system of medicine since 5,000 B.C. without any side effects. Although there are many herbal products for diabetes, but this one is unique in bringing down sugar levels under control without causing side effects and without causing sharp fluctuation in sugar levels. Ingredients of Diabeta Plus S. No. Herb Used Latin Name Quantity 1. Gurmaar Gymnema sylvestrae 200 mg 2 Karela Momordica charantia 200 mg 3. Saptrangi Salacia oblonga 50 mg 4. Vizaysaar Pterocarpus marsupium 50 mg Diabetic Neuropathy Ashwagandha and Shilajit Capsules are some other herbal supplements which can be used along with Diabeta Plus to combat diabetic neuropathy. Neuropathy responds quickly to this herbal combination.  Ashwagandha is used 500 mg capsules  in twice daily dosage to combat Diabetic Neuropathy effectively and other complications of diabetes. Read More... Ingredients of Diabeta Plus Gurmaar (Gymnema sylvestrae) In Hindi language, Gurmaar means “The sugar killer”. It is a twine which is known since ages in Ayurveda for its sugar controlling activity. Recent studies show that it contains Gymnemic acid molecules responsible for its anti-diabetic action. They bind with glucose molecules in the intestines and inhibit their entry into the blood stream. Thus it is effective in controlling sugar levels. This is a perfect herb for sugar control. Karela (Momordica charantia) Commonly known as bitter gourd. It is very popular for it's anti-diabetic properties. It's also rich in micronutrients which are required for prevention of complications of diabetes. We have a juice form of momordica herb as well. Read more about our product Karela Saar The products like Diabeta plus, Karela Saar, Ashwagandha, Shilajit can all be used together to combat diabetes  with herbal remedies. Vizaysaar (Pterocarpus marsupium) Vizaysaar is a big tree whose bark is very useful for diabetes. The bark of the tree is made into a wooden glass and the glass is termed as “The miracle cure for diabetes”. Some water is kept in the wooden glass overnight and is consumed early morning by diabetes patients. The color of the water changes to brown and glass is changed after around 1 month when the water color does not change. Diabeta Plus contains extract of bark of this miracle tree. Saptrangi (Salacia oblonga) Salacia oblonga is a wonderful remedy for diabetes. It is also a tree whose bark is effective in controlling diabetes. It is extensively studied in the western herbal schools now a days, but in Ayurveda it is being used since ages. OTHER SUPPLEMENTS GOOD TO BE USED WITH DIABETA PLUS Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) Ashwagandha is adaptogenic, relieves anxiety and stress. It is also an effective anti-inflammatory. Ashwagandha is a useful herb especially for diabetic neuropathy, weakness, fatigue and weight loss due to diabetes. It improves overall well being. Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum) It is popularly known as ‘The Holy Basil' is a sacred plant according to Hindu mythology. People in India worship this plant as it has tremendous medicinal properties. Regular use of leaves of this plant controls blood sugar levels very effectively. It is also useful in many types of cancers, viral and bacterial infections, sore throat, cough and cold etc. Diabeta Plus capsule contains effective Herbs for Diabetes control. It  Controls Sugar Levels Naturally. The herbs for Sugar control are without any additives or preservatives.It can be very useful as an very effective herbal treatment for Diabetes . A very useful and effective natural treatment for Diabetic Neuropathy. Although there are a lot of  Herbal Products for Diabetes, but the unique combination of various herbs in Diabeta Plus has made it a very different and a very useful herbal product for diabetes. For Diabetic Neuropathy, Kindly read about Ashwagandha , Chanderprabha and Shilajit at diabetic neuropathy herbal remedies page. This herbal pack gives excellent results in nervous weakness, neuropathies, tingling/ pricking sensations. Read More about Herbs for Diabetes..... Dosage For Non Insulin Dependent - 2 capsules twice daily , 1/2 hour before meals, with water. For Insulin Dependent - 4-6 capsules twice daily, 1/2 hour before meals, with water. Back to main Alcohol and diabetes Artificial sweeteners diabetes Ayurveda and diabetes Causes type 2 diabetes Complications of diabetes Diabetes causes Diabetes herbal remedies Diabetes mellitus Diabetes risk factors Diabetic neuropathy Eating right with diabetes Fasting blood glucose test Foot care diabetes Gestational diabetes Glucose tolerance test Glycosylated hemoglobin test hba1c Healthy diabetes diet Herbal remedies diabetes Insulin and diabetes Insulin of type 2 diabetes Management of type 2 diabetes Medical treatment diabetes Medicines of type 2 diabetes Non fasting sugar levels tests Pregnancy weight gain gestational diabetes Prevention of type 2 diabetes Stress management diabetes Symptoms of diabetes Symptoms of type 2 diabetes Test of diabetes Tips on diabetes Treatment gestational diabetes Treatment type 2 diabetes Type 1 diabetes Type 2 diabetes Herbal Supplements Bust Enhancement Ayurveda - God's Manual for healing This small book is an introduction to  Ayurveda, written by Dr. Vikram Chauhan - MD (Ayurveda) This is useful  for students, general public and people interested in natural remedies, yoga and herbs. $ 30.95 via EMS Newsletter Subscription To subscribe our newsletter please send a mail to our mail id herbalremedies123@yahoo.com with your name and e-mail id with the title "Newsletter Subscription" Tell A Friend Herbal Tablets All of our products are 100 % Vegetarian, Natural  Dietary Supplements and Purely Ayurvedic Products Check our Ancient Herbal tablet based products Herbal Combo Packs Heart Rejuvenation Pack Anti-Ovarian Cysts Pack Menopause Care Pack Thinner-You Pack Anti-Aging Pack Bed Hercules Pack Tribulus Power Pack Endurance Pack Diabetic Neuropathy Pack Herbs for Parkinsonism Pack Cancer Care Pack - 1 Anti-Arthritis Pack - 1 Anti-Arthritis Pack - 2 Anti-Gout Pack Cervical Spondylitis Care Pack Revive Kidneys Care Pack Advanced Stage Kidney Pack Ask Our Experts herbalremedies123@yahoo.com Herbal Products Select Your Disease Herbal Tablets Natural  Herbs A to Z Ashwagandha Capsules Arjuna Capsules Arjun Tea Aller-G-Care Atirasadi Churna Aam-Vatantak Churna Amla Saar Arjun Saar Brahmi Capsules Brahmi Chawyanprash Digestion Support Diabeta Plus Detox Tea Female Health Support Garcinia Capsules Guggul Capsules Healthy Heart Support Hakam Churna Joint Aid Plus Kumari Saar Karela Saar Memory Support Mutra-Krich Antak Churna Madhu-Meh-Antak Churna Neem Capsules Naari Kalyan Churna Nav Karshik Churna Naari kalyan Churna Praan Rakshak Churna Pradar Antak Churna Panchakarma Oils Rencure Formula Stress Support Shilajit Capsules Stholya-Antak Churna Tribulus Power Trim Support Tulsi Capsules Triphala Vara Churna Yakrit Phila Antak Churna Acne Allergy Anti-Ageing Ankylosing Spondylitis Anxiety Arthritis Asthma Back Pain Blood Pressure Bust Enhancement Cervical Spondylitis Cholesterol Constipation Cancer Diabetes Diabetic Neuropathy Digestion Support Depression Eczema Erectile Dysfunction Fatty Liver Fibroids Fibromyalgia Gout Heart Problems Hair Loss Impotence IBS Liver Care Low Immunity Low Sperm Count Male Health Osteoarthritis High Uric Acid Rheumatoid Arthritis Parkinsonism Premature Ejaculation Prostate Psoriasis Weight Loss Agnitundi Tablets Amalaki Rasayana Tablets Arogyavardhni Tablets Chanderprabha Tablets Chitrakadi Tablets Gandhak Rasayan Tablets Kaishore Guggul Tablets Lakshadi Gugglu Yograj Gugglu Triphala Gugglu Kanchnaar Gugglu Kutza Ghan Tablets Maha Shankh Tablets Punarnava Mandoor Sanjeevani Tablets Shilajatwadi Tablets Varunadi Tablets Grape Saffron Jam Indian Gooseberry Sarasprilla Arjuna Asoka Winter Cherry Sida Eclipta Phyllanthus Belleric myrobalan Bael Indian Pennywort Plumbago Tribulus Tinospora Gymnema Chebulic myrobalan Jatamansi Yellow Berry Bitter gourd Cowhage King of Bitters Kutki Symplocos Indian Madder Fenugreek Nut Grass Grewia Mesua Margosa Tree Vitex Long Pepper Roots of Long Pepper Boerrhavia Inula Rauwolfia Isabguha Husk Psyllium Husk Musli Convolvulus Asparagus Silk Cotton Tree Dry Ginger Holy Basil Vetiver Malabar Nut Sweet Flag False Black Pepper Hawaiian baby Woodrose Licorice Chicory Rice Field Weed Chiretta Caper Castor Roots Pellitory Black Night Shade Salacia Turmeric Kino Tree Senna Mimosa Tree Information, statements and products on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, mitigate, treat, cure, or prevent any disease or health condition. Home | About Ayurveda | Herbal Products | Pure Herb Powders | Herbal Tablets | Home Remedies | Nutrients A to Z | Site Map | Contact Us | Resources Copyright © 2008. www.planetayurved