
Delta Dental - Sealant Sealants are an effective way to reduce cavities  and tooth decay in your child. See how this simple procedure can fight dental  disease and at an early age. At Delta Dental, we care about your teeth as much as you do. We believe that everyone deserves a healthy smile! What is a Dental Sealant? A dental sealant is a plastic resin material that a dentist places into the grooves of the chewing surface of the tooth to help prevent the formation of cavities (tooth decay). Why are Sealants Beneficial? Brushing your teeth twice a day helps remove plaque (an acid film that forms on your teeth and causes cavities), but some teeth are harder to clean than others. These teeth are usually your back teeth. Molar teeth have grooves called “pits and fissures” and it is in these grooves that the plaque is not always cleaned off during brushing. The longer plaque remains on a tooth, the more likely it is to create a cavity. So to combat plaque formation, a sealant can be applied to the back molars. The plastic sealant material forms a bond over the tooth, almost like a smooth coating, filling all of the grooves. Because the grooves have now been filled in with this smooth sealant material it is now difficult for plaque to accumulate and form cavities. When properly applied, dental sealants have proved to be highly effective in preventing pit and fissure cavities. How is a Sealant Applied? Your dentist will first make sure your tooth is clean. Then the dentist will prepare the tooth’s surface, called etching, to make sure that the sealant will bond to it. After the tooth dries, the dentist paints or dabs the liquid sealant into the grooves of the tooth. The dentist will
      then shine a special light on the tooth, which causes the sealant to harden immediately. Who Should Get Sealants? If you have had a cavity or have molars with deep grooves, then you may be at a higher risk for future decay. Check with your dentist to see if sealants may be right for you. Your dentist will perform a check-up that will help determine if a tooth is at risk for developing decay, making you a candidate for sealants. An Independent License of the Delta Dental Plans Association. ® Registered Marks of the Delta Dental Plans