
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 05:52:03 GMT
Server: Apache-AdvancedExtranetServer/1.3.26 (Mandrake Linux/6.1mdk) mod_ssl/2.8.10 OpenSSL/0.9.6g sxnet/1.2.4 PHP/4.2.3
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Alternative Medicine Herbal Remedies Healing Herbs LIVER HEART LUNGS HEALTH KIDNEYS EYES BONES & JOINTS CLEANSERS STOMACH ENERGY PMS HEADACHE COLON IMMUNE SYSTEM BRAIN MENOPAUSE STRESS SLEEP ENZYMES PANCREAS PARASITES & WORMS PROSTATE WEIGHT LOSS ALL PRODUCTS search specials best sellers new items customer accounts affiliate area customer feedback mail list store policies terms of use privacy statement Links to Our Friends Links Directory store home | search | shopping cart | checkout | order tracking Home [Click image for a larger version.] HEADACHE Since the time of the Greeks and Romans, feverfew has been used against many problems. It has been used to overcome the pain and discomfort of arthritis. As a bitter herb, feverfew is a digestant; it helps the stomach to digest the food we eat. It is also a carminative; in other words, it helps to relieve gas from the stomach. A Greek physician named this plant feverfew, because it was the best herb they had for malaria fevers. Many people have used feverfew for arthritis, female problems and other ailments. People in Europe, and England knew that feverfew was good for migraine headaches. About twenty years ago in England, a coal miner was talking to a doctor who was a medical board officer. The doctorss wife had suffered from migraine headaches for years. In the conversation, the miner told the doctor that he and most of his family and friends chewed on feverfew leaves to get rid of migraine headaches. The miner got the woman some feverfew leaves and she chewed them and got relief from her headache. After about a year, the woman no longer had any migraine headaches. The husband told the incident to a Dr. Johnson who was the head of the migraine clinic in London, England. Three double-blind studies were done by Dr. Johnson and his associates, where placebo capsules were used and fields reversed. The final results showed that feverfew as a vasodilator was effective against migraine headaches. Most everyone who took feverfew during the study, or otherwise, showed improvement. The principal function of this combination is to relieve migraines, headaches, and other aches and pains of the body. Following is a list of the herbs contained in this formula: * feverfew - relief for migraine headaches, strengthens the nervous system, helps with dizziness and relieving colds * valerian - nourishing the nervous system, sedative, relaxant, relieves muscle spasms, anxiety and tension * chamomile- - contains tryptophan which works in the body to induce natural sleep, helpful to the nerves * lavender - antidepressant, relieves muscle spasms, stimulates blood flow, soothing and calming * white willow - helpful for the nerves, used for pain and fever, astringent, analgesic, anti-inflammatory * wood betony - natural stimulant, mild sedative to the central nervous system, strengthens the immune system * balm - calming to the central nervous system, relaxant, antispasmodic, nerve tonic, antiviral, used for anxiety, mild depression, restlessness, and irritability * scullcap - works on the spinal cord and nervous system, food for emotional conflict, worry and restless- ness, sedative, nervine tonic, helps rebuild nerve ending in the brain, beneficial for headaches * bladderpod - relaxant, relieves pain, synergistic herb causing the other herbs to work better * lime flower - antispasmodic, sedative, calms the mind, allows easy sleep, excellent remedy for stress * ginkgo - anti-inflammatory, antispasmodic, circulatory stimulant & tonic, improves cerebral circulation * catnip - helpful for the nerves, helps to balance the body, sedative, stimulates sweating, thus reducing fever, helpful in treating headaches related to digestive problems * peppermint - helpful with digestive problems, soothing, helps to relax the body, cleansing, carminative, helps to relieve headaches related to digestive problems or weakness * passion flower - sedative, antispasmodic, tranquilizing, helps insomnia, reduces nervous over-activity and panic, o vervain - nervine, tonic, mild sedative, mild bitter, mild anti-depressant, * peruvian bark - antimalarial, tonic, antispasmodic, antibacterial, improves irregularity of heartbeat 450mg 100 capsules. Recommendation - For best results take 2 capsules 3 times each day. It looked like she had been on a drunk for a few days, but I knew that she didn’t drink. She started to apologize and said,”I have a migraine headache and it is really bad - sorry.” I asked if she had ever used herbs for it. She said, “If drugs can’t touch this headache, then nothing can. But right about now, I’ll try anything.” I gave her four capsules of Love Your Parts HEADACHE formula. In a while she smiled and said, “I’ll be darned, I don’t know what you gave me, but I’m starting to feel better already. What was in those capsules you gave me?” I replied, “Just some herbs for aches and pains or for migraine. They’re called Love Your Parts herbal HEADACHE.” Regularly: $26.95 On Sale: $14.95 Enter the appropriate quantity for this item below, then click the 'Add To Cart' button to add the item to your shopping cart. * - Denotes a required field. Quantity * To email a friend information about this item, just complete the information below then click the 'Send' button. * - Denotes a required field. Your First Name * Your Last Name * Your Email Address * Friend's Email Address * Your shopping cart is currently empty. 2012 Love Your Parts © 2005 LoveYourParts.com All rights reserved. * The statements regarding these products have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. These products are not 

intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease. The information on this Web site or in emails is designed for 

educational purposes only. It is not intended to be a substitute for informed medical advice or care. You should not use this 

information to diagnose or treat any health problems or illnesses without consulting your pediatrician or family doctor. Please 

consult a doctor with any questions or concerns you might have regarding you or your child's condition. Informational material 

and representations hav