
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 08:32:06 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Quit Smoking With Hypnotherapy - Stop Smoking News - Stop Smoking With Hypnosis Harley Street Stop Smoking Clinic Home London Clinic Contact Us Map Book Appointment What Makes Us Different Stop Smoking Therapist Tim Williams Hypnotherapist Internationally Renowned Why I Do This Stop Smoking Hypnosis Stop Smoking Cigarettes Stop Smoking Cannabis Quit 
          Smoking With Hypnotherapy The Gulf News 17 September 2008 Mark Biggs had been a heavy smoker for 
          10 years, often lighting up to 30 cigarettes a day. Today, the 37-year-old human resources director is smoke-free and has 
          been so for the past five years after undergoing two sessions of hypnotherapy. "I was shocked with the result. The first few weeks were tough. 
          But, over a period of time, I had no problem being in the same room 
          with smokers," Biggs said. Beryl Comar, a Dubai-based hypnotherapist, has the solution to kicking 
          this bad habit with one or two hypnotic sessions. "It’s all in the words," she said. Comar is a graduate 
          of economics, geography and sociology, and also holds masters degrees 
          in education and applied linguistics. However, Biggs did not have a smooth ride. Eighteen months after quitting 
          smoking, he found himself lighting a cigarette again. "I immediately contacted Comar. I haven’t had another recurrence 
          in the past five years after that," he said. Comar said the craving 
          for nicotine is fuelled by a need for belonging. This can be remedied through hypnotherapy. "The most important factor to achieve anything is a strong resolve, 
          a complete dedication. It’s the same with hypnosis. If you are 
          not certain about what you want to achieve, you might as well not go 
          in for it," she said. She said there are two areas of information storage and thought processes 
          in the mind: our conscious mind and the subconscious. Hypnotherapy targets 
          the subconscious mind. "There are two methods to get into one’s subconscious – 
          through complete relaxation or through shock. The person will have complete 
          control of his desires. So, any suggestions that he is not open to may 
          be discarded by him." Stop smoking in 
        London fast the easy way with our unique program of advanced hypnosis. 
          The Harley Street Stop Smoking Clinic has seen many smokers from 
        Dubai, the UAE and Saudi Arabia.  Many of the clients we have seen 
        have been heavy smokers, smoking between 70 and 100 cigarettes a day, 
        yet find it easy to stop smoking after just one session of advanced hypnosis 
        at our London clinic. Book Your Stop 
        Smoking Appointment Now Back To Smoking 
          Articles Stop 
      Smoking Articles Stop 
              Smoking Videos © Harley 
      Street Stop Smoking Clinic 2006 Stop 
      Smoking Hypnosis Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy . Give Up Smoking Stop Sm