
Hypnosis As A Treatment for Smoking Psychology Department Health Psychology Home Page Papers written by students providing scientific 
      reviews of topics related to health and well being Search Home | Weight Loss | Alternative Therapy | Supplements | Eating Disorders | Fitness | Links | Self-Assessment | About 
    this Page | Hypnosis As A Treatment
for Smoking Jennifer Patterson Date: 11/15/2005 What
is Hypnosis? Medical hypnosis, used by
practicing psychologists trained in hypnotherapy, is a state of deep
concentration and relaxation, in which psychotherapeutic suggestions are
formulated and presented to the patient. Despite the believed effectiveness of
this treatment, there are several misconceptions that hinder individuals from
seeking treatment. The first is the belief that the person will lose all
control during the treatment procedure. On contrary, the person is simply in a
relaxed state. It is important that the patient understand that consciousness
is not lost at any point of the procedure. The individual will remember the
entire duration of the treatment. Hypnosis can also be used for those who have
trouble focusing, so lack of attention span does not affect treatment.
Fortunately the subconscious mind is always alert to external stimuli ( http://66.49.142.32/cardinale/CFPC/cfpc-info.htm#1 ). According
to the Trance Solutions website, hypnosis is the only treatment that helps the
individual overcome all three dependencies: nicotine dependency, habitual
dependency, and the psychological dependency. The nicotine dependency is
described as the need for a cigarette in order to calm the addictive side
effects of smoking. Habitual dependency develops when an individual smokes
while performing another type of activity. Some of these individuals smoke
while out with friends, while studying for a test, or while driving home from
work. Finally, psychological dependency takes control when the person smokes
while under great amounts of stress ( http://www.trancesolutions.com/quit_kit_(2).htm ). When considering hypnotherapy, it is important to
understand the difference between a lay practitioner and a medical
hypnotherapist. A lay practitioner has only a certificate from an organization
comprised of other nonpractitioners. These individuals may have a college
degree, but usually not in the medical field. They usually have training
ranging from 3 to 75 hours in hypnosis. A professional medical hypnotherapist
has at least a Master's degree in one of the following fields: psychology,
mental health counseling, social work, medicine, or dentistry. In contrast to
the lay practitioner, he/she has about 700 hours of supervised training in
Eriksonian hypnosis and psychotherapy ( http://66.49.142.32/cardinale/CFPC/cfpc-info.htm#1 ). The Rationale: Smoking
is an addiction that attacks the subconscious mind, refusing to retreat easily.
Previously hailed treatments such as quitting cold turkey, the patch, nicotine
gum, etc, tend to leave the individual moody and still craving relief. Many of
its victims are so overcome with the withdrawal symptoms that they are unable
to kick the habit. Hypnosis works well as a treatment because it taps into the
subconscious mind. This therapy gets directly to the source of the problem in
order to correct it ( http://www.worldwidehealth.com/Library/article.php/StopSmokingwithHypnosis2005060.html ). Mechanism
Of Treatment: Freedom
from smoking can be achieved by contacting a trained hypnotherapist or buying a
CD from a hypnotherapy website. However, one should be cautious when buying
hypnotherapy paraphernalia online. Without the proper documentation, it is
difficult to distinguish which therapies are legitimate and which are simply
out to make a profit.  In fact, most the websites found on the commonly used
search engines are in fact less medically related and more profit related. When
hypnotherapy is performed, the therapist helps to induce the patient into a
relaxed state. Once the proper degree of relaxation is achieved, the therapist
begins to make suggestions that assist the subconscious in letting go of the addiction.
It is important to remember, however, that the patient never loses
consciousness and is completely aware of every step of the procedure.  The
patient is then brought back from the relaxed state, and allowed to go on with
their daily life ( http://www.trancesolutions.com/about_hypnosis.htm ). Therapy
Outcomes Based On The Internet: All
of the sites that were visited on the internet claimed that their therapy was successful
in helping smokers "kick the habit."  There are, however, reasons to
be skeptical of their effectiveness. The first reason is that they are
accessible via the internet, to make a profit. The sites visited usually had a
CD for sale or business to promote. In this case, the individual promoting
their service is not going to indicate the number of times that the
hypnotherapy did not work. The amount of time for the therapy to take affect
also varies from website to website. Trancesolutions.com claims that their
treatment can begin working within days, while quitsmoking.com claimed their
treatment was really effective after 6-12 months. The problem with the
web-based claims is that they are inconsistent as far as treatment outcome
times. Another problem with the web-based services is that they make reference
to studies that support their treatment, however specific studies are never
cited. Trance Solutions claims that the British Medical Association, American
Medical Association, and the American Psychological Association have research
from the 1950's and 1960's to support their claims, however there is not a
specific study that is referenced. It should also be pointed out that the
so-called "supporting evidence" is also 40-50 years old ( http://www.trancesolutions.com/hypnosis_and%20_specific_problems.htm ). Scientific
Findings: Scientific
findings seem to have inconsistent conclusions as far as hypnotherapy and smoking
are concerned. There are several studies that suggest that the therapy is a
success, however the time period in which the effects last vary from study to
study. Spiegel,
Frischholz, Fleiss, and Spiegel's study helps to confirm that
hypnotherapy does, in fact, aide those whom wish to quit smoking. A sample of
226 subjects were offered one session of self-hypnosis treatment. After the
therapy was conducted, the subjects were followed for two years. The experiment
was a success after one week, with 52% of the subjects achieving total
abstinence. Unfortunately the rate declined as time progressed to only 23% once
the 2 years was concluded. The study is important because it compares the
effectiveness of hypnotherapy to that of other smoking cessation methods. The
study shows that smoking therapies do not have a lot of variation as far as
effectiveness is concerned (Spiegel, Frischholz, Fleiss, Spiegel, 1993). Elkins
and Rajab's study on hypnosis and smoking confirm that hypnotherapy has a
successful retention rate. In this study, 21 subjects were pooled from an HMO
group and treated for habitual smoking. Out of the 21 subjects, 81% experienced
a successful result from the hypnotherapy, and 48% retained their results 12
months after treatment (Elkins & Rajab, 2004). Other
studies, such as Sorensen, Beder, Prible, and Pinney's study on smoking and the
workplace, combine hypnotherapy with other factors that enforce the treatment.
Seventy-one percent of the participants took part in both a smoking ban and
hypnotherapy. It was concluded that out of those that participated in the
90-minute hypnotherapy session, 15% remained smoke-free after a year
posttreatment. This finding implies that hypnotherapy in conjunction with other
measures can be very effective (Sorensen, Beder, Prible, and Pinney, 1995). Unfortunately
not all studies found hypnotherapy to be a successful treatment. The first of
these studies was conducted by Valbo-Annelill and Eide-Terje in 1996. They
found that in a sample of 138 pregnant women in Norway, that there was no
effect of hypnotherapy on smoking cessation. In fact, the success rate for
those using hypnotherapy was 42% and 31% in the control group (Valbo-Annelill
& Eide-Terje, 1996). This study provided evidence that other measures may
treat smoking, or that other factors may be involved. Another example related
to hypnotherapy is that work of Myles, Hendrata, Layher, Williams, Hall,
Moloney, and Powell. In their experiment they had a sample of patients who
wanted to quit smoking. These patients were played a suggestive tape while
under anesthesia. Overall, 56 claimed to have quit after 2 months, and 29
claimed to have quit by 6 months. It is important to note, however, that the
researchers state that this does not mean that using a tape during anesthesia
is an effective treatment for smoking (Myles, Hendrata, Layher, Williams, Hall,
Moloney, & Powell, 1996). Should
Those Who Want To Quit Smoking Try Hypnotherapy? Due
to the fact that the scientific evidence is inconsistent, it cannot be stated
that hypnotherapy is an effective treatment for smoking. It can, however, be
stated that in some circumstances smoking cessation was achieved and that
individual results could vary. References: Elkins,
G.R., Rajab, M.H. (2004). Clinical hypnosis for smoking cessation: preliminary
results of three-session intervention. International Journal of Clinical and
Experimental Hypnosis, 52(1), 73-81. Myles,
P.S., Hendrata, M., Layher, Y., Williams, N.J., Hall, J.L., Moloney, J.T.,
& Powell, J. (1996). Double-blind, randomized trial of cessation of smoking
after audiotape suggestion during anesthesia. British Journal of Anesthesia,
76(5), 694-8. Sorensen,
G., Beder, B., Prible, C.R., & Pinney, J.(1995). Reducing smoking at the
workplace: implementing a smoking ban and hypnotherapy. Journal of Occupational
and Environmental Medicine, 37(4), 453-60. Spiegel,
D., Frischholz, E., Fleiss, J., Spiegel, H. (1993). Predictors of smoking
abstinence following a single-session restructuring intervention with self-hypnosis.
American Journal of Psychiatry, 150(7), 1090-1097. Valbo-Annelill,
Eide-Terje. (1996). Smoking cessation in pregnancy. The effects of hypnosis in
randomized study. Addictive Behaviors, 21(1), 29-35. Psychology 
    Department The Health Psychology Home Page is 
    produced and maintained by David Schlundt, PhD. Vanderbilt Homepage | Introduction to 
    Vanderbilt | Admissions | Colleges & Schools | Research Centers | News & Media Information | People at Vanderbilt | Libraries | Vanderbilt 
    Register | Medical 
    Center Return to the Health Psychology Home 
    