
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 11:47:40 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://www.heavyhealth.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Nutrition | Health Blog :: Weight Loss & Yoga A key portal to health information available on the web. Browse a variety of categories including alternative medicine, medication, men's health, vision, weight loss and yoga. Archive for the ‘Nutrition’ Category Benefits of Probiotic Supplements ♫ Tuesday, March 1st, 2011 Probiotics are very helpful in rejuvenating the friendly bacteria in the bowel/gut of the human body. The probiotic supplements have been proven to be very helpful when a person suffers from a severe injury of the intestine. In case a person gets injured, the percentage of friendly bacteria in his body is likely to come down. Taking probiotic supplements can really help in revitalizing the lost beneficial bacteria. The following is a short list of the most recognized benefits of probiotics: • Children- With clinical studies that reveal the potential link between bacterial imbalances and the occurrence of childhood eczema in children, probiotics were employed as a remedy that not only reduced the symptoms of eczema, but also, on some occasions, eliminating it entirely. Infants given probiotic fortified formula experienced fewer instances of diaper rash for the same reasons. Minimizing the symptoms of acute diarrhea and rotavirus shedding are two other benefits of probiotics for children. • Adults – Men have experienced a lowering of overall cholesterol levels with the use of probiotics. In women, probiotics have proven to relieve symptoms of yeast infections by promoting the growth of vaginal flora (healthy vaginal bacteria). Because of the well-known ability of probiotics to regulate the digestive process, the elderly have experienced marked improvements in episodes of constipation. • Digestive Disorders – With multiple causes like stress, travel, infection and the use antibiotics that can upset the balance of bacteria in the digestive tract, symptoms of digestive disorders can include constipation, gas, diarrhea and discomfort. If left untreated, symptoms such as these can cause other problems like disruption of the immune system. However, the use of probiotic supplements or eating foods containing probiotics can bring the natural bacterial balance back into line allowing the body to self correct and reduce symptoms of discomfort. By promoting the growth of flora in the colon, particular forms of acidophilus found in probiotics can stop the conversion of bile into carcinogens thereby inhibiting autoimmune disorders. Likewise, active bacterial cultures in certain strains of probiotics can create lactase enzymes that counteract the effects of lactose on those who are intolerant. This is why many people with lactose intolerance are capable of eating yogurt with active culture. • Bioavailability – The body’s capacity to absorb nutrition from food is known as bioavailability. Probiotics increase bioavailability by breaking down complex hydrocarbons, which allow for superior absorption. The use of probiotic supplements allow the body to regulate itself in a natural way. This allows a person to increase quality of life, avoid common discomforts and lead a healthier lifestyle. Align daily probiotic supplement can help restore your natural balance, building & maintaining a strong, healthy digestive system. Align is intended for people with healthy digestive function who are looking for help with occasional digestive upsets or who are interested in promoting their digestive health. With Align, you can reclaim your freedom to travel, eat out, and enjoy life without the same interruption of these occasional digestive upsets, and help restore the natural balance of your digestive system. Get more information on Align, please visit at Aligngi.com . ♫ Posted in Nutrition | No Comments » Child Nutrition & Obesity ♫ Tuesday, December 8th, 2009 While many diet programs, implements and drug therapy combat obesity with greatly demandd fierce commitment, some brawl child obesity at opening with prevention. There is a manifest connection with child nutrition and obesity. If the issues alarming the prevalence of obesity are to be willful separately, the chief alarm would be food and nutrition. size somewhat relies on the nutritive issue of a business’s food intake. A child demands a chunk insert of nutrition as it grows but are we indeed generous them what they ought? Again it must be made informed that child nutrition and obesity are linked in such a way that needy nutrition leads to obesity. The alarm of child nutrition and obesity originates from undue ingestion and no or tiniest implement. Most of the extra food eaten by kids or even adults are the eminent high- calorie and high-fat foods that no topic how hazardous they are to our wellbeing, there are still there. To create a good brawl against child obesity, we must be armed with the right nutrition for children. Consider that upward kid demand a good total of energy from a well balanced diet. The mains of the food groups now prevails. Youngster nutrition must consist of stuff, vitamins and sandstone content, carbohydrates and protein. High stuff is best sourced from total wheat and other grains. This is also very important to an overcredence or stout child. This style demands a good bulkiness of stuff in his/her method to help exhaust the extra credence. A childs nutrition is never done lacking the 5-epoch-a-day quota of fruit and a parallel quota of vegetables accompanied by dairy crop, fish and the occasional red meat. If you now remember your old wellbeing status lectures, this is the main nutrition demandd to preserve a wellbeingy body. We are cleanly habitual to a tweaked variety of the main nutrition demandments. an overcredence or stout childs nutrition also demand a low-carbohydrate and low-fat intake. Consider that the extra calories and fat are main contributors to obesity. Also redouble the total of antioxidants that help flush out what oughts to come out. You should be able to conclude what lacked in the childs nutrition before the diet. Once you know them and apprehend the effect of child nutrition and obesity, youll be able to grant a child’s decorous nutrition. diminish what isn’t crucial and redouble what is demand. This may be a small case of the puzzle but it generates significant changes in the clash between child nutrition and obesity. ♫ Posted in Nutrition | No Comments » Search for: Recent Posts Site of the Month for December 2011 Lasik Dallas – The Best Place For You Daily Skin Care Tips How Lasik Eye Surgery Works? Tips to Choose a Suitable Hospital Healthcare Executive Leadership Can an attack of dizziness be an asthma attack? Categories Beauty Diseases & Conditions Equipments and Supplies Executive Leadership Eye Care Fitness General Health Insurance Hemorrhoids Human Growth Hormone Hypnotherapy Massage Therapy Medical Supplies Medication Nutrition Software Weight Loss Yoga Calendar February 2012 M T W T F S S « Dec 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 Archives December 2011 October 2011 August 2011 July 2011 March 2011 January 2011 July 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 Tags Acai Berry Diet Asthma Beauty Business Management Cataract Surgery Chiropractic Software Diet Disease Drugs Stores Executive Leadership Exercise Exercises Eye Care Eyes Vision Foods Health Health Care Healthcare Healthy Dieting Hemorrhoid Symptoms Hemorrhoid Treatments High Blood Pressure Medicine High Blood Pressure Treatment Home Fitness Programs Human Growth Hormone Hypertension Hypnotherapy LASIK Eye Surgery Massage Therapy Medical Equipment Medical Supplies Medical Treatment Nutrition Online Hypnosis Courses Osteoporosis Medication Osteoporosis Treatment Probiotic Supplement Skin Care Supplements Ulcerative Colitis Ulcerative Colitis Treatment Utah Massage Therapy Weight Loss Yoga Yoga Meditation Blogroll Beauty Blog Children Health Blog Health Affairs Blog Health Food Central Health Help Directory Health Insurance Blog Open Medicine Blog Weight Loss Blog Women Health