<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Combined hypothermia and HBO treatment might have potential benefits in spinal cord tissue on secondary damage. Undersea Hyperb Med. 2010 Jul-Aug;37(4):199-201. Spontaneous hydrocele resolution after hyperbaric Oxygen treatment: a clinical case report Department of Urology, Athens Naval and Veterans' Hospital, Athens, Greece. athan_dell@yahoo.gr Abstract Hyperbaric Oxygen is considered an adjunctive treatment to medical and surgical care. We present a unique case in which a male patient with decompression illness affecting inner ear and spinal cord presented a worsened unilateral hydrocele synchronously with the neurological pathology. At the Diving and Hyperbaric Medicine Department, the patient was initially recompressed using a modified United States Navy Treatment Table 6A; on the following days he was treated for decompression illness using hyperbaric Oxygen. Hyperbaric Oxygen treatment resulted in the disappearance of the hydrocele during the time he was treated with hyperbaric Oxygen for decompression illness. He was discharged on Day 8, free of symptoms, having a normal neurological examination. J Neurotrauma. 2010 Jun;27(6):1121-7. Attenuating experimental spinal cord injury by hyperbaric Oxygen: stimulating production of vasculoendothelial and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic growth factors and interleukin-10 Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. Abstract The present study was carried out to further examine the mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO(2)on experimental spinal cord injury (SCI). Rats were divided into three major groups: (1) sham operation (laminectomy only); (2) laminectomy + SCI + normobaric air (NBA; 21% Oxygen at 1 ATA); and (3) laminectomy + SCI + HBO(2) (100% Oxygen at 2.5 ATA for 2 h). Spinal cord injury was induced by compressing the spinal cord for 1 min with an aneurysm clip calibrated to a closing pressure of 55 g. HBO(2) therapy was begun immediately after SCI. Behavioral tests of hindlimb motor function as measured by the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor scale was conducted on days 1-7 post-SCI. The triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining assay and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate biotin nick-end labeling assay were also conducted after SCI to evaluate spinal cord infarction and apoptosis, respectively. Cells positive for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic nerve growth factor (GDNF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and cytokines in the injured spinal cord were assayed by immunofluorescence and commercial kits, respectively. It was found that HBO(2) therapy significantly attenuated SCI-induced hindlimb dysfunction, and spinal cord infarction and apoptosis, as well as overproduction of spinal cord interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. In contrast, the numbers of both GDNF-positive and VEGF-positive cells and production of spinal cord interleukin-10 after SCI were all significantly increased by HBOT. These data suggest that HBOT may attenuate experimental SCI by stimulating production of GDNF, VEGF, and interleukin-10 Brain Res. 2010 Apr 6;1323:149-51. Epub 2010 Feb 1. Hyperbaric Oxygen preconditioning reduces ischemia - reperfusion injury by stimulating autophagy in neurocyte Department of Aerospace Biodynamics, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China. Abstract Cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a complex process resulting in cellular damage and death. Many studies have reported that an ischemic preconditioning could induce protection against ischemic insult. However, the safety concerns and practical feasibility have limited the application of ischemia preconditioning in practice. Subsequently, a number of substances including endotoxin and cytokines etc. have proven effective in inducing ischemic tolerance in the neurocyte. Unfortunately, the application of these substances to the clinical practice of neurosurgery still remains questionable for their toxicity or side effects. Therefore, a novel therapy to protect against cerebral IRI requires further study. Several recent studies confirmed that repeated hyperbaric Oxygen preconditioning (HBO-PC) prior to cerebral ischemia or spinal cord ischemia can provide neuroprotection. HBO as a therapeutic measure has been widely accepted for its convenience and safety. However, information about the mechanism of how this neuroprotection works is still very limited. We hypothesize that autophagy induction is involved in HBO-PC induced neuroprotection on IRI in neurocyte. The hypothesis reveals that autophagy may be a new therapeutic target for cerebral IRI J Neurotrauma. 2009 Jan;26(1):55-66. Hyperbaric Oxygen preconditioning attenuates early apoptosis after spinal cord ischemia in rats Department of Anesthesiology, Changhai Hospital Affiliated to Second Military Medical University , Shanghai, PR China. Abstract This study tested the hypothesis that spinal cord ischemic tolerance induced by hyperbaric Oxygen preconditioning (HBO-PC) is mediated by inhibition of early apoptosis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were preconditioned with consecutive 4 cycles of 1-h HBO exposures (2.5 atmospheres absolute [ATA], 100% O(2)) at a 12-h interval. At 24 h after the last HBO pretreatment, rats underwent 9 min of spinal cord ischemia induced by occlusion of the descending thoracic aorta in combination with systemic hypotension (40 mmHg). Spinal cord ischemia produced marked neuronal death and neurological dysfunction in animals. HBO-PC enhanced activities of Mn-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) and catalase, as well as the expression of Bcl-2 in the mitochondria in the normal spinal cord at 24 h after the last pretreatment (before spinal cord ischemia), and retained higher levels throughout the early reperfusion in the ischemic spinal cord. In parallel, superoxide and hydrogen peroxide levels in mitochondria were decreased, cytochrome c release into the cytosol was reduced at 1 h after reperfusion, and activation of caspase-3 and -9 was subsequently attenuated. HBO-PC improved neurobehavioral scores and reduced neuronal apoptosis in the anterior, intermediate, and dorsal gray matter of lumbar segment at 24 h after spinal cord ischemia. HBO-PC increased nitric oxide (NO) production. L-nitroarginine-methyl-ester (L-NAME; 10 mg/kg), a nonselective NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor, applied before each HBO-PC protocol abolished these beneficial effects of HBO-PC. We conclude that HBO-PC reduced spinal cord ischemia-reperfusion injury by increasing Mn-SOD, catalase, and Bcl-2, and by suppressing mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. NO may be involved in this neuroprotection. Spinal Cord. 2008 Mar;46(3):241-2. Epub 2007 Jun 19. Spinal cord infarction following endoscopic variceal ligation Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Kagoshima Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Japan. OBJECTIVES: To describe an exceedingly rare case of spinal cord infarction following endoscopic variceal ligation. METHODS: A 75-year-old woman with cirrhosis caused by hepatitis C virus, who was admitted to our hospital for the treatment of esophageal varices, experienced numbness of the hands and lower extremities bilaterally following an endoscopic variceal ligation procedure. Sensory and motor dysfunction below C6 level progressed rapidly, resulting in inability to move the lower extremities the following day. Magnetic resonance imaging of the spine revealed abnormal spinal cord signal on T2-weighted images from approximately C6 through T5 levels, which was diagnosed as spinal cord infarction. RESULTS: The patient underwent hyperbaric Oxygen treatment. Her symptoms and signs related to spinal cord infarction gradually remitted, and nearly complete disappearance of neurological deficits was noted within 3 months after the start of treatment. CONCLUSION: We speculate that the pathogenesis of the present case may have involved congestion of the abdominal-epidural-spinal cord venous network owing to ligation of esophageal varices and increased thoracoabdominal cavity pressure. Neurochem Res. 2007 Sep;32(9):1547-51. Epub 2007 May 8. Effects of methylprednisolone and hyperbaric Oxygen on oxidative status after experimental spinal cord injury: a comparative study in rats Abstract The effects of hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) therapy or methylprednisolone on the oxidative status were evaluated in experimental spinal cord injury. Clip compression method was used to produce acute spinal cord injury rats. Hyperbaric Oxygen was administered twice daily for a total of eight 90 min-sessions at 2.8 atmospheres. Methylprednisolone was first injected with a bolus of 30 mg/kg followed with an infusion rate of 5.4 mg/kg/h for 24 h. Five days after clip application animals were sacrificed and their traumatized spinal cord segment were excised. Tissue levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) were evaluated to reflect oxidant/antioxidant status. Non-treated clip-operated animals reflected significantly higher SOD, GSH-Px and TBARS levels that were found to be significantly higher than the sham-operated. Methylprednisolone was not able to lower these levels. HBO administration diminished all measured parameters significantly; however, their levels appeared already to be high when compared with sham animals. According to these results obtained on the 5th day after induction, HBO, but not methylprednisolone, seems to procure prevention against oxidative spinal cord injury. Ma sui. 2007 Mar;56(3):285-97. Brain and spinal cord preconditioning for the protection against ischemic injury [Article in Japanese] Department of Anesthesiology, Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine, Ube. Abstract Recent studies have suggested that the brain preconditioning could induce tolerance to ischemia in humans. It has been believed that newly synthesized proteins are required for the acquisition of delayed tolerance in the brain and spinal cord. However, the mechanism other than the synthesis of neuroprotective proteins may also play a pivotal role. Preconditioning may reprogram the response to ischemic injury as seen during hibernation. Preconditioning with hyperbaric Oxygen, volatile anesthetics, and xenon seems to be the focus of the attention from the standpoint of the clinical setting. Strong neuroprotection by the preconditioning with isoflurane and xenon is reported in animal experiments and may change the traditional idea of neuroprotection by anesthetics. The discovery that erythropoietin exerts neuroprotective properties has opened new therapeutic avenues. Erythropoietin is induced in the brain by hypoxic preconditioning and by the pharmacological preconditioning. In addition, the intravenous administration of erythropoietin has been shown to be safe and beneficial for acute stroke in humans. Therefore, erythropoietin is now one of the most promising neuroprotective agents. The research in the brain and spinal cord preconditioning will contribute to the elucidation of the mechanism of ischemic injury and to the establishment of new therapies for neuroprotection. Life Sci. 2007 Feb 27;80(12):1087-93. Epub 2006 Dec 5. Preconditioning with hyperbaric Oxygen induces tolerance against oxidative injury via increased expression of heme Oxygenase-1 in primary cultured spinal cord neurons Department of Aerospace Hygiene and Health Service, School of Aerospace Medicine, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710032, China. Abstract Hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) preconditioning can induce ischemic tolerance in the spinal cord. The effect can be attenuated by the administration of an Oxygen free radical scavenger or by inhibition of antioxidant enzymes. However, the mechanism underlying HBO preconditioning of neurons against ischemic injury remains enigmatic. Therefore, in the present study primary cultured spinal cord neurons were treated with HBO and then subjected to a hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) insult. The results show that H(2)O(2) stimulation of the cultured spinal neurons caused severe DNA damage and decreased cell viability, and that these neurons were well protected against damage after a single exposure to HBO preconditioning (0.35 MPa, 98% O(2), 37 degrees C, 2 h). The protective effect started 4 h after pretreatment and lasted for at least 24 h. The cultured neurons after HBO treatment also exhibited increased heme Oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression at both the protein and mRNA levels, which paralleled the protective effect of HBO. Treatment with tin-mesoporphyrin IX (SnMP), a specific HO-1 inhibitor, before HBO pretreatment abolished the HBO-induced adaptive protection noted in the cultured spinal neurons. In conclusion, HBO preconditioning can protect primary cultured spinal cord neurons against oxidative stress, and the upregulation of HO-1 expression plays an essential role in HBO induced preconditioning effect. Adv Ther. 2005 Nov-Dec;22(6):659-78. Hyperbaric Oxygen in the treatment of patients with cerebral stroke, brain trauma, and neurologic disease Life Support Technologies, Inc., and NewTechnologies, Inc., The Mount Vernon Hospital, Westchester Medical Center, New York Medical College, New York, USA. Abstract Hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) therapy has been used to treat patients with numerous disorders, including stroke. This treatment has been shown to decrease cerebral edema, normalize water content in the brain, decrease the severity of brain infarction, and maintain blood-brain barrier integrity. In addition, HBO therapy attenuates motor deficits, decreases the risks of sequelae, and prevents recurrent cerebral circulatory disorders, thereby leading to improved outcomes and survival. Hyperbaric Oxygen also accelerates the regression of atherosclerotic lesions, promotes antioxidant defenses, and suppresses the proliferation of macrophages and foam cells in atherosclerotic lesions. Although no medical treatment is available for patients with cerebral palsy, in some studies, HBO therapy has improved the function of damaged cells, attenuated the effects of hypoxia on the neonatal brain, enhanced gross motor function and fine motor control, and alleviated spasticity. In the treatment of patients with migraine, HBO therapy has been shown to reduce intracranial pressure significantly and abort acute attacks of migraine, reduce migraine headache pain, and prevent cluster headache. In studies that investigated the effects of HBO therapy on the damaged brain, the treatment was found to inhibit neuronal death, arrest the progression of radiation-induced neurologic necrosis, improve blood flow in regions affected by chronic neurologic disease as well as aerobic metabolism in brain injury, and accelerate the resolution of clinical symptoms. Hyperbaric Oxygen has also been reported to accelerate neurologic recovery after spinal cord injury by ameliorating mitochondrial dysfunction in the motor cortex and spinal cord, arresting the spread of hemorrhage, reversing hypoxia, and reducing edema. HBO has enhanced wound healing in patients with chronic osteomyelitis. The results of HBO therapy in the treatment of patients with stroke, atherosclerosis, cerebral palsy, intracranial pressure, headache, and brain and spinal cord injury are promising and warrant further investigation. THE AMERICAN SURGEON   Vol. 71  Issue 2  Feb  2005 Adjuvant hyperbaric Oxygen therapy in the management of crush injury and traumatic ischemia: an evidence-based approach Department of Surgery, Tulane University School of Medicine and Charity Hospital, New Orleans, Louisiana 70112, USA. ABSTRACT Hyperbaric Oxygen therapy (HBO) has been recommended as an adjunct treatment in acute traumatic ischemia and crush injury . Several animal models have shown better outcomes when HBO is used in crush injury and compartment syndrome. Animal and in vitro models have suggested that these beneficial effects may be mediated by attenuation of ischemia-reperfusion injury. We did a systematic review of the literature using the Eastern Association for the Surgery of Trauma (EAST) recommendations for evidence-based reviews. An electronic search using Medline, OVID technologies, and the Cochrane database was performed. Only clinical papers published between 1966 and December 2003 with at least five patients that included enough information to evaluate were selected. A group of trauma experts reviewed the selected articles and scored them applying the instrument developed by the EAST practice management guidelines committee. Nine documents fulfilled the inclusion criteria for a total of approximately 150 patients. Most documents were retrospective, uncontrolled, and case series lacking a standardized methodology (class III). There was one prospective controlled randomized trial with some limitations on its design. We determined that eight of nine studies showed a beneficial effect from HBO with only one major complication. We concluded that adjunctive HBO is not likely to be harmful and could be beneficial if administered early. Well designed clinical studies are warranted. Mt Sinai J Med. 2005 Nov;72(6):381-4. Successful treatment of cervical spinal epidural abscess by combined hyperbaric Oxygenation Department of Neurosurgery and Division of Hyperbaric Medicine, University Hospital of Occupational and Environmental Health, Iseigaoka, Yahatanishi-ku, Kitakyushu 807-8555, Japan. k-kohshi@clnc.uoeh-u.ac.jp Abstract A 49-year-old man underwent hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) therapy for the treatment of primary spinal epidural abscess. Although the epidural abscess was initially treated with antibiotic (cefozopran) for 5 days, he subsequently developed motor weakness, paresthesia and urinary retention. MRI demonstrated spinal cord compression at the C1-C4 level. HBO therapy was added to the antibiotic regimen, and three days later we found clinical evidence of a response to treatment. Neurological symptoms were relieved 13 days after HBO therapy. This case suggests that HBO therapy is an effective therapeutic adjunct for the treatment of spinal epidural abscess. Neuroreport. 2004 Oct 25;15(15):2369-73. Effects of hyperbaric Oxygen on GDNF expression and apoptosis in spinal cord injury Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Nagoya University School of Medicine, 466-8500 Nagoya, Japan. Abstract The effects of hyperbaric Oxygen treatment on the progress of secondary damage following traumatic spinal cord injury were investigated. The early onset of hyperbaric Oxygen treatment significantly diminished the number of apoptotic cells 1 day after the injury. However, hyperbaric Oxygen did not influence the proliferation of macrophages or activated microglia. The gene expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and inducible nitric oxide synthetase (iNOS) was significantly attenuated 1 day after the injury in the hyperbaric Oxygen groups compared with the control group. The down-regulation was confirmed by immunohistochemical staining. Early hyperbaric Oxygen treatment was shown to effectively suppress the progress of apoptosis perhaps via the inhibition of iNOS gene despite the down-regulation of the GDNF gene. Acta Neurochir Suppl. 2003;86:433-8. Multiple hyperbaric Oxygenation (HBO) expands the therapeutic window in acute spinal cord injury in rats Department of Anesthesiology, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi, USA. Abstract Hyperbaric Oxygenation (HBO) therapy has been reported to improve neurological recovery following spinal cord injury (SCI). In the present study, we examined whether multiple HBO expands the therapeutic window for acute SCI. Single HBO (2.8 ATA, 1 hour) treatment was used at 30 minutes, 3 hours, and 6 hours following SCI, and serial HBO treatment (once daily for 1 week) at 6 hours and 24 hours post-injury. Mild SCI was induced by adjusting the height for a weight drop insult (10 g) to 6.25 mm above the exposed spinal cord. The group of animals receiving a single HBO intervention beginning at 30 minutes and 3 hours, or serial HBO treatment starting at 6 hours following the injury had a significantly better neurological recovery than animals with SCI only. The results of this study demonstrate that multiple HBO expands the therapeutic window for acute SCI to 6 hours after injury, further that serial HBO administration is superior to single HBO therapy. Anesthesiology. 2002 Apr;96(4):907-12. Preconditioning with hyperbaric Oxygen and hyperoxia induces tolerance against spinal cord ischemia in rabbits Department of Anesthesiology, Xijing Hospital of the Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, China. Abstract The aim of this study was to determine if the ischemic tolerance could be induced in the spinal cord by pretreatment with hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) and what components of HBO (hyperoxia, hyperbaricity, and combination of these two) were critical in the induction of tolerance against ischemic injury. METHODS: In experiment 1, 21 rabbits were randomly assigned to one of three groups (n = 7 each): animals in the control group received no HBO before spinal cord ischemia; animals in the HBO-1 and HBO-2 groups received HBO (2.5 atmosphere absolute [ATA], 100% O2) pretreatment 1 h/day for 3 and 5 days before ischemia, respectively. In experiment 2, 48 rabbits were randomly assigned to one of four groups (n = 12 each): the control group received no HBO (21% O2, 1 ATA, 1 h/day, 5 days) before spinal cord ischemia; the HB group received 1-h treatment in 21% O2 at 2.5 ATA each day for 5 days; the HO group received 1-h treatment in 100% Oxygen at 1 ATA each day for 5 days; and the HBO group received HBO (2.5 ATA, 100% O2) treatment 1 h/day for 5 days. Twenty-four hours after the last treatment, spinal cord ischemia was induced by an infrarenal aorta clamping for 20 min. Forty-eight hours after reperfusion, hind-limb motor function and histopathology of the spinal cord were examined in a blinded fashion. RESULTS: In experiment 1, the neurologic outcome in the HBO-2 group was better than that of the control group (P = 0.004). The number of normal neurons in the anterior spinal cord in the HBO-2 group was more than that of the control group (P = 0.021). In experiment 2, the neurologic and histopathologic outcomes in the HBO group were better than that of the control group (P < 0.01). The histopathologic outcome in the HO group was better than that in the control group (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Serial exposure to high Oxygen (100%) tension induced ischemic tolerance in spinal cord of rabbits. Simple hyperbaricity (2.5 ATA, 21% O2) did not induce ischemic tolerance. J Orthop Sci. 2001;6(5):385-9. Prediction of neurologic outcome in patients with spinal cord injury by using hyperbaric Oxygen therapy Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Toyama Medical and Pharmaceutical University, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama 930-0194, Japan. Abstract The effectiveness of hyperbaric Oxygen therapy (HBO) in predicting neurological recovery in patients with spinal cord injury was evaluated. HBO has been used to treat spinal cord injury. This is the first report of the use of HBO as a diagnostic tool to evaluate neurological recovery after spinal cord injury. The study group consisted of 22 patients, aged 21-73 years, with spinal cord injuries. The effect of HBO was evaluated on admission and categorized as one of four grades (excellent, good, fair, or poor). The neurological status was evaluated on admission and at the time of follow-up, according to Frankel grade and the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) motor score. Correlations between the HBO effect and Frankel grade recovery and correlations between the HBO effect and recovery rate of the ASIA motor score were evaluated. The recovery in Frankel grade from admission to the final follow-up became better as the effectiveness of HBO increased (r = 0.445; P = 0.0414). The Frankel grade (r = 0.036; P = 0.871) and ASIA motor score (r = 0.029; P = 0.893) on admission did not correlate with the recovery in Frankel grade. There was a significant correlation between the HBO effect and the recovery rate of the ASIA motor score (r = 0.586; P = 0.0072), but this correlation was weaker than that for the ASIA motor score on admission (r = 0.752; P = 0.0006). We conclude that HBO can be employed to assess the status of spinal cord function recovery after spinal cord injury. Crit Care Med. 2001 Apr;29(4):814-8. Hyperbaric Oxygen therapy given 30 minutes after spinal cord ischemia attenuates selective motor neuron death in rabbits Department of Anesthesiology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. Abstract Spinal cord ischemia sometimes causes paraplegia because the spinal motor neuron cells are vulnerable to ischemia. Although various protective remedies for spinal cord injury have been reported, there have been few established clinical methods. Although hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) has been used clinically as a treatment for ischemia, the reason for its effectiveness is still uncertain because sufficient experimental data are lacking. Twenty-three Japanese white rabbits, weighing 2-3 kg. A modified rabbit spinal cord ischemia model of infrarenal aortic occlusion for 15 mins was employed. Rabbits were randomly assigned to four groups; the rabbits in group A did not undergo ischemic insults (n = 5). The rabbits in groups B and C underwent ischemic insult for 15 mins, followed by 1 hr of HBO treatment at 3 atm absolute with 100% Oxygen at 30 mins (n = 6) or 6 hrs (n = 7) after reperfusion, respectively. The rabbits in group D underwent ischemic insult for 15 mins without HBO treatment (n = 5). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: We observed neurologic functions for 14 days. The sections of the spinal cords were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, and the number of spinal motor neurons in ventral region was counted by light microscopy. All rabbits in groups A and B could stand, whereas all rabbits in groups C and D showed irreversible paraplegia on days 2 and 14 after reperfusion. Spinal motor neurons in ventral gray matter in groups C and D decreased significantly compared with those in groups A and B. CONCLUSIONS: HBO therapy shortly after ischemic insult had protective effects against ischemic spinal cord damage. However, delayed treatment with HBO did not change the prognosis. Spinal Cord. 2000 Sep;38(9):538-40. Hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) therapy for acute traumatic cervical spinal cord injury Department of Neurosurgery, Tokyo Metropolitan Ebara Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. Abstract A retrospective study of spinal cord injury (SCI) treated with and without hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) therapy. METHODS: Thirty-four cases of hyperextension spinal cord injury without bone damage and previous history of surgical intervention were divided into two groups, with (HBO) or without (non-HBO) therapy. The neurological findings at admission and their outcomes were evaluated by means of Neurological Cervical Spine Scale (NCSS)1 and the average improvement rates in individual groups were compared. RESULTS: The improvement rate ranged from 100% to 27.3% with the mean value of 75. 2% in the HBO group, while these values were 100%, 25.0% and 65.1% respectively in the non HBO group. CONCLUSION: In the HBO group, the improvement rate indicated effectiveness in acute traumatic cervical spinal cord injury. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Dec;30(6):1158-61. Hyperbaric Oxygenation treatment of acute paraplegia after resection of a thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm Department of Vascular and Transplantation Surgery, Prince of Wales Hospital, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. Abstract Acute spinal cord ischemic injury after resection of thoracoabdominal aneurysm remains a relatively common and potentially devastating complication. The complete resolution of postoperative paraplegia after resection of a type II thoracoabdominal aneurysm, after treatment with hyperbaric Oxygenation, is reported. Spinal Cord. 1997 Nov;35(11):763-7. Prediction of the surgical outcome for the treatment of cervical myelopathy by using hyperbaric Oxygen therapy Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Toyama Medical and Pharmaceutical University, Japan. Abstract The effectiveness of hyperbaric Oxygen therapy (HBO) in predicting the recovery after surgery in patients with cervical compression myelopathy was evaluated. HBO has been used to treat brain and spinal cord diseases, but the effect is generally temporary. This is the first paper to utilize HBO as a diagnostic tool to evaluate the functional integrity of the spinal cord. The study group consisted of 41 cervical myelopathy patients aged 32-78 years. Before surgery, the effect of HBO was evaluated and was categorized as four grades. The severity of the myelopathy and the recovery after surgery were evaluated by the score proposed by the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA score). The correlation between many clinical parameters including the HBO effect and the recovery rate of JOA score was evaluated. The recovery rate of JOA score was found to be 75.2 +/- 20.8% in the excellent group, 78.1 +/- 17.0% in the good group, 66.7 +/- 21.9% in the fair group and 31.7 +/- 16.4% in the poor group. There was a statistically significant correlation between the HBO effect and the recovery rate of the JOA score after surgery (r = 0.641, P < 0.0001). The effect of HBO showed a high correlation with the recovery rate after surgery as compared to the other investigated parameters. HBO can be employed to assess the chance of recovery of spinal cord function after surgical decompression. Magn Reson Imaging. 1991;9(3):423-8. Magnetic resonance imaging of hyperbaric Oxygen treated rats with spinal cord injury: preliminary studies Department of Radiology, University of Texas Medical School, Houston 77030. Abstract Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been performed to assess the efficacy of hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) treatment on experimental spinal cord injury in a rat animal model. A moderately severe injury, similar to Type III injury seen in humans (Kulkarni et al. Radiology 164:837;1987) has been chosen for these studies. An improvement in the neurologic recovery (based on Tarlov scale) has been observed following HBO treatment over a period of 72 hr. Based on MRI, HBO treatment appears to arrest the spread of hemorrhage and resolve edema. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi (Taipei). 1989 May;43(5):307-16. Hyperbaric Oxygen therapy in clinical application. A report of a 12-year experience Abstract Hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) has become a useful treatment in clinical diseases. All the treatment profiles (Death/Time) were performed under the safe limit of unit pulmonary toxicity dose (UPTD). Between June 1976 and December 1987, we had treated 1288 cases with HBO. The effective rates (cure or improvement) were 97.5% for decompression sickness, 96.3% for chronic osteomylitis, 90% for chronic skin ulcer, 89.4% for crush injury, 81.3% for gas intoxication, 76.1% for burn injury, 73.3% for cerebrovascular accident, 57.1% for gas gangrene, 50% for retinal artery insufficiency, and 45.5% for head or spinal cord injury. Only 3 patients suffered from Oxygen toxicity and relieved immediately. To the serious decompression sickness, the comparative study between the conventional treatment table and our modified table revealed increased cure rate (25.8% versus 50.0%, P less than 0.05), and decreased recurrence rate (16.1% versus 4.1%, P less than 0.05). In burn patients with 35-70% area involved and 15-45 years of age, the comparative analysis showed a reduced mortality rate of 6.8% for the HBO treated group as opposed to 14.8% for the non-HBO treated group, P less than 0.05. Cent Nerv Syst Trauma. 1984 Winter;1(2):161-5. The use of hyperbaric Oxygen to modify the effects of recent contusion injury to the spinal cord Yeo JD . Abstract Studies on the experimental spinal contusion injury in animals confirm that posttraumatic ischemia contributes to central cystic necrosis or fibrosis occurring at the level of the spinal cord lesion. Hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) modifies the degree and extent of the pathology in the spinal cord of the experimental animals. HBO has been used for 45 patients with recent spinal cord injuries. The extent of recovery in 27 patients with upper motor neuron lesions treated with adequate HBO is reported. Fifteen of the 27 patients had useful functional recovery. Zh Nevropatol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 1984;84(5):682-7. Therapeutic use of hyperbaric Oxygenation in lesions of the spinal cord [Article in Russian] Abstract Hyperbaric Oxygenation (HBO) in a pressure chamber with an Oxygen pressure of up to 2.8 absolute atmospheres administered to patients with various lesions of the spinal cord (trauma sequelae, discogenic ischemic myelopathy, states after tumor removal, etc.,) was frequently followed by a more or less pronounced regression of the existent neurological symptomatology. Pelvic and motor functions as well as sensitivity and reflexes returned to normal and the pain syndromes were alleviated. The therapeutic response to HBO is directly dependent on the role played by reversible functional lesions of the spinal cord in the general picture of the disease. Undersea Biomed Res. 1980 Dec;7(4):305-20. Therapeutic effects of hyperbaric Oxygen and dimethyl sulfoxide following spinal cord transections in rats Gelderd JB , Welch DW , Fife WP , Bowers DE . Abstract Thirty adult, male, Long-Evans hooded rats underwent spinal cord transections at the T5 vertebral level. Following surgery, animals were separated into three groups: Group I received only normal postoperative care; Group II received daily hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) treatments for 47-54 consecutive days ; Group III received the same HBO treatment as Group II in addition to subcutaneous injections of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for 10 consecutive days. All animals were killed 60-70 days postlesion. The lesioned area of spinal cord was removed and prepared for light and electron microscopy. Group I animals showed typical scar reduction of cavitations, increased scarring, and more nerve fibers within the lesion. Three animals in this group exhibited coordinated hindlimb movement, with one animal showing weight-bearing ability. The lesion sit in group III animals revealed a reduction in collagen formation and a further increase in the number of nerve fibers. Six animals in Group III showed coordinated hindlimb movements; among these two displayed weight-bearing ability and sensory return. J Neurosurg. 1981 Oct;55(4):501-10. Effects of hyperbaric Oxygen therapy on long-tract neuronal conduction in the acute phase of spinal cord injury Higgins AC , Pearlstein RD , Mullen JB , Nashold BS Jr . Abstract To study the acute effects of hyperbaric Oxygen ventilation (HBO) on long-tract function following spinal cord trauma, the authors employed a technique for monitoring spinal cord evoked potentials (SCEP) as an objective measure of translesion neuronal conduction in cats subjected to transdural impact injuries of the spinal cord. Control animals subjected to injuries of a magnitude of 400 or 500 gm-cm occasionally demonstrated spontaneous return of translesion SCEP within 2 hours of injury when maintained by pentobarbital anesthesia and by ventilation with ambient room air at 1 atmosphere absolute pressure (1 ATA). Animals sustaining corresponding injuries but receiving immediate treatment with HBO at 2 ATA for a period of 3 hours following impact demonstrated variable responses to this treatment modality. Animals sustaining injuries of 400 gm-cm magnitude showed recovery of translesion SCEP in four of five cases, while animals sustaining injuries of 500 gm-cm magnitude responded to HBO treatment by recovery of SCEP no more frequently than did control animals. When the onset of HBO therapy was delayed by 2 hours following impact, there appeared to be no demonstrable protective effect on long-tract neuronal conduction mediated by HBO alone. The observations suggest that HBO treatments can mediate preservation of marginally injured neuronal elements of the spinal cord long tracts during the early phases of traumatic spinal cord injury. These protective effects may be based upon the reversal of focal tissue hypoxia, or by reduction of tissue edema. HBO treatment markedly diminished the protective effects of HBO on long-tract neuronal conduction following traumatic spinal cord injury. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1981 Jul-Aug;6(4):315-35. Spinal cord injury. Review of basic and applied research de la Torre JC . Abstract This review examines, in a condensed manner, many of the major achievements related to spinal cord injury research during the last quarter century. Most of the advances have been made within the past 10 years. They include such basic and clinical tools as evoked potentials, regional and local spinal blood flows, neurophysiologic monitoring systems, and methods that detail the morphology and contents of cord tissue. Much of the experimentation conducted within the last 25 years has provided a better understanding and clinical therapeutic approach to the injured spinal cord than at any time before. Such work has exposed significant aspects in the biochemistry and vascular mechanics associated with trauma to the cord. A growing and intriguing area of spinal injury research lies in probing the factors related to neuronal plasticity and regeneration of the cord tissue. This review also examines the role of experimental animal models as well as the clinical and experimental therapies available for acute and chronic spinal cord injury. Surg Neurol. 1981 Feb;15(2):85-7. The clinical application of hyperbaric Oxygen therapy in spinal cord injury: a preliminary report Abstract While reports of the beneficial effects of hyperbaric Oxygen therapy in experimental use appear in the literature, there have been no reports of clinical trials with hyperbaric Oxygen therapy of acute spinal cord injury. A series of treatment protocols have thus been designed for treatment of acute spinal cord injury utilizing hyperbaric Oxygen. The study has been in progress for the last two years and involved more than 50 patients; results from the therapy trial in 25 patients over the last 18 months will be presented in this preliminary report. Hyperbaric Oxygen therapy was generally initiated approximately 7 1/2 hours following injury. Pretreatment and posttreatment motor scores were compared with those of patients given conventional therapy for acute spinal cord injury. Under these circumstances, patients receiving hyperbaric Oxygen therapy appeared to recover more quickly, although their final motor scores were about the same as those of patients receiving conventional therapy. Thus, alter the time course of recovery, perhaps without altering the final neurological outcome. J Neurosurg Nurs. 1980 Sep;12(3):155-60. Acute spinal cord injury and hyperbaric Oxygen 