Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Urinary Infection Treatment - Natural UTI Treatment with D-Mannose. Contact Us | About Us | Site Map D-Mannose Homepage Cystitis Info & Treatment Bladder Infection Treatment Urine Infection Treatment Why Natural Treatment? Frequently Asked Questions Urine Infection Urinary Tract Infection Treatment We give you the lowdown on urinary tract infections, their symptoms, causes and how D-Mannose naturally treats them. What is a Urinary Tract Infection? Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) are very common, with 1 in 5 women likely to suffer a urinary tract infection at least once in their lives, with many having recurrent infections. The bacteria E. coli are the most common bacteria responsible for the occurrence of a urine infection, likely to be the case in up to 90% of cases. Causes of a Urine Infections/Urinary Tract Infections This bacterium normally resides in the bowel but will cause the symptoms of urinary tract infections if it manages to reach the bladder via the urethra (tube that transports urine from the bladder outside of the body). The reason it is so much more common in women over men, is that the urethra is much shorter in women and the opening is closer to the anus than it is in men. UTIs and the battle of Good vs Bad Bacteria Once in the bladder, the bacteria are able to cause the symptoms associated with a UTI because it attaches itself to the bladder wall which in turn causes irritation and inflammation. This is the pain or discomfort you feel if you have this troublesome condition. Factors that may raise the risk of developing a urinary tract infection: Dehydration due to low water intake as reduced urine flow cannot efficiently wash away the 'bad' bacteria Lower levels of 'good' bacteria in urinary tract often due to previous antibiotic therapy, so reduced protection Sexual intercourse Delayed urination after sexual intercourse Diaphragm & spermicidal use for contraception Bladder and urethra lining becomes weaker and more susceptible to infections after the menopause Signs & Symptoms of Urinary Tract Infection Sudden onset Burning or painful when passing urine, usually with only small amounts Frequent & urgent need to pass urine (often during the night) Abdominal or lower back pain (pain in the side too) Fever, chills or nausea Tiredness Sexual intercourse may cause pain Cloudy or darker urine than usual (occasionally accompanied with strong odour) Blood may be passes in 30% of cases Protection from urine infections The urinary tract has several mechanisms for reducing the likelihood of infection by pathogens such as E. coli. As discussed above the two major ones are adequate urine flow to was away these bacteria and 'friendly' or 'beneficial' bacteria, also known as probiotics, which should naturally reside in the urinary tract and vagina and act like our 'internal soldiers' preventing 'bad' bacteria from getting a foothold. If these defences are not in place or are not sufficiently strong enough and a bladder infection develops. How is a urinary tract infection treated? Occasionally the irritation caused by urinary tract infections will go away without specific treatment by drinking plenty of water. However, if the infection has been there for more 2 days or more, it is crucial that it be treated with either antibiotics or am effective home or natural remedy for urinary tract infections, as it is possible for the bacteria causing the infection, like E. coli, to continue travelling further up the urinary tract to the kidney, which may then cause a kidney infection which is much more serious. Treatment for Urinary Tract Infections The most common medical treatment for urinary tract infections is antibiotic therapy. This aims to kill off bacteria and is usually a 5-7 day course. However, it is not without its side effects, namely reducing numbers of the 'friendly' bacteria, which can make infections in the future more likely as your 'internal soldiers' are reduced. Furthermore, resistance to antibiotics due to overuse mean that they do not always work as effectively. Natural remedies for urine infections Natural treatments are therefore the preferred option. Cranberry juice is one well known option but as most commercial brands have added sugar, drinking large amounts is not ideal as it may feed the bacteria you are trying to get rid of! A less well known but highly effective natural treatment for urinary tract infections is D-Mannose. This glyconutrient (a type of healthy natural sugar) has been studied in recent years and has been found to have similar receptors (a type of slot) as those on the inside of the bladder wall which is what bacteria, particularly E. coli, attach onto and irritate the area. Because of this, having a plentiful supply of D-Mannose in the urine mean that the bacteria attach to the D-Mannose rather than the bladder wall and will then be passed out via the urine, hence resolving the symptoms. D-Mannose for Bladder Infection Treatment You can buy D-Mannose with free first class delivery from JustBuyOnline at the link below. We've  recommended JustBuyOnline for buying D-Mannose online. With trusted customer service and free delivery and it will be sent out the same day if ordered by 4pm. Pri