Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cure for Anxiety - All Natural Solutions Latest Updates Common Questions Herbs A - Z Common Herbs Health Conditions A-Z Common Conditions References [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Cure for Anxiety - All Natural Solutions Natural cure for anxiety from clinical pharmacists The articles below provide complete information in an easy-to-understand format on natural ways of managing anxiety disorders and panic attacks. The COMPLETE List of Supplements for Anxiety Foods for Anxiety - What to Eat and What to Avoid Home Remedies for Anxiety Relief Vitamin B for Anxiety Passionflower for Anxiety Magnesium for Anxiety Zinc for Anxiety Melatonin for Anxiety Lemon Balm for Anxiety 5-HTP for Anxiety Fish Oil for Anxiety SAM-e for Anxiety Lavender for Anxiety Valerian for Anxiety Theanine for Anxiety Lysine for Anxiety Introduction to Anxiety Disorder Anxiety disorders and panic attacks seriously affect the work and social life of many individuals with these conditions. Anxiety is a normal way for the body to respond to danger. It prepares the body to deal with real emergencies. It causes the mind to become more alert and prepares the body to either "fight" or run away (the flight or flight response). However, when anxiety symptoms are present constantly or that they interfere with our daily activities or relationships, the condition becomes an anxiety disorder. Anxiety disorder is a broad term that includes social anxiety disorder (SAD), obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), phobia and post traumatic stress disorder. Causes of Anxiety The exact causes of anxiety and panic attack is unknown. Genetics - Experts have theorized that genetic factors may play a role in the development of anxiety disorders. For example, a person is more likely to suffer from anxiety disorder if they have a relative who suffers from it. Panic disorder is even more linked genetically. In a person who suffers from panic attack, there is a 50% chance that one of their relatives suffered from it as well. Alcohol Abuse, Medications and Drugs - Chemicals such as caffeine, illegal drugs (such as cocaine) and stimulants (such as Ritalin) can trigger anxiety and panic attacks. Existing Health Problems - Generalized anxiety disorders can stem from pre-existing health problems that involve the heart, lungs or glands. Once these conditions are properly treated, the level of anxiety will drop. Mental Disorders - Psychiatric disorders such as depression or psychosis tends to worsen a person's anxiety level and may trigger panic attacks. Nutritional Deficiencies - Some health professionals believe that they may be caused by (or at least made worse by) nutritional deficiencies such as vitamin B's and magnesium. Food Allergies - Some experts believe that certain cases of panic attacks may be related to food allergies. There is a link between anxiety disorder and depression. Those who have a history of depression, or have suffered from depression previously seems to be more prone to anxiety disorder. Depression is known to make anxiety worse. Symptoms of Anxiety and Panic Attack Common  symptoms of anxiety include: Restlessness Constant worry Grinding of the teeth Jaw pain Feeling of hopelessness Chronic frustration Continuous tension Inability to cope Irritability Feeling of turmoil Sometimes, anxiety disorders can result in panic attacks which are overwhelming and intense fears. Symptoms of panic attack may include: Rapid and pounding heart Sweating Shortness of breath Tremors Stomach discomfort Dizziness Muscle tension and headaches Insomnia Fatigue Anxiety disorder is not just a condition in the mind. The body actually respond as if the person is experiencing a real emergency. Various Treatment Options Prescription Medications Prescription medications for anxiety and panic attacks are effective but many people suffer from annoying side effects such as drowsiness, fatigue and addiction risks. Having said that, it may be a necessary first step for those who suffer from such severe anxiety or panic attacks that they are unable to go to work or function at home. Natural Remedies and Natural Supplements There are many natural supplements, both vitamins, minerals and herbs, that can be effectively used as a natural cure for anxiety. These remedies for anxiety have been traditionally used for thousands of years by the Asians. Passionflower is one example. Psychological Treatment Trained psychologists and psychiatrists can use techniques such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) to treat anxiety disorders. As well, Emotional Freedom Technique (EFT) has be reported to be one of the several effective cure for anxiety disorders. Cure for Anxiety with Alternative Medicine Massage therapy, acupuncture and aromatherapy can be helpful to reduce stress. Reducing stress will decrease the severity and frequency of panic attacks. These treatment methods focus on the entire body to restore balance to the body and mind. They can be (and should be) combined with the other methods discussed here. Regular Exercises - Not a cure for anxiety but it really helps... A daily exercise routine will calm the mind and relax the body. It can be very helpful for those who suffer from panic attacks. If you currently do not have an exercise routine, start with a 15 or 20 minute morning walk three or more times a week. You can listen to relaxing or meditation music to make your walk more enjoyable and help to keep your mind away from negative or distracting thoughts. Take a course in yoga or meditation. They are known to have a very positive health effect on the mind and body. Breathing Exercises Special breathing techniques can be very helpful in stressful situations. With some basic training and practice, it can help to prevent panic attacks and lower anxiety levels. Recommendations The treatment of anxiety disorder may require you to take multiple approaches. Natural supplements such Purecalm is always recommended over using habit-forming prescription medications for treating anxiety. This combination natural remedies have little to no side effects and is not habit-forming. Get
More Information on PureCalm Related
  Articles and Resources for  Cure for Anxiety PureCalm - An Effective Natural Remedy for Anxiety The Complete List - Natural
Supplements for Anxiety Stress Management Tips Return to A-Z Health Conditions References
for Cure for Anxiety Revised: March 11, 2011 Use the search box below to
quickly find what you are looking for! Ho