Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

include './comments/include.php'; 
?> Uses of Aloe Vera - Medicinal Uses of Aloe Vera - Aloe Vera Uses Home Makeup Aromatherapy Body Care Skin Problems Dental Care Eyebrows Hair Care Hair Loss Homemade Recipes Laser Hair Removal Skin Care Uses of Aloe Vera and Its Benefits Uses of Aloe Vera Aloe vera and Aloe barbadensis are the plants commonly referred to as ALOE. The family of this plant is a commonly used botanical medicine and is widely known throughout the western world. Many people have aloe plants in their homes as part of their décor. Others use aloe frequently for the treatment of skin injuries or include it as a common component in their first aid kits. A piece of the plant can be snipped or cracked off to reveal an exuding gel that has wonderful medicinal properties, including wound healing. The effect of aloe on the large intestine is primarily as a cathartic laxative. This action is the result of the anthroquinone glycosides, which are abundant in the latex of the Aloe Vera. These compounds influence motility of the colon and stimulate propulsive contractions resulting in accelerated intestinal passage. In addition, because of the shortened contraction time, a reduction in liquid absorption occurs. Active chloride secretion is also stimulated, thereby increasing the water and electrolyte content of the stool. The filling pressure of the bowels is also increased, causing stimulation of intestinal peristalsis. Aloe Vera plant is a single plant, offering varied benefits. It is a much sought after medical and cosmetic product that is available today as aloe Vera products. Aloe has medicinal properties that can be utilized to treat a variety of disorders. Aloe is most widely known for the treatment of skin complaints and for gastrointestinal disorders. However, there are other lesser known conditions for which aloe may be quite useful. Aloe can be used to treat various dermatologic conditions such as lichen planus, various wounds and burns. It contains a polysaccharide called glucomannan, which yields anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and vulnerary properties. A controlled clinical trial in patients with full face dermabrasion showed that wound healing was significantly improved when dressings were treated with stabilized Aloe Vera. Another controlled clinical trial in patients with partial thickness burn wounds was conducted using a dressing treated with either aloe or Vaseline. Patients receiving the aloe treatment demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in healing time versus those receiving Vaseline therapy. Conditions for which aloe has been found useful include; diabetes, tuberculosis, atheromatous heart disease, and aphthous stomatitis. Even more impressive is the wide reaching effect of aloe in the treatment of solid tumors such as cancers of the lung and breast, brain glioblastomas and GI tract tumors. Experts suggest that a combination of pineal indole melatonin plus Aloe Vera tincture may produce some therapeutic benefits, concerning the survival and stabilization of disease in patients with advanced solid tumors, for whom no other standard effective therapy is available. Also, patients undergoing higher cumulative doses of radiation therapy may benefit from topical aloe use. It appears that patients using a particular soap preparation containing aloe observed a protective effect on their skin while undergoing radiation therapy. Internal aloe administration should not be used if a patient has hemorrhoids, tenesmus, or any irritation of the colon. It should never be administered with gastrointestinal inflammatory conditions such as Ulcerative Colitis, Crohn's disease, gastritis and enteritis. Additionally, aloe should not be taken in cases of intestinal obstruction. Aloe should also be avoided by females who are pregnant and/or nursing, as the anthroquinones can be passed through the breast milk. Patients with renal disorders should not take aloe because of the possibility of an associated kidney inflammation. Children under twelve should never take aloe due to the loss of water and electrolytes, as well as the incidence of abdominal pain of an unknown origin. Aloe leaf can increase bowel transit time, reducing the absorption of certain oral drugs. Overuse can also lead to electrolyte depletion, especially, potassium loss which can increase the toxicity of specific pharmaceuticals, including: antiarrhythmic drugs, cardiac glycoside drugs and botanicals (Adonis, Convallaria, Urginea, Helleborus, Strophanthus, Digitalis), thiazide diuretics, corticosteroids, and Glycyrrhiza glabra. Potassium depletion can result in muscle weakness and increased constipation. Hemorrhoids can occur with prolonged use. The general recommendation of most medical practitioners is to use aloe internally and no longer than 8-10 consecutive days. An overdose may cause vomiting, intestinal spasms, kidney inflammation, bloody diarrhea, and mesenteric plexus damage. Hence, proper prescription from an expert is advised. Aloevera Pure Aloe Vera Gel Aloe Vera Juice Aloe Vera Skin Products Uses of Aloe Vera Aloevera Acne Nail Care Skin Problems Celebrities Tips Dental Care Eyebrows Hair Care Hair Loss Homemade Recipes Laser Hair Removal Skin Care Copyright © 2008 BeautyMakeupTips.org. All Rights Reserved. Beauty Tips, Makeup Tips, 