Date: Thu, 23 Feb 2012 09:55:16 GMT
X-Varnish: 908154552
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Markham's Behavioral Health: Medications Markham's Behavioral Health A confluence of topics dealing with mental health, substance abuse, health, public health, Social Work, education, politics, the humanities, and spirituality at the micro, mezzo, and macro levels. In short, this blog is devoted to the improvment of the quality of life of human beings in the universe. Involuntary outpatient mental health treatment in New York State, Kendra's law, may be a model for others Chris Jenkins wrote a good article in yesterday's, 12/30/07, Washtington Post about involuntary outpatient mental health treatment. In New York State there is such a law known as Kendra's law and it appears to be successful. It is being looked at closely by other states such as Virginia as a model to replicate. Susan Wezel had been committed to the city's hospital wards more than a dozen times in 10 years. Her psychosis was so deep and debilitating that she lost her career and her relationship with her son, as she refused to take her medication or follow treatment. But because of a New York state law, Wezel hasn't been hospitalized in more than a year. She doesn't wander the streets alone at night anymore. She takes her medication willingly. She even has plans to follow her dream of singing at a neighborhood nightspot, something that was unthinkable 18 months ago. Wezel and her caseworker agree that the transformation occurred because of the law, which allowed officials to force Wezel into an outpatient treatment program after she was discharged from a hospital. Known as Kendra's Law, it is considered one of the most far-reaching mental health statutes in the country. It gives great latitude to doctors, social workers and relatives to take mentally ill people before a judge to force them into treatment, and it provides money for clinical services. If you are interested in involuntary outpatient mental health treatment, the article is worth reading. Link: N.Y. Law Raises Issues of States' Reach in Patient Care - washingtonpost.com . December 31, 2007 in Behavioral health policy , Forensic behavioral health , Medications , Mental Health , Professional knowledge and skills , Public health , Social Policy , Society | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (1) Honey eases nighttime cough, improves kids' sleep There has been a lot of criticism recently about over the counter cold preparations for children. Reuters reported on December 3, 2007, on a study which appears in the December, 2007 issue of the Journal of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine which found that honey works better as a cough supressant than cough syrups with dextromethorphan. Here is a brief snippet of the Reuters article: A spoonful of honey can quiet children's nighttime cough and help them -- and their parents -- sleep better, a new study shows. When compared to the cough syrup ingredient dextromethorphan or no treatment, honey came out on top. "The results were so strong that we were able to say clearly that honey was better than no treatment and dextromethorphan was not," Dr. Ian M. Paul of Pennsylvania State University in Hershey, one of the study's authors, told Reuters Health. There is currently no proven effective treatment for cough due to an upper respiratory infection like the common cold. While dextromethorphan is widely used, there is no evidence that it works, and it carries risks. A little further down the article says: Honey isn't recommended for infants younger than one year old, because of the rare but serious risk it might cause a type of food poisoning known as botulism, Paul said in an interview. For older kids, however, it is generally safe. He and his colleagues used a dosage identical to that recommended for cough syrups: half a teaspoon for two- to five-year-olds, a teaspoon for six- to eleven-year-olds, and two teaspoons for children twelve and older. So the next time the little tikes have a cough, like Pooh bear, get out the honey pot and give your darling a teaspoon of honey. How sweet it is. Link: MedlinePlus: Honey eases nighttime cough, improves kids' sleep . December 11, 2007 in Children and adolescents , Marriage and family , Medications , Professional knowledge and skills , Public health | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) 20% of Americans without adequate health care coverage according to the CDC The CDC, Center for Disease Control, in press release on December 3, 2007 reported that 1 in 5 Americans, 40 million people, cannot get the medical care which they need. Nearly one in five U.S. adults – more than 40 million people – report they do not have adequate access to the health care they need, according to the annual report on the nation’s health released today by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The report, “Health, United States, 2007,” is a compilation of more than 150 health tables prepared by CDC’s National Center for Health Statistics. The report also contains a special section focusing on access to care, which shows that nearly 20 percent of adults reported that they needed and did not receive one or more of these services in the past year – medical care, prescription medicines, mental health care, dental care, or eyeglasses – because they could not afford them. Meanwhile the Bush administration and the Democrat congress are spending billions of dollars a year on an immoral, pre-emptive war in Iraq, and the wealthiest 1% of Americans are enjoying their tax cuts. This is not just a political issue but a moral issue which demonstrates the deficiency in social justice in the United States. Even though some people have health insurance, they are facing up to 30% premium increases next year, and plans are increasingly going to an "experience rating" system, meaning that premiums will be based on previous health care utilization rather than on a community rating basis. Health care for all Americans should be a major campaign issue in the O8 Presidential campaign. Link: CDC Press Release - December 03, 2007 . December 10, 2007 in Campaign issues 2008 , Cultural indicators , Current Affairs , Marriage and family , Medications , Public health , Social Policy , Society | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) Exercise on par with drugs for aiding depression Reuters reported on September 19, 2007 on a study in the September, 2007 issue of the journal Psychosomatic Medicine that found that exercise is as effective as antidepressants in treating major depression in patients 40 and older. Regular exercise may work as well as medication in improving symptoms of major depression, researchers have found. In a study of 202 depressed adults, investigators found that those who went through group-based exercise therapy did as well as those treated with an antidepressant drug. A third group that performed home-based exercise also improved, though to a lesser degree. Importantly, the researchers found, all three groups did better than a fourth group given a placebo -- an inactive pill identical to the antidepressant. Link: MedlinePlus: Exercise on par with drugs for aiding depression . September 21, 2007 in Medications , Mental Health , Professional knowledge and skills | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) Pain medicine use has nearly doubled The Associated Press reported on August 20, 2007 that pain medicine use has nearly doubled between 1997 and 2005. The use of OxyContin manufactured by Purdue Pharma has jumped six fold between 1997 and 2005. Pharma executives were recently pled guilty to lying to patients, physicians, and federal regulators about the addictive nature of the drug. While the use of opiate pain killers has a legitimate place in the treatment of pain, they also have been increasingly abused and people have become addicted such as Rush Limbaugh and Bret Favre. At the substance abuse agency where I work we are seeing a big increase in prescription pain medicine abuse and addiction. OxyContin gained notoriety in the Appalachian states of West Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennesee where it was called "hillbilly heroin." Studies have shown that emergency room visits for painkiller abuse has increased by 160% since 1995. In the last four years the DEA has prosecuted 108 physicians for the inappropriate prescribing of pain killing drugs. Of the 108, 83 pleased guilty or no contest while 16 others were convicted by juries. 8 cases are still pending and 1 physician is a fugitve. Be careful with the pain killers. The pain they cause can be worse than the pain they alleviate. Link: AP: Pain medicine use has nearly doubled - Yahoo! News . August 20, 2007 in Criminal justice , Current Affairs , Medications , Mental Health , Professional knowledge and skills , Public health , Social Policy , Society , Substance abuse | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) What's the real deal with Gardasil, the vaccine for cervical cancer? In early August, 2007, Matthew Rothchild, the editor of the Progressive Magazine, interviewed Judith Siers-Poisson about the PR push by Merck pharmaceuticals to market Gardasil , its vaccine against cervical cancer caused by HPV. Ms. Siers-Poisson provides fascinating information about how Merck has marketed this vaccine with the help of the Edleman Public Relations firm and Merck's poltical lobbyists. It is a fascinating story told in about 25 minutes. It is well worth listening to. You can download a MP3 file of the broadcast by clicking on the link below. Link: Judith Siers-Poisson Interview | The Progressive . August 09, 2007 in Children and adolescents , Current Affairs , Marriage and family , Medications , Professional knowledge and skills , Public health , Radio | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) Prozac saves more lives from suicide than it alledgedly causes Primary Sources, a feature of the The Atlantic Magazine, has a brief article on a study done comparing the suicide rate with the prescription of Prozac which found that Prozac seems to save more lives from suicide than it has been alledged to cause. Since 2004, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has warned that taking antidepressants may increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children and adolescents. So should Prozac and Zoloft be pulled from the shelves? Not necessarily, suggests a new study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research. The authors examined the effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), the most commonly taken class of antidepressant, on “completed suicide” rates (as opposed to suicidal tendencies and attempted suicides) over 25 years in 26 countries. They found that an increase in antidepressant sales of one pill per capita (about a 12 percent increase over the sales levels for 2000 in the countries surveyed) correlated with a suicide-mortality decline of about 5 percent. The authors argue that randomized clinical trials—the basis for the FDA’s findings—are a poor way to examine the relationship between SSRIs and suicide-completion rates, because the samples are too small to yield meaningful results and because such trials “exclude those at highest risk for suicide.” (Most clinical trials, for instance, avoid enrolling patients with a history of suicide attempts.) SSRIs, the study contends, are a cost-effective measure against suicide: An additional $20,000 spent on them will avert one suicide death, a cost per life saved% Link: Primary Sources . June 20, 2007 in Medications , Mental Health , Professional knowledge and skills | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) Morning meditation - Tourist or pilgrim? When people retire they often say that they are going to "travel". What is "traveling"? I picture the obnoxious tourist with the flowered shirt and the camera around his neck gawking at the sights. Some friends of ours would describe their travels in terms of the restaurants where they ate as they moved across the country. Other people describe the great shopping they engaged in. Some talk about the amusement parks or other entertainment venues they  visited. The more cultured and refined talk about the museums or historic places they visited. In the spiritual life, people are more likely to approach travel as a "pilgrimage" rather than as a tourist. The spiritual  pilgrim is looking for an experience of inner appreciation and growth rather than to be entertained or amused. The pilgrim appreciates the history of the place and the meaning it has had for the lives of  the people in that area as well as often well beyond. Some places seem to be "sacred" in that they lead to reverence, awe, gratitude, and humility. So by all means travel if you are so inclined and use the experience as a pilgrim seeking understanding and enlightenment not as a tourist merely looking for excitement, stimulation, and amusement which rather than enlighten can leave a person jaded once their appetite for adventure has been sated. June 16, 2007 in Medications , Spirituality | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) Morning meditation - Emptiness can be the window to the divine Emptiness is useful. Emptiness makes the window in the house, the recess in the cup, the space between the musical notes, the pause that draws our attention to the speaker, the sense of centeredness in a busy day, the space for recollection when we are overstimulated. Emptiness is the elixir of the spiritual life because it side steps the ego and for a moment we are free of the monkey mind which demands our attention, the vanity which clouds our perception, the pre-occupation with our self which interferes with our ability to appreciate the Tao, the Godhead, Mother Nature. When the world presses in on us and puts us in the spot light, the call of the Tao pulls us forward, backward, aside and whispers to us to follow it and not be captured center stage. Feeling the pull of the divine energy we are attracted to its flow and prefer not to get bogged down in ego related concerns. We sense that there are bigger and better things to do, ways to be, fish to fry than to be the focus of adulation which only lasts a minute and can become more addictive than the most powerful drug. The person living the spiritual life knows that emptiness is the window to the divine and pays attention not to what the world says is important, but to that small inner voice of spirit that calls us to something much more. May 24, 2007 in Medications , Spirituality | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) Using Nicotine Patch Before Quit Date Ups Success According to a Reuters Health Day report published on November  19, 2006, smokers who start on a nicotine patch at least two weeks prior to their quit date will double their chances of quitting smoking as compared to people who wait to use the patch on their quit date. Giving nicotine patches a two-week "head start" more than doubles the chances they'll help smokers kick the habit, research finds. A U.S. team found that by applying the patch 14 days before that last cigarette, users greatly boosted their long-term success rate. The initial study was published earlier this year in the journal Nicotine and Tobacco Research , and a second trial has now replicated those findings, according to Jed E. Rose, medical research professor and director of Duke University's Center for Nicotine Cessation Research. He led the original study and is co-inventor of the nicotine patch. Link: MedlinePlus: Using Nicotine Patch Before Quit Date Ups Success . February 08, 2007 in Medications , Professional knowledge and skills , Public health , Substance abuse | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) « | » Subscribe to this blog's feed Add me to your TypePad People list Donate Pay Pal Donate Recent Posts Markham's Behavioral Health moving from Typepad to Blogspot President Dwight D. Eisenhower warns Americans about military-industry complex 12% of United States troops in Iraq and 17% of troops in Afghanistan are on anti-depressants Pediatric drug samples unsafe practice 1/4 - 1/3 of females in the United States military are raped by their fellow soldiers Longer term psychotherapy works according to a study published in JAMA Counter recruiting of Army of None Purpose of marriage video 1 Take The Client Where They're At Children in U.S. 3xs more likely to be prescribed psychotropic medications than in Europe Blogs I like GCASA Cares GCASA Cares is a weblog which I contribute to on a regular basis. It deals with Substance Abuse issues: both treatment and prevention. Chalicefire A blog written by a team at Pullman Memorial Universalist Church in Albion, NY. Well worth reading regularly Dare To Dream Mr. David Earl Johnson, MSW, LICSW is a very experienced Psychiatric Social Worker and has a great blog and web site loaded with a lot of information. Pay his blog a visit. Medical Web Blogs This is a great source for what's being discussed on numerous medically oriented web blogs. Books Worth Reading Paul Auster: Man in the Dark: A Novel See review posted 10/01/08 Paul Auster: The Brooklyn Follies: A Novel I recommend. See review posted on 09/01/08 William P. Young: The Shack See review posted on 08/31/08 James Devita: The Silenced I recommend this book. See review posted on 08/30/08 Naomi Klein: The Shock Doctrine: The Rise of Disaster Capitalism A book every American should read Edward Ugel: Money for Nothing: One Man's Journey Through the Dark Side of Lottery Millions Quick read. Beach book. See review posted on 07/22/08 Ian Mcewan: On Chesil Beach See review posted on 07/08/08 Bryant Welch: State of Confusion: Political Manipulation and the Assault on the American Mind See post on 06/19/08 Kerry Cohen: Loose Girl: A Memoir of Promiscuity See article posted on 06/19/08 Rick Shenkman: Just How Stupid Are We?: Facing the Truth About the American Voter Interesting and plausible thesis. Light on evidence. Pete Jordan: Dishwasher: One Man's Quest to Wash Dishes in All Fifty States (P.S.) See review posted on 05/31/08 Kurt Vonnegut: Armageddon in Retrospect See review posted 05/18/08 John Grisham: The Appeal See review posted on 05/11/08 Jeffrey Kottler and Jon Carlson: Bad Therapy: Master Therapists Share Their Worst Failures Review posted on 04/22/08 James Howard Kunstler: World Made by Hand: A Novel i recommend. See brief review posted on 04/20/08 Janis Amatuzio: Forever Ours: Real Stories of Immortality and Living from a Forensic Pathologist See review posted on 02/18/08 Anne Enright: The Gathering (Man Booker Prize) See review posted 02/17/08 Richard Russo: Bridge of Sighs See review posted on 02/12/08 John Grisham: The Innocent Man I recommend. See review posted on 12/20/07 Donald B. Kraybill: Amish Grace: How Forgiveness Transcended Tragedy Excellent book. I highly recommend. See review posted on 12/16/07 Alice Sebold: The Almost Moon: A Novel See review posted 12/09/07 M. J. Hyland: Carry Me Down See review posted on 12/09/07 Mark Penn: Microtrends: The Small Forces Behind Tomorrow's Big Changes There will be numerous articles on this blog referencing this book. To find them click on Microtrends under categories. Riane Eisler: The Chalice and the Blade: Our History, Our Future See review posted on 09/29/07 Stephen Gaskin: An Outlaw in My Heart: A Political Activist's User's Manual Great book. I recommend. See review posted 09/21/07 Art Tirrell: The Secret Ever Keeps See review posted on 09/12/07 Jeanette Winterson: Weight: The Myth of Atlas and Heracles (Myths, The) See review posted on 08/05/07 Sara Gruen: Water for Elephants: A Novel A fun read. See review posted on 06/24/07. I recommnd Christopher Hitchens: God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything I recommend this book. Mary O'Connell: Living with Saints See reviewed posted on 06/18/07. I recommend this book. Archives January 2009 October 2008 September 2008 August 2008 July 2008 June 2008 May 2008 April 2008 March 2008 February 2008 More... Categories 40 years Back story Baloney watch Behavioral health policy Books Borderline parenting Bumper Stickers Campaign issues 2008 Capitalism out of control Children and adolescents Conceptual models Context Criminal justice Cultural indicators Current Affairs Death penalty Easterbrook Education Either laugh or cry Elderhood Face of poverty Faith in our future Fiction Film Food and Drink Forensic behavioral health Gambling Gerontology Getting it wrong Good news Got it right Happy Humor It's been quite a week Lessons learned from clients Marriage and family Media Medications Mental Health Microtrends Militarism Morning meditation Music Mystification Obesity Outcomes Overheard in Rochester Area Peace studies Perpetration Induced Stress Platform of rationality Poetry Professional knowledge and skills Psychotherapy Public health Quotes Radio Reflections Religion Reproductive rights Resources Restorative justice Saints among us Science Service Smoking Social Policy Society Soldiers Of Conscience Spirituality Substance abuse Television The Commons Therapy stories Things they don't want you to know Torture Travel Truth and reconciliation Web/