Connection: Close

Whooping Cough: The 100-Day Cough Is Making a Comeback -  | University of Louisville Hospital Home Visit Our Website Contact Us University of Louisville Hospital » University of Louisville Hospital blogs » Whooping Cough: The 100-Day Cough Is Making a Comeback Monday, December 13, 2010 by Melissa Deaver Have you ever heard of Pertussis ? Chances are you might know it better by its more common name: The "Whooping Cough." At that, you still might not know much about the Whooping Cough because it's commonly thought to be an outdated illness. But it's not. In fact, there are some facts about this highly contagious disease that you might not know about that could impact you and/or your loved ones - regardless of age! Get the facts about the Whooping Cough below from one of our registered nurses, Pam Nolting, MSN, ICP. Pam works in Infection Control at University of Louisville Hospital . Thank you, Pam, for taking time to educate us about this dangerous disease that's on the rise! You may have experienced fitful nights as a child with an awful cough, or cared for a young family member during a prolonged sleepless illness from the Whooping Cough. With young children routinely immunized now, public concern for contracting the illness has lessened.  But, in reality, Whooping Cough has been on the rise in pre-teens and teens. Also, contrary to popular belief, adolescents and adults can also contract Whooping Cough, primarily due to a waning of the immunity they once had from their last pre-kindergarten pertussis immunization, or from having actually had the disease. Whooping Cough is a highly contagious, acute infectious disease of the respiratory tract that can occur at any age.  It is caused by a bacterium found in the mouth, nose and throat of an infected person.  The illness is most severe in children and potentially deadly in infants who have not been immunized. Whooping Cough starts with cold-like symptoms (runny nose, low-grade fever, and a mild, occasional cough). After 1-2 weeks, there are bursts of numerous rapid fits of cough - followed by a gasping breath that sounds like a high-pitched whoop (hence it gets its name Whooping Cough). This stage can last up to 10 weeks. Recovery is gradual, and fits of coughing usually lessen over an additional 2-3 weeks. The illness can truly last 100 days. Adolescents and adults can also become infected, but they often have a milder illness ranging from no symptoms to a mild cough, or the classic pertussis with persistent cough. An adult with a cough lasting more than 7 days without improvement should check with their health care provider. Even though the disease may be milder, infected older persons may transmit the disease to other susceptible persons in the family, workplace and/or community. Older persons are often the first case in a household with multiple Whooping Cough cases. To prevent the disease, you can make sure you and your loved ones are up to date with the recommended whooping cough vaccines – a five-dose DTaP series for infants and children, and a DTaP for adolescents and adults.  If caring for an infant, keep him or her away from anyone with a cough or cold symptoms. Your doctor can decrease spreading the disease with an antibiotic, although the course of the disease will not lessen. If you think your infant has whooping cough, please see a doctor immediately. To learn more, you may call the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at 800-CDC-INFO. You can also click here and read these fast facts from the CDC, too. Tweet « Previous Post Next Post » Comments for Whooping Cough: The 100-Day Cough Is Making a Comeback Monday, December 13, 2010 by samantha: i hate it being like this i hate coughs... i hope i dont get it... Tuesday, December 14, 2010 by Melissa: Hi Samantha! 

Thank you for reading this article and taking the time to write us about it. Whooping Cough definitely can be a cause for concern - especially if you don't know much about it. We care about you and the community and that’s why we sincerely hope this article has helped you by explaining more about the disease, listing the symptoms to watch out for and providing you links to the CDC if you want to know more. It’s our honor to be of service to you.

Take care,
Melissa Leave a comment We welcome your comments on this story below. Please know that while we encourage and embrace an open discussion, for compliance reasons we must moderate comments and it may be a short time before your comment appears. We do not censor fair and constructive criticism, but know that we reserve the right to not publish your comment if it is off-topic, contains insensitive language or inferences or in any way violates or exposes any other person's personal contact or medical information. Please leave an accurate email address should we have any questions or concerns with your comment. Your email address will not be shared or published. We do not publish anonymous comments. Name Email Your comment (No HTML) Type the text from the image below Search This Blog Recent Entries Dr. Goetz Kloecker’s Story: Removing Barriers to Healthcare for Patients March is Sexual Assault Awareness Month in Kentucky Hurry - We Need More Votes - Today Last Day to Vote! Dr. Goetz Kloecker’s Story: Progress Through Education Local Artist Honors Wife, Supports James Graham Brown Cancer Center Healing Blankets from Assumption High School Help Tornado Victims Tornado Survivor Stephanie Decker Leaves Hospital Stephanie Decker Backs Relief Fund For Fellow Tornado Survivors Dr. Goetz Kloecker’s Story: Friendship and Hope are Keys to Successful Treatment and Recovery Daylight Savings Time Can Create Health Problems Subscribe to this blog That's an RSS feed. Just click on it to receive content updates. Categories « View All Categories » Breast Cancer Resources Breast Cancer Specialists Cancer Treatment Hospitals Caregiver Help Emergency Room Louisville Healthcare Cancer Kentucky Cancer Center Louisville Healthcare Louisville Kentucky Hospital Neurology Treatment Signs of a Mild Stroke Signs of a Stroke in Women Trauma Treatment for Strokes What Causes a Stroke © 2010 U of L Health Care | 530 S. Jackson Street | Louisville, KY 40202 |