
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 10:26:51 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8l PHP/5.3.4
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.4
Cache-Control: max-age=60
Expires: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 10:27:51 GMT
MS-Author-Via: DAV
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Found CAT view, CRITICALLY APPRAISED TOPICs CATs Home What is a CAT? Search CATs Library Submit a CAT Clinical CAT videos Evidence-based Practice Program Dental School Home Skip Navigation University: Home | Calendar | Maps CATs Home What is a CAT? Search CATs Library Submit a CAT Clinical CAT videos Evidence-based Practice Program Dental School Home ORAL HEALTH EVIDENCE-BASED PRACTICE PROGRAM View the CAT printer-friendly / share this CAT Title School-Based Sealant Programs And Caries Incidence Clinical Question In elementary school children, are school-based sealant programs effective in decreasing caries incidence compared to children not receiving sealants? Clinical Bottom Line School-based sealant programs are effective in decreasing caries incidence, however patient age and initial condition of tooth surfaces to be sealed directly affect sealant outcome. Also, pit and fissure sealants are best used as an adjunct to other caries preventative procedures. Best Evidence (you may view more info by clicking on the PubMed ID link) PubMed ID Author / Year Patient Group Study type (level of evidence) #1) 14761173 van Wyk PJ, et al./2004 Three age groups were selected; 119 six year olds, 139 twelve year olds, 127 fifteen year olds. Cohort Study Key results “Pit and fissure sealants are an effective adjunct to other caries preventative procedures.” According to this article, the results showed that the dmft in the primary dentition in the six-year-old group did not differ significantly from the dmft of the control group. #2) 19884392 Gooch BF, et al./2009 Children and adolescent participants in school-based sealant programs. Practice guidelines/Expert opinion Key results It was noted that while sealants are effective in preventing the development of dental caries, differences between the recommendations for sealant use in clinical versus school settings is different. Clinicians must consider caries risk at the level of the school and community. Furthermore, the context for making decisions in clinical care and in School-based sealant programs differs due to the availability of diagnostic and treatment services.Based upon the guidelines updated by the expert work group, School-based sealant programs are supported such that they remain appropriate, feasible and based on the best scientific evidence. #3) 18353204 Azarpazhooh A., Main PA./2008 Patients aged 0 to 18 years old Systematic Review Key results It was found that sealant placement is highly recommended on children following eruption of molar teeth. Furthermore it was determined that resin-based sealants are more effective than glass-ionomer cements at preventing dental caries. Lastly, it is clear that following satisfactory placement of sealants, there is reduction of caries increments. Evidence Search Search ("School Health Services"[Mesh] AND "Dental Caries"[Mesh]) AND "Pit and Fissure Sealants"[Mesh] Limits: Search ("School Health Services"[Mesh] AND "Dental Caries"[Mesh]) AND "Pit and Fissure Sealants"[Mesh]	Search "School Health Services"[Mesh] AND "Dental Caries"[Mesh] Comments on The Evidence 1. Pubmed ID 14761173 This study design was a Cohort Study in which groups were similar at the start of the study. There was not a >90% completion rate. It was not stated whether or not the groups were treated the same. There was adequate follow-up. This was not a double-blind study. Compliance was adequate, recall bias was unlikely, and there were no identifiable competing interests.The dmft score in the six-year-old group was 1.74 compared to the control group which was 1.43 (p=0.49). The DMFT in the twelve-year-old group was 0.42 compared to the control group which was 1.07 (p=0.0384). The DMFT in the fifteen-year-old group was 0.59 compared to the control group which was 2.38 (p=.0001).  2. Pubmed ID: 19884392This study was considered an expert opinion that entailed a comprehensive detailed search for relevant trials. Individual studies were not assessed for validity. A total of twenty-eight studies were reviewed and patient number is unknown. A meta-analysis was performed. Applicability The types of patients this information is most applicable to include school-aged children susceptible to dental caries.  The use of dental sealants is applicable in the settings of both school-based programs as well as general dental providers.  There are no potential harms as a result of dental sealants in school-aged children. Potential benefits include increased caries resistance following sealant placement. Factors that might limit the effectiveness of sealants in school-aged children include the quality dental materials used, and/or the methods by which sealants are placed. Specialty/Discipline (Public Health) Keywords sealants, caries, preventative dentistry ID# 533 Date of submission: 05/10/2010 E-mail fischerjc@livemail.uthscsa.edu Student Author James Fischer Co-author(s) Co-author(s) e-mail Faculty mentor/Co-author David P. Cappelli Faculty mentor/Co-author e-mail CAPPELLI@uthscsa.edu Comments on the CAT (FOR PRACTICING DENTISTS' and/or FACULTY COMMENTS ON PUBLISHED CATs) post a comment None available Return to Found CATs list CATs | Dental School | The University of Texas Health Science Center | Mission Statement | Faculty Information Accessibility | Public/Personal Information | Web Privacy | Web Use | Disclaimer Links from web sites affiliated with The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio's web site (www.uthscsa.edu) to other websites do not constitute or imply university endorsement of those sites, their content, or products and services associated with those sites. Contact: hernandezmr@uthscsa.edu Updated: November 4, 2011 Copyright © 2012 