
National Diabetes Statistics, 2011 - National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Site Map | FAQS | Contact NIDDK | National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse (NDIC) A service of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) , National Institutes of Health (NIH) SEARCH Advanced Search NDIC Home Diabetes Info Statistics Clinical Trials Resources Order About Us Español National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse Publications Tools and Resources Newsletters Alternate Version Print PDF Version (640 KB) * Also see: Chronic Kidney Disease and Kidney Failure (Yesterday, Today & Tomorrow: NIH Research Timelines) (from the National Institutes of Health) Diabetes, Type 1 (Yesterday, Today & Tomorrow: NIH Research Timelines) (from the National Institutes of Health) Diabetes, Type 2 (Yesterday, Today & Tomorrow: NIH Research Timelines) (from the National Institutes of Health) Subscribe to Diabetes Dateline Go Health Information Services National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse National Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases Information Service National Hematologic Diseases Information Service Weight-control Information Network Education Programs National Diabetes Education Program National Kidney Disease Education Program Awareness Campaigns Let’s Talk About Bowel Control Celiac Disease Awareness Campaign Bladder Control for Women We Can! Ways to Enhance Children’s Activity & Nutrition Home : Diabetes A-Z List of Topics and Titles : National Diabetes Statistics, 2011 National Diabetes Statistics, 2011 Fast Facts on Diabetes Estimation Methods Diagnosed and Undiagnosed Diabetes among People Ages 20 Years or Older, United States, 2010 Diagnosed and Undiagnosed Diabetes Diagnosed Diabetes Diagnosed Diabetes among People Younger than 20 Years of Age, United States, 2010 Racial and Ethnic Differences in Diagnosed Diabetes New Cases of Diagnosed Diabetes New Cases of Diagnosed Diabetes among People Younger than 20 Years of Age, United States, 2002–2005 Prediabetes Prediabetes among People Ages 20 Years or Older, United States, 2010 Gestational Diabetes in the United States Treatment of Diabetes Deaths among People with Diabetes, United States, 2007 Estimated Diabetes Costs in the United States, 2007 Complications of Diabetes in the United States Heart Disease and Stroke Hypertension Blindness and Eye Problems Kidney Disease Nervous System Disease Amputations Dental Disease Complications of Pregnancy Other Complications Preventing Diabetes Complications Glucose Control Blood Pressure Control Control of Blood Lipids Preventive Care Practices for Eyes, Feet, and Kidneys General Information What is diabetes? Types of Diabetes Treating Diabetes Prevention or Delay of Type 2 Diabetes Acknowledgments Citation Fast Facts on Diabetes Diabetes affects 25.8 million people of all ages 8.3 percent of the U.S. population DIAGNOSED 18.8 million people UNDIAGNOSED 7.0 million people Among U.S. residents ages 65 years and   older, 10.9 million, or 26.9 percent, had   diabetes in 2010. About 215,000 people younger than   20 years had diabetes—type 1 or type 2—in the United States in 2010. About 1.9 million people ages 20 years or   older were newly diagnosed with diabetes   in 2010 in the United States. In 2005–2008, based on fasting glucose or  hemoglobin A1C (A1C) levels, 35 percent   of U.S. adults ages 20 years or older had   prediabetes—50 percent of adults ages   65 years or older. Applying this percentage  to the entire U.S. population in 2010  yields an estimated 79 million American  adults ages 20 years or older with  prediabetes. Diabetes is the leading cause of kidney  failure, nontraumatic lower-limb amputations,  and new cases of blindness among  adults in the United States. Diabetes is a major cause of heart disease and stroke. Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of  death in the United States. [ Top ] Estimation Methods The estimates in this fact sheet were derived from various data systems of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Indian Health Service's (IHS's) National Patient Information Reporting System (NPIRS), the U.S. Renal Data System of the
National Institutes of Health (NIH), the U.S. Census Bureau, and published studies. The estimated percentages and the total number of people with diabetes and prediabetes were derived from 2005–2008 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES),
2007–2009 National Health Interview Survey, 2009 IHS data, and 2010 U.S. resident population estimates. The diabetes and prediabetes estimates from NHANES were applied to the 2010 U.S. resident population estimates to derive the estimated number of adults with diabetes or prediabetes. The methods used to generate the estimates
  for the fact sheet may vary over time and need
  to be considered before comparing fact sheets.
  In contrast to National Diabetes Statistics, 2007 ,
  which used fasting glucose data to estimate
  undiagnosed diabetes and prediabetes, National Diabetes Statistics, 2011 uses both fasting
  glucose and A1C levels to derive estimates
  for undiagnosed diabetes and prediabetes.
  These tests were chosen because they are most
  frequently used in clinical practice. Detailed information about the data sources,
  methods, and references are available at www.cdc.gov/diabetes/pubs/references11.htm . [ Top ] Diagnosed and Undiagnosed Diabetes among People Ages 20 Years or Older, United States, 2010 Group Number or percentage who have diabetes Ages 20 years or older 25.6 million, or 11.3 percent, of all people in this age group Ages 65 years or older 10.9 million, or 26.9 percent, of all people in this age group Men 13.0 million, or 11.8 percent, of all men ages 20 years or older Women 12.6 million, or 10.8 percent, of all women ages 20 years or older Non-Hispanic whites 15.7 million, or 10.2 percent, of all non-Hispanic whites ages 20 years or older Non-Hispanic blacks 4.9 million, or 18.7 percent, of all non-Hispanic blacks ages 20 years or older Sufficient data are not available to estimate the total prevalence of diabetes—diagnosed and undiagnosed—for other U.S. racial/ethnic minority populations. [ Top ] Diagnosed and Undiagnosed Diabetes Source: 2005–2008 National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey [ Top ] Diagnosed Diabetes Diagnosed Diabetes among
People Younger than 20 Years of
Age, United States, 2010 About 215,000 people younger than 20 years
  have diabetes—type 1 or type 2. This represents
  0.26 percent of all people in this age
  group. Estimates of undiagnosed diabetes are
  unavailable for this age group. [ Top ] Racial and Ethnic Differences in Diagnosed Diabetes National estimates of diagnosed diabetes for 
  some but not all minority groups are available 
  from national survey data and from the IHS 
  NPIRS, which includes data for about 1.9 million 
  American Indians and Alaska Natives in 
  the United States who receive health care from 
  the IHS. Differences in diabetes prevalence by 
  race/ethnicity are partially attributable to age
  differences. Adjustment for age makes results
  from racial/ethnic groups more comparable. Data from the 2009 IHS NPIRS indicate that
    14.2 percent of American Indians and Alaska
    Natives ages 20 years or older who received
    care from the IHS had diagnosed diabetes.
    After adjusting for population age differences,
    16.1 percent of the total adult population
    served by the IHS had diagnosed diabetes, with
    rates varying by region from 5.5 percent among
    Alaska Native adults to 33.5 percent among
    American Indian adults in southern Arizona. After adjusting for population age differences,
    2007–2009 national survey data for people
    ages 20 years or older indicate that 7.1 percent
    of non-Hispanic whites, 8.4 percent of
    Asian Americans, 11.8 percent of Hispanics/
    Latinos, and 12.6 percent of non-Hispanic blacks had diagnosed diabetes. Among
    Hispanics/Latinos, rates were 7.6 percent for
    both Cuban Americans and for Central and
    South Americans, 13.3 percent for Mexican
    Americans, and 13.8 percent for Puerto Ricans. Compared with non-Hispanic white adults, the
    risk of diagnosed diabetes was 18 percent
    higher among Asian Americans, 66 percent 
    higher among Hispanics/Latinos, and
    77 percent higher among non-Hispanic
    blacks. Among Hispanics/Latinos compared with non-Hispanic white adults, the risk of
    diagnosed diabetes was about the same for
    Cuban Americans and for Central and South
    Americans, 87 percent higher for Mexican
    Americans, and 94 percent higher for Puerto
    Ricans. [ Top ] New Cases of Diagnosed Diabetes Source : 2007–2009 National Health Interview Survey
estimates projected to the year 2010 [ Top ] New Cases of Diagnosed Diabetes among People Younger than 20 Years of Age, United States, 2002–2005 SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth is a multicenter 
  study funded by the CDC and the NIH 
  to examine diabetes—type 1 and type 2—among children and adolescents in the United
  States. SEARCH findings for the communities
  studied include the following: During 2002–2005, 15,600 youth were newly diagnosed with type 1 diabetes annually, and 3,600 youth were newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes annually. Among youth ages younger than 10 years, the rate of new cases was 19.7 per 100,000 each year for type 1 diabetes and 0.4 per 100,000 for type 2 diabetes. Among youth ages 10 years or older, the rate of new cases was 18.6 per 100,000 each year for
type 1 diabetes and 8.5 per 100,000 for type 2 diabetes. Non-Hispanic white youth had the highest 
		  rate of new cases of type 1 diabetes—24.8
		  per 100,000 per year among those younger
		  than 10 years and 22.6 per 100,000 per
	    year among those ages 10–19 years. Type 2 diabetes was extremely rare among
          youth ages younger than 10 years. While
          still infrequent, rates were greater among
        youth ages 10–19 years than in younger children, with higher rates among U.S.
minority populations than in non-Hispanic
whites. Among non-Hispanic white youth ages
	  10–19 years, the rate of new cases was
	  higher for type 1 than for type 2 diabetes.
	  For Asian/Pacific Islander Americans and
	  American Indian youth ages 10–19 years,
	  the opposite was true—the rate of new
	  cases was greater for type 2 than for type 1
	  diabetes. Among non-Hispanic black and
	  Hispanic/Latino youth ages 10–19 years,
	  the rates of new cases of type 1 and type 2
	  diabetes were similar. Source: SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study NHW=non-Hispanic whites; NHB=non-Hispanic blacks; H=Hispanics/Latinos; API=Asian/Pacific Islander Americans; AI=American Indians [ Top ] Prediabetes Prediabetes among People Ages 20 Years or Older, United States, 2010 Prediabetes is a condition in which 
  individuals have blood glucose, also called
  blood sugar, or A1C levels higher than
  normal but not high enough to be classified
  as diabetes. People with prediabetes
  have an increased risk of developing
  type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and stroke. Studies have shown that people with prediabetes
who lose weight and increase
their physical activity can prevent or delay
type 2 diabetes and in some cases return
their blood glucose levels to normal. In 2005–2008, based on fasting glucose
  or A1C levels, 35 percent of U.S. adults
  ages 20 years or older had prediabetes—50 percent of those ages 65 years or older.
  Applying this percentage to the entire
  U.S. population in 2010 yields an estimated
  79 million Americans ages 20 years
  or older with prediabetes. On the basis of fasting glucose or A1C levels,
        and after adjusting for population age
        differences, the percentage of U.S. adults
        ages 20 years or older with prediabetes in
        2005–2008 was similar for non-Hispanic
        whites, 35 percent; non-Hispanic blacks, 35 percent; and Mexican Americans,
        36 percent. Using a different data source than for
        other race/ethnicity groups, a different
        age group, and a different definition on
        the basis of fasting glucose levels only, and
        after adjusting for population age differences,
        20 percent of American Indians
        ages 15 years or older had prediabetes in
        2001–2004. [ Top ] Gestational Diabetes in the United States Reported rates of gestational diabetes range from 2 to 10 percent of pregnancies. Immediately after pregnancy, 5 to 10 percent
      of women with gestational diabetes
      are found to have diabetes, usually type 2. Women who have had gestational diabetes
      have a 35 to 60 percent chance of developing
      diabetes in the next 10–20 years. New diagnostic criteria for gestational
       diabetes will increase the proportion of
       women diagnosed with gestational diabetes.
       Using these new diagnostic criteria,
       an international, multicenter study of
       gestational diabetes found that 18 percent
       of the pregnancies were affected by gestational
       diabetes. [ Top ] Treatment of Diabetes Source: 2007–2009 National Health Interview Survey Among adults with diagnosed diabetes—type 1 or type 2—12 percent take insulin only,
14 percent take both insulin and oral medication,
58 percent take oral medication only, and
16 percent do not take either insulin or oral
medication. [ Top ] Deaths among People with Diabetes, United States, 2007 Diabetes was the seventh leading cause
of death based on U.S. death certificates
in 2007. This ranking is based on the
71,382 death certificates in 2007 in which
diabetes was the underlying cause of
death. Diabetes was a contributing cause
of death in an additional 160,022 death
certificates for a total of 231,404 certificates
in 2007 in which diabetes appeared
as any-listed cause of death. Diabetes is likely to be underreported as
a cause of death. Studies have found that
about 35 to 40 percent of decedents with
diabetes had it listed anywhere on the
death certificate and about 10 to 15 percent
had it listed as the underlying cause
of death. Overall, the risk for death among people
with diabetes is about twice that of people
of similar age but without diabetes. [ Top ] Estimated Diabetes Costs in the United States, 2007 Total costs—direct and indirect $174 billion Direct medical costs $116 billion—after adjusting
for population age and sex
differences, average medical
expenditures among people
with diagnosed diabetes were
2.3 times higher than what
expenditures would be in the
absence of diabetes Indirect costs $58 billion—disability, work
loss, premature mortality Medical expenses for people with diabetes
are more than 2 times higher than for people
without diabetes. [ Top ] Complications of Diabetes in the United States Heart Disease and Stroke In 2004, heart disease was noted on 68 percent of diabetes-related death certificates among people ages 65 years or older. In 2004, stroke was noted on 16 percent of diabetes-related death certificates among people ages 65 years or older. Adults with diabetes have heart disease death rates about 2 to 4 times higher than adults without diabetes. The risk for stroke is 2 to 4 times higher among people with diabetes. [ Top ] Hypertension In 2005–2008, of adults ages 20 years
or older with self-reported diabetes,
67 percent had blood pressure greater
than or equal to 140/90 millimeters of
mercury (mmHg) or used prescription
medications for hypertension. [ Top ] Blindness and Eye Problems Diabetes is the leading cause of new cases of blindness among adults ages 20–74 years. In 2005–2008, 4.2 million—28.5 percent—people with diabetes ages 40 years or
	  older had diabetic retinopathy, and of
	  these, 655,000—4.4 percent of those with
	  diabetes—had advanced diabetic retinopathy
	  that could lead to severe vision loss. [ Top ] Kidney Disease Diabetes is the leading cause of kidney
failure, accounting for 44 percent of all
new cases of kidney failure in 2008. In 2008, 48,374 people with diabetes
began treatment for end-stage kidney
disease. In 2008, a total of 202,290 people with
end-stage kidney disease due to diabetes
were living on chronic dialysis or with a
kidney transplant. [ Top ] Nervous System Disease About 60 to 70 percent of people with
diabetes have mild to severe forms of
nervous system damage. The results of
such damage include impaired sensation
or pain in the feet or hands, slowed digestion
of food in the stomach, carpal tunnel
syndrome, erectile dysfunction, or other
nerve problems. Almost 30 percent of people with diabetes
ages 40 years or older have impaired
sensation in the feet, for example, at least
one area that lacks feeling. Severe forms of diabetic nerve disease
are a major contributing cause of lower-extremity
amputations. [ Top ] Amputations More than 60 percent of nontraumatic
lower-limb amputations occur in people
with diabetes. In 2006, about 65,700 nontraumatic lower-limb
amputations were performed in
people with diabetes. [ Top ] Dental Disease Periodontal, or gum, disease is more
common in people with diabetes. Among
young adults, those with diabetes have
about twice the risk of those without
diabetes. Adults ages 45 years or older with
      poorly controlled diabetes—A1C above
      9 percent—were 2.9 times more likely
      to have severe periodontitis than those
      without diabetes. The likelihood was even
      greater—4.6 times—among smokers with
      poorly controlled diabetes. About one-third of people with diabetes
	  have severe periodontal disease consisting
	  of loss of attachment—5 millimeters or
	  more—of the gums to the teeth. [ Top ] Complications of Pregnancy Poorly controlled diabetes before conception
	  and during the first trimester of
	  pregnancy among women with type 1
	  diabetes can cause major birth defects
	  in 5 to 10 percent of pregnancies and
	  spontaneous abortions in 15 to 20 percent
	  of pregnancies. On the other hand, for a
	  woman with pre-existing diabetes, optimizing
	  blood glucose levels before and
	  during early pregnancy can reduce the risk
	  of birth defects in their infants. Poorly controlled diabetes during the second
      and third trimesters of pregnancy can
      result in excessively large babies, posing a
      risk to both mother and child. [ Top ] Other Complications Uncontrolled diabetes often leads
	  to biochemical imbalances that can
	  cause acute life-threatening events,
	  such as diabetic ketoacidosis and
	  hyperosmolar—nonketotic—coma. People with diabetes are more susceptible
to many other illnesses. Once they
acquire these illnesses, they often have
worse prognoses. For example, they are
more likely to die with pneumonia or
influenza than people who do not have
diabetes. People with diabetes ages 60 years or
older are 2 to 3 times more likely to report
an inability to walk one-quarter of a mile,
climb stairs, or do housework compared
with people without diabetes in the same
age group. People with diabetes are twice as likely
to have depression, which can complicate
diabetes management, than people without
diabetes. In addition, depression is
associated with a 60 percent increased risk
of developing type 2 diabetes. As indicated above, diabetes can affect many
parts of the body and can lead to serious
complications such as blindness, kidney damage,
and lower-limb amputations. Working
together, people with diabetes, their support
network, and their health care providers can
reduce the occurrence of these and other diabetes
complications by controlling the levels of
blood glucose, blood pressure, and blood lipids,
and by receiving other preventive care practices
in a timely manner. [ Top ] Preventing Diabetes Complications Glucose Control Studies in the United States and abroad
    have found that improved glycemic control
    benefits people with either type 1 or
    type 2 diabetes. In general, every percentage
    point drop in A1C blood test results,
    for example, from 8.0 to 7.0 percent,
    can reduce the risk of microvascular
    complications—eye, kidney, and nerve
    diseases—by 40 percent. The absolute
    difference in risk may vary for certain
    subgroups of people. In patients with type 1 diabetes, intensive
insulin therapy has long-term beneficial
effects on the risk of cardiovascular
disease. [ Top ] Blood Pressure Control Blood pressure control reduces the risk of
	  cardiovascular disease—heart disease or
	  stroke—among people with diabetes by
	  33 to 50 percent and the risk of microvascular
	  complications—eye, kidney, and
	  nerve diseases—by about 33 percent. In general, for every 10 mmHg reduction
	  in systolic blood pressure, the risk for
	  any complication related to diabetes is
	  reduced by 12 percent. No benefit of reducing systolic blood pressure
below 140 mmHg has been demonstrated
in randomized clinical trials. Reducing diastolic blood pressure from
90 mmHg to 80 mmHg in people with
diabetes reduces the risk of major cardiovascular
events by 50 percent. [ Top ] Control of Blood Lipids Improved control of LDL, or bad, cholesterol
can reduce cardiovascular complications
by 20 to 50 percent. [ Top ] Preventive Care Practices for Eyes, Feet, and Kidneys Detecting and treating diabetic eye
disease with laser therapy can reduce the
development of severe vision loss by an
estimated 50 to 60 percent. About 65 percent of adults with diabetes
and poor vision can be helped by appropriate
eyeglasses. Comprehensive foot care programs—ones
	  that include risk assessment, foot-care
	  education and preventive therapy, treatment
	  of foot problems, and referral to
	  specialists—can reduce amputation rates
	  by 45 to 85 percent. Detecting and treating early diabetic
kidney disease by lowering blood pressure
can reduce the decline in kidney function
by 30 to 70 percent. Treatment with
particular medications for hypertension
called angiotensin-converting enzyme
(ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor
blockers (ARBs) is more effective in
reducing the decline in kidney function
than is treatment with other blood pressure
lowering drugs. In addition to lowering blood pressure,
ARBs and ACE inhibitors reduce proteinuria,
a risk factor for developing kidney
disease, by about 35 percent. [ Top ] General Information What is diabetes? Diabetes is a group of diseases marked by high
levels of blood glucose resulting from defects
in insulin production, insulin action, or both.
Diabetes can lead to serious complications and
premature death, but people with diabetes,
working together with their support network
and their health care providers, can take steps
to control the disease and lower the risk of
complications. [ Top ] Types of Diabetes Type 1 diabetes was previously called insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus (IDDM) or
juvenile-onset diabetes. Type 1 diabetes develops
when the body's immune system destroys
pancreatic beta cells, the only cells in the body
that make the hormone insulin that regulates
blood glucose. To survive, people with type 1
diabetes must have insulin delivered by injection
or a pump. This form of diabetes usually strikes children
and young adults, although disease onset can
occur at any age. In adults, type 1 diabetes
accounts for about 5 percent of all diagnosed
cases of diabetes. Risk factors for type 1
diabetes may be autoimmune, genetic, or
environmental. No known way to prevent
type 1 diabetes exists. Several clinical trials
for preventing type 1 diabetes are currently in
progress or are being planned. Type 2 diabetes was previously called
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
(NIDDM) or adult-onset diabetes. In adults,
type 2 diabetes accounts for about 90 to
95 percent of all diagnosed cases of diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes usually begins as insulin
resistance, a disorder in which the cells do not
use insulin properly. As the need for insulin
rises, the pancreas gradually loses its ability to
produce insulin. Type 2 diabetes is associated with older age,
obesity, family history of diabetes, history of
gestational diabetes, impaired glucose metabolism,
physical inactivity, and race/ethnicity.
African Americans, Hispanic/Latino Americans,
American Indians, and some Asian Americans
and Native Hawaiians or other Pacific Islander
Americans are at particularly high risk for
type 2 diabetes and its complications. Type 2
diabetes in children and adolescents, although
still rare, is being diagnosed more frequently
among American Indians, African Americans,
Hispanic/Latino Americans, and Asian/Pacific
Islander Americans. Gestational diabetes is a form of glucose intolerance
diagnosed during pregnancy. Gestational
diabetes occurs more frequently among African
Americans, Hispanic/Latino Americans, and
American Indians. Gestational diabetes is also
more common among obese women and women
with a family history of diabetes. During pregnancy,
gestational diabetes requires treatment to
optimize maternal blood glucose levels to lessen
the risk of complications in the infant. Other types of diabetes result from specific
genetic conditions, such as maturity-onset diabetes
of youth; surgery; medications; infections;
pancreatic disease; and other illnesses. Such
types of diabetes account for 1 to 5 percent of all
diagnosed cases. [ Top ] Treating Diabetes Diet, insulin, and oral medication to lower blood
glucose levels are the foundation of diabetes
treatment and management. Patient education
and self-care practices are also important
aspects of disease management that help people
with diabetes lead normal lives. To survive, people with type 1 diabetes
must have insulin delivered by injection or
a pump. Many people with type 2 diabetes can
control their blood glucose by following a
healthy meal plan and exercise program, losing excess weight, and taking oral medication.
Medications for each individual
with diabetes will often change during the
course of the disease. Some people with
type 2 diabetes may also need insulin to
control their blood glucose. Self-management education or training
is a key step in improving health outcomes
and quality of life. This type of
education or training focuses on self-care
behaviors, such as healthy eating, being
active, and monitoring blood sugar.
Self-management education or training is
a collaborative process in which diabetes
educators help people with or at risk for
diabetes gain the knowledge and problemsolving
and coping skills needed to successfully
self-manage the disease and its
related conditions. Many people with diabetes also need to
take medications to control their cholesterol
and blood pressure. [ Top ] Prevention or Delay of Type 2 Diabetes The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP),
a large prevention study of people at high
risk for diabetes, showed that lifestyle
intervention to lose weight and increase
physical activity reduced the development
of type 2 diabetes by 58 percent during a
3-year period. The reduction was even
greater, 71 percent, among adults ages
60 years or older. Treatment with the drug metformin
      reduced the risk by 31 percent overall
      and was most effective in younger—ages
      25–44 years—and in heavier—body mass
      index greater than or equal to 35—adults. Prevention or delay of type 2 diabetes with
either lifestyle or metformin intervention
was effective in all racial and ethnic
groups studied and has been shown to
persist for at least 10 years. Interventions to prevent or delay type 2
diabetes in individuals with prediabetes
can be feasible and cost-effective.
Research has found that lifestyle interventions
are more cost-effective than
medications. [ Top ] Acknowledgments Publications produced by the Clearinghouse
are carefully reviewed by both NIDDK scientists
and outside experts. The following
organizations collaborated in compiling the
information for this fact sheet: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality www.ahrq.gov/browse/diabetes.htm American Association of Diabetes Educators www.diabeteseducator.org American Diabetes Association www.diabetes.org Centers for Disease Control and Prevention www.cdc.gov/diabetes www.cdc.gov/nchs Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services www.cms.hhs.gov U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs www.healthquality.va.gov U.S. Food and Drug Administration www.fda.gov Health Resources and Services Administration www.hrsa.gov Indian Health Service www.ihs.gov/MedicalPrograms/Diabetes/index.asp Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International www.jdrf.org National Diabetes Education Program, a joint program of the NIH and the CDC www.yourdiabetesinfo.org National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse www.diabetes.niddk.nih.gov National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases of the National Institutes of Health www.niddk.nih.gov U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Minority Health www.omhrc.gov [ Top ] Citation Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. National Diabetes Fact Sheet: national estimates and general information on diabetes and prediabetes in the United States, 2011. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011. [ Top ] You may also find additional information about this topic by visiting MedlinePlus at www.medlineplus.gov . This publication may contain information about medications. When prepared, this publication included the most current information available. For updates or for questions about any medications, contact the U.S. Food and Drug Administration toll-free at 1–888–INFO–FDA (1–888–463–6332) or visit www.fda.gov . Consult your health care provider for more information. National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse 1 Information Way Bethesda, MD 20892–3560 Phone: 1–800–860–8747 TTY: 1–866–569–1162 Fax: 703–738–4929 Email: ndic@info.niddk.nih.gov Internet: www.diabetes.niddk.nih.gov The National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse (NDIC) is a service of 
        the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). 
        The NIDDK is part of the National Institutes of Health of the U.S. Department 
        of Health and Human Services. Established in 1978, the Clearinghouse provides 
        information about diabetes to people with diabetes and to their families, 
        health care professionals, and the public. The NDIC answers inquiries, develops 
        and distributes publications, and works closely with professional and 
        patient organizations and Government agencies to coordinate resources 
        about diabetes. This publication is not copyrighted. The Clearinghouse encourages users of 
        this publication to duplicate and distribute as many copies as desired. NIH Publication No. 11-3892 February 2011 Page last updated: December 6, 2011 Contact NIDDK | Privacy Statement | Disclaimers | Freedom of Information Act | Accessibility | Copyright Status The National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse is a service of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases , National Institutes of Health . National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse 1 Information Way Bethesda, MD 20892–3560 Phone: 1–800–860–8747 TTY: 1–866–569–1162 Fax: 703–738–4929 Email: ndic@info.niddk.nih.gov Internet: www.diabetes.niddk.nih.gov Privacy Statement | Disclaimers | Accessibility | PDF ve