Accept-Ranges: bytes
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 15:06:47 GMT
X-Varnish: 1308794637
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Medical News:IAS: Circumcision Benefit for HIV Sustained Over Time - in Meeting Coverage, IAS from MedPage Today Newsletter Sign up Free Mobile Apps RSS Feed Personalize Your Medical News: Login Register Today Welcome My Profile Saved Articles CME/CE Tracker Log out Welcome My Profile Log out Putting Breaking Medical News Into Practice Quick Find Keyword Search Specialty Allergy & Immunology Anesthesiology Cardiovascular Columns Critical Care Dermatology Emergency Medicine Endocrinology Gastroenterology Genetics Geriatrics HIV/AIDS Hospital-Based Medicine Infectious Disease Nephrology Neurology Nursing OB/Gyn Oncology/Hematology Ophthalmology Orthopedics Pain Management Pathology Pediatrics Practice Management Primary Care Psychiatry Public Health & Policy Pulmonology Radiology Rheumatology Surgery Transplantation Urology Disease Meeting Please enter a search term Specialty Allergy & Immunology Anesthesiology Cardiovascular Critical Care Dermatology Emergency Medicine Endocrinology Gastroenterology Genetics Geriatrics HIV/AIDS Hospital-Based Medicine Infectious Disease Lab Notes Nephrology Neurology Nursing OB/Gyn Oncology/Hematology Ophthalmology Orthopedics Pain Management Pathology Pediatrics Primary Care Psychiatry Pulmonology Radiology Rheumatology Surgery Transplantation Urology Meetings AAAAI AACE AACR AACR-FCPR AACR-IASLC AAD AAN AAO AAOS AAP AAPM AASLD ACAAI ACC ACG ACIP ACR ACTHIV ADA AGS AHA AMA APA APHA APsaA APSS ASA ASBMR ASCO ASCO-ASTRO ASCO Breast ASCO GI ASCO GU ASCO Prostate ASE ASH: Hematology ASH: Hypertension ASHP ASMBS ASN ASNC ASRM ASTRO ATS AUA BES BSR CDEP CHEST CIBD CMSC CMSC-ACTRIMS CMS-eRX CODHy CROI CTS DCC DDW EADV EASD EBCC ECCO-ESMO ECTRIMS ENDO ESC ESGO ESHRE ESMO EULAR EUROECHO EUROPACE EuroPCR EuroPRevent HFC HFSA HIMSS HRS HTRS IAC IAS IASLC ICAAC ICAAC-IDSA ICAD ICD ICNC IDF IDSA IMPAKT KCA LWPES MBCS MGICS MGUCS MHNCS NAMS NHF NKF OBESITY PAS PCCD PRC RSNA SABCS SCAI SCCM SDEF SGO SID SIR SMFM STS TCT WCIR WFH Business Clinical Trials Ethics General Professional Issues Medical Education Military Medicine Practice Pointers Work Force Policy Environmental Health FDA General Health Policy Medicaid Medicare Product Alert Public Health Reform Stem Cell Research Washington Watch Commentary And Now a Word ... At Large Celebrity Diagnosis Dr. Wes Focus on Policy From the Editors Gary Schwitzer Iltifat Husain InOtherWords Kevin, M.D. Rx for Fun SHADOWFAX Surveys Education Clinical Context State Required CME CME/CE Tracker Tools Blausen Human Atlas Guide to Biostatistics Saved Articles Medpage Today » Meeting Coverage » IAS 27681 IAS Latest News | Meetings | Videos Email Print Save CME Information Must be read prior to engaging in activity Jointly Sponsered by: CREDITS Physicians 0.25 AMA PRA Category 1 Credit(s) ™ Family Physicians 0.25 Elective credits Release Date: Jul. 22, 2011 Expiration Date: Jul. 22, 2012 Estimated time for completion 15.00 minutes There is no fee for this activity. To Receive CME Credit In order to receive your certificate of participation, you should read the information about this activity, including the disclosure statements, review the entire activity, correctly answer all the questions in the post-test, and complete the evaluation form. You may then follow the directions to print your certificate of participation. Program Overview Among the many issues clinicians face today, staying current with advances in medicine is becoming a major challenge. Teaching Brief® articles will allow clinicians to stay up-to-date and assimilate new information into their daily practice. The content of these Teaching Brief® articles has been validated through an independent expert peer review process. Learning Objectives Upon successful completion of this educational program, the reader should be able to: 1. Discuss the results of this study 2. Review the relevance and significance of the study in the broader context of clinical care Disclosures Robert Jasmer, MD, and Michael   Smith , have disclosed that they have no relevant financial relationships or conflicts of interest with commercial interests related directly or indirectly to this educational activity. The staff of Projects In Knowledge®, Inc. and the staff of MedPage Today have no relevant financial relationships or conflicts of interest with commercial interests related directly or indirectly to this educational activity. Accreditation This activity has been planned and implemented in accordance with the Essential Areas and policies of the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education through the joint sponsorship of Projects In Knowledge®, Inc. and MedPage Today. Projects In Knowledge®, Inc. is accredited by the ACCME to provide continuing medical education for physicians. Designation of Credit Projects In Knowledge®, Inc. designates this enduring material for a maximum, of 0.25 AMA PRA Category 1 Credit(s) ™ . Physicians should only claim credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. Credit for Family Physicians MedPage Today "News-Based CME" has been reviewed and is acceptable for up to 2098 Elective credits by the American Academy of Family Physicians. AAFP accreditation begins January 1, 2011. Term of approval is for one year from this date. Each article  is approved for 0.25 Elective credits. Credit may be claimed for one year from the date of each article. IAS: Circumcision Benefit for HIV Sustained Over Time This report is part of a 12-month Clinical Context series. By Michael   Smith, North American Correspondent, MedPage Today Published: July 22, 2011 Reviewed by Robert Jasmer, MD ; Associate Clinical Professor of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco and Dorothy Caputo, MA, RN, BC-ADM, CDE, Nurse Planner 10 comment(s) Take Posttest Action Points Note that this study was published as an abstract and presented at a conference. These data and conclusions should be considered to be preliminary until published in a peer-reviewed journal. Explain that in South Africa, a study found that the prevalence of HIV among circumcised men was 55% lower than among their uncircumcised counterparts. Point out that the 2007 baseline prevalence of circumcision in the region was 15.6% among men 15 through 49 and rose to 49.4% in 2010. ROME  --  Male circumcision is having a direct effect on HIV prevalence and incidence in South Africa, a researcher said here. In the region of Orange Farm, near Johannesburg, the prevalence of HIV among circumcised men is 55% lower than among their uncircumcised counterparts, according to Bertran Auvert, MD, PhD, of the University of Versailles. And incidence among them is 76% lower than among the uncircumcised, Auvert told a late-breaker session at the 2011 meeting of the International AIDS Society conference. "We do see a real strong impact on the spread of HIV," Auvert told reporters earlier. "In the history of the HIV epidemic, it's the first time that we have an intervention working to prevent and reduce sexual transmission of HIV in real life, rather than in a clinical trial," Auvert said. Orange Farm was the location of the first trial of circumcision as a way to prevent HIV in men; it and two subsequent trials  --  in Uganda and Kenya  --  showed a 60% protective effect. But, Auvert told the meeting, "the effectiveness  --  the effect in the real world  --  was not known." Among the open questions: Would men seek to be circumcised? Would circumcision change their sexual behavior? Would there be an effect on HIV prevalence and incidence? To find out, he and colleagues conducted random surveys in 2007 and in 2010, consulted their own records of how many circumcisions had been performed, and tested survey participants for HIV. In fact, Auvert reported, men were willing to have the procedure. The 2007 baseline prevalence of circumcision in the region was 15.6% among men 15 through 49 and rose to 49.4% in 2010. Among men 20 through 24, the 2010 rate was 58.5%, and, he added, "they are still coming in." There was also no change in sexual behavior, he said. For instance, a survey showed, the rate of consistent condom use was similar between circumcised and uncircumcised men. Comparisons of HIV rates among randomly selected men showed that: Among 586 uncircumcised men, 117 were HIV-positive, a rate of 20%. Among 582 circumcised men, there were 36 cases, for a rate of 6.2%. The adjusted prevalence ratio was 0.45, with a 95% confidence interval from 0.30 to 0.63. An analysis aimed at capturing recent infections showed an incidence of 3.7 cases per 100 person-years among uncircumcised men, compared with 0.6 per 100 person-years among the circumcised. Those figures yielded an adjusted prevalence ratio of 0.24, with a 95% confidence interval from 0.00 to 0.66, Auvert said. The findings are "very encouraging," commented Nancy Padian, PhD, of the University of California San Francisco. "In real-world use, the protective benefit is sustained even outside the context of a highly controlled randomized clinical trial," she told MedPage Today . What's also encouraging, according to Chris Beyrer, MD, of Johns Hopkins University, is that the researchers found men were open to having the procedure. "The demand is there," he told MedPage Today . It's also encouraging, Beyrer said, that there was no indication of what has been called "disinhibition"  --  increased risky behavior after the procedure. The study was sponsored by the French national agency for research into AIDS and hepatitis. Auvert did not report any financial conflicts. Beyrer and Padian did not report any financial conflicts. Primary source: IAS Conference on HIV Pathogenesis and Treatment Source reference: Auvert B, et al "Effect of the Orange Farm (South Africa) male circumcision roll-out (ANRS-12126) on the spread of HIV" IAS 2011; Abstract WELBC02. View 10 comments or leave your own Take Posttest Email Print Save ADVERTISEMENT Resources (from Industry) Video Library Medical Education (Non-CME) CME Spotlights ADVERTISEMENT Current Survey Past Surveys » Should the FDA Fight Shortages with Imports? The FDA alleviated a shortage of the cancer drug Doxil by allowing imports of Lipodox , a similar form of doxorubicin unapproved in the U.S. Should the FDA permit imports of unapproved drugs to relieve shortages? Yes No Total votes 2392 | MedPage Today® surveys are polls of those who choose to participate and are, therefore, not valid statistical samples, but rather a snapshot of what your colleagues are thinking © 2012 Everyday Health, Inc. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of MedPage Today's terms of use and privacy policy . The material on this site is for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment provided by a qualified health care provider. MEDPAGE TODAY, EXPERT PATIENT, MEDPAGE TODAY MOBILE, ADD YOUR KNOWLEDGE, PUTTING BREAKING MEDICAL NEWS INTO PRACTICE are registered trademarks of MedPage Today and Everyday Health, Inc. News By Specialty Meeting Coverage Medical Business News Medical Policy News Commentary About MedPage Today Help Center Site Map Advertising Notice This Site and third parties who place advertisements on this Site may collect and use information about your visits to this Site and other websites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you. If you would like to obtain more information about these advertising practices and to make ch