
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 18:42:36 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 18:42:37 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Costa Tropical - Acupuncture a Solution? Home About Us Local Directory Contact Us Spanish Weddings Rental Properties Costa Tropical Costa Tropical Apartments Costa Tropical Villas Costa del Sol Apartments Costa del Sol Villas Hotels/Hostals Regional Information Tourist Information Things To Do Explore Other Places Local Clubs/Associations Book Club and Blog Food and Drink Education Health & Fitness Shopping Property for Sale Home & Garden Legal/Finance/Business Pets Corner Travel Information Useful/Emergency Numbers Acupuncture Articles Acupuncture a Solution? What Can Acupuncture Treat? Acupuncture and the Emotions Counselling Articles Happy Health Asthma Articles Stopping Your Asthma Conscious Eating Food Cravings Loosing Weight from the Inside Out Spas Funspa Motril Acupuncture a Solution? Acupuncture
may be a solution for you.  Written by Ann Batten What is happening to our health today? Lots of people are
suffering from “not feeling quite right”. It may be from physical stiffness and
pain or stress, anxiety, worry, frustration, depression or other symptoms. But where
there are problems there is always a solution somewhere and a lot of people
have found acupuncture very helpful. Acupuncture is part of the oriental
medical system and has been practised for thousands of years. There are many
different styles of acupuncture. The different countries in the orient have
their own version but all styles have a lot in common. Acupuncture has its own diagnostic model,
which looks at disease from the point of view of imbalances of energy. In our
daily lives we use energy all the time. Most commonly this is in the form of
electricity. What most people don’t realise is that our own bodies also have
“electricity”. The Chinese word for this energy is chi. There are over 400 points and lots of energy channels in the body. The most
commonly used are 12 channels of which 10 correspond to our internal organs.
This means that there is an energetic channel for each main internal organ i.e.
stomach, spleen, liver, heart, lungs, small intestine, large intestine,
gallbladder, kidney, and bladder. The oriental medicine’s point of view takes into account the “whole”
person. This includes the physical, mental and emotional aspects. As an
example, stress often causes frustration and anger, which in energetic terms
may affect the liver energy. All the organs have a different emotion. Liver
energy imbalances can result in migraines, stiff neck & shoulders as well
as stiffness in the body, menstrual problems and insomnia to mention a few
symptoms. Obviously also anger, short temper, irritation, frustration etc. may
be part of it. Any problem is part of the whole person. This means that when you
stimulate to change a problem, whether it is back pain, menstrual problems,
digestive problems or anything else people often report for instance, their
headaches have also got better or they are sleeping better even though the
acupuncturist may not have treated these additional problems specifically.
Everything is part of the whole and consequently the whole body is balanced. This is why acupuncture has the ability
to treat any kind of illness or imbalance and every person is treated as an
individual. Ann Batten works from Lanjaron. She can
be contacted on 653 477 299 or by email This e-mail address is being protected from spam bots, you need JavaScript enabled to view it Disclaimer | Links | Contact Us | Properties | Sitemap © 2012 Discover Costa Tropical Developed by Not Web Des