<< Obesity surgery shows threefold rise over five years | Huntington’s disease may protect against cancer: Study >> Read in
                 | English | Español | Français | Deutsch | Português | Italiano | 日本語 | 한국어 | 简体中文 | 繁體中文 | Nederlands | Русский | Svenska | Polski HPA urges routine vaccination after surge of whooping cough cases Published on April 15, 2012 at 6:02 PM · No Comments Tweet By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD There is a rise in the number of whooping cough cases and parents have been warned to make sure their children's vaccinations are up to date. The Health Protection Agency (HPA) said there have been 665 confirmed cases already this year, compared with 1,040 in the whole of 2011. Cases have been reported across all regions in England with some areas reporting clusters in schools, universities and healthcare settings. Dr Mary Ramsay, the HPA's head of immunization, said, “Whooping cough can be a very unpleasant infection. Anyone showing signs and symptoms - which include severe coughing fits accompanied by the characteristic 'whoop' sound in young children but as a prolonged cough in older children and adults - should visit their GP. Parents should ensure their children are up to date with their vaccinations so that they are protected at the earliest opportunity. The pre-school booster is also important, not only to boost protection in that child but also to reduce the risk of them passing the infection on to vulnerable babies, as those under four months cannot be fully protected by the vaccine .” Whooping cough or Pertussis, may affect people of all ages but the recent increase has seen cases in very young children, who have the highest risk of severe complications and death. The infection can be treated with a course of antibiotics but young infants may need hospital care due to the risk of severe complications. Continued on Next page >> Posted in: Child Health News | Disease/Infection News Tags: Immunization , Immunology , Pediatrics , Pertussis (Whooping Cough) , Vaccinia Virus , Whooping Cough Comments The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net. Cancel reply to comment Quirky Comment Title Name* E-mail* Country [Not specified] Afghanistan Albania Algeria Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Belarus Belgium Belize Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Cambodia Canada Caribbean Chile Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Estonia Ethiopia Faroe Islands Finland France Georgia Germany Greece Greenland Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong S.A.R. Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Islamic Republic of Pakistan Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao P.D.R. Latvia Lebanon Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao S.A.R. Macedonia (FYROM) Malaysia Maldives Malta Mexico Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Nigeria Norway Oman Panama Paraguay People's Republic of China Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Principality of Monaco Puerto Rico Qatar Republic of the Philippines Romania Russia Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Serbia and Montenegro (Former) Singapore Slovakia Slovenia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Thailand Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan U.A.E. Ukraine United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen Zimbabwe b i u quote Comment Preview Comment Leave this field blank News A to Z Drugs A to Z Health A to Z Medical / Health Products Medical / Health Services Newsletters News Archive Talk Medical Medical News Tweets Information Subscribe Other AZoNetwork Websites AZoM.com AZoNano.com AZoOptics.com AZoCleantech.com AZoSensors.com AZoRobotics.com AZoMining.com AZoBuild.com AZoQuantum.com News-Medical.Net News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                    with these terms and conditions .
                                    Please note that medical information found
                                    on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                    between patient a