Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 08:09:35 GMT
X-Varnish: 1085258244
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close
X-Cache: MISS
X-BE: dir_c071_random

informedhealthonline.org - A-Z list Page Navigation skip to article index skip to content skip to navigation skip to search Homepage A A A Dictionary Tour Content sorted by: Topics A-Z list What's new Evidence-based Medicine Choosing between treatment options Interactive FAQs IQWiG - About Us Terms of Use RSS Newsfeeds Publishing Details Contact Publisher: Newsletter subscribe / unsubscribe Email this page Email this Dental caries Feature: Tooth sealants Parents know the problem well. Hardly a day goes by without some discussion about brushing teeth. And it is worthwhile, especially with children, to watch out for some basics. You can read more here about what researchers have learned about teeth or fissure sealants, toothbrushing and fluoride to prevent tooth decay. And you can test your knowledge about preventing tooth decay in our quiz. Fact sheet Quiz Research summaries Dental caries: Do fluoride tooth products prevent tooth decay in children and young people? Fluoride tooth products, especially toothpaste, protect children against plaque and tooth decay. more... Dental caries: Do fluoride toothpaste, mouthwashes or gels reduce more tooth decay? Brushing with fluoride toothpaste every day protects children and young people from tooth decay just as effectively as fluoride mouthwashes and gels applied directly to the teeth. more... Dental caries: Do tooth sealants help in children and young people? Using sealants on the molars (back teeth) can clearly reduce the risk of tooth decay. more... Toothbrushes:  Are the electric ones better than ordinary manual brushes? It is not yet certain whether some types of electric toothbrushes clean teeth better than others. It is also still unclear whether particular electric toothbrushes are better than manual brushes. more... Recent information Bowel cancer screening: Pros and cons To the article FAQ Why can you trust our health information? to the answer Evaluated by „Relevant, objective and independent“ WHO website Background information Certified by We subscribe to the HONcode- principles. Verify here. ©