
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: W18-HTTP
Content-Type: text/html
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:30:08 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=0, no-cache, no-store
Pragma: no-cache
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 01:30:08 GMT
Connection: close

Indiwo.in.com > For the Indian woman > Clean Your Ear the Right Way! > Health+Diet make this site your homepage Hi Logout Register | Login | Forgot Password? Gift some Christmas cheer! Oriflame announces an all new and complete range of gift packs. read more Whip it up! Crème Brûlée From : Diet and Nutrition Chef Ritu Dalmia... play video Trend spotting: HOTTEST colours of 2009! Zodiac Compatibility: Sagittarius Hot new HAIR-DO: Wash n' go! Cool T-Shirt Lines Wear your heart on your sleeve with these t-shirts. view gallery Corporate Wear for the Modern IndiWo Stylish Wallets Just For You Cheers to You! Love & Relationships Jaipur Vip Escorts servicescall .Mr.Golu +91-9971211102 read more Beauty & Style Food Work and Health Dr Kiran Coelho Dr Kiran Coelho is a Gynaecologist, practising OBGYN for the past 26 years. read more Investing tips that could change your fortune! Are You Losing Your Hair? Hair: Breakage and Damage 10 life-changing health resolutions! The BEST 5-min workout in office! You're not doing it right, honey! 25 tips to crack Christmas SALES! 10 FAB dresses you MUST have this season! toolbox Calculate
                                             Your Due Date Makeover Magic Get a free virtual 
                                   Makeover Size it up Is your bra too tight? Does the strap ride too high? BMI Calculator Get a Complete
                                   Fitness Report Breast Self
                                   Examination Learn to Detect 
                                   Breast Cancer more tool info horoscope today Pisces 31/01/08 You may be feeling too sensitive on one score, and interpret as criticisms things that others say which were never meant to hurt. Don't react until you have checked out what was intended. You've got a great urge to get away from routines, from tedious chores and fly a little higher. You want to broaden your horizons. view all Cool T-Shirt Lines view gallery Whip it up! Crème Brûlée view video Home »Features  » Physical Health » Health+Diet » Clean Your Ear the Right Way! Clean Your Ear the Right Way! Vidya Anand  | 
Aug 06, 2007 You may buy the best brands in ear buds to clean your ear. Or, if you belong to the old school methods, you could be using anything from matchsticks to hairclips. But the next time you reach for a cotton covered matchstick, think twice! Even the best ear buds can damage your ear. So, how can you manage to keep your ears clean? Find out a basic ear care you should follow regularly... Waxy Affair Ears produce wax and when too much wax is accumulated, it needs cleaning. However, don't insert a pin end, a matchstick or your nails to clean it out. When you use ear buds, it tends to push the wax farther inside and causes accumulation of wax inside your ear, causing hearing problems in the long run. Also, matchsticks, toothpicks, pin ends or nails may injure your ear canal or your ear drum, leading to loss of hearing. Refrain for using cotton swabs, that is, cotton rolled on the end of a matchstick or a hair pin to clean your ears because there is a possibility that the cotton swab may remain inside your ear. How Do I Clean? If you want to remove ear wax, go for wax dissolvent drops like Wax Solve. These over-the-counter drops are available with most chemists. Also Read: Self Medication Strict No-No Hooked on Medicines and on a High The drops dissolve the wax and help cleaning your ears. If there is too much wax accumulation, go to your ENT specialist. Your doctor will remove the wax, using a suction method. If water enters your ears while you take a shower, you can use a blow drier near your ears to remove the moisture. The hair dryer will dry the water that has entered your ears just as it would dry your hair. You can also remove moisture by inserting the corner of a dry cotton cloth and keeping it inside for sometime. This will absorb the moisture. Remember, it is important to remove the moisture from your ears otherwise it will lead to a fungal infection. While cleaning a baby's ears, make sure you use soft cotton piece. You can also use the wax dissolvent drops after seeking the paediatrician's advice. Avoid blowing harshly into your baby's ear to remove moisture. How Often? Dr. Vikas Agarwal, an ENT surgeon says that cleaning of ears is individual specific. This is because every person's ears produce different amount of wax. If you feel your ears are producing more wax, make sure you clean it regularly. However, ideally it is advisable to clean your ears once every two to three days. Just as you go for your annual eye check-up, dental check-up, make sure you go for an ear check-up as well. Get your ears cleaned by an ENT specialist at least once every six months to avoid any infection. (With inputs from Dr. Vikas Agrawal, ENT Surgeon from Speciality ENT Hospital, Kandivili, Mumbai) Related Reads: Can You Hear Me? Kids Risk Deafness With MP3 Over-Exposure to Air, Noise Pollution Bad Tags: buds , clean , ears , infection , water , wax Mail this Topic View all stories Ads by Google Post a comment Did you like this article? Is there anything that you would like to add? Tell us what you think Comment : Name : City : Email : Comments My grandfather is 95 years old and grand mother is 89 and they never checked their ears, still hearing every murmering around perfectly... All these articles are waste and carry no value. Posted by raj on Nov 03, 2008 at 04:14 pm Superb article. It creates awareness. Posted by krithika on Oct 17, 2008 at 02:11 pm Good info

also it would be gr8 if u can cover article on the candle method for cleaning ears Posted by madhu on Sep 14, 2008 at 11:42 am Informative topic Posted by viju on Oct 19, 2007 at 03:57 pm Its really a good article and in fact i was searching for me that how to clen ears regularly. Posted by Pranav Pandya on Aug 08, 2007 at 05:47 pm hot on IndiWo today! Protein shake: Easiest way to healthy you! » SEX FILE: I cheated on her. She does not know. » World AIDS day 2009! What are YOU doing? » 10 minutes to a stress-free you » have you read this? Protein shake: Easiest way to healthy you! SEX FILE: I cheated on her. She does not know. World AIDS day 2009! What are YOU doing? 10 minutes to a stress-free you Chicken McNuggets Box: For friends and family most popular on IndiWo! FOOD GUIDE: For the single professional Addicted to Sex? Booost your immunity, fight climate change! Low Cal Snacks = Weight Gain? Reading Medical Reports All About Brown Bread comments Carol looks red hot in Chanel! Posted : Apr 08, 2010 She is very cool....A true celebrity - divu read all comments Masand's Verdict: Mithya Posted : Apr 04, 2010 I bought this dvd becoz of masand  and i must say his claims are toooo tall....Film is ok - as read all comments discussion Love & Relationships Jaipur Vip Escorts servicescall .Mr.Golu +91-9971211102 Beauty & Style FEMALE ESCORTS DELHI 09721378941 | ESCORTS DELHI see all forums buzz words Bollywood Child Couple Diabetes Exercise Hollywood India Investment Lakme Fashion Week Obesity Women baby cancer children diet fashion fashion week film food health love marriage money movie pregnancy relationship sex wedding weight more buzz words Ads by Google Life+Work | Money Plus | Beauty+Fashion | Home Decor | Health+Diet | Gynaec | Relationships | Bridal | Pregnancy | Motherhood Hot+Happening | Videos | Photos | Forums | Experts | Tools | Horoscope | Your Opinion About IndiWo | Terms of Use | FeedBack | Contact Us | Career@IndiWo ©