
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 06 Apr 2012 00:35:07 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.17 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bellwood Health Resources | Eating Disorder Clinic Toronto, Sexual Addiction Recovery Dealing With Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) | Bellwood Health Services | Addiction Treatment | Toronto | Canada 1 800-387-6198 Home | Sign up for our newsletter WHY BELLWOOD Overview Mission, Vision   Values Dr. Bell’s Legacy Quality Care Our Team Success Rates Success Stories Our Facility Accessibility Careers Volunteering Bellwood Foundation PROGRAMS & SERVICES Overview Treatment: Alcohol and Drugs Funded Residential Treatment Eating Disorders Sexual Addiction Problem Gambling PTSD / Trauma and Addiction Methadone Tapering Treatment Continuing Health and Therapy Confidential Assessment DO I HAVE A PROBLEM? Overview Alcohol & Drugs Eating Disorders Sexual Addiction Gambling PTSD/Trauma HELP FOR FAMILIES Overview Helpful Information Family Program Interventions Counselling Services Continuing Recovery COMING TO BELLWOOD Overview What to Expect What to Bring Other Helpful Information Directions HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS Overview Making a referral Resources Treatment for Healthcare Professionals IN THE WORKPLACE Overview Recognize the Signs How You Can Help Cost/Benefit of Treatment Interventions Safety Sensitive Assessments EDUCATION & EVENTS News   Announcements Events Press Releases Newsletters Reading Resources Resource Links Video Resources Articles CONTACT US News & Announcements Events Press Releases Newsletters Reading Resources Resource Links Video Resources Recent Articles Dealing with seasonal affective disorder (SAD), 12.01.12 By: Barak Raz, MA(C) OACCPP With winter now here, the shorter, darker days and cold temperatures may be causing many people to experience the onset of the "winter blues," a common phenomenon that is characterized by feeling depressed, sad, tired, or lethargic. At the extreme, one might be dealing with a special form of a mood-related disorder called Seasonal Affective Disorder(SAD) . People with the winter blues experience only mild symptoms, while the symptoms of SAD can be very debilitating and may even interfere with work and relationships. Furthermore, the presence of the holiday season during winter may exacerbate the problem and make winter a challenging time. If you experience the following, you might be dealing with a case of SAD: • You find yourself sleeping more, have difficulties staying awake and/or having a hard time waking up in the morning; • You find your energy level is down; • You are craving carbohydrates and sweet foods and experience weight gains; • You have difficulties concentrating and have memory problems; • You find that your mood is down, flat, or you experience apathy during the winter months with remittance and in some cases short periods of hyperactivity during spring; • You feel a sense of misery and loss of self esteem, which might be coupled with a sense of hopelessness and despair; • You have less interest in sex; • You find yourself more irritable, have problems relating to others and/or find yourself more withdrawn and isolated than usual. Understanding SAD Cumulative research suggests that mood changes responding to seasons are related to a number of factors including circadian rhythms, hereditary and psychosocial factors. The National Institute of General Medical Science defines circadian rhythms as the "physical, mental and behavioural changes that follow an approximately 24-hour cycle, responding primarily to light and darkness in an organism's environment. They are found in most living things, including animals, plants and many tiny microbes." It suggests that a discrepancy between sleep/wake cycles and the circadian pacemaker in the brain, may impact the onset of SAD. The explanation fits well with the findings that bright light therapy in the early mornings and evenings seem to effectively treat SAD. There are higher than expected SAD rates in populations living in geographical regions where there are significant differences in daylight duration between seasons. It is interesting to note that a recent study has suggested a link between circadian rhythms, melatonin levels and the presence of all mood disturbances. Hereditary factors have been implicated in connection to mood related problems and on that basis, likely play a role in SAD as well. This is consistent with research that shows the risk for mood problems, such as depression, increases when mood disturbances are found in families. In addition, environment and psychosocial factors may act as a trigger for the onset of SAD. Such stressors may be related, among other factors, to work, health, family, relationships, financial, lifestyle, substance use and/or lack of social supports. Risk Populations Research shows that approximately two to six per cent of the population living in northern climates, where the changing seasons are more noticeable due to changes in daylight duration, have SAD, and up to 15 per cent of that population are affected by the milder condition, also commonly referred to as the winter blues. Measures for SAD Anyone who ever suffered from, or is familiar with individuals dealing with mood-related problems, can truly appreciate the seriousness and the debilitating impact of affective disturbances(disturbances in moods). Therefore, if you are concerned about your mood, or with someone else, you should consult your physician, or a health professional and involve your support system. According to research on SAD, light therapy is considered effective with 60 to 80 per cent success rates. In addition, spending time outdoors during daylight is also recommended. Research further cites melatonin, psychotherapy, stress management and exercise programs as helpful measures. Melatonin is a hormone secreted by the pineal gland in the brain to help regulate other hormones and maintain the body's circadian rhythm. It is also involved in the control of the important timing processes such as the release of female reproductive hormones. Some research argues that melatonin levels may also be involved in long term regulation of other processes such as aging. This argument, however, is a matter of controversy at this time. Research further reports that jet lag, shift work, and poor vision can disrupt melatonin cycles as well. Therefore, it is a good idea to assess these factors when suspecting the presence of SAD as this would impact the choice and course of treatment. Moderate and regular exercise is healthy. It is a great stress reliever, impacts your metabolism, often increases energy levels and is known to have a positive impact on mood states. Speak to your physician, if you have any history of health concerns, or are not used to exercising.Research has shown a relationship between food and mood. Therefore, pay attention to your diet, moderation is often the key. You can always consult with your family physician, a nutritionist, or a health specialist in this area. Psychotherapy provides structured opportunities for individuals to reach out, express and process their feelings and needs in a safe and supportive environment. Generally speaking, psychotherapy involves the treatment of mental and emotional disorders through the use of psychological techniques. These techniques are designed to encourage communication of conflicts and insight into problems, with the goal being the relief of symptoms, changes in behaviour leading to improved functioning and personality growth. While many psychotherapeutic of treatment exist, it would be reasonable to seek a psychotherapist trained in the treatment of mood-related problems. Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is considered an effective modality. CBT brings to focus one's cognitions, feelings and behaviours. For example, CBT may look at positive versus negative focus, healing versus harmful meanings in the context of a large range of cognitive, affective and behavioural factors. A CBT approach may also encourage you to embrace the season by focusing on the things you enjoy about winter, such as the holidays, ski, your family, etc. Finally, take time to care and reward yourself. This can take many forms including meditation, relaxation, stress management, and engaging in recreational, spiritual, and/or social activities. There are an abundance of stress management resources including self-help books, groups and professional help. Stress management starts with regularly spending time being mindful of your feelings and thoughts. It is important to remember that stress is a normal part of living, but if left unchecked, it can easily accumulate and could have serious physical and mental health consequences. Have a great winter season, take care of yourself and have fun! . Barak Raz has been working in the field of addictions, trauma and sleep since 2000. As a therapist at Bellwood Health Services , Barak provided addiction therapy to Bellwood's addiction clients and trauma therapy to clients in Bellwood's PTSD/Trauma & Addictions Treatment Program. Barak is now practicing in France. Back to articles © 2012 Bellwood Health Services Web Design By N49 Home | Why Bellwood | Programs   Services | Do I have a Problem | Help for Families | Coming to Bellwood Health Care Professionals | In the Workp