<http://www.nutritionresearchcenter.org/healthnews/?p=251>; rel=shortlink

Honey for Children's Cough? | NutritionResearchCenter.org Get  Weekly Health News + $5 Coupon! About: Our Products Our Research Our Story Health Guides Acne Guide Blood Sugar Guide Cold + Flu Guide Energy Guide Immune Guide Inflammation Guide Sinus Guide Weight Loss Guide Health News FAQ Contact Us Shop: By Health Concern Athletic Performance Blood Sugar Support Cardiovascular Health Cold and Flu Support Core Nutrition Detoxification Energy + Fatigue Gastrointestinal Health Immune Health Joint Health Men's Health Musculoskeletal Health Neurological Health Skin Support Stress Management Women's Health Supplements Oils Beauty Special Bundles! my account my cart checkout login top-selling products BFood Complex A great product with emphasis on energy-building and stress relief. Click here to learn more » CalMag Balance Your best line of defense in sickness and in health. Everyday support for bones, muscles and more. Click here to learn more » SuperGreens Phytofood Feel like a Super Hero with the power of nature’s 21 most potent super foods! Click here to learn more » latest articles The real cave man diet — foraging for food in the wild Eating like a caveman by foraging for food in the wild Locally grown food is only as good as the farmer who chooses not to poison you Locally grown food is only as good as the farmer who chooses not to poison you Grape seed extract kills head and neck cancer cells, leaves healthy cells unharmed As time marches on, more and more evidence emerges that grape seed extract is a super-healer. browse by category Browse our archive of hundreds of health articles. Select a category below: Select category Beauty  (7) Environment  (112) Foods that Hurt  (43) Gluten  (2) General  (326) Health Questions  (17) Organic Foods  (17) Pets  (2) Politics of Health  (62) Prevention  (3) Shop Healthy  (5) Sports & Nutrition  (8) Grappler’s Health & Martial Arts  (5) Children’s Health  (10) Food Science Research  (124) Healthful Diets  (1) Health Concern Directory  (297) Heart + Cardio  (48) Immune System + Detox  (46) Inflammation + Pain  (14) Men’s Health  (8) Mouth Problems  (1) Nervous System  (10) Respiratory  (7) Sex  (2) Skin + Hair  (30) Skin Cancer  (1) Vitiligo  (1) Weight Loss  (24) Women’s Health  (59) Fibroids  (2) Menopause  (11) PMS  (10) Pregnancy  (11) Acne  (1) Allergies  (1) Back Problems  (10) Bones, Joints, Muscles  (22) Cancer  (30) Detox  (16) Diabetes  (6) Digestion  (23) Energy, Anxiety, Emotions  (46) Chronic Fatigue  (9) Eyes & Vision  (4) Fungal and bacterial infections  (1) Mind Body Healing  (5) Stress and Anxiety  (1) Headaches + Sinus  (17) Aging  (2) Liver  (2) Cholesterol  (1) Recipes  (15) featured-product  (3) Vitamin D  (2) Whole Food Supplements  (1) Find Us on Facebook Activity Honey for Children's Cough? posted by Nutrition Researchers on December 13, 2007 Filed under: Children's Health and Food Science Research |  1,198 views A Sweet, Safe Alternative to Kids’ Cough Medicine By Jane Hart, MD [Editor's caveat: Do not feed honey to infants] Healthnotes Newswire (December 13, 2007)—Recent concerns raised about the safety of cough and cold medicines have led parents and healthcare professionals to seek other ways to soothe children’s symptoms. A new study published in the Archives of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine suggests that honey may be a safe alternative for easing a child’s cough and improving sleep difficulties caused by upper respiratory tract infections. In this study, 105 children with upper respiratory tract infections were randomly assigned to receive one of the following: a single dose of buckwheat honey, a single dose of honey-flavored dextromethorphan, or no treatment. The children received their treatment for one night only, 30 minutes before bedtime. Results of the study showed that children who received the buckwheat honey experienced significant improvement in cough frequency and sleep difficulties, which was superior to the results in the other two groups. Ian Paul, MD, M.Sc, lead author of the study and the director of the Pediatric Clinical Research Office at Pennsylvania State College of Medicine, says that the commonly used over-the-counter cough and cold remedies “have not been shown to be better than a placebo and have the potential for side effects. Therefore, I do not recommend their use for children.” Honey has antimicrobial and antioxidant properties as well as demulcent activity that can soothe irritated mucous membranes. Though it does not harm older children or adults, honey can contain bacteria that causes botulism in infants, so babies under 12 months old should not be given honey. “Colds are self-limited illnesses, but their symptoms can be annoying and frustrating,” said Dr. Paul. So though a cold will naturally run its course, for those parents who want to relieve their children’s uncomfortable symptoms, Dr. Paul recommends that they do the following: 1) Give nonaspirin pain relievers such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen 2) Use saline nose drops or spray to thin mucus 3) Use humidified air to moisten the airway 4) Have the child drink plenty of fluids 5) For children over a year old, honey may be a useful addition for cough and cold symptoms as well as for the sleep difficulty that accompanies an annoying cough “Parents should consider honey as an option for treating cough and cold symptoms in children over age one year,” said Dr. Paul. However, any child who suffers from a persistent cough should be seen by a physician. Parents should discuss the appropriate treatments for their child’s symptoms with their physician. (Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2007;161:1140–46) Follow @nrchealth Share this Article: Tweet Enjoy this Article? Get More in our Weekly Newsletter Sign up to receive Weekly Health Tips + Special Product Offers - FREE! PLUS, Get a Coupon for $5 OFF at our Online Store just for signing up! Want to see some of our past newsletters before signing up? Click here. Add Your Comment Name Email (will not be published) Comment EXPLORE OUR HEALTH NEWS ARTICLE ARCHIVE FOR ALL OUR LATEST RESEARCH OFFERING THE BEST NATURAL HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS AVAILABLE LISTEN TO OUR SATISFIED CUSTOMERS AND TELL US YOUR OWN STORY PURE, ORGANIC, 100% NATURAL WHOLE FOOD SUPPLEMENTS. ALWAYS. © 1998 - 2012 Nutrition Research Center design by Josh Shayne Design IMPORTANT NOTICE: Statements are made based on independent food science research and have not been evaluated by the FDA. Information contained herein are for educational purposes only and are not to be used for or in place of proper medical diagnosis and care under a qualified physician. Always check with your physician before using any product for contraindications and proper use. All Rights Reserved. No articles may b