Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Piriformis Stretch - It Can Literally Be a Pain in The Butt! Piriformis Stretch It Can Literally Be a Pain in The Butt! Try These Piriformis Exercises... Find out how to correctly perform a piriformis stretch.  And in the process possibly help your lower back pain! Your piriformis muscle attaches from your hip to your sacrum (base of your back).  Therefore, when your piriformis muscle is tight, it can pull on your sacrum, which then pulls on your lower back, placing additional strain on it.  Your piriformis is a deep muscle in your buttock region.  Therefore, it can literally be a big pain in the butt!  Try these piriformis exercises to see if you can find relief. There are several different ways you can stretch the piriformis.  You can try both ways and see which position you can feel a better stretch. Piriformis Stretch #1 Lower Trunk Rotation Lay on your back. Bend one knee up to your chest. With the opposite hand, pull your knee across your body until a stretch is felt in your buttock. Hold 20-30 seconds, repeat 3 times twice daily.  Repeat on the other side. Discontinue if pain increases and stays worse longer than 1-2 hours.  If your pain increases into your thigh or lower leg, discontinue this stretch and consult your health care professional. Stretch #2 Figure Four Lay on your back. Cross left ankle over on the right knee. Bend the right knee up to the chest by putting your hands behind your right thigh until a stretch is felt in the left buttock. Sometimes this is too strong of a stretch and crossing your ankle on to your knee is all you can tolerate at the time.  You may also have difficulty reaching your thigh to pull up your leg.  If this is the case, us a towel and hook it around your right thigh to help you pull up your leg. Hold 20-30 seconds, repeat 3 times twice daily.  Repeat on the other side. Discontinue if pain increases and stays worse longer than 1-2 hours.  If your pain increases into your thigh or lower leg, discontinue this stretch and consult your health care professional. Share your favorite stretching exercise with us! Getting Started With A Stretching Program Stretching for Lower Back Pain Try This Sample Yoga Session Stretching Tips Benefit of Stretching Hamstring Hip flexors Quadriceps ITB (iliotibial band) Also Recommended... Free Stretching Articles and 6-part Stretching Ecourse.  Sign up here... Healthy Back Workouts Share Your Favorite Stretching Exercise Do you have a favorite stretching exercise that really helps you?  Maybe it's a warm-up to a sport or a stretch that helps you relax.  Share your favorite stretches! Enter Your Title Here Share Your Favorite Stretching Exercise [ ? ] Close Help Entering your story is easy to do. Just type!... Your story will appear on a Web page exactly the way you enter it here. You can wrap a word in square brackets to make it appear bold. For example [my abs exercise tip] would show as my story on the Web page containing your story. TIP: Since most people scan Web pages, include your best thoughts in your first paragraph. Upload 1-4 Pictures or Graphics (optional) [ ? ] Close Help Do you have a picture to add? This will be especially helpful for people to see your stretch in action.  Just click the button and find it on your computer. Then select it. Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Click here to upload more images (optional) Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Author Information (optional) To receive credit as the author, enter your information below. Your Name (first or full name) Your Location (ex. City, State, Country) Submit Your Contribution Check box to agree to these submission guidelines . (You can preview and edit on the next page) Click here to complete your submission. Other Visitors' Favorite Stretching Exercise Click below to see contributions from other visitors... The Yoga Boat or Half Boat Pose Not rated yet Be seated on the floor or a yoga mat, hold your legs straight and together while keeping your shoulders, back and elbows straight. Bring the legs up together ... Return from Piriformis Stretch to Abs Exercise Homepage Custom Search Download 21 Free Abs Exercises Connect on Facebook Home Page Best Abs Book Site Map Exercise Best Ab Exercises Abdominal Ball Exercises Abs Exercise Tips Abs for Sports Pregnancy & Abs Yoga Pilates Online Nutrition Flat Stomach Diet Smoothie Recipes Weight Loss Stories Lose 10 Pounds Lower Back Lower Back Pain Back Stretching Exercise Other Resources Free Calculators About This Site Take This Test Best Abs Book | Contact | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy © Copyright 2004-2012 