
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 20:33:55 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.6 (Fedora)
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Pneumonia Calculate Your Body Fat Percentage How Flexible Are You? Sit and Reach Test Assess Your Active and Resting Metabolic Rate Calculate Your Real Age & Life Expectancy How Many Calories Do You Burn While Walking Calculate Child or Teen Body Composition Have You Posted  Pictures on the Internet? Invasive Surveillance Awaits MSG Lurks As A Slow Poison In Common Food Items Without Knowing Avoid Ice Creams With Toxic Ingredients Cure Tooth Decay Naturally By  Identifying The Real Cause of Cavities Why is Glycemic Load More Significant Than Glycemic Index? Everything Is A Lie: The Deliberate Intent To Deceive People Is At An All Time High The H1N1 Vaccine Is A Much Greater  Risk To Your Health Than The Flu Itself The Facts, Stats and Dangers of Soda Pop Soy Lecithin: How It Negatively Affects Your Health And Why You Need To Avoid It VO2 Max: How Fit Is An Athlete? Hogwash Alert: One Flu Shot To Protect All Humans From All Flu Strains For Ten Years? Awaken Your Brain: Coming Alive to Vibrant Well-being and a New Reality Free Energy Is An Absolute Imperative For The Future Of The Earth And Humanity How Dangerous Is Fluoride To Your Health? Never Be Sick Again: Understanding Disease Email Address * Please note that most treatment modalities listed below are based on conventional medicine. PreventDisease.com does not advocate the use of any pharmaceutical drug treatments. Long-term drug therapy is very detrimental to human health. All drug information is for your reference only and readers are strongly encouraged to research healthier alternatives to any drug therapies listed. Pneumonia WHAT 
                IS PNEUMONIA? Pneumonia is 
              an inflammation of the lung caused by infection with bacteria, viruses, 
              and other organisms. Pneumonia is usually triggered when a patient's 
              defense system is weakened, most often by a simple viral upper respiratory 
              tract infection or a case of influenza. Such infections or other 
              triggers do not cause pneumonia directly but they alter the mucous 
              blanket, thus encouraging bacterial growth. Other factors can also 
              make specific people susceptible to bacterial growth and pneumonia. Defining 
                Pneumonia by Locations in the Lung Pneumonia is 
              sometimes defined in one of two ways according to its distribution 
              in the lung: Lobar 
                  Pneumonia (occurs in one lobe of the lung). Bronchopneumonia 
                  (tends to be patchy). [For a description 
              of the lung , see Box The Lungs. ] Defining 
                Pneumonia by Origin of Infection Pneumonia is 
              often classified into two categories that may help predict the organisms 
              that are the most likely culprits. Community-acquired 
                  (pneumonia contracted outside the hospital). Pneumonia in 
                  this setting often follows a viral respiratory infection. It 
                  affects nearly 4 million adults each year. It is likely to be 
                  caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae, the most common pneumonia-causing 
                  bacteria. Other organisms, such as atypical bacteria called Chlamydia or Mycoplasma pneumonia are also common 
                  causes of community-acquired pneumonia. Hospital-acquired 
                  pneumonia. Pneumonia that is contracted within the hospital 
                  is called nosocomial pneumonia. Hospital patients are 
                  particularly vulnerable to gram-negative bacteria and staphylococci, 
                  which can be very dangerous. Disease 
                Process Leading to Pneumonia Infectious agents 
              reach the lungs and cause pneumonia through different routes: Most often, 
                  organisms that cause pneumonia enter the lungs after being inhaled 
                  into the airways. Sometimes 
                  the normally harmless bacteria present in the mouth may be aspirated 
                  into the lungs, usually if the gag reflex is suppressed. Pneumonia 
                  may also be caused from infections that spread to the lungs 
                  through the bloodstream from other organs. Under normal 
              circumstances, however, the airways that take air in and pass through 
              the upper part of the body have very effective mechanisms that protect 
              the lung from infection by bacteria and other microbes. Large 
                  particles are first filtered out in the nasal passage. When smaller 
                  particles are inhaled, sensors along the airways trigger coughing 
                  or sneezing reflexes, which force many particles to back out. Tiny ones 
                  that are able to reach the bronchioles are trapped in a mucous 
                  blanket and are then moved up and out of the lungs by the beating 
                  movements of tiny hair-like cells called cilia, a mechanism 
                  known as the mucociliary escalator. Bacteria 
                  or other infectious agents that evade the airway defense system 
                  are attacked in the alveolar sacs by defenders from the body's 
                  immune system, particularly macrophages, large white blood cells 
                  that literally eat foreign particles. These strong 
              defense systems normally keep the lung sterile. If these defenses 
              are weakened or damaged, however, bacteria or other organisms, such 
              as viruses, fungi, and parasites, can gain the upper hand, producing 
              pneumonia. The 
                      Lungs The lungs 
                    are two spongy organs surrounded by a thin, moist membrane 
                    called the pleura. They are the largest organs in our body. 
                    Each lung is composed of smooth, shiny lobes; the right lung 
                    has three lobes and the left has two. Approximately 90% of 
                    the lung is filled with air and only 10% is solid tissue. When a person inhales, air travels through the following pathways 
                    into the lungs. Air is carried from the trachea (the windpipe) into the 
                        lung through flexible airways called bronchi . Like the branches of a tree, bronchi divide successively 
                        into over a million smaller airways called bronchioles . The bronchioles lead to grape-like clusters of microscopic 
                        sacs called alveoli . In each lung of an adult there are millions of these tiny 
                        alveoli, which are composed of a thin membrane through 
                        which oxygen and carbon dioxide pass to and from capillaries . During deep inhalation, the elastic alveoli unfold and 
                        unwind to allow this passage to occur. Capillaries, the smallest of our blood vessels, carry 
                        blood throughout the body. Red blood cells contain factors that fight pollutants; 
                        white blood cells are the critical infection fighters 
                        in our body. WHAT 
                CAUSES PNEUMONIA? Bacteria are 
              the most common causes of pneumonia, but these infections can also 
              be caused by other microbial organisms. It is often impossible to 
              identify the specific culprit.Bacteria Many bacteria are categorized by the staining procedure used to 
              visualize bacteria under a microscope. The stains determine if they 
              are gram-negative or gram-positive bacteria. This gives the physician 
              an idea of the severity of the pneumonia and how to treat it. Gram-Positive Bacteria. These bacteria appear blue on the 
              stain. The following are common gram-positive bacteria: The most 
                  common cause of pneumonia is the gram-positive bacterium Streptococcus 
                  pneumoniae (also called S. pneumoniae or pneumococcal 
                  pneumonia ). It was thought to cause 95% of community-acquired 
                  bacterial infection, but research now indicates it is far less, 
                  accounting for about half of all cases. (Some studies suggest 
                  it may account for even fewer, 10% to 30% of cases.) Staphylococcus 
                  aureus , the other major gram-positive bacterium responsible 
                  for pneumonia, accounts for about 10% of bacterial cases. It 
                  is one of the main causes of pneumonia that occurs in the hospital 
                  (nosocomial pneumonia). It is uncommon in healthy adults but 
                  can develop about five days after viral influenza, usually in 
                  susceptible individuals, such as people with weakened immune 
                  systems, very young children, hospitalized patients, and drug 
                  abusers who use needles. Streptococcus 
                  pyogenes or Group A Streptococcus . Gram-Negative 
              Bacteria. These bacteria stain pink . Gram negative 
              bacteria are common infectious agents in hospitalized or nursing 
              home patients, children with cystic fibrosis, and people with chronic 
              lung conditions. The most 
                  common gram-negative species causing pneumonia is Haemophilus 
                  influenzae (generally occurring in patients with chronic 
                  lung disease, older patients, and alcoholics). Klebsiella 
                  pneumoniae may be responsible for pneumonia in alcoholics 
                  and in other people who are physically debilitated. Pseudomonas 
                  aeruginosa is a major cause of pneumonia that occurs in 
                  the hospital (nosocomial pneumonia). It is common in pneumonia 
                  patients with chronic or severe lung disease. Moraxella 
                  catarrhalis is found in everyone's nasal and oral passages. 
                  Experts have identified this bacteria as a cause of certain 
                  pneumonias, particularly in people with lung problems, such 
                  as asthma or emphysema. Neisseria 
                  meningitidis is one of the most common causes of meningitis 
                  (central nervous system infection), but the organism has been 
                  reported in pneumonia, particularly in epidemics of military 
                  recruits. Other 
                  gram-negative bacteria that cause pneumonia include E. coli (a cause in newborns), Proteus (found in several 
                  damaged lung tissue), and Enterobacter . Atypical 
                Pneumonia Atypical pneumonias 
              are generally caused by tiny nonbacterial organisms called Mycoplasma or Chlamydia pneumoniae and produce mild symptoms with 
              a dry cough. Hospitalization is uncommon with pneumonia from these 
              organisms. Mycoplasma 
                  pneumoniae ( M. pneumoniae ) is the most common 
                  nonbacterial pneumonia. Mycoplasma is a very small organism 
                  that lacks a cell wall. It spreads from prolonged, close contact 
                  and is most often found in school-aged children and young adults. 
                  The condition is usually mild and is commonly known as walking 
                  pneumonia. Estimates of its prevalence in community acquired 
                  pneumonias in adults range from 1.9% to 30%. In one study, it 
                  accounted for over a third of pneumonia cases in children. Another 
                  small non-bacterial organism, Chlamydia pneumoniae ( C. pneumoniae ), is now thought to cause 10% of all community-acquired 
                  cases of pneumonia. It is most common in young adults and children, 
                  where it is usually mild. In one study, it was the cause of 
                  14% of cases in a group of children with pneumonia. While less 
                  common in the elderly, it can be very severe in this population. Legionnaire's 
                  disease, first diagnosed in 1976, is caused by the organism Legionella pneumophila, and is acquired by breathing 
                  droplets of contaminated water. Outbreaks have most often been 
                  reported in hotels, cruise ships, and office buildings where 
                  people are exposed to contaminated droplets from cooling towers 
                  and evaporative condensers. They have also been reported after 
                  exposure to whirlpools and saunas. Legionella is not passed 
                  on from person to person, but it may be much more common than 
                  once thought. Some experts even believe it causes 29% to 47% 
                  of all pneumonia cases. ( Legionella is sometimes categorized 
                  as an atypical pneumonia.) Viruses Viruses that 
              can cause or lead to pneumonia include influenza, respiratory syncytial 
              virus (RSV), herpes simplex virus, varicella-zoster (the cause of 
              chicken pox), and adenovirus. Outbreaks usually occur between January 
              and April. Influenza 
                  is associated with pneumonia directly or by altering the mucous 
                  blanket and making a person susceptible to bacterial pneumonia. Respiratory 
                  syncytial virus (RSV) is a major cause of pneumonia in infants 
                  and people with damaged immune systems. Studies indicate that 
                  RSV pneumonia may also be more common than previously thought 
                  in adults, especially the elderly. Adenoviruses 
                  have been implicated in about 10% of childhood pneumonia. In adults, 
                  herpes simplex virus, adenoviruses, and varicella-zoster (the 
                  cause of chicken pox) are generally causes of pneumonia only 
                  in people with impaired immune systems. Aspiration 
                Pneumonia and Anaerobic Bacteria The mouth harbors 
              a mixture of bacteria that is harmless in its normal location but 
              can cause a serious condition called aspiration pneumonia if it 
              reaches the lung. This can happen during periods of altered consciousness, 
              often when a patient is affected by drugs or alcohol, or after head 
              injury or anesthesia. In such cases, the gag reflex is diminished, 
              allowing these bacteria to enter the airways to the lung. These 
              organisms are generally different from the usual microbes that enter 
              the lung by inhalation. Many are often anaerobic (meaning they can 
              live in the absence of oxygen). Opportunistic 
                Pneumonia Impaired immunity 
              leaves patients vulnerable to serious, even life-threatening, pneumonias 
              known as opportunistic pneumonias. They are caused by microbes that 
              are harmless to people with healthy immune systems. Infecting organisms 
              include the following: Pneumocystis 
                  carinii, an atypical organism that is very common and generally 
                  harmless in people with healthy immune systems. Fungi, 
                  such as Mycobacterium avium. Viruses, 
                  such as cytomegalovirus (CMV). AIDS is a major risk factor for 
                  opportunistic pneumonia, as are other conditions including lymphomas, 
                  leukemias, and other cancers. Long-term use of corticosteroids 
                  and other medications that suppress the immune system increase 
                  the susceptibility to these pneumonias. Occupational 
                and Regional Pneumonias A number of people 
              are exposed to pneumonia-causing organisms specific to particular 
              occupations or regions. Workers 
                  exposed to cattle, pigs, sheep, and horses are at risk for pneumonia 
                  caused by anthrax, brucellosis, and Q fever. Agricultural 
                  and construction workers in the Southwest are at risk for coccidioidomycosis, 
                  and those working in Ohio and the Mississippi Valley are at 
                  risk for histoplasmosis. Workers 
                  exposed to pigeons, parrots, parakeets, and turkeys are at risk 
                  for psittacosis. Exposure 
                  to chemicals can also cause inflammation and pneumonia. Hantavirus 
                  causes a dangerous form of lung disease and is carried by rodents, 
                  but is still rare. It does not appear to be contagious; cases 
                  have occurred in New Mexico, Arizona, California, Washington, 
                  and Mexico. People 
                  in the southwest are also exposed to the fungus Coccidioides 
                  immitis , the cause of Valley fever, which is a lung infection 
                  that can cause pneumonia in susceptibl e indivi duals. WHAT 
                ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF PNEUMONIA? Symptoms 
                of Common Pneumonias General Symptoms. The symptoms 
                  of bacterial pneumonia develop abruptly and may include chest 
                  pain, fever, shaking, chills, shortness of breath, and rapid 
                  breathing and heart beat. Symptoms 
                  of pneumonia indicating a medical emergency include high fever, 
                  a rapid heart rate, low blood pressure, bluish-skin, and mental 
                  confusion. Coughing 
                  up sputum containing pus or blood is an indication of serious 
                  infection. Severe 
                  abdominal pain may accompany pneumonia occurring in the lower 
                  lobes of the lung. In advanced 
                  cases, the patient's skin may become bluish (cyanotic), breathing 
                  may become labored and heavy, and the patient may become confused. Symptoms in 
              the Elderly. It is important to note that older people may 
              have fewer or different symptoms than younger people have. An elderly 
              person who experiences even a minor cough and weakness for more 
              than a day should seek medical help. Some may exhibit confusion, 
              lethargy, and general deterioration. Symptoms 
                of Pneumonia Causes by Anaerobic Bacteria People with pneumonia 
              caused by anaerobic bacteria such as Bacteroides , which can 
              produce abscesses, often have prolonged fever and productive cough, 
              frequently showing blood in the sputum, which indicates necrosis 
              (tissue death) in the lung. About a third of these patients experience 
              weight loss. Symptoms 
                of Atypical Pneumonia General Symptoms 
              for Atypical Pneumonias. Atypical nonbacterial pneumonia is 
              most commonly caused by Mycoplasma and usually appears in 
              children and young adults. Symptoms 
                  progress gradually, often beginning with general flu-like symptoms, 
                  such as fatigue, fever, weakness, headache, nasal discharge, 
                  sore throat, ear ache, and stomach and intestinal distress. Vague 
                  pain under and around the breast bone may occur, but the severe 
                  chest pain associated with typical bacterial pneumonia is uncommon. Patients 
                  may experience a severe hacking cough, but it usually does not 
                  produce sputum. Symptoms of 
              Legionnaire's Disease. Symptoms of Legionnaire's disease usually 
              evolve more rapidly and include high fever, a dry cough, and shortness 
              of breath, often accompanied by headache, muscle pains, fatigue, 
              gastrointestinal problems, and mental confusion. HOW 
                SERIOUS IS PNEUMONIA? General 
                Outlook About 1.2 million 
              people are hospitalized each year for pneumonia, which is the third 
              most frequent reason for hospitalizations (births are first and 
              heart disease is second). Although the majority of pneumonias respond 
              well to treatment, the infection can still be a very serious problem. 
              Together with influenza, pneumonia is the sixth leading cause of 
              death in the US and is the leading cause of death from infection. 
              Outlook for High-Risk Individuals Severity varies widely depending on individual factors, including 
              the following: Hospitalized 
                  Patients. For patients who require hospitalization for pneumonia, 
                  the mortality rate is between 10% and 25%. If pneumonia develops 
                  in patients already hospitalized for other conditions, the mortality 
                  rates are higher. They range from 50% to 70% and are greater 
                  in women than in men. Older 
                  Adults. The elderly have lower survival rates, particularly 
                  those with other medical problems. (Even when older individuals 
                  recover from community-acquired pneumonia, they have higher 
                  than normal mortality rates over the next several years.) Very Young 
                  Children. About 20% of stillborn and very early infant mortality 
                  deaths are due to pneumonia. Small children who develop pneumonia 
                  are at risk for developing lung problems in adulthood. Pregnant 
                  Women. Pneumonia poses a special hazard for pregnant women. Patients 
                  with Impaired Immune Systems. Pneumonia is particularly serious 
                  in people with impaired immune systems, particularly AIDS patients, 
                  in whom pneumonia causes about half of all deaths. Patients 
                  with Serious Medical Conditions. The disease is also very dangerous 
                  in people with diabetes, cirrhosis, sickle cell anemia, multiple 
                  myeloma, and in those who have had their spleens removed. Risk 
                by Organisms Lower-Risk 
              Organisms. The following organisms usually cause pneumonias 
              that are responsive to treatment or mild. S. 
                  Pneumonia is the most common organism and, although it can 
                  cause severe pneumonia, it is very responsive to many antibiotics. Mycoplasma and Chlamydia are common causes of pneumonia in children 
                  and young adults. They are generally mild and rarely require 
                  hospitalization when they are appropriately treated, although 
                  recovery may still be prolonged. Severe and life-threatening 
                  cases are more likely to occur in elderly people with other 
                  medication conditions. High-Risk 
              Organisms. The following are high-risk infecting organisms that 
              pose a particular risk for dangerous pneumonia: High-risk 
                  gram positive bacteria. Staphylococcus aureus. Poses 
                  a higher risk for multiple small abscesses in the lung and necrosis 
                  (tissue death). High-risk gram-negative 
              bacteria include the following: Pseudomonas 
                  aeruginosa. Klebsiella 
                  pneumonia. Poses a risk for abscesses and severe lung tissue 
                  damage. Legionella 
                  pneumophila . Particularly virulent and can cause damage 
                  throughout the body. Viral pneumonia 
              is usually very mild but there are exceptions. Influenza 
                  pneumonia can be very serious. Respiratory 
                  syncytial virus (RSV) pneumonia rarely poses a danger for healthy 
                  young adults. However, between 22,000 and 44,500 children are 
                  hospitalized each year because of pneumonia from RSV and the 
                  incidence seems to be increasing. Between 2% to 9% of hospitalized 
                  pneumonia cases in the elderly may be due to respiratory syncytial 
                  virus. Complications 
                of Pneumonia Abscesses. Abscesses in the lung are thick-walled, pus-filled cavities 
              that are formed when infection has destroyed lung tissue. They are 
              frequently a result of aspiration pneumonia, when a mixture of organisms 
              is carried into the lung. Abscesses can cause hemorrhage in the 
              lung if untreated, but antibiotics that target specific anaerobic 
              bacteria and other organisms have significantly reduced their danger. 
              Abscesses are more common with Staphylococcus aureus or Klebsiella pneumoniae , and uncommon with Streptococcus pneumoniae . Respiratory Failure. Respiratory failure is one of the most 
              important causes of death in patients with pneumococcal pneumonia. 
              Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is the specific condition 
              that occurs when the lungs are unable to function and oxygen is 
              so severely reduced that the patient's life is at risk. Failure 
              can occur from mechanical changes in the lungs caused by the pneumonia 
              (called ventilatory failure) or from loss of oxygen in the arteries 
              when pneumonia results in abnormal blood flow (called hypoxemic 
              respiratory failure). Bacteremia. Bacteremia (bacteria in the blood) is the most 
              common complication of Streptococcus pneumoniae , but rarely 
              does this infection spread to other sites. Bacteremia is also a 
              frequent complication of other gram-negative organisms, including Haemophilus influenzae . Pleural Effusions and Empyema. The pleura are two thin membranes: The visceral 
                  pleura covers the lungs. The parietal 
                  pleura covers the chest wall. The narrow zone 
              between these two pleural membranes normally contains a tiny amount 
              of fluid that helps lubricate the lung. In about 20% of patients 
              who are hospitalized for pneumonia, this fluid builds up around 
              the lung. In most cases, particularly in Streptococcus pneumoniae , 
              the fluid remains sterile, but occasionally it can become infected 
              and even filled with pus (a condition called empyema ). Empyema 
              sometimes occurs with Staphylococcus aureus or Klebsiella 
              pneumoniae . The condition can cause permanent scarring. Pneumonia 
              may also cause the pleura to become inflamed, which can result in 
              breathlessness and acute pain. Collapsed Lung. Air may fill up the area between the pleural 
              membranes causing pneumothorax, or collapsed lung. The condition 
              can be a complication of pneumonia (particularly pneumococcal pneumonia) 
              or of some of the invasive procedures used to treat pleural effusion. Other Complications of Pneumonia. In rare cases, infection 
              may spread from the lungs to the heart and can even spread throughout 
              the body, sometimes causing abscesses in the brain and other organs. 
              Severe hemoptysis (coughing up blood) is another potentially 
              serious complication of pneumonia, particularly in patients with 
              other lung problems such as cystic fibrosis. Long 
                Term Effects of Atypical Pneumonias Both Mycoplasma 
              and Chlamydia pneumonias, the primary atypical pneumonias, 
              are usually mild. Some research is suggesting, however, that they 
              may have certain adverse long-term effects even in healthy younger 
              individuals. Heart Disease and Stroke. Research has suggested that the Chlamydia (C.) pneumoniae may trigger an immune response 
              that causes inflammation and damage over time in the arteries or 
              heart muscle. In a 2000 study, C. pneumoniae was associated 
              with a thickening in the carotid artery which leads to the brain. 
              Nevertheless, studies on a causal relationship between C. pneumonia 
              and heart disease or stroke have been mixed. The most recent ones 
              have found no strong association between the infection and heart 
              disease while others downstate a possible link. Neurologic Diseases. Some research suggests that C. pneumonia 
              may affect the brain. Researchers 
                  have also detected C. pneumoniae in areas of the brain affected 
                  by Alzheimer's but not in other areas, suggesting that the inflammatory 
                  response may contribute to this dreaded disease. Another 
                  study reported an association between Chlamydia and multiple 
                  sclerosis, another neurologic disease caused by the inflammatory 
                  process. Asthma. Chlamydia pneumoniae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae , 
              and the respiratory syncytial virus are becoming important suspects 
              in many cases of severe adult asthma. (Serious respiratory infections 
              that occur in early childhood, however, probably do not play a role 
              in asthma that develops in adulthood.) WHO 
                GETS PNEUMONIA? General 
                Risk Factors for Community-Acquired Pneumonia Community-acquired 
              pneumonia is the most common type and develops outside of the hospital. 
              Each year between two and four million people in the US develop 
              community-acquired pneumonia, and 600,000 people are hospitalized 
              because of it. The elderly (who have diminished cough and gag reflexes 
              and faltering immune systems), infants, and young children (who 
              have immature immune systems and narrow airways) are at greater 
              risk for pneumonia than are young and middle-aged adults. In the 
              US the incidence is higher in African-Americans than in Caucasians. General 
                Risk Factors for Hospital-Acquired (Nosocomial) Pneumonia Aside from specific 
              conditions that predispose one to pneumonia, people who are hospitalized 
              have a higher risk for pneumonia than those who are not. Pneumonia 
              that is contracted in the hospital is called nosocomial pneumonia 
              and affects an estimated five to 10 out of every 1000 hospitalized 
              patients every year. The following conditions put hospitalized people 
              at higher risk: Surgery, 
                  particularly splenectomy or operations that impair coughing. Being 
                  in the intensive care unit on mechanical ventilators. Ventilated 
                  patients who lie flat on their backs are at particular risk 
                  for aspiration pneumonia; raising the patient up may reduce 
                  this risk. Hospitalized 
                  patients are particularly vulnerable to gram-negative bacteria 
                  and staphylococci, which can be very dangerous, particularly 
                  in people who are already ill Risk 
                Factors in Adults Dormitory 
              or Barrack Conditions. Recruits on military bases and college 
              students are at higher than average risk for Mycoplasma pneumonia , which is usually mild. These groups are at lower risk, 
              however, for more serious types of pneumonia. Smoke and Environmental Pollutants. The risk for pneumonia 
              in smokers of more than a pack a day is three times that of nonsmokers. 
              Those who are chronically exposed to cigarette smoke, which can 
              injure airways and damage the cilia, are also at risk. Quitting 
              smoking reduces the risk of dying from pneumonia to normal, but 
              the full benefit takes ten years to be realized. Toxic fumes, industrial 
              smoke, and other air pollutants may also damage cilia function. Drugs and Alcohol. Alcohol or drug abuse is strongly associated 
              with pneumonia. These substances act as sedatives and can diminish 
              the reflexes that trigger coughing and sneezing. Alcohol also interferes 
              with the actions of macrophages, the white blood cells that destroy 
              bacteria and other microbes. Intravenous drug abusers are at risk 
              for pneumonia from infections that originate at the injection site 
              and spread through the blood stream. Compromised 
                Immune Systems People with impaired 
              immune systems are extremely susceptible to pneumonia. In addition 
              to AIDS, other conditions that compromise the immune system include 
              organ transplantation, chemotherapy, and cancers, especially leukemia 
              and Hodgkin's disease. Patients who are on corticosteroid or other 
              medications that suppress the immune system are also prone to infection. Chronic 
                Lung Disease Chronic obstructive 
              lung diseases, including chronic bronchitis and emphysema, are major 
              risk factors for pneumonia. Specific 
                Risk Factors for Recurrent Pneumonia in Children Certain children 
              have a higher than normal risk for pneumonia and its recurrence. 
              Conditions that predispose infants and small children to pneumonia 
              include the following: Impaired 
                  immune system. Gastroesophageal 
                  reflux disorder. Inborn 
                  lung or heart defects. Abnormalities 
                  in muscle coordination in the mouth and throat. Asthma. Certain genetic 
              disorders. They include sickle-cell disease, cystic fibrosis 
              (which causes mucus abnormalities), and Kartagener's syndrome (which 
              results in malfunctioning cilia, the hair-like cells lining the 
              airways). HOW 
                IS PNEUMONIA DIAGNOSED? In many cases 
                of mild-to-moderate community-acquired pneumonia, the physician 
                is able to diagnose and treat pneumonia based solely on a history 
                and physical examination. Often, however, a diagnosis is not straightforward, 
                particularly in hospitalized patients. Medical 
                and Personal History The patient's 
              history is an important part of the diagnosis of pneumonia. The 
              patient should be sure to report any of the following: recent 
                  or chronic respiratory infection, exposure 
                  to people with pneumonia or other respiratory illnesses (such 
                  as tuberculosis), history 
                  of smoking, alcohol 
                  or drug abuse, recent 
                  travel, and occupational 
                  risks. Physical 
                Examination Use of the 
              Stethoscope. The most important diagnostic tool for pneumonia 
              is the stethoscope. Sounds in the chest that may indicate pneumonia 
              are the following: Rales (a bubbling or crackling sound). Rales on one side of the chest 
                  and rales heard while the patient is lying down is strongly 
                  suggestive of pneumonia. Rhonchi (abnormal rumblings indicating the presence of thick fluid). Percussion. The physician will also use a test called percussion, in which he 
              or she taps the chest lightly. A dull thud instead of a healthy 
              hollow-drum-like sound, indicates certain condition that suggest 
              pneumonia, including the following: Consolidation (a condition, in which the lung becomes firm and inelastic). Pleural 
                  effusion (fluid build-up in the space between the lungs 
                  and the lining around it). Diagnostic 
                Difficulties in Hospitalized Patients Diagnosing pneumonia 
              is particularly difficult in hospitalized patients (called nosocomial 
              pneumonia) for a number of reasons, including the following: Many hospitalized 
                  patients have similar symptoms, including fever or signs of 
                  lung infiltration on x-rays. In hospitalized 
                  patients, sputum or blood tests often indicate the presence 
                  of bacteria or other organisms, but such agents do not necessarily 
                  indicate pneumonia. For a diagnosis 
              of nosocomial pneumonia, physicians should be sure to rule out other 
              conditions, using a chest x-ray, two sets of blood cultures, a urine 
              analysis for Legionella , lung fluid sample, and possibly 
              other tests for specific organisms. Laboratory 
                Tests for Diagnosing Infection and Identifying Bacterial Agents Although antibiotics 
              are available that can destroy a wide spectrum of organisms, it 
              would be preferable to use an antibiotic that can target the specific 
              microorganism causing the pneumonia. Researchers, then, are looking 
              for laboratory tests that would identify the specific organism or 
              virus causing the pneumonia. Unfortunately, people harbor many bacteria, 
              and sputum and blood tests are not always effective in distinguishing 
              between harmless and harmful microscopic agents. In severe cases, 
              physicians particularly need to use invasive diagnostic measures 
              to identify the infecting agent. Urine Tests. A urine test (NOW) is up to 93% accurate in 
              identifying S. pneumoniae within 15 minutes. However, a 2000 
              study indicated that it is not likely to be useful in diagnosing S. pneumoniae as a cause of pneumonia in children, since 
              the organism is very common in the noses and throats of children. 
              This organism, then, would very likely be picked up by the test 
              even if it were not the cause of the pneumonia. Sputum Tests. Only a sample of sputum coughed from the lungs 
              will yield the infecting organism, and, even then, tests are not 
              always successful in revealing the culprit. The following steps 
              may be required: The physician 
                  first asks the patient to cough as deeply as possible to produce 
                  an adequate sputum sample. A shallow cough produces a sample 
                  that usually only contains normal mouth bacteria. A patient 
                  who is not able to cough sufficiently may be asked to inhale 
                  a saline spray that helps produce an adequate sputum sample. In some 
                  cases, a tube will be inserted through the nose down into the 
                  lower respiratory tract to induce a deeper cough. Even before sending 
              the sample to the laboratory, the physician will check it for the 
              following: Presence 
                  of blood (an indication of infection). Color 
                  and consistency. If the sputum is opaque and colored yellow, 
                  green, or brown, then infection is likely. Clear, white, glistening 
                  sputum indicates no infection. In the laboratory, 
              the sputum sample may be used as follows: A Gram's 
                  stain is made, which may reveal the presence of bacteria and 
                  whether they are gram-negative or positive. A sputum 
                  culture may be performed, in which organisms are grown in the 
                  laboratory. Blood Tests. Blood tests may be used for the following: White 
                  blood cell count. High levels indicate infection. Blood 
                  cultures. They may be performed for detecting the specific organism 
                  causing the pneumonia, but are not often helpful in distinguishing 
                  harmful from harmless organisms. They are accurate in only 10% 
                  to 30% of cases, and their use should generally be limited to 
                  severe cases. Detection 
                  of antibodies to S. pneumoniae. Researchers are using 
                  specialized techniques to detect antibodies to S. pneumoniae (immune factors that target specific foreign invaders), 
                  but it is not clear if they are accurate. Laboratory 
                Tests for Less Common Organisms If uncommon organisms, 
              such as Legionella , Mycoplasma , and Chlamydia organisms, are strongly suspected more advanced laboratory tests 
              may be used: Specialized 
                  techniques can detect antibodies to the organisms in blood samples, 
                  but these antibodies, such as those responding to Mycoplasma or Chlamydia , are not present early enough in the 
                  course of pneumonia to permit prompt diagnosis and treatment. A test 
                  performed on whole blood samples that uses a technique called 
                  polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is useful for identifying certain 
                  atypical strains, including Mycoplasma and Chlamydia pneumoniae, but it is expensive. A urine 
                  test can be used to diagnose some cases of Legionnaire's disease. DNA probes 
                  are being developed to detect these organisms in respiratory 
                  secretions. In addition, 
              special stains and cultures are required to detect tuberculosis 
              and fungal infections. Chest 
                X-Rays and Other Imaging Techniques X-Rays. A 
              chest x-ray is nearly always taken to confirm a diagnosis of pneumonia. 
              It may reveal the following: White 
                  areas in the lung called infiltrates, which indicate infection. Complications 
                  of pneumonia, including pleural effusions (fluid around the 
                  lungs) and abscesses. Other Imaging 
              Tests. Computed tomography (CT) scans or MRIs may be obtained 
              in the following circumstances: If x-ray 
                  results are unclear. When patients 
                  do not respond to antibiotics. When patients 
                  have complications. When patients 
                  have other serious health problems. These more sophisticated 
              imaging techniques can help detect the presence of tissue damage, 
              abscesses, and enlarged lymph nodes. They can also detect some tumors 
              that block bronchial tubes. No imaging technique can determine the 
              actual organism causing the infection. Invasive 
                Diagnostic Procedures Invasive diagnostic 
              procedures may be required in the following circumstances: When patients 
                  have life-threatening complications. When patients 
                  have failed standard treatments for no known reason. When AIDS 
                  or other immune problems are present. Each of the procedures 
              has potential complications and is not used under ordinary conditions. Thoracentesis. If a physician detects pleural effusion and 
              suspects that empyema (pus) is present, thoracentesis is performed: Fluid 
                  in the pleura is withdrawn using a long thin needle inserted 
                  between the ribs. The fluid 
                  is then tested using blood cell counts, Gram stains, cultures, 
                  and chemical tests. Complications 
              of this procedure include collapsed lung, bleeding, and introduction 
              of infection. Bronchoscopy. A bronchoscopy employs the following: The patient 
                  is given a local anesthetic, supplementary oxygen, and sedatives. The physician 
                  inserts a fiberoptic tube into the lower respiratory tract through 
                  the nose or mouth. The tube 
                  acts like a telescope into the body, allowing the physician 
                  to view the wind-pipe and major airways for pus, abnormal mucus, 
                  or other problems. The doctor 
                  removes specimens for analysis and can also treat the patient 
                  by removing any foreign bodies or infected tissue encountered 
                  during the process. Bronchoalveolar 
                  lavage (BAL) may be employed. This involves injecting high amounts 
                  of saline through the bronchoscope into the lung and then immediately 
                  suctioning the fluid back, which is then analyzed in the laboratory. 
                  Studies find BAL to be an effective method for detecting specific 
                  infection-causing organisms in patients with serious pneumonia. The procedure 
              is usually very safe, but complications can occur. They include 
              allergic reactions to the sedatives or anesthetics, asthma attacks 
              in susceptible patients, and bleeding. Fever may follow the procedure. Lung Biopsy. In very severe cases of pneumonia or when the 
              diagnosis is unclear in specific cases, particularly in patients 
              with damaged immune systems, a lung biopsy may be required. Biopsies 
              can be performed in one of two ways: A Lung 
                  Tap. This procedure typically uses a needle inserted between 
                  the ribs to draw fluid out of the lung for analysis. It is known 
                  by a number of names including lung aspiration, lung puncture, 
                  thoracic puncture, transthoracic needle aspiration, percutaneous 
                  needle aspiration, and needle aspiration. It is a very old procedure 
                  that is not done often any more, particularly in children, since 
                  it is invasive and poses a slight risk for collapsed lung. Some 
                  experts argue, however, that a lung tap offers a more accurate 
                  solution than other methods for identifying bacteria and the 
                  risk it poses is slight. Given the increase in resistant bacteria, 
                  they believe its use should be reappraised in young people. Surgically 
                  (thoracotomy), using general anesthesia and an incision. This 
                  is used for diagnosis only in very severe cases. As with bronchoscopy, 
                  the procedure can also be used to treat the patient, removing 
                  damaging lung tissue and, in severe cases, removing the entire 
                  lobe (lobectomy). (In such cases, remaining lung tissue re-expands 
                  after surgery to compensate for any removed tissue.) Ruling 
                out Other Disorders that Affect the Lung Common Causes 
              of Persistent Coughing. Over 30 million people seek medical 
              help each year for persistent coughing, which is nearly always temporary 
              and harmless when other symptoms, such as fever, are not present. 
              Roughly, the first four most common causes of persistent coughing 
              are asthma, postnasal drip, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and 
              chronic bronchitis. Other obvious common causes of chronic cough 
              include heavy smoking or the use of drugs known as ACE inhibitors. Acute Bronchitis. Acute bronchitis is an infection in the 
              passages that carry air from the throat to the lung causing a cough 
              that produces phlegm. It is almost always caused by a virus and 
              usually resolves on its own within a few days. (In some cases, acute 
              bronchitis caused by a cold can last for several weeks, and some 
              physicians believe that a cough should not be considered to be chronic 
              until it persists for eight weeks.) [ See Box What 
              Is Acute Bronchitis? ] Chronic Bronchitis. Chronic bronchitis causes shortness 
              of breath and is often accompanied by infection, mucus production, 
              and coughing, but it is a long-term and irreversible condition. 
              The same microbes cause chronic bronchitis and pneumonia, and symptoms 
              of the two disorders are often similar. They include fatigue, coughing, 
              fever, and production of sputum. Patients 
                  with bronchitis are less likely, however, to have shortness 
                  of breath, chills, very high fevers, and other signs of severe 
                  illness. Those 
                  with pneumonia usually cough up heavy sputum, which is also 
                  more likely to contain blood. Patients 
                  with bronchitis are more prone to wheezing than are those with 
                  pneumonia. X-rays 
                  of patients with bronchitis are unlikely to show fluid or consolidation 
                  in the lung. Asthma. In 
              asthma, the cough is accompanied by wheezing and occurs mostly at 
              night or during activity. Fever is rarely present (unless the patient 
              also has an infection). Asthmatic symptoms from occupational causes 
              can cause persistent coughing, which is usually worse during the 
              work week. Tests called the methacholine inhalation challenge and 
              pulmonary function studies may be effective in diagnosing asthma. Ruling out Causes in Children. Important causes of coughing 
              in children at different ages include: Asthma. Physical 
                  abnormalities in infants under 18 months. Sinusitis 
                  in children 18 months to six years. Psychologic 
                  causes in older children and adolescents. Other Disorders 
              that Affect the Lung. Many conditions mimic pneumonia, particularly 
              in hospitalized patients. Some include the following: Tuberculosis. Bronchial 
                  asthma. Bronchiectasis 
                  (irreversible widening of the airways, usually associated with 
                  birth defects, chronic sinus or bronchial infection, or blockage). Atelectasis 
                  (collapse of lung tissue). Congestive 
                  heart failure. (If heart failure affects the lungs, fluid-build 
                  up can occur and cause persistent cough, shortness of breath, 
                  and wheezing. In such cases, symptoms are usually worse at night.) Severe 
                  allergic reactions, such as to drugs. Adult 
                  respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Lung cancer. Interstitial 
                  pulmonary fibrosis (a non-infectious inflammation of the is 
                  marked by progressive damage and scarring). It can occur from 
                  a number of conditions, including chemicals, injury, autoimmune 
                  disease, and cancer. The cause is often unknown. WHAT IS ACUTE BRONCHITIS? Acute bronchitis 
                    is an infection in the passages that carry air from the throat 
                    to the lung causing a cough that produces phlegm. In such 
                    cases, the airway tubes are inflamed and collect mucus. In 
                    95% of cases, acute bronchitis is caused by a virus and is 
                    spread from person to person through coughing. In some cases 
                    other tiny microbes called Mycoplasma or Chlamydia may be responsible. Symptoms of Acute Bronchitis The cough 
                    in acute bronchitis usually lasts for about a week to ten 
                    days but in about half of patients coughing can last for up 
                    to three weeks and 25% of patients continue to cough for over 
                    month. Complications of Acute Bronchitis Acute bronchitis 
                    is nearly always temporary. Sometimes it can last for weeks 
                    to months if the airways are not healing properly. Pneumonia 
                    may be present if coughing is continuous and hacking, if blood 
                    appears in the sputum, and if the patient has a high fever 
                    and signs of severe illness, such as shortness of breath or 
                    extreme weakness and fatigue. [For more information see the Report Colds, Flu, Sore Throat, 
                    and Acute Bronchitis. ] Of particular interest and some concern are the roles of Mycoplasma and Chlamydia , two of the infectious organisms that 
                    cause acute bronchitis. These agents are being investigated 
                    for their roles as possible causes of asthma. Chlamydia is also being investigated as a trigger for processes leading 
                    to coronary artery disease. Treatments for Persistent Acute Bronchitis A number 
                    of cough remedies are available for coughing due to a cold 
                    that is not persistent. [See What Are the Treatments for Symptoms 
                    of Colds and Mild Flus?] If acute bronchitis develop, however, 
                    other treatments may be necessary. Bronchodilators. For some patients with acute bronchitis, 
                    inhaled medications called bronchodilators may be effective. 
                    These drugs relax and open the airways and so may relieve 
                    symptoms and reduce the duration of the coughing. The most 
                    common bronchodilator used for acute bronchitis is albuterol 
                    (Proventil, Ventolin), called salbutamol outside the US, which 
                    is known as a short-acting beta2-agonist. Others are also 
                    available. Antibiotics. Acute bronchitis associated with colds 
                    is almost always caused by viruses and almost never warrants 
                    antibiotics. Exceptions possibly include pertussis (whooping 
                    cough) or coughing that lasts longer than 10 days in children 
                    with chronic lung disease (but not asthma). Some physicians 
                    believe that antibiotics may prevent bacterial infections 
                    from developing in the lungs of patients with acute bronchitis, 
                    although several studies have reported few or no benefits 
                    from antibiotics for uncomplicated bronchitis in either children 
                    or adults. Needless to say, antibiotics are warranted if the 
                    coughing is caused by pneumonia. WHAT 
                ARE THE GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR TREATING PNEUMONIA? Up to 10% of 
              all adult hospitalizations in the US are due to pneumonia. Studies 
              are indicating that many patients are hospitalized unnecessarily 
              for pneumonia and those that are could be released sooner. One study, 
              for example, estimated that one-third of patients who are now routinely 
              hospitalized for pneumonia could be treated safely at home, and 
              another 20% could be released from the hospital with only a short 
              period of observation. A number of strategies are being devised 
              to determine when and which patients can be safely discharged. Categorizing 
                Severity One approach 
              for determining whether a patient should be hospitalized categorizes 
              patients into five classes depending on risk factors for severity, 
              with class 1 being the least severe (having less than 0.5% risk 
              for mortality) and class 1 being the most severe (having at least 
              a 10% mortality risk). Ruling out the Least Severe Cases. The procedure for deciding 
              on hospitalization or not starts by ruling out patients in the lowest 
              risk groups (class 1 and 2), who can be discharged with outpatient 
              care only. This can often be done with a simple physical examination, 
              which can often rule out a severe condition. Patients in low-risk 
              categories have the following characteristics: Under 
                  age 50 and not a patient in a nursing home. No other 
                  major illnesses are present. No serious 
                  symptoms are present (eg, altered mental state, rapid pulse 
                  or breathing rate, very low blood pressure, very high fever). Even these criteria, 
              however, should not be carved in stone. Physicians still must use 
              their own judgment and take mitigating factors into consideration. As examples, the following young people with signs of pneumonia 
              should be hospitalized, even if they fit class 1 categories: Any infant 
                  under a month. Young 
                  adults with alcoholism or severe psychiatric conditions. Young 
                  adults or children with abnormal heart rhythms. Young 
                  adults or children who are vomiting heavily. Children 
                  who are dehydrated. Determining 
              The Next Levels of Severity. If a patient cannot be categorized 
              in class I, the next step is to determine which of the other four 
              higher classes the patient fits. This step involves assigning points 
              to other findings, including the following: Laboratory 
                  test results. X-ray 
                  findings. Demographics 
                  (ie, male or female, nursing home patient). The points are 
              added and the patients are scored: Patients 
                  who score low points on these findings are assigned class II 
                  and III; they can usually be treated at home or need only to 
                  be hospitalized for 24 hours for observation. Patients 
                  with higher scores are placed in classes IV and V and are hospitalized. It should be 
              noted that home care may be possible even in severe cases, when 
              there is good support and available home nursing services. Often, 
              caregivers can even be trained to administer intravenous antibiotics 
              and chest therapy to patients at home. Home 
                Treatment Most patients 
              with mild pneumonia can be treated at home with oral antibiotics. 
              The following are also suggested: Patients 
                  should be sure to drink plenty of liquids. Coughing 
                  should not be suppressed, since this is an important reflex 
                  for clearing the lungs. Some physicians advise taking expectorants, 
                  such as guaifenesin (Breonesin, Glycotuss, Glytuss, Hytuss, 
                  Naldecon Senior EX, Robitussin), to loosen sputum. There is 
                  no proof that any of these products make much difference in 
                  outcome. Mild pain 
                  can be treated with aspirin (adults only), acetaminophen (Tylenol 
                  and other brands), or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Rufen). For severe 
                  pain, codeine or other stronger pain relievers may be prescribed. 
                  It should be noted, however, that codeine and other narcotics 
                  suppress coughing, so they should be used with care in pneumonia 
                  and often require monitoring. Of some 
                  interest is a laboratory study reporting that aromatic oils 
                  containing oregano, thyme, and rosewood destroyed S. pneumoniae . It is not known whether they have any effect on pneumonia 
                  in people, but they are harmless and pleasant in any case. Patients 
                  should practice chest therapy. [ See Box Chest 
                  Therapy .] Hospitalization 
                Guidelines Treatment. If the pneumonia is severe enough for hospitalization, the standard 
              treatment is intravenous administration of antibiotics for five 
              to eight days. (In cases of uncomplicated pneumonia, many patients 
              may require only two or three days of intravenous antibiotics followed 
              by oral therapy.) Oral antibiotics are prescribed when the patient 
              has improved substantially or leaves the hospital. Duration of Stay. In the past, patients remained in the hospital 
              eight to 11 days, but hospital stays are shorter now in most cases. 
              It is important to stress, however, that once patients have been 
              hospitalized, they should remain there until all their vital signs 
              are stable. Most patients become stabilized in three days. Many experts use seven variables to measure such stability and to 
              determine if the patient can go home: Temperature. 
                  (Opinions differ on temperature goal. Some experts believe that 
                  a patient can go home if the temperature levels drop to 101 
                  degrees F. Stricter criteria would require that it be at or 
                  close to normal.) Respiration 
                  rate. (Goal is a normal breathing rate, although expert opinion 
                  differs on the degree of normality required to be discharged.) Heart 
                  rate. (Goal is 100 beats per minute or less.) Blood 
                  pressure. (Goal is systolic blood pressure of 90 mmHg or greater.) Oxygenation. 
                  (Goal of oxygen levels in the blood determined by the physician.) The ability 
                  to eat. (Goal is regular appetite.) Mental 
                  function. (Goal is normal.) Patients or their 
              families should discuss these criteria with the physician. One 1998 
              study indicated that once patients are stabilized only 1% deteriorate 
              to the point that readmission is required. Chest 
                      Therapy Chest therapy 
                    using incentive spirometry, rhythmic inhalation and coughing, 
                    and chest tapping are all important techniques to loosen the 
                    mucus and move it up out of the lungs. It should be used both 
                    in the hospital and when the patient returns home during recovery. Incentive Spirometry. The patient uses an incentive 
                    spirometer at regular intervals. The spirometer is a hand-held clear plastic device that 
                        includes a breathing tube and a container with a movable 
                        gauge. The patient first exhales through the tube. Then the patient inhales as strongly as possible. The force of the inhalation raises a gauge inside the 
                        device to the highest level possible. This practice 
                    helps the patient exercise the lungs. The height of the gauge 
                    at inhalation also helps the health professional to determine 
                    the state of the patient's lung function. Rhythmic Breathing and Coughing. During recovery, the 
                    patient performs rhythmic breathing and coughing every four 
                    hours: Before starting the breathing exercise, the patient should 
                        tap lightly on the chest to loosen mucus within the lung. 
                        If available, a caregiver should also tap on the patient's 
                        back. The patient inhales rhythmically and deeply three or four 
                        times. The patient then coughs as deeply as possible with the 
                        goal of producing sputum. WHAT 
                ANTIBIOTICS ARE USED FOR PNEUMONIA? General 
                Guidelines for Determining Specific Antibiotic Choices Dozens of antibiotics 
              are available that can treat most cases of pneumonia in or out of 
              the hospital, but it is sometimes difficult for the physician to 
              select the best drug. [ See Box Antibiotic 
              Classes .] Often the infecting organism remains unknown even 
              after testing. In determining the appropriate antibiotic, the physician 
              must first answer a number of questions: How severe 
                  is the pneumonia? Mild-to-moderate cases can be treated at home 
                  with oral antibiotics while severe pneumonia usually requires 
                  intravenous antibiotics administered in the hospital. If the 
                  organism causing the pneumonia is not known, was the disorder 
                  community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) or hospital-acquired (also 
                  called nosocomial)? Different organisms are usually involved 
                  in each setting, and the physician can often use this information 
                  to guess the most likely organism causing the pneumonia. If the 
                  organism is known, is it typical or atypical? Typical bacterial, 
                  community acquired pneumonias for example, are usually caused 
                  by Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , or Moraxella catarrhalis , which have traditionally 
                  been treated with penicillin or other standard antibiotics. 
                  Such antibiotics, however, do not affect atypical organisms, 
                  such as Legionella , Mycoplasma , or Chlamydia . Once an antibiotic 
              has been chosen, there are still difficulties: Individuals 
                  respond differently to the same antibiotic depending on age, 
                  health, size, and other factors. Patients 
                  can be allergic to certain antibiotics, thus requiring alternatives. Patients 
                  may harbor strains of bacteria that are resistant to certain 
                  antibiotics. [ See Box Warnings on Antibiotic 
                  Over-Use and Resistant Bacteria .] Antibiotic 
                Treatments for Atypical Pneumonia An oral 
                  macrolide, either erythromycin, clarithromycin, or azithromycin, 
                  is the first choice for children or young people with mild to 
                  moderate atypical pneumonia caused by Mycoplasma or Chlamydia , 
                  without other medical problems. Newer 
                  quinolones may also be options. Azithromycin 
                  or a newer quinolone may be a good choice for Legionella and severe atypical pneumonias. Antibiotic 
                Treatments for Bacterial Community-Acquired Pneumonia Bacterial community-acquired 
              pneumonia (CAP) is usually caused by the gram-positive bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae . Other CAP organisms include Streptococcus 
              pyogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, or Moraxella catarrhalis . Treating CAP Patients at Home. Guidelines published by the 
              Infectious Diseases Society of America recommend that either macrolides 
              or newer fluoroquinolones be used for the treatment of CAP in the 
              nonhospital setting. Some examples of studies on specific agents 
              include the following: Macrolides. 
                  One study found that children with acute pneumonia and bronchitis 
                  did as well on a three-day course of the new macrolide zithromycin 
                  (Zithromax) as those on 10-day older erythromycin. Quninolones. 
                  The quinolone levofloxacin (Levaquin), is the first drug approved 
                  specifically for penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae . Gatifloxacin (Tequin) and moxifloxacin (Avelox), other 
                  new quinolones, also need to be taken once a day. Treating CAP 
              Patients in the Hospital or for More Severe Cases. For severe CAP, experts recommend extended-spectrum penicillins, 
              such as piperacillin/tazobactam (Zosyn) with or without an aminoglycoside 
              (such as tobramycin), which are also effective against dangerous 
              gram-negative bacteria. Third-generation cephalosporins (eg, ceftriaxone or cefotaxime) 
              have been used for mild-to-moderate cases in hospitalized patients 
              (administered intravenously). Such drugs target a wide range of 
              bacteria although they are not effective against atypical organisms 
              such as Legionella or Chlamydia , which may be a hazard 
              for patients being treated in the intensive care unit for severe 
              CAP. Most physicians add a macrolide or a newer fluoroquinolone to the 
              cephalosporin regimen for CAP patients who need to be hospitalized. Antibiotic 
                Treatments for Hospital-Acquired Gram-Negative Pneumonia Patients with 
              hospital-acquired pneumonia are at high risk for infection from 
              gram-negative organisms. Such organisms include Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumonia, which require aggressive 
              specific therapy. Powerful 
                  antibiotics used against these organisms include the fourth-generation 
                  cephalosporin cefepime or carbapenems, such as meropenem. Multidrug 
                  therapy may be necessary, particularly for patients who are 
                  on mechanical ventilators and therefore at very high risk for 
                  multiple dangerous organisms. Preventing 
                and Treating Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Pneumonia in Children Prevention 
              of RSV. Two agents have been approved for protecting high-risk 
              infants against RSV pneumonia: Palivizumab 
                  (Synagis) is known as a monoclonal antibody, a genetically engineered 
                  antibody, which targets the RSV virus. RSV immune 
                  globulin (RespiGam) is made up of antibodies to RSV that are 
                  obtained from the blood of healthy infants. RespiGam must 
              be administered intravenously while Synagis can be injected. Treatment of RSV. Ribavirin is the first treatment approved 
              for respiratory syncytial virus pneumonia, although it has only 
              modest benefits. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends it 
              for children at high risk for serious complications of RSV. In one 
              study, a combination of ribavirin with RSV immune globulin was more 
              effective than either drug alone. Drugs that open the airways of the lungs, known as bronchodilators, 
              are sometimes used to treat RSV infection, but evidence on their 
              benefits is conflicting. One study of albuterol, a common bronchodilator, 
              however, indicated that epinephrine may be more effective. Side 
                Effects of Antibiotics Most antibiotics 
              have the following side effects (although specific antibiotics may 
              have other side effects or fewer of the standard ones). The most 
                  common side effect for nearly all antibiotics is gastrointestinal 
                  distress. Antibiotics 
                  double the risk for vaginal infections in women. Taking supplements 
                  of acidophilus or eating yogurt with active cultures may help 
                  restore healthy bacteria that offset the risk for such infections. Allergic 
                  reactions can also occur with all antibiotics but are most common 
                  with medications derived from penicillin or sulfa. These reactions 
                  can range from mild skin rashes to rare but severe, even life-threatening 
                  anaphylactic shock. Certain 
                  drugs, including some over-the-counter medications, interact 
                  with antibiotics; patients should inform the physician of all 
                  medications they are taking and of any drug allergies. Antibiotic Classes Beta-Lactams The beta-lactam 
                    antibiotics share common chemical features and include penicillins, 
                    cephalosporins, and some newer similar agents. Their primary 
                    actions to interfere with bacterial cell walls. Penicillins. Amoxicillin (Amoxil, Polymox, Trimox, 
                    Wymox, or any generic formulation) is probably the most common 
                    penicillin. It is both inexpensive and at one time was highly 
                    effective against the S. pneumoniae bacteria. Unfortunately, 
                    bacterial resistance to amoxicillin has increased significantly, 
                    both among S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae . Amoxicillin-clavulanate (Augmentin) is known as an augmented 
                    penicillin, which works against a wide spectrum of bacteria. 
                    Ampicillin, also a form of penicillin, is an equally inexpensive 
                    alternative to amoxicillin but requires more doses and has 
                    more severe gastrointestinal side effects than amoxicillin. Cephalosporins. These agents have also become less 
                    effective against S. pneumoniae . They are often classed 
                    in the following: First generation includes cephalexin (Keflex), cefadroxil 
                        (Duricef, Ultracef), and cefaclor (Ceclor). These agents 
                        may be useful for gram-positive organisms, except resistant S. pneumoniae . Second and third generation include cefuroxime (Ceftin), 
                        cefpodoxime (Vantin), loracarbef (Lorabid), cefditoren 
                        (Sprectracef), cefixime (Suprax), and ceftibuten (Cedex). 
                        These are effective against a wide range of gram-negative 
                        bacteria. Most are not very effective against Staphylococcus 
                        or S. pneumoniae bacteria that have developed 
                        resistance to penicillin. Newer 
                    Beta-Lactam Agents. Carbapenems include meropenem (Merrem), and combinations 
                        (imipenem/cilastatin [Primaxin]). These agents cover a 
                        wide spectrum of bacteria. They are now used for serious 
                        hospital-acquired infection and for bacteria that have 
                        become resistant to other beta-lactam drugs. Imipenem 
                        has serious side effects used alone so it is given in 
                        combinations with another agent, cilastatin, to offset 
                        these adverse effects. Fluoroquinolones (Quinolones) Fluoroquinolones 
                    (also simply called quinolones) interfere with the bacteria's 
                    genetic material so they cannot reproduce. Ciprofloxacin (Cipro), a second-generation quinolone, 
                        remains the most potent quinolone against Pseudomonas 
                        aeruginosa bacteria but is not very effective for 
                        gram-positive bacteria. Newer third-generation quinolones are currently the most 
                        effective agents against a wide range of common bacteria. 
                        They include levofloxacin (Levaquin), sparfloxacin (Zagam), 
                        gemifloxacin (Factive), and gatifloxacin (Tequin). Levofloxacin 
                        is the first drug approved specifically for penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae . Some of the newer fluoroquinolones 
                        also only need to be taken once a day, which makes compliance 
                        easier. A few of the third-generation quinolones cause 
                        photosensitivity (eg, sparfloxacin). A fourth generation includes moxifloxacin (Avelox), trovafloxacin, 
                        and clinafloxacin. Studies on moxifloxacin are indicating 
                        that it is safe and effective against many gram-negative 
                        and gram-positive bacteria. Macrolides and Azalides Macrolides 
                    and azalides are antibiotics that also effect the genetics 
                    of bacteria. They include erythromycin, azithromycin (Zithromax), 
                    clarithromycin (Biaxin), and roxithromycin (Rulid). These 
                    antibiotics are effective against S. pneumoniae and M catarrhalis , but there is increasing bacterial resistance 
                    to these agents. Except for erythromycin they are effective 
                    against H. influenzae . A new once-a-day formulation 
                    (Biaxin XL) is now available Tetracyclines Tetracyclines 
                    inhibit bacterial growth. They include doxycycline, tetracycline, 
                    and minocycline. They can be effective against S. pneumoniae and M. catarrhalis , but bacteria that are resistant 
                    to penicillin are also often resistant to doxycycline. Tetracyclines 
                    have unique side effects among antibiotics, including skin 
                    reactions to sunlight, possible burning in the throat, and 
                    tooth discoloration. Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 
                    (Bactrim, Cotrim, Septra) is less expensive than amoxicillin 
                    and particularly useful for adults with mild bacterial upper 
                    respiratory infections who are allergic to penicillin. It 
                    is no longer effective, however against certain streptococcal 
                    strains. It should not be used in patients whose infections 
                    occurred after dental work or in patients allergic to sulfa 
                    drugs. Allergic reactions can be very serious. Aminoglycosides Aminoglycosides 
                    are given by injection for very serious bacterial infections. 
                    (gentamicin, kanamycin, tobramycin, amikacin). Some are available 
                    in inhaled forms or by irrigation (applying a solution directly 
                    to mucous membranes, skin, or body cavity). They can have 
                    very serious side effects, including damage to hearing, sense 
                    of balance, and kidneys. Lincosamide Lincosamides 
                    prevent bacteria from reproducing. The most common lincosamide 
                    is clindamycin (Cleocin). This antibiotic is useful against 
                    many S. pneumoniae bacteria but not against H. 
                    influenzae. Glycopeptide Glycopeptides 
                    (vancomycin, teicoplanin) is used for Staphylococcus aureu s that have become resistant to standard antibiotics. 
                    It is available in intravenous and oral forms. Resistance 
                    to this drug is growing. Ketolides Telithromycin 
                    (Ketek) is the first antibiotic in the ketolide class. It 
                    is has been approved for treating community acquired pneumonia 
                    and is showing great promise in treating many of the otherwise 
                    antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains. Studies on long term-safety 
                    are still needed. Oxazolidinone Linezolid 
                    (Zyvox) is the first antibacterial drug in a new class of 
                    synthetic antibiotics called oxazolidinones. It has been proven 
                    effective against certain aerobic gram-positive bacteria, 
                    including Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Streptogrammins Quinupristin/dalfopristin 
                    [Syndercid]. Warnings on Antibiotic Over-Use and Resistant Bacteria Of great 
                    concern is the emergence of common bacteria strains that are 
                    now resistant to many standard antibiotics. Among the bacteria 
                    are those that cause serious respiratory infections, including 
                    pneumonia. Although new powerful antibiotics continue to be 
                    designed, they are expensive and are also prone to resistance 
                    eventually. Over-Use of Antibiotics. One of the primary causes 
                    of the increase in resistant bacteria is the world-wide overuse 
                    of antibiotics. Each year in the United States alone 160 million 
                    prescriptions are written for antibiotics equal to about 25,000 
                    tons of these drugs. About half are used for patients and 
                    half animal, fish, and other agricultural uses. Virtually no antibiotics for colds are necessary, even with 
                    persistent cough and thick, green mucus, unless there is evidence 
                    of an accompanying infection. In one disturbing study antibiotics 
                    were prescribed for nearly half of children who went to the 
                    doctor for a common cold. And experts estimate that, outside 
                    the hospital setting, only half of the antibiotics currently 
                    being prescribed for sore throat and 20% of prescriptions 
                    for persistent coughing are necessary. Antibiotics may be required for upper respiratory tract infections 
                    only under certain situations, such as the following: In patients, particularly small children or the elderly, 
                        who have medical conditions that put them at high risk 
                        for complications from such infections. In strep throat (which is caused by the Streptococcal bacteria). (Strep throat makes up only about 12% of all 
                        sore throat cases.) In some cases of an accompanying sinusitis, ear, or other 
                        bacterial infection. [See the Reports Ear Infections (Otitis Media) in Children and Sinusitis. ] High-Risk 
                    Areas. The prevalence of such antibiotic-resistant bacteria 
                    has dramatically increased worldwide. Studies in North, Central 
                    and South America, Asia, and southern Europe report that more 
                    than half of Streptococcus pneumoniae is resistant 
                    to many standard antibiotics. In general, regions and institutions 
                    with the highest rate of resistance are those in which antibiotics 
                    are heavily prescribed. In the US, the Pacific Northwest has 
                    a somewhat lower rate than other regions have. At-Risk Patients. As of yet, the average person is 
                    not endangered by this problem. Patients at greater risk for 
                    developing an infection resistant to common antibiotics are 
                    those with following conditions: Being very old or very young. Being exposed to patients with drug-resistant infection. Hospitalization in intensive care. Having had an invasive procedure. Having had a hospital stay. Having had prior and prolonged antibiotic therapy, particularly 
                        within the past four to six weeks. The presence of a wound. Having intravenous lines, catheters, or tubes down the 
                        throat. Being immunosuppressed. Positive 
                    News. There are some signs of hope: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is 
                        reporting a decline in antibiotic prescriptions since 
                        the early 1990s. And, countries that have reduced their dependence on penicillin 
                        are reporting a parallel decline in bacteria resistant 
                        to the antibiotic. Innovative approaches are being investigated. One involves 
                        creating antibiotics that have the capacity to either 
                        self-destruct or regenerate themselves. Greater emphasis is being placed on development of vaccines 
                        and expanding immunization programs to prevent infections 
                        in the first place. What 
                    Patients and Parents Can Do. For acute bronchitis caused by colds or mild flu, use 
                        remedies to relieve symptoms. Realize that antibiotics 
                        will not shorten the course of a viral infection. Don't pressure a physicians into prescribing an antibiotic 
                        if it is clearly inappropriate. The physician very often 
                        will give in. It is important for patients and parents 
                        to understand that although antibiotics may bring a sense 
                        of security, they provide no significant benefit for a 
                        person with a viral infection, and overuse can contribute 
                        to the growing problem of resistant bacteria. If an antibiotic is prescribed, take the full course unless 
                        advised by the physician to stop because of evidence that 
                        a bacteria is not present. WHAT 
                PROCEDURES ARE USED FOR PNEUMONIA? Surgical 
                Procedures Although most 
              patients with pneumonia do not require invasive therapy, patients 
              with abscess, empyema, or certain other complications may require 
              thoracentesis, bronchoscopy, and thoracotomy [ see How is 
              Pneumonia Diagnosed?, above ]. Chest 
                Tubes Chest tubes are 
              needed if empyema is present in order to drain the infected pleural 
              fluid, but they are not required for pneumonia or abscesses. If needed, 
                  the tubes are inserted under local anesthetic and remain in 
                  place for two to four days. Complications 
                  include infection, accidental injury of the lung, perforation 
                  of the diaphragm, and fluid build-up within the lung if the 
                  pleural fluid is removed too rapidly. Removal 
                  of the tubes is done in one quick movement without anesthetic 
                  and can be very distressing, although some patients experience 
                  no discomfort. Removing 
                  the chest tubes occasionally causes the lung to collapse requiring 
                  the reintroduction of a chest tube to inflate the lung. HOW 
                IS PNEUMONIA PREVENTED? The best way 
              to prevent serious respiratory infections, such as pneumonia, is 
              to avoid and, if unavoidable, effectively treat colds and influenza. 
              [For detailed information see the Well-Connecte d Report Upper Respiratory Tract Infections (Colds, Flu, Sore Throat, 
              and Acute Bronchitis ) . ] Lifestyle 
                Habits for Preventing Colds Good Hygiene. Everyone should always wash his or her hands before eating 
              and after going outside. Ordinary soap is sufficient. Antibacterial 
              soaps add little protection, particularly against viruses. In fact, 
              one study suggests that common liquid dish washing soaps are up 
              to 100 times more effective than antibacterial soaps in killing 
              respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), which is known to cause pneumonia. Flus and colds are not spread by touching inanimate objects, such 
              as subway poles or toilet seats. Bacteria or viruses do not thrive 
              on such objects. Healthy Diet. Daily diets should include foods such as fresh, 
              dark-colored fruits and vegetables, which are rich in antioxidants 
              and other important food chemicals that help boost the immune system. Low Stress. Interestingly, maintaining an active social lifestyle 
              could help prevent colds. One study found that the more social interaction 
              a person has the less likely they are to have a cold, possibly because 
              stress hormones, which suppress the immune system, are reduced. Zinc Zinc preparations 
              using lozenges or nasal gels are now available as cold treatments. 
              Studies are very mixed on the effects of zinc on colds. In 10 controlled 
              studies, five showed no effect on symptoms and five reported that 
              it shortened the duration of cold. And, in fact, in 1999, the FDA 
              charged the manufacturer of the zinc carbonate lozenges Cold-Eeze 
              and Kids-Eeze Bubble-Gum with making unsubstantiated claims about 
              their benefits against colds, allergies, and pneumonia. The variance observed in studies may be due to different zinc preparations. 
              Studies are underway to determine advantages, if any, but results 
              are still mixed. Some examples include the following: One 2000 
                  study suggested that the use of zinc acetate lozenges 
                  (eg, Fast-Dry, Galzin) may be more effective and have a better 
                  taste than other formulations, such as zinc gluconate (Cold-Eeze, 
                  Orazinc. In the study, this preparation reduced both duration 
                  and severity of symptoms compared to a dummy pill. The two 
                  zinc lozenge preparations were directly compared in another 
                  2000 study, however, and neither were effective. A nasal 
                  zinc gluconate gel (Zicam), which contains zinc ions as the 
                  active ingredient, may be more effective than zinc lozenges 
                  because the zinc resides within the nasal cavity long enough 
                  to interact with the virus. In one 2000 study, patients with 
                  colds who used it achieved full recovery in an average of 2.3 
                  days compared to 9 days in patients using a "dummy" nasal preparation. 
                  More studies are underway. Zinc appears 
              to have certain effects on the immune system that dampen the inflammatory 
              response (which causes fever and aches). How it works is not entirely 
              clear, however. In any case, no one with an adequate diet and a 
              healthy immune syst em sho uld take zinc for prolonged periods 
              for preventing colds. Side Effects. Side effects include the following: Dry mouth Constipation Nausea Bad taste 
                  (possibly only with zinc gluconate lozenges) Overdose 
                  may cause severe vomiting, dehydration, and restlessness. Call 
                  a physician if any of these symptoms occur. In rare 
                  cases, an allergic response may occur. Food and Drug 
              Interactions. Zinc may also interact with drugs or other elements. It may 
                  reduce absorption of certain antibiotics. Foods 
                  high in calcium or phosphorus may reduce zinc absorption. In high 
                  doses and for long periods of time zinc can cause copper deficiencies. Vitamin 
                C A number of studies 
              have found that large doses of vitamin C reduce the duration of 
              a cold by 5% to 50%, depending on the study. Taking large doses of vitamin C after exposure to a cold virus, 
              however, does not appear to prevent the cold from developing. In 
              an examination of 60 studies, the six largest ones reported no preventive 
              effects of vitamin C in well-nourished individuals. (It may be useful 
              for prevention of respiratory infections in people in poor health 
              or under heavy physical stress, however.) Some precautions against taking high doses of vitamin C include 
              the following: High doses 
                  of vitamin C may cause headaches and intestinal and urinary 
                  problems and even kidney stones. Because 
                  ascorbic acid increases iron absorption, people with certain 
                  blood disorders, such as hemochromatosis, thalassemia, or sideroblastic 
                  anemia, should particularly avoid high doses. Large 
                  doses can also interfere with anticoagulant medications, blood 
                  tests used in diabetes, and stool tests. Echinacea The herbal remedy 
              echinacea is now commonly taken to prevent onset and ease symptoms 
              of cold or flu. There are three species: Echinacea ( E .) purpurea. E. 
                  pallida. E. 
                  augustifolio . In some studies, 
              people who took extracts of either E . purpurea or E. augustifolio experienced no protection against colds. 
              Preparations themselves vary, however, and effectiveness may depend 
              on whether the root, herb, or whole plant is used. For example, 
              in a 1999 study, a root and herb preparation of E. purpurea (Echinaforce) 
              reduced cold symptoms while another E. purpurea root preparation 
              did not. The drying process also effects the active chemicals in 
              the herb. (Freeze-drying may be best.) Research is needed to determine 
              which ones, if any, are beneficial. Precautions. Some precautions are as follows: At this 
                  time there are no standards or quality controls available for 
                  echinacea (including what part of the plant to use) or any other 
                  herbal remedies. Allergic 
                  reactions have been reported. People with autoimmune diseases 
                  or who are allergic to plants in the daisy family should particularly 
                  avoid it. There 
                  have been some reports of a reaction called erythema nodosum 
                  associated with echinacea. This involves a rash, sometimes accompanied 
                  by fever, headache, muscle and joint aches, and sore throat. No one should 
              take untested so-called natural remedies without a doctor's approval. 
              No studies have confirmed the benefits of these medications and 
              many can cause toxic side effects in large doses. Vaccines 
                for Haemophilus Influenzae All children 
              under five should be vaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) against Haemophilus influenzae. Studies suggest that it is also beneficial for people with illnesses 
              that put them at risk for pneumonia, including sickle cell disease, 
              leukemia, HIV infection, and splenectomies. Viral 
                Influenza Vaccines Description 
              of Vaccines. Vaccines are designed to block recognize foreign 
              agents (called antigens) in the body and to attack them. Vaccines 
              against influenza currently employ inactivated (not live) viruses 
              to produce an immune response that will then attack the active virus. 
              Vaccines are given by injection in the fall, usually between October 
              and December. A live but weakened intranasal vaccine (FluMist) should 
              be available soon. It is engineered to grow only in the cooler temperatures 
              of the nasal passages, not in the warmer lungs and lower airways. 
              The vaccine boosts the specific immune factors in the mucous membranes 
              of the nose that fight off the actual viral infections. It is employed 
              using a nasal spray and in one study provided protection against 
              the flu in up to 93% of children. Annual Redesign. At this time, vaccines must be redesigned 
              each year to match the current strain. This is because both influenza 
              A and B viral strains undergo changes over time (known as antigenic 
              drift or shift), so a vaccine that works one year may not work the 
              next. Influenza A is a particular problem because it can infect 
              other species, such as pigs or chickens, and undergo major genetic 
              reassortments. Influenza B viruses tend to be more stable than influenza 
              A viruses, but they too vary. Candidates for the Vaccine. The following adults should be 
              vaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) each year: All adults 
                  50 years and older, and particularly those in nursing homes. Pregnant 
                  women who will be in their second or third trimester during 
                  flu season. Anyone 
                  at risk for serious complications, including people with heart 
                  disease, lung problems, immune deficiencies, diabetes, kidney 
                  disease, or chronic blood disease. HIV patients Health 
                  care workers, nursing home employees, and other who may expose 
                  high-risk people to the flu. The following 
              children over six months should be vaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) against influenza: Any child 
                  with a condition that requires regular medical care. Any child 
                  who has been hospitalized for a serious illness (particularly 
                  lung, kidney, diabetes, sickle-cell, or immune deficiencies.) Children 
                  who are receiving long-term aspirin therapy should also be immunized 
                  against the flu because they are at higher risk for Reye's syndrome, 
                  a life-threatening disease, if they get the flu. The vaccine may 
              be useful or important in other individuals as well: People 
                  such as firemen or policemen who are critical for public safety. People 
                  at risk for complications of influenza and who are traveling 
                  to the tropics at any time or to the Southern Hemisphere between 
                  April and September. The vaccines 
              may be slightly less effective in the elderly, the very young, and 
              patients with certain chronic diseases than in healthy young adults. Effectiveness and Benefits. The vaccinations protect against 
              influenza in between 70% and 100% of healthy adults when the virus 
              and the vaccine are well matched. In the absence of a match and among the elderly and children, they 
              are protective in 30% to 60% of people. Even in people with a weaker 
              response, however, the vaccine is usually protective against serious 
              flu complications, particularly pneumonia, if such people get the 
              flu. vaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) older adults have lower hospitalization rates and death 
              from any cause than unvaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) peers. Additionally, studies are finding that the more people that are 
              vaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) , the healthier the community at large. One interesting 
              study in Japan found that vaccinating children actually helps protect 
              the elderly. Negative Effects. Possible negative responses include the 
              following: Newer 
                  vaccines contain very little egg protein, but an allergic reaction 
                  still may occur in people with strong allergies to eggs. Almost 
                  a third of people who receive the influenza vaccine develop 
                  redness or soreness at the injection site for one or two days 
                  afterward. Other 
                  side effects include mild fatigue and muscle aches and pains; 
                  they tend to occur between six and 12 hours after the vaccination 
                  and last up to two days. It should be noted that these symptoms 
                  are not influenza itself but an immune response to the virus 
                  proteins in the vaccine. Anyone with a fever, however, should 
                  not be vaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) until the ailment has subsided. Some studies 
                  have reported more severe asthma symptoms in children with the 
                  lung condition. A 2000 study of asthmatic children, however, 
                  reported no increased risk. In fact, there was some indication 
                  that the vaccination helped reduce asthma attacks over 
                  time. More research is needed to confirm or refute these results. Pneumococcal 
                Vaccines Experts are now 
              recommending that more people, including healthy elderly people, 
              be given the pneumococcal vaccine, particularly in light of the 
              increase in antibiotic-resistant bacteria. This vaccine does not 
              prevent influenza, but it may help prevent pneumonia in people who 
              are susceptible to sever flus. Candidates for the Pneumococcal Vaccine. A recently approved 
              pneumococcal vaccine (Prevenar or PCV7) is very effective in children 
              and, some experts believe that universal vaccinations for infants 
              would prevent a million cases of ear infections as well as serious 
              infections, such as pneumonia. In one study, a similar vaccine under 
              investigation protected not only children in day care from serious 
              respiratory infections, but their younger unvaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) siblings 
              had fewer infections as well. The pneumococcal vaccine is now recommended by many experts for 
              the following groups: All children 
                  up to age two and certain high-risk children up to age five, 
                  such as those at risk for meningitis or widespread infection. All elderly 
                  people. Special high-risk 
              groups are strongly advised to have pneumococcal vaccinations: Adults 
                  or children who have immune deficiencies (eg, HIV) or are undergoing 
                  treatments to suppress the immune system. Children 
                  with sickle-cell disease. Patients 
                  with kidney disease or kidney transplants. Older people who 
                  have had transplant operations or those with kidney disease 
                  may require a revaccination after six years. Patients 
                  with problems in the spleen. Alcoholics 
                  (especially those with cirrhosis). Adults 
                  or children with any condition that increases the risk for pneumonia. 
                  (Those at risk for serious pneumonia should be revaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) six years after the first dose.) Protection lasts 
              for over six years in most people, although the protective value 
              may be lost at a faster rate in elderly people than in younger adults. Antiviral 
                Agents Antiviral agents 
              have now been developed to treat and prevent influenza A, B, or 
              both. There are two classes of agents: M2 inhibitors and neuraminidase 
              inhibitors. M2 Inhibitors. Amantadine (Symmetrel) and rimantadine (Flumadine) 
              are M2 inhibitors. They have the following benefits: Both offer 
                  protection against influenza A and prevent severe illness if 
                  a person contracting the infection. (To be effective it must 
                  be administered within two days of onset.) They may 
                  shorten the duration and lessen the severity of the flu if given 
                  within 48 hours of onset of symptoms. Drawbacks of 
              M2 inhibitors include the following They are 
                  not effective against influenza B (less common but more severe 
                  than A). Viral 
                  resistant to these agents is rapidly emerging. Both agents 
                  occasionally cause nausea, vomiting, and indigestion. Amantadine 
                  affects the nervous system and about 10% of people experience 
                  nervousness, depression, anxiety, difficulty concentrating, 
                  and lightheadedness. Rarely, amantadine can cause hallucinations 
                  and seizures, usually in elderly people already at risk for 
                  psychiatric symptoms. Neither 
                  has proven to reduce the risk for complications, including pneumonia 
                  and bronchitis. Neuraminidase 
              Inhibitors. Zanamivir (Relenza) and oseltamivir (Tamiflu) are 
              called neuraminidase inhibitors. They are newer agents that have 
              been designed to block a key viral enzyme, neuraminidase, which 
              is involved with viral replication. They have the following benefits: Both neuraminidase 
                  inhibitors are proving to be effective for treating and preventing 
                  A and B strains of influenza. (M2 inhibitors are only effective 
                  against type A, although they are also much less expensive than 
                  neuraminidase inhibitors.) They both 
                  shorten the duration of the flu by one to three days but need 
                  to be taken within two days of onset of symptoms. A 2000 
                  study on oseltamivir suggested that they may help reduce transmission 
                  of the virus. They appear 
                  to have a lower risk than M1 inhibitors for emerging viral strains 
                  that are resistant to their effects. There 
                  is some early evidence that they may reduce complications of 
                  influenza, although this needs to be confirmed. It is not yet 
                  known if they have any effect on overall survival rates. Both neuraminidase 
              inhibitors provide similar benefits but there are some differences: Zanamivir 
                  is administered as a nasal spray or inhaler. Side effects are 
                  minor. People with asthma or other lung disorders may experience 
                  airway spasms and should use this drug with caution. Oseltamivir 
                  comes in capsule form. Side effects are also minor but about 
                  10% of patients experience nausea and vomiting. Their current 
              use in different age and patient groups are as follows: Adults. 
                  Both are approved for treatment in adult patient. Children. 
                  Zanamivir is also approved for children over seven. Studies 
                  are currently underway to determine the safety of oseltamivir 
                  in children. In one study, it reduced the duration of symptoms 
                  by 26% and also reduced incidence of ear infections by 44% in 
                  children ages one to 12. High-Risk 
                  Patients. Recent studies indicate they are safe and effective 
                  in patients with serious medical problems or other conditions 
                  that put them at risk for complications of flu. Antiviral 
              Agents for Prevention of Influenza. Although they are not substitutes 
              for vaccines, all antiviral agents have some preventive properties. M2 inhibitors. 
                  Amantadine and rimantadine protect against the influenza A infection 
                  itself in about half of individuals. Rimantadine is preferred 
                  for prevention during outbreaks of influenza A because it has 
                  fewer adverse side effects. The neuraminidase 
                  inhibitors. Both agents help prevent both influenza A and B. 
                  In one community study, zanamivir protected 30% and oseltamivir 
                  50% of the population for contracting influenza. Protection 
                  rates have been even higher in families and nursing home patients 
                  exposed to the flu. Potentially these 
              agents could be used for prevention in the following cases: In combination 
                  with the flu vaccine during season where there is a poor match 
                  between the virus and vaccine. During 
                  two-week periods after a vaccination when antibodies are developing 
                  and the individual is still vulnerable to the virus. As supplementary 
                  protection for vaccinated (note: vaccines can cause irreversible health damage to the brain/body, and risks largely exceed any benefits.  See SPECIAL REPORTS on vaccines .  Please review all the evidence on vaccines before deciding to vaccinate yourself or your children.) people in high-risk groups, such as 
                  the elderly or people with compromised immune system. In people 
                  who cannot have vaccinations for whatever reason For people 
                  who prefer and antiviral agent to a vaccine. To date both 
              M2 inhibitors and oseltamivir have been approved for prevention 
              of influenza. WHERE 
                ELSE CAN HELP FOR PNEUMONIA BE FOUND? The American 
              Lung Association and American Thoracic Society, 1740 Broadway, 
              New York, New York 10019-4374. Call (800-LUNG-USA) Internet sites connected with the American Lung Association are 
              as follows: American Lung Association ( http://www.lungusa.org/ ) American Thoracic Society ( http://www.thoracic.org/ ) Society of Thoracic Surgeons ( http://www.sts.org/ ) The association is very responsive and offers a wide range of information 
              and services. National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, P.O. Box 30105, Bethesda, 
              MD 20824-0105. Call (301-251-1222) or on the Internet ( www.nhlbi.nih.gov/nhlbi/nhlbi.htm ) National Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory Medicine, 
              1400 Jackson Street, Denver, CO 80206. Call (800-222-LUNG or 303-355-LUNG) 
              or for the recorded service Lung Facts call (800-552-LUNG) or on 
              the Internet ( www.njc.org ) 
              or email a nurse at (lungline@njc) Centers for Disease Control has a National Immunization Information 
              Hotline. Call (800-232-2522) Internet 
                Sites Centers for Disease 
              Control ( http://www.cdc.gov/ ) The site has excellent in-depth information on all aspects of pneumonia. Federal Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, ( http://www.ahcpr.gov/clinic/pneuclin.htm ) This site provides guidelines for predicting pneumonia. VIEWER RELATIONS About Us | Contact Us | Write For Us | Advertise | Services | Media Inquires | Terms and Conditions | Copyright Policy | Privacy Statement STAY CONNECTED Newsletter | RSS | FaceBook | Twitter | YouTube | Buzz | Bloggers | Volunteer | Donate This site is owned and operated by PreventDisease.com  2011. All Rights Reserved. All content on this site may be copied, without permission, whether reproduced digitally or in print, provided copyright, reference and source information are intact and use is strictly for not-for-profit purposes.  Please review our copyright policy for ful