Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Aloe Vera Gel (8 fl. oz.), Nature's Sunshine Product, 1679-2 1.866.510.0691 Your Health Assessment home About our site E-Mail contact Health Education (basic) Articles (all) Links Of Interest Our Blog shopping cart Order products NSP Manufacturing login Your Account children Supplements Ailments Video cartoon Coloring Book [pdf] ladies Women's Issues Feminine Health Sanitary Napkins Changes of life your health Health Analysis Health By Symptoms Which supplements are needed? Need a cleanse? Gluten Allergy Test Hormones Test Thyroid Test Blood Type & Food See all tests here Tips Products Air Sanifiers Cell Food C-Herb Diodes Dr. Spencer Breast Cream FootBath Homeopathics Household Nature's Sunshine Pure Herbs Sanitary Napkins Washing Balls Weekly Specials consultation Private Consultation LifeStyle Survey Three Valves Blood Type & Food Intro. to Natural Health [pdf] About the pH newsletter Free Newsletter Current One about us Customer Review Business Opportunity International Saving Opportunity About Us Testimonials Share | Aloe Vera Gel (8 fl. oz.) ( Back to product ) Product ID: 1679-2 Aloe Vera Gel (8 fl. oz.) Discounts Apply ! FREE SHIPPING USA when purchasing "5" products or more. It can be a combination of products. ALOE VERA GEL [1679-2] (8 fl. oz.) Especially for external use. (see information at "Aloe Vera Juice") The gel form is produced by adding irish moss extract which is also good 
      for the skin. It is sold in a flop-top squeeze bottle. ALOE VERA JUICE [1680-4] (32 fl. oz.) Healing juice for sunburns, scrapes, ulcers and more. The bitter, mucilaginous sap of the leaves is used as a soothing, healing 
      juice. It is used externally on skin problems including wounds, rashes and 
      burns. Several ounces at a time may be consumed internally for ulcers, arthritis 
      or as a laxative. Its viscous fiber lowers bowel transit time, absorbs bowel toxins and regulates 
      colonic bacteria. NSP processing avoids loss of important nutrients. The leaf is sliced open and the bitter green outer portion is removed. The liquid gel is collected. Vitamin C and sodium benzoate are used to preserve the juice. Aloe vera is rich nutritionally as well. It contains 18 amino acids, vitamins B1, B2, B6, C, niacinamide, choline 
and more. ALOE VERA WHOLE LEAF [1693-4] A more concentrated form of aloe. The whole leaf (including the green part) provides a greater concentration 
      of mucopolysachairides (7,000 mg/liter) than regular filleted aloe vera. A new process is used so that the aloin from the green part is removed because 
      it is a violent purgative. Use externally for moisturizing and healing. To use internally, mix 1 ounce in 8 ounces of pure water. Email Friend List Price: $14.95 Price: $10.55 « Previous | Next » HOME | CUSTOMER SERVICE |   SHIPPING | NEWSLETTER SIGN-UP | ABOUT US | CONTACT US Four Winds Nutrition Club - Winter Park FL 32789 USA Disclaimer We do not directly dispense medical advice or prescribe the use of herbs or supplements as a form of treatment for illness. The information found on this Web Site is for educational purposes only to empower people with knowledge to take care of their own health. 
              We disclaim any liability if the reader uses or prescribes any remedies, natural or otherwise, for him/herself or another. 
              Please consul