<http://pilladvised.com/?p=1551>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Fluconazole Plus Probiotics: Fighting Yeast Infections  | pilladvised colds & flu detox eating fitness heart mind & brain other stuff pain relief stay young stomach weight loss pilladvised Fluconazole Plus Probiotics: Fighting Yeast Infections Probiotics are live microorganisms (in most cases, bacteria) that are similar to  beneficial microorganisms found in the human gut. Probiotics come mainly in the form of dietary  supplements and foods, such as yogurt. Probiotics are frequently used by women to help prevent  vaginal infections, although research has shown mixed results. Researchers at the University of Sao Paolo in Brazil achieved  a positive result in their study, demonstrating “that probiotic lactobacilli  can increase the effectiveness of an anti-fungal pharmaceutical agent”. 1 The  randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled trial found that taking four  weeks of a combination of two Lactobacillus species after a single dose of the anti-yeast drug fluconazole , decreased the recurrence rate of vaginal yeast  infection by 71 percent, compared to fluconazole plus placebo.  Fluconazole is the generic name for Diflucan. 1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2009 Mar;48(3):269-74. Epub  2009 Feb Improved treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis with  fluconazole plus probiotic Lactobacillus rhamnosus GR-1 and Lactobacillus  reuteri RC-14.Martinez RC, Franceschini SA, Patta MC, Quintana SM, Candido RC, Ferreira  JC, De Martinis EC, Reid G.Departamento de Análises Clínicas, Toxicológicas e  Bromatológicas, Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto,  Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil. AIMS:  To determine the ability of probiotic lactobacilli to improve the treatment of  vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) using a randomized, double-blind and  placebo-controlled trial. METHODS AND RESULTS: Fifty-five women diagnosed with  VVC by vaginal discharge positive for Candida spp. (according to culture  method) associated with at least one of the symptoms (itching and burning  vaginal feeling, dyspareunia and dysuria), were treated with single dose of  fluconazole (150 mg) supplemented every morning for the following 4 weeks with  two placebo or two probiotic capsules (containing Lactobacillus rhamnosus GR-1  and Lactobacillus reuteri RC-14). At 4 weeks, the probiotic treated group showed  significantly less vaginal discharge associated with any of the above mentioned  symptoms (10.3%vs 34.6%; P = 0.03) and lower presence of yeast detected by  culture (10.3%vs 38.5%; P = 0.014). CONCLUSION: This study has shown that  probiotic lactobacilli can increase the effectiveness of an anti-fungal  pharmaceutical agent in curing disease. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY:  This novel finding of probiotic lactobacilli augmenting the cure rate of yeast  vaginitis, not only offers an alternative approach to a highly prevalent  condition that adversely affects the quality of life of women around the world,  but also raises the question of how this combination works. J Chemother. 2009 Jun;21(3):243-52. The role of lactobacillus probiotics  in the treatment or prevention of urogenital infections–a systematic review. Abad  CL, Safdar N. Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin Medical School,  Madison, WI 53792, USA. Probiotics  are increasingly being used to treat and prevent urogenital infections. However,  a critical assessment of their efficacy in major urogenital infections is  lacking. We report the results of a systematic review to determine the efficacy  of probiotics for prevention or treatment of three major urogenital infections:  bacterial vaginosis, vulvovaginal candidiasis, and urinary tract infection.  Using multiple computerized databases, we extracted data from clinical trials  using a lactobacillus-containing preparation to either prevent or treat a  urogenital infection. Of 25 included studies, 18 studies used lactobacillus  preparations for treatment or prevention of urogenital infections and seven  studies focused solely on vaginal colonization. Four studies included patients  with vaginal candidiasis, five included patients with urinary tract infections,  and eight included patients with bacterial vaginosis. One included several  types of genitourinary infections. Overall, lactobacilli were beneficial for  the treatment of patients with bacterial vaginosis. No clear benefit was seen  for candidiasis or urinary tract infection. Studies were heterogeneous, with  some limited by a small population size. In conclusion, the use of certain  lactobacillus strains such as L. rhamnosus GR-1 and L. reuteri for prevention  and treatment of recurrent urogenital infection is promising, especially for  recurrent bacterial vaginosis. Scant data on the use of probiotics for urinary  tract infection and vulvovaginal candidiasis precludes definitive  recommendations. Further research and larger studies on types of lactobacilli  strains, dosage of lactobacilli, optimal route and vehicle of administration  are needed. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2006 Aug;58(2):266-72. Epub 2006 Jun 21. Probiotics  for prevention of recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis: a review.Falagas ME, Betsi  GI, Athanasiou S.Alfa Institute of Biomedical Sciences (AIBS) Athens, Greece.  m.falagas@aibs.gr Vulvovaginal  candidiasis (VVC) is a common infection affecting the quality of life of many  women. Probiotics have been investigated as possible agents for the prevention  of recurrences of VVC. We reviewed the available literature. In some studies  the development of VVC was associated with either a low number of lactobacilli  in the vagina or with the presence of H2O2-non-producing vaginal lactobacilli,  although there are a few studies not supporting these statements. In addition,  in vitro studies have shown that lactobacilli can inhibit the growth of Candida  albicans and/or its adherence on the vaginal epithelium. The results of some  clinical trials support the effectiveness of lactobacilli, especially  Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus rhamnosus GR-1 and Lactobacillus  fermentum RC-14, administered either orally or intravaginally in colonizing the  vagina and/or preventing the colonization and infection of the vagina by C.  albicans, while the results of a small number of clinical trials do not  corroborate these findings. Nevertheless, most of the relevant clinical trials  had methodological problems such as small sample size, no control group  (placebo) and included women without confirmed recurrent VVC, and thus they are  not reliable for drawing definitive conclusions. Thus, the available evidence  for the use of probiotics for prevention of recurrent VVC is limited. However,  the empirical use of probiotics may be considered in women with frequent  recurrence of VVC (more than three episodes per year), especially for those who  have adverse effects from or contraindications for the use of antifungal  agents, since adverse effects of probiotics are very rare. In any case women  should be clearly informed about the unproven usefulness of probiotics for this  purpose. In conclusion, despite the promising results of some studies, further  research is needed to prove the effectiveness of probiotics in preventing the  recurrences of VVC and to allow their wide use for this indication. July 16, 2010 |
                                        Tags: Diflucan , fluconazole , lactobacilli , prevent vaginal infections , probiotics , vulvovaginal candidiasis , yeast | No comments » Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) email (will not be published) (required) Cinnamon Paradiso Stomach Acid and the Future of Health Care Get Free Healthy Newsletter! email: Books by Dr. Galland Video: Aspirin and Vitamin C Watch more videos>> Affiliations Popular Posts email: - Copyright © 2008-2011 Applied Nutrition Inc. By  using this website you agree to the Terms an