Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Fri, 18 Nov 2011 06:59:17 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "a3edbb96bfa5cc1:ddec"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 08:40:04 GMT
Connection: close

Primary Atypical Pneumonia Histopathology-India.net Primary Atypical Pneumonia Dr Sampurna Roy MD Enter your search terms Submit search form Web www.histopathology-india.net www.surgical-pathology.com www.pathology-india.com Infectious Disease Online http://www.histopathology-india.net/Infection.htm Atypical pneumonia is 
      a pneumonia that does not respond to the usual antibiotic treatment. The organisms may 
      cause clinical and pathological patterns ranging from mild upper 
      respiratory infection (common cold) to severe lower respiratory tract 
      disease. Organisms: It can be caused by bacteria, in particular Legionella pneumophila, 
      Mycoplasma pneumoniae and Chlamydophila pneumoniae. Other organisms include  Chlamydia psittaci (psittacosis), 
      Francisella tularensis (tularemia), and Coxiella burnetii (Q fever). Viruses include influenza A or B, respiratory syncytial virus, adenovirus, rhino 
      virus, herpes simplex and cytomegalovirus. SARS virus, is a new coronavirus that causes atypical pneumonia. Lesions: 1. Patchy 
      or lobar areas of congestion without consolidation hence called atypical 
      pneumonia. 2. Predominance 
      of interstitial pneumonitis with widened edematous alveolar wall 
      containing mononuclear inflammatory cells. 3. Formation of hyaline membrane due to diffuse alveolar damage. Superimposed 
      bacterial infection is common. In severe infection, 
      necrosis of bronchial or alveolar epithelium is seen in Herpes simplex, 
      adenovirus and varicella. Characteristic nuclear inclusion is seen in 
      cytomegalovirus infection. The first atypical pneumonia : the history of the discovery 
          of Mycoplasma pneumoniae.Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2010 Mar;24(1):1-5. The subject of atypical pneumonias is of great medical 
          and historical interest to modern physicians. Although these diseases 
          have no doubt affected humans throughout our history, it is not until 
          the mid-twentieth century that physicians first began to differentiate 
          certain atypical pulmonary infectious 
          processes from typical pneumonia . 
          Physicians at the time were unclear as to the precise etiology of 
          these infections. As time progressed and study of these organisms 
          continued, physicians were better able to identify the causative agent 
          and devise tests with which to detect the disease. This article 
          focuses on the description and ultimate identification of Mycoplasma 
          pneumoniae. The atypical pneumonias: clinical diagnosis and importance. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2006 
          May;12 Suppl 3:12-24. The most common 
          atypical pneumonias are caused by three zoonotic pathogens, Chlamydia 
          psittaci (psittacosis), Francisella tularensis (tularemia), and 
          Coxiella burnetii (Q fever), and three nonzoonotic pathogens, 
          Chlamydia pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Legionella. These 
          atypical agents, unlike the typical pathogens, often cause 
          extrapulmonary manifestations. Atypical CAPs are systemic infectious 
          diseases with a pulmonary component and may be differentiated 
          clinically from typical CAPs by the pattern of extrapulmonary organ 
          involvement which is characteristic for each atypical CAP. Zoonotic 
          pneumonias may be eliminated from diagnostic consideration with a 
          negative contact history. The commonest clinical problem is to 
          differentiate legionnaire's disease from typical CAP as well as from 
          C. pneumoniae or M. pneumonia infection. Legionella is the most 
          important atypical pathogen in terms of severity. It may be clinically 
          differentiated from typical CAP and other atypical pathogens by the 
          use of a weighted point system of syndromic diagnosis based on the 
          characteristic pattern of extrapulmonary features. Because 
          legionnaire's disease often presents as severe CAP, a presumptive 
          diagnosis of Legionella should prompt specific testing and empirical 
          anti-Legionella therapy such as the Winthrop-University Hospital 
          Infectious Disease Division's weighted point score system. Most 
          atypical pathogens are difficult or dangerous to isolate and a 
          definitive laboratory diagnosis is usually based on indirect, i.e., 
          direct flourescent antibody (DFA), indirect flourescent antibody (IFA). 
          Atypical CAP is virtually always monomicrobial; increased IFA IgG 
          tests indicate past exposure and not concurrent infection. Anti-Legionella 
          antibiotics include macrolides, doxycycline, rifampin, quinolones, and 
          telithromycin. The drugs with the highest level of anti-Legionella 
          activity are quinolones and telithromycin. Therapy is usually 
          continued for 2 weeks if potent anti-Legionella drugs are used. In 
          adults, M. pneumoniae and C. pneumoniae may exacerbate or cause 
          asthma. The importance of the atypical pneumonias is not related to 
          their frequency (approximately 15% of CAPs), but to difficulties in 
          their diagnosis, and their nonresponsiveness to beta-lactam therapy. 
          Because of the potential role of C. pneumoniae in coronary artery 
          disease and multiple sclerosis (MS), and the role of M. pneumoniae and 
          C. pneumoniae in causing or exacerbating asthma, atypical CAPs also 
          have public health importance. Determination of serologic markers against bacterial atypical 
          pneumonia agents in pneumonia patients. Mikrobiyol 
          Bul.2004 Jan-Apr;38(1-2):27-32. Approximately one 
          third of all community acquired pneumonia cases are caused by 
          Legionella pneumophila, Mycoplasma pneumoniae and Chlamydophila 
          pneumoniae (previously, Chlamydia pneumoniae) which are known as 
          bacterial atypical pneumonia agents. Serological tests are used 
          commonly for laboratory diagnosis of these agents. The aim of this 
          study was to evaluate the causative role of bacterial atypical 
          pneumonia agents in clinically diagnosed pneumonia patients. Acute and 
          convalescent serum samples were collected from a total of 65 
          clinically diagnosed adult pneumonia patients in order to evaluate IgM 
          and IgG positivities against L. pneumophila, M. pneumoniae and C. 
          pneumoniae. IgM and IgG were evaluated by enzyme immunoassay (ELISA) 
          for L. pneumophila and M. pneumoniae, and by indirect fluorescent 
          antibody (IFA) method for C. pneumoniae. In acute serum samples, 4 
          (6.2%) M. pneumoniae IgM positivity in addition to 3 (4.6%) L. 
          pneumophila IgG, 3 (4.6%) M. pneumoniae IgG and 62 (95.4%) C. 
          pneumoniae IgG positivity were detected. In convelescent serum 
          samples, 3 (4.6%) L. pneumophila, 1 (1.5%) M. pneumoniae, 3 (4.6%) C. 
          pneumoniae IgM positivity and 4 (6.2%) L. pneumophila with 1 (1.5%) M. 
          pneumoniae IgG positivity were detected in addition to acute sample 
          positivities. According to these serological data, totally 16 (24.6%) 
          of the patients were infected by bacterial atypical pneumonia agents. 
          These results show that bacterial atypical pneumonia agents are 
          important etiological factors for community acquired pneumonia. Atypical pneumonia . Orv Hetil.2005 Aug 
          21;146(34):1759-66 International 
          epidemiologic surveys show that apart from community acquired 
          "typical" pneumonia the number of cases caused by atypical pathogens 
          are increasing. A number of problems are to be faced while diagnosing 
          and treating the lower respiratory tract infections due to atypical 
          pathogens. The article gives a detailed overview of pneumonia caused 
          by Chlamydia pneumoniae, Chlamydia psittaci, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, 
          Coxiella burnetti and Legionella species, and emphasizes that these 
          pathogens should be considered and thought about more in lower 
          respiratory tract infections as appropriate treatment, if started in 
          time, decreases the risk of a more severe outcome. The other 
          causes of 'atypical' pneumonia. Curr 
          Opin Infect Dis. 1999 Apr;12(2):121-6. Mycoplasma, 
          Chlamydia and Legionella are the usual organisms considered to be the 
          etiologic agents of 'atypical' pneumonia. Other microorganisms such as 
          bacteria, viruses, parasites, fungi and mycobacteria can also present 
          with atypical pneumonia manifestations. Outbreaks and isolated cases 
          of respiratory viruses with atypical pneumonia presentations have been 
          reported among immunocompetent and immunosuppressed patients. Severe 
          infections due to these respiratory viruses alone or as a concomitant 
          bacterial or viral infection have been observed. Additionally, in 
          endemic areas, certain zoonotic infections may present as atypical 
          pneumonia. The role of atypical 
          pathogens: Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae, and Legionella 
          pneumophila in respiratory infection. Infect Dis Clin 
          North Am.1998 Sep;12(3):569-92, vii Infections 
          caused by M. pneumoniae, C. pneumoniae, and Legionella spp. are 
          important causes of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). In the past 
          decade, considerable new information has come to light concerning 
          these organisms. Despite this, debate continues concerning the 
          syndromic approach to CAP and the scientific merit of lumping these 
          pathogens together. Because the etiologic diagnosis of these pathogens 
          is established only in a minority of cases, the true prevalence tends 
          to be underestimated. In clinical practice, these pathogens are often 
          empirically treated. More rapid and cost-effective diagnostic 
          techniques are needed so that the clinical course of patients with 
          these infections can be better characterized. Community-acquired pneumonia: an unfinished 
              battle. Severe community-acquired pneumonia caused 
              by macrolide-resistant Mycoplasma pneumoniae in a 6-year-old boy. A trigger enzyme in Mycoplasma pneumoniae: 
              impact of the glycerophosphodiesterase GlpQ on virulence and gene 
              expression. Amplification of 16S rDNA by nested PCR for 
              measurement of Mycoplasma pneumoniae DNA over time: clinical 
              application. Your Ad Here My Great Web page Enter your search terms Submit search form Web www.histopathology-india.net www.surgical-pathology.com www.pathology-india.com January 2012 Histopathology-India.net Dermatopathology Cases diagnostichistopathology. blogspot.com Pathopedia-India.com Surgical-Pathology.com Pathology-India.com Pancreatic Pathology Online Gall Bladder Pathology Online Paediatric Pathology Online Paraganglioma-Online Endocrine Pathology Online Eye Pathology Online Ear Pathology Online Cardiac Path Online Lung Tumour-Online Mesothelioma-Online Pulmonary Pathology Online Nutritional Pathology Online Environmental Pathology Online Pathology Quiz Online Dermpath-India GI Path Online Soft Tissue Pathology Case Index Infectious Disease Online ; INDEX: 
          A-D ; INDEX: 
          E-L ; INDEX: 
          M-P ; INDEX: Q-Z ; FUNGAL 
          DISEASE ; VIRAL 
          DISEASE . E-book - History of  
          Medicine with special reference to India Basic Pathology Blog Created by Dr Sampurna Roy: Diagnostic Histopathology Daily Medical Professional Daily Pulmonary Infection Viral 
            Infection: Influenza Parainfluenza Virus Infection Cytomegalovirus infection Respiratory syncytial virus infection Measles Varicella Chlamydia: Chlamydial Infection Rickettsia: Q Fever(Coxiella burnetii ) Mycoplasma: Mycoplasma pneumo nia Bacterial Infection: Pneumococcal Pneumonia ( Lobar Pneumon ia ) Bronchopneumon ia Klebsiella pneumonia e Haemophilus influenza Infection Legionellosis Staphylococcal Infecti on Streptococcal Infecti on Tuberculosi s Atypical Mycobacterial Infection Mycobacterium Avium Intracellulare Mycobacterium Kansasii Infection Fungal Infection: Histoplasmosis Coccidioidomycosis Cryptococcus Blastomycosis Aspergilloma Aspergillosis Candidosis Actinomycosis Nocardiosis Infections caused by 
            other organisms: Pneumocystis Pneumonia Dirofilariasis Paragonimiasis Visit: 
        huffingtonpost.com When 
        a Superbug Strikes Close to Home, How Can You Deal With it? 10 Natural Tips To Boost Immunity This Winter How Bad Is The Seasonal Flu? Secrets Of Women Who Don't Get Sick WARNING: Don't Mix Flu Shots With Other Vaccines 4 Secrets To Never Getting Sick 'Contagion' Connections: How Links Among Humans, 
        Animals And The Environment May Be Spawning A New Class Of Infectious 
        Diseases Disclaimer ; Privacy Policy ; Advertising Policy ; E-mail . Copyri