
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 10:43:05 GMT
Server: Apache
Cache-Control: max-age=604800
Expires: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 10:43:05 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Simple Steps To Lower Back Pain Relief Tools for Inspiration, Motivation and Success Search: Alumbo the Web • Members Login • Free Membership • Submit Content • About Alumbo! • Get Involved • Link To Us • Recommend Alumbo • Authors / Contributors • Community Leaders • Advertise With Us Get Our Free Newsletter! Email: (view our privacy pledge ). • Arts, Creativity & Fun • Body • Business & Career • Community & Society • Ecology & Environment • Family Relationships • Love Relationships • Mind • Paranormal / Divination • Personal Finance • Spirituality (view entire directory) The Secret of How to Get Unstuck Why people ignore their inner needs at mid-life and what YOU can do differently Be Worry-Free Stuck In a Loveless Marriage? Wondering If This Is As Good As It Gets? Praying For Your Children Towers Perrin Study Discounts Workplace Myths; Triangles Managing Child Behaviour 14 Things Everyone Should Know About Signs of Infidelity A Buddha for The Pepsi Generation? (view more articles) Saturday, February 11, 2012 You are here: Alumbo! Self-Help Supersite > Item Detail Page Simple Steps To Lower Back Pain Relief An informative article on how to achieve lower back pain relief A feature article by an Alumbo member, Jan 29, 2008 Summary: If you are suffering from lower back pain, here are some useful tips and advice to help you get immediate relief, and prevent re-occurance. If, like me you suffer from lower back pain, relief will be the first and foremost thing on your mind. In the early stages of lower back pain, relief can often achieved by performing some simple stretching exercises or having a gentle massage. Alternatively you could try using ice and heat packs, these will help reduce inflammation, and reduce muscle spasms. If you are frequently experiencing lower back pain, relief can be achieved in several ways, the main two being through either an anti- inflammatory or through special and targeted back pain exercises. Anti-inflammatory drugs such as Ibuprofen can be purchased easily over the counter at your local pharmacy, or your medical practitioner may prescribe something stronger. Taking prescribed medication over long periods of time is not highly recommended, solution to lower back pain as some of these drugs may be addictive, or carry side effects. There are some excellent  natural products available which are geared towards lower back pain relief and some are extremely effective. Any natural product should be your preferred choice of pain killer or anti-inflammatory over prescription drugs, however you should be aware that any anti-inflammatory or pain killing products are not a cure for lower back pain; they are just giving you relief from pain. In order to eliminate back pain and prevent future occurrences you should look at introducing a regular lower back strengthening program and some non impact aerobic exercises into your weekly schedule. The best aerobic exercises for fast and effective lower back pain relief are achieved either by using a stationary bicycle, or by swimming. The gentle motions from both of these exercises will get the blood flowing through your muscles, increase flexibility in your lower back and will release endorphins into your blood stream - the body's natural pain killer. Performing either of these  exercises for around 20 - 30 minutes daily will have you feeling a lot better, not to mention the overall benefits to your health, ADVERTISEMENT: Many sufferers and experts alike agree that for long term lower back pain relief and prevention you should practice some specialist and targeted lower back pain exercises. By strengthening and toning the muscles in your lower back, upper legs and abdomen you will give support to your spine, and the surrounding muscles. The benefit that these lower back pain exercises have will be immense. You will not only notice that you no longer suffer from lower back pain, but you will also be a lot more flexible and will find it easier to achieve many daily tasks, that were sometimes difficult or tiring. A good lower back pain relief and exercise program will likely be available at your local health centre or gym. Your medical practitioner will also be able to offer some information on the correct exercises you should perform for optimal lower  back pain relief. You will also find further details of some online lower back pain exercise programs on our website the details of which can be found below. In summary lower back pain relief can be achieved quickly and easily by following a these few simple steps. Firstly achieve relief with a good natural anti-inflammatory. Next start a simple aerobic exercise program, and finally introduce some targeted lower back pain strengthening exercises and stretches into your weekly schedule. These simple steps will ensure that you will rid yourself of back pain in the shortest possible time, and will greatly reduce the chances of any re-occurrence. Paul Osborne is the executive editor of http://www.BackpainBeaten.com . A website dedicated to lower back pain relief , and includes information advice and tips, including the symptoms and effective treatments of Sciatica,  Spinal Stenosis, Herniated Discs and most other back pain complaints. Email this page to a friend Display printer-friendly version Rate this item / View member comments Report irrelevant / inappropriate content Return to the Alumbo! home page ADVERTISEMENT: Place your ad here for as little as $19. Click for more information. Directory | Member Login | Free Membership | Advertise With Us About Us | Get Involved | Submit Content | Privacy Pledge | Site Map Copyright © 1999- , Alumbo Media Inc.  All Rights Reserved. Important Note: Material on this website is provided for informational purposes only and
is not intended as a substitute for professional advice (medical, legal, financial
or otherwise).  Please see our Terms Of Service . Home Page: Alumbo! - Self Help Supersite - Tool