
Does Atherosclerosis Put You at Risk for Alzheimer's? - Alzheimer's Disease Center - EverydayHealth.com Alzheimer's Disease Basics Treatment Management Caregiving Emotional Support Ask Dr. Kaycee Sink Does Atherosclerosis Put You at Risk for Alzheimer's? Print E-mail Tweet Q:  Can atherosclerosis in the brain cause Alzheimer's or dementia? My husband has this and refuses to take a blood thinner. Does that increase his risk? A: Yes, atherosclerosis is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease and for vascular dementia. Atherosclerosis, or thickening of the artery walls, occurs in blood vessels all over the body, but we usually think about it being a condition of the heart and legs. In both cases it reduces the amount of blood flow to the tissues and therefore the amount of oxygen they get. If a blood vessel in the heart gets completely blocked, it results in a heart attack, which is the heart muscle dying from lack of oxygen . When the same process happens in the brain it is called a stroke . But even if someone doesn't have a stroke, atherosclerosis in the brain can contribute to dementia. We can all help lower our risk of Alzheimer's and vascular dementia by doing things that keep our heart and blood vessels healthy, such as eating a low fat, healthy diet, exercising regularly, not smoking, and controlling high blood pressure and diabetes. When atherosclerosis is present, aspirin (a blood thinner) has been shown to help reduce the risk of heart attacks. However, experts don't yet know if aspirin can help reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease or vascular dementia. As for other blood thinners, such as Coumadin (warfarin) or Plavix (clopidogrel), there is no evidence that these should be used to prevent Alzheimer's disease in patients with atherosclerosis. Last Updated: 08/17/2009 Alzheimer's disease and dementia expert Dr. Kaycee Sink is a geriatric-medicine specialist and director of the Kulynych Memory Assessment Clinic at Wake Forest University School of Medicine in Winston-Salem, N.C. Alzheimer's Disease In-Depth Alzheimer's Basics Alzheimer's Treatment Alzheimer's Management Alzheimer's Caregiving Alzheimer's Emotional Support See All Alzheimer's Disease Articles See All Alzheimer's Disease Q&As Find a Doctor, Rate a Doctor Looking for a Great Doc? Search or browse our detailed directories of doctors, dentists, alternative care providers, therapists, and hospitals. Start your search now. Related Articles Can Vitamins Prevent Alzheimer's? "Are there supplements I can take to ward off Alzheimer's disease?" Is Vascular Dementia Fatal? "I know Alzheimer's disease is fatal. My mother has vascular dementia due to a severe stroke three years ago. Is dementia also eventually fatal?" Memantine For  Alzheimer's   Disease Citations Related Blogs on Alzheimer's Disease Specialist  And Final Answers specialist  I go, all different kinds of  specialist , all wanting 4 to 6 vials of blood and low and... Lower Your Cholesterol Without Drugs atherosclerosis .  Atherosclerosis  is a disease of...  Atherosclerosis . -All (just about all, except vegans maybe)... Mummies Show Heart Disease Is Not Just A Modern Problem You may have heard that  atherosclerosis , a form of... Cardiology conference suggests that  atherosclerosis  is hardly... Drugs Coenzyme Q10 (Coq10) Ubiquinone, also called Coenzyme Q-10, is a coenzyme that is made naturally in the body. Ubiquinone has been... Flushield Influenza virus (commonly known as "the flu") is...  Alzheimer's   disease , or epilepsy); a history of seizures... Hydroxychloroquine Hydroxychloroquine is used to treat or prevent malaria, a disease caused by parasites. Parasites that... Pharmacist Q&A Could Retin A Taken During The First Few Weeks Of Pregnancy Cause A Problem? Retin A (tretinoin) is a cream that is applied... Organization of Teratology Information  Specialist ), Retin... What Should I Do If Spiriva Makes Me Feel Sick? I really can t comment on this, if your prescriber wants you to take a medication, I can t... Can I Use The Microgynon 30 Birth Control Pill If I Have Diabetes And Hypertension? You are not necessarily at risk due to your age, if that was your... doctor (a  specialist  may be preferable in this... Explore Everyday Health Everyday Solutions Experts Partners Enter Search terms Register | Log In | My Everyday Health Newsletters Home Health A-Z Drugs A-Z Symptom Checker Food and Fitness Community Health Tools Everyday Health TV Log in using your preferred network: OR Enter your Everyday Health log-in here: E-Mail Address: Password: Forgot Your Password? Would you like to sign up for an Everyday
                        Health account? Click here >> Copyright © 2012 Everyday Health, Inc. About EverydayHealth.com | About Everyday Health, Inc. Need Help? | Ad Policy | Advertise With Us | Link To Us | Feedback Advertising Notice This Site and third parties who place advertisements on this Site may collect and use information about your visits to this Site and other websites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you. If you would like to obtain more information about these advertising practices and to make choices about online behavioral advertising, please click here The material on this web site is provided for educational purposes only, and is not to be used for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information . Use of this site is subject to our terms of use and privacy policy . This site complies with the HONcod