
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 04:38:29 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Kava Kava, Passion Flower, & Valerian Root - Encapsulated Herbal Extracts - Combo Herbs - Viable Herbal Solutions Home Contact Us Wholesale Search Site Login View Shopping Cart Skip to Main Content » HEALTH BLENDS SINGLE HERBS COMBO HERBS FDA INFO ABOUT US FAQ REWARD POINTS March means St. Patrick’s Day , and most everybody loves to don some green finery and celebrate the event. Let’s celebrate with one of nature’s finest “green grasses” – BARLEY GRASS . Barley has been an exceptionally nourishing staple in the human diet for thousands of years, providing a powerhouse of essential vitamins, amino acids, minerals, antioxidants and many more nutrients that your body needs every single day. Reflecting its rich chlorophyll content , Barley Grass is a great support for digestive and immune system health and naturally healthy pH balance - as well as a natural “green” tonic to support healthy skin, hair and nails . Viable Herbal Solutions is offering Barley Grass at a special 15% discount to you for the entire month of MARCH, 2012. Celebrate St. Patrick’s Day with nature’s finest green grass! Barley Grass is right here at your fingertips. Order yours now! My Cart You have 0 items in your cart Recently Viewed Pau D'Arco / Grapefruit Seed Spearmint Leaf Chasteberry 4:1 Motherwort 10:1 Rhubarb Root (1% Anthraquinone) Newsletter Sign up for our newsletter: Subscribe Home / Kava Kava/Passion Flower/Valerian Root Kava Kava/Passion Flower/Valerian Root SKU: C006 Email to a Friend This blend is a combination of the three most popular natural sedatives. Kava Kava is the non-addictive, all-natural, mild herbal sedative that relaxes the body without harmful side effects. This unique herb from the tropics contains compounds known as kavalactones, which help ease tense muscles throughout the body while leaving your mind calm, sharp, and clear. Kava is fast becoming one of America's most popular herbal supplements, helping millions of people relax naturally. Valerian Root is an excellent sleep and relaxation herb. Valerian is a smooth muscle and skeletal relaxant, as well as a premier sedative that aids in anxiety, stress and insomnia. Recent studies indicate that the valepotriate and valerenic acid constituents can bind to the same receptor sites in the brain as benzodiazepine drugs. Passion Flower is a native of the Western hemisphere, named for symbolic connections drawn between its appearance and the crucifixion of Jesus. Native Americans used Passion Flower primarily as a mild sedative. It quickly caught on as a folk remedy in Europe, and was thereafter adopted by professional herbalists as a sedative and digestive aid. Item # C006: Kava Kava/Passion Flower/Valerian Root 60 Capsules $20.25 Add to Cart 90 Capsules $27.34 Add to Cart 450 Capsules $102.52 Add to Cart 700 Capsules $148.65 Add to Cart 1150 Capsules $228.92 Add to Cart 1400 Capsules $256.39 Add to Cart Kava Kava has been used for over 3,000 years for its medicinal effects as a sedative, muscle relaxant, diuretic, and as a remedy for nervousness and insomnia. This botanical marvel has been used in parts of the Pacific at traditional social gatherings as a relaxant, and in cultural and religious ceremonies to achieve a "higher level of consciousness". Kava is used ceremoniously in the South Pacific to celebrate beginnings and endings, such as marriages, birth and death. In Germany, Kava Kava is used as a nonprescription drug to reduce anxiety. Kava was first mentioned in scientific records in 1886, and it is gaining popularity in the US for its relaxing effects. More recently, Kava Kava has also gained popularity with the natives of Hawaii, Australia and New Guinea where it is used medicinally as well as recreationally. Kava also is effective as a pain reliever and can be used instead of aspirin, acetaminophen and ibuprofen. Recent clinical studies have shown that the herb Kava is a safe, non-addictive anti-anxiety medicine, and as effective as prescription anxiety agents containing benzodiazepines such as Valium®. While benzodiazepines tend to promote lethargy and mental impairment, Kava has been shown to improve concentration, memory, and reaction time for people suffering from anxiety. Kava has been clinically demonstrated as a means of achieving a state of relaxation without the adverse side effects. In a 1996 study, two groups of 29 patients with anxiety syndromes were treated with 100 mg of Kava extract standardized to 70- percent kavalactones three times a day for four weeks. The symptoms of anxiety were significantly reduced in patients taking Kava as compared to placebo. No adverse reactions were observed in the Kava group. In a 1997 study, a total of 101 outpatients were given one capsule of a Kava extract containing 70 mg of kavalactones or placebo three times daily. In this twenty-five-week study, all the patients suffered from moderate to severe anxiety, including agoraphobia, generalized anxiety disorder, specific phobia, and social phobia. The results showed that the short- and long-term effectiveness of Kava was superior to that of placebo. After twenty-four weeks, over half of the Kava group were rated as "very improved" whereby anxiety, fear, tension, and insomnia decreased steadily with treatment. Kava was well tolerated, and adverse reactions were mild and rare. The researchers concluded that Kava was a treatment alternative to both benzodiazepines and synthetic antidepressants for anxiety disorders. Passion Flower is also known by the names Maypop, Passiflora, Flower Of The Five Wounds, Apricot Vine, and Waterlemon. It is a woody vine with flowers that reminded early (seventeenth century) pilgrims of the passion and suffering of Christ, hence the name. Passion Flower bears small berry-like fruit called granadilla or water lemon. The plant is native to North, Central, and South America. While primarily tropical, some of its 400 species can grow in colder climates. The plant is also nicknamed Maypop, descriptive of the popping sound the fruit makes when mashed. Passion Flower was first investigated scientifically less than 100 years ago when it was found to possess an analgesic (pain-killing) property, and to prevent, without side effects, sleeplessness caused by brain inflammation. Since then, the sedative properties of Passion Flower have been observed and documented in many studies. Primary chemical constituents of this herb include alkaloids (harman, harmine, harmaline, harmol, harmalol), flavonoids (apigenin, luteolin, quercitin, rutin), flavone glycosides, sterols, sugars, and gums. The flavonoids in Passion Flower are primarily responsible for its relaxing and anti-anxiety effects. Today, Passion Flower is an extremely popular herb in Europe where it is often used to induce relaxation and sleep, an effect first experimentally verified in 1920. In that study, the researcher noticed that, unlike what happens with narcotics, sleep was induced normally, with easy, light breathing, and with little or no neural or mental depression. Upon awakening, the patients showed no signs of confusion or stupor or melancholy. And Passion Flower is not addictive. In 1979, about 50 preparations on the market in Germany contained Passion Flower - 42 were sedatives, and 6 were cardio-tonics. These preparations were recommended for nervous or easily aroused children, cardiovascular neurosis, bronchial asthma, coronary diseases, weak circulation, sleep disorders, problems of concentration in school children, and geriatrics. This herb is also used to treat female anxiety during menses, childbirth and menopause. Passion Flower reduces spasms and depresses the central nervous system. Passion Flower has also been known to kill bacteria, making it a good choice for treating eye problems such as inflammation and infection. Topical applications of this herb have included use as a compress for swollen eyes, burns and skin irritations, and as a poultice or juice for burns and wounds. Valerian Root was traditionally used for epilepsy, sleeplessness, nervousness, hysteria, and as a diuretic and emmenagogue. It has been used for nervousness and insomnia in Ayurvedic medicine in India, and in traditional Chinese medicine. By the eighteenth century, this herb was an accepted sedative, and was also used for nervous disorders associated with a restless digestive tract. During World War I, Valerian was given to shell-shocked soldiers and stressed civilians. In Europe, Valerian is still the most common non-prescription sedative, where over one hundred Valerian preparations are sold in pharmacies. Valerian Root was a very popular sleep sedative in the United States until it was displaced by synthetic drugs after World War II. Clinical studies have shown that people taking Valerian Root had shown significantly improved sleep quality without morning grogginess. Some researchers have compared Valerian Root to benzodiazepines such as ValiumT. However, Valerian is a much milder and safer sedative. Unlike ValiumT, Valerian is not addictive or does not promote dependency. And Valerian's sedative effect is not significantly exaggerated by alcohol and barbiturates (unlike ValiumT), and also has not been linked to any birth defects (again, unlike ValiumT). Valerian is a smooth muscle and skeletal relaxant, as well as a premier sedative that aids in anxiety, stress and insomnia. The primary chemical constituents of Valerian Root include valepotriates, alkaloids (chatinine, valerine), valerenic acid, essential oils (acetic acid, borneol, pinene, camphene), caffeic acid, beta-sitosterol, tannin, manganese, calcium, choline, and B vitamins. Valerian Root contains many different constituents, including essential oils that appear to contribute to the sedating properties of the herb. Central nervous system sedation is regulated by receptors in the brain known as GABA-A receptors. Valerian may weakly bind to these receptors to exert a sedating effect. Recent studies indicate that valepotriates and valerenic acid can bind to the same receptor sites in the brain as benzodiazepine drugs. It reduces hypertension due to stress and reduces pain from shingles. Experiments in Italy and Germany conducted for the past 15 years have found that valerian preparations are effective in treating children with psychomotor agitation (hyperactivity) and behavioral disorders. In fact, in these children, the preparation enhanced motor coordination and maintained reaction time, while calming anxiety and fears, curing restlessness and curbing aggression. Recommended Dosage: Take one (1) capsule, one (1) to two (2) times each day with water at mealtimes, particularly in the evening. Contraindications: Do not use this product if you are pregnant or nursing. Do not take in conjunction with MAO inhibitors. Consult your physician before taking Kava Kava if you are currently taking anticoagulants, oral contraceptives, anti-depressants, anti-seizure medications, drugs to treat HIV or prevent transplant rejection, or any other prescription drug. Do not use this product if you suffer from Parkinson's disease. Excess use can disturb vision, dilate pupils, and affect walking and driving. One study found that it was safe to drive after taking Kava at the dosage listed above. However, the German Commission E monograph states that Kava, when taken at the recommended levels, may adversely affect a person's ability to safely drive or operate heavy machinery. Please review the FDA Public Health Advisory (03/25/02) Kava-Containing Dietary Supplements May Be Associated With Severe Liver Injury . Capsule Information: Our Absinthe supplements are encapsulated in 100% Gluten-free, Vegetable Cellulose, Certified Kosher , size "00" Capsules. (click here for size comparison) Each capsule contains approximately 600 mgs. Special Note: If any medical terms on our website are confusing or unknown, we have compiled a small dictionary of terms for you. Click here for our Definitions, and go directly to the word in question for further information. Disclaimer: The information presented herein by Viable Herbal Solutions is intended for educational purposes only. These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA and are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat or prevent disease. Individual results may vary, and before using any supplements, it is always advisable to consult with your own health care provider. Viable Herbal Solutions (866) 437-3122 8am - 5pm EST, M-F. Customer Service Shipping Policies Returns & Exchanges Privacy Policy Ordering Information Reward Program Viable Herbal About Us Help & Info FAQ - Questions My Account Follow Us Facebook Twitter StumbleUpon © Copyright 2010 Viable Herbal Solutions. All rights res