< http://www.highbeam.com >. Chicago "Is obesity surgery right for you? Reducing stomach size leads to major weight loss and relief from obesity-related conditions, but it is not without risks." Women's Health Advisor . 2006. HighBeam Research. (February 15, 2012). http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-157653762.html APA "Is obesity surgery right for you? Reducing stomach size leads to major weight loss and relief from obesity-related conditions, but it is not without risks." Women's Health Advisor . Belvoir Media Group, LLC. 2006. Retrieved February 15, 2012 from HighBeam Research: http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-157653762.html Please use HighBeam citations as a starting point only.  Not all required citation information is available for every article, and citation requirements change over time. Is obesity surgery right for you? Reducing stomach size leads to major weight loss and relief from obesity-related conditions, but it is not without risks. Women's Health Advisor See all results for this publication Browse back issues of this publication by date December 1, 2006 | Copyright COPYRIGHT 2009 Belvoir Media Group, LLC. This material is published under license from the publisher through the Gale Group, Farmington Hills, Michigan. All inquiries regarding rights or concerns about this content should be directed to Customer Service . Permalink Create a link to this page Copy and paste this link tag into your Web page or blog: <a href="http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-157653762.html" title="Is obesity surgery right for you? Reducing stomach size leads to major weight loss and relief from obesity-related conditions, but it is not without risks. | HighBeam Research">Is obesity surgery right for you? Reducing stomach size leads to major weight loss and relief from obesity-related conditions, but it is not without risks.</a> America's obesity epidemic has produced a boom in bariatric  surgery--procedures that alter the gastrointestinal tract to limit the  amount of food people can eat. Women undergo bariatric surgery four  times more often than men, and now that Medicare is covering the  procedure, more older women are opting for surgery. These procedures are  very effective, helping morbidly obese people (those with a body mass  index of 40 or greater) lose up to 85 percent of excess body weight. But women face special risks after undergoing bariatric surgery,  including an increased risk of bone loss, reports gastroenterologist  Ellen Scherl, MD, associate professor of medicine at the Weill Medical  College of Cornell University. "Many people are not aware that  bypass procedures almost create a postoperative malnutrition … To read the full text of this article and others like it, try us out for 7 days, FREE! Related articles on HighBeam Research Study: Bariatric Surgery Patients Have 67 Percent Lower Chance of Complications at Top-Performing Hospitals. Business Wire;
            July 28, 2009 700+ words -- Bariatric Surgery Patients at Five-Star Hospitals Spend an Average of Half a Day Less Time in the Hospital than Patients at One-Star Hospitals -- -- Wide Variation in Cost of Bariatric Surgery from $14,577 (Maryland) to $52,224 (California) -- GOLDEN, Colo. -- The HealthGrades Fourth Annual… New Info on Pregnancy Risks After Bariatric Surgery, from Consumer Guide to Bariatric Surgery. Business Wire;
            December 23, 2008 700+ words SAN DIEGO -- The number of people having bariatric surgery is growing, including more and more women of childbearing age. Is it safe or even feasible to become pregnant after weight loss surgery? If so, how long should you wait? What precautions will ensure that you have a healthy pregnancy and… Bariatric Surgery Patients Have 65 Percent Lower Chance of Complications at Top-Performing Hospitals: HealthGrades Study. Business Wire;
            July 29, 2008 700+ words - Better-Performing Hospitals Have Much Higher Volumes - - Trend Toward Less-Invasive Laparoscopic Procedures Continues as Number of Procedures and Complication Rates Rise - GOLDEN, Colo. -- Bariatric surgery patients treated at highly rated hospitals have, on average, a 65 percent lower chance of… Health Costs and Insurance Claims Less for Morbidly Obese after Bariatric Surgery. Business Wire;
            September 8, 2008 700+ words New Study Shows Insurers Recover Costs in 2 to 4 Years Even After Accounting for Complications BOSTON -- Insurers recover their costs for bariatric surgery in two to four years depending on the type of surgery that is performed, according to a new study published today in The American Journal of… 2009 Trends and Predictions from the Editors of Consumer Guide to Bariatric Surgery. Business Wire;
            December 23, 2008 700+ words SAN DIEGO -- The editors of Consumer Guide to Bariatric Surgery have gazed into their crystal balls to see if the number of bariatric surgeries performed in the United States will continue to increase in 2009. As the obesity epidemic grows, bariatric surgery numbers will surely follow suit,… See all related articles » Publication Finder Browse back issues from our extensive library of more than 6,500 trusted publications. Popular publications on HighBeam Research Harper's Magazine Cultural magazines NPR All Things Considered News transcripts Chicago Sun-Times Illinois newspapers Crain's Chicago Business Management magazines Crain's New York Business Management magazines Help us improve our websites Become a member of our Customer Advisory Panel.  Your opinion matters! Join the panel Recently viewed items Article:  SPIN CONTROL Article: Stereolab Stands Alone With Hypnotic Drone Article: Stereolab changes with `Eclipse'.(Arts and Lifestyle) Article: MUSIC REVIEWS: A LITTLE OLD, A LITTLE NEW FROM STEREOLAB.(DAILY BREAK) Article: THE SEA AND CAKE "One Bed ... Company About us Subscription benefits Group subscriptions Partnership opportunities Careers Privacy policy Terms and conditions Contact us Help topics FAQ Search tips Using the Research Center Billing questions Rights inquiries Customer Service From our blog All posts Trending news Research How-to guides News and updates Testimonials Cengage Learning Network Questia CengageBrain.com HighBeam Business Encyclopedia.com ed2go HighBeam Research Follow us: HighBeam Research is operated by Cengage Learning . © Copyright 2012. All rights reserved. The HighB