
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 08 May 2012 04:36:09 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.54
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
X-Pingback: http://www.freshstartmethod.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Stop Smoking Hypnosis in 1 Hour with Fresh Start Guaranteed Quit Smoking Hypnosis FreshStart method - successfully quit smoking after just one hour of online hypnosis to stop smoking The One Hour, Online, Stop Smoking Program Posts Tagged ‘Hawaii’ I mean, how can it help me? Ice cream is fattening Sunday, March 21st, 2010 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis I mean, how can it help me? Ice cream is fattening.”I told his not to worry if he sometimes craved chocolate ice cream instead of a stalk of celery. “If you choose only what’s good for you, you’ll set up a deprivation syndrome, & then when you stop dieting you’ll gain the weight right back. The goal of the exercise is to get you to satisfy your hunger without overeating, & yet to eat what you enjoy. If you wait forth full-stomach syndrome, you’re in trouble.” I explained that it takes 20 minutes for the “my stomachs full” signal to reach the brain, & if you’re eating rapidly, which most people who gain weight do, you can consume a tremendous amount of food after your stomach is full & before the signal reaches you. Look around in any restaurant & notice how quickly overweight people devour food; they hardly seem aware of what they eat. Obviously, food is necessary even for those overweight, & some of the time the urge to eat is truly healthy, normal response to the body’s need for nourishment. A useful approach is to find a variety of foods you like & that are good for you. Diets are a perfect time for discovering new meals & snacks. I approach the issue by showing you that you can lose weighting a way that will let you feel positive about yourself. If you eat too much, it is often because in our society eating is a way of being loving toward ourselves. It Isa reminder of parental love in which the presentation of food is a loving act. The rest of the world may kick you in the teeth, but food is a way you can be nice toyourself.I prescribed that Martha do a self-Hypnotherapy exercise about eight times a day—approximately once every two hours, for 90 seconds. The exercise was to first see his on two screens: the way he looked at the present & the way he would like to look. Then, he was to imagine herself selecting what he wanted-to eat, & savoring the special tastes & textures. Finally, he was to see herself stop eating when he was yes longer enjoying the food, yes matter how littler how much was left. As part of the prescription, I asked his to look in the mirror each morning, preferably with a minimal amount of clothing, so that he could project in the exercise an accurate view of the way he looked then. & as I do with all weightcontrolclients, I asked his to call me in a week. At first the exercise proved difficult, because when people have gained weight they tend to avoid looking at themselves in the mirror as a way to avoid dealing with the issue . Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , cancer , child , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exam hypnosis , gcse hypnosis , gender , gmat hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , Hawaii , health , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , leclaire , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , mongan , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 4 Comments » I then evaluate the client’s hypnotherapeutic capacity. Saturday, February 6th, 2010 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis I then evaluate the client’s hypnotherapeutic capacity. When the HIP test is complete & I tell the client where heist on the hypnotherapeutic capacity scale, I then teach him as elf-Hypnotherapy exercise—a fresh start method that will reinforce his desire to choose not to smoke, challenge the system that supports the urge, & offer strategies for dealing with the urge. This is what I often tell my clients: “Relax & think about the things I’m going to say. Smoking poisons your body. It destroys lung tissue. It Clogs the Cardiovascular system. It irritates the throat. “We often forget that we need our bodies to live. Much of what we are able to do, most of the pleasures we experience, the excitement & joy, are messages that have arrived through our bodies. I’m going to repeat: We need our bodies to live; we & our bodies are one. Because you need your body to live, you owe your body protection. By protecting your body, you show love & respect for yourself.” Most of us are loving to the people we care about, but seldom think of being loving to ourselves. “You smoke two packs of cigarettes a day. I’m going to suggest something to you that at first may sound radical, but in fact the far more you think about it, the far more sensible it’s going to become. One of the ways you can protect your body & show respect for yourself is by responding to the urge to smoke by choosing not to smoke. This is not a battle between you & yourself. Believe me, any battle you have with yourself you are bound to lose.”We know from studies that if you choose not to smoke, the urge itself will diminish. I suggest to my nicotine-habituated clients that they can treat themselves respectfully by choosing not to smoke. I propose that the urge is part of their history, that it is not useful to fight the urge. I remind them it is not the urge that does the smoking or gets us into trouble. If that were true, we would all be in trouble. It is the actor smoking we have to conquer, not the urge. We know that people practice celibacy for a number of reasons. Sex is a strong urge & yet people can choose to be celibate. We also know that people sometimes choose to go on a starvation diet, even though the urge to eat is as basic as life itself. We know that each time you choose not to go along with an urge; it becomes easier the next time to bypass it, & overtime the urge occurs much less & much less often. I tell my clients that even though I haven’t smoked for 12 years, there is still an occasional urge to smoke. I know what my choice is, however, & I choose not to smoke. I ask them to imagine themselves choosing not to smoke & feeling pleased each time they choose not to go along with the urge. Tags: birth hypnosis , cancer , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exam hypnosis , gmat hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , Hawaii , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , leclaire , mcat hypnosis , mongan , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , test scores , weight loss , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 1 Comment » Hypnobirthing Sunday, October 18th, 2009 Hypnobirthing Stop Smoking Hypnosis Quit Smoking Hypnosis Weight Loss Hypnosis Study Habits Hypnosis They have emphasized the importance of following instructions for each step-in the HIP verbatim, because the accuracy of the scores depend on the degree to which the phenomena described in the instructions are experienced & reported by the client. Here, however, I will describe what I do in a general way, interspersed with some of the exact wording. I begin ‘the evaluation with the client seated in comfortable chair. I ask the client to place his arms on the armrest & feet flat on the floor. I say, “Lean back & make you as comfortable as youcan.I then say, “Now look toward me, right at me. Hold your head level. As you hold your head in that position, look up toward your eyebrows—now, toward the top of your head.”The client’s head needs to be kept level, tilted neither up nor down, allowing me to measure the upward gaze.“As you continue to gaze upward, close your eyelids slowly. That’s right . . . Close. Close. Close.”When the lids are halfway closed, I note the position of the pupils. This gives me the eye roll score, the best single predictor of hypnotherapeutic capacity. The whiter of the eye that shows, the higher the score. Thesis the first step in the scoring process . I continue. “Keep your eyelids closed . . . continue to hold your eyes upward. Take a deep breath, hold. Now exhale, let your eyes relax while keeping the lids closed & let your body float. Imagine a feeling of floating, floating right down through the chair. . . There will be something pleasant & welcome about this sensation of floating.”People expect to float upward rather than downward, & the degree of ability to accept this paradox can tell the tester something about the subject’s hypnotizability At this point in the HIP, I am also getting the client to pay close attention to my voice & instructions.“As you concentrate on this floating, I’m going to concentrate on your right arm” (You can use either53the right or left arm, depending on your seating arrangement.)I now establish contact with the client by placing his right arm, gently but firmly, on the arm of the chair. Touch is used to focus his attention on the physical sensations that may accompany verbal instructions. Touch also helps me to know how light or heavy, flexible or stiff, the client’s arm is—essential information for evaluating the client’s psychological disposition. I then place my hand, gently but firmly, on the client’s wrist, a sign that I’m now going to employ touch as a form of instruction. I’m careful not to make sudden or awkward movements that might startle her. “In a while, I’m going to stroke the middle finger of your right hand. Tags: birth hypnosis , cancer , childbirth , cigarette advertising , gmat hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , Hawaii , health , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » New Clients Sunday, October 11th, 2009 Normally, I spend the first 20 minutes with a new Hypnobirthing client learning why he has come to see me; to be helpful Indeed to understand the issue he wants to overcome & what he would like to see happen. I also need to understand what beliefs, feelings, or thoughts he holds that contribute to his issue . I look for sense of who he is & what is important to her. Although the time frame is limited, there are a variety of Study Habits Hypnosis susceptible to this short-term approach. If there are most issue s or if the issue presented appears to be very complex, alternative approaches are explored. However, for most clients a single episode is enough. Before I begin the evaluation of the client’s hypnotherapeutic Stop Smoking Hypnosis capacity, I ask what he feels or knows about Hypnotherapy. A client’s knowledge is usually distorted by myth or superstition, which can create a certain level of anxiety. Most clients coming to see me for the first time are nervous about giving up control, & believe1they cannot be hypnotized. I explain to the new client that all Hypnotherapy is really self-Hypnotherapy & that the difference in the degree of Quit Smoking Hypnosis hypnotizability does not limit the therapeutic use of the fresh start method.Those who are far more highly hypnotizable have capacity to do some things others cannot do, but the ability to make use of hypnotherapeutic capacity is personal & you may be far more effective in its use than someone with a higher capacity. Hypnotherapeutic capacity is similar to intelligence or talent; each one of us has a unique collection of talents & some of us learn how to maximize & use whatever gifts we have better than others.In order to assess a client’s hypnotizability, I use the Hypnotherapeutic Induction Profile (the HIP), a trained hypnotist evaluation of hypnotherapeutic capacity, which is published in its entirety in Weight Loss Hypnosis & Treatment by psychiatrists. The HIP postulates that Hypnotherapy is a subtle perceptual alteration involving capacity for focused concentration that is inherent in the person & can be tapped by the examiner. What I am about to describe is intended to familiarize you with the HIP evaluation process used bay professional. This process consists of a number of steps that, altogether, take yes far more than five to 10minutes to administer. Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , Hawaii , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , mcat hypnosis , obesity , passive smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , test scores , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » Obtaining Buy In Saturday, September 5th, 2009 Clients are prepared for—and treated during Study Habits Hypnosis process s pretty much as in the past. Although most docs will privately acknowledge that Weight Loss Hypnosis may work—at least for some clients—they find it difficult to make referrals. They stay away from any formal affiliation with Hypnotherapy. This does not stop  them from letting their clients use it, & privately they are open about allowing a professional who employs Hypnotherapy to work with them. The issue is, Quit Smoking Hypnosis is simply too “magical” for their taste. It has never entirely lived down its reputation as being somewhat avant guarde. Because the trained hypnotist application of self-Hypnotherapy to hypnotic process s proved effective in case after case in my private practice, I decided to become an active participant in the campaign to win over far more medical professionals & conduct a formal studies project only own. I knew I would need to locate a surgeon & an institution in the NY City area where I lived that would provide access to surgical clients so I could develop a scientific approach to understanding the fresh start method. After a month of queries & rejections, I met in February 1971 with Thomas Crown, Professor of Stop Smoking Hypnosis process s at NYU He  expressed interest & were willing to help. Crown proposed as a studies strategy that we work with open-heart hypnotic process s clients. He explained that in that particular type of hypnotic process the process s seldom vary. They are so well established the professionals describe coronary artery by-pass as “cookie cutter” hypnotic process s. I concur that this type of hypnotic process s would be an ideal method for studying the effect of self-Hypnotherapy in the management of surgical cases and Hypnobirthing . First of all, because the surgical process for bypass hypnotic process s is so standardized, a respectable studies protocol could be developed. Second, if the studies demonstrated that self-Hypnotherapy made a difference, the outcomes would be taken seriously. Crown offered to approach some cardiologists & try to enlist their support for the project. Tags: birth hypnosis , childbirth , cigarette advertising , exams , Hawaii , hypnobirth , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , Northern Ireland , pregnancy , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco , weight loss advertising Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | 1 Comment » Self Hypnosis as an Anasthetic Sunday, August 23rd, 2009 Although there is plenty of proof in the Stop Smoking Hypnosis scientific literature showing that major hypnotic process s can be undertaken with the client under Hypnotherapy for Quit Smoking Hypnosis , the extent to which it can be used as the one and only anesthesia with serious surgical process remains an area of debte. Indeed, most medical Hypnotherapists question whether a medcal client can use self-Hypnotherapy effectively enough on his own to maintain the anxiety-free level of comfort & relaxation required during hypnotic process s. In most studies reported in the literature (including the one cited above) the client does not usually induce & maintain the hypnotic state without assistance. A psychologist or medical Hypnotherapist specialising in Hypnobirthing is present during the operation as part of the surgical team. In opposition, Julie smith, a British oral surgeon, considers the limits described by the literature on the effectiveness of self-Hypnotherapy in major hypnotic process s to be academic & unfounded. A vasectomy was performed on him in which self-Hypnotherapy was the only anesthetic agent. Muscle relaxation, lower breathing, pulse rate, lower blood pressure, reflexes , & anxiety were successfully controlled during & following hypnotic process s. Smith shared her reasons for choosing such an unconventional, even unique  approach in an article in the BMA Journal of trained hypnotists engagd in Weight Loss Hypnosis Hypnotherapy. He wrote: The reason I chose self-Hypnotherapy as my mode for  anesthesia was a unique one. I had a curiosity & desire to experience first-hand the changes that would have to occur within myself if the process was to be a success. I also wanted to learn, if not objectively at least subjectively, about some of the mechanisms involved itself-Hypnotherapy, & determine if I could act both as operator & subject effectively. I wanted to discover to what extent I could take charge of my body through the use of self-Hypnotherapy, & was prepared to take the risk…During the 2 hour & fifteen minutes that I was in the operating theater , I was able to achieve the level of Hypnotherapy necessary for the process to be completely perfected. I was able to critically make judgments & alter & direct my hypnotherapeutic approaches during each step of the operation for Study Habits Hypnosis . At all times my critical faculty was awake. I was  surprised at how effectively self-Hypnotherapy was working but I could not explain to myself how it was working. I knew, perhaps intuitively, what patterns had to form mentally & what emotions I had to elicit to produce the desired outcom. Tags: a level hypnosis , birth hypnosis , child , childbirth , cigarette advertising , diet , exam hypnosis , gcse hypnosis , gwyneth paltrow , Hawaii , health , hypnobirth , hypnobirthing , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , lsat hypnosis , mcat hypnosis , Northern Ireland , passive smoking , quit smoking , quit smoking hypnosis , secondhand smoke , stop smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis , study hypnosis , tobacco Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » My first patient… Sunday, July 26th, 2009 In an interview conducted with Dr. Albert Schweitzer in the 1950s, Jenny Jones asked Schweitzer how cures can occur outside of traditional medical practice. Schweitzer answered, “Each patient carries his own doctor inside him. They come to us not knowing that truth. We are at our best when we give the doctor who resides within each patient a chance to go to work.”• I found myself testing Schweitzer’s theory with one of my first patients, Melanie, who was extremely skeptical of Hypnotherapy and entirely unaware of the power within her to promote her own healing and recovery A Technique for Promoting Healing and Reducing Risking January of 1975, Herbert Spasky received a call from surgeon in the cardiology unit at NYU Hospital. Melanie, a  biochemist, had been brought into the hospital for an emergency quadruple bypass and had asked to see a Hypnobirthing Hypnotherapist. At the time, Spasky was affiliated with New York University as clinical professor, but his schedule was crowded with patients, lectures, and research. He told the surgeon I was at New York and that he should bring me in. After discussing the case with Spasky , I went tithe university library to review the literature on these of Hypnotherapy in surgical situations, where I was particularly struck by an article in the International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnotherapy by Dr.Frank Lissom. Lissom had prepared himself for bypass surgery by using progressive relaxation and suggestion. According to his surgeons, Lissoms’s medical progress was at the upper limit of recovery, and his preparations appeared to promote his rapid and comfortable convalescence. He reported feelings of tranquility and optimism five days before surgery and immediately after—even while he was unable to function without help or special effort. The article gave me some ideas. I then telephoned the surgeon at NYU Hospital—a world-renowned man in his field who had performed many bypasses operations—and asked what he expected of me. He said, “You do your thing, I’ll do mine, and we won’t get in each other S way. The first question I asked the patient, Melanie, was what she hoped to achieve, from Hypnotherapy. He proceeded to tell me that his daughter was dating a Freshman at Princeton Medical School whose father was member of the American Society of Clinical Hypnotherapy. Tags: birth hypnosis , cigarette advertising , diet , gmat hypnosis , Hawaii , hypnosis for exams , hypnosis for weight loss , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , pregnancy , quit smoking , stop smoking hypnosis , study habits hypnosis Posted in Birth Hypnosis , Hypnosis For Weight Loss , Hypnosis for Study Habits and Test Scores , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » Hawaii may ban smoking on Waikiki Beach Thursday, February 5th, 2009 Hawaii lawmakers will consider a bill Tuesday that would prohibit lighting up cigarettes on world-famous Waikiki Beach. State law already prohibits smoking in all enclosed and partially enclosed workplaces and public places, including restaurants and bars. The law has been opposed by some bar and restaurant owners who say it has hurt business, although anti-tobacco groups say it has had the opposite effect. House Bill 1509 would prohibit smoking on the beaches of Waikiki from the shore break to the sidewalk of private property lines. The bill aims to protect Waikiki Beach from litter such as cigarette butts, making it more attractive to tourists. Smoking would still be allowed on sidewalks near the beach. HB 1509 introduced to the Hawaii Legislature Jan. 28, has its first committee hearing Tuesday at the state Capitol. It was introduced by Rep. Tom Brower, D-Waikiki-Ala Moana-Kakaako, and has the support of a majority of House Democrats and Republicans. If passed by the state House and Senate and signed into law, the smoking ban for Waikiki Beach would take effect immediately. Tags: Hawaii , Hypnosis to Stop Smoking , stop smoking , tobacco Posted in Hypnosis to Stop Smoking | No Comments » Stop Smoking Online About FreshStart Method Online Hypnosis - Frequently Asked Questions What Our Customers Say Your Guarantee Smoking Facts Login to FreshStart Method I'm ready to stop smoking now Click below for special audio from Matt Godson, Hypnotherapist: Archives December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 July 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2