
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 06 Mar 2012 12:45:49 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.33 (Unix) PHP/4.3.4 mod_ssl/2.8.22 OpenSSL/0.9.7e mod_jk/1.2.8
Set-Cookie: JSESSIONID=70C34999FFFAFF8BD4B39F0017D98D0D; Path=/adult
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Minimally Invasive Weight Loss Surgery - The University of Chicago Medicine Home | About Us | Directions & Maps | Donate or Volunteer | Contact Us Request an appointment: 1-888-UCH-0200 Site Search Go Specialties and Departments Minimally Invasive Surgery What Is MIS? Benefits of MIS MIS Specialties Patient Stories Find a Physician Request an Appointment Patient and Visitor Information Online Library Clinical Trials Classes and Events For Medical Professionals Jobs Email Print Home > Specialties > Minimally Invasive Surgery > MIS Specialties > Minimally Invasive Weight Loss Surgery The surgeons and the bariatric surgical team at the University of Chicago are among the most experienced and innovative in the world when it comes to laparoscopic weight loss surgery. Our surgeons have performed more of these minimally invasive procedures than any other surgeons in the Midwest. In fact, we were: The first to perform laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery in the Chicago area The first--and currently the only--surgeons in the Midwest to perform laparoscopic duodenal switch surgery, which offers hope for the most severely obese patients. Laparoscopic approaches offer the same potentially life-saving results as traditional open weight loss surgery--but with significantly less pain and fewer complications, such as wound infections and hernias. Patients typically return home two to four days after their surgery and usually return to work and other activities significantly earlier than they would after traditional weight loss surgery. Benefits to Consider Traditional "open" weight loss surgery requires a single large incision extending from the lower edge of the breastbone down to the belly button, typically 10 to 14 inches in length. In contrast, the laparoscopic technique requires five or six small incisions ranging from 1/4 to 3/4 inches in length. First, the surgeon inserts a laparoscope, which is a thin tube with a tiny video camera on the end of it, through a 10-millimeter incision in the middle of the abdomen. The surgeon then inserts surgical instruments through the additional incisions to perform the operation. Throughout the surgery, the laparoscope's camera projects a high-resolution, magnified image of the surgical field onto multiple video monitors, allowing the surgeon to perform the procedure safely and with high precision. View an interactive educational video about minimally invasive gastric bypass surgery. Approx. 40 minutes. © 2008 Emmi Solutions, LLC Patients from across the country turn to the University of Chicago Medicine for weight loss surgery. Our surgeons perform more than 250 weight loss surgeries a year, with the great majority done laparoscopically. With their surgical expertise and the strength of a supporting multidisciplinary team, we are able to help many patients who are often considered to be too obese or high risk for laparoscopic weight loss surgery. Another sign of our surgeons' expertise: Their rate of surgical complications is lower than the national norm, despite the larger and higher-risk patients treated at our center. The University of Chicago Center for the Surgical Treatment of Obesity: A Comprehensive Obesity Surgery Program The key to the success of our bariatric surgery program is the multidisciplinary approach we take to treating obesity. We have assembled a team of experts who provide unmatched expertise before, during, and after weight loss surgery. In addition to surgeons, our team includes other specially trained physicians, dieticians, nurse practitioners, and a clinical psychologist. Our program has earned the American Society for Bariatric Surgery's designation as a Center of Excellence -- signifying the highest standards in weight loss surgery. Only a select group of bariatric surgery programs in the nation have met the requirements to achieve this important distinction. The decision to have obesity surgery is an important and often difficult one. It is important to keep in mind that any bariatric surgical procedure is a tool to help the individual, not a cure. In order to have the best outcomes possible, it is critical to make significant changes in diet and lifestyle following surgery. All of our patients undergo a thorough pre-operative multidisciplinary evaluation to make sure that surgery is the most appropriate--and safest--option for them. In addition to a complete evaluation by our surgeons, patients meet one-on-one with dieticians and psychologists who have specific expertise in the management of obesity. These experts assess whether patients are well suited and well prepared for the surgery. In addition, our expert physicians and nurses follow patients for years after surgery to ensure the best outcomes possible. Furthermore, patients who have chronic conditions related--or unrelated--to their obesity have access to hundreds of knowledgeable experts. The University of Chicago Hospitals is home to some of the world's most respected specialists in diabetes, heart disease, digestive problems, and other health problems. View video interviews featuring our bariatric surgery team members. World-Class Surgeons When performed by a skilled surgeon, laparoscopic weight loss surgery is a safe and effective treatment for severe obesity. Our surgeons are recognized for their expertise and innovation. In fact, they have taught laparoscopic techniques to other surgeons around the country. In addition to being recognized for their surgical skill, our physicians are also well known for their research. They are uncovering new approaches to weight loss surgery that may benefit patients in the future. UCH_004595 (12) Appointments New patients: call (773) 834-3524 to register for an information session More information Returning patients: call (773) 834-3524 Find a physician UCH_009192 (8) Treatments Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass Laparoscopic biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch Laparoscopic adjustable gastric band Laparoscopic vertical sleeve gastrectomy UCH_004597 (8) Related Links Center for the Surgical Treatment of Obesity General Surgery Online Library Surgical care Surgical treatment for obesity Patients & Visitors Request an Appointment Find a Physician Off-Site Clinic Locations Directions & Maps Visitation Guidelines Medical Records Requests Pay Your Bill Financial Assistance Patient Relations International Patients Quality JCAHO Public Notice Specialties & Departments Cancer Care Gastrointestinal Disorders Heart Care Neurosciences Pediatrics Surgery More Specialties Online Health Library Informacion en Espanol Medical Professionals Refer a Patient Contact a Department Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Grand Rounds & Events Calendar Nursing Careers Related Sites Pritzker School of Medicine Biological Sciences Division University of Chicago Recovery Act Funding (ARRA) UChicagoTech News & Community Science Life Blog Patient Stories Nurses In the News Newsroom Publications Medicine on the Midway Magazine Make a Gift Volunteer Contact Us Privacy Practices Legal Disclaimer Site Map Employee Login © 2012 The University of Chicago Medical Center. All rights reserved. The University of Chicago Medicine 5841 S. Maryland Avenue C