Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Therapeutic Spinal Traction Treatments › Text Size: A A A Therapeutic Spinal Traction Written by Susan Spinasanta Tweet Mechanical and Compressive Pain There are many types of disorders known to cause back pain including those defined 
  as mechanical and/or compressive. Mechanical back pain commonly stems from injury 
  or a degenerative process affecting discs, joints, ligaments and/or muscles. 
  Pain from an irritated or 'compressed' nerve root, such as in Sciatica, is termed 
  compressive pain. Conservative forms of treatment may include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
  medication, a muscle relaxant, a prescription drug for pain during the acute 
  phase, and physical therapy. Along with these therapies, spinal traction may 
  be recommended. Spinal Traction - What It Does Therapeutic spinal traction uses manually or mechanically created forces 
  to stretch and mobilize the spine. Traction may alleviate back pain by stretching 
  tight spinal muscles that result from spasm and widen intervertebral foramen 
  to relieve nerve root impingement. Patient Evaluation Each patient is unique and what works well for one patient may not be appropriate 
  for another. Therefore, each prospective patient is carefully evaluated prior 
  to treatment. This assessment enables the therapist to make decisions about 
  the type of traction to be utilized, the force/weight of distraction, and the 
  duration of treatment. The goal of traction is to reduce pain to assist the patient to become more 
  functional. Therapy should be relaxing - not cause additional or new pain. Therefore, 
  the initial session of therapeutic traction typically uses less force or weight 
  during distraction (pull away). The therapist carefully follows cues from the 
  patient relative to their tolerance level, which includes bodily positioning. Traction Techniques Techniques applied in spinal traction are dependent in part on the patient's 
  physical condition, disorder, individual tolerance, and the spinal level(s) 
  to be treated. Application of traction may be manual, positional, or mechanical. 
  Traction may be applied as a continuous force or intermittently. The techniques 
  presented below are not all inclusive. Cervical Traction Manual therapeutic traction is a hands' on approach. The patient lies in 
  a relaxed and comfortable position on the table supine. The therapist carefully 
  positions their hands in such a way to support the patient's head during distraction. 
  The force is gentle, stable, and controlled. During traction the therapist may reposition the head to one side, flex, or 
  extend the neck using their hands. A change in head position during traction 
  may affect more positive results in reducing the patient's symptoms. A mechanical traction device used to treat the cervical spine is comprised 
  of a head halter with over-the-door pulley system. Some patients are allowed 
  to use this system at home after the therapist teaches them how to set the system 
  up, wear the halter, apply the weights correctly, and duration of traction treatment. 
  The patient may be able to use the head halter sitting, reclining, or laying 
  supine. Lumbar Traction Manual Lumbar traction involves distracting almost half of the body's weight 
  and therefore requires more of the therapist's strength. After the patient is 
  positioned, the therapist may pull at the ankles, once again using controlled 
  force. Another technique involves draping the patient's legs over the therapist's 
  shoulders. The therapist then steadily pulls with their arms positioned across 
  the patient's thighs. An alternative is a pelvic belt with straps used for distraction. Mechanical traction may incorporate the use of a motorized split-traction table. 
  The patient is placed in a pelvic harness secured to one end of the table. Some 
  motorized units are computerized enabling the therapist to program the patient's 
  session of therapeutic traction. Contraindications When the structural integrity of the spine is compromised, such as in osteoporosis, 
  infection, tumor, or cervical rheumatoid arthritis, traction is not a treatment 
  option. Physical conditions such as pregnancy, cardiovascular disease, hernia, 
  and in some cases TMJ, exclude patients from spinal traction. In these situations, 
  the forces used in traction (movement) could potentially be dangerous. Conclusion Therapeutic spinal traction is not a new concept. Today, the first patient 
  to experience spinal traction would be more than 100 years old! Since then, 
  many studies have been conducted to determine the efficacy of spinal traction. 
  However, these have proved inconclusive. You may be interested in these related articles: What is Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM)? Lumbar Discectomy: Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery Selecting a Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) Practitioner Experience the Zero Gravity Difference Updated on: 02/06/10 Spine Treatments Alternative Treatments Chiropractic Treatment Drugs and Medications Mental and Emotional Therapy Pain Management Physical Therapy Spinal Bracing Spine Surgery Resources Ask the Experts Clinical Trials Find a Specialist Glossary Spinal Anatomy Spinal Conditions A-Z Videos and Animations Treatment Update Could my low back pain be SI-joint related? Learn more » Email Page Print RSS Discuss Stay Informed with SpineUniverse Sign up to receive free updates on news, research, Community discussions, and doctor-reviewed information for the following topics. with the patient community. Related Resources Video Video:  Microendoscopic Spinal Surgery Video Artificial Disc Replacement Animation From our Sponsor Could your low back pain be SI-joint related? Video Spinal Fusion Animation Connect with Others in the Patient Community! Log In or Sign Up Now! Conditions Ankylosing Spondylitis Back Pain Chronic Pain Degenerative Disc Disease Herniated Discs Fibromyalgia Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis Kyphosis Low Back Pain Neck Pain Osteoporosis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sacroiliac Joint Dysfunction Sciatica Scoliosis Spinal Cord Injury Spinal Fractures Spinal Stenosis Spinal Tumors Spondylolisthesis Spondylosis (Osteoarthritis) Sprains and Strains Upper Back Pain Whiplash Other Back Problems A-Z Treatments Alternative Treatments Chiropractic Drugs and Medications Mental & Emotional Therapy Pain Management Physical Therapy Spinal Bracing Surgery Wellness Ergonomics Exercise Weight Loss Resources Back Products Clinical Trials Exams and Tests Links of Interest Partners in Education Podcasts Recommended Books Resource Centers Spinal Anatomy SpineAdvisor eNewsletter Archive SpineUniverse en Español Video Directory Community Advice Find A Specialist Expert Blogs For Professionals Spine Conditions Ankylosing Spondylitis Back Pain Chronic Pain Degenerative Disc Disease Herniated Discs Fibromyalgia Kyphosis Neck Pain Osteoporosis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sciatica Scoliosis Spinal Stenosis Spondylolisthesis Spondylosis (Osteoarthritis) Other Back Problems A-Z Back Pain and Neck Pain Resources Spinal Anatomy Community Advice Clinical Trials Exams and Tests Expert Blogs Find a Doctor for Your Back Pain SpineUniverse en Español SpineAdvisor eNewsletter Archive Back Pain Resource Centers Back Pain Video Directory Policy and Contact About SpineUniverse Press Releases Our Awards Advertising Opportunities Editorial Board Editorial Guidelines Partners and Sponsors Privacy Policy Advertising Policy Terms of Use Contact Us For Professionals © 1999-2012 Vertical Health, LLC This information is not designed to replace a physician's independent judgment about the appropriateness or risks of a procedure for a given patient. Always consult your doctor about your medical conditions or back problem. SpineUniverse does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Use of the SpineUniverse.com site is conditio