Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Brooklyn Non-Surgical Spinal Decompression | Decompression Therapy Webdesign by MOS / SEO by MOS Query Brooklyn Non-Surgical Spinal Decompression Non-surgical spinal decompression is the new age treatment to address excruciating pain emanating from the back and spreading to other parts of the body. Pain management physicians at HealthQuest offer this effective therapy in Brooklyn, New York to provide fast pain relief and comfort to their patients. Spinal decompression therapy involves the application of a distraction force that relieves nerve compression by creating a negative pressure. This pulls back the expanded disc to its place while facilitating the healing of the damaged discs by stimulating blood supply and taking in oxygen along with other essential nutrients. FDA Approved Alternative to Back Surgery At HealthQuest physicians use the FDA approved VAX-D spinal decompression modality for the therapy. The treatment is quite effective for acute and chronic back conditions where the spine and the nerves endure excessive stress. It has benefits such as: No risk associated with the procedure Patients who undergo the treatment don’t require medication Conditions Treated with Non-surgical Spinal Decompression Spinal decompression is proven effective for those who continue to experience pain following a failed back surgery. Some of the various other spinal conditions that can be effectively treated with the therapy are: Herniated and bulging lumbar discs Lumbar disc Facet syndromes Carpal tunnel syndrome Pinched nerves Sciatica Spinal Stenosis Foraminal stenosis Radiculopathy Depending on the seriousness of the patient’s condition, the number of sessions required might vary. Each session takes about thirty to forty minutes at the most, after which the patient can return home. Treatment with Excellent Success Rate Non-surgical spinal decompression offered in Brooklyn, New York significantly reduces pain and allows patients to return to a more active lifestyle. It has an excellent success rate with majority of the patients attaining considerable pain relief right after the first treatment session. Physicians and staff at HealthQuest addressing each and every need of our patients, providing personalized care and attention. For more details regarding spinal decompression treatment at HealthQuest, call 718-769-2521 or email us at info@hqbk.com . We accept Medicare, Workers’ Compensation, No-Fault and other 