Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Enjoy success - stop smoking with Stortford Hypnotherapy Home FAQ Services Fees About Stop Smoking at Stortford Hypnotherapy Still Smoking? Presumably if you are reading this you are still a smoker.  And you might have already tried giving up. But stopping smoking by will power alone has a low 1% success rate and you know that thats not very high! Why? There are many reasons people smoke and you might not even have thought very deeply about them, but through this program you will be able to idenify thm and then we can re-educate your behaviour to establish new patterns to allow you to move forward as the non-smoker that you wish to be. Some people regard smoking as their friend, as a stress reducer. But believe me it is not, and the most important thing you can do to improve your health is to stop smoking now. Ready to stop? It can be a big decision to stop smoking and it might be one that has taken a while for you to make. Hypnotherapy and an indivdual appoach for each person has a proven track record to be a most effective course of action for people wishing to become a non-smoker and has the advantage of being a completely natural process. Even if you have tried giving up in the past and most smokers do try to stop, you will find this approach very different and by looking at the complete picture you will understand what in the past kept you smoking. So if you have decided that this is what you want to do and the time is right and you are ready to forget about that smoking habit that you used to have, then please contact me to arrange the two sessions that you are now ready for . Hypnotherapy Stress Panic Attacks & Anxiety Weight Stop smoking Driving Test Exams Phobias Deep Relaxation FREE! I know that you want to be sure that you have made the right choice by deciding to choose Stortford Hypnotherapy so to help you decide that this is something you want to proceed with, I offer you a free, no obligation 45 minute consultation with me in person so that we can discuss your situation and how I can help you. Call now to book your free consultation : 07799 017 097 Copyright 2011 Stortford Hypnotherapy | 
 