
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 09:30:22 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Last-Modified: Tue, 01 May 2012 09:30:22 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Menopause Treatment with Acupuncture | East Winds Acupuncture About General Practice Infertility Athletes F.A.Q. Medical Articles Publicity Contact Location Home Home Contact Articles Acupuncture Herbology Lifestyle Traditional Chinese Medicine Testimonials General Infertility Athletes Links Image Gallery Blog Patient Information Resources Athletes and Overtraining: A Traditional Chinese Medicine Perspective Recommended reading for fertility and Chinese Medicine Should I wait to try Traditional Chinese Medicine before using high tech fertility treatments? TCM & IVF Published Protocols Search Site Map Login Home Menopause Treatment with Acupuncture Acupuncture & Disease Treatment Can Acupuncture Help Control Menopause Symptoms By Kathryn
Whittaker The treatment for migraines and other menopause symptoms is not the same in
every part of the world. Different cultures have different medicine practices
and beliefs. However, it is interesting to note that the Traditional Chinese
Medicine (TCM), acupuncture, is becoming a popular therapeutic method in
Western culture to treat a variety of psychological and physical conditions
including menopause. TCM views menopause as the time in a woman’s life when her body shuts down
her natural monthly reproductive cycle because she can no longer reproduce.
However, it is believed that her body stops menses to conserve her qi (body life
energy), so as she ages she can retain all of her resources. Unlike women in western culture, for most women in the East, menopause is
rather uneventful. It is thought the reasons for this is because Western women
lead a more fast-paced, stress-ridden lifestyle, and tend to consume poorer
diets. Thus, as a result, women in Western culture tend to experience far more
intense menopausal symptoms than their sisters in the East. Despite the real causes of menopausal symptoms, the fact remains that
Traditional Chinese Medicine does not consider menopause to be a syndrome. The
thought is that women suffering through menopause have a variety of qi problems
such as constrained liver qi and kidney yin deficiency. In other words, their
qi is imbalanced and is wreaking havoc on their mind and body. Thus, the goal of TCM is to uniquely treat each woman based on her specific
symptoms. This means that different techniques aside from acupuncture may also
be suggested, such as Chinese herbs, lifestyle or dietary changes and exercises
- all of which are used to help restore balance to the body. How does acupuncture work? Acupuncture is based on the belief that there are
approximately 2000 acupuncture points (trigger points) throughout the body.
These trigger points are linked to one another via a group of 20 different
meridians (pathways). Meridians are responsible for conducting qi between the
surface of the body and the internal organs. Qi has a specific affect on each
point it passes through. When qi properly flows throughout the meridians and
all its points, it maintains a healthy balance in the mind and body. During an acupuncture treatment for menopause, an acupuncture therapist will
help a woman bring balance back to her body by focusing treatment on the
trigger points related to her symptoms. Only some trigger points are used, and
will vary depending on the symptoms. Thus, every menopausal woman is treated
individually based on her problem. Acupuncture is administered through the use of tiny, solid needles that are
inserted into the targeted trigger points. The purpose of the needles is to
help stimulate the meridians to encourage qi production. This might mean
needles could be inserted into the shoulders, arms, legs or even the feet. If
inserted properly, needles shouldn’t cause pain or bleeding; however, their may
be slight discomfort or a tingling or numbing sensation which fades fast.
Treatment is often very relaxing, and sessions usually last for 30 minutes. Does acupuncture benefit menopause? Yes. Research has found that most women
who participated in different acupuncture studies found relief from menopausal
symptoms including: • Hot flashes • Insomnia • Stress • Anxiety • Vaginal dryness If you are interested in using acupuncture for alternative or complimentary
treatment to ease menopause symptoms, it is imperative that you visit a
qualified and experienced acupuncture therapist, in order to realistically
determine if this method is an effective treatment option for you. Remember, no two women are treated the same, and acupuncture therapy is
often long term, ongoing treatment. If you would like more information on the different ways to ease menopause symptoms , please visit Natural
Menopause Relief Secrets . Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Kathryn_Whittaker Printer-friendly version info@eastwindsacupuncture.com | (719) 520-5056 | fax (719) 520-5222 142