Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Lafferty Family Chiropractic - Treatments Page Home Doctor Bios A.R.T. Treatments FAQ'S Sports Chiro Contact Us Directions Non-Surgical Spinal Decompression Non-surgical spinal decompression is a safe, comfortable and effective tool used in the treatment of neck and low back injuries including the following: disc bulges, disc herniations, sciatica, pinched nerves, facet syndromes and leg / arm pain. However, not all patients are candidates for spinal decompression traction, each will be properly evaluated and screened to ensure that their condition will respond best to this form of treatment. Non-surgical spinal decompression has numerous mechanical and physiological effects including: relieving pressure on the nerves, unloading constant force from the spine, decreasing acute disc bulging and inflammation and separating the vertebrae to allow for stretching of the ligaments while relieving pressure on the discs. It also increases the blood flow to the muscle tissues which allows for a deeper relaxation of muscle hypertonicity/spasm. The Triton DTS traction machine has several decompression traction protocols for the cervical and lumbar spines, which allows for more specificity in each individuals treatment. Patients can lay comfortably on their back or stomach for the lumbar decompression and on their back for cervical decompression. There are several padded harnesses that are attached to the patient to ensure the most efficient traction is reached. Mechanical spinal decompression traction is quite comfortable and is usually performed over the course of several visits. The cumulative effect of each decompression treatment can be quite dramatic and the results can be truly amazing.  However, many patients can feel a noticeable change in their symptomatology after only a few treatments! 
For more information regarding non-surgical spinal decompression or if you have any questions regarding how this treatment can help you, please don’t hesitate to fill out our “Contact Us” form above. Lumbar Decompression Cervical Decompression Home Doctor Bio