
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 09:17:10 GMT
Server: Jetty(6.1.25)
Expires: Thu, 01-Jan-1970 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Set-Cookie: view_tracker=83;Path=/;Expires=Mon, 11-Mar-2013 09:17:10 GMT
Connection: close

Insomnia Treatment: Herbs | FoundHealth Sign In Sign Up Help Contact Us Find Home Health Challenges Treatments Contributors About Us Blog Insomnia What is it? Overview Causes Symptoms Diagnosis Prevention Resources View All 9 Treatments Medicine Insomnia and Antidepressants Insomnia and Over-the-counter Medications Insomnia and Sleeping Pills Herbs Insomnia and Aromatherapy Insomnia and Chamomile Insomnia and Valerian Diet Insomnia and Melatonin Body Insomnia and Acupuncture Insomnia and Exercise Mind Spirit Answers FoundHealth will send you weekly updates on new content in this area. You can opt out at any time. The number to the right of the Follow button shows how many people are currently following this topic. Insomnia > Insomnia Treatment: Herbs Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Click Wheel to discover your Treatment options Sign up to receive your FREE toolkit from Dr. Mark Hyman Tune your body now! Subscribe Now! We never spam or sell your e-mail People Who Read This Also Read... Insomnia and Acupuncture Insomnia Resources Insomnia and Melatonin Want Answers? Ask Question FoundHealth on Facebook FoundHealth on Twitter Ask Insomnia Treatment: Herbs There are 2 Herbs treatments for Insomnia. Written by maria_rn , ritasharma , sshowalter , FoundHealth , Gary Wu . Overview | Treatments There are herbs that have originally been folk remedies for sleeping problem and have later been shown to have the same mode of action as pharmaceutical sleep aids. Many herbs have tranquilizing and soothing properties, relieve anxiety, stress and restlessness. Treatments include: Insomnia and Valerian Insomnia and Chamomile Treatments Effect of Valerian on Insomnia The root of the valerian plant has a mix of compounds that are thought to produce sedation, including valepotriates, valeric acid and volatile oils. Valerian contains various compounds including:... Read more about Insomnia and Valerian . Effect of Chamomile on Insomnia Certain components of chamomile have muscle and nerve-calming properties. One of the compounds present in the chamomile is called apigenin which is thought to promote mild sedation. Chamomile helps... Read more about Insomnia and Chamomile . Click Here to See All 9 Treatments for Insomnia FoundHealth has 9 treatments for Insomnia! See all Insomnia Treatment options and start building your care plan today. Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Insomnia and Antidepressants Insomnia and Sleeping Pills Insomnia and Over-the-counter Medications Insomnia and Aromatherapy Insomnia and Chamomile Insomnia and Valerian Insomnia and Melatonin Insomnia and Acupuncture Insomnia and Exercise Insomnia Treatment: Mind Insomnia Treatment: Spirit Share 0 Comments No one has made any comments yet.  Be the first! Your Comment Preview Post Comment Preview Post Comment Link to Existing article Search Home | About Us | Contact Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy © 2012
 FoundHealth, Inc. All rights reserved. FoundHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Receive weekly updates on topics of your interest. Share your experiences on treatments that you have tried or prescribed. Ask or Answer a question within our community. Create a FoundHealth Contributor profile to highlight your health expertise. As a welcome gift, we will send you the complete e-book Give Yourself a Biologic Tune-Up by Dr. Mark Hyman . Already have an account? Sign In ! Email Address * We promise that we will not spam or share your information. Password * At least 6 characters Confirm Password * Enter code shown * I agree to the FoundHealth Terms o