
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 15:24:27 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze8
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Bladder Infection in Pregnancy - Pregnancy - Families.com Sign Up for Our Newsletter Community Parenting Pregnancy Family Entertainment at Home Health Savings Pregnancy Blog | Pregnancy Counters Tweet Bladder Infection in Pregnancy by Pattie Hughes | More from this Blogger Bladder infection is a bacteria infection that causes inflammation in the bladder. This is also called cystitis or a urinary tract infection. The urinary tract runs from the kidneys to the bladder to the urethra. A bladder infection results when bacteria enter the urethra and travels to the bladder. If the infection continues up the tract to the kidneys, the condition is far more serious. The condition is fairly common, affecting about five percent of pregnant women. Hormonal and physical changes during pregnancy cause women to be slightly more at risk of developing the infection when they are pregnant. Symptoms include burning during urination and frequent urination. Treatment usually involves antibiotics that are safe for use in pregnancy. Vitamin C and cranberry juice are also helpful. It is important to get treatment for bladder infection, since it can contribute to preterm labor or result in a kidney infection, which is more serious. Physical changes in pregnancy make it easier for the infection to find its way to the kidneys when treatment is delayed. Fortunately, bladder infection can often be prevented with some dietary and lifestyle precautions. A variety of foods are believed to be beneficial for preventing bladder, or urinary tract infections. Some to include in your diet: yogurt, cranberry juice, leeks and garlic. Avoid acidic foods such as sugar, tea, coffee and other junk foods. Drink plenty of water. In addition to diet, there are some lifestyle changes you can make that will reduce your risk of contracting a bladder infection in pregnancy. Wear cotton underwear. Bubble bath can irritate and contribute to bladder infections, so skip the bath or don't use bubbles or other soap. Wiping front to back when using the bathroom and washing after sex are other simple changes that can help prevent infection. Related Articles: Flu Prevention Tips Pregnant without Health Insurance Eating Healthy on the Road Share and Enjoy: Learn more about Pattie Hughes Pattie Hughes is a freelance writer and mother of four young children. She and her husband have been married since 1992. Pattie holds a degree in Elementary Education from Florida Atlantic University. View Full Profile | More from this Blogger Relevant pregnancy tags parenting | family | sex | relationships | pregnancy | weight loss | Kids | christmas | baby | children Pregnancy categories Becoming a Parent (165) Birth (123) Birthing Centers (2) Birthing Options (55) Body Image (23) Diet (75) Doctors & Midwives (43) Exercise During Pregnancy (47) Fertility Issues (79) Getting/Giving the News (38) Health (214) In-Vitro (9) Involving Siblings/Family (38) Pain Management (21) Pregnancy Calendar (45) Pregnancy Fun (131) Pregnant with Multiples (2) Teen Pregnancy (13) The First 9 Months (279) The Week in Review (75) Trying to Conceive (TTC) (76) August 2011 September 2011 October 2011 November 2011 December 2011 January 2012 February 2012 View All More pregnancy tags parenting | family | sex | relationships | pregnancy | weight loss | Kids | christmas | baby | children Relationships Dating Advice Local Date Ideas Learn Genealogy Family Tree Research Genealogy Blog Ask an Expert Anti-Aging Cosmetic Procedures Grocery Coupons Printable Coupons Hot Coupons Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | Unsubscribe | Blog For Us! | Be a Moderator! | Advertise