
Arm Problems, Non-Injury This page location is: Health A-Z Pages Conditions Sign In MyHealth.Alberta.ca Home | About MyHealthAlberta | Contact Us | News | Using this Site | Emergency Phone Numbers | Frequently Asked Questions All MyHealthAlberta Service Healthy Living Medications Tests and Treatments Health A-Z Health A-Z Healthy Living Tests & Treatments Medications Find Health Care Health Alerts Home > Health A-Z > Conditions Print this Page Decrease Font Size Increase Font Size Topic Contents Topic Overview Check Your Symptoms Home Treatment Prevention Preparing For Your Appointment Related Information Credits Arm Problems, Non-Injury Topic Overview Minor arm problems, such as sore muscles, are
		common. Symptoms often develop from everyday wear and tear or overuse. Arm
		problems may be minor or serious and may include symptoms such as pain,
		swelling, cramps, numbness, tingling, weakness, or changes in temperature or
		colour. Older adults have a greater chance of having arm problems
		because they lose muscle mass as they age. Children may have arm problems
		because they are usually more active than adults and their bones and muscles
		are growing more quickly. They may also have arm problems for the same reasons
		as adults. Your arm problem may be caused by sports or hobbies,
		work-related tasks, and work or projects around the home. Arm problems can also
		be caused by injuries. If you think your arm problem is caused by an injury,
		see the topic Arm Injuries . It may be helpful to know the structure of the arm
		to better understand arm problems. See a picture of bones of the arm . Common arm problems that are not
		caused by a specific injury, such as a blow or fall, include the
		following: Overuse or repetitive-motion injuries occur when
		  you "overdo" an activity or repeat the same activity. The repeated activity may
		  stress joints or other tissues and cause pain and swelling. This is called an
		  overuse injury, even though no obvious injury occurred. For example, you may
		  have shoulder pain from throwing a ball or raking leaves. Overuse injuries
		  include bursitis or tendinitis . Carpal tunnel syndrome is another example of an
		  overuse injury. Joint pain, stiffness, and swelling are common with
		  arthritis. Osteoarthritis (also called degenerative joint
		  disease) is the most common type of arthritis. Less common types include rheumatoid arthritis and lupus . Swelling of the hands and arms can
		  be caused by hormone changes, such as those that occur during pregnancy or with premenstrual syndrome (PMS) . Swelling may
		  also occur after surgery to remove the lymph nodes under the arm following a
		  diagnosis of breast cancer or melanoma . This is called lymphedema . Arm problems can occur as
		  symptoms of other more serious problems, such as heart attack , transient ischemic attack (TIA) , or stroke . Sometimes the first symptom of a heart attack is pain in the left
		  arm. Most minor arm problems will usually get better on their own,
		and home treatment may be all that is needed to relieve symptoms and promote
		healing. Check your symptoms to decide if and when
		you should see a doctor. Check Your Symptoms This site requires ActiveX controls and plug-ins to be enabled.  If not already installed, the Free Adobe Flash Plugin is available for download. Home Treatment If your arm problem does not
		require an evaluation by a doctor, you may be able to use home treatment to
		help relieve pain, swelling, stiffness or muscle cramps. Home treatment for arm pain, swelling, or stiffness Rest and protect a stiff
			 or sore area. Stop, change, or take a break from any activity that may be
			 causing your pain or soreness. Ice will
			 reduce pain and swelling. Apply ice or cold packs immediately to prevent or minimize swelling. Apply the ice
			 or cold pack for 10 to 20 minutes, 3 or more times a day. For the first 48 hours, avoid things that
				  might increase swelling, such as hot showers, hot tubs, hot packs, or alcoholic
				  beverages. After 48 to 72 hours, if swelling is gone, apply heat and begin gentle exercise with the aid of moist heat to help
				  restore and maintain flexibility. Some experts recommend alternating between
				  heat and cold treatments. Compression , or wrapping
			 the sore area with an elastic bandage (such as an Ace wrap), will help decrease
			 swelling. Don't wrap it too tightly, as this can cause more swelling below the
			 affected area. Loosen the bandage if it gets too tight. Signs that the bandage
			 is too tight include numbness, tingling, increased pain, coolness, or swelling
			 in the area below the bandage. Talk to your doctor if you think you need to use
			 a wrap for longer than 48 to 72 hours; a more serious problem may be
			 present. Elevate the painful area on pillows
			 while applying ice and anytime you are sitting or lying down. Try to keep the
			 area at or above the level of your heart to help minimize
			 swelling. Remove rings , bracelets, watches, or any other jewellery
			 from your hand and arm. It will be more difficult to remove the jewellery later
			 if swelling increases. Swelling without removal of jewellery can cause other
			 serious problems, such as compression of nerves or restriction of blood
			 flow. Wear a sling if it makes you more comfortable and supports
			 the area. If you feel you need to use a sling for more than 48 hours, discuss
			 your symptoms with your doctor. Gently massage or rub the area to
			 relieve pain and encourage blood flow. Do not massage the area if it causes
			 pain. Do not smoke or use other tobacco products. Smoking slows
			 healing because it decreases blood supply and delays tissue repair. For more
			 information, see the topic Quitting Smoking . Home treatment for muscle cramps Gently stretch the cramping
			 muscle. If you do not have swelling, you may rub or gently massage
			 the cramp. If you think your muscle cramps are brought on by
			 exercise, heat, or dehydration, drink some extra water. If available, drink an
			 electrolyte replacement drink (such as Gatorade or Pedialyte)
			 diluted with water to half strength. These drinks will help replace sugar,
			 salt, and other minerals. Be sure to read and follow any label warnings. Avoid
			 drinks that contain caffeine or alcohol, which will cause water loss from the
			 body. Move your arms and flex your fingers and hands. Gentle motion
			 may help with cramps brought on by exercise. Make sure you are
			 getting enough minerals such as calcium and magnesium . Most people get enough minerals eating a
			 normal variety of foods. Talk with your doctor about taking extra
			 calcium. Medicine you can buy without a prescription Try a non-prescription
			 medicine to help treat your fever or pain: Acetaminophen , such as
				  Tylenol Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) : Ibuprofen, such as Advil or
						Motrin Naproxen, such as Aleve ASA (also a non-steroidal
				  anti-inflammatory drug), such as Bayer or Bufferin Talk to your child’s doctor before switching back and
				forth between doses of acetaminophen and ibuprofen. When you switch between two
				medicines, there is a chance your child will get too much medicine. Safety tips Be sure to follow these
				safety tips when you use a non-prescription medicine: Carefully read and follow all directions
					 on the medicine bottle and box. Do not take more than the
					 recommended dose. Do not take a medicine if you have had an allergic reaction to it in the past. If
					 you have been told to avoid a medicine, call your doctor before you take
					 it. If you are or could be pregnant, do not take any medicine other
					 than acetaminophen unless your doctor has told you to. Do not give ASA to anyone younger than age 20 unless your doctor tells you to. Symptoms to watch for during home treatment Call your doctor if any of the following occur during home
		  treatment: You are unable to use your arm
			 normally. Signs of infection develop. Numbness or tingling
			 develops. Cool, pale skin develops. Movement is not
			 improving. Symptoms continue after 2 weeks of home
			 treatment. Symptoms become more frequent or more severe. Prevention The following tips may prevent arm
		problems. General prevention tips Warm up well and stretch before any activity.
			 Stretch after exercise to keep hot muscles from shortening and
			 cramping. Drink extra water before and during exercise, or drink an
			 electrolyte replacement drink (such as a sports drink) after exercise, especially
			 during hot or humid weather. Use the correct movements and
			 positions during activities so that you do not strain your
			 muscles. Use equipment that is right for your size, strength, and
			 ability. Try not to overuse your arm doing repeated movements that
			 can cause an injury. In your daily routines or when doing hobbies, look at how
			 often you make repeated arm movements. Try to find other ways of using your
			 arms. Take lessons to learn how to do sports correctly. Have a
			 trainer or person who is familiar with the sport check your gear to make sure
			 it is right for your level of ability, body size, and body
			 strength. If you think that something you do at work is causing
			 pain or soreness from overuse, call your human resources department for
			 information on other ways of doing your job or to discuss equipment
			 modifications or other job assignments. Keep bones strong Eat healthy foods such as milk, cheese, yogurt,
			 and dark green, leafy vegetables like broccoli. For more information, see the
			 topic Healthy Eating . Exercise and stay active. It is best to do weight-bearing exercise for at least 2½ hours a week. One way to do this is to be active 30 minutes a day, at least 5 days a week. In addition to weight-bearing exercise, experts recommend that you do resistance exercises at least 2 days a week. Weight-bearing exercises stimulate new
			 bone growth by working the muscles and bones against gravity. Exercises that
			 are not weight-bearing, such as swimming, are good for your general health but
			 do not stimulate new bone growth. Talk to your doctor about an
			 exercise program that is right for you. Begin slowly, especially if you have
			 been inactive. For more information, see the topic Fitness . Limit how much alcohol you drink. Do not smoke or use other tobacco products. Smoking
			 increases your chances of having osteoporosis. It also causes problems with the
			 blood supply in your arms and slows healing. For more information, see the
			 topic Quitting Smoking . Preparing For Your Appointment To prepare for your appointment, see the topic Making the Most of Your Appointment . You can help your
		doctor diagnose and treat your condition by being prepared to answer the
		following questions: What are your main symptoms? How long
		  have you had your symptoms? When did you first notice your
		  symptoms? What were you doing when the symptoms started? Have you
		  had a problem like this before? When? How was it treated? Did the problem go
		  away completely, or do you have ongoing problems? Does anyone else
		  in your family have a problem like this? What activities, related
		  to sports, work, or your lifestyle, make your symptoms better or
		  worse? Do you think that activities related to your job or hobbies
		  caused your symptoms? What home treatment have you tried? Did it
		  help? What prescription and non-prescription medicines have you
		  tried? Did they help? Do you use alcohol or illegal drugs to make
		  your arm feel better? Do you have any health risks ? Related Information Animal and Human Bites Bruises and Blood Spots Under the Skin Burns Cuts Puncture Wounds Scrapes Sunburn Credits By Healthwise Staff Primary Medical Reviewer William H. Blahd, Jr., MD, FACEP - Emergency Medicine Primary Medical Reviewer Anne C. Poinier, MD - Internal Medicine Specialist Medical Reviewer H. Michael O'Connor, MD - Emergency Medicine Last Revised February 25, 2011 Top of Page Next Section: Check Your Symptoms Previous Section: Topic Overview Top of Page Next Section: Home Treatment Previous Section: Check Your Symptoms Top of Page Next Section: Prevention Previous Section: Home Treatment Top of Page Next Section: Preparing For Your Appointment Previous Section: Prevention Top of Page Next Section: Related Information Previous Section: Preparing For Your Appointment Top of Page Next Section: Credits Previous Section: Related Information Top of Page Last Revised: February 25, 2011 Author: Healthwise Staff Medical Review: William H. Blahd, Jr., MD, FACEP - Emergency Medicine & Anne C. Poinier, MD - Internal Medicine & H. Michael O'Connor, MD - Emergency Medicine Related to Arm Problems, Non-Injury Bones, Joints and Muscles This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use . How this information was developed to help you make better health decisions. To learn more visit Healthwise.org © 1995-2012 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the Healthwise logo are trademarks of Healthwise, Incorporated. For 24/7 Health Advice call: HEALTHLink Alberta 1-866-408-LINK-(5465) Home About MyHealthAlberta Contact Us News Using this Site Health A-Z Healthy Living Tests & Treatments Medications Find Health Care Emergency Phone Numbers © 2012 Goverment of Alberta Copyright and Disclaimer Privacy