Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 27 Oct 2009 13:15:43 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "17f6a596757ca1:1a4fbd"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET

Dental Decay and Ways to Prevent It Clinical 
                  Services Diagnostic 
                  Tools Infection 
                  Control International 
                  Queries Current 
                  Offers Corporate 
                  Packages FAQs Knowledge 
                  Centre Social 
                  Initiatives Program 
                  Details IIDC Research Facilities Dental 
                        Decay and Ways to Prevent It Dr. Poonam Agarwal, 
                          Smile Care, Vashi Dental decay or cavities is the most common cause of loss of teeth affecting majority of the population. Still, most people 
                          tend to ignore dental decay till it reaches the stage, 
                          where the pain becomes unbearable causing infection 
                          of the tooth and the underlying bone. How does dental decay happen? Bacteria are constantly present in 
                          the mouth. Certain types of bacteria can attach themselves 
                          to hard surfaces like the enamel that cover the teeth . 
                          If they're not removed, they multiply and grow in number 
                          until a colony forms. Proteins that are present in the saliva also mix in and the bacteria 
                          colony becomes a whitish film { plaque } 
                          on the tooth. These bacteria feed on sugars 
                          and starches from the food{like chocolates, 
                          sticky sweets, ice cream, milk, cakes, and even fruits, 
                          vegetables and juices},producing acid as a byproduct. This acid then eats into the tooth enamel 
                          (the outer hard layer of the tooth) gradually dissolving 
                          the tooth & a cavity is formed 
                          causing a hole in the tooth structure. 
                          If not taken care of at this stage, it further reaches 
                          the dentin {inner sensitive second layer} where it spreads 
                          more quickly. If still ignored, in some time, the decay 
                          spreads to the nerves and blood vessels in the centre 
                          of the tooth leading to tooth abscess. Unfortunately, 
                          the bacterial attack is so gradual that there may be 
                          no pain or sensitivity until the cavity becomes quite 
                          large. Causes of Tooth Decay: 1. Lack of correct oral hygiene habits. 2. Baby Bottle Decay (Nursing Bottle Decay) happens 
                            in infants taking a bottle that contains milk or juices 
                            to bed with them .These liquids contain sugars that 
                            pool around the teeth and can cause decay. 3. Root cavities can happen in advanced age as the 
                            gums recede, leaving parts of the tooth root exposed. 
                            Since there is no enamel covering the tooth roots, 
                            these areas can easily decay. 4. Repeated decay – can happen around existing 
                            fillings and crowns because these areas are not as 
                            smooth as a natural tooth surface 5. Cavities due to dry mouth or decreased salivation. Ways to Prevent Dental Decay………. The key to preventing decay is removing plaque and 
                          bacteria before acid can eat away the tooth. This can 
                          be achieved by: Good oral hygiene habits: brushing 
                          carefully {inside, outside and between your teeth} at 
                          least twice a day, flossing daily, using fluoridated 
                          toothpaste. Food habits: cutting down on sweets 
                          and between meal snacks, replacing fast food with raw 
                          vegetables and fruits in your diet. Regular dental checkups: Visiting your dentist 
                          at least every six months for checkups. Your dentist 
                          can help you in following ways: may recommend fluoride gels, mouth rinses, or dietary 
                            fluoride supplements if required. may use professional anti-cavity varnish, or sealants 
                            {thin plastic coatings} providing an extra barrier 
                            against food and debris. can repair the gaps or smooth the rough edges in 
                            existing fillings that could be areas for bacteria 
                            to grow. can detect early decay on x-rays & prevent 
                            it from spreading further. ? can teach you the right 
                            way of brushing & flossing. Oral health reflects a person’s overall 
                          health. You can achieve a perfect oral health 
                          by taking good care of your teeth & oral cavity 
                          everyday and say goodbye to dental decay forever……..!!! © 2007 SmileCare Home : About Us : Locations : Careers : Do