Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Migraine Relief Stress Relaxation Therapies Thinking Positive Site Reference Stress Relief Products Migraine Relief Migraine Relief By: Dr. Kathleen Albertson, L. Ac. PhD, Holistic Nutrition orangecountyacupuncture.com Headache and Migraine Sufferers Relief is Possible with TCM! Pain from headaches and migraines debilitates and affects 45 million Americans but there is help for headache and migraine relief. Western medicine offers strong drugs to mask and relieve symptoms… but why aren’t we talking about treating the root cause? Is there a cure? Is there a way to alleviate the discomfort and concessions headache suffers endure? I think so! Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) includes acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine (CHM). Successfully used for over 5000 years, there has to be something to its standing the test of time. The clinical studies and research strongly advocate TCM for headache reduction, migraine relief, management and often cure. Yes, it is possible! Patients need to be informed and educated on alternative treatment protocols so they have the knowledge to select the best course of action for themselves. This does not replace professional care, but allows you to seek results, not Band-Aids. Your quality of life is at stake. And can be improved. No one likes to tell their friends or family...”I cant today, I have a headache.’” That carries an emotional as well as physical burden. Western medicine as we know it is approximately 200 years old. Pharmaceuticals offer relief, but only till the next headache, and the side effects on your liver and kidneys is extreme. Read the warning sheet from the pharmacy. It will help you take action. Causes Headaches and migraines stem from stress, hormonal, neurological, structural or alignment imbalances, fatigue, weather changes, chemical or food sensitivities or alcohol. Seven factors as to how TCM can work for headache and migraine relief. 1.	Acupuncture promotes blood flow and increases circulation. This creates dilation of blood vessels. Blood flow brings energy, nutrition and nourishment to the brain, muscles, nerves and ligaments. If they are “nourished”, they have more power and support to “stay strong”, without causing problems!. 2.	Acupuncture removes blockages, pressure, excesses, and stagnation- you may know it as that sharp, stabbing pain knifing through your head, temples or back of the neck. When blood is allowed to flow these blockages are reduce, removed and cleared so that homeostasis (state of balance or harmony) is achieved. 3.	TCM reduces stress and alleviates fatigue. 4.	TCM balances hormones benefiting the endocrine system. Thousands of women suffer from hormonal headaches and many teens experience headaches at the onset of puberty. There is no need for our daughter so suffer all of their lives. No need for you to suffer either! 5.	TCM often stabilizes some of the neurological aspects causing pain. 6.	What can TCM do about the food, environmental and chemical sensitivities…simple—reduce them! By supporting your immune system. Your TCM practitioner uses your signs and symptoms, history, triggers, nature of the pain, frequency and duration of pain and other health factors to arrive at your unique pattern of disease. MSG, nitrate and alcohol triggers can be part of a specialized allergy elimination process called NAET. 7.	Not all acupuncturists are certified in this. It is very effective and I have been treating allergies using NAET (Namburipod Allergy Emination Treatment) for over 13 years. It is not for everybody- you may or may not need it, but it is worth checking out! From there they determine a treatment plan and protocol designed that will bring your entire body into balance. It is not just about your head! We consider the whole of you! The site of the pain may not be the origin or the root… this is what we look for vs. Western treatment. Headache and Migraine relief are possible. Return to Experts Advice from Migraine Relief The information presented here is not intended to replace the advice of your doctor. copyright © 2007 - 2011 More on Health and Nutrition Health acupuncture and history arthritis cluster headaches headaches healthy eyes healthy heart migraine pain and stress physical fitness spinal decompression stress relief workout Nutrition control your appetite exercise and relaxation lose weight fast lose weight low fat cooking nutrition and dieting proper nutrition reveal my secret stress versus nutrition stress weight gain Sleep insomnia natural sleep remedies sleep tips sleep Control aromatherapy healing balance control