
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 16:40:50 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.12 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10-2ubuntu6.10
Set-Cookie: bb_lastvisit=1334510855; expires=Tue, 16-Apr-2013 16:40:50 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: bb_lastactivity=0; expires=Tue, 16-Apr-2013 16:40:50 GMT; path=/
Cache-Control: private
Pragma: private
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Benzos-- Just say NO! [Archive]  - WQD Forums WQD Forums > Alcohol > Health >  Benzos-- Just say NO! PDA View Full Version : Benzos-- Just say NO! Lia~~ 12-20-2007, 04:54 PM Benzodiazepines--NOT the drug of choice for alcoholics. Benzodiazepines (valium, xanax, antivan, clonopin, librium) are the among the  most commonly prescribed depressant medications in the US.  Their benefits in short term treatment of acute anxiety disorder cannot be denied-- however their risks far outweigh the benefits for persons with alcoholism. Drugs with longer half lives (librium, clonopin) are often prescribed for short term management of detox-- under careful HCP supervision.  When prescribed and used appropriately, these drugs can be very helpful in short term detox-- however the use of benzos for long term management of anxiety/insomnia is not recommended in alcoholics.  They often become a substitute addiction-- and the physical addiction is very hard to overcome. The use of the shorter half-life drugs are NOT generally indicated. Their short half lives, (especially xanax and valium) make them of little use for detox and their high abuse potential makes them contraindicated in alcoholism-- you may see them prescribed for short term control of SEVERE (seizure/hypertension) withdrawal but that is usually reserved for inpatient use (if the doc KNOWS you are alcoholic and understands addiction). Benzos are highly addictive and the withdrawal is worse than heroin. It is important to TELL you HCP you are an alcoholic before accepting any prescription.  While withdrawal from alcohol is hard, withdrawal from benzos is much harder and much more dangerous.  Make an informed decision before taking any medication-- particularly a class of drugs that can threaten your hard won sobriety. The above is based on my research of the topic and is my opinion.   To learn more and make your own informed decision about their use go to: http://www.benzo.org.uk/ http://www.aafp.org/afp/20000401/2121.html http://www.cesar.umd.edu/cesar/drugs/benzos.asp Freya 12-22-2007, 03:30 PM Great that you posted this, Lia. It's not just your opinion, it's the opinion of all rehabs over here as well. Getting off alcohol is a breeze compared to benzos, and the damage those drugs do to you is immense. Takes you many, many years to get over, if at all you can. Unfortunately, doctors still prescribe them indiscriminately, even to known alcoholics. There was an article in the paper a few days ago where psychiatrists complained about the lack of training in psych drugs in med school (three days, including shock-treatment). And since most benzos are prescribed by regular GP's the significance of this is huge.....a lot of doctors have no idea of what they're prescribing when it comes to drugs that affect the brain. Thanks for posting this. dreamer 12-24-2007, 12:16 AM Is Flexeril a benzo?  I was prescribed them for my shoulder but they don't make me feel woozy or anything?  Are they addictive? Mybrokenhand 12-25-2007, 06:01 AM Ah.......I need to pipe in here.  I take xanax and clonopin actively.  Generally 2 mg of xanax at night to sleep and sometimes a clonopin during the day to keep myself calm.  Depending upon the time of year, I will take xanax throughout the day. These are medications - not "drugs" - that I need to treat my manic depression.  Many people drink to medicate anxiety, panic and depressive disorders and these medications can be extremely helpful to treat them. I don't get "high" from xanax - I get relief.  My doctor is well aware of my addictions and has no reservations about prescribing me xanax. It is true that benzos can be wildly addictive and disastrous for some; however, if you suffer from panic, anxiety or mania, benzos can be very therapeutic and prevent alcohol abuse.  BUT, their use should be discussed with a competent psychiatrist. Lia~~ 12-26-2007, 06:31 PM MBH--- xanax is not the drug of choice for sleep.  It is extremely good for acute anxiety attacks in panic disorder.  But long term-- many better drugs.  You are on a dose that is going to require major help with withdrawal.  Physiological.  YOU do the research. I want to make sure you  know--- I am very PRO medication therapy. Correcting chemical imbalances in the CNS has allowed may of us to lead much better lives-- and stay sober ( ME included).  But the wrong drugs make us worse. SSRI's, atypical antipsychotics-- have do wonders for people with anxiety/depression and alcoholism.  The benzos are simply exchanging addictions, except on short term basis ( 2 weeks max).  Do your own research.  You don't want a benzo addiction. MBH-- if your doc knows you are an alcoholic and is prescribing that much  xanax for you-- I would find another doc. But I am an unknown person on the internet. Read the links I provided. Do your own research.  Make an informed decision. PBgirl 12-30-2007, 03:38 PM Oh no.....what if I'm addicted to xanax?  I've been taking .25 mg at night for awhile now.  Sometimes I've taken .50 mg.  I don't think I could sleep without it.  I'm kinda scared.  I should probably start to back off of this but I can't do it now. Mybrokenhand 12-31-2007, 06:39 PM MBH--- xanax is not the drug of choice for sleep.  It is extremely good for acute anxiety attacks in panic disorder.  But long term-- many better drugs.  You are on a dose that is going to require major help with withdrawal.  Physiological.  YOU do the research. I want to make sure you  know--- I am very PRO medication therapy. Correcting chemical imbalances in the CNS has allowed may of us to lead much better lives-- and stay sober ( ME included).  But the wrong drugs make us worse. SSRI's, atypical antipsychotics-- have do wonders for people with anxiety/depression and alcoholism.  The benzos are simply exchanging addictions, except on short term basis ( 2 weeks max).  Do your own research.  You don't want a benzo addiction. MBH-- if your doc knows you are an alcoholic and is prescribing that much  xanax for you-- I would find another doc. But I am an unknown person on the internet. Read the links I provided. Do your own research.  Make an informed decision. Sorry Lia but I wholeheartedly and respectfully disagree. HollyC 02-11-2008, 07:53 AM http://lexington-on-line.com/naf_xanax.html Very intersting article! Neha 02-12-2008, 01:32 AM I've been addicted to Xanax as well as Ambien (though it's not in the benzo family, it comes close).  Professor Ashton in the link Lia has provided (www.benzo.org (http://www.benzo.org)) is supposed to be a world authority in benzos.  It's worth reading her stuff. This was my experience, that's all.  Ultimately (hopefully) the doctors will know.  Though benzos are easily available without prescription.  In my city, they can give you hundreds at a time (with a premium added of course). BadSanta 02-20-2008, 11:58 AM I have already shared my own experience on this board several times about benzos but I'll do it again.  Benzos and alcoholics don't mix well.  Benzos act like alcohol in a pill on steroids.  My direct experience is being prescribed them for just a week and I went cold turkey off them.  It made alcohol withdrawal seem like childs play and I thought I was going to die. My friend which I had known a long time was having anxiety attacks while going thru a divorce and was on a larger dose.  He went cold turkey and went into seizures on his kitchen floor and has never been the same, and that was several years ago.  It did something to his brain and his personality changed.  He can't even walk in a straight line anymore and his arms twitch constantly.  I don't know what dose he was on but mine was only 0.25 mg and really affected me.  A benzo is a powerful med/drug and I think we need to be our own educated advocate before putting that stuff into our bodies. -Santa Freya 02-22-2008, 01:28 PM Benzos require medical supervision when you want to quit them, precisely because of what Santa writes. You can actually die from Benzo withdrawal.....or suffer other very grave consequences. Benzos are extremely dangerous, and should only be regarded as a very short-term solution. The Danish Health Ministry advices that patients not be on it longer than four weeks. And that's for normal people, not addicts. Inexplicably, doctors here (most of them have only a slight conception of the meds they prescribe, but that's perhaps a world-wide phenomenon, now that there are so many drugs on the market) still prescribe Benzos. I've seen people who have been on Benzos for a long time.....it's not a pretty picture, those pills really fuck with your brain. allthatkatydid 07-25-2010, 04:21 AM I have an appointment this Tuesday to review my meds with my GP. Reading this has now got me very worried. 3 years ago I was prescribed Rohypnol to counteract insomnia caused by discomfort while trying to get to sleep with a badly compacted fracture. I have since moved from Ireland to the UK were Rohypnol is no longer prescribed and was therefore prescribed 40 mg of Temazepam in it's place. I still have the compacted fracture plus another unhealed fracture caused during shoulder surgery, the outcome of which was unsuccessful. So my pain issues remain the same and the 40 mgs of Temazepam doesn't really work as well as it used to. I also take quite large doses of painkillers for nerve damage and obviously fractured bone pain. I'm afraid my GP will suggest that I stop taking Temazepam and withdraw the prescription. I forgot to bring my meds on an overnight stay away from home recently and quite honestly that night without Temazepam nearly drove me insane. I suffered chronic withdrawal symptoms that included palpitations, anxiety, rebound insomnia, muscle cramps and a whole host of other unwanted side effects. manatee hunter 07-25-2010, 07:57 PM Since the post was resurrected, I'll point out that despite the claim in the first post, Valium does not have a short half life, rather, it has one of the longest half lives of currently available benzos. Some claim that this makes long acting benzos like Valium and Librium less addictive. I don't know if that's true or false but, I do agree that it is best to stay away from all of them unless under close medical supervision for valid reasons. B sober 07-31-2010, 02:34 PM Since the post was resurrected, I'll point out that despite the claim in the first post, Valium does not have a short half life, rather, it has one of the longest half lives of currently available benzos. I think that is a fact, or rather, I found out that it is a fact when I started looking at quitting taking them. Wherever I looked I found the same warnings: Half-time is very long, which means that if you take some every day you'll accumulate much more in your body than a daily doses, and don't think about quitting without professional help, it can be very dangerous. Some claim that this makes long acting benzos like Valium and Librium less addictive. I don't know if that's true or false but, I do agree that it is best to stay away from all of them unless under close medical supervision for valid reasons. As you will see in the B sober thread, I am going off Valium right now under a detox specialist's supervision and he is 100% sure that quitting alcohol is a walk in the park compared to quitting Valium. Three days for the alcohol, much longer for Valium, and he calls me every morning to check how I'm doing (and even allows me to have an emergency pill with me at all times just in case I feel I'm going crazy). The person I blame, except myself of course, is the GP who prescribed them to me in the first place with vague instructions on how often to take them after the initial three days he had suggested (he gave me a lot more pills than he should have). "As needed" is not a clever thing to tell an addict. B Powered by vBulletin® Version 4.1.10 Copy