
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 22:27:46 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.acupuncturistmiami.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

» Archive   » Acupuncture More Effective For Migraine Than Botox Weblog About Acupuncture Services Articles Ailments Contact FAQ’s Acupuncture More Effective For Migraine Than Botox March 29th, 2011 The popular anti-wrinkle jab, Botox, is unlikely to offer much benefit in its most recently licensed use—as a treatment for chronic migraine—says the new Drug and Therapeutics Bulletin (DTB). Acupuncture more effectively treats migraine. After as few as 12 treatments, acupuncture can reduce occurrence and intensity of headaches and migraines. Botox, a form of botulinum toxin A, is widely used for the smoothing out of facial wrinkles. Botox has now been licensed for use to relieve the symptoms of chronic migraine as a series of injections into head and neck muscle sites. How it is supposed to work in chronic migraine has not been clearly established. Each year, around three percent of individuals who experience episodic headaches (a few times a month) develop chronic migraine (headaches on most days), frequently accompanied by reduced ability to function and impaired quality of life. DTB considers the evidence on Botox’s effectiveness as a treatment for chronic migraine as limited and unconvincing. And crucially, Botox leads to worsening of headache symptoms in around one in ten people, with a similar proportion developing rash, pain, stiffness, and muscle spasms, it says. Although headaches are one of the most frequent health conditions leading to medical visits, allopathic treatment may be ineffective in pain management. Relieve your headaches naturally with acupuncture therapy. Whether your headache pain is acute or chronic, or is the result of a migraine, allergy, stress, or a wide variety of other maladies, acupuncture can provide pain relief and leave you headache-free. Acupuncture has been proven to be very successful in treating and eliminating debilitating migraine pain, without the adverse side effects of medications. Benefits of acupuncture: · Increases production of endorphins, the body’s natural painkillers. · Reduces the intensity and frequency of headaches. · Reestablishes the body’s equilibrium. · Increases serotonin levels, a chemical mood enhancer in the brain that aids sleep. A large percentage of headaches and migraines can be treated with acupuncture and Chinese herbal therapy. When headaches occur more than a few times a month, treatment is recommended. For information about acupuncture for the treatment of migraine call Dr. Richard Browne, Acupuncture Physician, at (305) 595-9500. Acupuncture | Comments | Trackback Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website You can keep track of new comments to this post with the comments feed . Search Categories Acupuncture Chinese Herbs exercise Food & Nutrition Health & Fittness Homeopathy Medical Marijuana meditaion Oriental Medicine Other Tai Chi Yoga Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Apr