Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Preventing Alzheimers & Treating Alzheimers Dementia with Nutrition Subscribe To This Site Preventing Alzheimers Disease: Stop Alzheimers Symptoms -- Slowing Dementia at all Alzheimers Stages -- Memory Loss & Brain Protection? What are medical researchers saying about PREVENTING Alzheimers? What are scientists saying about TREATING Alzheimers symptoms? •	About stopping the progression of Alzheimers? •	You may be surprised at what they are revealing about role that nutrition plays in PREVENTING Alzheimers as well as stopping and REVERSING Alzheimers symptoms! •	Medical scientists are showing targeted nutritional intervention to be KEY for TREATING and SLOWING Alzheimers disease and dementia. • Easy Alzheimers TEST to try FIRST? • Try this FIRST: How to Improve Circulation to the BRAIN? • Causes of Dementia • What's Good for the Heart's Good for the Brain? • Stop Memory Loss with Diet & Exercise? Treating Alzheimers Disease: Recent Health Discoveries There are both population (epidemiological) and experimental studies with animals showing that nutritional intervention can improve BOTH "neuronal plasticity" AND "function." •	Scientists, are saying that nutrition can be used to “stimulate synapse formation” and effectively REDUCE Alzheimer Disease “neuropathology,” and as a result, “modify the disease process,” especially during the early phases of Alzheimer Disease. •	Researchers are also determining which nutrition is best able to “COUNTERACT specific aspects of the neurodegenerative and pathological processes in the brain.” (Eur J Pharmacol. 2008 May 6;585(1):197-207. Epub 2008 Mar 4. van der Beek EM, Kamphuis PJ.) What Best Treats Alzheimers Disease? What, according to researchers, will slow the progression of Alzheimers Disease and even reverse Alzheimers symptoms? Folic Acid: •	several B-vitamins including folic acid •	“Folic acid and polyunsaturated fatty acids improve cognitive function and prevent depression, dementia, and Alzheimer's disease” (Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 2008 Jan;78(1):11-9. Epub 2007 Nov 28). Vitamin B6 Slows Brain Shrinkage in Alzheimer’s Patients A study out of the University of Oxford in September 2010 showed that taking Vitamin B6 in supplemental form. When used with Vitamin B12 and folic acid, the supplements lowered levels of the amino acid homocysteine which has been linked to brain-cell damage as seen in Alzheimer’s patients, and to heart disease. •	The effect was exponential, as those with the highest levels of homocysteine in their blood, also had the highest level of benefit. •	These findings suggest that the vitamin TREATMENT may actually slow the development of Alzheimer’s which is remarkable considering no cure has been found and that medical therapies and medications only marginally address symptoms. Omega-3 Fatty Acids: • Omega-3-fatty acids protect against dementia. Also early symptoms of mild Alzheimer disease seem to be inhibited. (ReviewOmega-3 fatty acids and neurological injury. Omega-3 fatty acids and dementia.  Palmblad J, et all. J Neurochem. 2006] •	Scientists report that because Essential Fatty Acids, EFA’s “suppress inflammation, augment healing, and are of benefit in the PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT of conditions such as depression, coronary heart disease, stroke and Alzheimers Disease. Hence, supplementation of EFAs could reduce burden of these disease(s).” (Can Essential Fatty Acids Reduce the Burden of Disease(s)? Lipids Health Dis. 2008 Mar 18;7:9.) Antioxidants & the Master Antioxidant: Antioxidants: such as vitamins E, C and the protective MASTER ANTIOXIDANT -- glutathione GSH -- which can be improved in the brain with cysteine rich protein. (taking a glutathione pill does NOT work) Why is GSH important against Alzheimers Disease? •	Glutathione (GSH) deficiency contributes to "oxidative stress" and therefore appears to play a key role in the pathology of many diseases. (Glutathione in Health and Disease. Dr. Patricia Kongshavn, MSC, Ph.D. January 2005) •	"Adams and his research team found that glutathione GSH levels diminished in the area of the brain involved in short-term memory (hippocampus)" of Alzheimers patients. •	“Jenner and his co-workers found a similar decrease of glutathione in the areas of the brain involved in higher intellectual functioning (the cerebral cortex)” of people with Alzheimers. (Alzheimer’s Disease by Dr. Jimmy Gutman, MD, FACEP, from the book, “GSH, Glutathione, Your Key to Health”) Dr. J. Gutman, a glutathione expert, warns that taking a glutathione (GSH) pill does NOT work, and even intravenous is NOT very effective. •	The best way, he explains, is to take the nutritional pre-cursors for the body to make it, using a proven medical protein that's has been clinically shown to improve glutathione throughout the body and in the brain. Ask Us for Supplements for YOU: ASK US for: •	Reports from people who experienced improvements in their Alzheimers symptoms in different alzheimers stages: •	Studies showing Alzheimers Symptoms to be related to glutathione GSH DEPLETION in the brain: •	 Getting supplements at the best DISCOUNT: Please note that all fields followed by an asterisk must be filled in. Your Question* Your Question* First Name Last Name* Last Name* E-mail Address* E-mail Address* Please enter the word that you see below. • Stopping Alzheimers Disease & Easy Alzheimers TEST • Alzheimers Disease: Reversing Symptoms and Drug Side Effects Eat Curry For Preventing Alzheimers Disease? Why does India have a very low rate of Alzheimers disease? Researchers have traced the fact that very few people in India get Alzheimers to the anti inflammatory action of Turmeric -- the spice that gives curry its yellow color. Scientists say that the active ingredient in Turmeric -- curcumin -- can be used: “as a useful adjunct in the TREATMENT of neurodegenerative illnesses characterized by inflammation, such as Alheimers Disease, because of the involvement of curcumin in restoring cellular homeostasis and rebalancing redox equilibrium.” (Immun Ageing. 2008 Aug 13;5:7.Racchi M,et all. ) Best to eat curries for preventing Alzheimers AND for ALL Alzheimers STAGES! • OMEGA supplement with TURMERIC ABC's of Preventing Alzheimers Disease Best BRAIN PROTECTIVE Alzheimers Diet? WHAT TO EAT for PREVENTING ALZHEIMERS? •	Eat whole, unrefined foods with natural fats, especially fish, nuts and seeds, olives and olive oil; and to •	minimize foods that disrupt insulin and blood sugar balance. Researchers at the The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York, USA warn of a connection between high calorie intake, metabolic syndrome and Alzheimers Disease. They give clinical and epidemiological evidence showing that lifestyle factors, especially nutrition, may be crucial in controlling AD, explaining that: "Unhealthy lifestyle choices lead to an increasing incidence of obesity, dyslipidemia and hypertension--components of the metabolic syndrome. These disorders can also be linked to Alzheimers Disease." •	They recommend to those at risk for Alzheimers Disease -- e.g. with a family history or features of metabolic syndrome, such as obesity, insulin insensitivity, etc.-- to avoid foods and beverages with added sugars. (Pasinetti GM, Eberstein JA. J Neurochem. 2008 Aug; 106 (4): 1503-14. Epub 2008 May 3) Dietary Differences in People with Alzheimers? Are there differences in the diet of people who get Alzheimers and those who don’t? Japanese researchers compared the diets of a group of people with Alzheimers disease or with vascular dementia, to the diet of those of the same age who were free of the disease. What were these differences? •	Female patients especially, consumed significantly LOWER amounts of fish and green vegetables. •	Calculation of nutrients showed ABSOLUTE DEFICIENCIES of Omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, multiple vitamins, and minerals. •	Those with Alzheimers had EXCESSIVE INTAKE of Omega 6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) and relative DEFICIENCIES of multiple vitamins including antioxidants, vitamin C and carotene, and the vitamin B group. WHY IS NUTRITION THE KEY? The researchers explain that these dietary imbalances would cause chronic inflammation, and oxidative stress, thereby increasing the chances of Alzheimers disease and Alzheimers dementia. (vascular dementia) (Otsuka M, Yamaguchi K, Ueki A, Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2002 Nov; 977: 155-61) Top Nutrition for Preventing Alzheimers Disease? Research for preventing Alzheimers generally agrees on the following: VITAMIN B and the OMEGA’s •	Both folic acid and polyunsaturated fatty acids e.g. fish oil have been found to improve cognitive function and prevent depression, and dementia.  •	The neuroprotective action of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids against neurodegenerative diseases has been well documented. ANTIOXIDANTS C, E and GSH •	Antioxidants also play a key role in preventing Alzheimers, counteracting the oxidative stress that causes damage to the arteries and to the brain. Particularly vitamin C, E as well as the Master Antioxidant glutathione GSH have been shown to prevent damage from “oxidative stress.” •	Re-build glutathione GSH in the BRAIN by using a neuro-protective protein supplement Ask Us for Best Brain Protection: You may ASK US for: •	Recommendation for brain / neuro - protective supplements for later Alzheimers Stages •	Studies linking Alzheimers to glutathione GSH depletion Please note that all fields followed by an asterisk must be filled in. Your Question* Your Question* First Name Last Name* Last Name* E-mail Address* E-mail Address* Please enter the word that you see below. Links for Preventing Alzheimers Disease and Alzheimers Dementia • Preventing Alzheimers Disease: Stopping Alzheimers Symptoms • Alzheimers Disease: Slowing Alzheimers Symptoms & Drug Side Effects • Causes of Dementia • New Brain Science: What’s Good for Your Heart, Brain & Memory? • How to Use Coconut Oil for Alzheimers Cure • Stopping Memory Loss and Dementia: Meds or Diet & Exercise? Preventing Alzheimers Disease: Stop Alzheimers Symptoms -- Slowing Dementia at all Alzheimers Stages with recent Health Discoveries for Memory Loss & Brain Protection GO TO Health Discoveries HOME PAGE from Preventing Alzheimers Disease and Dementia A Note To The Reader: The ideas contained on this website are for educational purposes only, and are not intended to treat any disease, nor as a substitute for consulting with your physician. All matters regarding your health require medical supervision. The information provided is not intended to serve as health, medical, or other professional advice related to individual situations. No therapeutic or medical claims are e