<http://hemorrhoidsaid.net/?p=495>; rel=shortlink
Set-Cookie: mfw_site=http%3A%2F%2Fhemorrhoidsaid.net; path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Hemorrhoids Causes Them	 | Hemorrhoids - symptoms, diagnosis and treatments Hemorrhoids – symptoms, diagnosis and treatments Skip to content Home Privacy Policy ← Prolapsed Hemorrhoid Photo Hemorrhoids Causes Symptoms → Hemorrhoids Causes Them Posted on October 31, 2011 by Marie Hemorrhoids are swollen veins just inside the anus. They produce pain if they come out of the anus with a bowel movement because they are constricted. Once they come out, the skin around them and the veins themselves can become inflamed. Hemorrhoids are caused by increased pressure in the anal or rectal veins; responsible for this are constipation and strain while trying to have a bowel. Other things that may cause hemorrhoids are a low fiber diet, obesity, pregnancy, anal intercourse, heavy lifting and prolonged sitting or standing.  There are many medications on the market today, most of which only offer temporary relief and do not promise any cure. Physicians recommend practical ways in which to relieve the swelling and pain like the sitz bath wherein the anal area is soaked in warm water and the use gels and jellies, but still they only give temporary relief. Some of the over the counter remedies even have harsh chemicals that may worsen the condition. The re-occurrence of hemorrhoids is high with these remedies.  Ask your physician to use injection sclerotherapy on your hemorrhoid . Have her inject your hemorrhoid with a chemical that kills it. Use injection sclerotherapy on small internal hemorrhoids to replace your hemorrhoid with scar tissue that keeps the anal tissue from extending into the anal canal.  Warm Baths: take sitz baths several times during the day using lukewarm water.  This can soften the swelling and helps in killing the bacteria that cause the hemorrhoids.  Straining yourself on the toilet will make your hemorrhoids worse. The reason those hemorrhoids came to be in the first place was probably because you're putting too much oomph into your potty time, pushing them down through the anal canal and resting them squarely where you sit. Just sit back, relax, and let nature take its course.  High-fiber diet  Eat more high-fiber foods, which will help prevent constipation. Good sources of fiber include breakfast cereals such as All Bran, Fiber One, Bran Buds, which have approximately 10 grams of fiber per serving. Check the box to be sure. Fresh fruit, beans, prunes, raw or cooked vegetables, especially asparagus, cabbage, carrots, corn, and broccoli, are also good sources of fiber. Try to have 20-30 grams of fiber per day (or more) in your diet.  Good Hygiene:  For you to get rid of hemorrhoids rapidly, always maintain proper hygiene especially in the anal area.  Clean the anus each time you remove bowel by using moist toilet paper and soap.  This can prevent bacteria in encroaching the area which as hemorrhoid.  Puncture a vitamin E capsule with a push-pin. (You might even like to keep a push-pin in the bottle, as long as it is out of reach of children and brightly colored so you can spot it, too.)  Surgical treatment is usually reserved for large hemorrhoids, chronic anal fissures or perirectal abscesses (5). Surgical treatment can include banding of the veins, surgical excision, laser or electrocautery and even injection of the veins with sclerosing agents that scar shut the hemorrhoid. Article Source: http://www.articlesbase.com/alternative-medicine-articles/causes-of-hemorrhoids-461414.html About the Author Read about Diabetes Treatment, diabetes Blog. Also Read about Diet blog, nutrition blog, diet nutrition and Health and Diseases Frequently Asked Questions QUESTION: What causes Hemorrhoids and how do they treat them? I've notice drops of blood in the toilet, should I be concerned? ANSWER: Hemorrhoids are dilated (enlarged) veins which occur in and around the anus and rectum. They may be external (outside the anus) or internal and slip to the outside. In both of these instances, the hemorrhoids can be felt and seen as lumps or knots. Hemorrhoids also may remain inside the rectum and so cannot be felt or seen. These are called internal hemorrhoids . A common cause of hemorrhoids is simply the standing position, in which all the blood above the rectum exerts pressure on the rectal and anal areas. Other conditions which contribute to hemorrhoids are: poor bowel habits, constipation, diarrhea, pregnancy, obesity, and especially frequent straining when having a bowel movement. Hemorrhoids can ooze fresh red blood, whether located externally or internally. External hemorrhoids often cause dripping of blood from the anus while sitting on the toilet. The blood might also be seen as soiling of the underwear. Internal hemorrhoids that bleed may produce fresh blood in the stool. To treat: Keep the anal area clean, using a mild soap and gentle dabbing after a bowel movement Avoid vigorous rubbing of the area. Keep the anus and hemorrhoids as dry as possible, using talcum powder and a pad of soft tissue to absorb moisture. Eat a diet high in fiber (bran) and roughage. Fiber and bran retain water in the stool, producing soft, bulky stools which are easier to pass and reduce the tendency to develop hemorrhoids. Bulking agents, such as Metamucil, Effersyllium, Konsyl, Citrucel, and Per Diem Fiber, are available in drug stores. These also come in less expensive generic versions. Avoid straining when having a bowel movement. When thrombosis, pain, and tenderness occur, a 10 to 20 minute hot tub bath two to four times daily brings heat to the area, provides relief from the pain, and promotes healing. This is called a hot Sitz bath. To prevent: Eat plenty of fiber, bran, or roughage, or use a bulking agent to maintain regular, soft bowel movements. Do not delay or try to prevent a bowel movement when the urge is present. Exercise, especially aerobic, may help produce more regular bowel movements. Drink plenty of liquids and eat regularly scheduled meals. Keep the area around the anus clean and dry. QUESTION: what causes hemorrhoids and what can you do to get rid of them? the  pain is unbearable and Prep H only helps for a short time, how do you get rid of them and what causes them in the first place ANSWER: Hemorrhoids are varicose veins of the lower large intestine.  The veins which return blood back from the area can't do so well because the colon is full of hard stool which is putting pressure on them.  Then you strain to pass the stool, and that increases the pressure on them even more.  Eventually they will expand to try to stay clear, and there's just not enough room to do it without bogging down and out through the intestinal wall.  You get rid of them by changing your diet and toilet habits to start with.  You must eat whole grains, fruits and veggies, less red meat and refined flour products-i.e. white bread and pasta.  You need more fiber in your diet so you aren't constipated, at all, ever.  You don't strain to pass the stool.  If you can't have a bowel movement, then you may need a stool softener or mild laxative to get things moving.  I suggest you start with Ducolax, or Sennakot, which are mild but effective.  You can also use the drinkable fiber mixes you add to water and drink once a day.  If you have troubles with bleeding, then you may need a doctor's help at this point to remove them.  You won't much care for that procedure, though- so I suggest committing yourself to the diet changes.   The Prep H is only to relieve symptoms, it won't do a thing to attack the cause.  That's your diet.  You can also use cold witch hazel pads- things like Tucks, or plain witch hazel on a cotton pad.  Keep them in the fridge to put out the fire.  You can also soak your tushie in cool water with witch hazel added in as well.  Use wet wipes with aloe for personal cleaning, baby wipes are nice for the purpose.  Considering your pain, I still think a trip to the doctor is in order.  You may be too far gone for diet alone to help.  Regardless of what the doctor does though, you need to change your diet.  Otherwise they will just return again. QUESTION: What causes hemorrhoids? Whats the best way to cure them? ANSWER: Hi Meshel. The principal reason for hemorrhoids are too much strain in the anus region.  This can happen for many reason like heavy weight lifter, child birth for women, sitting for too long, sometime constipation, etc. You need first to correct the cause and combine this with an increase of fiber-rich intake like fruits and vegetables and make sure to increase your intake of water (by the way this will also help constipation problem for those with this problem), a more active lifestyle (maybe walking, hiking, swimming, etc.) and reduce your consumption of processed food. Hope that help. QUESTION: Hemorrhoids, what causes them? How do I get rid of them? How do I avoid it again? This sucks, my wife is pregnant and I get hemeroids!!!! ANSWER: Generally what causes them is constipation or diarrhea.. when too much pressure is exerted within the rectal area that the blood vessels rapture. If you experience a lot of pain, see the doctor. I believe removal of the hemorrhoid through surgery will solve the problem. The avoid it, ensure that you consume enough liquids (and fibre too) in your daily food. Fruits will help, especially papayas. I don't recommend resulting to drugs. Help your body heal. And please don't force it the next time you go to the bathroom. Just go when you really know you can't hold it anymore.. lol.. works for me. Good luck and stay healthy. QUESTION: What causes hemorrhoids and why do they make you bleed from bottom? And do they give you tummy upset and how long do they last? ANSWER: Hi Laura, A good question,where there is no one direct answer believe me I have 17 doctors in my family (that means when I ask a question I get 17 different answers) Okay Laura jokes aside hemorrhoids are normally caused by a multitude of things occurring at the same time.Like your daily diet not containing enough fiber.Women should try to eat at least 21 to 25 grams of fiber a day. WHICH TYPE Insoluble fiber is the type of dietary fiber found in high-fiber foods like whole grains, nuts, wheat bran and vegetables. Insoluble fiber does not dissolve in water so it helps to move material through the colon faster by increasing the bulk of the stool. This can be very helpful to people who suffer from constipation Soluble fiber is also found in many high-fiber foods like oats, citrus fruits, apples, barley, psyllium, flax seeds and beans. Soluble fiber absorbs water, which helps to soften stools making them easier to eliminate from the body. Not drinking enough water coke limo etc don't count this can lead to constipation along with diet. The main cause of constipation can be found in a person’s diet. Fiber is essential to digestive health as well as drinking enough water or fluids and by that I mean between 2.6-3.7 pints per day and in warmer climes a little more. Another simple thing is lack of exercise our bodies need it,regular exercise can also keep your bowels functioning normally.Even if it is going for a 30-45 minute fast walk 5 times a week. This brings on nicely to the second part of your question "why do they make you bleed from bottom?" Your bottom particularly at your anus open is covered in a fine web of veins which you normally do not see.If you place a strain on these veins they literally start to bulge and if your constipated your stool is hard and it scrapes these bulging points in your veins opening them up and they bleed. A lot of women get hemorrhoids from pregnancy because of th straining during giving birth.Lifting up heavy objects places a strain on you.If you are well over weight you have placed an additional strain on your body combine that with any of the above factors an bingo hemorrhoids. Getting rid of them fast you need to know what you are doing and ignore all the powders and potions you get from the drug store they just cost you too much money in the end.To be fair to the stuff from the drug store it does offer short term relief but thats about it Look below in the source area there is the best natural treatment available. This entry was posted in hemorrhoids and tagged get rid of hemorrhoids , hemorrhoids , hemorrhoids treatment , how to get rid of hemorrhoids . Bookmark the permalink . ← Prolapsed Hemorrhoid Photo Hemorrhoids Causes Symptoms → Comments are closed. Search for: Recent Posts Stop Bleeding Hemorrhoids 2009 Stop Bleeding Hemorrhoids Exercise Stop Bleeding Hemorrhoids Naturally Cost Of Hemorrhoid Surgery Non Surgical Hemorrhoid Removal Recent Comments Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 Categories hemorrhoids Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Hemorrhoids – symp