
North Shore Medical Center - Smoking Cessation Program North Shore Medical Center For Healthcare Professionals | News & Events | Health Library | Contact NSMC | Jobs Find a Doctor Maps & Directions About NSMC Departments & Services Patients & Visitors Health & Wellness Giving to NSMC Home > Departments & Services > Smoking Cessation Program Print page | Share page | Email a friend Departments & Services Smoking Cessation Program Our Physicians and Staff Locations Classes and Wellness Patient Stories Smoking Cessation Program The Smoking Cessation program combines counseling, nicotine replacement therapy and other approaches (including hypnotherapy and meditation) to help patients quit smoking for good. Our success rate beats the national average. During the eight-session program patients discover some of the reasons why they smoke and learn relaxation techniques, coping skills, and behavioral modification strategies. Patients share their experiences in a supportive group format. Inpatient and individual smoking cessation counseling is also available. Using hypnosis to quit smoking Hypnosis is on its way to becoming more widely accepted as an effective treatment for smoking cessation based on research conducted at North Shore Medical Center by Faysal Hasan, M.D. , medical director of NSMC’s smoking cessation program. Read more The Power of Suggestion Over the years, Salem resident Barbara Mahoney, tried everything to quit her 52-year, pack-a-day cigarette smoking addiction. But it wasn’t until she tried the hypnotherapy sessions at NSMC that Barbara was able to finally quit. Read more Meet Our Physicians Profiles and contact information for our specialists. Meet Our Physicians See Also Hypnotherapy to help with smoking cessation HYPQuit Program Find Out About Smoking and cardiovascular disease Contact Us Smoking Cessation Program Tel: 781.477.3900 NSMC Heart Center The only North Shore hospital with comprehensive cardiac service, including angioplasty and open heart surgery. 81 Highland Avenue Salem, MA 01970 978 741-1200 Find everything you're looking for at NSMC NSMC Home About NSMC Departments & Services Patients & Visitors Health & Wellness Giving to NSMC News & Events Information for Healthcare Professionals Health Library Job Opportunities Contact Us Find a Doct