
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 21:28:54 GMT
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Connection: close

SSFP: Honey Healing - Victor Lien newspaper sections stories from the south side summer writing workshops quizzes/polls/vocabulary subscribe support us about SSFP archives animal watch arts & culture book talk columns editorial education energy/environment financial literacy geography health history news our favorite quotes science science and technology space science special features sports where in dane county? wisconsin museums join our email list advertise sponsor join the red rack express club! become a friend of the Free Press Friends List Friday, February 17, 2012 home site map printer-friendly animal watch arts & culture book talk columns editorial education energy/environment financial literacy geography health history news our favorite quotes science science and technology space science special features sports where in dane county? wisconsin museums home : newspaper sections : health :
  
  

  Honey Healing More Hospitals are Healing With Honey by Victor Lien, age 12 Although it is known as a common home remedy for injuries, honey is now being used in hospitals as well. Honey is an effective treatment because it creates a constant production of the antiseptic, hydrogen peroxide, when applied to an open wound. Like in the old times, honey is being used by the medical community to heal wounds. Hospitals in Asia and Europe use honey in the form of infused bandages. The honey in the bandages comes primarily from the Manuka trees of New Zealand, which produce a more powerful variety of honey. Now, American and Canadian hospitals are following their lead; there are more than 100 different substances in honey that could have a healing effect. Since honey is currently being used more and more often because of its great healing effect, there’s a good chance it’ll “stick” around. [Source: National Geographic] This is very interesting, and makes me want to find out more about the healing properties of honey now!  – Spenser , Madison (2012-01-31 19:35) I never thought I would find such an eevydary topic so enthralling!  – Tina , I never thought I would find such an eevydary topic so enthralling! (2012-02-14 22:54) Name Location Email Comment Enter security code (reduces spam) (Click the security code to generate a new one.) © 2012 Simpson Street Free Press Simpson Street Free Press - PO 