<
            Previous Next
             > Print Summary Credits and References Credits Credits Healthwise Staff Primary Medical Reviewer Anne C. Poinier, MD - Internal Medicine Specialist Medical Reviewer David A. Szalay, MD - Vascular Surgery References Citations Van den Bos R, et al. (2009). Endovenous therapies of lower extremity varicosities: A meta-analysis. Journal of Vascular Surgery , 49(1): 230–239. Wakefield TW, et al. (2010). Varicose veins section of Veins and lymphatics. In GM Doherty, ed., Current Surgical Diagnosis and Treatment , 13th ed., pp. 790–792. New York: McGraw-Hill Medical. You may want to have a say in this decision, or you may simply want to follow your doctor's recommendation. Either way, this information will help you understand what your choices are so that you can talk to your doctor about them. Varicose Veins: Should I Have a Surgical Procedure? Here's a record of your answers. You can use it to talk with your doctor or loved ones about your decision. Get the facts Compare your options What matters most to you? Where are you leaning now? What else do you need to make your decision? 1. Get the facts Your options Have surgery or a procedure to close or remove your varicose
				veins. Try home care to improve your symptoms. You can exercise,
				prop up your legs when resting, wear support or compression stockings, and lose
				weight if needed. Key points to remember You may want to first try some things at home to reduce pain or
				other symptoms from varicose veins. You can wear compression stockings , prop up your leg (or legs) on a
				pillow or a chair when you can, get some exercise, and lose weight if needed.
				If these steps don't help your symptoms, you may want to have surgery or a
				procedure. Having surgery or a procedure is a better choice if you
				care a lot about how your legs look. Home treatment won't change the look of
				varicose veins. Surgery and other procedures also can reduce pain and other
				symptoms. Surgery can leave tiny scars on your legs. The size of your varicose veins affects the type of treatment
				you might have. If you have larger veins, you are likely to have surgery (ligation and stripping) or less invasive procedures such as
				radiofrequency closure or
				endovenous laser treatment. Small to medium-sized
				varicose veins usually are treated with
				sclerotherapy,
				external laser treatment, or a minor surgery called
				microphlebectomy. Endovenous laser treatment and radiofrequency closure are newer
				techniques. Before you have either of these procedures,
				ask your doctor how many times he or she has done them and how many times
				the treatment worked to get rid of varicose veins. Before you have any procedure, check your insurance to see if
				it covers the cost. Some policies do not cover procedures that are viewed as
				only being done for personal, not medical, reasons. FAQs What are varicose veins? Varicose veins are twisted, enlarged veins near the surface of the skin. They are most common in
			 the legs and ankles. You may have them in one or both legs. They
			 can make your legs ache, hurt, itch, and swell. Even if you don't
			 have symptoms, you may not like the way the veins make your legs look. How are varicose veins treated? You can treat
			 varicose veins with home care, surgery, or another procedure. Home treatment For many people, home treatment
			 relieves pain and other symptoms. If you don't have serious problems from
			 varicose veins, home care may be all that you need. But home treatment won't
			 make your varicose veins go away or look better. You can: Wear compression stockings . Prop up your legs
				on a pillow or a chair when you can. Exercise to improve blood flow
				in your legs. Lose weight if needed. (Being overweight can make
				varicose veins worse.) If you still have pain or other symptoms after trying
			 home treatment for 6 to 12 months, you may want to have surgery or a procedure.
			 If your main concern is how your legs look, you could have treatment whenever
			 you want. Home care won't change how your legs look. Procedures for varicose veins These less invasive procedures
			 close or remove the varicose veins. They can usually be done in your doctor's
			 office or clinic. Sclerotherapy. A chemical is injected
				into the varicose vein to damage and scar the inside of the vein. This closes
				the vein. Laser treatment. A laser is a highly focused beam of
				light. Heat from the laser damages the vein and causes scar tissue, which
				closes the vein. Lasers may be used: On the outside of the skin (external laser) to close off small veins near the
					 surface. Inside a vein (endovenous laser) to
					 close large veins. The doctor places a thin tube called a catheter into the
					 vein through a small cut in the skin. Microphlebectomy, or stab avulsion. Several tiny cuts
				are made in the skin. The veins are removed through these cuts. Stitches
				usually aren't needed. Radiofrequency closure. This procedure
				uses a type of energy that is different from that of a laser to close off large
				varicose veins in the legs. A small cut is made in the vein. The energy is
				directed through a thin tube placed in the cut. Surgery for varicose veins Vein ligation and stripping is a surgical treatment for
			 varicose veins. One or more cuts are made over the vein, and the vein is tied
			 off (ligated) in two places. All or part of the vein between the tied off areas
			 is usually removed (stripped). You'll need general or spinal anesthesia for this surgery. You'll
			 probably have a few stitches. How well do procedures work for varicose veins? The less invasive procedures to treat varicose veins appear to work as well as surgery. But these procedures are relatively new, and long-term results aren't known yet. Sclerotherapy can reduce symptoms and improve the look
				of the skin. It works in about 80 out of 100 people. It doesn't work for about 20 out of 100 people who have the procedure. 1 Endovenous laser treatment closes veins
				about 94 out of 100 times. It doesn't work about 6 out of 100 times. 1 Microphlebectomy, or stab avulsion, is less likely to
				fix varicose veins when the leg veins aren't working well. Because that is the case for most varicose veins, this
				procedure is usually used along with vein surgery or less invasive procedures. Radiofrequency closure works well in about 85 out of 100 people who have it. That means it doesn't work well in 15 out of 100
				people. 1 Vein ligation and stripping removes varicose veins and keeps them from coming back in 90
				out of 100 people. It doesn't work for 10 out of 100 people. 2 What are the risks of procedures for varicose veins? Sclerotherapy,
			 endovenous laser treatment, and
			 radiofrequency closure have some risks: Varicose veins may come back. This is fairly
				common. Blood clots may form in the veins. You may
				have small scars. Your skin may be numb where the thin tube is put
				in for radiofrequency closure or endovenous laser treatment. You could have bleeding sores. You could have an allergic reaction to the liquid that is put
				into the vein during sclerotherapy. This is rare. The color of your
				skin could change and stay that way, or tiny new blood vessels could form in
				the area that was treated. These problems are rare. Vein ligation and stripping also has
			 some risks: You could bleed a lot. You could
				get an infection. You might have numbness in your legs. You could have small scars where the vein was
				removed. You could have problems from
				anesthesia. People who have had blood clots in a deep vein (deep vein thrombosis) or blood clots and inflammation in a small vein near
			 the surface of the skin (thrombophlebitis) may be at greater
			 risk for problems from surgery for varicose veins. Why might your doctor recommend a procedure for varicose veins? Your doctor might suggest surgery or a procedure
			 if: You have tried compression stockings and
				other home care and you still have pain and swelling. You want to
				treat varicose veins so that your legs will look better. 2. Compare your options Have a procedure for
		varicose veins Use home treatment What is usually involved? You may be
			 asleep or awake, depending on the procedure. You can go home the
			 same day. You may have to wear compression stockings for a week or more
			 after treatment. You wear compression stockings . You prop up your legs on a chair or a pillow to keep blood from
			 pooling. You do more exercise to improve the blood flow in your
			 legs. You can lose weight, if needed, to improve symptoms. What are the benefits? Your
			 symptoms are likely to get better or go away. You may be happier with the way your legs look. Your symptoms may get better
			 or go away. You don't have pain or other side effects from
			 surgery. What are the risks and side effects? Your varicose veins may come back. Your pain
			 or other symptoms may come back. Side effects may include: Burning. Infection. Itching. Small
				  scars. A lasting change in skin color in the area that was
				  treated. Your symptoms
			 might not get better. Home care won't change how your varicose
			 veins look. Compression stockings can be hard to put on and take
			 off. Wearing them can be hot and uncomfortable. Personal stories Are you interested in what others decided to do? Many people have faced this decision. These 
            
              personal stories
            
             may help you decide. Personal stories about varicose veins These stories are based on information gathered from health professionals and consumers. They may be helpful as you make important health decisions. "Living here in Arizona, I wear shorts and skirts a lot. Several years ago, I stopped trying to keep a tan all the time because of the risk of skin cancer. So now that I don't have that brown skin, you can really see my veins. I also started to wonder if the veins were related to the aching I have sometimes in my legs. I talked to my doctor about it and found out that the aching probably is not related to the spider veins. But I decided to have them treated anyway, because I really don't like the way my legs look." — Margaret, age 46 "My main reason for treating my varicose veins is to relieve the aching and fatigue. My legs are so tired at the end of the day! My doctor said that I could try surgery, but I don't feel like my legs bother me enough to take the risk, even though she says it's a pretty safe surgery. So we talked about some other options, like these special panty hose that compress the leg veins, and about putting my feet up several times a day. And about walking more. Who would have thought that being on my feet more might make my legs less tired?" — Carolyn, age
		  67 "I have several of those long, ropy-looking, twisted blue varicose veins. And my legs are pretty skinny, so they really stand out. I'm not concerned with how my legs look, but I'm a police officer and I'm on my feet all day. At the end of the day, my legs really ache. We talked about treatments like elastic stockings, but in my job that isn't practical. My doctor said that I'm a good candidate for surgery to remove the long veins and that the results should be pretty good." — Diego, age
		  38 "I would like to do something about all my varicose veins, but until my youngest daughter gets out of college, we really can't afford it. I also know that treatment sometimes can cause some discoloration or scarring, which I would also like to avoid. So I wear my support hose, elevate my legs, and wear darker hose with my skirts." — Suzanne, age
		  56 3. What matters most to you? Your personal feelings are just as important as the medical facts. Think about what matters most to you in this decision, and show how you feel about the following statements. Reasons to have a procedure for varicose veins Reasons to try home care for varicose veins I'm really bothered by the way my legs look because of my varicose veins. I'm not bothered by how my legs look. More important Equally important More important I still have symptoms from my varicose veins, even with home care. Home care is helping my symptoms. More important Equally important More important I'm not worried about possible side effects from a procedure for varicose veins. I don't want to have the risk of any side effects from a procedure. More important Equally important More important Having a procedure is worth it to me, even if there's a chance that my varicose veins will come back. I don't want to have a procedure if my varicose veins could come back. More important Equally important More important My other important reasons: My other important reasons: More important Equally important More important 4. Where are you leaning now? Now that you've thought about the facts and your feelings, you may have a general idea of where you stand on this decision. Show which way you are leaning right now. Having a procedure NOT having a procedure Leaning toward Undecided Leaning toward 5. What else do you need to make your decision? Check the facts 1.
        I might be able to treat my varicose veins without having surgery or a procedure. True False I'm not sure That's right. For many people, home treatment works well to relieve pain and other symptoms. If you don't have serious problems from varicose veins, home care may be all that you need. 2.
        Home treatment can change how my legs look from varicose veins. True False I'm not sure You're right. Having surgery or a procedure is a better choice if you care a lot about how your legs look. Home treatment won't change the look of varicose veins. 3.
        The kind of procedure I'll have depends on the size of my varicose veins. True False I'm not sure You're right. The size of your varicose veins affects the type of procedure. If you have large veins, you may be more likely to have surgery, endovenous laser treatment, or radiofrequency closure. Smaller veins usually are treated with sclerotherapy or simple laser therapy. Decide what's next 1.
      Do you understand the options available to you? Yes No 2.
      Are you clear about which benefits and side effects matter most to you? Yes No 3.
      Do you have enough support and advice from others to make a choice? Yes No Certainty 1.
        How sure do you feel right now about your decision? Not sure at all Somewhat sure Very sure 2.
        Check what you need to do before you make this decision. I'm ready to take action. I want to discuss the options with others. I want to learn more about my options. 3.
      Use the following space to list questions, concerns, and next steps. Credits By Healthwise Staff Primary Medical Reviewer Anne C. Poinier, MD - Internal Medicine Specialist Medical Reviewer David A. Szalay, MD - Vascular Surgery References Citations Van den Bos R, et al. (2009). Endovenous therapies of lower extremity varicosities: A meta-analysis. Journal of Vascular Surgery , 49(1): 230–239. Wakefield TW, et al. (2010). Varicose veins section of Veins and lymphatics. In GM Doherty, ed., Current Surgical Diagnosis and Treatment , 13th ed., pp. 790–792. New York: McGraw-Hill Medical. Note: The "printer friendly" document will not contain all the information available in the online document some Information (e.g. cross-references to other topics, definitions or medical illustrations) is only available in the online version. Top of Page Last Revised: February 5, 2010 Author: Healthwise Staff Medical Review: Anne C. Poinier, MD - Internal Medicine & David A. Szalay, MD - Vascular Surgery Van den Bos R, et al. (2009). Endovenous therapies of lower extremity varicosities: A meta-analysis. Journal of Vascular Surgery , 49(1): 230–239. Wakefield TW, et al. (2010). Varicose veins section of Veins and lymphatics. In GM Doherty, ed., Current Surgical Diagnosis and Treatment , 13th ed., pp. 790–792. New York: McGraw-Hill Medical. This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use . How this information was developed to help you make better health decisions. To learn more visit Healthwise.org © 1995-2011 Healthwise, Incorporated. Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the Healthwise logo are trademarks of Healthwise, Incorporated. Quick Links Important Numbers Newsroom General Information Current Wait Times About Sanford Health Initiatives and Priorities Contact Us External Sites Edith Sanford Foundation Sanford Health Research Sanford Health Plan Sanford Health Foundation Sanford & WebMD FIT Major Medical Centers Sanford USD Medical Center Sioux Falls Sanford Medical Center Fargo General Information Fargo, ND 800-437-4010 Sioux Falls, SD 605-333-1000 Nurse by Phone ASK-A-NURSE - Fargo, ND 800-821-5167 701-234-5000 Healthformation - Sioux Falls, SD 800-445-5788 605-333-4444 Physician Finder Fargo, ND 877-234-4240 701-234-5570 Sioux Falls, SD 877-945-5678 Latest Sanford Health News Hillsboro Medical Center Signs LOI with Sanford Health Brian Leyland-Jones MB BS, PhD to Lead Edith Sanford Breast Cancer Research Announcing Sanford Bemidji Orthopedic and Sports Medicine Center Expansion Sanford Health Expands Air Ambulance Fleet KELO TV in Sioux Falls Features Sanford CMN Heroes in Weeklong Series View All RSS Newsfeed Resources Contact Media Relations Search the Video Library View the Newsroom From twitter We’re talking about processed foods on @valleynewslive in #fargo at 5. Tweet a question or comment using #healthierme 04:45 PM Apr 25 Find a Location Find a Doctor My Sanford Chart Newsletter Signup Sign Up Follow Us! ©2012 Sanford Health. All rights reserved. Privacy of Health Information Privacy Statement Terms & Conditions