
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 02:24:23 GMT
Connection: close

MEASURE DHS - Male-Circumcision Who We Are DHS Experts News Room Contact Us Employment What We Do Survey Types Survey Search Methodology Questionnaires GIS Biomarkers Dissemination Analysis Capacity Building FAQs Where We Work Countries List Data Online Tools STATcompiler Using Datasets for Analysis DHS Guide to Statistics Download Datasets Publications Publications Search Ordering Publications FAQs Topics HIV Corner Malaria Corner Gender Corner Youth Corner More Topics MEASURE DHS > Topics > Male-Circumcision CORNERS HIV Corner Malaria Corner Gender Corner Youth Corner MORE TOPICS Alcohol and Tobacco Anemia Child Health Education Family Planning Fertility and Fertility  Preferences Household and Respondent  Characteristics Infant and Child Mortality Male Circumcision Maternal Health Maternal Mortality Nutrition Tuberculosis Unmet Need Wealth Index Women's Status and  Empowerment Circumcision and HIV Clearinghouse on Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention USAID Technical Issue Brief: Medical male circumcision and HIV prevention Progress in Male Circumcision Scale-up: Country implementation and research update Center for Global Health Policy - MMC as HIV Prevention: The case for aggressive scale-up Operational guidance for scaling up male circumcision services for HIV prevention What data does DHS collect about male circumcision? DHS asks men, "Are you circumcised?" The possible responses are Yes, No and Don't Know. Over 30 surveys have collected this data. What is male circumcision? Male circumcision involves removing the foreskin, a loose fold of skin that covers the head of the penis. The procedure can be carried out at any stage: during infancy, childhood, adolescence or adulthood. Many societies have been practicing male circumcision for hundreds of years. Circumcision is often seen as a mark of belonging to a particular tribal or religious group. What is the connection between male circumcision and HIV prevention? Since the 1980s, scientists have suspected that male circumcision might reduce rates of HIV transmission during sex. They observed that circumcised men are less likely to have HIV than uncircumcised men, and HIV is less common among populations that traditionally practice male circumcision than in communities where the procedure is rare. However, for a long time it was unclear to what extent this was an effect of circumcision itself and whether other factors might also play a role. Three randomized controlled trials (the results of which were published between 2005-07) have shown that male circumcision provided by well trained health professionals in properly equipped settings is safe. WHO/UNAIDS recommendations emphasize that male circumcision should be considered an efficacious intervention for HIV prevention in countries and regions with heterosexual epidemics, high HIV and low male circumcision prevalence. Male circumcision provides only partial protection, and therefore should be only one element of a comprehensive HIV prevention package. You are here: MEASURE DHS > Topics Who We Are DHS Experts News Room Contact Us Employment Old MEASUREDHS.com What We Do Survey Types DHS AIS SPA MIS Survey Search Methodology Questionnaires GIS Biomarkers Dissemination Analysis Capacity Building FAQs Where We Work Countries List Data Online Tools STATcompiler Using Datasets for Analysis DHS Guide to Statistics Download Datasets Dataset Login Publications Publications Search Ordering Publications FAQs Topics HIV Corner Malaria Corner Gender Corner Youth Corner More Topics Anemia Child Health Family Planning Fertility Infant and Child Mortality Maternal Health Nutrition Wealth Index Recent Post www.pia.gov.ph....according to the National Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS), 33.9 percent of women age 15 – 24 in 
... Read More > Sign up for email alerts to keep informed of our progress around the world. MEASURE DHS, ICF International, 11785 Beltsville Drive, Suite 300 Calverton, MD 20705 USA * Tel: +1 301 572-0456 * Fax: +1 301 572-0999 The information provided on this Web site is not official U.S. Government information and does not represent the views or positions of the U.S. Agency for International Development or the U