
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 20 Apr 2012 02:34:09 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8

Menopause - Canyon Surgical Skip to content Canyon Surgical Search Canyon Surgical Search Canyon Surgical GO Welcome Our Surgeon Our Services Appointments Referring Physicians Maps & Directions Contact Us Financial Information Patient Forms Resources Health Library Blog Employment Opportunities Hospital Affiliation Brigham City Community Hospital Visit the MountainStar Medical Group Directory Home Menopause Health Library Back Menopause Definition Menopause is the time when the menstrual period ceases and the ovaries permanently stop releasing eggs. Menopause is considered complete when a woman has been without her period for a full year. Although menopause can occur anytime between ages 40 to 58,  the average age is 51 years old. Causes Natural menopause is a gradual process. The ovaries begin producing lower amounts of estrogen and other steroid hormones prior to menopause during a phase called perimenopause. When menopause occurs before the age of 40 it is called premature menopause. Premature menopause can occur naturally but may also be the result of several conditions, including: Family history of premature menopause Autoimmune diseases X-chromosome abnormalities Medical treatments (pelvic surgery, surgical removal of ovaries, chemotherapy , or pelvic radiation therapy) Medications that lower estrogen levels Smoking Risk Factors A risk factor is something that increases your chance of getting a disease or condition. As menopause is a natural process associated with aging, there are no risk factors. Risk factors for premature menopause include: Family history of premature menopause Symptoms As menopause approaches, women often experience a number of physical and emotional symptoms including: Irregular menstrual periods Hot flashes and night sweats Disturbed sleep patterns, insomnia Anxiety Significant mood changes Depression Dry skin Irritability Vaginal dryness and pain with sexual intercourse Difficulty concentrating Trouble remembering things Diminished interest in sex Frequent urination or leaking of urine Headaches Achy joints Fatigue Early morning awakening Diagnosis The doctor will ask about your symptoms and medical history, and perform a physical exam. The doctor may perform blood tests, a pelvic exam, and a Pap smear. Natural menopause is usually diagnosed when a woman has not had a menstrual period for 12 consecutive months. Some women have had a hysterectomy before menopause, and they no longer have periods.  For these women, if menopause is suspected but needs confirmation, the test considered most accurate for the diagnosis of menopause is the measurement of
        follicle stimulating hormone (FSH)
        . High levels of FSH (greater than 40) may indicate menopause. Treatment Menopause is a natural part of life and does not necessarily require treatment. Symptoms and health risks associated with low estrogen can be treated. These include hot flashes, vaginal dryness, and osteoporosis (loss of bone mass). Osteoporosis in Hip © 2011 Nucleus Medical Media, Inc. Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT) A number of different types of hormones are available. They include: Natural, synthetic, and plant-derived
              estrogens Progesterone Combinations of estrogen and progesterone Addition of small amounts of male hormones HRT is available as tablets, gels, skin patches, vaginal rings, vaginal tablets, injections, and pellets inserted into the skin. There are a number of possible risks associated with HRT . Some of these include cancer ( endometrial , breast , ovarian ), heart disease, gallstones , and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Phytoestrogens A high intake of phytoestrogens  (or plant estrogens) may help menopausal women. They may reduce the risk for diseases associated with estrogen. Phytoestrogens are found in soybeans, black cohosh , rhubarb extract (a supplement), whole grains, legumes, tempeh, and flax seed.  They are also found in concentration in capsule form. Healthful Diet A healthful diet during menopause can improve a woman's sense of well-being. It may also reduce the risk of heart disease, osteoporosis, and certain cancers. The diet should be low in fat and high in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, calcium , and vitamin D . Limit Caffeine and Alcohol Cutting back on caffeine and alcohol may reduce symptoms of anxiety, insomnia, and loss of calcium. Quit Smoking Giving up smoking can reduce the risk of early menopause, heart disease, and osteoporosis. Regular Exercise Regular exercise may reduce hot flashes. Weight-bearing exercises such as walking, climbing stairs, and resistance exercises such as lifting weights help strengthen bones and decrease the risk of osteoporosis. Stress Management Stress management may help ease tension, anxiety, and possibly other menopausal symptoms. Deep breathing, massage , warm baths, and quiet music are examples of relaxation techniques. Over-the-Counter Products Moisturizers and lubricants are used to help vaginal dryness. Nonhormonal Medications for Hot Flashes Certain blood pressure medicines (taken in lower doses) Examples include:
                clonidine
                (Catapres),
                methyldopa
                (Aldomet) Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) Examples include:
                fluoxetine
                (Prozac),
                paroxetine
                (Paxil),
                venlafaxine
                (Effexor),
                desvenlafaxine
                (Pristiq) Note: SSRIs and SNRIs should not be used if you are taking
                tamoxifen
                (Nolvadex), a medication to reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence. Prevention Menopause is a natural biologic event that does not need to be prevented. Quitting smoking could slightly delay the onset of menopause. RESOURCES Healthy Women.org http://www.healthywomen.org/ The 
          North American Menopause Society http://www.menopause.org/ CANADIAN RESOURCES Health Canada http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/index%5Fe.html/ Women's Health Matters http://www.womenshealthmatters.ca/ References Menopause.
          Planned Parenthood Federation of America website. Available at: http://www.plannedparenthood.org/health-topics/womens-health/menopause-4807.htm .
        Accessed July 20, 2009. North American Menopause Society website. Available at: http://www.menopause.org . Accessed July 20, 2009. 9/30/2008 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php : Jacobson BC, Moy B, Colditz GA, Fuchs CS. Postmenopausal hormone use and symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux. Arch Intern Med. 2008;168:1798-1804. 1/30/2009 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php : Kaszkin-Bettag M, Ventskovskiy BM, Solskyy S, et al. Confirmation of the efficacy of ERr 731 in perimenopausal women with menopausal symptoms. Altern Ther Health Med. 2009;15:24-34. 1/30/2009 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php : Borrelli F, Ernst E. Black cohosh ( Cimicifuga racemosa ): a systematic review of adverse events. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2008;199:455-466. 4/14/2009 DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php : Archer DF, Dupont CM, Constantine GD, Pickar JH, Olivier S; Study 319 Investigators. Desvenlafaxine for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of efficacy and safety. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2009;200:238.e1-238.e10. Epub 2009 Jan 24. Revision Information Reviewer: Ganson Purcell Jr., MD, FACOG, FACPE Review Date: 09/2011 - Update Date: 09/01/2011 - This content is reviewed regularly and is updated when new and relevant evidence is made available. This information is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with questions regarding a medical condition. Copyright © EBSCO Publishing All rights reserved. 984 South Medical Drive, Suite 2 Brigham City, UT 84302 (435)723-0329 Copyright 1999-2010 ehc.com ;  All ri