Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Aloe Vera Soap | Comfrey Handmade Soap Your Handmade Natural Soap Store Aloe Vera Soap Comfrey Soap You are here » Home > Products > Natural Soap > Handmade Comfrey and Aloe Vera Soap Index Sitemap Advanced Click the Next and Back Buttons to See More Handmade Natural Soap Comfrey & Aloe Vera Handmade Soap A handmade natural soap that is extremely healing to your skin. Comfrey and Aloe Vera Soap is also an extremely mild natural soap that's good for anyone and especially great for people with extremely sensitive skin. Comfrey and Aloe Vera Soap is one of the mildest natural soaps made by Blackberry Creek. It contains Comfrey Root. Comfrey has been used for centuries to heal sores, cuts, and wounds. Comfrey root contains a substance called allantoin which accelerates the replacement of body cells. Everyone knows how great aloe vera is for the skin. My Mom had Aloe Vera plants around the house. She would break off a piece whenever she had chapped hands and rub the aloe vera gel on her hands to heal them. There's nothing fancy about this natural soap because there is nothing added to color the soap that might possibly be irritating to extremely sensitive skin. Aloe Vera contains saponins which are antiseptic fighting bacteria, viruses, fungi and yeasts. Aloe Vera contains salicylic acid which is also anti bacterial and anti inflammatory. Aloe is rich in antioxidants. Aloe Vera contains a substance called lignin which enables products containing aloe to deeply penetrate the skin so that all the other beneficial substances found in Comfrey and Aloe can be more effective. Comfrey and Aloe Soap from Blackberry Creek. I know you will like it as much as I do. Order yours today and soon start enjoying the unbeatable combined healing benefits of comfrey and aloe. Comfrey and Aloe Soap Ingredients: Extra Virgin Olive Oil (EVOO), Distilled Water, Coconut Oil, Palm Oil, Sodium Hydroxide , Essential Oils, Comfrey Root, Aloe Vera and extra nutrients. Comfrey and Aloe Vera Soap 3.5 oz. $4.97 Scroll Down to Buy Sample Quantity: Guest Size 1.0 oz. $2.97 Quantity: Wooden Soap Dish Your Comfrey and Aloe Soap will last up to 50% longer if you have a soap dish that allows your soap to drain. $3.97 ea. Quantity: Click here if you need a Gift Box for your order... Go to Top of Page Report a Website Problem Call Toll Free 1-888-205-3317 Send Email Copyright 2012 Blackberry Creek Handmade Natural Soap