<http://www.what-is-obesity.com/?p=70>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Articles on Obesity Articles on Obesity Search Home Obesity Archives Obesity Articles Privacy Policy What is Obesity? Articles on Obesity By Obesity Expert Leonard Smeltmann What-Is-Obesity.com has over 100 free articles on obesity, ranging from obesity in children and teenagers, morbid obesity, diets, supplements, health tips, surgical options and treatment suggestions. Articles on Obesity With so many articles on obesity on the one website, here are some recommendations on which articles to browse through: What is Obesity : This article looks at obesity in a general overview, giving a brief definition of obesity, looks at the causes and symptoms of increasing obesity, briefly discusses the costs of obesity to society, and links through to other articles on obesity. It is a good starting point for those after information on obesity. Overeating : What-Is-Obesity.com’s article on Overeating looks at how to tell if you’re overeating, how the habit of overeating can arise, and gives detailed suggestions on how to stop overeating. Managing an overeating problem is one of the most powerful steps you can take, and is one of our most recommended articles on obesity. Morbidly Obese : If you are morbidly obese , then your health is in serious danger. If you know or care for someone who is morbidly obese, this article is also essential reading. It provides common medical definitions of morbidly obese people and outlines the treatments the morbidly obese can undergo, as well as the surgical options open to them. Weight Loss Surgery : With many sufferers, especially the morbidly obese, Weight Loss Surgery is one solution to their problems. Weight loss surgery can vary in effectiveness and is not suitable for all obesity sufferers, but for those that it is appropriate for, the results can be stunning. Patients regularly lose 60-80% of their excess body weight after successful weight loss surgery. Lap Band Complications : Unfortunately, with every surgical procedure comes the chance of complications. Lap Band Complications are more common than in many other surgical procedures, with 17% of patients having some form of complication arise after their surgery. This article details most of the common complications that can arise. Forewarned is forearmed. Definition of Bariatric : One of the most commonly visited articles on obesity, a good Definition of Bariatric is good to know. Obesity Archives : Of course, with over 100 free articles in What-Is-Obesity.com’s Archives , it is impossible to list them all here. You’re encouraged to go read the rest of the archives or use the search button in the top right corner of the site to find what you’re looking for. Good luck on your search! Articles on Obesity Return to the top of: Articles on Obesity Obesity Obesity In Children Child Obesity Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Obesity Help Laparoscopic Surgery Overeating Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome Lap Band Complications Morbidly Obese Bariatric Recipes Weight Loss Recipes Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Vitamin Supplementation What are the Costs of Bariatric or Weight Loss Surgery? Bariatric Surgery Costs Bariatric Weight Loss Options Obesity Weight Loss Bariatric Food: Healthy Alternatives for Bariatric Patients Bariatric Foods Bariatric Treatment Centers Bariatric Surgery: Definition Definition of Bariatric Bariatric Nurse Bariatric Transport Bariatric Band Surgery Bariatric Lift Bariatric Banding Western Bariatric Bariatric Surgery Hospital © What is Obesity? 2011 We hope you have enjoyed reading " Articles on Obesity " here at What is Obesity?.com! The article " Articles on Obesity " is provided for information only, and should not be taken as advice on any topic. Please read our Privacy