<http://www.hypnotherapy.co.nz/?p=4798>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Hypnosis For Quit Smoking | NZ Hypnotherapy Guide Home SKYPE On-Line Sessions Quit Smoking Weight Loss Info Hypno-Band Mp/CD’s for Weight loss 3 Session On-Line program What Is Hypnosis? NZ Directory Training Home / Hypnosis For Quit Smoking Hypnosis For Quit Smoking Posted Jan 4 2012 by Paul Dixon in Quit Smoking with 0 Comments Out of ten people who come into my Auckland Hypnosis clinic,  7 would find going through the withdrawal period surprisingly easily. This is achieved by taking advantage of 3 naturally occurring phenomena that we integrate into your hypnosis for quit smoking session. Lets take a look at them…. The Pain of Quit Smoking During Withdrawal 1 You are in the shower after being busy outside and notice a big scratch on your arm, and you find yourself wondering how that got there. You are in the kitchen chopping vegetables and  nick your finger with the knife, and shout in pain. Two injuries, one you noticed and the other you didn’t. The difference is where your focus is at the time of discomfort. With hypnosis we look to remove the discomfort of withdrawal by shifting  your awareness. As a smoker you already do this. You get busy on the phone, caught up with work, and  forget about the cigarette and it isn’t until you stop to rest that you remember. With hypnosis for quit smoking we want to expand upon this process 24 hours a day, rather than just a few minutes. Death At Your Door. A Principle Called Contrast 2 Put your hand under a cold tap and slower warm it up and you don’t really notice the difference in temperature as it becomes hotter and hotter and hotter.  This is most smokers. Slowly puffing away. a little closer to death or lung cancer each day and it just doesn’t seem all that important to take immediate action to stop, there is always tomorrow. Now put your hand under freezing cold water, pull it out and plunge the hand it some really hot water, and WHAM, you’ll jerk that hand out of there so fast. With hypnosis for quit smoking we create a similar psychological experience inside your head, where there is a greater sense of urgency, to quit smoking with hypnosis today and to remain free. Hypnosis For Quit Smoking And The Map Out 3 Situation 1. You are lost in a forest, it is getting dark, and all you can see is trees all around in every direction. You begin to panic. Situation 2.  You are in a forest, although it is getting dark,  you have a map, are on the pathl ALthough you don’t know exactly where you are you know you are ging the right way, and so remain calm and relaxed about the situation. A lot of the anxiety to do with quitting smoking is your head panicking about what will happen when you no longer smoke. In turn this causes  anxiety , which then expresses itself in a need to have a cigarette.  With hypnosis for quit smoking we remove the worry and anxiety by giving your head a clear way out of the smoking behavior, which instills confidence and self belief. Other interesting applications of hypnosis for quiting smoking with hypnosis can be found here at my Auckland Hypnosis office or if you have any questions please let me know. The Magic of Hypnosis For Weight Loss Weight Loss by Hypnotherapy. How comfort eating adds on the pounds? Categories: Quit Smoking Share this: About the Author Paul Dixon works full time form his offices Lifestyle Hypnosis Auckland , and is an instructor in 5-PATH® Hypnotherapy Training with regular courses held each year. View all posts by Paul Dixon → Popular Posts Related Posts Hypnosis and the Sub-Conscious Hypnosis for Exercise. Where Did My Motivation Go? 7 Signs Its Time To Use Hypnotherapy For Weight Loss Their Poor and Happy. I’m Rich and Sad. Why? 5 Essentials of your Hypnotherapy For Weight Loss Program Weight Loss by Hypnotherapy. How comfort eating adds on the pounds? Hypnosis For Quit Smoking The Magic of Hypnosis For Weight Loss Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name Email Website Menu Home Hypnotherapy NZ Online Quit Smoking About Hypnosis Training Directory Quit Smoking With Hypnosis At Our Auckland Office Quit Smoking With Hypnosis At Home Copyright Life