Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

NIHR HTA programme: details of

HTA project
 in progress

: Seal or Varnish? A randomised trial to determine the relative cost and effectiveness of pit and fissure sealants and fluoride varnish in preventing dental decay Jump to content [j] Jump to local navigation [l] New to this site? Site map Accessibility NIHR Health Technology Assessment Programme Home About the HTA programme HTA Journal HTA research projects Funding opportunities News and events Investigators zone Involving the public Make a research suggestion FAQs Links Job opportunities Contact us Direct link to this page: http://www.hta.ac.uk/2202 Details of 

HTA project
 in progress Last updated: 15 February 2012 - Next update due:  22 February 2012 Research type: Primary Research (e.g. trial) Project title: Seal or Varnish? A randomised trial to determine the relative cost and effectiveness of pit and fissure sealants and fluoride varnish in preventing dental decay Project ref: 08/104/04 Cost: £1,118,676 Chief Investigator : Professor Ivor Chestnutt, Prof and Hon Consultant in Dental Public Health,
				
				School of Dentistry, Cardiff University Start Date: April 2011 Estimated date of publication in HTA journal series: Mid 2016. This date takes account of time for report preparation and printing based on current average times for these activities. Plain English Summary Dental caries (tooth decay) remains a significant source of morbidity in children, particularly those from deprived backgrounds where levels of decay are three times higher than in better off areas.  In the worst affected areas 69% of 12 year olds have decay in their permanent teeth.  The majority of this (84%) is located on the biting surface of the first molars which erupt at age six.  We know that the application of pit and fissure sealants to the biting surface is effective in preventing tooth decay. This treatment consists of a plastic coating that occludes the rough biting surface which harbour decay-causing bacteria. The application at six-monthly intervals of fluoride varnish, containing high levels of fluoride is also known to prevent decay.  This works by strengthening the tooth enamel making it more decay resistant. What is not known is which of these two modes of treatment works best and which is the most cost-effective.  It is also not know which of these treatments are most acceptable from the perspective of children and their parents.  Fissure sealant application requires an involved dental intervention (use of rotary brush, tooth surface preparation to make the sealant stick, use of a sucker to keep the tooth dry).  Varnish application simply involves painting the tooth surface.  The proposed study will examine the relative clinical and cost effectiveness of these treatments and investigate their acceptability to children and their parents. The Community Dental Service in South Wales has a well established programme for the provision of fissure sealants in schools using mobile dental clinics.  This programme has been running since 2002 and treats 3,300 6-year old children annually.  This proposal seeks to use this programme to investigate if using fluoride varnish would be a better option for preventing decay in these high risk children. The excellent existing relationships we have with schools and local communities will ensure that we can recruit and retain sufficient children to ensure the success of the study. The study will take the form of a randomised trial in which children will receive either fissure sealants on their first permanent molars or fluoride varnish.  We will determine the success of the study, by comparing the proportion of children who receive the alternative treatments who are caries-free in their first molar teeth after three years.  We will also look at the cost effectiveness and patient acceptability of the treatments. The findings from this study will be applicable across the NHS, particularly in areas of high need with greatest health inequalities. A strong multidisciplinary research team comprising the Applied Clinical Research and Public Health Group, Cardiff University Dental School, the South East Wales Trials Unit (SEWTU), Cardiff Institute for Society Health and Ethics, (all Cardiff University), Wales School for Primary Care Research, the Centre for Health Economics and Studies, Swansea University and Cardiff and Vale NHS Trust has the expertise to answer this call. There are no significant ethical issues associated with this study.  It involves established and proven clinical interventions.  The main impact is the provision of fluoride varnish to some children who would otherwise have received pit and fissure sealants.  Positive parental consent will be sought for child participation.  Child assent to the treatment will also be required.  Parents who refuse consent will have the option of their child being treated as per the existing programme. The clinical team delivering the intervention have many years experience of delivering dental care from mobile clinics in schools.  They are sensitive to the needs and aspirations of the study participants.  Ethical approval for the study will be sought from the South East Wales Research Ethics Committee and the clinical governance arrangements of Cardiff and Vale NHS Trust will apply to all clinical staff involved in the programme. The costs of the programme will cover the increased work involved in the academic assessment of the programme and the excess costs arising due to the children being examined at six monthly intervals as opposed to the annual intervention in the existing programme.  These are detailed in the attached project description.  In summary, in addition to the costs associated with the involvement of the study applicants, we will recruit a trials manger to oversee the operational aspects of the study, a half-time research assistant with qualitative skills who will work on the patient acceptability determination, a part-time research assistant with health economics skills and a half-time secretary to provide administrative support.  We also require support for the clinical data collection associated with the trial that would not normally be collected as part of the clinical programme and have requested funding for a part-time dental officer for this purpose and also part payment for nursing support in research related data collection.  We have also requested support for database development and statistical analysis.  The travel and consumables budget is to support the Trial Steering Committee and Data and Ethics Monitoring Committee.  The consumable element of the budget relates to the need to conduct questionnaire surveys/interviews of participating children, their parents and teachers.  The equipment costs cover hardware to facilitate on-site data collection. Project Abstract: Dental caries (tooth decay) remains a significant source of morbidity in children, particularly those from deprived backgrounds where levels of decay are three times higher than in better off areas. In the worst affected areas 69% of 12 year olds have decay in their permanent teeth. The majority of this (84%) is located on the biting surface of the first molars which erupt at age six. We know that the application of pit and fissure sealants to the biting surface is effective in preventing tooth decay. This treatment consists of a plastic coating that occludes the rough biting surface which harbour decay-causing bacteria.  The application at six-monthly intervals of fluoride varnish, containing high levels of fluoride is also known to prevent decay. This works by strengthening the tooth enamel making it more decay resistant. What is not known is which of these two modes of treatment works best and which is the most cost-effective. It is also not know which of these treatments are most acceptable from the perspective of children and their parents. Fissure sealant application requires an involved dental intervention (use of rotary brush, tooth surface preparation to make the sealant stick, use of a sucker to keep the tooth dry). Varnish application simply involves painting the tooth surface. This trial will examine the relative clinical and cost effectiveness of these treatments and investigate their acceptability to children and their parents. The study will take the form of a randomised trial in which children will receive either fissure sealants on their first permanent molars or fluoride varnish. We will determine the success of the study, by comparing the proportion of children who receive the alternative treatments who are caries-free in their first molar teeth after three years. We will also look at the cost effectiveness and patient acceptability of the treatments. The findings from this study will be applicable across the NHS, particularly in areas of high need with greatest health inequalities. ISRCTN* number: ISRCTN 17029222 (*International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number) URL of this project on the Controlled Trials Website: http://www.controlled-trials.com/ISRCTN17029222 Project Protocol: Project protocol (pdf format, 3821 kbytes) URL of this page: http://www.hta.ac.uk/2202 Advanced search What's related: Published research - full listing Research in progress How to get a report Useful downloads: HTA news service: News feeds Terms of use Freedom of information Privacy Copyright The HTA programme is managed by NETSCC - HTA which is part of the NIHR Evaluation, Trials and Studies Coordinating Centre (NETSCC) , based at the University of Southampton. The HTA programme is funded by the NIHR, with