< 1 2 LinkBack Thread Tools Display Modes # 11 ( permalink ) 08-15-2011, 06:24 PM heavenlymass Junior Member Join Date: Aug 2011 Location: Calgary Posts: 1 Great topic! Definitely Acupuncture is one of the best remedies for anxiety. I'm a Chinese Medicine Practitioner and I have seen excellent results on patients. Remove Advertisements Sponsored Links - register to remove ads # 12 ( permalink ) 10-31-2011, 01:25 AM HarveySmith Junior Member Join Date: Oct 2011 Posts: 7 Acupuncture for insomnia depression anxiety Acupuncture for insomnia depression anxiety is a great means of elevating a person's mood and so it pays to know a bit about what acupuncture is before considering it as a viable means to treat insomnia depression anxiety. Acupuncture is a treatment method that involves sticking fine needles into certain parts of the human body, which results in relief from pain and disease. It works in that it balances the life energy that in turn causes the spiritual as well as physical and emotional balances to be enhanced. # 13 ( permalink ) 12-13-2011, 12:20 AM HarveySmith Junior Member Join Date: Oct 2011 Posts: 7 Acupuncture for insomnia depression anxiety is a great means of elevating a person's mood and so it pays to know a bit about what acupuncture is before considering it as a viable means to treat insomnia depression anxiety. Acupuncture is a treatment method that involves sticking fine needles into certain parts of the human body, which results in relief from pain and disease. It works in that it balances the life energy that in turn causes the spiritual as well as physical and emotional balances to be enhanced. Remove Advertisements Sponsored Links - register to remove ads Page 2 of 2 < 1 2 « Previous Thread | Next Thread » Thread Tools Show Printable Version Email this Page Display Modes Linear Mode Switch to Hybrid Mode Switch to Threaded Mode Posting Rules You may not post new threads You may not post replies You may not post attachments You may not edit your posts BB code is On Smilies are On [IMG] code is On HTML code is Off Trackbacks are On Pingbacks are On Refbacks are Off Forum Rules Forum Jump User Control Panel Private Messages Subscriptions Who's Online Search Forums Forums Home Alternative Medicine Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) Energy healing methods Qigong, Yoga, Meditation Other forms of alternative medicine Home remedies Specific conditions help Parapsychology and psi abilties Skeptiko Podcast Link to Skeptiko Haven forum Skeptiko Haven Link to Skeptiko podcast forum DogsThatKnow Experiment Scientific debates Developing psi abilities Unexplained events and phenomena Mind-Energy.net site Mind-Energy.net posts Mind-Energy.net site discussions Links and resources All times are GMT -5. The time now is 10:46 AM . Contact Us - Mind-Energy.net - Parapsychology articles and blog - Archive - Top Powered by vBulletin® Version 3.8.4 Copyright ©2000 - 2012, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd. Search Engine Optimization by vBSEO 3.2.0 Ad 