
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 00:42:24 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: Biotivia Inc. 1.0.0
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: biotivia_lang=1; expires=Thu, 14-Feb-2013 00:42:24 GMT; path=/
Last-Modified: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 00:42:24 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
X-Server-Name: web5.biotivia.com
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8;

So what does taking Florativia do for you? Home Florativia Health Benefits Patent Pending Health Benefits So what does taking Florativia do for you? Scientific evidence confirms that you can treat and even prevent some illnesses with foods and supplements containing certain kinds of live bacteria. Northern Europeans consume a lot of these beneficial micro-organisms, called probiotics (from pro and biota, meaning “for life”), because of their tradition of eating foods fermented with bacteria, such as yogurt. Probiotic-laced beverages are also extremely valued in Japan. Since the mid-1990s, clinical studies have established that probiotic therapy can help treat several gastro-intestinal conditions, delay the development of allergies in children, and treat urinary infections in women. Actually consuming bacteria may seem illogical, however, about 100 trillion microorganisms representing more than 500 different species of bacteria already inhabit every normal, healthy bowel. These organisms are actually quite helpful. Gut-dwelling bacteria keep pathogens (harmful micro-organisms) in check, aid digestion and nutrient absorption, and contribute to immune function and resistance to disease. According to the Harvard Medical School, "Probiotic therapy may also help people with Crohn’s disease and irritable bowel syndrome. Clinical trial results are mixed, but several small studies suggest that certain probiotics may help maintain remission of ulcerative colitis and prevent relapse of Crohn’s disease and the recurrence of pouchitis (a complication of surgery to treat ulcerative colitis). Because these disorders are so frustrating to treat, many people are giving probiotics a try before all the evidence is in for the particular strains they’re using. More research is needed to find out which strains work best for what conditions." Probiotics may also be of use in maintaining urogenital health. Like the intestinal tract, the vagina is a finely balanced ecosystem. The dominant Lactobacilli strains normally make it too acidic for harmful micro-organisms to survive. But the system can be thrown out of balance by a number of factors, including antibiotics, spermicides, and birth control pills. Probiotic treatment that restores the balance of micro-flora may be helpful for such common female urogenital problems as bacterial vaginosis, yeast infection, and urinary tract infections. The Prebiotics and Probiotics in Florativia are considered safe — they’re already present in a normal digestive system. Sale - 24% off Florativia 1 box of 8 daily dose vials (Min order is 2 boxes) Florativia Categories Florativia Information Overview How it works Evidence Health Benefits Ingredients Evaluate Certificate of Analysis Halal Certificate Order by phone. Skype. Free. 24/7 1-866-459-2773 (24/7) Products Bio Quench Bioforte Transmax Transmax Time Release PteroMax & PteroActiv Bio Span Immune Edge+ Bio Shape Bio Forge Pro Max Phase II Bio Forge V-2 Celle Acai Bio Edge Florativia Green Omega 3 Lungavita New Products Transmax Time Release PteroMax New Bio Forge Green Omega 3 Resveratrol Antioxidants Health & Fitness Special Offers Super Health Special Fitness Special Lean Mass Special Slim Down Special Immune Support Special Super Longevity Special Super Athlete Special Pteromax Transmax Special Bonus Program TESTIMONIALS Question & Answer Why Biotivia News Company Information Credentials Living Life Contact Home | Why Biotivia | Bio Quench | Bioforte Resveratrol | Transmax Trans-Resveratrol | Bio Span | ImmuneEdge+ | Privacy Policy | Contact Us © Copyright 2012 Biotivia LLC, 1 River Place, Suite 1001, New York, NY 10036. All rights reserved. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. Products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. BIO as it appears on this site and on many of Biotivia's products is not meant to imply that a product is certified Organic pursuant to the rules of the US, The EU or any other national or international organisation.  BIO is an integral part of our trademarked name and the names of some of our products. It is not intended, nor do we believe it conveys this impression, to cause confusion w