Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Gestational Diabetes in Pregnancy Gestational Diabetes in Pregnancy Causes, Treatment, Health Risks of Gestational Diabetes Carbs in Food Glycemic Index GI of Carbs Glycemic Load of Carbs GI Diet - Low GI Diet Information 
        About Carbs | Carbohydrates Guide | Low Carb Diets Guide to Gestational Diabetes Diabetes During Pregnancy Gestational diabetes is a form of diabetes 
        (excessive blood glucose) that occurs in some women during the later part 
        of their pregnancy. Gestational diabetes affects about 4 percent of all 
        pregnant women - about 135,000 cases of are diagnosed in the United States 
        each year - and is more prevalent among very overweight or obese women, 
        and among women with a family history of diabetes. While this type of 
        diabetes usually disappears after the baby is born, the patient has a 
        higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes later in life. How is Gestational Diabetes Diagnosed? There is no clear consensus on what precise 
        level of blood glucose is required to diagnose a case of gestational diabetes. 
        This is because glucose levels naturally rise and fall during pregnancy. 
        Diagnosis of gestational diabetes is based upon the results of an oral 
        glucose tolerance test (OGTT), usually administered when the patient is 
        between 24 to 28 weeks pregnant, although it may be performed earlier 
        for women who have a higher than normal risk for diabetes. Who is at Risk of Gestational Diabetes? Women aged 30 years and over. Women with a family history of Type 2 diabetes. Women who suffer from obesity (BMI > 30). Women who have had gestational diabetes during an earlier pregnancy. Women who have difficulty carrying a pregnancy to term. Women belonging to certain ethnic groups. What are the Causes of Gestational Diabetes? Medical experts are unsure what causes 
        gestational diabetes. At present, attention centers on hormonal problems. 
        During pregnancy, the placenta secretes hormones that help the baby to 
        grow and develop. However, these hormones may block the action of the 
        mother’s insulin, causing a condition known as insulin resistance 
        which means the mother's insulin cannot be properly utilized to regulate 
        blood sugar levels. As a result, glucose builds up in the blood to high 
        levels (hyperglycemia). How Does Gestational Diabetes Affect Mother 
        and Baby? As blood sugar crosses the placenta, the 
        baby is exposed to the mom's high glucose level. This excessive level 
        of glucose causes the baby’s pancreas to produce extra insulin, which 
        in turn leads the baby to absorb more energy than it needs to grow and 
        develop. This energy surplus can lead to macrosomia, or a "fat" 
        baby. Babies with macrosomia incur specific health problems, such as damage 
        to their shoulders during birth, and post-natal breathing problems. Also, 
        such babies have a higher risk of developing obesity and type 2 diabetes 
        later in life. What is the Treatment For Gestational 
        Diabetes? Treating gestational diabetes typically 
        involves four elements: 1. Maintain Healthy Blood Glucose Levels Some gestational diabetics require drug 
        treatment or insulin injections to control blood sugar levels. Most patients 
        are able to discontinue this treatment after having their baby. 2. Healthy Eating Women with gestational diabetes are advised 
        to: Eat little and often. Include a low-GI carbohydrate at most meals. Choose nutrient-dense foods: meaning foods which contain all the necessary 
        nutrition for a healthy pregnancy, including: folic acid, calcium, iron. Adopt a low-saturated-fat diet. Eat plenty of dietary fiber. Note: Advice From American Diabetes 
        Association Nutrition requirements during pregnancy 
          and lactation are similar for women with and without diabetes. Medical nutrition therapy for gestational 
          diabetes focuses on food choices for appropriate weight gain, normoglycemia, 
          and absence of ketones. For some women with gestational diabetes, 
          modest energy and carbohydrate restriction may be appropriate. Patients with gestational diabetes should 
          see a dietitian/nutritionist to ensure they make the healthiest food 
          choices for themselves and their baby. 3. Physical Exercise Taking regular healthy exercise helps to 
        improve insulin sensitivity, combats high glucose levels, assists weight 
        control and prepares you for the birth of your baby. For a suitable exercise 
        routine, check with your physician. 4. Weight Management While not a direct cause of gestational 
        diabetes, obesity or severe overweight is strongly associated with the 
        incidence of type 2 diabetes as well as other metabolic disorders such 
        as insulin resistance syndrome and cardiovascular disease. Therefore, 
        if you have gestational diabetes, it's important to limit weight gain 
        during pregnancy by maintaining the proper level of calorie intake and 
        expenditure. A nutrient dense GI Diet is probably the best diet plan. 
        For specific advice, check with your doctor. General Advice 
        For Diabetics Diabetes Information Diabetes Symptoms Diabetes Test Diabetes Treatment Diabetes Management Diabetes Health Problems Diabetes and Weight Loss Gestational Diabetes Pre-Diabetes Guide Hyperglycemia - High Blood Glucose Hypoglycemia - Low Blood Glucose Diabetic Diet Advice Diabetes, Carbs and Diet Diabetes Health on Low 
        Carb Diet Obesity Information Diabesity, Diabetes and Obesity Hormone to Lower 
        Blood Glucose Insulin Information Insulin Hormone & Blood 
        Glucose Hyperinsulimia - High Insulin Levels Insulin and Glucose For Brain Insulin and Obesity Insulin Development Types of Insulin Synthetic Insulin: Animal/Human Long Acting Insulin Intermediate Acting Insulin Rapid Acting Insulin Short Acting Insulin Insulin Resistance Insulin Resistance, Obesity, 
        Carbs Insulin Resistance Syndrome Carbs and Glycemic 
        Response Carbohydrates Information Complex Carbs Guide Facts About Carbohydrates Dietary Fiber Digestion of Carbs Blood Glucose Levels Glucose into Energy Blood Glucose Monitor/Meter Glycemic Index Food Chart Glycemic Index - How Measured? What Affects Glycemic 
        Value? Glycemic Value of a Meal Health Effects 
        of High GI Carbs Glycemic Index Food Pyramid GI Diet Recipes Glycemic Index (GI) GI Values in Carbohydrates GI Value For Beans GI Value For Bread GI Value For Cereal GI Value For Dairy Food GI Value For Drinks GI Value For Fruit GI Value For Meat/Fish GI Value For Nuts GI Value For Snacks GI Value For Starchy Carbs GI Value For Sugar GI Value For Vegetables GI Value For Whole Grains Carbs-Information.com provides general 
        information about the glycemic index (GI), glycemic load (GL), low GI 
        diets, GI values for all food groups, health problems of high blood glucose 
        including metabolic disorders such as pre-diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance, 
        insulin resistance, hyperinsulinism as well as type 1 and type 2 diabetes. 
        But no information is intended as a s