Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Male Circumcision May Not Protect Against HIV
    Infection T HE C IRCUMCISION N EWS L IBRARY DOCTOR'S GUIDE, August 17, 2006. Male Circumcision May Not Protect Against HIV
            Infection By Danny Kucharsky TORONTO, CANADA -- August 17, 2006 -- HIV prevalence
            is not necessarily lower in populations that have
            higher male circumcision rates, according to findings
            from a study of African countries presented here at the
            16th International AIDS Conference (AIDS 2006). The study, which examined the association between male
            circumcision and HIV infection in 8 Sub-Saharan African
            countries, contradicts the findings of previous
            research and the opinion of several prominent
            personalities active in the fight against AIDS, such as
            former US President Bill Clinton. While several studies have indicated that male
            circumcision has a protective effect against sexually
            transmitted infections (STI), including HIV infection,
            the evidence is inconclusive, said investigator Dr.
            Vinod Mishra, director of research, ORC
            Macro , Calverton, Maryland. "We're just questioning
            that push," he said of the optimism displayed by
            Clinton and others. The study used demographic findings from recent
            demographic and health surveys in Burkina Faso,
            Cameroon, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho and Malawi, and AIDS
            indicator surveys from Tanzania and Uganda. The surveys
            were conducted from 2003 to 2005 and sample sizes
            ranged from 3,300 men in Lesotho to 10,000 men in
            Uganda. In survey fieldwork in each country, men aged 15 to 59
            gave blood for anonymous HIV testing. Information on
            circumcision status and on STI/STI symptoms was based
            on men's responses to questions in survey
            interviews. Prevalence of male circumcision ranged from a high of
            96% in Ghana to a low of 21% in Malawi. Among the other
            countries, circumcision rates were 84% in Kenya, 89% in
            Burkina Faso and 25% in Uganda. HIV prevalence was markedly lower among circumcised
            than uncircumcised men only in Kenya (11.5% among
            uncircumcised men vs. 3.1% among circumcised men). A
            small protective effect of male circumcision was also
            seen in Burkina Faso (2.9% vs. 1.7%, respectively) and
            Uganda (5.5% vs. 3.7%). In the other countries, there was either no difference
            in HIV rates between circumcised and uncircumcised men
            or circumcised men were more likely to be HIV-positive
            than uncircumcised men. For example, in Lesotho, HIV
            was seen in 23.4% of circumcised men compared to 15.4%
            of uncircumcised men. "If anything, the correlation [between circumcision
            and HIV infection] goes the other way," in most of the
            countries studied, Dr. Mishra said during his
            presentation on August 15th. When adjusted for socio-demographic and behavioral
            factors, a small protective effect was observed in 6 of
            the 8 countries, but it was not statistically
            significant in any country, Dr. Mishra said. In Kenya, and to a lesser extent, in Ghana, Malawi,
            Tanzania and Uganda, circumcised men were less likely
            than uncircumcised men to report having had an STI or
            STI symptoms in the 12-month period prior to the survey
            (2.1% vs. 5.4%, respectively). The relationship was
            reversed in Cameroon (8.0% vs. 2.5%) and Lesotho (12.1%
            vs. 7.5%). With other factors controlled, male circumcision had
            some protective effect in 5 of the 8 countries, but the
            effect was statistically significant only in
            Tanzania. In addition, "circumcised men tend to have more
            lifetime sex partners, so there's some [high-risk]
            behaviors that go with circumcision status," he
            said. A study limitation is that it was based on
            self-reported information on circumcision status and
            STI/STI symptoms. It also lacks data on age at
            circumcision and degree of circumcision, which might
            influence susceptibility to HIV infection. However, Dr. Mishra said the study is consistent with
            other research that has failed to find a protective
            effect of male circumcision on HIV and STIs. [Presentation title: Is Male Circumcision
            Protective of HIV Infection? Abstract TUPE0401 ] Copyright © 2006 P\S\L Consulting Group Inc. Citation: Danny Kucharsky. Male circumcision may not protect
      against HIV infection. Doctors Guide , August 17,
      2006. (File created 14 March 2008) Home P