
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8k PHP/5.3.10
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Content-Type: text/html
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 22:39:11 GMT
Connection: close

Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Humidifiers | AllergyBuyersClub View Cart | Checkout Store Hours | Order Status I Need Relief From Select Allergies Asthma Bed Bugs Chemicals Dust Mites Humidity Mold & Mildew Pet Dander Pollen Sinuses Shop By Brand Select Air O Swiss Humidifiers Airfree Air Sterilizers Airpura Air Purifiers Alen Air Purifiers Austin Air Purifiers Blueair Air Purifiers Crane Humidifiers Danby Dehumidifiers Delonghi Dehumidifiers Dyson Vacuums Electrolux Vacuum Cleaners Friedrich Dehumidifiers Frigidaire Dehumidifiers IQAir Air Purifiers Ladybug Steam Cleaners Miele Vacuum Cleaners Plasmawave Air Purifiers Santa Fe Dehumidifiers Sebo Vacuum Cleaners Winix Dehumidifiers Whirlpool Air Purifiers All Brands Air Purifiers | Asthma | Bedding | Dehumidifiers | EMF | Furniture | Humidifiers | Lighting | Sinus Care | Steam Cleaners | Vacuum Cleaners | Water Filters | CATALOG Humidifiers Cool Mist Humidifiers Warm Mist Humidifiers Ultrasonic Humidifiers Bedroom Humidifiers Nursery Humidifiers Small Portable Humidifiers Air Washer Humidifiers Whole House Humidifiers Humidifiers On Sale Humidifier Filters Humidifier Filters Comparisons Compare Humidifiers Reviews Humidifier Reviews ON SALE GIFTS New Products Top Categories Air Purifiers Bedding Dehumidifiers Dust Mite Covers Humidifiers Replacement Filters Steam Cleaners Vacuum Cleaners Water Filters All Categories Air Conditioners Air Purifiers Asthma Treatment Bath Bedding Bed Bug Covers Dust Mite Covers Carpet Cleaners Cleaning Cleaning Supplies Clothing Dehumidifiers Dental Health EMF Shields Fans Floor Cleaners Furnace Filters Furniture Health & Beauty Home Decor Humidifiers Mattresses Natural Lighting Nutrition Supplements Pet Allergy Control Replacement Filters Saunas Sinus Care Steam Cleaners Steam Mops Test Kits UV Sanitization Vacuum Cleaners Water Filters Clearance Center Learning Center Customer Service FAQ Order Catalog Order Status Returns Shipping Policy Programs Affiliates Medical Reimbursement Patient Literature Press / Media Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Humidifiers Expert: Customer: 5/5 See all customer reviews or write a customer review about Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Humidifiers. Quiet, effective, and easy to clean by: Chris (Washington, USA) "Disclaimer: I do not have allergies. I searched for a humidifier after moving into an apartment with forced air, in the Pacifi..." See entire review Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Warm Cool Mist Humidifiers #BL-006A Stadler Form William Ultrasonic cool & warm mist humidifier makes an excellent humidifier for areas up to 650 square feet. Features an Ionic Silver Cube and anti-calcium cartridge for clean, bacteria-free mist. Fast, reliable shipping. Stadler Form William BL-006A Humidifiers Covers up to 650 sq. ft. Features integrated hygrostat and digital display. Includes Ionic Silver Cube and anti-calcium cartridge. Availability: Ships out in 1 - 2 business days. Does not ship to Canada ZS HU BLACK $229.99 Qty. Supplies and Accessories Anti-Calcium Cartridge (Replace every 2 - 4 months) Ionic Silver Cube (Replace once a year) Availability: Ships out in 1 - 2 business days. Does not ship to Canada ZS HU CART $19.99 Qty. View Cart | Checkout Description Features Tech Specs Reviews Supplies & Accessories Buy Here Description of Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Cool & Warm Mist Humidifiers The stylish, smooth Stadler Form William BL-006A Ultrasonic Humidifier will fill your bedroom, nursery or office with gentle comforting moisture and help relieve dry skin, sore throats, swollen nasal passages and asthma. Its ultrasonic technology allows you to quietly disperse either a satisfying warm or cool micro-fine mist during those dry periods. The 1.5 gallon tank is equipped with a patented Ionic Silver Cube™ to inhibit the growth of harmful mold and bacteria that could potentially enter the air. Outfitted with all that is possible in modern engineering, the William humidifier also features an integrated hygrostat, preheating (enhanced mist distribution), sleep mode with dimmed lights and 3 output levels. The Stadler Form humidifier features everything you need to keep the climate ideal while also matching your sense of style. William provides up to 3.5 gallons of humidity output per day and covers areas up to 650 square feet. See all of our Stadler Form Humidifiers. Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Cool & Warm Mist Humidifiers are ideal for someone who... Suffers from allergies, asthma or sinus pressure and wants a portable humidifier free of all common household bacteria, mold and spores that can breed in tap water. Would like to choose between a warm or cool mist for a room up to 650 square feet. Is seeking a stylish humidifier with exceptional functionality. Would like a humidifier equipped with an Ionic Silver Cube and anti-calcium cartridge to keep the water clean, bacteria-free and healthy. Buy Here Top Features of Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Cool & Warm Mist Humidifiers Integrated hygrostat determines perfect level of moisture Ionic Silver Cube™ inhibits the growth of mold and bacteria in tank Anti-calcium cartridge reduces white dust Desired humidity level settings: 40% - 75% Mist output levels: low, medium, high Dual mist output diffuser Sleep mode with dimmed lights 1 – 8 hour timer mode Continuous operation mode Virtually silent operation Automatic shut-off with refill light Transparent tank w/ carry handle Sleek, modern design Control Panel Care of: It is recommended to replace the Ionic Silver Cube once a year or at the beginning of every humidifying season. The anti-calcium cartridge should be replaced every 2 – 4 months depending on the hardness of the water. Buy Here Top Technical Specifications of Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Cool & Warm Mist Humidifiers &nbsp Stadler Form William BL-006A Humidifiers Room Coverage 650 sq. ft. Tank Capacity 1.5 gallons Humidification Performance Up to 3.5 gallons per 24 hours Auto Shut-Off Yes Power Supply (Volt, Hertz, Watts) 120V, 60Hz, 40 watts (125 watts preheating) Weight 7.3 lbs Dimensions 12.2"H x 9.1"W x 6.3"D Warranty 1 year Buy Here Top Reports by Experts and Customers - Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Cool & Warm Mist Humidifiers Expert Review: Courtesy of AllergyBuyersClub.com EXPERT REVIEW PARAMETERS STAR RATING 1. Room Coverage 2. Level of Quietness 3. Filter Life & Cost of Replacement Cartridges 4. Amount of Maintenance Required 5. Anti-bacterial Features 6. Ease of Filling 7. Ease of Operation and Filter Replacement 8. Quality of Construction 9. Humidistat to select desired humidity level & hygrometer to display the actual humidity in the room 10. Frequency of Filling 11. Value for Price One of our newest additions, the William by Stadler Form is a sleek and stylish humidifier with undeniable functionality. It is a great choice for allergy and asthma sufferers looking for relief in a large bedroom or living area. Pluses: Covers areas up to 650 square feet. Operates in virtual silence. Delivers both cool or warm mist. Ionic Silver cube and anti calcium cartridge inhibit the growth of mold and bacteria in the tank. Lightweight and compact tank allow you to refill with ease. The integrated humidistat disperses the right amount of mist for your comfort. Equipped with automatic shut off and refill light. Backed by a 1 year warranty. Minuses: Anti calcium cartridge should be replaced every 2-4 months Summary: Dry skin and sinus issues are quickly subdued thanks to the efficiency of the William by Stadler Form. This humidifier comes equipped with a built in hygrostat and features both sleep and timer modes, a dual mist output diffuser and desired humidity level settings that range form 40%-75%. Easy to use controls are explained in an informative and clear owner's manual. This energy efficient humidifier has a sleek and modern design that is easy on the eyes as well as your sinuses. Buy Here Top Supplies & Accessories for Stadler Form William Ultrasonic Cool & Warm Mist Humidifiers Stadler Form A-111 Ionic Silver Cube ZS HU CUBE $29.99 Replace once a year or at the beginning of every humidifying season. For all Stadler Form humidifiers. more info Availability: Ships out in 1 - 2 business days. Does not ship to Canada Stadler Form A-112 Anti-Calcium Cartridge ZS HU CART $19.99 Replace every 2 – 4 months depending on the hardness of the water. For Stadler Form models: William (BL-006A), Anton (A-002A, A-001A, A-006A, A-005A), Aquila (EMS-164), Hydra (EMS-171), Hera (EMS-300) more info Availability: Ships out in 1 - 2 business days. Does not ship to Canada Buy Here Top Stadler Form William BL-006A Humidifiers ZS HU BLACK $229.99 Ultrasonic humidifier distributes a comfortable cool or warm mist for rooms up to 650 square feet. An Ionic Silver Cube and anti-calcium cartridge keeps the water clean and pure. Features a built-in hygrostat. Availability: Ships out in 1 - 2 business days. Does not ship to Canada You Might Also Like... Stadler Form A-112 Anti-Calcium Cartridge ZS HU CART $19.99 Availability: Ships out in 1 - 2 business days. Does not ship to Canada Stadler Form A-111 Ionic Silver Cube ZS HU CUBE $29.99 Availability: Ships out in 1 - 2 business days. Does not ship to Canada BGG Digital Hygrometer & Thermometer Clock GE DE BGG02 $42.95 Availability: Ships out within 1 - 3 business days. View Accessories Click here for BBB Business Review © 1998-2012 AllergyBuyersClub.com - A Division of Boston Green Goods Inc. All Rights Reserved. Information presented at AllergyBuyersClub.com is developed by the AllergyBuyersClub Staff+ and is for educational
            purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment. Use of this online service is subject
            to the disclaimer and the terms
              and conditions . *Free shipping on all orders over $150 for the 48 contiguous states. Excludes some heavyweight items as noted on specific product pages. Contact
            Us - About
            Us - Privacy
            Policy - Shipping - Customer Service - Affiliate Progra