Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Circumcision circumspection: Weigh the facts before
    making the call T HE C IRCUMCISION N EWS L IBRARY THE TRIBUNE, Chicago, Tuesday, January 9, 2007, HEALTH BEAT: PROCEDURE DEBATE Circumcision circumspection Weigh the facts before making the call By Judy Peres Tribune staff reporter Published January 9, 2007 To snip or not to snip? That is the question
            increasingly being asked of pediatricians. Circumcision, a procedure once performed routinely
            on nearly all newborn baby boys in America, has become
            a matter of debate -- a choice new parents must make,
            rather than a given. It's a pretty common question for both first-time
            and more experienced parents," said Dr. Poj Lysouvakon,
            co-director of the general-care nursery at the University of Chicago Hospitals .
            "Many have heard it's painful for babies, and some men
            who were circumcised as infants say they feel they were
            assaulted or violated. "As a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics ,
            which no longer recommends routine neonatal
            circumcision, I tell them it's a cultural issue and a
            personal decision." The established downsides of circumcision include
            pain, trauma and a risk of infection (as with any
            surgical procedure) and possibly reduced sensation,
            Lysouvakon said. On the benefit side, circumcision can
            prevent some urinary-tract infections in infancy;
            reduce the already-small risk of penile cancer later in
            life; and provide some protection against sexually
            transmitted diseases, including HIV, the virus that
            causes AIDS. Circumcision, in which the foreskin of the penis is
            surgically removed, was introduced in the U.S. in the
            late 1800s as a remedy for masturbation. It became
            extremely common during the last century. But the of American babies being
            circumcised before leaving the hospital has gone from
            an estimated 85 percent in 1965 to 57 percent in
            2004 (the last year for which data are
            available), according to the Centers for Disease
            Control and Prevention. In most other Western
            countries, circumcision is performed only for religious
            reasons. Although most private insurers still cover the
            procedure, 16 states have stopped
            paying for elective circumcision under their Medicaid
            programs. They include California, Oregon,
            Washington, Arizona, Montana and Nevada. That could
            explain why far fewer newborn males are circumcised in
            the West than in other regions. (A study published last year in the Journal of
            Urology also found significant ethnic and socioeconomic
            differences. Circumcision rates increase in direct
            proportion to income, and both whites and blacks are
            about four times more likely to be circumcised than
            Hispanics.) Ethan, a Chicagoan who asked that his last name not
            be used, said he and his wife decided not to circumcise
            their two sons, now ages 5 and 1. "We didn't think it
            was a good idea to impose an operation on a baby that
            was not medically necessary," he said. Nevertheless, parents such as Ethan are still in the
            minority in this part of the country. According to the
            CDC, 80 percent of baby boys in the Midwest are
            circumcised before being discharged from the hospital,
            compared with 32 percent in the West. Last month two studies from Africa were released
            showing that circumcision can halve the rate of men
            contracting HIV through heterosexual sex. Lysouvakon
            said the study might "lend more weight to the argument
            that infant males should be circumcised." But opponents of circumcision, who have become
            increasingly vocal in recent years, point out that very
            few U.S. men are infected with HIV by female partners,
            and that practicing safe sex makes more sense than
            amputating a useful body part. Advocates on either side of the circumcision divide
            disagree on how useful the foreskin is. "Intactivists"
            argue that half of the penis' sensual nerve endings are
            in the foreskin and that circumcised men ( and perhaps their
            partners ) have decreased sexual pleasure. Although there is little solid evidence of that,
            there is a burgeoning group of circumcised men who feel
            they might be missing something. Ron Low is their
            savior. Low, a 44-year-old Northbrook engineer, makes foreskin-restoration devices in his
            spare time. They are clones of an invention he used to
            "regrow" his own foreskin over a period of about three
            years. He says business is up at least 20 percent over
            a year earlier; in all, he has sold about 7,500 devices
            since 2003. Low also is a U.S. distributor of a British import
            called SenSlip, a prosthetic foreskin that promises to
            provide pleasurable sensations and increase sensitivity
            over time. But he says his devices, the TLC Tugger (at
            $50) and Your-Skin Restoration Cone ($9), are better
            and cheaper. "One SenSlip device [which costs at least $12] lasts
            only a week or two, and then you have to replace it,"
            Low said. "I'd rather promote something more permanent,
            which is growing new skin." ---------- jperes@tribune.com Copyright © 2007, Chicago Tribune Citation: Judy Peres. Circumcision circumspection. The
      Tribune , Chicago, Tuesday, January 9, 2007. (File created 12 January 2007) 