Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Alzheimer's Disease - Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment and Information Home Start The Analyst Condition Index FAQ Search Forum Alzheimer's Disease Alzheimer's Disease Signs and symptoms Conditions that suggest it Contributing risk factors What has similar symptoms Treatment Prevention Alzheimer's Disease: Overview Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of senile dementia . The causes are not yet known, and up to now there is no effective treatment. Patients with Alzheimer's disease deteriorate very gradually, so the disease is often not detected in its early stages. As the disease develops, two key structural changes are often observed in the brain: The build-up of plaque, consisting mostly of beta-amyloid peptides The development of neurofibrillary tangles, generated by phosphorylated tau-proteins. Increased free radical activity (oxidative stress) appears to fuel Alzheimer's pathology - acting simultaneously as a mediator, product, and trigger for this "clogging" process and its related neural damage. Incidence; Contributing Risk Factors By the year 2001, over 4 million living Americans had been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and, barring scientific progress, about 14 million will have it by the middle of this century. Scientists are increasingly finding that it is a combination of many interrelated factors that seems to strongly influence a person's genetic predisposition to develop this devastating degenerative condition. The top two risk factors of the disease - age and genetics - are beyond people's control, yet decisive forces in the Alzheimer's epidemiology. Vaccinations have shown protective and reversal effects. Although promising, it is still unknown if one will be successfully developed for human use. There is no protective effect of smoking for men, but for women who are not carriers of the gene APOE 4, there appeared to be a protective effect, claim researchers. However, among women who are carriers of the gene, smoking appears to increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease . Treatment and Prevention A very important factor in the treatment of Alzheimer's is keeping active - both physically and mentally. Walking, tai chi, swimming, reading, playing games and socializing with others are all excellent ways to keep active. In China, old people who are surrounded by a loving family and have grandchildren around have better mental function than those who live alone. We are not saying that you have to live in a crowded house with an extended family to be healthy, but do recommend having a hobby and keeping some excitement in your life. Although a relationship between a stressful lifestyle, a low level of education and a lack of stimulation has been raised through some studies, experts say such links are not yet definitive but deserving of further study. Despite the unproven associations, what harm could fostering a healthier, less stressful lifestyle be? Moderate alcohol consumption may reduce the risk. One study found that those drinking under one or two drinks per day had a roughly 50% lower risk of developing the disease, while people drinking more than one or two drinks had a 30% lower risk than non-drinkers. Although a protective effect may be had by consuming alcohol, the advice to drink is still premature. Some people are consuming a modest level of alcohol each day as a preventative measure against heart disease and this study appears to confirm that benefit. Tacrine is a synthetic drug that has been used successfully with Alzheimer's patients. Studies indicate that Alzheimer's patients have a deficiency of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) in particular areas of the brain. Tacrine works by blocking the enzyme that breaks down ACh, which means that more ACh is available in the brain. Chinese Medicine According to Chinese medicine theory, the kidney is the internal organ system that is responsible for reproduction, growth and aging over time. The kidneys also control the bones, the bone marrow (which includes the brain and spinal cord), the head hair and the ears. The Western idea of genetic inheritance is very compatible with the Chinese concept of identifying the Kidneys with reproduction and inherited constitution. Furthermore, the traditional kidney-related signs of aging, such as gray hair, loss of memory and hearing difficulties are also compatible with what Western medicine recognizes as age-related adrenal gland slowdown or dysfunction. Both Eastern and Western medicine recognize that stress can affect the adrenal glands and accelerate the aging process. Because signs of aging, including symptoms of Alzheimer's, are related to loss of Kidney energy over time, part of the treatment for Alzheimer's is taking Kidney tonics. There are many foods and herbs that are valued by the Chinese as Kidney energy tonifiers. Some good Kidney foods are black sesame seeds, kelp, shiitake and black ear mushrooms. In general, black and/or salty-tasting foods act on Kidney energy. Some herbs that benefit the kidneys are He Shou Wu, rehmannia root and ginseng. During the last 20 to 30 years, Asian scientists have been systematically analyzing the herbs used in traditional Chinese medicine. The traditional uses of herbs are often completely validated by scientific research. Unfortunately, much of this research and information is not available in the U.S. because it is only printed in Chinese or Japanese journals. Western pharmaceutical companies tend to focus on developing synthetic drugs that can be patented, rather than researching existing plant material. There are several Chinese herbs that have a positive effect on Alzheimer's symptoms, including the well-known ginseng (Panax ginseng) and ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba). Ginsenosides from ginseng can increase production of ACh in the brain. Ginseng has been used for centuries in China as a warming, yang-stimulating herb that improves mental function. Huperzine A, derived from Hyperzia serrata root, works in a similar manner to the synthetic drug Tancrine. Aside from Gingko, two other herbs, Yi Ye Chau (Securinega suffruticosa) and Fan Hong Hua (Crocus sativa), have been proven to have positive effects on the central nervous system . Signs, symptoms & indicators of Alzheimer's Disease: Symptoms - Head - Nose Reduced sense of taste or smell A reduced sense of smell can be one of the first signs of Alzheimer's Disease . Results from a 'smell' test, though not commonly available, were found by one study to be predictive of who would progress to Alzheimer's disease. A person's sense of smell is one of the first parts of the neurological system that Alzheimer's attacks. All 19 patients with mild cognitive impairment who developed Alzheimer's over the course of the study had low scores in smelling ability, the study found. None of the 30 individuals who scored well on the test developed Alzheimer's disease during the follow-up period, which averaged 20 months. These results were preliminary and more testing needs to be done. Symptoms - Mind - General Occasional/frequent confusion/disorientation Short-term memory failure Long-term memory failure Counter-indicators: Not having short-term memory failure No confusion/disorientation (confirmed) Conditions that suggest Alzheimer's Disease: Aging Parkinson's Disease About 30% of Parkinson's disease victims eventually develop Alzheimer's disease or other forms of dementia . Environment / Toxicity Heavy Metal Toxicity Because Alzheimer's patients often exhibit increased concentration of heavy metals in their blood and brain, toxic exposure is believed to play an important role. Mercury Toxicity (Amalgam Illness) Because Alzheimer's patients often exhibit increased concentration of heavy metals such as mercury in their blood and brain, toxic exposure is believed to play an important role. The areas of the brain that mercury favors are those involved with memory (amygdala and hippocampus ). Is is not just aluminum that is implicated in Alzheimer's. Symptoms - Mind - General Alzheimer's disease (confirmed) Risk factors for Alzheimer's Disease: Autoimmune Diabetes Type I According to a new study in Neurology, diabetes mellitus may not only damage the function of the eye, limbs, kidneys , and heart - it may also impair the function of the brain and hasten the process of senile dementia . Researchers found that diabetes mellitus nearly doubles the risk of developing both vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease , according to the Rotterdam Study, a large prospective analysis which tracked dysglycemia and dementia in over 6,000 individuals over age 55. Diagnosis of diabetes was based on World Health Organization criteria using a glucose tolerance test. A related editorial called Alzheimer's a possible "brain-type diabetes". Besides damaging important blood vessel networks and increasing the risk of small "silent" strokes deep inside the brain, dysglycemia may be directly involved in the development of the neurofibrillary tangles, the clumping of nerves and fiber tissue inside the brain characteristic of Alzheimer's. The researchers noted that advanced glycation endproducts (AGE), proteins damaged by chronically high blood sugar levels, are commonly found inside these tangles. "In brains of AD patients the receptor for AGE appears overexpressed," they noted. "Activation of this receptor leads to increased oxidative stress that may result in cellular damage." Diabetes also disrupts insulin signaling to other cells in the body. This altered signaling may increase the activity of a neuronal enzyme that stimulates phosphorylated tau proteins to build up, a key trigger mechanism cited as one of the earliest signs of Alzheimer's . NOTE: This study strongly suggests the important potential role of glycation products and insulin response, not just glucose levels, in the etiology of degenerative disease. Diet Excess Salt Consumption August 25th, 2011: A study published in the journal Neurobiology of Aging has found that elderly people who have salt-rich diets and exercise little suffer quicker mental decline. Just over a teaspoon (7.7gm) of salt a day can dull the mind and raise the risk of Alzheimer's , the study suggests. The team from the University of Toronto tracked salt consumption and physical activity of 1,262 healthy men and women aged between 67 and 84 over a three-year period. They also assessed the mental health of the participants at the start of the study and once a year for the duration. The good news is that sedentary older adults showed no cognitive decline over the three years if they had low sodium intake. Family History Alzheimer's in family members By age 80, people with Alzheimer's disease in both parents had a 54% risk, 1.5 times the risk of Alzheimer's in people with just one affected parent, and 5 times the risk of people with two unaffected parents. Lab Values Elevated Homocysteine Levels People with elevated levels of homocysteine have nearly double the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease , according to a report from researchers at Boston University. The findings, which come from the long-running Framingham Study, are the first to tie homocysteine levels measured several years before with later diagnosis of Alzheimer's and other dementias. The report, which appeared in the New England Journal of Medicine, provides some of the most compelling evidence yet of an association between high plasma homocysteine and eventual significant memory loss. High Total Cholesterol It is thought that the connection between high cholesterol and Alzheimer's disease exists in a protein called beta-amyloid, a sticky substance that builds up in the brains of Alzheimer's patients leading to nerve cell damage and loss of cognitive function. Accumulation of the protein is believed to be related to higher cholesterol levels. Lifestyle Moderate/low aerobic exercise level Keeping an active mind and body has been shown to reduce slightly the risk of developing the disease. Counter-indicators: (Very) good aerobic exercise level Keeping an active mind and body has been shown to reduce slightly the risk of developing the disease. Organ Health Diabetes Type II According to a new study in Neurology, diabetes mellitus may not only damage the function of the eye, limbs, kidneys , and heart - it may also impair the function of the brain and hasten the process of senile dementia . Researchers found that diabetes mellitus nearly doubles the risk of developing both vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease , according to the Rotterdam Study, a large prospective analysis which tracked dysglycemia and dementia in over 6,000 individuals over the age of 55. Diagnosis of diabetes was based on World Health Organization criteria using a glucose tolerance test. A related editorial called Alzheimer's a possible "brain-type diabetes". Besides damaging important blood vessel networks and increasing the risk of small "silent" strokes deep inside the brain, dysglycemia may be directly involved in the development of the neurofibrillary tangles, the clumping of nerves and fiber tissue inside the brain characteristic of Alzheimer's. The researchers noted that advanced glycation endproducts (AGE), proteins damaged by chronically high blood sugar levels, are commonly found inside these tangles. "In brains of AD patients the receptor for AGE appears overexpressed," they noted. "Activation of this receptor leads to increased oxidative stress that may result in cellular damage." Diabetes also disrupts insulin signaling to other cells in the body. This altered signaling may increase the activity of a neuronal enzyme that stimulates phosphorylated tau proteins to build up, a key trigger mechanism cited as one of the earliest signs of Alzheimer's . NOTE: This study strongly suggests the important potential role of glycation products and insulin response, not just glucose levels, in the etiology of degenerative disease. Symptoms - Glandular Poorly controlled diabetes Reasonably controlled diabetes According to a study in Neurology , diabetes mellitus may not only damage the function of the eyes, limbs, kidneys , and heart - it may also impair the function of the brain and hasten the process of senile dementia . Researchers have found that diabetes mellitus nearly doubles the risk of developing both vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease , according to a Rotterdam Study that tracked dysglycemia and dementia in over 6,000 individuals over age 55. Diagnosis of diabetes was based on World Health Organization criteria using a glucose tolerance test. A related editorial called Alzheimer's a possible "brain-type diabetes." Besides damaging important blood vessel networks and increasing the risk of small "silent" strokes deep inside the brain, dysglycemia may be directly involved in the development of the neurofibrillary tangles, the clumping of nerves and fiber tissue inside the brain characteristic of Alzheimer's. The researchers noted that advanced glycation endproducts (AGE), proteins damaged by chronically high blood sugar levels, are commonly found inside these tangles. "In brains of AD patients the receptor for AGE appears overexpressed," they noted. "Activation of this receptor leads to increased oxidative stress that may result in cellular damage." Diabetes also disrupts insulin-signaling to other cells in the body. This altered signaling may increase the activity of a neuronal enzyme that stimulates phosphorylated tau proteins to build up, a key trigger mechanism cited as one of the earliest signs of Alzheimer's . NOTE: This study strongly suggests the important potential role of glycation products and insulin response, not just glucose levels, as being causes of degenerative disease. Symptoms - Mind - General Possible Alzheimer's disease (Serious) past head injury Besides age and genetics, most experts agree the evidence is conclusive enough to name serious head injury as a strong risk factor for the disease. Inflammation in the brain can lead to the death of cells which contributes to the disease. Not keeping mind active Staying mentally active/stimulated appears to reduce the risk. Counter-indicators: Keeping mind active Staying mentally active/stimulated appears to reduce the risk. Alzheimer's Disease could instead be: Circulation Megaloblastic Anemia / Pernicious Anemia Pernicious Anemia can be mistaken for Alzheimer's in older patients. Infections Lyme Disease Spirochetes, such as those found in Lyme disease, may be one of the causes of Alzheimer's disease and may also be the source of beta amyloid deposited in the brains of such infected patients. Sexually-Transmitted Diseases STD Syphilis See the link between syphilis and schizophrenia . Recommendations and treatments for Alzheimer's Disease: Botanical Chlorella A study showed that among 50 people with Alzheimer’s, aged 70-90, taking 6gm daily of chlorella for 6 months, 68% experienced either a stabilization or improvement in cognitive functions. Ginkgo Biloba Patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's-type dementia have shown statistically significant improvement with Ginkgo use. One effect of Ginkgo extract is that of promoting vasodilation and blood flow, thus providing a therapeutic effect on cognitive disorders and high blood pressure. In Germany, doctors are enthusiastic about the benefits of ginkgo. A combination of ginkgo and ginseng called Gincosan is claimed to produce very good results in elderly patients. Diet Weight Loss Sugars Avoidance / Reduction Aspartame (Nutrasweet) Avoidance Aspartame use has been reported to trigger symptoms of Alzheimer's disease . Drug NSAIDs At least twenty studies suggest that Ibuprofen and other NSAIDs - common non-prescription drugs - may slow or prevent the onset of Alzheimer's disease by as much as 60%. Researchers say it also opens up a new way to think about how Ibuprofen protects the brain. "We've shown that a drug that's available, that's been in use for 30 to 40 years, and for which we know the side-effect profiles... can reduce both the inflammatory response to amyloid and the amyloid itself" , says study leader Gregory M. Cole of the University of California in Los Angeles. Note that NSAIDs can cause serious stomach problems, including bleeding. Investigators therefore hesitate to recommend widespread use of the drugs until they can develop safer versions. Certain NSAIDs work by decreasing the levels of amyloid-beta 42 rather than by inhibiting cyclooxygenase, as was once proposed. Advil (Ibuprofen) is the most effective, requiring as little as 800mg per day to reduce the risk of Alzheimer's without serious side-effects. Other NSAIDs require much higher doses to achieve this benefit, while aspirin, Naproxen and celeloxib (Celebrex) were found ineffective. Lab Tests/Rule-Outs Test for Hormones Make sure estrogen and testosterone levels are normal. Test for Heavy Metals Avoid mercury, and detoxify if levels are found elevated.  See discussion of Melatonin for details. Nutrient Phosphytidalserine Although not a cure, placebo-controlled and double-blind studies involving patients with early Alzheimer's disease have shown mild benefits from 300mg per day of PS supplementation when used for three to twelve weeks. In one double-blind study, the improvement on standardized tests of mental functioning averaged approximately 15%. [ Fünfgeld EW, Baggen M, Nedwidek P, et al. Double-blind study with phosphatidylserine (PS) in Parkinsonian patients with senile dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT). Prog Clin Biol Res 1989;317:1235-46 ] Continued improvement has been reported up to three months beyond the end of the supplementation period. Note, however, that PS probably only slows the rate of deterioration rather than halting the progression altogether. For example, in a six-month trial, benefits began to fade after the fourth month. Oriental Medicine Acupuncture The Chinese consider acupuncture to be an effective therapy for Alzheimer's disease . There is solid evidence that acupuncture increases certain neurotransmitters in the brain and can actually stimulate nerve regeneration. Increased serotonin levels probably explain why acupuncture is so effective in controlling pain and managing stress. Acupuncture also promotes blood circulation to the brain and improves memory and concentration so there is good reason for people who have Alzheimer's , or who are at risk for developing it, to try acupuncture. Vitamins Vitamin E Ensure sufficient antioxidant intake. A study of more than 5,000 men and women found that people who consumed very high amounts of dark green, yellow, and red vegetables appear to reduce their risk of dementia by about 25%. Several studies have shown that vitamin E , an anti-oxidant, can slow progression of Alzheimer's . Preventive measures against Alzheimer's Disease: Diet Processed Foods Avoidance Keep your weight down, and keep simple sugars and refined carbohydrates to a minimum. Researchers have found that diabetes mellitus (for which these are risk factors) nearly doubles the risk of developing both vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease . Habits Aluminum Consumption Avoidance Alzheimer's Disease has been linked to a number of risk factors, including exposure to aluminum. Now from France comes a report that drinking water with high aluminum concentrations may indeed increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's and dementia . High sources of aluminum in the diet include: aluminum cooking utensils, aluminum-containing antacids , tap water (which may have aluminum sulfate added to remove particulate and organic matter). Researchers determined that a concentration of aluminum in drinking water above 0.1mg/liter may be a risk factor of dementia and Alzheimer's disease . Nearly 2,700 individuals were followed for an 8-year period to identify new cases of probable Alzheimer's or other dementing illness. The sample was divided into 77 drinking water areas, with surveys conducted to determine concentrations of aluminum, calcium , and fluorine in each water supply.  The study authors point out that their findings support those of several other studies linking aluminum to Alzheimer's, but add that "this result needs to be confirmed using a higher number of exposed subjects."  [ American Journal of Epidemiology 2000;152: pp.59-66. ] One of our doctors comments: This is another reason to make sure that you limit your water intake to filtered or bottled. Aluminum is certainly an issue, but probably not as significant as chlorine exposure. Unless you have well water you will also need a filter for your shower as most of us will absorb for more toxins from bathing or showering than we ever will from drinking tap water. Aerobic Exercise Stay physically active. Patients with Alzheimer's disease have been found to have had lower levels of physical activity earlier in life. Those who exercised regularly throughout life were less likely to contract the disease than those who were inactive. Doctors caution that exercise does not guarantee immunity. Hormone Estrogen Replacement Estrogen replacement therapy may help reduce risk or delay its occurrence, but does not help once disease is established. One reason for the confusion is the use of synthetic estrogens: natural estrogens should exert a protective effect. One study found that the risk of Alzheimer's disease and related dementia for women who had used estrogen was found to be about one third below that of women who had never used estrogen. The risk also decreased with increasing dosage and duration of estrogen therapy. The lowest risk was observed in long-term users taking high doses. Suggestions that the decline in estrogen levels in women at menopause might somehow make them more vulnerable to the disease have prompted interest in the hormone as a possible treatment and research has suggested that women who take estrogen are less likely to develop Alzheimer’s. However, a new study found that once the mind-robbing disease sets in, the female hormone offers no benefit. A year of estrogen did nothing to slow the progression of the disease or improve mental functioning in 120 older women with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s. Overall, the results of this study do not support the role of estrogen in the treatment. In another study, women aged 60 and older were given either a low estrogen dose, a high dose or a placebo every day for a year. Instead of showing any improvement, those taking estrogen in fact fared worse than the placebo group in a rating of dementia . [JAMA February 23, 1999 283: pp.1007-1015] [One of our doctors comments: I am really surprised that this study did not receive more widespread news coverage. When the drug companies had the initial studies published suggesting that estrogen will help protect against Alzheimer's it was all over the news. I was immediately confronted by many patients who felt my recommendation to avoid estrogens was unwise. Now the evidence is in that estrogen does NOT help Alzheimer's but actually worsens it. I am delighted that JAMA continues to take a leadership role in publishing these landmark articles which refute the drug companies' position. Unfortunately, the conventional media still appears to be sold out - hence the lack of notification of the results of this study. There are times when estrogen is necessary. I believe if phytoestrogens are unable to stop the hot flashes then it would be wise to use small amounts of estrogens to stop them. Waking up every night with hot flashes is a surefire prescription for depression and increased risk of disease. Thus in this case the estrogen is the lesser of two evils. It should be used for the shortest time possible and always with the intent of weaning oneself off of it. ] Testosterone The popular image of this sex hormone is primarily as a muscle-building machismo-inducing substance that "pumps men up", yet clinical research is uncovering important roles for testosterone in many other diverse areas of health and physiology, including the brain. New evidence suggests that testosterone may enhance memory function and protect against the development of Alzheimer's disease . Neuroscientists from Rockefeller University and Weill Medical College of Cornell University recently discovered that when neural cells from the brains of rats are exposed to testosterone, the cells don't produce as much Amyloid beta-peptide (AB-peptide). The accumulation of AB-peptide can cause plaque deposits to form in the brain. These deposits are believed to play a major role in the development of Alzheimer's disease . Testosterone in addition appears to improve certain cognitive abilities in men, such as verbal and spatial memory function. Levels of bioavailable testosterone are especially important, researchers emphasized, because these levels decline most rapidly as men and women age. Since high levels of testosterone have been linked with prostate cancer in men and endometriosis in women, however, they urged caution when using replacement therapy, carefully weighing the risks and benefits for each patient. Increasing levels of adrenal hormones such as cortisol , which rise in response to stress and aging, may also play an important role in Alzheimer's . High levels of these hormones can damage the hippocampus region in the brain, causing learning impairment and memory loss. Testosterone , however, shows the potential to reverse some of this damage. Melatonin Ensure normal melatonin levels. Melatonin, a powerful antioxidant and heavy-metal-chelating agent, has been shown to protect against heavy metal exposure which is in turn implicated in Alzheimer's Disease . After exposing nerve cells to inorganic mercury, neurobiologists observed a toxic reaction that reduced cellular levels of the antioxidant glutathione by 30%, triggered the release of plaque-forming ß-amyloid peptides, and spurred the hyperphosphorylation of tau-protein - all pivotal mechanisms in the development and progression of Alzheimer's . However, they found that if the cells were first incubated with melatonin - a powerful antioxidant and heavy-metal-chelating agent - they were protected from these damaging effects. In fact, despite being exposed to toxic doses of mercury, the cells treated with melatonin often showed metabolic status comparable to that of mercury-free cells. These results provide strong experimental evidence that mercury toxicity may be involved in Alzheimer's development and that melatonin shows a marked potential to neutralize this toxic-induced pathology, by boosting antioxidant defense and binding to heavy metals. Mineral Zinc Maintain adequate zinc status: Reduced levels of zinc are being linked to Alzheimer's disease . In one study, 38 elements were evaluated by neutron activation and mass spectrometry in the post-mortem brain tissue of eleven Alzheimer’s patients and six controls. An increase was found in aluminum, silicon and calcium ; a significant decrease was found in zinc and selenium . The lower level of zinc in all areas of the tissue studied correlates with reports indicating low serum levels of zinc in other dementia studies. [ Reduction of Zinc and Selenium in Brain Alzheimer's Disease: Corigan, et al., Trace Elements in Medicine, 91;8(1): pp.1-5 ] Nutrient DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) Over 1200 patients participated in an epidemiological study which showed that people with high DHA levels were 45% less likely to develop dementia than people with low DHA levels. This suggests that proper DHA intake may reduce the risk of developing Alzheimer's . Vitamins Folic Acid There is growing evidence suggesting that low blood folate levels can increase the risk of getting Alzheimer's . In an ongoing study searching for new clues to the aging process, researchers took blood samples of nuns between the ages of 78-101years old living in a convent in Mankato, Minnesota. After 30 of the nuns died, researchers examined their brains for signs of atrophy and compared the results with previous blood nutrient levels. In brain samples showing numerous Alzheimer's disease brain lesions , researchers found that significantly lower blood levels of folate corresponded with more severe atrophy of the neocortex, the region of the brain containing a rich supply of nerve cells. Although the study was small, and did not attempt to prove a causal effect, it supports previous evidence linking defects in B-vitamin metabolism with age-related dementia and Alzheimer's . "Optimal folate concentration may in fact be higher in old age or when diseases such as Alzheimer's are present," commented the researchers. Low folate levels can trigger a build-up of the amino acid homocysteine, which has been linked to higher risk of Alzheimer's and accelerated atrophy of the medial temporal lobe in Alzheimer's patients. "There seems little doubt now that there is an association between the evolution of certain brain diseases associated with cognitive decline in the elderly and vitamin deficiencies associated with hyperhomocysteinemia," a related editorial resounded. Although the full extent to which B-vitamin metabolism influences the actual causal mechanisms of dementia is still not clear, "the potential therapeutic options [implicated by these discoveries] are exciting", the authors posited. The nuns provided a unique population sample to study because they all had similar long-term diet and exercise habits. Researchers found strong evidence of biochemical individuality among the group, despite their similar lifestyle and eating habits. Blood nutrient levels varied widely, reflecting differences in "drug-nutrient and disease-nutrient interactions or differences in the intake, absorption, and metabolism of the nutrients." NOTE: As this study suggests, even people with similar diets may show striking differences in nutrient metabolism related to various physiological functions. Assessing each patient is the best way to gauge the effectiveness of nutrient intervention strategies. Sources: Snowdon DA, Tully CL, Smith CD, Riley KP, Markesbery WR. Serum folate and the severity of the atrophy of the neocortex in Alzheimer disease: findings from the Nun Study. Am J Clin Nutr 2000;71: pp.993-8. Weir DG, Molloy AM. Microvascular disease and dementia in the elderly: are they related to hyperhomocysteinemia? Am J Clin Nutr 2000;71: pp.859-60. Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid) Both vitamin E and vitamin C supplements reduced the incidence of Alzheimer’s disease in a 1998 study. This study followed 655 individuals over 65 years of age for an average of over 4 years. The anticipated rate of Alzheimer's did not occur in those individuals taking larger amounts of either vitamin. The lower levels of vitamin C and E found in some supplements did not provide this protection in this study. A reasonable protective benefit could be expected with 400 IU of vitamin E or 500mg or more of vitamin C. [Alzheimer Dis. Assoc. Disord.1998:12(3): pp.121-126] Vitamin B12 (Cobalamine) Low levels of vitamin B12 have been linked to an increased risk Alzheimer's disease . [ Neurology, May 2000 ] It remains unclear as to whether B12 supplementation will reduce the risk. Vitamin B-Complex Optimize your B-complex status, especially folic acid and B12 . In one study, 76 Alzheimer's patients had lower blood levels of folic acid and vitamin B12 than 108 age-matched control subjects. In addition, researchers found that Alzheimer's patients had higher blood levels of homocysteine, which is already implicated in atherosclerosis . Folic acid and B12 supplementation is known to reduce homocysteine levels. KEY Weak or unproven link: may be a sign or symptom of; may suggest; may increase risk of; is very occasionally misdiagnosed as Strong or generally accepted link: is often a sign or symptom of; often suggests; often increases risk of Definite or direct link: strongly suggests; increases risk of Weakly counter-indicative: may contraindicate; may decrease risk of Definitely or absolutely counter-indicates: strongly contraindicates May be useful: may help with; may help prevent Moderately useful: often helps with; often prevents Very useful: is highly recommended for; usually prevents Last updated: Dec 30, 20