Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Apricot kernels, Cancer and Vitamin B17 - Part 2 publications colleges students courses links Home Articles Resources Education Article Apricot kernels, Cancer and Vitamin B17 - Part 2 The orthodox theory of cancer As most of us are aware, the conventional view of cancer is that the lump/tumour/growth 
                                  ‘is the cancer’ and that this needs to be treated with surgery, chemotherapy, 
                                  radiotherapy, or perhaps hormonal or immunotherapy. The idea is that by shrinking 
                                  the growth, or cutting it out of the body, the cancer will be gone. This is unless 
                                  the cancer has metastasised  (spread to other areas), in this case another course 
                                  of treatment may be suggested, or the patient may be told that the cancer has spread 
                                  too far and nothing more can be done. The alternative theory of cancer The alternative view is that the lump/tumour/growth ‘is not the cancer’ but is the 
                                  ‘symptom’ - a sign that something is going wrong with the natural balance of the body.  
                                  It is thought that once the underlying problem is corrected the growth will simply be 
                                  reabsorbed into the body.  Although, it is agreed that if the growth is not reabsorbed 
                                  and is unsightly, or so large as to interfere with the normal functioning of a 
                                  particular area of the body, then it should be removed by surgery. The growth is not considered to be 'pure cancer’ - perhaps as little as 20% is 
                                  actually cancerous, with the remaining 80% being non-cancerous. It is suggested 
                                  that the cancerous area of the growth is more resistant to radiotherapy than the 
                                  noncancerous area and therefore less likely to be destroyed. In other words, the 
                                  growth may be reduced, but the cancer may still remain and can potentially spread. If we injure ourselves a healing process starts and the affected cells are replaced 
                                  with new cells.  However, it is thought that cancer is a healing process that has not 
                                  switched off. In other words, if the body is deficient in something that is essential 
                                  for homeostasis it may not work effectively and the healing process may just continue 
                                  going. The result is that the body will start to heal, and then heal again and again 
                                  until a growth finally appears. There are apparently two lines of defense against this over-healing process and 
                                  the development of cancer. The first involves ‘Proteolytic enzymes’ (enzymes designed 
                                  to digest protein), which are produced by the pancreas. The two proteolytic enzymes, 
                                  trypsin and chymotrypsin, dissolve the protective protein coating around cancer cells 
                                  and this effectively allows the body’s white blood cells in to attack and destroy 
                                  the cancer cells. The second line of defense against cancer are substances known as nitrilosides. 
                                  (It is thought that there are more than 800 foods in the nitriloside family). 
                                  These nitriloside foods contain vitamin B17 (amygdalin) which is made up of four 
                                  components - two of glucose (sugar), one of benzaldehyde and one of cyanide. The 
                                  cancer cell wall has an enzyme called beta-glycosidase (also known as the 
                                  ‘unlocking enzyme’). When B17 (amygdalin) and the unlocking enzyme come into 
                                  contact the cancer cell is destroyed. It's interesting to note that beta-glycosidase 
                                  is found in cancer cells, and in no other cell in the body (therefore, no other cell 
                                  can be destroyed). As author G. Edward Griffin points out in his 2005 presentation – 
                                  ‘this is an amazing mechanism of nature that could not have been accidental’. 
                                  (See references and links below). Therefore, in this alternative view of cancer, there is no ‘cure’ because cancer 
                                  is in fact all part of the natural physiological processes of the body. It is only 
                                  when the healing cells are allowed to develop unchecked, and our natural lines of 
                                  defense are down, that it becomes a problem. Some people even feel that we probably 
                                  develop cancer over and over again during our lives, but on most occasions our 
                                  defense systems simply deal with it – we never know we have had cancer. This theory seems to be backed up by G. Edward Griffin’s fascinating explanation 
                                  of the cattle on America’s mid-west farms. In an interview for FHV (A Norwegian 
                                  consumer health freedom organization) Griffin explains the following: In the mid-west 
                                  part of the united states farmers found that, in the winter months, their cattle would 
                                  develop cancers in their mouths. However, as the snow melted away and the spring came 
                                  along, the cattle would start to eat the broad-leafed grasses (rich in B17) and the 
                                  cancers would simply disappear. Q & A’s If this theory of cancer is really true, why doesn’t my doctor know about it ? This is a controversial subject because there seem to be a number of conflicting or 
                                  competing interests involved. You might like to watch the second part of G.Edward 
                                  Griffins explanation of the politics of cancer for a full understanding of why this 
                                  information appears not to have filtered down to doctors and GP’s. You can find this 
                                  in the references and links section under: The Science and Politics of Cancer 2005, 
                                  Parts 4 – 7, The politics of cancer therapy: The Pharmaceutical Cartel. If we have two lines of defense to prevent cancer why would both of these fail ? It seems that our modern diets, full of animal fats and dairy products, use up huge 
                                  amounts of pancreatic enzymes in order to break down this type of food - thereby depleting 
                                  stocks when they are needed to combat cancer. There are also other reasons, such as having 
                                  a condition like ‘diabetes’, where the pancreas is often weakened and therefore less able 
                                  to produce these necessary enzymes. There may also be a hereditary factor where, again, 
                                  the pancreas is weak and therefore unable to function fully or correctly from birth. The breakdown of our second line of defense may simply be due to the lack of foods 
                                  from the nitriloside family. Many of these foods often have a bitter taste and therefore 
                                  may be avoided by most people - consequently they become less available in conventional 
                                  supermarkets over time. Although, there is also the problem of foods such as bread that 
                                  used to contain ‘Millet flour’ (rich in B17/amygdalin), but now mainly contain the 
                                  cheaper ‘wheat flour’. Can cancer be cured ? The conventional view would be that scientists are definitely looking for a ‘cure’ for cancer. 
                                  However, the alternative view of cancer seems to show that it is potentially a metabolic disease 
                                  caused by natural deficiencies and therefore we need to introduce nitriloside foods back into the 
                                  diet for the rest of our lives and perhaps think about modifying our diets. This is why people 
                                  who are concerned about cancer may be focusing on apricot kernels - a food very high in B17/amygdalin. Many people who hold the alternative view of cancer would compare it to a metabolic disease such 
                                  as scurvy. Scurvy was only resolved by taking vitamins C, as most people know. However, vitamins 
                                  C could not be said to be the ‘cure’ for scurvy because in order to keep the disease at bay you 
                                  clearly need to consume foods rich in vitamins C for the rest of your life. A ‘cure’ implies that 
                                  you just need to correct the problem once and then it is resolved. Are there other factors involved in the development of cancer ? Yes, it would seem that toxins in our environment and toxins that we take into the body might 
                                 produce a healing response in the areas that are affected by these toxins. For example, we may 
                                 damage the lungs if we smoke and this could provoke an over-healing response - which may then 
                                 not switch off if we are deficient in proteolytic enzymes or nitriloside foodstuffs. This could 
                                 explain why some people who smoke develop cancer, whilst others don’t. Are there therapists who can use the alternative approach if someone already has cancer ? Yes, we believe that there are therapists who may be able to help. You could try the ‘Gerson Support Group UK’ 
                                 or the ‘Gerson Institute’ - or perhaps the’ World Without Cancer’ website. (Although, we must stress that 
                                 ‘The Velvet Mind’ and ‘Andersen Counselling’ has no affiliation with any of the websites (or publications) 
                                 mentioned in this article and do not give medical advice of any kind). Why is it sometimes suggested that people should eat pineapple and papaya melons to keep cancer at bay? It’s our understanding that these particular fruits mimic the action of some of 
									the proteolytic enzymes – thereby dissolving 
                                 the protein coating of the cancer cell. Papaya melons as a source of the enzyme papain, and pineapple as a source of the 
                                 enzyme bromelain. Are there any books I can buy that show me how to include nitriloside foods in my diet ? Yes, in 1976 a lady called June de Spain (former toxicologist and a pharmacologist for the Federal Food and Drug 
                                 Administration in the U.S) wrote a book called ‘The little cyanide cookbook – delicious recipes rich in vitamin B17’. 
                                 There was quite a bit of controversy surrounding the writing of this book and her work for the FDA at the time – 
                                 you might want to search ‘Google’ to learn more .I believe her book is still available through the ‘World without Cancer’ 
                                 website or ‘Amazon UK’. Thank you for taking the time to read this article. If you would like to comment on it or would like any additional 
                                 sources of information, please email pbss100@hotmail.com References and Links: World without Cancer / Author: G. Edward Griffin B17 metabolic therapy - in the prevention and control of cancer - a technical manual / Author: Phillip Day The Science and Politics of Cancer, 2005 (1 of 8) - G. Edward Griffin http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MJ_4YkekV9A Alternative cancer therapy, B17 (1 of 5) - Interview conducted by FHV (a Norwegian consumer health freedom organization) with G. E. Griffin. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZFnP9sU1KW4 A World Without Cancer (HQ) - The Story of Vitamin B17 http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=7957358347594988246# back to top tell a friend p rint 
                                        page home disclaimer advertising copyright Andersen Counselling & 
                                  Advice, Chelmsford, Essex UK. Andersen Counselling © 2005-2011. 
                                  All rights reserved. Created by CWD Distance Le