
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Sun, 29 Apr 2012 21:17:11 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, max-age=0, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: bypassStaticCache=deleted; expires=Sat, 30-Apr-2011 21:17:10 GMT; path=/; httponly
Set-Cookie: bypassStaticCache=deleted; expires=Sat, 30-Apr-2011 21:17:10 GMT; path=/; httponly
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset="utf-8"

Maty's in the News » Maty's Healthy Products Your cart: 0 items.
    			$ 0.00 Home Why Natural Our Story Products Where to Buy Testimonials Blog News Room Contact Us Become A Retailer Sitemap Content Glossary News Room Maty's In The News National News & Recent Studies What Experts are Saying About Maty's Products ... NBC's Weekend Today Show - December 2011 Maty's Cough Syrups featured on NBC's Weekend Today Show Dr. Kaiden discusses Flu Fighting Foods and features Maty's cough syrups as the all natural choice once you feel a cough coming.  She lists the superpower immune boosting ingredients that are safe and effective. Dr. Kaiden on NBC's Weekend Today Show Fox 4 Rising - November 2011 Maty's Products featured on Fox4 Rising Nutritionist Dee Harris discusses ways to keep your sinuses healthy.  She adds that the Breathe Better Nasal Ointment and the Maty's All Natural Vapor Rub and Baby Chest Rub are great all natural products. Dee Harris on Fox4 Rising Fox13now - October 2011 Maty's Cough Syrups featured on Fox13now Dr. Haskell discusses the benefits of honey and features Maty's cough syrups as the all natural choice made with honey. Dr. Haskell on Fox13now Maty's Healthy Products Reviews Maty's Baby Chest Rub Review posted by Mandee at RaisingMy5Sons.com - January 2012 I have always felt uncomfortable putting other Chest Rubs directly on my baby's chest. I love that Maty's All Natural Baby Chest Rub contains only all natural ingredients and is 100% safe for my baby. Link To Raisingmy5sons Review Maty's Vapor Rub Review posted by MOM-E-CENTRIC - January 2012 We’ve been blasted to the high heavens this week with something horrible.  What started for me as a kidney stone blossomed into a full blown case of the stuffed up head.  I had received Maty’sVapor Rub the week before and figured if I needed anything right now, a clear head was inevitable with Maty’s. Link To Mom-E-Centric Review Maty's Breathe Better Nasal Ointment Review on SheStreamTV posted by Maria Bailey - December 2011 Link to SheStreamsTV Breathe Better Nasal Ointment Review A Natural Approach To Fighting Colds And Flu Posted by Tony Brungard - November 2010 When it comes to fighting the flu and colds, natural remedies may be nothing to sneeze at. Recent research is showing that natural remedies can often be an effective way to treat the symptoms of colds and the flu. View Full Story (pdf) Consider Maty's All Natural Cough Syrup this Cold Season Posted by The Cloth Diaper Report on 16 November 2010 There is nothing like the feeling of helplessness as a mother while your child suffers from a cold, congestion or other ailment. Whether it is your preference to use all natural remedies or skepticism from recent recalls of infant and children medicine, you may be hesitant like me to grab certain over-the-counter medications. View Full Story... Source: http://www.theclothdiaperreport.com Maty's All Natural Cough Syrup {Review} Posted by Giveaway Train on 5 November 2010 I was given the opportunity to review Maty's All-Natural Cough Syrup.  Before I tell you about the product, please read this story about how  these products came into fruition: View Full Story... Source: http://www.giveawaytrain.com Maty's Natural Products Review! Posted by Mommy Wants Freebies on 28 October 2010 Maty's is the maker of all natural cough remedies. They use healthy ingredients like buckwheat honey which is rich in antioxidants, and grapefruit seed extract, an immune system booster and natural detoxifier. View Full Story.. Source: http://www.mommywantsfreebies.com Your World: Healthy and Natural Posted by Cara N. on 5 October 2010 With cold and flu season definitely upon us, I want to introduce you to a lovely small company that I have come to really admire for their mission and their great products - Maty's Healthy Products. View Full Story... What's That Buzz Posted by Marissa O. on 2 September 2010 I love a good natural company that makes safe and natural products    for  children! I especially love them when they have a good story behind     their company! Maty's is one of those companies that has a story  that  will warm your heart   and has great products that you will want   to thank them for! View Full Story... Source: http://whatsthatbuzz.myweeklybeef.com For more information or to review Maty’s Healthy Products, please contact: Annette Dallavalle 5W PUBLIC RELATIONS 888 Seventh Avenue, 12th Floor New York, NY 10106 adallavalle@5WPR.com Home Why Natural Our Story Products Where to Buy Testimonials Blog News Room Contact Us Become A Retailer Sitemap Content Glossary © Maty'