< Scientific 
                    Facts Behind Laetrile --------------------------------------------------------------------- To base the whole argument of whether Laetrile works or 
                      not on laboratory experiments and their results is ludicrous. Humans conduct these experiments and humans lie. Since 
                      cancer research and treatments run into the billions of 
                      dollars, the government agencies along with the major cancer 
                      research centers will always hide the truth. To be able to cure cancer with something so "trivial 
                      and inexpensive" a treatment is tantamount to all Laetrile 
                      research by cancer research centers being sabotaged. "For the love of money is the root of all evil…" 
                      1 Tim 6:10 KJV "The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately 
                      wicked: who can know it?" Jer 17:9 KJV However, there are a few honest researchers with integrity 
                      who have not played the political cancer game. Money is 
                      not what motivates these people but the search for truth 
                      does. Here are their names with a brief synopsis of their 
                      experiments with Laetrile: Dr. Ernest T. Krebs, Jr. a biochemist and the researcher 
                      who first isolated Laetrile in apricot seeds and also discovered 
                      B-15 (pangamic acid, a vitamin which has been proven to 
                      be an important adjunctive therapy in the treatment of illnesses 
                      related to circulation). He spent three years of anatomy and medicine at Hahnemann 
                      Medical College and then changed his direction and became 
                      a doctor of biochemistry. He did undergraduate work at the 
                      University of Illinois between 1938-41. He did graduate 
                      work at the University of Mississippi and also at the University 
                      of California. By 1950, he had isolated the nutritional factor in crystalline 
                      form and named it Laetrile. He tested it on animals to make 
                      sure that it was not toxic. He then had to prove that it 
                      was not toxic to humans. There was only one thing to do. He rolled up his sleeve and injected Laetrile into his 
                      own arm. As he predicted, there were no harmful or distressing 
                      side effects. (I find it interesting to note that Dr. Krebs was more 
                      than willing to test his theory about Laetrile on himself 
                      while cancer doctors and their personnel take great precautions 
                      to be sure they themselves are not exposed to the drugs 
                      they administer to their cancer victims, I mean patients.) Dr. Krebs authored many scientific papers in his lifetime. 
                      He was the recipient of numerous honors and doctorates both 
                      at home and abroad. He was the science director of the John 
                      Beard Memorial Foundation before his death in 1996. Dr. Dean Burk, Director of the Cytochemistry Section of 
                      the federal government's National Cancer Institute reported 
                      that, in a series of tests on animal tissue, the (Laetrile) 
                      vitamin B-17 had no harmful effect on normal cells but was 
                      deadly to a cancer cell. In another series of tests, Dr. Burk reported that Laetrile 
                      was responsible for prolonging the life of cancerous rats 
                      eighty percent longer than those in the control group that 
                      were not inoculated. Dr. Burk was one of the foremost cancer specialists in 
                      the world. He was the recipient of the Gerhard Domagk Award 
                      for Cancer Research, the Hillebrand Award of the American 
                      Chemical Society, and the Commander Knighthood Of the Medical 
                      Order of Bethlehem (Rome) founded in 1459 by Pope Pius the 
                      Eleventh. He held a Ph.D. in biochemistry earned at the 
                      University of California. He was a Fellow of the National Research Council at the 
                      University of London, of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for 
                      Biology, and also Harvard. He was senior chemist at the 
                      National Cancer Institute, which he helped establish, and 
                      in 1946 became Director of the Cytochemistry Section. He belonged to eleven scientific organizations, wrote three 
                      books relating to chemotherapy research in cancer, and was 
                      author or co-author of more than two-hundred scientific 
                      papers in the field of cell chemistry. He is a biochemist. 
                      If Dr. Burk says that Laetrile works, I believe him! Let us look at one more study. For five years, between 
                      1972 and 1977, Laetrile was meticulously tested at Sloan-Kettering 
                      under the direction of Dr. Kanematsu Sugiura. Dr. Sugiura was the senior laboratory researcher at Sloan-Kettering 
                      with over 60 years experience. He had earned the highest 
                      respect for his knowledge and integrity. He was the perfect 
                      person to conduct experiments since his quest for truth 
                      blocked out anything else. Dr. C. Chester Stock, the man 
                      in charge of Sloan-Kettering's laboratory-testing division 
                      wrote this about Dr. Sigiura, "Few, if any, names in 
                      cancer research are as widely known as Kanematsu Sugiura's… Possibly the high regard in which his work is held is best 
                      characterized by a comment made to me by a visiting investigator 
                      in cancer research from Russia. He said, "When Dr. 
                      Sugiura publishes, we know we don't have to repeat the study, 
                      for we would obtain the same results he has reported."" 
                      (Ralph Moss, The Cancer Syndrome, New York: Grove Press, 
                      1980 pg. 258) The official report about Laetrile from Dr. Sigiura read: 
                      "The results clearly show that Amygdalin significantly 
                      inhibits the appearance of lung metastasis in mice bearing 
                      spontaneous mammary tumors and increases significantly the 
                      inhibition of the growth of the primary tumors… Laetrile 
                      also seemed to prevent slightly the appearance of new tumors… The improvement of health and appearance of the treated 
                      animals in comparison to controls is always a common observation… 
                      Dr. Sugiura has never observed complete regression of these 
                      tumors in all his cosmic experience with other chemotherapeautic 
                      agents." ("A Summary of the Effect of Amygdalin 
                      Upon Spontaneous Mammary Tumors in Mice," Sloan-Kettering 
                      report, June 13, 1973.) Dr. Sugiura's report was cause for great alarm at Sloan-Kettering. 
                      Remember, cancer is over a billion dollars a year industry. 
                      This report would cause the house of cards to collapse. 
                      As would be expected then, many more experiments were conducted 
                      by others who were not as honest as Dr. Sugiura. At a press conference, Dr. Sugiura was asked suddenly by 
                      a reporter if he stuck to his report. Dr. Sugiura clearly 
                      and boldly stated, "I stick," even though Sloan-Kettering 
                      was trying to discredit everything that he did. To read 
                      about the many times that Sloan-Kettering tried to discredit 
                      their finest researcher, get the book, "World Without 
                      Cancer," by G. Edward Griffin. Now, even though we have proof from the laboratories, let 
                      us look at what is being discovered in prominent physicians' 
                      studies: (The following is taken from the book, "World Without 
                      Cancer", by G. Edward Griffin, published by American 
                      Media, Westlake Village, CA) "As early as 1974, there was at least twenty-six published 
                      papers written by well-known physicians who had used Laetrile 
                      in the treatment of their own patients and who have concluded 
                      that Laetrile is both safe and effective in the treatment 
                      of cancer. Dr. Hans Nieper, of West Germany, former Director of the 
                      Department of Medicine at the Silbersee Hospital in Hanover. 
                      He is a pioneer in the medical use of cobalt and is credited 
                      with developing the anti-cancer drug, cyclophosphamide. He is the originator of the concept of "electrolyte 
                      carriers" in the prevention of cardiac necrosis. He 
                      was formerly the head of the Aschaffenburg Hospital Laboratory 
                      for chemical circulatory research. He is listed in Who's 
                      Who in World Science and has been the Director of the German 
                      Society for Medical Tumor Treatment. He is one of the world's most famous and respected cancer 
                      specialists. During a visit to the U.S. in 1972, Dr. Nieper 
                      told news reporters, "After more than twenty years 
                      of such specialized work, I have found the nontoxic Nitrilosides-that 
                      is Laetrile-far superior to any other known cancer treatment 
                      or preventative. In my opinion, it is the only existing 
                      possibility for the ultimate control of cancer." In Canada there is N.R. Bouziane, M.D., former Director 
                      of Research Laboratories at St. Jeanne d'Arc Hospital in 
                      Montreal and a member of the hospital's tumor board in charge 
                      of chemotherapy. He graduated magna cum laude in medicine 
                      from the University of Montreal. He also received a doctorate in science from the University 
                      of Montreal and St. Joseph's University, an affiliate of 
                      Oxford University in New Brunswick. He was a Fellow in chemistry 
                      and a Fellow in hematology, and certified in clinical bacteriology, 
                      hematology and biochemistry from the college. He also was 
                      Dean of the American Association of Bio?Analysts. After 
                      the first series of tests with Laetrile shortly after it 
                      was introduced, Dr. Bouziane reported: We always have a diagnosis based on histology [microscopic 
                      analysis of the tissue]. We have never undertaken a case 
                      without histological proof of cancer... In our investigation, some terminal cases were so hopeless 
                      that they did not even receive what we consider the basic 
                      dose of thirty grams. Most cases, however, became ambulatory 
                      and some have in this short time resumed their normal activities 
                      on a maintenance dose. (Cancer News Journal, Jan./Apr. 1971, 
                      pg. 20) In the Philippines there is Manuel Navarro, M.D., former 
                      Professor of Medicine and Surgery at the University of Santo 
                      Tomas in Manila; an Associate Member of the National Research 
                      Council of the Philippines; a Fellow of the Philippine College 
                      of Physicians, the Philippine Society of Endocrinology and 
                      Metabolism; and a member of the Philippine Medical Association, 
                      the Philippine Cancer Society, and many other medical groups. He has been recognized internationally as a cancer researcher 
                      and has over one?hundred major scientific papers to his 
                      credit, some of which have been read before the International 
                      Cancer Congress. In 1971 Dr. Navarro wrote: I ... have specialized in oncology [the study of tumors] 
                      for the past eighteen years. For the same number of years 
                      I have been using Laetrile?amygdalin in the treatment of 
                      my cancer patients. During this eighteen year period I have treated a total 
                      of over five hundred patients with Laetrile?amygdalin by 
                      various routes of administration, including the oral and 
                      the I.V. The majority of my patients receiving Laetrile?amygdalin 
                      have been in a terminal state when treatment with this material 
                      commenced. It is my carefully considered clinical judgment, as a 
                      practicing oncologist and researcher in this field, that 
                      I have obtained most significant and encouraging results 
                      with the use of Laetrile?amygdalin in the treatment of terminal 
                      cancer patients, and that these results are comparable or 
                      superior to the results I have obtained with the use of 
                      the more toxic standard cytotoxic agents. (Letter from Dr. 
                      Navarro to Mr. Andrew McNaughton, The McNaughton Foundation, 
                      dated January 8, 1971, published in the Cancer News Journal, 
                      Jan./April, 1971, pp. 19,20.) In Mexico there is Ernesto Contreras, M.D., who, for over 
                      three decades, has operated the Good Samaritan Cancer Clinic 
                      (now called the Oasis Hospital) in Tijuana. He is one of 
                      Mexico's most distinguished medical figures. He received 
                      postgraduate training at Harvard's Children's Hospital in 
                      Boston. He has served as Professor of Histology and Pathology 
                      at the Mexican Army Medical School and as the chief pathologist 
                      at the Army Hospital in Mexico City Dr. Contreras was introduced to Laetrile in 1963 by a terminal 
                      cancer patient from the United States who brought it to 
                      his attention and urged him to treat her with it. The woman 
                      recovered, and Dr. Contreras began extensive investigation 
                      of its properties and use. Since that time he has treated 
                      many thousands of cancer patients, most of whom are American 
                      citizens who have been denied the freedom to use Laetrile 
                      in their own country. Dr. Contreras has summarized his experiences with vitamin 
                      therapy as follows: The palliative action [improving the comfort and well?being 
                      of the patient] is in about 60% of the cases. Frequently, 
                      enough to be significant, I see arrest of the disease or 
                      even regression in some of the very advanced cases. (Cancer 
                      News Journal, Jan./April, 1971, pp. 20. We must bear in 
                      mind that these are terminal patients-people who have been 
                      given up as hopeless by orthodox medicine. Fifteen percent 
                      recovery in that group is a most impressive accomplishment.) In Japan there is Shigeaki Sakai, a prominent physician 
                      in Tokyo. In a paper published in the October 1963 Asian 
                      Medical journal, Dr. Sakai reported: Administered to cancer patients, Laetrile has proven to 
                      be quite free from any harmful side?effects, and I would 
                      say that no anticancer drug could make a cancerous patient 
                      improve faster than Laetrile. It goes without saying that 
                      Laetrile controls cancer and is quite effective wherever 
                      it is located. In Italy there is Professor Etore Guidetti, M.D., of the 
                      University of Turin Medical School. Dr. Guidetti spoke before 
                      the Conference of the International Union Against Cancer 
                      held in Brazil in 1954 and revealed how his use of Laetrile 
                      in terminal cancer patients had caused the destruction of 
                      a wide variety of tumors including those of the uterus, 
                      cervix, rectum, and breast. "In some cases," he 
                      said, "one has been able to observe a group of fulminating 
                      and cauliflower?like neoplastic masses resolved very rapidly." He reported that, after giving Laetrile to patients with 
                      lung cancer, he had been "able to observe, with the 
                      aid of radiography, a regression of the neoplasm or the 
                      metastases." After Guidetti's presentation, an American doctor rose 
                      in the audience and announced that Laetrile had been investigated 
                      in the United States and found to be worthless. Dr. Guidetti replied, "I do not care what was determined 
                      in the United States. I am merely reporting what I saw in 
                      my own clinic." (Cancer News Journal, Jan./April, 1971, 
                      p. 19) In Belgium there is Professor Joseph H. Maisin, Sr., M.D., 
                      of the University of Louvain where he was Director of the 
                      Institute of Cancer. He also was President Emeritus of the 
                      International League Against Cancer which conducts the International 
                      Cancer Congress every four years. And in the United States there are such respected names 
                      as Dr. Dean Burk of the National Cancer Institute; Dr. John 
                      A. Morrone of the Jersey City Medical Center; Dr. Ernst 
                      T. Krebs, Jr., who developed Laetrile; Dr. John A. Richardson, 
                      the courageous San Francisco physician who challenged the 
                      government's right to prevent Laetrile from being used in 
                      the United States (See John A. Richardson, M.D., and Patricia 
                      Griffin, R.N., Laetrile Case Histories; The Richardson Cancer 
                      Clinic Experience published by Westlake Village, CA: American 
                      Media, 1977); Dr. Philip E. Binzel, Jr., a physician in 
                      Washington Court House, Ohio, who has used Laetrile for 
                      over twenty years with outstanding success (Philip E. Binzel, 
                      M.D., Alive and Well: One Doctor's Experience with Nutrition 
                      in the Treatment of Cancer Patients, published by American 
                      Media, Westlake Village, CA, 1994); and many others from 
                      over twenty countries with equally impeccable credentials." 
                      (End of quote from World Without Cancer, by G. Edward Griffin). In my opinion, these results are more credible than something 
                      that can be worked up in a laboratory. The proof of whether 
                      Laetrile works or not is undisputed by eyewitness accounts 
                      from these highly respected physicians who have had many 
                      years of seeing people recover from their cancer by using 
                      Laetrile therapy. Remember, laboratory experiments can be 
                      manipulated to produce any result that the researcher is 
                      looking for. Unscrupulous men have used these reports for 
                      their own gain and benefit, not for the cancer patients. 
                      Laetrile is a vitamin that cannot be patented. It is not 
                      worthy to used in cancer treatment since it is not making 
                      the conglomorate pharmaceutical companies, research centers, 
                      etc. any money. To them, the only solution is drugs, even 
                      though they know without any doubt that these drugs do not 
                      work. To prove it, let's take a look at what surgery, radiation, 
                      and chemotherapy really do to the cancer patient. Surgery is the least harmful of the three. Surgery can 
                      be life-saving if there are intestinal blockages that must 
                      be relieved to prevent death of secondary complications. 
                      There is also the psychological advantage of visually removing 
                      the tumor and offering the temporary comfort of hope. However, 
                      the degree to which surgery is useful is the same degree 
                      to which the tumor is not malignant. The greater the proportion 
                      of cancer cells in the tumor, the less likely that surgery 
                      will help. The most malignant tumors are generally considered 
                      inoperable. There are also two to consider that cutting 
                      into the tumor, even for a biopsy, does. First, there is 
                      trauma to the area. This triggers the healing process, which 
                      in turn, brings more trophoblast cells (the start of cancer) 
                      into being as a by-product of that process. (See chapter 
                      IV of the book, "World Without Cancer", by G. 
                      Edward Griffin, for more information on the trophoblast 
                      thesis of cancer.) The second thing is that if not all the 
                      malignant tissue is removed, what remains may become encased 
                      in scar tissue from the surgery. Consequently, the cancer 
                      tends to become insulated from the action of the pancreatic 
                      enzymes which are essential for exposing trophoblast cells 
                      to the surveillant action of the white blood cells. There 
                      is also no solid evidence that surgery that patients who 
                      submit to surgery have any greater life expectancy, on the 
                      average, that those who do not. For more information regarding 
                      the many studies that have been done regarding surgery, 
                      see the book, "World Without Cancer", by G. Edward 
                      Griffin. The rationale behind X-ray therapy is the same as with 
                      surgery. The objective is to remove the tumor, but to do 
                      so by burning it away rather than cutting it out. Here, 
                      also, it is primarily the non-cancer cell that is destroyed. 
                      The more malignant the tumor, the more resistant it is to 
                      radio therapy. If this were not so, then X-ray therapy would 
                      have a high degree of success-which, of course, it does 
                      not. It also increases the likelihood of cancer developing 
                      in other parts of the body. X-rays induce cancer because 
                      of at least two factors. First, they do physical damage 
                      to the body whichs triggers the production of trophoblast 
                      cells as part of the healing process. Second, they weaken 
                      or destroy the production of white blood cells which constitutes 
                      the immunological defense mechanism, the body's front-line 
                      defense against cancer. As with surgery, there is little 
                      or no solid evidence that radiation actually improves the 
                      patient's chances for survival. For more information regarding 
                      the many studies that have been done regarding radiation 
                      therapy, see the book, "World Without Cancer", 
                      by G. Edward Griffin. We have now briefly viewed the miserable results obtained 
                      by orthodox surgery and radiation. However, the record of 
                      so-called anti-cancer drugs is even worse. The primary reason 
                      for this is that most of them currently in use are highly 
                      poisonous, not just to cancer but to the rest of the body 
                      as well. Generally, they are more deadly to healthy tissue 
                      than they are to the malignant cell. All substances can 
                      be toxic if taken in sufficient amounts. This is true of 
                      aspirin, sugar, Laetrile or even water. But, unlike those, 
                      the anti-cancer drugs are poisonous, not as a result of 
                      an overdose or as a side-effect, but as a primary effect. 
                      In other words, anti-cancerous drugs are deliberately poisonous. It is the desired effect. Now, these chemicals are selected 
                      because they are capable of differentiating between types 
                      of cells and, consequently, of poisoning some types more 
                      than others. But don't jump to the conclusion that they 
                      differentiate between cancer and non-cancer cells, killing 
                      only the cancer cells, because they do not. The cellular poisons used in orthodox cancer therapy today 
                      cannot distinguish between cancer and non-cancer cells. 
                      They act instead to differentiate between cells that are 
                      fast-growing and those that are slow-growing or not growing 
                      at all. Cells that are actively dividing are the targets. 
                      Consequently, they kill, not only the cancer cells that 
                      are dividing, but also a multitude of normal cells all over 
                      the body that also are caught in the act of dividing. In 
                      the case of a cancer that is dividing at the same rate or 
                      even slower than normal cells, there isn't even a theoretical 
                      chance of success in killing the cancer cells before the 
                      poison kills the patient. Poisoning the system is the objective 
                      of these drugs. The toxins catch the blood cells in the 
                      act of dividing and cause blood poisoning. The gastrointestinal 
                      systsem is thrown into convulsion causing nausea, diarrhea, 
                      loss of appetite, cramps, and progressive weakness. Hair 
                      cells are fast growing, so the hair falls our during treatment. 
                      Reproductive organs are affected causing sterility. The brain becomes fatigued. Eyesight and hearing are impaired. 
                      Every conceivable function is disrupted with such agony 
                      for the patient that many of them elect to die of the cancer 
                      rather than to continue treatment. I have already said elsewhere 
                      on this page that the personnel who administer these drugs 
                      to cancer patients take great precautions to be sure they 
                      themselves are not exposed to them. Because these drugs 
                      are so dangerous, the Chemotherapy Handbook lists sixteen 
                      OSHA safety procedures for medical personnel who work around 
                      these drugs. The procedure for disposing needles and other 
                      equipment used with these drugs is regulated by the Environmental 
                      Protection Agency under the category of "hazardous 
                      waste". Yet, these same substances are injected directly 
                      into the bloodstream of hapless cancer patients supposedly 
                      to cure their cancer! A report from the Southern Research 
                      Institute, dated April 13, 1972, based upon research conducted 
                      for the National Cancer Institute, indicated that most of 
                      the accepted drugs in the American Cancer Society's "proven 
                      cures" category produced cancer in laboratory animals 
                      that previously had been healthy! Can you believe it? These 
                      drugs are carcinogenic! How can poison and hazardous waste 
                      products cure anyone of anything?!!!! So why do doctors 
                      use chemotherapy if it is toxic, an immunosuppressant, carcinogenic, 
                      and futile? The answer is that they don't know what else 
                      to do. Doctors do not like to tell any patient that there 
                      is no hope. In his own mind he knows there is none, but 
                      he also knows that the patient does not want to hear that 
                      and will seek another physician who will continue some kind 
                      of treatment, no matter how useless or fatal it may be, 
                      so the doctor will continue to treat the patient himself. 
                      In his book The Wayward Cell, Cancer, Dr. Victor Richards made it clear that chemotherapy is used 
                      primarily just to keep the patient returning for treatment 
                      and to build his morale while he dies. But there is more! 
                      He said, "Nevertheless, chemotherapy serves an extremely 
                      valuable role in keeping patients oriented toward proper 
                      medical therapy, and prevents the feeling of being abandoned 
                      by the physician in patients with late and hopeless cancer. 
                      Judicious employment and screening of potentially useful 
                      drugs may also prevent the spread of cancer quackery." 
                      (Victor Richards, The Wayward Cell, Cancer; Its Origins, 
                      Nature, and Treatment; Berkeley: The University of California 
                      Press, 1972, pp. 215-16) Heaven forbid that anyone should 
                      forsake the nauseating, pain-racking, cancer-spreading, 
                      admittedly ineffective "proven cures" for such 
                      "quackery" as Laetrile! Here we have revealed, 
                      the true goal of much of the so-called "educational" 
                      programs of orthodox medicine-psychologically to condition 
                      people to not try any other forms of therapy. So let's sum up the four different options of dealing 
                      with cancer: SURGERY: Least harmful. Sometimes a life-saving, stop-gap 
                      measure. No evidence that patients who receive radical or 
                      extensive surgical options live any longer than those who 
                      receive the most conservative options, or, for that matter, 
                      those who receive none at all. Believed to increase the 
                      likelihood of disseminating cancer to other locations. When 
                      dealing with internal tumors affecting reproductive or vital 
                      organs, the statistical rate of long-term survival is, on 
                      the average, 10-15%. After metastasis, the statistical chances 
                      for long-term survival are close to zero. RADIOLOGY: Very harmful in many ways. Spreads the cancer 
                      and weakens the patient's resistance to other diseases. 
                      Serious and painful side-effects, including heart failure. 
                      No evidence that treated patients live any longer, on the 
                      average, than those not treated. Statistical rate of long-term 
                      survival after metastasis is close to zero. CHEMOTHERAPY: Also spreads the cancer through weakening 
                      of immunological defense mechanism plus general toxicity. 
                      Leaves patient susceptible to other diseases and infections, 
                      often leading to death from these causes. Extremely serious side-effects. No evidence that treated 
                      patients live any longer, on the average, than untreated 
                      patients. Statistical rate of long-term survival after metastasis 
                      is close to zero. VITAMIN THERAPY: Non-toxic. Side effects include increased 
                      appetite, weight gain, lowered blood pressure, increased 
                      hemoglobin and red-blood cell count. Eliminates or sharply 
                      reduces pain without narcotics. Builds up body's resistance 
                      to other diseases. Is a natural substance found in foods 
                      and is compatible with human biological experience. Destroys 
                      cancer cells while nourishing non-cancer cells. Considering 
                      that most patients begin vitamin therapy only after they 
                      have been cut, burned, or poisoned by orthodox treatments 
                      and have been told that there no longer is any hope, the 
                      numbe rof patients who have been brought back to normal 
                      health on a long-term survival basis (15%) is most encouraging. 
                      For those who turn to vitamin therapy first, the long-term 
                      survival rate is greater than 80%! Wow, what a difference Laetrile does to a person. It is 
                      my opinion that everyone should read the book "World 
                      Without Cancer", by G. Edward Griffin for a clearer 
                      understanding of cancer, the way the human body gets it, 
                      and the politics that keep vitamin therapy outside the masses 
                      grasp. Even if you do not have cancer, you will benefit 
                      from this book. Cancer does not have to be feared anymore, just like we 
                      do not fear scurvy, rickets, beri-beri, etc. We have not 
                      been left defenseless on this earth but we need to have 
                      ears to hear the truth and to apply the truth to our lives 
                      for life. No human being loves you better than you do. No doctor, 
                      researcher, politician, etc. Only Yahweh loves you more. 
                      He has provided this information so we will be able to live 
                      whole and fruitful lives, not enslaved to the political 
                      sources behind the scenes. Study for yourself what is truth 
                      and the truth will set you free! Payday Loans A Straight Talk No Bull Web Site Apply Today / Cash Tomorrow We Deliver! http://www.fastcashonline.com/ Payday Loans FASTEST CASH ON THE INTERNET! Fast Cash - $100 to $2,500 Overnight No Credit Check - Lowest Rates http://www.fastcashonline.com/ DISCLAIMER: I make 
        no claims for the accuracy of this information and express no personal opinion 
        on the matter. The information was acquired off the web and from authors (owners 
        of said pages) and other sources and described as "information" 
      and I wanted to pass it along to anyone who might find it interesting or otherwise 
      useful. I'd appreciate any feedback you'd care to share with me if you wish 
      to proceed in a civilized manner. If the work is yours please email me and 
      we can work something out. I want to give the author the credit they deserve or remove the piece. Copyright 
      Notice © 
      1997 - 2009 Think About It Enterprises. All rights reserved. All material 
       on this Web Site, including text, photographs, graphics, code and/or software, 
       are protected by international copyright and trademark laws. Unauthorized 
       use is not permitted. You may not modify, copy, reproduce, republish, upload, 
       post, transmit or distribute, in any manner, 