
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 18:23:04 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.acupuncturistmiami.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

» Archive   » EIGHT SYMPTOMS OF STRESS: MOOD SWINGS Weblog About Acupuncture Services Articles Ailments Contact FAQ’s EIGHT SYMPTOMS OF STRESS: MOOD SWINGS May 7th, 2008 Mood swings are a common occurrence for many people but may interfere with daily activities when they become frequent and excessive. Mood swings may have several causes, such as chemical imbalances, use of some medications, diet, and hormonal changes. Various types of physical illness can also cause mood highs and lows. Strategies that can be considered for treating mood swings include: Lifestyle changes, allopathic medication, psychological treatments, and natural therapies, such as acupuncture. Fluctuating moods may be due to stress; restoring lifestyle balance through changes in exercise, diet or sleep patterns can sometimes be the solution to mood swings. Lifestyle changes should include stress reduction techniques, a diet rich in estrogenic food (alfalfa, soy, apples, cherries, potatoes, rice, wheat, and other mood enhancers) and regular exercise which all have positive effects on the treatment of mood swings. If the underlying cause of your mood swings is medical, certain medications may be prescribed by your physician to balance your mood, such as anti-depressants (Prozac) and hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for menopausal women. However, drug treatment for mood swings may result in negative side effects (weight gain, headache, insomnia). HRT therapy is now known to have certain cancer risks. There are also psychological treatments to aid in mood stabilization. Behavioral therapies, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, can teach individuals to develop alternative responses to mood triggers as well as restructure their reactions to specific situations. However, normal expected mood swings due to stress, lifestyle, pre-menstrual syndrome (PMS), pregnancy, post-partum depression, and menopause can be effectively treated with a combination of lifestyle changes and acupuncture. Acupuncture has been shown to optimize nervous system health and balance mood. Acupuncture normalizes the irregular nature of mood swings in a completely natural way. Acupuncture for mood swings increases the release of serotonin, the body’s natural painkiller, which minimizes the discomfort associated with mood swings. Acupuncture also rebalances the hormonal system and alleviates symptoms of mood swings such as irritability, lethargy, concentration difficulties, depression, insomnia, and headaches. Acupuncture for mood swings treats each individual according to their physical, mental and emotional patterns. Your acupuncture physician may structure a treatment plan which includes acupuncture, Chinese herbal medicine, dietary recommendations, and vitality enhancing exercises such as tai chi and qigong. A comprehensive acupuncture treatment plan effectively addresses individual hormonal imbalances and symptoms of mood swings. Acupuncture produces no negative side effects and is one of the safest ways for treating mood swings. In addition to stabilizing mood, acupuncture can treat the various types of physical illness associated with mood highs and lows while regulating chemical imbalances. Acupuncture for mood swings also increases endorphin, dopamine and norepinephrine levels, which reduce mood swing occurrence and produce a positive mood state. If you find that your mood swings are uncontrollable or unpredictable, a professional diagnosis should be sought. For more information about acupuncture therapy for mood swings call Dr. Richard Browne, Acupuncture Physician and Homeopath, at (305) 595-9500. Other | Comments | Trackback Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website You can keep track of new comments to this post with the comments feed . Search Categories Acupuncture Chinese Herbs exercise Food & Nutrition Health & Fittness Homeopathy Medical Marijuana meditaion Oriental Medicine Other Tai Chi Yoga Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Apr