<http://www.what-is-obesity.com/?p=63>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Stomach Banding Stomach Banding Search Home Obesity Archives Obesity Articles Privacy Policy What is Obesity? Stomach Banding By Obesity Expert Leonard Smeltmann Stomach banding is a medical procedure designed for the treatment of obesity or morbid obesity. A stomach band is also called a gastric band, or a LAP band. The stomach band itself consists of a silicone device that is surgically set around the top section the patient’s stomach. Stomach Banding The stomach banding operation is usually performed using laparoscopic or “keyhole” surgery, although not all patients are suitable for this method. Some patient’s who are particularly obese or “super obese” may require “open” surgery instead. Also patients who have had abdominal surgery before may not be suitable for the laparoscopic procedure. Some morbidly obese people may also have additional medical complications that make open surgery a safer method of placing the stomach banding. Stomach banding surgery or gastric band surgery is a type of bariatric surgery primarily used to treat patients with a body mass index above 40, although in some circumstances the procedure can be used to treat patients with a BMI as low as 35. In these cases stomach banding may be prescribed if the patient has other conditions that can be improved by weight loss such as sleep apnoea, osteoarthritis, acid reflux symptoms , high blood pressure, or type 2 diabetes. Stomach banding applied using laparoscopic methods is among the least invasive form of bariatric available. Stomach banding using laparoscopic surgery often results in less scarring, reduced time spent in hospital, reduced pain during recovery, along with a shorter recovery timeframe than is possible through open surgery operations. Unlike some other forms of bariatric surgery, no section of the patient’s stomach is surgically removed, and there is no re-routing of the patients intestine, so the patient does not face the absorptive issues than can occur with other types of bariatric surgery. Stomach Banding Procedure To place the stomach banding via laparoscopic surgery, a small incision is made near the navel. Carbon dioxide is pumped into the patient’s abdomen to form an inflated area, allowing room for the surgeon to operate. At this point a laparoscopic camera is inserted, and this laparoscopic camera then feeds the images to a video display. Other incisions are now created in the patient’s abdomen, allowing the surgeon to perform the operation using long handled medical instruments. Using the images on the screen, the surgeon creates a small, circular tunnel behind the stomach, and then places the stomach band across the top section of the patient’s stomach. The stomach banding forms a small partition at the top of the stomach. This upper section holds about a ½ cup of food, which is less than 10% of a regular stomachs volume. The reduced size of the stomach now means that it becomes full swiftly, and the stomach band reduces the speed at which the food passes into the lower part of the person’s stomach. After the patient eats a little bit, the upper part of the stomach will register as being “full”, turning off the “hunger” response in the brain, which encourages the patient to eat less, resulting in significant weight loss. Quotes on obesity costs will vary depending on the obesity symptoms of the person, along with their comparison to teither the body mass index for men or body mass index for women. The obesity children suffer is leess likely to have surgery such as stomach banding prescribed however, and preventing obesity in children is the topic another obesity article. Stomach Banding Return to the top of: Stomach Banding Obesity Obesity In Children Child Obesity Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Obesity Help Laparoscopic Surgery Overeating Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome Lap Band Complications Morbidly Obese Bariatric Recipes Weight Loss Recipes Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Vitamin Supplementation What are the Costs of Bariatric or Weight Loss Surgery? Bariatric Surgery Costs Bariatric Weight Loss Options Obesity Weight Loss Bariatric Food: Healthy Alternatives for Bariatric Patients Bariatric Foods Bariatric Treatment Centers Bariatric Surgery: Definition Definition of Bariatric Bariatric Nurse Bariatric Transport Bariatric Band Surgery Bariatric Lift Bariatric Banding Western Bariatric Bariatric Surgery Hospital © What is Obesity? 2011 We hope you have enjoyed reading " Stomach Banding " here at What is Obesity?.com! The article " Stomach Banding " is provided for information only, and should not be taken as advice on any topic. Please read our Privacy