
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:27:49 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 10:50:07 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Diazepam 2 mg Tablets eMedTV Sitemap Epilepsy Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Epilepsy Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Epilepsy Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Epilepsy Articles Video eMedTV Video Epilepsy Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Epilepsy Ketogenic Diet Epilepsy Symptoms Cause of Epilepsy Status Epilepticus Epilepsy Treatments Epilepsy Types Lyrica Lamictal Neurontin Topamax Diazepam Trileptal Tegretol Dilantin Keppra Klonopin Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Diazepam 2 mg Tablets Diazepam ( Valium ® ) is a prescription medicine that is used for treating several different conditions. Your healthcare provider will recommend an appropriate amount of this medication based on various factors, including your age and the specific condition being treated. Most people being treated for anxiety or seizures typically start with 2 mg diazepam tablets (one tablet, two to four times a day). Depending on the severity of your symptoms, your healthcare provider may recommend up to 10 mg two to four times daily. It is important to note that diazepam is only approved for use with other seizure medications. For people experiencing alcohol withdrawal, dosing usually starts at diazepam 10 mg three or four times during the first 24 hours. After the first day, the amount is usually lowered to 5 mg three to four times daily as needed. You likely will not be on diazepam long-term; instead, it is taken just long enough to help your body deal with the initial symptoms of alcohol withdrawal. The recommended dosage for treating muscle spasms is diazepam 2 mg to 10 mg three or four times daily. (Click Diazepam Dosing for more information on how dosing works for this medication and for general tips and precautions on how to take it.) Advertisement List of references (click here) Valium [package insert]. Nutley, NJ: Roche Pharmaceuticals;2000 March. Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD Advertisement Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t