Connection: close

Gestational Diabetes Clinic - Newton-Wellesley Hospital - Greater Boston Area Return to the existing page. Home Site Map Newsletter Contact Us Home Clinical Centers Diabetes Management Program Gestational Diabetes ... Clinical Centers Diabetes Management Program About Us Contact Us/Directions Diabetes Management Classes Diabetes Support Group For Physicians Gestational Diabetes Clinic About Gestational Diabetes Helpful Links Inpatient Consults Insulin Pump Program Newsletters Patient Forms Pre-Diabetes Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Gestational Diabetes Clinic The Gestational Diabetes Clinic at Newton-Wellesley Hospital meets Mondays from 8:00 am to 4:30 pm. Our goal is to have patients with gestational diabetes (diabetes arising during pregnancy) meet with all their providers in one location to improve continuity of care. About Gestational Diabetes Your First Two Visits On your first visit at the Clinic you will meet with our diabetes nurse educator and/or registered dietitian to go over your health history. During your second visit you will be seen by our endocrinologist, diabetes nurse educator and registered dietitian. Our endocrinologist will review your blood sugar records to determine if insulin is necessary. If you do require insulin, our diabetes nurse educator will provide you with introductory insulin instructions. You will also be seen by our registered dietitian/nutritionist for an evaluation of your diet. Your Additional Visits On your third and subsequent visits, you will meet with our diabetes nurse educator and/or endocrinologist and the registered dietitian/nutritionist, as needed. You will have ultrasound and non-stress tests scheduled through the Maternal Fetal Medicine Department . If you are on insulin, you will have a non-stress test alternating with a biophysical profile to assess fetal wellbeing every week beginning at 32 weeks. At 36 weeks testing is done twice weekly. If you are not on insulin, a growth scan is performed at 37 weeks to determine the size of your baby. A two hour, 75-gram post-partum glucose tolerance test is scheduled for eight weeks post delivery to ensure that the diabetes has ended. Our Team Our team includes high-risk obstetrician Julian Robinson, MD , and endocrinologists Jeanne Steppel-Reznik, MD , and John Larossa, MD . Kathleen Casper, RN, CDE, M.Ed is the RNCDE Diabetes Nurse Educator and Leslie Cordella-Simon, M.Ed, RD, LDN, CDE is our Registered Dietitian/Nutritionist. The Maternal Fetal Medicine medical assistant is Grace Jackson. Gestational Diabetes New Patient Form (pdf) Gestational Diabetes Fact Sheet (pdf) Legal Statements Privacy Policy HIPAA Guidelines Suggestions Careers@NWH Newton-Wellesley Hospital is proud to be a smoke-free campus. Newton-Wellesley Hospital   •   2014 Wa