<http://wp.me/pCt2W-1IQ>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 10:56:48 GMT
Pragma: public
Etag: 14125bef951d75c361e4fe0639531324
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 09:56:48 GMT
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4

Whooping Cough Symptoms - Cough Remedies - Whooping Cough Treatment	 | Home Remedies, Natural Remedy Recent Posts 5 Common Symptoms Of Epstein Barr Virus 5 Common Symptoms Of Vaginitis Effective Treatment For Psoriatic Arthritis 10 Common Symptoms Of Tapeworm Top Natural Substitutes For Antihistamine 5 Common Symptoms Of Dementia How To Treat Anaphylaxis How To Prevent A Heart Attack How To Treat Diabetic Foot Ulcers Atrial Fibrillation Treatment In Three Steps Health Ailments 5 Common Symptoms Of Epstein Barr Virus 5 Common Symptoms Of Vaginitis Effective Treatment For Psoriatic Arthritis 10 Common Symptoms Of Tapeworm Top Natural Substitutes For Antihistamine Home Remedies Home Remedies For Arthritis How to Treat Infertility Through Acupressure Alternative Liver Failure Treatments 5 Home Remedies For Tonsillitis Different Graves Disease Treatment Options Diet Diet For Six Packs Abs The Best Vitamins For Toddlers How To Reduce Cellulite Through Diet Thanksgiving Appetizers For Kids Appetizer Ideas For Easter Natural Cures Treatment Options For Angular Cheilitis 7 Easy Jet Lag Cure 6 Effective Natural Cure For Herpes Natural Dandruff Treatment Without Side Effects Natural Remedies For Candida Nutrients Uses For Ginger Beer How To Choose Good Pomegranates What Are The Health Benefits Of Vitamin C ? 3 Commonly Available Natural Anabolic Steroids For A Muscular Body Vitamin D Deficiency Symptoms Beauty Tips Makeup Tips For Oily Skin Five Secrets To Look Younger Home Remedies That Delay Aging For A Longer Time Beauty Tips For Glowing Skin How To Get Glowing Skin Skin Care Different Treatments For Dry Skin How To Reduce Acne Redness 3 Best Methods Of Treating Ingrown Hair On Legs Treatment For Edema In The Legs How To Use Witch Hazel For Treating Acne Beauty Tips Diet Health Ailments Herbal Remedies Home Remedies Natural Cures Nutrients Skin Care Home » Home Remedies »
Remedies for Whooping Cough Remedies for Whooping Cough 28 November, 2009 Tweet Enter your email address: Whooping cough is a contagious disease caused by bacteria called Bordetella pertussis. This bacteria cause inflammation in the air passages of the respiratory system. This causes swelling and excessive secretion of mucus in the respiratory tract. This results in cough and breathing troubles. The disease commonly affects the kids under 4 years of age and it may also affect the adults. In adults the symptoms will be mild while in kids it may produce severe symptoms. Symptoms of Whooping Cough The affected kid may have running nose, mild cough, sore throat, nasal congestion , watery eyes etc. The kid may or may not experience fever. The symptoms become aggressive in two weeks time and there may be thick nasal discharge. The cough will become more severe and the kid may cough 7 to 10 times in expiration. The cough may end up with a whooping sound and at times with vomiting. If the disease is left untreated it may results in pneumonia and life loss. Remedies for Whooping Cough Grape Juice Grape juice is found to produce good effects on the lungs and it act as a good expectorant. Take a cup of grape juice along with a teaspoon of honey daily and this may help you to get relief from the cough. Turmeric Turmeric is having antibiotic properties and hence it will be a good remedy for whooping cough. Take three grams of turmeric powder daily in the morning and evening. Garlic Extract juice from garlic cloves and give almost a teaspoon of garlic juice to the affected person. Repeat this three times a day or even more frequent. Raw Onion Take raw onion and cut it in to small pieces. Extract juice from these pieces and mix it with equal quantities of honey. Keep this mixture for about five hours and take it 2 times a day. Aniseed Aniseed is a good remedy when the cough is hard and dry. This is because aniseeds help to break up the mucus in the respiratory tract. Make a tea with aniseeds and drink this daily. Almond Soak seven almond kernels in water overnight and the next day morning remove the brown skin. Grind the kernels to get a fine paste and mix it with 20 grams of each of sugar and butter. Mix the entire contents well and take it in the morning and evening. Repeat this till your symptoms subsides. Related Posts Cough Remedies Whooping Cough Coughing Up A Solution Add your Buzz here.. Enter your email address: Subscribe to feed Ask and Discuss Home Remedies Natural Home Remedies Buzz Ask a Question Natural Home Remedies and Treatment | © Copyright 2011 Disclaimer: All information available here is for educational purposes only. We do not claim to cure, prevent or treat any disease. If you have, or suspect to have a h