
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:38:03 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Children's Oral Health Program - Contra Costa Health Services skip navigation , health centers and clinics , search , accessibility statement , Página en español , Search Health Topics | Services | Health Coverage contact us Children's Oral Health Program | Dental Clinics in Contra Costa County | Also of interest WIC: Women, Infants & Children , Home > Public Health Division > Family, Maternal & Child Health > Dental Health Children's Oral Health Program Report: Healthy Teeth for Life (PDF) Contra Costa County Dental Clinics Now Serving Children Under 21 - Flyer: English | Spanish (PDF) The Children's Oral Health Program is part of the Family, Maternal and Child Health (FMCH) Programs in Contra Costa Health Services. It was founded in 1977 to provide preventive dental services to children in low-income areas of the county. The program works in collaboration with schools, preschools and community partners to increase access to oral health services, by linking families with no- or low-cost resources. School-Based Oral Health Services The Children's Oral Health Program offers a variety of services to elementary schools and preschools that meet the Children's Oral Health Program's criteria for participation. All services are provided free of charge and are performed by licensed staff. Oral Health Education - Children learn the proper way to brush their teeth, how cavities can be prevented, and how good nutrition helps keep their teeth healthy. Dental Assessments - Program staff perform visual screenings to check the health of children's mouths. Parents receive Dental Health Report Cards with our recommendations. The Basic Screening Survey (BSS) developed by the Association of State and Territorial Dental Directors (ASTDD) is utilized diagnosis for the dental assessment. The BSS is not a thorough clinical examination and does not involve making a clinical that results in a treatment plan. The assessment is intended to identify gross dental or oral lesions. Dental Sealants - Children in third through sixth grade are examined to determine if they need sealants. Sealants are place on the chewing surfaces, or pits and fissures, of the permanent molars. Sealants are plastic coatings that make it difficult for plaque to adhere to grooves of these teeth, reducing the risk of developing caries for several years. Fluoride Varnish - Children that receive dental sealants also receive Fluoride Varnish.  A topical application is painted on the smooth surfaces of the teeth. The purpose of applying fluoride varnish is to retard, arrest and reverse the process of cavity formation. The Program follows the guidelines established by the Association of State and Territorial Directors' Fluoride Committee and the American Academy of Pediatrics . Kindergarten Exams - To assist schools in complying with State law (AB1433, which requires that children entering public school for the first time, in kindergarten or first grade, must have a dental check-up by May 31 of the first school year), Program staff work closely with school nurses to provide Kindergarten exams. Dental Clinics in Contra Costa County There are four county dental clinics and three community clinics in Contra Costa that provide free or low-cost dental services to eligible families. Denti-Cal Providers A list of dentists in Contra Costa County that accept Denti-Cal (PDF) Please Note: This list is only updated twice per year. Some dental practices may have changed their criteria for accepting new patients, times of operation and services. Please call the dental practice and confirm that the information is correct before you make an appointment. Links Local Links La Clinica Monument La Clinica Pittsburg Brookside Community Health Center Community Health Indicators for Contra Costa County 2010—Children's Oral Health State Resources Children Now 2009 California Report Card California County Data Book Office of Oral Health, California Department of Health Services California Dental Association Perinatal Oral Health Guidelines Policy Brief Patient Brochure Dental Health Foundation California Smiles Survey 2004-2006 First Smiles Oral Health Education and Training Project Denti-Cal University of the Pacific — Dugoni School of Dentistry, Pacific Center for Special Care California HealthCare Foundation — Oral Health National Professional Associations American Dental Association American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP): Oral Health General Oral Health Information Ronald McDonald House Charities — Ronald McDonald Care Mobile Oral Health in America: A Report of the Surgeon General (2000) Maternal and Child Health Knowledge Path: Oral Health and Children and Adolescents National Maternal and Child Oral Health Resource Center Oral Health America Children's Dental Health Project For more information 597 Center Avenue, Suite 305 Martinez, CA 94553 925-313-6280 925-313-6954 fax ﻿ Content provided by the Family, Maternal & Child Health (FMCH) Programs of Contra Costa Public Health Division . For more information, call 925-313-6254. Contra Costa County, California, USA Copyright © 2000–2012 Contra Costa Health Services Home | Privacy, Terms of U