
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Apache
Cache-Control: public, max-age=30
Pragma: no-cache
Expires: Thu, 01 Jan 1970 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Language: en-AU
Vary: Accept-Encoding
P3P: policyref="http://f2.com.au/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="CAO DSP LAW CURa ADMa DEVa TAIa PSAa PSDa IVAi IVDi OUR IND PHY ONL UNI PUR FIN COM NAV INT DEM CNT PRE GOV"
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 02:03:48 GMT
Connection: close
X-Cache: MISS
X-Age: 0
X-FXJ-ID: 1964492996

Should I circumcise my baby boy? | Circumcision | Health | Baby Skip to navigation Skip to content 3,103 online now 221,357 members Newsletters Forums Fairfax Digital News Real Estate Cars Jobs Dating Stayz More Newsletters Essential Baby InvestSMART Trading Room Weatherzone More sites » Essential Baby Baby Home Conception Pregnancy Birth Baby Stages of Development Caring for Baby Breastfeeding Health Education & Play Baby Products Baby Blog Baby Growth Chart Toddler Lifestyle Dads Essential Kids Find a Babysitter Directory Forums Forums Member Blogs Product Reviews Log In You are here: Home Baby Baby Health Article Search essentialbaby: Search in: EssentialBaby EssentialBaby Cutting both ways November 23, 2009 Making the cut - The circumcision debate sharpens up The thought of circumcising their baby appals many parents today. But what if it could potentially save their life? Sarina Lewis investigates. There was no debate about the issue of infant male circumcision for Jacinda Fraser. "I always knew I wanted to have my son - or sons - circumcised," says the 24-year-old mother of one. It was a decision made long before she met husband Shane and long before she gave birth to baby Byron, now five months old. It was a stance taken as far back as the mid-'90s, when 11-year-old Jacinda watched her eight-year-old brother go through the procedure. "I remember how traumatic it was for him having it done at that age," Jacinda recounts of the circumcision, instigated by recurrent infections due to phimosis. (Occurring in about 1 per cent of uncircumcised boys, phimosis sees the foreskin tighten around the head of the penis, making good hygiene difficult and infections common.) "He went through pain and had a week off school. It wasn't fun." Advertisement: Story continues below Fast-forward 13 years to the birth of the couple's baby boy, and the Frasers were surprised at the difficulty encountered in executing their joint parental decision to circumcise their son. The staff of their regional Victorian hospital were reluctant to discuss it: "No one supplied us with information to explain the risks and the benefits of having it done," Jacinda recalls. "It was mainly just judgement by them as to why we would want to get it done when it's not a necessary thing." The couple turned to the internet seeking personal stories and opinion, and attempted to decipher the medical research. Eventually it led them to the website of Melbourne's Dr Hershel Goldman and - four months after the birth of baby Byron - their son's circumcision. "It's strange," reflects Shane, 27. "It's like they're not putting the information out there just to steer people away from doing it." But the Frasers seem to be in a minority, according to the statistics. Data from the Royal Australasian College of Physicians (RACP) indicates that while up to  60 per cent of the male population underwent neonatal circumcision in the 1950s and 1960s, as little as 10 to 20 per cent of the male population is circumcised in Australia today: infant male circumcision rates sit at around 5 per cent in Victoria and South Australia, 7 per cent in Western Australia, 25 per cent in NSW and about 35 per cent in Queensland. But recent research into the link between circumcision and reduction in the transmission of sexually transmitted disease has once again blown open the debate. Large-scale trials of circumcision in African countries have shown circumcised, heterosexual men are 60 per cent less likely to become infected with HIV than their uncircumcised counterparts. Current international studies also suggest circumcision of male partners can provide women with substantial protection from cervical cancer and chlamydia, a known cause of infertility in adult women if left untreated. It is a great deal of benefit to attribute to the removal of a tiny piece of skin, smaller on a newborn baby boy than the nail on an adult's little toe. But what the neonatal foreskin lacks in size it clearly makes up for in emotive pulling power. "It just generates such passion and anger," says Professor David Forbes, chair of the paediatrics and child health policy and advocacy committee of the RACP. "It's the interface for many people of politics of self and religion - and, I think for some people, sexuality." While RACP policy has never advocated routine circumcision of infant males, the degree of opposition has in the past been much less vehement. It wasn't until a 2004 review that the RACP stated "there is no medical indication for routine newborn male circumcision". Today that statement is again under review and Forbes is the man in charge. "I thought because of what was happening internationally that the policy would probably need to change to a stronger endorsement of circumcision." However, he says the focus is more on HIV and AIDS, sexually transmitted diseases and the circumcision of adults, rather than infants. The professor insists that the RACP would need to be convinced of circumcision's long-term health benefits as relating to infants before considering a shift in policy: "Benefits [relating to spread of sexual disease] accrue after the age of puberty." At that time, Forbes adds, an adolescent male can make an informed decision on his own behalf. "You can decrease the risk of urinary tract infections in boys by circumcising them, but boys have a much lower rate than girls anyway," says Forbes. "But if you say we want to have it done because it looks nicer or we want [our son] to be the same as his father, that's cosmetic surgery on an infant who doesn't have a choice. I don't think that's logical, and I don't think it's ethical." Certainly, Amity Dry, mother and author of the Essential Baby Blog , sees it this way. Although Dry faced a battle in bringing her husband Phil Rankine, 40, around to her way of thinking, the Adelaide-based couple ultimately chose not to circumcise Jamison, now three. "I see it the same way as the tonsils," says Dry, whose circumcised husband had presumed his son would follow in his footsteps. "You don't take a baby's tonsils out in case they become infected and need to be taken out later in life, so the idea of doing it as prevention just didn't really make sense to me." As for the evidence showing reduced rates of sexually transmitted diseases, the 31-year-old says she plans to teach her son to practise safe sex. Better that, believes Dry, than removal of the foreskin. "If they're not supposed to have that piece of skin, why were they born with it?" she questions. It's the type of response pro-circumcision advocate and molecular biologist Dr Brian Morris finds infuriating. A passionate supporter of the procedure (for days following our conversation, Morris sent email after email, each containing studies reporting the purported health benefits of circumcision), the professor of molecular medical science at the University of Sydney believes there is overwhelming evidence pointing to neonatal male circumcision as a medical necessity. During development of a procedure which can test for the virus that causes cervical cancer, Morris discovered women with circumcised partners were at much lower risk of the disease. "It's the perfect environment for an infection," Morris says of the uncircumcised penis. "It's yucky, gunky and I could add smelly, too." Morris, founder of circinfo.net, a pro-circumcision site, bats away arguments citing pain and reduced sensitivity as "gobbledygook". "If there's any issue around at the moment where science needs to be listened to, it's circumcision," he says. "And the baby need feel absolutely no pain using the Russell technique." Developed by Brisbane's Dr Terry Russell, the technique uses a device called the Plastibell combined with the application of anaesthetic cream. "The risks of conventional circumcision were bleeding, infection and the risk it would be botched up surgically," says Russell, who claims his procedure is "totally painless". This played a large part in the decision of Brisbane couple Andre and Craig Allan in having their baby boy, Cooper, circumcised. The procedure was performed when he was eight weeks old and Andre, 37, says while she suffered some anxiety, Cooper showed no reaction. The Allans say their friends have offered little in the way of response either for or against the procedure. For their part, the Allans could see no difference between the decision to circumcise and the decision to immunise. Craig, 40, explains: "Like you may choose to immunise or not to immunise your children, we found that it would be in his best interests for his health and well-being if we did go through with the circumcision." But for newborn specialist, paediatrician and anti-circumcision activist Dr George Williams, these arguments aren't convincing. "I know children who have died from circumcision or who have either lost their whole penis or lost part of their penis. I've witnessed many circumcisions and I actively counsel parents against it." Williams, the medical advisor and founder of circinfo.org, an anti-circumcision website, believes it's a question of human rights. "We have laws against female circumcision but we don't seem to want to protect male children, and the outcomes are the same," says Williams. "If you look at the 1800s and 1900s, circumcision was done to protect against masturbation, mental illness - every 20 or 30 years there's a new excuse. In the '70s it was urinary tract infections, and now it's HIV/AIDS. "When you're imposing unnecessary surgery on children without any medical benefit, you're violating the rights of that child for self-determination," says Williams. "But if an adult decides to get circumcised that's his choice and I've got no issue with that." Discuss this issue in the EB forums here . Join the conversation You're the only person reading this now. Tell your friends Add to Facebook Email this story Tweet You don't take a baby's tonsils out in case they become infected and need to be taken out later in life. Related Coverage Circumcision - let the debate begin 21 Apr Are you for or against circumcision? Did you have to debate anyone on ... Doctors push to leave baby boys intact 10 Jun The Royal Australasian College of Physicians has flagged it will not ... Top Baby articles Hip dysplasia: helping your baby Should you circumcise your child? Guide to baby bowel movements Nutrition – what your baby needs Australian vaccination schedule More Baby articles Story Tools Share on Facebook Email this story Print this story Reprints & permissions More Related Coverage Circumcision - let the debate begin 21 Apr Are you for or against circumcision? Did you have to debate anyone on your decision and what were your reasons for making your choice? Doctors push to leave baby boys intact 10 Jun The Royal Australasian College of Physicians has flagged it will not change its policy against circumcision despite evidence the procedure can prevent the spread of HIV and other sexual diseases. Beach safety - keeping an eye on the kids Simple tips to keep you and your family safe at the beach. Perfect Baby Shower - Discount Member Offer - get 20% OFF! Summer Child Win a $50 voucher to spend at Summer Child. Don’t want a baby shower? Here's five other ways to celebrate Here are five ways to celebrate your baby without throwing a ‘shower’ and still feel special and spoilt. Jimmy Giggle, Hoot WIN a family ticket to a very special play date with Jimmy Giggle, Hoot and their new owl pal,  Hootabelle. French parenting style What are the French doing 'better' at parenting? Baby Shower tips Our EB readers on Facebook have given great tips for throwing the essential baby shower. WIN & save on a Stayz holiday! Win 1 of 5 ultimate holiday get-togethers and save 50% on selected Stayz properties! Pumpkin Patch Win 1 of 3 $50 Pumpkin Patch 3 gift cards. Win a Swim with Klim Click here for details. Potty training By Days It’s happening all over the country. Fortified by the excesses of the waning party season and grabbing the last of summer, many parents are tackling toilet training. Baby's First Year Guide This monthly guide to your baby's first year covers development, sleeping, baby care, immunisation reminders, feeding and more. EssentialBaby Directory Are you looking for a birth photographer or baby and maternity clothes? Look no further than the Essential Baby Directory! Prev Next Advertisement Find a Nanny or Babysitter Search Nannies & Babysitters Post a Job Join Now Search by Postcode Postcode Find a Babysitter Daytime nannies Casual babysitters After-school care Live-in nannies Photo Gallery Cake Lingerie's latest maternity range Top 10 favourite TV mums of all time Baby shower products - spoil the mum to be Beyonce shares baby photos on Tumblr Welcome little dragons, it’s Chinese New Year 2012! Little Bookwormz - clothes for the cultured kids Featured advertisers We are discussing... What EB doesn't know about you 107 posts Ear plugs for swimming (grommets) 1 posts qld holiday 7 posts Baby/Toddler - Food Travel Bag 3 posts Final list 10 posts Weekly Spelling Lists - Grade 3 13 posts Is this for real? 1 posts Menu planning.... whats on the menu 53 posts who has the right? 4 posts Natural labour - how many weeks? 3 posts EssentialBaby Directory Photographers Nappies Kids' clothes Search now! Being Dad Book & DVD offer! EB members get a 15% discount on Being Dad DVDs & Books. Find out the promo code in our Dads section on Essential Baby. Advertisement Sponsored links Advertisement Advertisement About Essential Baby Essential Baby is the place to find great information , resources and support relating to conception , pregnancy , birth , baby , toddlers , kids , maternity and parenting . Try our pregnancy calculator to determine your due date , or our ovulation calculator to predict ovulation and your fertile period . Our pregnancy week by week  guide shows you your baby's weekly development . Access our very active discussion groups in the Essential Baby forums to talk to mums about conception , pregnancy , birth , baby and parenting . Essential Baby offers baby name ideas , popular baby names and discussion of boys' names and girls' names in the Essential Baby forum . For the latest baby clothes, maternity clothes, maternity accessories, breastfeeding clothes and nursing wear, nappies, mothers bags, baby toys, and nursery products, check out EB Picks . Essential Baby is the place to find great information , resources and support relating to conception , pregnancy , birth , baby , toddlers , kids , maternity and parenting . Show More Motoring New Cars for 2012 Drive.com.au Great Aussie Road Trip Sell your car easily Find us on Facebook Jobs Looking for a part time job? Museum Education Officer Mycareer.com.au More part time jobs Wanted - Jnr Mechanics Turn up, help out Real Estate Have you switched lenders and gotten a better deal? Domain.com.au Buy real estate Get a FREE suburb profile What is your house worth? Holidays Luxurious holidays - where will yours be? Rent-a-home.com.au Sydney city accommodation Short-term rentals Search 27,000+ holiday properties Find A Babysitter Help when you need it most - hire a nanny or sitter! Findababysitter.com.au Sydney Child Care Melbourne Child Care Brisbane Child Care Today's Top 5 Articles Today's Top 5 Articles Top 10 favourite TV mums of all time Perfect Baby Shower - Discount Member Offer Beach safety - keeping an eye on the kids Are we having fun yet? Jinky Art Popular Forums Conception Your pregnancy Your baby Your toddler Your child Most viewed articles on The Sydney Morning Herald Today's Top 5 Articles Nick's last text: 'Fallen asleep twice. I hope I make it' Shot in the head after opening her front door Two killed as truck hits breakdown operation on highway Star hits out at Home and Away racism Driver accused of installing 'upskirt' camera on Sydney bus about us contact us newsletters faq advertise with us privacy statement terms of use site map Essential Baby Sitemap About Us Contact Us Privacy Conditions Member Agreement Advertise with Us Products & Services Newsletters FAQ Classifieds Accomodation Cars Dating Jobs Fairfax Media Our Sites The Sydney Morning Herald The Age MyCareer Domain Drive RSVP Essential Baby InvestSMART APM Stayz Weatherzone The Vine Our Partners Business Dental Surgery Fitness Gardens Hair salon Jogging Phys