
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 19:33:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: PHPSESSID=8a1336126ee0e733a7eccc360b0f64eb; path=/
Set-Cookie: exp_last_visit=1014147238; expires=Sat, 16-Feb-2013 19:33:58 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: exp_last_activity=1329507238; expires=Sat, 16-Feb-2013 19:33:58 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: exp_tracker=a%3A1%3A%7Bi%3A0%3Bs%3A68%3A%22info%2Fdetail%2Feczema_cases_reported_in_the_uk_is_rising_by_42_per_year%22%3B%7D; path=/
Last-Modified: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 19:33:58 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Eczema cases reported in the UK is rising by 42% per year! - Nutritional Information - Nutrigold Update Service Nutrigold Nutritional Update Service RSS Feed Nutritional  Update Service all the very latest from the nutritional industry direct to your desktop... For a more accurate search use keywords and phrases All Areas All Areas A to Z of Illness Newsletters Nutritional Req Product Cautions Nutrients GO Home A-Z of Illness Newsletters Webinars Nutritional Requirements Product Cautions Feedback You are here: Home eczema cases reported in the uk is rising by 42 per year Eczema cases reported in the UK is rising by 42% per year! Tweet Forward to a friend The prevalence of childhood eczema , and other allergic diseases such as asthma and food allergy, has increased dramatically over the last three decades. In fact one study has found that there is a 42% overall increase in new eczema cases each year. So what are the causes of this often debilitating disorder? Critics of the study say that possible reasons for the recorded rise in eczema cases may stem from increased clinician and patient awareness and not wholly due to a real increase in allergic disease. However the increase in incidence and prevalence of eczema, and other allergenic diseases, cannot be explained solely by increased awareness. A naturopathic approach to eczema is to view the skin as our largest organ of elimination. If we have a particularly heavy toxic load then our detoxification systems are overworked leading to potential skin conditions. The naturopathic view is that this may at least partially account for the soreness and irritation of skin complaints such as some types of eczema. There is no doubt that a suitable cleansing diet, avoiding irritants such as harsh biological washing powders and a good quality multi-nutrient supplement would go some way to supporting skin health . However some cases of eczema can be due to genetic aberrations such as filaggrin mutations causing skin barrier defects in children and eczema-type symptoms. With so many different possible mechanisms of allergenic diseases such as eczema is there a common underlying cause? It seems there may be one area we can focus supporting, as one of the strongest links to eczema and allergies is gut health and more specifically our gut bacteria. The hygiene hypothesis and the more recent microflora hypothesis strongly links gut bacteria to immune system function. Delayed colonisation of gut with commensal bacteria during childhood or alterations in the gut microbiota , such as reduced levels of Bifidobacteria , can be a strong risk factor for developing allergenic disease such as eczema (Kalliomaki, 2001). One recent study has shown that supplementing with a combination of Lactobacillus strain and fructo-oligosaccharides for 8 weeks was associated with significant reductions in severity of childhood eczema (Wu, 2012). Other studies suggest that probiotics mediate their activity by a variety of mechanisms including enhancing beneficial bacteria levels, maintaining gut barrier integrity, production of short chain fatty acids and modulating systemic immune responses (Licciardi, 2010). This and other studies suggest an exciting new area of supporting eczema and other allergenic diseases such as astham using probiotic and prebiotic supplements. However the microflora and hygiene hypotheses do not completely explain the high rates of allergic disease and eczemas amongst all sections of the population. This has lead to the ‘developmental origins hypothesis for health and disease’ ( DOHaD ). The premise is to bring new insight into the pathogenesis of disease by studying epigenetics or ‘ perinatal programming’ . This area of research looks at how we can be ‘preprogrammed’ within the womb through our mother’s nutrition and other environmental stimuli to develop disorders such as eczema, metabolic and vascular dysfunctions. Development of the immune system begins in utero and continues postnatally through breast-feeding and the baby’s environmental exposure (Azad, 2011). Clinical studies have demonstrated that combined pre and post-natal supplementation with probiotic supplements such as Lactobacillus rhamnosus can reduce the development of eczema in high-risk children by the age of 2 (i.e. in families with history of atopic disease; Wickens, 2008). Thus probiotics and supporting gut health seem to play a very important role not only in management of eczema but also in preventing cases of eczema in high-risk children through maternal prenatal supplementation. Here are some Nutrigold Newsletters that give more information on this update: Bowel Flora Supergreens & Alkalising Diet Benefits of Krill oil Calming and cleansing the colon Wherewithal to Detoxify Detoxification References Azad et al (2011) Perinatal Programming of Asthma: The Role of Gut Microbiota. Clin Develop Immunol 2012 Kalliomaki et al (2001) Distinct patterns of neonatal gut microflora in infants in whom atopy was and was not developing. J Allergy Clin Immunol 107:129-134. Licciardi et al (2010) Epigenome targeting by probiotics metbolites. Gut Pathogens 2:24. http://www.gutpathogens.com/content/pdf/1757-4749-2-24.pdf Sandilands et al (2009) Filaggrin in the frontline: role in skin barrier function and disease. J Cell Sci 122:1285-1294 Posted in: Anti Ageing / Hair Skin & Nail Health / Improving Lifestyle & Nutrition / Probiotics / Online Nutrition Tweet Forward to a friend 0 Comments There are no comments for this entry yet. Be the first to comment... Share your view Name: Email: Location: URL: Please enter the word you see in the image below: Remember my personal information Notify me of follow-up comments? Related Articles A balanced high potency multi strain Probiotic could help support the UK’s IBS Suffers! Nutrigold Announce The launch of their New Online Probiotic Course Probiotics & European Law Webinar by Dr Elisabeth Philipps - Probiotics and Health - What you need to know! Recent Articles How to make the most of the Nutritional Updates Service Eczema cases reported in the UK is rising by 42% per year! Supporting Heart Health - A Naturopathic Approach Webinar by Dr Elisabeth Philipps Understanding the Omega Oil Revolution Webinar by Dr Elisabeth Philipps Strokes Webinar by Sally Duffin Health Issues Anti Ageing (25) Bioavailability of Nutrients (20) Bone Health (21) Cardiovascular Health (36) Child Health (16) Cognitive Health & Nervous system (33) Detoxification & Cleansing (22) Digestive & Gut Health (34) Endocrine Health Including Thyroid Problems Diabetes (28) Eye Health (6) Fertility, Pregnancy & Reproductive (19) Hair Skin & Nail Health (19) Immune Support (40) Improving Lifestyle & Nutrition (77) Joint Health (25) Menopause Support (13) Metabolism (15) Musculoskeletal (4) Renal System (10) Respiratory System (12) Sports - Optimising Performance (18) Stress Management (24) Weight Management (18) Nutrient Information Non vitamin, non-mineral nutrients (31) Antioxidants (33) Minerals (49) Omega Oils (41) Phytonutrients (33) Probiotics (8) Vitamins (60) Key Interests Book Reviews (3) Educational Webinars (11) Industry Regulations (11) Naturopathic Courses (17) Nutritional Updates (119) Online Nutrition (29) Practitioner Recognition (9) Press Articles (11) Latest Newsletters FREE EMAIL ALERTS Please choose the topics below that interest you, whether you're a practitioner or consumer and how frequently you would like alerts delivered. Health Issues Anti Ageing Bioavailability of Nutrients Bone Health Cardiovascular Health Child Health Cognitive Health & Nervous System Detoxification & Cleansing Digestive & Gut Health Endocrine Health Including Thyroid Problems Diabetes Eye Health Fertility & Pregnancy Hair Skin & Nail Health Immune Support Improving Lifestyle & Nutrition Joint Health Menopause Support Metabolism Renal System Respiratory System Sports - Optimising Performance Stress Management Weight Management Nutrients Antioxidants Minerals Omega Oils Probiotics Vitamins Phytonutrients Non vitamin, non-mineral nutrients Key Interests Educational Webinars Industry Regulations Naturopathic Courses Nutritional Updates Online Nutrition Practitioner Recognition Book Reviews Press Articles GO Consumer Pracititioner Nutritional  Courses Become a qualified practitioner today Choose from a great selection of courses available online.  All courses are supported by qualified staff scheduling regular webinars and talks on nutritional based topics. Signup Today Join the FNTP Open your online account today If you are a nutritional practitioner who has not already signed up to 
                    the FNTP, please do take a look at their website which can be found at www.fntp.org.uk Join the FNTP Nutrigold Online Open your online account today Nutrigold are currently one of the fastest growing, premium quality, food supplement companies in the UK.  Keep up-to-date with all the latest nutritional product developments. Create your Account Home Product Cautions A-Z Illness Newsletters Nutritional Requirements Why Nutrigold? Feedback Terms of Use PO Box No. 217, Exmouth, EX8 9AX Tel: +44(0)845 603 5675 (local rate) Fax: +44(0)845 603 5690 E-mail: talk2us@nutrigold.co.uk Twitter: @nutrigoldltd Facebook: Facebook Page Registered Office: Unit 7 Tidwell Court, Liverton Business Park, Exmouth, EX8 2NR Company Reg 