
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 21:03:26 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 09:40:01 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Dementia Treatment eMedTV Sitemap Alzheimers Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Alzheimers Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Alzheimers Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Alzheimers Articles Video eMedTV Video Alzheimers Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Alzheimer's Lewy Body Dementia Dementia Aricept Symptoms of Dementia Causes of Dementia Vitamin E Benefits of Vitamin E Namenda Exelon Cognex L-Theanine Phosphatidylserine Ginkgo Biloba Lecithin Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Dementia Treatment For most cases of dementia, treatment does not yet exist to reverse or halt its progression. However, people with progressive dementias may benefit from drugs, such as cholinesterase inhibitors and memantine, which may help delay the progression of dementia symptoms. In the early stages, treatment involving cognitive training and behavior modification may be helpful. Information on Dementia Treating Dementia: An Overview When someone is diagnosed with dementia , the healthcare provider will first look for treatable causes. For about 10 percent of conditions that cause dementia, treatment is available that can help reverse or at least slow down its progression. Some examples of these treatable causes of dementia include: A brain tumor Normal pressure hydrocephalus Hypothyroidism . For most cases, treatment does not exist to reverse or halt the disease's progression; however, this does not mean that nothing should be done. People with dementia can benefit to some extent from such things as medications and cognitive training. There are also options for the family to help them cope. Although Alzheimer's disease and certain other conditions are technically causes of dementia, they are also often referred to as dementia types . Likewise, terms such as "vascular dementia" are often used to describe causes as well as types. Medications Used to Treat Dementia Medications to specifically treat Alzheimer's disease and some other progressive dementias are now available and are prescribed for many people. Although these drugs do not halt the disease or reverse existing brain damage, they can improve symptoms and slow down the progression of the disease. These medications may: Improve the person's quality of life Ease the burden on caregivers ( see Dementia Care ) Delay admission to a nursing home. Many dementia research scientists are also examining whether these drugs may be useful for other types of dementia treatment. Dementia Treatment Article Continues on Next Page > Advertisement Written by/reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Advertisement Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation Dementia Dementia Types Causes of Dementia Symptoms of Dementia Dementia Diagnosis Tests for Dementia Dementia Care Dementia Risk Factors Dementia Research Dementia Prevention Childhood Dementia Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t