
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 07:32:17 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10-2ubuntu6.5
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 07:32:17 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

CRANBERRY JUICE GAINS RESPECT | Caring Today Skip to Content Welcome! Sign in home blog deal with... Login or register to post comments Email this page No comments yet CRANBERRY JUICE GAINS RESPECT Discover the benefits of a daily glass Clinicians and folklorists have long known that cranberry juice helps prevent urinary tract infections (UTIs). Now scientists have discovered how. The disease is very common, especially among women. About half of all women will have a UTI at least once. Symptoms include painful and frequent urination, cloudy urines, pressure sensations in the lower abdomen and fever. Additionally, left untreated, UTI can cause permanent urinary incontinence. How do cranberries help?. UTIs are caused by bacteria that have hair-like projections known as fimbriae. These attach to healthy cells, creating the infection. But researchers at Worcester Polytechnic Institute found that even low concentrations of cranberry juice can form a kind of barrier that won't allow the bacteria to latch onto the cells. However, that barrier is only temporary, the study found. "This suggests that to realize the antibacterial benefits, one must consume cranberry juice regularly, perhaps daily," observes Terri Camesano, an associate professor of chemical engineering at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. The good news: Both regular cranberry juice cocktail and the sugar-free variety are effective, her research shows. Here are other easy ways to prevent infection, from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services: Always wear underwear with a cotton crotch. Always urinate when you feel the urge. Don't wait too long. Always urinate before and after sex. After urinating, always wipe from front to back. Thoroughly clean the genitals every day. Avoid douching or using a feminine spray . UTIs are easily treatable with antibiotics but can lead to serious illness if they spread to your kidneys. Always see a health care provider if you have symptoms. help yourself reduce stress stay fit arrange respite care find support resources Read Caregiver Stories Get Inspiration Share With Caregivers Ask a question * READ SOME ANSWERS help others find local resources Get Basic Caregiving Work With Family Plan For Long-Term Care handle finances & legal manage medications deal with... Alzheimer's/Dementia Arthritis Autism Cancer Cerebral Palsy COPD Depression Diabetes Down Syndrome Epilepsy falls Heart/Stroke HIV/AIDS Incontinence infections Insomnia Kidney disease Multiple Sclerosis Osteoporosis Parkinson's Disease Vision Disorders advertise about us terms o