Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Anti Anxiety Herbs Subscribe to my Newsletter Herbal Ideas Email Name Then Don't worry -- your e-mail address is totally secure.
I promise to use it only to send you Herbal Ideas . And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree ... and God saw that it was good. (Gen. 1:11-13) This site does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment - More Info Growing-Herbal-Remedies.com - Privacy Policy - Contact Us Anxiety Digestion Depression Blood-Pressure Acne Ailments Grow Your Own Site Related [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Anti Anxiety Herbs Indeed, worry, fear and stress and what I like to call the anxiety-uglies that have serious consequences for our lives, especially when they have becomes ingrained in our daily routines to the point where we almost expects them to be there!  Continuously! This leads to people starting to worry when they've got nothing to worry about! (" Surely something is about to go wrong any minute now... "). So if anxiety is a daily part of your life, it's obviously something that you need to deal with.  The A nti anxiety Herbs on this page is a good start.  Read on for more... How servere is your anxiety? It's one thing to be nervous and worried about a new situation or negative expectations.  But if these feelings are so strong you feel they interfere with your everyday life and relationships , then you could be suffering from an anxiety disorder . Anxiety manifest in our lives in many shapes and sizes.  Some, like serious forms of anxiety that seem to sap your strength, need to be handled by a medical professional. But for most people, the sort of anxiety they struggle with is mild or sporadic .  And herbal medication is especially effective in dealing with these general sorts of anxiety, often medically referred to as General Anxiety Disorder (GAD). If you think this is you, then the information on these pages will help:  Start with the benefits of Chamomile Tea , or have a look at herbal remedies made from Passion Flower, which is clinically proven to relieve tenseness, restlessness, irritability and sleeplessness.  Read more on Passion Flower Remedies. Kava Kava is a powerful herb used for relaxation and has anti anxiety benefits.  A similar drug, with more emphasis on stress relieving and helping you sleep, is Valerian Root . So how do I know if I suffer from GAD? If you've been experiencing anxiety and worry for a while, and can't seem to shake it off, then you might be a victim to GAD.  For most of us, anxiety comes to surface when our thoughts dwell on the three most important things in our life: Money, Health and Family. Other forms of underlying anxiety or stress often have causes that you can't clearly identify.  Think of those times when you worry for no particular reason, but simply because you're used to it! Many people are so used to living with mild, underlying anxiety that they start worrying when they don't have anything to worry about! And it is not even that you worry about serious things, it's usually just about life and situations in general. If you or someone you know suffer from GAD, general anxiety disorder, some anti anxiety herbs might be used as an alternative to drugs.  But, as with all remedies, it's safer to talk to your doctor before taking it. Anxiety can become quite serious if left unchecked.  And negative feelings affect how we behave and can manifest in real, physical symptoms . Return from Anti Anxiety Herbs to Herbal Medication Homepage How do I know if I suffer from mild or severe anxiety? In a mild disorder the feelings of nervousness and fear is usually more vague and you find it a bit unsettling, while with severe disorders, the feelings of fear and worry sap the strength from you and have a serious impact on your life. In a severe case it would be best for you to see a professional about it. Anti anxiety herbs are more able to help you if you suffer from a mild anxiety disorder or if you feel you are in general just too anxious and worried about things. A good tip regarding anti anxiety herbs Anxiety can be triggered by environmental factors, medication, genetics, brain chemistry or even substance abuse. But the most common one is stress . People react differently to certain circumstances, which would explain why some people experience anxiety more than others.  And if you talk yourself into anxiety by telling yourself the worst that will happen, it is no wonder you suffer from feelings of fear, nervousness and worry. The effect of 'self talk' is very powerful, whether it is positive or negative, and if you tend to be anxious you need to especially watch out for that negative talk. When you try some of the anti anxiety herbs we discuss on these pages, remember that our aim is for you to reach a place where you don't need to use any 'external' help, not even anti anxiety herbs, to get you through the day - stress-free! So watch out what you say to yourself and what you feed your soul. For anxiety is usually rooted in the physical, psychological and spiritual. We are holistic beings and each area affects another area. Do you have an anti anxiety remedy of your own?  One that you've discovered as you experimented with different tinctures or stumbled upon in a book? Please share you story and recipe here! The great American disaster .... The ever-present, unwelcome companion ... The killer ... Coming to this page, you obviously know what these sentences refer to.  And despite the high level of melodrama in their content, they point out one powerful and usually overlooked aspect of anxiety: It is ALWAYS disastrous for your health. There are more sicknesses, chronic symptoms and ailments linked to fear and anxiety , than to any other human feeling.  And no matter where in the world you're from, chances are that anxiety and stress have ingrained itself in your culture, as it has in mine. Passion Flower relieves tenseness Valerian Root induces sleep Kava Kava is a powerful relaxant Chamomile t