Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.com.au - Education - Acupuncture Points - SP5 (Spleen 5) The Basics Q & A Library Find a Practitioner Professional Resources Professional Community About Acupuncture What can Acupuncture do for me? How does Acupuncture work? What conditions can be treated? What is involved in a treatment? What is the cost? Library Home Asthma Diabetes Fertility Fibromyalgia Low Back Pain Menstrual Pain Migraine Muscle Strain Neck Pain Osteoarthritis The history and theory of Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Meridian Pathways Acupuncture Points Directory Acupuncture Indications Search The Zang Fu Organs and Syndromes Chinese Herbal Therapy Ear Acupuncture and Auriculotherapy Reference Books ACNM Nanning Internship Members Area Practitioner Discussion Forum Media Gallery Monthly Newsletter News, Research and Articles Events Calendar Acupuncture Courses Live RSS Newsfeeds Free 250mb Email Make a contribution SP5 (Spleen 5) - Acupuncture Point Information Chinese Name : Shangqiu English Name : Merchant Mound Location : In the depression distal and inferior to the medial malleolus, midway between the tuberosity of the navicular and the tip of the medial malleolus. Nature: Jing-River point of the Spleen channel. Functions: Strengthens the Spleen and Stomach, transforms damp stagnation. Primary Indications: Borborygmus, abdominal distension, diarrhoea, pain in the foot and ankle joint. Tertiary Indications: Constipation, jaundice, poor digestion, gastritis, stiffness and pain of tongue, haemorrhoids, foot swelling, nightmares, breast pain, female infertility, hernia, fever. Other Indications: Gastric cancer, doesn't want to eat, spleen vacuity, congestion of the spleen, pain in the spleen, sighs often or groans, aesthenia, loves to sleep, heavy sensations in body, melancholy, heart sorrow, pain in joints, pain in internal aspect of thing, pain in the thighs, hypertonicity of the sinews, impaired bending and stretching of the knee with inability to walk, osseous tuberculosis, bone bi, oedema, colic, sensation like a 'piglet' running around in the abdomen causing severe pain, epilepsy, infantile convulsions with diarrhoea, child fright wind, throat bi, glomus (plum-pit throat). References: This information is from the book Acupuncture Point Dynamics and has been used with permission from the author John McDonald. View other points on the Spleen channel: ( SP1 , SP2 , SP3 , SP4 , SP5, SP6 , SP7 , SP8 , SP9 , SP10 , SP11 , SP12, SP13 , SP14 , SP15 , SP16 , SP17 , SP18 , SP19 , SP20 , SP21 ) [Click here to return to the complete Acupuncture Points Listing] [Click here to return to the Spleen Meridian chart] Acupuncture.com.au | About | Community | Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | We support The Coomera Busines