
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 04:37:51 GMT
Server: Apache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Natural Scar Removal Natural Scar Removal by Lyssette Peret Almost every wound heals with a scar. The appearance of these scars depends of the damage of the wound as well as how the individual body deals with healing. Something we can say for sure is that the deeper the wound, the more unsightly the scar; and because of that, those left with more severe scars from deeper wounds are likely to search for scar removal options. Types of Scars If thinking about scar removal you should also consider the type of scar you have. Wound healing results in various types of scars. Keloid scars are progressive growths of raised, irregular shaped scar tissue that extend beyond the bounds of a wound. They occur when the body over produces collagen during the wound healing process. Hypertrophic scars are raised scars due to high collagen as well, but they remain within the bounds of the wound. Contractures are results of surface injuries that end in scars formed by a loss of tissue. Facial scars differ from others as they are usually caused by acne. They can range in shape and depth depending on the type of acne the person suffered. Natural Scar Treatment Current burn, hypertrophic, and treatment for acne scars include many that are unnatural, for example, laser therapy, skin grafting, steroids, and other types of surgeries. However, this article is focused on natural home remedies for scar reduction. Vitamin E: This vitamin is a strong antioxidant that is found in capsule or liquid forms. It has been shown to penetrate layers of skin and reduce the formation of free radicals that can interfere with healing. It also has some control over collagen production. Onion Extract: Scientifically known as Alium cepa, onion is actually found in many common scar removal creams. This element can work as an anti-inflammatory and antibacterial agent. It is also thought to regulate collagen. Topical Honey: Honey has been used for centuries to aid wound healing. It is thought to stimulate the growth of new tissue as well as have anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties. Some studies have been done on a specific type called manuka honey. The Real Answer As much as we would love to believe that these simple at home fixes could do magic to remove acne scars and other types, there has just not been enough reliable evidence that proves the success of these home remedies. There have been little or no results from scientific studies of these natural elements. That's why we began to explore if there was any natural scar removal that existed that was truly effective, and we found the answer! A recent new ingredient to organic skin has been getting great feedback from scientists. It is scientifically known as Helix Aspersa Muller, and is a type of snail serum. The serum is extracted from a common ground snail that shares amazingly similar skin characteristics with humans. The naturally regenerative property of this serum has successfully proven effective on human skin imperfections and is a wonder cream when it comes to scar prevention and scar healing. It controls collagen production, triggers cell communication and binding, serves as the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory as well as an anti-itch agent. It also deeply moisturizes the skin and keeps it healthy during the healing process. The heightened cell communication also allows the body to identify and eliminate nonfunctional cells, including those of scar tissue. Therefore, acne scar removal happens when scar tissue cells are broken down and what is left are the elements needed to rebuild and restore healthy new cells and beautiful skin. BIOSKINREPAIR is one of the first and most effective products for acne scars treatment on the market to place Helix Aspersa Muller on the top of its ingredient list. This natural cream is particularly designed to improve an acne scar 's appearance and is effective for all types of scars. Stop running around trying to find a perfect keloid scar removal or hypertrophic scar removal. BIOSKINREPAIR has everything you are looking for as it combines Helix Aspersa Muller with other beneficial botanicals to provide an amazingly comprehensive and unique skin care product. This natural serum helps prevent and reduce all scars, relieve itch, and manage the natural and orderly repair of damaged skin. BIOSKINREPAIR with Helix Aspersa Muller offers scarless healing and improved skin regeneration to provide you with beautiful results. Published March 30th, 2010 F