
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 07:23:46 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 07:23:49 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Probiotics and health benefits  | Healthy Body - Healthy Body Login Form Username Password Remember Me Forgot your password? Forgot your username? Open Panel Close Panel You are what you eat ... Home Weight loss Weight Loss Pills Acai Berry Actives Acai Berry Select African Mango Caralluma Actives Goji Berry Advance Hoodia Gordonii Plus Maqui Berry Select ProResvera Resveratrol Resveratrol Select Xenadrine RZR-X Metabolism Energy Balance Food Programming Fast food diet Fast food tips What You Eat Food & Diet Food groups Cereals Dairy products Cheese Milk Yogurt Eggs Legumes Fruits Acai Berry Apple Avocado Banana Durian Pomegranate Reishi Mushrooms Fats & Oils Canola Oil Flaxseed Oil Macadamia Nut Oil Olive oil Omega-3 Fatty Acids Sunflower Oil Sugars Chocolate Vegetables Cucumber Garlic Potato Tomato Beverage Alcohol Beer Wine Meat Red meat Seafood Fish Nutrition Nutrients Carbohydrates Fat Fiber Minerals Calcium Iron Chromium Potassium Selenium Zinc Protein Vitamins Vitamin A Vitamin B1 Vitamin B2 Vitamin B3 Vitamin B9 Vitamin B12 Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin K Water How Our Body Works Food  Additives Nutrition facts label Diet Mediterranean Diet The vegetarian mediterranean Herbs Aloe vera Garlic Ginkgo biloba Ginseng Moringa Oregano Peppermint Food as medicine Antioxidants Cardiovascular disease Diabetes Digestive disorders Heartburn High blood pressure Respiratory disorders Top 15 super foods Body cleanse Organic food Raw Food Fasts and Cleanses Food Handling and Storage Raw in the Real World Soaking and Sprouting Vegetarian diet Supplements Supplement center Coenzyme Q10 Fish Oil Ginkgo Biloba Green Tea Grape seed extract Krill Oil Moringa Organic Apple Cider Vinegar Reishi Mushrooms Spirulina Taurine Body Builder Muscle Advance Creatine Muscle Advance Weight Gainer XtremeNO Colon Health Bowtrol Colon Cleanse Digest It Super Colon Cleanse Venapro Hemorrhoids Treatment Herbs Garlic Ginkgo Biloba Moringa Skin Care Acnezine Acne Skin Care Treatment Cellulite Solution Dermology Acne Treatment Revitol Dermasis Revitol Natural Revitol Scar Removal Cream Wartrol Warts Relief Wartrol Warts Relief Teeth Care Alta White Teeth Whitening Idol White Teeth Whitening Teeth Whitening System Weight loss Acai Berry Actives Acai Berry Select African Mango Caralluma Actives Goji Berry Advance Hoodia Gordonii Plus Maqui Berry Select ProResvera Resveratrol Resveratrol Select Xenadrine RZR-X Men's Health Acai Berry Select Cut Deer Antler Plus Muscle Builder Extenze Male Enhancement Hypercet Blood Pressure Formula Joint Advance Multi Vitamin for Men Natural Gain Plus Prostacet Provillus Hair Regrowth Virility EX Women's Health Breast Actives Joint Advance Menozac Multi Vitamin for Women Provillus Hair Regrowth Exercise Exercise Basics Resistance Training Weight Training for All Bodies Combating Stress Blog Home Blog Blog Probiotics and health benefits Popular articles Carbohydrates Aloe vera Virility EX XtremeNO Fish oil Blog Archive Related Items Health Benefits of Phytonutrients Tags benefit of peppermint benefit potato bodybuilding calories cutting calories secrets cardiovascular chocolate dermasis eat energy food lose weight muscle builder oil panax vietnamensis peppermint potato programs psoriasis treatment row food sexual performance siberian ginseng stress super micro plants weight loss Main Menu Home Weight loss Food & Diet Supplements Exercise Blog Probiotics and health benefits 10 Oct 2011 Probiotics are live microorganisms (in most cases, bacteria) that are similar to beneficial microorganisms found in the human gut. They are also called "friendly bacteria" or "good bacteria." Probiotics are available to consumers mainly in the form of dietary supplements and foods. They can be used as complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). Repeatedly demonstrated to aid gastrointestinal health in the human body, acidophilus and other probiotics are key elements of our overall health and well being. This is particularly true when we consider that many of our common-day chronic ailments begin in the digestive system. It is also true when we consider the sheer number of people that suffer from poor gastrointestinal health, a condition which lowers the overall level of good bacteria in the body. In plain English, probiotics are a type of living bacteria that actually benefit your health when taken in the appropriate amounts. This friendly bacteria, located in the gastrointestinal tract, comes in a variety of forms. With more than 400 different bacteria living in the human gastrointestinal tract, the most common forms of intestinal probiotics are L. acidophilus and Bifidobacteria bifidum. These bacteria act as balancing agents for non-friendly, pathogenic, gut-bacteria such as Candida or E. coli. When the “good-guys” are not present enough, a number of bacteria-related health problems such as digestive upset, headaches, sluggishness, irritability, cadidiasis (an overgrowth of the bacteria Candida albicans), and even anxiety can ensue. Lactobacillus acidophilus is, quite possibly, the strongest of our probiotic fighters. Studies show that L. acidophilus actually creates a natural form of antibiotics in the body. This natural antibiotic increases our ability to produce antimicrobial action against the pathogens in the food we eat, the air we breath, and the things we come in contact with. Stress, unhealthy lifestyles, and most importantly, unhealthy acidic diets, destroy our natural amounts of probiotics. In this sense, it is a great idea to add a probiotic supplement to your diet. The Health Benefits of Probiotics The following health benefits are associated with the intake of daily doses of probiotics: Enhanced immune system response Reduces negative affects of taking many types of antibiotics Aids in preventing and treating colon inflammation following surgery Helps to prevent eczema in youth Increased ability to digest food Therapeutic for viral respiratory tract infections by enhancing the overall immune system Reduces lactose intolerance Reduces incidence of yeast infections, vaginitis and candidiasis Increases ability to assimilate the nutrients from food Alleviates many common digestive disorders such as constipation, diarrhea and IBS Acts as a remedy for bad breath (halitosis) Increases ability to synthesize vitamin B Increases ability to absorb calcium Promotes anti-tumor and anti-cancer activity in the body Bacteria have a reputation for causing disease, so the idea of tossing down a few billion a day for your health might seem — literally and figuratively — hard to swallow. But a growing body of scientific evidence suggests that you can treat and even prevent some illnesses with foods and supplements containing certain kinds of live bacteria. Northern Europeans consume a lot of these beneficial microorganisms, called probiotics (from pro and biota, meaning “for life”), because of their tradition of eating foods fermented with bacteria, such as yogurt. Probiotic-laced beverages are also big business in Japan. Enthusiasm for such foods has lagged in the United States, but interest in probiotic supplements is on the rise. Some digestive disease specialists are recommending them for disorders that frustrate conventional medicine, such as irritable bowel syndrome. Since the mid-1990s, clinical studies have established that probiotic therapy can help treat several gastrointestinal ills, delay the development of allergies in children, and treat and prevent vaginal and urinary infections in women. Self-dosing with bacteria isn’t as outlandish as it might seem. An estimated 100 trillion microorganisms representing more than 500 different species inhabit every normal, healthy bowel. These microorganisms (or microflora) generally don’t make us sick; most are helpful. Gut-dwelling bacteria keep pathogens (harmful microorganisms) in check, aid digestion and nutrient absorption, and contribute to immune function. The best case for probiotic therapy has been in the treatment of diarrhea. Controlled trials have shown that Lactobacillus GG can shorten the course of infectious diarrhea in infants and children (but not adults). Although studies are limited and data are inconsistent, two large reviews, taken together, suggest that probiotics reduce antibiotic-associated diarrhea by 60%, when compared with a placebo. Probiotic therapy may also help people with Crohn’s disease and irritable bowel syndrome. Clinical trial results are mixed, but several small studies suggest that certain probiotics may help maintain remission of ulcerative colitis and prevent relapse of Crohn’s disease and the recurrence of pouchitis (a complication of surgery to treat ulcerative colitis). Because these disorders are so frustrating to treat, many people are giving probiotics a try before all the evidence is in for the particular strains they’re using. More research is needed to find out which strains work best for what conditions. Probiotics may also be of use in maintaining urogenital health. Like the intestinal tract, the vagina is a finely balanced ecosystem. The dominant Lactobacilli strains normally make it too acidic for harmful microorganisms to survive. But the system can be thrown out of balance by a number of factors, including antibiotics, spermicides, and birth control pills. Probiotic treatment that restores the balance of microflora may be helpful for such common female urogenital problems as bacterial vaginosis, yeast infection, and urinary tract infection. Many women eat yogurt or insert it into the vagina to treat recurring yeast infections, a “folk” remedy for which medical science offers limited support. Oral and vaginal administration of Lactobacilli may help in the treatment of bacterial vaginosis, although there isn’t enough evidence yet to recommend it over conventional approaches. (Vaginosis must be treated because it creates a risk for pregnancy-related complications and pelvic inflammatory disease.) Probiotic treatment of urinary tract infections is under study. Probiotics are generally considered safe — they’re already present in a normal digestive system — although there’s a theoretical risk for people with impaired immune function. Be sure the ingredients are clearly marked on the label and familiar to you or your health provider. There’s no way to judge the safety of unidentified mixtures. In the United States, most probiotics are sold as dietary supplements, which do not undergo the testing and approval process that drugs do. Manufacturers are responsible for making sure they’re safe before they’re marketed and that any claims made on the label are true. But there’s no guarantee that the types of bacteria listed on a label are effective for the condition you’re taking them for. Health benefits are strain-specific, and not all strains are necessarily useful, so you may want to consult a practitioner familiar with probiotics to discuss your options. As always, let your primary care provider know what you’re doing. Who Should Take Probiotics? There is no question that candiasis sufferers require supplemental use of probiotics to replenish beneficial GI bacteria and rebuild the immune system. Even if you don’t have candidiasis, environmental and food toxins, coupled with the high-stress lifestyle of most North Americans, are good indicators of the widespread need for probiotics. This is especially true if you are consistently taking antibiotics, or if you have ever been on a course of particularly strong antibiotics, have frequent colds, or exhibit any symptoms of candida related problems. The reason for this is that antibiotics kill bacteria both good and bad. Despite their value, antibiotics have been overused to the point that there are at least two bacteria that have developed complete resistance to antibiotics. Needless to say, these bacteria present a serious problem to our health. Side effects and risks Some live microorganisms have a long history of use as probiotics without causing illness in people. Probiotics' safety has not been thoroughly studied scientifically, however. More information is especially needed on how safe they are for young children, elderly people, and people with compromised immune systems. Probiotics' side effects, if they occur, tend to be mild and digestive (such as gas or bloating). More serious effects have been seen in some people. Probiotics might theoretically cause infections that need to be treated with antibiotics, especially in people with underlying health conditions. They could also cause unhealthy metabolic activities, too much stimulation of the immune system, or gene transfer (insertion of genetic material into a cell). Probiotic products taken by mouth as a dietary supplement are manufactured and regulated as foods, not drugs. Colostrum with Probiotics 50 gm ChildLife's Colostrum with Probiotics provides Nature's ultimate formula for enhancing a child's health, vitality, immune and digestive strength. Colostrum Plus Probiotics is the only formula for children that contains Colostrum prepared with probiotics. This combination creates a very unique product for enhancing both immune system and digestive strength. Probiotic All-Flora 2.5 oz Superior probiotic formulation Supports immune function Supports intestinal detoxification and promotes normal bowel function High potency-billions per serving Integrates 8 best researched and valuable strains Non-GMO Soy culture Non-dairy No maltodextrin BioBeads Probiotic Acidophilus 30 Beads Probiotic Acidophilus Complex -- Guaranteed 1 Billion Live Cultures Natrol's BioBeads Probiotic Acidophilus favorably alters the intestinal balance, inhibiting the growth of harmful bacteria and promoting good digestion, immune function, and increased resistance to infection. Most acidophilus products claim a high number of probiotics, but their capsules and tablets simply don't allow live cultures to survive the naturally acidic, harsh digestive environment. Natrol's BioBeads, however, is a proprietary probiotic blend that's uniquely protected by an advanced triple shell that dissolves only upon reaching its destination. Natrol BioBeads are uniquely protected by an advanced triple shell that ensures viability through all three biophases: OUTER LAYER ensures shelf-stability MIDDLE LAYER resists harsh stomach acid INNER LAYER dissolves in intestinal tract Superior, Triple Shell Protection: Biophase 1: Targeted-release technology helps guarantee BioBeads potency for 18 months on the shelf, and protects viable microflora all the way to ingestion. Biophase 2 : Bead passes safely through the acidic stomach environment unharmed. Biophase 3: Inner layer gently breaks down, releasing proprietary blend of probiotics that helps support digestive health and immunity. Ultimate Flora Advanced Immunity Probiotic 30 Caps Ultimate Flora Advanced Immunity combines 3 powerful ingredients that work synergistically to promote a balanced immune system and enhance your body's natural defenses during peak times throughout the year.  It is specially formulated to provide a unique two-part approach to enhancing immunity. Every day our bodies are confronted with environmental factors that impact our defenses and overall health.  With more than 70% of the body's immune defenses located in the digestive tract, maintaining a balanced intestinal environment is essential for boosting immunity and promoting optimal health. Probiotic Defense 3 Oz Now Probiotic Defense is a combination of "friendly" probiotic bacteria, including ones commonly found as soil organisms, blended into a fermented whole food base.  NOW? Probiotic Defense contains 13 active bacterial strains and has been designed to support gastrointestinal health and immune system function.  FOS is also included in this product to assist healthy growth of Acidophilus and Bifidus organisms.  NOW Probiotic Defense is stable at room temperature, requiring no refrigeration. Probiotic Factors 90 Enteric-Coated Veggie Capsules A blend of six strains of beneficial flora, with FOS, for all age groups. Collectively known as "friendly flora", these organisms are in general lactic acid producing beneficial bacteria. The best known of these probiotic organisms is L. acidolphilus, a most desirable, native inhabitant of the lower intestines, generally responsible for equalizing the flora of the entire intestinal tract. This strain and the others support and help the body's normal intestinal flora balance, which may be disturbed by a number of environmental factors. iFlora Multi-Probiotic Formula 60 Vcaps iFlora Multi-Probiotic Formula by Sedona Labs is a complete and comprehensive probiotic formula designed to support the immune system, healthy colon function, and healthy digestion. iFlora also promotes healthy bladder and bowel function. More Nutritional Supplements: Tags: health benefits probiotics Related Articles Health Benefits of Phytonutrients Set as favorite Bookmark Email this Hits: 477 Comments (0) Subscribe to this comment's feed Write comment Show/hide comment form Name Email Website Title Comment smaller | bigger Subscribe via email (registered users only) I have read and agree to the Terms of Usage. Write the displayed characters Add Comment Please enable JavaScript to post a new comment Contact Us Disclaimer Link Exchan