
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.0.4
Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 00:37:38 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.official-medicines.biz/xmlrpc.php

2008  April | Official Medicines - Part 4 Home Contact Entries (RSS) Comments (RSS) Apr 9th Rumalaya Files under Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant | Leave a Comment Rumalaya tablet is useful in the following conditions: rheumatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis; cervical and lumbar spondylosis; osteoarthritis; arthralgia; gout; frozen shoulder; traumatic inflammatory conditions like fibrositis, bursitis, synovitis, capsulitis, tenosynovitis, myositis and sciatica. How Taken 1 tablet twice daily, preferably with meals. Drug Class and Mechanism Rumalaya possesses analgesic and anti-arthritic properties. By regulating the mediators of inflammation, Rumalaya exerts a significant anti-inflammatory activity. Missed Dose If you miss a dose of this medicine and you are using it regularly, take it as soon as possible. Do not take 2 doses at once. Storage Store at the room temperature away from moisture and sunlight. Keep out of the reach of children. Warnings Precautions No absolute contraindications. Consult your healthcare professional if pregnant or nursing. Possible Side Effects Rumalaya is not known to have any side effects if taken as per the prescribed dosage. More Information Rumalaya helps support connective tissue and alleviates the discomfort, caused by impaired movement. Joint discomfort is a widespread occurrence that can result from such factors as climate, lifestyle, work habits, or repetitive movement. Taken daily as a dietary supplement, Rumalaya has demonstrated positive results in relieving discomfort, caused by morning stiffness (results are gradual but long lasting). Rumalaya Popularity: 5% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Apr 9th Mobic (Meloxicam) Files under Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant | Leave a Comment Mobic is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Mobic works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. Mobic is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by arthritis. Mobic may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. What is the most important information I should know about Mobic? This medicine can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke. Do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or CABG). Seek emergency medical help if you have symptoms of heart or circulation problems, such as chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, or problems with vision or balance. This medicine can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole). These conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking Mobic. Older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects. Call your doctor at once if you have symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines. This includes black, bloody, or tarry stools, or coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds. What should I discuss with my healthcare provider before taking Mobic? Taking an NSAID can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke. This risk will increase the longer you use an NSAID. Do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or CABG). NSAIDs can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole). These conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking an NSAID. Older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects. Do not use Mobic if you are allergic to meloxicam, or to aspirin or other NSAIDs. Before taking Mobic, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs, or if you have: a history of heart attack, stroke, or blood clot; heart disease, congestive heart failure, high blood pressure; a history of stomach ulcers or bleeding, bowel problems, diverticulosis; liver or kidney disease; asthma; polyps in your nose; or if you smoke. If you have any of these conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or special tests to safely take Mobic. FDA pregnancy category C. Mobic may be harmful to an unborn baby. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during treatment. Taking Mobic during the last 3 months of pregnancy may result in birth defects. Do not take Mobic during pregnancy unless your doctor has told you to. Mobic can pass into breast milk and may harm a nursing baby. Do not use Mobic without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby. Do not give this medicine to a child younger than 2 years old without the advice of a doctor. How should I take Mobic? Take Mobic exactly as it was prescribed for you. Do not take the medication in larger amounts, or take it for longer than recommended by your doctor. Follow the directions on your prescription label. The maximum amount of Mobic for adults is 15 milligrams (mg) per day. Know the amount of Mobic in the specific product you are taking. If you take Mobic for a long period of time, your doctor may want to check you on a regular basis to make sure Mobic is not causing harmful effects. Do not miss any scheduled appointments. This medication can cause you to have unusual results with certain medical tests. Tell any doctor who treats you that you are using Mobic. Store Mobic at room temperature, away from moisture, heat, and light. What happens if I miss a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and take the medicine at your next regularly scheduled time. Do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose. What happens if I overdose? Seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine. Overdose symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up blood, fever, urinating less than usual or not at all, shallow breathing, fainting, seizure (convulsions), or coma. Mobic side effects Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop taking Mobic and seek medical attention or call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance; black, bloody, or tarry stools, coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; urinating less than usual or not at all; nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash; or bruising, severe tingling, numbness, pain, muscle weakness. Less serious side effects may include: upset stomach, mild heartburn or stomach pain, diarrhea, constipation; bloating, gas; dizziness, headache, nervousness; skin itching or rash; dry mouth; increased sweating, runny nose; blurred vision; or ringing in your ears. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Tell your doctor about any unusual or bothersome side effect. What other drugs will affect Mobic? Before taking Mobic, tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following drugs: cyclosporine (Gengraf, Neoral, Sandimmune); lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid); diuretics (water pills) such as furosemide (Lasix); glyburide (DiaBeta, Micronase); methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall); a blood thinner such as warfarin (Coumadin); steroids (prednisone and others); an ACE inhibitor such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), fosinopril (Monopril), enalapril (Vasotec), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), moexipril (Univasc), perindopril (Aceon), quinapril (Accupril), ramipril (Altace), or trandolapril (Mavik); or aspirin or other NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as diclofenac (Voltaren), etodolac (Lodine), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), indomethacin (Indocin), ketoprofen (Orudis), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), and others. This list is not complete and there may be other drugs that can interact with Mobic. Tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use. This includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors. Do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor. Mobic Popularity: 5% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Apr 9th New items Files under News | Leave a Comment The following items has been added to the shops: Foradil FML Forte Floxin Estrace Entocort Digoxin Torsemide Tetracycline Antivert Meclizine Imodium Doxazosin The following items came back: Flovent Lanoxin Drugstore Popularity: 6% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Apr 8th Azulfidine (Sulfasalazine) Files under Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant | Leave a Comment Azulfidine , an anti-inflammatory medicine, is prescribed for the treatment of mild to moderate ulcerative colitis (a long-term, progressive bowel disease) and as an added treatment in severe ulcerative colitis (chronic inflammation and ulceration of the lining of large bowel and rectum, the main symptom of which is bloody diarrhea). This medication is also prescribed to decrease severe attacks of ulcerative colitis. Azulfidine EN-tabs are prescribed for people with ulcerative colitis who cannot take the regular Azulfidine tablet because of symptoms of stomach and intestinal irritation such as nausea and vomiting when taking the first few doses of the drug, or for those in whom a reduction in dosage does not lessen the stomach or intestinal side effects. The EN-tabs are also prescribed for adults and children with rheumatoid arthritis who fail to get relief from salicylates (such as aspirin) or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (such as ibuprofen). Most important fact about Azulfidine Although ulcerative colitis rarely disappears completely, the risk of recurrence can be substantially reduced by the continued use of this drug. How should you take Azulfidine? Take this medication in evenly spaced, equal doses, as determined by your doctor, preferably after meals or with food to avoid stomach upset. Swallow Azulfidine EN-tabs whole. It is important that you drink plenty of fluids while taking this medication to avoid kidney stones. If you are taking Azulfidine EN-tabs for rheumatoid arthritis, it may take up to 12 weeks for relief to occur. –If you miss a dose… Take it as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the one you missed and go back to your regular schedule. Do not take 2 doses at once. –Storage instructions… Store at room temperature. What side effects may occur? Side effects cannot be anticipated. If any develop or change in intensity, inform your doctor as soon as possible. Only your doctor can determine if it is safe for you to continue taking Azulfidine. More common side effects may include: Abdominal pain, anemia, bluish skin, fever, headache,   hives, inflammation of the mouth, itching, lack of appetite,   nausea, rash, stomach distress, vomiting Special information if you are pregnant or breastfeeding The effects of Azulfidine during pregnancy have not been adequately studied. If you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant, inform your doctor immediately. Azulfidine is secreted in breast milk and could affect a nursing infant. If this medication is essential to your health, your doctor may advise you to discontinue breastfeeding until your treatment is finished. Recommended dosage Your doctor will carefully individualize your dosage and monitor your response periodically. ULCERATIVE COLITIS Adults The usual recommended initial dose of Azulfidine and Azulfidine EN-tabs is 3 to 4 grams daily divided into smaller doses (intervals between nighttime doses should not exceed 8 hours). In some cases the initial dosage is set at 1 to 2 grams daily to lessen side effects. As therapy continues, the dose is usually reduced to 2 grams daily. Children Aged 6 and Older The usual recommended initial dose is 40 to 60 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight in each 24-hour period, divided into 3 to 6 doses. For the longer term, the dose is usually reduced to 30 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight in each 24-hour period, divided into 4 doses. RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS Adults The usual dose of Azulfidine EN-tabs is 2 grams a day, divided into smaller doses. Your doctor may have you start with a lower dose, then raise the dosage to 3 grams after 12 weeks. Children aged 6 and older The typical recommended daily dosage is 30 to 50 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight, up to a maximum of 2 grams, taken in 2 equally divided doses. To reduce the chance of digestive side effects and other reactions, the doctor will probably start with a fraction of the typical dose and build up to it over a period of weeks. Overdosage Any medication taken in excess can have serious consequences. If you suspect an Azulfidine overdose, seek emergency medical attention immediately. Symptoms of Azulfidine overdose may include: Abdominal pain convulsions drowsiness nausea stomach upset   vomiting Azulfidine Popularity: 6% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Apr 8th Aleve (Naproxen) Files under Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant | Leave a Comment Naproxen is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Naproxen works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. Naproxen is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by conditions such as arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, tendinitis, bursitis, gout, or menstrual cramps. Naproxen may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. How should I take Aleve (Naproxen)? Take this medication exactly as directed on the label, or as it has been prescribed by your doctor. Do not use the medication in larger amounts, or use it for longer than recommended. EC-Naprosyn is a slower-acting form of naproxen and this brand should be used only for treating arthritis or ankylosing spondylitis. Follow your doctor’s instructions. Do not crush, chew, or break an extended-release or enteric-coated tablet. Swallow the pill whole. The extended-release pill is specially made to release medicine slowly in the body. Breaking the pill would cause too much of the drug to be released at one time. The enteric-coated pill has a special coating to protect your stomach. Breaking the pill could damage this coating. Shake the oral suspension (liquid) well just before you measure a dose. To be sure you get the correct dose, measure the liquid with a marked measuring spoon or medicine cup, not with a regular table spoon. If you do not have a dose-measuring device, ask your pharmacist for one. If you take naproxen for a long period of time, your doctor may want to check you on a regular basis to make sure this medication is not causing harmful effects. Do not miss any scheduled visits to your doctor. Store naproxen at room temperature away from moisture and heat. What are the possible side effects of Aleve (Naproxen)? Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop taking naproxen and seek medical attention or call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance black, bloody, or tarry stools coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds swelling or rapid weight gain urinating less than usual or not at all nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes) fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash bruising, severe tingling, numbness, pain, muscle weakness; or fever, headache, neck stiffness, chills, increased sensitivity to light, purple spots on the skin, and/or seizure (convulsions) Keep taking naproxen and talk to your doctor if you have any of these less serious side effects: upset stomach, mild heartburn or stomach pain, diarrhea, constipation bloating, gas dizziness, headache, nervousness skin itching or rash blurred vision; or ringing in your ears Side effects other than those listed here may also occur. Talk to your doctor about any side effect that seems unusual or that is especially bothersome. What other drugs affect Aleve (Naproxen)? Before taking naproxen, tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following drugs: a blood thinner such as warfarin (Coumadin) lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid) methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall) diuretics (water pills) such as furosemide (Lasix) steroids (prednisone and others) aspirin or other NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as diclofenac (Cataflam, Voltaren), etodolac (Lodine), flurbiprofen (Ansaid), indomethacin (Indocin), ketoprofen (Orudis), ketorolac (Toradol), mefenamic acid (Ponstel), meloxicam (Mobic), nabumetone (Relafen), piroxicam (Feldene), and others; or an ACE inhibitor such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), fosinopril (Monopril), enalapril (Vasotec), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), ramipril (Altace), and others If you are using any of these drugs, you may not be able to use naproxen or you may need dosage adjustments or special tests during treatment. There may be other drugs not listed that can affect naproxen. Tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use. This includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors. Do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor. What happens if I overdose on Aleve (Naproxen)? Seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine. Symptoms of a naproxen overdose may include nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, confusion, drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up blood, shallow breathing, fainting, or coma. What happens if I miss a dose of Aleve (Naproxen)? Since naproxen is sometimes taken as needed, you may not be on a dosing schedule. If you are taking the medication regularly, take the missed dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and take the medicine at your next regularly scheduled time. Do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose. What is the most important information I should know about Aleve (Naproxen)? This medicine can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke. This risk will increase the longer you use naproxen. Do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or CABG). Seek emergency medical help if you have symptoms of heart or circulation problems, such as chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, or problems with vision or balance. This medicine can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole). These conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking naproxen. Older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects. Call your doctor at once if you have symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines. This includes black, bloody, or tarry stools, or coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds. Do not use any other over-the-counter cold, allergy, or pain medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist. Many medicines available over the counter contain aspirin or other medicines similar to naproxen (such as ibuprofen or ketoprofen). If you take certain products together you may accidentally take too much of this type of medication. Read the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin, ibuprofen, or ketoprofen. Do not drink alcohol while taking naproxen. Alcohol can increase the risk of stomach bleeding caused by naproxen. Avoid exposure to sunlight or artificial UV rays (sunlamps or tanning beds). Naproxen can make your skin more sensitive to sunlight and sunburn may result. What should I discuss with my healthcare provider before taking Aleve (Naproxen)? Taking an NSAID can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke. This risk will increase the longer you use an NSAID. Do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or CABG). NSAIDs can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole). These conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking an NSAID. Older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects. Do not use this medication if you are allergic to naproxen, or if you have a history of allergic reaction to aspirin or other NSAIDs. Before taking naproxen, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs, or if you have: a history of heart attack, stroke, or blood clot heart disease, congestive heart failure, high blood pressure a history of stomach ulcers or bleeding liver or kidney disease asthma polyps in your nose a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; or if you smoke If you have any of these conditions, you may not be able to use naproxen, or you may need a dosage adjustment or special tests during treatment. FDA pregnancy category C. This medication may be harmful to an unborn baby. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during treatment. Taking naproxen during the last 3 months of pregnancy may result in birth defects. Do not take naproxen during pregnancy unless your doctor has told you to. Naproxen can pass into breast milk and may harm a nursing baby. Do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby. Do not give this medicine to a child younger than 2 years old without the advice of a doctor. Aleve Popularity: 5% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Apr 7th Motrin (Ibuprofen) Files under Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant | Leave a Comment Motrin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug available in both prescription and nonprescription forms. Prescription Motrin is used in adults for relief of the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, treatment of menstrual pain, and relief of mild to moderate pain. In children aged 6 months and older it can be given to reduce fever and relieve mild to moderate pain. It is also used to relieve the symptoms of juvenile arthritis. Most important fact about Motrin You should have frequent checkups with your doctor if you take Motrin regularly. Ulcers or internal bleeding can occur without warning. How should you take Motrin? Your doctor may ask you to take Motrin with food or an antacid to avoid stomach upset. The suspension can be given with meals or milk if it upsets the stomach. A drink of water or other fluid after taking a chewable tablet can help your body absorb the drug. If you are using Motrin for arthritis, you should take it regularly, exactly as prescribed. –If you miss a dose… Take it as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the one you missed and go back to your regular schedule. Never take 2 doses at the same time. –Storage information… Store at room temperature. What side effects may occur? Side effects cannot be anticipated. If any develop or change in intensity, inform your doctor as soon as possible. Only your doctor can determine if it is safe for you to continue taking Motrin. More common side effects may include: Abdominal cramps or pain, abdominal discomfort, bloating   and gas, constipation, diarrhea, dizziness, fluid retention and   swelling, headache, heartburn, indigestion, itching, loss of   appetite, nausea, nervousness, rash, ringing in ears, stomach   pain, vomiting Special information if you are pregnant or breastfeeding The effects of ibuprofen during pregnancy have not been adequately studied. If you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant, inform your doctor immediately. Ibuprofen may appear in breast milk and could affect a nursing infant. If this medication is essential to your health, your doctor may advise you to discontinue breastfeeding until your treatment with this medication is finished. Recommended dosage ADULTS Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis The usual dosage is 1,200 to 3,200 milligrams per day divided into 3 or 4 doses. Your doctor will tailor the dose to your individual needs. Symptoms should be reduced within 2 weeks. Daily dosage should not be greater than 3,200 milligrams. Mild to Moderate Pain The usual dose is 400 milligrams every 4 to 6 hours as necessary. Menstrual Pain The usual dose is 400 milligrams every 4 hours as necessary. Begin treatment when symptoms first appear. CHILDREN 6 MONTHS TO 12 YEARS OF AGE Fever reduction The recommended dose is 5 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight if temperature is less than 102.5°F or 10 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight if temperature is 102.5°F or greater. The fever should go down for 6 to 8 hours. Do not give the child more than 40 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight in one day. Mild to Moderate Pain The usual dose is 10 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight every 6 to 8 hours. Do not give the child more than 4 such doses per day. Juvenile Arthritis The usual dose is 30 to 40 milligrams daily per 2.2 pounds of body weight, divided into 3 or 4 doses. Some children may need only 20 milligrams daily per 2.2 pounds. Overdosage Any medication taken in excess can have serious consequences. An overdose of Motrin can be fatal. If you suspect an overdose, seek medical attention immediately. Symptoms of Motrin overdose may include: Abdominal pain, breathing difficulties, coma, drowsiness,   headache, irregular heartbeat, kidney failure, low blood   pressure, nausea, ringing in the ears, seizures, sluggishness,   vomiting Motrin Popularity: 5% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Apr 7th Relafen (Nabumetone) Files under Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant | Leave a Comment Generic Name : Nabumetone Brand Names: Relafen Nabumetone is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Nabumetone works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. Nabumetone is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by arthritis. Nabumetone may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. What is the most important information I should know about nabumetone? This medicine can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.  This risk will increase the longer you use nabumetone.  Do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or CABG). Seek emergency medical help if you have symptoms of heart or circulation problems, such as chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, or problems with vision or balance. This medicine can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).  These conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking nabumetone.  Older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects. Call your doctor at once if you have symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines.  This includes black, bloody, or tarry stools, or coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds. Do not use any other over-the-counter cold, allergy, or pain medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist.  Many medicines available over the counter contain aspirin or other medicines similar to nabumetone (such as ibuprofen, ketoprofen, or naproxen).  If you take certain products together you may accidentally take too much of this type of medication.  Read the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin, ibuprofen, ketoprofen, or naproxen. Do not drink alcohol while taking nabumetone. Alcohol can increase the risk of stomach bleeding caused by nabumetone. Avoid exposure to sunlight or artificial UV rays (sunlamps or tanning beds).  Nabumetone can make your skin more sensitive to sunlight and sunburn may result. What should I discuss with my healthcare provider before taking nabumetone? Taking an NSAID can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke.  This risk will increase the longer you use an NSAID.  Do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or CABG). NSAIDs can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole).  These conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking an NSAID.  Older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects. Do not use this medication if you are allergic to nabumetone, or if you have a history of allergic reaction to aspirin or other NSAIDs. Before taking nabumetone, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs, or if you have: a history of heart attack, stroke, or blood clot; heart disease, congestive heart failure, high blood pressure; a history of stomach ulcers or bleeding; liver or kidney disease, asthma; polyps in your nose; a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; or if you smoke. If you have any of these conditions, you may not be able to use nabumetone, or you may need a dosage adjustment or special tests during treatment. FDA pregnancy category C. This medication may be harmful to an unborn baby. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during treatment. Taking nabumetone during the last 3 months of pregnancy may result in birth defects. Do not take nabumetone during pregnancy unless your doctor has told you to. It is not known whether nabumetone passes into breast milk or if it could harm a nursing baby. Do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby. Do not give this medicine to a child without the advice of a doctor. How should I take nabumetone? Take this medication exactly as it was prescribed for you.  Do not take the medication in larger amounts, or take it for longer than recommended by your doctor.  Follow the directions on your prescription label. If you take nabumetone for a long period of time, your doctor may want to check you on a regular basis to make sure this medication is not causing harmful effects.  Do not miss any scheduled visits to your doctor. Store nabumetone at room temperature away from moisture and heat. What happens if I miss a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember.  If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and take the medicine at your next regularly scheduled time. Do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose. What happens if I overdose? Seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine.  Symptoms of a nabumetone overdose may include nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up blood, shallow breathing, fainting, or coma. Nabumetone side effects Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction:  hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop taking nabumetone and seek medical attention or call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance; black, bloody, or tarry stools; coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; swelling or rapid weight gain; urinating less than usual or not at all; nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes); fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash; or bruising, severe tingling, numbness, pain, muscle weakness. Keep taking nabumetone and talk to your doctor if you have any of these less serious side effects: upset stomach, mild heartburn or stomach pain, diarrhea, constipation; bloating, gas; dizziness, headache, nervousness; skin itching or rash; blurred vision; or ringing in your ears. Side effects other than those listed here may also occur. Talk to your doctor about any side effect that seems unusual or that is especially bothersome. What other drugs will affect nabumetone? Before taking nabumetone, tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following drugs: a blood thinner such as warfarin (Coumadin); lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid); methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall); diuretics (water pills) such as furosemide (Lasix); steroids (prednisone and others); aspirin or other NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as etodolac (Lodine), flurbiprofen (Ansaid), indomethacin (Indocin), ketoprofen (Orudis), ketorolac (Toradol), mefenamic acid (Ponstel), meloxicam (Mobic), nabumetone (Relafen), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), piroxicam (Feldene), and others; or an ACE inhibitor such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), fosinopril (Monopril), enalapril (Vasotec), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), ramipril (Altace), and others. If you are using any of these drugs, you may not be able to use nabumetone or you may need dosage adjustments or special tests during treatment. There may be other drugs not listed that can affect nabumetone.  Tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use.  This includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors.  Do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor. Relafen Popularity: 5% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Apr 7th Nimotop (Nimodipine) Files under Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant | Leave a Comment Nimodipine is in a group of drugs called calcium channel blockers. Nimodipine relaxes (widens) blood vessels and improves blood flow. Nimodipine is used to prevent brain damage caused by reduced blood flow to the brain resulting from aneurysm (AN-yor-iz-m), a dilated or ruptured blood vessel in the brain. Nimodipine may also be used for purposes other than those listed here. How should I take Nimotop (Nimodipine)? Take nimodipine exactly as it was prescribed for you. Do not take it in larger doses or for longer than recommended by your doctor. Nimodipine gel capsules are to be taken by mouth only. The medicine in the capsule should never be placed into a needle and syringe and injected into a vein. If the person taking nimodipine cannot swallow the capsule, use a needle to make a hole in each end of the capsule, and squeeze the medicine out into an oral syringe. The syringe can then be used to give the medicine through a nasogastric (through the nose and into the stomach) tube. If you are able to swallow capsules, take nimodipine on an empty stomach, one hour before or two hours after meals. Take each dose with a full glass of water. It is important to take nimodipine regularly to get the most benefit. Do not stop taking nimodipine without first talking to your doctor, even if you begin to feel better. If you stop taking the medication, your condition could become worse. To be sure this medication is helping your condition, your blood pressure will need to be tested on a regular basis. Your liver function may also need to be tested. It is important that you not miss any scheduled visits to your doctor. Store nimodipine at room temperature away from moisture and heat. What are the possible side effects of Nimotop (Nimodipine)? Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop using nimodipine and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: unusually fast or slow heartbeats fainting or severe dizziness easy bruising or bleeding, unusual weakness swelling in your legs or ankles Other, less serious side effects may be more likely. Continue taking nimodipine and talk to your doctor if you have any of these less serious side effects: mild dizziness flushing (redness, warmth, or tingling feeling) headache nausea, constipation; or sweating Side effects other than those listed here may also occur. Talk to your doctor about any side effect that seems unusual or that is especially bothersome. What other drugs affect Nimotop (Nimodipine)? There may be other drugs that can affect nimodipine, resulting in side effects and/or reduced effectiveness. Tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use. This includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors. Do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor. What happens if I overdose on Nimotop (Nimodipine)? Seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine. Symptoms of a nimodipine overdose may include dizziness, weakness, chest pain, shortness of breath, fainting, an unusually fast or slow heartbeat, slurred speech, confusion, or coma. What happens if I miss a dose of Nimotop (Nimodipine)? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and take the medicine at the next regularly scheduled time. Do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose. What is the most important information I should know about Nimotop (Nimodipine)? Before taking nimodipine, tell your doctor if you have liver disease, low blood pressure, high blood pressure (hypertension) for which you take medicine, or a history of heart problems such as a slow heart rate, congestive heart failure, or heart attack. Nimodipine gel capsules are to be taken by mouth only. The medicine in the capsule should never be placed into a needle and syringe and injected into a vein. If the person taking nimodipine cannot swallow the capsule, use a needle to make a hole in each end of the capsule, and squeeze the medicine out into an oral syringe. The syringe can then be used to give the medicine through a nasogastric (through the nose and into the stomach) tube. If you are able to swallow capsules, take nimodipine on an empty stomach, one hour before or two hours after meals. Avoid drinking alcohol while you are taking nimodipine. Alcohol and nimodipine may cause low blood pressure, drowsiness, or dizziness. Do not stop taking nimodipine without first talking to your doctor, even if you begin to feel better. If you stop taking the medication, your condition could become worse. What should I discuss with my healthcare provider before taking Nimotop (Nimodipine)? Before taking nimodipine, tell your doctor if you have: liver disease low blood pressure high blood pressure for which you take medication; or a history of heart problems such as a slow heart rate, congestive heart failure, or heart attack If you have any of these conditions, you may not be able to use nimodipine, or you may need a dosage adjustment or special tests during treatment. FDA pregnancy category C. This medication may be harmful to an unborn baby. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during treatment. It is not known if nimodipine passes into breast milk or if it could harm a nursing infant. Do not take nimodipine without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby. If you are over 65 years of age, you may be more likely to have side effects from nimodipine. Your doctor may prescribe a lower dose of this medication. Nimotop Popularity: 6% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Apr 6th Pletal (Cilostazol) Files under Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant | Leave a Comment Cilostazol widens arteries that supply blood to the legs. Cilostazol also improves circulation by keeping platelets in the blood from sticking together and clotting. Cilostazol is used to treat the symptoms of intermittent claudication.  This condition causes reduced blood flow to the legs, leading to pain while walking. Cilostazol improves your ability to walk longer distances without pain. Cilostazol may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. What is the most important information I should know about  Pletal (cilostazol)? Do not take cilostazol if you have congestive heart failure. Cilostazol can make this condition worse. It may take up to 12 weeks of using cilostazol before your symptoms improve.  For best results, keep using the medication as directed.  Talk with your doctor if your symptoms do not improve after 4 weeks of treatment. Grapefruit and grapefruit juice may interact with cilostazol.  The interaction could lead to potentially dangerous effects.  Discuss the use of grapefruit products with your doctor.  Do not increase or decrease the amount of grapefruit products in your diet without first talking to your doctor. Take cilostazol on an empty stomach, at least 30 minutes before or 2 hours after food. What should I discuss with my healthcare provider before taking  Pletal (cilostazol)? Do not take cilostazol if you have congestive heart failure. Cilostazol can make this condition worse. Before using cilostazol, tell your doctor if you have: heart disease; or liver disease. If you have any of these conditions, you may need a dose adjustment or special tests to safely take this medication. FDA pregnancy category C.  This medication may be harmful to an unborn baby. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during treatment. Cilostazol can pass into breast milk and may harm a nursing baby.  Do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby. How should I take  Pletal (cilostazol)? Take this medication exactly as it was prescribed for you.  Do not take the medication in larger amounts, or take it for longer than recommended by your doctor. Take each dose with a full glass of water. Cilostazol is usually taken twice a day, at least 30 minutes before or 2 hours after breakfast or dinner. Take cilostazol at the same times each day.  Follow your doctor’s instructions. It may take up to 12 weeks of using cilostazol before your symptoms improve.  For best results, keep using the medication as directed.  Talk with your doctor if your symptoms do not improve after 4 weeks of treatment. Store cilostazol at room temperature away from moisture, heat, and light. What happens if I miss a dose? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and take the medicine at the next regularly scheduled time. Do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose. What happens if I overdose? Seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine. Overdose symptoms may include a severe headache, diarrhea, feeling light-headed, fainting, and fast or uneven heartbeats . Pletal (cilostazol) side effects Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction:  hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: severe headache; bloody urine, painful urination; fever, chills, body aches, flu symptoms; chest pain; feeling short of breath, even with mild exertion; or swelling of your ankles or feet. Less serious side effects may include: fast or pounding heartbeats; diarrhea, vomiting; weakness, dizziness; leg cramps; numbness or tingling; joint pain; or cough, runny or stuffy nose. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Tell your doctor about any unusual or bothersome side effect that seems unusual or that is especially bothersome. What other drugs will affect  Pletal (cilostazol)? Before taking cilostazol, tell your doctor if you are using any of the following drugs: clopidogrel (Plavix); omeprazole (Prilosec, Zegerid) or esomeprazole (Nexium); erythromycin (E.E.S., Ery-Tab, E-Mycin, Erythrocin) or clarithromycin (Biaxin); ketoconazole (Nizoral), fluconazole (Diflucan), or itraconazole (Sporanox); diltiazem (Cardizem, Tiazac); or fluvoxamine (Luvox),  fluoxetine (Prozac), sertraline (Zoloft), or nefazodone (Serzone). This list is not complete and there may be other drugs that can interact with cilostazol.  Tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use.  This includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors.  Do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor. Pletal Popularity: 6% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Apr 6th Feldene (Piroxicam) Files under Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant | Leave a Comment Piroxicam is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Piroxicam works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. Piroxicam is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by arthritis. Piroxicam may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. How should I take Feldene (Piroxicam)? Take this medication exactly as it was prescribed for you. Do not take the medication in larger amounts, or take it for longer than recommended by your doctor. Follow the directions on your prescription label. If you switch brands of piroxicam, your dose needs may change. Follow your doctor’s instructions about how much medicine to take. If you take piroxicam for a long period of time, your doctor may want to check you on a regular basis to make sure this medication is not causing harmful effects. Do not miss any scheduled visits to your doctor. It may take up to 2 weeks of using this medicine before your symptoms improve. For best results, keep using the medication as directed. Talk with your doctor if your symptoms do not improve. Store piroxicam at room temperature away from moisture and heat. What are the possible side effects of Feldene (Piroxicam)? Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop taking piroxicam and seek medical attention or call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance black, bloody, or tarry stools coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds swelling or rapid weight gain urinating less than usual or not at all nausea, stomach pain, low fever, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes) fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash bruising, severe tingling, numbness, pain, muscle weakness; or fever, headache, neck stiffness, chills, increased sensitivity to light, purple spots on the skin, and/or seizure (convulsions) Keep taking piroxicam and talk to your doctor if you have any of these less serious side effects: upset stomach, mild heartburn or stomach pain, diarrhea, constipation bloating, gas dizziness, headache, nervousness skin itching or rash blurred vision; or ringing in your ears Side effects other than those listed here may also occur. Talk to your doctor about any side effect that seems unusual or that is especially bothersome. What other drugs affect Feldene (Piroxicam)? Before taking piroxicam, tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following drugs: a blood thinner such as warfarin (Coumadin) lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid) methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall) diuretics (water pills) such as furosemide (Lasix) steroids (prednisone and others) aspirin or other NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as etodolac (Lodine), flurbiprofen (Ansaid), indomethacin (Indocin), ketoprofen (Orudis), ketorolac (Toradol), mefenamic acid (Ponstel), meloxicam (Mobic), nabumetone (Relafen), naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn), piroxicam (Feldene), and others; or an ACE inhibitor such as benazepril (Lotensin), captopril (Capoten), fosinopril (Monopril), enalapril (Vasotec), lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril), ramipril (Altace), and others If you are using any of these drugs, you may not be able to use piroxicam or you may need dosage adjustments or special tests during treatment. There may be other drugs not listed that can affect piroxicam. Tell your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter medications you use. This includes vitamins, minerals, herbal products, and drugs prescribed by other doctors. Do not start using a new medication without telling your doctor. What happens if I overdose on Feldene (Piroxicam)? Seek emergency medical attention if you think you have used too much of this medicine. Symptoms of a piroxicam overdose may include nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, drowsiness, black or bloody stools, coughing up blood, shallow breathing, fainting, or coma. What happens if I miss a dose of Feldene (Piroxicam)? Take the missed dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and take the medicine at your next regularly scheduled time. Do not take extra medicine to make up the missed dose. What is the most important information I should know about Feldene (Piroxicam)? This medicine can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke. This risk will increase the longer you use piroxicam. Do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or CABG). Seek emergency medical help if you have symptoms of heart or circulation problems, such as chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, or problems with vision or balance. This medicine can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole). These conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking piroxicam. Older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects. Call your doctor at once if you have symptoms of bleeding in your stomach or intestines. This includes black, bloody, or tarry stools, or coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds. Do not use any other over-the-counter cold, allergy, or pain medication without first asking your doctor or pharmacist. Many medicines available over the counter contain aspirin or other medicines similar to piroxicam (such as ibuprofen, ketoprofen, or naproxen). If you take certain products together you may accidentally take too much of this type of medication. Read the label of any other medicine you are using to see if it contains aspirin, ibuprofen, ketoprofen, or naproxen. Do not drink alcohol while taking piroxicam. Alcohol can increase the risk of stomach bleeding caused by piroxicam. Avoid exposure to sunlight or artificial UV rays (sunlamps or tanning beds). Piroxicam can make your skin more sensitive to sunlight and sunburn may result. What should I discuss with my healthcare provider before taking Feldene (Piroxicam)? Taking an NSAID can increase your risk of life-threatening heart or circulation problems, including heart attack or stroke. This risk will increase the longer you use an NSAID. Do not use this medicine just before or after having heart bypass surgery (also called coronary artery bypass graft, or CABG). NSAIDs can also increase your risk of serious effects on the stomach or intestines, including bleeding or perforation (forming of a hole). These conditions can be fatal and gastrointestinal effects can occur without warning at any time while you are taking an NSAID. Older adults may have an even greater risk of these serious gastrointestinal side effects. Do not use this medication if you are allergic to piroxicam, or if you have a history of allergic reaction to aspirin or other NSAIDs. Before taking piroxicam, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs, or if you have: a history of heart attack, stroke, or blood clot heart disease, congestive heart failure, high blood pressure a history of stomach ulcers or bleeding liver or kidney disease asthma polyps in your nose a bleeding or blood clotting disorder; or if you smoke If you have any of these conditions, you may not be able to use piroxicam, or you may need a dosage adjustment or special tests during treatment. FDA pregnancy category C. This medication may be harmful to an unborn baby. Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during treatment. Taking piroxicam during the last 3 months of pregnancy may result in birth defects. Do not take piroxicam during pregnancy unless your doctor has told you to. Piroxicam can pass into breast milk and may harm a nursing baby. Do not use this medication without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby. Do not give this medicine to a child without the advice of a doctor. Feldene Popularity: 6% [ ? ] Posted by admin | No Comments » Page 4 of 6 « 1 2 3 4 5 6 » « Older Entries Newer Entries » Can't get rid of illnesses? Get sick of trying to find a cure by your own? Official Medicine Blog is the place you've been so long looking for. Accurate and full descriptions with useful consultations are granted. Leave your question to find out everything is not so hopeless as it seemed before. Categories Anti-Acidity Anti-Allergic/Asthma Anti-Depresant/Anti-Anxiety Anti-Diabetic Anti-Fungus Anti-Herpes Antibiotics Bestsellers Blood Pressure/Cholesterol Dental Whitening General Health Healthy Bones Hypnotherapy Male Enchancement Men's Health News Pain Relief/Muscle Relaxant Sleeping Aid Stop Smoking Weight loss Women's Health April 2008 M T W T F S S « Mar May » 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Archives November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 August 2008 July 2008 June 2008 May 2008 April 2008 March 2008 February 2008 January 2008 December 2007 Copyright © 2007-2009 Official Medicines . All Rights Reserved. Part of content provided by Drugs.com , R