
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 13:19:07 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.9
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.6-1+lenny16
X-Pingback: http://hms.presentme.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Probiotics in Adults «  Harvard Medical School Division of Nutrition Harvard Medical School Division of Nutrition 11th Annual Postgraduate Nutrition Symposium Protective Nutrients Search for: History Founding of the HMS Department of Nutrition and formation of the Division of Nutrition Personnel Division Leadership, Executive Committee Advisory Committee Public Relations DON collaborates with Harvard Medical School, Harvard School of Public Health, and Harvard Business School Publications Popular books
published by
researchers at the
Division of Nutrition Lectures, Seminars & Symposia Back Home Probiotics in Adults Martin Floch, M.D. Clinical Professor of Medicine Yale School of Medicine Probiotics in Adults In order to understand the role of probiotics in adults and how it is tied to the theme of this course on “Protective Nutrients: Are They Here To Stay?√ì the details of intestinal microecology should be emphasized. In the gastrointestinal tract the microecology consists of the microflora influenced by secretions and the food fed into the tract in the different areas of the tract. The wall of the tract secretes and interfaces depending on its structure and will affect the ecology and physiology that occurs within the lumen. Probiotics are isolated from the human flora and after made into supplements or foods are taken by humans in an attempt to affect the physiology of the host ecology at the level of the small and large intestine. Dietary fiber and synthetic prebiotics affect the microflora as nutrients for probiotic organisms. In an analysis of the literature from 1980 to 2007 and at several workshops convened at Yale therapeutic recommendations were developed. An A recommendation is for their use in stimulating the immune response, childhood diarrhea, antibiotic associated diarrheas, allergic disorders, eczema and pouchitis. B and C recommendations are discussed on their use in ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, irritable bowel syndrome, surgical infections, radiation enteritis, and vagenosis. The importance of being cautious on their use in severely immunocompromized patients is emphasized. Share and Enjoy: Comments are closed. Program was made possible by Unrestricted Educational Grants from: The Dannon Company, Inc., Yakult Honsha Co., Ltd., Abbott Nutrition, Campbell’s Center for Nutrition and Wellness, Egg Nutrition Center, Mead Johnson Nutrition, National Dairy Council, The Peanut Institute and The Conrad Taff Teaching Fund. Home | About | Education | Research | Links | Log in Copyrig