<http://veganbits.com/?p=184>; rel=shortlink
Set-Cookie: wpgb_visit_last_php-http://veganbits_com=1328994482; expires=Sun, 10-Feb-2013 21:08:02 GMT; path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Honey Used For The Treatment of Wounds Vegan Bits Home Product Reviews Health Restaurants Animal Rights Vegan News Green Philosophy Cookbook Recipes Honey Used For The Treatment of Wounds Hello there! If you are new here, you might want to subscribe to the RSS feed for updates on this topic. Powered by WP Greet Box WordPress Plugin As I mentioned in my post on Agave Nectar the other day, Jane and I allow the use of honey in our definition of what it means to be vegan. Many vegans, however, are not opposed to using insect products, because they do not believe insects are conscious of pain. Moreover, even if insects were conscious of pain, it's not clear that the production of honey involves any more pain for insects than the production of most vegetables, since the harvesting and transportation of all vegetables involves many 'collateral' insect deaths. -- from Vegan Action Today I found an article on MSNBCs website, dated December 26, 2007 indicating that honey is being used in topical antibiotics, specifically in bandages and wound dressings.  Using honey to treat wounds is something that goes back to ancient times.  The science behind the usage of honey is rather interesting.  Honey produces hydrogen peroxide when combined with the fluid which drains from a wound (isn't nature amazing!). It also draws the pus and fluid from the wound, thereby speeding the healing process. What's got everyone buzzing (sorry) is that a particular type of honey found in New Zealand, Manuka honey , seems to be able to prevent the development of multiple-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in open wounds.  MRSA is a bacterium responsible for difficult-to-treat infections in humans (from wikipedia ).  This is particularly exciting since MRSA is one of those resistant superbugs we hear so much about. Currently the bandages, produced by Derma Sciences under the label Medihoney, are available in hospitals in the US and Canada.  The Derma Sciences dressings will be available in drug stores in the next six months, with adhesive strips following closely, if all goes according to plan.  Similar products have been popular in Europe, Australia and New Zealand for the last decade. As for whether these bandages/dressings meet your criteria for being vegan, that is up to you.  Better to be forewarned...   If you abstain from the consumption of honey, you should be aware that your bandages and wound dressings may not fit your definition of vegan. If you enjoyed this post, make sure you subscribe to my RSS feed ! Related Information: Honey, I’m A Vegan Agave Nectar – A Vegan Sweetener Panacea? It’s Not Splendid Vegan And Other Food Labels – Revisited Farm Animal Treatment Proposition 2 Passes In California ADDITONAL INFORMATION Mmmm... Leftovers Things have been quiet here since Thanksgiving.  Something to give thanks for!  Leftovers are another thing to give thanks for.  I know that some people complain when faced with the same meal a second time.  For me, I could eat Thanksgiving every... What The World Eats We've been pretty focused on our "new" diet for a while now.  After 40+ years of eating omnivorously, the switch to vegan eating hasn't been automatic.  So we've looked for help along the way.  We've read a number of books, visited a slew of... Eating Animals Firstly --- Happy 2010!  We wish you all a peace-filled new year.  Secondly -- Sorry for the vanishing act.  We're still here, and still vegan.  Life has been getting in the way of blogging.  We've both been very busy and when we've had a break... Top 10 Vegan Recipes At the beginning of the month Vegan.com put together a list of of his favorite vegan cookbook recipes for the year.  I must have been sleeping, somehow I missed it.  But I also read the Vegan Planet blog, and Robin posted about it today.  Having... Fire We've gotten a few emails and tweets asking if we're okay (since we live in the Southern California area).  Despite what the news is saying, all of SoCal is not up in flames.  We're fine, aside from the  bad air quality, which you can get a good... Published in: Health , Vegan News 7 comments on Honey Used For The Treatment of Wounds SeitanSaidDance says: Wednesday, March 26, 2008 at Very interesting! Though many bandages are already not considered vegan because they’re latex, which contains casein. Lane says: Thursday, March 27, 2008 at Hi Seitan, Wow, casein in latex.  I had no idea.  Thanks for sharing.  It’s amazing how many animal by-products are in things you’d never expect. Tempyra says: Saturday, March 29, 2008 at Interesting reading. There is also a good article on the healing properties of manuka honey and what researchers are finding out about it on the BBC: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/3787867.stm I always thought (remembering my days at uni lol) MRSA was methicillin resistant staph. aureus but I just learnt something new Lane says: Saturday, March 29, 2008 at Hi Tempyra, Actually, the first definition of MRSA is methicillin, but multiple is also acceptable. I just read the link you provided.  Thanks.    What struck me as counter-intuitive is that the honey is particularly helpful for healing diabetics.  I would think putting sugar on a wound would somehow result in increasing blood sugar levels… But what do I know, I’m not a doctor. Tanya says: Sunday, April 6, 2008 at Not entirely relevant, but garlic has antibacterial qualities as well– even fairly diluted. I’m certainly much more likely to have it around. Though can’t say much for mixing the smell with the smell of infection… Lane says: Wednesday, April 9, 2008 at Hi Tanya, But I’d rather put honey on my wounds than garlic, wouldn’t you? And for those of us who don’t object to honey — it’s apparently the only food that doesn’t go bad.  According to wikipedia , small amounts of edible honey have been found in the tombs of pharoahs in Egypt! sizzchana says: Tuesday, December 14, 2010 at “I’m certainly much more likely to have it around.” You can read more? Leave a comment Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Notify me of followup comments via e-mail Recommended Products Soy Milk Maker Review We've gotten a few queries lately from our readers about which soy milk maker we recommend.  As many of you know, we own the  Tribest Soyabella... SHOPPING Soy Milk Makers Vegan Cookbooks Vegan Cookbooks - Kindle Vegan Shoes Vegan Food MUST READ ARTICLES Yet Another Reason Not To Eat Meat Why Trans Fats Are Bad For You The 16 Most Contaminated Fruits and Vegetables Americans Are Getting Fatter Pain & Suffering: Lobster Revisited An End To Animal Testing 8 Things To Eat Every Day POPULAR ARTICLES Climate Change And Meat Consumption-Eat Vegan Honey I'm A Vegan Vegangelicism -- You're Not Good Enough For My Vegan Club Compassion Cures More Than Condemnation Earthlings: Discourse On Compassion Tips For Transitioning To A Vegan Diet Vegan Eating Trumps Eating Locally Food For Vegetarian Thought Vegan News Smackdown: Vegan vs. Viper - CANOE Side dishes: Vegan dinner, Oscars at Steenbock's, Bockfest - Capital Times You're vegan? What do you eat? - StateHornet.com Sinfully Good and Cruelty-Free: Vegan Recipes for Valentine's Day (PHOTOS) - Huffington Post Kudos to the O's for hiring the only vegan player in Major League Baseball - Baltimore Sun Vegans have options at UM - Montana Kaimin San Francisco Sustainable Sushi Restaurant Reveals Vegan, Faux Unagi Green ... - San Francisco Chronicle (press release) Vegan restaurant Native Foods Café opening at Boulder's Twenty Ninth Street - Daily Camera WATCH: 'What Would You Do' Episode on Vegan-Bashing - Ecorazzi Vegan Challenge Day 5: The Numbers Don't Lie - WWLP 22News (blog) CATEGORIS Animal Rights Clunkers Cookbook Recipes Daring Bakers Events Green Health Holidays Janes Originals Oddities On the Web Philosophy Product Reviews Reasons to Give Up Meat Recipe Recommendations Recipes Online Restaurants Science Staples Travel Uncategorized Vegan Beware Vegan Life Vegan News Weight Loss What's For Dinner RECOMMENDATIONS Soy Milk Makers Vegan Cookbooks ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Random Thoughts On Dialogue Everyone has their own way of thinking... their own philosophy on how life should be lived, how you should interact with other beings.  Personally... Revel With A Cause If you live in the Los Angeles area and you're looking for something fun to do this weekend, you may want to consider heading over to Santa Monica on... Stick With It Until It Works Tuesday's Wall Street Journal profiled Seth Tibbot.  Who's Seth Tibbot?  Well, if you're like us and you eat mock-meat products, Mr. Tibbot is... Thinking Is Believing The nutrition blog over at Women's Health references a study published by the Journal of Consumer Research back in August.  We wrote about it back... Spanakopita We've been vegans for a little over three months now.  Since we're old dogs (in our 40s), it's been a bit of a challenge to change our way of... Copyright © 2012 Vegan Bits , all rights reserved. Ve