<http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/releases/244038.php> APA Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead. ‘Bariatric Surgery Patients Require Optimal Care For Long-Term Health And Well-Being’ Please note that we publish your name , but we do not publish your email address. It is only used to let you know when your message is published. We do not use it for any other purpose. Please see our privacy policy for more information. If you write about specific medications or operations, please do not name health care professionals by name. All opinions are moderated before being included (to stop spam) Contact Our News Editors For any corrections of factual information, or to contact the editors please use our feedback form . Please send any medical news or health news press releases to: Note : Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a health care professional. For more information, please read our terms and conditions . Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness News From Medical News Today Filed Under: Medical News Today Tagged With: Bariatric , care , Health , longterm , optimal , patients , require , Surgery , wellbeing Bariatric surgery dramatically outperforms standard treatment for type 2 diabetes March 28, 2012 By Adam Tressatt Leave a Comment ScienceDaily (Mar. 26, 2012) — In the first published study of its kind, researchers from the Catholic University/Policlinico Gemelli in Rome, Italy, and NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center found that bariatric surgery dramatically outperforms standard medical treatment of severe type 2 diabetes. These findings were published March 27 in an advanced online edition of the New England Journal Medicine (NEJM). The study’s authors report that most bariatric surgery patients were able to discontinue all diabetes medications and maintain disease remission for the two-year study period, while none of those randomly assigned to receive standard medical treatment did. “Although bariatric surgery was initially conceived as a treatment for weight loss, it is now clear that surgery is an excellent approach for the treatment of diabetes and metabolic disease,” says senior author Dr. Francesco Rubino, chief of Gastrointestinal Metabolic Surgery and director of the Metabolic and Diabetes Surgery Center at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell and associate professor of surgery at Weill Cornell Medical College. It is particularly challenging to treat obese patients who have type 2 diabetes, because insulin therapy and other hypoglycemic medications often cause additional weight gain. In this study, most surgery patients experienced improvements in blood sugar levels, decreased total cholesterol and triglycerides, and improved HDL-cholesterol concentrations. This suggests that bariatric surgery for the treatment of diabetes may reduce a patient’s cardiovascular risk. “The unique ability of surgery to improve blood sugar levels and cholesterol levels as well as reduce weight makes it an ideal approach for obese patients with type 2 diabetes,” says lead author Dr. Geltrude Mingrone, chief of the Division of Obesity and Metabolic Diseases and professor of medicine at Catholic University in Rome. This was a randomized, controlled trial of patients aged 30 to 60. This study evaluated remission of diabetes in 60 severely obese patients (those with a body mass index [BMI] greater than 35) with advanced diabetes. Patients were randomly assigned to three groups: one group underwent Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB); a second group had bilopancreatic diversion (BPD); and the third group received conventional individualized medication and rigorously monitored dietary and lifestyle modification. None of the patients in the medical-therapy group has gone into remission since the start of the trial. By contrast, diabetes remission occurred and has been maintained in 95 percent of those who underwent BPD and 75 percent of those receiving RYGB. Remission is defined as fasting glucose of less than 100 mg and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) of less than 6.5 percent for at least one year. The authors found that age, gender, preoperative BMI, duration of diabetes and weight-loss post surgery were not predictors of diabetes remission. “These findings confirm that the effects of bariatric surgery on type 2 diabetes may be attributed to the mechanisms of surgery rather than the consequences of weight loss,” says Dr. Mingrone. “Studying the actual mechanisms by which surgery improves diabetes may help understand the disease better” she adds. Bariatric operations throughout the world are currently used primarily according to 1991 U.S. National Institutes of Health guidelines, which limit surgery for type 2 diabetes to individuals with a BMI greater than 35 kg m-2. “BMI is correlated with the risk of developing diabetes in the general population; in an individual, however, BMI does not tell much about the severity of diabetes, its potential to cause complications or the mechanisms of disease,” says Dr. Rubino. “The study confirms that using strict cut-off BMI levels to define eligibility for surgery in patients with diabetes is medically inappropriate and that there is an urgent need to define better criteria for patient selection,” he says. Previous experimental studies by Dr. Rubino have shown that gastrointestinal bypass operations (like RYGB and BPD) activate direct, weight-independent mechanisms of diabetes control, supporting the use of surgery as a diabetes treatment, including in less obese patients. A randomized study comparing gastric bypass surgery and best medical treatment in patients with BMI 26 to 35 is currently ongoing at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center. All patients in the current study were treated in Rome. Dr. Mingrone and her team of diabetes specialists were responsible for medical treatment of patients in the study. Dr. Rubino, who also holds an adjunct academic title at Catholic University in Rome, performed the laparoscopic RYGB surgeries and a team of surgeons from the Catholic University performed the BPD procedures. The current study is part of a broader, ongoing research collaboration between the Catholic University of Rome and Weill Cornell Medical College in New York. In March 2007, the Catholic University hosted the “Diabetes Surgery Summit” where a group of leading international scholars first recommended consideration of gastrointestinal surgery to intentionally treat type 2 diabetes (“diabetes surgery”). In the same year, NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center established the Diabetes Surgery Center, the first academic program of its kind, as an effort to model clinical practice, education and research around the specific aim of surgically treating diabetes. The Center has since organized the first two editions of the “World Congress on Interventional Therapies for Type 2 Diabetes,” which raised global awareness of diabetes surgery. An estimated 8.3 percent of the global population has type 2 diabetes, according to World Health Organization 2010 statistics, and that number is projected to increase to 9.9 percent by 2030. As many as 23 percent of patients with morbid obesity also have type 2 diabetes. The costs associated with diabetes pose a huge burden on health care systems. Previous studies have suggested that bariatric surgery may be a cost-effective approach for obese patients with diabetes. In spite of the potential gains, however, access to surgery for those eligible is very limited, and barriers are substantial. Less than 2 percent of eligible patients have access to bariatric/metabolic surgery in the U.S., and the figure is even lower in the rest of the world. The authors hope their study will help change the way bariatric surgery is perceived and that based on these findings, physicians will consider surgery in the treatment of diabetes. The research was funded by the Catholic University of Rome, Italy. Share this story on Facebook , Twitter , and Google : Other social bookmarking and sharing tools: Story Source: The above story is reprinted from materials provided by New York- Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center/Weill Cornell Medical College . Note: Materials may be edited for content and length. For further information, please contact the source cited above. Journal Reference : Philip R. Schauer, Sangeeta R. Kashyap, Kathy Wolski, Stacy A. Brethauer, John P. Kirwan, Claire E. Pothier, Susan Thomas, Beth Abood, Steven E. Nissen, Deepak L. Bhatt. Bariatric Surgery versus Intensive Medical Therapy in Obese Patients with Diabetes . New England Journal of Medicine , 2012; : 120326083016000 DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1200225 Note: If no author is given, the source is cited instead. Disclaimer : This article is not intended to provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily or its staff. ScienceDaily: Diet and Weight Loss News Filed Under: Med India Tagged With: Bariatric , Diabetes , dramatically , outperforms , standard , Surgery , treatment , Type Bariatric Surgery For Severe Diabetes Type 2 Beats Standard Therapy March 26, 2012 By Adam Tressatt Leave a Comment Editor’s Choice Academic Journal Main Category: Diabetes Also Included In: Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness Article Date: 26 Mar 2012 – 12:00 PDT email to a friend printer friendly opinions Patients with severe type 2 diabetes who undergo bariatric surgery have considerably better outcomes than those on standard medical treatment for the chronic disease, researchers from Italy and the USA reported in NEJM (New England Journal of Medicine) . The authors added that the majority of bariatric surgery patients eventually did not need diabetes drugs, and went into complete remission for the 24-month duration of the study. This did not occur to any of those on standard medical treatment for diabetes type 2. Senior author, Dr. Francesco Rubino, from NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell and Weill Cornell Medical College, said: “Although bariatric surgery was initially conceived as a treatment for weight loss, it is now clear that surgery is an excellent approach for the treatment of diabetes and metabolic disease.” Insulin therapy, as well as other hypoglycemic drugs, tend to make the patient put on weight; experts say this makes standard therapy “challenging”. The researchers reported that the vast majority of the patients who underwent surgery had improvements in HDL-cholesterol concentrations, triglyceride and total cholesterol levels, as well as blood sugar levels, indicating that bariatric surgery reduces a diabetes type 2 patient’s cardiovascular risk. Lead author Dr. Geltrude Mingrone, from the Catholic University, Rome, said: “The unique ability of surgery to improve blood sugar levels and cholesterol levels as well as reduce weight makes it an ideal approach for obese patients with type 2 diabetes.” In this study, 60 severely obese individuals, aged between 30 and 60 years, were randomly selected into three groups: Since the beginning of the study, nobody in the Standard Care group has gone into remission, compared to 95% of those in the BPD group, and 75% in the RYGB group. The researchers define remission as (at least one year of..): Fasting glucose of under 100 mg HbA1c (hemoglobin A1c) of less than 6.5% The authors added that the following were NOT diabetes remission predictors: weight-loss after surgery, diabetes duration, BMI before surgery, sex, and age. Dr. Mingrone said: “These findings confirm that the effects of bariatric surgery on type 2 diabetes may be attributed to the mechanisms of surgery rather than the consequences of weight loss. Studying the actual mechanisms by which surgery improves diabetes may help understand the disease better.” Current bariatric surgery procedures among patients with diabetes type 2 are limited for those whose BMIs are greater than 35. Dr. Rubino said: “BMI is correlated with the risk of developing diabetes in the general population; in an individual, however, BMI does not tell much about the severity of diabetes, its potential to cause complications or the mechanisms of disease. The study confirms that using strict cut-off BMI levels to define eligibility for surgery in patients with diabetes is medically inappropriate and that there is an urgent need to define better criteria for patient selection.” According to previous studies led by Dr. Rubino, gastrointestinal bypass surgeries, such as BPD and RYGB “activate direct, weight-independent mechanisms of diabetes control, supporting the use of surgery as a diabetes treatment, including in less obese patients.” A currently ongoing study, being carried out at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center, is comparing best medical treatment with gastric bypass surgery for individuals with a BMI of 26 to 35. It is estimated by WHO (World Health Organization) that approximately 8.3% of adults worldwide have diabetes type 2. Over the next two decades they say the prevalence will probably rise to nearly 10%. Over one-fifth of morbidly obese adults have diabetes type 2. Diabetes type 2 represents a large and growing part of health care systems’ expenditures. Previous studies indicate that bariatric surgery may not only provide health solutions, but economic ones as well for health systems. The authors explain that, unfortunately, access to these types of surgeries is very limited, as are the criteria for eligibility. In the USA, less than 2% of eligible individuals have access to bariatric/metabolic surgery – in other parts of the world the percentage is even lower. Hopefully, this study will change the general perception of bariatric surgery. Written by Christian Nordqvist Copyright: Medical News Today Not to be reproduced without permission of Medical News Today Visit our diabetes section for the latest news on this subject. “Bariatric Surgery versus Intensive Medical Therapy in Obese Patients with Diabetes” Philip R. Schauer, M.D., Sangeeta R. Kashyap, M.D., Kathy Wolski, M.P.H., Stacy A. Brethauer, M.D., John P. Kirwan, Ph.D., Claire E. Pothier, M.P.H., Susan Thomas, R.N., Beth Abood, R.N., Steven E. Nissen, M.D., and Deepak L. Bhatt, M.D., M.P.H. NEJM March 26, 2012 (10.1056/NEJMoa1200225) Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: MLA Christian Nordqvist. “Bariatric Surgery For Severe Diabetes Type 2 Beats Standard Therapy.” Medical News Today . MediLexicon, Intl., 26 Mar. 2012. Web. 26 Mar. 2012. <http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/243386.php> APA Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead. ‘Bariatric Surgery For Severe Diabetes Type 2 Beats Standard Therapy’ Please note that we publish your name , but we do not publish your email address. It is only used to let you know when your message is published. We do not use it for any other purpose. Please see our privacy policy for more information. If you write about specific medications or operations, please do not name health care professionals by name. All opinions are moderated before being included (to stop spam) Contact Our News Editors For any corrections of factual information, or to contact the editors please use our feedback form . Please send any medical news or health news press releases to: Note : Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a health care professional. For more information, please read our terms and conditions . Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness News From Medical News Today Filed Under: Medical News Today Tagged With: Bariatric , Beats , Diabetes , Severe , standard , Surgery , therapy , Type Bariatric Surgery For Severe Diabetes Type 2 Beats Standard Therapy March 26, 2012 By Adam Tressatt Leave a Comment Editor’s Choice Academic Journal Main Category: Diabetes Also Included In: Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness Article Date: 26 Mar 2012 – 12:00 PDT email to a friend printer friendly opinions Patients with severe type 2 diabetes who undergo bariatric surgery have considerably better outcomes than those on standard medical treatment for the chronic disease, researchers from Italy and the USA reported in NEJM (New England Journal of Medicine) . The authors added that the majority of bariatric surgery patients eventually did not need diabetes drugs, and went into complete remission for the 24-month duration of the study. This did not occur to any of those on standard medical treatment for diabetes type 2. Senior author, Dr. Francesco Rubino, from NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell and Weill Cornell Medical College, said: “Although bariatric surgery was initially conceived as a treatment for weight loss, it is now clear that surgery is an excellent approach for the treatment of diabetes and metabolic disease.” Insulin therapy, as well as other hypoglycemic drugs, tend to make the patient put on weight; experts say this makes standard therapy “challenging”. The researchers reported that the vast majority of the patients who underwent surgery had improvements in HDL-cholesterol concentrations, triglyceride and total cholesterol levels, as well as blood sugar levels, indicating that bariatric surgery reduces a diabetes type 2 patient’s cardiovascular risk. Lead author Dr. Geltrude Mingrone, from the Catholic University, Rome, said: “The unique ability of surgery to improve blood sugar levels and cholesterol levels as well as reduce weight makes it an ideal approach for obese patients with type 2 diabetes.” In this study, 60 severely obese individuals, aged between 30 and 60 years, were randomly selected into three groups: Since the beginning of the study, nobody in the Standard Care group has gone into remission, compared to 95% of those in the BPD group, and 75% in the RYGB group. The researchers define remission as (at least one year of..): Fasting glucose of under 100 mg HbA1c (hemoglobin A1c) of less than 6.5% The authors added that the following were NOT diabetes remission predictors: weight-loss after surgery, diabetes duration, BMI before surgery, sex, and age. Dr. Mingrone said: “These findings confirm that the effects of bariatric surgery on type 2 diabetes may be attributed to the mechanisms of surgery rather than the consequences of weight loss. Studying the actual mechanisms by which surgery improves diabetes may help understand the disease better.” Current bariatric surgery procedures among patients with diabetes type 2 are limited for those whose BMIs are greater than 35. Dr. Rubino said: “BMI is correlated with the risk of developing diabetes in the general population; in an individual, however, BMI does not tell much about the severity of diabetes, its potential to cause complications or the mechanisms of disease. The study confirms that using strict cut-off BMI levels to define eligibility for surgery in patients with diabetes is medically inappropriate and that there is an urgent need to define better criteria for patient selection.” According to previous studies led by Dr. Rubino, gastrointestinal bypass surgeries, such as BPD and RYGB “activate direct, weight-independent mechanisms of diabetes control, supporting the use of surgery as a diabetes treatment, including in less obese patients.” A currently ongoing study, being carried out at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center, is comparing best medical treatment with gastric bypass surgery for individuals with a BMI of 26 to 35. It is estimated by WHO (World Health Organization) that approximately 8.3% of adults worldwide have diabetes type 2. Over the next two decades they say the prevalence will probably rise to nearly 10%. Over one-fifth of morbidly obese adults have diabetes type 2. Diabetes type 2 represents a large and growing part of health care systems’ expenditures. Previous studies indicate that bariatric surgery may not only provide health solutions, but economic ones as well for health systems. The authors explain that, unfortunately, access to these types of surgeries is very limited, as are the criteria for eligibility. In the USA, less than 2% of eligible individuals have access to bariatric/metabolic surgery – in other parts of the world the percentage is even lower. Hopefully, this study will change the general perception of bariatric surgery. Written by Christian Nordqvist Copyright: Medical News Today Not to be reproduced without permission of Medical News Today Visit our diabetes section for the latest news on this subject. “Bariatric Surgery versus Intensive Medical Therapy in Obese Patients with Diabetes” Philip R. Schauer, M.D., Sangeeta R. Kashyap, M.D., Kathy Wolski, M.P.H., Stacy A. Brethauer, M.D., John P. Kirwan, Ph.D., Claire E. Pothier, M.P.H., Susan Thomas, R.N., Beth Abood, R.N., Steven E. Nissen, M.D., and Deepak L. Bhatt, M.D., M.P.H. NEJM March 26, 2012 (10.1056/NEJMoa1200225) Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: MLA Christian Nordqvist. “Bariatric Surgery For Severe Diabetes Type 2 Beats Standard Therapy.” Medical News Today . MediLexicon, Intl., 26 Mar. 2012. Web. 26 Mar. 2012. <http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/243386.php> APA Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead. ‘Bariatric Surgery For Severe Diabetes Type 2 Beats Standard Therapy’ Please note that we publish your name , but we do not publish your email address. It is only used to let you know when your message is published. We do not use it for any other purpose. Please see our privacy policy for more information. If you write about specific medications or operations, please do not name health care professionals by name. All opinions are moderated before being included (to stop spam) Contact Our News Editors For any corrections of factual information, or to contact the editors please use our feedback form . Please send any medical news or health news press releases to: Note : Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a health care professional. For more information, please read our terms and conditions . Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness News From Medical News Today Filed Under: Medical News Today Tagged With: Bariatric , Beats , Diabetes , Severe , standard , Surgery , therapy , Type The Most Common Cosmetic Surgery in 2011 Was … March 20, 2012 By Adam Tressatt Leave a Comment By Denise Mann and Reviewed by: Laura J. Martin, MD WebMD Medical News March 20, 2012 — Almost 9.2 million cosmetic procedures were performed in the United States in 2011, and Americans spent nearly $  10 billion on cosmetic procedures last year. These are some of the key findings in the new statistics from the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery (ASAPS). Cosmetic surgical procedures increased almost 1% since 2010, while minimally invasive procedures decreased almost 2% in the same time period. This is the 15th year the ASAPS has tracked plastic surgery. Since 1997, cosmetic procedures have increased 197% for men and women combined — and there have been some changes over the years. “Surgery seems to be slowly coming back,” says ASAPS President Jeffrey M. Kenkel, MD. He is a professor and vice chairman of the department of plastic surgery at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. Noninvasive procedures such as injectables do have a role, but individuals are looking for more durable results, says Kenkel. One of the reasons that the numbers are creeping up is that people need to stay in the work force longer, which means that they must compete with their younger counterparts for the same jobs, he says. Liposuction topped the list of most popular plastic surgeries in 2011, and injections of botulinum toxin type A (including Botox and Dysport) ranked as the top nonsurgical procedures, the new statistics show. Cosmetic surgery slideshow: Before and after pictures Top Surgical Procedures According to the new statistics, the top five surgical procedures in 2011 were: Liposuction Breast augmentation Abdominoplasty (tummy tuck) Eyelid surgery Breast lift Fully two-thirds of women opting for breast augmentation with implants chose silicone-filled breast implants in 2011. Kenkel says this shows that women and plastic surgeons are becoming more comfortable with the safety of these implants. Due to safety concerns, there was a 14-year ban on the use of silicone breast implants. This ban was lifted in 2006. In a further nod confirming the safety of these implants, the FDA recently approved a new silicone-gel breast implant from Sientra, making it the third company to market these implants in the U.S. Top Nonsurgical Procedures In 2011, the top five minimally invasive procedures were: Botulinum toxin type A Hyaluronic acid-based fillers (for treatment of wrinkles ) Laser hair removal Microdermabrasion Intense pulsed light (IPL) treatments (for treatment of skin redness and uneven skin tone) Women had almost 8.4 million cosmetic procedures in 2011, and men had almost 800,000. The number of cosmetic procedures for men increased over 121% from 1997, which was the year that ASAPS first started tracking these statistics. The new statistics were based on questionnaires sent to dermatologists, otolaryngologists, and plastic surgeons. More than 1,100 doctors returned the questionnaires. The final sample included responses from 420 plastic surgeons, 384 dermatologists, and 211 otolaryngologists. SOURCES: Jeffrey M. Kenkel, MD, professor and vice chairman, department of plastic surgery, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas.American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery: “15th Annual Cosmetic Surgery National Data Bank Statistics.” © 2012 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. Diet and exercise headlines Filed Under: Atlanta Diet News Tagged With: 2011 , common , Cosmetic , Most , Surgery Obese or Smoking NHS Patients Face Restrictions In Surgery and IVF, UK March 7, 2012 By Adam Tressatt Leave a Comment Editor’s Choice Academic Journal Main Category: Smoking / Quit Smoking Also Included In: Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness Article Date: 07 Mar 2012 – 9:00 PST email to a friend printer friendly opinions According to Pulse , smokers and obese people will become subject to several new treatment restrictions, unless they alter their lifestyle. The restrictions have been placed by GP commissioners and NHS managers throughout the UK. In the last year, over a quarter of PCTs reported to have introduced new restrictions on surgery based on lifestyle criteria, yet some PGs argue that the restrictions unfairly discriminate against patients, with one senior lawyer warning that they could be challenged legally on grounds of equality. According to 91 PCTs freedom of information responses, since April 2011, 25 PCTs have already placed the new restrictions on the treatment of smokers or obese patients, excluding bariatric surgery, whilst 11 PCTs reported to have restricted hip and knee replacements, and nine have restricted IVF treatments. Other PCTs have placed restrictions on breast reconstructions, nipple inversions, and open MRI scans. Men and women in Cornwall, Devon, Torbay and Plymouth have been banned by the Peninsula health technology-commissioning group to receive IVF treatment unless they have ceased smoking for at least six months. Obese patients under the NHS Bedfordshire cannot undergo hip and knee surgery until they have lost ’10% of initial body weight or moved below BMI 35′, whilst the NHS North Essex states that patients need to ‘have lost at least 5% weight and have maintained that 5% weight loss for at least six months’. Even though last year the NHS in Hertfordshire caused controversy by banning hip and knee operations for those whose BMI is higher than 30, as well as for smokers, unless they attended a smoking cessation course, they have now extended their policy to all routine surgery. According to Ben Troke, a partner at Browne Jacobson LLP, the restrictions would have to be drafted with extreme caution in order ‘to avoid having any discriminatory effect, in appearance or reality, on any particular groups in society’. He continued, saying: “The public-sector equality duty, under s149 of the Equality Act 2010, would apply to CCGs in just the same way as it currently applies to PCTs.” Dr. Clare Gerada, chair of the RCGP voiced her opinion, stating that some restrictions, in particular that for IVF treatment, were ‘dreadful’. She argued: “It’s becoming the deserving and the undeserving. I think it’s discriminatory and I find it astonishing. The Government should determine what should be applied universally.” The deputy editor of Pulse , Steve Nowottny, concluded: “Rationing in the NHS is nothing new – but PCTs and clinical commissioning groups are increasingly taking the decision to ration care based on patients’ lifestyle choices. In some cases there may be genuine clinical justification for rationing treatment on these grounds. But there is a growing suspicion that some PCTs are now blocking access to surgery for smokers and the obese simply to help achieve ever-greater efficiency savings. Such a policy has disturbing implications – and GPs are increasingly uneasy about the NHS providing a second-class service to patients with less healthy lifestyles.” Written by Petra Rattue Copyright: Medical News Today Not to be reproduced without permission of Medical News Today Visit our smoking / quit smoking section for the latest news on this subject. Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: MLA Petra Rattue. “Obese or Smoking NHS Patients Face Restrictions In Surgery and IVF, UK.” Medical News Today . MediLexicon, Intl., 7 Mar. 2012. Web. 7 Mar. 2012. <http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/242614.php> APA Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead. ‘Obese or Smoking NHS Patients Face Restrictions In Surgery and IVF, UK’ Please note that we publish your name , but we do not publish your email address. It is only used to let you know when your message is published. We do not use it for any other purpose. Please see our privacy policy for more information. If you write about specific medications or operations, please do not name health care professionals by name. All opinions are moderated before being included (to stop spam) Contact Our News Editors For any corrections of factual information, or to contact the editors please use our feedback form . Please send any medical news or health news press releases to: Note : Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a health care professional. For more information, please read our terms and conditions . Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness News From Medical News Today Filed Under: Medical News Today Tagged With: face , Obese , patients , Restrictions , smoking , Surgery Obese Kidney Disease Patients Can Safely Undergo Weight-Loss Surgery March 4, 2012 By Adam Tressatt Leave a Comment Main Category: Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness Also Included In: Urology / Nephrology ; GastroIntestinal / Gastroenterology Article Date: 04 Mar 2012 – 0:00 PST email to a friend printer friendly opinions Weight-loss surgery is safe for chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients who are obese, according to a study appearing in an upcoming issue of the Journal of the American Society Nephrology (JASN). The study is the largest of its kind to focus on the impact of kidney function on patients’ health following weight-loss surgery. It’s not known whether weight-loss surgery – also known as bariatric surgery – is safe for patients with CKD or how diminished kidney function might impact the risks of the procedure. To find out, Nicole Turgeon, MD, John Sweeney, MD (Emory University School of Medicine), and their colleagues analyzed information from 27,736 patients who underwent weight-loss surgery between 2006 and 2008. The researchers found that patients with more severe CKD experienced more complications following surgery. Complication rates ranged from 4.6% for those with stage 1 CKD or normal kidney function to 9.9% for those with stage 5 CKD. Even though patients with more severe CKD experienced more complications, complication rates remained below 10%. “This work provides strong evidence that it is safe to proceed with bariatric surgery in kidney failure patients who suffer from obesity ,” said Dr. Sweeney. The findings are encouraging because maintaining weight loss is challenging for CKD patients, many of whom have a decreased ability to exercise. Also, obesity can limit CKD patients’ eligibility for kidney transplants. Whether the potential benefits of weight-loss surgery outweigh the risks in this population requires further study, though. Article adapted by Medical News Today from original press release. Click ‘references’ tab above for source. Visit our obesity / weight loss / fitness section for the latest news on this subject. Study co-authors include Sebastian Perez, Max Mondestin, MD, S. Scott Davis, MD, Edward Lin, DO, Sudha Tata, MD, Allan Kirk, MD, PhD, Christian Larsen, MD, DPhil, Thomas Pearson, MD, DPhil (Emory University School of Medicine). Disclosures: The authors reported no financial disclosures. The article, entitled “The Impact of Renal Function on Outcomes of Bariatric Surgery,” will appear online at http://jasn.asnjournals.org/ on March 1, 2012, doi: 10.1681/ASN.2011050476. American Society of Nephrology Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in your essay, paper or report: MLA American Society of Nephrology. “Obese Kidney Disease Patients Can Safely Undergo Weight-Loss Surgery.” Medical News Today . MediLexicon, Intl., 4 Mar. 2012. Web. 4 Mar. 2012. <http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/releases/242407.php> APA Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is cited instead. ‘Obese Kidney Disease Patients Can Safely Undergo Weight-Loss Surgery’ Please note that we publish your name , but we do not publish your email address. It is only used to let you know when your message is published. We do not use it for any other purpose. Please see our privacy policy for more information. If you write about specific medications or operations, please do not name health care professionals by name. All opinions are moderated before being included (to stop spam) Contact Our News Editors For any corrections of factual information, or to contact the editors please use our feedback form . Please send any medical news or health news press releases to: Note : Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a health care professional. For more information, please read our terms and conditions . Obesity / Weight Loss / Fitness News From Medical News Today Filed Under: Medical News Today Tagged With: disease , kidney , Obese , patients , safely , Surgery , Undergo , weightloss Robotic surgery effective in treating oropharyngeal cancer in patients with HPV March 4, 2012 By Adam Tressatt Leave a Comment Over the past few decades, doctors have noted a surprising trend in cancer of the tonsils and base of the tongue. Though oral cancer previously appeared predominantly in elderly patients with a history of tobacco and alcohol use, it’s increasing in younger patients: 30- to 50-year-old nonsmokers with the human papillomavirus (HPV). Fortunately, the newer form of cancer tends to be less aggressive, and the latest approach to treating the tumors can avoid the debilitating consequences of open neck surgery or extensive radiation. Robotic surgery conducted through patients’ mouths provides excellent results in removing squamous cell carcinoma at the back of the throat, especially in patients with HPV, a Mayo Clinic study published in the March issue of Mayo Clinic Proceedings found. “We were surprised that the cancer cure results were even better than the traditional treatments that we have been doing, but that is probably almost as much of a matter that these cancers are HPV-mediated for the most part, and they respond much better to treatment,” says author Eric Moore, M.D., a head and neck surgeon at Mayo Clinic in Rochester. “Importantly, the treatment preserved patients’ ability to swallow and their speech performance was excellent.” Diet News Feed Filed Under: News Medical Tagged With: cancer , effective , oropharyngeal , patients , Robotic , Surgery , Treating Blood, urine markers can predict heart surgery patients at higher risk for worse AKI March 2, 2012 By Adam Tressatt Leave a Comment Blood and urine markers can indicate which patients with an abrupt kidney injury following heart surgery will experience progressive kidney problems, according to a study appearing in an upcoming issue of the Journal of the American Society Nephrology (JASN) . Testing for these markers soon after surgery could help doctors protect the health of patients’ kidneys. Acute kidney injury (AKI), an abrupt or rapid decline in kidney function, is an increasingly prevalent condition. Sometimes AKI arises following heart surgery because the kidneys are deprived of normal blood flow for extended periods of time during the procedure. In most cases, AKI after heart surgery resolves quickly, but some cases worsen and can seriously affect patients’ health and survival. Until now, doctors have not been able to determine which cases of AKI that develop after heart surgery will worsen. To see if certain markers in the blood and urine might provide some clues, Chirag Parikh, MD, PhD (Yale University School of Medicine), Jay Koyner, MD (University of Chicago, Pritzker School of Medicine), and their colleagues evaluated the blood and urine of 380 patients who developed AKI after heart surgery. The investigators found that the presence of certain markers on the day that AKI is diagnosed can indicate structural injury to the kidneys that will likely cause patients to experience progressive problems. High urinary interleukin-18 and a measure called the albumin-to- creatinine ratio increased patients’ risk of experiencing persistent AKI by approximately three-fold, while high blood levels of a protein called neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin increased their risk by more than seven-fold. “Our multi-center study is the largest acute kidney injury biomarker study performed to date in adults, and it strengthens the new paradigm that assessing structural injury at the time of clinical diagnosis with urine or blood markers of kidney injury can yield important prognostic information,” said Dr. Parikh. “Future studies can build on this work and use these markers to enroll patients who are at a high risk for AKI and its associated complications into clinical trials of promising therapies,” he added. Source: Journal of the American Society Nephrology Diet News Feed Filed Under: News Medical Tagged With: blood , heart , Higher , markers , patients , predict , risk , Surgery , urine , worse Bariatric surgery safe for CKD patients with obesity March 2, 2012 By Adam Tressatt Leave a Comment Weight-loss surgery is safe for chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients who are obese, according to a study appearing in an upcoming issue of the Journal of the American Society Nephrology (JASN) . The study is the largest of its kind to focus on the impact of kidney function on patients’ health following weight-loss surgery. It’s not known whether weight-loss surgery—also known as bariatric surgery —is safe for patients with CKD or how diminished kidney function might impact the risks of the procedure. To find out, Nicole Turgeon, MD, John Sweeney, MD (Emory University School of Medicine), and their colleagues analyzed information from 27,736 patients who underwent weight-loss surgery between 2006 and 2008. The researchers found that patients with more severe CKD experienced more complications following surgery. Complication rates ranged from 4.6% for those with stage 1 CKD or normal kidney function to 9.9% for those with stage 5 CKD. Even though patients with more severe CKD experienced more complications, complication rates remained below 10%. “This work provides strong evidence that it is safe to proceed with bariatric surgery in kidney failure patients who suffer from obesity ,” said Dr. Sweeney. The findings are encouraging because maintaining weight loss is challenging for CKD patients, many of whom have a decreased ability to exercise. Also, obesity can limit CKD patients’ eligibility for kidney transplants. Whether the potential benefits of weight-loss surgery outweigh the risks in this population requires further study, though. Source: Journal of the American Society Nephrology Diet News Feed Filed Under: News Medical Tagged With: Bariatric , obesity , patients , Safe , Surgery « Older Posts The 17 Day Diet On Amazon Dr Phil 17 Day Diet Guide The 17 Day Diet Food List The 17 Day Diet Frequently Asked Questions Notable Sites Atlanta Diet News Daily Diet Diet News Diet Reviews Diet Tips Med India Medical News Today News Medical Science Daily Diets That Work Obesity Creates Unhealthful Conditions In The Womb Less sleep, disrupted internal 24-hour clock means higher risk of diabetes and obesity Bariatric Surgery Patients Require Optimal Care For Long-Term Health And Well-Being Scientists use public-database search to identify novel receptor with key role in type 2 diabetes Obesity Weight Loss Strategies Show Promise HCG Diet Menu Home April 2012 M T W T F S S « Mar 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Recent Posts Obesity Creates Unhealthful Conditions In The Womb Less sleep, disrupted internal 24-hour clock means higher risk of diabetes and obesity Bariatric Surgery Patients Require Optimal Care For Long-Term Health And Well-Being Scientists use public-database search to identify novel receptor with key role in type 2 diabetes Obesity Weight Loss Strategies Show Promise Betty Draper Gets Fat Overweight Moms With Moderately High Blood Sugar At Greater Health Risk Without Changes To Eating And Activity, It Is Predicted That More Than 1 In 5 Young People Will Be Obese By 2020 Johns Hopkins cardiologists support use of statins for primary prevention of heart attack Links Between Health And Location Demonstrated By Geographic Information Systems Recent Comments weight loss program Washington on Positive parenting during early childhood may prevent obesity a green monster » Blog Archive » What Are Some Of The HCG Side Effects? on The 17 Day Diet Food List Three Favorite HCG Diet Recipe Favorites for Phase 3 | Maintain Healthy Living on Three Favorite HCG Diet Recipe Favorites For Phase 2 Popular Topics Between blood Body brain cancer childhood children Could Diabetes diet diets disease during Eating Exercise Finds Food from Gain Health Healthy heart help high Higher increase Link linked lose Loss more Obese obesity Overweight patients People protein reduce research risk study Surgery Type weight Women Footer #4 Widget This is an example of a widgeted area that you can place text to describe a particular product or service. You can also use other WordPress widgets such as recent posts, recent comments, a tag cloud or more. Return to top of pag