
My Online Wellness - Health Library CDPHP Home Wellness Workshops Secure Member Site Find-A-Doc Search Home Medical Resources Health A-Z Conditions Centers Conditions "InDepth" Procedures A-Z Medical Dictionary Cool Tools Conditions Navigator Videos & Animations Health Calculators Anatomy Navigator Wellness Centers Aging and Health Alternative Health Diet Center Disease Management Emotional Health Food and Nutrition Healthcare Information Health Myths Kids' and Teens' Health Men's Health Physical Fitness Recipes Sexuality and Health Travel and Health Women's Health Natural & Alternative Treatments Herbs and Supplements Interactions Alternative Therapies Functional Foods Homeopathy Health Library Home Definition Causes Risk Factors Symptoms Diagnosis Treatment Prevention En Español In Depth Gestational Diabetes (Diabetes, Gestational; GDM; Gestational Onset Diabetes Mellitus [GODM]; Glucose Intolerance During Pregnancy) by
      Debra Wood, RN Definition Glucose comes from the breakdown of food. It is the body's energy source. Assisted by a hormone called insulin, glucose can pass from the blood to the cells. Without insulin, glucose will build up in the blood. This is called hyperglycemia. At the same time, your body's cells are starved for glucose (energy). When diabetes first occurs during pregnancy it is called gestational diabetes. The extra glucose in the blood can cross to the baby. This condition can cause problems for the mother and baby. Large Baby Due to Gestational Diabetes © 2011 Nucleus Medical Media, Inc. Causes The exact cause is unknown. But these factors may contribute to the condition: Hormones needed for the baby's growth interfere with insulin Excess maternal weight increases insulin resistance Insulin resistance prevents the body from effectively using insulin Risk Factors TOP These factors increase your chance of developing this condition: Obesity or being overweight Family members with diabetes Age: 25 or older Race: Hispanic, African-American, Native-American, Asian-American, Indigenous Australian, or a Pacific Islanders Gestational diabetes in a previous pregnancy Previous delivery of a large baby Previous stillbirth or too much fluid surrounding a baby during pregnancy Glucose in urine Symptoms TOP This condition may not cause any symptoms. If symptoms occur, they may include: Increased urination Thirst Hunger Recurring vaginal or urinary tract infections Weakness Diagnosis TOP Your Risk If you are at high risk, you may need
          glucose testing
          as soon as possible.  If your initial test is negative, you should be retested between 24-28 weeks of gestation. If you  are at average risk, you  may be given the 50-gram glucose test. (See Screening Test below.) This is given between 24-28 weeks of gestation. If you are at low risk,
        you do not need glucose testing. To be low risk, you must meet
        all
        of the following criteria: Less than 25 years of age Normal weight before and during pregnancy Member of an ethnic group with a low risk of gestational diabetes No known diabetes in any siblings or parents No history of abnormal glucose tolerance No history of poor pregnancy outcomes Screening Test This involves: Drinking a liquid high in sugar Taking a blood sample one hour later to measure the glucose level In some cases, a
          urine glucose test
          may be done. These are not as reliable as the blood test. Diagnostic Test This involves: A three-hour
              glucose-tolerance test
              if the initial screening test shows an above normal sugar level Glucose monitoring in the morning and after meals Treatment TOP The aim of treatment is to return glucose levels to normal. Treatment includes: Diet Eat a balanced diet . Eat plenty of vegetables and fiber . Limit the amount of fat you eat. Avoid food high in sugar. Eat moderate portions of food at each meal. Eat a bedtime snack with protein and a starchy food. Do not gain more than the recommended amount of weight during pregnancy. Gaining too much weight can increase the risk of having: A baby with a high birth-weight A preterm birth Cesarean delivery Keep a record of your food intake. Share this with your doctor. Exercise Physical activity helps the body use glucose. The insulin you produce will be more effective. Ask your doctor about an exercise routine. Blood Sugar Testing Use a monitor to check your glucose levels. Show your doctor the results at prenatal visits. Medication Insulin Injections If you have made lifestyle changes and your glucose levels stay above normal, you may need to inject insulin each day. Oral Medicines Some doctors may choose to prescribe oral medicines to help control your blood sugar levels. Examples of these medicines include: Metformin
                (eg, Glucophage) Glyburide
                (eg, DiaBeta, Glucovance) Follow-up After delivery, glucose levels usually return to normal. You will need a glucose tolerance test 6-8 weeks after delivery. Exercising, breastfeeding, and losing weight will help to reduce your chance of developing type 2 diabetes . Prevention TOP The following may help prevent this condition: Maintain normal weight gain during pregnancy. Eat a healthy diet. Exercise regularly. Talk to your doctor before starting an exercise program. RESOURCES: The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists http://www.acog.org American Diabetes Association http://www.diabetes.org CANADIAN RESOURCES: Canadian Diabetes Association http://www.diabetes.ca/ Women's Health Matters http://www.womenshealthmatters.ca/ References: American Diabetes Association. Position statement: gestational diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care . 2003;26(suppl 1):S103-105. American Dietetic Association. Nutrition practice guidelines for gestational diabetes mellitus. American Dietetic Association . 2001. Buchanan TA, Xiang AH. Gestational diabetes mellitus. J Clin Invest . 2005;115:485-491. Gutzin S, Kozer E, Magee C, Feig G. Koren G. The safety of oral hypoglycemic agents in the first trimester of pregnancy: a meta-analysis. Can J Pharm. 2003;10(4):179-83. Taylor JS,  Kaemar JE, Nothnagh M, Lawrence RA. A systematic review of the literature associating breastfeeding with type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes. J Am Coll Nutr . 2005;24:320-326. Urine glucose. EBSCO Health Library website. Available at:
          http://www.ebscohost.com/healthLibrary/
          . Updated May 2008. Accessed June 25, 2008. Urine ketone testing.
          National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion website. Available at:
          http://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/
          . Updated December 2005. Accessed June 25, 2008. What is gestational diabetes? National Institute of Child Health and Human Development website. Available at:
          http://www.nichd.nih.gov/publications/pubs/gdm/sub1.htm
          . Accessed October 7, 2005. 2/5/2009  DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance
          http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php
          : Cheng YW, Chung JH, Kurbisch-Block I, Inturrisi M, Shafer S, Caughey AB. Gestational weight gain and gestational diabetes mellitus: perinatal outcomes. Obstet Gynecol. 2008;112:1015-1022. Hillier TA, Pedula KL, Vesco KK, et al. Excess gestational weight gain: modifying fetal macrosomia risk associated with maternal glucose. Obstet Gynecol. 2008;112:1007-1014. 4/1/2011  DynaMed's Systematic Literature Surveillance
          http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php
          : Dhulkotia JS, Ola B, Fraser R, Farrell T.

Oral hypoglycemic agents vs insulin in management of gestational diabetes: a systematic review and metaanalysis. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2010;203(5):457.e1-9. Last reviewed September 2011 by Ganson Purcell Jr., MD, FACOG, FACPE Last Updated: 9/20/2011 This content is reviewed regularly and is updated when new and relevant evidence is made available. This information is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with questions regarding a medical condition. To send comments or feedback to our Editorial Team regarding the content please email us at healthlibrarysupport@ebscohost.com . About MyOnlineWellness.com | C