
Winter into Summer: Advice for Preventing Varicose Veins During Pregnancy You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Home | Contact Us | Join SVS | Press Center | Find A Specialist SVS Member Login Search About Us Currently selected Board of Directors Bylaws Councils, Committees, Sections Distinguished Fellow Designation Financial Information History of Vascular Surgery International Relations Join SVS Mission Statement Officers Policies Position Statements Press Center Strategic Plan SVS Annual Report SVS Awards and Scholarships SVS Foundation SVS Vascular Surgery Trainee Advocacy Travel Scholarship SVS Volunteers Vascular Health Find a Vascular Specialist Patient Stories Podcasts for Medical Professionals and Referring Physicians Podcasts for Medical Students, Residents, Trainees Podcasts for Patients and Families Podcasts for Program Directors Vascular Conditions, Tests, Treatments Vascular Device Alerts Vascular Screenings Education and Meetings 2012 Vascular Annual Meeting 2011 Vascular Annual Meeting CME Certificates from Vascular Annual Meetings Future Vascular Annual Meeting Dates Coding and Reimbursement Course Comprehensive Vascular Review Course Education Resources Events and Meetings Journal of Vascular Surgery Training - Endovascular Vascular Research Initiatives Conference VESAP2 VESAP1 2011 Women's Leadership Retreat Third Annual International Women in Surgery Symposium Health Policy and Government Relations Contact Congress Priority Government Relations Issues SVS Political Action Committee (PAC) Washington Update Practice Resources Coding and Reimbursement Under Medicare Clinical Practice Guidelines Coding Guide 2012 Credentialing Resources Electronic Medical Records Leadership in Vascular Surgery Multispecialty Consensus Documents Outpatient Endovascular Center Patient Education Materials Practice Development Toolkits Practice Memos Quality Reporting Standards Screening Event Toolkit SVS PSO Vascular Career Job Bank Vascular Quality Initiative - VQI Research Clinical Research Comparative Effectiveness Research Outcomes Research Research Opportunities Research Resources Corporate Partners ACCME Standards for Commercial Support Recognition Circles and Rewards Sponsorship Opportunities A A A Print Friendly VascularWeb > About Us > Press Center > Press Release > Winter into Summer: Advice for Preventing Varicose Veins During Pregnancy Board of Directors Bylaws Councils, Committees, Sections Distinguished Fellow Designation Financial Information History of Vascular Surgery International Relations Join SVS Mission Statement Officers Policies Position Statements Press Center Currently selected SVS Press Releases Vascular Wellness Articles It's March Madness a.k.a. Couch Potato Time Strategic Plan SVS Annual Report SVS Awards and Scholarships SVS Foundation SVS Vascular Surgery Trainee Advocacy Travel Scholarship SVS Volunteers VascularWeb Winter into Summer: Advice for Preventing Varicose Veins During Pregnancy Page Content ​January 5, 2012   Contact: Sue Crosson-Knutson   312-334-2311 scknutson@vascularsociety.org CHICAGO - Cold winter months often result in summertime births. July, August and September are the most common birthday months according to the 2010 National Vital Statistics Reports. During pregnancy, 50 to 55 percent of American women experience varicose veins. “More than just a cosmetic issue, varicose veins can be painful and can lead to more serious health problems,” said Eva Rzucidlo, MD, Society for Vascular Surgery® Women’s Leadership Committee chair. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office on Women’s Health states the following factors contribute to varicose veins: pregnancy – the growing uterus puts pressure on the veins, hormonal changes – during puberty, pregnancy and menopause, medical history – family members with varicose veins, obesity – extra weight adds pressure on the veins, lack of movement – sitting or standing for long periods of time may force the veins to work harder to pump blood to the heart, increasing age – veins may weaken with age. Lifestyle changes and medical treatments can often reduce varicose veins. Suggestions to ease the discomfort include: sunscreen, regular exercise, proper weight, not crossing legs when sitting for long periods of time, elevating legs when resting, not sitting or standing for long periods of time, wearing elastic support stockings, avoiding high heel shoes for long periods of time, eating a low-salt, high fiber diet. “The first line of management for varicose vein treatment is medical management with compression stockings worn daily,” said Dr. Rzucidlo. “Another option is sclerotherapy, the sealing off of the veins - mainly done for spider veins. Radiofrequency and laser treatments are also options which are minimally invasive procedures often performed in a doctor’s office. For very large varicose veins, a surgical procedure known as vein stripping is available.” Moms-to-be can visit VascularWeb.org podcasts that explain the condition. # # # About the Society for Vascular Surgery® The Society for Vascular Surgery® (SVS) is a not-for-profit professional medical society, composed primarily of vascular surgeons, that seeks to advance excellence and innovation in vascular health through education, advocacy, research, and public awareness. SVS is the national advocate for 3,550 specialty-trained vascular surgeons and other medical professionals who are dedicated to the prevention and cure of vascular disease. Visit its Web site at VascularWeb.org®. Follow SVS on Twitter and Facebook. 1/5/2012 Contact Us Society for Vascular Surgery 633 North Saint Clair Street, 22nd Floor | Chicago, IL 60611 Phone: 312-334-2300 | 800-258-7188 Fax: 312-334-2320 Email: vascular@vascularsociety.org Follow Us VascularWeb® is the prime source for all vascular health and disease information, and is presented by the Society 
	            for Vascular Surgery®. Its members are vascular surgeons, specialists, and vascular health professionals who are specialty-trained 
	            in all treatments for vascular disease including medical management, non-invasive procedures, and surgery. VascularWeb.org Policies, Rules, and Regulations | Site Contents Copyrig