
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 11 Mar 2012 12:10:16 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.46 (Red Hat)
Accept-Ranges: bytes
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.3.2
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Hippocrateon Private Hospital Home Contact Us Our Profile Specialties & Services Conditions & Treatments Our Doctors Location Map Careers Home | Conditions & Treatments | Medical Therapy of Obesity Χειρουργική Θεραπεία της Νοσογόνου Παχυσαρκίας Λαπαροσκοπική  Αποκατάσταση Κήλης Plastic Surgery Medical Therapy of Obesity Καρκίνος του Μαστού – Καινούργιες Τεχνικές Foot & Ankle Service Cosmetic Foot Surgery Hand Service Hip & Knee Arthroplasty Service Limb Lengthening & Deformity Service Osteoporosis / Metabolic Bone Disease Service Orthopaedic Trauma Service Sports Medicine & Shoulder Service Δυναμική Ηχο-καρδιογραφία Χημειοθεραπεία Ανοσοθεραπεία Ορμονοθεραπεία Χειρουργική Ογκολογία Βιοψίες Μυελού των Οστών Μεταμόσχευση Μυελού των Οστών Αντιθρομβοτική και Αντιπηκτική Αγωγή Εμβολιασμοί Βιολογικές Θεραπείες Medical Therapy of Obesity Overview of 



Obesity The message sounds simple: To lose weight, you must eat less and exercise more. However, for many morbidly 



overweight individuals, losing weight is not as easy as it sounds. After diets and exercise fail, some people turn to bariatric 

surgery for 

obesity. Gastric bypass surgery and adjustable gastric banding are two bariatric procedures performed at Hippocrateon. 

Both obesity 

treatments have excellent long-term track records for weight loss. Also known as gastric bypass surgery, banding or 

weight loss surgery, 

bariatric surgery for obesity has an excellent long-term track record for helping sufferers lose 

weight. Morbid obesity is a 

chronic debilitating condition that requires long-term lifestyle changes.  Anyone 

considering obesity surgery for weight loss needs to 

anticipate maintaining these changes, as well as the risks and benefits of 

morbid obesity surgery. About Obesity and Morbid Obesity Obesity is a common 

problem in Cyprus. Current research suggests 

that obesity affects one in four Cypriots. In this country alone, about 1,000 deaths per 

year can be linked to obesity. Obesity is 

defined as weighing at least 40 Kgr over ideal body weight or having a body mass 

index (BMI) greater than 35.  The BMI is a mathematical 

formula that factors a person’s height and weight in determining 

obesity. A person is considered to have morbid obesity with a BMI of 40 or 

greater. Persons with a BMI of 40 or more or those with a 

BMI or 35 or more with serious health conditions may be candidates for obesity 

surgery such as adjustable gastric 

banding. What Causes Obesity Causes of Obesity 

Involve Many 

Factors In scientific terms, obesity occurs when a person's calorie intake exceeds the amount of energy he 

or she 

burns. Many factors may contribute to this obesity-generating imbalance, including genetic, environmental, psychological and other 



factors. Genetic factors Obesity tends to run in families, suggesting that it may have a genetic 

cause. 

However, family members share not only genes, but also diet and lifestyle habits that may contribute to obesity. Separating 

these lifestyle 

factors from genetic ones is often difficult. Still, growing evidence points to heredity as a strong determining 

factor of obesity. In one 

study of adults who were adopted as children, researchers found that the weight of the adult subjects was 

closer to the weight of their 

biological parents than the weight of their adoptive parents. The environment provided by the adoptive 

family apparently had less influence 

on the development of obesity than the person's genetic makeup. Nevertheless, people 

who feel that their genes have doomed them to 

a lifetime of obesity should take heart. Many people genetically predisposed to obesity 

do not lapse into obesity or are able to lose weight 

and keep it off. Environmental 

factors Although genes are an important factor in many cases of obesity, 

a person's environment also plays a 

significant part. Environment includes lifestyle behaviors such as what a person eats and how active he 

or she is. Americans tend to 

have high-fat diets, often putting taste and convenience ahead of nutritional content when choosing meals. 

Sedentary lifestyles are 

second to none in contributing to obesity. People can't change their genetic makeup, of course, but they 

can change what 

they eat and how active they are. Some people are able to lose weight and fend obesity off by: Learning 

how to 

choose more nutritious meals. Replacing refined foods with whole foods. Learning to recognize environmental 



cues (such as enticing smells) that may make them want to eat when they are not hungry. Becoming more physically 



active. Cutting down on portion sizes. Psychological factors Many people eat 

in 

response to negative emotions such as boredom, sadness or anger. While most overweight people have no more psychological 

disturbances than 

people at their normal weight, about 30 percent of the people who seek treatments for serious weight problems have 

difficulties with binge 

eating. During a binge-eating episode, people eat large amounts of food while feeling they can't control how 

much they are eating. Those 

with the most severe binge-eating problems are considered to have what is called binge-eating disorder. 

These people may have more difficulty 

losing weight and keeping the weight off than people without binge-eating problems. Some 

individuals will need special help, such as 

counseling or medication, to control their binge eating before they can successfully 

manage their weight. Other causes of 

obesity In some instances, there are rare illnesses that 

can cause obesity. These include hypothyroidism, Cushing's 

syndrome , and certain neurological problems that can lead to overeating. 

Certain drugs, such as steroids and some antidepressants, may cause 

excessive weight gain. A doctor can determine if a patient has 

any of these conditions, which are believed to be responsible for only about 1 

percent of all cases of obesity. Complications of Obesity Obesity is 

directly harmful to a person’s health, which is why obesity surgery is a serious option for some individuals and the 

best of all 

available obesity treatments for morbid obesity. Someone who is 40 percent overweight is twice as likely to die prematurely than 

an 

average-weight person. (This effect is seen in people after living with obesity for 10 to 30 years.) Obesity is a risk factor for many 



serious, life-threatening diseases , including: Diabetes High blood pressure 

(hypertension) Heart 

disease Obstructive sleep apnea Stroke Heartburn or reflux 

disease Cancer (in women: 

endometrial, gallbladder, cervical and uterine; in men colorectal and prostate) Many people consider obesity 

weight loss surgery in order to improve their overall health and lessen the risks of these 

conditions. Studies show that the risk of death 

from these conditions returns to normal after weight loss resulting from the most 

effective of obesity surgery. In addition, obesity 

contributes to numerous other medical conditions, 

including: Osteoarthritis and gout Gallbladder disease and 

gallstones High-risk 

Pregnancy Hypoventilation (breathing 

disorders) Infertility Psychological disorders/social 

impairments Medical Weight Loss Program Gaining weight and becoming 

obese or morbidly obese has created an 

epidemic not only in Cyprus, but also internationally.  According to the WHO, more than 

two thirds of the industrial countries 

population are overweight, and nearly one third are obese or morbidly obese. Obesity 

is defined as having a body mass index of 30 

to 39.  Morbid obesity begins at a body mass index of 40. It has been shown that 

the higher the body mass index (BMI), the greater the 

risk for associated illnesses such as diabetes, hypertension, sleep apnea, high 

cholesterol, coronary artery disease  and others. When 

morbidly obese individuals have one or more of the above diseases, their 

risk for death increases, and quality of life is severely 

diminished. The management of obesity involves medical and, if 

applicable, surgical interventions. Medical weight management 

combines diet, exercise and behavioral therapy and, if indicated, 

pharmacotherapy. At Hippocrateon we evaluate overweight or obese 

individuals for weight management with a thorough physical 

exam, which may require blood work and other diagnostic tools. The patient’s 

diet  and exercise history is an important part of 

the medical assessment and is reviewed during this visit. Dieticians at 

Hippocrateon work hand in hand with our doctors to 

ensure optimal care. Psychologists are also part of the team to maximize behavioral 

therapy.Our Doctors may also utilize the 

expertise of our exercise physiologists to create an individualized exercise program for her 

patients, with stress testing 

included. Patients are monitored every 4 weeks by the physician and dietician. Medication, such as 

appetite suppressants 

can be prescribed to help with weight loss, as part of the treatment plan. Patients who are 100 lbs or more overweight 

are generally 

referred for surgical weight management. Our Doctors continue to be involved in the surgical arm by assisting patients with 

weight 

loss prior to surgery. They also manage patients post-operatively to ensure adequate weight loss, perform medication adjustments when 



associated illnesses begin to improve, and to prevent nutritional deficiencies or other complications which could occur without 

frequent 

follow-up appointments. Surgical Weight Loss Bariatric surgery promotes 

weight loss 

through two different methods. The first surgical method makes the stomach smaller and is referred to as a restrictive 

procedure, because the 

amount of food that can be eaten is restricted. The second surgical method of weight loss is 

referred to as a malabsorptive 

procedure, because fewer calories can be absorbed. The surgical weight loss options we offer 

are Roux-en- gastric bypass and 

adjustable gastric banding.  Roux-en- gastric bypass is a combined restrictive and malabsorptive 

procedure.  It works both by 

limiting the amount of food that can be eaten and the calories absorbed.  Adjustable gastric 

banding (LAP-BAND) is a restrictive 

surgical procedure and works by limiting the amount of food that can be eaten, leading to weight 

loss. There are no guarantees with 

any method of weight loss, even surgical weight loss. Success is possible only if you 

are committed to making lifestyle and dietary changes 

for the rest of your life. Is Bariatric 

Surgery Right for Me Typical candidates for a 

bariatric surgery procedure, including lap band surgery and adjustable 

gastric banding, are people who remain severely obese after 

conventional approaches to weight loss such as diet and exercise, or who 

have an obesity-related disease. For other patients, however, 

greater efforts toward weight control, such as changing eating habits, 

behavior modification and increasing physical activity, may be more 

appropriate.  If you are considering undergoing gastric 

bypass surgery or bariatric lap band surgery, you should understand bariatric 

surgery risks and rewards. To be eligible for 

a bariatric surgery procedure, like adjustable gastric banding or lap band surgery, 

you must be morbidly obese (weighing at least 100 

pounds over your ideal body weight and having a BMI of at least 40). You may also qualify 

for the procedure with a BMI of 35 to 40 if 

other serious illnesses, such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, or sleep apnea, 

are present. Surgery Overview The Digestive Process To better 

understand 

how weight loss surgery works, it is helpful to know how the normal digestive process works.  As food moves along the 

digestive 

tract, special digestive juices and enzymes arrive at the right place at the right time to digest food and absorb calories and 



nutrients.  After we chew and swallow our food, it moves down the esophagus to the stomach, where a strong acid and powerful 

enzymes 

continue the digestive process.  The stomach can hold about three pints of food at one time. Food is slowly released 

into the small 

intestine where absorption of the nutrients, vitamins and minerals takes place.  The rate at which foods and 

fluids are released into 

the small intestines is controlled by a sphincter on the outlet of the stomach.  Empty time can be over 

several 

hours. Procedures Bariatric surgery operations currently performed include gastric 

restriction (vertical 

banded gastroplasty; adjustable gastric banding), malabsorption (biliopancreatic diversion; biliopancreatic 

diversion with duodenal switch), 

or both (Roux-en-Y gastric bypass). At Cleveland Clinic, our bariatric surgeons most commonly 

perform the Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric 

Banding procedure or the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery. Roux-en-Y 

Gastric Bypass Surgery The most 

common bariatric surgery procedure performed in the United States, RYGB combines a 

restrictive and a malabsorptive procedure. A small (15-30 

cc) gastric pouch is created to restrict food intake and a Roux-en-Y 

gastrojejunostomy provides the mild malabsorptive component. In most patients (95 percent), Cleveland Clinic bariatric surgeons perform Roux-en-Y gastric bypass 

surgery 

using minimally invasive techniques. The advantages of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass include superior weight loss when 

compared to 

vertical banded gastroplasty, with excellent long-term weight reduction and resolution or elimination of co-morbidities 

(80 percent 

resolution of Type II diabetes after surgery). Early and late complication rates are reasonably low, and operative 

mortality ranges from 0.2 

percent to 1 percent. Disadvantages of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass include the potential for 

anastomotic leaks and strictures, severe 

dumping syndrome symptoms and procedure-specific complications, including distension of the 

excluded stomach and internal hernias. Roux-en-Y 

gastric bypass is technically more challenging to perform than the restrictive 

procedures, particularly when using the laparoscopic approach. 

In experienced hands, the conversion rate of laparoscopic Roux-en-Y 

gastric bypass to open is 5 percent. Laparoscopic 

Adjustable Gastric Banding A restrictive 

procedure, laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding surgery, involves placing a 

silicone band with an inflatable inner collar around 

the upper stomach. During the adjustable gastric banding procedure, the band is 

connected to a port that is placed in the 

subcutaneous tissue of 

the abdominal wall. The inner diameter of the band can be adjusted according to weight loss by 

injecting saline through the 

port. Adjustable gastric banding is performed laparoscopically, offering less surgical trauma 

in the wound and to the viscera, 

improved postoperative pulmonary function and decreased incidence of wound-related complications 

such as hematomas, seromas, infections, 

hernias and dehiscence. Laparoscopic band surgery is technically the simplest bariatric 

surgery to perform and requires less operating time 

than other procedures. No anastomoses are created, and the morbidity and 

mortality are low for laparascopic adjustable gastric banding . The 

procedure is reversible and, if patients fail to lose adequate 

weight after laparoscopic band surgery, it can be converted to a Roux-en-Y 

gastric bypass. The disadvantages of the 

adjustable gastric banding surgery include the need for frequent postoperative visits for 

band adjustments and band slippage or 

gastric prolapse through the band (5 percent to 10 percent), which requires re-operation. Band erosion 

into the stomach, 

gastroesophageal reflux, esophageal dilation and dysmotility also can occur. Laparoscopic technique helps reduce 

pain, 

shorten recovery Traditional or "open" gastric bypass surgery requires a 6-to 8-inch incision and approximately four weeks of 



recuperation. Cleveland Clinic surgeons can offer most gastric bypass patients the laparoscopic band surgery approach. ©2007 Hippocrateon Private Hospital | Discla