
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 26 Apr 2012 19:50:10 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: Mono
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention Donate | Contact Us | Events | Home By Prevention Option Vaccines Microbicides Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision PrEP HSV-2 Suppression Treatment as Prevention HPV By Topic Policy Research Process Ethics Community Engagement Current Research Global Map Timeline Trials Clinical Site Capacity Database Px Wire Anticipating Results Hormonal Contraceptives and HIV Risk Download Materials Research Literacy Database Meeting Reports and Materials Publications Educational Materials Presentation Center Order Publications Materiales en Espanol Advocates' Corner Take Action Advocates' Network P-Values Weekly NewsDigest Calendar of Events The Omololu Falobi Award Links For Media Press Releases AVAC in the News Media Inquiries About AVAC Our Story Programs Staff Donors Board AVAC Fund Support AVAC Financial Information Jobs Quick Links Download Materials Research Literacy Database Meeting Reports and Materials Publications AVAC Report Anticipating & Understanding Results Px Wire Current Issue Past Issues of Px Wire AIDS Vaccine Handbook Resource Tracking Finding Your Way Educational Materials Presentation Center Order Publications Materiales en Espanol Share Print April-June 2011, Volume 4, Issue 2 Click here
for the PDF
version . Download graphics from the latest issue
of Px
Wire : - Timeline of Efficacy
Trial Results ( PDF )
( JPG ) -
Map of Ongoing HIV Prevention Research Trials
( PDF )
( JPG ) -
Treatment as Prevention Studies Table ( PDF , JPG ) -
Tenofovir Gel Timeline ( PDF , JPG ) April-June 2011, Volume 4, Number
2 Contents: AVAC's Take Data Dispatch Medical Male
Circumcision AIDS
Vaccines ARV-Based Prevention in
HIV-Postiive Individuals: Relevant
studies At a Glance Planning Ahead for
Trial Success Future
Directions for HIV Research Coming Soon AVAC's Take In a newly designed Px Wire centerspread,
AVAC debuts a table of ongoing trials of
ARV-based prevention in HIV- positive people.
This broad category of research includes trials
of the “test and treat” strategy that seeks
to initiate ARV treatment in people as soon as
they test HIV-positive, and other trials that
seek a prevention benefit from starting
individuals on ARV therapy at higher CD4
thresholds. One goal of these studies is to
assess whether significantly decreasing levels
of HIV viral load will reduce the rate of HIV
transmission. These trials complement research
on PrEP and ARV-based microbicides, which seek
to use ARVs as prevention in HIV-negative
people. In the end, the goal remains universal
access to AIDS treatment and prevention. AVAC
hopes this table will be a tool to help bring
the prevention and treatment threads in science
and advocacy together into a single
conversation and agenda for action. Data Dispatch The recent 18th Conference on Retroviruses
and Opportunistic Infections (CROI) provided
new findings on medical male circumcision. For
AVAC’s ARV-based prevention roundup from CROI
visit www.avac.org/prep .
While CROI was kicking off, new AIDS vaccine
data was published. Medical Male
Circumcision One of the key questions with any prevention
strategy is how long the protection lasts and
whether the level of protection changes over
time. New long-term follow-up data from a male
circumcision for HIV prevention trial in Rakai,
Uganda, suggest that circumcision among
HIV-negative men provides a durable
risk-reduction benefit, which actually
increases over time. The trial halted
randomization in 2006 after it found that there
were approximately 51 percent fewer HIV
infections among men who received circumcision
compared to those assigned to the control
arm. At CROI, Xiangrong Kong of Johns Hopkins
University presented data on HIV rates among
men from the circumcision arm of the trial
nearly five years after randomization was
halted. HIV rates in this group were
73 percent lower than in men from the control
group who chose to remain uncircumcised. She
also noted that men from the control group who
opted for circumcision when randomization ended
had a 67 percent reduction in HIV infections
compared to the uncircumcised cohort. The follow-up Rakai data also show no
increase in the number of non-marital partners
reported by participants. However, the
researchers found that men in both the control
group and the circumcised group reported
reductions in condom use during follow-up.
Study authors suggest that this change in
behavior might be related to the fact that
participants stopped receiving intensive
risk-behavior counseling once the randomized
trial was completed. AIDS
Vaccines Over three years after immunizations were
stopped in the Step AIDS vaccine trial, the
study is still yielding scientific clues. An
article in Nature Medicine (17, 366- 371, 27
February 2011) described the analyses of
viruses obtained from volunteers who received
either the vaccine strategy or the placebo but
later became HIV-positive. The researchers
analyzed viral strains from participants in
both arms and found differences in the viral
genetics of strains from vaccine recipients.
They concluded that vaccine-induced T-cell
responses had influenced the genetic make-up of
the virus with what is known as a “sieve
effect”. This term is used to describe what
happens when immune responses successfully
inhibit some virus variants from replicating
but not others. These are the first data to show that a T
cell-based vaccine tested in humans can have an
impact on the genetic make-up of the virus.
Researchers are conducting analyses of viruses
isolated from participants who acquired HIV in
the Thai trial (RV144) and are looking for
similar effects. ARV-Based Prevention in
HIV-Positive Individuals: Relevant
studies Today there are several trials evaluating
the use of ARV-based prevention in people with
HIV. The goal of these “treatment as
prevention” strategies is to reduce viral
load and thereby reduce individuals’
infectiousness. Data gathered from
serodiscordant couples enrolled in a trial of
HSV-2 treatment for HIV prevention showed that
effective ARV treatment reduced HIV
transmission by approximately 92 percent. These
data were not from a randomized controlled
trial and ongoing trials—many listed
below—will provide additional information.
Not included in this table are the many
ecological studies of ART impact on HIV
prevalence in different settings. At a Glance Planning
Ahead for Trial Success In January in Johannesburg, AVAC partnered
with the Microbicide Trials Network (MTN),
Southern African AIDS Trust and the Treatment
Action Campaign to organize “Next Steps for
ARV-based Prevention”, a civil society
consultation on follow-up research with a focus
on what may come after the VOICE trial. (VOICE
is evaluating daily TDF, daily TDF/FTC and
daily 1% tenofovir gel.) Given the recent
results of the CAPRISA 004 microbicide and
iPrEx PrEP trials, it is critical to continue
to prepare for potential positive results from
other ongoing trials of oral and topical
ARV-based formulations. Part of the civil society consultation was
allocated to discussions of MTN 018, or CHOICE,
a planned follow-on trial that would be
initiated if one or more of the strategies
being evaluated in the VOICE trial were found
to be safe and effective. The forty advocates
from East and Southern Africa discussed the
proposed MTN 018 trial design as well as the
regulatory process for approving the gel should
it show effectiveness in VOICE—results are
expected in early 2013. (The same gel candidate
used in VOICE showed 39 percent protection
against HIV in the CAPRISA 004 trial but used a
different dosing strategy.) Following this
community consultation, the MTN 018 Protocol
Development Team met and incorporated the civil
society feedback into its deliberations.
Engaging civil society while the trial protocol
is in development is an example of good
participatory practice guidelines in action
(see “ Coming
Soon ”). Future Directions
for HIV Research The US National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases (NIAID), a part of the
National Institutes of Health (NIH), is in the
process of restructuring its $300 million HIV/
AIDS clinical trials networks. The awards
supporting the six current HIV/AIDS networks
are set to expire in 2013 and 2014. A primary
aim for the next funding cycle (2013–2020) is
to broaden the networks’ scope by
establishing multi-disease research capacity on
the existing infrastructure of the HIV/AIDS
trials network. This expansion would
accommodate the study of tuberculosis,
hepatitis and other HIV comorbidities. The four priority areas for the newly named
“NIAID HIV/AIDS and Infectious Diseases
Clinical Trials Network” are HIV Prevention,
HIV Vaccines, Therapeutics, and Pediatric and
Maternal & Child Health. Funding for the
HIV Prevention Network will be divided into two
groups: Microbicides and Integrated Prevention
Strategies (including PrEP and ARV-based
prevention in HIV-positive people). An
additional priority area will be funded for
non-HIV/AIDS infectious disease research. Splitting microbicides and PrEP into
separate groups could raise questions about
leadership of the scientific agenda going
forward, since both fields are focusing on
ARV-based prevention. AVAC and other advocacy
groups have raised this in feedback on the
restructuring process and call on NIAID to
ensure that there are strong governance
structures that support cross-network
communication and collaboration. NIAID is soliciting input into the
restructuring process here Coming Soon In April, UNAIDS and AVAC are planning to
release the second edition of the Good
Participatory Practice guidelines for
biomedical HIV prevention trials . The GPP
guidelines provide funders, sponsors and
implementers with systematic guidance on how to
engage with stakeholders in the design and
conduct of biomedical HIV prevention trials.
Since 2007, the GPP guidelines have been
applied in different settings and were the
subject of formal global consultations. The
guidelines will be available for download at www.avac.org/gpp —printed
copies can also be requested. Site Map | Links | Jobs | Disclaimer | Webmaster | © 2012 AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention Lima | New York | Rio | London | Johannesburg | Nairobi | Delhi | Bangkok | Sydney AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention 101 West 23rd Street · New York, NY +1 212.796.6423 (main) · avac@avac.org Copyright 2012,  All rights reserved. Design by Lo