Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Sciatica Shoes YOUR STORIES SCIATICA TREATMENTS MIND & BODY RESOURCES [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Sciatica Shoes Sciatica shoes are specialized footwear or insoles used to relieve the burden of chronic back and leg suffering.  These devices are extremely common and can certainly make walking or standing more comfortable, especially when first used.  However, just like the plethora of other sciatica products, shoes and insoles are unlikely to cure sciatica or even provide substantial relief in the long term. Advertisement: Types of Sciatica Shoes There are sciatica insoles and shoes in all different styles.  Medical manufacturers have created varieties appropriate for every occasion, from athletic shoes to business shoes to casual shoes.  Most have certain specific pain relieving mechanisms or features built into the sole of the shoe, including pressure point reduction systems, gel inserts or built-up heels to even out short leg syndrome.  Most of these footwear devices are quite expensive and there is no doubt that the biggest beneficiary of these shoes is the manufacturer, due to high profit margins… Uses for Sciatica Shoes Specialized back pain shoes are often recommended by chiropractors, therapists or orthotic makers, who just happen to sell them (also at a high profit).  I have seen all manner of these devices recommended for various causative conditions and have yet to meet anyone who has enjoyed a lasting cure from their use.  Functional short leg syndrome is one of the biggest scam diagnoses, as anyone is likely to have one leg slightly shorter than the other at any given time.  Chiropractors are really good at making this the focus of a diagnostic theory, leading to ongoing adjustments and worried patients who do not know the condition is normal and asymptomatic in 99.9% of cases… Other people try sciatica relief shoes for sporting events, such as running.  Although these may provide good support and some cushioning, they are certainly not going to prevent sciatica, since the source is not in the feet (or even in the spine in most cases…) Sciatica Shoes Advice Back pain shoes are typically yet another placebo treatment used by desperate patients who will do anything, or buy anything, to find some semblance of relief.  I can tell you from my own experience, as well as the letters of tens of thousands of you out there reading, that shoes are not likely to be the answer for your pain.  What you need is an accurate diagnosis, which most of you just do not have.  This explains why all the sciatica treatments you have tried failed so miserably.  If you can achieve a correct diagnostic conclusion; you will be more than halfway to successful resolution of your pain.  Until then, you are merely wandering and guessing… My advice, buy shoes you like and save your money by skipping specialized back pain shoes… Advertisement: Sciatica Shoes to Sciatica 8/10/10 Revised 7/30/11 © 2008-2012 SCIATICA-PAIN.ORG no distribution, syndication or reproduction allowed under penalty of law THIS ARTICLE BY: Sensei Adam Rostocki HELP FIGHT SCIATICA Subscribe to our Free Newsletter! Your First Name Your E-mail Address Search the Site Mission Statement Editorial Board Legal Privacy Policy Site Funding Disclosure Source Material Advisory :  This website is not intended to diagnose or treat any medical condition. Any medical condition should be referred to a qualified medical professional.  This website is designed to complement, but