
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 12:41:21 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 DAV/2 mod_bwlimited/1.4
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: eZ Publish
Served-by: www.eatg.org
Content-language: en-GB
Last-Modified: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 12:41:21 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Financial Times, IPS report on male circumcision as HIV prevention strategy / Prevention / Global HIV News / European AIDS Treatment Group - Eatg EATG “EATG 's advocates contribute to improve the daily lives of people living with HIV/AIDS” Donate Join Members only About us Structure Secretariat Transparency Finances Activities Become a member Tribute to members no longer with us Contact us Registered Charity Donate Scientific Research ECAB Dialogue with pharmaceutical companies Conferences Projects Policy & Advocacy Policy Working Group European fora Conferences and meetings Networking Projects Capacity Building Trainings Training materials Projects Press Room Videos Open letters Positions Statements Sign-on letters Projects Correlation Network II Past projects Publications Discussion Papers Emergency Guidance on ART forced treatment interrupt... Continuous Information to Patient Workplans and activity reports EATG Meeting Reports Other reports Newsletters Archive Events Upcoming events Past events Partners Global HIV News Prevention Treatment Access to treatment EMA & FDA Hepatitis Tuberculosis & Malaria Basic Science EU Policy World Policy Pharma Industry HIV & STIs MSM Epidemiology News archive 01/12/2011 Financial Times, IPS report on male circumcision as HIV prevention strategy International organizations have publicly endorsed the importance of circumcision, and a number of guidelines have been established, but the response so far has been haphazard and funding remains modest. Male circumcision is "a practice that -- despite the evidence -- has yet to be adopted as much or as fast as experts had hoped," the Financial Times reports. "International organizations have publicly endorsed the importance of circumcision, and a number of guidelines have been established, but the response so far has been haphazard and funding remains modest," the newspaper writes, adding, "One reason has been that much government donor and philanthropic support for HIV prevention work was focused instead on more 'high-tech' alternatives such as vaccines and microbicides" (Jack, 11/30). In related news, Inter Press Service writes, "Although at first glance male circumcision may not be the most obvious entree to get people talking about gender equality, activists in the Western Cape in South Africa are attempting to do just that." The news service reports on how, "[a]s part of a national strategy to reduce the number of new HIV infections in South Africa, where some 10 percent of the population is HIV-positive, the Western Cape province began offering free medical male circumcision (MMC) in selected public clinics across the province this October," and "[t]he first phase of the effort to use MMC as a platform to promote gender equality has come in the form of raising awareness" through posters, brochures, and peer education (Middleton, 12/1). Kaiser Daily Global Health Policy Report http://globalhealth.kff.org/ http://globalhealth.kff.org/Daily-Reports/2011/December/01/GH-120111-Male-Circumcision.aspx Share this page More... DISCLAIMER The EATG is not responsible for the content of this article. It does not necessarily reflect EATG views or opinions. FAIR USE NOTICE The information above may contain copyrighted material which has not always been specifically authorised by the copyright owner. Such material is made available for educational purposes to advance the understanding of scientific, ethical, legal and social issues. It is believed that this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such copyrighted material. This material is distributed without profit via the subscription to the daily digest. Prevention Treatment Access to treatment EMA & FDA Hepatitis Tuberculosis & Malaria Basic Science EU Policy World Policy Pharma Industry HIV & STIs MSM Epidemiology News archive Username Password European AIDS Treatmen... / Global HIV News / Prevention / Print EATG Secretariat - Place Raymon