Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Hypnotherapy Services in London, Hypnotherapy to Quit Smoking & Weight Loss Zoë Clews Hypnotherapy Zoë's approach The Therapist Hypnotherapy NLP EFT A-Z of treatments Popular questions Client feedback Fees Press Contact Links Blog Newsletter Forum Hypnotherapy in London, UK Zoë is a London based Senior Qualified Hypnotherapist offering professional Hypnotherapy services in London, NLP & EFT Practitioner with over 6 years experience.  She has worked with thousands of clients, helping them to fulfil their potential. Can hypnotherapy help you? Are there things in your life that you are struggling to change? Perhaps you want to lose weight and maintain it, stop smoking, overcome a phobia, meet the right person, feel confident in making that presentation? Then Hypnotherapy can help you. Zoe specialises in hypnotherapy to quit smoking, hypnotherapy for weight loss and hypnotherapy for anxiety, but it doesn't end there and has enabled thousands of clients to free themselves of issues, unwanted habits and unhelpful thought patterns, hypnosis is a master tool and it's use is unlimited. When we are feeling stuck and struggling to make the changes we want in our lives it can be helpful to look a little deeper, Hypnotherapy can be a powerful tool to help you make the changes you desire. It can be useful to think of our minds as working in two 'halves' the conscious and the unconscious .  The conscious mind representing our 'will', which is the part of us that says " I will stick to this diet, stop smoking, overcome my lift phobia! " , and the unconscious mind - which is the true powerhouse, holding our deepest beliefs, alongside all our memories and emotions.  If our unconscious mind has a different agenda to that of the conscious mind, it can create internal conflict preventing us from moving forward as we'd like to.   Hypnotherapy works by using hypnosis to access this, exploring what may be holding you back or preventing you from achieving your goals , releasing and resolving limiting or unhelpful blocks and beliefs and 'updating the script' with new, beneficial positive suggestions.  By aligning the conscious and the unconscious mind Hypnotherapy, NLP & EFT can allow you to move forward with greater freedom, confidence and self belief . Is it time to let go of the struggle and begin really living life ? For powerful & positive change Email: info@zoeclews.co.uk Mobile: 07766 515 272 1, Harley Street, London, W1G 9QD "I am doing really well since our session. I have had a few slip ups but nothing as bad as before. I am not constantly thinking about calories and what I need to do to burn things off. I have also started to close down conversations with those who make me feel more self conscious about what I should eat and what they are eating. it feels quite liberating, I have started 