
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 21:03:46 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.8 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.2.4-2ubuntu5.19 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.8 OpenSSL/0.9.8g mod_perl/2.0.3 Perl/v5.8.8
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.4-2ubuntu5.19
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

This Viewer requires JavaScript and the latest Flash player, the muscle of the internet world. Get Flash here. Did you know that you can use Recovery e21 to prevent cramps in muscle and charlie horses. Full of Organic Electrolytes. This Viewer requires JavaScript and the latest Flash player. Use Recovery e21 to prevent muscle cramps and charlie horses Get Flash here. What Doctors Say Dr Mike Bridges B.E (Chem) Ph.D (Biotech) "Muscle cramping is frequently experienced by people suffering from low electrolyte levels, including low magnesium levels. Common salt only contains sodium chloride and it is this form of salt that is found in our modern fast food diet. Most people know about the dangers of having too much salt in their diet, but without the other essential electrolytes people can suffer from muscle cramps. Magnesium supplements are one option for muscle cramps treatment, but this is not ideal, as they contain magnesium alone which is often in the synthetic, cheleated, or citrated forms. By taking just a magnesium supplement we again miss out on all the other essential electrolytes and elements that the body needs for muscle support. Recoverye21 is the only natural remedy for muscle cramps that is a fully balanced organic electrolyte supplement containing the full spectrum of electrolytes. It is a fast-working, effective muscle cramp treatment." What Doctors Say Adrian Adams. DC. "In my practice I have seen many patients who are unaware of the importance of electrolytes in preventing muscle cramps, not only among athletes but people in their every day lives. When it comes to muscle cramps remedies, I recommend Recovery e21 to my clients because it is an organic and natural electrolyte replacement supplement that will prevent cramps. I don't just tell my patients to use it, I also take it myself. I recently ran the New York City Marathon in my best-ever time. It was my seventh marathon and when I finished I had never felt so good. I couldn't believe it. I did not suffer from leg cramps or foot cramps during or after the race. When I woke up the next day and I felt like I could run it all over again. I took two capsules before the marathon and two on the hour during the marathon. Throughout the event my hydration was perfect and my electrolyte balance from Recovery e21 helped prevent muscle cramps." Your Privacy Rights Policy Effective Date: September 30, 2009 Protecting Your Privacy and Servicing Your  Needs Arcadian  Nutraceuticals Pty Ltd (“Arcadian”) is the supplier of the world's only natural  organic full spectrum electrolyte replacement product, Recovery e21. We are a  privately owned business that treats its customers like family. And we are  deeply committed to protecting your privacy and the security of the information  you share with us. We believe  you have the right to know everything regarding the information we collect  about you... how this information benefits you... and how you can say  "no" to the use of any of this information. This  policy explains what we do with your information and what you can expect from  Arcadian. By using this site, you indicate your acceptance of Arcadian's  Privacy Policy. TABLE OF CONTENTS: 1.       Children Under 13 2.       Information Collection and  Changes 3.       Your Privacy Rights/Transfers  of Information 4.       Mobile Devices 5.       Cookies/Links 6.       Policy Changes/Data Security 7.       Rules for Submissions and  Member Conduct 8.       Rights/Copyrights 9.       Contact Us Children Under 13: We care  about the safety of children. We won't knowingly allow anyone under 13 to  provide us any personal identifying information. Children should always get  permission from their parents before sending any information about themselves  (such as, their names, e-mail addresses, and phone numbers) over the Internet  to us or to anyone else. We encourage you to become involved in your children's  on-line experience and to share your interest in our sites with your young  ones. What information do you collect about me? Arcadian  collects personal identifying information ("PII") from you only if  you voluntarily submit such information to us on website(s) and through e-mail  during the course of transactions. When visiting our online site, we collect  user-specific information on what pages are visited. PII includes your name,  postal address, e-mail address, telephone and mobile phone numbers and all  other information you provide to us. What's in it for me? The  information we collect allows us to customize the content and/or layout of our  page for each visitor. Plus, it enables us to notify you about updates to our  Website... contact you with special offers of interest... and customize your  Website experience. Information is not shared with other organizations. May I update my account and contact  information? Yes! Upon  request, we will update your personal account information (e.g., customer  number) and update your contact information (i.e., name, address, phone  number). You may contact us by emailing the details to privacy@recoverye21.com or by calling  us at (866) 941-3868. If you prefer, you may write to us at Customer Service,  Arcadian Nutraceuticals Pty Ltd, 676 Wynnum Road, Morningside, Queensland  Australia 4170. What if I don't want commercial/promotional  e-mail from Arcadian? Easy. If  you do not want to receive commercial/promotional e-mail from Arcadian, please let  us know by emailing the details to privacy@recoverye21.com or by calling us at (866) 941-3868. If you prefer, you may write to us at  Customer Service, Arcadian Nutraceuticals Pty Ltd, 676 Wynnum Road, Morningside,  Queensland Australia 4170. Transfers of Information for Legal Purposes Arcadian  Nutraceuticals Pty Ltd may need to disclose certain information to comply with  a legal requirement, such as a law, regulation, court order, subpoena, or  search warrant, in the course of a legal proceeding or in response to a law  enforcement agency request. If there is a change of control in Arcadian's  business (whether by merger, sale, or otherwise) or a sale or transfer of its  assets, customer information could be sold or transferred as part of that  transaction and your PII potentially used by the Purchaser or other recipient  of said customer information. You  acknowledge that Arcadian is located in Australia and may process and store  your information in Australia, and that as a result, Australian governments,  courts or law enforcement or regulatory agencies may be able to obtain  disclosure of your information through the laws of Australia. Mobile Devices/Third Party Fees Arcadian  deploys mobile marketing campaigns and may allow you to register for services  that involve messages and/or e-mails being sent to your mobile device. You are  responsible for obtaining access to the mobile device services and that access  may involve third-party fees, including mobile carrier, text messaging, or  airtime charges. You are solely responsible for those fees, including any and  all fees associated with the delivery of the messages, e-mails or other  materials to your mobile device. Please consult your mobile service provider's  pricing plan prior to registering for any such service to determine the charges  for sending and receiving text messages from/to your mobile device. You will be  given the opportunity to opt-out of receiving text messages or emails to your  mobile device at the time you register and with each message or email you  receive. Mobile  marketing campaigns may involve your sending an e-mail from your mobile device  to Arcadian or a third-party campaign operator. An e-mail or other response  will then be sent to your mobile device. Opting to participate in a campaign is  100% your choice. When you engage in these mobile marketing campaigns, Arcadian  and the third-party campaign operator collect your cell phone number, the name  of your wireless service provider, images that you send using your cell phone  as part of the campaign, and other relevant information. What are "cookies" and what do they  do for me? In order  to provide better service when you return to our site, Arcadian may use cookies  to store your preferences and information about such things as items added to  your shopping cart, purchases you have made with us, what pages you visit, and  past activity at a site. "Cookies" are tiny pieces of information  stored by your browser on your computer's hard drive. Cookies are also used to  ensure that you are not repeatedly sent the same banner ads and to customize  Webpage content based on your browser type (Netscape or Microsoft Explorer, for  example). Most browsers are initially set to accept cookies. If you  want to disable cookies, there is a simple procedure in most Internet browsers  that allows you to turn off cookies. Please remember, however, that cookies may  be required to allow you to use certain features of our sites. We may  also use third-party advertising companies to serve ads when you visit our  Website. These companies may use information (not including your name, address,  e-mail address, or telephone number) about your visits to this and other  Websites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest  to you. Links The  Arcadian site may, on occasion, contain links to other sites with information  gathering practices different from our own. Visitors should consult privacy  policies for all other sites, as Arcadian has no control over information  submitted to or collected by such third parties. Changes... Arcadian  may need to change this privacy policy from time to time in order to address  new issues, evolving technologies, changes on our sites, or business practices.  Arcadian will post those changes so you will always know what information we  gather and how we might use that information. Please refer back to this policy  regularly. What about data security? To ensure  the security of your data - including address information and credit card  numbers - Arcadian always uses industry-standard encryption technologies when  transferring and receiving consumer data exchanged with our site. We have  appropriate security measures that protect against the loss, misuse, or  alteration of information that we have collected from you. Rules for Submissions and Messages Responsibility  for what is posted in the discussion groups or other public forums lies with  each user - you alone are responsible for the content of your messages and the  consequences of any such messages. We cannot and do not review every submission  a user may make. We neither endorse nor guarantee the accuracy or propriety of  any submission. We do, however, reserve the right but do not assume the  obligation to restrict or prohibit your use of our sites if we believe you are  violating any of the terms of the agreement and to remove, edit, or relocate  any submission as we see fit whether for legal or other reasons. Member Conduct You  understand that all information, data, text, software, music, sound, photographs,  graphics, video, messages or other materials ("Content"), whether  publicly posted or privately transmitted, are the sole responsibility of the  person from which such Content originated. This means that you, and not  Arcadian Nutraceuticals Pty Ltd., are entirely responsible for all Content that  you upload, post, or otherwise transmit. Arcadian does not control the Content  posted and, as such, does not guarantee the accuracy, integrity, or quality of  such Content. You understand that by using the Arcadian site, you may be  exposed to Content that is offensive, indecent or objectionable. You agree to not use the Arcadian site in  order to: upload, post, or otherwise transmit any       Content that is unlawful, harmful, threatening, abusive, harassing,       tortious, defamatory, vulgar, obscene, libelous, invasive of another's       privacy, hateful, or racially, ethnically or otherwise objectionable; harm minors in any way; impersonate any person or entity, including,       but not limited to, a Arcadian official, forum leader, guide or host, or       falsely state or otherwise misrepresent your affiliation with a person or       entity; forge headers or otherwise manipulate       identifiers in order to disguise the origin of any Content transmitted       through the Service or develop restricted or password-only access pages,       or hidden pages or images (those not linked to from another accessible       page); upload, post, or otherwise transmit any       Content that you do not have a right to transmit under any law or under       contractual or fiduciary relationships (such as inside information,       proprietary and confidential information learned or disclosed as part of       employment relationships or under nondisclosure agreements); upload, post, or otherwise transmit any       Content that infringes any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright, or       other proprietary rights of any party; upload, post, or otherwise transmit any       unsolicited or unauthorized advertising, promotional materials, "junk       mail," "spam," "chain letters," "pyramid       schemes," or any other form of solicitation, except in those areas of       the Service that are designated for such purpose; upload, post, or otherwise transmit any       material that contains software viruses or any other computer code, files       or programs designed to interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of       any computer software or hardware or telecommunications equipment; interfere with or disrupt the servers or       networks connected to the Arcadian site, or disobey any requirements,       procedures, policies or regulations of networks connected to the site; intentionally or unintentionally violate any       applicable local, state, national or international law, including any       rules of any national or other securities exchange and any regulations       having the force of law; "stalk" or otherwise harass another; collect or store personal data about other       users; promote or provide instructional information       about illegal activities, promote physical harm or injury against any       group or individual, or promote any act of cruelty to animals; use your home page (or directory) as storage       for remote loading or as a door or signpost to another home page; or engage in commercial activities without the       express written consent of Arcadian Nutraceuticals Pty Ltd. This includes,       but is not limited to, the following activities: offering for sale any products or services; soliciting for advertisers or sponsors; conducting raffles or contests that require        any type of entry fee; displaying a sponsorship banner of any kind,        including those that are generated by banner or link exchange services displaying banners for services that provide        cash or cash-equivalent prizes to users in exchange for hyperlinks to        their websites. Rights You  acknowledge that we acquire all Rights to use any posted materials as described  above so that we do not violate any Rights you may have in materials you post.  By submitting content to or through our sites, you grant us the non-exclusive  right to reproduce, modify, and distribute it as we see fit in any medium and  for any purpose in any form, media, or technology now known or later developed.  You also permit any other user to access, display, and print such content for  personal use. You vouch that any material you submit does not violate,  plagiarize, or infringe upon the right of any third party, including copyright,  trademark, or proprietary rights. If non-original content is included in your  posting, you must obtain permission from the content owner and attribute it. Copyrights and Copyright Agent Arcadian  respects the rights of all copyright holders. If you believe that your work has  been copied and used on our Site in a way that constitutes copyright  infringement, please provide Arcadian's Copyright Agent the following  information required by Section 512 of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act: A physical or electronic signature of a person       authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is       allegedly infringed; Identification of the copyright work claimed       to have been infringed, or, if multiple copyrighted works at a single on-line       site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such       works at that site; Identification of the material that is claimed       to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is       to be removed or access to which is to be disabled, and information       reasonably sufficient to permit us to locate the material; Information reasonably sufficient to permit us       to contact the complaining party; A statement that the complaining party has a       good-faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is       not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and A statement that the information in the       notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that the       complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an       exclusive right that is allegedly infringed. Arcadian's  Copyright Agent may be contacted at: Copyright Agent, Arcadian Nutraceuticals  Pty Ltd, 676 Wynnum Road, Morningside, Queensland Australia 4170. We appreciate the opportunity to serve you! If you  have any questions regarding this privacy policy statement or if you feel that  this site has not followed its stated information policy, feel free to contact  us. Our postal address is: 676 Wynnum Road, Morningside, Queensland Australia 4170  and we can be reached via e-mail at: info@recoverye21.com .  You can reach us by telephone at (866) 941-3868. secure deliveries by money back guarantee manage your auto ship community © 2009 Recovery e21. All rights reserved. Recovery e21 is a trademark of Arcadian Nutraceuticals Pty Ltd. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy muscle cr