
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 03:10:57 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 02:10:57 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cranberry Juice and Multiple Sclerosis – Benefits of Cranberry Juice for MS About.com Health Multiple Sclerosis Multiple Sclerosis Search Multiple Sclerosis Symptoms/Diagnosis Treatment Life with MS Share Free Multiple Sclerosis Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Benefits of Cranberry Juice for MS By Julie  Stachowiak, Ph.D. , About.com Guide Updated May 12, 2007 About.com Health's Disease and Condition content is reviewed by the Medical Review Board See More About: ms symptom relief tips living well with ms ms and complementary medicine Drink Your Cranberry Juice! A Finnish study shows that drinking cranberry juice is  effective in cutting the occurrence of urinary tract infections (UTIs) in half. This is great news for people with multiple sclerosis (MS), who are much more prone to UTIs due to bladder dysfunction , which effects an estimated 80% of people with MS at some point. Bladder dysfunction results from damage to the nerves controlling the bladder and the sphincter (muscle around the opening of the bladder), and often leads to incomplete emptying of the bladder and retained urine – creating a perfect breeding ground for the bacteria which cause UTIs. UTIs are particularly dangerous for people with MS, as they can lead to relapses. Whenever I heard the advice “Drink cranberry juice,” I never knew what kind or how much I should be drinking. I read the study mentioned, converted amounts from the Metric system, tried it myself and this is what I have for you: Use 100% unsweetened cranberry juice, not “CranRaspberry,” “CranGrape” or any of the other concoctions that actually taste good, but that are mostly apple juice with a little bit of cranberry juice and other flavors. Dilute 2 ounces (1/4 cup) of the cranberry juice in 8 ounces (1 cup) of water. Do not add any sweeteners. Drink.  This is easier said than done, as your unsweetened cranberry-water combo will taste pretty sour. I find that it goes down easier with a straw and if it is at room temperature, rather than really cold, so that you can drink it fast without getting a headache. I wish you luck. You can take comfort in the fact that you are also getting loads of flavonoids and phenols, both which act as antioxidants, which have all sorts of positive effects on health. It also gives you a pretty good dose of vitamin C. Last points: An alternative to the juice is taking concentrated cranberry tablets, which have also been shown to be effective in preventing UTIs. If you think you already have a UTI or bladder infection, do not try to self-treat with cranberry juice. Untreated UTIs can lead to relapses, as mentioned, as well as to permanent damage to the urinary tract. Source: Kontiokari, Sundqvist, Nuutinen, Pokka, Koskela and Uhari. 2001. Randomized trial of cranberry-lingonberry juice and Lactobacillus GG drink for the prevention of urinary tract infections in women . British Med. J. 322: 1571-1573. Stothers. 2002. A randomized trial to evaluate effectiveness and cost effectiveness of
naturopathic cranberry products as prophylaxis against urinary tract infection
in women. Can J Urol;9(3):1558-62. More on CAM and MS Choose a CAM Approach Yoga and MS Acupuncture and MS MS Tips and Resources MS Support Organizations Cooling Products for MS Clinical Trials for MS For the Newly Diagnosed What to Expect During an MRI Find a Neurologist How To Talk About Your MS Related Articles Cranberry Juice Will Prevent or Help Treat Cystitis - Cranberry Juice Home ... UTI - It Hurts! - Painful Urinary Tract Infections Cranberry - Benefits of Cranberry Juice and Supplements Juicing for Bladder Infections - Juicing Cranberry and UTIs - All About Cranberry for UTI Prevention Julie  Stachowiak, Ph.D. Multiple Sclerosis Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Related Searches bladder dysfunction urinary tract infections finnish study sphincter muscle cranberry juice flavors Explore Multiple Sclerosis Must Reads What is MS? Symptoms of MS Diagnosis of MS Treatment of MS MS Relapses Most Popular Numbness and Tingling MS Symptoms MS Hug or Girdle Pain MS Diagnosis Headaches and MS See More About: ms symptom relief tips living well with ms ms and complementary medicine By Category Multiple Sclerosis 101 Reader MS Stories and Tips Signs & Symptoms Treatments Living Well with MS Newly Diagnosed Alternative Medicine News & Research For Friends and Family Resources Glossary Multiple Sclerosis About.com Health Multiple Sclerosis Alternative Medicine Cranberry Juice and Multiple Sclerosis – Benefits of Cranberry Juice for MS Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod