Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

A study on the healing effect of honey on infected open fracture wounds Published
        by : PROFESSIONAL MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS ISSN 1681-715X HOME | SEARCH | CURRENT
              ISSUE | PAST
              ISSUES - ORIGINAL
        ARTICLE - Volume 2 3 April - June 
    2007 (Part-II) Number 3 Full Text PDF
              of this Article A study on the healing 
    effect of honey on infected open fracture wounds Mohammad Fakoor 1 , Mohammad 
    Hassan Pipelzadeh 2 ABSTRACT Objective: Failure of antibiotic therapy in the treatment of 
    open wounds that result from acute complicated traumatic orthopedic injuries 
    is a clinical problem. In this study, honey was used in the control of 
    infections. Methodology: One hundred two patients who suffered traumatic 
    open fractures with grade II or III on Castillo scale and despite treatment 
    with classical antibiotics, the wounds did not heal were included. The 
    wounds were initially washed with normal saline and a layer of honey, 
    obtained commercially, was applied and covered with sterile gauze. The 
    patients were instructed to follow the same dressing pressure on discharge. 
    Follow up was on weekly basis, until complete wound healing. Results: Almost in all, except two, discharge from wounds 
    stopped within two weeks, with a production of healthy granulation tissue in 
    the wound beds. The duration for complete wound closure was between 2 to 5 
    months, which was related to the initial wound size. Two cases, both had 
    large wounds, required re-deridement, suturing and grafting and took 11 and 
    13 months for complete wound closure. Conclusion: The findings suggest that honey is useful in the 
    control and treatment of infected wounds that follow complicated traumatic 
    orthopedic injuries. KEY WORDS: Honey, Acute complicated orthopedic injuries, Open fractures, 
    Infection. Pak J Med Sci   May - June 2007   Vol. 23 No. 3   
    327-329 1. Mohammad Fakoor, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, 2. Mohammad Hassan Pipelzadeh, Ph.D PhD Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacology, 1,2: Medical School, Ahwaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahwaz – Iran. Correspondence Mohammad Hassan Pipelzadeh, Email: mhpipelzadeh@yahoo.com * Received for Publication: November 8, 2006 * Accepted: January 28, 2007 HOME | SEARCH | CURRENT
ISSUE | PAST
ISSUES Professional
Medical Publications Room No. 522, 5th Floor, Panorama Centre Building No. 2, P.O. Box 8766, Saddar, Karachi - Pakist