Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Sat, 26 Mar 2011 22:47:39 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "f645edce7eccb1:18d6"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 08:43:23 GMT
Connection: close

Jet lag causes and cures Travel Planning and Assistance Home » Travel Planning and Assistance Jet Lag Cures Disclaimer - I'm not a doctor, and neither are many of the people selling the jet lag remedies listed in this article! Do your own research, consult your own doctor, and be prudent in what you do. The first article in this series discussed what jet lag is and strategies to minimize its impact on your travels. This week we talk about ways to 'cure' jet lag. Like it or not, jet lag affects us all and detracts from our business efficiency if traveling for business, and our personal pleasure if traveling for fun. Anything sensibly appropriate to minimize these impacts is therefore a very good thing. Article continues below Many types of Cures are Offered For some strange reason, the 
  affliction of jet lag has never enjoyed the same status as a 
  'serious' illness as have most other challenges to one's health 
  and wellbeing. Until recently there has been little formal 
  research into jet lag cures, and so a profusion of quackery and 
  unscientific 'cures' that have little apparent grounding in 
  medical science have appeared. Some are strange, some are 
  silly, and some are just plain impractical. Possible alternatives 
  offered to travelers range from a 'do it yourself' acupressure kit , to a special light enhancing visor that apparently helps your body 
  respond to the new daylight time and is sold as part of a 
  'combat kit' along with a pair of dark glasses for when you are 
  supposed to be avoiding light! Other solutions range from 
  simplistic to an amazingly complex 'everything included' scheme 
  (the StopJetLag plan) that requires you to regulate your 
  (attempted) sleeping hours, your exposure to light and dark, the 
  type of food you eat and when you eat it, and supplement all 
  this with Melatonin and caffeine. Wow! Many Cures are Impractical 
  (even if they do work) Cures that require you to 
  exactly control when you are exposed to bright light (or when 
  you keep yourself away from light) may not fit in with your 
  sightseeing or business meeting plans. Cures that require a 
  complicates series of alternating protein and carbohydrate meals 
  at exact times may not fit in with the food that you just plain 
  want to sample and enjoy while on vacation, or the food that is 
  served in business settings. For most travelers, the best 
  type of cure is something that is very simple and easy, not 
  something that is complicated and bothersome. A Scientific Basis for a Jet 
  Lag Cure With more and more people 
  traveling longer and longer distances, medical science is 
  finally starting to focus on a better understanding of what 
  exactly influences the body’s clock and how to speed its 
  adjustment to a new time zone. It appears that the body’s 
  clock is influenced by the secretion of an amino-acid derivative 
  hormone, Melatonin. This is made by the pineal gland in response 
  to the lack of light. Stated simply, when it is dark, the pineal 
  gland makes Melatonin, and the rest of the body responds to the 
  Melatonin, saying, ‘ah – Melatonin. That means it must be time 
  to go to sleep.’ (If you'd like a more scientific description, this 
    site is a good one to visit.) Understanding the 
  interaction of light and melatonin is the key to a really 
    simple two part strategy to speeding up your body’s 
  adjustment to jet lag. During the day, try and expose yourself to 
      as much sun as possible, so as to inhibit Melatonin 
      production that might otherwise occur. In the evening, take a supplementary dose of 
      Melatonin before going to bed. And so - the Melatonin Cure Melatonin is freely 
  available in the US without prescription, due to it being a 
  natural substance. It is recommended for adults 
  to take between 2mg and 5mg in the evening as a jet lag remedy 
  (vary your dosage between these limits depending on your weight 
  – the lighter you are, the less you need, the heavier you are, 
  the more you should take). Note that Melatonin does not 
  eliminate jet lag, it merely reduces it and speeds up the rate 
  at which your body adjusts to the new time zone. Studies have 
  suggested that Melatonin doubles the speed at which your body 
  adjusts to the new time zone. For that reason, take 
  Melatonin for half the number of days as time zones you crossed, 
  plus one . For example, if you travel six time zones, take 
  Melatonin for (6/2)+1=4 days, with maybe just a half dose on the 
  last day. Start taking the Melatonin from the day you arrive at 
  your destination. I can certainly say that, in 
  my own experience, and based on reports from others that also 
  use it, it is close to miraculous and really makes a 
  tremendous difference on the first few days of a journey (and on 
  the first few days after coming home again too). I used to dread 
  the first few days and nights of an international journey, and 
  now it is close to no bother at all. It makes it easier for me to 
  sleep at night, and I feel more alert during the day. Melatonin - a Dissenting View Melatonin is not universally 
  acknowledged as being a guaranteed cure for jet lag, and neither 
  is it universally considered to be harmless and safe. For a 
  while in the mid 1990s there was a large group of 'experts' 
  proclaiming Melatonin as a 'wonder drug' that would prevent 
  aging, treat cancer, improve one's sex life, and also cure jet 
  lag, but this enthusiasm seems to have tapered off. Melatonin may or may not 
  work for you. If you are taking other medicines, it might be 
  prudent to check with your doctor or pharmacist to ensure there 
  are no interactions between Melatonin and the other drugs. However, all 'science' to 
  one side, I can truly report that Melatonin surely does work for 
  me! A Homeopathic Alternative? I find I'm becoming 
  increasingly interested in homeopathic cures. This winter I've 
  successfully fought of a series of colds, coughs, and other 
  winter ailments by the use of an incredible homeopathic medicine 
  I bought in Russia out of desperation, due to not being able to 
  find any Coldrex or other recognizable cold medicines on sale! 
  To my surprise, this remedy banished every threatened onslaught 
  of winter time ills on an almost miraculous basis, and with no 
  side-effects at all. An amazing, unexpected (!) and very 
  gratifying experience. (The product is called Oscillococcinum 
  and actually comes from a French company with a name something 
  like 'Buaron Laboratories' and is reportedly available in the US 
  as well). Without debating the 
  potential value of homeopathic cures, let me just record the 
  existence of a homeopathic anti-jet lag remedy that was 
  developed in, of all places, my own home country of New Zealand. 
  I’ve never tried this myself (I'm so pleased with Melatonin that 
  I don't feel the need to try anything else), but some people say 
  that it has worked for them.  Going by the name of No Jet Lag it can be purchased at Magellan's for the minimal cost of $9.85 for a pack of 32 tablets, and 
  $9.25 when buying two or more.  Buy two packs - if two of 
  you are traveling, you'll probably need both packs. Glowing Glasses Scientists in Australia have 
  recently (July 02) developed a special device with glowing blue 
  and green lights, mounted on the frame of a pair of eyeglasses. 
  They say that the glasses should be worn for at least three 
  hours a day for two days prior to travel, and another three 
  hours during the long international flight. Little more is known 
  about this, and the device has not been made commercially 
  available to the traveling public - probably just as well! Provigil? One reader wrote in to 
  recommend Provigil - she said 'it is absolutely the best thing'. 
  She did not disclose her own experience or medical 
  qualifications, and did not provide anything further in support 
  of this comment.  Intrigued - and slightly embarrassed at 
  not already knowing about this product, we researched Provigil, 
  with this site providing some authoritative information, and this site providing some less scientific user feedback. From what we can gather, it 
  seems Provigil attacks the problem of jetlag from the other end 
  - instead of helping you sleep and adjust to the new time zone, 
  it helps you to stay awake and alert when you'd otherwise be 
  drowsy and nodding off.  But this is not helping you to 
  adjust to the new time zone or reset your body clock at all, and 
  it is unclear how much of the chemically induced state of 
  alertness is real and how much is perception. It seems to be a powerful 
  drug with potentially scary side-effects, including addiction, 
  and so we feel completely unable to recommend it at all, and 
  urge you to get formal medical advice before considering this 
  drug. Water Yes, water! Drink lots of 
  water on any flight - a generous cup of water every hour would 
  be ideal. The dry atmosphere on a plane causes accelerated 
  dehydration, and one factor of jet lag is just the body's stress 
  response to drying out on the plane. Drink as much water as you 
  can. And, on the rare events that 
  you get a hot moist towel handed to you, do what I do. 
  Immediately start breathing through it - this brings wonderful 
  warm moist air into your lungs and helps rehydrate that part of 
  you as well. Marilyn from Marilyn Can 
  Travel points out another advantage of drinking lots of water. 
  She points out that it will cause you to go to the bathroom more 
  regularly, and the forced exercise will reduce your risk of Deep 
  Vein Thrombosis at the same time! :) She is actually doubly 
  correct. Extra water will stop your blood from thickening up, so 
  that gives double protection against DVT as well as reducing one 
  factor of jet lag. Starving Yourself Here's an interesting article about a new theory which suggests if you 
  don't eat food for 16 hours (and then presumably eat according 
  to your new time zone schedule) that might speed up your 
  adjustment. But the article doesn't 
  really say if you should starve yourself and then start with a 
  breakfast or a lunch or a dinner meal, making it of dubious help 
  at present.  Probably it is another idea that is great in 
  theory but useless in practice. Things that Slow Down your Time 
  Zone Adjustment Now for the bad news. Three 
  things that don’t help jet lag, and which may actually slow down 
  the body’s adjusting process, are alcohol, caffeine and sleeping 
  pills. Sleeping pills will put you 
  to sleep, but they don’t help restore the natural cycle of day 
  and night, but rather use a ‘brute force’ approach that often 
  leaves you feeling poorly rested when you wake up. And both alcohol and 
  caffeine don’t help the body adjust to the new environment, but 
  rather are more likely to slow your adjusting down. It's All in the Mind? Finally, to close on an 
  amusing note about what is a definitely serious subject, here is 
  a very strange device – a ‘ Jet 
    Lag watch ’ that supposedly helps you to ‘psychologically 
  adjust’ to the new time zone. Alas, the largest part of 
  jet lag is not psychological but rather physiological ; 
  and so the watch is almost certainly close to useless. It might 
  make a great gag gift to give to 'the person that already has 
  everything' in your life, but give them a bottle of Melatonin as 
  well! People who say 'I don't 
  suffer jetlag' run the risk of self delusion in a manner similar 
  to that of a drunk person or a diver too deep with the wrong air 
  mixture, and may not realize that they are not acting as 
  intelligently as they normally could. Originally published 17 May 2002, last update 15 May 2010 You may freely reproduce or distribute this article for noncommercial purposes as long as you give credit to me as original writer How Would You Rate this Article? Please choose... Poor Good Average Was the Article Length and Coverage Please choose... Too short/simplistic About right Too long/complex Would You Like More Articles on this Subject Please choose... No Maybe Yes If so, please donate to keep the website free and fund the addition of more articles like this. Any help is most appreciated - simply click below to securely send a contribution through a credit card and Paypal. Destination Information & Reviews Australia Planning a Trip to Australia See also separate section on New Zealand below Canada British Columbia All About Harrison Hot Springs BC 1. An Introduction to Harrison Hot Springs 2. Where to Stay and Eat in Harrison Hot Springs 3. Harrison Hot Springs Resort and Spa 4. What to See and Do in Harrison Hot Springs All About Visiting Victoria BC 1. An Introduction to Victoria BC 2. Where to Stay and Eat in Victoria 3. What to See and Do in Victoria Caribbean Egypt Europe (general) European River Cruising All About European River Cruising How to Choose a European River Cruise See also separate sections for individual countries New Zealand Planning a Vacation in New Zealand When to Visit New Zealand and How Long to Stay Self Drive Touring and Itineraries Self Drive Touring in New Zealand Directory of Self Drive Tour Itineraries North Island and Both Island 7 Day Itineraries South Island 7 Day Itineraries What to See and Do in Hawke's Bay What to See and Do in Rotorua What to See and Do in Queenstown See also separate section for Australia above Russia Where to Stay and What to Do in Moscow Teach Yourself to Read and Speak Russian How to Say Russian Cyrillic Letters Essential Russian Words and Phrases Switzerland Leukerbad - a Swiss Mountain Resort Taking the Cure at Leukerbad Spa Zermatt Ski Vacations Review of Gemütlichkeit Newsletter United Kingdom Cruising the English Canals Great British Heritage Pass Discount Sightseeing London - Guide to London's Airports All About London's Five Airports London's Best and Worst Airports and Why London Heathrow Airport (LHR) London Gatwick Airport (LGW) London Stansted Airport (STN) London Luton Airport (LTN) London City Airport (LCY) London - Day Tours from London by Train London - London Pass Discount Sightseeing London - Underground Information and Fares London Underground Fare Guide How to Best Use the London Underground Mainline Steam Train Excursions Salisbury - England's Overlooked Gem An Introduction to Salisbury Where to Stay in Salisbury Where to Eat in Salisbury Touring by car around the Salisbury Area Scotland's Islands The Shetland and Orkney Islands Scotland's Inner and Outer Hebrides Islands Scotland's Islands and Highlands Tour 2011 Train Travel in Britain How to Travel Around Britain by Train How to Get the Best Value Train Fares in Britain Britrail Pass Fares and Choices Day Tours from London by Train Mainline Steam Train Day Excursions United States Roadtripping – Life on the Road Information by State Florida Book Review :  Hidden Mickeys Book Review :  Luxury Guide to WDW Discover the Sophisticated Side of Mickey Mouse Disney's 10 Most Magical Experiences Parents' Time Out at Walt Disney World Sample Hidden Mickey Treasure Hunt Ten Best Children's Activities at WDW The Best of Walt Disney World Tips for Disney World First Timers Universal Orlando Upmarket Orlando Visit Walt Disney World in Style New Jersey All About Visiting Atlantic City, NJ Where to Stay in Atlantic City, NJ Where to Eat and Drink in Atlantic City, NJ What to See and Do in and around Atlantic City, NJ Washington All About Bigfoot and Sasquatch Series by David about Bigfoot/Sasquatch Bigfoot - A mysterious creature or a mythical creation? Where and When to Find Bigfoot How to Search for Bigfoot Bigfoot Touring Itineraries around Seattle Alternate Series by David's brother about Bigfoot/Sasquatch In Search of Sasquatch Preparing to Search for Sasquatch Leavenworth Leavenworth Visitor Information Where to Stay and Eat in Leavenworth What to See and Do in Leavenworth Seattle Dining Sol Duc Hot Springs & Resort How to Plan & Book Your Travel Airfare Loopholes Loopholes - The Ultimate Airline Bluff? Loopholes - Legal or Not? Loopholes - Avoiding Detection Airline Carry On Policies Domestic Airlines International Airlines Airline Checked Bag Policies – Domestic Airlines All About Round the World Airfares Round the World Airfares part 1 Round the World Airfares part 2 Round the World Airfares part 3 Round the World Airfares part 4 Table of different RTW Fares Banned Carry-On Items Beware of Checked Baggage X-ray Machines Choosing the Best Airline Seats Close Encounters of the Unpleasant Kind Where the Best Seats Are Getting the Seats You Want First Class Sleeper review Discounted Airport Parking Driving on the other side of the road Essential Travel Tips Free First Class Upgrades - Fantasy or Fact First Class Upgrades Part 1 First Class Upgrades Part 2 Going it Alone (Singles Travel) How and Why Airfares Change When You Go to Buy Them How Businesses should book travel on the Internet Online Air Fares Online Hotel Booking Online Rental Cars How to Choose a River Cruise How to Choose the Best Travel Agency How to Find the Best Travel Agency part 1 How to Find the Best Travel Agency part 2 How to Find the Best Travel Agent How Much to Spend on a Vacation A Philosophy on Travel Costs The True Cost of Your Vacation Spending Prudently Balancing between spending too much and too little How Much is Appropriate to Spend How to Negotiate the Best Hotel Room Rate 1. Optimize the dates of your stay 2. When is the best (and worst) time to make your hotel reservation 3. What is Included and What is Extra 4. Hidden extra fees and how to resolve them Jetlag Causes and Cures Jetlag explained Jetlag cures Luggage Shipping Services Online Hotel Booking Services Protect Yourself Against Document Loss Potential Problems with 30 different types of information 11 Ways to protect against document loss 10 Strategies if you lose your Documents Save up to 60% on international Business and First Class Air Fares Part 1 Part 1 reader replies Part 2 Part 3 See also All About Round the World and Circle Pacific Fares Seasickness What causes Seasickness How to cure Seasickness Travel Agents in the Internet Era Travel Agents - Obsolete or Essential Airline vs Airline Does everyone hate Travel Agents? Solutions to the Travel Agency problem How best to use a Travel Agent Travel Insurance Travel Insurance - Yes or No What type of Travel Insurance Do You Need Ten Things Your Travel Insurance May Not Cover When is the Best Time to Travel When is the Best Time to Travel part 1 When is the Best Time to Travel part 2 Where is the best place to find the best fares? Airline Reviews & Commentary Airline Reviews & Commentary Aeroflot - Business Class review American Airlines - AA Puts on the Squeeze British Airways First Class review Business Class review World Traveler Plus review Delta Airline without a Pilot book review This Bird Won’t Fly Don’t Do it! Emirates Business Class review Emirates A380 review Does Emirates enjoy an Unfair Advantage? OpenSkies General Information Prem+ Class review Biz Class review Qantas Airways Business Class review Skybed review Qantas Party Joke Qantas - Sir Richard Branson joke United Airlines United's Undisclosed $15 billion Asset United – Six Steps to Success Virgin Atlantic Airways Upper Class review Premium Economy review Airplane Types - Detailed information about passenger planes Other Airline/Airplane Articles Airbus A380 1. Airbus A380 antecedents 2. Differing plans for a 747 successor 3. A380 completion, configuration, and controversy 4. Inside an Emirates A380 Air Fares aren't Fair Airline Zen : Less is More Another Airline Bailout? Just Say No! Concorde - An Untimely and Unnecessary Demise Fixing Fares : A Do-It-Yourself Guide How and Why Airfares Disappear When you Go to Buy Them How to Survive a Plane Crash Statistics about Plane Crashes The Safest Seats on Planes Exiting the Plane after a Crash Bracing and Other Considerations Is Airline Competition Always Fair? The Airlines' Fatal Mistake The Dinosaurs Fight Back - Futilely? The Failing Airline Industry - Suffering from Self Inflicted Wounds? The Overcapacity Excuse (and others, too) Should We Allow Foreign Ownership of US Airlines? Ten Reasons Why People are Flying Less Facts, figures, fares and fees Full and fewer flights; better alternatives The total unpleasantness of airtravel today There Are No Easy Solutions Your Rights with Bankrupt Airlines We Need an Airline Passenger Bill of Rights Why We Need a Passenger Bill of Rights Draft Passenger Bill of Rights How you can help a Passenger Bill of Rights come into being Electronic Petition in support of the Bill of Rights Where is Boeing Going? Boeing - The Early Years Boeing's Best Years Boeing in Decline Boeing Today - but perhaps not tomorrow Boeing - Key Facts and Figures Boeing vs Airbus book review XX Who Flies First Class Anymore? Road Warrior Resources Battery Rechargers and Emergency Batteries Callpod Fuel Tank Cellboost Emergency Cell Phone Battery Charger Clipper Gear Cell Phone Emergency Battery Recharger Sidewinder Portable Cell Phone Charger Best Travel Technology Awards Best Travel Technology Awards 2005 Best Travel Technology Awards 2004 Best Travel Technology Awards 2003 Bluetooth Headsets and Technology Bluetooth Wireless Networking Explained How to Choose a Bluetooth Headset Bluetooth Headset Reviews Bluetooth Headset Review Index High End Headset Comparison Aliph Jawbone Headset review Aliph Jawbone 2 Headset review Blueant Q1 Headset review Cardo S640 Headset review Cardo S800 Headset review Gennum nXZEN Headset review Jabra BT125 Headset review Motorola H3 Headset review Motorola HS850 Headset review Plantronics Discovery 650E Headset review Technocel T360 Headset review Bluetooth Speakerphone Reviews Honeywell Airline 900 Portable Speakerphone review Parrot CK3000 Installed Car Speakerphone review Parrot Driveblue Portable Car Speakerphone review Parrot Easydrive Portable Car Speakerphone review Older/obsolete Headset reviews Aizen FlyBy Headset review 8com Wireless BH220 Headset review Articles related to Bluetooth Issues iSkin Cerulean RX Stereo Bluetooth Receiver Boom Wired Noise Cancelling Headset review Etycom Wired Noise Cancelling Headset review Nectar BlueClip Retractable Bluetooth Headset Holder Nectar Blueclip Necklace Bluetooth Headset Holder Bluetooth Profiles and Acronyms Explained Cell Phone Accessories Boom Noise Cancelling Headset Review Cellboost Emergency Cell Phone Battery Charger Clipper Gear SIM Saver Clipper Gear Cell Phone Emergency Battery Recharger Dry Pak Protective Pouch Ety-Com Noise Cancelling Headset Review Nectar BlueClip Retractable Bluetooth Headset Holder Nectar BlueClip Necklace Bluetooth Headset Holder Skullcandy Link Headset Mixer Xingtone Ringtone Maker review Cell Phone Reviews Apple iPhone Blackberry Motorola Nokia T-Mobile (HTC) Computer Connectivity, Hardware, Software and Services Hardware Internet Software eBook Readers Amazon Kindle review Amazon Kindle part 2 Amazon Kindle 2 review Sony PRS-500 review GPS Receivers General Information about GPS Technology All About GPS - an Introductory Guide A Beginner's Guide to Using GPS part 1 - How GPS Knows where you are Beginner's Guide to GPS part 2 - Maps, Routing and ETAs Beginner's Guide to GPS part 3 - Errors, Inaccuracies, POIs, Speed How to Choose a GPS Navigation Unit GPS Reviews List of GPS Reviews and Summary Features Dash Express Garmin Nuvi 660 Garmin Nuvi 680 Garmin Streetpilot 7200 GlobalSat GV-370 Hertz NeverLost Portable GPS Landrover LR3 Plenio VXA-3000 TomTom Go 930 Trafficgauge Traffic Map Via Michelin X-930 Enhanced GPS Data services Using a GPS internationally GSM Phone Unlocking International Cellphone Service Will Your Cellphone Work Internationally International SIMs and Phone Services Global Roaming (with a Hop SIM) Choosing the Best International Cell Phone Service for You Dual, Tri or Quad Band GSM Phones GSM World Phone Service (with Mobal) Global Roaming (with Global Riiing) Which is the Best International SIM? Free International SIMs iPods and other Personal Audio/video Players and Accessories Miscellaneous Reviews Noise Reducing Headphones Noise Reducing Headphones Main Review Index and Introduction Altec Lansing AHP712i review Audio Technica ATH-ANC7b review Bose Quiet Comfort 2 review Bose Quiet Comfort 3 review Bose Quiet Comfort 15 review Coby CV190 review Koss QZ5 review Noisebuster NB-FX review Phiaton PS300 NC review Plane Quiet Platinum review Sony MDR-NC11A earbud review Sony MDR-NC60 review Sony MDR-NC500D review Older Model Noise Cancelling Headphones Bose Quiet Comfort review Bose Corporate Response Bose Reader Replies Brookstone Personal Radio Service Satellite Phone Service All About Satellite Phone Service Motorola 9505 with Iridium Satellite Phone Service review Satellite Radio Service VoIP Phone Services Satellite Phone Service Travel Items & Accessories Airplane and Travel Comfort Items First Class Sleeper review Nice Flights Jet Seat Airplane Seat Cover TravelRest travel pillow Aviator Laptop Computer Stand BottleWise Bottle Carrying System Carry-on Luggage Series How to Choose a Carry On Bag part 1 How to Choose a Carry On Bag part 2 Reader comments on their carry on bags Reviews - Briggs & Riley Reviews – Heys USA Reviews – High Sierra Reviews – Samsonite Reviews – Swany Reviews – Travelpro Reviews – Lower priced bags Reviews – Unusual and Specialty bags See also series on larger checked bags Expandable and Collapsible Bags for Traveling Convenience Luggage Locator Review MyTag Luggage Tags PicoPad Wallet Notes Quik Pod Camera Extender Search Alert TSA compliant luggage lock Travel Coin Wallet Travel ID and Document Pouches Traveling Flower Vase Wrinkle Free Clothing when traveling Travel Insider Touring Rhine River Christmas Cruise Dec 2010 Scotland's Islands and Highlands June 2011 Archive of Past Tours Black Sea Cruise from Budapest to Istanbul China Tour & Cruise from Beijing to Shanghai/Guilin Danube Christmas Markets from Budapest to Nuremberg Danube Christmas Markets from Nuremberg to Budapest Europe's Heartland Cruise from Paris/Trier to Nuremberg France Rhône River Cruise from Barcelona/Arles to Lyon/Paris New Zealand Grand Spectacular Tour Russian River Cruise from Moscow to St Petersburg Scotland's Castles and Monsters Danube River Christmas Cruise Photo Journal Our Groupless Tour Philosophy Why You Should Choose a Travel Insider Tour Terms and Conditions Miscellaneous & Reference Airplane Type Information Amtrak Issues The Amtrak Funding Scandal Amtrak Answers The Goverment's Outrageous Lie about High Speed Rail Funding Annual Christmas (or anytime) Gadget Gift Giving Guide 2003 2004 2005 2007 2009 Annual Travel Technology Awards 2003 2004 2005 Bird and Swine Flu All about H5N1 Avian or Bird Flu How to Survive H5N1 Avian/Bird Flu and/or H1N1 Swine Flu Book Reviews Lifestyle and General Books The Way of the Road Warrior Newsletters Gemutlichkeit Travel Letter Passport Travel Newsletter Travel Information and Guide Books Hidden Mickeys Illustrated History of Scotland International Traveler Reference Books Let's Go Roadtripping USA Luxury Guide to Walt Disney World Luxury Guide to Walt Disney World Resort 2nd Edition Salk's Airport Transit Guide Seattle Great City Guide DVD Seattle TourSaver Discount Coupon Book Travel Industry in General Airline without a Pilot - The inside story of Delta's success, decline and bankruptcy XX Ask the Pilot - Everything you Need to Know about Air Travel Boeing versus Airbus Johnny Jet's Book of his Website Mileage Pro - The Insider's Guide to Frequent Flyer Programs Strategies for the Wise Traveler Travia - The Ultimate Book of Travel Trivia Car Roadtests and Reviews Bentley Continental Flying Spur review Bentley Continental GT review Correspondence with ASTA Danger - Your Amex Card Might be Declined How to Survive a Plane Crash Statistics about Plane Crashes The Safest Seats on Planes Exiting the Plane after a Crash Bracing and Other Considerations Travel Scams Travel Tips Vacation Strategies in General Packing Tips part 1 Packing Tips part 2 Fire Safety Tips Preparation and Planning Responding to and Fighting a Fire Blog About the Travel Insider About the Travel Insider Biography Editorial Policies Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy Site Map Looking for something else? Search over one million words of free information on our site. Thank you for your interest in helping this site to continue to develop. Some of the information we give you here can save you thousands of dollars the next time you’re arranging travel, or will substantially help the quality of your travel experiences in other, non-cash ways. » If you’d like to add your own commentary, send me a note . Blog Newsletter Twitter Facebook Jetlag Explained Jetlag Cures Home Destination Information and Review How to Plan and Book Your Travel Airline Reviews and Commentary Road Warrior Resources Travel Items and Accessories Travel Insider Touring Miscellaneous & Reference Materials Blog About The Travel Insider Contact Us Privac