
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 19:27:52 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Last-Modified: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 19:27:52 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Gastric Sleeve Surgery - Laparoscopic Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy Skip to Main Content Area Weight Loss Surgery Blog Weight Loss Surgery Forum Home Plastic Surgery Plastic Surgeons in Mexico Dr. Alejandro Cardenas Dr. Joaquin Ayala Hair Transplants Plastic Surgery Options Plastic Surgery Facilities Bariatric Surgeries Gastric Banding Surgery (Lap Band) Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Surgery Gastric Sleeve Plication Success Stories Lap Band Surgery Gastric Sleeve Surgery Gastric Bypass Surgery Surgeons Dr. Miguel Zapata - Monterrey Dr. Hector Perez - Cancun Dr. Fernando Garcia - Tijuana Dr. Alejandro Lopez - Tijuana Facilities Monterrey Hospitals & Facilities Christus Muguerza Cancun Hospitals & Facilities Tijuana Hospitals & Facilities Store Gastric Sleeve Price Hospital & Hotel stay Pre/Post-Op Medication Surgery & Anesthesia Ground Transportation From $5,000* * Cash Discounted Price Gastric Sleeve Guide Gastric Sleeve Overview Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy Gastric Sleeve Preparation Gastric Sleeve Complications Gastric Sleeve Costs Gastric Sleeve in Mexico Sleeve Gastrectomy Diet Surgery Success Stories Learn More Our Staff & Physicians Our Hospital & Facilities BMI Calculator Bariatric Surgery Costs Bariatric Surgery Videos Bariatric Surgery in Mexico Application Form Surgery Requirements Travel to Mexico Compare Surgeries Gastric Sleeve vs Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve vs Gastric Banding Gastric Banding vs Gastric Bypass REALIZE Band vs Lap Band Calculate Your BMI Your height  ft / in 4' 5' 6' 7' 0'' 1'' 2'' 3'' 4'' 5'' 6'' 7'' 8'' 9'' 10'' 11'' Your weight  lbs Recognition Social Media Gastric Sleeve Surgery - Laparoscopic Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy * We also provide revision surgery from sleeve plication to Sleeve Gastrectomy . edit block Free Consulation Name * Phone * Email * Procedure ? Lap Band Gastric Sleeve Gastric Bypass Sleeve Plication Mini Gastric Bypass Duodenal Switch Revision Undecided --- Other --- Cancer Dental Dermatology Heart Disease Plastic Surgery Stem Cell Location ? Tijuana Monterrey Cancun Puerto Vallarta Comments: Captcha * The vertical sleeve gastrectomy or known as longitudinal "vertical" gastrectomy, gastric reduction or vertical gastroplasy is a laparoscopic bariatric "weight loss" surgery aiming at reducing the stomach size by stapling the stomach and removing a part of it leaving a banana shaped sleeve or tube from the stomach. The operation is irreversible. Laparoscopic  Sleeve Gastrectomy is a Safe and Effective Weight Loss Surgery for High BMI and High Risk patients. Sleeve Gastrectomy (LSG) is a new form of laparoscopic surgery that reduces the size of the stomach. The stomach is made smaller by stapling so that it takes the shape of a sleeve that will act as a new smaller stomach. The reduced size generates weight loss because less food can be eaten without any bypass of the intestines or malabsorption. LSG (laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy) has emerged as a restrictive operation, but its ability to extend beyond that through hormonal modifications raises a promise that it will play a leading role in the future of bariatric surgery, either as a sole operation or as part of a more extended procedure. 3 Sleeve Gastrectomy Surgery - a Brief Walk-through This vertical gastrectomy procedure is performed under general anesthesia and it requires only a small abdominal incision, or laparoscopic, to do stomach stapling and remove the separated part. Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy surgery implements staples in order to create a new stomach. Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy  surgery reduces the size of the stomach up to 85%. The excess stomach volume is removed, not left in place. Sleeve Gastrectomy is an excellent procedure for the surgical management of morbid obesity. Excess Weight Loss is 49% at 6 Months and 56% at 12 Months after surgery. 1 Advantages of Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy A good single stage operation for weight reduction for moderately obese patients. Improvement in co-morbidities of obesity, such as hypertension and diabetes mellitus, has been reported to occur in the majority of patients with resolution in 60-100%. 1 It does not require disconnecting or reconnecting intestines. The stomach is reduced but functions normally and almost every type of food can be consumed, though in small amounts. Many patients lose up to 60% of their excess body weight within six months of their Lap Sleeve Gastrectomy surgery. By removing most of the excess stomach volume, the Ghrelin hormone production is mostly eliminated and therefore the sensation of hunger is being reduced. It is a simpler surgery than RNY . There is no malabsorption as with RNY, minerals and vitamins are not necessary, this may be important though in older patients. There is no dumping syndrome but sugar substitutes may be better tolerated. No foreign device is inserted in the body (as in lap band or johnson & johnson band surgery ). Can be converted into almost any other WLS ( weight loss procedure ). Disadvantages of Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy: Although it has promising effects, LSG operation has some disadvantages like: It is irreversibile. Complications may develop due to the stapling procedure. Make sure to learn the other bariatric surgery options we have available: Gastric Banding Surgery and RNY Gastric Bypass Surgery . Pre-operative preparations: As any surgical procedure, there are some pre-operative preparations to fulfill carefully. The pre-operative preparatory instructions from your doctor will mainly include: Start Atkins diet for 2 weeks before the surgery to reduce the fat around your liver. Make sure to be on a regular intake of clear fluids 48 hours before surgery. You must cleanse your colon before surgery by taking magnesium citrate or Colyte. Stop any medication unless indicated and recommended by your doctor. Stop any herbal medication and over the counter medications for headache or allergy or other similar conditions 7 days before the surgery. Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy complication rates are similar to those of Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric Banding, but are significantly lower compared to RNY Gastric Bypass. 2 Post-operative lifestyle & Dietary modifications: You will be instructed to change your diet and eating habits. Drink more water (about 8 cups of water per day) and increase this amount 10-20% if you are exercising. You MUST not drink water or fluids with solid food.
Regarding your meals, the first couple of months will be the hardest times as you have to adapt to your new stomach size. You must chew food well and eat smaller amount of food within longer meal time (30-45 minutes for meal). You must stop eating once you feel full. You should have 3 meals per day but the most important thing is to reduce fats and carbohydrates and make the main nutrient of your diet protein. Candidates for this Lap Sleeve Procedure will be patients with extremely high BMI (greater than 55), those with complicated surgical histories, concerned about deficiencies in vitamins (malabsorption) and nutrition as with RNY, patients who want to minimize the risk of WLS or for whom lap band and johnson & johnson band ( gastric band ) adjustments are not convenient or available. The Vertical Gastrectomy has proven to be quite safe and quite effective for individuals with a BMI in lower ranges. Cost of Sleeve Surgery in Mexico Traveling to Mexico is much safer than other options like India. Many other places around the planet that have tried to attract medical tourists like India, Brazil and Thailand are infinitely more dangerous that taking a short trip to Mexico , not to mention more expensive to get to, which can severely cut into any savings. The leading hospitals in Mexico are often also able to assist patients with travel plans and accommodations in secure, luxury buildings. The cost of weight loss surgery in Mexico averages 50% less than in the US, with prices often as low as one fifth, even when you add in travel expenses it is much wiser to cross the border for health care. For details  on cost of sleeve surgery in Mexico click on the link. Sleeve Surgery Success Stories There are numerous patient weight loss surgery success stories . Success in losing weight is usually gauged after bariatric surgery . Weight loss success after the surgery depends on the individual's commitment in making lifelong changes in their eating and exercise habits. Proper eating habits, diet modification, and other lifestyle changes are the primary elements for successful weight loss. View patients photos of patients who undergone Sleeve Surgery . Large and rapid weight loss and very few complications make Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy Surgery a smart choice for weight loss in many patients. To know more about Sleeve Gastrectomy click on the links below. Sleeve Gastrectomy - Sleeve Gastrectomy Surgery Blog Resources: Andrew A Gumbs, MD; Michel Gagner, MD; Gregory Dakin, MD; Afons, Md. Sleeve Gastrectomy for Morbid Obesity. Obesity Surgery, 17, 2007: 968. Joanna Papailiou, Konstantinos Albanopoulos, Konstantinos G Toutouzas, Et. All. Morbid obesity and sleeve gastrectomy: How does it work?. Obesity Surgery. 2010: 1448. Joanna Papailiou, Konstantinos Albanopoulos, Konstantinos G Toutouzas, Et. All. Morbid obesity and sleeve gastrectomy: How does it work?. Obesity Surgery. 2010: 1453. Ready 4A Change LLC is a scheduling service, not a medical facility or healthcare provider. Ready 4A Change LLC shall not be liable to you or anyone else for any decision made or action taken in reliance on this information. This information does not constitute medical advice and does not create any physician-patient relationship. FaceBook Twitter Digg Delicious StumbleUpon Home News Press Privacy Policy SiteMap Store Contact Copyright © 2011 Ready4aChange . All Rights