<http://www.lifespy.com/?p=3522>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

How to Avoid Leg Cramps During Pregnancy Life Spy Syndicate Articles RSS Comments RSS Home About Archive Contact How to Avoid Leg Cramps During Pregnancy 29 Sep Posted by Guest as Family , Fitness and Health Pregnant women had to go through a lot of pain. Aside from carrying the extra weight and a few other pounds we may have gained, there is also the nightmare of suffering leg cramps.  Leg cramps usually attack at nighttime, causing much discomfort just when you’re ready to rest for the night. And when these pains shoot up it’s just so paralyzing.  The good news is that you can break free from such painful spasms. Read on for the details. Bodies of pregnant women go through a lot of changes and it’s true that gaining weight really increases your spasm pains. But aside from this, you can also get leg cramps due to dehydration, poor circulation, and vitamin deficiencies. Monitor your weight during pregnancy. While your appetite might increase, remember how hard it is to lose weight. You may not notice the difference while you’re pregnant, but as soon as the baby comes out you’re going to be more conscious of your body again. Drink lots of water. It’s important that you’re well hydrated because if you get dehydrated, your muscles might feel a bit tight and thus result to leg cramps. Before you sleep, ask someone to massage your thighs and calves so your circulation will improve. This will also reduce your swelling. Make a few routine flexes before you sleep. Doing a very simple leg exercise will help you loosen your muscles and therefore release strains. Make sure you’re eating good food. Pregnant women should get enough calcium, magnesium, and potassium. These lessen the chances of getting cramps. Tweet Related Posts How to Deal with Muscle Cramps Relieving Menstrual Cramps Managing Nausea During Pregnancy How to Avoid Getting Stretch Marks During Pregnancy Help Your Teen Deal with Unexpected Pregnancy Comments are closed. Categories Accessories Alternative Lifestyles Attitude and Outlook Behavior and Ethics Blogging Business Buying New Buying Used Cars Cell Phones Communication Computers Crafts and Hobbies Digital Cameras Downloads Education Entertainment Environment Family Fashion and Grooming Firefox Tips Fitness and Health Food Food for Thought Games, Sports, and Leisure Google Chrome Tips Holidays and Tradition Home and Garden IE Tips Inspiration Kitchen Links Round-up Mac Tips Money and Finance News NSFW Pets Politics and Society Productivity Quizzes Rants Real Estate Screencast Security and Safety Selling Sex and Relationships Site News Society Technology The Web Vacation and Travel Wedding Windows Tips Work and Career Writing Recent Posts Leave It To the Pros: Home Theater Installation Sculpt Your Plan to Sculpt Your Body Virtual Desktops Faster, Safer than VPNs Dangers of Working from Home xhamster ve rokettube Windows 7: Restore Google Chrome Settings After Crash How to Cut House Chores in Half Haggle in Good Taste Tips on Spotting Quality Clothing How to Reinforce Manners on 