
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 26 Apr 2012 22:59:49 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 mod_perl/2.0.5 Perl/v5.8.8
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET,POST
Access-Control-Allow-Headers: x-prototype-version,x-requested-with
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Article: Mineral Wealth April 2012 ISSUE Print Article Mineral Wealth The fourth most abundant mineral in the body, magnesium, is involved in hundreds of essential body processes, from increasing bone density to maintaining proper muscle and nerve function. Many researchers argue it possesses preventive benefits too—potentially decreasing your risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Why you should make magnesium-rich foods an essential component of your daily diet. An essential ingredient in the makeup of the human anatomy—magnesium in the body is 50 percent bone, the rest is distributed in cells, organs, tissues and blood—it’s no surprise that the mineral is a necessary element in many pivotal functions. “Magnesium is essential for the function of over 300 enzymes in the body. It is involved with carbohydrate metabolism, transport of minerals such as potassium into cells, regulation of calcium metabolism, neuromuscular function and influences heart function to name just a few,” explains Dr. Robert K. Rude, professor of medicine Keck School of Medicine at the University of Southern California. Magnesium’s various uses in the healthy operation of the body make deficiency a serious consideration. Deficient magnesium stores can cause muscle cramps, cardiac arrhythmia, hypertension and osteoporosis, to list a few complications. It can also result in metabolic syndrome, a collection of symptoms (abdominal obesity, high triglyceride levels, low HDL cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, high blood sugar) that alone or in combination can create an increased risk for developing type-2 diabetes and coronary heart disease. Research into magnesium’s potential effectiveness in illness prevention and treatment is continually expanding. Some studies have associated higher blood levels of magnesium with a lower risk of developing coronary heart disease and decreased risk of diabetes. A recent study by the USDA’s Agriculture Research Service uncovered a connection between low energy and magnesium deficiency, concluding that those with low magnesium levels in muscle were more likely to tire more quickly than those with adequate levels during exercise. Because of the role it plays in muscle contraction, it is also used to relieve symptoms of fibromyalgia and PMS.  Some even argue for its beneficial use in treating anxiety and depression. So how much magnesium do we need? The Recommended Dietary Allowance is at least 320mg a day for adult females and at least 420mg a day for adult males, though according to Dr. Rude less than 70 per cent of the population attains these standard guidelines. Diet is one factor that affects our magnesium levels, but a host of other factors may influence absorption as well. “Other factors include gastrointestinal loss (diarrhea, malabsorption syndromes and renal loss) especially due to diuretics, diabetes, amphotericin B, gentamycin, cysplatin, alcoholism, etc.,” says Dr. Rude. Health Plan: How to get the RDA of Magnesium: Eat your greens and grains “Magnesium is found widely in nature with high amounts in cashews, legumes, milk, yogurt, bananas, watermelon, broccoli, leafy green vegetables and potatoes. Because magnesium is found throughout the food supply, most people eating a healthy diet should be able to get enough from food alone,” offers Glenn Cardwell ( www.glenncardwell.com ), a dietitian with 26 years experience in clinical and public health nutrition, including 10 years with the Australian National Heart Foundation. Don’t count calories, start counting mgs Says Cardwell: “We should always be eating for our health, both immediate and long term. Counting calories is what people do when they are solely concerned with body fat . Eating well is what people do when they are concerned about their wellbeing, immunity, health, mental and physical performance (as well as body fat ). Eating well should meet your magnesium needs, for example: One cup bran flakes= 80mg Two 8oz glasses milk= 68mg One banana= 35mg Two slices whole wheat bread=50mg One 6oz glass orange juice=20mg Four oz chicken breast =42mg One baked potato= 34 mg Daily total = 329 mg magnesium If diet fails, look to a supplement Supplements never compensate for poor eating habits, but they can work in concert with a healthy diet to prevent deficiency. “Magnesium supplement bioavailability also varies with the salt and preparation.  The more soluble the salt the more bioavailable it is,” advises Dr. Rude. “One should check with the manufacturer for this information.” Before attempting any exercise or diet modification, always consult a fitness or medical professional. Copyright © 2009 MG Web Com.  All r