
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 21:32:37 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

WHO backs male circumcision to cut HIV Telephone +44 (0) 20 8762 0572 Please register first to obtain treatment Registration is free and without obligation to order FirstMed Home Register Login Prices Compared FirstMed's Prices About Us Contact Us Customer Service Our Prices Price Comparison Security & Online MHRA Guidance The Pharmacy Conditions Impotence Hair Loss Weight Loss Libido Loss Stop Smoking Influenza Cholesterol STD's / STI's Treatments Viagra Cialis Cialis Once a Day Levitra Propecia Xenical Intrinsa Patches Champix Tamiflu Crestor Information Buying Online About Conditions About Treatments Self Help Login Popular Articles on FirstMed Buying online risks Which treatment is best? Causes of ED Viagra for Women? Reasons to use Firstmed FREE Consultation GMC Registered Doctor CQC Registered Service Discreet, & Confidential Next Day Delivery Guaranteed Branded Treatments Only Secure Online Payment Back to news index For our treatments & prices WHO backs male circumcision to cut HIV "Men should consider circumcision to reduce the risk of HIV infection, the World " Men should consider circumcision to reduce the risk of HIV infection, the World Health Organisation yesterday announced yesterday. Sexual health experts claim there is overwhelming evidence to support the notion that male circumcision significantly reduces the risk of HIV infection between heterosexual couples. Trials in Kenya, Uganda and South Africa have revealed that circumcised men are 60 per cent less likely to catch HIV from a woman than men who have not had the snip. Indeed, the results were so conclusive that the trials were ended early so that the international organisations could be notified. Catherine Hankins of UNAIDS emphasised that male circumcision only helped to cut the risk of infection and that it is not a preventative measure. "Male circumcision does not provide complete protection against HIV," she said. "Men and women who consider male circumcision as an HIV preventive method must continue to use other forms of protection such as male and female condoms, delaying sexual debut and reducing the number of sexual partners." However, the studies found no link between circumcision in men and a reduced risk of HIV infection in women. © 2011 Professional medical advice available on  treatments and conditions that Firstmed prescribes for. FirstMed 
    Consulting is one of the United Kingdom's most trusted online Medical Healthcare 
    Providers providing medical consultation and prescription medicines to people 
    who wish to avoid the embarrassment of a physical examination with their own 
    doctor. Our team of healthcare professionals consists of EU registered doctors 
    and UK registered pharmacists who are committed to the highest standards of 
    care. Terms & Conditions | Disclaimer | Returns & Refunds | Consumer Rights | Security Policy |