<strong>First line drugs</strong> include nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Examples of NSAIDs are aspirin,  ibuprofen and etodolac. These can be used to reduce pain and swelling  of joints. Aspirin has long been used to decrease inflammation. It can be used to  treat rheumatoid arthritis by using doses that are higher then those  used during fever. Newer types of NSAIDs are effective as aspirin and  require fewer intakes per day. However just like all medication, it has  its own side effects which include stomach pain, abdominal pain and a  few others. In order to minimize the side effects of NSAIDs, they are  regularly taken with meals. Another type of first line drugs includes Corticosteroids. They are  more powerful then NSAIDs and are given either orally or through an  injection to the inflamed areas such as joints. <strong>Second line drugs</strong> include  Disease-modifying Anti-rheumatic Drugs or DMARDs. These drugs are  mainly used to prevent destruction of joints and deformity. DMARDs are  used for an extended period of time in order to be effective. DMARDs  can often be used with a combination of other second line drugs as  therapy. Some examples of DMARDs include Sulfasalazine, Hydroxychloroquine, D-penicillamine and others. Apart from the above methods, there are some other approaches that can  be used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. The patients can undertake  exercise that can help them improve their physical condition and  improve joint mobility. Additionally it is important to have a healthy  intake of food. Many often patients with rheumatoid arthritis can experience weight  loss. This can be combined with medication and therapy to come up with  a more potent combination against the condition. Depending on your  position, you can under go either physiotherapy or occupational  therapy. This will help improve flexibility, mobility, and reduce pain  in your joints. The aforementioned approaches to rheumatoid arthritis have  been used time and again. However it is essential to seek your nearest  doctor to get firm guidance. Each arthritis case shall be dealt on an  individual basis. With the passage of time, new and more effective treatments against  arthritis are starting to come through. However the only way to gain  the maximum benefit from the existing treatments will be to remain  punctual throughout the course of the medication. It is important to  constantly consult your doctor and keep him or her up to date with your  condition, so that the doctor can advise you further and give more  effective feedback. Are you sick and tired of arthritis pain? Relieve your arthritis pain naturally with Eazol Arthritis Capsules Read the online press release about "I Cured My Arthritis, You Can Too" Arthritis pain relief Patients suffering from Arthritis can encounter a whole lot of pain.  During this time it becomes necessary for the patients to have some  pain relief methods at their disposal to feel better. Corticosteroids are given in small doses, mainly during flare-ups as it  reacts more strongly to inflammation. However it can have serious side  effects on the body if given for an extended period of time in high  doses. These include weight gain, easy risk of infection, easy bruising  and others. The side effects can be minimized by decreasing the level  of doses given to the patients slowly as the condition of the patient  improves. A sharp decline in the doses given to the patient is  discouraged as it can lead to flare-ups and other symptoms of the  disease. This article provides several methods that can be used to provide  relief for a small period of time. The method provided gives patients  the opportunity to undertake exercise. The following methods have been  used time and again to provide pain relief to arthritis patients. <strong>Hydrotherapy</strong> can be used to decrease pain  and rigidity in the joints. Carrying out exercise in a large swimming  pool can be better as water can help take off some weight from the  joints and provide temporary relief. There are many community centers  that provide water exercise facilities to patients suffering from  arthritis. Additionally some people get comfort from the warmth and movement from by the eddy. Some of the symptoms from arthritis can be treated with  <strong>moist heat</strong>. The heat can come from a whole  lot of sources including warm baths, towels and showers for around 15-  20 minutes a day. Also heat can be delivered to non-inflamed joint  areas through microwave, ultrasounds and shortwave by a doctor. However  it is not advisable to patients with deep inflamed joints. In everyday life, deep heat is used around the tendon muscles to make them more flexible and avoid injury during exercise. <strong>Coolness</strong> can be supplied by ice or cold  vegetables wrapped in some sheet can help in cooling down the painful  effect and stop swelling for around 10 - 15 min for a period. This  method is often used for people with joints that are deeply affected by  arthritis. <strong>Mobilization techniques</strong> can be used to  restore normal movements to rigid joints. It includes techniques such  as massage, manipulation and traction to provide some relief to stiff  joints. The effectiveness of this technique can be enhanced when  carried by a well trained professional. The result can be more flexible  tendons and muscles, as well as better control over pain. <strong>Acupuncture</strong> has its roots in history and  has been used for along period of time to counter the pain caused by  arthritis. The acupuncturist will place needles along certain energy  line which will help stimulate energy and flow in the body. It is  believed that the insertion of needles causes the nervous system to  release pain relieving chemicals. <strong>Relaxation therapy</strong> is another effective  method of providing pain relief to arthritis patients. Patients are  taught to help release pain from their bodies. These relaxation courses  can be found at several spas and vocational resorts. The aforementioned methods provided an insight into possible  ways of achieving short term relief. These must be carried out on a  daily basis, so to increase the effective of the method. However before  any of the methods are implemented, you must seek your nearest doctor  and try the methods that are best suited for you, as each arthritis  case shall be treated on a individual basis. Are you sick and tired of arthritis pain? Relieve your arthritis pain naturally with Eazol Arthritis Capsules Read the online press release about "I Cured My Arthritis, You Can Too" Arthritis medications Patients suffering from arthritis have to undergo a wide range of  treatments which includes medication. There are over 100 medications  that are presently being used to treat arthritis. However medicines at  this stage can only help people suffering from arthritis, and not act  as a cure. The medicines can be used to reduce pain, improve joint  mobility, decrease flare-ups and reduce inflammations. The aim of this article is to present an insight into 4 main types of medicines that can be used by arthritis patients. The first category is called pain-relieving medicines which include  aspirin, paracetemol and ibuprofen. As a matter of fact, aspirin and  ibuprofen are mainly anti-inflammatory drugs; however they also contain  small amounts of pain killing doses. These pain relieving drugs are  available at almost all chemists, without subscription from doctor. <strong>Anti-inflammatory</strong> medicines can be used to  decrease flare-ups and reduce swelling. It comes in two packages which  include Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and steroids.  NSAIDs need to be taken over an extended period of time so to make it  more effective. However its side effects include stomach problems. It  is the most common prescribed medicine against arthritis. Some NSAIDs  include naproxen (Naprosyn), fenbufen (Lederfen), piroxicam (Feldene)  and Cox - 2 inhibitors. However there have been concerns raised about  the safety of Cox-2. Steoids are very effectives against inflammation.  However they can cause harm to the body is used for a long period of  time. They are mainly used to bring severe cases of arthritis under  control before any further prescriptions are given. <strong>Disease-modifying</strong> medicines are used with  cases which involves damage to the immune system such as by rheumatoid  arthritis and juvenile idiopathic arthritis. They can be either taken  in by mouth or through injections and deals with the whole of immune  system, instead of the symptoms. Some types of this kind of medicine  are methotrexate, sulfasalazine and gold (sodium aurothiomalate). <strong>Biologic response modifiers</strong>  (BRMs) are increasingly being used in the treatment of arthritis. They  were used to treat severe cases of rheumatoid arthritis, however now  they have assumed a new role and are used to treat patients in the  early stages of arthritis, so to prevent profound damage to the joints.  Although many people with rheumatoid arthritis find BRMs effective, it  is still not suited for everyone with arthritis. The downside of these  products is that they are expensive and can only be given through  injections or infusion. All medicines contain some side effects. Also these side  effects may vary from patient to patient. Many patients undertaking  arthritis related medicines experience certain side effects such as  stomach pain. Nevertheless arthritis medicines can be very powerful and  can have a profound effect on the body. There are certain approaches in  order to reduce minimize the side effects. It is important to take to  take medicines according to instructions such as 2 times in the day.  Your doctor must be constantly supervising you so that he or she can  see whether the intake is going according to the plan. Another  important aspect to be taken into account is that the benefit of taking  the medicine shall be weighed against the harm of not taking them.  Arthritis can get worse if no medication is taken. The reason so many medicines for arthritis has been produced is to meet  specific demand of arthritis patients. Also using one can have side  effects. Therefore the range of medicines allows a person to choose  ones that gives least side effects to him or her. Before you start  taking any medicine, it is essential for you to contact your family so  to great a grip of the actual situation and choose the medicine that  best caters to your needs. Additionally, it is very important for  pregnant women to consult their doctors. Some medicines contain strong  side effects and can be harmful to the baby. Therefore it is essential  to adjust medication in such cases. Are you sick and tired of arthritis pain? Relieve your arthritis pain naturally with Eazol Arthritis Capsules Read the online press release about "I Cured My Arthritis, You Can Too" Arthritis exercise Thinking about exercise and arthritis? It is not uncommon for people to  show their horror at this thought. For many years it was believed that  arthritis and exercise doesn't go hand in hand. However a recent study  has revealed that exercise can in fact help people with arthritis.  Additionally exercise is becoming a vital tool in managing arthritis. Regular exercise helps in improving the flexibility of the joints,  decreasing pain and rigidity in the joints. It also helps in improving  the general muscular structure of the body. Besides it brings extra  benefits as well which includes, better overall fitness, more  self-esteem and lower levels of depression. This article aims to deal with several exercise approaches that can be  used by arthritis patients to get pain relief and manage arthritis more  effectively. <strong>Range of motion</strong> exercises involves trying  to move the joints in all possible directions. It is more of a gentle  exercise. It needs to be carried out on a regular basis in order to  decrease the rigidity of the joints and avoid deformities. This  exercise becomes more important for arthritis patients who tend to  avoid much joint movement due to high inflammatory pain. It is believed by some people that normal day activities like dressing,  bathing, housework are a substitute for ROM exercises; however this is  not the case. <strong>Strengthening</strong> exercises are used in  everyday life to improve the muscular structure of the body, which  allows the body to withstand pain more easily. Similar arthritis  patients can use this exercise to help build strong muscles, which will  lead to more stable joints and less pain. This type of exercise comes  in two packages, which includes isotonic and isometric. Isometric exercises are used in conditions where the joint motion is  impaired. It involves tightening the muscles without moving the joints. Isotonic on the other hand, involves tightening the muscles in coordination with joint movements. <strong>Endurance</strong> exercises involve bringing the  heart beat level of your heart to an optimal level for a short period  of time. This optimal level of heart performance is acquired on the  basis of the patient's age and physical condition using computer. It  helps in improving the cardiovascular fitness. In order to increase the  effectiveness of these exercises, these shall be undertaken around 3  times a week. Carrying out theses exercises helps patients achieve  better physical strength and improve mental attitude. There are several exercises that be can undertaken by an arthritis  patient. Walking is an ideal choice. It helps in building strength and  improves mobility of the joints. It is also helpful for maintaining  bone health. Similarly running can bring about pain relief to arthritis patients.  Research has shown that running on soft surfaces doesn't cause  osteoarthritis. This is a good option for people suffering from less  extreme version of arthritis. Yoga has long been an ultimate exercise for arthritis patients. Yoga  can help bring relief to joints, decrease pain and relax muscles. It is  also a good range-of-motion exercise as it includes controlled  movements, maintaining pressures, and deep breathing relaxation.  However this exercise must be carefully used if the condition is  getting worse rapidly and try not to put pressure on the inflamed  joints. Cycling can be used as a low level exercise option. This exercise can  be carried in either position; freestanding or stationary.  Additionally, cycling equipment can be fixed and altered according to  the condition of the patient, in order to make the experience easier  and less physically imposing. The aforementioned exercises give an insight into possible ways of  improving the health of patients suffering from arthritis. In order to  effectives of each technique it is essential to be consistent. The  exercise shall be started on a low note and then build up gradually in  order to allow the body to adjust to the outside pressure. Also it is important to keep in mind, that each exercise shall be  carried within its own limit. Excess exercise during flare-ups can  worsen symptoms. However before the exercise is undertaken, it is  important to contact your nearest doctor and seek professional advice  as each case of arthritis shall be dealt on an individual basis. This  can be help in seeking a more effective approach to this condition. Are you sick and tired of arthritis pain? Relieve your arthritis pain naturally with Eazol Arthritis Capsules Read the online press release about "I Cured My Arthritis, You Can Too" Arthritis cure Arthritis comes in different forms such as rheumatoid, osteoarthritis  or others. This condition affects many people around the globe with 1  in 100 getting affected. People within the age bracket of 30 - 50 are  most likely to get this condition. Unfortunately a cure for this  condition has still not been found. The current medication only  provides temporary relief. Therefore an arthritis patient needs to use  medication on a regular basis to get pain relief. Arthritis involves pain, swelling and inflammation of the joints. This  pain can get worse during flare-ups. The aim is of this article is to  offer the reader several approaches that can help provide pain relief  in the short and long term. <strong>Short term pain relief</strong> methods will  involve managing flare-ups and reducing pain. Medications are commonly  used to control pain and reduce inflammation. Some examples of possible  medications include aspirin, ibuprofen and other nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory medications NSAIDs. <u>Moist heat and coolness</u> are other very common short  term pain relief methods often employed by arthritis patients. Your  physician will inform you about whether to choose hot or cold methods  to improve the position. Moist heat can be obtained through warm baths and showers on the joints  which can provide temporary pain relief. Coolness can be supplied by  using ice or cold items such as vegetables wrapped in a towel and  placed on the inflamed spot. This can help in cooling down the flaring  effect and can provide relief for 10 - 15 minutes. <u>Joint immobilization</u> is important in cases where the  joints are deeply affected by arthritis and putting more pressure on  the joints can be harmful. This method involves using devices to aid in  moving around such as crutches or walking canes. This will help in  avoiding putting much pressure on the joints. Another difference between the two types of arthritis is that a person  is more likely to develop rheumatoid arthritis if a sibling or parent  had it. While a person with a history of joint damage, either an injury  or chronic strain, runs a higher risk for developing osteoarthritis. Arthritis can affect any age group. However, while there is no specific  age for arthritis sufferers, arthritis seems to focus on those over 45  years of age. <u>Massage</u> is another popular method, used for a whole  range of purposes including arthritis treatment. Massaging can help  increase blood flow. This can also help bring additional warmth to  muscles. <strong>Long term pain relief</strong> methods are employed  when the extent of the damage caused by arthritis is very deep and  management of the disease in the long term is essential. Similar to short term relief, there are medications for long term  relief as well. NSAIDs such as aspiring and ibuprofen can be used to  decrease inflammation and pain in the joints. <u>Disease-modifying Anti-rheumatic Drugs</u> (DMARDs) such  as methotrexate and hydroxychloroquine can be used to slow down the  effect of the disease and correcting abnormalities in the body caused  by it. <u>Corticosteroids</u> are another way to control flare-ups  in the joints. They are more powerful then NSAIDs and therefore  contains strong side effects if used for an extended period of time.  These include weight gain, easy bruising and making the body more  vulnerable to infection. Also, in the long term it is essential to lose some weight. Simply put  it, more weight will put more pressure on the joints causing more pain. <u>Exercise</u> can help reduce some body weight and  therefore reducing the overall pressure exerted on the inflamed joints.  As mentioned earlier, exercises are vital to improving the flexibility  and mobility of the joints. Patients can choose from a whole range of  exercises available to them such as swimming, walking, jogging and  other low impact exercises. However patients will need to establish  their condition and take part in exercises that is least physically  imposing. In extreme cases where the damage caused to joints is irreparable or  very deep, it is advisable to undergo a <u>surgery</u>.  Patients with pediatric arthritis and other rheumatic diseases can  undergo either a repair or replace surgery. A repair surgery will  involves correcting a deformity and removing fragments in the joints.  If the joints are damaged beyond repair, then the joints can be  replaced with artificial joints. It is important to see a physician before carrying out any of the  methods. The physician will provide specific approaches that will be  best suited to the condition of the patient. To improve the  effectiveness of the medication, it is important to be constant with  each method and establish a good routine. Additionally, you must  contact your doctor or physician on a regular basis to keep him/her  fully informed. Are you sick and tired of arthritis pain? Relieve your arthritis pain naturally with Eazol Arthritis Capsules Read the online press release about "I Cured My Arthritis, You Can Too" Arthritis Basics Arthritis affects people in a variety of ways. Joints may be stiff and  creak. For others who suffer from arthritis, joints might crack  suddenly, like knees upon standing. For many arthritis sufferers, pain  occurs, like when trying to open a jar. What's it all about? Let's take a look at the basics of arthritis and learn more. Arthritis actually means "joint inflammation" and has over 100 related  conditions or forms of the disease. If arthritis is left untreated, it  can advance, resulting in joint damage that cannot be reversed.  Therefore, early detection of arthritis and arthritis treatment are  important. The two most common types of arthritis are osteoarthritis (OA) and  rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Although both type of arthritis have similar  symptoms, both happen for different reasons. When joints are overused  and misused, the results can be osteoarthritis (OA). What happens is  that the cushioning cartilage that protects the joint breaks down,  resulting in the bones rubbing together. This generally happens in the  knees, but can be found in the hips, spine and hands as well. And, only  in the later stages of osteoarthritis will a person most often feel  pain, after quite a bit of cartilage is lost. The second type, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), refers to the body's immune  system attacking joint tissue. Still not fully understood in the  medical community, rheumatoid arthritis most often starts in a person's  hands, wrists and feet. Then rheumatoid arthritis advances to  shoulders, elbows and hips. Similar symptoms include pain, stiffness, fatigue, weakness, slight  fever, and inflamed tissue lumps under the skin. And both  osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis generally develop  symmetrically, i.e. affecting the same joints on both the left and  right sides of the body. A difference in osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis to note is with  swelling. With rheumatoid arthritis, people report "soft and squishy"  swelling. While with osteoarthritis, people report "hard and bony"  swelling. And, while neither gender is immune, a reported 74 percent of  osteoarthritis cases (or just over 15 million) occur with women and a  slightly lower percentage of rheumatoid arthritis cases occur with  women. Furthermore, your health, particularly your weight, plays a role in the  development of arthritis. People with excess weight tend to develop  osteoarthritis, especially in the knees when reaching over 45 years of  age. However, losing weight can turn the odds around almost by half.  Regular activity combined with exercise also reduces risk of arthritis,  strengthening joint muscles and reducing joint wear. Although there are no cure-alls for arthritis, there are a variety of  pain relief treatment strategies. Aside from medications, remedies,  replacement alternatives and other helpful treatment options, the four  main arthritis relief aids are gentle exercise, good nutrition, a  positive attitude, and rest. Education also plays a huge role to dispel  "old wives tales" and myths that "nothing can be done about arthritis." If you suspect you may have arthritis, it is advisable to seek medical  advice. The sooner you detect the arthritis and the type of arthritis  the better off you'll be. Furthermore, your symptoms may not be caused  by arthritis, but may be caused by something else like a virus or  tendonitis or other similar problem that could potentially worsen if  left untreated. Adam Waxler publishes a series of health & fitness information  products and web sites including his new resource filled with with FREE  articles and tips on Arthritis Pain Relief & Prevention @ http://www.1-800-health-teacher.com/arthritis More coming soon! New Articles - Just Added Ldl Cholesterol Levels - Ky-ani Sun products are fairly new to the market. What makes them different from the rest of the field of health supplements? One word: blueberries. Hair Care - Most times, hair loss is explained in the context of genetics and a change in the hormonal balance of one's body. However, hair loss can also be a symptom of an underlying disease or a result from a surgery. Cure Help Featured Article Topics Acid Reflux - articles, tips and information about Acid Reflux Allergies -
  Allergies can be cured in many cases! Anti-Aging -
  Anti aging health tips! Arthritis -
  Arthritis cures and suggestions on how to reduce pain Bed Wetting -
  Bed Wetting can be cured fast with the right approach Cancer -
  Cancer is a major concern as our world gets more polluted Cholesterol -
  Cholesterol is an important health concern Depression -
  Depression cures can improve your state of mind Diabetes -
  Diabetes may not be cured, but there are many tips to make life better! Hair Loss -
  Hair Loss is a major concern for both men and women Lasik Surgery -
  Lasik Surgery is an increasingly popular option to cure eye problems Natural Cures -
  There ar emany natural cures to improve health and ailments Nutrition -
  What you need to know about Nutrition and your health Plastic Surgery -
  Plastic Surgery is an option to change your appearance Skin Care -
  Skin Care is a major concern for children, men and women Vitamins, Herbs & Supplements -
  Health tips about Vitamins, Herbs and Supplements Stop Smoking Cigarettes -
  Tips for stopping cigarette smoking... yuck! Teeth Whitening -
  all about dental methods and teeth whitening Weight Loss -
  articles about losing weight and improving your body image. A Recent Article from the Web Anti Aging Vitamins How many anti aging skin vitamins are sitting in your medicine cabinet? Which ones work the best for you? It's funny when I take a look at my wife, I see such a young and beautiful woman. However, she has certainly been concerned with anti aging skin care supplements lately. I take one glance at [...] Six Pack Abs Developed Quickly Firming and developing the abs doesn't take excessive amount of effort The groups of muscles in our body are almost all similar just like the ab muscles. If you wish to enhance the strength level of your mid-section, you must know how to train them Essentially, it doesn't take an excessive amount of effort in [...] What You May Not Know About Diabetes The fear of diabetes isn't in regards to a pin prick each day. It is usually the threat of complications like diabetic retinopathy, a diabetes-induced eye disease, that scares people into taking their diabetes seriously. Weight loss, exercise and a healthy diet are treatments that you can practice to prevent serious complications caused by diabetes. [...] Get Motivated To Lose Weight With These Ideas Are you carrying unwanted pounds? Being overweight is common, but you do not have to live with it. The tips in this article will aid you in shedding pounds for the long-term and give you more inspiration on before and after weight loss stories. Your success depends on you, and you can tailor a plan [...] Looking for something specific? We're proud to offer Google Search
            for both the web AND so you can find content on our web site! Simply
            type in a few words and select web or our site and we'll help you
          find exactly what you are looking for! Happy hunting! Web www.curehelp.com New! Just added to Cure Help Health Tips! Oil Control Depression - Everybody gets the blues once in a while. It's normal to feel sad on a rainy day, get sentimental over a lost love, or feel so terribly lonely during really low moments of your life. Cure Help Legal Disclaimer: Arthritis articles, news, tips and
        information presented as a public service. Cure Help offers information
        for entertainment and educational purposes. None of the viewpoints or
        tips and suggestions presented in the articles are endorsed by Cure Help.
        Please consult a health care practitioner (your doctor) before appl,ying
        any cure tips,a dvice or suggestions. We care about your health! Be smart
        and get several opinions before you implement any changes in your life!
        Please consult the FDA
        Compliancy Policy Guide for information on drugs and standards. New Cure Help Health Tips Articles - Just Added! Ovarian Cancer Cells - Hair Care Readings - Broken Blood Vessels - Cure Help Health Tips - Health
		    Articles - Health
		    Resources - Health News - Privacy Policy - Contact © 2011 Cu