
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 03:58:16 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Factsheet #5: What's New in Spinal Cord Injury Treatment and Cure Research? Translate this page with InterTran (tm) Deutsche Français Español Portuguese Japanese (Shift JIS) Finnish Italiano Svensk Russian/Ðóññêèé (CP 1251) Nederlands Brasileiro Danske Íslenska Norsk Croatian/hrvatski (CP 1250) Hungarian/Magyar (CP 1250) Polish/polski (CP 1250) Czech/ceski (CP 1250) Bulgarian (CP 1251) Romanian Serbian/srpski (Latin) Slovenian/slovenski (CP 1250) Greek/Åëëçíéêüò Welsh/'n Cymraeg National Spinal Cord Injury Association Resource Center Factsheet #5: What's New in
        Spinal Cord Injury Treatment and Cure Research? When someone sustains a spinal cord injury (SCI), one of
        the most difficult issues to deal with is that there is
        no "cure" at the present time. One would think
        that, with the "explosion in scientific
        knowledge" we hear about almost every day, SOMEONE
        would be doing SOMETHING to find a cure for people with
        SCI. If we can achieve the impossible in other areas,
        like transplanting entire organs and organ systems from
        one person to another and isolating human genes, why
        can't we figure out why the spinal cord does not repair
        itself and then do something to correct this biological
        problem? Compared to a lot of the scientific puzzles that
        HAVE been solved, it shouldn't be all that difficult... There are really two separate issues involved in this
        assumption: Is the scientific question, "Why won't the
                spinal cord regenerate?" easy to answer? What's being done to find a cure? Let's look at these issues and put them into the
        context of what scientists have been doing about SCI over
        the past half century. Before World War II, an injury to the spinal cord was
        considered to be a fatal condition. If you did not die as
        a direct result of the injury, you probably would die
        within a few weeks or months from complications, such as
        a kidney infection, respiratory problems, or badly
        infected skin sores. Fortunately, an improved understanding of SCI led to
        better patient management, enabling many people to
        survive their injuries and the initial period afterwards.
        In addition, the discovery of penicillin and sulfa drugs
        made common, but life-threatening complica-tions like
        kidney and skin infections manageable conditions rather
        than potential killers. Because the spinal cord carries vital information to
        the brain, the muscles and many organs, the fact that SCI
        is now a survivable injury is a miracle itself. However,
        this miracle leads to another pressing need - to find a
        way to reverse, or at least diminish, the devastating
        physical effects of the injury. The Search For the Cure The 1980's and 1990's have been an exciting time for
        people interested in spinal cord injury repair and
        regeneration. Both in terms of treat-ment techniques and
        general knowledge about nervous system function, the
        progress that has occurred in recent years is
        encouraging. The search for a cure involves one of the most complex
        parts of the human body. The spinal cord is an integral
        part of the body's most specialized system, the central
        nervous system (CNS). The CNS consists primarily of the
        brain and spinal cord. A major role of the spinal cord is to carry mes-sages
        to and from all parts of the body and the brain. Some of
        these messages control sensation, such as knowing your
        finger is touching a hot stove, while others regulate
        movement. The spinal cord also carries mes-sages that
        regulate autonomic functions such as heart rate and
        breathing - over which we generally do not exert
        voluntary control. The spinal cord carries these messages through a
        network of nerves which link the cells of the spinal cord
        to target cells in all other systems of the body. An
        individual nerve cell is called a neuron, each with
        receptive branching fibers called dendrites. The axon,
        carrying an output signal, extends from the cell body,
        and is covered by a protective fatty substance called a
        myelin sheath which helps the impulse travel efficiently. A nerve impulse from one neuron is picked up by the
        dendrite of the next nerve cell in the pathway at a
        specialized connection called a synapse. An
        electrochemical reaction causes the impulse to
        "jump" across the synapse and the signal
        stimulates the second nerve cell and the impulse then
        travels down its axon. The message is picked up and
        transmitted by a series of neurons until the connection
        is complete. There are millions of nerve cells within the spinal
        cord itself. Some of these lower motor neurons receive
        motor commands from the brain and send their signals
        directly to the muscles. Other spinal cord neurons form
        relay pathways for information travelling up or down the
        length of the spinal cord. Still other spinal cord
        neurons remain intact and form intricate circuits below
        the level of injury. Because cells below the injury are
        no longer under voluntary control, they cannot be
        utilized as effectively and may cause unintentional
        movements such as spasms. Regeneration Most of the cells in the human body have the ability
        to repair themselves after an injury. If you cut your
        finger, often you have a visible laceration for a few
        days or weeks, followed by the formation of a scar. In
        time, you may not be able to tell that the cut had
        occurred. This indicates that skin cells regenerate, just
        like cells in the blood vessels, organs and many other
        tissues. Peripheral nerves (nerve fibers outside the
        brain and spinal cord), such as those located in your
        fingertips, also regenerate, although this process is
        different from that in the skin and other organs. For years, scientists have focused on the big mystery:
        "Why doesn't the central nervous system
        regenerate?" This question is even more perplexing
        because we know that central nerves in lower animal
        species CAN regenerate. There are no definite answers to
        this mystery yet, but scientists are exploring the
        questions in many ways. Basic Cell Research An important avenue of research is to look at normal
        cell function in the CNS of mammals. Scientists
        investigating this area of research are attempting to
        identify and describe cellular interactions in properly
        working systems. In addition, they are working with SCI
        models in an attempt to identify and explain what occurs
        after an injury. Through cell research, scientists are trying to
        identify the following: 1. What substances are present in the CNS which
        "switch off" CNS nerve growth in mammals? It has been shown that regeneration occurs in
                lower animals, as well as in mammalian fetuses in
                the very early stages of development. At some
                point in development, the cells appear to lose
                the ability to regenerate. This loss may be
                related to the maturation of the nerve cells or
                to changes in other nervous system cells past
                which axons must regenerate. 2. What growth inhibiting factors, present in the CNS
        of mammals, prevent nerve cells from regenerating and
        reestablishing connections (synapses)? Scientists have identified some proteins in the
                myelin sheath surrounding spinal cord axons which
                inhibit nerve cell growth. Additionally, other
                regeneration-inhibiting proteins have been
                identified on the surfaces of cells that form the
                nervous system equivalent of a "scar".
                Some scientists believe that nerve cells can be
                encouraged to regrow and re-establish functional
                synapses by removing or altering this cellular
                "scar". Antibodies generated against
                some of these proteins can neutralize the
                inhibitors and allow growth to occur. The ability
                of central nerves to regenerate in lower animals
                is thought to be due to the lack of inhibitors in
                their CNS. 3. Can growth stimulating substances can be introduced
        into the mammalian CNS to encourage nerve growth and
        synapse development? Investigators are attempting to alter the
                environment around the injury site to encourage
                nerve cell growth and repair. As described above,
                our peripheral nerves can regenerate. This is due
                to the presence of cell proteins that stimulate
                rather than inhibit nerve growth. When these
                cells or the factors they produce such as
                "growth factors that nourish nerve cells are
                introduced into the CNS, central nerve regrowth
                can occur. Finding ways to effectively introduce
                these cells or substances to achieve functional
                recovery is a major goal of "cure"
                research today. Development of New Therapeutic
        Approaches Ongoing research using animal models to test possible
        new therapies is progressing more rapidly than ever
        before. This type of research takes several forms that
        can best be explained as they apply to solving certain
        types of damage that result from SCI. There are three
        major classes of damage to neural tissues that have been
        identified, each requiring a different therapeutic
        approach: Death of nerve cells within the spinal cord.
                Because nerve cells lose the ability to undergo
                cell division as they mature into the highly
                specialized forms that make up our nervous
                systems, the death of nerve cells due to injury
                presents a difficult problem. No functional
                connections can be established if the nerves no
                longer exist. Therefore, replacement of nerve
                cells may be required. Disruption of nerve pathways. When the long axons
                carrying signals up and down the spinal cord are
                cut or damaged to the point where they break down
                after an injury, the parents nerve cells and
                axons often survive up to the point where the
                injury occurred. In this case, regeneration of
                damaged axons is a real possibility to
                re-establish connections of nerve circuits. Demyelination, or the loss of the insulation
                around axons. Animal studies and recent studies
                of human specimens have established that in some
                types of SCI, the nerve cells and axons may not
                be lost or interrupted, but that the loss of
                function may be due to a loss of myelin sheaths.
                As described above, myelin sheaths provide
                insulation so that electrochemical signals are
                carried efficiently down the long, thin axons.
                This type of damage may be the most amenable to
                treatment because rewiring of complex circuits
                may not be needed and remyelination of axons is
                known to be possible. Although specific human injuries may involve any or
        all types of damage just described, therapies developed
        to combat any one of them might restore important
        functions. The "cure" for spinal cord injury
        may take the form of multiple strategies, each in turn
        restoring functions that make important improvements in
        the quality of life for a spinal cord injured individual. The approach to "cure" research then, is to
        concentrate on techniques that hold the promise of
        repairing specific types of spinal cord damage. With the
        explosion of efforts and progress in the fields of
        Neuroscience and Molecular Biology (sometimes called
        genetic engineering), the scope of possible new therapies
        is wider than ever before. Replacement of Nerve Cells Mature nerve cells cannot divide to heal a wound as
        skin cells can. Replacement of nerve cells requires
        transplantation of new nerve cells into the site of the
        injury with the hope that they will mature and integrate
        themselves into the host nervous system. One approach is
        to transplant healthy CNS cells from the same animal
        species. Researchers have been unanimous in their
        agreement that transplantation of adult nerve tissues
        does not work, while embryonic or fetal transplantation
        can be quite successful. The embryonic tissues do grow
        and develop, and scientists hope that they will form
        circuits that will return important functions to areas
        below the injury. Research to date has not supported the
        hope that host axons would use these grafts as
        "bridges" across the injury site. An important
        consideration is that if fetal tissue transplants prove
        successful in animal models, transferring this approach
        to human beings will involve important ethical
        considerations regarding donor tissues and other
        important questions about immune rejection of cells
        transplanted from one individual to another. Another approach that may avoid some of those problems
        is the use of genetic engineering to manufacture
        "cell lines" that would work as nerve cells
        after grafting. This approach involves inserting segments
        of DNA (genes) into fetal nerve cells that allow the
        cells to divide indefinitely, creating an ongoing supply
        of donor tissue. The use of purely neuronal cell lines
        diminishes the chances of immunological rejection of the
        grafts. Recently, rodent cell lines have been developed
        that stop dividing after transplantation (so there is no
        risk of tumor formation), and that mature into very
        specialized nerve cells. Research has not yet shown that
        these cells can restore function after spinal cord
        injury. Very recently, scientists have learned that some cells
        of the adult CNS can be stimulated to divide and develop
        into new nerve cells. This exciting finding has opened up
        new possibilities for cell line development without a
        need for fetal tissue donors. Regeneration of Damaged Axons Nerve cells in both the central and peripheral nervous
        systems are associated with helper cells called
        neuroglial cells. After injury, the CNS helper cells
        largely inhibit regeneration, while those of the
        peripheral nerves, the Schwann cells, stimulate
        regeneration, even in humans. Scientists are attempting
        to isolate these cells from peripheral nerves and
        transplant them into the spinal cord to induce
        regeneration by providing an altered, supportive
        environment. In this strategy, a SCI individual could act
        as their own donor, since Schwann cells can be obtained
        from biopsies of peripheral nerves in adults. Schwann cells, nerve cells and some other cells make
        proteins known to nourish nerve cells called "growth
        factors". By introducing these factors into injury
        sites alone or in combination with grafts, researchers
        hope to stimulate additional nerve regeneration and
        promote the health of nerve cells. This approach has been
        shown to stimulate CNS regeneration, including growth of
        axons from nerve cells within the spinal cord and those
        from the brain that send their long axons down the spinal
        cord. Significant restoration of function has not yet
        been achieved. Another technique is to genetically alter cells so
        that they produce large amounts of growth factors and to
        introduce these into the injury site. While nerve fibers
        have been stimulated to grow by such grafts, this type of
        research is in its very early stages. Cells making many
        types of factors will have to be tested and functional
        recovery carefully demonstrated. Remyelination of Axons Schwann cells are also the cells in peripheral nerves
        that form myelin sheaths. They are not usually found in
        the brain or spinal cord where another neuroglial cell,
        the ogliodendrocyte, is responsible for making myelin.
        Researchers have shown that Schwann cells grafted into
        the brain can myelinate central axons. When the loss of
        myelin is an important part of injury, implanting Schwann
        cells could stimulate remyelination and thereby restore
        function. Another approach involves a drug called
        4-aminopyridine (4-AP), which may help demyelinated
        nerves conduct signals. Animal studies show that a very
        small percent of healthy, myelinated axons can be enough
        to carry on important functions in the spinal cord, even
        in the face of damage to surrounding nerve cells. Helping
        nerve fibers that have lost myelin to conduct impulses
        should improve function after injuries that extensively
        damage myelin sheaths but do not disrupt nerve
        connections. This research is also in its very early
        phases. Summary of Basic Science
        Research As you can see by the facts detailed above, the
        problem of CNS response to injury is incredibly complex.
        No one theory or approach will overcome all of the
        effects of SCI, and many scientists now believe that the
        "cure" will not be found in a single approach,
        but rather in a combination of techniques. Consequently,
        it is important for all possible research areas to be
        addressed so our overall knowledge about how the system
        works may eventually lead to a cure for SCI. What about the "imminent breakthroughs" you
        hear about regularly in the press? It must be remembered
        that there is a vast difference between a
        "scientific breakthrough" and a "clinical
        breakthrough". While scientific discoveries occur
        quite frequently, clinical (treatment) ones do not.
        Public announcements of scientific progress help to keep
        the attention and funding focused on finding solutions to
        the problems caused by SCI but new scientific
        breakthroughs generally do not lead to immediate
        treatment applications. RESEARCH IN SCI TREATMENT Drug Treatments For New
        Injuries NOTE: It is important to realize these drugs are not a
        cure for chronic (long-term) spinal cord injuries. It is
        heart-ening to note, however, that treatments finally are
        available to lessen the severity of some acute injuries. Research has shown that all damage in SCI does not
        occur instantaneously. Mechanical disruption of nerves
        and nerve fibers occurs at the time of injury. Within 30
        minutes, hemorrhaging is observed in the damaged area of
        the spinal cord and this may expand over the next few
        hours. By several hours, inflammatory cells enter the
        area of spinal cord injury and their secretions cause
        chemical changes that can further damage nervous tissue.
        Cellular content of nerve cells killed by the injury
        contribute to this harmful chemical environment. This
        process may go on for days or even weeks. Hope lies, therefore, in treatments that could prevent
        these stages of progressive damage. Drugs that protect
        nerve cells following injury are now available to lessen
        the severity of some injuries. Other drugs and
        combinations of drugs are currently being tested in both
        animal and clinical trials. Methylprednisolone Few treatment approaches have raised as much hope as
        the announcement by the National Institute of Health that
        the steroid, methylprednisolone, reduces the degree of
        paralysis if administered shortly after spinal cord
        injury. In clinical trials, an extremely high dosage of
        methylprednisolone was used in a double-blind study
        (neither patients nor doctors knew who was getting the
        exper-i-mental drug). The improvement in some patients
        was so remark-able that the National Institutes of Health
        felt it was important to "break the code"
        (i.e., determine who was getting the drug and who was
        not) so more patients could potentially be helped. Overall, the trial showed that while the
        methylprednisolone treated group retained significantly
        more function than the placebo group, subjects in both
        groups experienced chronic loss of function due to their
        injuries. Methylprednisolone is effective only if used in high
        doses within eight hours of acute injury. It is
        hypothesized that this drug reduces damage caused by the
        inflammation of the injured spinal cord and the bursting
        open of the damaged cells. The contents of the damaged
        cells are believed to adversely affect adjacent cells.
        High doses of methylprednisolone can lead to side
        effects, such as suppression of the immune system, but no
        serious problems have been reported when it is used over
        a short term as in this study. Because the success of the methylprednisolone trial
        had changed the "standard of care" in the
        United States, subsequent drug trials are now testing the
        effectiveness of other drugs in combination with
        methylprednisolone administration. Thus, to demonstrate
        significant effectiveness, new treatments will have to
        surpass the functional sparing effects seen with
        methylprednisolone alone. Simultaneously, researchers are cooperating to conduct
        a large multi-center animal study to test the effect of
        other drugs with or without methylprednisolone. Tirilizade Similar positive results to those of
        methylprednisolone have been achieved in animal studies
        using another steroid, tirilizade mesylate (Freedox®).
        This drug, which acts like methylprednisolone, also
        appears to be effective only if administered within a few
        hours after injury. From initial animal studies, it
        appears that this drug may cause less side effects than
        methylprednisolone. Clinical trials are ongoing. A large clinical trial with humans is currently
        underway comparing 48 hour treatment of
        methylprednisolone with or without added tirilizade.
        Study results are anticipated to be available in late
        1995. GM-1 Ganglioside Once again, the announcement of a new treatment
        approach has raised interest and hope in the SCI
        community. In a small study, the experimental drug
        Sygen®, or GM-1 Ganglioside, was given within 72 hours
        of injury and then continued for up to 32 days.
        Neurological assessments were conducted up to one year
        after the treatment. Individuals who received
        Sygen®showed significantly more functional recovery than
        those who received a placebo. Currently, a large scale multi-center clinical trial
        of GM-1 is ongoing with a targeted completion date of
        1996-1997. In the current study, all patients receive the
        "standard" does of methylprednisolone. In
        earlier studies, a standard dose of methylprednisolone
        was not given. There are two theories about how GM-1 Ganglioside may
        act on spinal cord tissue. The first is that it performs
        some type of damage control by reducing the toxicity of
        amino acids released after spinal cord tissue is injured.
        The "excitatory" amino acids cause cells to die
        and increase the damage caused by the initial injury. The
        second theory suggests there may be a neurotrophic
        effect, somehow encouraging the growth of injured
        neurons. Neither of these theories have been
        scientifically proven yet. Sygen®has not yet been approved for clinical use in
        this country by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
        It has only been used in a limited number of experiments.
        Sygen®was provided recently to injured football player
        Dennis Byrd and approximately 65 other patients through
        an open-label protocol. Although this protocol is no
        longer in effect, the large double-blind, multi-center
        trial in acute SCI mentioned above is well underway. Surgery Clinical studies are being conducted by surgeons to
        determine the optimum time for surgery to relieve
        pressure on the spinal cord after spinal cord injury.
        Additionally, the use of delayed decompressive surgery is
        being investigated in cases of chronic SCI. Preventing new injuries during
        spinal surgery Intraoperative monitoring techniques have been
        developed to protect healthy nerve roots during spinal
        stabilization procedures. Scientists tested, first on
        animals then on humans, a technique that assists surgeons
        in the placement of metallic hardware for stabilization
        of the spine. The technique which utilizes nerve
        stimulation and muscle responses has been shown to
        effectively predict and allow the prevention of nerve
        damage during surgery in the lumbosacral spinal column. TREATMENTS FOR CHRONIC SPINAL
        CORD INJURY AND ITS COMPLICATIONS Functional Electrical
        Stimulation FES uses implanted or external electrodes to stimulate
        paralyzed nerves so that arms and legs can be used for
        improved function. Over the past decade, three primary
        applications for FES have been developed: FES for
        exercise; FES for upper extremity (hand/arm) function;
        and FES for lower extremity (leg function.) FES is
        discussed in detail in Fact Sheet No. 9 ,
        Functional Electrical Stimulation: Clinical Applications. Omentum Transposition One controversial treatment for SCI is Omentum
        Transposition. The omentum is a band of tissue in the
        abdomen of mammals which provides circulation to the
        intestines. A surgical procedure is used to partially detach the
        omentum, tunnel it under the skin and suture it in place
        at the injury site. The omentum tissue, which is rich in
        blood vessels, may supply the damaged nerve cells with
        vital oxygen. It is believed that the omentum tissue may
        also secrete chemicals that stimulate nerve growth, as
        well as have the ability to soak up fluids to reduce
        pressure which can damage nerve cells. Initial animal trials seem to show some functional
        improvement if the operation is completed within 3 hours
        of injury. Little or no improvement is shown when the
        procedure is done 6-8 hours post injury. This research,
        however, has never been scientifically documented. The on-going clinical trial for people who have had a
        SCI for months or years has recently been cancelled. Many
        scientists believe it is premature for human trials,
        since the results of the earlier research have not been
        sufficiently documented. Biomedical engineering Scientists in the field of biomedical engineering
        developed mechanical devices that use today's computer
        technology to assist individuals in activities of daily
        life. Examples of the types of devices under research and
        development are environmental control devices, electronic
        had grip device, and walking devices. Spasticity/Pain The complications of spasticity and pain are common in
        spinal cord injury. Spasticity that is severe enough to
        cause problems with mobility and self care, that
        contributes to skin breakdown, and that causes pain is
        reported in a number of cases of SCI. Studies in the treatment of spasticity are
        investigating pharmacological agents, intrathecal
        baclofen, and spinal cord stimulation. In addition to
        drugs that have been available for some time (baclofen,
        valium, dantrium) the use of tizanidine has recently been
        explored. FDA approval of tizanidine is expected in late
        1995. The problem of pain occurs in approximately 50% of all
        cases of SCI. Five to thirty percent characterize the
        pain as disabling. Pharmacologic agents as well as
        surgical interventions such as the DREZ (dorsal root
        entry zone) procedure, cordotomy and cordectomy are under
        investigation for the treatment of severe causes of pain
        from SCI. Male Fertility In most SCI men, the ability to have an ejaculation
        and to father a child naturally is diminished. In fact,
        ten years ago, doctors were telling newly injured SCI men
        that they would not be able to father their own children.
        With advances made in procedures to assist men in
        obtaining an ejaculation as well as advances in assistive
        reproduction technology, SCI men now have the potential
        to become biological fathers. Vibratory stimulation and
        electroejaculation are procedures that have been
        investigated and are currently available to assist men in
        obtaining ejaculations. Obtaining the ejaculation is only part of the
        fertility problem in SCI men, however, the semen from SCI
        men most often contains a lower than normal percent of
        motile sperm. Questions that researchers hope to be able
        to answer with investigations on the quality of sperm of
        SCI men are: what happens to semen quality following SCI?
        and how successful is artificial insemination and other
        reproductive technology using semen from SCI men? Technology and research are making it possible for
        spinal cord injured men to consider options regarding
        their fertility and is providing a more encouraging
        answer to the question, "Will I be able to have
        children?" Additional Information is available in Factsheet #10:
        Male Reproductive Function after Spinal Cord Injury. Alternative Therapies Various controversial treatments for SCI have come and
        gone over the years, but none have proved to be effective
        in reversing the damage to the spinal cord that occurs in
        spinal cord injury. Often alternative therapies are very
        difficult to evaluate because of the unscientific nature
        in which the treatments are introduced to the human
        population. Many alternative therapies have no documented
        scientific evidence to substantiate their effectiveness.
        Currently, examples of treatments that fall into this
        category are the use of Sygen (GM-1) in chronic injuries
        and omentum transposition. Summary of Treatment Research Over the last several years there has been progress in
        the treatment of acute SCI to limit damage and preserve
        function. Treatment of chronic SCI presents a greater
        challenge, as damage that has already occurred must be
        corrected and then reversed. It is entirely possible that, given appropriate
        financial support, many of the complex problems of SCI
        one day will be solved. Until that day arrives, it is
        import-ant to urge the federal government to provide
        broad-based support for basic science research so the
        fundamental questions about how and why the CNS acts the
        way it does can be answered. A cure or new treatments are
        possible only if scientists receive the support necessary
        to con-tinue their work in this important area. For further information on Freedox®clinical
                trials, contact: Upjohn Company, 929 Lawrence
                Court, N. Bellmore, NY 11710, 516-486-5276. For further information on Sygen®clinical
                trials, contact: Fidia Pharmaceutical Corp., 1401
                I Street, NW, #900, Washington, DC 20005,
                202-371-9898. For further information about FES applications,
                contact: the F.E.S. Information Center, 25100
                Euclid Avenue, Suite 105, Cleveland, OH 44117,
                800-666-2353. For further information about The Miami Project,
                contact: The Miami Project, 1600 Northwest 10th
                Avenue, R-48, Miami, FL 33136, 1-800-STAND-UP. SUGGESTED READINGS: Books Maddox, Sam, (1992): T he Quest for Cure:
        Restoration of Function After Spinal Cord Injury ,
        Paralyzed Veterans of America, 801 18th Street, N.W.,
        Washington, DC 20006. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National
        Institutes of Health, The NINDS Research Program, (1989):
        Spinal Cord Injury, NIH-NINDS, Building 31A, Room 8A16,
        9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20892. Newsletters/Magazines International Spinal Research Trust Newsletter, International
        Spinal Research Trust, Nicholas House - River Front,
        Effield, Middlesex, England. Paraplegia: International Journal of the Spinal
        Cord, Churchill-Livingston of Edinbourough London,
        Subscription Manager, Journal Department, Longman Group,
        4th Avenue, Harlow Essex CN19 SA, UK. Paraplegia News, monthly research column, Paralyzed
        Veterans of America, 801 18th Street, NW, Washington, DC
        20006. Progress in Research and Walking Tomorrow , the
        American Paralysis Association, P.O. Box 187, Short
        Hills, NJ 07078. SCI Life , National Spinal Cord Injury
        Association quarterly publication. The Project: News from the Miami Project to Cure
        Paralysis, Miami Project, 1600 NW 10th Avenue, R-48,
        Miami, FL 33136. Manuscripts/Articles Neural Grafting, Repairing the Brain and Spinal Cord,
        New Developments in Neuroscience, Congress of the United
        States, Office of Technology Assessment. Superintendent
        of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office,
        Washington, DC 20402-9325. Bracken, M., (May, 1990): A Randomized Controlled
        Trial of Methylprednisolone or Naloxone in the Treatment
        of Acute SCI, The New England Journal of Medicine, 322(20)
        pp. 1405. Bunge, R.P., et. al (1991) Regeneration of Axons from
        Human Retina In Vitro. Experimental Neurology, 112:243-251. Bunge, R.P., et. al (1991) Isolation and Functional
        Characterization of Schwann Cells Derived from Adult
        Peripheral Nerve. Journal of Neuroscience. 11:2433-2442. Bunge, R.P., et. al (1992) Sygeneic Schwann Cells
        Derived from Adult Nerves Seeded in Semipermeable
        Guidance Channels Enhance Peripheral Nerve Regeneration, The
        Journal of Neuroscience, 12(9): 3310-3320. \Bunge, R.P. (1994) Clinical implications of recent
        advances in neurotrauma research. In: The Neurobiology of
        Central Nervous System Trauma, (Salzman, S.K., Faden,
        A.I., Eds.). Oxford University Press, pp 329-339. Calancie, Blair, et. al (1992). Intraoperative Evoked
        EMG Monitoring in an Animal Model, A New Technique for
        Evaluating Pedicle Screw Placement. Spine Vol 17,
        Nol. 10; 1229-1235. Calancie, Blair, et. al, (1994). Involuntary stepping
        after spinal cord injury. Brain 117; 1143-1159. Geisler, F.H. et. al., (June, 1991): Recovery of Motor
        Function After Spinal Cord Injury - A Randomized,
        Placebo-Controlled Trial with GM-1 Ganglioside, The
        New England Journal of Medicine, 324(26) 1829-1838. Guenard, V., Xu, X.M., Bunge, M.B. (1993). The use of
        Schwann cells transplantation to foster central nervous
        system repair. Seminars in the Neurosciences 5;410-411. Onifer, S.M., Whittemore, S.R., and Holets, V.R.
        (1993). Variable morphological differentiation of a
        raphe-derives neuronal cell line following
        transplantation in adult rat CNS. Experimental
        Neurology 122;130-142. Travis, John, (October 1992): Spinal Cord Injuries:
        New Optimism Blooms for Developing Treatments, Science ,
        Volume 258, pp 218-220. NSCIA, 8/95 This fact sheet was prepared with the
        assistance of Dr. Cheryl Chanaud of the National
        Institutes of Health and Dr. Naomi Kleitman and Marie
        Amador, RN, CRRN of the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis.
        This factsheet is offered as an information service and
        is not intended to cover all treatments nor research in
        the field, nor is it an endorsement of the methods
        mentioned herein. Any information you may have to offer
        to further update this factsheet would be greatly
        appreciated. The National Spinal Cord Injury Resource
        Center (NSCIRC) provides information and referral on any
        subject related to spinal cord injury. Contact the
        resource center at 1-800-962-9629. Browse the 