
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 19:25:46 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 18:25:46 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Muscle Strain - Muscle Strain Description - Muscle Strain Symptoms - Muscle Strain Prevention - Muscle Strain Treatment About.com Health Symptom Checker Symptom Checker Search Symptom Checker Lab Test Interpreter Share Send to a Friend Muscle Strain • What Is It? • Symptoms • Diagnosis • Expected Duration • Prevention • Treatment • When To Call A Professional • Prognosis • Additional Info What Is It? A muscle strain is the stretching or tearing of muscle fibers. Most muscle strains happen for one of two reasons: either the muscle has been stretched beyond its limits or it has been forced to contract too strongly. In mild cases, only a few muscle fibers are stretched or torn, and the muscle remains intact and strong. In severe cases, however, the strained muscle may be torn and unable to function properly. To help simplify diagnosis and treatment, doctors often classify muscle strains into three grades, depending on the severity of muscle fiber damage: Grade I strain In this mild strain, only a few muscle fibers are stretched or torn. Although the injured muscle is tender and painful, it has normal strength. Grade II strain This is a moderate strain, with a greater number of injured fibers and more severe muscle pain and tenderness. There is also mild swelling, noticeable loss of strength, and sometimes a bruise. Grade III strain This strain tears the muscle all the way through, sometimes causing a "pop" sensation as the muscle rips into two separate pieces or shears away from its tendon. Grade III strains are serious injuries that cause complete loss of muscle function, as well as considerable pain, swelling, tenderness and discoloration. Because Grade III strains usually cause a sharp break in the normal outline of the muscle, there may be an obvious "dent" or "gap" under the skin where the ripped pieces of muscle have come apart. Although the risk of muscle strain is especially high during sports activities, you also can strain a muscle by lifting a heavy carton or by simply stepping off a curb. In the United States, strains and sprains account for more than 4.5 million doctor visits every year. More than one-third of these injuries happen to active young adults between the ages of 25 and 44. Men are about 30% more likely to be injured than women. On the job, various types of strains, sprains and tears account for four out of the top five categories of occupational injuries among American workers. Almost all types of athletic activity carry some risk of muscle strains, but these injuries tend to happen most often in contact sports, such as football, and in sports that require quick starts, such as basketball and tennis. Among high school athletes, strains account for about one-third of all injuries in baseball and about 25% of all injuries in soccer, football and volleyball. Symptoms Symptoms of muscle strain include: Muscle pain and tenderness, especially after an activity that stretches or violently contracts the muscle Pain usually increases when you move the muscle but is relieved by rest. Muscle swelling, discoloration or both Muscle cramp or spasm Either a decrease in muscle strength or (in Grade III strains) a complete loss of muscle function A pop in the muscle at the time of injury A gap, dent or other defect in the normal outline of the muscle (in Grade III strain) Diagnosis Your doctor will want to know what type of activity triggered your muscle pain and whether there was a pop in the muscle at the time of injury. The doctor will ask about your symptoms, especially any decrease in muscle strength or any difficulty moving. Your doctor will want to know whether you've had recent fever, weight loss, leg numbness, urinary or bladder problems, or other symptoms that may point to a more severe medical problem. After noting your symptoms and past medical history, your doctor will examine you, checking for muscle tenderness, spasm, weakness and decreased muscle movement. If this exam points to a mild or moderate muscle strain, you may not need any additional testing. However, if the diagnosis is in doubt, X-rays or a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan may be done. If you have back pain, your doctor may order additional tests to check for a urinary tract infection or a problem involving the vertebrae (backbones), vertebral disks, spinal canal or spinal cord. Expected Duration How long a sprain lasts depends on the location and severity of the injury. Symptoms of a mild back strain usually improve within one to two weeks and are gone within four to six weeks. In the legs, mild or moderate strains may take up to 8 to 10 weeks or more to heal. Symptoms of a severe (Grade III) strain may persist until the torn muscle is repaired surgically. Prevention To help prevent muscle strains: Warm up before participating in sports and activities. Follow an exercise program aimed at stretching and strengthening your muscles. Increase the intensity of your training program gradually. Never push yourself too hard, too soon. Maintain a healthy body weight. Obesity can stress muscles, especially in your legs and back. Practice good posture when you sit and stand. Use the correct technique when you lift heavy loads. Treatment If you have a Grade I or Grade II strain, your doctor will ask you to follow the RICE rule: R est the injured muscle (and take a temporary break from sports activities). I ce the injured area to reduce swelling. C ompress the muscle with an elastic bandage. E levate the injured area. To help relieve muscle pain and swelling, your doctor may suggest that you take acetaminophen (Tylenol and others) or a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin and others). For someone with a painful back strain that does not improve with NSAIDs or acetaminophen (Tylenol), prescription pain medications or muscle relaxants may be appropriate. If you have a severe Grade II or Grade III strain, your doctor may refer you to an orthopedic specialist. Depending on the severity and location of your muscle strain, the orthopedist may immobilize the injured muscle in a cast for several weeks or repair it surgically. Whether your strain is mild or severe, your treatment will not be complete until you finish a rehabilitation program aimed at restoring normal movement and strength to your injured muscle. When To Call A Professional Call your doctor promptly if: You hear or feel a pop in your muscle at the time of injury. You have severe pain, swelling or discoloration in the injured muscle. Your injured muscle is obviously weak or has difficulty moving compared to the same muscle on the opposite side of your body. You have mild muscle symptoms that do not improve after 48 hours. You have severe back pain that makes it impossible for you to perform normal daily activities, or you have mild back pain that worsens after a few days. You are being treated for a strained back, and your symptoms do not improve within two weeks. You have back pain together with any of the following symptoms, which can signal a medical problem that is more serious than a mild back strain: Fever or chills Pain or a burning feeling when you urinate Sudden weakness, numbness or tingling in a leg Numbness in your groin or rectum Difficulty controlling your bladder or bowel function Prognosis Recovery depends on the location and severity of your muscle strain. In general, almost all Grade I strains heal within a few weeks, whereas Grade II strains may take two to three months or longer. After surgery to repair a Grade III strain, most people regain normal muscle function after several months of rehabilitation. Additional Info National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases Information Clearinghouse National Insitutes of Health 1 AMS Circle Bethesda, MD 20892-3675 Phone: 301-495-4484 Toll-Free: 1-877-226-4267 Fax: 301-718-6366 TTY: 301-565-2966 Email: niamsinfo@mail.nih.gov http://www.niams.nih.gov/ National Institutes of Health (NIH) 9000 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20892 Phone: 301-496-4000 Email: nihinfo@od.nih.gov http://www.nih.gov/ American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) 6300 North River Road Rosemont, IL 60018-4262 Phone: 847-823-7186 Toll-Free: 1-800-346-2267 Fax: 847-823-8125 http://orthoinfo.aaos.org/ National Athletic Trainers' Association 2952 Stemmons Freeway Dallas, TX 75247 Phone: 214-637-6282 Fax: 214-637-2206 http://www.nata.org/ American Physical Therapy Association 1111 North Fairfax St. Alexandria, VA 22314-1488 Phone: 703-684-2782 Toll-Free: 1-800-999-2782 TTY: 703-683-6748 Fax: 703-684-7343 Email: public-relations@apta.org http://www.apta.org/ Publication Source: Courtney TK and Webster BS. Disabling Occupational Morbidity in the United States. Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine. 41(1): 60. January 1999 Publication Source: Klag MJ (editor). The Johns Hopkins Family Health Book. Baltimore: HarperCollins Publishers, 1999 Publication Source: National Center for Health Statistics Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Office Visits to Orthopedic Surgeons: United States, 1995-96. NCHS Advance Data, Number 302. September 28, 1998 Publication Source: Soft Tissue Injuries. In Rosen: Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice, 4th ed. Mosby-Year Book, Inc., 1998 Publication Source: Stiles BH. Common Sports Injuries. In Rakel: Conn's Current Therapy 2000, 52nd ed. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders Company, 2000 Online Source: National Athletic Trainers' Association http://www.nata.org Online Medical Reviewer: Faculty of Harvard Medical School Date Last Reviewed: 3/27/2006 Date Last Modified: 8/21/2006 Source: from Harvard Health Decision Guides, Harvard Health Publications, Copyright © 2007 by President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Used with permission of StayWell. Symptom Checker content copyright © 2006 by President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Used with permission of StayWell. Use of content is subject to Terms & Conditions and Medical Disclaimer . More information on Harvard Medical School's publications and services is available at http://www.health.harvard.edu . Related Articles Leg Strain - Leg Strain Description - Leg Strain Symptoms - Leg Strain... Abdominal Strain - Abdominal Muscle Injury Low Back Strain | Lumbar Strain | Back Muscle Injury Calf Strain - Common Sports Injury Calf Strain Sprain and Strain - What is Difference Between a Sprain and a Strain Symptom Checker About.com Health Symptom Checker Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com.