
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 03:10:01 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Hemorrhoid Care : Hemorrhoids SEARCH: Health Articles : Hemorrhoids Hemorrhoids : Hemorrhoid Care Hemorrhoid Clinic Hemorrhoid is a very different disease and it may give in a patient even if he is healthy. This ..... In general hemorrhoids are the results of the swelling of the around the anus. The swelling may occur if there is excessive amount of pressure on the veins, which prevents the return, flow of the blood to the heart. Commonly, hemorrhoids are of two types the external and the internal. As different as their reason of occurrences, their symptoms are also quite contrast to each other. For example the internal types are generally painless but may bleed sometimes which makes it very difficult for the sufferers to feel the very presence of the hemorrhoid within the body. However in the external types the presence may be felt because of the excessive pain it causes and their occurrence being on the outer side of the body. It may also get accompaniment of itching, swelling, irritation & a burning feeling in some of the cases. Hemorrhoids can be taken care of by one self under medical attention of course if the patient is aware of the causes of its occurrence. As pain is one of the most common complain of the sufferers, applying cold compress directly in the affected area can treat it helping ease the pain to a great extent. Use of moistened toilet paper or baby wipe after each bowel movement may also bring relief and soothe the affected area. Cleanliness is another most important factor for the control the worsening of the conditions. For this one can clean the area well with warm water several times a day. A handheld showerhead can prove helpful in the attempts. Other precautions, which should be strictly observed, are avoidance of prolonged sitting, rubbing of the affected areas, which may result in bleeding and avoidance of bath salts and soaps with dyes and perfumes. Hemorrhoids in very rare cases may need to be treated surgically, either through injection sclerotherapy, which causes the vein to shrink, rubber-band ligation or hemorrhoidectomy. One can take care and heal absolutely through natural means. This may be done by observing a planned & healthy diet as well as through regular exercises at home. A high level of fiber content in the diet helps in softening of the bowel movements thus making them easier to pass. The same may be obtained by eating fresh vegetables, whole grains, and beans. It is observed that sometimes hemo0rrhoids are the out comes of insufficient hydration in the body or by excessive intake of diuretic fluids such as coffee and colas. In such a condition drinking of eight glasses of water daily on an average basis will help to maintain the normal fluid of the body. Also diuretic fluids should be strictly cut of fro the drinking list. Hemorrhoid Diet Hemorrhoid is a form of disease that affects the skin of a person. It results in swelling up of veins around the anus or lower ..... Liquid Vitamins Versus Chewable Vitamins Getting Energy From Vitamins Getting The Right Amount Of Vitamins Taking Supplements Nutritional Supplements Ginger Root Heals Ailments Supplements For Calcium Discount Vitamins Liquid Vitamin Supplements Supplements For Building Muscle Bee Pollen Supplements Supplements And Your Health Antioxidant Supplements The Role Of Vitamin B3 Niacin Copyright © 