Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Bioforce Ginkgo biloba 100ml from Health Emporium Health Emporium Item : 0 | Total : £0.00 Home · About us · Delivery · Blog · Testimonials · News · Past News · Contact Us Bioforce Ginkgo biloba 100ml - £14.99 One of the oldest medicinal herbs known to Man, the fresh green leaves of the Ginkgo biloba tree are gathered in spring to create this beneficial tincture.  Alfred Vogel’s own Ginkgo tree, planted on his return from Japan, was a daily source of fresh leaves which he carefully chewed as he grew older to absorb the valuable juices. Ingredients: Tinctures of fresh Ginkgo Biloba leaves, extracted in alcohol (66% v/v ). 100ml Directions for use: Adults: 15 drops in a little water 3 times daily Children: This product is not recommended for children. Customer that brought this item also brought : Bioforce Ginkgo biloba - £8.95 Also known as: Memory Tree. Uses: Improves arterial circulation, cold hands and feet, Menière’s Disease, chilblains, tinnitus, impotence and poor memory. Description: This is probably one of the oldest medicinal herbs known to Man. Its use can be traced to the oldest Chinese Materia Medica dating back to around 3,000 BC. Traditional Chinese medicine describes the ability of Ginkgo leaves to benefit the brain. Today, numerous clinical trials have shown Ginkgo’s ability to improve brain function and therefore quality of life. How it works: The action of Ginkgo has been quite clearly demonstrated in various research tests. Direct action on the arterial circulation increases the blood flow through these vessels. At the same time, the herb has been shown to inhibit a substance known as platelet activating factor (PAF). This action further improves blood flow. Ginkgo has also been shown to have antioxidant effects, which are important in stabilising cell membranes in the body. 50ml Additional advice: Do not use alongside blood-thinning medicines such as low-dose aspirin or anticoagulants such as warfarin. Add to basket: Product Categories Baby Care Products Body Systems Allergies Eyecare Female Health and Hormonal Candida Albicans PMS and Menopause Heart and Cardiovascular Health Cholesterol Support Circulation Immune System Liver Health Lung and Respiratory Health Mens Healthcare Mind, Mood and Sleep Joint and Bone Health Urinary Tract and Prostate Vitamins & Minerals Amino Acids Antioxidants Multivitamins Minerals Vitamins A, D & K Vitamins B Vitamin C Vitamin E Detox and Weight Loss Ear Health Energy Medicine Flower Essences Homeopathic Creams & Tinctures Homeopathic Remedies Magnets Tissue Salts Essential Oils Aromatherapy Blended Bath Oils Aromatherapy Blended Body Lotions Blended Massage Oils Carrier Oils Creams Empty Bottles & Jars Essential Oils Floral Waters Health Foods Seeds Grains, Flour, Cereals Beverages Biscuits, Bread & Cereal Health Equipment Groceries Jams and Spreads Manuka Honey Seasonings, Sauces Sweets, Snacks, Confectionary Herbal Tinctures and Liquid Extracts Homeopathic Remedies Personal Care Make-up Bodycare & Skincare Skin Problems Bodycare & Skincare Childrens Deodorant Facecare Female Toiletries Haircare Hair Colours Shampoo Conditioner Hair Treatments Head Lice Oral Care Summer and Travel Pregnancy & Childbirth Sports Nutrition Amino Acids and Metabolics Creatine Sports Bars Weight Gain Whey Protein Supplements Children's Supplements Headlice Essential Fatty Acids Vitamins, Minerals and Herbs Cough Medicines Digestive Supports Aloe Vera Prebiotics and Probiotics Digestive Enzymes Lecithin Herbal Support Digestive Combinations Essential Fatty Acids Fish Oils Garlic Hair, Skin and Nail Care Hair Loss Hair, Skin and Nail Support Herbs Herbal Tinctures and Liquid Extracts Pregnancy & Childbirth Superfoods Summer and Travel Special Diets Gluten Free Foods Wheat Free Sugar Free Books Food Ailments Children's Health Health Complementary Therapies Iridology Homeopathy Jane Gathercole Spine and Wellness Therapy Rooms Health & Beauty Treatments Art of Wellness Food Sensitivity Testing Homeopathy Special Offer Item : 0 | Total : £0.00 Sign Up To sign up for our newsletter and receive our special offers please enter your emails below. Existing Customer Log In If you are an exisitiing customer please click here to login. Top · · terms · privacy · Links · delivery