
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 01 Mar 2012 23:15:42 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Pneumonia and Its Treatment - Medical Advice Medical Advice Home | Submit | Search | RSS Welcome Guest Main Menu Home Login Register Submit Advice Guidelines Latest Advices Search Contact Us Medical Advice » Diseases-and-cure » Pneumonia and Its Treatment Pneumonia and Its Treatment By: Mark Monteiro Total Views: 290, Word Count: 863, Pneumonia is a lung infection caused by various microorganisms like bacteria, viruses and fungi. Its alternative names are Bronchopneumonia and Community-acquired pneumonia. If body resistance is down then microorganisms freely spread into the lungs and lungs air sacs .The infectious agent fill the latter with fluid and pus, worsening the condition of the affected person. People who have recently suffered from viral infections, heart problems, swallowing problems, lung diseases, drug addicts alcoholics are likely to catch Pneumonia more easily than others. In some cases of Pneumonia, droplets containing Pneumonia causing organisms are breathed in. When an infected person coughs/sneezes these droplets get into the air. In other cases Pneumonia is caused when bacteria/viruses already present in mouth/nose/throat enter the lung. If diagnosed in time it can be easily treated. Types of Pneumonia- Bacterial      Pneumonia-When body’s immunity is weakened, Pneumonia causing bacteria in      throats can multiply, entering into lungs, inflaming air sacs, filling lungs      with fluid and pus. Viral      Pneumonia-Viruses like influenza enter lungs and multiply. Mycoplasmal      Pneumonia-Mycoplasmas multiply and spread, causing infection. Some other Pneumonia related disorders are: Aspiration      Pneumonia, Chlamydial      Pneumonia, Loffler’s      syndrome, Pneumocystis      carinii Pneumonia, Pediatric      pneumonia, Necrotizing      pneumonia. Symptoms of pneumonia- Cough(greenish/yellow      mucus),at times bloody sputum occurs Piercing      chest pain Fever      with shaking chills Shallow,      rapid breathing Shortness      of breath At times headache, appetite loss, excessive fatigue, sweating and cyanosis are also witnessed. In case of children and babies any particular signs of chest infection are not obsevered but fever and lethargy are noticed. Diagnosis of pneumonia- Pneumonia is diagnosed by physical examination. When stethoscope is placed on chest, crackling sound is heard with wheezing/coarse breathing. Chest X-ray, sputum gram stain, blood test may be prescribed. The chest X-ray may show a blotchy –white area as a result of accumulation of fluid and pus in lung’s air sacs. The cause and severity of condition are determined by sputum gram stain and blood test. If no conclusion can be drawn from the above given tests, bronchoscopy may be performed in which local anesthesia is given and a thin, flexible tube is inserted into nose/mouth of the affected person. Then doctor can directly examine the breathing passages and specimens from the infected part can be obtained. Treatment of Pneumonia- In most cases Pneumonia is a short-term, treatable illness but its frequent occurrences can make situation complicated. Antibiotics are used to      treat Pneumonia caused by bacteria      which most commonly causes Pneumonia. The antibiotic prescribed is based      on one’s general health, age and severity of Pneumonia . Generally      improvement is seen in 2 to 3 days but if condition deteriorates, culture      and sensitivity testing is required which helps in identifying the symptom      causing organism. In case of Viral Pneumonia      there is no proven medicine for it. The only treatment is rest and taking care      of one’s cough. Varicella Pneumonia which      is rare could be treated with an antiviral medicine. If antibiotics are taken at ripe time, it results in quick recovery. If one needs to go to the hospital, probably some additional testing will be done to identify the bacteria. Prevention of Pneumonia- Quit      smoking Avoiding      contact with people having cold and flu If one      has not suffered from measles/chicken pox or not had vaccination done      against them, he should avoid contact with infected people Pneumonia can      be a complication of the above two diseases, catching these infections may      be dangerous. Washing      hands frequently Every disease has its own causes, symptoms and severity but if the causes are known and symptoms recognized, if people are aware with it, many serious situations can be avoided. Similarly, Pneumonia and its treatment would not be a problem if people are completely aware of it. About the Author Dr. Mark Monteiro is graduated from the Hazard University and done his MBA from the he University Of Illinois College Of Medicine. Currently he is working as general physician at Elmhurst Loyola Center for Health. For over 15 years he has been a pioneer in the field of physician health. He has contributed to the treatment of many diseases like- ASTHMA, TUBERCULOSIS, HIV, HEPATITIS AND ITS TREATMENT. Advice Rating: Not yet rated Login to vote Comments No comments posted. Add Comment Enter the c