
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 26 Feb 2012 15:45:26 GMT
Server: Apache/2
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.14
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Amazing Nature psychoactive herbs, seeds, mushrooms and cacti Psychoactive herbs, seeds, mushrooms and cacti Ihr Konto Warenkorb Kasse US Dollar Euro British Pound Kräuter & Mischungen Ayahuasca Mischungen Kräuter Salvia Divinorum Kräuter Pakete Amazing Samen Kakteen Peyote San Pedro Pilze Pilze Sporen Grow kits Bücher Smart Produkte Energizers Herbal XTC Aphrodisiacs Psychodelic Fat Burner Bücher Kräuter-allgemein Spezielle Kräuter Magische Pilze Smart Produkte Zeige alle Produkte Neue Produkte testsb 0.00€ Informationen PRODUKT INFORMATION Betel Nut Calamus Catmint / Catnip Damiana Grow Box Ephedra/ Mormon Tea Galangal Cola Nut Muira Puama Passion Flower Scullcap Valerian Root Wild Lettuce Wormwood Yohimbe Guarana Sassafras Dream Herb Caapi Salvia Divinorum Diploptherys Cabrerana Virola Theiodora Psychotria Viridis Ahayhuasca Peyote San Pedro Thorn Apple Black Nightshade Morning Glory Syrian Rue Black Henbane Mimosa Scabella Villca, Cébil Yerba Mate Sameruca Opium Poppy Thorn Appel Hawain Baby Woodrose Growing Techniques Marihuana Gotu kola Kava Kava Phalaris Arundinacea Art Kontakt Valerian Root (Valeriana officinalis) INTRODUCTION : Valeriana officinalis is a perennial that has very odoriferous roots, small white flowers and is native to Europe. The plant can be propagated easily by seeds and division. The root material, which is rich in volatile oils, has been used since Roman times for its sedating and tranquilizing properties; valerian has been used traditionally for nervousness, depression, insomnia and anxiety. EFFECTS : Valerian has mild sedative and tranquilizing effects. It also reduces insomnia, nervousness and anxiety when used over a 2-week period. Valerian is quite safe for human consumption. Autonomic effects: fatigue, mydriasis, palpitation of the heart and tremor. DURATION : The effects of valerian appear 0,5-1 hour after ingestion and last a few hours. Dosage and preparation : The ground root material can be eaten (fresh or dried), imbibed as a tea, taken as an alcoholic tincture or be smoked. A tea may be prepared by boiling the plant material in 0.5-1 litre of water for ± 5 minutes. 2-5 grams of dried root (taken one or more times a day over a 2-week period) is effective in reducing nervousness and anxiety. With doses above 10 grams the sedative, psychotropic effects become more pronounced. Valerian combines well with hops (Humulus lupulus) and kava-kava (Piper methysticum); valerian/hops combinations produce strong sleep-inducing teas and valerian/kava-kava combinations (ratio resp. 50%/50%) enhance dreaming. Figure: Dried valerian Figure: Close-up Botanical aspects : V. officinalis is a perennial that belongs to Valerianaceae and is native to Europe. This plant has fingered leaves, small pinkish-white flowers and very odoriferous roots (rhizomes). It grows 0,3-1,5 meters in height and can easily be propagated by seeds and rhizome division. Phytochemistry : The roots contain valeneric acids (valerenic acid, hydroxy valerenic acid, acethoxy valerenic acid and valerenal), valepotriates (valtrate, isovaltrate, acevaltrate, didrovaltrate), actinidine (a pyridine derivative), glutamine and a volatile oil, from which 150 compounds have been identified (mainly mono- and sesquiterpenes). Table 1.32: Valepotriates Table 1.33: Valerenic acids Table 1.32,a /1.33,a: Substituents of valepotriats and valerenic acids Pharmacology : Constituents of valerian extracts have affinity for GABA-, adenosine-, barbiturate- and benzodiazepine receptors.These pharmacological effects have been ascribed mainly to the presence of the valerenic acids, valepotriates, actinidine and glutamine. - The valtrates (especially dihydrovaltrate) have specific affinity for barbiturate and peripheral benzodiazepine- receptors. - The valerenic acids (val. acid, AcO-val. acid) inhibit the enzymatic inactivation of GABA in the brain by 20-38% (accumulation of GABA may result in a decreased central activity and increased sedativity). - Glutamine may also contribute to increasing the GABA concentrations, because in the brain glutamine (which easily passes the blood-brain-barrier) can be converted into GABA. - Actinidine also appears to affect the GABA neurosystem. It is still not known whether the psychoactivity is an effect of a group of compounds, some unknown compounds or due to a synergistic effect. It is known, however, that the effects of the individual constituents cannot account for the total root activity. Toxicology : There is some evidence that several decomposition products of valepotriates (baldrinal and homobaldrinal) exhibit cytotoxic- and mutagenic activity. Modifiers : - Valerian might antagonize the effects of alcohol. - Kava-kava (piper methysticum) enhances dreaming when combined with valerian. - Hops (humulus lupulus) combinations are strongly sleep-inducing. - Valerian potentiates barbiturate-induced sleeping-time. - Activated charcoal reduces the effects of valerian. References 1. [Andrews/ Basu/ Amaresh] 2. [Fokialaks/ Magials/ Malik] 3. [Forth/ Henschler/ Rummel/ Fostermann/ Starke, 2001] 4. [Fugh-Berman/ Cott, 1999] 5. [Ratsch, 1998] 6. [Wells, 1973] (Text by Wout.) Warenkorb 0 Produkte Schnellsuche Verwenden Sie Stichworte, um ein Produkt zu finden. erweiterte Suche Sie suchen... Bitte wählen Energizing Love Relax Vision Most Popular 01. MAGIC MUSHROOM GROW KIT 02. THE 'FAT STEM' 03. LOPHOPHORA WILLIAMSII 04. THE 'GOLDEN TEACHER' 05. SALVIA DIVINORUM 06. DREAM HERB (Calea zacatechichi) 07. Dionysos 08. AYAHUASCA KIT 09. DAMIANA (Turnera diffusa) 10. ARGYREIA NERVOSA Convolvulaceae Also visit our friends from SmartBotanics! SmartBotanics. Specialist in Magic Mushroom growers supplies and the only official site for the easy to use PF-TEK growing method. Sonntag, 26. Februar 2012 TOP 20468452 Zugriffe seit Sonntag, 05. März 1995 Copyright © 2012 Amazing Nature Online seit 1995 AMAZING NATURE P.O.Box 318    6500 AH Nijmegen    The