
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Expires: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 18:49:36 GMT
Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 18:49:36 GMT
Cache-Control: private, max-age=0
Last-Modified: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 18:18:02 GMT
ETag: "c13a80a9-6fad-4195-8671-16b88c2d816d"
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
Server: GSE

August 2010 | ironminds skip to main | skip to sidebar News Feed Comments ironminds Ironminds is a leading source for trustworthy and timely health news and information. Monday, August 9, 2010 Crohn's Diet & Nutritional Supplements 0
comments 6:38 PM
Posted by Evan Labels: crohn's disease , Crohn's Disease Diet , probiotics Suggested Approach to Crohn's Disease Diet Inflammatory Bowel Disease IBD, including Crohn's Disease and ulcerative colitis, is an inflammation of the intestines. These diseases cause the intestines to form ulcers and become inflamed, scarred and easy to bleed. The most common symptoms are diarrhea, acute abdominal pain, cramping, fever and fatigue. A special diet is very important in exercising IBD management to prevent malnutrition and extreme weight loss. Nutritional Diet for Crohn's Disease & Colitis Drink lots of fluid (8 - 10 servings daily) to keep body hydrated and prevent constipation Your doctor or your registered dietitian may recommend a daily multivitamin-mineral supplement to replace lost nutrients Eat a high fiber diet when IBD is under control. Follow here for a list of high fiber foods. Some patients find cooking and steaming the vegetables more tolerable than eating them raw During a flare up, however, limit high fiber foods and follow a low fiber diet or even a low residue diet to give the bowel a rest and minimize symptoms. Avoid lactose-containing foods such as dairy if you are lactose intolerant. Otherwise, you may use lactase enzymes and lactase pretreated foods. It is very important to continue nourishing your body even during a flare-up. Try small frequent meals. Eating a high protein diet with lean meats, fish and eggs, may help relieve symptoms of IBD. Your registered dietitian may recommend pre-digested nutritional drinks (elemental diet) to give your bowel a rest and replenish lost nutrients so that your body can repair itself Limit caffeine, alcohol and sorbitol (a type of sweetener) as these may exacerbate IBD symptoms. Limit gas-producing foods such as cabbage-family vegetables (broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower and brussels sprouts), dried peas and lentils, onions and chives, peppers and carbonated drinks Reduce fat intake if part of the intestines has been surgically removed. High fat foods usually cause diarrhea and gas for this group of patients. If the ileum (part of the small intestines) has been resected, a Vitamin B12 injection may be required. Some studies found that fish oil and flax seed oil may be helpful in managing IBD. Some also suggested the role of prebiotics such as psyllium in the healing process. Furthermore, probiotics (live culture) may also be helpful in aiding recovery of the intestines. Ischemic colitis 0
comments 6:31 PM
Posted by Evan Labels: Ischemic colitis Ischemic colitis (ischaemic colitis in British English) is a medical condition in which inflammation and injury of the large intestine result from inadequate blood supply. Although uncommon in the general population, ischemic colitis occurs with greater frequency in the elderly, and is the most common form of bowel ischemia. Causes of the reduced blood flow can include changes in the systemic circulation (e.g. low blood pressure) or local factors such as constriction of blood vessels or a blood clot. In most cases, no specific cause can be identified. Ischemic colitis is usually suspected on the basis of the clinical setting, physical examination, and laboratory test results; the diagnosis can be confirmed via endoscopy or by using sigmoid or endoscopic placement of a visible light spectroscopic catheter (see Diagnosis). Ischemic colitis can span a wide spectrum of severity; most patients are treated supportively and recover fully, while a minority with very severe ischemia may develop sepsis and become critically ill. Patients with mild to moderate ischemic colitis are usually treated with IV fluids, analgesia, and bowel rest (that is, no food or water by mouth) until the symptoms resolve. Those with severe ischemia who develop complications such as sepsis, intestinal gangrene, or bowel perforation may require more aggressive interventions such as surgery and intensive care. Most patients make a full recovery; occasionally, after severe ischemia, patients may develop long-term complications such as a stricture or chronic colitis . Sunday, August 1, 2010 L-Glutamine 0
comments 8:44 AM
Posted by Evan Labels: Gastrointestinal Function , l glutamine L-Glutamine Aids Gastrointestinal Function L Glutamine Supplementation Improves Intestinal Permeability, Glutamine is the most abundant naturally occurring, non-essential amino acid in the human body and one of the few amino acids that directly cross the blood-brain barrier. In the body, it is found circulating in the blood as well as stored in the skeletal muscles. It becomes conditionally essential (requiring intake from food or supplements) in states of illness or injury. There have been several recent studies into the effects of glutamine and what properties it possesses, and, there is now a significant body of evidence that links glutamine-enriched diets with intestinal effects; aiding maintenance of gut barrier function, intestinal cell proliferation and differentiation, as well as generally reducing septic morbidity and the symptoms of Irritable Bowel Syndrome. The reason for such "cleansing" properties is thought to stem from the fact that the intestinal extraction rate of glutamine is higher than that for other amino acids, and is therefore thought to be the most viable option when attempting to alleviate conditions relating to the gastrointestinal tract. These conditions were discovered after comparing plasma concentration within the gut between glutamine-enriched and non glutamine-enriched diets. However, even though glutamine is thought to have "cleansing" properties and effects, it is unknown to what extent glutamine has clinical benefits, due to the varied concentrations of glutamine in varieties of food. Constipation 0
comments 8:41 AM
Posted by Evan Labels: constipation , constipation treatment , high fiber Constipation treatment : Not Enough Fiber in the Diet People who eat a high-fiber diet are less likely to become constipated. The most common causes of constipation are a diet low in fiber or a diet high in fats, such as cheese, eggs, and meats. Fiber—both soluble and insoluble—is the part of fruits, vegetables, and grains that the body cannot digest. Soluble fiber dissolves easily in water and takes on a soft, gel-like texture in the intestines. Insoluble fiber passes through the intestines almost unchanged. The bulk and soft texture of fiber help prevent hard, dry stools that are difficult to pass. Americans eat an average of 5 to 14 grams of fiber daily,* which is short of the 20 to 35 grams recommended by the American Dietetic Association. Both children and adults often eat too many refined and processed foods from which the natural fiber has been removed. A low- fiber diet also plays a key role in constipation among older adults, who may lose interest in eating and choose foods that are quick to make or buy, such as fast foods, or prepared foods, both of which are usually low in fiber. Also, difficulties with chewing or swallowing may cause older people to eat soft foods that are processed and low in fiber. Not Enough Liquids Research shows that although increased fluid intake does not necessarily help relieve constipation, many people report some relief from their constipation if they drink fluids such as water and juice and avoid dehydration. Liquids add fluid to the colon and bulk to stools, making bowel movements softer and easier to pass. People who have problems with constipation should try to drink liquids every day. However, liquids that contain caffeine, such as coffee and cola drinks will worsen one’s symptoms by causing dehydration. Alcohol is another beverage that causes dehydration. It is important to drink fluids that hydrate the body, especially when consuming caffeine containing drinks or alcoholic beverages. Lack of Physical Activity A lack of physical activity can lead to constipation, although doctors do not know precisely why. For example, constipation often occurs after an accident or during an illness when one must stay in bed and cannot exercise. Lack of physical activity is thought to be one of the reasons constipation is common in older people. Newer Posts Older Posts Home Subscribe to: Posts (Atom) Enews & Updates Sign up to receive breaking news as well as receive other site updates! Diverticulitis FDA Consumer Updates - Warning on Body Building Products - Health Risks Posed by E-Cigarettes Categories acid reflux (3) acid reflux diet (1) allergies (1) Alli (1) Aloe Mucilaginous Polysaccharides (2) arthritis (3) arthritis treatment (3) asthma (1) BPH (1) Bromelain (1) burn fat (1) cancer (1) celiac disease (1) colitis (8) colitis treatment (2) colon (1) colon cancer (2) colon health (3) colonoscopy (2) constipation (1) constipation treatment (1) crohn's (10) crohn's disease (12) Crohn's Disease Diet (1) crohn's symptoms (1) crohn's treatment (2) diet pills (2) diverticular (1) diverticulitis (2) diverticulitis treatment (1) fat burners (3) Fibromyalgia (1) Fibromyalgia Treatment (1) Flextiva (2) Flu Virus (1) Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (1) Gastrointestinal Function (1) gerd (2) Glucosamine (1) good bacteria (1) H1N1 (1) Heartburn (1) Hepatitis C (1) high blood pressure (1) high fiber (2) IBS (1) IBS treatment (1) Inflammatory Bowel Disease (3) Irritable Bowel Syndrome (1) Ischemic colitis (1) l glutamine (1) L-Glutamine (1) Lactobacillus (1) Lactobacillus acidophilus (1) Lactose Intolerance (1) MSM (1) Obesity (1) probiotic (2) probiotics (4) Prostate (1) prostatic hyperplasia (1) rectyal cancer (1) rheumatoid arthritis (2) Serovera (3) Serovera Australia (1) Synephrine (1) Thermogenic fat burners (2) ulcerative colitis (9) ulcerative colitis treatment (4) vitamin D (1) weight loss (1) Xenical (1) Archives ► 2012 (1) ► January (1) L-Glutamine and gastrointestinal function ► 2011 (1) ► January (1) Fed up of ulcerative colitis controlling your life... ▼ 2010 (17) ► December (1) Fibromyalgia Treatment ▼ August (4) Crohn's Diet & Nutritional Supplements Ischemic colitis L-Glutamine Constipation ► July (2) Thermogenic fat burners and Synephrine Crohn's Colitis in Australia ► May (4) IBD May Raise Risk of Pancreatic Cancer People Wit... Change The Way You Move. Lactobacillus acidophilus Blood test to tailor arthritis treatment ► April (2) Irritable Bowel Syndrome Crohn's Symptoms ► March (3) What are the complications of Crohn’s disease? Vitamin D might fight Crohn's disease What is the treatment for ulcerative colitis? ► January (1) Cannabis Hope for Inflammatory Bowel Disease ► 2009 (26) ► December (6) People on Immunosuppressive Therapies May Be More ... Colitis disease Change The Way You Move - Arthritis Diverticulitis treatment Treatment of Colitis Avoid Swimming Pools if You Have Allergies or Asth... ► November (8) Crohn's treatment Colonoscopy What causes GERD or Acid Reflux? Burn Fat Wall Street Journal Gives BIG Thumbs Up to Good Ba... What is GERD or Acid Reflux What are the symptoms of ulcerative colitis? Crohn’s Disease ► October (6) New Study: Probiotic Strain Boosts Immune Response... Lactose Intolerance Thermogenic fat burners What is celiac disease? What I need to know about Hepatitis C Heartburn, Gastroesophageal Reflux (GER), and Gast... ► September (6) Obesity could become top cancer cause Study: Low Vitamin D Raises Blood Pressure in Wome... Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia: A Common Part of Agi... Colon Cancer How are diverticular disease and diverticulitis di... Is That Right? Alli Weight-Loss Drug is Safe Serovera Manapol digestacure AMP Molo truck repair miami fat burner fat burners ulcerative colitis treatment Digestaqure aloeelite truck miami Health in Australia diverticulitis diet diverticulitis treatment diverticulosis ulcerative colitis treatment crohn's disease treatment colitis treatment crohn's treatment ulcerative colitis crohn's disease crohn's colitis diet colitis treatment acid reflux diet probiotics diverticulosis digestacure aloeelite Reward Probiotics Copyright 2009 All Rights Reserved Revolution Two Church theme by Brian Gardne