
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 21:12:21 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Home Remedies For Diabetes Treatment - Try It Helpful Information Portal Navigation Home page Submit an article Disclaimer Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Home Remedies For Diabetes Treatment - Try It Ricky Hussey Diabetes is a lifelong, chronic health condition, in which the body is unable to break down sugar so the sugar levels are high in the blood, and also can't produce insulin or have resistance to insulin and therefore loses energy. The normal fasting blood sugar content is 80-120 mg per 100 ml of blood; this can go up to a level of 160 mg per 100 ml of blood two hours after meals. Anything above these levels can be termed as diabetic levels. Diabetes is common among older, obese people. Diabetes causes: hunger, weight loss, thirst, urination, dehydration; and in severe cases also: heart disease, hearing and vision problems, and more.There are two types of diabetes: Type I and Type IIDiabetes I: This is a totally insulin-dependent diabetes. A patient of type I disease, is a patient for ever. S/he watches the insulin doses helplessly.Diabetes II: The is a non-insulin dependent diabetes. Young children and young adults suffer from this disease. Beta cells inside the pancreas help in creating insulin by the pancreas. Once they stop the production of insulin, they will never start producing insulin again. This is Diabetes II, for which treatment is available.The symptoms for ether diabetes are, hunger and thirst more then normal, weight loss, excessive urination, fatigue, the white part of the eye turns yellowish, bruises easily, and cuts take longer to heal. If not managed properly, diabetes can have very damaging results, such as, retinopathy, blindness, cardiovascular disease, amputation of foot or leg, and kidney disease. Since Diabetes is so dangerous, it should always be monitored by a physician, but here, you will learn how to manage your diabetes type II, without synthetic drugs, using only herbs, vitamins and good nutrition. Here are presented some diabetes cure home remedies:* Take 15 fresh mango leaves and boil them in 1 glass of water. Keep them overnight. Filter and drink the next morning. * Boil a few leaves each of tulsi (Basil), neem, jamun, bel, along with 4-5 corns of pepper in a glass of water and drink two times a day.* Morning and evening walk for at least 45 minutes is very essential to control this disease.* Eat at least 1 teaspoon of cinnamon powder daily.*Put mango leaves in a glass of water and let it stand for a few hours, then take the leaves out and keep the mango water in the refrigerator. Every morning, before you eat anything, drink 1 cup of the mango water you made.* Consume 1 tablespoon juice of bitter gourd (karela) every morning, It may not instantly give results, but will definitely reduce the intensity of the condition.*Take 400 mcg. a day of chromium picolinate makes insulin more efficient helping keep sugar level low. Chromium maintains stable blood sugar levels through proper insulin utilization and can be helpful for people with diabetes and/or hypoglycemia. *Besides bitter gourd, certain other vegetables have been found useful in diabetes. These include string beans, cucumbers, onion and garlic. String bean pod tea is an excellent natural substitute for insulin and valuable . in diabetes. Cucumbers contain a hormone needed by the cells of the pancreas for producing insulin. Onions and garlic have proved beneficial in reducing blood sugar in diabetes.The diabetic must also try to remain cheerful and keep his poise. There are some asanas recommended by yoga specialists which ave proved helpful in dealing with the disease.Prevention of Diabetes    * Prevention includes measures to prevent the development of diabetes.    * Studies of both men and women have shown that vigorous exercise, even if done only once a week, has a protective effect against diabetes.    * The use of a diet low in calories and in saturated fat is an ideal strategy for preventing Type II diabetes. Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16