Connection: close
Set-Cookie: NSC_vdn.gbjswjfx.psh=ffffffffa1682a0945525d5f4f58455e445a4a423660;expires=Tue, 06-Mar-2012 09:51:42 GMT;path=/

Urinary Tract Infections in Men - University of Minnesota Amplatz Children's Hospital Doctors & Providers Quick Search: by Name by Specialty Specialties Quick Search: Specialties: General Pediatrics The Heart Center Hematology & Oncology (Cancer) Maternal-Fetal Medicine Solid Organ Transplant Surgery Trauma Services View All Specialties Health Library Quick Search: Health Topics: Cardiology Common Injuries & Conditions ED/Trauma For Parents Hospital Care Infectious Disease Newborn & Infant Care Nutrition Safety All Health Topics Find maps, driving directions, parking directions, virtual tours, and more! Maps and Driving Directions Parking New Hospital Lodging Send an eCard Home About Clinics Research Giving Careers Pharmacy Classes Contact Patient Billing Billing information and contacts. Pay Your Bill Secure, online bill pay. NetClinic Net clinic is an innovative interactive personal health portal. Pre-Registration Pre-register and save time at the hospital. Request an Appointment Online appointment request with one of our pediatric specialists. Home Health Library Browse Alphabetically A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Health Library Topics Doctors and providers who treat this 
condition Blanche Chavers, MD Anupam Kharbanda, MD, MS Jane Lewis, MD Priya Verghese, MD, MPH Anupam Kharbanda, MD, MS Specialties that treat this condition Urinary Tract Infections in Men Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are most often caused by bacteria (germs) that invade the urinary tract. The bacteria may come from outside the body. Or they may travel from the rectum into the urethra. Pain in or around the urinary tract is a common symptom for most UTIs. But the only way to know for sure if you have a UTI is to have a urine culture. Three Types of UTIs Cystitis: A bladder infection, or cystitis, is often linked to a blockage from an enlarged prostate. You may have an urgent or frequent need to urinate, fever, and bloody urine. Treatment includes antibiotics and medications to relax or shrink the prostate. In some cases, surgery is needed. Urethritis: This is an infection of the urethra. You may have a discharge from the urethra or burning when you urinate.You may also have pain in the urethra or penis. Urethritis is treated with antibiotics. Prostatitis: This is an inflammation or infection of the prostate. You may have an urgent or frequent need to urinate, fever, or burning when you urinate. Or you may have a tender prostate, or a vague feeling of pressure. Prostatitis is treated with a range of medications, depending on the cause. Pyelonephritis: This is a kidney infection. If not treated, it can be serious and damage your kidneys. In severe cases you may be hospitalized. You may have a fever and upper back pain. Treating a UTI Medications: Most UTIs are treated with antibiotics. These kill the bacteria. The length of time you need to take them depends on the type of infection. Take antibiotics exactly as directed until all of the medication is gone. If you do not, the infection may not go away and may become harder to treat. For certain types of UTIs, you may be given other medications to help treat your symptoms. Lifestyle changes: The lifestyle changes below will help get rid of your current infection. They may also help prevent future UTIs. Drink plenty of fluids such as water, juice, or other caffeine-free drinks. This helps flush bacteria out of your system. Cranberry juice (or tablets) may help prevent an infection from coming back. Empty your bladder when you feel the urge to urinate and before going to sleep. Urine that stays in your bladder promotes infection. Practice good personal hygiene. Avoid bubble baths and scented or colored toilet paper. And use condoms to help prevent UTIs caused by sexually transmitted bacteria. Keep follow-up appointments with your healthcare provider. He or she can check that the bacteria are gone. And new treatment can be started if problems recur. Additional treatment: Most UTIs respond to medication. But sometimes a procedure or surgery is needed. This can treat an enlarged prostate, or remove a kidney stone or other blockage. Surgery may also treat problems caused by scarring or long-term infections. Inside Fairview : Hospitals Clinics Doctors & Providers Services Health Library About Fairview © 2011 Fairview Health Services. All rights reserved. Contact Privacy Patient Safety Legal Careers Locations Pharmacy Urgent Care Site Map Find us on: Site Help and Feedback Select Another Fairview Website Fairview Heal