
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 11:00:24 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, pre-check=0, post-check=0, max-age=0
Expires: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 11:00:24 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Vascular Disease skip to content A healthdirect Australia health information service. Your gateway to reliable health information Quick Search: Advanced Search About Health Insite A-Z Health Topics Conditions and Diseases Topics such as asthma, diabetes, cancer, arthritis, depression Health and Wellbeing Topics such as fitness, nutrition, drugs, preventing suicide, health insurance, women's health, living with a disability Life Stages and Events Topics such as menopause, pregnancy, ageing, going into hospital Health Services Includes links to State/Territory Health Services and other services News Health Insite Newsletter Help Home Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Vascular Disease Follow the links below to find summaries of systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of treatments to prevent or manage vascular disease. Updated October 2011 Printer friendly page Related Health Insite Topics Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Aneurysms HealthInsite Topic Page Links to systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of treatments for aneurysms (aneurisms). Systematic Reviews of Treatments for High Blood Pressure HealthInsite Topic Page Links to systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of treatments for managing high blood pressure. Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Peripheral Vascular Disease HealthInsite Topic Page Links to systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of treatments for peripheral vascular diseases. Systematic Reviews of Treatments for the Prevention of Vascular Disease HealthInsite Topic Page Links to systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of treatments for the prevention of vascular disease. Systematic Reviews of Treatments for Stroke HealthInsite Topic Page Links to systematic reviews of the evidence for the effectiveness of treatments for stroke. 40 Resources Found Results 1 to 20 displayed.
  		
			   
			1 2 Title: Corticosteroids for treating hypotension in preterm infants Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: It is unclear whether giving steroids to premature newborn babies who have hypotension (low blood pressure) is safe and effective. Low blood pressure is a relatively common problem in premature newborn babies and has been linked with serious short and l... Date: Jul 2011 Title: Preconditioning with brief periods of reduced blood flow to protect vessels which experience reduced blood flow as a consequence of vascular surgery Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Patients undergoing major vascular surgery are at high risk of complications around the time of their surgery. This is because many of them have generalised arterial disease. During surgery blood flow is reduced at the site of surgery, which results in ... Date: Jul 2011 Title: There is currently no high quality evidence to support the use of Huperzine A for the treatment of vascular dementia. Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Vascular dementia (VaD) refers to cognitive impairment associated with cerebrovascular brain injury. It influences quality of life seriously. However, there is no definitive medical or surgical treatment for vascular dementia. Huperzine A is an alkaloid... Date: May 2011 Title: Human albumin for hypotension in haemodialysis patients Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Intradialytic hypotension (IDH), which is caused by a decrease in blood volume, is a common complication of haemodialysis treatment. It is characterized by a sudden drop in blood pressure with symptoms of nausea, sweating, cramping, or dizziness and cau... Date: Sep 2010 Title: Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor for macular edema secondary to central vein occlusion Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) is thought to affect between one and four people per thousand at any one time, and is associated with increasing age, high blood pressure, diabetes, glaucoma and various disorders of the blood. It frequently causes ... Date: Aug 2010 Title: Haematological interventions for treating disseminated intravascular coagulation during pregnancy and postpartum Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) to establish the beneficial and harmful effects of drugs altering blood clotting for treating disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in pregnant women and following birth is lacking. DIC is charact... Date: Jul 2010 Title: A fixed daily dose of a low molecular weight heparin compared with an adjusted dose of unfractionated heparin for treating blood clots in the deep veins (venous thromboembolism) Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Treatment of blood clots in the deep veins, particularly of the legs and the blood vessels of the lungs, with subcutaneous injections of a fixed dose of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) results in fewer haemorrhages and deaths than treatment with unf... Date: Jul 2010 Title: Antithrombotic drugs for carotid artery dissection Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Carotid artery dissection means a tear in the lining in one of the main blood vessels carrying blood to the brain. Dissection can be caused by injury to the neck, but can sometimes develop for no obvious reason. Blood clots can form where the artery is ... Date: May 2010 Title: Embolisation therapy for pulmonary arteriovenous malformations Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: A pulmonary arteriovenous malformation is an abnormal connection between arteries and veins in the lung. It is known to cause serious complications such as stroke, brain abscess, bleeding in the lungs and exercise intolerance. Embolisation therapy is th... Date: Apr 2010 Title: New types of anticoagulants to prevent deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism following total hip or knee replacement surgery Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Venous thromboembolism is the presence of a blood clot that blocks a blood vessel within the venous system; it includes deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) which can be fatal. Venous thromboembolism occurs in 44% to 90% of those patie... Date: Mar 2010 Title: Choice of bypass graft material for lower limb arterial bypasses Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: A person with severely diseased arteries in the leg(s), can experience pain on walking only short distances (critical claudication), pain at rest, or death of tissues in the leg. When the main thigh artery has a long blockage, the best option is to inse... Date: Jan 2010 Title: Emergency sclerotherapy is not better than pharmacological therapy for acute variceal bleeding in cirrhosis Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Variceal bleeding in cirrhosis is associated with a high risk of death. Although banding ligation of varices is considered the choice for endoscopic treatment, emergency sclerotherapy is frequently used particularly where ligation is not available or wh... Date: Jan 2010 Title: Drugs to break down blood clots for people with sudden onset peripheral arterial occlusion Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Acute reduction in blood flow to a limb can be caused by a blood clot blocking an artery or a vascular graft. If not treated promptly this condition, known as peripheral arterial occlusion, can result in amputation or be life threatening. Infusion of cl... Date: Dec 2009 Title: Interventions for treating brain arteriovenous malformations in adults Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Haemorrhage into the brain, known as intracerebral haemorrhage or ICH for short, is a devastating condition that kills four in 10 people within one month. Brain AVMs are the single most common cause of stroke due to ICH in young adults. Brain AVMs can a... Date: Dec 2009 Title: Patches of different types for carotid patch angioplasty Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: About 20% of strokes result from narrowing of the carotid artery (the main artery supplying blood to the brain). Carotid endarterectomy is an operation that involves opening the carotid artery to remove this narrowing and therefore reduce the risk of st... Date: Nov 2009 Title: Skin grafts to improve leg ulcer healing Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Approximately 1% of people in industrialised countries have a leg ulcer at some time, mainly caused by poor blood flow back from the legs towards the heart. Skin grafts, either using the patient's own skin, artificial skin or donor skin/cells, have been... Date: Nov 2009 Title: Prostanoids for treating people with severe peripheral arterial disease of the legs Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: People with severely narrowed arteries of the lower limbs may suffer rest pain, ulcers, or gangrene, and this problem is called critical limb ischaemia. There is no option other than amputation for patients who present with critical limb ischaemia and w... Date: Oct 2009 Title: Interventions for varicose veins and leg oedema in pregnancy Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Not enough evidence on treatments for varicose veins and leg oedema in pregnancy. Varicose veins, sometimes called varicosity, occur when a valve in the blood vessel walls weakens and the blood stagnates. This in turn leads to problems with the circulat... Date: Sep 2009 Title: Intravenous fluids for body fluid management during abdominal aortic surgery Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: There is not enough evidence to show the best fluid replacement to use during and following surgery on the abdominal aorta. Surgery on the abdominal aorta is a major surgical procedure with a mortality of 1.5% in elective patients and up to 5% in emerge... Date: Sep 2009 Title: Umbilical artery catheters in the newborn: effects of catheter design (end vs side hole) Publisher: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd. for The Cochrane Collaboration Description: Using umbilical artery catheters with the hole in the side instead of end leads to serious complications. The umbilical artery catheters (tubes) (UACs) commonly used in neonatal intensive care to monitor babies can sometimes cause them problems. They ca... Date: Aug 2009 Results 1 to 20 displayed.
  		
			   
			1 2 Subscribe to RSS feed About RSS feeds Login/Create Profile Other Related Topics Treatments for Vascular Disease © 2012 National Health Call Cen