Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

How to Relieve Low Back Pain Home | Body Fitness | Diet Fitness | Mind Fitness | Health Low back pain Whole Fitness Body Fitness Diet Fitness Mind Fitness Work Fitness Locker Room Men Women Weight Loss Want to shed the extra pounds? Do it the natural way! Calculators Calculate ideal weight, body mass index, percent body fat, etc. Glossary Fitness Glossary Relieve Low Back Pain What To Do To Relieve Low Back Pain Take an anti-inflammatory medication (these help to decrease the swelling and inflammation in the spine). Apply ice or heat to your back. Stop all strenuous activities. Relieve the pressure on the sciatic nerve with correct postures. Use proper back supports. Do low back exercises. See your doctor if the pain persists or goes into the leg. Low Back Exercises Unless instructed otherwise, do each exercise 1 to 5 times, twice each day. Gradually increase your workout to 10 repetitions twice a day. Use slow, smooth actions as you exercise. If you feel any discomfort while doing the exercises, stop immediately and contact your physician. Stop any exercise that increases back pain or causes tingling, numbness, or weakness in your legs. Double knee-to-chest stretch a. Lie down on back. b. Pull both knees in to chest until you feel a comfortable stretch in lower back. c. Keep the back relaxed. d. Hold for 45 to 60 seconds. Pelvic tilt exercise a. Lie on back with knees bent, feet flat on floor, and arms at sides (a) b. Flatten small of back against floor. (Hips will tilt upward.) (b) c. Hold for 10 to 15 seconds and release. Gradually increase your holding time to 60 seconds. Lower trunk rotation stretch a. Lie on back. b. Keeping back flat and feet together, rotate knees to one side. c. Hold for 45 to 60 seconds. Curl-up exercise a. Lie on the floor on back. b. Keeping arms folded across chest, tilt pelvis to flatten back. Tuck chin into chest. c. Tighten abdominal muscles while raising head and shoulders from floor. d. Hold for 10 seconds and release. e. Repeat 10 to 15 times. Gradually increase your repetitions. Trunk flexion stretch a. On hands and knees, tuck in chin and arch back. b. Slowly sit back on heels, letting shoulders drop toward floor. c. Hold for 45 to 60 seconds. Alternate arm-leg extension exercise a. Face floor on hands and knees. b. Raise left arm and right leg. Do not arch neck. c. Hold for 10 seconds and release. d. Raise right arm and left leg. Do not arch neck. e. Hold for 10 seconds and release. Prone Lumbar Extension Purpose: To extend your lower back. 1. Lie on your stomach and place your hands on the floor near the sides of your head. 2. Slowly push your upper body off the floor by straightening your arms, but keep your hips on the floor. Hold for 10 seconds, then relax your arms, moving back to the floor. Alternate leg extension Lie on your stomach with your arms folded under your chin. Slowly lift one leg -- not too high -- without bending it, while keeping your pelvis flat on the floor. Slowly lower your leg and repeat with the other leg. Hamstring stretch while standing a. Stand on right leg with left leg on table/chair. b. Stretch hamstring by slowly bending right knee. c. Hold for 30-45 sec. d. Repeat with other leg. Massage Back To Health Index Health Tips Whole Wellness Live longer healthier happier! Diet Best Diet Free T-Shirts Free "Whole Fitness" T-Shirts For Kids Make Fitness Fun for Kids! Partners Screensavers Wallpapers Beauty Tips Recipes Lyrics Greeting Cards Free Clipart Wedding Songs Love Poems Webmasters Travel Tips Links Related Websites Body Fitness | Diet Fitness | Mind Fitness | Privacy | Contact | Advertise Be good to yourself. Enjoy ev