<http://wp.me/p1NOtX-ag>; rel=shortlink
X-Pingback: http://jennyschallenge.com/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

It's as Simple as Adding Cinnamon! | Jenny's Challenge About Advertising Shake Recipes Simple, Healthy Recipes Videos Contact Me Privacy Policy Jenny's Challenge Join Me on the 90 Day Body By Vi Weight Loss Challenge It’s as Simple as Adding Cinnamon! April 2, 2012 Need an easy, delicious way to keep your blood sugar in check? Just add cinnamon! A quarter to a half a teaspoon daily can not only reduce your blood sugar level, it’s been known to stop diabetes before it starts. Research studies have also shown that cinnamon protects your cells and keeps the cancer and alzheimer’s causing free radicals at bay. I don’t know about you, but nothing wakes me up and motivates me first thing in the morning quite like a whiff of something delicious! Add a pinch to your morning coffee or tea to get the sweet you’re after without the damaging effects of sugar. You can also add to your whole grain toast or bagel, chili, spaghetti sauce, oatmeal, whole grain or brown rice–you get the idea. As a yummy snack for your kids, try spreading some reduced fat peanut butter on a graham cracker and sprinkle with cinnamon. You can also add to low-fat plain or vanilla yogurt & use as a dip for fruit. A favorite at our house is frozen, yogurt covered strawberries. Feel free to share your creative uses for cinnamon & any other healthy snack ideas. Till next time–Cheers to your delicious health! ♥Jen Share and Enjoy: Posted, by jenny in Health/Fitness/Nutrition , Life . Tags: alzheimer's , blood sugar , cancer , cinnamon , coffee , Diabetes , kids , oatmeal , rice , sauce , snack , sugar , tea http://affiliatesinmarketing.blolgspot.com/ Juan Excelent post and tip. I know for my own experience. Thanks from all people with diabetes. Gina Thanks for the heads up Jenny, I’ve recently been watching a program called the food hospital and learning some amazing facts about how food can heal your body. I think its really important to be informed. Thank you http://www.adjuvancy.com/wordpress Roy A. Ackerman, Ph.D., E.A. I have a great recipe for rice with cinnamon sticks.  Health and flavor benefits! http://renewing-your-mind.blogspot.com/ Kelly Rather than just adding it to your coffee, mix it in with the grounds before brewing.  Delicious! http://www.facebook.com/nicolebandes Nicole Bandes Love it! Coming from a family with a strong history of diabetes and having hypoglycemia, these easy life changes are what I like. I’m already eating well and exercising but something like this is a no-brainer to integrate into my lifestyle. Jenny GREAT idea Kelly, although I don’t think my hubby would go for it. Maybe I’ll have to start brewing TWO pots of coffee in the morning LOL! Jennys Diabetes also runs in my family, Nicole. My kids already think I’m some kind of paranoid nut job because I’m constantly monitoring their sugar intake LOL. It’s a good thing they love cinnamon! Jenny Do share, Roy! Jenny Yes, Gina–the Gov’t & pharmaceutical industry are so focused on TREATMENTS AFTER IT’S TOO LATE–that not very many people realize that there are PREVENTIVE measures you can take & not get sick in the 1st place. Stay tuned–I’ll be posting more on the health benefits of spices and other things you can do to boost your immune system Cheers to your health! Jenny Thanks, Juan. I’m all about passing on health tips & helping people Follow this blog Follow my blog with Bloglovin Jennys Challenge Newsletter Sign up for my newsletter and get a free eBook, "Exercise Without Effort"! Name: Email: Free Autoresponder courtesy of Software for Email Marketing . Latest From Twitter Blogroll Belly Billboard Growing My Biz Jennys Challenge Body By Vi Meta Register Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org ↑ Grab this Headline Animator Amazon.com Widgets Copyrig