
Health and Nutrition Article - Improve Energy Levels with Magnesium Search for Products Here ► Loading HOME TRACK ORDER CONTACT US SHOPPING INFO. DELIVERY CHARGES SITE SECURITY SPECIAL OFFERS SEE PREVIOUS INVOICE Items in Basket Total inc. VAT Total + Shipping View All basket Items Categories Children's Supplements Men's Supplements Women's Supplements Minerals Omega Oils Multivitamins Vitamins Skin Care Halal Products Health Books Health Videos Personal Care Self Help Sports Supplements . . . MORE CATEGORIES Brands BioCare Bioforce (A Vogel) Garden of Life Higher Nature Lamberts Nutri Nutri-West Solgar Thorne Research . . . MORE BRANDS Health Info Health A - Z Health Articles Medical claims Dosage and storing View Newsletters ( Subscribe 
        free) RSS Feeds Shopping Info Useful links Testimonials Distance selling How to Shop Shopping Cart Problems Terms & Conditions Order by Fax or Phone Pay by Cheque Feedback Returns Policy Tweet Improve Energy Levels 
			with Magnesium It's not just athletes who 
			suffer from aching, tired muscles and symptoms of fatigue. The stresses 
			and strains of modern day living have made these complaints all too 
			common among many people every day. Conditions ranging from PMS associated 
			muscular cramps and sports related muscle spasms, to more severe cases 
			of fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue are becoming increasingly common. 
			Fortunately there are simple nutritional steps which can be taken, incorporating 
			high strength magnesium supplementation, to help combat these complaints. Magnesium in the Body Research studies have recently shown 
			that magnesium plays an even greater role in health than was previously 
			thought. Second only to potassium in terms of concentration within the 
			individual cells in the body, the function of magnesium revolves primarily 
			around its ability to activate many enzymes. Magnesium participates in more than 300 
			enzymatic reactions in the body and these include those responsible 
			for energy metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, protein synthesis, neuromuscular 
			contractions/relaxations, bone integrity and prostaglandin synthesis 
			to name but a few. Click here to buy High Strength Magnesium 
			- Nutri Ultra Muscleze - Magnesium Resuscitation Mineral Chelates The use of amino acid chelates for nutritional 
			purposes began to appear in the 1950s as a proven method to increase 
			mineral absorption. Amino acid chelation provides protection 
				for minerals, preventing their reaction with dietary cations (phytates, 
				oxalates, sulphates, phosphates, etc.) in the intestines. These 
				reactions can render minerals unavailable for absorption. Amino acid chelates are extremely 
				stable over the whole pH range found in the gastrointestinal tract. Mineral chelates are easily absorbed 
				in the intestines, not just due to the protection from cations, 
				but also because the minerals are actively drawn across the intestinal 
				membrane. Magnesium can be particularly 
			useful for: Inflammation Injury - rebuilding after injury 
				due to its role in protein metabolism Immune systems - important for protecting 
				from infection after trauma Gastrointestinal disorders Cardiovascular conditions Relaxation of muscle This often forgotten mineral has a significant role to pay 
			in the production of energy and in maintaining and optimising muscle 
			health. Magnesium supplementation has also had 
			some success in patients with chronic fatigue. Research suggests that 
			an underlying magnesium deficiency, even if 'subclinical', can result 
			in chronic fatigue and symptoms similar to chronic fatigue syndrome 
			(CFS). Evaluating and achieving optimum magnesium levels can be beneficial 
			for: Chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia PMS associated muscular cramps Sports related muscle cramps Slowing bone loss Strengthening muscles Reducing kidney stone formation Reducing some symptoms of diabetes Magnesium for energy production Energy in the body is produced in the 
			form of ATP, through the process of cellular respiration. Magnesium 
			is perhaps the most important nutrient co-factor involved in cellular 
			respiration as it is actively involved in every single step. Carbohydrates, 
			lipids and proteins cannot produce the source of muscle contraction 
			energy - ATP - without the presence of magnesium. Optimal magnesium 
			status can therefore facilitate oxygen and energy being delivered to 
			working muscle tissue. Magnesium for muscles It is also interesting that the muscles 
			themselves actually contain about 26% of all magnesium found  in 
			the body, with 60% in the bone and the rest in soft tissue and body 
			fluids. The tissues with the highest concentration of magnesium are 
			those that are metabolically active, which again attests to magnesium's 
			critical role in energy production. Research indicates that high strength 
			magnesium supplementation can be more effective for muscle support and 
			cellular energy production when combined with a specific range of supporting 
			nutrients such as selenium and malic acid. Synergistic nutrients such 
			as molybdenum, B6, B12 and folic acid are also effective for improving 
			cellular uptake of magnesium. Magnesium and gastrointestinal 
			tolerance Oral magnesium supplementation has often 
			been complicated by side effects of poor gastrointestinal tolerance, 
			including malabsorption and diarrhoea. Using a glycinate chelated form 
			of magnesium overcomes these problems. Even in individuals with known 
			malabsorption and intestinal permeability alteration, the absorption 
			of magnesium diglycinate has been shown to be substantially greater 
			than inorganic magnesium salts, and is better tolerated. Click here to buy High Strength Magnesium 
			- Nutri Ultra Muscleze - Magnesium Resuscitation Please note this article does not 
			replace the advice and treatment of your medical practitioner. INFORMATION PAGES nutritional supplements | health 
      books | health 
      videos | health and nutrition facts A  to Z | health/nutrition articles MAJOR 
      BRANDS Aquasource | BioCare | Bioforce | FMD | Good Health | Healthpol | Higher 
      Nature | Lamberts Metagenics | Natures Plus | Nutri | Nutri-West ● Nutriscene ● Rio ● Solgar OTHER 
      PAGES Links | Site Map IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING SUPPLEMENTATION Copyright -  Vanderbell 
Publishing Limited  © 23 February, 2012 ( details ) Regist