
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 10:08:24 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: exp_last_activity=1330942104; expires=Tue, 05-Mar-2013 10:08:25 GMT; path=/
Set-Cookie: exp_tracker=a%3A5%3A%7Bi%3A0%3Bs%3A79%3A%22articles%2Flower-high-blood-glucose-levels-with-cinnamon-and-chromium-supplements%22%3Bi%3A1%3Bs%3A71%3A%22articles%2Flose-weight-and-prevent-diabetes-naturally-with-banaba-extract%22%3Bi%3A2%3Bs%3A58%3A%22articles%2Fhow-to-eat-a-low-carb-diet-and-still-enjoy-eating%22%3Bi%3A3%3Bs%3A62%3A%22articles%2Fsyndrome-x-the-secret-to-the-puzzle-of-weight-control%22%3Bi%3A4%3Bs%3A76%3A%22articles%2Fchromium-an-effective-treatment-for-diabetes-and-insulin-resistance%22%3B%7D; path=/
Last-Modified: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 10:08:25 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Lower High Blood Glucose Levels with Cinnamon and Chromium Supplements | Smart Publications Smart Publications About Us Contact Us Health A-Z Health Advisor Health Issues Products Resources Books Blog Advanced Search Home » Articles » Lower High Blood Glucose Levels with Cinnamon and Chromium Supplements A A A Lower High Blood Glucose Levels with Cinnamon and Chromium Supplements New research from Harvard scientists shows that having high blood glucose levels is the fifth most deadly health risk factor, making it more dangerous than high LDL cholesterol. 1 The researchers found that there were between 163,000 and 217,000 high blood glucose-related deaths in 2005 that could have been avoided with proper nutrition and a healthy lifestyle. 1 Increased blood glucose levels lead to insulin resistance or pre-diabetes, which often leads to type 2 diabetes. When insulin sensitivity is lost, the body has to produce more insulin in order to keep blood glucose under control. Eventually, the pancreas is unable to keep up with the need for increased insulin, and diabetes sets in usually within 10 years unless a major lifestyle change is made by: Losing weight Making dietary changes Increasing physical activity Studies show that adding chromium and cinnamon extract to your daily health regimen can help support healthy glucose levels. A recent study at the School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK, found that cinnamon improved fasting glucose in eight male volunteers who underwent two 14-day studies involving cinnamon or placebo supplementation. Placebo supplementation was continued for 5 days following this 14-day period. Cinnamon reduced the response to oral glucose tolerance tests throughout the two-week period. It also improved insulin sensitivity on the 14th day. The researchers noticed, however, that although cinnamon may improve glycemic control and insulin sensitivity, the effects were quickly reversed when the men stopped taking the cinnamon supplements. 2 There are many studies showing that chromium supplementation improves glucose tolerance in diabetic mice. Human studies are not as common, but an article published in June 2009 analyzed clinical evidence of complementary and alternative treatments of type 2 diabetes from 1966 to 2008. 3 The Canadian researchers found that in a large meta-analysis: Chromium supplementation reduced glycosylated hemoglobin (the amount of glucose in red blood cells) and fasting blood glucose (FBG) levels. 3 Cinnamon improved fasting blood glucose. 3 Gymnema sylvestre, the extract of a vine from the rain forests of India, reduced glycosylated hemoglobin levels in two small trials. 3 A third recently published article discusses a number of studies showing that: Cinnamon reduced mean fasting serum glucose by 18-29%, total cholesterol by 12-26% and LDL-cholesterol by 7-27% in subjects with type 2 diabetes after 40 days of daily consumption of 1-6 grams. 4 Cinnamon improved fasting blood glucose, systolic blood pressure, percentage of body fat and increased lean body mass compared with the placebo group in patients who had metabolic syndrome. 4 Chromium supplements improved glucose, insulin, cholesterol and glycosylated hemoglobin in patients with type 2 diabetes. 4 Conclusion You might wonder why taking a supplement containing cinnamon is more beneficial than just sprinkling cinnamon on your food. While sprinkling cinnamon on your toast or cereal in the morning will help, taking a full spectrum extract will enable you to get all the potential benefits of cinnamon in a concentrated, non-caloric, easy-to-take form. Additionally, taking a supplement that includes cinnamon, chromium and other proven ingredients such as Gymnema sylvestre can help support overall blood glucose, as well as insulin and cholesterol levels. Editor's Note: The natural health solutions described in this article are available through many on-line retailers including those listed below. By clicking these links you help support the important alternative health research we provide. Visit www.amazon.com – a great way to find competitive deals on supplements offered by many different manufacturers. Visit www.hfn-usa.com – when commitment to quality and freshness is important, this factory direct solution is preferred by many of our readers. This article is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Always consult with a physician before embarking on a dietary supplement program. References Danaei G, Ding EL, Mozaffarian D, Taylor B, Rehm J, Murray CJ, Ezzati M. The preventable causes of death in the United States: comparative risk assessment of dietary, lifestyle, and metabolic risk factors. PLoS Med. 2009 Apr 28;6(4):e1000058. Epub 2009 Apr 28. Abstract ↑ Solomon TP, Blannin AK.Changes in glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity following 2 weeks of daily cinnamon ingestion in healthy humans. Eur J Appl Physiol . 2009 Apr;105(6):969-76. Epub 2009 Jan 22. Abstract ↑ Nahas R, Moher M. Complementary and alternative medicine for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Can Fam Physician. 2009 Jun;55(6):591-6. Abstract ↑ Anderson RA.Chromium and polyphenols from cinnamon improve insulin sensitivity. Proc Nutr Soc. 2008 Feb;67(1):48-53. Abstract ↑ Articles of Interest from Smart Publications Health & Wellness Update Metabolic Rescue: Breaking the Epidemic of the Metabolic Syndrome Cycle Lose Weight and Prevent Diabetes Naturally with Banaba Extract! Pine Bark Extract: the Superb Antioxidant for Healthy Circulation Health Topics A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Acetyl-L-Carnitine (ALC) Adrenal Fatigue Allergies Alpha Carotene Alpha Lipoic Acid Alzheimer's Disease Amino Acids Andrographis Paniculata Anti-Aging Antioxidants Anxiety Apple Extract Arginine Arginine Pyroglutamate Arthritis and Joint Health Artichoke Leaf Extract Ashwaghanda Aspergillus Astaxanthin Astragalus Subscribe to Smart Publications Health & Wellness  E-newsletter to receive e-alerts about nutritional Science. Most Popular Articles L-Arginine, the Prosexual Nutrient with Numerous Health Benefits Nattokinase: Powerful Enzyme Prevents Heart Attack and Stroke Nattokinase—The Natural Blood Thinner Protect Your Chromosome Telomeres Naturally by Encouraging Telomerase Production Oral Chelation—The Strongest Natural Treatment for Your Heart, Arteries, Memory, and More—Has Just Become Even More Effective Latest Blog Post February 15 | John Morgenthaler Bio-Identical Hormone Replacement with Jonathan V. Wright Leading to Dramatic Hearing Improvement See more blog entries » Who We Are Smart Publications™ Clarifies the Complex World of Nutrition Science. The editors and researchers at Smart Publications review and analyze thousands of scientific studies per year succinctly capturing and summarizing the results of these studies for website updates, and a monthly newsletter named Smart Publications Health & Wellness Update. More about us» P.O. Box 4667 Petaluma, CA 94955 phone 800-976-2763 Physician Disclaimer Advertise with Smart Publications Copyright Statement Sitemap Contact Smart Publications Health Topics 5-HTP 7-Keto Acetyl-L-Carnitine (ALC) Adrenal Fatigue Allergies Alpha Carotene Alpha Lipoic Acid Alzheimer's Disease Amino Acids Andrographis Paniculata Anti-Aging Antioxidants Anxiety Apple Extract Arginine Arginine Pyroglutamate Arthritis and Joint Health Artichoke Leaf Extract Ashwaghanda Aspergillus Astaxanthin Astragalus Bacopa monniera Bamboo Extract Banaba Beauty From Inside Out Berberine Beta Carotene Bio-identical Hormone Replacement Therapy Black Cohosh Blood Pressure and Hypertension Bone Health and Osteoporosis Boswellin Brain Health and Memory Support Calcium Citrate Calcium Disodium EDTA Cancer Cardiovascular Health Carnosine Centella Asiatica Chelation Cholesterol Choline Chromium Nicotinate Cinnamon Extract Citrulline Coccinia Indica Coenzyme Q-10 Copper Cranberry Curcumin Extract Cysteine D-Ribose Daidzein Depression Devil’s Claw Detoxification Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) DHA Di-indolylmethane Diabetes and Blood Sugar Digestive Health Diindolylmethane (DIM) Dimethylaminoethanol (DMAE) Dong Quai Echinacea Eclipta Alba Egg Shell Calcium Elderberry Eleutherosides Emblica Essential Fatty Acids Energy EDTA Eurycoma Longifolia Evodia Extract Eye Health Ferulic Acid Fish Oils GABA Gamma Tocopherol Garlic Ginger Extract Ginkgo Biloba Ginseng Glucosamine Glutathione Goji Berry Gotu Kola GPC Choline Grape Seed Extract Green Coffee Bean Green Tea Gymnema Sylvestre Health Commentaries Health Questionnaires Heart Attacks Heart Health Herbs Hormone Support Huperzine Immune System Support Inflammation Joint Pain Kohki Tea L-Arginine L-Citrulline L-Cysteine L-Theanine L-Tyrosine Licorice Extract Life Extension Lipoic Acid Liver Support Longevity and Anti-Aging Lutein Luteolin Lycium Berry Lycopene Lysine Magnesium Magnolia Malic Acid Mastic Gum Medium-Chain Triglycerides Melatonin Memory Menopause Menaquinone-7 Men's Health Mental Health Metabolic Syndrome Minerals Mixed Tocopherols Multi-Vitamins Myricetin N-Acetyl Cysteine (NAC) N-Acetyl-carnosine Naringenin Nattokinase Nettle Notoginseng Nutrition Olive Leaf Oolong Tea Omega-3 Fatty Acids OKG Ornithine Oral Chelation Oral Health - Teeth and Gums Osteoporosis Overall Health Pain Relief Parkinson's Disease Passionflower Peony Persimmon Phenylalanine Pheromones Phosphatidylserine Phytosterol Pine Bark Policosanol Pomegranate Pregnenolone Probiotics Prostate Health Pueraria Mirifica Pumpkin Pygeum Africanum R-Lipoic Acid Red Wine Resveratrol Rhodiola Rosea Rosemary Salacia Reticulata Salvia Miltiorrhiza Schisandra Berry Selenium Sexual Health Silymarin Skin, Hair and Nails Sleep Soy Phytosterol St. John's Wort Stinging Nettle Stress Strontium Citrate Suntheanine Taurine Terminalia Chebula The Common Cold Therapy for Hormones Turmeric Root Tyrosine Uridine Urinary Tract Health Urtica Dioica Root Varicose Veins Vinpocetine Vision Health Vitamin B Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin K Vitamins Vitex Weight Management White Peony Winthanolides Women's Health Xylitol Yohimbe Zeaxanthin Zinc ©2012  Smart Publications, Inc. All rights reserved. Priva