Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.Com - Hemorrhoids Find an Acupuncturist Search In Please select ------------------- United States Canada ------------------- Africa Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Ecuador El Salvador Europe Finland France Germany Greece Guatemala Hong Kong Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Latin America Luxembourg Malaysia Mexico Middle East Netherlands New Zealand North Africa Norway Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Rep. Dominicana Romania Russia Singapore Slovakia Slovenija South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Turkey United Kingdom Venezuela West Indies Iceland Cyprus within 10 Miles 20 Miles 50 Miles of ( Zip/Postal Code ) Over 30,000 Professionals Listed Advanced Search Search Help List Your Practice Hemorrhoids What are hemorrhoids? The term hemorrhoids refers to a condition in which the veins 
around the anus or lower rectum are swollen and inflamed. Hemorrhoids may result from straining to move stool. Other 
contributing factors include pregnancy, aging, chronic constipation or diarrhea, 
and anal intercourse. Hemorrhoids are either inside the anus (internal) or under the 
skin around the anus (external). What are the symptoms of 
hemorrhoids? Many anorectal problems, including fissures, fistulae, 
abscesses, or irritation and itching (pruritus ani), have similar symptoms and 
are incorrectly referred to as hemorrhoids. Hemorrhoids usually are not dangerous or life threatening. In 
most cases, hemorrhoidal symptoms will go away within a few days. Although many people have hemorrhoids, not all experience 
symptoms. The most common symptom of internal hemorrhoids is bright red blood 
covering the stool, on toilet paper, or in the toilet bowl. However, an internal 
hemorrhoid may protrude through the anus outside the body, becoming irritated 
and painful. This is known as a protruding hemorrhoid. Symptoms of external hemorrhoids may include painful swelling 
or a hard lump around the anus that results when a blood clot forms. This 
condition is known as a thrombosed external hemorrhoid. In addition, excessive straining, rubbing, or cleaning around 
the anus may cause irritation with bleeding and/or itching, which may produce a 
vicious cycle of symptoms. Draining mucus may also cause itching. How common are hemorrhoids? Hemorrhoids are very common in both men and women. About half 
of the population have hemorrhoids by age 50. Hemorrhoids are also common among 
pregnant women. The pressure of the fetus in the abdomen, as well as hormonal 
changes, cause the hemorrhoidal vessels to enlarge. These vessels are also 
placed under severe pressure during childbirth. For most women, however, 
hemorrhoids caused by pregnancy are a temporary problem. How are hemorrhoids diagnosed? A thorough evaluation and proper diagnosis by the doctor is 
important any time bleeding from the rectum or blood in the stool occurs. 
Bleeding may also be a symptom of other digestive diseases, including colorectal 
cancer. The doctor will examine the anus and rectum to look for 
swollen blood vessels that indicate hemorrhoids and will also perform a digital 
rectal exam with a gloved, lubricated finger to feel for abnormalities. Closer evaluation of the rectum for hemorrhoids requires an 
exam with an anoscope, a hollow, lighted tube useful for viewing internal 
hemorrhoids, or a proctoscope, useful for more completely examining the entire 
rectum. To rule out other causes of gastrointestinal bleeding, the 
doctor may examine the rectum and lower colon (sigmoid) with sigmoidoscopy or 
the entire colon with colonoscopy. Sigmoidoscopy and colonoscopy are diagnostic 
procedures that also involve the use of lighted, flexible tubes inserted through 
the rectum. What is the treatment? Medical treatment of hemorrhoids is aimed initially at 
relieving symptoms. Measures to reduce symptoms include tub baths several times a day in plain, warm 
	water for about 10 minutes application of a hemorroidal cream or 
	suppository to the affected area for a limited time Illustration reprinted with 
		permission from the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons. 
		Artist: Russell K. Pearl, M.D. Preventing the recurrence of hemorrhoids will require 
relieving the pressure and straining of constipation. Doctors will often 
recommend increasing fiber and fluids in the diet. Eating the right amount of 
fiber and drinking six to eight glasses of fluid (not alcohol) result in softer, 
bulkier stools. A softer stool makes emptying the bowels easier and lessens the 
pressure on hemorrhoids caused by straining. Eliminating straining also helps 
prevent the hemorrhoids from protruding. Good sources of fiber are fruits, vegetables, and whole 
grains. In addition, doctors may suggest a bulk stool softener or a fiber 
supplement such as psyllium (Metamucil) or methylcellulose (Citrucel). In some cases, hemorrhoids must be treated endoscopically or 
surgically. These methods are used to shrink and destroy the hemorrhoidal 
tissue. The doctor will perform the procedure during an office or hospital 
visit. A number of methods may be used to remove or reduce the size 
of internal hemorrhoids. These techniques include Rubber band ligation. A rubber band is placed around the base of the hemorrhoid inside the rectum. 
	The band cuts off circulation, and the hemorrhoid withers away within a few 
	days. Sclerotherapy. A chemical solution is injected around the blood vessel to shrink the 
	hemorrhoid. Infrared coagulation. A special device is used to burn hemorrhoidal tissue. Hemorrhoidectomy. Occasionally, extensive or severe internal or external hemorrhoids may 
	require removal by surgery known as hemorrhoidectomy. How are hemorrhoids prevented? The best way to prevent hemorrhoids is to keep stools soft so 
they pass easily, thus decreasing pressure and straining, and to empty bowels as 
soon as possible after the urge occurs. Exercise, including walking, and 
increased fiber in the diet help reduce constipation and straining by producing 
stools that are softer and easier to pass. The U.S. Government does not endorse or favor any specific 
commercial product or company. Trade, proprietary, or company names appearing in 
this document are used only because they are considered necessary in the context 
of the information provided. If a product is not mentioned, the omission does 
not mean or imply that the product is unsatisfactory. References: National Institutes of Health (NIH) Nutritional and Herbal Therapy for 
Hemorrhoids Fiber , especially insoluble fiber , is 
	extremely important in creating regular bowel movements and easy 
	elimination. Some sources include wheat bran and psyllium husks. Drink plenty of water, 6-8 glasses a day, especially if 
	you have increased your fiber intake. Vitamin C is good for the integrity of your veins. 
	It helps keep their tone. Flavonoids and anthocyanins strengthen 
	veins. Some sources of flavonoids include lemons, limes, apples, tomatoes, 
	onions and carrots. Some sources of anthocyanins include dark, red berries, 
	blueberries, cherries, grapes and red cabbage. According to the Tao of Nutrition , one natural food remedy for hemorrhoids is 
	eating a banana on an empty stomach everyday. For bleeding hemorrhoids, eat 
	three bananas daily. Another food remedy is eating steamed dried persimmons. A Chinese herbal ointment, Ching Wan Hung is excellent for shrinking 
	hemorrhoids and relieving symptoms. References: Tao of Nutrition , by Maoshing Ni, Ph.D., C.A., and Cathy McNease, 
B.S., M.H. Featured Products Chinese Herbs TCM Books Home | Conditions | Syndromes | Contact Us | About Us | Subscribe | Store All Contents Copyright © 1996-2010 Cyber Legend Ltd. All rights 
				reserved. Acupuncturist directory and Acupuncture school 
				referral services provided by Acufinder.com. Use of this website 
				is subject to our Terms and 
				Conditions . All logos, service marks and trademarks belong 
				to their respective owners. Legal Disclaimer Notice: The information provided on this site is 
			for informational purposes only and is not intended as a substitute 
			for advice from your physician or other health care professional or 
			any information contained on or in any product label or packaging. 
			You should not use the information on this site for diagnosis or 
			treatment of any health problem or for prescription of any 
			medication or other treatment. You should consult with a healthcare 
			professional before starting any diet, exercise or supplementation 
			program, before taking any medication, or if you have or suspect you 
			might have a health problem. You should not stop taking 