
My Online Wellness - Health Library CDPHP Home Wellness Workshops Secure Member Site Find-A-Doc Search Home Medical Resources Health A-Z Conditions Centers Conditions "InDepth" Procedures A-Z Medical Dictionary Cool Tools Conditions Navigator Videos & Animations Health Calculators Anatomy Navigator Wellness Centers Aging and Health Alternative Health Diet Center Disease Management Emotional Health Food and Nutrition Healthcare Information Health Myths Kids' and Teens' Health Men's Health Physical Fitness Recipes Sexuality and Health Travel and Health Women's Health Natural & Alternative Treatments Herbs and Supplements Interactions Alternative Therapies Functional Foods Homeopathy Health Library Home Definition Causes Risk Factors Symptoms Diagnosis Treatment Prevention En Español Vascular Dementia (Binswanger’s Disease; Senile Dementia; Binswanger’s Type; Vascular Cognitive Impairment; Arteriosclerotic Dementia; Atherosclerotic Disease) by
      Rick Alan Definition Vascular dementia is a cause of dementia . It is caused by disease of the small blood vessels in the brain. Parts of the brain called white matter (as well as subcortical grey matter) are injured by multiple small strokes . Healthy and Injured Brain Blood Vessels © 2011 Nucleus Medical Media, Inc. Causes Vascular dementia occurs when cells below the surface of the brain (the cortex) receive an inadequate supply of oxygen and nutrients and, in turn, die. This process is due to hardening of the blood vessels within the white matter of the brain, which affects the blood supply. As a result, the oxygen and nutrient supply to the neurons and their supporting cells are also affected. The exact cause is unknown. However, factors that play a role in causing the disease include: High blood pressure (but probably also blood pressure that is too low for proper brain blood supply) Cardiovascular disease Hardening of blood vessels ( atherosclerosis and lipohyalinosis) Diabetes Smoking Risk Factors TOP These risk factors increase your chance of developing vascular dementia. Tell your doctor if you have any of these risk factors: Age: usually affects older people Alzheimer’s dementia : can occur along with vascular dementia High blood pressure (the most closely associated risk factor) Cardiovascular disease Hardening of blood vessels (atherosclerosis and lipohyalinosis) Diabetes Smoking Conditions that cause the blood to clot Genetic disorders Symptoms TOP In some patients, symptoms appear suddenly with neurologic changes like those caused by a stroke.  Sometimes, the small strokes that lead to vascular dementia can happen without other symptoms. This makes the condition difficult to detect. In some cases, symptoms may stabilize or even improve. However, in most patients, the disease continues to progress. The main symptoms of vascular dementia include: Abrupt onset (in some, but not all patients) Progressive deterioration of 
            intellectual abilities, processing speed, cognitive and motor abilities Progressive memory loss Slow, unsteady gait Fluctuating course (in some patients) Focal neurological symptoms Other symptoms that may be present include: Incontinence Laughing, crying, or smiling during inappropriate times Difficulty speaking Swallowing difficulties Paralysis or weakness of one (or both) side(s) of the body Apathy (loss of interest in activities) Inactivity Depression Parkinson -like symptoms (eg, tremors, loss of coordination, loss of trunk mobility) Seizures Nighttime confusion Paranoia Disorientation Diagnosis TOP The symptoms of vascular dementia can resemble other causes of dementia, such as Alzheimer’s disease . Your doctor will ask about your symptoms and medical history. A physical exam will also be done. Tests may include: MRI scan —a test that uses magnetic waves to make pictures of your brain CT scan —a type of x-ray that uses a computer to take pictures of your brain Single photon-emission computed tomography (SPECT) Neuropsychological testing Ultrasound of the carotid arteries Echocardiogram —a test that uses high-frequency sound waves to exam the size, shape, and motion of the heart; to test for causes of strokes Electrocardiogram (ECG, EKG)—a test that records the heart's activity by measuring electrical currents through the heart muscle; to test for causes of strokes Blood work to test for problems with blood clotting Electroencephalogram (EEG)—a test for abnormalities in the patterns of brain waves Treatment TOP There is no known cure for vascular dementia.  Minimizing risk factors and alleviating symptoms are important in trying to slow disease progression and improve quality of life. Medicines can be given to help limit or control symptoms and possibly slow progression of the disease. These include: Medicines to control: High blood pressure Heart arrhythmias Stroke risk (eg,
                aspirin) Increased cholesterol Conditions that cause the blood to clot Antidepressant medicines Nimodipine—may help improve cognitive function in the short-term (no evidence to support its long term use) Medicines used to treat Alzheimer's disease, such as
            donepezil
            (eg, Aricept)
            and
            memantine
            (eg, Namenda) Prevention TOP There are no definitive guidelines for the prevention of vascular dementia. However, the following may help reduce your risk: Don’t smoke.
            If you smoke, quit. Eat a diet that is low in fat and low in salt . If you drink alcohol, do so only in moderation. Moderate alcohol intake is two drinks per day for men; one drink per day for women. Have your blood pressure and blood cholesterol levels checked regularly (at least once per year). Avoid low blood pressure.  If you get dizzy when you stand up or have a history of fainting , talk to your doctor. RESOURCES: Alzheimer’s Association http://www.alz.org/ National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke http://www.ninds.nih.gov/ CANADIAN RESOURCES: Alzheimer Society of Canada http://www.alzheimer.ca Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada http://ww2.heartandstroke.ca References: American Academy of Family Physicians 

website. Available at:
          http://www.aafp.org/online/en/home.html
          . Aminoff MJ, Greenberg DA, Simon RP. Disorders of cognitive function. Clinical Neurology, Access Medicine website. Available at:
          http://www.accessmedicine.com/content.aspx?aID=2079000
          . Accessed February  4, 2009. Binswanger’s disease—revisited. Neurology . 1995;45: 626-633. Bowler JV, Hachinski V. Vascular Dementia. In: Gilman S, ed. MedLink Neurology website. Available at
          http://www.medlink.com
          . Accessed February  4, 2009. Kirschner H. Vascular dementia: a review of recent evidence for prevention and treatment. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep . 2009;9(6):437-442. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

website. Available at:
          http://www.ninds.nih.gov
          . Roman GC.  Brain hypoperfusion: a critical factor in vascular dementia. Neurol Res . 2004;26:454-458. Roman GC, Erkinjuntti T, Wallin A, et al. Subcortical ischaemic vascular dementia. Lancet Neurology . 2002;1:426-436. Ropper AH, Brown RH. Degenerative diseases of the nervous system. Adams and Victor's Principles of Neurology, Access Medicine website. Available at:
          http://www.accessmedicine.com/content.aspx?aID=976498
          . Accessed February  4, 2009. Smith EE. Leukoariosis and stroke. Stroke . 2010;41(10 Suppl):S139-143. Tomassoni D, Lanari A, Silvestrelli G, Traini E, Amenta F. Nimodipine and its use in cerebrovascular disease: evidence from recent preclinical and controlled clinical studies. Clin Exp Hypertens . 2008;30(8):744-766. Vascular dementia. EBSCO DynaMed website. Available at:
          http://www.ebscohost.com/dynamed/what.php
          Updated January  24, 2009. Accessed February  4, 2009. Last reviewed December 2011 by J. Thomas Megerian, MD, PhD, FAAP Last Updated: 12/30/2011 This content is reviewed regularly and is updated when new and relevant evidence is made available. This information is neither intended nor implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider prior to starting any new treatment or with questions regarding a medical condition. To send comments or feedback to our Editorial Team regarding the content please email us at healthlibrarysupport@ebscohost.com . About MyOnlineWellness.com | C