
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 15:24:26 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3 ZendServer/5.0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Pregnant women struggling to find suitable stop smoking aids - Stopsmoking News - The Therapy Lounge Home Treatments Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Jealousy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Overcoming Anxiety Public Speaking Fear Cure Phobias Other Treatments Therapies Hypnotherapy NLP CBT Success Coaching Research About us The Therapy Lounge Our Hypnotherapists Hypnotherapy Locations Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Professional Accreditation Treatments Overcoming Anxiety Stop Smoking Weight Loss Public Speaking Conquer Addiction Overcome Jealousy Anger Management Cure Phobias Improve Self-Esteem Relieve Stress Build Confidence Cure Fear of Flying Cure A Fear Of Driving Enhance Performance Cure Insomnia Cure A Fear of Heights Recover From Divorce Treat IBS Exam Nerves Curing Emetophobia Relieve Depression Children's Therapy Home » Hypnotherapy News » Pregnant Women Struggling To Find Suitable Stop Smoking Aids 19/09/2011 Pregnant women struggling to find suitable stop smoking aids by Joe Elvin Pregnant women are struggling to find suitable aids to help them quit smoking. New research published in the British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology revealed that counselling courses are having little to no effect on pregnant smokers. According to healthexpress.co.uk, the study of 3,300 pregnant smokers found that the difference in cessation rates between those who received counselling and those who didn't was just three per cent. Considering the risks that anti-smoking medications are thought to have on unborn children, this presents a dilemma for those women trying to quit smoking for the sake of their baby. Evaluating the results for Reuters Health , the study's lead author Dr. Kristian Filion struggled to pinpoint the best solution for those in his study. He said: "We were a little surprised by the small number of women that remained abstinent and by the small effect of counselling. Evidence regarded the safety and effectiveness of nicotine replacement therapies in pregnant women is limited. More research in this area is needed." It is thought that as many as one in three pregnant women in the UK continue to smoke. Those struggling to quit may want to consider alternative treatments such as stop smoking hypnotherapy. The process involves visiting a hypnotherapist who will put patients into a deep trance and send messages to their brain training it not to crave nicotine as strongly as it does. Many patients have experienced success after as little as two or three sessions with their local hypnotherapist. To find out how the Therapy Lounge can help Stop Smoking click here Financial anxiety causing : Next → ← Previous : Rise in gastric band surg By Month October September August July June May April March Febuary January December November Locations Charing Cross The City Harley Street Westminster Canary Wharf Kentish Town East Dulwich Mill Hill Borehamwood Hertfordshire Accrediations This website is dedicated to the provision of accredited Hypnotherapy services in London . All our Hypnotherapists are fully qualified and extremely experienced. The Therapy Lounge has NW London Hypnotherapy , Central London Hypnotherapy and Canary Wharf Hypnotherapy. The Therapy Lounge is dedicated to helping clients to stop smoking with hypnosis , using weight loss hypnosis and helping clients to overcome jealousy . Hypnotherapy London From The Therapy Lounge Hypnotherapy News | Hypnotherapy Clinics In London | Hypnotherapy Definitions Facebook : www.facebook.com/thetherapyloungeuk Twitter : twitter.com/therapylounge1 Head Office: 440 Highgate Studios, 53-79 Highgate Road, London, NW5 1TL, United Kingdom Totally Communications | Site Map |
         © 2