Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Newport News Dental Procedures | Dr. Mark B. Artzer, DDS return Home Dental Procedures Composite fillings: Tooth colored fillings that are used to repair a tooth that is affected by decay, cracks or fractures. Some of the reasons for getting a composite filling are: chipped teeth, closing spaces between teeth, cracked or broken teeth, decayed teeth or worn teeth. Amalgam: Silver fillings that are used to repair teeth that have decay. Amalgam fillings are usually used for posterior teeth. Crown: A restoration that covers a tooth to restore its normal shape and size. The reasons for a crown include: broken or fractured teeth, to support a large filling when there isn't enough teeth remaining, Cosmetic enhancement (badly shaped or discolored teeth), covers an implant abutment and a tooth that has had a root canal. See Before & After Photos Veneers: Thin durable pieces of custom tooth shapped porcelain made by a professional dental lab. They are bonded to the front teeth to create a beautiful smile. Reasons for veneers include: cosmetically misaligned, misshapen, discolored or stained teeth, too large or too small teeth, or to close spaces. See Before & After Photos Fixed Bridge: A non-removable restoration which replaces missing spaces where one or more teeth have been lost. Reason for a bridge are to fill the missing space, restore chewing and speaking ability, prevent remaining teeth from drifting out of position and restore your smile See Before & After Photos Root Canal Treatment: Needed when the nerve of the tooth is affected by decay or infection. Reasons for treatment are an abscess on the gum, sensitivity to hot or cold, severe tooth pain, cracked teeth, swelling or tenderness. Sometimes no symptoms are present. Dentures and Partial Dentures: It is a removable dental appliance that replaces missing teeth and surrounding tissue. There are two types of dentures: Complete Dentures: used when all of the teeth are missing. Partial Dentures: used when some of the natural teeth remain. They don't only fill missing spaces they prevent the natural teeth from shifting. Reason for dentures is to replace missing teeth in an arch, improve chewing, speech and to enhance your smile and facial tissue. Sealants: A clear or tooth colored material that is placed on the biting surface of 6 and 12 year old molars. Sealants help prevent bacteria from getting into the pits and grooves that may cause decay. Tooth Whitening: A non-invasive dental treatment used to whiten the color of natural tooth enamel to enhance your smile. Reasons include discoloration of yellow or brown stains on teeth, stains due to medications, and excessive fluoridation during tooth development. Tooth whitening is not permanent. Possible touch up's are needed if you smoke, drink coffee, tea or wine. Invisalign: It's a clear way to straighten teeth, in a much healthier way. People who benefit from invisalign are people that have crowding, spacing, buck teeth, under bite, deep bite, open bite, midline shift and cross bite. Invisalign are clear aligns (trays) that are removable, making it easier to eat, brush and floss your teeth. There are no brackets or wire to clean around as with traditional orthodontics. Periodontal Disease: Treatment for gum disease may include debridement of gross deposits, quadrant scaling with or without anesthetic, placement of antibiotic therapy, and referral for periodontal treatment to periodontist for advanced cases. Our Practice Procedures Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us About Dr. Artzer Dr. Mark B. Artzer, D.D.S. 748 A. McGuire Place Newport News, VA 23601 757-595-8405 mbartzer@gmail.com Copyright © 
2008-2012 Dr. Mark B. Artzer, D.D.S. While our dental office is located in Newport News, Virginia, we serve all of Hampton Roads including the cities of  Hamp