
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 04:01:04 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.64 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.64 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.9
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 04:01:04 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Honey's Healing History | WOUNDS LOGIN SUBSCRIBE FREE E-Newsletter/Product Bulletins Follow us on HOME ABOUT JOURNAL DESCRIPTION EDITORIAL BOARD AUTHOR INSTRUCTIONS CONTACT EDITORIAL CIRCULATION REQUEST REPRINTS ADVERTISING SALES REQUEST MEDIA KIT EMEDIA KIT ARCHIVES SUPPLEMENTS WEBCASTS SHOWCASE VIDEOS WEBCASTS Search Search All Wound Care Sites Search www.o-wm.com Search www.podiatrytoday.com Search www.woundsresearch.com Search www.todayswoundclinic.com Honey's Healing History Thu, 9/4/08 - 11:52am 0 Comments 3369 reads Author(s): Terry Treadwell, MD, FACS Dear Readers, You know the saying that if you keep something long enough it will come back in style? Well, it appears that the wound care field is not immune to this concept. In this issue, an article by George and Cutting, and a book review by Gethin, focus on the revival of honey as a wound care treatment. The ancient Egyptians used honey as a wound treatment as early as 3000 BC and it has been found in Egyptian tombs. 1 Although it was said to be normal in appearance, I was told that none of the researchers had the courage to taste it. Honey was an integral part of the “Three Healing Gestures” used by the Egyptians. This included washing the wound, applying a “plaster” (made from honey, animal fat, and vegetable fiber), and bandaging the wound 1 —not much different from the treatments used today. Recent testing of this Egyptian “wound salve” revealed that it is strongly bacteriocidal to Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and coliform bacteria. 2,3 This is partly the basis for why honey is currently being used. Honey contains antibacterial agents that are active against nearly all bacteria, including common resistant strains found today. Interestingly, the antibacterial activity of honey is not solely a result of its viscosity as many have presumed.The work of George and Cutting, and Gethin’s book review, demonstrate that honey’s antibacterial effect is still present even when diluted by wound fluid. George and Cutting found that honey from the Leptospermum scoparium plant has more antibacterial activity than honey from other sources. Raw honey found in grocery stores is not sterile and should not be used on wounds—it contains bacterial spores, which might not be the best thing to put on an open wound. However, the honey described in this issue is sterile and does not present that problem. The experience at my clinic with the use of antibacterial honey is that it reduces wound pain, odor, and exudate, and also improves healing (T. Treadwell, MD, FACS, unpublished data, 2007). Patients readily accept the treatment as well. It seems that some old treatments are making a comeback and are forging their place alongside new technologies. As some of the contents of this issue present, this “old” product may prove to be highly beneficial in the treatment of wounds, especially those colonized with resistant bacteria. If you enjoy the outdoors, I recommend that antibacterial honey be an item in your first-aid kit. If you get injured, the honey will act as an antibacterial and help your wound heal. Should you get lost,you have a tasty snack.What other wound product can claim that? References: 1. Brown H, ed. A Brief History of Wound Healing .Yardley, Pa: Oxford Clinical Communications; 1998: 9–15. 2. Smith MR, McCaughey WF, Kemmerer AR. The biological effects of honey. J Apicultural Res . 1969;8:99–110. 3 . Majno G. The Healing Hand: Man and Wound in the Ancient World . Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University Press; 1975:115–120. Current Issue » Volume 24 - Issue 3 - March 2012 Clinical Experience Using a Novel Wound Management System for Venous Leg Ulcers Composite Fat and Skin Grafting for the Management of Chronic Sickle Cell Ulcers Epicatechin Gallate Improves Healing and Reduces Scar Formation of Incisional Wounds in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Rat Model Deconstructing the Stalled Wound Pressure Ulcers Colonized by MRSA as a Reservoir and Risk for MRSA Bacteremia in Patients at a Brazilian University Hospital Departments » Editorial Message New Products and Industry News Online Exclusives NON ACCREDITED EDUCATION WEBCASTS On-Demand Webcast - Peer-to-Peer Webinar on Growth Factor Technology From Healthpoint Biotherapeutics Non-Accredited On-Demand Webcast - An Update on Coding and Payment Changes in 2012: Medicare Reimbursement for Skin and Dermal Substitutes Non-Accredited On-Demand Webcast - Reshaping Medicare Reimbursement: 2012 Changes for Skin & Dermal Substitutes Non-Accredited Reimbursement: 2012 Coding Update Non-Accredited On-Demand Webcast - An Update on Reimbursement for Debridement: Coding, Measuring, Claims Processing, and More Non-Accredited On-Demand Webcast - Debridement 2011: An Update on Reimbursement for Debridement Non-Accredited Evidence on Silver Dressing Technology: Making Choices Clearer Complimentary Archived Webcast Non-Accredited more » WOUNDS on Facebook Wounds Monthly Poll What was the first wound certification you received?: WCC CWS CWON CWCN CWOCN Other Classified/Recruitment Opportunities Fellowship in Advanced Wound Treatment and Wound Healing Research Department of Surgery, Division of Trauma -University of California, San Diego- 10/4/11 Hiring: Clinical Sales Representatives-Wound Care Wounds News Wire Tissue Viability Service at Brentwood Community Hospital is First to Purchase New Test for Wounds March 9, 2012 Microcyn wound care products launched in US hospitals, acute care centers March 7, 2012 SAWC Spring Announces New Registration Discount for Military Clinicians Addressing the Wound Healing Needs of US Soldiers March 1, 2012 American Board of Wound Medicine and Surgery established in Ohio February 29, 2012 HMP Communications © 2012 HMP Communications Home About Us Editorial Board Other Publications Contact Us Privacy Policy HMP Communications LLC (HMP) is the authoritative source for comprehensive information and education servicing healthcare professionals. HMP’s products include peer-reviewed and non-peer-reviewed medical journals, national tradeshows and conferences, online programs and customized clinical programs. HMP is a wholly owned subsidiary o