
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 22:57:03 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Cache-Control: max-age=1
Expires: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 22:57:04 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Measles   - Baby Skin Rashes Measles This is one of those common skin rashes 
which children often acquire along with German measles (Rubella) and 
mumps. However, the MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccine has proven 
to be effective at preventing this infection. 

As a result of this the number of measles cases in the UK has fallen 
although there has been an increase in the last few years. This may 
be due to parents choosing not to have their children inoculated with 
the MMR vaccine because of a suspected link to Autism. 

But recent studies have found no proven link between the MMR vaccine 
and autism. (Source: NHS Choices: Health A-Z: Measles: 
26.01.2010) (See links section) Measles usually affects children between 
the age of one and four years old. But babies under the age of one can 
also be affected. Symptoms of measles This starts off with a fever followed 
by a cough, runny nose and eyes. A few days later, white spots called 
‘Koplik’s spots’will appear inside your baby’s mouth. 
These will appear as tiny white dots on a raised red area of skin. A few days after that, a measles rash 
will develop on your baby’s face and body. This first appears on the 
face and neck before spreading to the chest, back, arms and legs. It 
will also appear on the hands and feet.

The rash appears as a series of flat red spots but eventually develops 
into raised patches of skin which are also itchy. Your baby will develop 
a fever at the same time. Other symptoms include: Nausea Vomiting and diarrhoea Persistent cough Swollen lymph glands Tiredness Lack of appetite Aches and pains Sore eyes which are sensitive 
  to bright lights Irritability These symptoms usually last for about 
two weeks. The measles rash lasts for around five to eight days before 
fading to a brown colour. It tends to leave the skin dry and flaky. Causes of measles Measles is caused by a virus called 
‘paramyxovirus’. If someone with this virus coughs or sneezes then 
tiny droplets of this remain in the air or on a surface for a couple 
of hours. If your baby breathes in this infected 
air or touches a surface which virus droplets have fallen onto then 
your baby will be infected. If your baby has not had the MMR vaccine 
and has never had this infection then he/she has a 90% chance of developing 
measles. It usually takes around 7 to 14 days before your baby shows 
signs of this disease. Treatment 
  of measles There is no specific form of treatment for measles but there are a few 
  things you can do to make your baby more comfortable. These include: Put damp cloths on your 
  baby’s skin to cool him/her down (useful for relieving a raised temperature). Ensure that your baby gets 
  plenty of rest and has enough fluids, e.g. juice and water to drink. 
  This will prevent dehydration which can be a problem for babies and 
  small children. Close the curtains in your 
  baby’s bedroom to help reduce light sensitivity. Clean around his/her 
  eyes with a cotton wool ball to remove any crusting. If your baby is over the 
  age of one then he/she may be given a teaspoon of lemon and two teaspoons 
  of honey, mixed together in a glass of warm water. This will help to 
  ease his/her cough.
  
  Do not give this to your baby if he/she is under 12 months old. This 
  also applies to cough medicines which must not be given to children 
  under 6 or babies. Your baby can be given paracetamol 
  or ibuprofen which will ease any fever, aches and pains. Look for the 
  varieties which are specially formulated for babies.
  
  Check with your pharmacist or GP first. Do NOT give your baby or child aspirin 
as it can cause Reye’s syndrome -a rare but very serious disease 
which can be fatal. These steps should ease the symptoms 
of measles but severe cases will require medical treatment. Antibiotics 
are not prescribed for measles due to it being a viral infection but 
can help if your baby develops a bacterial infection. If there are no complications then 
your baby will recover after a week to ten days. Complications of measles Most babies recover fine but there 
is a risk of complications which include: Conjunctivitis (eye infection) Vomiting Diarrhoea Otitis media (inner ear 
  infection) These are the most common type of complications.

There are also less common complications which are: Pneumonia Bronchitis/croup (an infection 
  of the airways) Encephalitis (an inflammation 
  of the brain) Meningitis (inflammation 
  of the membranes that cover the brain) Hepatitis (an inflammation 
  of the liver) These diseases require medical treatment. 

In a few rare cases, measles can cause serious eye, heart and nervous 
system problems. But, thankfully, these tend to be rare. If your baby’s condition worsens 
or you suspect any of the above then seek medical advice. Find a Clinic in your area Baby Skin Rashes Baby Skin Rashes Intro Baby skin Types of baby skin rashes Baby acne Birthmarks Chickenpox Cradle cap Eczema Heat rash Hives Impetigo Measles Milia Moles Nappy rash Psoriasis Ringworm Roseola Scabies Viral skin rash Warts Baby skin care Baby 
    Skin Rashes FAQs Glossary Medic8® Guides Cosmetic Surgery Cosmetic Dentistry Weight Loss Surgery Laser Eye Surgery Laser Hair Removal Hair Transplant Health Insurance Life Insurance Family Health Medical Tourism Hair Loss Stop Smoking Dental Implant medic8.com - your trusted source for health information online Home | About / Contact Home Find a doctor Medical news Contact Go Medic8 Terms Of Use Medic8 Clinics Cosmetic dentistry clinics Addiction clinics Laser Eye Surgery Clinics Medical resources A to Z Health Guide medical res