
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 20:39:11 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Natural Migraine Remedies Natural Migraine Remedies Osteoarthritis Remedy .com Home Osteoarthritis Knee Treatments Symptoms/Signs Hip Pain Relief Excercises Diet Spine Cervical Hand Degenerative Medications Pain Pathophysiology Alternatives Causes Neck Prevention FAQ Newsletter WellnessTrader.com Natural Rewards On Sale! Testimonials Natural Remedies Tell A Friend 1-800-969-7228 View Cart Check Out Login Signup What is Osteoarthritis? Degenerative Osteoarthritis Inflammatory Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Pain Osteoarthritis Stiffness Osteoarthritis Pathophysiology Osteoarthritis Symptoms Cause of Osteoarthritis Osteoarthritis Treatments Natural Remedies for Osteoarthritis Osteoarthritis Prevention Ankle Osteoarthritis Back Osteoarthritis Cartilage Osteoarthritis Finger Osteoarthritis Foot Osteoarthritis Hand Osteoarthritis Hip Osteoarthritis Knee Osteoarthritis Cervical Osteoarthritis Neck Osteoarthritis Shoulder Osteoarthritis Spinal Osteoarthritis Thumb Osteoarthritis Osteoarthritis Cures Diet and Osteoarthritis Exercise and Osteoarthritis Knee Brace for Osteoarthritis Knee Osteoarthritis Exercise Knee Osteoarthritis Pain MSM and Osteoarthritis References My Account User Info | View Cart Checkout Signup for newsletter Signup as a new user Site Info How To Order Shipping Information About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy 5 Star Guarantee Natural Migraine Remedies Herbs and supplements such as
Feverfew, Magnesium, Rest and Relaxation, 5 HTP, Riboflavin  (Vitamin
B2), Butterbur, Melatonin, and Lifestyle changes have all shown to
benefit the migraine sufferer. Feverfew Buy Now Feverfew has been used for a number
if ailments including migraine headaches. Modern work has supported
the use of feverfew as a treatment for migraine
headaches. By inhibiting the release of serotonin
and prostaglandins,
both of which are believed to aid the onset of migraines, feverfew
limits the inflammation of blood vessels in the head. This stops the
blood vessel spasm many believe contribute to headaches. The active
ingredients in feverfew include parthenolide
and tanetin,
both of which offer relief from migraine. It might take four to six
weeks before any results are obtained or until they become effective,
and feverfew is not a remedy for acute migraine attacks. There
are several double-blind trials reveal that continuous use of
feverfew may lead to a reduction in the severity, duration, and
frequency of migraine headaches. Clinical
studies suggest that standardized feverfew leaf extracts at a dose of
250 mcg of parthenolide per day is most effective. Click
here to Learn More. 5-HTP (5-Hydroxytryptophan) Buy Now 5-HTP (5-Hydroxytryptophan) is a
compound produced in the body from the amino acid tryptophan. It is
used in the body to make the neurotransmitter serotonin and the
hormone melatonin. 5-HTP is also available in supplement form.
It is made from the seeds of an African plant, called Griffonia
simplicifolia. Since supplements that affect levels of serotonin are
used for migraines, 5-HTP has been explored as an alternative. Some
research indicates that 5-HTP may prevent migraines and reduce the
frequency and severity of migraines, however large randomized
controlled trials are needed. In one study, 124 people were given
5-HTP, 600 mg per day or the drug methysergide. After six months,
5-HTP was found to be as effective as methysergide in reducing the
severity and duration of migraines. 5-HTP should not be taken with
Carbidopa, which is used to treat Parkinsons disease; triptans such
as Imitrex, Zomig,  or Maxalt. Some other prescription medications
may also have side effects with the combination of the two
medications taken together. If you are taking any medications, please
check with your doctor or pharmacist before using 5-HTP. An early
study in the New England Journal of Medicine reported the possibility
that 5-HTP may cause seizures in children with Down's Syndrome.
Safety during pregnancy or nursing has not been established, nor has
safety for those with kidney or liver disease.   (The
National Drug Intelligence Center, New York, January 2007.) Click
here to Learn More. Magnesium Buy Now An increasing number of doctors
believe that some of the most severe cases of migraines may actually
be caused by an imbalance of key minerals such as magnesium and
calcium. Not all headaches are produced by this imbalance, but it is
known that 50 to 60 percent of migraines are magnesium-linked. And
that's probably why no prescription therapy on the market
successfully treats headaches across the board. The one-sided, throbbing headache
known as a migraine is actually more common in women; roughly 75
percent of those who get migraines are female.  Some migraines are so
extreme that they cause limb numbness, hallucinations, nausea and
vomiting. Migraines
are believed to be caused by a number of certain changes in the blood
vessels (vascular changes), this reduces blood or oxygen flow in the
scalp and brain. The causes of these vascular changes are, things
such as muscle contractions during times of stress and bio-chemicals
called catecholamines and serotonin, which are circulating in the
blood. Too much serotonin can cause blood flow to slow; too little
can cause blood to move through too rapidly. Without
sufficient magnesium, serotonin flows are unchecked, constricting
blood vessels and releasing other pain-producing chemicals such as
prostaglandins. Normal magnesium levels not only prevent the release
of these pain-producing substances but also stop their effects. It's
very likely that a magnesium deficiency is a widespread cause of
migraines.  Studies show that many people don't even come close to
getting the Daily Value of magnesium, which is 400 milligrams. "On
a daily basis, 30 to 40 percent of American people take less than 75
percent of the Daily Value of magnesium,".  So it has clearly
been established that for migraine sufferers having a higher than
normal daily dose of magnesium will remedy their painful and
debilitating situation. (Burton M. Altura, M.D., professor of
physiology and medicine at the State University of New York Health
Science Center at Brooklyn). Click here to Learn More. Riboflavin (Vitamin B2) Buy Now Riboflavin works in the treatment of
migraine, and researchers have noticed a deficiency in certain energy
generators in the brain cells of some people with migraines. They
suspect that flooding the system with riboflavin could indirectly
help regenerate this flagging energy system and somehow short-circuit
migraine pain. Recently,
a group of 49 people in a Belgian headache study were able to take
supplements to get the necessary 400-milligram daily dose of
riboflavin. The
migraine-prone people in the study received this high dose which is
approximately 235 times the Daily Value! This was taken every day for
three months. In addition to the riboflavin, 23 of the people in the
study took one low-dose aspirin a day. By
the end of the study, migraine severity decreased by nearly 70
percent in both groups compared with what it had been at the study's
start. Aspirin had no added value. Click here to Learn More. Butterbur Buy Now Researchers believe that butterbur's
main active ingredients, petasin and isopetasin, inhibit the
production of leukotriene, a substance that inflames blood vessels.
Without the inflammation the migraines are less likely to occur. Butterbur also inhibits the
production of histamine, keeping your nasal passages open and
relieving allergic congestion. Human
studies of butterbur as both a migraine and an allergy remedy are in
the early stages.  However, in a double-blind study in Neurology in
2002, researchers gave 202 migraine sufferers 100 or 150 mg of
butterbur extract a day or a placebo. After 12 weeks, those taking
150 mg reported 48 percent fewer migraines than usual. Patients
taking 100 mg experienced 34 percent fewer migraines, and those
taking a placebo had a 26 percent drop in migraine frequency. In
a double-blind study in Headache in 2000, 58 patients with migraines
took 50 mg of butterbur extract or a placebo twice daily. The
butterbur group had 50 percent fewer migraines than usual after 12
weeks and the placebo group dropped only by 10 percent. Find migraine
relief with butterbur - this herb helps migraine sufferers and may
also ease seasonal allergies.  ( Natural
Health, Jan-Feb,
2003 by Rachel
Snyder). Click here to Learn More. Melatonin Buy Now At night melatonin is produced to
help our bodies regulate our sleep-wake cycles. The amount of
melatonin our body produces seems to lessen as we get older.
Scientists believe this may be why young people have less problem
sleeping than older people. The amount of melatonin needed from
one individual to another can vary enormously. For example tablets of
1.5 mg and 3.0 mg are available and it is best to start off with a
1.5 mg tablet each night before bedtime, and work your way to larger
doses if needed. Certain people must avoid melatonin,
as it is a hormone.  Those include women who are pregnant or nursing,
since no one knows how excessive exposure to the hormone might affect
a fetus, people with severe allergies or autoimmune diseases,
melatonin could worsen such conditions by stimulating the immune
system, people with immune system cancers such as lymphoma or
leukemia.  Women trying to conceive should also think twice about
taking the hormone, since high doses can act as a contraceptive. As
with any substance introduced into your body, if you have a medical
condition you should always consult your doctor before taking
melatonin. Melatonin is one of the least toxic
substances known. People have taken as much as 6 grams (600 to 3000
times the normal dosage) of the substance in carefully monitored
studies with no sign of toxicity. Only four complaints regarding
melatonin have been reported to the FDA (USA's Food and Drug
Administration). The only consistent side effect of high doses has
been drowsiness and a slower reaction time. In the most extensive
clinical trial to date a high dose of 75 milligrams of melatonin per
day was given to 1400 women in the Netherlands for up to four years
with no ill effects. The FDA reports that in the more than two years
melatonin has been available for sale over the counter in the United
States, no alarming side effects have been reported. Click here to Learn More. Coenzyme Q10 Buy Now Coenzyme Q10 is a fat-soluble vitamin
like substance present in every cell of the body and serves as a
coenzyme for several of the key enzymatic steps in the production of
energy within the cell. It also functions as an antioxidant.
It is naturally present in small amounts in a wide variety of foods
but is particularly high in organ meats such as heart, liver and
kidney, as well as beef, soy oil, sardines, mackerel, and peanuts.
Coenzyme Q10 is synthesized in all tissues and in healthy individuals
normal levels are maintained both by Coenzyme Q10 intake and by the
body's synthesis of Coenzyme Q10. It has no known toxicity or side
effects. In migraine sufferers, a preliminary
open label trial, 17 of 32 patients taking 150 mg of coenzyme Q10
daily demonstrated efficacy in reducing the frequency of migraine
attacks. A recent randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled
trial,18 of 42 patients taking coenzyme Q10 at 300 mg a day found
similar benefit. The response rate and decrease in headache frequency
by 50 percent or more was 47.6 percent in the coenzyme Q10 group and
14.4 percent in the placebo group. Click here to Learn More. (Ernster
L. (1977) Facts and ideas about the function of coenzyme Q10.
Yamamura Y. (eds)  Biomedical and Clinical Aspects of Coenzyme Q.
Elsevier, Amsterdam, pp 15-8). (OBERT
ALAN BONAKDAR, M.D., and ERMINIA GUARNERI, M.D. Scripps
Center for Integrative Medicine, La Jolla, California). Migraine Relief Buy Now Migraine Relief from Natural Care combines several natural migraine relief and prevention supplements into a single capsule that when taken (2 at a time) can relieve most migraines. Migraine Prevention Alternative Treatments Natural Remedies Exercise For Cardiovascular Health Keeps Knee Cartilage Healthy Too, Study Sugge - The world's most common joint disease, osteoarthritis (OA) is a major cause... Home | Natural Remedies | Current News | Discussion Board | Discussion Board
			Guidelines | How to Order Shipping Information | Shopping Cart | About Us | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Site Map | Search Earn Free Products with Natural Rewards To Order Call: 1-800-969-7228 $6.95 Flat Shipping per Order UPS Ground 2-5 Biz Days Terms of Use and Disclaimer | ©2009 Wellness Trader | US FDA Disclaimer 5-htp.org | alpha-lipoic-acid.com | anxietyremedy.com | arginmaxdirect.com | bacopa-monniera.com | blueberryextract.com bromelain.net | coq10supplement.com | curcumin.net | diabetes-remedy.com | dmae.org | dryeyesyndrome.net enlargedprostateremedy.com | fish-oil-supplements.com | green-tea-extract.com | guggul.net | gymnema.net | high-triglycerides.com highbloodpressureremedy.com | huperzine.net | immune-boosters.com | inflammationremedy.com | loweringcholesterol.net | memory-loss.com migraineremedy.com | natto-nattokinase.com | pantethine.net | policosanol.net | redyeastrice.org | sam-e-supplement.com sleepremedy.com 