
Prevent decay with dental sealants. Ask Dr. Harwood in Lawndale, CA - Randall K Harwood, DDS, Inc. Tips on Preventing Tooth Decay Most people in the Lawndale area know that preventing dental decay and cavities starts with adequately brushing and flossing your teeth. Fluoride products can also help keep teeth healthy. But often no matter how well you brush and floss, tooth decay can occur, especially in the back of the mouth where proper cleaning can be difficult. Taking additional preventative measures can reduce the risk of tooth decay for teeth in the back of the mouth. The American Dental Association now recommends all children receive sealants on their new adult teeth soon after they erupt, usually between 6 and 12 years of age. Sealants consist of plastic coating that can be applied quickly and painlessly, and clinical studies report a 90-100% reduction in decay by placing sealants. Regular dental visits will allow Dr. Randall Harwood to monitor the progression of adult teeth and apply sealants at the appropriate time. Call Randall K Harwood, DDS, Inc. in Lawndale at (877) 421-3176 for more information on tooth decay protection. Read more about dentist: Sterilization of Dental Equipment Your Dental Visit Computerized Dental Radiography Toothache Causes Dental Waterlines Laser Dentistry Early Dental Practices Child Dental Emergencies Dental X-Rays « Back to Dentist Call For An Appointment Now! (310) 370-5681 General Info: (310) 370-5681 The Flash 6 plugin or higher is required to view content on this page, but was not detected on your browser. First name: Email: Postal code: Subscribe to our newsletter? Our email policy - We promise never to sell, barter or rent your email address to any unauthorized party. Share | Randall K Harwood, DDS, Inc. Appts: (310) 370-5681 Randall K Harwood Randall K Harwood, DDS, Inc. 16817 S. Prairie Avenue Lawndale , CA 90260 General Info: (310) 370-5681 Appointment Links New Patients Recare/Recall Free Smile Analysis New Patient Forms About Us Convenient Financial Terms Smile Gallery What Patients Say Tell a Friend Resources Newsletter Signup Post-Treatment Instructions HIPAA Policy Cosmetic Dentistry Plus Quality Care For ... Sleep Apnea General Dentistry Sedation Dentistry © 2012, Internet Dental Alliance, Inc. All Rights Reserved - Privacy Policy - Terms of Use Lawndale Cosmetic Dentistry | Cosmetic Dentistry Lawndale | Lawndale Cosmetic Dentist | Hawthorne Cosmetic Dentistry | Redondo Beach Cosmetic Dentist | Manhattan Beach Cosmetic Dentistry | Torrance Cosmetic Dentist | Los Angeles County Cosmetic Dentistry | sitemap Randall K Harwood, DDS, Inc., 16817 S. Prairie Avenue, Lawndale, California 90260 - (310) 370-5681 Randall K Harwood The Flash 6 plugin or higher is required to view content on this page, but was not detected on your browser. Home Meet the Doctor