
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 01:54:25 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Vary: Cookie
X-hacker: If you're reading this, you should visit automattic.com/jobs and apply to join the fun, mention this header.
X-Pingback: http://natureasmedicine.wordpress.com/xmlrpc.php

valerian tea «  Nature As Medicine Nature As Medicine Everything About Natural Remedies & Health Care Home About Nature As Medicine Disclaimer Valuable Curative Features Of The Valerian Herb 12 05 2009 Valerian is a hardy perennial flowering plant, with pinnate leaves & heads of sweetly scented pink or white flowers. It contains a rootstock, which harbours many active compounds that herb researchers believe endow this plant with an incredible medicinal value. Valerian herb has a very good root system and a short rhizome. The roots and rhizomes are used for its medicinal properties. Valerian is a valuable cure for insomnia and stress Valerian is well known for its natural tranquilizing abilities, its sedative qualities and its effectiveness in calming the central nervous system. It helps to smoothen the muscle groups. Valerian has around 120 chemical components with complex combinations. Much research has been done on this herb and its affect on the body. Valerian has chemicals in it called valepotriates, which seem to depress some activity of the nervous system. The great benefit of this herb is that it works to calm your nerves without many of the side effects like prescriptions or OTC drugs have. Nature’s Answer Valerian Root – Extract, 1 oz Valerian plays a major role in the treatment of insomnia. Apart from this tranquilizing use, the extracts of valerian roots and the leaves are useful to heal headaches, muscle spasms, menstrual cramps, stress and stress-related digestive disorders. However, it is not advisable to take this herb on a daily basis. However, when any form of the above stated health discomforts are observed, this herb can certainly be used as a formidable medicine. Valerian is not an addictive substance, and doesn’t lead to the usually groggy “Sleep Hangover” that some people feel when they take sleep aids. For this reason, its use is widely accepted. You can prepare the valerian root into maceration. Take two tablespoons of the chopped, fresh valerian root and soak it in a cup of cool water for approximately eight hours. Other herbs can be combined as well into this concoction, including peppermint, which can make it taste slightly better. Herbs For Kids Valerian Super Calm – 2 oz A valerian root hot tea is also a great choice to help decrease your anxiety and insomnia symptoms as well. Infusion made out of valerian acts as a perfect medicine, as a pain reliever, which treats menstrual pain and irritable bowel syndrome. Dried leaves and roots of valerian herb are used to prepare herbal tea, which again has the potential to calm down the brain and gives relaxation to entire body system. Valerian roots are dried and boiled with water to get the extract after straining the liquid mixture. This tea bears the following health benefits. Nature’s Way Valerian Nighttime – 100 tab Valerian Tea helps to treat chronic insomnia, muscle spasms, sleeplessness & menstrual problems. It acts as a mild sedative it soothes the nervous system. It improves the digestive system while preventing cramps due to irritable bowel problems. Valerian Tea calms down hysteria and restless behaviours and it bears the potential to lower the blood pressure. A dose between 250 mg to 500mg per day is an adequate dose of this supplement. Possible side effects from taking overly high amounts of Valerian can include nausea, headaches, dizziness, grogginess, and palpitations of the heart. Very high dosages may also impair the liver and the central nervous system. Alvita Tea Bag Tea – Valerian Root, 24 bag So now you know more about Valerian herb and this will guide you to make a better informed decision about using valerian herb or valerian capsules . Comments : 3 Comments » Tags: benefits of valerian , buy valerian , herbs valerian , side effects of valerian , sleep valerian , valarian , valerian , valerian anxiety , valerian benefits , valerian capsules , valerian dosage , valerian dose , valerian extract , valerian health , valerian herb , valerian herbal , valerian insomnia , valerian plant , valerian pregnancy , valerian roots , valerian side effects , valerian tablets , valerian tea , valerian teas , valerian tincture , valerian uses Categories : Valuable Valerian Herb Subscribe To My Feed RSS Feed For Posts Pages About Nature As Medicine Disclaimer Recent Comments capt. MRC on About Nature As Medicine free download BRRip … on Cool Coriander Herb With Infin… support on Great Medicinal Benefits Of… aruna on Valuable Curative Features Of … Debra on Gymnema Sylvestre – A Po… Top Posts Priceless Pennywort Plant - A Phenomenal Brain Food About Nature As Medicine Keep Yourself Healthy Using Heavenly Hibiscus Plants Astounding Medicinal Properties Of Ash Gourd Solanum Torvum or Turkey Berry, A Special Medicinal Herb Are Turmeric Capsules Any Good? Find Out Now!!! The Curious Case Of Holy Basil Herb Enrich Your Health Using The Electrifying Eclipta Alba Plant Herbal Ashwagandha Effects And Medicinal Uses Pomegranate Health Benefits - An Introduction Categories "Miracle Fruit" Healthy Pineapple Aegle marmelos plant Agrimony herb benefits Almond Nuts & Almond Nutrition Aloe Vera Care Amla Fruit Aromatic Curry Leaves Asafoetida Spice Benefits Ash gourd medicinal uses Betel Leaves Bitter melon plant & fruit Black Nightshade or Solanum Nigrum Plant Black Pepper Plant Benefits Blessed Banana Fruit Celery Plant Benefits Cool Coriander Herb Nourishment Cucumber Benefits Cumin Seeds Medicinal Values Eclipta alba plant Fenugreek Herb Health Care Garcinia Indica – Kokum Fruit Benefits Garlic Medication Ginger Herb Uses Gymnema Sylvestre – An Anti-Diabetic Herb Healing & Stinging Nettle herb Henna Plant & Henna Leaves Hibiscus Plants & Flowers Holy Basil Health Benefits Impressive Alfalfa Herb Juniper essential oil Lemons & Lemon Juice Liquorice root benefits Marigold plant benefits Medicinal Chamomile Flowers Mint Herb Benefits Moringa Oleifera Miracle Tree Natural Pesticide & Organic Gardening Neem Care Organic Coconut Oil Organic Tea Papaya Fruit pennywort herbal plant or gotu kola herb Plantain herb or Plantago Major Benefits Pomegranate Benefits Refreshing Vetiver root oil Sesame Oil Health Care Sesbania Grandiflora Plant Solanum Torvum Uses Solanum xanthocarpum or Yellow berried Nightshade Therapeutic Thyme Herb Turmeric Health Benefits Facts Uncategorized Valuable Valerian Herb Winter cherry or Ashwagandha Herb Tags almond oil aloe skin aloe skin care Aloe vera benefits Aloe Vera Care Anti Aging Antioxidants ayurvedic skin care benefits of coconut oil coconut oil benefits Dandruff digestion problems Digestive disorders Dry & Itchy scalp Ginger benefits Ginger Health Benefits Ginger products Ginger root Hair care holy basil benefits holy basil extract holy basil extracts holy basil herb holy basil leaves natural pesticide natural remedies Nature as Medicine Neem extract Neem leaf Neem Oil Neem Shampoo Organic Coconut Oil organic ginger tea organic living organic natural skin care Organic Tea Papain Papaya Nutrients papaya plant Pomegranate Benefits Pomegranate juice Pomegranate Seeds treat indigestion tulsi extracts vitamin-C Recent Posts Gymnema Sylvestre – A Potent Anti-Diabetic Herb The Importance of Liquorice Herb (Glycyrrhiza glabra) Herbal Ashwagandha Effects And Medicinal Uses Keep Yourself Healthy Using Heavenly Hibiscus Plants Pamper Your Health With Pot Marigold Medicinal Powers Blogroll WordPress.com WordPress.org Meta Register Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.com Blogupp Blog Links Top Stories Best Directory -  Submit your Website blog directory FeedCat: RSS Feed and Atom Feed Boosting Engine March 2012 M T W T F S S « Jul 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Archives Select Month July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 Blog at WordPress.com . Theme: Freshy by Jide . Follow Follow “Nature As Medicine” Get ever