Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 00:46:56 GMT
Connection: keep-alive

Medical Acupuncture Benefits, Side Effects, History and Origin on eMedicineHealth.com Home Topics A-Z Slideshow Pictures Image Gallery Medications Quizzes Medical Dictionary Health Topics A-Z Health News First Aid Guides Slideshows All Slideshows Newest Slideshows Pet Slideshows Featured Slideshow Black Widow vs. Brown Recluse See Who Wins View Slideshow » Image Gallery (categories) Allergic Skin Disorders Bacterial Skin Diseases Bites and Infestations Diseases of Pigment Fungal Skin Disease Medical Anatomy and Illustrations Noncancerous, Precancerous & Cancerous Tumors Oral Health Conditions Papules, Scales, Plaques and Eruptions Scalp, Hair and Nails Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Vascular, Lymphatic and Systemic Conditions Viral Skin Disease Additional Skin Conditions Featured Image Picture of Psoriasis A reddish, scaly rash often located over the surfaces of the elbows, knees, scalp, and around or in the ears, navel, genitals or buttocks... View Image Gallery » Medications Vitamins and Supplements All Quizzes Skin Pictures Happiness Human Body Sleep Shingles Featured Quiz The Sex & Love Quiz The brain. The body. The bedroom. What do you know? View Quiz » About Us | Privacy | Site Map February 13, 2012 Follow Us On: home > healthy living center > healthy living a-z list > medical acupuncture article Font Size A A A 1 2 3 ... Next » (Page 1 of 12) Glossary Medical Acupuncture Take the Vitamins and Supplements Quiz! Take the Happiness Quiz! 15 Immune Boosting Foods! Medical Author: Joseph Sciammarella, MD, FACP, FACEP Joseph Sciammarella, MD, FACP, FACEP Dr. Sciammarella graduated from American University of the Caribbean in June, 1985. He is a Diplomate of the American Board of Internal Medicine, and the American Board of Emergency Medicine and has practiced Emergency Medicine for 19 years. View Full Profile Medical Editor: Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD, Chief Medical Editor Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD, Chief Medical Editor Melissa Conrad Stöppler, MD, is a U.S. board-certified Anatomic Pathologist with subspecialty training in the fields of Experimental and Molecular Pathology. Dr. Stöppler's educational background includes a BA with Highest Distinction from the University of Virginia and an MD from the University of North Carolina. She completed residency training in Anatomic Pathology at Georgetown University followed by subspecialty fellowship training in molecular diagnostics and experimental pathology. View Full Profile Medical Acupuncture Introduction History Taoist Origins Acupuncture Physiology Acupuncture Needles Side Effects Medical Insurance Multimedia Synonyms and Keywords References Authors and Editors Related acupuncture articles: Acupuncture - on WebMD Acupuncture - on MedicineNet Read more on Medical Acupuncture from Healthwise Medical Acupuncture Introduction Acupuncture is just one of the elements that make up the discipline often referred to as traditional Chinese medicine . Traditional Chinese medicine, or TCM, is a combination of physical, mental, and spiritual practices that include techniques such as massage therapy and acupuncture, along with herbal medicine and various forms of mind-body exercise such as Daijiquan (Tai Chi Chuan) and Qigong (Chi Gong). In many states, licensed acupuncturists are independently licensed health-care practitioners. In some states, physicians who obtain additional training and qualification in acupuncture are allowed to perform acupuncture within the scope of their license to practice medicine. The term medical acupuncture is used to denote the practice of acupuncture performed by a licensed physician. The state requirements for the practice of acupuncture vary. Be sure that any practitioner you visit has met the requirements for your state. Next Page: History » 1 2 3 ... Next » (Page 1 of 12) Glossary Privacy Policy Women's Health Find out what women really need. From WebMD Complementary Medicine Resources Should You Worry About Overdoing Vitamins? Natural Ways to Help Dry Skin Do You Really Need a Flu Shot? Featured Centers Ask the Nutritionist: Weight Loss Tips Which Drugstore Tooth Whiteners Work Best? Gout: Symptoms, Causes, and Treatments Health Solutions From Our Sponsors Are You Depressed? Fibromyalgia Center Medical Acupuncture Migraine and Cluster Headache Medications » What Are Migraine and Cluster Headaches? Migraines are headaches that most likely stem from problems with blood vessels in the head. Migraine headaches typically last from 4-72 hours. They may happen as often as several times a week to only once a year. Migraine headaches cause moderate-to-severe pain. The pain may be located on one or both sides of the head, in the back of the neck, or around the face or eyes. Symptoms like nausea, vomiting, dizziness, stuffy nose, and/or watery eyes may occur. Some people have tunnel vision or see spots or halos. People who have migraines are called migraineurs. Cluster headaches are vascular headaches that occur almost daily in episodes, or “clusters,” over weeks to months. The pain is severe and comes on very suddenly. Pain usually affects one side of the face and is accompanied by nasal congestion, runny nose, and watery eyes. In contrast to migraine headaches, cluster headaches occur more frequently in male... Read the Migraine and Cluster Headache Medications article » Read What Your Physician is Reading on Medscape Transcutaenous Electrical Nerve Stimulation » Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) currently is one of the most commonly used forms of electroanalgesia. Read More on Medscape Reference » Featured Topics Osteoarthritis Slideshow What is RLS? Heart Disease Pictures Topics Related to Medical Acupuncture Asthma Back Pain Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Fibromyalgia Headache (Mild) Migraine Headache Osteoarthritis Sciatica Stroke Vomiting and Nausea Healthy Living Topics Food Poisoning Low Potassium Superfoods Quiz Fat-Fighting Foods Slideshow Fat and Fats Quiz Medical Dictionary or A-Z List Use Pill Finder Find it Now Pill Identifier on RxList quick, easy, pill identification Find a Local Pharmacy including 24 hour pharmacies First Aid & Emergencies | Topics A-Z | Picture Slideshows | Medications | Image Gallery | eTools | Medical Dictionary Definitions About Us | Privacy | Terms of Use | Advertising Policy | Site Map | Contact Us WebMD | Medscape Reference | Medscape | MedicineNet | RxList | BootsWebMD This site complies to the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: Verify here . ©2012 WebMD, Inc. All rights reserved. eMedicineHealth does not provide medical