
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 09:58:17 GMT
Server: Apache
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

CALM w/ Calcium Supplement Beverage - General Vitamins-Minerals-Herbs Skip to Store Area: Skip to Main Content Skip to Left Column Skip to Footer Home About Optimum Solutions Articles Resources Testimonials Shop Contact Us Book Video Channel Sitemap Welcome to the Optimum Solutions Online Shop! Need Assistance?  Call Toll Free: 1-888-918-9352 My Account My Wishlist My Cart Checkout Log In You're currently on: Home / General Vitamins-Minerals-Herbs / CALM w/ Calcium Supplement Beverage Search Site All Products Hormones Alternative Testing Enzymes / Digestion Adrenal Fatigue / Thyroid General Vitamins-Minerals-Herbs sale My Cart You have no items in your shopping cart. Compare Products (7) CALM w/ Calcium Supplement Beverage PROTECTION™ - Our Incredible Ester-C Supplement BUILDER™  - amino acid blend CHANGE™ AWAKE™ - Our Custom Formulated B12 Sublingual ASSIST™ - B6 with Magnesium MOOD™ - GABA Clear All Subscribe to Newsletter Product CALM w/ Calcium Supplement Beverage successfully added to compare list Double click on above image to view full picture More Views CALM w/ Calcium Supplement Beverage Be the first to review this product Availability: In stock. $21.95 Buy 2 for $19.95 each                                                                        and save 10% Add Items to Cart Qty: Add to Wishlist Add to Compare Quick Overview CALM w/ Calcium Supplement For 2 Cans 8oz. / 30 servings each can Product Description Product Tags The Calcium and Magnesium Relationship Calcium is an important nutrient essential to maintaining total body health. Your body needs it every day-not just to keep your bones and teeth strong, but to ensure proper functioning of muscles and nerves. It even helps your blood to clot. But can too much calcium be a problem? Yes, it can. A MATTER OF BALANCE Calcium deficiency can be a serious issue and has been heavily promoted through the media and advertising. But the hidden cause of calcium deficiency is the fact that available calcium is not being assimilated by the body due to a lack of magnesium. Without a proper balance of these two minerals, magnesium gets depleted, which will result in the negative effects associated with lack of magnesium and a buildup of unassimilated calcium. In addition to the many calcium (without magnesium) supplements on the market, calcium is now added to cereals, crackers, juice, antacids and other items (including soft drinks). None of these products contain magnesium to balance the added calcium. CALCIUM, MAGNESIUM AND STRESS Calcium and magnesium are two different sides of a coin. Calcium excites nerves while magnesium calms them down. Calcium makes muscles contract. Magnesium is necessary for muscles to relax. Calcium is needed for blood clotting but magnesium keeps the blood flowing freely. It is vital to keep these minerals in balance. Too little magnesium to balance calcium can be both uncomfortable and unhealthy. To ward off the negative effects of a prolonged period of stress or over-reaction to stress, calcium needs to be balanced with adequate amounts of magnesium. Going through a stressful period without sufficient magnesium can set up a deficit that, if not corrected, can linger, causing more stress (see symptoms of magnesium depletion listed below) and further health problems. Today we have diets dangerously low in magnesium. Add the recent inclusion of nutritional calcium via supplements and food fortifications meant to stave off osteoporosis and many of us are getting inadequate magnesium plus too much calcium. Women taking calcium supplements to prevent osteoporosis-without adequate magnesium-can actually lower the vital bone mineralization process. Magnesium is as important as calcium in the prevention of osteoporosis and is crucial to increasing bone mass. NATURAL CALM PLUS CALCIUM If you feel you are not getting sufficient calcium in your diet, Natural Calm Plus CalciumTM is the answer. It blends Natural CalmTM-the best-selling, most absorbable and fastest acting magnesium available-with calcium and other key ingredients so the calcium you take will actually be fully utilized. Your body's magnesium level won't be depleted and there won't be any buildup of unabsorbed calcium. Symptoms of Magnesium Depletion Millions suffer daily from symptoms that can result from a lack of magnesium. Because magnesium is required for hundreds of enzymatic reactions (enzymes are protein molecules that stimulate every chemical reaction in the body), deficiency can cause a wide variety of symptoms, such as • Low Energy • Fatigue • Weakness • PMS and Hormonal Imbalances • Inability to Sleep • Muscle Tension, Spasms & Cramps • Calcification of Organs • Weakening Bones • Abnormal Heart Rhythm • Anxiousness • Nervousness • Irritability A NEW NATURAL CALM FORMULATION Natural Calm Plus Calcium utilizes the same advanced technology as Natural Calm. The minerals in this product go into total solution in their ionic form and are readily available to the body. Water acts as a carrier and transports the minerals quickly to where the body needs them. Natural Calm Plus Calcium contains added nutrients to ensure that the calcium is absorbed and utilized. It is the most advanced formula available for the assimilation of calcium. This is particularly important, as calcium will not be efficiently assimilated by the body without these other nutrients being present. In addition to calcium, Natural Calm Plus Calcium contains magnesium (Natural Calm), vitamin C, vitamin D and boron, which assist in the assimilation, utilization and distribution of the calcium within the body. This results in the creation of strong bones, joints and connective tissue, and a healthy, active immune system to protect against invasion of bacteria, viruses and other uninvited guests. Natural Calm Plus Calcium also includes potassium, which is vital for a healthy heart, nerve function and energy production. This product is ideal for men and women of all ages and in particular for seniors, as it helps in the reversal of bone loss, joint, cartilage and connective tissue deterioration, and malfunction of the various glands and their emission of hormones. Natural Calm Plus Calcium is formulated with 3 parts magnesium to 2 parts calcium, which will prevent a surplus of calcium robbing the body's vital magnesium supply and avoid the symptoms associated with depleted levels of magnesium. Add Your Tags: Use spaces to separate tags. Use single quotes (') for 