
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 15:28:20 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://blog.usaid.gov/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

USAID Impact » PEPFAR USAID Impact The Official Blog of the U.S. Agency for International Development Home About This Blog About USAID PEPFAR World AIDS Day:  New Advances Are Critical to Achieving the Vision of an AIDS-free Generation Written by Rajiv Shah on December 1, 2011 — Leave a Comment An activist sets up a red ribbon during the commemoration of the World AIDS Day in San Salvador, on December 1, 2010. AFP PHOTO/ Jose CABEZAS Featured on Huffington Post For the first time since the AIDS virus surfaced, devastating communities and overwhelming nations, the world has the tools and knowledge to ensure an entire generation is born free from its scourge. By building on a strong legacy of progress and bipartisan support and relying on proven interventions and new breakthroughs, the United States is leading the world in making real the vision of an AIDS-free generation. Our efforts at home and abroad have informed each other. HIV prevention and treatment approaches pioneered in Nairobi and Cape Town now benefit communities in the U.S. Thanks to President Obama’s strong support of the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief—better known as PEPFAR —millions of patients worldwide are able to receive affordable treatment that used to be out of reach. At the same time, American researchers and pharmaceutical companies have made game-changing discoveries that are helping save millions of lives around the world. Despite these successes, every day more people become infected than start treatment. Every day, more people—many of them women and children—join the ranks of the already 34 million living with HIV today. In order to end this devastating reality, we have to work faster, more effectively and more efficiently than ever before. As Secretary Clinton recently said, our efforts must begin with the American people—and our drive for innovation, unfailing sense of generosity and track record of breakthrough research. To realize the future of an AIDS-free generation, we have to strategically focus our efforts on proven, cost-effective ways to fight against HIV/AIDS: stopping mother-to-child transmission, expanding voluntary medical male circumcision, supporting community adherence and investing in new biomedical tools. But we also have to focus on propelling new advances. Just a few months ago we saw new results that demonstrated the effectiveness of HIV medication taken orally, once a day, at not just treating HIV but preventing its transmission. Discoveries like this may one day change the way we fight AIDS, both in America and in developing countries. As the head of a federal agency dedicated to improving human welfare, I have seen firsthand the deeply moral, social and economic costs of HIV/AIDS: children who have been born HIV-positive and find the odds in life already stacked against them; businesses close in regions where HIV is rampant while hospitals fill up; and the despair fueled by a single disease. This reality has always been unacceptable. For the first time, we can confidently say it is also avoidable. With the continued support of a remarkable bipartisan constituency of congressional leaders, faith-based institutions, multilateral alliances and private sector partners, we can build on the momentum of proven results and scientific discoveries. Today, as we once again mark World AIDS Day , we should do so knowing the world finally has the ability to create a future without AIDS. Posted in Administrator Dr. Rajiv Shah , Global Health | Also tagged AIDS , HIV , World AIDS Day Reaching Most-at-Risk Populations with HIV Counseling and Testing in Brazil Written by Britt Herstad, Global Health Bureau, Office of HIV/AIDS on October 18, 2011 — Leave a Comment Over the summer, I visited Brazil with representatives from USAID’s Caribbean Regional HIV Program .  The Caribbean team was interested in learning about USAID/Brazil’s innovative HIV counseling and testing program, Quero Fazer , which is implemented by the Associação Espaço de Prevenção e Atenção Humanizada (EPAH). USAID/Brazil Mission Director, Lawrence Hardy, learns about the rapid test procedure from a Ministry of Health employee in Recife, Brazil. Photo Credit: USAID/Brazil EPAH manages Quero Fazer, a project designed specifically to reach most-at-risk populations (MARPs)—primarily transgenders and men who have sex with men—with HIV prevention and counseling and testing services. We visited Quero Fazer ’s mobile clinics in Recife, on the northeastern coast, and in Brasília, the capital. The mobile units provide services at night and in areas where the target populations gather. We also went to Rio de Janeiro, where Quero Fazer manages a late afternoon to night-time counseling and testing clinic within the office of Arco-Iris, a nongovernmental organization (NGO) that focuses on gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender issues. Through the mobile units and the NGO site, Quero Fazer has forged, with USAID/Brazil’s support, a unique partnership between NGOs and public health programs. In all of its sites, community members serve as peer educators and work to mobilize patients to access the free services. Meanwhile, municipal and state health officers work at the sites to provide the counseling and rapid HIV testing. For patients who test positive, clinic workers make appointments for them at specific clinics and hospitals, where health providers have been trained on working with MARPs. This level of government support is critical to the success of the pilot program, which operates off of minimal funding, and helps to foster expansion and sustainability. (more…) Posted in Global Health , Health | Also tagged AIDS , Brazil , Global Health , Health , HIV , HIV/AIDS On the Road with SCMS: A Mother’s Hope Written by Guest Blogger Samantha Salcedo on October 13, 2011 — Leave a Comment Samantha Salcedo is the Senior Communications Advisor at Supply Chain Management System Jonise holds her son, John Werley.  Photo credit: Jean Jacques Augustin John Werley sits patiently on his mother Jonise’s lap.  His eyes are big, bright and slightly sleepy.  We are sitting together in one of the treatment rooms of the Hopital Evangelique, a local health center in the tiny community of Bombardopolis, about an eight hour jeep ride from Port au Prince, Haiti .  Bombardopolis is poor, suffering, as most of Haiti does, with high unemployment (over 40% of Haitians are out of work) and without basic modern conveniences of electricity or running water. The hospital began HIV testing 15 years ago.  HIV’s reach is far and indiscriminate, even the remote town of Bombardopolis is not immune; about 25% of the roughly 800 patients the hospital sees monthly are HIV positive.  While the hospital could test for the disease, it was a long time before they were able to treat it.  In 2006, the Supply Chain Management System (SCMS), a project under the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) that is administered under USAID began delivering life-saving antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) to the hospital. SCMS is also working with the Hôpital Evangelique’s staff to build their capacity to better manage and forecast key commodities – including pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, laboratory equipment and their associated reagents, thereby assuring that they are procured and delivered on time.   So far, the U.S. Government, through SCMS, has donated over $34 million in ARVs, lab supplies and other commodities to Haiti; of this, about $3 million has been devoted to supporting programs in the prevention of mother to child transmission. (more…) Posted in Global Health | Also tagged Global Health , Haiti , HIV/AIDS Treat the Whole Person: On Mental Health Day, USAID Recognizes the Importance of Mental Health for People Living with HIV Written by Guest Blogger Melissa Sharer on October 11, 2011 — Leave a Comment Submitted by: Melissa Sharer AIDSTAR-One Senior Care and Support Officer, John Snow, Inc. AIDSTAR-One is funded by the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through USAID’s Office of HIV/AIDS, and provides rapid technical assistance to USAID and U.S. Government (USG) country teams to build effective, well-managed, and sustainable HIV and AIDS programs, and promotes new leadership in the global campaign against HIV. “First we need ARVs, second is Duong Sinh TuNa , third is psychosocial support,” said an HIV-positive female client at an HIV clinic in Van Don, Vietnam . Her spontaneous response to a question about the needs of people living with HIV (PLHIV) includes a double dose of mental health care and support. Duong Sinh TuNa is a rhythmic poem recited during relaxation and stretching exercises hosted at the clinic she attends. It reads in part: “Breathe, meditate, relax, exercise, think positively…Healthy minds and clearer thinking help recovery.” This client knows what she’s talking about. An individual’s well-being underpins everything she or he does. Emotional health facilitates opportunities to form relationships, to love, to work, allowing a person to continue making choices that support good physical health. The World Health Organization defines mental health as “a state of well-being in which the individual realizes his or her own abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully and is able to make a contribution to his or her community,” a definition that should inform all programs and policies targeting individuals living with HIV. Mental health services are thus critical to a continuum-of-care approach for people living with HIV (PLHIV).  A recent meta-analysis looking at depression and adherence shows a consistent relationship between depression and HIV treatment non-adherence (Gonzalez et al. 2011). Estimated rates of depression among PLHIV soar as high as 72 percent in resource-constrained countries (Adewuya et al. 2007), which threatens the consistent use of the antiretroviral therapy (ART) that keeps them alive. (more…) Posted in Global Health | Also tagged HIV/AIDS , Mental health Seeking a Sustainable Solution for HIV Funding in Kenya Written by Health Systems 20/20 on September 29, 2011 — Leave a Comment In March 2011, the Kenyan National AIDS Control Council prepared a Cabinet memorandum that outlines ways to raise funds for HIV programming.  Through innovative solutions, Kenya is looking for sustainable ways to combat the AIDS epidemic in country. The memo is based on a recommendation from the USAID -funded Health Systems 20/20 ’s HIV/AIDS Program Sustainability Tool (HAPSAT) assessment. Two government staff who helped prepare the memo tell us how it will help Kenya’s 1.5 million citizens living with HIV. Regina Ombam , head of strategy for Kenya National AIDS Control Council (NACC), leads planning, implementation and evaluation of HIV programs. As part of the Cabinet memo initiative, she managed the process of gathering relevant health financing data on behalf of the director of NACC. Ms. Ombam holds master’s degrees in economics and public administration. Irene Mukui is the antiretroviral therapy (ART) program manager for the National AIDS and STI Control Programme. She oversees the provision of ART and other associated care (i.e., nutrition, TB/HIV integration, etc.) for both children and adults in Kenya. Dr. Mukiu was a member of the technical working group that developed the Cabinet memo. She is a licensed medical doctor. HS20/20: What does the Cabinet memorandum propose to raise funds for HIV programming? RO: The Cabinet memo proposes that the Ministry of Finance create a HIV/AIDS Trust Fund that would support scaling up prevention, treatment, care and support in Kenya. If approved, the government would contribute 1% of its annual revenue to the fund. In addition, the fund would receive contributions from partners and the private sector through initiatives such as airtime and airline levies, levies on remittances from abroad, corporate and NGO donations, the national lottery system, and leveraging unclaimed financial assets (i.e., monies that are dormant or abandoned often as a result of death, name change, or relocation). The Ministry of State for Special Programmes, the Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation, and the Ministry for Medical Services would implement HIV programming supported by the fund. IM: The Cabinet memo aims to establish long-term, sustainable financing through the existing National Health Insurance Fund and increase government funding to meet the Abuja target of allocating 15% of the annual budget to health. (more…) Posted in Global Health , Health , Sub-Saharan Africa | Also tagged Country ownership , Global Health , HIV , HIV/AIDS , Systems Strengthening Miriam’s Success in Changing Lives in her Community Written by USAID Guyana on September 9, 2011 — 2 Comments Today Miriam helps other in her community through her organization, ONE LOVE. Photo Credit: Shaundell Shipley, Guyana HIV/AIDS Reduction and Prevention Program When she was only 14 years old, Miriam was the primary caretaker of her family. Like many other girls in her situation in Guyana , Miriam turned to commercial sex work to provide for her family. As a female sex worker (FSW), Miriam put herself at risk of HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections. In Guyana (pdf, 485kb), FSWs have an HIV prevalence rate of 16.6%; still, only 35% of FSWs surveyed knew two ways to prevent sexual transmission of HIV. In order to reach this population with education, prevention, care and treatment services the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), through USAID , funds several community based intervention programs. At 15 years old, Miriam gave birth and soon found herself in an abusive relationship. She suffered through years of abuse until she left with her children and moved to a large city. Once again, she was on the streets trying to make a living. In 2006, Miriam was reached through Keep the Light On , a project targeting sex workers implemented by Comforting Hearts , a USAID-supported NGO located in New Amsterdam. Through training and education, Miriam became a peer educator. She said, “Being involved as a volunteer with Comforting Hearts benefited me greatly. In addition to reaching out to my peers, my own life was also changed, because of the knowledge I acquired which helped me to change my risky behaviors.” Miriam reached out to sex workers and their clients and shared HIV/AIDS information with them.  She was also trained to provide care to people living with HIV, through the Home Based Care program, and provided bedside care to HIV positive people at the New Amsterdam Hospital. Miriam later became a member of the Caribbean Network of Sex Workers and president of the Caribbean Sex Work Coalition. On a return visit to her hometown, Kwakwani, in 2008, with her greater insights on HIV/AIDS and her experience as a sex worker, she quickly assessed the plight within her childhood community.  Poverty was still rife; the sex trade, with many unsafe sexual practices, was more pronounced than ever in this small mining community. To respond to these challenges, she decided to start a community-based organization, ONE LOVE, to educate commercial sex workers on HIV prevention.  The organization trains peer educators from the mining areas within Kwakwani and reaches sex workers and their clients with appropriate HIV prevention messages, condoms and HIV testing and counseling.  The organization also provides economic empowerment activities, which allowed some of the women to leave sex work. ONE LOVE, through Mariam’s leadership and passion, is one of the newest recipients of USAID funding through PEPFAR, and is testimony to the fact that one person, based on her own experiences, can make a difference in the lives of others. Miriam concludes, “Now I am living my dream of reaching the population that I was once a part of; many lives have been saved and many lives have been changed, all because of my work. This is very precious to me.” Posted in Global Health , Health | Also tagged Global Health , HIV/AIDS , Women On the Road with SCMS, Part 2: In Ethiopia, capacity building helps a health center manage its supply of HIV/AIDS commodities Written by Jay Heavner, Director Knowledge Sharing and Communications, SCMS (Supply Chain Management System on August 31, 2011 — 6 Comments In  this three part series, Jay Heavner, Director of Knowledge Sharing and  Communication at Supply Chain Management System (SCMS), highlights his  experiences visiting three countries in Africa to observe SCMS project  sites. The Fital Health Center is located about 135 kilometers north of Ethiopia ’s  capital, Addis Ababa, in a beautiful agricultural region of small  villages of thatched roof huts and fields of dark, rich soil.  HIV  prevalence is low here.  Although the center tests about 1,000 people a  month, the center has only 37 patients on treatment, three of whom are  children. The  health center has a small but well organized store room filled with  medical supplies, including adult anti-retroviral medicines and HIV test  kits provided by the Global Fund and pediatric antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) and laboratory supplies procured by SCMS with funding from the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) through USAID .  The store room also serves as a distribution point for nine other smaller health centers in the area. In Nigeria, a PEPFAR implementing partner picks up a shipment of HIV test kits from SCMS’s local distribution center  Photo credit: David Fombot As  recently as 2009, the health center struggled to manage its relatively  small number of medicines and other supplies. Staff here told me they  faced challenges with drugs expiring and experienced stockouts of drugs  and other supplies as well. As  part of a national capacity building program, SCMS has provided  training and ongoing supportive supervision visits with key staff here  and at 198 sites like it to strengthen the health center’s processes,  including reporting and ordering to the regional warehouse hub,  management of its medical supplies and distribution to other sites.  Staff here showed me examples of the forms they fill out and use to  report data—including consumption of commodities and current stock on  hand—to the regional warehouse staff, who then enter the information in a  national internet-based system developed by SCMS to support Ethiopia’s  Pharmaceutical Fund and Supply Agency (PFSA) and international donors  plan their funding and procurement of HIV/AIDS commodities.  They also  showed me a number of other forms, including ones they use to manage  their inventory and others used to process and track orders from the  other sites they serve. SCMS prints and distributes many of the forms  sites like this use to manage their HIV/AIDS medicines and supplies. (more…) Posted in Global Health , Health , Sub-Saharan Africa | Also tagged Africa , AIDS , HIV PEPFAR/USAID Kicks off Webinar Series to Strengthen the Social Welfare Workforce Written by Kristen Wenz, Office of HIV/AIDS, USAID, and James Orlando, USG Secretariat for Orphans and Vulnerable Children, USAID on August 10, 2011 — Leave a Comment On July 14, over 100 people from 18 countries logged on for our first ever Social Service Workforce Strengthening webinar! The webinar session entitled, “ Lessons Learned from the Global Healthcare Workforce,” kicked off the first in a series of webinars intended to encourage the sharing of information, expertise and promising practices for addressing the needs of the social welfare workforce through a series of facilitated discussions. The idea for the webinar series and webinar topics grew out from conversations at the PEPFAR -funded Social Welfare Workforce Strengthening Conference held in Cape Town last November. The topics refer to specific initiatives for improving strategies for planning, training and supporting the broad variety of different workers – paid and unpaid, governmental and non-governmental – who make up the social service workforce and are responsible for the care and protection of vulnerable populations, including children orphaned and made vulnerable by HIV/AIDS . The first webinar explored ways in which resources, tools and successful approaches piloted by those engaged in efforts to strengthen human resources for health (HRH) can benefit global and local social service workforce strengthening initiatives. (more…) Posted in Global Health , Health | Also tagged Health , HIV/AIDS , Technology Mapping for Informed Decision Making in Rwanda Written by Kristen Wares, Public Health Advisor, Office of HIV/AIDS on July 13, 2011 — 1 Comment Mapping and Geographic Information System (GIS) have long been used in Rwanda for sectors such as agriculture and economic growth. The need for these innovative tools and skills, however, are just now being recognized in other fields, including health. As a monitoring and evaluation expert, I have seen how useful geography and maps can be to monitor and improve programs, and I was interested to learn more about how they were being used and enhanced in the field. For four days, I joined 18 public health professionals at a GIS training in Kigali, Rwanda, organized by MEASURE Evaluation and Monitoring and Evaluation Management Systems (MEMS) and supported by USAID in collaboration with National AIDS Control Commission (CNLS ). The participants represented many local Rwandan organizations such as MEMS, the Ministry of Health, the Center for Treatment and Research on AIDS, Malaria, Tuberculosis and Other Epidemics (TRAC Plus), and National University of Rwanda’s School of Public Health. Andrew Inglis and training participants use qGIS and local data to produce maps that can be used for monitoring HIV programs.  Photo Credit: Kristen Wares/USAID" GIS is a unique tool that allows people to interact with their data. Rather than comparing data in charts or graphs, mapping data through geography allows data users to identify essential trends and associations that may not be apparent in other formats. By building local capacity in GIS, we are expanding “evidence-based decision making” for high quality and strategic health programs. There was a lot of enthusiasm during the training about GIS. The training provided an excellent forum for the participants to talk about innovative ways they are already using the GIS tool. Participants discussed plans to create  new programs that would allow for better ownership and monitoring, to improve supply chain management, and to integrate services, all things that will support and enhance the projects that USAID and its partners are implementing. MEASURE Evaluation trainers, Andrew Inglis and Clara Burgert, introduced the concept of GIS maps and their ability to link to a database that is capable of capturing, storing, querying, analyzing, displaying and outputting data. In addition to teaching concepts such as how to interpret maps and how to effectively use spatial data, the training provided participants an excellent opportunity to gain practical experience. (more…) Posted in Global Health , Health , Sub-Saharan Africa | Also tagged Africa , Global Health , HIV/AIDS , Innovation , Mapping In it to Save Lives: Scaling Up Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention for Maximum Public Health Impact Written by Emmanuel Njeuhmeli on June 27, 2011 — 3 Comments Emmanuel Njeuhmeli is the Senior Biomedical Prevention Advisor in the USAID Office of HIV/AIDS. “Male circumcision can be done anywhere, and if you don’t believe me, I’ll prove it to you during this meeting.” Panelists, including USAID’s Emmanuel Njeuhmeli, OGAC’s Caroline Ryan, Peace Corps’ Buck Buckingham, US DoD’s Anne Thomas and CDC’s Jason Reed - along with representatives from UNAIDS, WHO, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Ministry of Health of Swaziland - provide technical updates and take questions at the premiere of In It to Save Lives on June 22nd at the National Press Club.  Photo Credit: Pat Adams, USAID These were my last words during my first presentation at the 2011 PEPFAR Annual Meeting in Johannesburg this past May. Needless to say, there were a lot of raised eyebrows, a few laughs and a couple of questions as to whether I had a male circumcision tent set up in one of the breakout rooms. But no – the goal, of course, was not to perform a medical procedure on my USG colleagues. It was to heighten their understanding of a cost saving and effective form of HIV prevention that, despite the science and clinical findings, still does not get the recognition and broad support it should. Soon after the World Health Organization released findings from three randomized trials that showed male circumcision prevents 60% of new HIV infections in men who have heterosexual sex, countries in Eastern and Southern Africa  with technical and financial support of PEPFAR, BMGF, WHO, UNAIDS began scaling up efforts around voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC). PEPFAR , through USAID , CDC, DOD, Peace Corps, and NIH, has continually supported country governments in their VMMC efforts. Kenya ’s program is one worth noting. In two short years, the national program has reached 66 percent of its VMMC goals. This means – based on USAID and UNAIDS estimates that Kenya is on its way to averting 47,000 adult HIV infections between 2009 and 2025, and can save $247 million along the way. This is no small feat. Now, working to support other countries in Africa, such as Swaziland – which is scaling up VMMC services through the Soka Uncobe, an accelerated saturation initiative – we are confident VMMC has the potential to avert more than 4 million adult HIV infections in Eastern and Southern Africa in the next 16 years. That is what PEPFAR is all about: making smart investments to save more lives. After our meetings, I felt my colleagues were more inclined to return home and explain VMMC to their country governments in a compelling and effective way. They saw the value of VMMC as a critical HIV prevention tool – one that can be done in a safe medical environment and rolled out on a wide scale in almost any community. But, to reach our ultimate target – the decision makers and communities in country – we knew we had to go beyond the presentations. So, with the help of AIDSTAR One , we teamed up with Lisa Russell, an award-winning filmmaker, to create In It to Save Lives: Scaling Up Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention for Maximum Public Health Impact . The film examines the expansion of male circumcision as an HIV prevention intervention and tells the story of how governments and communities in Kenya and Swaziland have embraced VMMC in their countries. The goal of the film is to show that VMMC services can be replicated and expanded to reach the critical mass needed for maximum public health impact. Now, 30 years into the epidemic , there are roughly 34 million currently living with HIV/AIDS, with another 7,000 new HIV infections each day. With numbers like these, it’s more important than ever to focus on reaching those most in need with prevention, treatment, care and support messages and programs. Through a variety of prevention interventions, including VMMC, we hope to turn the tide of the HIV epidemic. Watch the video and download additional resources at AIDSTAR-One . Posted in Global Health | Also tagged Circumcision , HIV/AIDS , Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision « Older Entries FY13 Budget: Making Smart Investments Haiti "A Country Undeniably on the Move" World AIDS Day: New Advances Are Critical to Achieving the Vision of an AIDS-free Generation Embracing Enlightened Capitalism View more posts by Administrator Shah... More Good News but Crisis Continues FWD Day is Over—The Famine is Not For the Hungry, Raising Awareness = Action. We are the Relief. Share Hope by Helping Us Reach 13 Million Forwards FWD: USAID’s First-Ever Public Awareness Campaign All Hands on Open Data: Mapping the Famine View more posts on the Horn of Africa... Tags 16 Days 50th Anniversary Administrator Shah Afghanistan Africa Agriculture Asia Democracy Development Earthquake Education Environment Ethiopia Family planning Feed the Future Food Security FWD Global Health Global Health Initiative Haiti Health HIV HIV/AIDS Horn of Africa Human Trafficking India Innovation In the News Kenya Malaria Maternal Health MDGs Pakistan PEPFAR Public Private Partnerships Rajiv Shah Sudan Technology Trafficking in persons UNGA USAID Water Women Women and Girls Youth Blogroll DipNote: Department of State DoD Live: Department of Defense MCC Blog: Millennium Challenge Corporation NIH Blog: National Institutes of Health OMB Blog: Office of Management and Budget State Department Website The Blog @Homeland Security USAID Website Voice of America Search USAID Impact is maintained by the U.S. Agency for International Development .  All contents are in the publi