
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 17 Feb 2012 15:25:30 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.6-1+lenny9
Web-Head: vps168.advomatic.com
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Perry Dental Health | Christopher J. Perry, MS, DMD, FAGD | San Antonio Dentist | Health-Centered Dentistry Skip to Content » News » About Dr. Perry » Location » Home Perry Dental Health Christopher J. Perry, MS, DMD, FAGD & Associates San Antonio Dentist New Patient Forms Contact Us General Treatment » CEREC Restorations » Digital X-Rays » Diagnodent Decay Detection » Health-Centered Dentistry » Cosmetic Dentistry » Sedation Dentistry » Invisalign Orthodontics General Treatment Home :: General Treatment :: Health-Centered Dentistry Health-Centered Dentistry Prevention is always better than treatment. By actively preventing disease and decay through regular home care, professional dental cleanings and regular exams, you will maintain a healthy, beautiful smile. In addition, effective prevention can help you avoid costly treatments in the future to remove decay, restore teeth and treat gum disease. Regular prevention is truly your best investment. Cleanings & Exams The prevention of disease. Professional Cleanings: Professional cleanings (dental prophylaxis) performed by a certified dental hygienist form the foundation for preventing gum disease and tooth decay. In a professional cleaning, your hygienist will: Remove plaque from the teeth -- Plaque is a sticky substance that forms in the mouth from food, saliva and bacteria. Plaque sticks to teeth and causes tooth decay and gum disease. Remove calculus (tartar) above the gum line -- Calculus is plaque that has hardened on the tooth surface and is difficult to remove. (Calculus below the gum line indicates gum disease and requires a different procedure to remove it.) Polish and remove stains from teeth Dental Examinations: Dental examinations help to diagnose disease before it becomes hazardous to your health. In addition, regular examinations can save you money by alleviating problems while they are small and before they become expensive to repair, or in some cases, impossible to repair. Your dental examinations generally include the following: Oral cancer screening Gum disease evaluation Visual examination of tooth decay Examination of diagnostic x-rays to see cysts, tumors, invisible decay and other problems that can't be seen by the naked eye Evaluation of status of current restorations (fillings and others) We cannot express enough how important it is to see your dentist regularly. Remember, preventing disease is always better than treating disease. Gum Disease Gum disease (Periodontal Disease) is responsible for about 70 percent of adult tooth loss. It is characterized by swollen, inflamed gums surrounding the teeth. Plaque, a sticky substance that forms in the mouth from food, saliva and bacteria gets inside the space between the gum line and the tooth. If not removed, plaque hardens into a substance called calculus or tartar that is very difficult to remove. Eventually, the bacteria in the plaque and tartar eat away at the fibers that hold the gums to the teeth, creating deep pockets. As bacteria spread, the pockets become deeper until the bacteria finally eat away the bone that holds the tooth in place. Think of it as if bugs are eating away at the soil around a tree trunk. Eventually, they eat away all of the soil and part of the tree’s roots, causing the tree to collapse. Diagnosis Gum disease is diagnosed through a process that measures the depth of the pockets around each tooth. Pockets that are greater than 3 millimeters in depth are considered hazardous and will generally require treatment. The early detection and prevention of gum disease is another reason to see your dentist regularly. Treatment Gum disease is treated by carefully removing the bacteria and substances that form in the pockets around the teeth. The removal of this material occurs on a microscopic level and requires great skill. Our dental team has had advanced training regarding how to effectively remove all of the bacteria. This process of removing the bacteria usually requires several visits to our office. Once the bacteria has been removed, the pockets must be cleaned and maintained on a regular basis by a certified dental hygienist. Otherwise, the bacteria will return. Long-Term Care Keep in mind that once you have contracted periodontal disease, you will always have the disease due to the damage that it does to your body. Careful daily hygiene and regular dental visits to clean your pockets are required to keep the bacteria from returning. After the initial dental appointments to remove the bacteria, you will be placed on a regular appointment schedule called “periodontal maintenance” to keep your pockets free of bacteria. Remember, it is always better to prevent disease than to treat disease. Sealants Protect the chewing surface of teeth from decay. The Problem: Protect normal pits and grooves on the chewing surface of back teeth Stop small amounts of decay from growing larger The Solution: Normal pits and grooves on the chewing surfaces of back teeth can trap food that can't be removed by brushing or washed out by water or saliva. A sealant is a tough, plastic material designed to bond (stick) to tooth enamel. These clear or tooth colored sealants are painted onto the tooth surface to "seal" the pits and grooves and protect against decay. They are generally applied to children's first permanent back teeth. They can also be useful for adults in certain situations. Advantages: Sealants are an excellent way to protect chewing surfaces of teeth from decay. They are a much better financial investment than treating decay after it has started. Disadvantages: Sealants are not permanent. They generally last about five years with normal wear, but can wear off or chip off earlier in certain instances. Also, sealants do not prevent decay between teeth or the onset of gum disease, so regular home care and dental visits are important. Alternatives: There are no appropriate alternatives to sealants. If a tooth has decay, it will need a filling or other restoration. Christopher J. Perry, MS, DMD, FAGD · San Antonio Dentist ph: 210 DrPerry (210 377-3779) 8131 IH-10W · Suite 217 San Antonio, Texas · 78230 Privacy Policy © cop