
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 22:17:30 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.11
Set-Cookie: lthaw_com=6sv28ka1a5ilumld4098rmbop7; path=/
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Lifetime Health And Wellness - Chiropractor In Westminster; CO; USA :: FAQ's Home New Patient Center Online Forms What to Expect Your First Visit Phase 1: Relief Care Phase 2: Corrective Care Phase 3: Wellness Care Health Resources Payment Options Request An Appointment Services Acupuncture & Acupressure The Wellness Approach Safety We May Help you With Musculoskeletal Disorders Neurologic Disorders Psychiatric and Emotional Disorders Allergies Circulatory Disorders Dermatologic Disorders Gastrointestinal Disorders Obstetrics/Gynecology Male Sexual Disorders Modality Treatment Acupressure Auriculartherapy Electro-Acupuncture Laser Therapy Cause of Disease University Studies Nutritional Therapy History of Acupuncture Massage Therapy Graston Technique® Kinesio, Rocktape, & Spider Tech Taping Trigger Point Dry Needling (TDN) Spinal Decompression Therapy Phase I:Treatment Phase II: Stabilization of Structure Phase III: Support of Muscular System FAQ's Orthotics Cold Laser Therapy Whiplash Center Multicervical Unit Whiplash Center1 Computerized Diagnostic Testing Complimentary Services Lecture Series Chiropractic Philosophy Your Health Carpel Tunnel Cold Therapy Headaches A Pain in the Neck Survival Guide: Automobile Accidents Understanding Scoliosis Sciatica Lower Back Pain Anatomy of a Bachache Winter Sports Report Children's Injuries Answers to Common Questions About Chiropractic Care About Us Dr. Randy Snyder Dr. Kevin R. Bates Dr. Corrie L. Pillon Office Manager - Carolyn Romero Assistant Office Manager - Marcia Searle Services & Techniques Website Membership Contact Us Share Your Experience Calendar Blog Home www.lthaw.com My Account Login Home > Services > Spinal Decompression Therapy > FAQ's 3 Phases of DTS Therapy Treatment Stabilization of Structure Support of Muscular System Video Click one of the sections above for more information. FAQ Will DTS Therapy treatments hurt? Is it safe? DTS Therapy treatments are one of the most gentle and comfortable therapies 
  available. The treatments utilize equipment with proven safety and efficacy. 
  Most patients report a mild sense of stretch on their back or hips, and often 
  fall asleep during treatment sessions. The DTS System is produced by the world's 
  largest manufacturer of hospital based rehabilitation equipment, with over 58 
  years of experience. Is DTS Therapy new? Although traction therapy has been around for thousands of years, Decompressive 
  Traction is relative new. Advances in equipment and procedures have dramatically 
  improved effectiveness. DTS Therapy is the most comprehensive program available, 
  allowing the safe delivery of this previously hospital based therapy in our 
  office. Continual improvements in the delivery system and regular updates in 
  protocol keep the DTS in the forefront of non-invasive disc therapy. Each year 
  over 50,000 patients are treated with DTS Therapy and that number is growing. Why is DTS Therapy more successful than other treatment options? DTS Therapy is a comprehensive program of the newest traction techniques and 
  targeted "core" stabilization exercises with Biofeedback. In addition 
  we use other adjunctive treatments that have proven effectiveness in back care. 
  It is this multi-faceted approach that makes the overall treatment so effective. 
  Additionally, discs have been shown to be a predominate site of pain, so treating 
  it as directly as possible makes sense. The blending of focused traction to 
  the site, rehabilitation to the supporting structures, and overall strengthening 
  of global musculature makes the treatment unique. DTS Therapy affects the disc 
  as directly as possible without surgery. Why the need more exercises and other therapies? Along with the damage in the disc we also need to treat the supporting spinal 
  muscles. A complete program targeting the function of the stabilization muscles 
  is a vital part of DTS Therapy. Heat, muscle stimulation, Ultrasound, and cold 
  laser therapy can offer an additional benefit for inflammation and spasm reduction. 
  Our hope is not only to help heal the disc but enhance muscle control and support 
  of the low back. A gradual breakdown of the foundational support of your back 
  is what puts undue stresses on the discs and leads to pain and loss of function. 
  Exercise and adjunctive therapies will assist in rehabilitating these structures. Will my pain to away for good? Although it is difficult to predict the future our experience is that most patients 
  do find long-term relief or effective management of their pain when they complete 
  the entire program of treatments. Regular home exercise and periodic visits 
  to our clinic will help in maintaining your spinal health and reduce the probability 
  of reoccurrence. As with any comprehensive rehabilitation program your continued 
  home care exercises and discretion in some daily activities is key to long-term 
  relief. How much will it cost? Our office visits vary as to the extent of care needed, (DTS Therapy, adjustments, 
  cold laser therapy, muscle stimulation, ultrasound, massage, etc.). However 
  we promise to only do those procedures necessary for your fullest recovery. 
  You always have the choice as to the extent of care. Our staff will review all 
  costs, payment options and insurance coverage up front. We want to help, and 
  believe finances shouldn't stand in the way of you and good health. Can DTS Therapy help my pain? Though each patient is different and no doctor can guarantee success, the clinical 
  results of this type of therapy have been effective in over 75% of patients 
  treated. The common problems to many back conditions are damaged discs and poor 
  spinal muscle control. Our treatment program addresses both of these core problems. 
  The DTS System creates a controlled unloading of the vertebra to decrease disc 
  pressure thus increasing blood and nutrient exchange. This exchange of fluids 
  is something the damaged disc desperately needs to help it heal from the inside 
  out. Muscle strength, control and endurance can all be improved with other facets 
  of DTS Therapy that include specific controlled exercises. How long will my treatment program be? It depends on the complexity and extent of the rehabilitation needed, 
  however we typically treat 3 times a week for 1 month, transitioning from passive 
  to active treatments as you respond. The treatment is administered over a reasonable 
  time frame and your response is continually evaluated. Further treatments may 
  be necessary or a reduced frequency may be recommended at that time. The rehabilitative 
  phase may include additional DTS Therapy treatments, with spinal adjustments 
  to enhance the results. Most patients are released from treatements after 8 
  weeks. Top Newsletter Sign Up First Name: Email: Interests: Doctor's Announcements Stress Management Children's Health Issues Women's Health Issues Exercise & Fitness Diet & Nutrition Wellness Topics Headaches & Neck Pain Backaches & Sciatica 3D Spine Simulator Launch 3D Spine Simulator Member Login Email: Password: Send Password | Sign Up Community Content We May Help You With ADHD Allergies Asthma Auto Accidents Back Pain-Lower Bedwetting Carpal Tunnel Colic Ear Infections Fibromyalgia Headaches Pinched Nerve PMS Pregnancy Sciatica Scoliosis Slipped Disc Stress Whiplash Wellness Back Pain-Upper/Neck Frozen Shoulder Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Plantar Fasciitis Shoulder Pain Tennis Elbow Today's Chiropractic Wellness vs. Medical Care What is Chiropractic? Effects of Chiropractic Care Story of Chiropractic Suggested Reading History How Does it Work? Success in Your Spine Movement Strength Posture Balance The Wellness Approach Chiro Myths & Facts Wellness Glossary Member Wellness Newsletter Library Video Exercises Abs Arms Back Chest Hips Ice/Heat Therapy Legs Neck Shoulders Wellness Lifestyle Tips Change Unhealthy Habits Read the Labels Hall of Shame Hall of Fame Get Your Sleep Quit Smoking Love Others Turn off the Television Advanced Citizenry Wellness Perspectives Wellness Psychology Choices & Decisions Identity Spirituality Personality Quality Of Life Personal Growth Prosperity Consciousness Relationships Aging & Longevity Wellness Essentials At Home A Good Mattress Cervical Pillow At Work Lumbar Support Desk Chair Headsets Monitor Arm Keyboard & Mouse Pads What You Wear Orthotics Buy Good Shoes A Back Saver Wallet A Healthy Backpack Exercise BOSU/Disc Exercise Ball Foam Roll Resistance Bands/Weights Personal Trainer Videos, Books, & Internet Nutrition Essential Fatty Acids Vitamins & Supplements Greens Protein Detox Healthy Thinking Relaxation Techniques Control Your Breathing Find Your Mantra Muscle Relaxation Soothing Sounds Get Positive Positive Affirmations Relationships with Others Relationship with Self Wellness4Kids Online Games & Quizzes Printable Games & Puzzles Wellness Coloring Book Privacy Policy | Terms of Use All Content Copyright ©2012 ChiroMatrix™ - Discover Wellness™ All Rights Reserved. Chiropractor Websites By Chiro