
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 20 Apr 2012 11:38:01 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://albanacupuncture.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Rotator Cuff Injuries | New York Acupuncture and Herbs For more information call 917.887.4946 Acupuncture Chinese Herbs Acupressure Home About Us Bio Conditions FAQ Articles Directions and Hours Insurance Photos Testimonials Chronic Pain Migraines and Headaches Chronic Prostatitis, Interstitial Cystitis, and Overactive Bladder Stress and Anxiety Women’s Health Asthma, Eczema, Allergies, and Acne Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Traditional Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Chinese Herbs Tui Na Blog Contact Request an appointment Posts Tagged ‘rotator cuff injuries’ Rotator Cuff Injury Jan 22, 2012 Rotator cuff injuries plagues athletes and non-athletes alike.  It most often occurs from repetitive actions like throwing a ball, lifting, or even sitting at a computer. One of the most common injuries to the rotator cuff is rotator cuff tendinitis, or inflammation of the tendons.  These injuries can be chronic and stubborn.  But the good news is that acupuncture can help.  Acupuncture for rotator cuff injury and tendinitis is a very effective and safe treatment. What is the rotator cuff? Rotator Cuff The rotator cuff consists of four muscles that connect the shoulder to the humerus bone of the arm: the suprspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscle.  These muscles provide mobility to the arm as well as stabilize the arm while it moves. How does an injury develop? Rotator cuff tendinitis, inflammation in to the tendon or the rotator cuff, is a common injury.  Sometimes rotator cuff injuries also involve the muscles.  Injuries often occur from repetitive movements like throwing a ball.  It is also possible to injury the rotator cuff through injuries like falling or lifting something too heavy. From the injury, one may develop pain, weakness, difficultly moving the arm, and irritation.  If left untreated, it may become worse.  Due to lack of motion of the arm, the arm may loose muscles mass and develop long term weakness.  If muscle mass is loss, physical therapy is helpful to regain strength.  It is important to visit your doctor to rule out other causes of the pain. Acupuncture and rotator cuff tendinitis Acupuncture is very effective for treating rotator cuff tendinitis.  After an examination, your acupuncturist will create an acupuncture treatment plan. The acupuncture points used are often on the shoulder and upper back.  Sometimes the treatment focuses more on the front of the shoulder.  Other times, it may focus on the upper back and back of the shoulder. Electroacupuncture is particularly effective for rotator cuff injuries.  The treatment is generally 6-10 weeks with patients coming in once or twice a week depending on the severity of the injury. Acupuncture works to help rotator cuff injuries by increasing the circulation to the area and decreasing inflammation in the tendons.  Acupuncture also works to reduce pain and inflammation through regulating neural pain pathways, stimulating the release of natural pain relieves in the body, such as opioids, as well as regulating pain relieving opioid receptors.  Many studies have also shown acupuncture to have a anti-inflammatory effect, reducing the circulating inflammatory hormones in the blood (1). The acupuncture treatment often includes other manual therapies such as cupping and acupressure.  I use a type of tui na which is very effective for shoulder pain and rotator cuff injuries. Research on Acupuncture for Rotator Cuff Tendinitis In one study on acupuncture for rotator cuff tendinitis  52 people were enrolled and received acupuncture 2 times per week for 4 weeks (2).  In this study, they used an innovative placebo needle.  When the acupuncturist goes to insert the needle, the tip of it retracts, so there is no needle insertion.  The acupuncture group’s pain was reduced significantly more than the placebo acupuncture group. References: 1. Napadow V, Ahn A, Longhurst J, et.al . The Status and Future of Acupuncture Mechanism Research. J Altern Complement Med . 2008 September; 14(7): 861–869. 2. Kleinhenz J, Streitberger K, Windeler J, et.al . Randomised clinical trial comparing the effects of acupuncture and a newly designed placebo needle in rotator cuff tendinitis. Pain . 1999 Nov;83(2):235-41. Image: Wikipedia Written by: Joseph Alban Last Edited: 1/23/2012 Tags: Acupressure , Acupuncture , acupuncture point , acupuncture points , cupping , inflammation , muscles , pathways , rotator cuff , rotator cuff injuries , shoulder pain , tendinitis Posted in  | No Comments » Conditions Oct 5, 2011 Below is in depth information about conditions we commonly treat.  No list can be complete.  If you do not see your concern please call and ask us about it. Many of the diseases on this list are linked to patient guides and articles we’ve written. Urology Conditions: Chronic prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome Overactive bladder Interstital cystitis Bladder Spasms Frequent Urination Post Prostate Cancer Recovery Erectile Dysfunction Skin Conditions: Acne Psoriasis Eczema Atopic eczema Pomphlyx eczema Perioral Dermatitis Hives Rosacea Pain: Chronic pain Arthritis Chronic low back pain Neck pain Knee pain Shoulder pain Rotator cuff injuries Sciatica Fibromyalgia Tendonitis Neuropathy Headaches: Chronic headaches Tension Headaches Sinus headaches Sinusitis Seasonal allergies Migraines Wellbeing: Stress and Anxiety Insomnia Respiratory Health: Seasonal Allergies Asthma Chronic Bronchitis Frequent colds Smoking Cessation Women’s Health: Infertility Acupuncture for IVF Endometriosis Fibroids Painful and Irregular Cycles Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS) Hotflashes Digestive Health: Poor Digestion Chronic Nausea Irritable Bowel Syndrome Crohn’s Disease and Ulcertive Colitis Tags: Acupuncture , chronic headaches , chronic pelvic pain , chronic prostatitis , colds , frequent urination , health , Insomnia , Nausea , poor digestion , rotator cuff injuries , seasonal allergies , shoulder pain , sinus headache , sinus headaches , smoking , Stress , tension headaches Posted in  | No Comments » Acupuncture for N.F.L. Players Dec 6, 2010 Everyone in my New York Acupuncture clinic is talking about the article in last week’s New York Times . This article tells how NFL players are now regularly using acupuncture to help heal from injuries and recover from their grueling schedule. Many pro athletes are now using acupuncture as part of their health maintenance program.  Acupuncture can help serious athletes by keeping muscles loose, decreasing inflammation, and increasing circulation.  Of course, it also can treat specific ailments as well, like rotator cuff injuries , neck and shoulder pain , sciatica, and elbow pain . photo: Willie Parker Tags: Acupuncture , acupuncture clinic , cupping , neck and shoulder pain , New York , rotator cuff injuries Posted in Acupuncture | No Comments » Request an Appointment Call 917.887.4946 or click to SEARCH Sign up Enter your email address: GET RSS FEED CATEGORIES Select Category Acupressure Acupuncture Allergies Chinese Herbs Chronic Pain Relief Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndrome Common Cold and Flu Dermatology Digestive Conditions Food as Medicine History of Chinese Medicine Improve Your Health Insomnia Mind and Body Wellness ARCHIVES Select Month April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 October 2008 August 2008 Like us on Facebook RECENT BLOG POSTS Acupuncture for Chronic Sinusitis The Causes of Migraine Headaches Recommended by LEGAL Joseph Alban is a licensed acupuncturist.  All information provided on alban acupuncture.com is for informational and educational purposes only. It is not meant for diagnosis or treatment. If you have a specific health concern, please contact us at 917.887.4946 regarding the applicability of any opinions or recommendations with respect to your symptoms or medical condition. © Alban Acupuncture P.C., New York City Acupuncture