Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

BULK-PRODUCING LAXATIVES - ORAL IMPORTANT NOTE: The following information is intended to supplement, not substitute for, the expertise and judgment of your physician, pharmacist or other healthcare professional. It should not be construed to indicate that use of the drug is safe, appropriate, or effective for you. Consult your healthcare professional before using this drug. BULK-PRODUCING LAXATIVES - ORAL USES: Bulk-producing laxatives help restore normal moisture levels in the intestine and provide bulk to promote well formed stools. They are used in the treatment of diarrhea or constipation and in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome, spastic colon, diverticulitis and hemorrhoids. Psyllium, a bulk producing laxative, has also been used to reduce cholesterol levels in conjunction with a dietary program. HOW TO USE: Take each dose with a full glass of water and drink plenty of fluids while taking this medication. Chewable tablets are to be chewed thoroughly. Tablets can be swallowed with a full glass of water. Wafers are to be chewed. The powder must be measured as directed and stirred into a glass of water or juice. Drink immediately. SIDE EFFECTS: This medication is generally well tolerated. Bloating, gas, and a feeling of fullness may occur. If these effects continue or become bothersome, inform your doctor. Notify your doctor if you experience: stomach cramps, nausea, vomiting, rectal bleeding, unrelieved constipation. If you notice other effects not listed above, contact your doctor or pharmacist. PRECAUTIONS: Tell your doctor if you have any illness or allergies. This medication should be used only if clearly needed during pregnancy. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor. This medication does not appear in breast milk. However, you should consult your doctor before using any medication while breast-feeding. DRUG INTERACTIONS: Because laxatives may interfere with the absorption of some medications it is important to tell your doctor of any over-the-counter or prescription medication you may take. Do not start or stop any medicine without doctor or pharmacist approval. OVERDOSE: If overdose is suspected, contact your local poison control center or emergency room immediately. Symptoms of overdose may include severe bloating and severe stomach pain. NOTES: Bulk-producing laxatives are the safest and most natural of all the laxatives. To maintain normal bowel habits, it is important to drink plenty of fluids (4 to 6 eight ounce glasses a day), increase your intake of fiber and roughage and exercise regularly. MISSED DOSE: If you miss a dose, take it as soon as remembered; do not take it if it is near the time for the next dose, instead, skip the missed dose and resume your usual dosing schedule. Do not "double-up" the dose to catch up. STORAGE: Store at room temperature between 59 and 86 degrees F (15 to 30 degrees C) away from heat and moisture. Do not store in the bathroom. Developed by First DataBank