Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cheltenham Hypnotherapy Clinic • Cheltenham Hypnotherapist • Richard Parsons • OCD, Obsessions, jealousy, jealous thoughts, compulsions, drinking Hypnotherapy Hypno-Band Therapy 
                        for children THRIVE 
                        programme List 
                        of symptoms Stop 
                        Smoking Lose 
                        weight Phobias 
                        and anxiety Social 
                        phobia Emetophobia Sexual 
                        problems Obsessions 
                        & OCD Common 
                        questions In 
                        the media Fees Directions 
                        and map Client 
                        testimonials Obsessions and compulsions and self harming Other 
              anxiety related problems that can be treated with hypnotherapy include 
              obsessions and compulsions or OCD (Obsessive Compulsive 
              Disorder) . Obsessions are not the same as compulsions and 
              the two are often confused... What's the difference? Let's look at an example...A person can have a compulsion to tidy 
              their home. They do this and feel an immediate sense of satisfaction 
              for doing so. When the task is complete, the thought process 'I 
              must tidy my house' disappears...and the person feels much better, 
              turning a negative situation (untidy house) into a positive, satisfying 
              one (tidy house). With an obsession however, the sufferer broods and ruminates about 
              the task (or thought) The thoughts come more and more often, until 
              the person becomes preoccupied with them. The obsessive act (or 
              thought) is usually about the deferment of punishment. The difficulty 
              is, that unlike the compulsive, the obsessive feels no reward at 
              all for performing his task (or thought): he/she feels no relief, 
              no satisfaction, nothing at all. So, minutes (or hours) later, the 
              brooding and ruminating returns. With a compulsion, the sufferer feels an immediate benefit, with 
              an obsession, there is no benefit (apart from having deferred their 
              worries for a few minutes). Obsessions, obsessional thoughts and 'OCD' The word 'obsession' comes from the latin word obsidere, meaning 
              'to besiege'. Obsessions are recurrent thoughts, beliefs or ideas 
              that dominate a person's mind. They affect both men and women from 
              all ages and often occur in people that are already something of 
              a perfectionist or who are anxious to get everything to be just 
              right. People suffering from OCD often feel that they have no control over 
              intrusive thoughts which just seem to 'force' themselves into their 
              mind. According to one study (Sanavio 1988) the four most common 
              obsessional characteristics are repetitive negative thoughts (e.g. jealousy), concern of losing control (e.g. hurting 
              someone), contamination (being contaminated by germs) and checking behaviours (such as doors or windows). Sufferers are literally besieged with their 
              own thoughts. Symptoms of an obsession or 
                    obsessional behaviour Counting rituals Checking things repeatedly e.g. locks, 
                        windows, doors, ovens etc. Elaborate rituals e.g. if you bump one 
                        side of your body you have to hit the other side to 'even 
                        things up' Constant negative thoughts Chronic Insomnia Paranoia Worry about dirt or contamination Imagining doing harm or hurting someone else Intrusive sexual thoughts or sexual impulses 'Forbidden' thoughts Worry about sexuality (e.g. called HOCD - homosexual 
                        OCD) Needing things to be perfect, being a perfectionist Generally being quite negative Generally being quite 'catastrophic' and situations 
                        become very significant very quickly Being obsessive about vanity, health or 
                        disease or bodily symptoms Obsessive jealousy or obsessive worry or 
                        paranoia about partner There is often the dominating thought that if the task (e.g. counting 
              / checking things) isn't carried out...then something 'bad' or unpleasant 
              is going to happen. Obsessionals find it incredibly difficult to 
              let go of things or stop worrying / brooding and their worries may 
              transfer from one thing to the next rapidly. As far as a professional hypno-analyst is concerned OCD is really 
              an obsessional neurosis , just another nervous disoder that 
              can be treated very successfully. People with very strong obsessional traits also tend to be fairly 
              negative in their thinking and often respon in the first instance 
              to situations in a very negative or catastrophic way. All of these 
              feelings and anxieties can be helped. Compulsions and reckless or compulsive behaviours With compulsive behaviour the person does feel some reward...they 
              get some satisfaction and 'escape from life' for a while. The more stress (and anxiety) the person feels, the stronger their 
              compulsions, and the more they will carry out their compulsive behaviour, 
              often resulting in feelings of guilt ('I shouldn't have done that, 
              I'll stop tomorrow'). Symptoms of compulsions or 
                    compulsive behaviour Drinking and alcoholism Binge drinking or binge eating Smoking or nail biting Comfort eating / over eating Gambling or drug addictions Impulse control problems e.g. cutting, 
                        burning or scratching oneself Self harming, cutting and self image problems Many people dealing with emotional distress or anxiety hurt themselves 
              in one way or another both as a relief from their emotions and as 
              a way of trying to feel something or show others the pain that they 
              are going through. It is a common misconception that self harmers 
              are seeking attention - this isn't always the case and most self 
              harmers do it in secret. Self harm is most common (but not exclusive) in young people, both 
              boys and girls, and recent research by the Samaritans found ate 
              least one in 10 teens have deliberately hurt themselves. Self harm 
              is often associated with cuts on the arms or legs, but can also 
              include burning, hitting oneself, scratching the skin, bruising, 
              hair pulling (Trichotillomania) and abusing the body with reckless 
              behaviours such as eating disorders, drugs or other risky behaviours. Stars who have admitted self harming include Dame Kelly Holmes (athlete) 
              and Angelina Jolie. As with any symptom caused by, or aggrevated by emotional distress/anxiety, 
              hypnotherapy is a suitable treatment for self harm. Symptoms and signs of self 
                    harming, body abuse or reckless behaviour Cutting or scratching skin of arms and 
                        legs (in particular) Burning skin or causing bruises by hitting oneself Overdosing e.g. drugs Reckless and dangerous behaviour Reckless drinking and severe binge drinking Taking risks that aren't necessary Hair pulling (trichotillomania) Eating disorders such as anorexia or bulimia See 
                      also Anxiety and phobias Book your FREE initial consultation:- Call Richard anytime on Tel: 
        07968 176018 or email any questions that you may have to me at richard@richardparsons.net Links Terms Disclaimer © 2012 Richard Parsons :