
Urinary incontinence - Lenox Hill Hospital Find a Doctor Directions Jobs Giving Calendar Contact Us For more information, please call us at 212.434.2000 Content Forms DMS Assets Home About Us Our Services For Patients & Visitors Education & Training Online Health Resources Multimedia Encyclopedia Women's Center Heart Center Senior Center Orthopedics Center Drug Information Library Symptom Checker Chronic Care Guides Pregnancy Health Center Centro de salud durante el embarazo Serving Our Community How You Can Help Find a Doctor Find any physician affiliated with Lenox Hill Hospital. Awards & Accolades Best Doctors 2011 New York Magazine Read more Best Doctors 2010 New York Magazine Read more America’s Best Hospitals 2009-10 U.S. News and World Report Read more Stay in Touch There are many ways you can keep up on the latest health tips, news and events from
        Lenox Hill Hospital. Read our E-Magazine Receive our E-Newsletters Become our Fan Follow Us Online Health Library • Encyclopedia Home • Symptoms A-Z Related Services • Urology • Find a Urologist Images Female urinary t... Male urinary tra... Care Points • Urinary incontinence - what... • Urinary catheters - what to... • Prostate resection - minima... • Transurethral resection of ... • Radical prostatectomy - dis... • Sterile technique • Multiple sclerosis - discha... • Urinary incontinence surger... • When you have urinary incon... • Indwelling catheter care... Read More • Stress incontinence • Urge incontinence • Bowel incontinence • Urinary incontinence - coll... • Urinary incontinence - retr... • Urinary incontinence - vagi... • Urinary incontinence - tens... More Features • Printer-friendly version Urinary incontinence Definition Urinary (or bladder) incontinence is when you are not able to keep urine from leaking from your urethra, the tube that carries urine out of your body from your bladder. It can range from an occasional leakage of urine, to a complete inability to hold any urine. The three main types of urinary incontinence are: Stress incontinence -- occurs during certain activities like coughing, sneezing, laughing, or exercise. Urge incontinence -- involves a strong, sudden need to urinate followed by instant bladder contraction and involuntary loss of urine. You don't have enough time between when you recognize the need to urinate and when you actually do urinate. Overflow incontinence -- occurs when the bladder cannot empty completely, which leads to dribbling. Mixed incontinence -- involves more than one type of urinary incontinence. Bowel incontinence , a separate topic, is the inability to control the passage of stool. Alternative Names Loss of bladder control; Uncontrollable urination; Urination - uncontrollable; Incontinence - urinary Considerations Incontinence is most common among the elderly. Women are more likely than men to have urinary incontinence. Infants and children are not considered incontinent, but merely untrained, up to the time of toilet training. Occasional accidents are not unusual in children up to age 6 years. Young (and sometimes teenage) girls may have slight leakage of urine when laughing. Nighttime urination in children is normal until the age of 5 or 6. NORMAL URINATION Normally, the bladder begins to fill with urine from the kidneys. The bladder stretches to allow increasing amounts of urine. The first urge to urinate occurs when around 200 mL (just under 1 cup) of urine is stored in the bladder. A healthy nervous system will respond to this stretching sensation by alerting you to the urge to urinate, while also allowing the bladder to continue to fill. The average person can hold around 350 to 550 mL (more than 2 cups) of urine. Two muscles help control the flow of urine: The sphincter (the circular muscles around the opening of the bladder) must be able to squeeze to prevent urine from leaking. The bladder wall muscle (detrusor) must stay relaxed so the bladder can expand. When it is time to empty the bladder, the bladder wall (detrusor) muscle contracts or squeezes to force urine out of the bladder. Before this muscle squeezes, your body must be able to relax the sphincter to allow the urine to pass out of the body. The ability to control urination depends on having normal anatomy, a normally functioning nervous system, and the ability to recognize and respond to the urge to urinate. Watch this video about: Bladder function - neurological control Causes Causes include: Problems with the anatomy Blockage Brain or nerve problems Nerve and muscle disorders (neuromuscular disorders) Dementia or other psychological problems that affect the ability to recognize and respond to the urge to urinate Incontinence may be sudden and temporary, or ongoing and long-term. Causes of sudden or temporary incontinence include: Bedrest -- for example, when recovering from surgery Certain medications (such as diuretics, antidepressants, tranquilizers, some cough and cold remedies, and antihistamines for allergies) Mental confusion Pregnancy Prostate infection or inflammation Stool impaction from severe constipation, causing pressure on the bladder Urinary tract infection or inflammation Weight gain Causes that may be more long-term: Alzheimer's disease Bladder cancer Bladder spasms Depression Large prostate in men Neurological conditions such as multiple sclerosis or stroke Nerve or muscle damage after pelvic radiation Pelvic prolapse in women -- falling or sliding of the bladder, urethra, or rectum into the vaginal space, often related to having had multiple pregnancies and deliveries Problems with the structure of the urinary tract Spinal injuries Weakness of the sphincter, the circular muscles of the bladder responsible for opening and closing it; this can happen following prostate surgery in men, or vaginal surgery in women Home Care See your doctor for an initial evaluation and to come up with a treatment plan. Treatment options vary, depending on the cause and type of incontinence you have. Fortunately, there are many things you can do to help manage incontinence. The following methods are used to strengthen the muscles of your pelvic floor: Bladder retraining -- this involves urinating on a schedule, whether you feel a need to go or not. In between those times, you try to wait to the next scheduled time. At first, you may need to schedule 1-hour intervals. Gradually, you can increase by 1/2-hour intervals until you are only urinating every 3 - 4 hours without leakage. Kegel exercises -- contract the pelvic floor muscles for 10 seconds, then relax them for 10 seconds. Repeat 10 times. Do these exercises three times per day. You can do Kegel exercises any time, any place. To find the pelvic muscles when you first start Kegel exercises , stop your urine flow midstream. The muscles needed to do this are your pelvic floor muscles. Do NOT contract your abdominal, thigh, or buttocks muscles. And Do NOT overdo the exercises. This may tire the muscles out and actually worsen incontinence. Two methods called biofeedback and electrical stimulation can help you learn how to perform Kegel exercises. Biofeedback uses electrodes placed on the pelvic floor muscles, giving you feedback about when they are contracted and when they are not. Electrical stimulation uses low-voltage electric current to stimulate the pelvic floor muscles. It can be done at home or at a clinic for 20 minutes every 1 - 4 days. Biofeedback and electrical stimulation will no longer be necessary once you have identified the pelvic floor muscles and mastered the exercises on your own. Vaginal cones enhance the performance of Kegel exercises for women. Other devices for incontinence are also available. For leakage, wear absorbent pads or undergarments. There are many well designed products that go completely unnoticed by anyone but you. See also: Urinary incontinence products Other measures include: Regulate your bowels to avoid constipation. Try increasing fiber in your diet. Quit smoking to reduce coughing and bladder irritation. Smoking also increases your risk of bladder cancer. Avoid alcohol and caffeinated beverages, particularly coffee, which can overstimulate your bladder. Lose weight if you need to. Avoid foods and drinks that may irritate your bladder, like spicy foods, carbonated beverages, and citrus fruits and juices. Keep blood sugar under good control if you have diabetes. Your doctor may recommend medication or surgery, especially if home care measures are not helping or if your symptoms are getting worse. Medications that may be prescribed include drugs that relax the bladder, increase bladder muscle tone, or strengthen the sphincter. Surgery may be required to relieve an obstruction or deformity of the bladder neck and urethra. See also: Urge incontinence Stress incontinence If you have overflow incontinence or cannot empty your bladder completely, a catheter may be recommended. But using a catheter exposes you to potential infection. PREVENTION Performing Kegel exercises while you are pregnant and soon after delivery may help prevent incontinence related to childbirth. When to Contact a Medical Professional Discuss incontinence with your doctor. Gynecologists and urologists are the specialists most familiar with this condition. They can evaluate the causes and recommend treatment approaches. Call your local emergency number (such as 911) or go to an emergency room if any of the following accompany a sudden loss of urine control: Difficulty talking, walking, or speaking Sudden weakness, numbness, or tingling in an arm or leg Loss of vision Loss of consciousness or confusion Loss of bowel control Call your doctor if: You have been constipated for more than 1 week You have difficulty starting your urine flow, dribbling, nighttime urination, pain or burning with urination, increased frequency or urgency, or cloudy or bloody urine You are taking medications that may be causing incontinence -- do NOT adjust or stop any medications without talking to your doctor. You are over 60 years old and your incontinence is new, especially if you are also having trouble with your memory or caring for yourself You have the urge to go often, but are only passing small amounts of urine Your bladder feels full even after you have just urinated Incontinence persists for more than 2 weeks even with exercises to strengthen your pelvic muscles What to Expect at Your Office Visit Your doctor will take your medical history and perform a physical examination, with a focus on your abdomen, genitals, pelvis, rectum, and neurologic system. Medical history questions may include: How long has incontinence been a problem for you? How many times does this happen each day? Are you aware of the need to urinate before you leak? Are you immediately aware that you have passed urine? Are you wet most of the day? Do you wear protective garments in case of accidents? How often? Do you avoid social situations in case of accidents? Have you had urinary tract infections in the past? Do you think that you may have one now? Is it more difficult to control your urine when you cough, sneeze, strain, or laugh? Is it more difficult to control your urine when running, jumping, or walking? Is your incontinence worse when sitting up or standing? Are you constipated? For how long? Is there anything you do to reduce or prevent accidents? Have you ever been treated for this condition before? Did it help? Have you tried pelvic floor exercises (Kegel)? Do they help? What procedures, surgeries, or injuries have you had? What medications do you take? Do you drink coffee? How much? Do you drink alcohol? How much? Do you smoke? How much each day? Do you have diabetes or a family history of diabetes? Do you have any other symptoms? Diagnostic tests that may be performed include: Urinalysis Urine culture to check for infection, if indicated Cystoscopy (inspection of the inside of the bladder) Urodynamic studies (tests to measure pressure and urine flow) Uroflow (to measure pattern of urine flow) Post void residual (PVR) to measure amount of urine left after urination Other tests may be performed to rule out pelvic weakness as the cause of the incontinence. One such test is called the Q-tip test. This test involves measurement of the change in the angle of the urethra when it is at rest and when it is straining. An angle change of greater than 30 degrees often indicates significant weakness of the muscles that support the bladder. References Gerber GS, Brendler CB. Evaluation of the urologic patient: History, physical examination, and urinalysis. In: Wein AJ, ed. Campbell-Walsh Urology . 9th ed. Philadelphia, Pa: Saunders Elsevier;2007:chap 3. Holroyd-Leduc JM, Tannenbaum C, Thorpe KE, Straus SE. What type of urinary incontinence does this woman have? JAMA . 2008;299:1446-1456. Rogers RG. Clinical practice: urinary stress incontinence in women. N Engl J Med . 2008;358:1029-1036. Shamliyan TA, Kane RL, Wyman J, Wilt TJ. Systematic review: randomized, controlled trials of nonsurgical treatments for urinary incontinence in women. Ann Intern Med . 2008;148:459-473. Review Date:
								8/30/2009 Reviewed By:
							Louis S. Liou, MD, PhD, Assistant Professor of Urology, Department of Surgery, Boston University School of Medicine. Also reviewed by David Zieve, MD, MHA, Medical Director, A.D.A.M., Inc. The information provided herein should not be used during any medical emergency or for the diagnosis or treatment of any medical condition. A licensed medical professional should be consulted for diagnosis and treatment of any and all medical conditions. Call 911 for all medical emergencies. Links to other sites are provided for information only -- they do not constitute endorsements of those other sites. ©  1997- A.D.A.M., Inc.  Any duplication or distribution of the information contained herein is strictly prohibited. About Us | Our Services | For Patients & Visitors | Education & Training | How You Can Help | Contact Us | Privacy Policy /Terms | Directions | Site Map © Lenox Hill Hospital . All rights reserved. 100 East 77th Street, New
            York, NY 10075 (212) 434-20