Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

SCI Forum: Management of Pain in Spinal Cord Injury Home » Information & Education » Forums » Reports About Us Patient Care Resources Information & Education Projects & Research FAQ © 2012 University of Washington SCI Forum Video Multidisciplinary  Management of Pain in Spinal Cord Injury: An Approach to Improve Pain, Function  and Psychological Coping Presented by three chronic pain experts  from the Rehabilitation Institute of Washington (RIW): Dr. Kathleen Burgess ,  physiatrist; Randy Hermans , physical therapist; and Dr. James Moore ,  psychologist and RIW director ( http://www.rehabwashington.com/ ). Presented on June  8, 2010 at the University of   Washington Medical Center . Read the report or watch the video from this page. Click here to view streaming 
        video (75 minutes) (Mac users: to watch the video, you may have to download a program,
    which you can find at the following site: Microsoft Windows Media Components for QuickTime .) This video contains captioning. To turn captions off, press "Ctrl+Shift+C" while in the Windows Media player, or follow the instructions on your Windows Media player. Please note: In order to continue offering videos of our SCI Forums, we need to show our funding sources that consumers are watching and benefiting from them. After watching the video, please complete our two-minute   survey . Thank you! For a complete list of our streaming videos, go to http://sci.washington.edu/info/forums/forum_videos.asp . Report Multidisciplinary  Management of Pain in Spinal Cord Injury: An Approach to Improve Pain, Function  and Psychological Coping Contents: Part 1: Medical Management of Chronic Pain What is pain, and why do we have it? Why does chronic pain  happen? Frequency and Types of Pain in Spinal Cord Injury Medications for Treating  Pain after SCI Other treatments for pain In summary Part 2: Managing chronic pain with exercise Relaxation and flexibility exercises Maintaining posture and stabilization Strength training Cardiovascular or aerobic exercise Part 3: Psychological Strategies: Making the best of a bad situation Psychological factors affecting pain Goals  of psychological treatment for chronic pain Control the pain as  much as possible Preventing the unnecessary  negative consequences of pain Pain and Depression Anxiety and fear Pay attention to your relationships Part 1: Medical Management of Chronic Pain By Kathleen Burgess, MD What is pain, and why do we  have it? The  International Association for the Study of  Pain defines pain as: “Unpleasant  sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue  damage.” This definition recognizes that pain is more than  an experience of the senses — what my nervous system is telling me— but also includes  an emotional component. And while we  know pain can be caused by actual tissue damage, sometimes people feel  pain even though no actual tissue damage has  happened or is no longer ongoing. The reason  we feel pain is  protection. The brain interprets the pain signal and  directs your body to rest or do other things in order to protect the body  and/or promote healing. When the danger  is over, the brain has mechanisms to actually turn pain off. Acute pain Acute pain is caused by an identifiable  source or connected to a specific injury, and it goes away as the injury heals  or the problem resolves. Acute pain is  usually easy to treat with rest, medications or other treatments. Chronic pain Chronic pain is any pain that lasts beyond  the normal healing or recovery time. We usually consider pain to be chronic if  it goes on for more than three months. Chronic  pain is hard to treat—you may go to 10  different doctors and get 10 different answers.   Chronic pain is poorly understood by physicians who don't deal with it a  lot and very confusing and frustrating to patients and providers. [Back to Table of Contents] Why does chronic pain  happen? We don’t understand completely why pain goes  from acute to chronic, but it is a very complex process. It  seems to be due to  chemical and other changes in the nervous  system that cause pain signals to remain active even after the original source  has disappeared. The pain signaling system gets going and “forgets” to turn  itself off. This is called “wind up” and is a cardinal feature of chronic pain. Sometimes, the pain signals will start to  spread to other areas, so that pain that started in the  foot, for example, spreads to the ankle and  leg, even though there never was an injury in those locations.  In addition, nerves that normally carry the  soft touch or light touch signal can start to either act as if they are pain  nerves or connect with other parts of the nervous system that then connect with  pain signals.  In these situations, things  that normally would not be painful, like the light touch of your sheet or the  wind blowing by you, become painful.  This  is called “allodynia.” We know that chronic pain affects many  different areas in your brain and we can see changes in the brain using special  kinds of MRIs.  Additionally, we know  that when the pain signal goes up to your brain it also reaches the areas where  memory and emotion are stored. Pain often affects the way we move. For  example, a person may start to limp in an attempt to decrease or avoid pain. But  abnormal movement patterns can begin to cause new pain problems. Fear of pain  may also cause someone to avoid movement.   Not using a limb that's painful can become habitual, and eventually this  will cause further problems. [Back to Table of Contents] Frequency and Types of Pain in Spinal Cord Injury Up to 70% of people with SCI have pain. Of  these, 30%–40% have pain due to the injury to their spinal cord, and 50%–60%  have pain due to muscle or tendon problems. A small minority have disabling  pain. A person can have many different kinds of  pain after spinal cord injury, and clinicians and researchers have tried to  classify the different types of pain in order to understand and treat it better. Nociceptive pain is caused by mechanical, thermal (heat) or  chemical damage to body tissues. The pain can be acute or chronic and located  above or below the level of injury. There are two types: Musculoskeletal pain relating to damage to muscles, tendons and  bones, such as spinal fractures, shoulder injuries, muscle spasms, arthritis,  overuse, poorly fitting wheelchair and contractures. Visceral pain, caused by problems in the urinary or digestive  systems (e.g., constipation, kidney stones, stomach ulcers). Neuropathic pain is caused by injury to or  dysfunction of the nervous system (nerves, spinal cord and brain). This kind of  pain can occur months or years after injury and is often classified by its  location either at or below the level of injury. It can be caused by the  original injury, by a syrinx (a cyst that forms in the spinal cord), or even by  conditions not specific to spinal cord injury, such as diabetic nerve pain,  nerve compression (such as carpal tunnel syndrome) or poststroke pain. [Back to Table of Contents] Medications for Treating  Pain after SCI Many different medications are used for the  treatment of pain after spinal cord injury, depending on the type of pain being  treated.  When pain is chronic, you may  need to try many different medications. Anti-inflammatories (ibuprofen) Acetaminophen (Tylenol) Antiseizure medications such as gabapentin  (Neurontin) and pregabalin (Lyrica).   This can be very effective for numbness and tingling. It can also help  with sleep, which is especially beneficial since any sort of sleep problem or  disruption can contribute to pain. Other medications include muscle relaxants,  like cyclobenzaprine and methocarbamol. Spasticity medications, such as baclofen  and tizanidine, can be used for pain and also helps with sleep. Antidepressants, such Cymbalta and  amitriptyline. Opioid  medications such as morphine, oxycodone, hydrocodone, Vicodin, Percocet and  Lortab.  Although they are used for all  kinds of pain, they are not as frequently prescribed for people with spinal  cord injuries because of side effects such as decreased  respiration, constipation and low blood  pressure.  These work best after a brand  new injury. If pain becomes chronic, opioids tend to lose their  effectiveness. Medications such as lidocaine, ketamine,  baclofen, clonidine, and morphine may be injected into the spinal cord to treat  pain. Other treatments for pain Exercise (see section on Exercise) Massage Acupuncture Psychological interventions (See the section on psychological strategies for pain , below.) Deep brain simulation, transcortical  stimulation and spinal cord stimulators are pain treatments that may be tried  if other approaches are unsuccessful. In summary Once  pain becomes chronic, it can be difficult to treat with medications. People often  have to try several different approaches to figure out what might work for them,  including multiple medications and alternative treatments. Be  confident that you are the expert regarding your condition. Remember to follow  the basic rules of general health—eating right, getting enough exercise,  getting enough sleep, trying to manage the stress in your life— so that these  do not contribute your pain. Always try to include time for  psychological care, which includes identifying the sources of stress, having a  social circle, having activities that you like to do—all of those help control  pain. (See the section on psychological strategies for pain , below.) Chronic  pain is a very hot topic of research today. With advanced brain scanning  techniques now available, researchers are learning more about all the different  parts of the brain that contribute to pain. [Back to Table of Contents] Part 2: Managing chronic pain with exercise By Randy Hermans, physical therapist. When you're first injured, you generally work  with both physical therapists and occupational therapists who  teach you how to move safely and care for  yourself.  Once you've attained those  goals, you may have less interaction with PTs and OTs. But if you're dealing with a chronic pain  problem, it might be time to reconnect or establish a relationship with a therapist  who can help you set up an exercise program that is appropriate for you. Many  different types of exercise can help with chronic pain. Relaxation and flexibility exercises A good stretching program, practiced daily, will help reduce pain, decrease muscle tension and  spasticity, decrease stress and improve sleep. As your flexibility improves,  you will be able to do more and not have to avoid movement that was causing you  pain. Being able to do more improves your mood, which further helps you manage  your pain better. Relaxation also helps reduce  pain. You can learn to be more relaxed by taking yoga or tai chi or learning  deep breathing techniques. Maintaining posture and stabilization Every joint in the body, whether it be a finger,  wrist or neck, has a position where there's the least amount of stress on it  and where the muscles that control that joint are the most effective. Stabilization  and  good posture and body mechanics help  us use our bodies in the correct, strongest and most pain-free manner. Since many things in life take us out of  those optimal positions, we need to do exercises and activities that help us  reestablish and maintain those positions as we go through our day.  In wheelchair users, we want to be especially  careful about positioning and using the shoulders, trunk and head in the proper  way.  A therapist can work with you on  postures and exercises that strengthen and balance the shoulder blades, rotator  cuff, elbow and wrist. Strength training Strengthening is important because it allows  you to be more active.  A regular  repetitive strengthening program will help give you the strength to be able to  do those normal activities that you want to do. When done  repetitively and consistently over time, strength  training can also help reduce central nervous system sensitivity that occurs  when the spinal cord and brain are sending pain signals even in the presence of  normal stimuli. Increasing strength has these benefits: Improves healing and injury recovery Improves posture and body mechanics Improves functional activity level Increases lean body mass and metabolism Reduces risk of injury and disease Cardiovascular or aerobic exercise Cardiovascular or aerobic exercise uses  large muscle groups in a repetitive fashion at a low level to elevate the heart  rate for about 20 minutes. This type of exercise has many benefits: Releases natural endorphins in the brain  that can help with mood, sleep and pain management. Increases stamina and functional activity  level Helps maintain ideal body weight Reduces risk of injury and disease A skilled therapist can help you set up a  program of aerobic exercises that works with your health, abilities and  lifestyle. [Back to Table of Contents] Part 3: Psychological Strategies: Making the best of a bad situation By Dr. James Moore, psychologist and   director of the Research Institute of Washington. Most of the people I see in my practice had  serious injuries at one time and have had pain for a long time. The truth is,  very few of these people completely overcome their chronic pain problems.  My job in working with individuals who have  chronic pain is to help them make the best of a bad situation. This means  helping them learn to manage the pain so that they don't become depressed, don’t  stop moving entirely, and don’t become so grouchy and irritable that it interferes  with relationships. The goal is to learn to cope with it in a way that allows them  to have a good quality of life. While acute pain is mostly a response to  tissue damage, chronic pain is much more influenced by several psychological  factors, including emotions, thoughts, beliefs and attitudes. Psychological factors affecting pain Emotions: Fear,  depression, anger Pain begins with an injury or tissue  damage.  You don't necessarily always  have pain in direct proportion to the tissue damage. You might have an injury  and be so distracted that you don't notice it at the time. For example, people  in horrific accidents might be so overwhelmed by the danger or concern about the  people with them that they don't realize they fractured a bone until an hour  later when the emergency has passed. People who have pessimistic, negative or hopeless  outlooks are much more likely to become depressed.  People who feel others don’t care may become  angry. Negative emotions—anger, fear, depression—all make the pain experienced  even worse. Cognition  (thoughts): Expectations, beliefs, focus of attention When you have pain, you typically have a  complex set of ideas and beliefs about your pain. These can come from concerns  over whether your pain may signal a serious undiagnosed medical condition, is  going to greatly impact your life,  is  treatable, is something that other people believe you have or care about, and whether  you think your doctors are really trying their best to treat you.  These thoughts can influence how you respond  emotionally and how much pain you feel. Behaviors: Level  of activity, social involvement, muscle guarding Behavioral response to pain, or “pain  behavior,”  is something you do to avoid  hurting more.  After an injury, you might  start to move in a guarded fashion or avoid activities that aggravate your pain.  But those behaviors can become habitual and  continue after you have healed. Some of those habitual behaviors can cause  secondary pain problems. Social situation:  Effects on social roles, reactions of others How you respond behaviorally to pain has a big  influence on other people.  If you're  irritable or become quiet and withdrawn, people around you are affected.  It's very easy to make other people miserable  when you're miserable, and relationships that are important to you can suffer. Part  of my job as a psychologist is to help people with chronic pain remain  sensitive to other people. [Back to Table of Contents] Goals  of psychological treatment for chronic pain Control the pain as much as possible. Use distraction, ideally by engaging in pleasurable activities . One distraction technique could be to count backwards from a million by  sevens.  But that’s  not a very enjoyable thing to do.  It’s better to distract yourself from the  pain by having as busy and active a life as possible, to have things that you  do on a daily basis that keep you focused, interested and stimulated so you  have less time to focus on pain.  When  people are hurting, there's a tendency to want to just stay home and do nothing.  The problem is, that leaves a lot more time  to focus on pain, and pain can become worse. Control fear and other negative emotions. If you fear that you're  going to aggravate your pain, your focus of attention will be on the area that  hurts.  Your brain will actually process  pain signals much more readily when there's fear associated with that pain  problem.  Depression and anger are also associated  with increased pain. Relaxation techniques are  very helpful.  You can certainly reduce  the pain caused by muscle tension by using relaxation.  Relaxation can also distract you from your  pain. Modify beliefs and expectations .  Using techniques such  as self-hypnosis, you can try to give yourself more positive expectations about  your ability to manage pain or to lead an active lifestyle in spite of  pain.  The University of Washington  system has a richness of really good rehabilitation psychologists who have  expertise in hypnosis. Prevent the unnecessary negative consequences of pain Pain and depression People with pain have higher rates of depression. Whether and how much you get  depressed is influenced by how much the pain influences the quality of your  life.  Most of the patients in our pain  management program are not working and have suffered severe financial losses.  Depression is an understandable response to  this, but it is not inevitable. There are a variety of ways to manage  depression. Cognitive Restructuring One approach to managing depression is  called “cognitive restructuring.” In this model  you have an activating event (pain) that generates automatic thoughts (how you think about the  pain), and this affects how you feel and how you behave. If you automatically think pain is a sign that  something dangerous is going on in your body, then you might stop moving.  That behavioral change can lead to worse  conditioning and a loss of function, resulting in less enjoyment of life.  Managing emotions requires you to become more  aware of how you're thinking about what's going on in your life and to substitute  those automatic negative thoughts (“I feel pain, so something must be wrong!”)  with more rational or optimistic thoughts (“I know there is nothing wrong, so I  don’t need to worry about it.”) that don’t lead to negative thoughts and consequences.  A psychologist can help you learn techniques  for  changing the way you think about  your pain. Changing behavior When you are depressed, there's a tendency  to view everything in a negative way. Going out or getting together with friends  seems like too much trouble, and you don't think you’re going to enjoy yourself  anyway.  When you view everything negatively,  you stop doing things. People who are depressed often have to  force themselves to get out and do things. You can combat depression by  maintaining an active lifestyle that includes exercise, involvement in social  activities, and doing something that feels productive. Even small things like washing  the dishes can help because after you do it, it feels good to have a clean  kitchen. Problem Solving Most people are depressed not because of a  biochemical abnormality in the brain, but because their life isn't what they  wanted it to be. They're not doing the things that they want to do, their  marriage isn't quite as positive as they would like it to be, their  relationships aren't as good, and they're not doing anything fun and  interesting. To change this,  you have to  do some problem solving so that the quality of your life is closer to what you  would like it to be.  That's probably the  best solution for depression.  By getting  out and socializing more, calling up a friend, trying to do something to make  your relationship with your partner more positive—little by little, you can  create a better life for yourself, and depression will automatically  diminish. [Back to Table of Contents] Cautions about treatment of depression Antidepressant medication. Many people who are depressed are given a  prescription for an antidepressant medication when they go to the doctor. This  has become the usual treatment, but it is not always the best or most useful approach.  The research coming out now tells us that antidepressant medications are  probably far less effective than we used to think, especially for mild and  moderate cases of depression. 
                    For this reason, it's important not to rely only on an  antidepressant if you're feeling depressed. You should also make the behavioral changes and the cognitive changes  that will help you get rid of that depression. Psychotherapy . Not all psychotherapy or counseling is the  same! There are many different kinds, and not all of them are helpful for  treating depression. Cognitive behavioral  therapy (CBT) is considered the most effective psychological  treatment for depression. CBT is a process of systematically changing your  thoughts, looking at things in a different way, and changing your  behaviors. Interpersonal  therapy , which focuses  on improving problems in your relationships  and other areas of life, is also effective for depression. Supportive counseling, the most common type, may not be very  effective for depression.  If you're  talking to a counselor and they are listening in a supportive way and being  encouraging, that may not be enough to actually overcome a significant  depression. Anxiety and fear Normal anxiety and fear are caused by a  realistic expectation that something bad is going to happen.  Pathological or abnormal fear and anxiety are  caused by over-predicting the probability that something bad will happen. Avoiding activity due to fear of increased  pain or further injury—called “fear avoidance”—is a common negative consequence  of chronic pain. Although it is an understandable reaction to pain, the problem  is that the more inactive you are, the more deconditioned and isolated you  become, leading to a downward spiral of worsening depression and pain. Most people can become much more active  than they realize. We hold ourselves back because we’re afraid it will hurt us.  Cognitive structuring can help us overcome inaccurate pain beliefs. In this  process, you identify the thoughts and beliefs you have about what moving will  do to you and try to look at it more objectively. The best way to overcome fear is exposure—facing  the thing you're afraid of.  If you're  afraid of dogs, you have to be around dogs to overcome that fear.  If someone is afraid of movement, you have to  move.  You have to actually engage in  activities.  Somebody can tell you it's  safe, but until you do it and nothing horrible happens, it will be hard to  overcome your fear. Pick a goal and start out with a little bit  of something.  If your goal is to spend three  hours out cruising around, you start out with two minutes or five minutes and  gradually try to build up your endurance.   Do it at a pace that allows you to last the length of time you want to  do it, and make sure you use the correct technique. Talk to your health care provider about  what activities and movements are safe so you don’t become inactive out of  fear. Pay attention to your relationships. Often when people are uncomfortable or in  pain they want to be left alone. If you have pain all the time, there's a  tendency that you will withdraw from others. That can drive people away from  you, and you'll lose an important part of your life by doing that.  You can also drive people away if pain makes  you grouchy, grumpy and irritable. Don’t make others guess what you want.  When people are around someone who is in  pain, they don't know whether they should ask, "How is your pain  today?" because your response might be, "Well, until you brought it  up, it was fine.  But now that you  brought my attention to it, it hurts."   But if they don't ask, you might think, "They don't care. They  don't even ask."  It’s easier on  others if you tell them that you like to be asked how you're feeling or if you  need help with something.  If you don't want  be asked, it's okay to tell them that. People are generally happy to respond to  you the way you want. They can't read your mind. When people see someone in pain or someone  struggling physically, they want to do something to help, and if there isn't  anything they can do to help, they feel guilty.   Telling them there's nothing they need to do lets them off the hook.  Likewise, telling them how they can help will give them some direction. [Back to Table of Contents] M