
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Consensus Development Program: Acupuncture Skip Over Navigation Links Acupuncture National
      Institutes of Health Consensus Development Conference Statement November 3-5, 1997 This statement is more
      than five years old and is provided solely for historical purposes. Due to
      the cumulative nature of medical research, new knowledge has inevitably
      accumulated in this subject area in the time since the statement was
      initially prepared. Thus some of the material is likely to be out of date,
      and at worst simply wrong. For reliable, current information on this and
      other health topics, we recommend consulting the National Institutes of
      Health's MedlinePlus http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ . This statement was originally published as: Acupuncture. NIH Consensus Statement 1997 Nov 3-5; 15(5):1-34. For making bibliographic reference to consensus statement no. 107 in the
      electronic form displayed here, it is recommended that the following
      format be used: Acupuncture. NIH Consensus Statement Online 1997 Nov 3-5; month, day];
        15(5):1-34. Abstract Objective. To provide health care providers, patients, and the general public with
      a responsible assessment of the use and effectiveness of acupuncture for a
      variety of conditions Participants. A non-Federal, nonadvocate, 12-member panel representing the fields of
      acupuncture, pain, psychology, psychiatry, physical medicine and
      rehabilitation, drug abuse, family practice, internal medicine, health
      policy, epidemiology, statistics, physiology, biophysics, and the public.
      In addition, 25 experts from these same fields presented data to the panel
      and a conference audience of 1,200. Evidence. The literature was searched through Medline, and an extensive
      bibliography of references was provided to the panel and the conference
      audience. Experts prepared abstracts with relevant citations from the
      literature. Scientific evidence was given precedence over clinical
      anecdotal experience. Consensus Process. The panel, answering predefined questions, developed their conclusions
      based on the scientific evidence presented in open forum and the
      scientific literature. The panel composed a draft statement, which was
      read in its entirety and circulated to the experts and the audience for
      comment. Thereafter, the panel resolved conflicting recommendations and
      released a revised statement at the end of the conference. The panel
      finalized the revisions within a few weeks after the conference. The draft
      statement was made available on the World Wide Web immediately following
      its release at the conference and was updated with the panel's final
      revisions. Conclusions. Acupuncture as a therapeutic intervention is widely practiced in the
      United States. While there have been many studies of its potential
      usefulness, many of these studies provide equivocal results because of
      design, sample size, and other factors. The issue is further complicated
      by inherent difficulties in the use of appropriate controls, such as
      placebos and sham acupuncture groups. However, promising results have
      emerged, for example, showing efficacy of acupuncture in adult
      postoperative and chemotherapy nausea and vomiting and in postoperative
      dental pain. There are other situations such as addiction, stroke
      rehabilitation, headache, menstrual cramps, tennis elbow, fibromyalgia,
      myofascial pain, osteoarthritis, low back pain, carpal tunnel syndrome,
      and asthma, in which acupuncture may be useful as an adjunct treatment or
      an acceptable alternative or be included in a comprehensive management
      program. Further research is likely to uncover additional areas where
      acupuncture interventions will be useful. Introduction Acupuncture is a component of the health
      care system of China that can be traced back for at least 2,500 years. The
      general theory of acupuncture is based on the premise that there are
      patterns of energy flow (Qi) through the body that are essential for
      health. Disruptions of this flow are believed to be responsible for
      disease. Acupuncture may correct imbalances of flow at identifiable points
      close to the skin. The practice of acupuncture to treat identifiable
      pathophysiological conditions in American medicine was rare until the
      visit of President Nixon to China in 1972. Since that time, there has been
      an explosion of interest in the United States and Europe in the
      application of the technique of acupuncture to Western medicine. Acupuncture describes a family of procedures involving stimulation of
      anatomical locations on the skin by a variety of techniques. There are a
      variety of approaches to diagnosis and treatment in American acupuncture
      that incorporate medical traditions from China, Japan, Korea, and other
      countries. The most studied mechanism of stimulation of acupuncture points
      employs penetration of the skin by thin, solid, metallic needles, which
      are manipulated manually or by electrical stimulation. The majority of
      comments in this report are based on data that came from such studies.
      Stimulation of these areas by moxibustion, pressure, heat, and lasers is
      used in acupuncture practice, but because of the paucity of studies, these
      techniques are more difficult to evaluate. Acupuncture has been used by millions of American patients and
      performed by thousands of physicians, dentists, acupuncturists, and other
      practitioners for relief or prevention of pain and for a variety of health
      conditions. After reviewing the existing body of knowledge, the U.S. Food
      and Drug Administration recently removed acupuncture needles from the
      category of "experimental medical devices" and now regulates
      them just as it does other devices, such as surgical scalpels and
      hypodermic syringes, under good manufacturing practices and single-use
      standards of sterility. Over the years, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) has funded a
      variety of research projects on acupuncture, including studies on the
      mechanisms by which acupuncture may produce its effects, as well as
      clinical trials and other studies. There is also a considerable body of
      international literature on the risks and benefits of acupuncture, and the
      World Health Organization lists a variety of medical conditions that may
      benefit from the use of acupuncture or moxibustion. Such applications
      include prevention and treatment of nausea and vomiting; treatment of pain
      and addictions to alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs; treatment of
      pulmonary problems such as asthma and bronchitis; and rehabilitation from
      neurological damage such as that caused by stroke. To address important issues regarding acupuncture, the NIH Office of
      Alternative Medicine and the NIH Office of Medical Applications of
      Research organized a 2-1/2-day conference to evaluate the scientific and
      medical data on the uses, risks, and benefits of acupuncture procedures
      for a variety of conditions. Cosponsors of the conference were the
      National Cancer Institute, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute,
      the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, the National
      Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, the National
      Institute of Dental Research, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and
      the Office of Research on Women's Health of the NIH. The conference
      brought together national and international experts in the fields of
      acupuncture, pain, psychology, psychiatry, physical medicine and
      rehabilitation, drug abuse, family practice, internal medicine, health
      policy, epidemiology, statistics, physiology, and biophysics, as well as
      representatives from the public. After 1-1/2 days of available presentations and audience discussion, an
      independent, non-Federal consensus panel weighed the scientific evidence
      and wrote a draft statement that was presented to the audience on the
      third day. The consensus statement addressed the following key questions: What is the efficacy of acupuncture, compared with placebo or sham
          acupuncture, in the conditions for which sufficient data are available
          to evaluate? What is the place of acupuncture in the treatment of various
          conditions for which sufficient data are available, in comparison or
          in combination with other interventions (including no intervention)? What is known about the biological effects of acupuncture that helps
          us understand how it works? What issues need to be addressed so that acupuncture can be
          appropriately incorporated into today's health care system? What are the directions for future research? 1. What Is the Efficacy of
      Acupuncture, Compared With Placebo or Sham Acupuncture, in the Conditions
      for Which Sufficient Data Are Available to Evaluate? Acupuncture is a complex intervention that may vary for different
      patients with similar chief complaints. The number and length of
      treatments and the specific points used may vary among individuals and
      during the course of treatment. Given this reality, it is perhaps
      encouraging that there exist a number of studies of sufficient quality to
      assess the efficacy of acupuncture for certain conditions. According to contemporary research standards, there is a paucity of
      high-quality research assessing efficacy of acupuncture compared with
      placebo or sham acupuncture. The vast majority of papers studying
      acupuncture in the biomedical literature consist of case reports, case
      series, or intervention studies with designs inadequate to assess
      efficacy. This discussion of efficacy refers to needle acupuncture (manual or
      electroacupuncture) because the published research is primarily on needle
      acupuncture and often does not encompass the full breadth of acupuncture
      techniques and practices. The controlled trials usually have involved only
      adults and did not involve long-term (i.e., years) acupuncture treatment. Efficacy of a treatment assesses the differential effect of a treatment
      when compared with placebo or another treatment modality using a
      double-blind controlled trial and a rigidly defined protocol. Papers
      should describe enrollment procedures, eligibility criteria, description
      of the clinical characteristics of the subjects, methods for diagnosis,
      and a description of the protocol (i.e., randomization method, specific
      definition of treatment, and control conditions, including length of
      treatment and number of acupuncture sessions). Optimal trials should also
      use standardized outcomes and appropriate statistical analyses. This
      assessment of efficacy focuses on high-quality trials comparing
      acupuncture with sham acupuncture or placebo. Response Rate. As with other types of interventions, some individuals are poor
      responders to specific acupuncture protocols. Both animal and human
      laboratory and clinical experience suggest that the majority of subjects
      respond to acupuncture, with a minority not responding. Some of the
      clinical research outcomes, however, suggest that a larger percentage may
      not respond. The reason for this paradox is unclear and may reflect the
      current state of the research. Efficacy for Specific Disorders. There is clear evidence that needle
      acupuncture is efficacious for adult postoperative and chemotherapy nausea
      and vomiting and probably for the nausea of pregnancy. Much of the research is on various pain problems. There is evidence of
      efficacy for postoperative dental pain. There are reasonable studies
      (although sometimes only single studies) showing relief of pain with
      acupuncture on diverse pain conditions such as menstrual cramps, tennis
      elbow, and fibromyalgia. This suggests that acupuncture may have a more
      general effect on pain. However, there are also studies that do not find
      efficacy for acupuncture in pain. There is evidence that acupuncture does not demonstrate efficacy for
      cessation of smoking and may not be efficacious for some other conditions. Although many other conditions have received some attention in the
      literature and, in fact, the research suggests some exciting potential
      areas for the use of acupuncture, the quality or quantity of the research
      evidence is not sufficient to provide firm evidence of efficacy at this
      time. Sham Acupuncture. A commonly used control group is sham
      acupuncture, using techniques that are not intended to stimulate known
      acupuncture points. However, there is disagreement on correct needle
      placement. Also, particularly in the studies on pain, sham acupuncture
      often seems to have either intermediate effects between the placebo and
      'real' acupuncture points or effects similar to those of the 'real'
      acupuncture points. Placement of a needle in any position elicits a
      biological response that complicates the interpretation of studies
      involving sham acupuncture. Thus, there is substantial controversy over
      the use of sham acupuncture in control groups. This may be less of a
      problem in studies not involving pain. 2. What Is the Place of
      Acupuncture in the Treatment of Various Conditions for Which Sufficient
      Data Are Available, in Comparison or in Combination With Other
      Interventions (Including No Intervention)? Assessing the usefulness of a medical intervention in practice differs
      from assessing formal efficacy. In conventional practice, clinicians make
      decisions based on the characteristics of the patient, clinical
      experience, potential for harm, and information from colleagues and the
      medical literature. In addition, when more than one treatment is possible,
      the clinician may make the choice taking into account the patient's
      preferences. While it is often thought that there is substantial research
      evidence to support conventional medical practices, this is frequently not
      the case. This does not mean that these treatments are ineffective. The
      data in support of acupuncture are as strong as those for many accepted
      Western medical therapies. One of the advantages of acupuncture is
      that the incidence of adverse effects is substantially lower than that of
      many drugs or other accepted medical procedures used for the same
      conditions. As an example, musculoskeletal conditions, such as
      fibromyalgia, myofascial pain, and tennis elbow, or epicondylitis, are
      conditions for which acupuncture may be beneficial. These painful
      conditions are often treated with, among other things, anti-inflammatory
      medications (aspirin, ibuprofen, etc.) or with steroid injections. Both
      medical interventions have a potential for deleterious side effects but
      are still widely used and are considered acceptable treatments. The
      evidence supporting these therapies is no better than that for
      acupuncture. In addition, ample clinical experience, supported by some research
      data, suggests that acupuncture may be a reasonable option for a number of
      clinical conditions. Examples are postoperative pain and myofascial and
      low back pain. Examples of disorders for which the research evidence is
      less convincing but for which there are some positive clinical trials
      include addiction, stroke rehabilitation, carpal tunnel syndrome,
      osteoarthritis, and headache. Acupuncture treatment for many conditions
      such as asthma or addiction should be part of a comprehensive management
      program. Many other conditions have been treated by acupuncture; the World
      Health Organization, for example, has listed more than 40 for which the
      technique may be indicated. 3. What Is Known About the
      Biological Effects of Acupuncture That Helps Us Understand How It Works? Many studies in animals and humans have
      demonstrated that acupuncture can cause multiple biological responses.
      These responses can occur locally, i.e., at or close to the site of
      application, or at a distance, mediated mainly by sensory neurons to many
      structures within the central nervous system. This can lead to activation
      of pathways affecting various physiological systems in the brain as well
      as in the periphery. A focus of attention has been the role of endogenous
      opioids in acupuncture analgesia. Considerable
      evidence supports the claim that opioid peptides are released during
      acupuncture and that the analgesic effects of acupuncture are at least
      partially explained by their actions. That opioid antagonists such as
      naloxone reverse the analgesic effects of acupuncture further strengthens
      this hypothesis. Stimulation by acupuncture may also activate the
      hypothalamus and the pituitary gland, resulting in a broad spectrum of
      systemic effects. Alteration in the secretion of neurotransmitters and
      neurohormones and changes in the regulation of blood flow, both centrally
      and peripherally, have been documented. There is also evidence of
      alterations in immune functions produced by acupuncture. Which of these
      and other physiological changes mediate clinical effects is at present
      unclear. Despite considerable efforts to understand the anatomy and physiology
      of the "acupuncture points," the definition and characterization
      of these points remain controversial. Even more elusive is the scientific
      basis of some of the key traditional Eastern medical concepts such as the
      circulation of Qi, the meridian system, and other related theories, which
      are difficult to reconcile with contemporary biomedical information but
      continue to play an important role in the evaluation of patients and the
      formulation of treatment in acupuncture. Some of the biological effects of acupuncture have also been observed
      when "sham" acupuncture points are stimulated, highlighting the
      importance of defining appropriate control groups in assessing biological
      changes purported to be due to acupuncture. Such findings raise questions
      regarding the specificity of these biological changes. In addition,
      similar biological alterations, including the release of endogenous
      opioids and changes in blood pressure, have been observed after painful
      stimuli, vigorous exercise, and/or relaxation training; it is at present
      unclear to what extent acupuncture shares similar biological mechanisms. It should be noted also that for any
      therapeutic intervention, including acupuncture, the so-called
      "non-specific" effects account for a substantial proportion of
      its effectiveness and thus should not be casually discounted. Many factors
      may profoundly determine therapeutic outcome, including the quality of the
      relationship between the clinician and the patient, the degree of trust,
      the expectations of the patient, the compatibility of the backgrounds and
      belief systems of the clinician and the patient, as well as a myriad of
      factors that together define the therapeutic milieu. Although much remains unknown regarding the mechanism(s) that might
      mediate the therapeutic effect of acupuncture, the panel is encouraged
      that a number of significant acupuncture-related biological changes can be
      identified and carefully delineated. Further research in this direction
      not only is important for elucidating the phenomena associated with
      acupuncture, but also has the potential for exploring new pathways in
      human physiology not previously examined in a systematic manner. 4. What Issues Need To Be
      Addressed So That Acupuncture Can Be Appropriately Incorporated Into
      Today's Health Care System? The integration of acupuncture into today's health care system will be
      facilitated by a better understanding among providers of the language and
      practices of both the Eastern and Western health care communities.
      Acupuncture focuses on a holistic, energy-based approach to the patient
      rather than a disease-oriented diagnostic and treatment model. An important factor for the integration of
      acupuncture into the health care system is the training and credentialing
      of acupuncture practitioners by the appropriate State agencies. This is
      necessary to allow the public and other health practitioners to identify
      qualified acupuncture practitioners. The acupuncture educational community
      has made substantial progress in this area and is encouraged to continue
      along this path. Educational standards have been established for training
      of physician and non-physician acupuncturists. Many acupuncture
      educational programs are accredited by an agency that is recognized by the
      U.S. Department of Education. A national credentialing agency exists for
      nonphysician practitioners and provides examinations for entry-level
      competency in the field. A nationally recognized examination for physician
      acupuncturists has been established. A majority of States provide licensure or
      registration for acupuncture practitioners. Because some acupuncture
      practitioners have limited English proficiency, credentialing and
      licensing examinations should be provided in languages other than English
      where necessary. There is variation in the titles that are conferred
      through these processes, and the requirements to obtain licensure vary
      widely. The scope of practice allowed under these State requirements
      varies as well. While States have the individual prerogative to set
      standards for licensing professions, consistency in these areas will
      provide greater confidence in the qualifications of acupuncture
      practitioners. For example, not all States recognize the same
      credentialing examination, thus making reciprocity difficult. The occurrence of adverse events in the
      practice of acupuncture has been documented to be extremely low. However,
      these events have occurred on rare occasions, some of which are
      life-threatening (e.g., pneumothorax). Therefore, appropriate safeguards
      for the protection of patients and consumers need to be in place. Patients
      should be fully informed of their treatment options, expected prognosis,
      relative risk, and safety practices to minimize these risks before their
      receipt of acupuncture. This information must be provided in a manner that
      is linguistically and culturally appropriate to the patient. Use of
      acupuncture needles should always follow FDA regulations, including use of
      sterile, single-use needles. It is noted that these practices are already
      being done by many acupuncture practitioners; however, these practices
      should be uniform. Recourse for patient grievance and professional censure
      are provided through credentialing and licensing procedures and are
      available through appropriate State jurisdictions. It has been reported that more than 1 million Americans currently
      receive acupuncture each year. Continued access to qualified acupuncture
      professionals for appropriate conditions should be ensured. Because many
      individuals seek health care treatment from both acupuncturists and
      physicians, communication between these providers should be strengthened
      and improved. If a patient is under the care of an acupuncturist and a
      physician, both practitioners should be informed. Care should be taken to
      ensure that important medical problems are not overlooked. Patients and
      providers have a responsibility to facilitate this communication. There is evidence that some patients have limited access to acupuncture
      services because of inability to pay. Insurance companies can decrease or
      remove financial barriers to access depending on their willingness to
      provide coverage for appropriate acupuncture services. An increasing
      number of insurance companies are either considering this possibility or
      now provide coverage for acupuncture services. Where there are State
      health insurance plans, and for populations served by Medicare or
      Medicaid, expansion of coverage to include appropriate acupuncture
      services would also help remove financial barriers to access. As acupuncture is incorporated into today's health care system, and
      further research clarifies the role of acupuncture for various health
      conditions, it is expected that dissemination of this information to
      health care practitioners, insurance providers, policymakers, and the
      general public will lead to more informed decisions in regard to the
      appropriate use of acupuncture. 5. What Are the Directions for
      Future Research? The incorporation of any new clinical intervention into accepted
      practice faces more scrutiny now than ever before. The demands of
      evidence-based medicine, outcomes research, managed care systems of health
      care delivery, and a plethora of therapeutic choices make the acceptance
      of new treatments an arduous process. The difficulties are accentuated
      when the treatment is based on theories unfamiliar to Western medicine and
      its practitioners. It is important, therefore, that the evaluation of
      acupuncture for the treatment of specific conditions be carried out
      carefully, using designs that can withstand rigorous scrutiny. In order to
      further the evaluation of the role of acupuncture in the management of
      various conditions, the following general areas for future research are
      suggested. What Are the Demographics and Patterns of Use of Acupuncture in the
      United States and Other Countries? There is currently limited information on basic questions such as who
      uses acupuncture, for what indications is acupuncture most commonly
      sought, what variations in experience and techniques used exist among
      acupuncture practitioners, and are there differences in these patterns by
      geography or ethnic group. Descriptive epidemiologic studies can provide
      insight into these and other questions. This information can in turn be
      used to guide future research and to identify areas of greatest public
      health concern. Can the Efficacy of Acupuncture for Various Conditions for Which It Is
      Used or for Which It Shows Promise Be Demonstrated? Relatively few high-quality, randomized, controlled trials have been
      published on the effects of acupuncture. Such studies should be designed
      in a rigorous manner to allow evaluation of the effectiveness of
      acupuncture. Such studies should include experienced acupuncture
      practitioners to design and deliver appropriate interventions. Emphasis
      should be placed on studies that examine acupuncture as used in clinical
      practice and that respect the theoretical basis for acupuncture therapy. Although randomized controlled trials provide a strong basis for
      inferring causality, other study designs such as those used in clinical
      epidemiology or outcomes research can also provide important insights
      regarding the usefulness of acupuncture for various conditions. There have
      been few such studies in the acupuncture literature. Do Different Theoretical Bases for Acupuncture Result in Different
      Treatment Outcomes? Competing theoretical orientations (e.g., Chinese, Japanese, French)
      currently exist that might predict divergent therapeutic approaches (i.e.,
      the use of different acupuncture points). Research projects should be
      designed to assess the relative merit of these divergent approaches and to
      compare these systems with treatment programs using fixed acupuncture
      points. In order to fully assess the efficacy of acupuncture, studies should be
      designed to examine not only fixed acupuncture points, but also the
      Eastern medical systems that provide the foundation for acupuncture
      therapy, including the choice of points. In addition to assessing the
      effect of acupuncture in context, this would also provide the opportunity
      to determine whether Eastern medical theories predict more effective
      acupuncture points. What Areas of Public Policy Research Can Provide Guidance for the
      Integration of Acupuncture Into Today's Health Care System? The incorporation of acupuncture as a treatment raises numerous
      questions of public policy. These include issues of access,
      cost-effectiveness, reimbursement by State, Federal, and private payers,
      and training, licensure, and accreditation. These public policy issues
      must be founded on quality epidemiologic and demographic data and
      effectiveness research. Can Further Insight Into the Biological Basis for Acupuncture Be
      Gained? Mechanisms that provide a Western scientific explanation for some of
      the effects of acupuncture are beginning to emerge. This is encouraging
      and may provide novel insights into neural, endocrine, and other
      physiological processes. Research should be supported to provide a better
      understanding of the mechanisms involved, and such research may lead to
      improvements in treatment. Does an Organized Energetic System That Has Clinical Applications
      Exist in the Human Body? Although biochemical and physiologic studies have provided insight into
      some of the biologic effects of acupuncture, acupuncture practice is based
      on a very different model of energy balance. This theory might or might
      not provide new insights to medical research, but it deserves further
      attention because of its potential for elucidating the basis for
      acupuncture. How Do the Approaches and Answers to These Questions Differ Among
      Populations That Have Used Acupuncture as a Part of Their Healing
      Tradition for Centuries, Compared With Populations That Have Only Recently
      Begun to Incorporate Acupuncture Into Health Care? Conclusions Acupuncture as a therapeutic intervention is widely practiced in the
      United States. There have been many studies of its potential usefulness.
      However, many of these studies provide equivocal results because of
      design, sample size, and other factors. The issue is further complicated
      by inherent difficulties in the use of appropriate controls, such as
      placebo and sham acupuncture groups. However, promising results have emerged, for example, efficacy of
      acupuncture in adult post-operative and chemotherapy nausea and vomiting
      and in postoperative dental pain. There are other situations such as
      addiction, stroke rehabilitation, headache, menstrual cramps, tennis
      elbow, fibromyalgia, myofascial pain, osteoarthritis, low back pain,
      carpal tunnel syndrome, and asthma for which acupuncture may be useful as
      an adjunct treatment or an acceptable alternative or be included in a
      comprehensive management program. Further research is likely to uncover
      additional areas where acupuncture interventions will be useful. Findings from basic research have begun to elucidate the mechanisms of
      action of acupuncture, including the release of opioids and other peptides
      in the central nervous system and the periphery and changes in
      neuroendocrine function. Although much needs to be accomplished, the
      emergence of plausible mechanisms for the therapeutic effects of
      acupuncture is encouraging. The introduction of acupuncture into the choice of treatment modalities
      readily available to the public is in its early stages. Issues of
      training, licensure, and reimbursement remain to be clarified. There is
      sufficient evidence, however, of its potential value to conventional
      medicine to encourage further studies. There is sufficient evidence of acupuncture's value to expand its use
      into conventional medicine and to encourage further studies of its
      physiology and clinical value. Consensus Development Panel David J. Ramsay, D.M., D. Phil. Panel and Conference Chairperson President University of Maryland, Baltimore Baltimore, Maryland Marjorie A. Bowman, M.D., M.P.A. Professor and Chair Department of Family Practice and Community Medicine University of Pennsylvania Health System Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Philip E. Greenman, D.O., F.A.A.O. Associate Dean College of Osteopathic Medicine Michigan State University East Lansing, Michigan Stephen P. Jiang, A.C.S.W. Executive Director Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations Oakland, California Lawrence H. Kushi, Sc.D. Associate Professor Division of Epidemiology University of Minnesota School of Public Health Minneapolis, Minnesota Susan Leeman, Ph.D. Professor Department of Pharmacology Boston University School of Medicine Boston, Massachusetts Keh-Ming Lin, M.D., M.P.H. Professor of Psychiatry, UCLA Director, Research Center on the Psychobiology of Ethnicity Harbor-UCLA Medical Center Torrance, California Daniel E. Moerman, Ph.D. William E. Stirton Professor of Anthropology University of Michigan, Dearborn Ypsilanti, Michigan Sidney H. Schnoll, M.D., Ph.D. Chairman Division of Substance Abuse Medicine Professor of Internal Medicine and Psychiatry Medical College of Virginia Richmond, Virginia Marcellus Walker, M.D. Honesdale, Pennsylvania Christine Waternaux, Ph.D. Associate Professor and Chief Biostatistics Division Columbia University and New York State Psychiatric Institute New York, New York Leonard A. Wisneski, M.D., F.A.C.P. Medical Director, Bethesda Center American WholeHealth Bethesda, Maryland Speakers Abass Alavi, M.D. "The Role of Physiologic Imaging in the Investigation of the
        Effects of Pain and Acupuncture on Regional Cerebral Function" Professor of Radiology Chief, Division of Nuclear Medicine Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Brian M. Berman, M.D. "Overview of Clinical Trials on Acupuncture for Pain" Associate Professor of Family Medicine Director Center for Complementary Medicine University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore, Maryland Stephen Birch, Lic.Ac., Ph.D. "Overview of the Efficacy of Acupuncture in the Treatment of
        Headache and Face and Neck Pain" Anglo-Dutch Institute for Oriental Medicine The Netherlands Hannah V. Bradford, M.Ac. "Late-Breaking Data and Other News From the Clinical Research
        Symposium (CRS) on Acupuncture at NIH" Acupuncturist Society for Acupuncture Research Bethesda, Maryland Xiaoding Cao, M.D., Ph.D. "Protective Effect of Acupuncture on Immunosuppression" Professor and Director Institute of Acupuncture Research Shanghai Medical University Shanghai, China Daniel C. Cherkin, Ph.D. "Efficacy of Acupuncture in Treating Low Back Pain: A Systematic
        Review of the Literature" Senior Scientific Investigator Group Health Center for Health Studies Seattle, Washington Patricia Culliton, M.A., L.Ac. "Current Utilization of Acupuncture by United States Patients" Director Alternative Medicine Division Hennepin County Medical Center Minneapolis, Minnesota David L. Diehl, M.D. "Gastrointestinal Indications" Assistant Professor of Medicine UCLA Digestive Disease Center University of California, Los Angeles Los Angeles, California Kevin V. Ergil, L.Ac. "Acupuncture Licensure, Training, and Certification in the United
        States" Dean Pacific Institute of Oriental Medicine New York, New York Richard Hammerschlag, Ph.D. "Methodological and Ethical Issues in Acupuncture Research" Academic Dean and Research Director Yo San University of Traditional Chinese Medicine Santa Monica, California Ji-Sheng Han, M.D. "Acupuncture Activates Endogenous Systems of Analgesia" Professor Neuroscience Research Center Beijing Medical University Beijing, China Joseph M. Helms, M.D. "Acupuncture Around the World in Modern Medical Practice Founding President American Academy of Medical Acupuncture Berkeley, California Kim A. Jobst, D.M., M.R.C.P. "Respiratory Indications" University Department of Medicine and Therapeutics Gardiner Institute Glasgow, Scotland, United Kingdom Gary Kaplan, D.O. "Efficacy of Acupuncture in the Treatment of Osteoarthritis and
        Musculoskeletal Pain" President Medical Acupuncture Research Foundation Arlington, Virginia Ted J. Kaptchuk, O.M.D. "Acupuncture: History, Context, and Long-Term Perspectives" Associate Director Center for Alternative Medicine Research Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Boston, Massachusetts Janet Konefal, Ph.D., Ed.D., M.P.H., C.A. "Acupuncture and Addictions" Associate Professor Acupuncture Research and Training Programs Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences University of Miami School of Medicine Miami, Florida Lixing Lao, Ph.D., L.Ac. "Dental and Postoperative Pain" Assistant Professor of Family Medicine Department of Family and Complementary Medicine University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore, Maryland C. David Lytle, Ph.D. "Safety and Regulation of Acupuncture Needles and Other
        Devices" Research Biophysicist Center for Devices and Radiological Health U.S. Food and Drug Administration Rockville, Maryland Margaret A. Naeser, Ph.D., Lic.Ac., Dipl. Ac. "Neurological Rehabilitation: Acupuncture and Laser Acupuncture To
        Treat Paralysis in Stroke and Other Paralytic Conditions and Pain in
        Carpal Tunnel Syndrome" Research Professor of Neurology Neuroimaging Section Boston University Aphasia Research Center Veterans Affairs Medical Center Boston, Massachusetts Lorenz K.Y. Ng, M.D. "What Is Acupuncture?" Clinical Professor of Neurology George Washington University School of Medicine Medical Director Pain Management Program National Rehabilitation Hospital Bethesda, Maryland Andrew Parfitt, Ph.D. "Nausea and Vomiting" Researcher Laboratory of Developmental Neurobiology National Institute of Child Health and Human Development National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Bruce Pomeranz, M.D., Ph.D. "Summary of Acupuncture and Pain" Professor Departments of Zoology and Physiology University of Toronto Toronto, Ontario, Canada Judith C. Shlay, M.D. "Neuropathic Pain" Assistant Professor in Family Medicine Denver Public Health Denver, Colorado Alan I. Trachtenberg, M.D., M.P.H. "American Acupuncture: Primary Care, Public Health, and
        Policy" Medical Officer Office of Science Policy and Communication National Institute on Drug Abuse National Institutes of Health Rockville, Maryland Jin Yu, M.D. "Induction of Ovulation With Acupuncture" Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology Obstetrical and Gynecological Hospital Shanghai Medical University Shanghai, China Planning Committee Alan I. Trachtenberg, M.D., M.P.H. Planning Committee Chairperson Medical Officer Office of Science Policy and Communication National Institute on Drug Abuse National Institutes of Health Rockville, Maryland Brian M. Berman, M.D. Associate Professor of Family Medicine Director Center for Complementary Medicine University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore, Maryland Hannah V. Bradford, M.Ac. Acupuncturist Society for Acupuncture Research Bethesda, Maryland Elsa Bray Program Analyst Office of Medical Applications of Research National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Patricia Bryant, Ph.D. Director Behavior, Pain, Oral Function, and Epidemiology Program Division of Extramural Research National Institute of Dental Research National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Claire M. Cassidy, Ph.D. Director Paradigms Found Consulting Bethesda, Maryland Jerry Cott, Ph.D. Head Pharmacology Treatment Program National Institute of Mental Health National Institutes of Health Rockville, Maryland George W. Counts, M.D. Director Office of Research on Minority and Women's Health National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Patricia D. Culliton, M.A., L.Ac. Director Alternative Medicine Division Hennepin County Medical Center Minneapolis, Minnesota Jerry M. Elliott Program Management and Analysis Officer Office of Medical Applications of Research National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland John H. Ferguson, M.D. Director Office of Medical Applications of Research National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Anita Greene, M.A. Public Affairs Program Officer Office of Alternative Medicine National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Debra S. Grossman, M.A. Program Officer Treatment Research Branch Division of Clinical and Services Research National Institute on Drug Abuse National Institutes of Health Rockville, Maryland William H. Hall Director of Communications Office of Medical Applications of Research National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Richard Hammerschlag, Ph.D. Academic Dean and Research Director Yo San University of Traditional Chinese Medicine Santa Monica, California Freddie Ann Hoffman, M.D. Deputy Director, Medicine Staff Office of Health Affairs U.S. Food and Drug Administration Rockville, Maryland Wayne B. Jonas, M.D. Director Office of Alternative Medicine National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Gary Kaplan, D.O. President Medical Acupuncture Research Foundation Arlington, Virginia Carol Kari, R.N., L.Ac., M.Ac. President Maryland Acupuncture Society Member, National Alliance Kensington, Maryland Charlotte R. Kerr, R.N., M.P.H., M.Ac. Practitioner of Traditional Acupuncture The Center for Traditional Acupuncture Columbia, Maryland Thomas J. Kiresuk, Ph.D. Director Center for Addiction and Alternative Medicine Research Minneapolis, Minnesota Cheryl Kitt, Ph.D. Program Officer Division of Convulsive, Infectious, and Immune Disorders National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Janet Konefal, Ph.D., M.P.H., L.Ac. Associate Professor Acupuncture Research and Training Programs Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences University of Miami School of Medicine Miami, Florida Sung J. Liao, M.D., D.P.H. Clinical Professor of Surgical Sciences Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery New York University College of Dentistry Consultant Rust Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine New York University College of Medicine Middlebury, Connecticut Michael C. Lin, Ph.D. Health Scientist Administrator Division of Heart and Vascular Diseases National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland C. David Lytle, Ph.D. Research Biophysicist Center for Devices and Radiological Health U.S. Food and Drug Administration Rockville, Maryland James D. Moran, Lic.Ac., D.Ac., C.A.A.P., C.A.S. President Emeritus and Doctor of Acupuncture American Association of Oriental Medicine The Belchertown Wellness Center Belchertown, Massachusetts Richard L. Nahin, Ph.D. Program Officer, Extramural Affairs Office of Alternative Medicine National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Lorenz K.Y. Ng, M.D., R.Ac. Clinical Professor of Neurology George Washington University School of Medicine Medical Director Pain Management Program National Rehabilitation Hospital Bethesda, Maryland James Panagis, M.D. Director, Orthopaedics Program Musculoskeletal Branch National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland David J. Ramsay, D.M., D.Phil. Panel and Conference Chairperson President University of Maryland, Baltimore Baltimore, Maryland Charles R. Sherman, Ph.D. Deputy Director Office of Medical Applications of Research National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Virginia Taggart, M.P.H. Health Scientist Administrator Division of Lung Diseases National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland Xiao-Ming Tian, M.D., R.Ac. Clinical Consultant on Acupuncture for the National Institutes of Health Director Academy of Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Bethesda, Maryland Claudette Varricchio, D.S.N. Program Director Division of Cancer Prevention and Control National Cancer Institute National Institutes of Health Rockville, Maryland Lead Organizations Office of Alternative Medicine Wayne B. Jonas, M.D. Director Office of Medical Applications of Research John H. Ferguson, M.D. Director Supporting Organizations National Cancer Institute Richard D. Klausner, M.D. Director National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Claude Lenfant, M.D. Director National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Anthony S. Fauci, M.D. Director National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases Stephen I. Katz, M.D., Ph.D. Director National Institute of Dental Research Harold C. Slavkin, D.D.S. Director National Institute on Drug Abuse Alan I. Leshner, Ph.D. Director Office of Research on Women's Health Vivian W. Pinn, M.D. Director Bibliography The speakers listed above identified the following key references in
      developing their presentations for the consensus conference. A more
      complete bibliography prepared by the National Library of Medicine at NIH,
      along with the references below, was provided to the consensus panel for
      its consideration. The full NLM bibliography is available at the following
      Web site: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/cbm/acupuncture.html . Addictions Bullock MD, Umen AJ, Culliton PD, Olander RT. Acupuncture treatment of alcoholic recidivism: a pilot study. Clin Exp Res 1987 ; 11:292-5. Bullock ML, Culliton PD, Olander RT. Controlled trial of acupuncture for severe recidivist alcoholism. Lancet 1989 ; 1:1435-9. Clavel-Chapelon F, Paoletti C, Banhamou S. Smoking cessation rates 4 years after treatment by nicotine gum and
          acupuncture. Prev Med 1997 Jan-Feb;26(1):25-8. He D, Berg JE, Hostmark AT. Effects of acupuncture on smoking cessation or reduction for motivated
          smokers. Prev Med 1997 ; 26(2): 208-14. Konefal J, Duncan R, Clemence C. Comparison of three levels of auricular acupuncture in an outpatient
          substance abuse treatment program. Altern Med J 1995 ; 2(5):8-17. Margolin A, Avants SK, Chang P, Kosten TR. Acupuncture for the treatment of cocaine dependence in
          methadone-maintained patients. Am J Addict 1993 ; 2:194-201. White AR, Rampes H. Acupuncture in smoking cessation. In: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews [database on CDROM].
          Oxford: Update Software; 1997 [updated 1996 Nov 24]. [9p.]. (The
          Cochrane Library; 1997 no. 2). Gastroenterology Cahn AM, Carayon P, Hill C, Flamant R. Acupuncture in gastroscopy. Lancet 1978 ; 1(8057):182-3. Chang FY, Chey WY, Ouyang A. Effect of transcutaneous nerve stimulation on esophageal function in
          normal subjects--evidence for a somatovisceral reflex. Amer J Chinese Med 1996 ; 24(2):185-92. Jin HO, Zhou L, Lee KY, Chang TM, Chey WY. Inhibition of acid secretion by electrical acupuncture is mediated via
          J-endorphin and somatostatin. Am J Physiol 1996 ; 271(34):G524-G530. Li Y, Tougas G, Chiverton SG, Hunt RH. The effect of acupuncture on gastrointestinal function and disorders. Am J Gastroenterol 1992 ; 87(10):1372-81. General Pain Chen XH, Han JS. All three types of opioid receptors in the spinal cord are important
          for 2/15 Hz electroacupuncture analgesia. Eur J Pharmacol 1992 ; 211:203-10. Patel M, Gutzwiller F, et al. A meta-analysis of acupuncture for chronic pain. Int J Epidemiol 1989 ; 18:900-6. Portnoy RK. Drug therapy for neuropathic pain. Drug Ther 1993 ; 23:41-5. Shlay JC et al. The efficacy of a standardized acupuncture regimen compared to placebo
          as a treatment of pain caused by peripheral neuropathy in HIV-infected
          patients. CPCRA protocol 022. 1994. Tang NM, Dong HW, Wang XM, Tsui ZC, Han JS. Cholecystokinin antisense RNA increases the analgesic effect induced
          by EA or low dose morphine: conversion of low responder rats into high
          responders. Pain 1997 ; 71:71-80. Ter Riet G, Kleijnen J, Knipschild P. Acupuncture and chronic pain: a criteria based meta-analysis. J Clin Epidemiol 1990 ; 43:1191-9. Zhu CB, Li XY, Zhu YH, Xu SF. Binding sites of mu receptor increased when acupuncture analgesia was
          enhanced by droperidol: an autoradiographic study. Acta Pharmacologica Sinica 1995 ; 16(4):289-384. History and Reviews Helms JM. Acupuncture energetics: a clinical approach for physicians. Berkeley (CA): Medical Acupuncture Publishers; 1996. Hoizey D, Hoizey MJ. A history of Chinese medicine. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press; 1988. Kaptchuk TJ. The web that has no weaver: understanding Chinese medicine. New York: Congdon & Weed; 1983. Lao L. Acupuncture techniques and devices. J Altern Compl Med 1996a; 2(1):23-5. Liao SJ, Lee MHM, Ng NKY. Principles and practice of contemporary acupuncture. New York: Marcel Dekker, Inc.; 1994. Lu GD, Needham J. Celestial lancets. A history and rationale of acupuncture and moxa. Cambridge University Press; 1980. Lytle CD. An overview of acupuncture. Center for Devices and Radiological Health, FDA, PHS, DHHS; May 1993. Mitchell BB. Acupuncture and oriental medicine laws. Washington: National Acupuncture Foundation; 1997. Porkert M. The theoretical foundations of Chinese medicine. Cambridge (MA): MIT Press; 1974. Stux G, Pomerantz B. Basics of Acupuncture. Berlin: Springer Verlag; 1995. p. 1-250. Unschuld PU. Medicine in China: a history of ideas. Berkeley: University of California Press; 1985. Immunology Cheng XD, Wu GC, Jiang JW, Du LN, Cao XD. Dynamic observation on regulation of spleen lymphocyte proliferation
          from the traumatized rats in vitro of continued electroacupuncture. Chinese Journal of Immunology 1997 ; 13:68-70. Du LN, Jiang JW, Wu GC, Cao XD. Effect of orphanin FQ on the immune function of traumatic rats. Chinese Journal of Immunology. In press. Zhang Y, Du LN, Wu GC, Cao XD. Electroacupuncture (EA) induced attenuation of immunosuppression
          appearing after epidural or intrathecal injection of morphine in
          patients and rats. Acupunct Electrother Res Int J 1996 ; 21:177-86. Miscellaneous Medical devices; Reclassification of acupuncture needles for the
          practice of acupuncture. Federal Register 1996 ; 61(236):64616-7. NIH Technology Assessment Workshop on Alternative Medicine;
          Acupuncture. J Alt Complement Med 1996 ; 2(1). Bullock ML, Pheley AM, Kiresuk TJ, Lenz SK, Culliton PD. Characteristics and complaints of patients seeking therapy at a
          hospital-based alternative medicine clinic. J Altern Compl Med 1997 ; 3(1):31-7. Cassidy C. A survey of six acupuncture clinics: demographic and satisfaction
          data. Proceedings of the Third Symposium of the Society for Acupuncture
          Research. Georgetown University Medical Center. 1995 September
          16-17:1-27. Diehl DL, Kaplan G, Coulter I, Glik D, Hurwitz EL. Use of acupuncture by American physicians. J Altn Compl Med 1997 ; 3(2):119-26. Musculoskeletal Naeser MA, Hahn KK, Lieberman B. Real vs sham laser acupuncture and microamps TENS to treat carpal
          tunnel syndrome and worksite wrist pain: pilot study. Lasers in Surgery and Medicine 1996 ; Suppl 8:7. Nausea, Vomiting, and Postoperative Pain Christensen PA, Noreng M, Andersen PE, Nielsen JW. Electroacupuncture and postoperative pain. Br J Anaesth 1989 ; 62:258-62. Dundee JW, Chestnutt WN, Ghaly RG, Lynas AG. Traditional Chinese acupuncture: a potentially useful antiemetic? Br Med J (Clin Res) 1986 ; 293(6547):583-4. Dundee JW, Ghaly G. Local anesthesia blocks the antiemetic action of P6. Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics 1991 ; 50(1): 78-80. Dundee JW, Ghaly RG, Bill KM, Chestnutt WN, Fitzpatrick KT, Lynas
          AG. Effect of stimulation of the P6 antiemetic point on postoperative
          nausea and vomiting. Br J Anaesth 1989 ; 63(5):612-18. Dundee JW, Ghaly RG, Lynch GA, Fitzpatrick KT, Abram WP. Acupuncture prophylaxis of cancer chemotherapy-induced sickness. J R Soc Med 1989 ; 82(5):268-71. Dundee JW, McMillan C. Positive evidence for P6 acupuncture antiemesis. Postgrad Med J 1991 ; 67(787):47-52. Lao L, Bergman S, Langenberg P, Wong RH, Berman B. Efficacy of Chinese acupuncture on postoperative oral surgery pain. Oral Surg Med Oral Pathol 1995 ; 79(4):423-8. Martelete M, Fiori AMC. Comparative study of analgesic effect of transcutaneous nerve
          stimulation (TNS), electroacupuncture (EA), and meperidine in the
          treatment of postoperative pain. Acupunct Electrother Res 1985 ; 10(3):183-93. Sung YF, Kutner MH, Cerine FC, Frederickson EL. Comparison of the effects of acupuncture and codeine on postoperative
          dental pain. Anesth Analg 1977 ; 56(4):473-8. Neurology Asagai Y, Kanai H, Miura Y, Ohshiro T. Application of low reactive-level laser therapy (LLLT) in the
          functional training of cerebral palsy patients. Laser Therapy 1994 ; 6:195-202. Han JS, Wang Q. Mobilization of specific neuropeptides by peripheral stimulation of
          identified frequencies. News Physiol Sci 1992: 176-80. Han JS, Chen XH, Sun SL, Xu XJ, Yuan Y, Yan SC, et al. Effect of low- and high-frequency TENS on met-enkephalin-Arg-Phe and
          dynorphin A immunoreactivity in human lumbar CSF. Pain 1991 ; 47:295-8. Johansson K, Lindgren I, Widner H, Wiklung I, Johansson BB. Can sensory stimulation improve the functional outcome in stroke
          patients? Neurology 1993 ; 43:2189-92. Naeser MA. Acupuncture in the treatment of paralysis due to central nervous
          system damage. J Alt Comple Med 1996 ; 2(1):211-48. Simpson DM, Wolfe DE. Neuromuscular complications of HIV infection and its treatment. AIDS 1991 ; 5:917-26. Reproductive Medicine Yang QY, Ping SM, Yu J. Central opioid and dopamine activities in PCOS during induction of
          ovulation with electro-acupuncture. J Reprod Med (in Chinese) 1992 ; 1(1):6-19. Yang SP, He LF, Yu J. Changes in densities of hypothalamic m opioid receptor during cupric
          acetate induced preovulatory LH surge in rabbit. Acta Physiol Sinica (in Chinese) 1997 ; 49(3):354-8. Yang SP, Yu J, He LF. Release of GnRH from the MBH induced by electroacupuncture in
          conscious female rabbits. Acupunct Electrother Res 1994 ; 19:9-27. Yu J, Zheng HM, Ping SM. Changes in serum FSH, LH and ovarian follicular growth during
          electroacupuncture for induction of ovulation. Chin J Integrated Tradit Western Med 1995 ; 1(1):13-6. Research Methods Birch S, Hammerschlag R. Acupuncture efficacy: a compendium of controlled clinical trials. Tarrytown (NY): Nat Acad Acu & Oriental Med; 1996. Hammerschlag R, Morris MM. Clinical trials comparing acupuncture to biomedical standard care: a
          criteria-based evaluation. Compl Ther Med. In press 1997. Kaptchuk TJ. Intentional ignorance: a history of blind assessment in medicine. Bull Hist Med. In press 1998. Singh BB, Berman BM. Research issues for clinical designs. Compl Therap Med 1997 ; 5:3-7. Vincent CA. Credibility assessment in trials of acupuncture. Compl Med Res 1990 ; 4:8-11. Vincent CA, Lewith G. Placebo controls for acupuncture studies. J Roy Soc Med 1995 ; 88:199-202. Vincent CA, Richardson PH. The evaluation of therapeutic acupuncture: concepts and methods. Pain 1986 ; 24:1-13. Side Effects Lao L. Safety issues in acupuncture. J Altern Comp Med 1996 ; 2:27-31. Norheim AJ, Fnneb V. Acupuncture adverse effects are more than occasional case reports:
          results from questionnaires among 1135 randomly selected doctors and
          197 acupuncturists. Compl Therap Med 1996 ; 4:8-13. Contact
        Consensus Program