Vary: Accept-Encoding

Trivia: Honey Trivia - September 2005 Back to Home Page Back to Trivia Vault SEPTEMBER IS NATIONAL HONEY MONTH (It's a bee-autiful thing!) Think 
you know a lot about honey? Chances are there are some facts that may surprise 
you. Here is some fun honey trivia to test your knowledge! (To find the answers, hover 
your mouse over the after each question. Answers also appear at the end 
of the quiz.) Honey & Honeycombs ( ( top 1.  Honey 
comb cells contain all the following except A) Nectar 
(or honey) B) Pollen C) Brood 
(eggs, larvae or pupae) D) 
Sleeping honey bees 2.  How many 
sides does each honeycomb cell have? A) Six B) Four C) Eight D) None – the cells are 
round 3.  Early 
man considered bees mysterious and magical creatures because their amazing 
organized labor turned flower nectar into honey, known as A) “a food for all 
seasons” B) “a cure for whatever 
ails you” C) “sweets for the sweet” D) “nectar for the gods” 4. Bees 
make honey from A) pollen B) wax C) nectar D) enzymes 5. Honey has different 
flavors and colors, depending on the kinds of flowers the bees visit as well as 
the ___________ . A) location B) time of year C) size of the hive D) flavorings added by the 
manufacturer Honeybees ( top ) 6. How 
many bees equal the weight of one M&M's plain chocolate candy ? A) 3-4 B) 1-2 C) 13-15 D) 9-10 7. Male bees are called A) drubs B) drones C) workers D) pages 8. Bees carry nectar in 
their crop or honey stomach, while pollen is carried in the A) pollen basket B) crop C) foot pads D) stinger 9. How many eggs can a 
Queen bee lay in one day? A) 5,000-6,000 B) 200-500 C) 800-1,000 D) 1,000-3,000 10. What 
gives a bee sting its ouch and itch? A) The 
stinger B) A 
chemical called mellitin C) Pollen 
on the stinger D) Nothing 
special – it’s the body’s natural response to invasion 11. How many wings does a 
honey bee have? A) Two B) Four C) Six D) Eight 12. How many legs does a 
bee have? A) Six B) Eight C) Four D) Five 13. How many eyes does a 
bee have? A) Two B) Four C) Five D) Ten 14. Bees and humans have 
in all the following senses in common except A) Taste B) Touch C) Smell D) Hearing  Bees may feel 
sounds. 15. How many flowers must 
honey bees tap to make one pound of honey? A) 556 B) 837 C) 162,000 D) 2,000,000 16. How many miles does a 
hive of bees fly to gather nectar to produce one pound of honey? A) 55,000 B) 5,000 C) 500 D) 5 17. How much honey would 
it take to fuel a bee's flight around the world? A) About one ounce B) 5 ounces C) 1.3 pounds D) 4.7 pounds 18. What percentage of 
insect crop pollination is accomplished by honey bees? A) 50% B) 62% C) 80 % D) 95 % 19. How do honey bees 
"communicate" with one another? A) Rubbing their antennae 
together B) Dancing C) Flapping their wings D) Singing 20. How much honey do bees 
need to make the wax in a 5.71 centimeter (2.25 inch) birthday candle? A) 8 ounces B) 1 pound C) 3 ounces D) 1/3 ounce Honey & History ( top ) 21. Ancient 
Egyptians and the Romans used honey to A) seal 
documents B) pay their 
taxes C) repair 
cracked pottery D) trap 
flies 22. In __________ , this 
sublime nectar is dubbed "the heavenly food." A) the book To Kill a 
Mockingbird B) the Bible C) Shakespeare’s sonnets D) English literature 23. To the ancients, honey 
was a source of health, a sign of purity and a symbol of A) strength and virility B) family and wealth C) companionship and love D) sweetness and 
friendship 24. In Greek mythology, it 
is said that cupid dipped his arrows in honey to A) make them stick to 
their target B) heal the wounds from 
the arrows C) fill the lovers’ hearts 
with sweetness D) bribe the gods 25. Physicians in ancient 
Rome used honey to help their patients A)gain weight B) fall asleep C) lose weight D) heal broken bones 26. The ancient Greeks _____________________ with bees on them. A) made jewelry B) baked bread C) forged breastplates D) minted coins 27. In 50 BC, the Romans 
painted pictures with A) honey B) melted dyed beeswax C) nectar D) oil of bees 28. In Biblical days, 
__________ lived on a diet of wild locust and honey. A) John the Baptist B) Jesus C) Paul D) Joseph 29. Napoleon used the bee 
as a symbol of his empire after his coronation in 1804. It stood for A) wealth, power and 
popularity B) health, happiness and 
friendship C) life, liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness D) industry, efficiency 
and productivity 30. In 
Celtic myths, bees possess ____________ garnered from the other world. A) a secret 
wisdom B) charms C) gold D) magic 
potions 31. In 
Australia and Africa, bees are found as ________________ . A) magic 
charms B) gourmet 
treats C) as tribal 
totems D) pets 32. In 1984, honeybees A) became a protected 
species B) traveled to outer space C) invaded Poland D) attacked cattle in 
Montana 33. In 1984, a backstage 
worker at the Paris opera established one of the most unusually sited beehives A) above the stage B) in the atrium C) in the orchestra pit D) on the roof of the 
opera house Honey & Health ( top ) 34. Honey contains 
vitamins and antioxidants, but is A) protein free B) sodium free C) sugar free D) carbohydrate 35. Honey is the only food 
that includes all the substances necessary to A) fertilize plants B) produce glucose C) make wax D) sustain life 36. Honey 
has always been highly regarded as a _____________ . A) medicine B) 
aphrodisiac C) magic 
potion D) kingly 
food 37. Honey’s ability to 
attract and absorb moisture makes it remarkably useful as a A) food 
preservative B) dessert 
topping C) beauty 
treatment D) insect 
repellent 38. Honey is nature's A) perfect food B) energy booster C) love potion D) laxative Honey & Food ( top ) 39. Pollen is a source of 
__________? A) protein B) fat C) arsenic D) sodium 40. How long can you store 
honey in the cupboard? A) 1 month B) 2 months C) 3 months D) Indefinitely 41. In Nice, France, 
Christmas is celebrated with nougat blanc, a candy made of honey, almond and egg 
white. Spring, in Poland, is greeted with glasses of honey wine and the Jewish 
New Year is welcomed with honey cake or apples dipped in honey, to insure 
_____________________ in the year ahead. A) a sweet life B) sweet dreams C) wealth D) good health 42. The beer that the 
first Anglo-Saxons drank was a brew of _______________ in a clay pot. A) water and honeycomb B) bees and water C) honey and ale D) nectar and ale 43. What Scotch liqueur is 
made with honey? A) Malt B) Drambuie C) Scotch D) Rum 44. What is the U.S. per 
capita consumption of honey per year? A) 6 pounds B) 4.6 ounds C) 1.31 pounds D) 9.7 ounces 45. What is the proper 
name for honey wine? A) Mead B) Grog C) Guinness D) Honey wine Honey Lingo ( top ) 46. What term describes 
the shortest and quickest route the nectar-gathering bee follows to return to 
the hive? A) “making a beeline for” B) “bee there or bee 
square” C) “the shortest distance 
between two points” D) “don’t go around in 
circles” 47. A beekeeper is called 
a(n) A) glutton for punishment B) beekeeper C) apiarist D) hivemaster 48. An apiary is a 
location where beekeepers set out a group of beehives. They are commonly 
referred to as a(n) A) bee colony B) bee farm C) bee base D) bee yard 49. The old-style beehive 
shaped structures are called A) bee skeps B) beehives C) honeycombs D) bee cones 50. The word "honeymoon" 
carries the significance that the first month of marriage is the A) busiest B) sweetest C) most loving D) stickiest 51. In the 15th century, 
honey was known as A) "the soul of flowers" B) “the sweetness of life” C) “regal nectar” D) “the sweetener of 
choice” 52. What state is known as 
the beehive state? A) Oklahoma B) Arkansas C) South Dakota D) Utah 53. The honey bee is the 
official state insect/bug of A) Missouri B) New Jersey C) South Dakota D) Maine 54. The phrase "the bee's knees", means A) "the height of excellence" B) “bent on flying” C) “sticky situation” D) “buzzing with activity” 55. A 
“bee in one's bonnet” means a person has A) and excruciating headache B) tinnitus (a buzzing or ringing in the ears) C) a strange idea D) strayed too close to the hive Honey & Honeycombs top ) 1. D) 
Sleeping honey bees – Honey bees do not sleep though the may be found resting in empty cells. 2. A) Six 3. D) 
"nectar for the gods". 4. C) 
nectar – Honey is created 
when bees mix plant nectar, a sweet substance secreted by flowers, with their 
own bee enzymes. To make the honey, bees drop the collected nectar into the 
honeycomb. Nectar as gathered by the bee contains about 70% water (Honey is 
about 17% water).   Bees remove the excess moisture from nectar by rapidly 
fanning their wings over the open cells in the hive. 5. A) location – Climactic conditions of the area also influence its flavor and color. Honey 
varies in color from white through golden to dark brown and usually the darker 
the color the stronger the flavor. Honeybees ( top ) 6. D) 9-10 7. B) drones – Drones are not found in the hive during the winter, as the worker bees (which 
are female) force them out of the hive in the fall.  Some worker bees are nurse 
bees, whose job is to feed the larvae.  The honeybee is not born knowing how to 
make honey; the younger bees are taught by the more experienced ones. 8. A) pollen basket – Also called the corbicula, this structure is on the tibia or midsegment of 
each hind leg.  The size of an average pollen load is about 1/6 the weight of a 
worker bee. 9. D) 1,000-3,000 – A queen has to eat about 80 times her own weight each day to produce 2,000 
eggs.  That is equivalent to a 12-year-old human eating about 6400 pounds of 
food! 10. B) A 
chemical called mellitin – Honeybees are gentle. They're interested only in flowers, so they rarely 
sting. In fact, honey bees are reluctant to sting, as the loss of its stinger 
causes the bee to die. 11. B) Four - its wings beat 200 times per second or 12,000 beats / minute. 12. A) Six - like most insects 13. C) Five – two large compound eyes and three simple eyes called ocelli.  A bee can detect 
events separated by 1/300 of a second, about six times faster than human 
perception. Bees can see ultra-violet colors, which people can’t see. 14. D) Hearing – Bees may feel sounds. 15. D) 2,000,000 – The average honey bee visits 50-100 flowers during one collection trip.   It 
requires 556 worker bees to gather a pound of honey.   Flowers have bright 
markings and strong smells to attract bees and other insects so that they will 
pollinate flowers. Some also have dark lines called ‘honey guides’ which 
scientists believe help insects find their way into the flowers. 16. A) 55,000 – The average honey bee, who makes only 1/12 teaspoon of honey in her lifetime 
(0.0288 ounce), flies a maximum of about 8.5 miles at a rate of 15 mph and lives 
only about 6 weeks..  A colony of honey bees in early spring has 10,000-15,000 
bees.  A colony of honey bees in summer, the peak of the honey-gathering season, 
has 50-60,000 bees. A normal colony of honey bees contains only one queen.  
There may be 60,000 or more worker who do all the work. There will also be 
several hundred drones.  A single honey bee colony can produce more than 100 
pounds (45 kg) of extra honey and this is what is harvested by the beekeeper. 
Some beekeepers in Alberta and Saskatchewan regularly harvest over 300 lbs (136 
kg) of honey per colony. Nearly one million ton of honey is produced worldwide 
every year. 17. A) About one ounce – or or two Tablespoons.  Honey is the primary food 
source for the bee. The reason honeybees are so busy collecting nectar from 
flowers and blossoms is to make sufficient food stores for their colony over the 
winter months. 18. C) 80 % – There are three million honey bee colonies “on the road” each 
year to pollinate crops, with a monetary agricultural value of $14.6 billion 
annually. 19. B) Dancing - Honey bees do a dance which alerts other bees where nectar 
and pollen is located. When a bee finds a good source of nectar it flies back to 
the hive and shows its friends where the nectar source is by doing a sort of 
dance positioning the flower in relation to the sun and the hive. This is known 
as the 'waggle dance.'  The dance explains direction and distance. 20. D) 1/3 ounce Honey & History top ) 21. B) pay 
their taxes (instead of gold) 22. B) the Bible 23. A) strength and virility - Democritus (460-370 BC), Greek philosopher and 
physician, chose a diet rich in honey and lived until he was 109 years old. 24. C) fill the lovers’ 
hearts with sweetness 25. B) fall asleep 26. D) minted coins 27. B) melted dyed beeswax 28. A) John the Baptist 29. D) industry, 
efficiency and productivity – Also emblematic of immortality and resurrection, the bee was chosen to link 
the new dynasty to the very origins of France. Golden bees (cicadas really) were 
discovered in 1653 in Tournai in the tomb of Childeric I (father of Clovis) who 
founded the Merovingian dynasty in 457. They were considered to be the oldest 
emblem of the sovereigns of France. 30. A) a 
secret wisdom 31. C) as 
tribal totems 32. B) traveled to outer 
space – as part 
of an experiment, the honeybees constructed a honeycomb in zero gravity on a space shuttle. 33. D) on the roof of the 
opera house – 
The "opera bees" gather their nectar as they visit flowers all over the 
city of Paris. The fruits of their labors are on sale in the souvenir shop of 
the opera. Honey & Health top ) 34. B) sodium free – Honey is also fat free, cholesterol free and sodium free!  One antioxidant 
called "pinocembrin" is only found in honey. 35. D) sustain life – including water.   Democritus (460-370 B.C.), Greek 
philosopher and physician, chose a diet rich in honey and lived until he was 109 
years old. 36. A) 
medicine – Honey was the most used medicine in ancient Egypt.  Of the more than 900 
medical remedies we know about for that time, more than 500 of them were honey 
based.  Honey is thought to help everything from sore throats and digestive 
disorders to skin problems and hay fever.  For years, opera singers have used 
honey to boost their energy and soothe their throats before performances.  It 
has antiseptic properties and historically was often used as a dressing for 
wounds and a first aid treatment for soothing minor burns and cuts, helping to 
prevent scarring.  As recently as the First World War, honey was being mixed 
with cod liver oil to dress wounds on the battlefield. Modern science now 
acknowledges honey as an anti-microbial agent, which means it deters the growth 
of certain types of bacteria, yeast and molds. 37. C) 
beauty treatment – It was part of Cleopatra’s daily beauty ritual.  Even today, h oney 
and beeswax form the basics of many skin creams , lipsticks, and hand 
lotions. Queen Anne of England, in the early 1700's, invented a honey 
and olive oil preparation to keep her hair healthy and lustrous. 38. B) energy booster – The natural fruit sugars in honey - fructose and glucose - are very quickly digested 
by the body, providing a concentrated energy source that helps prevent fatigue 
and can boost athletic performance.  Honey supplies 2 stages of energy. The 
glucose in honey is absorbed by the body quickly and gives an immediate energy 
boost. The fructose is absorbed more slowly providing sustained energy.  Recent 
studies have proven that athletes who took some honey before and after competing 
recovered more quickly than those who did not. Honey & Food top ) 39. A) protein 40. D) Indefinitely – Honey never spoils. No need to refrigerate it. It can be stored unopened, 
indefinitely, at room temperature in a dry cupboard.  A jar of honey found in an 
King Tut’s tomb was still edible! 41. A) a sweet life 42. A) water and honeycomb 
– with the addition of herbs for flavoring. 43. B) Drambuie 44. C) 1.31 pounds 45. A) Mead Honey Lingo top ) 46. A) “making a beeline 
for” 47. C) apiarist 48. D) bee yard 49. A) bee skeps – While bee skeps are not in widespread use today, their charm continues to be 
associated with beekeeping. The modern rectangular beehive is merely a more 
convenient adaptation to the honeybees' behavior. 50. B) sweetest 51. A) "the soul of 
flowers" 52. D) Utah 53. All of the above 54. A) "the height of excellence" – The phrase became popular in the U.S. in the 1920s, along with "the cat's 
whiskers" (possibly from the use of these in radio crystal sets), "the cat's 
pajamas" (pajamas were still new enough to be daring), and similar phrases which 
made less sense and didn't endure:  "the eel's ankle", "the elephant's instep", 
"the snake's hip".  Stories in circulation about the phrase's origin include:  "b's 
and e's", short for "be-alls and end-alls"; and a corruption of "business". 55. C) 
a strange idea – Also, an idea that is harped on, an obsession. This term, which replaced the 
earlier “have bees in one's head”, transfers the buzzing of a bee inside one's 
hat to a weird idea in one's head. ( top ) Back to Home Page Back to Trivia 