
AURUM INSTITUTE TRAINING Home Contact us Branches Feedback Search About Aurum About us Chairman's letter CEO's review Our logo Our vision and mission Our focus Our values Governance Management team Executive committee Operations committee (OPCO) Aurum structure Aurum in the news Aurum events Aurum events Upcoming Conferences and Workshops Aurum staff awards Career opportunities Training Scholarships Aurum Research Fellows Fogarty Scholarships WHO/TDR Career Development Fellowships SHAPe Programme Funders Collaborators International collaborators Local collaborators Publications Annual Reports Annual Financial Reports Peer reviewed journals Non peer reviewed journal Book chapters Reports Abstracts - Conferences Presentations Tembisa TB Symposium Links Aurum Intranet Aurum Annual Report View the Aurum Annual Report 2010 Aurum Prospectus Download the Aurum Prospectus Training Meet the team TB/HIV Care and Treatment programme - training in 2010 Comments from past trainees Back row (L to R): Lungile Seitshiro, Robin Hamilton, Thobeka Dwadwa, Matete Modiba Front row (L to R): Mmathabo Rangoshe, Amanda Kubeka, Catherine Mokonyama "I loved the commitment and passion of my trainer!" "... it gave me the skills to go out and make a difference in my work." "Now I know HOW to get the community to test for HIV." "We laughed, we cried, we had lots of fun during our course. But we also learned a lot." "It's practical and you can apply everything you learn on this course." "Every nurse should do this training [on Sexuality in the time of HIV/AIDS]." "I developed a positive attitude towards antiretroviral treatment." "Well organised and professional." "I thought I knew everything about AIDS, but this course showed me lots of new things. The trainer was inspiring." Bookings For bookings and enquiries contact our training administrator, Ms Lungile Seitshiro, on  010 590 1497, or email her at lseitshiro@auruminstitute.org What do we do? The TB/HIV Care and Treatment programme of the Aurum Institute provides cutting-edge and innovative training to doctors, nurses, counsellors, peer educators and others involved in HIV/AIDS health care and research. All training is: outcomes focused based on best practices interactive aimed at developing practical skills fun! We are currently in the process of getting our training programme accredited with the Health and Welfare SETA. Who are the trainers? Our trainers are fully trained themselves. They have extensive experience of TB and HIV care. Our trainers include doctors, nurses, a social worker, a psychologist and experienced counsellors. We can provide training in a range of South African languages. Where do we offer training? We offer training both on site and at our central training venue in Parktown, Johannesburg. For trainings on site, we require a minimum of 8 participants. Most of our trainings now include a day of follow-up, to help participants integrate what they have learned into their practice at work and in the community. Clinical trainings Doctor clinical training ART training course for doctors ART01 (3 days) This is an intensive day course, conducted by Aurum in collaboration with Kimera Solutions. Attendees need to be registered with the South African Health Professions Council.  A CPD certificate worth 12 points is issued. The course includes: preparation of the patient for HAART the WHO staging system treatment initiation guidelines monitoring drug resistance and assays drug interactions and side-effects nutrition TB and HIV integration. Nurse clinical training Nurse ART training course (ART03) (4 days) This is a four-day course to provide nurses with knowledge about antiretroviral therapy and the skills to manage patients on ART.  The course consists of the following modules: basic facts of HIV/AIDS living positively with HIV/AIDS antiretroviral treatment ART side-effects laboratory monitoring pharmaceutical issues administration of an ART programme counselling for ART adherence managing TB and HIV/AIDS managing paediatric HIV/AIDS. TB course for nurses (ART 22) (3 days) The course is aimed at nurses involved in providing TB care within an ART programme. It includes clinical aspects of TB, screening, treatment, TB and HIV, paediatric TB, XDR and MDR TB, DOTS and counselling TB patients. Counselling training courses The courses in our counselling curriculum aim to help doctors, nurses and counsellors to develop expertise in a range of counselling skills. Voluntary counselling and testing (ART 06) (6 days) All health-care workers involved in counselling should complete this training in basic counselling skills, and voluntary counselling and testing (VCT). The course provides the foundation for all other courses.  Topics include basic HIV/AIDS and TB facts, nonverbal and verbal aspects of counselling, the Egan model of counselling, ethics, limits of counselling, voluntary counselling and testing, the VCT algorithm, informed consent, behaviour change counselling, legal issues, living positively with HIV and stress management for counsellors. Adherence counselling for anti-retroviral treatment and TB treatment (ART07) (4 days) We recommend that trainees should have at least 3 months' counselling experience before completing the course in adherence counselling. The course comprises the following topics: compliance versus collaboration factors affecting adherence four stages of adherence counselling ART readiness assessment predictors of ART adherence cultural issues, including use of traditional medicines counselling for side-effects tools for sustaining adherence managing psychological crises of patients on treatment. VCT counselling for couples (ART 09) (3 days) The course focuses on the basic skills of couple counselling, including VCT counselling for couples. It assists health-care workers to counsel couples who have the same HIV status, or a different HIV status. Prevention of mother-to-child transmission (ART 10) (3 days) This useful course deals with testing and counselling women on the prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT). It also includes counselling on feeding options to reduce the risk of HIV transmission after birth. Disclosure of HIV status and addressing stigma (ART11) (2 days) The two-day course helps trainees understand the challenges of disclosure, helping clients to disclose HIV status safely, and how to address HIV/AIDS and TB stigma. Running support groups (ART 05) (4 days) This course equips trainees with the skills to run support groups for HIV-positive clients and their families. It includes practical training in group dynamics and how to run structured support groups. Peer education (ART20) (6 days) The course is a hands-on training aimed at employees in organisations who wish to educate their fellow employees about HIV/AIDS, TB and ART. It includes training in basic communication skills, HIV/AIDS and TB facts, encouraging VCT, living positively, the facts of ART and promoting adherence to treatment. Adherence to antiretroviral treatment for children (ART21) (5 days) This course builds on the knowledge acquired in ART07 (ART adherence for adults). It provides health-care workers with the skills to counsel children and adolescents on treatment, as well as their care-givers. Topics covered include paediatric HIV/AIDS, developmental issues and counselling, disclosure, support for caregivers, loss and grieving, and VCT for children. Sexuality in the time of HIV/AIDS (ART23) (3 days) This new course aims to provide health-care workers with knowledge of the physiology and psychology of sexuality, which is especially important given the sexual transmission of HIV, and health-care workers' reluctance to speak about sexual issues to patients. Topics covered in the course include the sexual response cycle, the broad range of sexual behaviour, gender and sexuality, sociocultural context, contraception, risks of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections, sexual dysfunctions, and how to talk to patients about sexuality. Counselling on HIV prevention (ART24) (3 days) Counselling on HIV prevention is designed to help health-care workers and peer educators provide more effective client-centered counselling on HIV prevention. The course uses the Fisher and Fisher model of behaviour change. It focuses on a range of prevention options, including abstinence, delaying sexual debut, being faithful, correct condom use, circumcision and post-exposure prophylaxis. The course assists participants to develop the skills to provide focused HIV prevention counselling, including condom negotiation with partners. Prevention for positives (ART27) (3 days) This course focuses on counselling HIV-positive people to maintain healthy lifestyles and reduce the risk of transmission of HIV to others. Issues covered in the course include risks of transmission and risk reduction, especially for HIV-discordant couples. Healthy lifestyle choices covered include diet, TB symptoms, exercise, reducing alcohol and drug use, rest, mental health issues, support systems, dealing with stigma, disclosure, attitudes, self-esteem and self-care. Circumcision (ART28) (1 day) This course focuses on circumcision as a prevention methodology to reduce HIV transmission. It includes a review of the research literature, cultural issues, risks of circumcision, benefits, an overview of medical procedures, aftercare and implications for women. Addressing alcohol abuse and HIV risk (ART29) (3 days) The course examines on alcohol abuse and its implications for HIV/AIDS. The initial component of the course examines norms of alcohol use and abuse in South Africa. It then describes how to assess an individual's risk for alcohol dependency and abuse, and the groups most at risk of alcohol abuse. Alcohol risk is described in terms of HIV-positive people - including health implications for individuals both prior to requiring ART and for those on ART. How alcohol use can increase the occurrence of behaviour which puts people at risk of HIV will also be described. Finally, referral of people with alcohol abuse issues is described. Addressing rape and sexual violence (ART30) (1 day) This one-day course considers the occurrence of rape and sexual violence in South Africa. It looks at myths regarding rape and the facts, medical examination after rape, treatment, PEP and adherence to PEP, the legal process, psychological sequelae after rape, support for rape survivors and referral. Gender issues and HIV/AIDS (ART32) (5 days) This course comprises a number of modules that examine the inter-relation of gender and HIV/AIDS. The modules include: male norms and socialisation, and the implication for HIV risk, for both men and women increasing gender equity in HIV programmes: attracting more men into testing, care treatment programmes; and making workplace programmes more women-friendly advising women about their legal rights reducing violence and coercion in relationships. Foundational course on HIV/AIDS and TB (ART33) (3 days) This course is focused on providing basic HIV/AIDS and TB information to community members who have limited literacy or who are illiterate. Seminars Every six months we hold seminars for doctors, nurses and other staff members involved in HIV/AIDS and ART programmes. The seminars last for one or two days, and aim to explore key issues in HIV/AIDS care. Guest speakers provide the latest scientific input, and panel discussions and case-study presentations enable health-care workers who attend to discuss key issues. Recent seminars have tackled topics such as ART adherence, gender issues, male circumcision, TB diagnosis, ART side-effects, treating children, prevention technologies and routine testing. To make bookings for trainings Contact the training administrator: Ms Lungile Seitshiro Email: lseitshiro@auruminstitute.org Tel: 010 590 1497 or 011 484 8844 Downloads Training schedule 2010 - 198KB Training prices 2010 - 19KB Past programmes and training courses Aurum Care and Treatment Seminar 2009 HIV care and support training programme 2007 Refresher Training 2007 © The Aurum Institute - Disclaimer (2009) To seek, to find, to share, t