Content-Type: text/html; Charset=UTF-8
Cache-control: private

UTMB Health - Patient Information About UTMB Contact Us MyChart Map & Directions Careers en Español Find a Doctor Search for a Provider Tips on Finding a Good Doctor About the UTMB Faculty Group Practice About UTMB Patient Services Adult Care Pediatric Care Emergency Care Centers of Excellence Support Programs & Services Specialty Care Center Patient Services Blood Donor Center Locations Clinics List & Services Directions and Maps Interactive Map John Sealy Hospital Regional Maternal & Child Health Clinics Victory Lakes Specialty Care Center Multispecialty Center and Stark Diabetes Clinic Patients & Visitors UTMB Clinics UTMB Hospitals Get Assistance from the Access Center Request an Appointment Request a Prescription Refill MyChart Access Access Our Health Library Information Directions to Clinics Driving to Galveston Transportation Parking What to Bring Patient Handbook Patient Satisfaction Financial and Billing Information Online Bill Payment Send an e-Greeting Request Medical Records Patient Privacy Wireless Internet Access Guest and Visitors Guide Help Support UTMB Frequently Asked Questions Colorectal Cancer Awareness For Health Professionals Services & Information for Referring Physicians Continuing Education Education at UTMB Careers News & Media UTMB Newsroom Video Library Upcoming Events Medical Discovery News Media Services UTMB Facts & Figures UTMB Annual Report Data Reference Card Newsletters UTMB.edu Leadership UTMB Schools Departments & Centers Research at UTMB UTMB Staff Directory Mission, Vision, Values Employee Home Page Home Texas Transplant Transplant Home Transplant Center Services Patients and Families For Physicians and Specialists Transplant News Physicians & Staff Locations Trials and Studies Donate Life Contact Texas Transplant Pelvic Health Welcome Our Services UTMB Care Givers Patient Information News and Resources Patient Testimonials For Referring Physicians Map and Directions Download Brochure Contact Us Obesity Center Center for Obesity and Metabolic Surgery Level 1A Quality Our Services What is Obesity Are you a Candidate? Doctors and Staff News & Information Patient Stories Newsletters Map & Directions Questions and Answers Support Groups Supplements Upcoming Events Insurance Information Links & Health Information Contact Us New Patient Questionnaire Breast Health Breast Center Home Why Choose Us? Breast Center Services Physicians and Staff Breast Health Information Patient Visit Information Map & Directions News & Upcoming Events Clinical Trials Contact Us Make Appointment Cardiothoracic Surgery About Us Our Surgeons and Staff Services and Procedures Diseases and Conditions Locations Links & Resources Contact Us Allergy & Immunology Allergy & Immunology Home Patient & Family Information Education Research & Clinical Trials Orthopaedics Plastic Surgery Cosmetic Surgery Hand Surgery Pediatric Plastic Surgery Breast Surgery Robotic Gynecology Welcome Our Physicians Our Services Patient Videos For Health Professionals News & Events Contact Us Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences Psychiatry Home Adult Services Child and Adolescent Services Addiction Treatment Program Physicians Clinic Locations Education and Research Patient Resources Contact Us Cancer Cancer Center Home About the Cancer Center Patients Referring Physicians Researchers Contact Us Robotic Urology Welcome & Home Services Our Surgeons Locations & Contact Pelvic Health Welcome Our Services UTMB Care Givers Patient Information Scheduling an Appointment Common Terms News and Resources Patient Testimonials For Referring Physicians Map and Directions Download Brochure Contact Us UTMB > Programs > Pelvic Health Patient Information What is Pelvic Health? Pelvic health is an emerging field of medicine that focuses on the diagnosis and treatment of pelvic floor disorders. A multidisciplinary team of doctors, nurses, and physical therapists, specialize in problems related to the muscles, ligaments, and connective tissues that support the pelvic floor, the bladder, vagina, uterus, and rectum. Treatment of these complex problems requires recognition of the interconnected nature and importance of pelvic structures, and a wide set of specialized knowledge provided at our center by a team of urogynecologists, urologists, colon and rectal surgeons, physical therapists, psychologists and others. Injuries to the pelvic support structures occur during childbirth, heavy lifting, straining such as constipation, menopause, which leads to a weakening of the pelvic floor and a variety of pelvic floor disorders. Symptoms can include sexual dysfunction and pain, pressure, abdominal pain, anemia, and depression. Pelvic health disorders may be extremely uncomfortable, embarrassing, activity limiting, and painful. Avoidance of treatment can negatively impact the quality of life not just for the patient, but their family, as well. Fortunately, recent national recognition of these underreported and treated problems by the National Institute of Health (NIH) has prompted new interest in the ongoing development our understanding of the disorders of this field. Both medical and surgical treatments are available that can successfully improve and restore pelvic health and continence What is the "pelvic floor?" The term “pelvic floor” refers to the group of muscles that form a sling or hammock across the opening of a woman’s pelvis.  These muscles, together with their surrounding tissues, keep all of the pelvic organs in place so that the organs can function correctly. What are "pelvic floor" disorders? A pelvic floor disorder occurs when the pelvic muscles and connective tissue in the pelvis weaken or are injured. An estimated one-third of all U.S. women are affected by one type of pelvic floor disorder in her lifetime.  Disorders may result from pelvic surgery, radiation treatments, and, in some cases, pregnancy or vaginal delivery of a child. What are the most common pelvic floor disorders? There are a variety of problems related to the pelvic floor.  The most common include: Pelvic organ prolapse – A “prolapse” occurs when the pelvic muscles and tissue become weak and can no longer hold the organs in place correctly.  In uterine prolapse, the uterus can press down on the vagina, causing it to invert, or even to come out through the vaginal opening.  In vaginal prolapse, the top of the vagina loses support and can drop through the vaginal opening. Some symptoms of pelvic organ prolapse may include: A feeling of heaviness or fullness or as if something falling out of the vagina. Some women also feel a pulling or aching or a “bulge” in the lower abdomen or pelvis. Prolapse may also cause a kinking in the urethra, making it harder for a woman to empty her bladder completely, or causing frequent urinary tract infections. Urinary Incontinence – This can occur when the bladder drops down into the vagina.  Because the bladder is not in its proper place symptoms may include uncontrolled leaking of urine, urgency to urinate, frequent urination, and painful urination. Fecal Incontinence – This can occur when the rectum bulges into or out of the vagina, making it difficult to control the bowels.  It can also occur when there is damage to the anal sphincter, the ring of muscles that keep the anus closed. What are the treatments for pelvic floor disorders? Some women don’t need treatment for their pelvic floor disorder. In other cases, treatment for symptoms includes changes in diet, weight control, and other lifestyle changes. Treatment may also include surgery, medication, and use of a device placed in the vagina called a pessary that helps support the pelvic organs. Recent NICHD research has found that combining repair surgery with a second surgical procedure can help prevent urinary incontinence later. Exercises for the pelvic floor muscles (known as Kegel exercises) can often help strengthen the muscles around the openings of the urethra, vagina, and rectum.  Treatments for incontinence can also include medication and bladder or bowel control training. The team at the UTMB Pelvic Health and Continence Center can evaluate you, advise and assist with all these conditions and treatments. Contact us... Female Anatomy Endometrium - the lining of the uterus. Uterus - also called the womb, the uterus is a hollow, pear-shaped organ located in a woman's lower abdomen, between the bladder and the rectum. Ovaries - two female reproductive organs located in the pelvis. Cervix - the lower, narrow part of the uterus (womb) located between the bladder and the rectum. It forms a canal that opens into the vagina, which leads to the outside of the body. Vagina - the passageway through which fluid passes out of the body during menstrual periods. It is also called the "birth canal." The vagina connects the cervix (the opening of the womb, or uterus) and the vulva (the external genitalia). Vulva - the external portion of the female genital organs. Source, and additional information on pelvic floor disorders, are available from the National Institutes of Health . Home QUICKLINKS Find a Doctor Request Appointment Access MyChart Send an e-Greeting Billing Information Contact Access Center I would like to... Apply for a job Contact UTMB Find a doctor Get Directions Pay My Bill Ask Nurse Lucy Get Health Info See Clinic Locations MyChart access Female Anatomy Click on images below to enlarge Services We Provide Glossary of Terms Your Health Care Team Making an Appointment Contact Info & Directions Women's Health Topics Online External Links & Resources Pelvic Health and Continence Center Urology-Gynecology, Urology, Geriatrics, Psychology, Colon-Rectal Surgery, & Physical Therapy 2240 Gulf Freeway South Suite 2.401.B League City, TX  77573 Phone: 832-505-1600 Fax: 281-614-0589 pelvic.health@utmb.edu View Map UTMB QUICKLINKS Find a Doctor Request Appointment Request Prescription Refill Send an e-Greeting Billing Information Contact Access Center I would like to... Apply for a job Contact UTMB Find a doctor Get Directions Pay My Bill Ask Nurse Lucy Get Health Info See Clinic Locations MyChart access Download our Brochure Connect Healthcare Panacea CMS Solutions Support UTMB | For UTMB Employees | Site Index | Privacy Policy | Required Links | Contact Us Copyright © 2012 The University of Texas Medical Branch • Member, Texas Medical Center ® Contact Us: Office of Business Development and Marketing • Phone: 409.772.2618 • Fax: