Content-Type: text/html
Expires: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 12:39:08 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-Powered-By: TMG Technology
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 12:40:07 GMT
Connection: close

Asthma Ireland Healing.ie - Complementary and Holistic Health Care Sign up to the newsletter: Search healing: Home | Therapies | Therapists | Health Conditions | Natural Remedies | Courses | Search | About Us | Contact Us | Links Email Healing Asthma What is Asthma? Asthmatics respiratory systems are overly sensitive to various irritants, which causes the muscles in the airways to contract. Asthma occurs when the airways of the lungs contract due to this muscle spasm and the respiratory tract (bronchi) become inflamed and congested with mucus. This causes difficulty in breathing. 
It is thought that asthma occurs due to genetic susceptibility. Signs & Symptoms of Asthma The typical progress of symptoms begins with minimal shortness on heavy exertion, mild wheezing and coughing. It then progresses to shortness of breath on lesser degrees of exertion, and finally at rest, mild coughing which usually worsens at night, in cold air, or during exercise. How can Asthma be treated? Natural remedies can treat asthma. These include: Using inhalers regularly, Abstain from smoking; Keep fit by means of regular exercise (but not overly strenuous); Monitor diet; Identify triggers and avoid them. Asthma may also be treated by using alternative therapies. These include: Breathing exercises can assist in strengthening the muscles in the lungs. Massage is useful to aid the clearance of mucus from the lungs. Yoga, Acupuncture and Homeopathy can assist in the management of asthma. The table below shows therapies linked to this health condition, please click on one to view more details about it: Aromatherapy Auricular Acupuncture Bach Flower Remedies Chinese Herbal Medicine (T.C.M.) Chiropractic Hypnotherapy Integrated Energy Therapy Intuitive Healing Kinesiology Louise Hay Approach Onnuri Therapy Osteopathy Seichem Thai Massage Traditional Chinese Medicine The table below shows natural remedies linked to this health condition, please click on one to view more details about it: Herbs and Vitamins Homeopathy Safety Issues In extreme cases, asthma can lead to respiratory failure Additional Information Further information can be obtained from The Asthma Society of Ireland . Disclaimer The Healing Web Ltd (trading as www.healing.ie) maintains this website to enhance access to medical information of a general nature. The information contained herein is not exhaustive and does not cover all diseases, ailments, physical conditions or their treatment. The Healing Web Ltd accepts no responsibility or liability whatsoever with regard to the information on this site. In no way are any of the materials presented within this site meant to be a substitute for professional care or attention by a qualified medical practitioner, nor should they be construed as such. You are encouraged to consult with your own Doctor to discuss any course of treatment presented or suggested. This website contains links to external sites over which The Healing Web Ltd has no control and for which The Healing Web Ltd assumes no responsibility. The Healing Web Ltd does not endorse any commercial product or service mentioned in these sites. Patricia O'Reilly | Phibsboro, Dublin 7 | Tel: +353 
    (0)87 299 0318 | Email: info@he