
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2012 09:32:17 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Exercises For Sciatica - 4 Simple Back Strengthening Exercises For Sciatica Relief - Exercises For Sciatica - For All Your Exercises For Sciatica Needs! Home Archive Privacy Contact Exercises For Sciatica For All Your Exercises For Sciatica Needs! Exercises For Sciatica - 4 Simple Back Strengthening Exercises For Sciatica Relief Sciatic nerve pain and poor posture can really be a plague on your existence at times. An excellent way to avoid this, is to make low back strengthening exercises for sciatica a part of your daily regime. Weak lower abdominal muscles are one of the biggest causes of sciatica and chronic back pain. Your core, when properly strengthened, includes not only your back muscles, but your abdominals and obliques as well. When you exercise to make these muscles stronger, your support system is made stronger and you stand taller and dont experience sciatic nerve pain performing daily activities. While many people focus on strengthening their abs, most neglect performing back strengthening exercises for sciatica. So today, we are going to cover 4 very simple strengthening exercises that will help you strengthen all of those back muscles, including those in your lower back that we have the most problems with. Remember to always tighten your pelvic floor and lower abdominal before starting any exercises for sciatica. Keep them contracted during each exercise. For your lower back try this low back strengthening exercise - Contract your abs tightly for as long as you can without losing focus. Continue to breath while holding them tight. You can do this back strengthening exercise for sciatica anywhere, any time, in any position. Even while just sitting at work at your desk, or at home watching T.V.! Doing this maintains normal spinal curve in your back, as well as strengthens your core, and even tightens those abs! For your upper back and total core strengthening - Try the Bridge! Lying flat on your back, keeping feet flat on the floor and knees as 90 degree angles, slowly and steadily lift your buttocks up off the floor, keeping your abs tightly contracted. Dont go too high, just a little bit. Hold for 5 counts. Then slowly lower hips to the floor, and repeat 5 more times. For your middle back - Stand tall. Draw your shoulders back and down, squeezing your shoulder blades together tightly. This contracts the muscles down your middle back. Repeat a few times until your muscles feel fatigued. For a total back strengthening exercise for sciatica, indeed total body strengthening, try the plank. The plank is a yoga move involving your entire body. Stretch out on the floor face down, and raise up on your elbows and toes. Breathing deeply and evenly, hold the position. Keep your neck straight and your eyes on the floor, and dont let your back dip in the middle. The goal is to create a straight spine from bottom to top, and hold the position for as long as you can. This is a supreme back strengthening exercise for sciatica that again, you can do just about anywhere. If it is too much for you, modify it by lowering your knees and holding the position that way. There are many more low back strengthening exercises for sciatica, I just endeavored to offer you the 4 most simple an