Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Obesity Surgery Specialist Obesity Surgery Specialist Obesity surgery specialist offer individuals who suffer with weight control problems a way to overcome those problems by losing the extra pounds through various surgical procedures. Surgeries available include but are not limited to Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, extensive gastric bypass, laparoscopic gastric banding, and vertical banded gastroplasty. Another way to lose extra pounds is through an obesity treatment center. Individuals who enroll in this type of program are provided with a medically supervised diet and undergo psychological behavior therapy. Learning new behavior regarding diet and exercise is essential in keeping off weight lost. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass is a common procedure that has proven to be successful for losing weight. This type of surgery is performed by an obesity surgery specialist in the event diet and exercise have failed. The stomach is stapled resulting in a smaller stomach and the smaller stomach is attached to a lower section of small intestine so less calories and nutrients are absorbed. Caloric intake should be no more than about 800 per day for at least the first 18 months afterwards and then can increase to about 1200 thereafter. Extensive gastric bypass surgery involves the removal of the majority of the stomach. This procedure is not commonly done because it is more invasive with greater risks involved. The remaining stomach is attached to the lower part of the smaller intestine and can result in less nutrients being absorbed to the point of excessive deficiencies. This procedure is not recommended except in extreme cases where a person has tried everything else and is morbidly obese. Pray and ask God to guide and direct every decision that is made toward achieving weight loss and trust Him to rebuke the storm and in its place there will be peace. "And He saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then He arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a great calm" (Matthew 8:26). Laparoscopic gastric banding is a fairly new procedure that is becoming popular over other options. This method of weight loss involves the insertion of a silicone inflatable band around the stomach. After the band is inserted into the skin the obesity surgery specialist inflates the band to section off part of the stomach. This is less invasive than some operations because it is usually done using a laparoscopic technique where small incisions are made and there is no cutting or stapling involved. The band slows the emptying of the stomach and the patient feels full for longer periods of time. A vertical banded gastroplasty involves using staples and a band that creates a smaller stomach. Leakage of gastric juices into the abdomen, erosion of staples and the band might possibly take place overtime. Another concern with this method is that after a while the rate of weight loss slows tremendously. An obesity surgery specialist may not recommend this method and may not even offer it because of the risks involved. Risks and side effects that are associated with weight loss operations include but are not limited to nausea, vomiting, weakness, dizziness, diarrhea, stretching of the stomach, nutritional deficiencies, abdominal ruptures, gallstones, bloating, increased gas, and excessive sweating. Patients should not consider invasive surgical methods unless all other options have been exhausted. Candidates for gastric procedures are normally morbidly obese with a body mass index of more than 40 and 80 plus pounds overweight. Surgery is not for everyone and there are those who will seek after other types of weight loss methods over surgical ones. One such option is available through an obesity treatment center . The professionals that work with individuals enrolled in the program usually include physicians, behaviorists, dietitians, therapists and exercise physiologists. Each individual is evaluated and offered a special meal and exercise plan that will offer the best possible solutions. Some clinics also work with people who suffer from mental disorders such as anorexia, bulimia, and compulsive overeating. Full services included with weight loss programs are set up to help those who have addictions to food and strive to educate their patients about healthy living through diet and exercise. An obesity treatment center will also work with people who have health problems, illnesses, and diseases associated with obesity. Some also work with those who suffer from alcohol, drug addiction and dependency. Many people suffer from being overweight because of psychological disorders and behavioral problems. With a proper evaluation, a psychologist or behaviorist can determine possible causes of underlying psychological and behavior problems that might be contributing to obesity. A person may develop an eating disorder when trying to cope with depression, family problems, and any kind of stress that makes a person feel out of control of their own life, guilt, shame, anxiety, loneliness, and alienation. An obesity treatment center will have professionals who know how to deal with these types of problems. Fitness through exercise and eating healthy enables a person to not only lose weight but can help to ensure that the weight lost will not be regained. An obesity treatment center provides a fitness plan based upon an individual's needs. Some of the activities available include but are not limited to walking, running, weight-training, dancing, swimming, bicycling, and swimming. It is imperative that each individual tell a physician about all health concerns and illnesses before beginning an exercise program. The two differences between weight loss surgery and a weight loss program are the rate at which the extra pounds are lost. Seeing an obesity surgery specialist and having gastric bypass or lapband surgery will result in a faster rate of weight loss than going through a planned program using diet, exercise, and behavioral changes. A person should exhaust every effort for treating obesity before undergoing an operation. For more information: http://www.christianet.com/anorexia Cop