<40 mg/dl), special care admissions (e.g., intermediate or intensive care nursery admission after delivery),
                     family history of diabetes, and diabetes treatment type (i.e., diet controlled, insulin requiring, and insulin before 20 weeks
                     of gestation). Maternal weight (in pounds) before pregnancy, at intake, and at delivery were recorded, and prepregnancy BMI
                     was calculated (weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters). Neonatal weights were recorded in grams, and
                     neonates weighing ≥4,000 g were defined as having macrosomia. Other neonatal outcomes assessed included fetal demise, fetal
                     anomalies, shoulder dystocia, fetal distress, birth asphyxia, polycythemia, hyperbilirubinemia, respiratory distress syndrome,
                     and sepsis. Data concerning maternal complications such as preeclampsia, chorioamnionitis, and labor disorders (arrest of
                     dilation and decent) were also collected. Data reduction and analyses The unadjusted GDM prevalence was calculated for each ethnic group. ANOVA was used to examine the statistical associations
                     of ethnic groups and fetal macrosomia with continuous data, and Tukey-Kramer honestly significant difference post hoc analysis
                     was used to further elucidate specific between-group differences. χ 2 analysis was used to examine statistical associations of ethnic groups and fetal macrosomia with other categorical data.
                     An α level of ≤0.05 was used to determine statistical significance for all analyses. All statistical analyses were done using
                     JMP statistical software, version 5.1. It was decided a priori that continuous and categorical data found to have a significant association with fetal macrosomia
                     would be further analyzed in a single logistic regression model, along with ethnicity, to determine independent predictors
                     of fetal macrosomia. To make the interpretation of odds ratios (ORs) and CIs meaningful, continuous data (i.e., age and maternal
                     weights) were transformed into categorical data based on quartiles. The following categories were created: age in years (quartile
                     1 = 15–28, quartile 2 = 29–32, quartile 3 = 33–36, and quartile 4 = 37–51), maternal weight in pounds at intake (quartile
                     1 = 82–142, quartile 2 = 143–162, quartile 3 = 163–192.2, and quartile 4 = 192.3–411), and maternal weight in pounds at delivery
                     (quartile 1 = 96–146, quartile 2 = 147–167, quartile 3 = 168–197.7, and quartile 4 = 197.8–411). Because of a large number
                     of missing data for family history of diabetes (1,016 missing) and HbA 1c (A1C) (836 missing), these variables were not entered in the logistic regression model to preserve statistical power. Prepregnancy
                     weight and prepregnancy BMI were also not entered into the model for parsimony, given that these were based on self-report
                     and that two other measures of weight were included. Previous Section Next Section RESULTS GDM prevalence Of the 44,878 women who delivered at Kapi‘olani Medical Center between 1995 and 2005, 2,155 (4.8%) women had GDM. The unadjusted
                     prevalence of GDM by ethnicity was 3.6% for Native- Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander women, 6.5% for Filipino women, 6.4% for Chinese
                     women, 5.5% for Japanese women, and 2.3% for Caucasian women. Antepartum characteristics Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander and Filipino women comprised 65% of the total subjects with GDM enrolled in this study ( Table 1 ). Age, prepregnancy weight, prepregnancy BMI, maternal weight at intake and delivery, A1C at intake, diabetes treatment type,
                     and family history of diabetes were all significantly different among ethnic groups. Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander women
                     were significantly younger and weighed more before pregnancy, at the time of referral to the program, and at the time of delivery.
                     A1C at time of referral to the program, family history of diabetes, and percentage of women requiring insulin were all significantly
                     higher in Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander women compared with women from the other ethnic groups ( P < 0.0001). Intrapartum and neonatal characteristics The intrapartum and neonatal characteristics by ethnic groups and combined sample are summarized in Table 2 . Statistically significant differences in type of delivery, neonatal weight/macrosomia, hypoglycemia, and hyperbilirubinemia
                     were found among ethnic groups. Neonates born to Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander and Caucasian women were more likely to
                     have hypoglycemia whereas neonates born to Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander, Filipino, and Caucasian women were more likely
                     to have hyperbilirubinemia than neonates from other ethnic groups. Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander women were also more likely
                     to have neonates with macrosomia than women from the other ethnic groups. Chinese women were more likely to have assisted
                     vaginal delivery (vacuum extraction or forceps) but were least likely to have had cesarean section compared with women from
                     the other ethnic groups. There were no ethnic differences observed in the prevalence of fetal demise, fetal anomalies, shoulder
                     dystocia, fetal distress, birth asphyxia, polycythemia, respiratory distress syndrome, or sepsis in the neonates, nor were
                     there any ethnic differences in the maternal prevalence of preeclampsia, chorioamnionitis, or labor disorders. Fetal anomalies
                     observed included deviated penile tip ( n = 1), umbilical hernia ( n = 1), single umbilical artery ( n = 1), undescended testes ( n = 1), amniotic band syndrome ( n = 1), trisomy 21 ( n = 1), patent ductus arteriosus ( n = 3), hypospadias ( n = 1), extra digit ( n = 1), micrognathia ( n = 1), and cystic adenomatoid malformation ( n = 1). Because of changes in the diagnostic criteria for GDM (i.e., the adoption of the Carpenter and Coustan criteria) in the early
                     years of this study, we examined the effects of mothers’ enrollment date into the study on fetal macrosomia, but no statistically
                     significant association was observed (data not shown). The other neonatal and maternal conditions were not further assessed
                     because of small numbers and the lack of significance noted among ethnic groups in the initial analysis. Bivariate analysis of fetal macrosomia by maternal and fetal characteristics The bivariate associations of maternal and fetal characteristics with fetal macrosomia in the combined sample are summarized
                     in Table 3 . Statistically significant associations were observed between fetal macrosomia and younger maternal age, higher prepregnancy
                     weight and BMI, higher maternal weight at intake and delivery, higher A1C at intake, family history of diabetes, diabetes
                     treatment type, and male neonate sex. No statistically significant association was observed between fetal macrosomia and family
                     history of diabetes. Logistic regression analysis predicting fetal macrosomia Statistically significant predictors of fetal macrosomia were Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander (OR 4.35 [95% CI 2.19–9.16])
                     and Filipino (2.82 [1.37–6.08]) ethnicity compared with Caucasian ethnicity, maternal weights from 197.8 to 411 lb (quartile
                     4) (34.75 [10.25–119.40]) and from 168 to 197.7 lb (quartile 3) (6.31 [CI 2.38–16.97]) at delivery compared with those who
                     weighed from 96 to 146 lb at delivery (quartile 1), and male neonate sex (1.38 [1.01–1.90]) compared with female neonate sex.
                     Maternal age, maternal weight at intake, and diabetes treatment type were not statistically significant independent predictors
                     of fetal macrosomia. Previous Section Next Section CONCLUSIONS GDM occurs as a result of insulin resistance similarly to type 2 diabetes and may indeed represent sub- or preclinical type
                     2 diabetes that is unmasked by the hormonal influence of pregnancy ( 16 ). Fetal and newborn morbidity associated with GDM, however, is disproportionate in that compared with weight-matched control
                     subjects, infants of mothers with GDM are at increased risk of serious birth injury and neonatal intensive care admission
                     ( 17 – 20 ). Studies indicate that the magnitude of fetal-neonatal risks is proportional to the severity of maternal hyperglycemia ( 21 – 23 ). Fetal macrosomia and hypoglycemia are the most common risks identified and are thought to arise as a result of maternal
                     hyperglycemia and resultant fetal hyperinsulinemia ( 21 ). Despite adequate treatment, however, the incidence of macrosomia remains increased in pregnant women with GDM. The purpose of this study was to examine ethnic differences in perinatal outcome among Native-Hawaiian/Pacific- Islander,
                     Japanese, Chinese, Filipino, and Caucasian women with GDM. The strengths of this study are the inclusion of women from high-risk
                     ethnic groups, disaggregation of data from distinct Asian and Pacific-Islander ethnic groups, and a large clinical sample
                     spanning 10 years. To date, this is the only study to report on ethnic differences in GDM and perinatal outcome among Asian
                     and Pacific Islanders. Increased incidence of macrosomia and neonatal hypoglycemia has been described in offspring of women with GDM from other ethnic
                     groups; however, these outcomes have not been extensively studied in the Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander population nor has
                     this population been compared with other Asian groups. Although these findings are an important first step toward addressing
                     the antenatal needs of this at-risk population, ethnicity is probably only one component in the complex etiology underlying
                     these outcomes. Prepregnancy weight and BMI are also associated with neonatal macrosomia, suggesting that obese women of Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander
                     ethnicities who gain further weight during pregnancy are at particular risk of delivering an infant with macrosomia ( 10 , 24 ). Although Caucasian women did not have a particularly high risk of delivering an infant with macrosomia, their risk of neonatal
                     hyperbilirubinemia was higher than that of Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander women, and their risk of cesarean section and
                     neonatal hypoglycemia was the second highest. Caucasian women also weighed more than Japanese, Chinese, and Filipino women
                     before pregnancy, at time of intake into the Sweeter Choice program, and at delivery. Furthermore, they were more likely than
                     women of those ethnicities to not only require insulin for glycemic control but also to require insulin at <20 weeks of gestation.
                     Therefore, even though the prevalence of GDM is lower in Caucasians than in other ethnic groups, Caucasian women who have
                     GDM probably represent a heavier cohort prone to similar perinatal complications. Our data also show, however, that the influence of maternal weight on macrosomia may have differential effects across ethnic
                     groups. The Filipinos in our study, for example, had 2.82 greater odds of having an infant with macrosomia compared with Caucasians,
                     even though their prepregnancy, intake, and delivery weights were not significantly different from those of the Japanese or
                     Chinese. This finding emphasizes the importance of evaluating these Asian and Pacific-Islander groups separately if we want
                     to have an impact on accurate identification of ethnic groups at risk and, ultimately, appropriate intervention and improved
                     outcome. Although the gestational age at diagnosis was not significantly different among ethnic groups, the higher percentage of Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander
                     women requiring insulin during pregnancy and those requiring insulin before 20 weeks of gestation, suggests that there may
                     be a larger subset of Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander women with preexisting undiagnosed diabetes. The higher A1C in Native
                     Hawaiian/Pacific Islanders in this study, the known high prevalence of type 2 diabetes in Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islanders,
                     and the parallel association between prevalence of GDM and type 2 diabetes support this hypothesis ( 2 – 4 ). Offspring of these women might have had prolonged exposure to higher levels of glycemia compared with offspring of women
                     with “pure” GDM. Although mean fasting and 2-h postprandial glucose values were not analyzed in this study, patients requiring
                     insulin for glycemic control during pregnancy seemed to be an acceptable proxy. Unfortunately, once pregnancy occurs, glycemic control is the sole independent variable that can be manipulated to improve
                     perinatal outcome. Therefore, these findings illustrate the value of early detection of abnormalities in glucose regulation
                     as a means to primary prevention. The integration of ethnic-specific approaches to health care delivery often is cited as
                     a means to improve health outcome; however, the most effective technique and optimal means of implementation, particularly
                     for those of Native-Hawaiian/Pacific-Islander and Filipino descent, have yet to be determined ( 25 – 27 ). Other potential risk factors such as socioeconomic differences involving income inequality, education, and discrimination
                     have been reported to influence perinatal outcome independent of ethnicity ( 28 ). By contrast, several studies have found ethnicity to be an independent risk factor for GDM and related outcomes ( 10 , 11 , 29 ). Results found in this retrospective study also support prior studies indicating ethnicity as an independent risk factor
                     for perinatal outcomes such as macrosomia. However, this study was limited by the lack of data on other mediating factors
                     such as socioeconomic status (i.e., income and education), social support, or other cultural factors (i.e., language, traditional
                     beliefs, and others). For example, the Sweeter Choice outpatient program has not been validated across ethnic groups and,
                     therefore, some of the findings may be due to the lack of cultural relevance of this program rather than to true biological
                     differences. Furthermore, it would have been ideal to include smoking status as a confounder because smoking reduces birth
                     weight, but data on this variable were not available. Although it has been reported that the prevalence of GDM varies in direct proportion to the prevalence of type 2 diabetes
                     in other ethnic groups ( 5 ), our unadjusted prevalence estimates of GDM by ethnicity did not support this assumption. However, there are several methodological
                     limitations to the prevalence estimates in our study. First, the method of ethnic classification differed between the Sweeter
                     Choice program (from which our data originate) and the hospital records. For example, we classified ethnicity based on patients’
                     self-report, whereas the hospital’s ethnic classification is determined by the admissions staff and is based on assumed physical
                     characteristics. Second, the exclusion of participants in our study is not accounted for in the hospital database. For example,
                     we excluded women with multiple gestations, those with deliveries at <37 weeks, and those who had comorbidities, whereas these
                     women were all counted in the hospital records from which we calculated the prevalence of GDM. The discrepancy between the reported prevalence of type 2 diabetes and the estimated prevalence of GDM among Native Hawaiians
                     in this study may also be due to large age differences among ethnic groups in our sample. For example, the teenage pregnancy
                     rate among Native- Hawaiian women is the highest in the state of Hawai‘i and, therefore, the hospital sample of Native-Hawaiian
                     women could be skewed toward a younger age-group who have not yet developed a risk factor profile for GDM ( 30 ). Furthermore, the current disparate prevalence ratio of GDM to type 2 diabetes may also represent a temporal phenomenon
                     and a harbinger of future epidemics of type 2 diabetes among the Filipino and Chinese communities. Future prospective studies designed to control for variables independent of ethnicity that are also known to affect perinatal
                     outcome (such as maternal parity, smoking habits, and others) will provide critical information to design and tailor interventions
                     to improve perinatal outcome in high-risk ethnic minority groups such as Native-Hawaiian/Pacific- Islanders, Filipinos, and
                     other Asian-American populations, which could help to inform the development of outpatient diabetic programs that are culturally
                     relevant and acceptable to women from all ethnic groups. Previous Section Next Section View this table: In this window In a new window Table 1— Maternal antepartum characteristics by ethnicity and combined sample View this table: In this window In a new window Table 2— Intrapartum and neonatal characteristics by ethnicity and combined sample View this table: In this window In a new window Table 3— Bivariate analysis of the association between fetal macrosomia (≥4,000 g) and maternal and fetal characteristics Previous Section Next Section Acknowledgments This project/study was supported by a grant (P20MD000173) from the National Center for Minority Health and Health Disparities,
                     National Institutes of Health. J.K.S. was funded in part by a grant (HP03013-09) from the Department of Health and Human Services,
                     Health Resources Services Administration, Bureau of Health Professions, Division of Health Careers, Diversity and Development. We acknowledge The Sweeter Choice Program at Kapi’olani Medical Center, Teresa Brink-Wong, RN, CDE, for assistance in patient
                     education and data management, Lynnae K. Millar, MD, for developing the concept, and Erin Saito for assistance. Previous Section Next Section Footnotes The content of this article is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views
                           of the National Institutes of Health or the Kapi‘olani Medical Center for Women and Children. A table elsewhere in this issue shows conventional and Système International (SI) units and conversion factors for many substances. The costs of publication of this article were defrayed in part by the payment of page charges. The article must therefore
                           be hereby marked “advertisement” in accordance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1734 solely to indicate this fact. Accepted May 23, 2006. Received February 27, 2006. DIABETES CARE Previous Section References ↵ Maskarinec G: Diabetes in Hawaii: estimating prevalence from insurance claims data. Am J Public Health 87 : 1717 –1720, 1997 Abstract / FREE Full Text ↵ Grandinetti A, Chang HK, Mau MK, Curb JD, Kinney EK, Sagum R, Arakaki RF: Prevalence of glucose intolerance among Native Hawaiians
                                 in two rural communities. Diabetes Care 21 : 549 –554, 1998 Abstract / FREE Full Text ↵ Simmons D, Thompson CF, Volklander D: Polynesians: prone to obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus but not hyperinsulinaemia. Diabet Med 18 : 193 –198, 2001 CrossRef Medline ↵ Mau M: Current status of research on diabetes mellitus and associated risk factors in Native Hawaiians. Pac Health Dialog 2 : 346 –349, 1998 ↵ Ben-Haroush A, Yogev Y, Hod M: Epidemiology of gestational diabetes mellitus and its association with type 2 diabetes. Diabet Med 21 : 103 –113, 2003 CrossRef ↵ Cockram C: Diabetes mellitus: perspective from the Asia-Pacific region. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 50 (Suppl. 2) : S3 –S7, 2000 ↵ American Diabetes Association: Gestational diabetes mellitus position statement. Diabetes Care 25 (Suppl. 1) : S94 –S96, 2002 ↵ Jovanovic L, Pettit D: Gestational diabetes mellitus. JAMA 286 : 2516 –2518, 2001 FREE Full Text ↵ Lane SD, Cibula DA, Milano LP, Shaw M, Bourgeois B, Schweitzer F, Steiner C, Dygert K, Demott K, Wilson K, Gregg R, Webster
                                 N, Milton D, Aubry R, Novick LF: Racial and ethnic disparities in infant mortality: risk in social context. J Public Health Manag Pract 7 : 30 –46, 2001 Medline ↵ Dooley SL, Metzger BE, Cho NH: Gestational diabetes mellitus: influence of race on disease prevalence and perinatal outcome
                                 in a U.S. population. Diabetes 40 (Suppl. 2) : 25 –29, 1991 ↵ Homko CJ, Sivan E, Nyirjesy P, Reece EA: The interrelationship between ethnicity and gestational diabetes in fetal macrosomia. Diabetes Care 18 : 1442 –1445, 1995 CrossRef Medline ↵ Scholl TO, Chen X, Gaughan C, Smith WK: Influence of maternal glucose on ethnic differences in birth weight and pregnancy
                                 outcome. Am J Epidemiol 156 : 498 –506, 2002 Abstract / FREE Full Text ↵ Carpenter MW, Coustan DR: Criteria for screening tests for gestational diabetes. Am J Obstet Gynecol 144 : 768 –773, 1982 Medline ↵ Braun KL, Yang H, Look MA, Onaka AT, Horiuchi BY: Age-specific Native Hawaiian mortality: a comparison of full, part, and
                                 non-Hawaiians. Asian Am Pac Isl J Health 4 : 352 –362, 1996 Medline ↵ Sorenson CA, Wood B, Prince EW: Race and ethnicity data: developing a common language for public health surveillance in Hawaii. Calif J Health Promot 1 : 91 –104, 2003 ↵ Moore, T: Diabetes in pregnancy. In Maternal-Fetal Medicine. Creasy RK, Resnik R, Eds. Philadelphia, WB Saunders, 2004 ↵ Vaarasmaki MS, Hartikainen A, Anttila M, Pramila S, Koivisto M: Factors predicting peri- and neonatal outcome in diabetic
                                 pregnancy. Early Hum Dev 59 : 61 –70, 2000 CrossRef Medline Hawthorne G, Robson S, Ryall EA, Sen D, Roberts SH, Ward Platt MP: Prospective population based survey of outcome of pregnancy
                                 in diabetic women: results of the Northern Diabetic Pregnancy Audit, 1994. BMJ 315 : 279 –281, 1997 Abstract / FREE Full Text Casey BM, McIntire DD, Bloom SL, Lucas MJ, Santos R, Twickler DM, Ramus RM, Leveno KJ: Pregnancy outcomes in women with gestational
                                 diabetes compared with the general obstetric population. Obstet Gynecol 90 : 869 –873, 1997 CrossRef Medline ↵ Svare JA, Hansen BB, Molsted-Pedersen L: Perinatal complications in women with gestational diabetes mellitus. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand 80 : 899 –904, 2001 Medline ↵ Persson B, Hanson U: Neonatal morbidities in gestational diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care 21 (Suppl. 2) : B79 –B84, 1998 Cundy T, Gamble G, Townend K, Henley PG, MacPherson P, Roberts AB: Perinatal mortality in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Diabet Med 17 : 33 –39, 2000 CrossRef Medline ↵ Langer O, Conway DL: Level of glycemia and perinatal outcome in pregestational diabetes. J Matern Fetal Med 9 : 35 –41, 2000 CrossRef Medline ↵ Ehrenberg HM, Mercer BM, Catalano P: The influence of obesity on the prevalence of macrosomia. Am J Obstet Gynecol 191 : 964 –968, 2004 CrossRef Medline ↵ Humphry J, Jameson LM, Beckham S: Overcoming social and cultural barriers to care for patients with diabetes. West J Med 167 : 138 –144, 1997 Medline Brach C, Fraser I: Can cultural competency reduce racial and ethnic health disparities? A review and conceptual model. Med Care Res Rev 57 (Suppl. 1) : 181 –217, 2000 ↵ Mayberry LJ, Affonso DD: Integrating cultural values, beliefs, and customs into pregnancy and postpartum care: lessons learned
                                 from a Hawaiian public health nursing project. J Perinat Neonatal Nurs 13 : 15 –26, 1999 Medline ↵ Ren XS, Amick BC, Williams DR: Racial/ethnic disparities in health: the interplay between discrimination and socioeconomic
                                 status. Ethn Dis 9 : 151 –165, 1999 Medline ↵ Fraser D, Weitzman S, Leiberman JR, Eschwege E: Factors influencing birth weight in newborns of diabetic and non-diabetic
                                 women: a population based study. Eur J Epidemiol 6 : 427 –431, 1990 CrossRef Medline ↵ Hawaii State Department of Health: Vital Statistics: 1996–2004 [Internet]. Honolulu, Hawaii State Department of Health. Available from http://www.hawaii.gov/health/statistics/vital-statistics/index.html CiteULike Delicious Digg Facebook Google+ Reddit Technorati Twitter What's this? « Previous | Next Article » Table of Contents This Article doi: 10.2337/dc06-0458 Diabetes Care September 2006 vol. 29 no. 9 2058-2063 Abstract Free » Full Text Full Text (PDF) Purchase Article View Shopping Cart Services Email this article to a colleague Alert me when this article is cited Alert me if a correction is posted Similar articles in this journal Similar articles in PubMed Download to citation manager Load patient INFORMation Citing Articles Load citing article information Citing articles via Google Scholar Google Scholar Articles by  Silva, J. K. Articles by  Mau, M. Search for related content PubMed PubMed citation Articles by  Silva, J. K. Articles by  Mau, M. Social Bookmarking CiteULike Delicious Digg Facebook Google+ Reddit Technorati Twitter What's this? Navigate This Article Top Abstract RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS RESULTS CONCLUSIONS Acknowledgments Footnotes References Current Issue March 2012, 35 (3) From the Cover Persistence of prolonged C-peptide production in type 1 diabetes as measured with an ultrasensitive C-peptide assay Age-related loss of brain volume and T2 relaxation time in youth with type 1 diabetes Helicobacter pylori infection is associated with an increased rate of diabetes Retinal vascular geometry predicts incident renal dysfunction in young people with type 1 diabetes Alert me to new issues of Diabetes Care About Diabetes Care Editorial Board Instructions for Authors Subscriptions Advertising & Reprints ADA's DiabetesPro ADA Member Directory More ADA Publications Diabetes Clinical Diabetes Diabetes Spectrum ADA Clinical Practice Recommendations Scientific Sessions Abstracts Books & Other Publications Advertisement DiabetesJournals.org American Diabetes Association • National Office 1701 N. Beauregard St. • Alexandria VA 22311 diabetescare@diabetes.org Print ISSN: 0149-5992 Online ISSN: 1935