
Research & Policy News - Schubert Center for Child Studies log in site map contact us Home > Resources & Opportunities > Research & Policy News Home About the Schubert Center Mission Statement Child Policy at the Schubert Center History Faculty Associates Schubert Center Staff Contact Us Sign up for mailing list Education Childhood Studies Minor Minor Requirements Externships & Experiential Learning Childhood Studies Courses Lectures & Events Monthly Lecture Series Featured Events Parking options Publications Newsletters Research & Policy Briefs Student Externship Spotlight Briefs Schubert Center Reports Resources & Opportunities Opportunities Experts Database Research & Policy News Engaging in the Dialogue Find Your Representatives Writing Letters to your Representative Writing an Op-Ed How to Give Testimony Working with the Media Links of Interest CWRU Centers & Programs for Children Nationwide Academic Research Centers Policy & Advocacy Organizations and Databases RECEIVE OUR NEWSLETTER Research & Policy News Current news articles and other recent publications are posted below to keep you up to date on issues in child studies and policy. Children with Public Health Insurance Less Likely to Get Emergency Appointments with Dentists & Ohio Falls Behind in Important Dental Health Markers 5/24/2011 10:05:38 AM A study published this week in Pediatrics found that children who have public health insurance are less likely than children with private health insurance to get an appointment in a dental emergency. The study had six research assistants call 85 Illinois dental practices twice pretending to be mothers of a 10-year-old boy with a fractured front tooth, with the only difference in the two calls being whether the child was enrolled in the public Medicaid and CHIP dental program or private Blue Cross dental coverage. Only 36.5% of calls regarding children in the Medicaid and CHIP program were able to obtain an appointment, compared to 95.4% of calls regarding children with private insurance. The difference remained even when only considering the 41 dental practices enrolled in the Medicaid program, as children with public insurance were 18.2 times more likely to not receive an appointment from Medicaid enrolled providers compared to children with private insurance. An article in US News on the study notes that Medicaid reimburses all emergency dental care, regardless of whether the provider seen is enrolled in a Medicaid program. Ohio recently received a grade of “B” for access to dental care for children from the Pew Children’s Dental Campaign . An article in The Plain Dealer states that while Ohio scores better than the national standards in sealant programs in high-risk schools, fluoridated water access, dental care used by Medicaid-enrolled children, payment for preventative services and keeping records on children’s dental health, Ohio children lack access to primary dental care providers, and Ohio dentists are insufficiently reimbursed by Medicaid. Some policymakers suggest licensing a new type of dental care provider, called a dental therapist, to address the shortage of dentists in Ohio and other states. Schubert Center Faculty Associate Dr. James Lalumandier directs the Healthy Smiles Sealant Program in conjunction with Cleveland Metropolitan  School District to improve dental health and sealant coverage for second, third and sixth grade students. A policy brief on his work can be downloaded here. A video on the Healthy Smiles Sealant Program can be viewed here. Tags: Children , Dental , Health , Health Insurance Comments February is National Children's Dental Health Month 2/15/2011 2:13:36 PM The American Dental Association has declared February National Children’s Dental Health Month. This year’s campaign includes posters reminding kids to brush and floss every day as well as a program planning guide for parents and teachers to promote kids’ oral health. Associated with National Children’s Dental Health Month is the Give Kids A Smile program, which so far this month has provided free oral health care for nearly 400,000 kids. A recent survey from the Ohio Department of Health found that Ohio families of all income levels identify dental care as a top unmet health need for their children. Additionally, nearly 340,000 Ohio children have never visited a dentist and fifty percent of Ohio third graders have tooth decay. Poor dental health has been linked to adverse health outcomes such as respiratory infections , heart disease , obesity , preterm birth and even Alzheimer’s disease . Schubert Center Faculty Associate and Professor in the School of Dental Medicine Dr. James Lalumandier works with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District to improve oral health of local students. The Healthy Smiles Sealant Program, a joint initiative of the Saint Luke’s Foundation, Case Western Reserve University’s School of Dental Medicine and the Cleveland Metropolitan School District, provides second, third, and sixth grade students with free, in-school dental examinations and sealants on key molars. Dental School students and local dentist volunteers examined 6,000 students during the 2009 to 2010 school year. To see more resources from the ADA to promote kids’ oral health, click here. To learn more about Give Kids A Smile, click here. To read an article on the importance of dental care for Ohio children, click here. To read a research and policy brief on Dr. Lalumandier’s work to improve oral health and access to dental care for children, click here. To watch a video on the Healthy Smiles Sealant Program, click here. Tags: Children , Dental , Health Comments Archive: March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 Tags: Adolescence Bullying Children Dental Development Disabilities Early Childhood Education Family Girls Health Health Insurance Healthy Eating Infancy Juvenile Justice Low Birth Weight Mental Health Neighborhoods Obesity Parenthood Play Poverty Religion School Violence Welfare RSS Feed Follow @schubertcenter Support the Schubert Center Contact us | Staff Directory 615 Crawford Hall | 10900 Euclid Avenue | Cleveland, Ohio 44106-7179 | 216.368.0540 © 2009 Case Western Reserve Univ