
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 17:44:47 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.hjblogs.com/ed/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Whooping cough breaks out in Wright Co. at Enterprise Dispatch Blog Skip to content Enterprise Dispatch Blog HJblogs.com ED Blog Blog Archives HJ Forums DasselCokato.com Letters to the Editor « Two-vehicle accident in Hutch injures one Recent traffic deaths prompt increase in law enforcement » Whooping cough breaks out in Wright Co. Published by Lynda Jensen, Editor on April 27, 2010 in Cokato and News . WRIGHT COUNTY, MN – Pertussis, commonly known as whooping cough, has been confirmed in more than 40 people in the Maple Lake area along with a few cases in Annandale and Monticello, according to Wright County Public Health. Most of the diagnosed cases are in elementary school age children, but younger children and adults have been affected. In recent years, more cases of pertussis have been reported in adults and children. Since pertussis may be milder in adults and older children, they can pass on the disease without knowing it. The risk to infants and elderly is the greatest, however, even in adolescents and adults a pertussis infection can lead to pneumonia or even rib fractures from coughing. Pertussis is caused by bacteria that spread from person to person through coughing or sneezing. Droplets are produced in the air but don’t travel far. They usually only infect persons near by. Pertussis usually starts out with symptoms similar to a cold, such as sneezing, cough, low-grade fever, and runny nose. A fever isn’t always present. The cough tends to be worse at night and over time can become severe lasting weeks or months. Pertussis should be considered when: •	A cough illness occurs after a direct exposure to pertussis. •	A persistent cough of unknown origin lasts more  than 7 days • A violent cough occurs with a whooping sound, vomiting/gagging while coughing or inability to catch one’s breath while coughing Persons with pertussis should stay home and not go to school, work, or attend other activities until they have finished 5 days of antibiotic treatment. Even with treatment the cough can continue for a long time. Treatment does not make the cough go away completely but will help prevent the spread of pertussis Anyone who has been coughing for seven days or longer and has had contact with someone with pertussis should discuss pertussis with their medical provider Most children have been vaccinated for pertussis, however, protection decreases over time. Studies have shown that the immunity from this particular vaccine decreases after 3-5 years from the last vaccination, which is usually given before kindergarten. Therefore, most adolescents and adults are at risk for pertussis The current outbreak highlights the need for the Tdap booster vaccine in adults and adolescents. The Tdap vaccine is a combination of tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis. Current recommendations during an outbreak are to: •	Give Tdap to children ages 10-12 now instead of waiting until these children enter 7th grade when the next booster is due. • Give Tdap to adolescents and adults up to age 64 who have not received a Tdap before and it has been 2 years since receiving Td (tetanus shot). Currently there is no licensed pertussis vaccine for people 65 years and older The Wright County WOW Van is making an extra stop in Maple Lake on April 30 from 1-4 pm in the parking area of St. Timothy’s Church. People who don’t have insurance or whose insurance doesn’t cover vaccine costs can attend this clinic. There is a $10.00 administration fee. No one is turned away for inability to pay. The WOW Van schedule for all locations in the county can be found on the county website at www.co.wright.mn.us with a link on the right side of the homepage. Calls for information can be made to the Vaccine Information Line at 763-684-2335. Share this Enterprise Dispatch news item: « Two-vehicle accident in Hutch injures one Recent traffic deaths prompt increase in law enforcement » 0 Responses to “Whooping cough breaks out in Wright Co.” Feed for this Entry Trackback Address No Comments Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website « Two-vehicle accident in Hutch injures one Recent traffic deaths prompt increase in law enforcement » Get a Masters in Special Education to help children in need. Search Recent Comments Burglaries reported in Cokato and Howard Lake 2 rebel , Anonymous McDonald's drops Sparboe as egg supplier 6 xyz , yeah right , tired of politics [...] Dassel City Council appoints Jack Adams as new council member 2 yeah right , Jim Dassel City Council meets Tuesday 1 yeah right Early morning bus accident on Highway 12 1 rebel Local law enforcement advises using extreme caution on lakes 1 DC Grandma Accident on CSAH 6 near Dassel causes momentary power outage 1 Katie Josephson DC school happenings 1 Shondra Chanel Other Blogs Herald Journal Blog HJ Sports Blog HJ News Log ED News Log ©2010 Herald Journal Publishing , Inc Terms & Conditions |