Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cranberry juice to ward off bladder infections and UTI, SeniorSSuperStoreS free health resource, seniors, senior citizens and the elderly HOME PAGE Prime Time Club Community Room Free Health Resources Free Safety Resources Free Financial Resources Archived Newsletters News Headlines Recipes Trader Links to Other Resources Join our Free Mailing List About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Customer Satisfaction Customer Testimonials How To Order Shipping & Handling DEPARTMENTS Assisted Hearing Assistive Devices Bathing & Grooming Bathrobes Books Clothing Clothing Sizes Help Cookbooks Foot Care Gift Ideas Health Products Health Books & Tapes Hobbies & Gardening Household Items Incontinence Products Kitchen Products Kitchen Utensils Leisure Products Mobility & Seat Lifts Music Peripheral Neuropathy Treatment Pharmaceuticals Phones & Pagers Safety Products Skin Care Sleepwear Sporting Goods Support Hosiery Support Hosiery Sizes Support Products Travel Products Women's Health A Glass of Cranberry Juice a Day May Keep Bladder Infection Away Drinking 8 ounces of cranberry juice works on the bacteria that cause most urinary tract infections (UTI) Cranberry juice has long been recommended to ward off bladder infections.
Now there's evidence that more of the tart drink may be better than less. Drinking 8 ounces of the juice works better than 4 ounces on
the bacteria that cause most urinary tract infections (UTI),
according to preliminary research presented at the 42nd Annual Meeting
of the Infectious Diseases Society of America on September 30, 2004. A specific type of tannin found only in cranberries and blueberries
interacts with the little projections on the Escherichia coli bacteria
(the most common cause of UTI), preventing them from sticking to the
walls of the bladder and causing infection. A UTI is an infection anywhere in the urinary tract, including the
kidneys, the bladder, and the urethra. Due to anatomy, women have a
higher risk of UTIs than men, and people who experience three or
more in 1 year are considered to have recurrent infections. "There is no evidence that drinking or eating cranberry products can
cure a UTI once the bacteria have established infection," said Kalpana
Gupta, MD, principal investigator of the University of Washington study.
"The next step is to evaluate our findings in a larger group of women,
and then conduct a trial to help determine if the laboratory findings
translate into clinical differences in the rate of UTI depending on
the dosage of cranberry consumed." Theoretically, blueberries may prevent UTIs as well, but they need to
be further tested in a laboratory and clinical trials, she said. "Cranberry is one of North America's few native fruits, and Native
Americans used it for its antibacterial properties," said Amy
Howell, PhD, coauthor of the study and a research scientist at
the Marucci Center for Blueberry and Cranberry Research at Rutgers
University, Chatsworth, New Jersey. "They even mention it for urinary disorders." In the study, urine was collected from three volunteers before and 4
to 6 hours after consumption of 27% cranberry juice cocktail. E. coli
were incubated in the urine samples and combined with human bladder cells. The amount of bacteria sticking to the bladder cells was significantly
reduced after the bacteria were incubated in urine from women who drank
the cranberry juice cocktail, and that effect was two-fold greater after
8 ounces of cranberry juice cocktail was consumed than after 4 ounces
was consumed, the researchers reported. "It is unlikely that regularly consuming a glass of cranberry juice has
a downside, but this will be formally evaluated in future clinical
trials," she said. Women who feel symptoms (including a frequent need to urinate, and
pain or burning after urination) should see their healthcare providers,
and if diagnosed with a bladder infection, should receive antibiotics,
Gupta recommended. Untreated, a bladder infection can become a more
serious kidney infection. Combinations of cranberry and other fruit juices (such as apple, grape,
and raspberry) contain a smaller percentage of cranberry juice and may
be less effective for UTI prevention, but have not been adequately
studied, Dr. Gupta noted. Cranberry tablets also may vary in the percentage of the effective,
and therefore may or may not help prevent UTIs. Tablets that include
spray-dried cranberry juice include the tannin, while those that are
derived from various extracts may not, said Howell. Initial studies
suggest that single-serving sizes of dried cranberries and cranberry
sauce contain as much of the tannin as a serving of cranberry juice
cocktail, and may be just as effective as the juice. This article is courtesy 