Content-Type: text/html
Expires: Sun, 08 Apr 2012 12:55:05 GMT
Set-Cookie: CookieTest=yes; expires=Thu, 31-Dec-2020 05:00:00 GMT; path=/
Cache-control: private

Cerebral Palsy Supplement - Vitarin - Buy 4 Get 2 Free VIEW CART CUSTOMER SERVICE 888-482-6460 HOME OUR PRODUCTS ABOUT US FAQ CONTACT US Quick Browse Symptom List Acne Remedy Allergy Remedy Anal Itching Remedy Anemia Remedy Bad Breath Remedy Blood Sugar - Lower It Bone Density Remedy Bursitis Remedy Cerebral Palsy Supplement Cholesterol Supplement Cognitive Function Remedy Cold Sore Remedy Concentration & Focus Supplement Constipation Remedy Cough Remedy Diarrhea Remedy Digestive Health Supplement Dry Skin Remedy Ear Infection Remedy Emphysema Remedy Fertility Remedy Fluid Retention Remedy Gluten Intolerance Hair Loss Product Heart Health Supplement Herpes Remedy Immune System Booster Joint Inflammation Remedy Joint Pain Relief Kidney Supplement Macular Degeneration Vitamin Memory Supplement Migraine Relief Mood Supplement Multivitamin for Men Multivitamin for Women Muscle Pain Remedy for Women PMS Relief Prostate Remedy Respiratory Build Up Remedy Respiratory Health Remedy Restless Leg Syndrome Remedy Rosacea Remedy Serotonin Supplement Sleep Aid Thyroid Remedy UTI Remedy Varicose Veins Remedy Vitiligo Remedy Weight Loss Supplement Wrist Circulation Remedy Yeast Infection Remedy More Information Vitarin Questions? Vitarin Supplement Facts "All of the products on progressivehealth.com are formulated with quality in mind. Our team of naturopathic physicians closely analyzed each formula to find the best balance of effective ingredients. I personally take Advecia for hair maintenance, Acktiva coral calcium for long term health, and Balance Point Multivitamin to help fulfill my daily nutritional needs." Brad Chase, President Better Business Bureau Member Vitarin - Cerebral Palsy Supplement Vitarin is an all natural supplement that combines 10 vitamins and minerals essential to muscle, skeletal, and neurological health! Progressive Health, the makers of Vitarin, have come up with a unique combination of vitamins and minerals specifically for helping the problems associated with Cerebral Palsy. Progressive Health developed this supplement for a very dear friend, Jason Rodie, whom has Cerebral Palsy. Jason Rodie has formed a non profit corporation to help discover new treatments to battle the disease. The formula contains only the best vitamins and minerals that not only support but promote healthy muscles, bones, and most importantly a healthy neurological system. Vitarin helps CP by making the structures and systems most often affected by CP stronger and more apt to over come the everyday challenges associated with this disability. Some Facts about Cerebral Palsy Cerebral Palsy refers to any one of a number of neurological disorders that usually appear in infancy or early childhood. An estimated 3 to 4 in every 1,000 school-age children in metropolitan Atlanta have cerebral palsy. CDC’s Metropolitan Atlanta Developmental Disabilities Surveillance Program (MADDSP) is one of the few programs in the world that actively tracks the number of children with cerebral palsy in a large, diverse metropolitan area over time. While there is no cure for CP there are treatments that will help with the progression of the disorder as well as therapy. Although CP is a neurological disorder it affects the muscles and movements, this is because the area of the brain that has the abnormalities are the areas of the brain that control muscle movements. As well as the effects on the muscles, CP can also have profound effects on the bones this has to do with many factors such as dislocation of joints from spasms, and lack of weight bearing. All of this of course depends on how involved or extensive the damage to the brain is. While one child with severe cerebral palsy might be unable to walk and need extensive, lifelong care, another with mild cerebral palsy might only have a slightly awkward gait and require no special assistance. Supportive treatments, medications, and surgery can help many individuals improve their motor skills and ability to communicate with the world. An example of this supportive treatment is: Physical therapy Occupational therapy And speech therapy. While CP is neurological disorder it can have devastating effects on the muscles and bones. Therefore, therapy is a must! There are common complications that can accompany CP such as seizures, failure to thrive, intellectual impairment, vision problems, and sensory problems. But, once again this all this depends on the amount of damage or how involved the individual is. CP Diagnosis A diagnosis of CP is not easy in infancy this is because there are so many other conditions that present the same symptoms at this time in life. As the child gets older you will be asked routine developmental questions, and this will give the doctor more of an idea, this is because a child with CP will miss certain milestones and lack coordination, or strength. Typically doctors will use a series of tests to diagnose the condition in infancy this is known as the APGAR. An MRI may also be used as a diagnosing tool to look for brain damage and rule out any other condition. Another thing to keep in mind when someone is diagnosing your child or loved one is, on rare occasions a metabolic imbalance can present symptoms the same as CP. Therefore, it is essential to have levels drawn to be sure they don’t have a deficiency of some sort. Because believe it or not a deficiency of certain vitamins and minerals can be just as detrimental on your body as a debilitating disease; however, if the imbalance is corrected the body will most likely revert back to normal. Why Vitarin Works! Fact is, many doctors suggest herbal remedies as treatment for CP, and this is because there is no “treatment” for CP. There are treatments for the problems that accompany CP such as seizures, muscle spasms, osteopenia, depression, and so on; however, these prescription drugs often come with risks, risks that some people aren’t willing to take. So many doctors suggest using all natural supplements because they do not pose these risks, and can prevent further complications. You see, doctors know the key is treating not only the source but where common problems occur; in the case of CP that is the muscles, joints, and nervous system. As stated above Vitarin has 10 essential vitamins and minerals that promote neurological, skeletal, and muscle health and strength in the following ways: Vitamin C : Vitamin C is one of those vitamins that contribute to several systems and functions in the human body, such as skeletal, muscle, bone, neurological, and immune function. For instance it is essential in the production of collagen, collagen is crucial for the healthy development of muscles, tendons, and bones. As we all know CP can have devastating effects on the muscles and bones. Not only is Vitamin C essential to the mechanical aspects of your body but it also plays a major role in the synthesis of neurotransmitters, which are basically the body/brain’s message delivery system; neurotransmitters also have an effect on your mood. Vitamin D : Like Vitamin C, Vitamin D is essential to bone and muscle health. Studies have shown that a lack of vitamin D in your diet can cause unexplained muscle pain and weakness. Muscle weakness is the last thing a person with CP needs! Not to mention vitamin D combines with calcium to protect and rebuild bones. Thiamin : Thiamin is known as a coenzyme, in other words for certain enzymes to function properly thiamin is needed. Without thiamin these certain enzymes would not be able to carry out there specific function. Some examples of thiamin use in the body are the conversion of carbohydrates to energy for our cells, it is also essential to the proper function of the heart, muscles, and neurological system. Vitamin B6 : B6 is an essential vitamin to the proper function of the body it affects the blood, nervous system, immune system, and hormonal fluctuations. A deficiency of B6 can cause developmental abnormalities, nervous system complications, weak immunity, and poor energy levels just to name a few. B6 is essential in the synthesis of protein which supplies our body and brain with energy, so you can see why a deficiency of B6 can be so detrimental. Some medications such as birth control and certain seizure medicines can cause a B6 deficiency. Calcium : Calcium, the body’s most abundant mineral is essential for the prevention of osteoporosis. Calcium also regulates in the relaxation and contraction of the body’s muscles as well as activates certain enzymes. Magnesium : Magnesium is an essential mineral to the health and structure of bones and muscles as well as many other systems in the body, it is said that magnesium is required for over 300 biochemical processes in the human body. A magnesium deficiency can cause symptoms such as heart spasms, nervousness, confusion, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, muscle contractions and spasms, fatigue, and feelings of weakness, both in general and in the muscles. Zinc : Zinc may only be a trace element in our bodies but its impact is far from trace amounts! Zinc plays a key role in the growth and development of our body, as well as immune response, neurological function, and reproduction. Zinc has a direct effect on nerve impulse transmission that stimulates the release of hormones and cell signaling or communication. Boron : Boron like Zinc is only a trace element in the body but, it has influence over how the body metabolizes calcium and magnesium. According to the USDA “boron is a trace mineral that helps bones develop and grow normally. Boron becomes especially important when there is not enough vitamin D in the diet. Boron may also prevent arthritis in the elderly”. It is also thought that Boron is useful to increase muscle mass, increase muscle strength, maintain bone density, and improve calcium absorption. Decreased amounts of Boron have been shown to cause decreased electrical activity in the brain, as well as impaired hand eye coordination, and poor manual dexterity. Citrus Bioflavonoid complex : Bioflavonoids are compounds found in citrus fruits, rose hips, and other plants. Adding this particular complex to your vitamin C is like adding jet fuel to your car, in other words this makes the benefits of the vitamin C explode and give you the fullest benefit possible! GABA : GABA is a neurotransmitter that has a direct affect on your mood. There have been significant claims made that GABA is a useful treatment of ADD and certain types of epilepsy however, more research needs to be done to validate these claims. What GABA is proven to do is, relax, calm, reduce stress, and improve quality of sleep. This unique blend was specifically created for people with Cerebral Palsy; every single ingredient is in there for a specific purpose, and each work together to ensure you get the maximum benefits from the supplements you are taking. Examples of CP Nutritional Needs For example, you may take calcium everyday but unless you are taking vitamin D along with the calcium you are doing little more than swallowing a pill, this is because one is basically useless without the other. With this formula you don’t have to worry about that because progressive health and the experts that create these supplements have already done the research for you! Not only will the supplement build up weak areas in an effort to correct a problem but it will also make the joints, muscles, and bones stronger in an attempt to prevent further damage. 9/10 customers are satisfied with their purchase from ProgressiveHealth.com (Based on returns, testimonials, complaints, and feedback) My Name is Dave Dulin,  I have a mild form of Cerebral Palsy (ataxia)  I have been taking Vitarin for about a year now  and really have seen great results,  as far as coordination, stability...etc.  Even posture. Thank You for developing a great product!!! - Dave Dulin I have been taking Vitarin for a while now and I can see a difference. I stopped taking it for a few months to see if perhaps it was just in my head but I definately could see a change. Its helping with my daily function,energy, mobilty,strength,etc. I would recommend Vitarin to anyone with CP in hopes that it too could help them. - Jason Rodie Vitarin Supplement Facts Our 
					Guarantee If you do not attain the desired results or you 
			are dissatisfied for any 
			reason, simply return all of 
			your empty and unused 
			bottles of Vitarin - Cerebral Palsy Supplement for 
			a full refund (excluding 
			shipping) within 180 days. After we have received your 
			returned bottle(s), we will 
			immediately evaluate your 
			account and issue a credit- 
			no questions asked. Please Select MSRP Price One Month Supply 44.95 44.95 Buy Three Get One Free 179.80 134.85 Buy Four Get Two Free 236.70 179.80 Shipping Information - Exact 
			Shipping costs will be displayed the order page. Here are the shipping 
	prices you can expect: Orders within the USA: Most Affordable (Ranges from $2.95 to $7.95) - 
							You should receive your order between and . Tracking available. Fastest (Ranges from $9.97 to $14.95) - You 
							should receive your order between and . Tracking available. Orders outside the USA: Priority (Ranges from $9.95 to $24.95) - You 
							should receive your order between and . No tracking available. Express (Ranges 
							from $20.95 to $37.95) - You should receive your order between and . Tracking available. Shipping and tracking provided by: These statements have not been evaluated by the Food 
								and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure 
								or prevent any disease. We accept all major credit 
							cards. Order online 24 hours a days, 7 days a Week, 365 Days a Year Copyright © 2012 - progressivehealth.com - All Rights Reserved Home | Guarantee | Privacy Policy | About 