
insomnia | Natural Solutions Jump to Navigation Search Articles Search Recipes insomnia Eat Right to Sleep Tight March 31st, 2011 Can’t sleep through the night? If you find yourself tossing and turning instead of sleeping soundly, you are not alone. Experts say that at least once in our lives, most of us will suffer from severe insomnia. But before you reach for the over-the-counter sleeping aids, try an all-natural approach to catch those Zs. The right food at the right time can get you ready for a good night’s sleep. By Ellen Kamhi PhD, RN, AHN-BC, AHG and Lynn Allison Healing Foods eat insomnia sleep tryptophan Add new comment Read more Why Sleeping In Isn't Enough August 31st, 2010 Although the occasional all-nighter is OK, people who regularly skimp on z’s can’t undo sleep deprivation’s detrimental effects by simply hitting the snooze button on weekends, says a new study in the journal Science of Translation Medicine . By Stacey Lindsay Health Matters insomnia sleep deprivation Add new comment Read more 8 Ways Acupuncture Can Help You Beat Insomnia Is acupuncture effective for anxiety or insomnia? Hypertension? –Cynthia Dunn, via Facebook Thank you, Cynthia, for your question. I’ll address insomnia first. Ask the Acupuncturist insomnia sleeplessness 1 comment Read more What's My Alternative: Insomnia September 30th, 2009 Bill Thomas is no stranger to sleepless nights. For the last decade, the 42-year-old children’s book illustrator has suffered from bouts of insomnia that last three to four nights at a time. “What’s frustrating is that it’s completely unpredictable,” says Thomas, who never drinks caffeine after noon and shuts off the computer and tube an hour before bed. By Meghan Rabbitt What's My Alternative Health insomnia sleeping disturbances Add new comment Read more Sleep Saboteurs March 31st, 2009 If you’re among the estimated 65 percent of Americans who have trouble sleeping at least a few nights a week, you’re probably tired of hearing about all the possible culprits for your bedtime woes, from too much caffeine and late-night TV to not enough exercise or unwind time in the evenings. What to eat and what to avoid to put insomnia to rest. By Monica Bhide Food & Recipes Nutrition insomnia nutrition recipes Add new comment Read more Dill Tofu Dip March 31st, 2009 Unfeatured 12-ounce block soft tofu, drained and patted dry 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 3 tablespoons finely minced yellow onion 2 cloves garlic, minced 2 tablespoons chopped fresh dill 2 tablespoons mellow white miso 2 tablespoons water 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar 1/2 teaspoon sea salt Freshly ground black pepper to taste 1. Place all the ingredients into a blender, and blend well. 2. Refrigerate for 2 hours, and serve with carrot and celery sticks, as well as colorful bell peppers and radishes. nutrition info per serving: 47 calories; 2.1 g fat; .3 g saturated fat; 0 mg cholesterol; 3.9 g protein; 3.7 g carbohydrates; 0.2 g fiber; 227.9 mg sodium Healing Foods Food & Recipes dip insomnia tofu Add new comment Desperately Seeking Shut-eye July 31st, 2008 Once upon a time, getting a good night’s sleep wasn’t an issue for me. I went to bed when I was tired and woke up feeling refreshed. No tossing and turning before I drifted off to dreamland—no middle-of-the-night awakenings. Then I started having babies, who roused me at all hours and made eight-a-night a thing of the past. Put your insomnia to rest with our age-by-age guide to getting a good night’s sleep. By Jennifer Lang Health insomnia sleep aids sleeping Add new comment Read more Main menu HOME SUBSCRIBE FOOD+RECIPES HEALTH BEAUTY BALANCE STORE PRACTITIONERS SAMPLES BLOG Natural Solutions Follow Us Local Guides All Local Guides Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut DC Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wy