
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1
Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 01:34:26 GMT
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 01:34:28 GMT

Cinnamon and Your Health : SuperFoodsRx Home About Us Dr. Pratt's Blog Customer Service Shopping Cart Home The SuperFoods Cinnamon Cinnamon and Your Health Cinnamon and Your Health Table of Contents 1. Overview 2. Cinnamon and Your Health 3. Cinnamon in Your Life Today, we’re in the process of learning about the power of cinnamon to affect health, and once you appreciate the special qualities of this mighty spice, I’m sure you’ll be eager to use it more frequently. Perhaps the most exciting recent discovery concerning cinnamon is its effect on blood glucose levels as well as on triglyceride and cholesterol levels, all of which could benefit people suffering from type II diabetes. In one study of sixty patients with type II diabetes, it was found that after only forty days of taking about one half teaspoon of cinnamon daily, fasting serum glucose levels were lowered by 18 to 29 percent, triglycerides by 23 to 30 percent, low-density lipoproteins (LDL) by 7 to 27 percent, and total cholesterol by 12 to 26 percent. It’s not yet clear whether less than one half teaspoon a day would be effective. It’s particularly interesting that the effects of the cinnamon lasted for twenty days following the end of the study, leading to speculation that one wouldn’t have to eat cinnamon every day to enjoy its benefits. The cinnamon—and perhaps other spices and certainly many foods—that you’re eating today are affecting your health into the future. Cinnamon by its insulin-enhancing properties is not the only spice to show a positive effect on blood glucose levels. Cloves, bay leaves, and turmeric also show beneficial effects. Try to buy organically grown cinnamon, as it is less likely to have been irradiated. We know that irradiating cinnamon may lead to a decrease in its vitamin C and carotenoid content. In addition to being a glucose moderator, cinnamon is recognized as an antibacterial. The essential oils in cinnamon are able to stop the growth of bacteria as well as fungi, including the common yeast Candida. In one interesting study, a few drops of cinnamon essential oil in about 3 ounces of carrot broth inhibited the growth of bacteria for at least sixty days. By contrast, bacteria flourished in the broth with no cinnamon oil. Cinnamon has also been shown to be effective in fighting the E. coli bacterium. A recent fascinating study found that just smelling cinnamon increased the subjects’ cognitive ability and actually functioned as a kind of “brain boost.” Future testing will reveal whether this power of cinnamon can be harnessed to prevent cognitive decline or sharpen cognitive performance. Tag it: Apples Avocado Beans Blueberries Broccoli Cinnamon Dark Chocolate Dried SuperFruits Extra Virgin Olive Oil Garlic Honey Kiwi Low Fat Yogurt Oats Onions Oranges Pomegranates Pumpkin Soy Spinach Tea Tomatoes Turkey Walnuts Wild Salmon Cinnamon Recipes: Cinnamon Maple Macadamias Cinnamon Apricot Oatmeal Cookies Home | About Us | Dr. Pratt's Blog | Contact Us | P