Cache-Control: max-age=60
Expires: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 02:21:30 GMT
MS-Author-Via: DAV
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

School-Based Dental Sealant Programs School-Based Dental Sealant Programs Modules 1 2 3 4 5 Home Evaluation Help Overview 4.1 Sealant Material Selection Sealant Materials Sealant Material Attributes Auto-Polymerized vs. Light-Cured Resin-Based vs. Glass Ionomer Filled vs. Unfilled Fluoride-Containing vs. Traditional Colored vs. Clear Hydrophilic vs. Hydrophobic Sealant Bonding Systems Use of Newer Bonding Systems with Sealants Sealant Material Safety Allergic Reactions Injury Prevention Bisphenol-A 4.2 The Sealant-Application Process Two-Handed vs. Four-Handed Placement Step 1: Tooth Preparation Step 2: Tooth Isolation Step 3: Acid Etching Step 4: Rinsing and Drying Step 5: Sealant Application Step 6: Curing Step 7: Final Treatment of Surface 4.3 Sealant Assessment 4.4 Sealant Retention Evaluation Key Points References 4.1 Sealant Material Selection Fluoride-Containing vs. Traditional Materials Clinical studies provide conflicting evidence as to whether sealant materials containing fluoride significantly prevent or inhibit caries or affect the growth of caries-associated bacteria when compared with traditional materials (i.e., those not containing fluoride). ODH does not recommend that the programs it funds use fluoride-containing sealant materials, but it permits the use of any such product that meets all other ODH sealant criteria. Colored vs. Clear Materials There is no difference in retention rates of colored vs. clear sealant materials. 2 ODH recommends that the programs it funds use colored or opaque sealant materials that do not match tooth color because colored or opaque materials are easier to detect, compared with clear or tooth-colored materials. However, ODH-funded programs are not required to use colored or opaque sealant materials. Hydrophilic vs. Hydrophobic Materials At least one sealant material has been marketed as moisture-tolerant (hydrophilic). While the manufacturer states that this product is formulated differently from other resin-based sealant materials, it utilizes the same placement as hydrophobic sealant materials until the drying stage. The manufacturer’s instructions call for a tooth to not be fully dried after rinsing with water and to remain “slightly moist” but recommend that tooth surfaces not be “overly wet.” The instructions are confusing in that they indicate that the moisture can be saliva but caution against the inclusion of bacteria. Hydrophilic sealants lack the extensive evidence demonstrating effectiveness available for hydrophobic sealants. ODH does not allow the programs it funds to use hydrophilic sealants. BACK NEXT © 2009 NationalMaternal and Child Oral Health Resource Center and Ohio Department of Health