Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

medi. Practical Ambulant Phlebology. Practical Ambulant Phlebology. Medical Consultants: Professor C.O. Netzer Professor G. Rudofsky Editor: Doctor M. Weihermuller Preface The rapid development of Phlebology, particularly in the last twenty years, has made
it abundantly clear that the many problems
and demands of this field require a specialized approach. However diseases of the venous system
receive little attention either in the clinical
teaching or the practical training of medical
practitioners. More than 25% of the adult German population show marked pathological changes
to the veins; 15% chronic venous insufficiency and more than 1.2 million suffer
from chronic leg ulcers. The cost of treating leg ulcers alone is over
DM 2.5 billion. There are far too few Phlebology specialists to deal with this huge patient population. This is not intended to provide the
non-specialist with the much needed comprehensive training, but rather to give practical advice on the ambulant care of patients with venous disorders. It also aims to
provide assistance in reaching a decision
on further measures needed for the diagnosis and treatment of the patient by other
health care professionals. The quantitatively large problem of venous disorders can only be comprehensively tackled by the close cooperation of specialists and  general practitioners. Early and proper diagnosis and therapy are particularly important for the quality of life and working ability  of those 90% of patients with venous disorders whose disease is progressive. Brief account of Pathogenesis The tendency to develop changes to the veins is based on an often inherited anomaly of superficial veins, sometimes combined with analogous damage to the deep veins. In detail, these changes most frequently consist of partial phlebectasia of the saphenous veins near their respective terminations, although chronic dilatation of the entire saphenous vein or large sections thereof, also occurs. The development of local varicosis is also promoted by invisible dysplastic damage to the walls in the large or small branches. Even under physiological conditions of blood flow, these sections of dysplasia act as sites of least resistance and allow the progressive formation of the varicosis which spreads to other parts of the vessel. However, the most active mechanical factor is valvular incompetence at the terminations of the saphenous veins, enabling the pathological changes in volume and pressure to occur with the resulting strain on the vascular wall. Additional factors of the environment, life style, physiological and pathophysiological effects can also accelerate the degeneration of the veins and therefore deserve special consideration. Risk Factors 90% of all cases of venous disease are
caused by factors promoting thrombosis,
such as occupations involving prolonged
periods of sitting or standing, combined
with a genuine susceptibility towards 
changes in the walls of veins. The quantity and
quality of the risk factors and hence the
number and severity of venous disorders,
increase with age. Similar risk factors also form the basis
upon which varicosis arises and are particularly important in its progression. The risk factors described below are often
present, but in principle, all thrombosis and
stasis promoting effects should be considered: Lack of movement - Occupations with prolonged periods of
sitting or standing - Confinement to bed - Long flights or car journeys with bent
legs - Long evenings spent watching television - Immobility, even of only one limb (plaster
cast) Contact sports and activities that induce high abdominal pressure - Extreme physical exertion at work, leisure or sport, with or without the induction
  of high abdominal pressure (e.g. playing a wind instrument, weight lifting, etc.). Obesity While obesity is not a confirmed contributory factor in venous diseases, overweight people tend not to exercise, which
promotes venous stasis.
However, obesity undoubtedly favors the
occurrence of thrombosis. Clothing - tight clothing - high heels
(the calf muscle pump does not operate
if heels are higher than 6-8 cm) - sloppy footwear Several pregnancies Heat - Experiments have confirmed that heat
causes physiological and pathophysiological dilatation of veins.
Enlargement of veins can induce congestion, but it has not been proven that
overheating produces permanent stretch damage. Flat/splay feet Estrogens - Estrogens combined with heavy smoking act as a thrombogenic factor. Other risk factors to be considered in
thrombosis prophylaxis: - Surgery, especially in the abdominal
region, hip replacement - Patients with varicose veins are particularly at risk - Dehydration - Hypercoagulability, e. g. drug induced - Immobility, even of only one limb (paralysis, plaster casts, etc.) - Thrombophlebitis (primary or secondary deficiency of AT III, Protein C or S). Protective Measures The damage caused to the venous wall by
insufficiency of the venous valves and the
increase in volume is irreversible. 
Protective measures merely prevent progression of the existing disease. The pathogenic parameters, reduced rate
of flow and increase in volume, can be
positively influenced by the following measures: Compression hosiery Exercises - specific exercises to activate the pump
  in the calf veins and ankle, especially
  suitable for bedridden patients. Sports - Walking - Dancing - Cross country skiing - Golf - Swimming - Cycling Vacation - Preferably not in hot climates
  (not above 20 degrees C) - Hill walking and rambling Weight reduction if overweight Elevation of the legs - Several times daily for 5 - 10 minutes Choice of suitable occupation, or change of employment if necessary Orthopaedic inserts - for flat/splay feet Cold showers of the feet - Several times daily for 3 - 5 minutes Drug therapy - Medication to increase venous tone Compression Therapy The fundamental effect of compression
therapy, the primary and most important
conservative treatment of peripheral venous diseases, is to increase venous flow,
thereby influencing the main factor in the
removal and prevention of complications. Without compression therapy, conservative
treatment alone will never be successful. Compression therapy affects the hemodynamics of venous flow. 1.External compression reduces the pathological distension of the veins. 2. Compression can approximate the insufficient venous valves and restore their
 functional effectiveness. 3. By reducing the volume of the veins, the
 rate of blood flow in them is increased. 4. The fibrinolytic activity of the venous wall
 is increased and the risk of thrombosis
 reduced. Compression bandaging is indicated for
the initial treatment of complications. Once the diagnosis has been confirmed,
compression hosiery allows considerable
advantages over bandaging in preventing
the recurrence of symptoms and further
deterioration . Venous diseases tend to show progression
and therefore require a consistent compression therapy treatment program. Compression Bandaging Compression bandaging is used to
counteract edema or dermatogenic complications. Compression bandaging produces short term measured compression of both superficial and deep tissue veins. Congestion is reduced by high working pressure and movement. Bandaging compresses tissues and veins
and provides resistance to the calf musculature. The more inelastic the bandaging
material, the less the resistance yields on
walking. In cases prone to swelling, inelastic bandaging restricts the increased passage of
lymph from the capillaries into the tissue
and so protects against it becoming "boggy"
and sustaining nutritive damage. On walking, the tissue fluid is actively
expelled, the flow of lymph is increased
and the protein content of the tissue is
reduced. By decreasing the diameter of the veins,
there is an increase in venous return and
thrombosis formation is prevented.
Superficial inflammation of the veins is
reduced more quickly with compression
bandaging and movement than with local
treatment alone. If the deep venous system
is involved, then naturally the same guidelines apply as for the treatment of deep vein
thrombosis. For compression bandaging to be effective,
it is essential that the correct technique is
used when applying firm, limited stretch
bandages to produce graduated pressure
that reduces in a distal to proximal direction. The choice between crepe and tape bandages depends on the type of disease and
the attitude of the patient towards the
therapy program. The more acute and extensive the congestion in the tissue, the more inelastic the
bandage should be and the higher the
compression pressure. The necessary technique and experience
in bandaging and creating the optimal pressure graduation, generally precludes self bandaging by the patient. Compression Hosiery The main purpose of medical compression
hosiery is to maintain the results of treatment and to avoid further complications.
The disappearance of swelling and pain of
the affected leg is prolonged by compression hosiery and relapses are prevented. At working pressure, the leg "works"
against the garment, at resting pressure,
the garment "works" against the leg. Unlike compression bandaging with its high
working pressure, compression hosiery
exerts a resting pressure, which varies
depending on the garment's class of compression. The daily buildup of pressure is
controlled by the limited ability of the
hosiery to stretch, therefore, incompetent
venous valves are approximated, venous
return is accelerated, the fibrinolytic activity
of the venous wall is increased, and the risk
of thrombosis reduced. Compression hosiery is better tolerated
and easier to put on than compression bandages. Compression hosiery is therefore
generally more acceptable to the patient. Compression hosiery today is usually manufactured as a two-way stretch compression
stocking, i. e. they are elastic both lengthwise and widthwise. The stocking's graduated pressure, decreasing from the
ankle upwards is ensured both in ready made and made to measure hosiery. This
precision and accuracy in compression is
controlled, in Germany, by the Hohenstein
Institute which issues the "manufacturer
association quality mark" for medical compression stockings. The earlier description "elastic stockings"
can be misleading. It is not the material, but
the compression that determines the effectiveness of the hosiery and natural elasticity is by no means incorporated into all
hosiery. The term "elastic stockings" is
often the first obstacle to good patient compliance, where as "modern medical compression hosiery" often helps to break
down patient reservations relative to compression therapy. "Support" hosiery, where compression is
below compression Class I, (20-30 mmHg)
is of no proven medical benefit and is therefore not available on prescription. In Germany, two pairs of compression
hosiery stockings (two stocking pairs or two
pantyhose) are allowed per year with the
permission of the National Health Insurance
Program. For hygienic reasons, two pairs
of stockings or pantyhose should be prescribed on the first occasion. Since sweat
and ointment residues attack the elastic
fibers of the hosiery, prescribing two pairs
prolongs the stockings life. Medical compression hosiery that is washed and changed daily lasts considerably longer. Compression hosiery, when properly and
regularly cared for, retains its therapeutic
compression effect for at least six months. Modern Compression Hosiery The development of modern compression
hosiery, such as MEDI hosiery, has rendered the prejudice against unattractive and
uncomfortable elastic stockings obsolete. Modern compression stockings and pantyhose are made using two way stretch
knitting techniques, that provides not only
adjustment for slight length differences,
without changing the graduated pressure,
but is also elastic in all directions. The
stockings, therefore, do not wrinkle. Modern compression hosiery, such as
MEDI hosiery, is so transparent that it is
practically indistinguishable from normal
fine fashion hosiery. MEDl's are available
in fashionable colors and can be worn comfortably and confidently by the patient
during leisure, work, and on social occasions.
MEDI medical compression stockings are
manufactured from yarn and dye colors
that are hypoallergenic. The most advanced
manufacturing techniques make MEDI
hosiery porous to air and virtually allows
the skin to breathe freely. This reduces or
prevents patients from sweating, itching, etc... The prescribing of modern compression
hosiery is an important component of
improved patient compliance and improved
therapeutic results. Classes of  Compression The division of compression into four
classes enables the amount of applied
pressure to be matched to the venous
disorder of the legs. Class 1 (20-30 mmHg) For a feeling of heaviness and tiredness in
the legs; slight varicose veins without
marked edema; onset of varicosis during
pregnancy. Class 2 (30-40 mmHg) For more marked symptoms. Varicose
veins; moderate edema; marked varicosis
in pregnancy; slight post-traumatic swelling;
after healing of minor ulcers; after superficial
venous inflammation; after sclerotherapy
and varicose vein operations. Class 3 (40-50 mmHg) For all conditions resulting from chronic
(Post-thrombotic) venous insufficiency;
severe edema; white atrophy; dermatosclerosis; after healing of crural ulcers;
reversible lymphedema. Class 4 (50-60 mmHg) For severe cases of
lymphedema.
Class III and 
By wearing two compression stockings,
one over the other, the compression values
are almost doubled. This fact can be useful
in difficult cases - ie. in inadequate pressure
of Class IV in lymphedema; immobility with
difficulties putting on the hosiery and in
extreme obesity. Hosiery lengths Below knee (calf)       A - D Above knee (mid-thigh)  A - F Thigh length            A - G Pantyhose               A - M Maternity tights        A - MU Hosiery accessories It is extremely important for the
effectiveness of any compression hosiery,
that the stocking be properly fitted and
worn correctly. The stockings must neither slip down nor
cut into the skin of the leg. To prevent the hosiery from slipping,
especially with patient movement, an
appropriate attachment device may be
prescribed. In the past, non-elastic suspenders or
garter belts were prescribed for men and
women. This is still possible today, but the
aesthetic sensitivity of patients currently
demands other solutions. The more recent
fixing of the stocking with a hypoallergenic
adhesive glue or tape has been increasingly
supplanted by hosiery with a non-slip
silicone top band, a thigh with waist
attachment stocking or pantyhose. Also, to avoid the stocking "cutting" into the
skin, it is important to follow the
manufacturer's information relative to the
circumference of the leg size. If this is
done, then the silicone top band is the ideal
attachment, especially for men, as it avoids
the need to wear a men's leotard or
pantyhose which may reduce patient
compliance in older males. With more conical leg shapes, the stockings
can be held up by prescribing a thigh with
waist attachment stocking, which attaches
thigh length stockings to a waist attachment.
In addition to conical shaped legs,
pantyhose are particularly suitable for
young women, on grounds of compliance.
Pantyhose always ensure a correct
graduation of pressure up to the thigh. Compression hosiery, of whatever length,
should never be "turned over" at the top,
because this can cause the stocking to cut
into the skin. Made to Measure (MTM), or Ready Made Hosiery ? An exact fit of the medical compression
hosiery is essential for optimal effectiveness. Made to measure garments should be
prescribed if ready made hosiery fails to
take into account: a) Extremes of body size b) Considerable differences in leg length c) Partial amputations; deformed legs
and/or feet d) For pantyhose - different classes of
  compression needed for each leg It should be remembered that two-way
stretch hosiery compensates for slight
differences in leg length. Ready made
hosiery is normally adequate. As a rule: Made to measure garments - as many as
are necessary, but not more than required. Prescribing of medical compression hosiery The prescribing of medical compression
hosiery was regulated, in Germany, by
Bulletin 5 (October 1974) of the Federal
Association of Physicians Participating in
Health Insurance Program and in the
Guidelines of 13.7.1982. The following details must be given when
prescribing: 1) Number of hosiery garments 2) Style of hosiery required 3) Compression class according to the
Indications Table 4) If necessary, mark "Made to measure" 5) If necessary, the prescribing of hosiery
accessories 6) Diagnosis 7) Any additional remarks e.g. name of
  make, etc.. Fitting Aids. Damage to the compression stockings
can impair their functioning. Correct and
careful donning of the hosiery is just as
important as the right care. The patient will find instructions for the care
of the hosiery in each package or box. The patient can and should be taught how
to apply their compression stockings when
they are first prescribed - if not in the
doctor's office, then by the medical
appliance supplier. To avoid damage, rings, bracelets, etc.,
should be removed before applying the
stockings. Wearing even household rubber
gloves has proven useful. Finger and
toenails should be short and smooth. The medi Butler is of great assistance in
donning medical compression stockings.
With this aid, patients with restricted
mobility or those who are considerably
overweight can put on the stockings, even
those of high classes of compression,
easily and with almost no effort. The Butler can be used to apply all styles of
stockings. For example, with pantyhose,
one leg should be pulled on as far as the
calf, and then the procedure repeated with
the other leg. The medi Butler is prescribable in certain
conditions and is available at most medical
appliance suppliers. medi Butler Instructions. Place the medi Butler on a firm base. Pull the upper edge of
the stocking up over the
semi-circle portion of the
frame so that the inner
surface of the stocking is
facing outside. Continue
to do this until the heel is
outside the semi-circle. Place the tip of the foot
up to the heel of the
stocking in the opening.
Put the entire foot
through the stocking and
frame until the foot rests
on the floor. Gradually pull up the
medi Butler and then
draw it backwards away
from the leg. Drug Therapy. A logical treatment of venous disorders
with drugs is directed towards increasing
the tone of the veins, accelerating venous
flow, reducing venous pressure, normalizing
capillary wall function and protecting
against edema by the normalization of the
exchange of materials in the tissue. Drug therapy alone is of little benefit in the
conservative treatment of venous disorders.
Here, compression as the base therapy, is
of particular importance. Experimental studies have shown a
venotonic effect with some drugs e.g. with
flavonoids. Whether this experimental
evidence is sufficient to alleviate subjective
discomfort, to remove or even to prevent
edema, is a matter of some debate. So far, unequivocal proof of  has
been presented for three drugs with differing
constituents. The pharmacological sites of
action are different. Two important uses
have meanwhile been demonstrated:
First is an edema protective effect
(flavonoids, rutosides, Ruscus alkaloids).
This effect is produced by a sealing of the
capillaries, so reducing the increased
passage of fluid into the tissues that occurs
in chronic venous insufficiency. The
increase in venous tone is brought about
by a reduction in venous blood volume and
an acceleration of flow, relieving the strain
on the peripheral tissues. The undoubted efficacy of diuretics can be
utilized to remove edema, but great
attention should be paid to the risk of
disorders of water and electrolyte imbalance
and the possibility of paradoxical edema
formation, e.g. through stimulation of the
renin-angiotensin system. Diuretics should
only be used for short periods, or
intermittently if at all. They are not suitable
for the prophylaxis of venous edema. The use of drugs for thrombosis prophylaxis
requires a specific indication. The Importance of Compliance and Acceptance in the Treatment of Venous Disorders. The aim of ambulant or in-patient therapy
of venous disorders of the legs is to first
treat complications, but also to introduce
protective measures to prevent progression. Of the roughly 1.2 million patients with
venous leg ulcers in the Federal Republic
of Germany, about one third sought medical
treatment only after the ulcers became
manifest. This suggests that the majority of patients
with crural ulcers - adequate patient
information notwithstanding - came to
serious harm during the treatment of their
venous leg disorders either due to a lack of
self initiative or at least, through self neglect. The consequences are often premature
incapacity for work and costs of more than
DM 2.5 billion per year for the treatment of
venous leg ulcers alone. Epidemiological studies show that about 12
million Germans have varicosis of the
saphenous veins requiring treatment and
some 3.5 million suffer from manifest
chronic venous insufficiency. The end
stage of these venous disorders is venous
leg ulcers.
Following the treatment of existing
complications, it is largely the self motivation of the patient and high
compliance with the compression therapy
that contribute to preventing progression to
the end stage. The care of patients with venous disorders
is lifelong and requires a controlled
strategy in relation to compliance. Not every leg ulcer is venous. Naturally, with combination of a venous
disorder and ulcerative skin changes, the
possible purely dermal genesis must be
considered and investigated. Particularly
with elderly patients, an accompanying
peripheral arterial occlusive disease should
first be excluded before any ulcer treatment
is started, or if such disease is present,
then appropriate therapy given. In the differential diagnosis of venous leg
ulcer, diseases should first be excluded before crural ulcer
is diagnosed. Unfortunately, this point is often
insufficiently explored. Measures to Improve Compliance. A strategy to improve compliance in the
treatment of venous leg disorders with the
aim of preventing progression, can be
broadly divided into three categories: Education - Behavior - Organization Educational measures primarily relate
to the imparting of information and
instructions. Detailed explanations of - Pathogenesis - Acute symptoms - Treatment of complications - Prognosis in poor compliance Desired changes in behavior -describe
risk factors and protective measures. Risk factors: - Lack of movement - Contact sports and activities inducing
high abdominal pressure - Obesity - Tight clothing - Several pregnancies - Heat - Estrogens in high doses especially
  when combined with smoking. Protective measures: - Prolonged compression therapy - Movement - Exercises - Elevating the legs - Choice of occupation, change if necessary - Orthopaedic inserts - Cold foot/leg showers Organizational improvements - describe possible, pleasant forms of prophylaxis
and their incorporation into everyday
life. - Modern, transparent compression hosiery in fashionable colors - Aids for fitting compression hosiery - Individually suited sports - Vacation planning with the possibility of walking in the right climate - Fitness and abolition of obesity by sport and movement - Regular walks with a partner. Many studies have confirmed that
maintenance of compliance rises with thenumber of appointments with the doctor.
The monitoring of compliance, especially
with compression therapy, should therefore
be associated with the necessary three month or six month supply of compression
hosiery. In doubtful cases, it is worth
reminding the patient. It is also important to include the patient's
medical appliance supplier in the process.
The supplier can be a useful source of
information about new developments in
this field and helpful in patient referral.
Furthermore, the acceptance of this medical
aid can be aided by the coordinated advice
of the supplier and the doctor. It is worth checking that symptoms have
been relieved in a patient after the first
prescription of compression hosiery or
change in prescription (e.g. if compression
class increases or decreases) once the
hosiery has been worn for about 14 days
and washed several times. Properly fitted compression hosiery should
not allow any edema to form more than 1
cm daily increase in circumference of a
normally shaped leg. Any pain, feeling of strain or numbness,
heaviness in the legs, skin irritation or
constriction during the wearing of the
hosiery is indicative of poor fitting and
should be corrected immediately. Dyspnoea and anginal pain can be signs of
unrecognized or inadequately treated heart
disease, which becomes symptomatic
through the displacement of blood from the
legs into the body. In this case, a reduction
in the level of compression can sometimes
prove beneficial. Particular problems are likely in patients
with combined venous and arterial perfusion
disorders, especially if associated
neuropathy is also present. Here it is
important to first determine whether
haemodynamically relevant restrictions in
arterial blood flow occur with the necessary
class of compression. If this is the case,
then hosiery with a lower applied pressure
should be used or compression hosiery
avoided altogether. This always applies to
patients with microangiopathy and any
associated neuropathy, because perfusion
disorders of the skin can occur which are
not detected by the patient due to the
neuropathy. Brief overview of Phlebology Conditions. Primary Varicose Veins. Insuffency of the entry of the long saphenous vein with varicose branch of the anterior calf and roughly identical bilateral development. Varicosis in Pregnancy. Typical cutaneous varicosities without accompanying insufficiency of the main veins. Insufficiency of the Perforators. Insufficient perforating vein in an unusual location, belonging to the retrofibular perforator. Inflammatory Venous Diseases. Superficial thrombophlebitis in an unusual location. Differential diagnosis required to exclude precursor of endangiitis obliterans. Deep Vein Thrombosis. (DVT) Two-level thrombosis. Worsening of the drainage disorder after exeresis of the large saphenous vein 12 months after acute thrombosis. Wound healing impared at the site of incision. Venous Leg Ulcer. Stasis induced eczema with venous leg ulcer and large areas of pigmentation resulting from insufficiency of the upper and/or lower leg veins, combined with primary varicosis. Similar condition of the left leg.. Venous Angiodysplasia. Klippel-Trènaunay with hypoplasia of the lymphatic tract and hypertrophy of the soft tissue.  Condition after Condoleon operation with chronic lymphatic fistula. Juvenile Varicosis. Massive bilateral varicosis. Onset in second decade in life. Subsequent condition with megaplasia of the long saphenous vein and insufficiency of the femoral vein. | Company History | medi Products | Medical Information | | Send us e-Mail | International Addresses | | Home | Thi