Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Good bacteria: Prescript-Assist, Body Biotics soil-based probiotics. Sacred 
              Mountain, Inc. Nutritional Supplements Free Shipping in the United States 
              on orders over $200.00 Home > Research > Good Bacteria Research Good Bacteria Part 1 The 
                        following articles describe medical research on good bacteria 
                        and their positive impact on health issues such as Candida 
                        yeast infections, allergies, diarrhea, Crohn's Disease, 
                        colitis and cancer. (This is scientific research and it 
                      was not conducted on specific brands of probiotic supplements.) Article 
                    17 on Candida: The 
                    in vitro activity of vaginal Lactobacillus with probiotic 
                    properties against Candida Abstract. 
                    This research found that different strains of the bacteria 
                    Lactobacilli have a negative impact on Candida albicans in the urinary tract... Article 16 on Health Status: Good 
                      Bacteria and Pigs: Field evaluation of the efficacy of a 
                      probiotic containing Bacillus licheniformis and Bacillus subtilis spores, on the health status 
                      and performance of sows and their litters Abstract. From the results it was evident that the good 
                      bacteria in the supplementation of the feed improved gilt/sow 
                      performance... Article 
                      15 on Diarrhea: The 
                      probiotic effect of Saccharomyces boulardii in 
                      a pediatric age group Abstract. 
                      This is a pioneering study investigating combined use of 
                      antibiotics and helpful bacteria in pediatric diarrhea patients 
                      and the probiotics were found to be helpful... Article 
                      14 on Allergy: Treatment 
                      of perennial allergic rhinitis with lactic acid bacteria Abstract. 
                      The results suggest that ingestion of LP-33-fortified fermented 
                      milk for 30 days can effectively and safely improve the 
                      quality of life of patients with allergic rhinitis, and 
                      these friendly bacteria may serve as an alternative treatment 
                      for allergic rhinitis... Article 
                      13 on Colitis: Good 
                      Bacteria and Rats: Clostridium butyricum , a probiotic 
                      derivative, suppresses dextran sulfate sodium-induced experimental 
                      colitis in rats Abstract. 
                      Recent studies have suggested that good bacteria and the 
                      short chain fatty acids (SCFA's) they produce exert a therapeutic 
                      effect on inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patient... Article 
                      12 on Crohn's Disease, Colitis: Non-Pathogenic 
                      Bacteria Block Inflammatory Response Pathway In Intestinal 
                      Tract Press 
                      Release. Pathologists have discovered that helpful bacteria 
                      within the gastrointestinal tract may be responsible for 
                      blocking an immune pathway that otherwise could cause an 
                      unhealthy inflammatory response. This unhealthy response 
                      could play a fundamental role in inflammatory bowel diseases 
                      such as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis... Article 
                      11 on Diarrhea: Probiotics 
                      in relapsing and chronic diarrhea Abstract. In one patient, relapsing diarrhea resolved after 
                      probiotics were given with a 2-day course of metronidazole, 
                      and in the other patient, chronic diarrhea resolved after 
                      good bacteria were given... Article 
                      10 on Allergy: Probiotic 
                      effects on faecal inflammatory markers and on faecal IgA 
                      in food allergic atopic eczema/dermatitis syndrome infants Abstract. 
                      It was found that four-week treatment with Lactobacillus 
                      GG may alleviate intestinal inflammation in infants 
                      with atopic eczema/dermatitis syndrome (AEDS) and cow's 
                      milk allergy (CMA)... Article 
                      9 on Allergy: Induction 
                      of inflammation as a possible mechanism of probiotic effect 
                      in atopic eczema-dermatitis syndrome Abstract. 
                      Friendly bacteria induced systemically detectable low-grade 
                      inflammation, which might explain the clinical effects of 
                      probiotics in atopic eczema-dermatitis syndrome (AEDS) and 
                      cow's milk allergy (CMA)... Article 
                      8 on Allergy: Oral 
                      probiotic bacterial administration suppressed allergic responses 
                      in an ovalbumin-induced allergy mouse model Abstract. 
                      This study investigated whether Bifidobacterium bifidium and Lactobacillus casei and a gram-negative bacterium, Escherichia coli , function as allergic immune modulators 
                      to prevent food allergy. The B. bifidium and L. 
                      casei were found to be useful for the prevention of 
                      allergy... Article 
                      7 on Candida: Clostridium 
                      difficile pilot study: effects of probiotic supplementation on the 
                      incidence of Candida difficile diarrhoea Abstract. 
                      Colonic infection with Clostridium difficile leading 
                      to pseudomembranous colitis is a common complication of 
                      antibiotic therapy, especially in elderly patients, and 
                      bacteria can help to alleviate it... Article 
                      6 on Candida: Good 
                      Bacteria and Mice: Biotherapeutic effects of probiotic bacteria 
                      on candidiasis in immunodeficient mice Abstract. 
                      This research demonstrated not only that good bacteria have 
                      potential for both prevention and therapy of Candida yeast 
                      infections but also that helpful bacteria protect mice from 
                      candidiasis by a variety of immunologic and nonimmunologic 
                      mechanisms... Article 
                      5 on Viral, Bacterial Infections: Disruption 
                      of microbiocenosis of the large intestine and the immune 
                      and interferon status in children with bacterial complications 
                      of acute viral infections of the respiratory tract and their 
                      correction by high doses of Bifidumbacterin forte Abstract. 
                      The study used high doses of Bifidumbacterin forte and found that the children with bacterial complications 
                      of severe viral infections tolerated it and also that the 
                      friendly bacteria had value in increasing the patient resistance 
                      to infection... Article 
                      4 on Diarrhea: Acidified 
                      milk formula supplemented with Bifidobacterium lactis : 
                      impact on infant diarrhea in residential care settings Abstract. 
                      These results provide evidence that when viable Bifidobacterium 
                      lactis strain Bb 12 is added to an acidified infant 
                      formula it has some protective effect against acute diarrhea 
                      in healthy children... Article 
                      3 on Candida: Good 
                      Bacteria and Mice: Probiotic effects of feeding heat-killed Lactobacillus acidophilus and Lactobacillus 
                      case i to Candida albicans -colonized immunodeficient 
                      mice Abstract. 
                      The results of this study showed that even heat-killed bacteria 
                      of the strain Lactobacillus acidophilus can offer 
                      some protection from Candida albicans infections 
                      to immunodeficient mice... Article 
                      2 on Candida: In 
                      vitro studies on colonization resistance of the human gut 
                      microbiota to Candida albicans and the effects 
                      of tetracycline and Lactobacillus plantarum LPK Abstract. 
                      This study shows that the normal gut flora exert a 'natural' 
                      resistance to Candida albicans , however this can 
                      be diminished when an antibiotic is taken. The use of probiotics 
                      help to build the bacteria back up again and regain the 
                      resistance to Candida albicans... Article 
                      1 on Cancer: Good 
                      Bacteria and Mice: New Bacteria Target Cancers In Mice News 
                      Release. Scientists have engineered organisms that selectively 
                      target large advanced tumors in mice... 1 
          good bacteria 17 
          bacteria vs yeast 16 
          pigs improve 15 
          pediatric 14 
          allergic rhinitis 13 
          IBD, bacteria 12 
          inflammatory 11 
          diarrhea 10 
          infant allergies 9 
          dermatitis 8 
          prevent allergy 7 
          bacteria, diarrhea 6 
          mice candidasis 5 
          probiotic effect 4 
          good formula 3 
          Candida in mice 2 
          good bacteria 1 
                              cure cancer Information, statements and 
              products on this website have not been evaluated by the FDA and 
              are not intended to diagnose, mitigate, treat, cure, or prevent 
              any disease or health condition. Copyright 
                1997-2011 Sacred Mountain, Inc. Privacy Policy | Terms 
                of Use | Map Body Biotics™ | Prescript-Assist™ | Pet Flora Order 
                Now Home About 
                probiotics Body Biotics™ Prescript-Assist™ Children 
                Body Biotics™ Pet 
                Flora™ TAS- a ™ Aloe 
                PURE™ pH 
                PERFECT™ Life 
                Green Essentials™ Canine 
                Comfort Order CCNow 
                Credit Cards Contact Research friendly 
                bacteria: 3 
                beneficial bacteria 2 
                helpful bacteria 1 
                good bacteria immune 
                system: 6 
                immune booster 5 
                immunity support 4 
                strengthen 3 
                disease fighting 2
                boost immunity 1 
                system boosting intestines: bac