
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8k PHP/5.3.10
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Content-Type: text/html
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 10:36:32 GMT
Connection: close

Honeymark Antiseptic Spray View Cart | Checkout Store Hours | Order Status I Need Relief From Select Allergies Asthma Bed Bugs Chemicals Dust Mites Humidity Mold & Mildew Pet Dander Pollen Sinuses Shop By Brand Select Air O Swiss Humidifiers Airfree Air Sterilizers Airpura Air Purifiers Alen Air Purifiers Austin Air Purifiers Blueair Air Purifiers Crane Humidifiers Danby Dehumidifiers Delonghi Dehumidifiers Dyson Vacuums Electrolux Vacuum Cleaners Friedrich Dehumidifiers Frigidaire Dehumidifiers IQAir Air Purifiers Ladybug Steam Cleaners Miele Vacuum Cleaners Plasmawave Air Purifiers Santa Fe Dehumidifiers Sebo Vacuum Cleaners Winix Dehumidifiers Whirlpool Air Purifiers All Brands Air Purifiers | Asthma | Bedding | Dehumidifiers | EMF | Furniture | Humidifiers | Lighting | Sinus Care | Steam Cleaners | Vacuum Cleaners | Water Filters | CATALOG Health & Beauty Antifungal Socks Blood Pressure Monitors Dental Health Hair Care Nickel Free Products Nutrition Supplements Skin Care Steam Therapy ON SALE GIFTS New Products Top Categories Air Purifiers Bedding Dehumidifiers Dust Mite Covers Humidifiers Replacement Filters Steam Cleaners Vacuum Cleaners Water Filters All Categories Air Conditioners Air Purifiers Asthma Treatment Bath Bedding Bed Bug Covers Dust Mite Covers Carpet Cleaners Cleaning Cleaning Supplies Clothing Dehumidifiers Dental Health EMF Shields Fans Floor Cleaners Furnace Filters Furniture Health & Beauty Home Decor Humidifiers Mattresses Natural Lighting Nutrition Supplements Pet Allergy Control Replacement Filters Saunas Sinus Care Steam Cleaners Steam Mops Test Kits UV Sanitization Vacuum Cleaners Water Filters Clearance Center Learning Center Customer Service FAQ Order Catalog Order Status Returns Shipping Policy Programs Affiliates Medical Reimbursement Patient Literature Press / Media Honeymark Antiseptic Spray Expert: Be the first to write a customer review about Honeymark Antiseptic Spray. Honeymark Antiseptic Spray Honeymark Antiseptic Spray contains Manuka Honey which acts a safe and effective antibacterial agent. Offers a preventative measure to the risk of Staph infections and disinfects scrapes, cuts and abrasions. Honeymark Antiseptic Spray Size: 2 oz. Availability: Ships out within 3 business days. MH PC ASPR $19.95 Qty. Honeymark Antiseptic Spray/Lotion Package Includes 2 oz. First Aid Antiseptic Lotion and 2 oz. Antiseptic Spray Save $3 when purchasing this package Availability: Ships out within 3 business days. MH PC ALSPK $41.90 Qty. View Cart | Checkout Description Features Reviews Buy Here Description of Honeymark Antiseptic Spray Our Honeymark Antiseptic Sprays utilize the natural healing properties of UMF Manuka Honey to disinfect germs and heal wounds, cuts, burns, abrasions and other skin infections. Manuka Honey has the ability to draw moisture out of bacterial cells, making it impossible for them to survive. Due to the presence of vitamins and antioxidants, the antiseptic spray is one of the most effective antibacterial agents available. Available in a convenient 2 ounce travel size. Buy Here Top Features of Honeymark Antiseptic Spray Helps eliminate germs on hands and other parts of the skin. Disinfects scrapes, cuts and abrasions Anti-inflammatory properties also helps to reduce pain Uses Certified, Active UMF 16+ Manuka Honey in all its products. This is a medical grade honey that has been proven to be effective in treating many types of health conditions Has a smooth texture that absorbs easily into the skin, without leaving a sticky residue Features natural antioxidant, antiviral, anti-inflammatory and antifungal properties Contains non-peroxide antibacterial agents which can inhibit the growth of bacteria that cause slow healing wounds All ingredients are safe, healthy, natural and pure Active Ingredient: SD Alcohol 40 63%. Purpose: Antibacterial Other Ingredients: Manuka Honey (16+), Tea Tree Oil, Oregano Oil Manuka Honey is imported from New Zealand Directions: Spray liberally to hands or directly on scrapes, cuts or abrasions Size: 2 oz. (56.7gm) Care of: For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body. In case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns, consult a doctor. Stop use and consult a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse. Do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor. Product Usage: Infected Wounds: Manuka Honey's main claim to fame is its extremely powerful antibacterial and antimicrobial properties. Research has proven that Manuka Honey promotes healing. Bacteria cannot survive in an environment with Manuka Honey because of its acidity. Even hard-to-heal wounds and antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria have not been able to fight the healing powers of Manuka Honey as it's been effective in destroying MRSA and healing Staph infections. The presence of hydrogen peroxide and other antibacterial properties make Manuka Honey a powerful infection-fighting agent. Unlike many other topical antiseptics, Honeymark's First Aid Antiseptic Lotion causes no tissue damage because the hydrogen peroxide in Manuka Honey is exists in a slow release manner. In addition to being extremely effective in treating wounds, this product can also be used on burns. Explanation of ingredients: SD Alcohol 40: Derived from grain. Used as an antibacterial agent. Manuka Honey: Derived from the nectar of the flowers that grow on the Manuka plant, indigenous to New Zealand. Contains natural antibacterial, antiviral, anti-fungal and anti-parasitic properties. Tea Tree Oil: Derived from the leaves of the Melaleuca alternifolia, indigenous to Australia. Contains antibacterial and anti-fungal properties. Oregano Oil: Derived from the oregano herb. High in antioxidant and antimicrobial activity. Buy Here Top Reports by Experts and Customers - Honeymark Antiseptic Spray Expert Review: Courtesy of AllergyBuyersClub.com Buy Here Top Honeymark Antiseptic Spray MH PC ASPR $19.95 Helps eliminate germs on hands and other parts of skin. Also disinfects scrapes, cuts and abrasions.. Size: 2 oz. spray bottle. Availability: Ships out within 3 business days. Honeymark Antiseptic Spray/Lotion Package MH PC ALSPK $41.90 1 Honeymark 2 oz. First Aid Antiseptic Lotion and 1 Honeymark 2 oz. Antiseptic Spray is conveniently packaged together. Availability: Ships out within 3 business days. Save $3 when purchasing this package You Might Also Like... Honeymark First Aid Antiseptic Lotion MH PC FALO $24.95 Availability: Ships out within 3 business days. Honeymark Anti-Itch Cream MH PC ANCR $24.95 Availability: Ships out within 3 business days. Click here for BBB Business Review © 1998-2012 AllergyBuyersClub.com - A Division of Boston Green Goods Inc. All Rights Reserved. Information presented at AllergyBuyersClub.com is developed by the AllergyBuyersClub Staff+ and is for educational
            purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice or treatment. Use of this online service is subject
            to the disclaimer and the terms
              and conditions . *Free shipping on all orders over $150 for the 48 contiguous states. Excludes some heavyweight items as noted on specific product pages. Contact
            Us - About
            Us - Privacy
            Policy - Shipping - Customer Service - Affiliate Progra