Content-Type: text/html
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.8

Migraines/Headaches | Acupuncture Dallas Texas Home About Dr Services Specialties Testimonials FAQ Herbs Contact acupuncture dallas DR. LIN ZHOU, O.M.D., L.AC. FABORM Our Practice Infertility -- Infertility & IVF Support -- Unexplained Infertility -- High FSH & Poor Egg Quality -- PCOS -- Relaxed Conception -- Endometriosis -- Pregnancy First Trimester -- Fertility & Diet -- Fertility & Lifestyle -- Scientific Studies -- Chinese Herbal Medicine Women's Health -- Women of All Ages -- Menstruation -- Menopause Pain Management -- How Acupuncture Helps Pain -- Back Pain -- Headaches & Migraines -- Endometriosis Allergies Depression, Anxiety & Insomnia Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Facial Rejuvenation Stop Smoking Cancer Care Site Map Recent Studies Research Shows Chinese Herbal Formula is Effective for Use in Treating PCOS in Women This finding indicates that wen-jing-tang Chinese herbal formula is appropriate for use in treating PCOS in women with various constitutions Revitalize Your Health with Acupuncture and Nutrition Preventive medicine is defined as the part of medicine engaged with preventing disease rather than curing it. Electro-Acupuncture Increases Blood Flow to Testis Acupuncture point and frequency-specific effects of abdominal EA on Testicular Blood Flow are shown in humans. Acupuncture for the IVF Poor Responders Conclusions: Significant increases in pregnancy outcomes were confirmed by this study and the data uniquely supported the advantage of acupuncture in patients with normal Pulsatility index. We also demonstrated that both acupuncture treatment protocols could be used together with a synergistic effect. Evaluating Acupuncture as an Adjunct to IVF Conclusions: Our study shows a significantly lower amount of gonadotropins used when IVF is combined with standard acupuncture. A 70% pregnancy rate was also achieved with standard acupuncture and IVF, compared to 25%. Larger prospective trials are necessary. Point Newsletter Alleviate Your Stress with Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine As a normal part of life, stress enables us to get things done. If left unmanaged, stress can lead to emotional, psychological, and even physical problems... Treatment of Neurological Disorders with Acupuncture A neurological disorder refers to a problem with the nervous system, which is... About Depression Mental and emotional  problems can interfere with one's life in every aspect. Acupuncture for Fibromyalgia Syndrome Fibromyalgia Syndrome (FMS) affects an estimated 2 percent of the population. Conventional therapies are limited in the success of treating The unique advantage of Chinese Medicine for Infertility Traditional Chinese medicine has been used to treat infertility for almost two thousand years.  The significant results have drawn more attention nowadays Acupuncture and Menopause: Creating Physical and Emotional Health with Acupuncture With its close understanding of the female body, Oriental medicine has always addressed the special needs of women throughout their lives. Archives Infertility | IVF (10) Menstruation | Menopause (5) Pains (12) Allergies (2) Depression | Anxiety (2) Others (7) Acupuncture for Migraines The National Headache Foundation recently reported that more than 28 million   Americans experience migraine and headaches each year, and it is one of the main   reasons people seek medical attention. Acupuncture has become a well-accepted   alternative solution to the problem fully supported by medical studies, which   proved that acupuncture significantly reduced the intensity and frequency of   headaches as well as analgesic consumption ( Department of Neurology,   University College Hospital, London, England ). The Mayo Pain Clinic has used   acupuncture for 30 years, since 1974, in cases where their patients experienced   little or no pain relief from medications or nerve blocks. How acupuncture treats migraines & headaches effectively: Modern science believes that acupuncture: can bring about many biochemical changes in the   blood serum to stabilize serotonin, a chemical messenger in the brain and spinal   cord, and release endorphins, the brain’s nature painkillers. affects the autonomic nervous system and   activates the parasympathetic nervous system to decrease stress, muscle tension,   anxiety, irritability and prevent recurrence. promotes cerebral circulation , allowing the   afflicted region to obtain sufficient blood supply, oxygen and   nutrition. How we can help you We offer a safe, effective alternative treatment to restore and   maintain the harmony in your body, which helps you become pain free and   remain stable over time with no side effects. Natural healing vs. medications and   surgery – Acupuncture naturally rearranges the level of your   body’s chemicals, there are hardly any side effects and you will not build up   any resistance in the long run. You will be healing yourself! Medications   are often potentially more debilitating and harmful than the headache itself.   Studies have shown that headache drugs can cause liver damage, ulcers or become   addictive. Steroid injections used as a nerve block carry life-threatening side   effects and shouldn’t be used for prolonged periods of time. Surgical treatments   for headache have a less than 50% success rate. Individually designed assessment – Our   diagnosis is based on headache etiology, physiology and patterns of symptoms.   From the perspective of Chinese medicine, headache differentiation is based on   patterns of pathogenic factors and the location of headache. Dr. Zhou will   analyze your body’s unique individual disharmonies and develop a prescription   designed precisely to correct your specific imbalances for long-term   success. Holistic approaches – Dr. Zhou   promotes wellness by treating the whole person. She not only helps you relieve   the symptoms associated with tension headache, migraine, cluster headache and   sinus headache but also the causes or factors of the headaches. One of the   main factors that cause migraine and headaches is stress. Since it is almost   impossible to avoid stress in today’s world, Dr. Zhou focuses treatment to help   you recover quickly form stress in order to avoid harmful migraine or headaches.   Patients not only eliminate their migraine or headaches, but are also pleased to   find that their stiff necks, anger, anxiety, mood swings, irritability,   restlessness, fatigue and allergies (see Allergies ) are distinctly improved or disappear. For   women, Dr. Zhou treats many patients suffering from migraine related to their hormonal cycle . Treatment plan and Prevention –   Acupuncture is very helpful for tension, cluster and sinus headaches, and   patients often feel immediate relief. Dr. Zhou recommends more intensive   treatment for migraine attacks and advises two visits per week for a couple of   weeks, reduced to once a week for 3-4 weeks, with follow up treatment as needed.   Adherence to the treatment plan and maintenance regimes is needed in order to   change the various underlying causes and fully succeed with the treatment. Dr.   Zhou suggests that women who suffer from migraine be sure to make note of their   menstrual cycle in a migraine diary, and she will normally perform treatment   before menustration or ovulation. Herbal medicine is very effective in maintaining   a healthy balance in the body and supporting the body’s own capacity for   preventing recurrence of headaches. Dr. Zhou always emphasizes lifestyle changes , which play an important   role in preventing migraine attacks including: Keeping regular sleeping patterns. Avoiding physical or mental fatigue. Avoiding alcohol (especially red wine). Avoiding caffeine because it is a vasodilator. Eliminating all foods that may trigger migraine from   your diet, such as: dairy products, chocolate, spices, wheat and corn. Dr. Zhou   recommends the “zone diet” according to Dr. Sears’ book “Mastering the Zone”. Recording any events in your life that cause your   headaches, and which you must avoid, if possible. Taking Magnesium (500mg per day) daily to increase   muscle relaxation. Acupuncture can significantly improve your   ability to ward off migraine and headache, and put you on the road to the   healthier pain-free life you deserve! Site Search In The News Traditional Chinese Medicine Improves Infertility Treatment Success Traditional Chinese medicine has long been used to ease pain and treat disease. Now researchers have found it can also boost fertility if used in combination with fertility treatments. Surprising Causes of Male Infertility a number of lifestyle choices, environmental factors and chance events can sabotage the sperm. Latest Posts Anovulation Cycles I always thought it would  take me a long time to get pregnant and that I would need invasive procedures  or medical assistance since I had not had a regular period in almost 2 years. Two Failed IVF Cycles, Blocked Fallopian Tube and Conceived Naturally My journey to pregnancy consisted of over two years of fertility treatments and a lot of heartbreak until I met Dr. Zhou. Conceived Naturally with Only One Fallopian Tube, Irregular Cycles and a Failed IVF Acupuncture brought the bliss and peace to our lives which has been a constant turmoil since 3 years. Natural Conceived at Late 30's I had a hard time getting pregnant when my husband and I started. We are both in our late 30’s and we thought we had everything planned. 40 Years Old, Elevated NK Cell Thin Uterine Lining & a Full Term Pregnancy My experience with Dr Zhou and acupuncture was amazing. At the beginning of 2006 we had been trying to conceive for a year. Naturally Conceived with Luteal Phase Defect In October, 2009, my husband and I had suffered an early miscarriage. I was 35   and my husband 39 - and "at our age," we knew we might have problems conceiving   again - and maintaining a pregnancy. PCOS, Naturally Conceived after Many Drug Cycle Failures I share with you my story and the way Dr. Zhou helped me realize my biggest dream: to be a mother. Getting Pregnant Naturally - IVF Poor Responder After a stillbirth at 36 weeks of pregnancy (conceived by IUI) and 6 attempted IUI/IVF cycles, my husband and I were feeling hopeless. I Got Pregnant Naturally When My FSH Level Over 80 About three years ago, my husband and I decided to have a second baby. 40 Years Old, a Full Term Pregnancy after a Miscarriage I was 39 when we decided to try a second time to have a child. My first pregnancy ended in a miscarriage, and recovery was difficult Fertile Land Fertility: Knowing Hope Have you ever thought about how many times you think the words 'I hope'? How Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine(TCM) Enhances Fertility TCM describes the female reproductive system as a network of energy systems. Each energy system has complementary organs and hormonal responses. Acupuncture, Fertility Research Delivers Healthy Results Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) has been practiced for thousands of years. Amazingly, the first written gynecological records date back to the Shang dynasty (1500 BC- 1000 BC) Acupuncture: A Cure for Infertility? - Fox News New York - At 36, Lucy Appert has suffered through two miscarriages, a stillbirth at 8 1/2 months and, because of a rare pregnancy-related liver dysfunction © 2004 - 2011 All Rights R