Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Mini Gastric Bypass as a Treatment for Obesity For Aesthetic Centers - Add Your Clinic Aesthetic Guide Anti Aging Dentistry Hair Loss Laser Surgery Plastic Surgery Weight Loss Find Aesthetic Centers, Clinics & Physicians Mini Gastric Bypass as a Treatment for Obesity Once someone is classified as being obese they will certainly look to treatment that will help them regain their ideal body weight such as a healthier diet and regular form of exercise. But naother segment classified as morbidly obese where the excess far has accumulated in the fatty tissues seek surgical procesures to lose weight. Gastric bypass procedures are a grouping of similar surgical processes that will treat morbidly obese patients and the health problems they may develop. Mini Bypass Procedure The first approach to gastric bypass surgery is mini gastric bypass or loop gastric. It is a operation that staples the stomach and turns it into a sleeve. The purpose of the procedure is to create a very small stomach whilst the rest of the stomach is removed and the new stomach is attached to the small intestine therefore permitting the lower part of the stomach to be bypassed. As a result, obese people will tend to consume less and will absorb lesser amounts of food in to the body. However, this surgical procedure comes with pros and cons. The morbidly obese patients should expect a weight loss of 65 to 80% of excess body weight and a dramatic reduction in the developing and current health conditions caused by morbid obesity. Needless to say there is also a psychological and physiological impact on those who have gone through a mini gastric bypass surgery. Many suffer from depression during the following few months after surgery as their change in diet plays a role. Due to the restriction of food their energy levels will also be low. There are complications that may also follow after weight loss surgery such as anastomotic leakage, anastomotic stricture and anastomotic ulcer. Mini Gastric Bypass as Alternative Due to its simpleness of structure that uses the loop reconstruction and has weakened the challenge of laparoscopic surgery, the mini gastric bypass is suggested as an alternative to the Roux en-Y procedure that is a commonly employed gastric bypass technique. Even though the mini gastric bypass procedure may seem like an attractive prospect for weight loss, it is always best to consult a medical professional for other options whether it is a surgical or non surgical alternative depending on the history of your health. Find Local Aesthetic Services Aesthetic Centers & Clinics About | Add Your Resource | Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy | Publish | Link to Us | Resources Copyright © 2009 - AestheticConsumerGuide.com's mission is to provide aesthetic information about the most common aesthetic and cosmetic treatments in the aesthetic medicine industry today. AestheticConsumerGuide.com is p