Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Traditional Chinese Medicine/TCM and Headaches Traditional Chinese Medicine Information Page About TCM Yin-Yang Five Elements Acupuncture Herbal Therapy Qi-Gong Expert Advice on Common Diseases TCM News Health Resources Links About Us Expert Advice-Treatment of Headaches in Traditional Chinese Medicine(TCM): Averting Headaches with Acupuncture and Chinese Herbs Is acupuncture an effective treatment for migraines and other
types of headache? "Yes, indeed," is the confident answer of
acupuncture practitioners around the world. Every day, headache sufferers come
to acupuncture clinics in the United States and China and find relief for their
symptoms. For people who have been plagued by headaches for years, this relief
comes as a gift from one of the most ancient healing traditions in the world.
Chinese herbal medicine is another valid modality for treating and averting
headaches. The use of traditional Chinese herbs to treat headaches if just
beginning to be appreciated by American patients. Roger G. is a 37 year-old gentleman who came to my clinic a
year ago for severe migraine headaches. He had suffered from migraines since he
was thirteen, and for the last seven years his headaches had been a daily
occurrence, leaving him in constant pain and destroying any chance of leading a
normal life. His wife came with him that first day, and said to me, "You
have to help him – our whole family has been affected by Roger’s
headaches." Roger gave me a list of all the medications he had ever taken:
various prophylactic agents including beta-blockers, tricyclic agents, and
muscle relaxants. In the past few years, he had been using more and more
analgesic medication to allow him to function well enough to hold down a job. He
was taking Excedrin, aspirin, and generic Sudafed three times every day. When he
had especially severe headaches, he received Wigraine and Imitrex injections
every week. I started acupuncture treatments on Roger three times per
week. After a little more than two weeks, his headaches were significantly
reduced. Instead of experiencing daily headaches, he was headache-free three to
four days a week. I reduced the treatment to twice per week, then once per week.
After three months, Roger was totally headache free. Now I see him about once a
month for a "tune-up," and he remains free of pain. Every year about seventy million Americans suffer from
recurring headaches. Twenty- six million of them are identified as migraine
sufferers. The goal of both conventional Western medicine and traditional
Chinese medicine in the case of headaches is to relieve pain and enable people
to function well in their lives. But while the ultimate goal is the same, the
diagnostic paradigm and treatment modalities of these two types of medicine are
fundamentally different. In the remainder of this article, we contrast the
Western approach to headaches with the Chinese medicine approach, and also list
some Chinese herbal remedies for specific headache patterns. Conventional Western
Medicine for Headaches Modern scientific research has established the following
mechanisms for headaches. Headache pain begins with the trigeminal nerve, which
is located in the brain stem and carries sensory impulses to and from the face.
When the trigeminal nerve is stimulated by a headache trigger such as anxiety,
glare, noise, anger, improper diet, medications, or hormones, a burst of
neurotransmitters is released. One of these neurotransmitters, serotonin, has
the function of screening out "unimportant" signals to the brain, and
admitting signals that demand attention. Serotonin fluctuation is the
biochemical and neurological foundation of understanding headaches. Low
serotonin levels make people more vulnerable to headaches. The International Headache Society differentiates the
following types of headaches based on the number of attacks per month, length of
time per attack, characteristics of the pain, and other accompanying symptoms. Migraine Headache . Unilateral quality is the
characteristic that distinguishes migraine from other types of headache. Typical
symptoms of migraines include: intense head pain; nausea or vomiting; seeing an
aura (halo of light) around objects; sparkling, rainbow-like colors and black
spots in field of vision; extreme sensitivity to light; fever; chills; aching;
and sweating. Each migraine attack could last for several days. Tension Headache. A typical attack is characterized by a
mild to moderate squeezing or pressing pain which is steady and non-throbbing on
both sides of the head, back of the neck, and the facial area. It can last from
an hour to several hours. It may occur one or more times in a week. Cluster Headache. This headache is excruciatingly
painful. The penetrating and non-throbbing pain is felt behind the eyes or in
the temples. The incidence of cluster headaches continues for two to three
months at a time. Each attack can last from 45 minutes to two hours. Attacks
tend to occur at night, especially in the spring or autumn season. Post-Traumatic Headache . This results from head or neck
injury. The pain can be experienced as dull, aching, stabbing, sharp, or
excruciating at the site of the injury. Each attack can last from twenty minutes
to all day. Attacks occur in clusters or can be continuous. Sometimes the
headache strikes within 24 to 48 hours of the initial trauma, while in other
cases it takes months, or even years, for it to appear. Disease-Related Headache. Many disease conditions produce
headaches as part of their pathology. These include: brain tumor; allergies;
temporomandibular joint pain (TMJ); nerve pain; disorders of the head, neck,
ear, nose, throat and mouth; stroke; high blood pressure; constipation; and
sleeping disorders. Americans consume 80 billion tablets of aspirin a year, and
headaches are cited as the number-one reason for aspirin use. In addition to the
over-the-counter drugs that are readily available to the public, physicians
prescribe a variety of drugs to keep the "pain messengers" from
reporting to the brain, or to abort an attack in progress, or to prevent an
attack from occurring. Available pain killers range from analgesics, narcotics,
antidepressants, ergotamine derivatives, and anti-migraine drugs to
beta-blockers and calcium channel blockers. Unfortunately, many of these drugs
have unwanted side effects. What people really want is relief from their
headache pain, without harmful side effects. Acupuncture for Headaches Acupuncture is not only effective for migraine headaches, but
also works very well with tension headaches, cluster headaches, post-traumatic
headaches, and disease-related headaches that might be due to sinus problems,
TMJ, stroke, high blood pressure, or sleeping disorders. The greatest advantage
of acupuncture over Western medicine is that it does no harm. Unlike synthetic
drugs and surgery, acupuncture has virtually no side effects. Acupuncture, as an
effective treatment modality, was applied to headaches from the earliest
beginnings of traditional Chinese medicine. Traditional Chinese medicine has a
very coherent, consistent and philosophically-based framework for headache
etiology, physiology, diagnosis, and treatment strategy. It is not possible, in an article of this length, to explain
the theory of traditional Chinese medicine in detail. The key concepts of Yin
and Yang, and vital energy (Chi) are important, as well as an understanding of
the meridian system. Yang energy tends to go upwards and outwards. All the body’s
Yang meridians meet in the head, and they facilitate the flow of Blood and Chi
into the head. A clear mind and pain-free head depend on having a sufficiency of
Chi and Blood flow, well-functioning internal organs, and a correct rising and
falling of Yin and Yang energy. There are a number of conditions, patterns, or
dysfunctions that can cause headaches. The most common are: a deficiency of Chi,
which prevents Chi and Yang from circulating properly; a deficiency of Blood, so
that the meridians aren’t properly nourished, and insufficient Blood is
circulating to the head; a blockage of the meridians by external pathogenic
factors. Acupuncture treatment can harmonize the organs, balance Yin and Yang,
tonify Chi and Blood, and clear blocked meridians. Now that acupuncture has come into wider use in the United
States, both patients and professionals are asking questions about how
acupuncture works in a modern, scientific sense. What are the mechanisms? Is
there any scientific evidence that supports the effectiveness of acupuncture?
There have been a number of scientific studies and clinical trials since the
1970s, and these have tended to substantiate the ancient theories of traditional
Chinese medicine. Researchers and scientists now believe that acupuncture can
bring about many biochemical changes in the body: Serotonin Changes: Acupuncture treatments affect several
of the body’s neurotransmitters, bringing about changes in the blood serum
levels of these neurotransmitters. Scientists have found that low serotonin
levels make people more vulnerable to headaches. The ability of acupuncture to
regulate serotonin levels was extensively studied by experts in China, Japan,
and Canada. Changes in serotonin levels in both the brain and the spinal cord
can be achieved with acupuncture. Endorphin Changes: Dr. Jisheng Han, a world-renowned
professor in acupuncture research, discovered endorphin-type neuropeptides in
the 1970s, when China launched the acupuncture research program for
Acupuncture-induced Analgesia (AA). He showed that electrical stimulation of
acupuncture needles released different levels of endorphin compounds in the
central nervous system. Endorphins are natural pain killers in the body. It is
this mechanism that is most widely cited to explain the effectiveness of
acupuncture treatments in relieving pain, including headache pain. Acetylcholinesterase Changes: A study showed that
acupuncture can reduce pain by regulating blood acetylcholinesterase (Ach)
activity, which indicates that pain relief from acupuncture treatments is
related to peripheral cholinergic neurotransmitters. Serum Magnesium Changes: Acupuncture treatments affect
the levels of trace elements in blood serum. Scientists found that a low level
of magnesium in serum is correlated to migraines. A very recent clinical study
conducted in the Department of Acupuncture and Orthopedics at Hubei Institute of
Traditional Chinese Medicine indicates that acupuncture treatments can increase
the blood magnesium level. Endogenous Opioid System: Morphine and morphine-like
substances (opioids) have been used for the relief of pain since antiquity. It
was found recently that cells in certain regions of the brain bind opiates
stereospecifically, and that the analgesic potency (pain-relieving capacity) of
a drug correlated directly to its binding affinity for these receptors. This led
to a search for naturally-occurring endogenous opioid peptides (pain-killing
substances that the body naturally produces). Eukephalines, B-endorphin,
dynorphin, orphanin FQ, and endomorphin were discovered between 1975 and 1997.
Electroacupuncture, using different frequencies, can accelerate the release of
endogenous opioids in the central nervous system. In addition to the scientific biochemical studies cited
above, several clinical trials of acupuncture therapy support the effectiveness
of acupuncture treatments in the relief of migraine headaches. A randomized
clinical study with thirty participants was conducted in the Department of
Neurology, University College Hospital, London, England. The study results
showed that there was a significant reduction in pain intensity and medication
intake for patients who received acupuncture treatments. In another study
investigating the long-term outcome of using acupuncture to treat migraine, led
by Dr. Baischer of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Vienna, the
results showed that the improvements which are achieved with acupuncture therapy
are stable over a long period of time. The frequency of migraine attacks was
significantly reduced during a five-week observation period immediately after
treatment, and also during a three-year follow-up period. When physicians in this country refer their patients to an
acupuncturist, the most common reason is for headache treatment. Headache is
also included in the list of forty-three conditions recognized by the World
Health Organization (WHO) for which acupuncture is effective. Safe and effective
treatment of pain was the most important evidence that persuaded the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) to upgrade acupuncture needles from "experimental
use only" to "approved for use by professionals." The National
Institutes of Health (NIH) endorses acupuncture treatments for headaches. Chinese Herbal Medicine for Headaches Although headaches may be caused by different triggers, occur
in different locations and at different times, Chinese medicine practitioners
differentiate groups of symptoms into a specific pattern, and then treat that
pattern as it manifests in each individual patient. Each pattern is described in
terms of the type of pain experienced, general body conditions, appearance of
the patient’s tongue, and palpation of the patient’s pulse. A headache
pattern may be caused by external effects, such as chemicals, weather, and other
environmental factors; or by internal imbalances, such as a Blood Deficiency or
Kidney Deficiency. The following section lists the most commonly-encountered
headache patterns, with characteristic symptoms, and also gives the Chinese
herbs that are used to treat each pattern. Wind Cold Pattern . Symptoms include: sporadic pain,
stiff, aching shoulders; an aversion to cold temperatures; aggravation of the
condition by wind; absence of thirst; a thin-white tongue coating; and a
floating-tight pulse. Leading herbs for this pattern include ligustici wallichii
(chuan xiong), schizonepetae (jing jie), and ledebouriellae (fang feng). Wind Heat Pattern . Symptoms include: a painfully-swollen
sensation in the head; severe, "splitting" pain; fever, or an aversion
to warm temperatures; red face; red eyes; thirst; constipation; dark-colored
urine; a red tongue body with a yellow tongue coating; and a floating-rapid
pulse. Top herbs for this pattern include ligustici wallichii (chuan xiong),
actractylodis (bai zhi), and chrysanthemum (ju hua). Wind Dampness Pattern . Symptoms include: heavy-feeling
pain; a "muzzy," or confused feeling; a feeling of heaviness in the
whole body; chest congestion; aggravation of symptoms by damp weather; difficult
urination; loose bowels; a sticky-white tongue coating; and a soggy pulse.
Useful herbs for this condition are notoptergii (qiang huo), duhuo radix (du huo),
and ligustici wallichii (chuan xiong). Liver Yang Pattern . Emotional disturbance (especially
feelings of anger) is the primary origin of this pattern. Symptoms of the
pattern include: pain with dizziness; anxiety; anger; insomnia; hypochondriac
(under the ribcage) pain; red face; a bitter taste in the mouth; a thin-yellow
tongue coating; and a wiry-strong pulse. Top herbs for this pattern include
gastrodiae elatae (tian ma), and uncariae (gou teng). Kidney Deficiency Pattern . General weakness is the basic
cause of this pattern. Symptoms include: low-level pain with a feeling of
"emptiness"; dizziness; sore back; fatigue; spontaneous seminal
emissions (in men), or abnormal vaginal discharge (for women); ringing in the
ears; sleeplessness; red tongue; and a thin-weak pulse. The leading herbs
include rehmannia (shu di huang), corni officinialis (shan zhu yu), dioscoreae (shan
yao), and lycii chinensis (gou qi zi). Blood Deficiency Pattern . Chronic illness or loss of
blood is the cause of this pattern. Symptoms include: pain with dizziness; heart
palpitations; fatigue; pale complexion; a pale tongue body with a thin-white
tongue coating; and a thin-weak pulse. Leading herbs include angelica sinensis
(dang gui), paeoniae lactiflorae (bai shao), rhemannia (sheng di huang), and
ligustici wallichii (chuan xiong). Blood Stagnation Pattern . Symptoms include: chronic pain;
pain in a fixed location; sharp pain, such as pain from a head injury; a purple
tongue body with a thin-white tongue coating; and a thin or thin-choppy pulse.
Top herbs for this pattern include persicae (tao ren), carthami tinctorii (hong
hua), and paeoniae rubra (chi shao). Phlegm Retention Pattern . Chronic over-weight or the
habitual consumption of sweet and fatty foods are the main cause of this
pattern. Symptoms include: dull head pain with a feeling of heaviness and/or
muzziness; a sensation of fullness and oppression of the chest; a feeling of
nausea and phlegm retention in the throat; a white-sticky tongue coating; and a
slippery or wiry-slippery pulse. Herbs for this pattern include pinelliae (ban
xia), citri reticulatae (chen pi), and atractylodis (bai zhu). When a headache sufferer considers the treatment options
available, he or she should remember that acupuncture and Chinese herbal
medicine provide a safe, drug-free treatment tha