<http://www.hqbk.com/blog/?p=236>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Spinal Decompression Therapy in New York City | HQBK Blog Home | About HealthQuest | Professional Staff | Specials/Events | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Blogs Query Feb 14 Spinal Decompression Therapy in New York City This entry is filed under Spinal decompression , Spinal decompression therapy . Spinal decompression is a traction therapy which treats pain in the lower back, buttocks and hip. It is FDA approved for patient safety and efficiency in treating a wide range of spinal ailments. Some of the premier healthcare facilities and clinics in New York City offer this procedure. An Alternative Non-surgical Therapy Patients who suffer from a herniated disc and those who experience recurring back pain would find the non-surgical therapy an effective remedy. In some cases, it can be an alternative treatment option to surgery. The therapy can easily reverse nerve impairment, reduce the stress on the spine and mend damaged discs. Spinal decompression therapy can also be used for the treatment of the following spinal conditions: Sciatica Degenerative discs Pinched nerves Spinal stenosis Facet syndrome Numbness Radiculopathy The procedure uses state-of-the-art technology to release excessive pressure on the spine by applying a gentle, negative pressure. This results in the creation of a vacuum which pulls back the herniated or protruded disc back in its place. Apart from stimulating blood supply, essential nutrients which help in the healing process are also drawn in. A single session takes up to 45 minutes under normal treatment conditions and is provided on an outpatient basis. Patients experience relief after undergoing the first of a series of treatment sessions. Not everyone can undergo spinal decompression . Specialists who undertake the procedure would determine if the patient is eligible to undergo the traction therapy. The number of sessions required would depend upon the seriousness or complexity of the ailment. However, those who have vertebral fractures, spondylolisthesis and osteoporosis do not qualify for spinal decompression treatment. Spinal Decompression Offers Long-lasting Relief from Pain Spinal decompression therapy in New   York City is offered in a safe and comfortable environment where the patients can feel at ease. The treatment is least painful or discomforting. Men and women of almost all age groups can undergo the procedure. It provides long lasting relief from debilitating pain and helps patients get back on their feet and lead a normal life. Tweet Posted by admin Tags: brooklyn spinal decompression therapy , non surgical spinal decompression , spinal decompression , spinal decompression brooklyn , spinal decompression new york city , spinal decompression treatment nyc