
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 10:33:53 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8b mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.5
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1

Warning: Herbal Remedies Have Health Benefits Titles Titles & descriptions Get notified of new articles: Subscribe me Unsubscribe me Your Ad Here Warning: Herbal Remedies Have Health Benefits Navigation: Main page » Health and Fitness Print this page Submit article Comment article The Negative Calorie Diet. The Negative Calorie Diet weight loss eBook (Win95/98/Me2000/Xp/Nt and Mac) Author: Wayne McDonald Most of us want fast results when we are sick and miserable. Typically people buy non-prescription drugs over the counter because they don't know there are other treatments available. For many health conditions using herbal remedies derived from plants is a healthy alternative. It is best to plan ahead and learn which herbal remedies may work for a specific health condition. The following list of common herbs is an example of possible health benefits for treating some ailments. Herbal remedies are prepared in many forms such as teas, herbal extracts (tinctures), capsules or loose/dried in a bag. Chamomile This herb is popular as a tea and can calm nerves, relieve stomach distress, prevent ulcers, and help fight infection. Chamomile may be used to relieve morning sickness during pregnancy, to treat gastritis and ulcerative colitis, and may be used to speed healing of skin ulcers, wounds, or burns. Dong Quia Dong quai has been used in Asia for thousands of years as a tonic for the female reproductive system. It also balances and strengthens the female organs and regulates their functions. Feverfew Several studies confirm feverfew's value in preventing migraines. Feverfew may be used as an anti-inflammatory for relief of arthritis, to relieve some types of menstrual problems, and as a digestive aid. Garlic More than 1,000 scientific studies have shown health benefits of garlic. Garlic has been used as protection against colds and flu. In addition, garlic may help lower cholesterol, prevent blood clots, reduce blood pressure and protect against bacterial and fungal infections. Studies have shown that garlic may have a positive role in the prevention of coronary heart disease, thrombosis and arteriosclerosis. Ginger Ginger has been used for centuries to control nausea and for reducing inflammation. Goldenseal Goldenseal is found in popular herbal blends for relieving intestinal and gallbladder inflammation. It also has been used to soothe inflamed or infected mucous membranes. Goldenseal may be used to reduce colds, flu and other respiratory infections especially at the beginning of infection. Goldenseal has both anti-infective and immune-system stimulating properties that may shorten the course of the illness. Licorice Licorice is an important herb for treating a host of ailments. It may help as an anti-inflammatory and to soothe stomach upset and control coughs. Licorice Root has properties similar to cortisone and estrogen. It stimulates the adrenal glands and may help the body cope with stress. Peppermint Peppermint oil calms the stomach, the intestinal tract, and the nervous system. It can also reduce the inflammation of nasal passages and relieve muscle pains. SAFETY Herbal remedies may be safer and have fewer side effects than prescription medicines. Always read the label and use only the recommended dosage. Do not take any herbs during pregnancy --- check with your doctor first. If you are currently taking any prescription medicines always check with your doctor before using herbal remedies or before starting any health supplement program. Herbs are a healthy alternative for treating many health conditions. Read and save articles like this in a small notebook and create your own research library with health benefits of each herb. There are many resources available online that outline specific health conditions and recommend herbs. Herbs can be purchased online or at local health food stores. In addition, for treating specific health conditions, you may want to work with a naturopath or an acupuncturist. Copyright 2006 Wayne McDonald About The Author Wayne McDonald is a licensed Life Practitioner and a Health Practitioner. Learn more about Herbal Remedies and how to Treat Any Illness Without Side Effects using only Natural Herbs. Find a complete list of ailments and suggested herbal remedies at http://www.holisticwebdirectory.com/native-remedies . This article was posted on January 16, 2006 Powered by CommonSense CMS script - http://www.sensesites.com/ Link exchange Exchange links with our website How to Reduce Belly Fat If you have excess weight only in specific parts of your body, you still must look at yourself as a... Understanding And Treating Your Nail Fungus Nail fungus is an awful condition that can really be bothersome. It is a condition in which a fungu... Nutritional Vitamin Supplements - Buying Vitamin Nutritional Supplements Online Nutritional vitamin supplements and vitami