
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 10:19:15 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.1.6
X-Pingback: http://www.home-remedies-for-you.com/blog/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

2010  November Vulvar Epidermal Cysts, Gland | Treatment of Vulvar Cysts, Tumor Posted in Category : Common Ailments |   November 16, 2010 Vulvar Cysts Vulvar cysts, also known as Bartholin’s cysts, are cyst-like formations in the area right outside the vaginal opening. The vulva is made up of a special kind of skin that contains a lot of hair and has many glands in it. The glands in the vulvar skin synthesize a mucose fluid that is collected inside the glands and released at the time of intercourse. If for some reason, the openings of the gland become clogged, a vulvar cyst is formed in the gland. The cyst may or may not get infected, depending on the extent to which the infection has spread. Often, vulvar epidermal cysts are formed due to the human papilloma virus. Vulvar cysts gland infection does not usually spread, but if the infection is caused by HPV, the condition may worsen with time. Vulvar epidermal cysts can be detected with a Pap smear test or a physical inspection. You may need to get medical care if your condition does not improve. There are medical treatments available for vulvar epidermal cysts. The treatment of vulvar cysts usually involves a surgical procedure in which the vulvar skin is anesthetized, and an incision is made. The affected gland is opened up by making a small cut on the vulva and the affected glands are removed from the skin. You would need to get further medical care after the surgery has been completed. There are some women who are at a higher risk of developing this problem. Women, who have been diagnosed with HPV, are more susceptible to developing vulvar epidermal cysts . Even if the doctor is able to successfully remove the vulvar cysts from the skin, there is a chance of regrowth in the same area. If the cysts continue to form in the same area, further surgery may be redundant and the gland may need to be completely removed. A vulvar tumor, which is different from the epidermal vulvar cysts, may be a sign of cancer. It may be necessary to remove the tumor through surgery or through cancer treatments like chemotherapy. Women who have asymptomatic vulvar cysts and are under the age of 40 may not need to have the cysts removed. In fact, such women can simply carry on with the normal lives. However, in case of chronic inflammatory conditions, due to which there is an obstruction of the passage of fluids through the cysts, it may be necessary to have a surgery performed. Related Posts Vulvar Cysts, Causes, Symptoms, Treatment | Cyst in Vulva | Abscess Antibiotics Vulvar Cysts Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
A cyst is nothing but a pus filled inflamed lesion. It goe... Vulvodynia, Causes, Diagnosis and Treatment Methods Vulvodynia is a common disorder found in the vulva.The genital organ of a female are collectively ca... Breast Cysts Detection & Care, Cure with Self Care & Self Examination Breast Cysts can be very painful at times. Breast cysts can be easily detected while doing self-brea... Breast Lumps - Causes, Types, Prevention & Treatment through Surgery Acne Cyst Treatment, Cure, Causes | Treating Acne Cysts | Natures Cure Acne Treatment • • • Hand Cramps Causes | Prevent Muscle Cramps, Remedies, Aches in Hands Posted in Category : Common Ailments | Cramps in Hands Cramps or spasms in the muscles can happen in any part of the body including the hands. Cramps in hands can develop suddenly and generally wear off soon. However, it can be irritating and painful. At times, hand and foot cramps can be signs of other harmless and/or serious diseases. Also called the writer’s cramp, it was once believed that only writers got it after writing for too long. In absence of severe neurological or neurodegenerative disease like multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, or strokes, the most common hand cramps causes are less amount of calcium and magnesium in the body. The requirement for calcium could be due to excess protein or phosphate content, kidney disease, or an improper diet. Certain medication could also set off calcium loss. In case there is enough calcium, it is important to take Vitamin C for some time to bring about a balance. While most of the hand cramps causes can be dealt with in a convenient manner, hand cramps can make simple activities like lifting a book, turning a page, or writing difficult. Sometimes, muscle cramps in hands could also happen if one holds a pen for too long, overexerts the hand muscles during exercises, or uses the hand to perform a repetitive activity such as typing. These situations could also lead to aches in the hands of the individual Muscle cramps remedies include improving one’s diet and balancing the intake of proteins, calcium, magnesium, and vitamins. This kind of an ache in the hands can also be treated by using any of the following remedies. Drink lime or lemon juice to improve the balance of alkaline and acids in the body. Drinking liquids that contain lactic acid is a good remedy for muscle cramps. When exercising or working hard, lactic acid is produced at lesser rate than it is spent; therefore, eating olives and cheese and drinking lactic acid containing drinks help prevent muscle cramps . Massaging your hands and feet gently is also good for muscle cramps and aches in the hands. You could also move and flex your hands to improve circulation. Increase your intake of vitamins D and E, which are both good for alleviating muscle cramps in hands. Drinking plenty of fluids is important to avoid muscle cramps as dehydration is one of the most common hand cramps causes . Avoid alcohol as it could cause muscle cramps. Certain medications may also cause muscle cramps, so always check for side-effects. In case of low sodium, increase your intake of baking soda or sodium citrate. Stress balls and other hand exercise devices can be used to relieve muscle cramps in hands. These aid in reducing tension and relieve any ache in hands. In case of persistent muscle cramps in hands, consult a physician as there may be another underlying condition that needs medical attention. Related Posts Leg Hand Cramps Leg Hand Cramps

Muscle cramps are involuntary muscle contractions of a muscle that is not able to... Cramps in Hands | Cause of Muscle Cramps Cramps in Hands

The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world! Your hands do have a lot of hard ... Leg Cramps in Bed | Causes of Foot Cramps | Prevent Leg Cramps Leg Cramps or Foot Cramps in Bed
Almost everyone suffers from muscle cramps one time or another. On... Leg Muscle Cramps Restless Leg, Muscle Cramps While Sleeping | Leg Cramps Causes, Remedies • • • Fatigue Dizziness Weakness, During Pregnancy, Infection, Problems Posted in Category : Common Ailments | Fatigue Dizziness Symptoms Fatigue, dizziness, and weakness are common symptoms when a person is internally weak or undernourished. Often, fatigue and dizziness occur together. Although both of them are quite distinct as symptoms, the diagnosis may become very difficult when the accompanying symptoms are also considered. A person may have a feeling of weariness in which a person may experience constant pain the muscle structure. The joints may also ache, and the person may not feel energetic enough to perform the daily chores. This is also a stage when there is a continual feeling of tiredness and muscle fatigue. A person may experience both mental and physical fatigue. Fatigue, dizziness, and weakness are usually associated with a feeling of nausea and faintness, which may be accompanied by constant weariness. One cannot perform to normal levels of physical exertion. This may begin to interfere with a person’s life as well. Due to the constant weariness, it is not possible for the person to be as attentive as they can possibly be. On the other hand, fatigue, dizziness, and weakness may also cause a decrease in the mental acuity and a reduction in focus and attention, because of which a person may also lose out on the social and professional fronts. There are a number of everyday things that may cause fatigue, dizziness, and weakness. Conditions like work related stress, jet lag, or any kind of depression and emotional stress can result in fatigue and dizziness problems. There are some other underlying conditions that may cause fatigue and dizziness in a person. Medical conditions such as anemia and diabetes are often associated with dizziness as well as fatigue. Infection of the middle ear may be instrumental in causing symptoms like dizziness and vertigo. The infection may also be responsible for fever and accompanying muscle and joint aches. Fatigue and dizziness during pregnancy may be due to a number of reasons as well. In this condition, the pregnant woman may feel dizzy even while sitting in the bed. The surroundings appear to be moving, and the stability of the pregnant woman is severely curtailed. This may be occurring due to the hormonal imbalances that are created naturally due to the pregnancy. The obstruction of blood supply to the brain may also cause these symptoms. If the blockage is severe, it is possible that the affected person may eventually have a stroke. The treatment of fatigue , dizziness and weakness is usually dependent on the cause of the condition. Related Posts Fatigue Dizziness Symptoms - Physical Fatigue - Mental Fatigue Fatigue Dizziness Symptoms

Fatigue and dizziness will show up as symptoms together, in a number o... Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Causes, Treatments | Preventing CFS Symptoms Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Cure
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) is a state of weakness or fatigue whic... Dizziness in Pregnancy | Symptoms of Pregnancy – Dizziness and Nausea Dizziness during Pregnancy

Pregnancy is that time in a female human’s life when the woman carri... Symptoms of Mineral Deficiency | Vitamins and Minerals in Food Causes of Lightheadedness | Symptoms, Treatment of Lightheadedness • • • Mumps Treatment, Infection, Symptoms, Vaccine, Virus, Prevention Posted in Category : Common Ailments | Mumps In Adults Mumps is a highly contagious disease that is caused by a viral infection. Mumps usually causes swelling in the neck region and a very high fever. The infections are usually common during spring time since the virus is most active at this time. Although less contagious than chickenpox and measles, mumps is still considered quite contagious. Mumps is typically a condition that affects very young children; however, it has been known to affect more and more adults as well. Almost about 40% of mumps infections occur in adults, and although an epidemic of this disease is very uncommon, one should be cautious of not spreading the infection. Adult mumps virus is a ribonucleic acid virus that belongs to the family of paramyxovirus. This virus only affects humans. The spread of mumps in adults is much like that in children; in fact, mumps treatment in adults is also much like mumps treatment in children . The only difference is often in the severity. Mumps spread from one person to another by coughing and sneezing, when the infected mucous falls on you or on the other person’s body. The RNA virus has an incubation period during which it steadily multiplies. The mumps virus, once it is inside the body, begins to multiply within the throat, nose, and the lymph nodes in the neck region. The mump symptoms usually appear after 16 to 18 days of incubation. Mumps symptoms may first begin to appear 12 to 25 days after the transmission has occurred. Mumps infection has been largely contained with the help of mumps vaccine. The characteristics symptoms of mumps include fever, swelling of the salivary glands, sore throat, muscle ache, headaches, tiredness and chills. The symptoms can usually remain for about 2 to 3 weeks, after which they begin to subside. There are many other ailments that may have signs and symptoms that are much similar to mumps. Other such diseases include influenza, tuberculosis, leukemia, sarcoidosis, pregnancy, mononucleosis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Some of the symptoms may also mimic those of cellulites and diabetes. Although there is no mumps treatment that is known to completely eliminate the virus from the blood stream, it is possible to contain the infection if a person has received immunization during childhood. A doctor can prescribe you medications to mumps treatment measure for the symptoms of the condition. However, the body takes its time to fight the viral infection. It is only in rare cases that long term problems such as deafness or inflammation in the brain or spinal cord may be seen. Pancreatitis is another complication that may occur due to adult mumps. Related Posts Mumps In Adults | Symptoms of | Treating Mumps in Adults | Complications Mumps In Adults
What is Mumps? Mumps is a contagious illness that causes swelling of the neck and t... German Measles Causes, Treatments | Rubella Viral Infection Symptoms German Measles Remedies
German measles or Rubella is viral infection brought on by the Rubella viru... Mumps Symptoms Mumps Symptoms

What are mumps? Mumps is a viral illness. Mumps happen due to the swelling of the ... Measles Symptoms, Treatments | Measles Rash Infection Vaccination Rubella Home Remedies • • • Categories Acupressure ADHD Alternate Therapies Aromatherapy Beauty Bone, Joint & Muscles Disorders Child Health Common Ailments Depression Exercise Foods that Heal Gall Bladder General Health Hair Care Hematoma Massage Therapy Men's Health Natural Cures Sexual Health Women's Health Yogic Cures for Diseases Sign up Bookmark us Subscribe newsletter Home Remedies | Articles | Specialists | Ask a Question | Blog | Medicanet | Yoga | Vitamins | English | Spanish Terms and Conditions for Usage of this Site www.home-remedies-for-you.com does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additiona