Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture | Chinese Acupuncture Articles and Interviews Acupuncture Chinese acupuncture articles and interviews ChinatownConnection.com Home News/Articles Dining Shopping Events Classifieds Acupuncture Articles Interview with Acupuncturist Caroline Chen Acupuncture Versus Western Medicine Acupuncture treatment for acne Health Benefits of Acupuncture Blood Pressure and 
Acupuncture Acupuncture Eases Headache 
Pains Acupuncture Weight Loss: Fact or 
Fiction? Acupuncture and Pregnancy Advertisement Acupuncture: Interview with Caroline Chen, L.Ac posted by Shaun Yeu on Friday 16 December 2005. I had the opportunity to interview acupuncturist Caroline Chen of Acupuncture 
For Life . Below is our conversation about Chinese acupuncture. What is Acupuncture? For thousands of years, acupuncture has been used to treat diseases, 
facilitate healing and restore healthful vigor. Originating in China, 
acupuncture is part of a Taoist system of medicine that approaches each 
individual as an interconnected sum of physical, emotional, and spiritual 
qualities, constantly flowing, changing and affecting each other. There 
are 365 acupuncture points on the human body. They are connected 
through channels of energy and goes through the nervous points of the body. 
These channels of energy is also known as "Qi" (pronounced chi). "To achieve 
optimum health, Qi needs to flow smoothly," says Caroline. "When an illness or 
injury occurs, there is a blockage in the channel and a Qi imbalance occurs." 
Acupuncture helps by unblocking the channels and allow it to flow smoothly 
again. During an acupuncture treatment, 
ultra-thin, sterile needles are inserted into specific points on your body. For 
most people, there is little or no discomfort from this process. In fact, many 
people (even those once afraid of needles) find acupuncture so restful they fall 
asleep during a treatment. Caroline gives the following advice and procedure when going to an 
acupuncture specialist: Wear loose clothing, but not too loose. Have a snack or small meal beforehand so you are not hungry When going in to Acupuncture 
For Life for example, Caroline will do a pre-diagnoses to see what kind 
	of treatment is required. Do not worry about the needles. They are in sealed packages and sterile. The needling will not hurt. If you can withstand a mosquito bite, you 
	can withstand acupuncture. The needles will stay in 10-20 minutes. During that time you might feel 
	a bit of heaviness, tingling, or something inside moving around (which is 
	your Qi). However, most people feel relaxed. Certain treatments may require ear acupressure as well. It is said that 
	the ear is a blueprint of the entire body from head to toe, inside and out. 
	Each pressure point on the ear represent an organ or a part of the body. The most important thing to remember is that acupuncture will not fix 
	ailments overnight. At least 5 treatments are necessary to have any sort of 
	effect. It is a slow, gradual process. Fact or Fiction: In acupuncture, there is such a thing as a "death spot". 
Caroline says "it is possible for a master of Qi Quong to reverse the flow 
of Qi which will lead to death". A cupuncture 
has proven highly effective for addressing a wide variety of health issues, 
including but not limited to: Sports injuries, plus other musculoskeletal pain 
	and dysfunction Emotional imbalances such as depression, anxiety 
	and insomnia Digestive tract complaints, such as irritable bowel 
	syndrome and acid reflux Asthma, allergies and other immune system stresses Gynecological complaints such as PMS, menopausal 
	symptoms, dysmenorrhea Weight Loss Smoking Acupuncture is also very helpful during pregnancy for 
alleviating morning sickness, gestational diabetes and sciatica. And, as a 
post-partum treatment, acupuncture helps to quickly rebuild strength and restore 
hormonal balance. About the interviewee Caroline Chen Caroline graduated from UT Austin with a Bachelors 
Degree in Biochemistry. She thought about going to medical school but decided 
her passion was acupuncture. There are only about 30 acupuncture schools around 
the U.S. She attended South Baylo University in Anaheim, CA and graduated in 3 
years from a 4 year program. Part of the curriculum requires 1 1/2 years of 
hands-on internship training. After graduating and receiving a Master of Science 
in Acupuncture and Oriental Science degree, she took 2 acupuncture license exam, 
one for California (because she did not know if that is where she would 
practice) and the National exam (mandatory for everyone). She passed both and is 
now a Licensed Acupuncturist (L.Ac). Her practice, Acupuncture for Life , 
is located in Houston, Texas. Pictured here is Caroline Chen, L.Ac 
of Acupuncture for Lif e Some interesting facts about Caroline Chen She went to China for 2 years after graduating 
acupuncture school. She taught English for a year and then through teaching 
there, she had the opportunity to work at a hospital in Tianjin, China. "China 
had the perfect integrated Eastern and Western hospital," she said. In the hospitals in China, she encountered many cases of 
how acupuncture helped people regain their lives. One story she recounted 
involved a lady who was comatose and was stabilized by western medicine. After 
doing acupuncture treatments for 2 months, she woke up , became a positive 
person, walked, talked, and was able to eat by herself. After her 2 year stint in China, she came back to 
Houston and opened up her practice Acupuncture for Life located in the Accucare Wellness Center. She has been practicing for 1 year and 
3 months. In the U.S., Caroline has done a lot of volunteer work. 
She is part a stroke support group where she offers her service to anyone who 
wants to be treated with acupuncture. Acupuncture FAQ Q: Does insurance cover acupuncture? A: Some insurance do. Call your insurance company and 
ask. Q: Will the needles hurt? A: The needling will feel like an insect bite. Chinese 
	Medicine | Chinese 
	Health Secret | Chinese 
	Acupuncture: Read and Learn all about it! | Chinese Technique for Health and Strength | Weight 
Loss with Ancient Chinese Twist | Chinese 
	Pregnancy | Chinese Medicine and Quit Smoking | Chinese Herbalism About Us | Contact Us | Terms of Use | Advertise 
With U s Copyright © 2005 
			ChinatownConnection.com. Chinatown Ho