Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Yoga VCD for Parkinson's,DVD for Parkinson & Paralysis,Yoga Parkinson & Paralysis by Swami Ramdev Ji Home A to Z Herbal Supplements / Ayurvedic Stores Yoga DVD / VCD / Books Customer support / Shipping Contact Us Yoga DVD Pranayama & Yoga Exercises DVD Yoga DVD for Beginners of All Age Yoga DVD for Diabetes Yoga DVD for Asthma Yoga DVD for Spinal Cord Yoga DVD for Eye Problems Yoga DVD for Cancer Yoga DVD for Children Yoga DVD for Childless Couple Yoga DVD for Various Ailments Yoga DVD for Life Style Yoga DVD for Muscular Dystrophy Yoga DVD for Weight Loss Yoga DVD for Women Yoga DVD for High BP DVD for Parkinson & Paralysis Yoga DVD for Skin Diseases Yoga DVD for Youth VCD Divya Yoga Sadhna VCD in English / Hindi Yog Science (Pranayama & Yog Assan) Yoga VCD for Childless Couples Yoga VCD for reducing Obecity VCD for Reducing Diabetes Yoga VCD for Heart diseases Yoga VCD for Asthma Yoga VCD for Back Bone Yoga VCD for Stomach Ailments Yoga VCD for Cancer VCD for Pregnant Ladies Yoga VCD for Women Yoga VCD for Youth Yoga VCD for Kids Yoga VCD on Yoga & Lifestyle Yoga VCD for Weekly Yoga Teacher Yoga VCD for Parkinson Yoga VCD for Paralysis Yoga VCD for Piles Yoga VCD for Skin Diseases Yoga VCD for High Blood Pressure Yoga VCD for Eye Diseases Yoga VCD for Epilepsy Yoga VCD for Migraine Yoga VCD for Muscular Dystrophy Yoga VCD for Various Diseases Yoga VCD for Musculoskeletal Disorders Yoga VCD for Constipation & Piles Yoga VCD for Kidney Yoga VCD for Leucoderma Yoga VCD for Heapatitis & Jaundice VCD for Misconceptions, Risks & Precautions of Yoga Dahn (Dhyan) Yoga VCD Yoga Somnia (Conscious Sleep) VCD VCD for Eight Yogic Practices Yoga Books Pranayama (Its philosophy & Practice) Pranayama Rahasya in Hindi Yog Its Philosophy & Practice Yog Sadhna and Yog Chikitsa Rahasya (Hindi) Yog Sadhna Yoga Healing Secrets Yog in Synergy with Medical Sciences Ayurvedic Siddhant Rahasya. Divya Aushadhi, Sugandhit Avam Saundaryakaran Paudh Jeevani Shakti Vardhak Ashtavarg Paadap Vitality Strengthening Astavarga Plants Aushadh Darshan in Hindi Aushadh Darshan in English Jadi Bhooti Rahasya Yoga VCD for Parkinson Yoga VCD for Parkinson's & Paralysis in Hindi By Swami Ramdev ji Your Price 1 Qty : $10.99 Free Shipping Worldwide DVD for Parkinson & Paralysis by Swami Ramdev Ji in English & Hindi both in one DVD Your Price 1 Qty : $16.99 Free Shipping Worldwide In Parkinson's disease it is  found that the brain is disconnected from the body. Therefore in such cases  Yoga will help re-establishing the connection. Yoga is an ancient Indian Science,  which has been used for centuries to give physical and physiological health,  mental peace, emotional equanimity and intellectual clarity to the  practitioners. It involves the performance of various asanas (yogic postures)  and Pranayama (modulation of breath) to achieve its goal. Practice of yoga can  help patients suffering from Parkinson’s to control the disease and endure the  disease. The patients or subjects who are  made to perform various yoga postures (asanas) with the help of props. These  asanas would be standing, supine, sitting or inverted and be done under the  supervision of trained teachers. The asanas are to be performed in such a  manner that even the patients with very limited flexibility or mobility were  trained to perform them. The results of this yogic practice will show that the  patient or the subject will have a significant improvement. There will be an improvement  in mobility, flexibility, emotional state as well as their quality of life. Therefore following are the types  of asanas that are to be performed by a person suffering from Parkinson’s  disease: Surya Namaskara or the Sun Salutations: As this asanas comprises of a number of poses  that are to be performed on after the other so one must keep in mind that as  the movement of patient suffering from muscular dystrophy is limited so he or  she can have the assistance by another person or can alter the poses to some  extent but only in the presence of a trained yoga instructor. This is a very beneficial yogic practice for  obesity management, every day 24 sun salutations with a speed of 4 rounds in 1  minute gives great benefits of Yoga Asanas and exercise as well. Sun salutation is a sequence of 7 asanas  practiced in order which tones almost all of the muscles and also internal  organs are stretched increasing blood & oxygen supply to these parts. Regular practice of sun salutation with  breathing gives good exercise to the lungs. Mantras have relaxing effect on  mind. Virasana or the Warrior Pose: The Warrior Pose stretches and strengthens the  arms and legs, increases stamina, improve balance and concentration, and can  also relieve backaches. If you are suffering from diarrhea, high blood  pressure or neck problems, you should take extra caution practicing this pose. Pranayama or Deep Breathing: When a person is slipping into the seizure he or  she should reflexively catch and hold their breath, as if startled or  frightened. This causes changes in metabolism, blood flow,  and oxygen levels in the brain. The practice of Pranayama, i.e., controlled deep  diaphragmatic breathing helps restore normal respiration, which can reduce the  chances of going into a seizure or stop seizures before they become full blown. Tadasana or the Tree Pose: The Tree Pose helps strengthen your thighs,  calves, ankles and back. It can also increase the flexibility of your  hips and groin. Your balance and concentration can also be  improved with constant practice. Trikonasana or the Triangle pose: Provides your body the required stability. Strengthens the spinal column. Releases the pressure and tension with the upper  as well as lower back muscles. Ayurvedic Products Choorna ( Powders ) Bhasmas ( herbs/metal ) Guggulu Kvath (Herbs Mixture) Ras (herbal essence) Vati / Tablets Home Remedies & Diseases and Package Acidity and Hyperacidity Adenitis / Tumor growth AMA (Toxic By product) Amenorrhea Asthma Cataract Cervical Spondylitis Chronic Headache Chronic Renal Failure Chronic Rhinitis Cirrhosis of Liver Constipation Coronary Artery Disease Coryza Deafness Depression Diabetes Mellitus Diarrhoea Eczema Epilepsy Erectile Dysfunction Fibroid Uterus Flatulence Gastric Trouble Genital Diseases Glaucoma Gout Hepatitis-A B C Hernia High Blood Pressure Impotency in Males Infertility Joint Pain Leucoderma Menorrhagia Mental Retardation Migraine Mongoloid Children Multiple Sclerosis Obesity Oligospermia Osteoporosis Otorrahagia Parkinsonism Pimples or Acne Vulgaris Premature Ejaculation Psoriasis Sciatica Sinusitis Sprue Syndrome Thalassemia Tympanitis Ulcerative Colitis Health Products Shortcuts Divya Amla Churna for Eyes, Digestion and General Health Divya Arshakalp Vati for Piles Divya Ashmarihar Ras for Kidney Stones Divya Ashwagandha Churna for Stress, Fatigue and General Health Divya Chandraprabha Vati for Urinary Disease Divya Churna for Constipation Divya Dant Manjan Tooth Powder Divya Gashar Churna for Removal of Gas Divya Hridayamrita Vati for Heart Disease Divya Kanti Lep for Increasing Skin Splendour Divya Kayakalp Tail Oil for Skin Problems, Cracks and Burns Divya Kayakalp Vati for Skin Disease, Acne and Pimples Divya Kesh Tail Hair Oil for Hair Loss, Dandruff and Headache Divya Madhu Nashini Vati for Diabeties Divya Madhukalp Vati for Diabetes Divya Medha Kwath for Headache and Memory Enhancement Divya Medha Vati for Memory Loss and Improving Intelligence Divya Medohar Vati for Weight Loss Divya Mukta Vati for High Blood Pressure Divya Peya Herbal Tea Divya Pidantak Ras for Joint Pain and Arthritis Divya Pidantak Tail Massage Oil for Joint Pain and Arthritis Divya Punarnavadi Mandur for Kidney Problems and Anemia Divya Sanjivani Vati for Cold, Fever and Flu Divya Shilajeet Rasayan Vati for Impotency Divya Shilajeet Sat for Gout and Weak Immune System Divya Singhnaad Guggulu for Rheumatism Divya Stri Rasayan Vati for Menstruation Divya Swasari Ras for Lung Problems, Bronchitis and Asthma Divya Triphala Churna for Rejuvination Divya Triphala Guggulu for Joint Pain, Piles and Weight Loss Divya Udaramrita Vati for Digestion and Stomache Problems Divya Udarkalp Churna for Indigestion and Constipation Divya Vatari Churna for Arthritis Divya Yauvanamrita Vati for Weak Bodies and Impotency Divya Yograj Guggulu for Joint Pain © All Rights Reserved 2009.www.swamiramdevmedicines.com  | About Us | Customer Service | Testimonials | Contact Us | Sitemap 1 | Sitemap 2 Disclaimer : The information offered on the displayed page is not proposed to reinstate the guidance of a doctor approved in the diagnosing or healing of disease or ailments. Any submission of the material in above content is at the reader's prudence and own accountability. If you have a constant health state or your symptoms are rigorous, seek advice from a well qualified medical doctor. Content on the above page about physical and mental conditions and remedies have not been checked by the U.S. FDA. www.swamiramdevmedicines.com claims no responsibility for any content and remedies mention any where on this website. IMPORTANT/DISCLAIMER : swamiramdevmedicines.com is not official website of Swami Ramdev Ji. swamiramdevmedicines.com is a FREE INFORMATION website & to share experience about Swami Ramdev's Yoga and Products. We have no intention to hurt anyone, please use this information at your own understanding. swamiramdevmedicines.com DOES NOT gurantee of completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the swamiramdevmedicines.com or the information. if you are looking for Swam