
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 14:24:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.63 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.0.63 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635 PHP/5.2.15
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.15
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? Home Remedy - The People's Pharmacy® The People's Pharmacy® with Joe and Terry Graedon Home Drug Library Herb Library What Ails You Home Remedy Library Ask People's Pharmacy About the Graedons Find a Radio Station Contact Us Sponsor Us Search People's Pharmacy Store Buy Guides Latest Shows & Articles Newspaper Columns Radio Shows Video Home Remedy Q&A Vitamin/Herb Q&A Pharmacy Q&A Newsletter Health News People's Pharmacy Alerts Report It! The Soapbox From Our Readers Hot Topics Cholesterol , Menopause , Arthritis , Blood Pressure , Diabetes , Vitamin D , Statin , Heartburn , Hypertension , Depression , Lipitor , Listerine , Osteoporosis , Stroke , Breast Cancer , Cancer , Exercise , Heart Disease , Diarrhea , Vinegar Subscriptions Free Podcast Follow Us Free email newsletter Subscribe RSS Quick & Handy Home Remedies: Find practical, affordable ways to deal with some of life's most common ailments, proving that getting back to the basics has its reward. Only $16.95 +s/h Recent Comments MF commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : At least o Angela C. commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : I want to Dennis commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : Is taking Sarah commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : I want to bfh commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : I use Cost Sharon commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : My son has ts commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : I'm HIV+ a AniB commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : Hey I had bb commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : Could you Cinnamon and oatmeal...bad taste and lower rib pains commented on How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? : Hey AWG, I Sponsor This Site How Much Cinnamon Is Too Much? February  12, 2008 in Home Remedy Q&A Currently 3.9/5 1 2 3 4 5 Was this information helpful? Average rating: 3.9/5 ( 252 votes) What do you think? Click the stars to vote! If you have more to say, post a comment below! Q. I’ve heard that consuming too much cinnamon can be harmful, but what, exactly, is the acceptable limit? I eat two tablespoons on my cereal each morning just because I like the flavor and I don't need added sugar. Is that too much? A. Some cinnamon (Chinese or cassia cinnamon) is contaminated with a natural compound called coumarin. In excess, this can harm the liver of sensitive individuals. Coumarin may also interact with blood thinners like Coumadin (warfarin) to increase the risk of bleeding. Two tablespoons of cinnamon daily is a very big dose. You should have your liver enzymes checked when you see your doctor. People who use cinnamon to help lower blood sugar take one quarter to one half teaspoon before meals. Unfortunately, cassia cinnamon is not labeled with the amount of coumarin it contains. This makes it hard for consumers to tell how much they are getting ( Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry, online, Jan. 16, 2008). Currently 3.9/5 1 2 3 4 5 Was this information helpful? Average rating: 3.9/5 ( 252 votes) What do you think? Click the stars to vote! If you have more to say, post a comment below! Categories : Home Remedy Q&A Tags : Bleeding , Cinnamon , Coumadin , Coumarin , Liver Share This Article : 62 Comments | Leave a comment RS | February 12, 2008  4:29 PM | Reply I read your article regarding eating cinnamon -- but what about taking the supplements -- how much is too much? JFS | March 28, 2008 12:12 PM | Reply I have been taking coumadin for three years. Recently I started using cinnamon on my cereal and found that my INR was 3.5 instead of the usual 2.2 to 2.5 Question. How much cinnamon will equal 1 mg. of coumadin? Can I replace the coumadin with cinnamon? RF | April  4, 2008 12:13 PM | Reply I read your answer about the use of cinnamon for diabetics.You mentioned making water soluble cinnamon extract by pouring hot water over cinnamon in a coffee filter to extract the coumarin.  What you did not say is how much cinnamon to put in the coffee filter. Please let me know as I would like to do this. Elizabeth | June 22, 2008  3:55 PM | Reply Hi!  I eat cinnamon sticks all day long... approximately how tsps. does one stick equal and is this harmful to me? imperfectedmind | September 28, 2008  5:16 AM | Reply Is it really harmful? Are there cinnamon sticks w/o coumarin? I am smoking cigarettes right now and, to quit, i'd want to replace my cancer sticks w/ cinnamon sticks... does anyone know any cinnamon sticks w/o coumarin or harmful effects? NDC | November  1, 2008  3:30 PM | Reply I started taking cinnamon -500 mg  several months ago.  I recently increased it to 1000 mg.   I have developed a very red & sensitive genital area.....Could it be from the cinnamon ?? PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: IT IS POSSIBLE. CINNAMON HAS NOT BEEN STUDIED SO CAREFULLY THAT ALL POSSIBLE REACTIONS ARE KNOWN. PLEASE DISCONTINUE AND SEE IF YOUR SYMPTOMS IMPROVE. Holly | November 20, 2008  7:36 AM | Reply I take 3 cups of water a 1tsp. cinnamon and 4 tbls honey bring to boil. Take 1/4 cup 3 times a day. I want to know it that is to much? I use powder cinnamon off the self. Thank you PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: IF YOU ARE STRAINING THE CINNAMON SOLIDS OUT, YOU DON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT GETTING TOO MUCH. BUT IF YOU ARE TAKING CINNAMON TO HELP LOWER BLOOD SUGAR, 4 TABLESPOONS OF HONEY MIGHT WELL BE ENOUGH TO UNDERMINE THAT. sharon | January 28, 2009  1:33 PM | Reply i am taking warfrin, can i take cinnamon and honey? will it affect the inr? Stephanie | April 29, 2009  3:45 PM | Reply I eat cinnamon powder in teaspoon fulls daily.  I haven't experienced any side effects and I told my doctor about it.  I crave it day and night.  Does this mean my body is deficient in minerals? SEBS | May 15, 2009  9:51 PM | Reply I too wish to know exactly how many Cinnamon Supplement Caps is too much????  and also what are side effects, if any?  I cannot find one one on line who has answered this question. Mary Ellen G. | May 16, 2009  6:29 PM | Reply I took 1 capsule (Spring Valley Cinnamon) for 5 months. I recently had lab work and my ALT and AST were elevated. I called the company originally to find out the ingredients in the product. Coumarin was not listed. I called back after the lab results, and they told me they do not have to list coumarin. D | June 23, 2009  9:52 AM | Reply I would like to try taking cinnamon to help lower my blood sugar levels but don't want to take to much.  I bought a bottle of cinnamon pills-2 capsules are 1,000mg-how many should i take a day?  How many mgs in a day is too many? PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: IN ONE STUDY IN DIABETES CARE, THE DOSE TO LOWER CHOLESTEROL WAS 1 GRAM (1,000 MG) PER DAY. Georgianna replied to comment from Stephanie | November 29, 2009  1:44 PM | Reply I eat cinnamon by the teaspoon all through the day also.  I have often wondered if I have a vitamin deficiency because I crave it all the time.  No side effects yet but I do have an enlarged taste bud from eating "HOT" cinnamon candy too much. JK | January 12, 2010  7:11 PM | Reply I use cinnamon on my cereal and in tea.  This is powdered cinnamon.  After reading all this, I still don't know if I'm consuming too much. How much is too much? OSB | February  4, 2010  1:46 AM | Reply is organic cinnamon at risk for this as well?? PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: WE THINK SO. IT SEEMS TO BE SOMETHING INHERENT IN THE PLANT, RATHER THAN A PESTICIDE OR OTHER ADDITIVE. OS | February 16, 2010  8:36 PM | Reply This article (correctly, I believe) states that CHINESE or CASSIA cinnamon have potentially harmful amounts of COUMARIN. Correct me if I am wrong, but it is my understanding that TRUE cinnamon-CEYLON CINNAMON, contains negligible amounts. Why has no one mentioned this? PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: WE BELIEVE YOU ARE CORRECT. THE REASON NO ONE HAS SUGGESTED SUBSTITUTING CEYLON CINNAMON IS THAT THE CEYLON CINNAMON HAS NO IMPACT ON BLOOD SUGAR. BB | March 30, 2010  6:50 PM | Reply 1 teaspoon of Cinnamon is aprox.4.80 grams Judy | March 31, 2010 11:11 PM | Reply Could taking cinnamon cause diarrhea? LRS | April 20, 2010  5:13 PM | Reply I have severe arthritis and I heard that 2 tsp cinnamon to 1 Tbs honey 2 x per day will help.  I took it last night and not all my pain is gone but the deep aching-to-the-bone pain is gone. I just want to know if anyone else has had good luck and if this dose is acceptable.  I take a lot of pres. pain killers too. Bryan | April 24, 2010  8:48 PM | Reply Thanks to "BB" above who said "1 teaspoon of Cinnamon is aprox.4.80 grams" I checked my container of sticks and it said 0.75 oz.  With the math calculations done in reverse, I now calculated it to be 5 sticks, which I think is how many they gave me. Bottom line is 1 teaspoon=1 stick=4.8 grams. So if you see any report about side effects based on mg or grams you can convert to how sticks. PS these things are really good! Goodlevels | August 11, 2010  2:13 AM | Reply Hi I have found cinnamon to raise my heart rate although it did bring down the my bgs. Now I use okro water (soak overnite) and also fenugreek seeds. My Bg levels are good and having fenugreek powder before sleeping with water also gives me good fasting reading in the morning. No dawn phenomenon!!! J.D.M. | September  7, 2010 10:50 PM | Reply used 10 -15 grams Saigon/CHINESE or CASSIA cinnamon pr day over 3-4 months- resulted in excessive pain in major neck arteries/blood vessels, including chest. Pain presented as Heart/Angina.  Also included 3000 mg of Fish Oil, and 5/10 grams of ground Flax Seed, these were used in conjunction as Homeopathic remedies for anemia (low hemoglobin count). Believe blood thinner Cassia caused this pain as well as fish oil and flax seed mixture. Excessive/prolonged pain disappeared after discontinuing all three remedies. Ana | October 18, 2010 12:36 AM | Reply I have been taking 1 tbsp of cinnamon in hot water with 2 tbsp of honey every day for about 3 months already. I want to know if that amount of cinnamon is safe to my liver, or should I reduce it? Thank you, I would really appreciate your time and answer mrs l jennings | November  5, 2010  5:04 PM | Reply Hi I've been having very bad pains under my lower ribs and back on right hand side of body for about 9 days. I have for the last 3 weeks been having 3-4 skinny cappuccino's a day for the 1st 18 days with 1 tea spoon of Cinnamon in each one as told it's good for fertility and sugar levels (I have bad P.C.O.S, I'm over weight due to that with fertility probs for 7 yrs) so thought I'd try it, could this Cinnamon be giving me all this pain? It gets worse as the day goes on and more so when I eat or drink. Pain killers don't work it roughly where my liver/kidney are most but can't be sure, my doctors have been so busy and not been able to see me this week not sure if I can go another week like this! thanks for any help !! Will S. | November 10, 2010  4:14 PM | Reply I have been taking coumadin for over 20 years. I've 3 TIA's since age 38. I have a prosthetc mitral heart valve (St. Jude) at about 42. I am now 62 and am having a lot of trouble keeping my INR stable. Some of it was a result of taking vitamins with ginseng. I stopped but over the last 5 months it seems to be all over the place. 3 days ago, I started taking 2 TPSP of honey with 1 TSP of cinnamon twice a day. My INR was 4.6. I think it may have something to do with the cinnamon. I was told to hold my regular dose of coumadin for 2 days, them resume regular doses. 10mg. per day except mon-5mg. I'll have my INR checked in 2 weeks. Thank you, Will PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: THERE IS NOTHING IN PUBMED ABOUT AN INTERACTION BETWEEN COUMADIN AND CINNAMON, BUT WE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT YOUR EXPERIENCE. PLEASE LET US KNOW WHAT YOU AND YOUR DOCTORS FIGURE OUT. SMC | November 21, 2010  7:42 PM | Reply I tend to put a good bit of Saigon Cinnamon in my cereal. While I have been doing this for months, I have been recently urinating blood, and this happens on-and-off. I am having a catscan soon, but I was wondering whether or not cinnamon could cause my bleeding. BTW I also run a lot and drink a lot of water... so I don't know if those may be the cause. Also I do not feel any discomfort in my kidneys and barely any discomfort during my urinating. PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: PLEASE STOP THE CINNAMON AND SEE YOUR DOCTOR RIGHT AWAY. WE DON'T KNOW IF YOUR SYMPTOM IS RELATED, BUT IT IS WORRISOME. AWG | December  2, 2010 12:49 AM | Reply Hi, I ate about 2-3 Tbs. of cinnamon one day last week sprinkled over a cut up apple. The next day, I ate the same thing  and the following morning I noticed a sickening sweet taste in my mouth which has now been there for  a week without letting up. Cinnamon is the only new thing I had eaten on those two days. I usually don't eat it at all. I had just had a blood test done about 4 days before I had eaten the cinnamon and there was no evidence of diabetes. Could I have damaged my taste buds with the cinnamon? Susan | December 26, 2010 11:02 PM | Reply I've read many good benefits on taking cinnamon and honey.  Is this true? PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: IT DEPENDS ON WHAT YOU ARE TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH. CINNAMON CAN HELP LOWER BLOOD SUGAR, BUT HONEY WILL RAISE IT. Brenda C replied to comment from LRS | January  3, 2011  8:10 AM | Reply I am currently taking 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon twice a day for arthritis.  Without it, I am unable to climb the stairs in my own home. Ian C | January  5, 2011  1:09 PM | Reply I started experiencing headaches about two years ago and recently noticed that the headaches were due to sugar intake. the more sugar I consumed, the worse the headache. I heard that cinnamon helped regulate sugar so I started putting some in my cereal. The headaches disappeared. Is it safe to have cinnamon every day with cereal and could this sugar problem be a symptom of some sickness/disease? Brenda C replied to comment from Ian C | January  7, 2011  9:43 PM | Reply Your doctor can give you a glucose tolerance test, which will check if the sugar you consume is being metabolized correctly.  For more info, check out http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glucose_tolerance_test Cheryl | January 12, 2011  8:29 PM | Reply I have been drinking a lot of a cardamon cinnamon tea.  Cinnamon is the first ingredient, followed by ginger, cardamom, carob chicory, black pepper, chinese star anise and cassia oil.  To make things worse; I brew 3 teabags at a time, twice a day, with a cinnamon stick tossed in for extra flavor! I steep this at a low simmer for 20-25 minutes (because that is how you get the most GOOD out of an herbal tea!  Groan.  I assume it is also how you get the most BAD. How would the level of coumarin in such a tea likely compare to ground cinnamon, all other factors being equal? I have some minor indicators of a low functioning liver. PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: THE CASSIA OIL MIGHT BE BOOSTING THE AMOUNT OF COUMARIN YOU ARE EXPOSED TO. IF POSSIBLE, LOOK FOR A TEA THAT DOES NOT CONTAIN THIS INGREDIENT. Kate C. | January 16, 2011 10:55 AM | Reply Will drinking a cinnamon and honey mixture twice a day help me lose weight? Also can I strain it after it has steeped to get rid of the actual cinnamon (grounds)? Would this still be as helpful with weight loss? PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: WE HAVEN'T SEEN ANY RESEARCH SHOWING THAT HONEY AND CINNAMON ALONE WILL LEAD TO WEIGHT LOSS. CINNAMON CAN HELP PREVENT AN AFTER-MEAL SPIKE IN BLOOD SUGAR. THAT MIGHT BE HELPFUL, BUT EXERCISE AND DIET ALSO HAVE TO BECOME PART OF THE PRACTICE. cb replied to comment from SEBS | January 25, 2011  1:58 PM | Reply I am just  trying to get a straight answer on the potential risks if any on the continuous use of the supplements which I use daily in regards to two 500 milgs. of cinnamon daily that I ingest.     please respond immediately PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: IF THE CINNAMON EXTRACT IS DESCRIBED AS "WATER EXTRACTED" YOU ARE NOT AT ANY RISK. IF NOT, A SINGLE BOTTLE WILL PROBABLY NOT BE A PROBLEM, BUT LOOK FOR A WATER EXTRACTED SUPPLEMENT THE NEXT TIME YOU BUY. Freda S. | February  6, 2011  3:14 PM | Reply I am a type II diabetic and have been drinking the cinnamon and honey mixture for the past month and a half. I know have a severe pain just under my ribcage that gets worse when I lay down. It is also difficult to sit for too long. I drink one teaspoon of cinnamon (the type I buy in a grocery store) mixed with a cup of water and 2t honey. Half at night and half in the morning. Is it possible that this is causing this pain I suffer all the time from? leanne j. | February  8, 2011  7:54 PM | Reply hi, yh I had this prob too, my doc said the shop stuff, ie asda tesco ect. is not good for you if you have too much as it messes up the liver and kidneys, he said if I use them ones then it should be half a tea spoon every other day. I stopped using it for 2 weeks and the pain went with in about 5 days. I have now started to use it a little bit in food or put a pinch in my drinks like coffee ect. hope that helps. I'd get seen by doctor to see if its the same thing as me but sounds the same from what you said! good luck Debbie | February 24, 2011 10:26 PM | Reply My mother is a type 2 diabetic and has had liver transplant. Can she take the cinnamon capsule? Vickie replied to comment from Bryan | March  7, 2011  9:37 AM | Reply How big is the cinnamon stick you are talking about? They come in different sizes. Sherri W. | March 26, 2011  8:23 AM | Reply Hi - I consume 2 tbsp. of cinnamon daily - However, my skin is sometimes 'yellowish' - I also drink herbal tea 2-3 cups that contains cinnamon - Could this be the cause of my skin's appearance? Thanks for any help with this annoying condition! Sherri PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: TWO TABLESPOONS IS A HUGE DOSE OF CINNAMON. PLEASE MAKE SURE YOUR DOCTOR IS MONITORING YOUR LIVER ENZYMES REGULARLY. WE HOPE YOUR YELLOWISH COLOR IS NOT JAUNDICE DUE TO LIVER TOXICITY. Jane T. | April  6, 2011  2:37 PM | Reply During the past winter months, I seemed to crave cinnamon foods, such as apple bread, muffins, etc.  I have to be very careful that I don't eat too much because it spikes my sugar and I usually end up with blurred vision and other problems.  I noticed that when I used cinnamon in baking these items, I felt very good and there was no spiking. I used it continuously and added a little more cinnamon.  Big mistake, I have low blood pressure and that's always been the case.  I could have done myself in. I decided to try Cinulin 125 mg capsules.  They call for twice a day dosage.  Now I am so afraid of lowering my blood pressure that I cannot make myself try even 1 a day. It is the lowest cinnamon supplement on the market.  I know it will work because I have experienced it; I just have to find the courage to use it. Nataraj | April 18, 2011  7:25 AM | Reply Hi, I am 37 years old. my sugar level is 354. If I use cinnamon, will it control the my sugar level? Regards Nataraj DiabeticDiva | May 10, 2011 12:31 PM | Reply I am using Kirkland (Costco) Saigon Cinnamon ...... as this is REAL cinnamon? Any health precautions I should know about? SJ replied to comment from mrs l jennings | May 23, 2011  1:34 AM | Reply I had pain like this under my ribs too and every test was done to determine cause.  Dr said it is costcochronditis, which is an inflammation of the rib cage.  It lasted more than a year.  I too was having a lot of cinnamon daily (which I have recently given up). My liver enzymes were elevated also and no reason for that was ever discovered.   Although I have no idea if the two (pain and cinnamon) are in any way related I am feeling better all around now that I have eliminated the cinnamon.. JB | May 23, 2011  7:02 PM | Reply I have type II diabetes and take 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon four times daily, so 2 level teaspoons in total.  I find that this is immeasurably helpful in keeping my blood sugar within healthy parameters (daily average hovers around 4.7 - 5 (or 84.6 - 90).  I also take 600 mcg Chromium daily and have no need of 'diabetic' medication. I should point out that I don't ingest raw sugar in any form, including honey, and keep my carbohydrate count to less than 30g daily.  (At first this was hard for me, as I ate a vegan diet for 43 years (I'm 55 now) and felt great until the day my physician told me that I was diabetic. I had to go from a diet consisting primarily of fruit, veggies, nuts, seeds, and a few grains, to a diet that relies mostly on animal protein (8 ounces daily), although I do still eat a healthy salad as part of my main meal and supplement with a combo barley grass, oat grass, and spirulina product. Scores of medical trials and published data testify to the benefits of cinnamon in anyone's diet, and a couple of level teaspoons a day will benefit most diabetics, although I hear that some people do very well with just one teaspoonful. We're all individuals, so what's healthy and 'safe' for one person may not be for another.  I'd err on the side of caution and try 1/2 teaspoon daily for a month, and if you don't have a problem with that then raise it incrementally to one or two teaspoons - and have regular CBC and liver and kidney function tests performed by a reputable lab. Peace and good health to all of you - God Willing! JB. Timmsks | June  2, 2011  1:32 PM | Reply I eat cinnamon every morning about two tablespoons spread out on my jam, banana, and lots in my cereal. Is this too much? PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: TWO TABLESPOONS IS A LOT OF CINNAMON! IF IT HAD COUMARIN IN IT, IT WOULD BE TOO MUCH. honeyv replied to comment from J.D.M. | July 24, 2011 10:23 PM | Reply I could not believe it.  I too have had the same pain in the same area.  After some time, I began to wonder if the flax seed oil, cod liver oil, garlic and many other foods were causing too much thinning of my blood..  Have recently stopped most of these concoctions and the pains seem to be settling down.  Who would have guessed? JCS | August  1, 2011  1:04 PM | Reply Will cinnamon hurt me if I take blood thinners.  They told me to take cinnamon for energy but I take Warfarm. EMR | August 29, 2011 12:35 AM | Reply For the past five months I have been drinking a mixture of cinnamon and nutmeg as a tea because I thought it was"good" for me.  I don't mean just one cup, I mean, oh, between 1 to 4 liters!   In February, before I started this regime, my blood test showed a normal bilirubin.  In June my bilirubin was high.  Now I see that cinnamon in high doses could damage the liver. I am going to see a doctor as soon as possible, but can anybody reassure me that if I have damaged my liver from cinnamon use is the damage something that can be reversed?  My new motto is moderation in everything, and no cinnamon for a long time! PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: WE CERTAINLY HOPE YOUR LIVER ENZYMES WILL RETURN TO NORMAL, AS WE EXPECT THEY WILL. YOUR STORY REALLY DOES ILLUSTRATE THE WISDOM OF USING MODERATION. V | September  1, 2011  5:33 AM | Reply I have been brewing about 1/2 tsp of cinnamon with my coffee every morning for the past 2 weeks or so, ( I put it in the filter with the grounds) and twice in the past week I have vomited after drinking some of said coffee... could this be due to the cinnamon, or should I look at possible other causes? SG | September 22, 2011  1:36 AM | Reply I started using cinnamon caps about a week ago. First thing I noticed was that my feet warmed up.  I take 1 with breakfast and 1 with dinner. Is this okay, even though I also take warfarin? Roxann T. | October 29, 2011  1:16 AM | Reply I just started today taking a supplement with Cinnamon and Chromium 500mg capsules to be taken 2 , 2x daily I did take it, but since this is my first time taking it despite the directions I probably should have started taking one capsule daily then tried 2, was that too much to take in one day? rr | October 30, 2011  1:40 AM | Reply I had a routine blood work. My liver enzymes are high I think it is due to the cinnamon I would drink everyday. If one stops taking cinnamon how long will the enzymes take to get back to normal? Cinnamon and oatmeal...bad taste and lower rib pains | November 24, 2011  8:40 PM | Reply Hey AWG, I also experienced a sickeningly sweet/bitter taste in the back of my mouth.  Kept trying to eat things or brushed teeth to eliminate, but that didn't work.  Had been sprinkling cinnamon on my oatmeal every morning, probably a heaping tsp... maybe a tablespoon!  So, I tried a number of things...o ne was to stop the cinnamon on my oatmeal.  It seems to have helped stop that bad taste in my mouth. In addition, both my 91 yr old mother and I have periodic pain under our lower ribs.  Doctors have no idea what it is.  I will suggest to my mom that she try eliminating or reducing cinnamon.  I have not experienced that pain for months now... so it might be helpful to go easy on the cinnamon for both of those symptoms. Thanks to all who share on this site.  I find it personally very helpful and includes stories I can't find anywhere else! bb | December 30, 2011  4:52 PM | Reply Could you tell me what is the right amount of cinnamon extract to take if using the liquid extract to lower sugar? Thanks AniB | January  3, 2012  9:32 AM | Reply Hey I had a few comments about the cinnamon issue. 1. Just because it is a "natural" substance does not mean that the active ingredient is any less potent. Cinnamon is a very potent drug. 2. I have not seen anyone mention the way I take it- I put about 1/2 tablespoon in applesauce everyday. This amount gives me energy and takes away the constant thirst problem. 3. I read that 80% of US women over 45 have something called "pre" diabetes and this is the condition that is helped by the cinnamon most. 4. The symptoms described above could be due to other factors. Diabetes its self causes a lot of other health problems. 5. Cinnamon should be taken carefully, as it does tend to exacerbate reflux, which may account for the pain some are describing. I do not have that problem when I take it in apple sauce, whereas I do when taken in pill form. ts | January 18, 2012  3:10 PM | Reply I'm HIV+ and my meds give me upset stomach every day and most days all day. I read where one tea spoon of cinnamon and two tea spoons of honey twice a day taken in one cup of warm water would stop it. I have done this for two days and it has stopped the upset stomach. I will cut back to once a day and try this. Is one teaspoon of cinnamon a day to much ? thanks People's Pharmacy response: One teaspoon a day of ordinary cinnamon, not a water extract, is probably right at the edge of safety. Why not filter the teaspoon of cinnamon into a cup of water and add the honey to that? Throw out the cinnamon sludge, since that is what might contain the compounds that could put stress on your liver (that you don't need!) Sharon | January 30, 2012  5:46 AM | Reply My son has MPS1(Hurler syndrome). He is 16 now & has a lot of disabilities. But since the past 1 week he is experiencing dizziness/spinning feeling inside the head. What can be the cause for that? He was having cinnamon in tea everyday is that ok or harmful. bfh replied to comment from DiabeticDiva | January 31, 2012  8:21 PM | Reply I use Costco Saigon Cinnamon on my Oatmeal everyday - at least a teaspoon.  My tongue has been burning and has little red bumps.  I think it is the cinnamon.  I stopped putting it on my cereal 2 days ago and the burning has decreased.  I am pretty sure it is the cinnamon. I hope I have not done any permanent damage. People's Pharmacy response: A teaspoon is quite a bit of cinnamon all at once. Sarah | February  4, 2012  4:55 AM | Reply I want to do the cinnamon challenge but twice one with my friend and one with my brother is that many tablespoons ok? Dennis | February 11, 2012  7:03 PM | Reply Is taking a veg cinnamon extract pill once a day 500mg. safe or should a person take two tabs? Angela C. replied to comment from RS | February 15, 2012  7:04 AM | Reply I want to know exactly how much cinnamon to take each day?????? MF replied to comment from OS | February 19, 2012  7:15 AM | Reply At least one of the studies showing positive effects indicated that the type of cinnamon used is not relevant - the "Safer" ceylon "verum" variant was also effective. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19930003 There is at least one study where cinnamon has no effect: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21899741 PEOPLE'S PHARMACY RESPONSE: Quite right. This no-effect study used Ceylon cinnamon. Leave a comment Share your comments or questions with the People's Pharmacy online community. Not all comments will be posted. Advice from other visitors to this web site should not be considered a substitute for appropriate medical attention. Concerns about medications should be discussed with a health professional. Do not stop any medication without first checking with your physician. Name (or initials, will be published on site) Email Address (required, will not be published) Website address (optional) Remember personal info? Comments
                (You may use HTML tags for style) Check this box to be notified by email when follow-up comments are posted. Home Page | Newspaper Columns | Radio Shows | Video | Home Remedies | Pharmacy | Drug Library | Herb Library | What Ails You | Report It! | The People's Pharmacy® Store | About the Graedons | Contact The People's Pharmac