Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Exercise to stop hot flashes. Women's Menopause Health Exercise - The Menopause Prescription for 
    Health . The National Institute on Aging recently reported that "if exercise 
    could be packed into a pill, it would be the single most widely prescribed, 
    and beneficial, medicine in the nation." Exercise is a top recommendation for many conditions common to menopausal 
    women - heart disease, osteoporosis, diabetes, arthritis, backaches and 
    depression. Some studies also show that exercise reduces the frequency and 
    intensity of menopause symptoms. The most recent study of exercise and menopause symptoms included more than 
    1,300 Swedish women. In this clinical trial, 15 percent of sedentary women 
    complained of severe hot flashes, compared to only five percent of those who 
    regularly exercised. However, the vast majority of menopausal women never fill this exercise 
    “prescription.” Here are a few reasons beyond hot flashes on why you should 
    exercise; _ Regular exercise drops blood pressure, cholesterol and obesity, which 
    results (according to the American Heart Association) in a 40% less risk of 
    dying of cardiovascular disease. That’s right - a whopping 40 percent drop 
    in your risk of developing cardiovascular disease. _ Strength training and weight-bearing exercise help prevent the painful 
    disease osteoporosis, which affects millions of postmenopausal women and 
    elderly men. _ Exercise helps control blood glucose levels, keeping diabetes in check. _ Exercise improves endurance, muscle strength, joint flexibility and range 
    of motion for arthritis sufferers. _ One of the most important factors in back/spine health is overall fitness 
    and muscle tone. If you want to get rid of a aching back, try cardiovascular 
    fitness to maintain the bone mass that's important to a healthy spine. _ Consistent exercise greatly reduces depression and anxiety disorder. 
    Exercise also increase feelings of well-being, improves self-image and 
    improves the ability to handle stress. Create a natural “high” through 
    exercise instead of a drug-induced high to combat depression and anxiety 
    disorders. Return to 
    the menopause exercise tips index How to Cure Night Sweats | Causes for Hot Flashes | Natural Remedy Hot Flashes | What 
		To Do for Night Sweats | Herb Estrogen | What Are Symptoms of Menopause | When 
		Does Perimenopause Start | What is Hypothyroid | Menopause 
		Over the Counter | Bio Hormone Therapy | Hormone Balancing Foods | Symptoms Estrogen Dominance | Symptoms of Menopause Perimenopause | What To Do for Hot Flashes Nutrition Health 709-2 Plaza Dr. #105 Chesterton, IN 46304 (800)959-9036 info at womens-menopause-health 
		.com Copyright © Women's Menopause Health Center - All rights reserved Caution: The products and the claims made 
        about specific products on or through this site have not been evaluated 
        by Women's Menopause Health Center or the United States Food and Drug 
        Administration and are not approved to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent 
        disease. The information provided on this site is for informational 
        purposes only and is not intended as a substitute for advice from your 
        physician or other health care professional or any information contained 
        on or in any product label or packaging. You should not use the 
        information on this site for diagnosis or treatment of any health 
        problem or for prescription of any medication or other treatment. You 
        should consult with a healthcare professional before starting any diet, 
        exercise or supplementation program, before taking any medication, or if 
        you have or suspect you might have a health problem. The news related to 
        natural vitamins and nutritional supplements have been provided for 
        informational purposes only. Women's Menopause Health Center and all of 
        its affiliates, are not liable for any event following the viewing of 
        th