
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 21:12:34 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.naturalhealthathome.com/xmlrpc.php
Set-Cookie: wlmdebug=deleted; expires=Fri, 22-Apr-2011 21:12:33 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

10 Essential Winter Remedies for Children natural health at home Home ABOUT Disclaimer Sponsorship Weekly Meal Plans Topics Environmental Health Food as Medicine Home Remedies Mind, Body, Spirit Connection Natural Modalities Traditional Medicine & Wisdom 10 Essential Winter Remedies for Children by Nicole on December 1, 2011 in Home Remedies As winter draws near, it’s nice to have an arsenal of natural remedies handy in case the kids come down with a cold or flu. We do our best to eat nourishing foods, get plenty of rest and take our fermented cod liver oil on a daily basis, but sometimes even the healthiest person can still catch a cold. And in an effort to avoid antibiotics (except when absolutely necessary), we use the following remedies religiously at the very first sign of cold or flu symptoms: 1. California Baby Cold & Flu Essential Oil blend —Real Eucalyptus essential oil is a fabulous remedy to help any type of lung infection. This oil blend can be put directly in the bathtub, in your humidifier or added to a carrier oil and applied to your child’s chest–kind of like that old Vicks Vaporub stuff, but good for you. 2. Children’s Oscillococcinum —At the first sign of flu give a dose of oscillococcinum. Try saying that 5 times–or even once for that matter! Despite its awkward name, it works wonders in the magical way that homeopathy does. Plus, taking these little pellets are fun for the kiddos! For children under 2, as with all homeopathic remedies, dissolve the pellets in water to avoid choking. 3. Kick-it Biotic —We are in love with WishGarden ’s line of herbal tinctures. Seriously, my husband should become a rep for them! We tell everyone about them because their tinctures are formulated specifically for kids in a glycerine base which is both effective and tasty—even to toddlers. The Kick-it Biotic is an awesome remedy to use with children who already have an infection. It has worked wonders for our own children! 4. Daily Immune for Kids —Another WishGarden favorite of ours. Our 3 year old requests this on a regular basis! We use this tincture preventatively and at the very first sign of illness. 5. Herbal Throat & Cough Candies—Check out my tutorial in the latest edition of Rhythm of the Home on how to make your own herbal throat/cough candies. It’s super easy and a great option for children on the GAPS diet who cannot have refined sugar that is typically found in conventional cough drops. 6. Belladonna —Belladonna is a homeopathic remedy that is used acutely for fevers. Give your little one a dose every 20 minutes until the fever breaks. But also, remember, fevers are nature’s way of killing off pathogenic bugs! As long as the fever doesn’t get too high or last for too long, mild fevers are ok. Check with your health care provider for more information. 7. Nux Vomica —In the event of vomiting, you can try this effective homeopathic remedy for your children. If your child’s body needs to eliminate something, it’s best not to interfere with the body’s intelligence. Although sometimes though the body needs help returning to normal. Nux Vomica is a gentle remedy that can be given every 20 minutes until no longer needed. 8. Echinacea Honey Lemon Tea—Add a little lemon and honey to a cup of Echinacea tea when a cold comes on. Lemon is an astringent agent good for sore throats and is also high in vitamin C. Honey has been shown to be as effective as some cough syrups (without the additives) and makes any herbal tea taste good! 9. Cold Seasons for Kids —Ok, I promise, this is the last Wishgarden product on our list! Hey, when you find something good, stick with it, right? While honey (mentioned above) is a great cough remedy, this herbal cough remedy is what you want when dealing with a stubborn cough. 10. Homemade Broth/Soup—The age old wisdom to eat chicken soup has validity . Make mineral-rich chicken broth from scratch (it’s easy!) to keep your little one hydrated, nourished and warm this winter season. Here is a good recipe. Enjoy! And since you made it all the way to the end of this ever long list, you’ll be happy to know that we’re giving away the 3 Wishgarden products mentioned in this article on the Rhythm of the Home blog today!  Leave a comment there to enter! About Nicole Kraft Nicole Kraft lives in the Pacifc Northwest with her husband, their two sons and a lively Australian Shepherd.  With a background in Health Psychology and a lifelong interest in nutrition, Nicole created this blog with her husband Alex, a practicing Naturopathic Doctor and Acupuncturist. Most of the time you'll find her in the kitchen whipping up a healthy, allergen-free meal, but she also enjoys spending time outdoors with her family. Facebook | More Posts { 3 comments… read them below or add one } Melissa December 22, 2011 at 8:05 am Thanks for the opportunity! Reply Mariza January 5, 2012 at 6:23 pm What a great blog! Full of useful information! Thank you for sharing all of this! In Austin, Texas Wholefoods used to carry kick it and I LOVED IT. Then they stopped and I started buying other stuff that said it had echinacea. It hasn’t worked the same. You just reminded me of kick it!!! I still have some empty bottles I saved, but for some reason I never looked for it online. I think I did look on vitacost.com but they don’t carry it, either. Now I know where to get it! I’m ordering some! Reply avishay January 22, 2012 at 1:34 pm I must say i am really impressed from the pure and well served knowledge. I find it as precious as gold- no kidding!!! It is quite rare to find such a good blog with so many useful and practical advice for many diseases and disorders in children. I basically prefer Homeopathy and use it on a regular base treating and helping my family and friends. Must i say the results are always more than satisfying. The changes are very swift and can make you stand on your feet in a very short time. I would like to contribute a small tip for infants care (diarrhea) and teething tip. If we see diarrhea which is watery, yellow color, offensive, acrid and the infant is very nervous and restless, sometimes also during teething, we can consider giving Podofillum 30c potency 2-3 dissolved globules every 30 minutes-1 hour, until the symptoms subside. Another useful tip for teething- if the child is very angry and nervous, and we see hands all over his gums (which are red and inflamed), there is much saliva which can be accompanied with stomach ache. the child screams and do not stop until carried on parents hands. The child wants something and cries and when given it, he throws it away.These are the symptoms where we should consider using the homeopathic remedy Chamomilla (cham) 30c ( sucking 2-3 globules) every 30 minutes, until symptoms subside (and then stop taking the remedy). I want to thank you for this priceless information. It really enriched my knowledge and learned me a bit more- which is a gift for me. Thanks again Avishay Reply Cancel reply Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website Previous post: Benefits of Ghee + Tutorial Next post: Health Goals for 2012: What Are Yours? Meal Plan Login You are not currently logged in. Username: Password: Remember Me » Lost your Password? Meal Plan Member Dashboard contributing to & fully endorse follow us on instagram Get smart with the Thesis WordPress Theme from DIYthemes. WordPress