
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/0.7.65
Date: Fri, 13 Apr 2012 12:28:12 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Last-Modified: Fri, 13 Apr 2012 12:28:11 +0000
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
ETag: "1334320091"
Expires: Sat, 14 Apr 2012 12:28:11 +0000
X-NodeGroup: 1
Content-Language: en
X-FRAME-OPTIONS: SAMEORIGIN
X-Generator: Drupal 7 (http://drupal.org)
X-WebNode: web10.b.examiner.com
Vary: Accept-Encoding

Be especially diligent to your teeth after the holidays - San Francisco dental health | Examiner.com Skip to main content We think you're near Philadelphia Currently in Philadelphia Location: Philadelphia Current temperature: 46° F: Current condition: Clear See Extended Forecast Examiner.com Log in Sign up Home & Life Family & Education Parenting Issues Single Parenting Stay-at-Home Parents Child Safety Toys, Games & Gear Charter Schools Private Schools Public Schools Higher Education Careers Jobs Unemployment Health & Fitness Men's Health Women's Health Children's Health Healthcare Holistic Health Nutrition Weight Loss & Dieting Yoga & Pilates Fitness & Exercise Household Gardening Green Living Sales & Deals Pets Dogs Cats Other Pets Pet Health More Become an examiner dental health and the holidays April 8, 2012 Add a comment Be especially diligent to your teeth after the holidays wilma moynihan M.S. SF Dental Health Examiner + Subscribe Facebook Tweet Reddit Print Email Report Facebook Tweet Print Report Email The holidays are here once again, and many people celebrate with lots of family, food, and decadent desserts too.  Just don't forget when all is said and done, and before you tuck yourselves away safe at nite to rest up for the busy week, to brush and floss your teeth.  Pay special attention to any areas of your teeth that feel extra tight or uncomfortable. This could be a sign of a tooth that you may have chipped  while enthusiasticlly enjoying your holiday meals. It could also be a particle of food that hasn't been thoroughly brushed and flossed away.  Floss until your sure there is not food trapped still inbetween your teeth. During this time of the year the meats and vegetables eaten tend to be a bit tough. Therefore, it will be easier to notice when a piece becomes entrapped between teeth, and still needs to be removed. This is also a good time of the year to plan and make an appointment to visit your dental professional for an exam, and dental cleaning. Many people get their teeth cleaned at the beginning of the work or school year, and then forget to have this done again about 6 months later. Ideally a dental exam and cleaning  should be done every 6 months. This enables your dentist to double check for any new cavities, poor brushing habits that need warning of through dental observations, and perhaps any special treatments like fluoride treatments, dental sealants to protect teeth not yet decayed but prone to becoming decayed at a later time without this protective sealant over teeth that have ridges, pits, and fissures. Advertisement Your dentist also has a chance to evaluate the mouth and make any necessary recommendations for seeing a dental specialist. this may not have been necessary 6 months ago, but with time teeth shift and grow.  Unfortunately, sometimes they grow incorrectly, or are moved through trauma to the mouth as well. Therefore, getting in and seeing your dentist in a timely fashion will prevent any foods from becoming trapped between teeth that have shifted due to either trauma, or natural growth. Enjoy the rest of your year and take very special care of those choppers, teeth that is. you only have 1 set of natural ones, unless you're a child, then you get a second chance. But even baby teeth need tender loving care and a good dentist to ensure that they're growing in the correct position, and if not there are interventions and small miracles do happen, even with the most mashed up mouths of teeth. Modern dental technology is quite amazing. No more dark, mercury fillings. Now patients have choices, and these choices are quite nice. The cavity filling material is now tooth colored, and no more mercury is even used. Unless you choose for some reason to use the dark fillings with mercury. However, with dental insurance one pays almost the same for clear-tooth colored filling as they would for mercury. So, why would you want a mouth of  dark mercury laden teeth, unless of course you wish to fluant your lovely dental work. Thats ok too perhaps. You can always replace the silver fillings later on if you make a choice to get those first. Meanwhile, baby teeth fall out, and the secondary teeth can be prepared the next time with white tooth colored material if your children are prone to cavities all through life.But, remember those sealants, they really do help prevent unnecessary dental work later on, if teeth are sealed  as soon as the teeth erupt and pits and fissures develop. That's the time to act, you can't get sealants once cavities are formed. You've only got one chance to save the original teeth. Lots of luck, and happy holidays to all. Related topics: dental health and the holidays Print Email wilma moynihan M.S. , SF Dental Health Examiner An educator, and someone who is passionate about dental health, Wilma hopes to inform her fellow San Francisco residents about their world of dental health. Subscribe RSS Feed Become an Examiner Comments Advertisement Daily Deal for Philadelphia 0% off Moonlit Bike + Boat Monument Tour From the Oval Office to the halls of Congress, the District is so full of living history that it's easy to forget that we've... Buy now $49 ends today Join Examiner.com on Facebook Advertisement Don't miss... Zimmerman has been charged with the murder of Trayvon Martin. Get the latest updates Charles Manson was denied parole for the 12th time. Are you surprised? The 2012 Lollapalooza lineup has been announced. See who will be playing See what makes Smashburger crush the competition. Sink your teeth into their technique Slideshow: These stars have been transformed into Barbie dolls. See how lifelike they are Get complete recaps and analysis of the NHL playoff games. Stanley Cup coverage Olympics qualifiers, swimming with the fishes and more. Today's recreation headlines It's been 100 years since the tragic 'Titanic' voyage. The history, the movie and more Follow Us Twitter Watch Dark Knight Rises star Joseph Gordon-Levitt in first 'Looper' trailer t.co/t1zQ6QK7 1 hour ago Top 10 quotes: Abraham Lincoln t.co/20OKJaxj 2 hours ago Champions Online heroes go 'on alert' with today's update t.co/dKl5M9jW 3 hours ago Health & Fitness | © 2006-2012 Clarity Digital Group LLC d/b/a Examiner.com . About examiner.com Examiner.com is the inside source for everything local. We are powered by Examiners, the largest pool of passionate contributors in the world. Examiners provide unique and original content to enhance life in your local city wherever that may be. Examiners come from all walks of life and contribute original content to entertain, inform, and inspire. About Examiner.com Read more about us Connect with Examiner.com Become a fan Follow us on Twitter Connect on LinkedIn View our RSS Feeds Company Links Advertise with us Career opportunities Examiner.com blog Mobile site RSS Feeds Sitemap Today in photos Privacy Policy Terms of Use Partner Li