
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 05:11:39 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.9 (Debian) PHP/5.2.6-1+lenny3 with Suhosin-Patch mod_python/3.3.1 Python/2.5.2 mod_ssl/2.2.9 OpenSSL/0.9.8g mod_perl/2.0.4 Perl/v5.10.0
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.6-1+lenny3
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 05:11:39 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

One More Reason to Circumcise | Parenting Squad About Contact Advertise Home News & Commentary Tips Family Planning Home Life Education Health Social Skills No Children Zone Browse by Age Top Parenting Sites About Us Contact Us Home » Health One More Reason to Circumcise 45 comments Posted November 4, 2009 - 15:33 by Lela Davidson Filed under Channel: Health , Birth , New Parents , Diseases & Disorders Photo: jmayer1129, Flickr Whether or not to circumcise your baby boy is a personal, cultural, and even an ethical decision for some people. Whatever your stance, new evidence suggests that the small the foreskin the lower the chances of contracting HIV. And what's smaller than no foreskin at all? The Science of Circumcision and AIDS Dr. Godfrey Kigozi of Johns Hopkins University's Rakai Health Sciences Program in Uganda explains how circumcision protects men after studying 965 men in Uganda (okay — Uganda, I know — but still). None of the men were infected with AIDS at the start of Kigozi’s study, but by the end the ones with larger foreskins were more likely to have become infected with HIV. "Mean foreskin surface area was significantly higher among men who acquired HIV," they wrote in the journal AIDS. The report goes on to state that removal of the foreskin by circumcision does not completely prevent infection but reduces the risk. The foreskin is believed to contain dendritic cells, which may enable the AIDS virus to enter the body. The Science of Circumcision at My House When we made the circumcision decision at my house it had nothing to do with science or AIDS. It had to do with simple personal hygiene and, well — aesthetics. Had I not lived in Seattle at the time, I wouldn’t have given it a second thought. Yes, snip it, by all means. However, when you’re an open-minded woman toying with the idea of not getting the epidural and a militant anti-circumcision advocate makes a teary-eyed plea to your childbirth education class about the horrors of slicing off a piece of your baby boy’s penis — you pay attention. A choice had to be made. Of course I didn’t want to traumatize my son, but would he really remember the pain? Was it really mutilation as the impassioned opponents called it? And what would it look like, all that extra skin hanging off the end. I mean, the pictures in the Preserve-the-Foreskin flyers were as close as I’d ever been to one — a foreskin that is. My husband and I discussed whether to preserve the child as God had sent him into this world, or make the easy decision. Like I said, it came down to hygiene. Ultimately I left the decision to my husband because I knew when the time came for serious foreskin care, I was not willing to teach my boy how to work through all those extra steps. Turns out, neither was my husband. Nor did he want to have the conversation about why Junior’s didn’t look like Daddy’s. And now, thankfully, we have the full measure of Ugandan science behind us. What tips the scales one way or another for you? Email this | Subscribe | StumbleUpon | Facebook | Technorati About Lela Davidson Telling the truth about parenting. Lela Davidson's blog Similar entries Popular by Lela Popular in channel Circumcision: Arguments For And Against The Circumcision Decision Should Circumcision Be Illegal? Ten Hearing Aids at My House The 3 Things Pregnant Women Need More Than A Birth Plan I DARE You to Drink Beer Best Meal Planning Apps and Websites? Cut Your Grocery Bill with a Savvy List Creative Punishments From Frustrated Parents Parents' Best Recipe and Meal Planning Apps and Websites My Name is Lori and I Am Infertile: Surviving Depression Caused by Infertility Top 7 Baby Items You Don't Need To Buy Questions to Ask a Potential Pediatrician or Family Doctor Questions to Ask a Potential Pediatrician or Family Doctor Questions to Ask a Potential Pediatrician or Family Doctor Comments 1 about baby cercumsion Submitted by jerome newman on November 7, 2009 - 07:08. Hi, Saundra here! This is a good famly network. I need to know more famly oreinted blogs my blog is Womens Maternity New Baby, and I have more questions than answers. I'd like to do a post about babies health. reply 2 It only comes down to hygiene Submitted by Maggie Wells on November 23, 2009 - 09:04. If said boy is not hygenic. In our family we are pretty adamant about living with our bodies as our bodies came--which includes no cutting of our bodies. We've had zero problems with keeping clean--if anything as Americans we are over hygenic in the first place. Margaret Garcia-Couoh reply 3 Die in A Fire Submitted by Guest on July 16, 2010 - 10:47. and go to hell. reply 4 Can I suggest a good therapist for your son; He's gonna need one Submitted by Guest on September 5, 2010 - 21:06. In my opinion you made a costly, socially detrimental, and very hasty decision by circumcising your son already. Do I have a right to speak my opinion here? I hope so because it is hard to be humble when my son is intact. Why is this filed under diseases and disorders? Having a foreskin at birth is not a disease or disorder. Having the desire to leave part of your baby boy behind is perhaps a disorder, though I haven't understood that one yet. reply 5 You forget... Submitted by Hugh7 on October 25, 2010 - 15:15. Babyhood and boyhood are transient. You forget that he is going (you hope and pray) to grow up and spend most of his life as a man - with his own opinion of how much of his own body he wants to keep. You left the decision to someone who doesn't remember having all his genitals. But you do - would you give any of them up? "Nor did he want to have the conversation about why Junior’s didn’t look like Daddy’s." Right. He didn't want to have to say "They cut part off of mine" because it makes him uncomfortable - and well it might. Fact is, the intact child's reaction is typically not "I want part cut off mine too to look like yours," (surprise!) but "Poor daddy." Even if circumcision did confer the famous "60% protection" against female to male transmission of HIV, the virus and that mode of transmission are so rare in the developed world you'd have to circumcise hundreds or even thousands of babies to prevent even one case - which could be much more effectively prevented by other means. reply 6 As much as i love this blog Submitted by Guest on February 24, 2012 - 04:07. As much as i love this blog and am really enjoying every topic, i can't help but to wonder why you think a study from Uganda cant be convincing, at least thats the message i got.  Other than that, i like it and your work is well researched and fun to read, just don't attempt to be prejudice towards other countries or cultures. reply 7 Not ever!! Submitted by Guest on February 27, 2012 - 16:48. To circumcise using the 'hygiene argument' is akin to saying we should cut of kids hands because they get dirty!! Humans are the only animal to practice such a barbaric, ill spirited habit. And don't get me going on the 'religious reasons'! Just another multilation under the banner of some god. reply 8 Ridiculous Submitted by LM on February 28, 2012 - 15:19. "Like I said, it came down to hygiene. Ultimately I left the decision to my husband because I knew when the time came for serious foreskin care, I was not willing to teach my boy how to work through all those extra steps. Turns out, neither was my husband. Nor did he want to have the conversation about why Junior’s didn’t look like Daddy’s. All ridiculous reasons to circumcise. Hygiene? Neither of my intact sons have ever had a single issue with their foreskins being dirty or unhygienic. You don't want your son catching HIV when he is older? Teach him safe sex practices. You want your son's penis to look like your husbands? Nonsense. Should a man who has only one leg chop his son's off for the same nonsensical reasons? You are removing a body part that is there for a reason. reply 9 Wow Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 15:20. I am so sad to see that anyone would strip their child of a necessary body part filled with immunological properties and am apalled to see the reason as because the parent was not interested in teaching the child to clean himself. Not only is circumcision illegal in the US where I love, the FGM Amendment says no genital cutting for girls and the 14th Amendment says all individuals must be given equal rights and of course child abuse laws state that a mark cannot be left and circumcision is not only done without adequate pain meds but also leaves a very clear gaping wound. By the way a child is easy to clean before puberty as you just wipe the outside of the penis. My son is easier to clean than my daughters ever were. After puberty as the boy becomes retractable, he will be old enough to rinse with warm water. See below for information regarding the immunological properties of the foreskin which can never be grown or grafted back. http://www.norm.org/lost.html "Immunological System 	The soft mucosa (inner foreskin) contains its own immunological defense system which produces plasma cells. These cells secrete immunoglobulin antibodies as well as antibacterial and antiviral proteins, including the pathogen killing enzyme lysozyme. Once removed with the foreskin, there is no known method of restoring this immunological defense system. [Sources:  1. A. Ahmed and A. W. Jones, "Apocrine Cystadenoma: A Report of Two Cases Occurring on the Prepuce," British Journal of Dermatology 81 (1969): 899-901. 2. P. J. Flower et al., "An Immunopathologic Study of the Bovine Prepuce," Veterinary Pathology 20 (1983):189-202.]" "Lymphatic Vessels 	The loss of these vessels due to circumcision reduces the lymph flow within that part of the body's immune system. While some lymphatic vessels remain, there is no known method of restoring those that were removed during circumcision. [Source: Netter, F.H., "Atlas of Human Anatomy," Second Edition (Novartis, 1997): plate 379.]" "Langerhans Cells 	These specialized epithelial cells are a component of the immune system in the penis. There is no known method of restoring Langerhans cells to the penis. [Source: G. N. Weiss et al., "The Distribution and Density of Langerhans Cells in the Human Prepuce: Site of a Diminished Immune Response?" Israel Journal of Medical Sciences 29 (1993): 42-43.]" And the Langerhans cells were recently found to fight of HIV/AIDS but if they are gone due to circumcision your son will be MORE likely to not use a condom due to sensitivity issues and of course be more likely during unprotected sex to contract HIV/AIDS. http://health.msn.com/health-topics/articlepage.aspx?cp-documentid=10015... reply 10 I agree Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 15:22. It is ridiculous because my cut husband has given me a yeast infection and also has recurrent prostate infections as well as penile numbness. This all began in his late 20s. The urologist confirmed that this was all due to a normal infant circ. My intact partners never gave me anything AND my intact son and daughters have never had an infection of any sort even though my son has food allergies that cause diahrrea. As we worked through those issues he never once had an infection because his foreskin protected his urethra. If you are not willing to care for your child then don't have one is what we always say over here. reply 11 :( Submitted by Sal on February 28, 2012 - 15:49. You can find a study somewhere to back up almost any claim and to make you feel better for what is essentially an unnecessary mutilation of a very sensitive part of the body. You don't cut off your toes to prevent ingrown toenails, you teach your kids how to look after their feet.  I know ingrown toenails are not AIDS, but it's the same principle, teach your son to take care of his penis and, when the time is right, practice safe sex, and he's unlikely to have any problems. As for aesthetics being a reason to circumcise, that's ridiculous.  It's been said in the above comments already, but I'd like to add, boys get teased in the locker room more often for looking at the other boys' penises, than for not looking the same. All that aside though, my number one reason for not allowing anyone to chop off a piece of my son - it's his body, his choice. reply 12 FALSE Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 15:50. There are studies that disapprove the effectiveness of circumcision as a preventative measure against HIV/AIDS. How do you explain the fact that the US has the highest circumcision rates in the Western world and also the highest HIV/AIDS rates in the western world? Bottom line, condoms are the most effective way to prevent STD's, PERIOD! Females are born with the same amount of skin & more folds to clean, yet they are legally protected from FGM. It's a double standard no matter what your religious, cultural, social, hygenic justifications are. Boys deserve better, plain and simple!!! reply 13 You Need More Info Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 15:59. If this blog was written so you won't feel guilty, I can understand that.  For any other reason, your facts are WAY off and it simply doesn't make sense.  My son remains uncircumcised and I still find zero justification for mutilating baby genitals.  You want to argue with the divine creation of a human?  Go for it, but from the sounds of the replies here, you are going alone. reply 14 Circumcision Submitted by Kelly sharp  on February 28, 2012 - 16:31. This is written with completely false information. The circumcision rates in the USA are the highest in the world and they also have the highest rates of HIV aids! Teaching our children about safe sex and proper hygiene is the way to go, no cutting off a very important part of their body! People that support circumcision make me sick. Learn the information, learn the facts! The more you know about it, the more you will be against it! reply 15 It's not your penis...it's not your husband's penis Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 16:33. So why do you feel you had the right to alter it permanently?  Would you pierce your sons ears, "just because I don't want to have the talk about why dad's ear is pierced and his is not"...  would you have chopped off one of his fingers if your husband had been the unfortunate victim of a rogue blender?  I'm so sorry that you did not choose to get informed before you made this monumental decision for your son but I felt obligated to comment so that others reading your blog posting would not follow your mistake. Firstly, the Uganda study is DEEPLY flawed.  It does not take into account cultural or economic biases and the sample size is woefully small.  It also does not take into account some of the sexual practices that occur in Uganda, in which having a foreskin would in fact be of benefit in reducing risk (as other studies from the region have shown if you dig deeper into the matter).  Also...at risk of stating the obvious...it's U-G-A-N-D-A....There are numerous studies saying people who live in Uganda who sleep with mosquito nets have a lower incidence of malaria, so are you going to go out and buy mosquito nets for your family??? Next...hygiene...  I really liked the comment that points out that childhood, in specific that time where you'd have the "hygiene" lessons, is extremely transient...  also, there ARE significant effects related to circumcision.  Studies, very recent ones in fact, have shown visible changes in the brain in infants immediately following circumcision that DO NOT GO AWAY...  it affects how boys deal with emotions, bonding, and communication...  How many times have you heard someone lament how their husband or boyfriend "just doesn't get it" or "seems aloof" or "can't seem to communicate"...  Maybe just maybe there is a reason...  Why should girl babies get to be snuggled and warm against their mother's breast while boy babies get carted off by some stranger, strapped to a table and then had THE MOST SENSITIVE part of their bodies cut off???????????????????????? Even if you doubt the developmental effects, there are numerous studies that show long term effects on sexual health, including impotence and loss of sensation in old age due to calousing of the glans over time...that part of the anatomy is meant to be protected. EVERY MAMMAL HAS A FORESKIN!!!!!  Why is female circumcision a shock and horror but male circumcision totally acceptable? The American Association of Pediatricians DOES NOT recommend circumcision.  Most public health services won't cover it.  Most modern countries outside of the U.S. consider it a barbaric and arcane practice.  Only 10% of australian men are circumcised, for example. I am so sorry for your son that you did not inform yourself.  Choosing to leave your boy intact is not about peace, love, or granola or hippy peaceful parenting moms waving flowers in the air shouting "Save the foreskin!"...it's about following your instincts as a mother to PROTECT YOUR CHILD from the moment they were created until the moment they shuffle off this mortal coil and not making decisions based on whether or not they'll inconvenience you or your spouse for a brief moment in time. My son was born perfect, and I left him that way.  The doctors came to me repeatedly and asked if I wanted circumcision (of course, it's extra money for major surgery!)...I repeatedly said no and finally said "LOOK, if you really want to get your hands on my son's foreskin, I'll send him to you when he turns 18 if he decides he wants it removed)...later that same day, a little boy DIED from a botched circumcision just two doors down from my room. Circumcision IS MAJOR SURGERY!!!!  More newborn baby boys die from it than die from car crashes. P.S.  Hygiene has not been a problem AT ALL for us and for those mums who think that intact penises require extra work when changing diapers...there is NO WORK....you wipe it as if it were a little finger and NEVER retract the foreskin or allow anyone (NOT EVEN A DOCTOR) to retract it. reply 16 You are just justifying your Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 17:02. You are just justifying your stupid choice with this crap. Do the real research! You abused your poor innocent son straight of the womb. Mothers like you disgust me. reply 17 Circumcision: not logical or kind Submitted by Hannah on February 28, 2012 - 17:18. I don't understand how an open wound in a diaper is more hygienic. If AIDS is the reason, why not wait until he's out of diapers to do the surgery. By then you might realize that he's fine the way he is. Or by then there might be a cure for AIDS. Or by then the "studies" about circumcision reducing AIDS transmission might be further debunked. I'm not a militant advocate, just trying to think about it logically instead of being stuck in one particular time/place/culture's way of thinking about it. reply 18 Circumcision does not= clean Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 17:23. I very much hope I am not repeating others comments as I didn't read them but I wanted to put in my 2 cents. I am very sorry that you decided on this decision based on hygiene. Circumcised does not = clean. Caring for a intact boy is very simple. The rule most people go by is, clean like a finger, clean what is seen. The reason for this is when a baby boy is born, the foreskin is literally fused to the head of the penis. Pulling it down causes pain, bleeding, and guess what? Infections. No wonder why everyone thinks uncircumcised is unclean, so many people do not realize that they are not SUPPOSED to pull the foreskin back, and they were getting infections because of it. Forced retraction causes irreversible damage and scar tissue. When the boy is older he will retract his OWN penis by himself. This is when you, as the parent, teach your child to pull back the foreskin, let the water run over it, then replace the foreskin back. Simple, right? There ARE no extra complicated steps like you mentioned, he does not need to scrub or even apply soap. As simple as washing underneath your armpits, the bottoms of your feet, behind your ears.  So why not any soap? Well... Would you scrub your vagina out with soap? No. What would happen if you did? You would get an infection. There's the whole infection myth again. As for your comments about Uganda and HIV and AIDS, well to be honest with you, I didn't even bother reading it. I know the argument. But guess what? You don't live in Uganda. Guess what else? Teaching your son about safe sex and how to be faithful in relationships is going to be the TRIED AND TRUE form of STD and AIDS prevention. Not cutting part of a functioning organ off. This is only an excuse to cut. The other reason you mentioned was aesthetics. This also saddens me, because nothing makes sex with a partner less atheistically pleasing than circumcision. When the foreskin is cut off, the head of the penis loses A LOT of sensation. Men who are circumcised are usually more rough during sex because they have to work harder to get to the finish line. An uncircumcised male seriously does not look that different, the head of the penis is soft, moist and pink, a lot like the inside of a females vagina, this extra skin even helps hold the moisture during sex and lube is less likely to be needed, you just have a little extra skin, that's all. This skin is GREAT because it makes the penis thicker, bigger and in some instances even longer. What could make sex MORE atheistically pleasing than a bigger, thicker penis? AND not having to reach over to get the lube? And why doesn't junior's penis look like daddies? You know what I want to know? Why they would have their pants off comparing their genitals. Some women have labia's that hang quite low, some do not, my vagina probably does not look like my mothers. What's wrong with saying, "son, when I was young they cut part of my penis off" and leave it at that? Really. There. I made a valid argument to hopefully all your points WITHOUT mentioning the pain the baby has to go through. reply 19 I'd like to see you Submitted by Leave It Alone on February 28, 2012 - 19:15. I'd like to see you circumcise yourself. Your facts are very, very off base and your reasons to circumcise are pitiful and sad.  Foreskin has multiple purposes. My cut partner has issues with his penis and they wouldn't have come about if he had his foreskin. He wanted to cut our Son but I did not. I won because I fought for my Son to have his WHOLE body.  He is a boy. Boys get dirty. Girls do too, but we don't cut them. If we cut off every body part that got dirty or could get infected, there would be no body left. Foreskin serves an important purpose. Please look up the WHOLE Network on Facebook. reply 20 I dislike how hateful people Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 19:28. I dislike how hateful people are! Leave this mother alone. She did what she wanted to with her son. It is her right as a mother! You may not think it is right, but it is her decision. Some people agree with circumcision, some dont. Some agree with immunizations, breast feeling, organic food, some dont. Its their right to have opinions! Netiquette is important people!!! It is wrong to tell someone to go to hell or that you hate them because they have a differing opinion. Remember that! reply 21 What makes me mad... Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 19:32. Is when mother's feel they have the right to lecture or degrade another because her beliefs differ... So what if someone chooses to circumsize their son? It's not your son, and it is NOT child abuse. If you don't like the decision she made, oh well, YOU don't have to live with it. I know this will get a lot of negative feedback, but I don't care. I'm not here to argue and will not respond to any comments made on my statement. All I want to point out is EVERYONE has a different parenting style, All of you mothers that are flipping out over another mother's decision need to get over yourself; you're not perfect either. Have a good day. reply 22 Completely agree!! Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 19:33. Completely agree!! reply 23 Comment #21 I couldn't have Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 19:48. Comment #21 I couldn't have said it any better!! reply 24 What century is this? Submitted by Guest on February 28, 2012 - 21:11. This has nothing to do with "parenting style" Routine infant  circumcision is still practiced in the US because of cultural bias, misinformation, myths, lies and because it pads the pockets of the doctors who still perform an unnecessary and unethical surgery. Time to wake up and stop strapping down babies and hacking up their genitals. reply 25 Eliminate ALL the extra steps? Submitted by Lorraine on February 28, 2012 - 22:58. "Extra" skin means extra steps? With that logic in mind, one should lob off the buttocks ending the extra step of spreading them to (1) wipe after a trip to the bathroom and (2) washing in the shower. And let's not leave out the women, may as well remove the nether lips and eliminate the need to spread 'em for cleansing. See how silly that reads. I agree with other commentators, it's not your penis, it's not your husband's penis. It's body modification for esthetic purposes on a minor. reply 26 one "more" reason?? Submitted by Guest on February 29, 2012 - 00:09. What was the first reason? The second reason? Actually, it doesn't matter what "reasons" you think there are. No reason is good enough to cut off a healthy part of a baby's genitals. One of MANY reasons to leave a boy the way nature made him? Doctors have NO IDEA how big a man's penis is going to get as he grows up. What does that mean? The more he grows, the tighter that skin will be, and the more it will pull against the glans when he gets aroused. In other words, one more reason to leave it along? You better cross your fingers that your son's penis stays small enough for him to be able to grown - in ALL the ways that men "grow" - that he doesn't have pain, or that his scrotum skin and hair doesn't pull up him shaft to accommodate his adulthood,  that the tightness of his skin doesn't pull him out of alignment. Ever seen an curved penis that looks like the skin is tugging on the head? Guess the doctor didn't psychically predict how big your baby was gonna grow. Every seen a tattoo get stretched when a belly gets big? It doesn't look the same does it. Guess what: one more reason to let your son grow up as nature intended. reply 27 Sorry about the typos above! Submitted by Guest on February 29, 2012 - 00:13. Sorry about the typos above! "grow' not "grown", "alone" not "along", etc. Yeesh - that's what commenting quickly achieves. My point stands, though. Thanks for reading, and overlooking the mistakes. If you want me to list more reasons to leave a boy to grow up intact, I will proofread more thoroughly. :) reply 28 In fact, "one more reason" Submitted by Guest on February 29, 2012 - 00:16. In fact, "one more reason" to leave a boy intact? It's HIS penis! His body, his choice. I am thankful to have been born a girl such that I have my whole body. My little brother was not so lucky, and is sad about that. reply 29 Yeah, except these studies Submitted by blondemom on February 29, 2012 - 01:59. Yeah, except these studies should be considered null and void because many of the intact men who contracted AIDS/HIV during the study claimed to either have had NO SEX or sex with only their long term partner (the same partner as before the study). This means that either the men in the study were liars (which would also include the newly cut men, who wouldn't have been able to have sex for many months of the study and also would have had more access to condoms and learning about safe sex) or that AIDS/HIV is not being contracted through sex only. Also, if circumcision was actually a way to reduce AIDS/HIV, why is the US HIV rate so much higher than countries where circumcision rates are very low-non-existent? It is something like 10 times higher in the US compared to Europe. Some further reading for those who stumble across this article looking for truth about circumcision and whether or not they should cut their sons, based on reduced HIV rates. PS: Even if this ever did become reality, it still doesn't beat CONDOMS and not having loads of partners. THAT is how you REALLY prevent AIDS from sexual contact! http://dontgetstuck.wordpress.com/circumciseion-intact-living-with-hiv/ http://xa.yimg.com/kq/groups/23477339/1441224426/name/JLM_boyle_hill.pdf http://www.newzimbabwe.com/news-7273-Circumcision%20HIV%20impact%20doubt... reply 30 Yes, that is true....however Submitted by blondemom on February 29, 2012 - 02:15. Yes, that is true....however I doubt you would say it is 'parenting style' if a circumcized woman chose to cut her daughter for hygiene, religious, and/or cosmetic reasons....you would turn her in for child abuse! I'm not even talking about the most rare, extreme form (which is where everything is removed and the vagina is sewn shut....brutal!)...the most common form of FGM (female genital mutilation) is a knick in the clitoris...a flake of skin is removed, barely large enough to see. THAT is illegal in the USA...as it should remain. However removing the entire prepuce organ of a male baby is considered normal and healthy and cleaner and the right thing to do...? Hypocritical, isn't it? Parenting style is how you choose to raise your child: how you dress them, what you feed them, whether you go back to work and leave baby in day care or stay home, whether you are an active parent with lots of fun games or whether you encourage more creative play on their own...whether you are vegan, organic, or teach your child to hunt and grow food...those are related to your style of parenting. Choosing unnecessary infant cosmetic surgery which has no proven benefits (and plenty if debunked myths) which is ALWAYS damaging and can cause death, just because YOU prefer the look (why do you care what your sons penis looks like anyways...he won't be YOUR sexual partner, unless you are heading towards incestuous pedophilia and wish to be imprisoned!) is just plain old WRONG. No, cutting half of your son's penis off to avoid a possible question in the future is not a parenting STYLE. reply 31 Sorry, that last one was to Submitted by blondemom on February 29, 2012 - 02:24. Sorry, that last one was to #21. reply 32 So I wonder... Submitted by momof3 on February 29, 2012 - 06:45. If all of you people that are complaining about circumcision have the same reaction to piercing a baby girl's ears or christening a baby or even the decision to spank your child or getting a baby immunizations... these are also things that the baby has no chance to choose and may or may not have negative feelings as they get older. They may not be surgeries and I may be speaking a little dramatically, but there are ALOT of things, that aren't surgeries, that a child could look back at and say "I wish that didn't happen." This blog may not have good information and I'm not even angry that people diasgree, The only thing that irks me is how hateful a lot of you are being. The people that just wrote a comment disagreeing or disproving the article are not included in this group I'm talking about. I'm talking about the women who are here looking down your nose at someone for making a decision you didn't agree with, there's no need for it. Obviously your mothers never taught you any manners. I may not believe in circumcision, but I don't get angry at people who do. They're decision is not affecting my life, so why should I get angry about it? I understand the people trying to spread information about why circumcisions are a bad choice, but there's no need to insult this woman. I'm sure each and every one of us have made decisions at one point or another in regards to our child that another mother wouldn't agree with, so give this lady a break. I can understand being angry at how the blog was written, get angry about her using the report that was disproved, but it's not any of your business whether or not someone else circumcises their child. reply 33 correction Submitted by momof3 on February 29, 2012 - 06:48. sorry, *their decision* reply 34 comment 4 & comment 15 Submitted by momof3 on February 29, 2012 - 07:03. Comment 4: she was not saying foreskin is a disease or disorder, she mentioned a report that had to do with AIDS/HIV, a disease/disorder. And I know many grown men that were circumicised and are just fine mentally... And comment 15, my husband was NOT circumcised and he still often times seems like he *"just doesn't get it" or "seems aloof" or "can't seem to communicate"...* but that has NOTHING to do with whether or not he was cut as an infant, and ALL to do with the circumstances he was raised in. So I'm pretty positive that the whole nurture aspect of his life, how you raise him and treat him and discipline him and speak to him, will determine his mental capacity as an adult. reply 35 it's not difficult Submitted by Kelly on February 29, 2012 - 09:32. "I was not willing to teach my boy how to work through all those extra steps." Guess what - my 3 year old figured out how to take care of his normal, intact penis all by himself.  He said in the shower one day "look mom, I pull it back like this and then cover it up again!" Ignorance and denial can only get you so far..... If it's not your body, it's not your decision!!! reply 36 A decision motivated by ignorance Submitted by Jason G on February 29, 2012 - 09:59. [quote]And what would it look like, all that extra skin hanging off the end. I mean, the pictures in the Preserve-the-Foreskin flyers were as close as I’d ever been to one — a foreskin that is. My husband and I discussed whether to preserve the child as God had sent him into this world, or make the easy decision.[/quote] So your ignorance of how a penis should really be was what this choice was based upon? That seems rather silly. [quote]Like I said, it came down to hygiene.[/quote] So having to keep an open wound free of faeces and urine is more hygienic? Rubbish. It seems to me you're just making excuses. [quote]Ultimately I left the decision to my husband because I knew when the time came for serious foreskin care, I was not willing to teach my boy how to work through all those extra steps. Turns out, neither was my husband. Nor did he want to have the conversation about why Junior’s didn’t look like Daddy’s.[/quote] So making an ireversible decision that they boy might grow up to resent is preferable than having a simple conversation with him? What "extra steps", it's washing a penis, hardly a difficult task. As for your and your husband being willing to answer a simple question, how the hell do you expect do any parenting if you can't do something so basic? Son: Daddy, why does my penis look different to yours? Father: Well, son, when I was a baby, Granny and Granddad cut the end of mine off, but your mother and I didn't want to do that to you. Son: Thank you, Daddy! (hugs father) That's how such a conversation is likely to go, and even if it doesn't satisfy the boy, at least he can have it done as an adult if he wants. A circumcised baby won't ever have the choice, though. The notion that you did this parially to spare your husband the possibility of having to answer a potentially uncomfortable question as well as facing up to the fact that something was taken from him is pretty selfish. though you aren't safe yet. The boy might ask you why his penis looks different from so many of his schoolfellows. He might even resent it once he is able to intellectualise exactly what happened, and why. reply 37 Lots of hate Submitted by Guest on February 29, 2012 - 18:58. I sometimes wonder if people go looking on the Internet for stuff they can disagree with just so they can feel better about their choices. If I get this done to my boys or not I believe that is my decision.  It is a private family matter.  I don't see why others should tell me I was right or wrong. I drink raw milk....and so do my kids.  What could be said about that? I won't pierce my 2 year old daughters ears....but I'm not going to chew someone else out because they did to THEIR daughter.  It isn't my business. I think this blog is here to get info out.  Not be the target for people out trolling for ways to put others down and feel better about their more righteous way of parenting. reply 38 It is NOT her right ... Submitted by Guest on March 1, 2012 - 06:44. Babies are baby HUMANS, HAVE THEY NO RIGHTS???  We are borrowing our children, and we do NOT have a right to sexually mutilate them at birth, or EVER.  No one is being hateful, and if they are, I disagree with that too.  However, she put herself out there, PUBLICLY, and here is her response.  If she can't handle it, she should keep her thoughts to herself. reply 39 Argue with love and compassion Submitted by Guest on March 1, 2012 - 07:03. I am FIRMLY an intactivist, and I disagree with circumcision to my core.  However, treating anyone with hate and nastiness is never the way to make a point, especially a peaceful point.  I do NOT believe that we 'have the right' to harm our baby boys at birth, or ever, but most mothers believe that every decision they make is one of love.  It breaks my heart that the author actually turned to 'appearance and hygiene' as her final decision makers (after all, the statue of David is uncircumcised and it's considered a FOUNDATION of beauty).  An uncircumcised penis is CLEANER than a circumcised penis, because it's natural cleanliness mechanism is still INTACT.  That all being said, please go gently forward in your cause.  Barraging this mama with hate will only cause her to 'never want to associate herself with intactivists'.  Not all of us are self righteous.  Please read these comments with an open mind and an open heart.  And please, leave your future sons the way they were created.  They are perfect.  They are adequate and amazing. reply 40 Is circumcision really a decision for a parent to make? Submitted by Rena on March 4, 2012 - 20:16. Circumcision kills more than 100 little baby boys in the United States every year (and probably many more than that). Many more little baby boys encounter some kind of problem during the circumcision surgery and have to go through more surgeries. Some of these boys have to live the rest of their lives with damaged and malformed penises. For a few unfortunate boys the damage is so severe that they have to be amputated. On a newborn baby boy the foreskin is fused to the penis head just like a nail is fused to the finger. Many boys do not receive any or receive insufficient amounts of pain medication before a circumcision to cover the kind of pain that ripping the foreskin off of the head and cutting the skin off of the penis causes. The pain these baby boys go through during the circumcision is so severe that it puts some of them in a state of shock – these are the instances where the nurse comes out and says: “it went great, he didn’t cry at all”. http://www.drmomma.org/2011/03/he-didnt-cry-babies-in-shock.html http://www.savingsons.org/2010/02/3rd-year-medical-student-describes-1st... Following a circumcision the trauma and pain leads to difficulty breastfeeding, degrees of failure to thrive for days and weeks while the open wound and pain caused by the cut and the foreskin being ripped from the forehead is rubbing on a diaper and getting mixed with urine and feces, decreased tolerance to pain (for at least 6 months and most probably much much longer than that) and even PTSD. http://www.drmomma.org/2009/11/circumcision-how-much-does-it-hurt.html Imagine your fingernail being ripped off with little to no pain medication, then being wrapped in a loose bandage that rubs on the wound with any little movement. It getting mixed with urine and feces and having to be rubbed clean. Doesn’t seem like the way any little baby should be welcomed into this world. The penis head in intact men is pink and moist much like the inside of a vagina because it is protected by the foreskin. At circumcision many sensitive nerve endings in the foreskin are cut away and lost. Additionally circumcised men loose more and more sensitivity with time because the skin on the penis head progressively hardens as a result of constantly being exposed and rubbing on clothes. This leads to rougher sex because men have to work harder to feel anything. Men who have been circumcised in adulthood compare sex after circumcision to having sex with two condoms. Some circumcised men as young as their late 30ies and early 40ties are no longer able to feel pleasure. This coincides with the US having one of the highest consumption rates of Viagra in the world. along with the highest rate of HIV/AIDS in the western world, The US is the only country in the west which routinely circumcises their baby boys….  AND the US has the highest rate of HIV/AIDS in the western world. Actually Israel, the Muslim countries and the US are the only countries in the world where circumcision is routinely performed. If you are worried about your son being different and teased in the locker room you need to know that the circumcision rate in the US is currently about 33%, so a circumcised boy is much more likely to be different than an intact boy. Here’s a video (at the bottom of the link) of a routine infant circumcision used for healthcare professionals: http://www.drmomma.org/2011/01/neonatal-circumcision-video-for.html Please make sure you don’t rely only what your doctor have to tell you about circumcision and do some research yourself. Here are some links to learn more about circumcision: www.SavingSons.org http://www.intactamerica.org/ www.drmomma.org reply 41 Adding to my comment #40 Submitted by Rena on March 5, 2012 - 09:59. The trauma from circumcision is also believed to cause long lasting effects on men: http://intactnews.org/node/131/1316710012/study-links-circumcision-perso... The high prevalence of circumcision in the US is also believed to be linked to the very high rate of violence in the US: http://www.cirp.org/news/cin/1996.04.22 For the circumcision the baby boy is strapped down to a "circumstraint" - a hard board where his arms and legs are tied down so he cannot move. As I said in my prior comment the boys do not always receive pain medication and the ones who do, don't get enough because it simply is not safe to administer that amount of pain meds to infants. And again, the foreskin is fused to the penis head like a nail is fused to the finger. The difference is that the nail only covers 1/2 - 1/3 of the tip of the finger. The foreskin covers the whole tip of the penis and causes more damage and pain than "just" ripping a nail off. Strapping people down and ripping off their finger nails is a known torture method. reply 42 I have never seen such angry comments... Submitted by Guest on March 6, 2012 - 16:53. I thought that this was an interesting article. It spoke of a women's choice to have her son circumcised.Not an article telling others what should be done.  It is a decision I am toiling with since in my culture all the boys are circumcised at birth yet my husband who is from another culture is not. It is a decision that is a personal one, culturally, religiously and yes emotionally. I don't think it is up to a person to condemn a persons thoughts on such a subject so vehemently even if one does disagree. reply 43 Yes, I absolutely agree with Submitted by Rena on March 6, 2012 - 20:54. Yes, I absolutely agree with you that it is a personal decision..... for the person who will have to live with that decision - the boy. Please have that boy grow up and read the links I posted in comments 40 and 41 and I do believe I know what that boy would *personally* decide. Even though he as an adult would be able to be sufficiently medicated and not risk many of the risks that a newborn baby boy faces during and after circumcision. I do also hope that any parent would is willing to see other than *their* own *personal* reasons to make such a decision on behalf of another human being. Especially considering the risks that come with circumcision. The thing is that if any toy/bed/whatever will even just POTENTIALLY harm a baby, it is instantly recalled, yet for some reason people and doctors just do not want to open their eyes to circumcision because of *their**personal* reasons. This or my other comments are not written in anger, it's just that my heart hurts for these little babies who have to go through this. I really wish that parents to be would educate themselves on what circumcision entails and not just buy into the "oh, it's just a little snip". reply 44 "She did what she wanted to Submitted by Space on March 7, 2012 - 09:07. "She did what she wanted to with her son." Exactly and for me that's criminal. It's insane that religions decide to alter the way nature made us... Unbelievable... reply 45 What tipped the scales in our house? Submitted by Kate on March 19, 2012 - 22:27. I have three sons (all intact) and to be honest, circumcision was never really a consideration for us because I never felt comfortable with the idea of altering my sons' bodies.  My husband and I briefly discussed the issue when we were expecting our oldest son and he agreed that it was not necessary.  My husband is intact and he has never had any difficulties maintaining his hygiene and truthfully - it isn't much different for an intact male to wash himself than it is for a woman to wash herself! :) reply Post new comment Please keep the comments civil and on-topic. Abusive or inappropriate comments will be removed without warning. Your name: E-mail: The content of this field is kept private and will not be shown publicly. Homepage: If you leave a link (include the http:// part), your name will be linked to your homepage. Subject: Comment: * Mission Possible Parenting Subscribe and follow us today! Get daily stories, news, and advice for you and your family. Check out our Top Parenting Blogs list and submit your site! Meet the ProSquad : We've assembled a panel of experts to solve your trickiest parenting dilemmas. Popular today Popular all-time Yes, You Can Drink While Pregnant Lynn Wong Montessori in Your Home Caitlin Giles 43 Chores Young Children Can Do Rhonda Franz 13 Fun Baby Shower Decorating Ideas Sonja Stewart First Foods: Why White Rice Cereal Is Bad for Your Baby Alyssa Chirco Spring Break Science Experiments to Get Your Kids Outdoors Alyssa Chirco Top 7 Baby Items You Don't Need To Buy Sierra Black When Pre-teen Daughters Grow Armpit Hair Sarah Peppel Join our Tweetchat Discussion Today, Thursday, March 13, 2012 Rhonda Franz 5 Crafty Ideas for a More Colorful Spring Katrina Simeck Yes, You Can Drink While Pregnant Lynn Wong Kate Gosselin, Hero No More Sherry Pardy When Pre-teen Daughters Grow Armpit Hair Sarah Peppel Peanut Butter Baby Food? No Reason Not To Carrie Kirby Montessori in Your Home Caitlin Giles I Breastfed my Four-Year-Old and It Was Okay Catherine Shaffer Pink Eye and the Small Guy: Get the Facts about Conjunctivitis Linsey Knerl Top 10 Things Not to Say to New Mothers Maggie Wells My Name is Lori and I Am Infertile: Surviving Depression Caused by Infertility Lori Kerrigan Top 7 Baby Items You Don't Need To Buy Sierra Black Latest articles Latest comments 6 Sweet and Semi-Healthy Treats to Make with Yogurt Alyssa Chirco 5 Crafty Ideas for a More Colorful Spring Katrina Simeck How to Access Fresh, Local Produce Nancy Flanders Squad Commentary: Pink Slime: It's What's for Lunch Maggie Wells 4 Apps to Help Protect and Locate Your Child Nancy Flanders Fun St. Patrick's Day Foods to Feed Your Little Leprechauns Alyssa Chirco Kid-Friendly St. Patrick's Day Activities Kelli Robinson Join our Tweetchat Discussion Today, Thursday, March 13, 2012 Rhonda Franz Online Videos Help Special Needs Families Connect Nancy Flanders Spring Into Health: Tips for the Family Maggie Wells Hcg diet drops Dangers of hcg diet FGM and Circumcision Guest My 19 month old has also Laura Success with the first suggestion Rhonda Franz Awesome List! Monica The first bullet seems to be Les @ LPN Salary There is proof of danger Starlette Wow... just... wow. Danielle I agree, look at my later Guest YEAH RIGHT Guest Parenting Squad Writers Posts Cmts Alyssa Chirco 7 0 Katrina Simeck 4 0 Nancy Flanders 10 1 Maggie Wells 4 3 Kelli Robinson 1 0 Rhonda Franz 9 5 David James 2 0 Lela Davidson 1 0 Meet our bloggers advertise your blog Blogroll After the Bubbly Chronic Admissions CoffeHouse Mom DailyBuzz Moms Figuring Out 40 Free-Range Kids Mamapedia Mom Advice Mom Of 6 No Time For Flashcards Parentopia Quirky Momma Simple Mom Tales of a Sierra Madre The Creative Mama The Happiest Mom What to Expect Zen Family Habits Child Development Classes | Add your site © Parenting Squad | About | Advertise | Contact | Login Priv