Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1

Epsom Salts [Archive]  - A Pinch of Health - Australian Low Carb Forum A Pinch of Health - Australian Low Carb Forum > A Pinch of Health > Breastfeeding, Parenting and  Pregnancy >  Epsom Salts PDA View Full Version : Epsom Salts Sherrie 25-04-2007, 10:44 AM I was reading the other day that giving bubs a bath in epsom salts is supposed to help them sleep, has anyone heard of that? BamaGal 25-04-2007, 12:45 PM Sherri---I got this info off the epsom salts council website----I guess this proves that theory Magnesium: Ease stress and improves sleep and concentration Help muscles and nerves function properly Regulate activity of 325+ enzymes Help prevent artery hardening and blood clots Make insulin more effective Reduce inflammation to relieve pain and muscle cramps Improve oxygen use Sulfates: Flush toxins Improve absorption of nutrients Help form joint proteins, brain tissue and mucin proteins Help prevent or ease migraine headaches Magnesium - the key component of Epsom Salt -- performs more functions in more systems of the human body than virtually any other mineral, including regulating the activity of more than 325 enzymes. Studies show that magnesium is: An electrolyte, helping to ensure proper muscle, nerve and enzyme function. Critical to the proper use of calcium in cells. An aid in helping to prevent heart disease and strokes by lowering blood pressure, protecting the elasticity of arteries, preventing blood clots and reducing the risk of sudden heart attack deaths. Medical research also indicates that magnesium may: Increase the effectiveness of insulin, helping to lower the risk or severity of diabetes. Reduce inflammation and relieves pain, making it a beneficial in the treatment of sore muscles, bronchial asthma, migraine headaches and fibromyalgia. Although magnesium can be absorbed through the digestive tract, many foods, drugs and medical conditions can interfere with the effectiveness of this deliver method. Therefore, soaking in an Epsom Salt bath is one of the most effective means of making the magnesium your body needs readily available. Epsom Salt also delivers sulfates, which medical research indicates are needed for the formation of brain tissue, joint proteins and the mucin proteins that line the walls of the digestive tract. Studies show that sulfates also stimulate the pancreas to generate digestive enzymes and help to detoxify the body's residue of medicines and environmental contaminants. Studies indicate that sulfates are difficult to absorb from food, but are readily absorbed through the skin. Sherrie 25-04-2007, 01:52 PM Thanks BG I think Maya may be very much like Garry so this would be good for her, my only worry is whether it would be a problem if she swallowed any of it? jojoamethyst 25-04-2007, 02:03 PM give her the runs!!! i am sure a little wouldnt hurt though Sherrie 25-04-2007, 08:21 PM Thanks Jo Snez 26-04-2007, 03:03 PM Epsom salts taken internally good for a detox - you'll be running to the loo.  The soak also removes toxins.  I haven't tried it. vBullet