
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Tue, 01 May 2012 10:14:43 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.9
X-Pingback: http://www.precision-spine.com/xmlrpc.php

Exercises At Home | precision spine Singapore Chiropractor and Spinal Care Specialist Appointments / Enquiries: (65) 6737 0515 Mon-Fri: 9am-7pm, Sat: 9am-12:30pm Skip to content Home About Dr.Will Kalla Scoliosis Scoliosis Treatment Clear Institute Scoliosis Surgery Scoliosis Brace Adam’s Test Congenital Scoliosis Cobb Angle Idiopathic Scoliosis Scoliosis Exercise Neck Pain Neck Pain Relief Forward Head Posture Cervical Lordosis Cervical Spondylosis Human Spine Spine Treatment Cervical Spine Thoracic Spine Lumbar Spine Chiropractic Slipped Disc Sciatica Back Pain Lower Back Pain Treatment Lower Back Pain Exercises At Home Headaches Tension Type Headache Cervicogenic Headache Migraine Our Treatments Contact Us Exercises At Home Dr Kalla & Our Treatments Back Pain Lower Back Pain Treatment Lower Back Pain Exercises At Home What Our Client Are Saying I've worked with Dr Will Kalla for several years now as I believe he is the leading chiropractor in Singapore. As an elite level cyclist, I frequently pick up niggling injuries or strains... — Colin I can’t recommend Dr Will Kalla and the Precision Spine team highly enough. Will’s positive mindset, pragmatic assessment of my condition and innovative methods have been truly life changing. From being in near constant, debilitating pain (and a clear surgery candidate) I’m now pain free and armed with the knowledge and confidence to manage my condition, which has
allowed me to resume normal sporting activities. — Paul Barrett Exercises At Home We believe in many cases minor back  pain can be treated at home, by carrying out a set of simple, safe exercises.  The goal is to improve core muscle endurance and coordination, so it’s  important to choose exercises that work towards this – some exercises can  stress the injury and make the pain worse. The routine below has been approved  by our chiropractor Dr Will Kalla, and should lead to improvements in your  lower back pain if it’s carried out daily for at least 3 weeks, and 2 or 3  times a week thereafter. If you try the routine for 3 weeks and don’t see any  improvement in your symptoms we recommend you visit our clinic for a  consultation. Warm up – Cat-Camel Position yourself on your hands       and knees, with your knees in line with your hips and your hands in line       with your shoulders. Your fingers should be pointing forward. Cat  phase. Use your stomach muscles to push your spine upwards towards the ceiling.  Lengthen your neck and allow your head to reach toward your chest, maintaining  alignment with the spine. Hold this position for 2-4 breaths. Camel phase. Use your stomach       and lumbar muscles to lower your spine toward the floor, increasing the       arch in your mid and lower back. Pull your shoulder blades down your back.       Hold this position for 2–4 breaths before returning to the start position. Perform 10 reps, keeping within       your pain-free range of movement and avoiding pushing yourself into a       stretch at the end of each position. Exercise 1 – Side Bridge Lie on your right side with       your knees bent 90-degrees and your hips slightly flexed. Raise your upper       body using your right arm to hold you up. Use your trunk to lift your       hips, being careful not to let the top hip rotate forward. Make sure to       bend your elbow directly beneath your shoulder. Place your left hand on       your hip. Hold this position for 4–8       seconds then repeat on the opposite side. Aim to complete 3 sets of 15       reps daily. The lumbar vertebrae are larger than the other bones of the spine because they support more weight. Although they provide good forward and backward motion they do not rotate far to the left and right – this is the reason many golfers suffer from lower back problems. Exercise 2 – Curl-Up Lie flat on your back with your       hands on top of each other under your lower back and one knee flexed. Slowly curl your head and       shoulders off the floor. Avoid jutting your jaw forward as you curl up; it       could put unnecessary strain on you neck. Hold this position for one or       two breaths (4–8 seconds) then return to the starting position. Aim to       complete 3 sets of 15 reps daily. Exercise 3 – Bird-Dog Warm up – Cat-Camel Position yourself on your hands  and knees, with your knees in line with your hips and your hands in line       with your shoulders. Your fingers should be pointing forward. Brace your core muscles so your       trunk remains still during the exercise. Extend one leg and the opposite       arm so that they are parallel to the floor. Hold this position for one to       two breaths (4–8 seconds), then lower your arm and leg back to the       starting position. Repeat with the opposite arm       and leg. Aim to complete 3 sets of 15 reps daily. Quick Links: Home About Us Dr. Will Kalla Scoliosis Treatment Neck Pain Our Treatments Contact Us Address: 350 Orchard Road Shaw House #13-02 Singapore 238868 Contact Us: Phone: (65) 6737 0515 Monday - Friday: 09:00am - 07:00pm Sa