Connection: Close

Treating Social Anxiety Disorder with Herbs LoveToKnow » Health & Fitness » Herbs » All About Herbs » Herbal Remedies » Treating Social Anxiety Disorder with Herbs Treating Social Anxiety Disorder with Herbs By Jeanne Grunert Treating social anxiety disorder with herbs is possible, but you should first consult a physician and a mental health professional for an evaluation. Social anxiety disorders and its close cousins, depression, OCD and panic attacks, often coexist, and if left untreated may cause serious problems. Social Anxiety Disorder The Mayo Clinic defines social anxiety disorder as an extreme fear or discomfort with social situations. People suffering from social anxiety disorder don't just feel nervous before going to a party; they may suffer from extreme agitation, fear, panic attacks, racing heart, diarrhea and stomach upset. The difference between normal 'nerves' before a social event and social anxiety disorder is the intensity and frequency of symptoms. Feeling nervous before a blind date is normal; avoiding all dates because you get so uncomfortable eating at a restaurant or meeting strangers isn't normal. If you're not sure whether your condition merits a diagnosis of social anxiety disorder, you must see a doctor. Only a physician can diagnose social anxiety disorder and other medical conditions. Possible Causes No one is sure what causes social anxiety disorder. It's most likely a combination of nature and nurture, or genetics and environmental or social causes. The Mayo Clinic article previously cited indicates that genetics, individual biochemistry and possibly a malfunction in the part of the brain called the amygdala which causes it to overreact to stimuli contribute to chronic social anxiety disorder. Conventional Treatment The conventional treatment for social anxiety disorder includes psychotherapy, medication, or a combination of both. In psychological therapy, patients work with a mental health professional to change their thinking and behaviors around social situations with the goal of becoming more comfortable with such situation. Medication called SSRI or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, which are normally prescribed to treat related conditions such as depression, anxiety disorders and obsessive-compulsive disorder, may also alleviate symptoms by adjusting the body's biochemistry. Treating Social Anxiety Disorder with Herbs and Supplements SSRI medications may be effective for some, but for others they're either ineffective or produce more side effects than benefits. For those seeking natural products to alleviate social anxiety disorder, there are many herbs and supplements thought effective. Before taking these, however, make sure you talk to your doctor. More importantly, don't take herbs, natural supplements and SSRI medications together. These can produce unpleasant and even dangerous side effects. Never stop taking SSRI medications abruptly. Consult a naturopathic doctor, herbalist or another qualified professional about the specific dose of each herb. Herbs to Alleviate Social Anxiety Disorder The following herbs may help with social anxiety disorder as well as depression and anxiety: St. John's Wort : St. John's Wort ( Hypericum ) has a long history as an herbal remedy for anxiety, depression and related illnesses. Many studies demonstrate a modest improvement in symptoms. It's important to avoid excessive sun exposure when taking St. John's Wort as it may predispose you to photosensitivity, or light sensitivity, and cause your skin to burn more so than usual. St. John's Wort may be taken as an herbal tincture or capsule. Follow the directions and be patient - it can take up to a month of steady use before noting improvements. Valerian Root : Valerian root offers more immediate relief and is often used as an insomnia remedy as well as a calming remedy. There's some evidence that valerian works with the neurotransmitter GABA in the central nervous system. GABA is a neurotransmitter that slows down the activity of certain brain cells. Valerian is available in capsule, tinctures or teas, but valerian has a very strong odor and taste. Some people don't mind it, but if you dislike the odor, take capsules instead of teas or tinctures. Passion Flower: Passion Flower ( Passiflora incarnate ) is another of the great calming herbs and is also a good herbal remedy to try for insomnia. The University of Maryland Medical Center also notes that Passion Flower may increase levels of GABA like valerian root. Chamomile: Chamomile tea is a time-honored relaxation remedy and another insomnia cure. Chamomile tea or blends such as Sleepytime Tea from Celestial Seasonings may offer some relief from anxiety. Diet, Vitamins and Supplements People prone to the constellation of anxiety disorders such as social anxiety disorder, depression, generalized anxiety disorder and panic attacks should monitor their diet carefully. Decreasing caffeine and other stimulants may reduce anxiety symptoms in many people. White sugar may also produce jittery feelings from the rise and fall of blood glucose and insulin that mimic panic attacks. People prone to panic, anxiety and social disorders may wish to consult a nutritionist for advice on maintaining steady blood glucose levels and see if that helps with their symptoms. Taking a B-vitamin complex is often recommended, as are supplements such as GABA. Many companies even produce a combined for convenience. B vitamin and GABA product. Seek Professional Help For many people, treating social anxiety disorder with herbs, supplements and dietary changes will be effective. For others, the feelings just won't go away. Please seek professional help if social anxiety disorder is keeping you from living life to the fullest. Treating social anxiety disorder with herbs can work, but be sure to give it time and talk to your doctor, too. Related Topics Natural Blood Thinners Herbs for Depression Herbs for Anxiety Chamomile Tea Benefits of St Johns Wort Top Herbs for Allergies Herbal Remedies Health & Fitness Browse Herbs Categories All About Herbs Cooking Herbs Herbal Products Herbal Salves Herbal Teas Herbs for Women Herbs Slideshows Homeopathic Remedies Information on Acai Berry Interviews on Herbs Herbs Slideshows Photographs of Wild Berries Frontier Herbs LoveToKnow Expert Interview Antiviral Herbs Learn what herbalist Michael Tierra recommends to combat cold and flu season. New in Herbs Oil of Oregano Facts Herbal Pain Relief Herbal Remedies for Hay Fever Turmeric for Arthritis What Is Turmeric? Follow Us Home Beauty & Style Entertainment & Hobbies Health & Fitness Home, Garden & Events Internet & Technology Money & Business Parenting 