
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 02:52:22 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.19 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.19 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4 PHP/5.2.17
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
ETag: 46bb4fed911c0dd4cd2c8cccc1cd7bca
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Wed, 14 Mar 2012 02:52:22 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Pregnant And Diabetic- How To Deal With Diabetes When Pregnant? | cure | gestational-diabetes Diabetes Diabetes Guide Sitemap Contact Us Pregnant And Diabetic- How To Deal With Diabetes When Pregnant? A mix of pregnancy and diabetes is dangerous for women. Diabetic women who become pregnant face an increased chance of delivering still born babies, of miscarriages and giving birth to babies with genetic defects. What complicates the situation further is the fact that more and more women are now facing this kind of danger. Diabetes and Gestational Diabetes Not all women have preexisting diabetes. Some of them contract it during the course of pregnancy. This type of diabetes is called gestational diabetes and quite unlike pre-existing diabetes, it goes away once the pregnancy is over. However, it can become permanent if it is overlooked. It is important to monitor blood glucose levels and take corrective steps so that gestational diabetes is controlled. How to Minimize the Risk Posed By Diabetes to Pregnant Women The risk posed by diabetes to pregnant women (and their unborn child) is enormous. However, it does not mean that the risk is permanent. With the help of adequate monitoring of blood glucose levels during the course of pregnancy, women with preexisting diabetes can minimize the risk they face. Plan Your Pregnancy Before-hand To begin with, women who have been diagnosed with diabetes need to consult their physician about pregnancy and diabetes. The physician would instruct her on how to regulate blood glucose levels before conceiving. The control methods adopted would then be evaluated, modified (if necessary) and then continued through the duration of pregnancy. They should get their blood glucose levels under the recommended figure of 100 mg/dL before six months of getting pregnant. Women who are taking oral medications to regulate their blood sugar levels would need to shift to insulin before and during the course of pregnancy. Further, if necessary, the physician can ask them to take a dose of folic acid and multivitamins. This would diminish the chances of brain and spinal chord defects in the new born child. Course Of action During Pregnancy The objective of controlling blood glucose levels is not over in the pre-pregnancy period. It has to be achieved over and over again during the course of pregnancy as it has a tendency to recur. In order to curtail recurrence of diabetes, pregnant women need to regulate carbohydrate intake in their meals and they need to exercise regularly. Further, they would need to stop smoking and consuming alcohol and would need to eat more vitamin, mineral and fiber rich foods. Apart from these changes in the meal plan, it is important for pregnant women to regularly monitor their blood glucose levels. Using a portable blood glucose monitoring device they need to monitor their blood glucose levels regularly and share this information with their physician. Related Articles Gestational Diabetes: Let's Know More About It... Expecting Moms! Beware Of Gestational Diabetes... Gestational Diabeties: What Do Pregnant Women Fear... Gestational Diabetes – Diabetes during Pregnancy... What Exactly Is This Gestational Diabetes?... Insulin Resistance And Pregnancy Loss... You Are Pregnant Do Away With Diabetes... Menu Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Types Of Diabetes Gestational Diabetes Juvenile Diabetes Diabetes Mellitus Diabetes Symptoms Care for Diabetes Diabetes Treatment Diabetes Diet Diabeties Popular Articles Consequences Of Untreated Diabetes 24 Hour Insulin Diabetes And Its Complications Diabetes Health Publishers Diabetes – A Quick Preview. Buy Insulin Diabetes Health Promotion Choose a Blood Glucose Meter that Suits You Best Blood Glucose Control Diabetes And Smoking Is A Dangerous Combination Search Articles Diabetes Basics Symptoms Of Diabetes Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Diabetes Treatment Living With Diabetes Diabetes Care Diabetes Diet Food Gestational Diabetes Diabetes Mellitus Juvenile Diabetes Self Improvement Latest Articles Take Control Of Your Diabetes Canned Foods A No-No For Diabetics Whole Grains Are Beneficial For Diabetes Understanding Diabetes Mellitus How To Handle Diabetes Depression And Anger What You Must Know About Insulin Resistance Pumpkin Recipes For Diabetics Diabetes Management Amongst Seniors- The Challenges Thiazolidinediones: A Type 2 Diabetes Medication Sulfonylureas Help Treat Types 2 Diabetes Copyright © 2006 - 2012 Diabete