<http://naturecure.ygoy.com/?p=2525>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Aloe Vera For Skin naturecure.ygoy.com Follow Us Loading Home Healthy Living Diet Vitamins Fitness Fasting Smoking Pregnancy Meditation Biofeedback Yoga Reiki Growtall Beauty & Body care Hairstyles Tattoos Body piercing Beauty tips Eye care Foot care Hair loss Hair removal Makeup Nail care Wrinkles Self Care Herbs Nature cure Ayurveda Magnetic therapy Massage therapy Home remedies Diseases and Conditions Acne Allergies Arthritis Back pain Dental problems Diabetes Obesity Insomnia Lifestyle Fashion Wedding Women Healthy Home / Household Recipes Shower Home improvements Gardening Relationship Marriage Childcare Parenting Love Special Channels Hinduism Buddhism Astrology Global Warming Diwali Aloe Vera For Skin By admin – April 27, 2011 Posted in: Natural Beauty Remedies Page Contents 1  aloe vera for skin 2 aloe vera for skin. 3 Aloe vera for skin Aloe vera is a popular natural remedy known for its natural skin care. It contains numerous amounts of minerals, enzymes, natural sugars, amino acids and vitamins, which are anti-microbial and anti-inflammatory in nature. Using aloe vera for skin is an age old practice which is being followed even today. It is considered a wonder plant as it can heal  both internal and external wounds and even speeds up the process of healing various skin ailments. Read on to know the various benefits of aloe vera for skin. Aloe vera is a beneficial and natural remedy for skin. Listed below are the effective remedies of aloe vera: Aloe vera is very effective in softening the dry and cracked skin and therefore, can restore the natural beauty of skin. Applying aloe vera gel or juice protects the skin from harmful toxins as it acts as a natural barrier. Aloe vera enhances the health of the skin and its tissues with vitamins C and E, therefore preventing premature aging of the skin. It is an excellent moisturizer that can make the skin flexible by improving the strength and synthesis of the skin tissues. Applying aloe vera gel can alleviate the inflammation and irritation of the skin and also effectively treat the cuts and lesions. It makes the skin look radiant and smooth. It has the ability to reduce the intensity of pigmentation and therefore, lightens the dark spots on the face. Aloe vera when applied on the scalp nourishes and hydrates it by preventing the infestation of dandruff and dry skin. Aloe vera can effectively remove the dead cells of the skin and therefore, aids in proper transportation and penetration of healthy nutrients through the skin. Various skin problems like burns, eczema, inflammations, psoriasis and wounds can be healed by applying aloe vera gel. It will also help in reducing the frequency of wrinkles. Aloe vera can eliminate the bacterial and fungal growth that try to invade the cuts and wounds. Aloe vera for skin can be used as a part of skin care regime as it helps in maintaining the health of the skin, and keeps it fresh and glowing. About admin 0 comments 0 people listening Sign in or Post as Guest Comment help Get Livefyre Post comment as + Follow conversation Following - Unfollow Post to Sort: Newest | Oldest Featured Stories What are Health Benefits of Onion? 10 February 2012 11:58 AM | No Comments Read More The Best Vitamins for Pregnant Women 08 February 2012 12:00 PM | No Comments Read More What are Nature Cures for High Blood Pressure? 06 February 2012 6:24 AM | No Comments Read More Natural Treatment for Sneezing 04 February 2012 7:24 AM | No Comments Read More The Best Minerals for Strong Hair 01 February 2012 11:48 AM | No Comments Read More Do You Know Iron Side Effects? 01 February 2012 11:42 AM | No Comments Read More What are Health Benefits of Oranges and Oranges Juice? 01 February 2012 11:32 AM | No Comments Read More Which Vitamins and Minerals are Antioxidants? 20 January 2012 11:55 AM | No Comments Read More A ygoy media