<http://medicsalertbracelets.com/?p=1781>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

4 of the Best Alternative Quit Smoking Remedies Medical Alert Jewelry - Medical Alert Bracelets 4 of the Best Alternative Quit Smoking Remedies by Valerie on March 10, 2011 Four of the best alternative quit smoking remedies that every smoker should know Smoking is like alcohol, it is hard to give up. You can’t just wake up one day and decide to give it up and that’s it, you don’t smoke anymore at that instant. No, smoking is like any other drugs, the longer you are unto it the harder it is unto you. You become dependent on it. It takes a lot of effort and a lot of help to give up smoking, there are many support groups that are created to help smokers who want to quit. But even these support groups cannot give a smoker assurance of quitting from smoking and get rid of the debilitating migraines.  But there are many ways that can help you on your way to quitting smoking and here are the four best quit smoking remedies that one can use. 1. Hypnotherapy In hypnotherapy the smoker is hypnotized or led to believe that there is no need for him/her to continue smoking, that he/she no longer wants it. The hypnotherapists use techniques that bring the mind and the body of the smoker in a relaxed state. It is in this state that the mind goes into subconscious where hypnotherapists reprogram the smokers mind by suggestions and reaffirmations. This method is found to be more than 300% effective compared to nicotine replacement. And since this is a non-evasive method, there are no side effects. The method is completely safe, though it may cost you some pounds. There are many Hypnotherapy clinics in UK where you can get some help hypnotherapy Bristol practice, advance NLP hypnotherapy Manchester and hypnotherapy Cardiff . 2. Acupuncture Many health experts suggest the use of acupuncture in quitting from smoking and they have a good reason for this. Acupuncture has been successful in helping smokers quit smoking. It controls the withdrawal symptoms and lessens the craving to smoke. Each smoker wanting to quit smoking through acupuncture gets a unique treatment plan. A smoker would get 4-6 acupuncture sessions in the first couple of weeks and lessens overtime until smoking is finally rid of the smoker’s system. One of the advantages of acupuncture is that it also detoxifies your body and that smokers are permanently relieved of smoking. 3. Meditation Quitting a habit is hard, quitting the habit of smoking is a harder endeavor and it needs a great mental conditioning and this is where meditation comes in. In meditation, your mind will be prepared to the battles that you will encounter. Millions of people attempt to quit smoking every day, but because of the mental stress that they go through, they relapse. And it doesn’t take a long time for them to quit quitting. With meditation, you are training you mind, strengthening your determination to quit smoking. Meditation will condition your mind of the upcoming battle so when it finally comes, you won’t be defeated, you will be prepared for it, and so relapse won’t happen. 4. Massage Massage is a good smoking cessation technique for it sooths stress and nervousness which are the causes of psychological compulsion of smokers to get a cigarette and smoke. Today, there are many massage types and techniques and all have positive therapeutic effects on smoking cessation and massage is valued as a helpful component in quitting smoking. About the Author Nancy Wu is a therapist at NaturalTherapyForAll.com – an online complementary therapist referral website. Nancy is also a content writer who mostly writes on subjects comprising of acupuncture, hypnotherapy, counselling, search engine optimization advice, etc. She is a fan of complementary therapies, and enjoys sharing her knowledge and experiences of health and fitness with others. Link to this post! Leave a Comment Name * E-mail * Website Previous post: How to Travel with Health Problems Next post: 4 Risk Factors for Insulin Resistance Styles Diabetic Bracelets USB Bracelet Medical Alert Bracelets for Kids Medic Alert Bracelets for Women Rubber Medical Alert  Bracelets Medical ID Tags Medic Alert Charms Asthma Bracelets Gold Medical  Alert Bracelets Alzheimer’s Bracelets As Seen On: Tips and Guides Medical Blogs Medical Conditions Stylish Medical ID Jewelry What to Engrave on Your Medical ID or Medical Alert Bracelet Recently Blogged Best Vehicle Safety Features for Senior Drivers Design Do’s and Don’ts for Senior Homes Where to Find Great Deals on Home Medical Equipment for Seniors Exercising Your Brain to Prevent Alzheimer’s Lymphoma: Early Warning Signs, Prevention, Care for Seniors Charity Our Charitable Caus