Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Migraine & Headaches | Natural Herbal Homeopathic Ayurvedic Remedies Natural herbal & 
			homeopathic remedies for migraine & headaches Migraine / Headache Relieve yourself from the excruciating & recurring headaches / 
			migraines by learning about nutritional recommendations and herbal + homeopathic remedies including Feverfew & China (12C) . · General Description · Symptoms · Causes · Herbal & Homeopathic Remedies · Helpful Dietary 

                      Habits · Dos and Don'ts A severe disabling headache, migraine generally, 

			but not necessarily, starts around 

			puberty and diminishes by middle age. This intense, throbbing pain, 

			is usually limited to one side of the head, sometimes 

			spreading to both sides. It occurs when the blood vessels of the 

			head and neck constrict, which results in decreased blood flow to 

			the vessels. There are basically two types of migraine: one without aura (a group of visual symptoms) which is characterized by nausea, 

			vomiting and visual disturbances; and with aura which has warning 

			signals like flashing lights before the eyes. A migraine can last 

			from three hours to three days. Menstrual periods and certain 

			specific foods are supposed to be the main reasons and that is why 

			women are more susceptible to migraine than men. Migraines are recurrent. In most cases they last for a few hours, 

			but can continue for up to three days. People suffering from 

			migraines are usually very sensitive to light and have a low 

			auditory tolerance for noise. ▲ TOP · Earliest signs may include excessive hunger and thirst, 

						exhaustion and mood swings. · Feeling giddy first thing in the morning. · Visual disturbances like a visual blind spot and zigzag 

						patterns in front of the eyes. · A big dislike for bright light and loud noise. · Nausea and vomiting · A common throbbing disabling headache. Usually the first 

						four symptoms are present in most of the cases, but the 

						headache might come without any prior warning as well. Often the sequence of symptoms goes like this - 

						As you rise from the bed in the morning you feel giddy. 

						There is darkness before the eyes or flashes seem to 

						appear in the dark. Besides, you might feel sick in your 

						stomach and start nauseating. Then, there is a piercing 

						pain in the temples. The pain starts in the opposite 

						side of the eye which is overtaken by darkness. The pain 

						spreads gradually and gains severity. Movement, light 

						and noise make it worse. Vomiting provides some relief. 

						After about 2-4 hours, pain starts subsiding. The pupil 

						of the eye on the painful side often gets dilated. At 

						last, the patient falls asleep and when he wakes up the 

						pain has disappeared, although the face still looks 

						dull. ▲ TOP No apparent reason can be sighted as a cause for 

			migraine but the following have been found to be the triggering 

			agents in majority of the cases: · Genetic predisposition, specifically related to the 

						blood flow to the brain is one cause according to many 

						researches. It is supposed to be inherited from the 

						parental side. · Hormonal triggers, mostly during menstruation also cause 

						migraine. · The four ‘Cs’ of food – caffeine, chocolate, citrus 

						fruits and cheese are the major dietary culprits behind 

						migraine. · Red wine and fried foods are also suspected for 

						triggering it. · Weather and stress may cause it in certain cases. Many 

						people have been found to suffer from this attack on 

						Saturdays after a hectic five day week. · Emotionally charged mental state, anger , anxiety , tired 

						eyes, dyspepsia, allergic condition, etc. are some of 

						the other causes attributed to migraine. · Some people also cannot stand very bright lights and too loud noises. ▲ TOP There 
			are a number of ways of treating recurring migraines. These include 
			prescription and OTC medication, natural remedies and complementary 
			therapies. Prescription and OTC medication There is no known medical cure for migraine headaches, and often 
			migraine sufferers become discouraged when treatments do not rectify 
			the problem. Doctors often prescribe a combination of medications 
			such as abortive and preventative drugs, to try and prevent the 
			migraine before it begins or lessen the pain when a migraine 
			strikes. Abortive medications will stop the headache and may prevent the 
			recurrence of symptoms. They should be taken at the first indication 
			of a migraine headache. Over-the-counter medications include Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID’s) such as 
			ibuprofen, ketoprofen, and naproxen as well as aspirin. Prescribed medications include ergotamine, a vasoconstrictor, and 
			serotonin receptor agonists. Preventive medication is specifically 
			geared towards people who suffer from recurrent migraines, 
			experiencing at least one a week, and includes prescription 
			medication such as beta-blockers, anti-depressants, anti-convulsants 
			and calcium channel blockers. Natural Remedies Herbal 

			and homeopathic remedies can offer an effective natural solution and 

			can be of assistance in alleviating the painful and discomforting 

			symptoms of a migraine. Herbs such as Tanecetum parthenium (Feverfew), Silybum marianus 
			(Milk Thistle) & Passiflora Incarnata (Passionflower) are extremely beneficial in helping to 

			soothe the recurrence of pounding headaches. In addition, studies 

			have suggested that the herb Feverfew, when used regularly, can help 

			to eliminate or greatly reduce the frequency and severity of 

			headaches and migraines . In taking a holistic view of your health, you can address many 

			factors that contribute to optimal physical, mental and emotional 

			well-being. Natural and herbal remedies can be used to help 

			address the root causes of the ailment and not just the symptoms . Together, these 3 herbs can: - 
				Prevent migraines and chronic headaches, including cluster 
				headaches - Support the body in it’s natural ability to maintain 
				equilibrium in the mind and nervous system - Stop tension headaches before they start - Promote routine muscle health and discourage common tension - Encourage easy movement of joints and muscles, relieves 
				symptoms of arthritis - Support liver functioning and the routine elimination of waste 
				from the body - Help the body to ‘unwind’ and relax, and reduce anxiety and 
				tension For 
			routine / recurring headaches, homeopathic ingredients like China (12C), Nux vom, Chamomilla, Kali phos and Mag phos, when taken 
			togethercan: - 
				Relieve acute headaches associated with stress, tension and 
				fatigue - Alleviate a ‘heavy’ feeling in the head - Reduce common pounding sensations - Support blood circulation and oxygenation for brain and 
				nervous system health MiGone Plus Promote calm discourage common nervous 

										tension. Headache Soothe™ Headache remedy for relief of head pressure and neck pain due to stress, tension and fatigue. ▲ TOP · Oily fish like salmon and mackerel, known for their 

						natural anti-inflammatory action, are a big help in 

						preventing migraine. · Ginger helps in nausea as it is a digestive and also has 

						antispasmodic effect. Ginger in food or ginger tea may 

						be taken to relieve these symptoms. · Monosodium glutamate (MSG), which is a flavor enhancer 

						found mostly in food from Chinese restaurants; is a 

						potential triggering agent of migraines. You may 

						therefore ask these restaurants to prepare the food 

						without MSG. · Avoid foods containing the amino acid tyramine (found in 

						red wine, aged cheese, smoked fish, chicken livers, 

						figs, and some beans), which again is a potential 

						triggering agent of migraines. · You should incorporate foods rich in omega-3 fatty 

						acids, like flaxseed, walnuts (which contain alpha-linolenic 

						acid, an important omega-3 fatty acid), and fish, into 

						your diet, as these foods are natural anti-inflammatory. · Compared with healthy people, people with migraines have 

						been found to have lower blood and brain levels of 

						magnesium. Therefore supplementing with magnesium is 

						supposed to reduce the frequency of migraines in most of 

						those treated. The requirement is case specific and 

						these supplements must be taken only under the guidance 

						of a doctor. · Hot dogs, like luncheon and other cured meats must be 

						avoided. · Less intake of salt may help as it does have the 

						capacity to induce migraine. ▲ TOP · Avoid the trigger foods – the four ‘Cs’ in particular. = tccclass="t" able> · A hot compress on the neck and a cold one on the 

						forehead give some relief. Avoid hot one on the neck if 

						it creates more trouble. · Sleep straight – Relaxing muscles and joints, prevents 

						and relieves the pain. · Tie a tight cloth around your head. This age old remedy 

						decreases blood flow to the scalp and saves from the 

						deadly throbbing and pulsating feeling. · No cocktails and less smoking. Smoking inside a car with 

						windows down is a strict no. · And finally, de-stress yourself. It may not be possible 

						all the times but its better than been tied to the bed 

						for days together just because of a mere ‘headache’. ▲ TOP MiGone Plus Promote calm discourage common nervous 

                                        tension. Headache Soothe™ Headache remedy for relief of head pressure and neck pain due to stress, tension and fatigue. Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames. Introducing "The Migraine 
				Headache Cure" by Dr. Joshua 
				Harding D.C. Learn The Secret To Completely Eliminating Your 
				Migraine Headache Pain In The Next 24 Hours And NEVER Suffer 
				Through 