
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 06:01:52 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 05:01:52 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Frequently Asked Questions About Dentistry About.com Health Dental Care Dental Care Search Dentistry Conditions Prevention and Treatment Children's Dental Care 101 Filed In: Dentist Facts & FAQs Frequently Asked Questions About Dentistry Provides answers to frequently asked questions about dentistry. What is the Difference Between a DDS and a DMD? Explains what a DDS and a DMD is as well as what the difference in the two are. What are the Signs and Symptoms of TMJ Disorder? Learn the signs and symptoms of TMJ disorder. What is TMJ? Explains what TMJ is and how it might affect you. Is Nitrous Oxide Safe? Find out whether nitrous oxide is addictive or safe. What are Dental Insurance Coverage Types? Most dental insurance companies break down dental services into three coverage types. Find out what these coverage types are and how they could affect your dental insurance plan. Dental Insurance - What is Usual, Customary and Reasonable? Most dental insurance plans have usual, customary and reasonable fees. Find out what usual, customary and reasonable (UCR) means and how it could affect your dental insurance plan. What is Direct Reimbursement? What is a direct reimbursement dental plan? Find out about direct reimbursement and if it might be a good dental insurance plan for you. Dental Insurance - What is a Yearly Maximum? Most dental insurance plans have a yearly maximum. Find out what a yearly maximum is and how it could affect your dental insurance plan. What is Tooth Erosion? Tooth erosion is the wearing away of tooth enamel by acid. What is Trench Mouth? Have you ever heard of trench mouth? Find out about this severe gum infection and what you can do to prevent trench mouth. Dry Mouth - What is Dry Mouth? Find out what dry mouth is, as well as how dry mouth can lead to serious dental problems. Dry Mouth - What Causes Dry Mouth? Find out what dry mouth is and what causes dry mouth. How Does Your Mouth Affect your Overall Health? Gum disease is a serious dental problem. Gum disease has also been linked to heart disease and strokes. Learn how you can prevent gum disease and protect your overall health. What is an Abscessed Tooth? An abscess of the tooth is an infection.  An abscess can include pus and swelling of the soft gum tissues surrounding the tooth Do Teeth Whitening Toothpastes Really Work? Teeth whitening toothpastes are popping up everywhere, but do they really work? Find out about teeth whitening toothpastes and how they might help you obtain a whiter smile. What is Tooth Sensitivity? Explains what tooth sensitivity is as well as what you can do to treat tooth sensitivity. What is a Periodontist? Explains what a periodontist is as well as what a periodontist does. What is an Oral Surgeon? Explains what an oral and maxillofacial surgeon is as well as what an oral and maxillofacial surgeon does. What is an Endodontist? Explains what an endodontist is as well as what an endodontist does. What is a Pediatric Dentist? Explains what a pediatric dentist is as well as what a pediatric dentist does. Which Toothbrush is Really  Better - Manual or Electric? Describes which toothbrush is better - manual or electric and benefits of both toothbrushes. Canker Sores - What is a Canker Sore? Describes what a canker sore is, where canker sores develop and how long canker sores usually last. Canker Sores - What Causes Canker Sores? Canker sores and possible causes of canker sores. Canker Sores - When to See a Dentist Canker Sores - Explains when you should see a dentist for canker sores. Retainers - What is a Retainer? You have probably heard of retainers, but do you know what a retainer is and why wearing a retainer is so important? Why is Oral Hygiene so Important During Pregnancy? Oral hygiene is always important, but even more so during pregnancy. Find out how dental problems can be intensified during pregnancy. What is Nitrous Oxide? Describes what Nitrous Oxide is and how nitrous oxide can help you relax in the dental office. What is Periodontitis? Explains what periodontitis is and how periodontitis can be linked to heart attacks and strokes. Mouthguards and Sports - Are Mouthguards Really Necessary? Mouthguards can offer superior protection against dental related injuries. Find out how to choose and take care of a dental mouthguard. Pregnancy Gingivitis - What is Pregnancy Gingivitis? Explains what pregnancy gingivitis is, how you can prevent pregnancy gingivitis and what to do if you develop pregnancy gingivitis. What is a  Missing Tooth Clause? If you have dental insurance, chances are you have a missing tooth clause. Find out what a missing tooth clause means and if it could affect you. What is a Biopsy? Explains what a biopsy is and why you might need a biopsy. What is Decay? Describes what tooth decay is and how you can prevent tooth decay. What is Calculus? Describes what calculus is,how you can prevent it and get rid of it. What is a Prosthodontist? Describes what a prosthodontist is and what they do. What is an Implant? Describes what a dental implant is and why you might need one. What Causes Decay? Explains what dental decay is and what causes it. What are Veneers? Describes what veneers are and why they are used. When Should I Take My Child to the Dentist for the Fisrt Time? Find out when you should take your child to the dentist for the first time. When do Children get their Permanent Teeth? This chart will show you which permanent teeth your children should be getting at specific ages. What is Fluoride? Learn what fluoride is and how it can help to prevent cavities. Are Silver Fillings Safe? Describes what silver fillings are made out of and whether or not they are safe. What is a Cavity? Describes what a cavity is and how you can prevent cavities What is Gingivitis? Describes what gingivitis is and what you can do to prevent it. How Often Should I Get a Dental Check Up? Learn how often to get a dental check up for adults, children and patients with special conditions. How Often Should I Brush My Teeth? Learn how often you should brush your teeth to maintain good oral hygiene. How Often Should I Floss My Teeth? Learn how often and why it is important that you floss your teeth. How Often Should I Change My Toothbrush? Provides a detailed answer on how often and why it's important to change your toothbrush. What is Plaque? Maintain good dental health by learning what plaque is and how to prevent it. What Causes Bad Breath? Learn what causes bad breath and how to prevent and treat it. What is Halitosis? Learn what halitosis is and how you can treat and prevent it. What are Dental Sealants? Learn how dental sealants can protect your child against cavities. What is the Difference Between a Silver and White Filling? Describes the differences between amalgam (silver) and composite (white) fillings. What is an Orthodontist? Describes what an orthodontist is and what education is required to be an orthodontist. What is Bruxism? Describes what bruxism is and what you can do about it. "What Is a Papoose Board?" Terri Mauro, our Guide to Parenting Special Needs, explains what a papoose board is and how it can be used at dental visits. When Will my Baby get Teeth? Find out when your baby should be getting his teeth. Is Your Baby Teething? Could your baby be teething? Our Guide to Pediatrics, Vincent Iannelli, M.D., offers insight about what signs to look for if you think your baby might be teething. Frequently Asked Questions About Fluoride The American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry provides answers to frequently asked questions about fluoride as well as the safety of fluoride. How can a Dentist Detect an Eating Disorder? The Academy of General Dentistry explains how dentists can detect eating disorders. Frequently Asked Questions About Dental Sealants The CDC provides answers to frequently asked questions about dental sealants. What is Sports Dentistry? According to the National Youth Sports Foundation for the Prevention of Athletic Injuries, dental injuries are the most frequent type of oral facial injuries that occur during sports involvement. Find out more about Sports Dentistry and what you can do to protect your teeth and mouth during participation in sports. FAQs About Root Canal Treatment Find the answers to frequently asked questions about root canals, provided by the American Association of Endodontists. Fluoridated Water -  Questions and Answers Provides answers to frequently asked questions about fluoridated water. Apply now to guide this site Discuss in our forum Explore Dental Care Must Reads When Your Wisdom Teeth Need Pulling All You Need to Know About Root Canals Parent's Guide to Baby Teeth Tooth Whitening Basics How to Brush Your Teeth Properly Most Popular Canker Sore Treatment Information on Root Canals Fun Dental Activities Brushing Your Teeth The Top Root Canal Myths By Category Basic Dental Care Children's Dentistry Dental Emergencies Dental Procedures Missing and False Teeth Cosmetic Dentistry Orthodontics Choosing a Dentist Dental Insurance Dental Careers Dental Glossary Resources and Reviews Dental Care About.com Health Dental Care Dentist Facts & FAQs Dental FAQ's Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com.