Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture Articles: Not All Acupuncture Works the Same Quick Links: headaches, migraines | infertility, fertility | sports injuries | Links | Disclaimer | Site Map | Home What Is Acupuncture How It Works Treatment Benefits History Is It Painful? Acupuncture Styles What is Moxibustion? Treatments: Neck Pain Shoulder Pain Headaches TMJ Disorder Smoking Addiction Weight Control Stress Management Tennis Elbow Golfers Elbow Carpal Tunnel Infertility Irritable Bowels Menstrual Problems Car Accident Injury Anxiety Insomnia Lower Back Pain Hip Pain Sciatica Allergies Arthritis Sports Injuiries Menopause Urinary Infection Chronic Fatigue Sinus Congestion Pregnancy Other Info FAQs Success Stories Research Publications Newsletters Copyright Navigation Contact Us Clinics Not All Acupuncture Works the Same When we discuss acupuncture it is important not to generalize the effect and response from acupuncture treatment just like medication (for the most part, medication does provide an expected reaction from targeted populations).  Physiological response from acupuncture varies greatly based on various factors such as practitioner's skills.  In fact, experimental studies indicated that an acupuncture needle inserted in the same point produces a different reaction depending on a variety of other factors such as depth of the insertion, amount of stimulation, and position of the patient.  Our unique acupuncture system at the Pacific Wellness is designed to relieve your symptoms and address the root cause of the problem simultaneously in the most effective and timely manner possible, which is based on Dr. Tanaka 's extensive research and clinical experience. Tanaka, T.H., Leisman, G., Nishijo, K. The Physiological Responses Induced by Superficial Acupuncture: A Comparative Study on Acupuncture Stimulation During Exhalation Phase and Continuous Stimulation. International Journal of Neuroscience, Vol. 90, No. 1-2, 45-58, 1997 Tanaka, T.H. The Possibilities for Optimizing Acupuncture Treatment Results through Synchronization with Somatic State: Examination of Autonomic Response to Superficial Needling During Exhalation. American Journal of Acupuncture, Vol. 24, No. 4, 233-239, 1996 INFERTILITY A case after three IUI failures.  Natural infertility treatment using acupuncture. BACK PAIN/SCIATICA Successful recovery from sciatica due to disk herniation. Contrary to popular belief, acupuncture provides more than pain relief. It is helpful in treating anxiety, insomnia, digestive problems, abdominal, menstrual cramps, skin conditions, infertility, weight control… 
					[ MORE ] HOW TO CHOOSE AN ACUPUNCTURIST FAQ: Infertility and Acupuncture Pacific Wellness Quarterly Migraine Headaches Important Copyright Notice Copy