Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Wed, 03 Aug 2011 10:25:12 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "b62fdda0c751cc1:2edc"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
X-Powered-By: PleskWin
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 06:09:28 GMT
Connection: close

Natural treatment for varicose veins, herbal remedy by Ray Sahelian, M.D. Varicose vein treatment, herbs, 
supplements and vitamins, natural therapy by Ray Sahelian, 
M.D. Varicose veins are 
the unsightly, painful bulges that appear on the legs when blood pools in 
the veins. They are usually purplish or bluish in color, and mostly appear 
on the backs of the legs or calves. Diseases of the venous system are widespread disorders sometimes associated with modern
civilization. Varicose veins are not only a 
cosmetic annoyance: they can lead to complications that result in lost 
time from work. Varicose veins affect 10% to 20% of adult men and 25% to 
33% of adult women. Varicose veins and diet There is conflicting reports as to 
whether there is a relationship between varicose vein risk and certain 
lifestyle factors such as diet, smoking and mobility at work. Chances of varicose 
vein prevention may improve by adopting a healthy diet and insuring a 
healthy vascular system. To reduce the risk for varicose veins, increase dietary intake of flavonoid -rich foods such as yams, onions, 
grapes and  berries. Avoid excessive periods of standing or sitting. Exercise regularly. Natural supplements for Varicose 
Veins Horse chestnut extract has been used for varicose veins. Not enough 
research has been done to determine what percentage of users would 
benefit. It is likely that those with a mild varicose vein condition are 
much more likely to benefit that those with advanced cases. Pycnogenol has 
been evaluated in venous ulcers. Planetary Formulas Horse Chestnut, 300 mg Full Spectrum Horse Chestnut delivers a minimum of 20% aescin, the primary constituent in horse chestnut for assuring potency. Horse Chestnut
Supplement Facts: Calcium 55 mg - 6% DV Horse Chestnut Seed Extract 300 mg Standardized to 20% Aescin Yielding 60 mg Aescin Visit Horse Chestnut to purchase this product 
or for more information. Cause of varicose veins: There are many causes for varicose veins: Simple genetics may explain why some people get
varicose veins. People whose mother, father, brother
or sister has varicose veins are more likely than those with no family history to develop
the condition.  Men and women who are relatively tall and women who were obese were also more likely
to show signs of varicose veins than others. Other causes are aging; hormonal changes that 
occur during puberty, pregnancy and menopause. birth control pills, or other medications with estrogen or 
progesterone; Leg injury or prolonged standing. Varicose Vein Treatment Compression stocking therapy and horse chestnut seed extract therapy are
alternative therapies for  patients with edema resulting from
varicose veins and chronic venous insufficiency. Foam Sclerotherapy Ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy is a treatment of varicose veins. The 
technique achieves complete occlusion in a majority of legs with varicose 
veins. Established sclerotherapy techniques use liquid injections to treat 
varicose veins. Ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy is a variation that 
uses a sclerosant solution that has been transformed into foam by being 
forcibly mixed with air. British Journal of Surgery 2006. Varicose Vein Research 
trials A double-blind, placebo-controlled study 
investigated the healing of venous ulcers in three groups of 16 patients: 
one group received placebo tablets, another group received Pycnogenol 
tablets and the final group received both Pycnogenol tablets and local 
topical treatment of the wound with Pycnogenol powder. All three groups 
received compression stockings to counteract swelling and had their ulcers 
cleaned and disinfected. Over a six-week period, the groups were regularly 
monitored and researchers found the group treated with Pycnogenol tablets, 
the ulcer size was reduced to just 11 percent of the original size -- a 
startling difference from the placebo group. And, the group who 
supplemented with Pycnogenol and used the topical Pycnogenol powder 
resulted in complete healing of the ulcer. Although venous ulcers occur in 
a small percentage of the population, just 1 percent, age, obesity and 
prolonged standing can contribute to poor vein health and chronic venous 
insufficiency which is becoming a growing concern. Venous disease is 
becoming increasingly more common, affecting about half of the adult 
population. The more progressed condition involving varicose veins is 
apparent in 10-15 percent of men and 20-25 percent of women. When veins 
are stretched for prolonged periods of time, blood seeps into the 
surrounding tissue causing painful swelling, also known as edema. Veins 
eventually remain dilated and the highly visible varicose veins may 
result. This condition is also known as chronic venous insufficiency. 
Untreated, chronic venous insufficiency will progress to the development 
of venous ulcers impairing arterial blood supply to legs and feet. First 
signs include visible skin discoloration and further progression will lead 
to tissue decay with a visible open wound or ulcer. Left untreated, these 
ulcers do not heal due to the lack of blood flow and oxygen to the wound 
site. Ulcers will often take months, and even years to heal. The study was 
published in the 2005 issue of Angiology. Prevalence and risk factors of varicose veins in adults. Med Clin (Barc). 2004. We intended to estimate the prevalence of varicose veins in the mature 
population of the Valencia Community and to analyze its relationship with 
socio-demographic variables, self-reported health status, body mass index 
and the presence of hemorrhoids, tobacco smoking, alcohol consumption and 
physical activity. Subjects and method: Information on self-reported 
varicose veins was collected from 1,778 adults older than 14 years (819 
men and 959 women) who participated in the Health and Nutrition Survey of 
the Valencia Community (Spain). We estimated the prevalence of varicose 
veins by age groups and sex. To explore the association between varicose 
veins and variables, we estimated adjusted odds ratios (OR) with 95% 
confidence intervals (CI 95%) by multiple logistic regression. Results: 
The overall prevalence of varicose veins was 16%, with a much higher 
prevalence in women that in men (26% versus 5%) and with older age. 
Gender and age were the 2 strongest predictors of varicose veins in 
multivariate analysis. Women had seven times more risk than men and those 
older than 35 years almost tripled the risk with respect to those aged 
15-24 years. A body mass index of 30 kg/m2, a poor self-reported health 
status and hemorrhoids were significantly associated with the presence of 
varicose veins. Employers showed higher risk than workers. A moderate 
alcohol consumption (= 1 drink/day) was associated with a protective 
effect. Tobacco smoking and physical activity were not associated with 
varicose veins. Conclusions: Although being a woman and having an advanced 
age were the strongest predictors of varicose veins, other factors such as 
a high BMI, poor health status, hemorrhoids and some professional 
categories may be also important factors in their presentation. A moderate 
alcohol consumption seems to have a protective effect against varicose 
veins. Horse chestnut seed extract for chronic venous insufficiency. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2004. Conservative therapy of chronic venous insufficiency (varicose veins) 
consists largely of compression treatment. However, this often causes 
discomfort and has been associated with poor compliance. Therefore, oral 
drug treatment is an attractive alternative. To review the evidence from 
rigorous clinical trials assessing the efficacy and safety of oral horse 
chestnut seed extract versus placebo, or other treatments for varicose 
veins. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) 
of horse chestnut seed extract for chronic venous insufficiency. Manufacturers 
of horse chestnut seed extract preparations and experts on the subject were 
contacted for published and unpublished material.  Studies were 
included if they compared oral horse chestnut seed extract mono-preparations 
with placebo, or other treatments, in patients with varicose veins. Trials assessing horse 
chestnut seed extract as one of several active components in a combination 
preparation, or as a part of a combination treatment, were excluded.  
Overall, there appeared to be an improvement in varicose veins related signs and symptoms 
with horse chestnut seed extract compared with placebo. Leg pain was assessed in 
seven placebo-controlled trials. Six reported a significant reduction of leg 
pain in the horse chestnut seed extract groups compared with the placebo groups, 
while another reported a statistically significant improvement compared with 
baseline. Meta-analysis of five trials suggested a significant 
reduction in favor of horse chestnut seed extract compared with placebo. One 
trial indicated that horse chestnut seed extract may be as effective as 
compression stockings at reducing leg volume. Adverse events were usually mild 
and infrequent. The evidence presented implies that horse chestnut 
seed extract is an efficacious and safe short-term treatment for varicose veins. However, 
several caveats exist and more rigorous studies are required to assess the efficacy 
of this treatment option. A small percent of women with varicose veins in 
their legs simultaneously have ovarian varicose veins. 
The underlying pathogenesis for pelvic congestion may be both ovarian and 
leg varicose veins, according to investigators who presented their 
findings here April 4th at the 30th annual meeting of the Society of 
Interventional Radiology. "Often what you see in lower extremity vein 
disease is only the tip of the iceberg," said principal investigator Carl 
M. Black, MD, interventional radiologist and partner of Intermountain Vein 
Center in Provo, Utah. To see the full picture, a venous duplex ultrasound 
of the full leg, "all the way up to the vulva," often is necessary, he 
said. Complex patterns of superficial venous insufficiency that involve 
saphenous and non-saphenous veins are often associated with pelvic venous 
congestion syndrome, Dr. Black said. Because of the challenges in 
addressing these patients' discomfort or pain, treating physicians need to 
use a comprehensive approach so that they identify all treatable sources 
of reflux and therefore provide the greatest opportunity for symptomatic 
relief, he said. Additional potential herbal treatment for varicose 
veins Butcher's broom herb Oral supplementation with Aesculus hippocastanum, Ruscus aculeatus, 
Centella asiatica - green tea -, Hamamelis virginiana, and bioflavonoids may prevent 
time-consuming, painful, and expensive complications of varicose veins and 
hemorrhoids. Emails Is Horse Chestnut a natural cure for varicose vein ? Some studies suggest horse chestnut helps reduce the 
severity of varicose veins, but I would not call it a varicose vein 
natural cure. Is rutin helpful in 
varicose veins? Perhaps, but research with rutin is very limited. I have been reading about the benefits of l arginine and its benefits for vascular function. Can Arginine 
supplementation be helpful with varicose veins? If it improves vascular 
health, it could be helpful, but if it dilates and increases blood flow 
too much it would be harmful. I can稚 seem to find enough research. Any 
information would be helpful. We doubt arginine would be helpful for varicose veins. I had very bad varicose veins, On a particular 
day the varicose vein in my left leg wae gone; the area where it used to 
be was red and very painful as if the flesh was on fire inside. this 
redness and inside fire progressed gradually from below my knee to above 
my mid thigh. I got a picture in my mind of taking hydrogen peroxide (3%) 
and using topically with onions on the indicated area of my leg. 
specifically I cut an onion in half, poured h2o2 on the onion, and sponged 
my leg with it. Literally before my eyes the skin returned to normal color 
and the pain was greatly lessened; so much so that I could sleep. It was 
necessary to repeat this procedure in the morning, afternoon, and before 
sleep for about two weeks. Now my legs are normal looking I estimate 85% 
of the varicose veins are gone I have no leg pain. I知 going to be 30 years old end of July 2009. I am 
writing to Ray Sahelian, M.D. because recently I have noticed a varicose vein on the back 
of my left leg. I was concern because everything I have read on it seems 
not to fit me. I知 only going to be 30 I知 a male and I知 not over 
weight I知 five foot 11 and weigh about 175 I exercise or lift weight 
everyday for about an hour and a half. I live a very active lifestyle 
I知 always on the run I just like being outdoors. I have always been 
much of a jock playing all kinds of sports so you can see why this is to 
a surprise to me. Now my condition is not bad however before it get 
there I want to nip it in the bud what tips can you give me. I read 
about the horse chestnut and as soon as I知 done writing you this email 
I知 out the door to purchase some. I just don稚 get it. Now I admit I知 
a have drinker only on the weekends and I heard that thins your blood so 
I知 even going to quite that. Sometimes the problem is due to a genetic condition and not 
related to anything that you have done wrong or not done right. Articles and other pages Ahcc mushroom herbal extract; Carnosine antioxidant; DMAE mind supplement and DHEA natural hormone; Coq10 energy nutrient' 5-htp to increase serotonin' Graviola from the 
Amazon; Mangosteen f ruit 
extract; Serrapeptase enzyme; Saw palmetto berry 
extract' sexual enhancement with natural herbs; impotence alternative 
tr