
Harlingen Medical Center Home Services & Programs Patients & Visitors Health & Wellness Physicians Directions Careers Contact Us Surgical Weight Loss From the time that we are born we have many 
                                beginnings in life.  Throughout our life we 
                                don't always make the right choices and we are 
                                forced to live with our consequences somehow. 
                                Whether it is nature or nurture, or a little of 
                                both, that get us where we are today, we 
                                sometimes find ourselves in need of 
                                intervention.  Very seldom are we given 
                                second chances to correct our 
mistakes. The Surgical Weight Loss Program at Harlingen 
                    Medical Center is a method of long-term weight 
                    control for morbidly obese adults. Compared to 
                    non-surgical treatments, bariatric surgery has 
                    the longest period of sustained weight loss in 
                    patients who have failed other therapies. 
                    Obesity is now recognized by leading government 
                    health authorities, such as the Centers for 
                    Disease Control (CDC) and National Institutes of 
                    Health (NIH) as a disease. Weight loss surgery 
                    is recommended as a treatment option for people 
                    with obesity that have a BMI >   40 
                    or a BMI of 35 - 39.9 with serious medical 
                    conditions. If you are reading this, then you are 
                    investigating options of weight loss 
                    alternatives for yourself or someone you care 
                    about. Non-surgical treatments (i.e. 
                    medications, diet and exercise, behavior 
                    modification) have been tried and again nothing 
                    seems to keep the weight off. Well-established 
                    studies have demonstrated that 90 to 95 percent 
                    of the dieters will regain all of the weight 
                    lost during dieting. Are you or someone you care about a part of 
                    the 90 - 95 percentiles? Are you ready to 
                    venture down the path with us beside you, to a 
                    fresh start in life? Call Harlingen Medical Center for more 
                    information, or see our Patient Information 
                    Seminar Calendar for dates and times that will 
                    provide you with more in depth information about 
                    our program. Overview of Obesity Obesity has reached epidemic proportions in 
                    the U.S. over the past 20 years.  At any 
                    given time, 50 million Americans are on some 
                    type of diet and yet only 5 percent are able to 
                    maintain their weight loss over a period of 
                    time. Numerous factors have been identified that 
                    contribute to being overweight.  Obesity is 
                    genetic. Somewhere in your family, others have 
                    dealt with the same issues you are dealing with 
                    now. Environmental factors include lack of 
                    nutritional information and motivation, lack of 
                    self-confidence, and today's lifestyle that 
                    revolves around the television and fast 
                    food. It seems that once a person exceeds a certain 
                    obesity level, it is often harder to lose the 
                    weight because of the complications and 
                    restrictions caused by the disease itself. 
                    "Yo-Yo" dieting is the worst enemy and yet it 
                    becomes a part of life. How many times do we 
                    say, "I am starting on my diet again come 
                    Monday?" We also tend to reward ourselves with 
                    dinners. We comfort ourselves with our favorite 
                    snack. These types of behaviors contribute to 
                    the vicious cycle of obesity. Individuals are usually morbidly obese if 
                    their weight is more than 100 pounds in excess 
                    of the Ideal Body Weight. Most physicians use a 
                    scale based off of the Body Mass Index 
                    (BMI). If you are categorized as very obese, then 
                    you may have a higher rate of medical problems. 
                    The more obese you are, the higher the BMI and 
                    the chance of associated problems (heart 
                    disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, asthma, 
                    etc.), which increase dramatically as weight 
                    increases. Classification BMI Overweight >25.0 Obese (Class 
                          I) Obese (Class 
                              II) 30.0 - 
                          34.9 35.0 - 
                              39.9 Clinically 
                          Severe Obesity (Class III) ≥ 
                          40.00 Obesity is associated with significant 
                    health problems (comorbidities): Osteoarthritis Hypertension GERD (Reflux) Congestive Heart Failure Gallbladder Disease Depression Diabetes Urinary Stress Incontinence Hyperinsulinemia Asthma Sleep Apnea Heart Disease Anemia Neoplasia Dyslipidemia The death rate from severe obesity can exceed 
                    12 to 20 times that of ideal weight individuals 
                    of the same age. Autopsy studies have shown that 
                    sudden unexplained death occurs up to 40 times 
                    more frequently in the severely obese. If the physical complications were not 
                    enough, obese individuals may lose their 
                    self-confidence, tend to isolate themselves and 
                    sometimes sink into a state of helplessness and 
                    no longer function outside their home. Requirements Who is Eligible Patients must meet specific criteria before 
                    they are allowed to proceed with the process. 
                    Selection is based on guidelines established by 
                    the National Institute of Health (NIH). We look 
                    at the body mass index (BMI) of each individual 
                    person. There is a chart that informs us of your 
                    BMI. If you have a BMI of 35 - 40 and have 
                      obesity related comorbidities, you are a 
                      candidate for this surgery. If you have a BMI greater than 40, even if 
                      you do not have comorbidities, you may still be 
                      a candidate for this program. If you have a history of failure in at least 
                      one medically supervised weight reduction 
                      program within the last two years. If you are between the ages of 18 - 65 years 
                      old. If you are older than 65 years old, you 
                      will be considered on a case by case basis. If you do not drink alcohol in excess. If you are prepared to make substantial 
                      changes in your eating habits and lifestyle and 
                      are willing to continue working with the 
                      specialist treating you. Ineligible Patients If your obesity is related to metabolic or 
                      endocrine disorder. If you have a history of substance abuse or 
                      untreated major psychiatric disease. Surgery contraindicated or high risk. Women who want to become pregnant within the 
                      next 18 months. You have an inflammatory disease or 
                      condition of the gastrointestinal tract, such as 
                      ulcers, severe esophagitis, or Crohn's disease. You have cirrhosis. You have chronic pancreatitis. You are addicted to alcohol or drugs. You are under 18 years of age. You are on chronic, long-term steroid 
                      treatment. Setting Realistic 
                    Expectations We believe the right patient is someone who 
                    understands the life-long commitment to healthy 
                    weight maintenance and is committed to that 
                    goal. We also need to make sure that you are an 
                    appropriate candidate for our program.  
                    With the right patient and commitment, this 
                    can reduce or prevent health problems. This is 
                    not cosmetic surgery or an easy answer to weight 
                    loss. Keep in mind that: Other medically managed weight loss methods 
                      must be tried first.  Surgery is only an 
                      option if other methods have not been 
                      successful. Surgery is meant to be permanent for bypass 
                      patients. You will need to make lifestyle 
                      changes for the rest of your life. You must commit to making good food choices 
                      and being more active after surgery. Otherwise, 
                      you will not maximize your weight loss. The surgery is only a tool, which will help 
                      you lose weight. It is up to you to be diligent 
                      with exercise, attend support group meetings and 
                      stay compliant with healthy eating choices and 
                      your chances of losing more weight will 
                      dramatically increase. Procedures/Background Information Normal Digestive Process Your food is swallowed and it moves down the 
                    esophagus to the stomach, where a strong acid 
                    continues the digestive process. The stomach can 
                    hold up to 6 ½ cups of food at one time. Food 
                    moves from stomach to duodenum, the first 
                    segment of the intestine, bile and pancreatic 
                    juice speed up digestion. Most of the calcium 
                    and iron in the foods we eat is absorbed in the 
                    duodenum. The two remaining segments are the 
                    jejunum and ileum. These segments of small 
                    intestine are nearly 20 feet long and complete 
                    the absorption of almost all calories and 
                    nutrients. The food particles that are not 
                    digested in these segments are stored in the 
                    large bowel until eliminated. Two Ways Surgical Procedures Promote 
                    Weight Loss Restrictive -  Surgery limits the amount of 
                      food the stomach can hold by closing off or 
                      removing parts of the stomach. This 
                      operation also delays emptying of the 
                      stomach. NOTE:  The majority of patients 
                      report feeling full and satisfied after eating a 
                      small amount of food, and not feeling 
                      excessively hungry most of the time.  If 
                      much more than a quarter cup of food is eaten at 
                      once, the patient will feel uncomfortable and 
                      may vomit. Malabsorption - Surgery 
                      causes the food to be poorly digested and 
                      absorbed. NOTE:  Vitamin and 
                      mineral supplements and a high protein intake 
                      will be required for life to prevent the problem 
                      of nutritional deficiencies. Surgical Procedures Adjustable Gastric Banding (LAP -BAND 
                    Surgery) A restrictive procedure where an 
                    adjustable gastric band is placed around the 
                    upper part of the stomach pouch, which restricts 
                    the amount of food that can be consumed at one 
                    time and increases the time it takes for the 
                    stomach to empty. As a result, patients achieve 
                    sustained weight loss by limiting food intake, 
                    reducing appetite, and slowing digestion. The 
                    band is then adjusted after surgery to either 
                    increase or decrease restriction by injecting a 
                    port placed underneath your skin on your 
                    abdomen. Gastric Bypass 
                    (Roux-en-Y) This is a combination procedure using both 
                    restrictive and malabsorptive elements. A small, 
                    15 - 20ml, pouch is created at the top of the 
                    stomach. The small bowel is divided.  The 
                    biliopancreatic limb is reattached to the small 
                    bowel.  The other end is connected to the 
                    pouch, creating the Roux limb. The small pouch 
                    releases food slowly, causing a sensation of 
                    fullness with very little food.  The 
                    biliopancreatic limb preserves the action of the 
                    digestive tract. Comparison Table Lap Band Gastric Bypass ADVANTAGES No stomach stapling or cutting, or 
                              intestinal rerouting Adjustable Reversible Lower operative complication rate than with 
                            gastric bypass Less dietary deficiencies Outpatient procedure or overnight Maintain weight loss long term Rapid weight loss Longer experience in US Almost complete resolution of patient's 
                            obesity related comorbidities (i.e. diabetes, 
                            high blood pressure and cholesterol) DISADVANTAGES Less weight loss Weight loss is slower Less effective with sweet eaters Regular follow-up critical for optimal 
                            results Requires an implanted medical device Effectiveness may be reduced due to slippage 
                            of the band In some cases, the access port may leak and 
                            require minor revisional surgery Infection, bleeding or leaking at 
                              suture/staple lines Blockage of the intestines or pouch Dehydration Blood clots in legs or lungs Vitamin and mineral deficiency Protein malnutrition Incisional hernia Dumping Syndrome Lactose intolerance Depression and psychological distress Frequently Asked Questions 1. Is there an age restriction 
                    for the surgery? Surgery is performed on patients between the 
                    ages of 18 and 65. 2.   How do I know if I am 
                    eligible? Patients must meet specific criteria before 
                    they are allowed to proceed with the process. 
                    Selection is based on guidelines established by 
                    the National Institute of Health (NIH). We look 
                    at body mass index (BMI) of each individual 
                    person. There is a chart that informs us of your 
                    BMI. If you have a BMI of 35 - 40 and have 
                      obesity related comorbidities, you are a 
                      candidate for this surgery. If you have a BMI greater than 40, even if 
                      you do not have comorbidities, you may still be 
                      a candidate for this program. If you have a history of failure in at least 
                      one medically supervised weight reduction 
                      program within the last two years. If you are between the ages of 18 - 65 years 
                      old. If you are older than 65 years old, you 
                      will be considered on a case by case basis. If you do not drink alcohol in excess. If you are prepared to make substantial 
                      changes in your eating habits and lifestyle and 
                      are willing to continue working with the 
                      specialist treating you. To see the list that may make you ineligible, 
                    read the information in "Requirements." 3.  How much weight will I 
                    lose? The gastric bypass operation allows you to 
                    lose about 2/3 of your excess body weight; 
                    however it is almost 100% effective in reversing 
                    the obesity related comorbidities. The Lap Band procedure will allow you to lose 
                    50% of your excess body weight at 2 years. It is 
                    also effective in reversing obesity related 
                    comorbidities. 4.  
                      What are the pre-operative requirements to have 
                      either surgery? You must attend one of the patient education 
                      seminars. You must have a dietician evaluation. You must have a psychological evaluation. 
                      Patients with bipolar disease are generally 
                      excluded from consideration and we need to 
                      verify that you are mentally ready for a 
                      lifestyle change. If you have a history of heart disease, if 
                      you have taken Fen-Phen in the past, if you are 
                      over the age of 50, or other cardiac risk 
                      factors you will require an echocardiogram. If you have not had your gallbladder out and 
                      have had abdominal pain, you will need to have 
                      an ultrasound of your gallbladder. Before surgery you will have a chest x-ray, 
                      EKG and blood tests. If you have any history of smoking you might 
                      be require to have a pulmonary function test. If you have any history of sleep apnea or 
                      snoring, you will have to undergo a sleep apnea 
                      test. 5.  When will my surgery be 
                    scheduled? Once you have met all the requirements of the 
                    surgeon and the program, we will work with you 
                    to schedule your surgery. 6.  What are the risks of the 
                    surgery? Weight loss surgery is major abdominal 
                    surgery with significant risks. The following 
                    complications include, but are not limited 
                    to: Risk from general anesthesia Bleeding Infection Pneumonia Blood clot in the legs or lungs Hernias Blockage or obstruction Narrowing where surgeons suture the pouch to 
                      the intestine, which can require another 
                      endoscopy and dilation Leakage from the stomach or the intestines Injury to liver and/or spleen Pulmonary and/or cardiac and/or renal 
                      failure More than 1/3 of bypass patients' develop 
                      gallstones, which could lead to a procedure 
                      known as cholecystectomy to remove your 
                      gallbladder. Near 30% of patients who have bariatric 
                      surgery develop nutritional deficiencies such as 
                      anemia, osteoporosis.  These deficiencies 
                      can be avoided if lifelong vitamin and mineral 
                      intake are maintained. With the LAP BAND there is a risk that the 
                      band can either slip or erode. There is a risk 
                      that you will not lose weight if you do not 
                      follow the diet and exercise program. NOTE:  It is important to know that 
                    gastric bypass surgery cannot be 
                      completely reversed . The decision to 
                    have this procedure must be made in consultation 
                    with your surgeon, and a very careful 
                    consideration of the potential benefits and 
                    risks, and the lifelong consequences. 7.  How do I know which 
                    operation is best for me? Deciding which procedure, the gastric bypass 
                    or lap band is best for you is largely a 
                    personal choice best achieved in discussion 
                    with your surgeon. 8.  Will my primary care 
                    physician (PCP) be involved in any part of my 
                    care? Absolutely. Your PCP is an integral part of 
                    surgery and will be involved in the 
                    peri-operative care. 9.  Will I feel 
                    hungry? It is very important that you know and 
                    understand that this surgery will NOT remove 
                    your sense of hunger. It will NOT cause you to 
                    lose your desire to eat and it will NOT remove 
                    any of the psychological cravings that you may 
                    have for food. If you eat when you are stressed, 
                    you will still feel like eating when you are 
                    stressed. The success of your weight loss 
                    depends on understanding the stresses that 
                    make you feel like eating and identify other 
                    ways of dealing with the stress. How to Get Started You must attend a Patient Information 
                      Seminar. Call our office and schedule an initial 
                      consultation. We will make a copy of your 
                      insurance card. A questionnaire is completed and 
                      reviewed to determine eligibility. If you meet the requirements you will be 
                      given an appointment to meet with a surgeon. The surgeon will review your medical history 
                      and determine which tests will need to be 
                      performed. Once the pre-operative tests/exams are 
                      performed, you will be scheduled for surgery and 
                      a pre-operative appointment. You attend your pre-operative appointment 
                      and pre-register for your surgery. You meet with your surgeon before your 
                      surgery date to review procedure and have any 
                      remaining questions answered. Surgery is performed. You will be given follow-up appointments 
                      with the surgeon. You will need to attend support group 
                      meetings in order to achieve the best results of 
                      your surgery. Glossary of Terms Anesthesia - The loss 
                    of sensation and feeling. Also refers to the 
                    process or drugs used to produce this effect. 
                    Anesthesia is commonly employed prior to 
                    surgery, so that a patient will not feel any 
                    pain or discomfort. Bariatric - Related to 
                    the branch of medicine that deals with the 
                    prevention and treatment of obesity. Bariatric Surgeon - A 
                    surgeon who specializes in the surgical 
                    treatment of obesity. Body Mass Index (BMI) 
                    - The most widely used 
                    measurement for obesity. The BMI approximates 
                    body mass, using a mathematical ratio of weight 
                    and height (kg/m²) or weight in pounds divided 
                    by height in inches squared and this amount 
                    multiplied by 703. A BMI of 30 or more is 
                    regarded by most health agencies as the 
                    threshold for obesity. A BMI of 40 or more 
                    generally qualifies as morbid obesity. However, 
                    the BMI does not distinguish between muscle and 
                    fat. Chronic Pancreatitis - A progressive inflammatory disease of the 
                    pancreas, which may be accompanied by abdominal 
                    pain and problems in digestion. Cirrhosis - A 
                    chronic condition in which the liver becomes 
                    scarred, fibrous, and filled with fat, thus 
                    reducing its ability to function. Comorbidity - A 
                    medical condition that exists in addition to and 
                    is caused or worsened by obesity or any other 
                    primary disease being studied or treated. With 
                    sufficient weight loss, obesity-related 
                    comorbidities such as type 2 diabetes, 
                    hypertension, and sleep apnea generally improve 
                    or completely resolve. Contraindication - A 
                    factor that makes a particular treatment or 
                    procedure inadvisable. Dumping Syndrome - A 
                    physiological reaction frequently seen following 
                    gastric bypass surgery. This operation is 
                    designed to alter the function of the stomach 
                    and intestines and interrupt normal digestion. 
                    Therefore, whenever patients eat certain foods 
                    such as sugar and sweets, they may experience 
                    "dumping". The patient may feel nausea, flushing 
                    and sweating, light-headedness, and watery 
                    diarrhea. Of course no one likes these feelings, 
                    especially patients who love sweets. This is a 
                    real help to them in their efforts to lose 
                    weight. Laparoscopy (Laparoscopic Surgery) 
                    - A minimally invasive surgical 
                    approach where the surgeon makes several small 
                    incisions to access the interior of the body. A 
                    long, slender camera attached to a light source 
                    and specially designed instruments are used to 
                    perform the operation. Compared to the 
                    large incision of conventional open surgery, 
                    there is typically less pain and scarring 
                    following this operation.  Usually, 
                    hospital stay and overall recovery time are also 
                    reduced. Morbid Obesity - A 
                    disease in which excess weight begins to 
                    interfere with basic physiological functions 
                    such as breathing and walking. Generally, it can 
                    be defined as being 100 pounds overweight. A 
                    more precise indicator, however, is a Body Mass 
                    Index of 40 or greater. Obesity Related 
                    Comorbidities - Diseases that are 
                    directly associated with morbid 
                    obesity: Osteoarthritis Hypertension GERD (Reflux) Congestive Heart Failure Gallbladder Disease Depression Diabetes Urinary Stress Incontinence Hyperinsulinemia Asthma Sleep Apnea Heart Disease Anemia Neoplasia Dyslipidemia Sleep Apnea - The 
                    temporary cessation of breathing during sleep. 
                    Typically, the sufferer will awake gasping for 
                    breath. Sleep apnea may occur repeatedly, 
                    resulting in a poor night's sleep and daytime 
                    drowsiness. One of the comorbidities associated 
                    with morbid obesity. Type 2 Diabetes - A 
                    chronic endocrine disorder characterized by the 
                    inability to properly utilize sugar, 
                    specifically glucose, a simple carbohydrate. 
                    This results in excessively high glucose levels 
                    in the blood. Diabetes involves a relative 
                    or absolute shortage of insulin, a hormone that 
                    regulates the body's breakdown of carbohydrates. 
                    A higher percentage of obese individuals have 
                    type 2 diabetes than does the general 
                    population. Contact: Leticia Kretz, Coordinator Surgical Weight 
                          Loss Program (956) 365-1140 leticia.kretz@harlingenmedicalcenter.com ©2011 Harlingen Medical Center, LP DBA Harlingen Medical Center. All rights reserved. Stroke is the 4th Leading Cause of Death in the U.S.A 80% of Strokes Can Be Prevented Life Line Screening Information Screening Registration Form HeartSaver CT Scan $50 call (956) 365-1839 to schedule your appointment today! What you should know about the Surgical Weight Loss Program at HMC CDC Vital Signs—Colorectal and Breast Cancer Screenings. Learn more HMC   Childbirth Classes 2011 Calendar Harlingen Medical Center Employees Come Together to Donate for   Family Who Recently Lost Everything in House Fire. Treasure Boxes from DKG Arrive at HMC Pediatrics Harlingen Medical Center Emergency Department Lobby Receives a   Gift from Young Valley Artists Cheri Horkman:   Board Recognized