
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 14:46:40 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Feverfew - Herbal Relief For Migraines You Are Here : Home > Herbs > Feverfew > Feverfew For Migraines Herbal Supplements Aloe Vera Astragalus Cordyceps Damiana Dong Quai Echinacea Fenugreek Feverfew Ginkgo Biloba Ginseng Goji Berry Golden Seal Graviola Guarana Kava Kava Maca Mangosteen Milk Thistle Reishi Saw Palmetto Spirulina Tribulus Terrestris Vitex Yohimbe Forum Supplements Forum List of Herbs Acai Berry Acerola Agrimony Alfalfa Aloe Vera Andiroba Andrographis Anise Arjuna Arnica Artemisia Asafoetida Ashwaganda Astragalus Avena Sativa Bacopa Banaba Barberry Beth Root Bilberry Biota Bitter Orange Black Cohosh Black Walnut Bladderwrack Blessed Thistle Boldo Boswellia Brahmi Bromelain Buchu Bupleurum Burdock Butcher’s Broom Butterbur Calendula California Poppy Caraway Carob Cascara Sagrada Catnip Catuaba Cat’s Claw Cayenne Celery Celery Seed Chamomile Chickweed Chicory Root Chiretta Chuanxiong Codonopsis Coleus Coptis Chinenses Cordyceps Cranberry Cranesbill Damiana Dandelion Devils Claw Dong Quai Drynaria Echinacea Eclipta Elderberry Ephedra Eucalyptus Evening Primrose Fennel Fenugreek Feverfew Flax Seed Fo-ti Garlic Genkwa Gentian Ginger Ginkgo Biloba Ginseng Goji Berry Golden Seal Gotu Cola Grape Seed Grapefruit Seeds Graviola Green Tea Guaiacum Guarana Guggul Hawthorn Holy Basil Hoodia Hops Horse Chestnut Horsetail Hyssop Jasmine Kava Kava Khella Kudzu Lavender Lemon Balm Licorice Lobelia Maca Maitake Mangosteen Marshmallow Root Milk Thistle Motherwort Mucuna Mulberry Neem Noni Osha Parsley Pau D'arco Pine Prunella Vulgaris Psyllium Pygeum Red Clover Rehmannia Reishi Rhodiola Rooibos Rose Hip Rosemary Salvia Sarsaparilla Saw Palmetto Schisandra Scullcap Scutellaria Seabuckthorn Senna Leaves Sesame Seeds Slippery Elm Soy Spirulina St. John's Wort Stinging Nettle Tea Tree Thyme Tilden Flower Tribulus Terrestris Turmeric Uva Ursi Valerian Varuna Vervain Vitex White Oak Bark Wild Jujube Willow Bark Witch Hazel Wood Betony Yarrow Yellow Dock Yohimbe Yucca List of Conditions Acne Aging Alcoholism Alzheimer Anemia Angina Anxiety Arthritis Asthma Bronchitis Cancer Cellulite Common Cold Constipation Depression Diabetes Diarrhoea Eczema Enlarged Prostate Erectile Dysfunction Fatigue Fibromyalgia Food Allergy Gallstones Gastritis Gout Hair Loss Headache Heartburn Herpes High Blood Pressure High Cholesterol HIV IBS Influenza Insomnia Kidney Stones Low Sex Drive Memory Problems Menopause Obesity Pain Peptic Ulcer Respiratory Allergies Skin Wounds Urinary Infections Varicose Veins List of Supplements Vitamin B Vitamin A Vitamin B12 Vitamin B3 Vitamin B5 Vitamin B6 Vitamin B7 Feverfew - Herbal Relief For Migraines Feverfew, also known as featherfew, has a long history of use as an herbal remedy.   Originally brought to America as an ornamental flower due to its bright yellow and white blossoms and feathery green leaves, feverfew also has the name of Bachelor’s Buttons.  A perennial, feverfew produces an abundance of blossoms with minimal attention given to its growth. Ailments, traditionally treated by aspirin or acetaminophen, are treated with feverfew.  In particular, the symptoms of headaches and fevers are often alleviated with feverfew use.  Occasionally, symptoms that accompany headaches, such as nausea and mild depression, are also alleviated with feverfew use. Today, feverfew is primarily used to treat migraines and the unpleasant symptoms that go along with them.  Long-term use of feverfew for migraines has produced positive results.  Symptoms generally diminish after a six-week regimen of daily use. Additionally, individuals experiencing the discomfort of chronic inflammation due to arthritis may benefit from feverfew remedies.  Feverfew has been used to improve digestion and the functioning of the kidneys.  It has also been shown to stimulate the appetite. No known side effects have surfaced with long-term use of feverfew in otherwise healthy individuals.  However, women who are pregnant or breastfeeding should avoid it. Additionally, anyone on blood thinning medications, including heparin or coumadin, should avoid the use of this herbal remedy due to its anti-clotting capabilities.  Feverfew should not be taken in its natural leaf form since this may lead to mouth ulcers or the loss of taste sensations. A cold tea made from steeping one ounce of the plant in one pint of water produces an effective remedy.  Available as a tincture, tea, or capsules, feverfew should be used in the specified dosage. Due to its pungent odor, feverfew has been used as an insect repellent.  Despite the brightness of the blossoms, even bees tend to stay away from the plant.  In this case, a little bit goes a long way.  The blossoms are steeped in vodka for several days and then the resulting mixture is strained.  The leaves of the plant, soaked in cold water, have been used as an effective treatment for insect bites. For long lasting relief, feverfew should be taken on a daily basis.  However, anyone using feverfew on a regular basis over time should occasionally stop using the herbal remedy to determine the need to continue its use.  Additionally, a personal physician should be consulted prior to the use of this herbal remedy. Nutritional Supplements Forum : Got a question? Visit the new Forum Testimonials Dakota 2009-11-18 12:16:09 I use about every herb I can find I live on the River here in Omaha NE I just astarted to use feverfew, to save on asperin and it realy works... my name is Dakota and I have lived on the River for 11 almost 12 yuears.. just waqnted to let you know Your Feedback for This Article : Send us your experience or opinion that we may publish on this site. Your Nick : Spam Protection: Fill-in following 4-digit code: Your message (  HTML is not accepted ) : More About Feverfew... Feverfew Applications Migraine, headaches and arthritis are those among most “popular” medical conditions that disturb a ... Feverfew Introduction Feverfew is the herb that has been given eleven different names. References to the plant were found ... Conditions... Arthritis Headache Pain Home Forum Herbs Conditions Co