
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 23 Mar 2012 05:05:44 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Diazepam - dose, children, effects, adults, withdrawal, drug, person, people Powered by
			
				JRank Encyclopedia of Mental Disorders Mental Disorders » Del-Fi » Diazepam Diazepam Photo by: Jasmin Merdan Definition Diazepam is a mild tranquilizer in the class of drugs known as
      benzodiazepines. It is most commonly sold in the United States under the
      brand name Valium. The generic form of this drug is also available. Purpose Diazepam is used on a short-term basis to treat patients with mild to
      moderate anxiety. It is also used to treat some types of seizures (epilepsy), muscle spasms, nervous tension, and symptoms relating to
      alcohol withdrawal. Description Diazepam is one of many chemically-related tranquilizers in the class of
      drugs called benzodiazepines. Benzodiazepines are sedative-hypnotic drugs
      that help to relieve nervousness, tension, and other anxiety symptoms by
      slowing the central nervous system. To do this, they block the effects of
      a specific chemical involved in the transmission of nerve impulses in the brain , decreasing the excitement level of the nerve cells. All benzodiazepines,
      including diazepam, cause sedation, drowsiness, and reduced mental and
      physical alertness. Recommended dosage The typical dose of diazepam used to treat anxiety or seizures in healthy
      adults ranges from a total of 6 milligrams (mg) to 40 mg per day given in
      three or four doses. Elderly people (over age 60) are usually given lower
      doses in the range of 4–10 mg per day to treat anxiety 
       or nervous tension. For acute treatment of seizures, a higher dose of
      diazepam is given intravenously (directly into the vein) only in a
      controlled medical setting such as a hospital or emergency room. For
      alcohol withdrawal, the typical dose is a total of 30–40 mg per day
      given in three or four doses. The typical dose for a child over age six months with anxiety or seizures
      is a total of 3–10 mg per divided into several doses. In general,
      children receive lower doses of diazepam even when they have a body weight
      equivalent to a small adult. Diazepam is usually taken as a pill, but an
      injectable form is sometimes used when a serious seizure is in progress or
      when muscle spasms are severe. There is also a liquid oral form of the
      drug available. Precautions The elderly, children, and those with significant health problems need to
      be carefully evaluated before receiving diazepam. Children under the age
      of six months should not take diazepam. In addition, people with a history
      of liver disease, kidney disease, or those with low levels of a protein in
      the blood called albumin need to be carefully assessed before starting
      this drug. People taking diazepam should not drive, operate dangerous machinery, or
      engage in hazardous activities that require mental alertness, because
      diazepam can cause drowsiness. Alcohol and any drugs that treat mental
      illness should not be used when taking this medication. People who have
      previously had an allergic reaction to any dosage level of diazepam or any
      other benzodiazepine drug should not take diazepam. People with acute
      narrow-angle glaucoma should not take diazepam. The prescribing physician should be consulted regularly if diazepam is
      taken consistently for more than two weeks. Diazepam and other drugs in
      this class can be habit-forming. Diazepam can become a drug of abuse and
      should be used with caution in patients with history of substance abuse.
      People taking diazepam should not stop taking the drug abruptly. This can
      lead to withdrawal effects such as shaking, stomach cramps, nervousness,
      and irritability. Side effects Anxiety, irregular heartbeat, forgetfulness, mental depression, and
      confusion are side effects that could require prompt medical attention.
      However, these side effects are not common when taking diazepam. Even less
      common, but serious events, are behavior changes, low blood pressure,
      muscle weakness, and the yellowing of the eyes or skin (jaundice). More
      common, but less serious side effects, include drowsiness, clumsiness,
      slurred speech, and dizziness. Rare among these less serious side effects
      are stomach cramps, headache, muscle spasm, nausea, vomiting, and dry
      mouth. Once a person stops taking diazepam, the following side effects could
      occur from withdrawal: sleeping difficulties, nervousness, and
      irritability. Less common side effects from withdrawal include confusion,
      abdominal cramps, mental depression, sensitivity to light, nausea,
      shaking, and increased sweating. Rarely seen side effects include
      seizures, hallucinations , and feelings of distrust in the patient. Interactions Diazepam interacts with a long list of other medications. Anyone starting
      this drug should review the other medications they are taking with their
      physician and pharmacist for possible interactions. Patients should always
      inform all their health care providers, including dentists, that they are
      taking diazepam. Diazepam can add to the depressive effects of other
      central nervous system depressant drugs (for example, alcohol, other
      tranquilizers, or sleeping pills) when taken together. In severe cases,
      this can result in death. Several drugs reduce the ability of diazepam to be broken down and cleared
      from the body. This results in higher levels of the drug in the blood and
      increases the probability that side effects will occur. These drugs
      include several antibiotics, such as erythromycin, anti-stomach 
       acid drugs, such as cimetidine (Tagamet), and antifungal drugs, such as
      fluconazole. Alcohol should not be used when taking diazepam and other
      benzodiazepine drugs. Other drugs that are used to treat mental disorders
      should not be combined with diazepam unless the patient is under the
      careful supervision and monitoring of a doctor. Resources BOOKS Consumer Reports Staff. Consumer Reports Complete Drug Reference 2002 ed. Denver: Micromedex Thomson Healthcare, 2001. Ellsworth, Allan J. Mosby's Medical Drug Reference. 2001-2002. St. Louis: Mosby, 2001. Hardman, Joel G., Lee E. Limbird, eds. Goodman & Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics . 10th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2001. Mosby's GenRx Staff. Mosby's GenRx. 9th ed. St. Louis: Mosby, 1999. Venes, Donald, and others. Taber's Cyclopedic Medical Dictionary. 19th ed. Philadelphia: F. A. Davis, 2001. Mark Mitchell, M.D. User Contributions: Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic: Name: E-mail: Display email publicly Security Code: Comment:&nbsp (50-4000 characters) « Diagnostic and Statistical Manual 