ETag: "b8e8e382b3dc81:38fb"
Last-Modified: Wed, 12 Dec 2007 22:08:22 GMT
Content-Type: text/html

Other Systematic Medications Other Systemic Medications Approved by the U. S. Food and Drug 
        Administration (FDA) for other medical conditions, these medications are 
        showing promise in treating severe psoriasis: 6-Thioguanine Biologics --Etanercept --Infliximab --Adalimumab Hydroxyurea Isotretinoin Mycophenolate mofetil Sulfasalazine 6-Thioguanine Approved for treating leukemia, it may be effective in treating 
        psoriasis, especially pustular psoriasis . Possible side effects include 
        anemia, decrease in white blood cells and platelets and bone marrow 
        toxicity. Biologics The biologics, etanercept, infliximab and adalimumab, are being studied 
        in clinical trials to determine their effectiveness in treating 
        psoriasis. Etanercept is already FDA approved for the treatment of 
        psoriatic arthritis, and infliximab is FDA approved for Crohn’s disease. 
        All 3 are FDA approved for treating rheumatoid arthritis. Hydroxyurea An oral medication used to treat one form of leukemia, hydroxyurea may 
        also be effective in treating plaque psoriasis. When combined with PUVA 
        or retinoids, good results have been seen. Possible side effects include 
        anemia, decrease in white blood cells and platelets and bone marrow 
        toxicity. Isotretinoin FDA approved for the treatment of severe cystic acne, oral isotretinoin 
        may also be effective in treating pustular psoriasis . Isotretinoin is a 
        potent drug that can cause severe birth defects. For this reason, it 
        should not be used by a woman who is pregnant or breast feeding. Women 
        planning a pregnancy should discontinue taking isotretinoin and use 
        birth control for at least one month before trying to become pregnant. Mycophenolate mofetil FDA approved for preventing rejection of a transplanted kidney, liver or 
        heart, this drug is a potent immunosuppressant. Combining this drug with 
        cyclosporine may increase the effectiveness of cyclosporine and reduce 
        the risk of kidney damage associated with cyclosporine. Sulfasalazine Used to treat psoriatic arthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, this drug 
        may also be effective in treating some patients with psoriasis. Studies 
        find that patients who respond tend to respond quickly. More Information Topical Preparations Covers topical medications, moisturizers and agents that remove excess 
        scale. Phototherapy Explains the types of phototherapy used to treat psoriasis; includes 
        information about the excimer laser. Systemic Medications Information about FDA-approved systemic medications used to treat 
        psoriasis. AAD Consensus Statement on Psoriasis 
        Therapy Table lists the treatments contained in the consensus statement 
        developed by leading dermatologists and other experts. Back to the top This information sponsored by an 
unrestricted educational grant from Amgen, Inc. PsoriasisNet has been awarded the Standard 
of Excellence WebAward in the 2004 WebAward Competition hosted by the Web Marketing Association. © American Academy 