<http://www.what-is-obesity.com/?p=103>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Bariatric Bypass Surgery Bariatric Bypass Surgery Search Home Obesity Archives Obesity Articles Privacy Policy What is Obesity? Bariatric Bypass Surgery By Obesity Expert Leonard Smeltmann Bariatric bypass surgery is a growing field. Because it is the most efficient surgical procedure for the obese and morbidly obese, it is increasingly common in America and throughout the world.Bariatric bypass surgery has long-term health consequences that should be taken into consideration, which I’ll not further down in the article. The surgery itself involves making a small ‘pouch’ at the upper end of the stomach, then stitching the underside of the stomach to part of your intestines. Bariatric Bypass Surgery This means that less food than you actually eat passes through your stomach. There is less food for your stomach to digest and you feel full faster. This one-two punch means that your body absorbs far fewer calories This ‘double barrel’ means that your body simple can’t extract all the calories from what you’re eating. This means that your body starts eating away at the fat in storage, and you start to lose weight. In addition, because you feel full faster, your body naturally modifies the amount of food you eat, helping control food intake. Bariatric Bypass Surgery Outcomes Bariatric bypass surgery has two clear outcomes. By providing both a barrier for food’s entrance to the stomach and by bypassing the majority of the stomach entirely, far less is absorbed by the body. Statistically, bariatric bypass surgery is the most effective method of surgically losing weight. It has far less chance of future lapses and the re-gaining of weight is unheard of with people who have had successful bariatric bypass surgery. The most commonly used technique is known as the Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass, and I’ve written about in more detail on its own dedicated article, found here . Compared to other gastroplastic surgeries, bariatric bypass surgery is extraordinarily popular. However, there are many different complications that can arise from the surgery, some more serious than others. In addition, successful bariatric bypass surgery does force the patient onto a lifetime supply of nutritional supplements, designed at preventing malnutrition. Monitoring one’s health continues for months and then years after the operation, and the taking of nutritional supplements continues for life or until the gastric bypass is reversed. Bariatric Bypass Surgery Globally In addition to a rise in popularity in the US, bariatric bypass surgery practise has spread around the world. Bariatric surgery requires a reasonably intense training period, but there have been enough surgeries over time that the expertise is easily shareable and many doctors are choosing to specialise in bariatrics, understanding that the knowledge will be increasingly relevant over time. Health professionals around the world continue to investigate alternatives to bariatric bypass surgeries, as they should only be performed as an option of last resort after other, less invasive options have been considered. Bariatric Bypass Surgery Risks Mortality rate – that is, people actually dying during or immediately after the procedure – vary between 0.1% and 0.6% for laparoscopic and open procedures respectively. Complications can arise in up to 16% of cases, and complications can range from simple issues requiring a change in diet or medication to serious issues that can require further surgery to correct or even reverse the procedure. I have a separate article on bariatric surgery complications that is worth reading through. Because surgical patients are always going to be  overweight, surgeons need to look at other health problems as well. Existing health problems can be made significantly worse by the trauma of surgery, even if the body parts afflicted are not directly manipulated during surgery. The sheer shock to the system of surgery, anaesthetic, and the healing process can trigger severe reactions. As always, make your surgeon aware of what’s going on with your body and get their expert and personalised advice. Receiving a bariatric bypass Because of the risks involved in bariatric bypass surgery, it is generally only recommended for the morbidly obese or bariatric patients. The usual criteria for gastric bypass surgery are listed below: Weighing 100lb over your ideal weight. Taking into consideration age, height and sex, if you are less than 100lbs overweight then natural weight loss methods are far less invasive and damaging than surgery. Attempts to lose weight through conventional methods like diets, supplementary medication, counseling, exercise programs need to have been tried and failed. These attempts should be documented and preferably overseen by a health professional. The doctor making the recommendation for gastric bypass surgery must show that they have reasonably exhausted all avenues to manage the client’s obesity before recommending them for the procedure. Psychiatric evaluation needs to be carried out by a qualified expert. Stress and anxiety-related eating disorders are particularly common culprits of morbid obesity and gastric bypass surgery won’t help a client with one of these untreated conditions. Good health is necessary, or as good as can be expected. Complications massively increase in likelihood and severity when a bariatric patient is suffering from chronic disease or illness before surgery. Bariatric Bypass Post-Op Care You can generally expect to go home after around two days for laparoscopic procedures and around a week for open surgery. If a complication arises you will probably need to stay in longer for observation and potential follow-up procedures. I and your surgeon will both recommend a few weeks at home while you are adjusting. Your recovery will be tracked by your surgeon or health carer, especially if you’re using a bariatric treatment hospital. You will have been briefed before the operation on your changed dietary requirements, but often you’ll get additional information as your recover continues. You can expect to be on a liquid diet for the first week or so to allow all the stitching and rearranging of your digestive system to heal up and get ready for normal food. After the liquid period you’ll be able to go onto a semi-solid diet, where you’ll begin to feel the constraints of your new appetite. your stomach pouch will need to get used to accommodating both liquids and solids at the same time. Nausea and vomiting is common through all of this period. You will eventually proceed onto solid, normal food, but even this must be chewed thoroughly. If you don’t, you will suffer from severe indigestion and probably more vomiting, which you’ll be heartily sick of by this point! Bariatric Bypass Weight Loss Bariatric bypass patients lose a phenomenal amount of weight in the first 18 months following their operations as their body adjusts to the massive changes they’ve made. On average, bariatric bypass patients should expect to lose between 60 and 80 percent of their excess body weight over the 5 years following the operation. You lose most of it within the first 18 months, when the most dramatic change will take place, but more will continue to come off over the years. Bariatric Bypass Surgery Return to the top of: Bariatric Bypass Surgery Obesity Obesity In Children Child Obesity Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Obesity Help Laparoscopic Surgery Overeating Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome Lap Band Complications Morbidly Obese Bariatric Recipes Weight Loss Recipes Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Vitamin Supplementation What are the Costs of Bariatric or Weight Loss Surgery? Bariatric Surgery Costs Bariatric Weight Loss Options Obesity Weight Loss Bariatric Food: Healthy Alternatives for Bariatric Patients Bariatric Foods Bariatric Treatment Centers Bariatric Surgery: Definition Definition of Bariatric Bariatric Nurse Bariatric Transport Bariatric Band Surgery Bariatric Lift Bariatric Banding Western Bariatric Bariatric Surgery Hospital © What is Obesity? 2011 We hope you have enjoyed reading " Bariatric Bypass Surgery " here at What is Obesity?.com! The article " Bariatric Bypass Surgery " is provided for information only, and should not be taken as advice on any topic. Please read our Privacy