<http://wp.me/piR1W-cnX>; rel=shortlink

Antibiotics Beat Cranberries at Fighting Urinary Tract Infections in Study  - Health News - Health.com Vote! Which is harder to adhere to? Enter Our Sweepstakes Health News From Health Magazine The Best Makeup Colors For Your Face A More Flexible You in 5 Minutes Stop Back Pain Before It Starts How to Find the Best Doctors Home Health A-Z Alzheimer's Disease Asthma Bipolar Disorder Birth Control Breast Cancer Childhood Vaccines Cholesterol Chronic Pain Cold, Flu, and Sinus COPD Crohn's Disease Depression Diabetes (Type 2) Fibromyalgia GERD Gout Incontinence Menopause Menstruation Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sexual Health Sleep Disorders Ulcerative Colitis More Conditions Healthy Living News Beauty Celebrities Family Fitness Home and Travel Mind and Body Money Sex and Relationships Fitness Blog Weight Loss Diets Dieting Tips Weight Loss Blog Eating Cooking Nutrition Restaurants Healthy Eating Blog Recipes Your Heart Health Home >> Health News >> Health News >> Antibiotics Beat Cranberries at Fighting Urinary Tract Infections in Study Health News : What’s New LATEST NEWS All Stories Acne ADHD-ADD Adult ADHD Alcoholism Allergy Alzheimer's Anemia Anorexia Nervosa Anxiety Appendicitis Arrhythmia Asthma Autism Back Pain Beauty Bipolar Disorder Birth Control Breast Cancer Bulimia Celebrity Childhood Vaccines Cholesterol Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Chronic Kidney Disease Chronic Pain Cold, Flu, and Sinus Colorectal Cancer Congestive Heart Failure COPD Crohn's Disease Dental Care Depression Diabetes Diabetes1 Eating Family Fibromyalgia Fitness GERD goodhealth Gout Health News Heart Disease Heartburn HIV Home and Travel HPV Hypertension Hyperthyroidism IBS Incontinence Women Infertility Inflammatory Bowel Disease Lupus Menopause Menstruation Migraine Headaches Mind and Body Money and Health Obesity Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Ovarian Cancer PMS/PMDD Postpartum Depression Pregnancy and Childbirth Prostate Cancer Psoriasis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sex and Relationships Sexual Health Skin Cancer Melanoma Skin Cancer Nonmelanoma Sleep Smoking Stress Management Stroke Ulcerative Colitis Vaccines Weight Loss Yeast Infection HEALTH & WELLNESS 25 Breast Cancer Myths America’s Healthiest Schools Stress Can Trigger Depression Advertisement WEEKLY NEWSLETTER Healthy Eating and Recipes Sign up for a free weekly email with our most up-to-date information. See All Newsletters Antibiotics Beat Cranberries at Fighting Urinary Tract Infections in Study July 25, 2011 Email Print Share By Denise Mann HealthDay Reporter MONDAY, July 25 (HealthDay News) — Many women swear by cranberry juice or capsules for the treatment and prevention of urinary tract infections, but new Dutch research indicates that antibiotics may be more effective even if they contribute to a greater risk for antibiotic resistance. “Cranberries are less effective in the prevention, but do not result in resistant microorganisms,” said study author Dr. Suzanne Geerlings, an infectious diseases expert at the Academic Medical Center in Amsterdam. “Women with recurrent UTIs [urinary tract infections] do not like taking antibiotics for a long period because they know [about] the resistance problem. I think that doctors have to discuss the results of this study with the individual patients to make the best choice.” About half of all women will experience a UTI at some point in their lives, and 30 percent of women will develop recurrent UTIs. Escherichia coli is one of the most common causes of UTIs. In the study, 221 women who had at least three recurrent UTIs in the previous year were randomly selected for a 12-month course of the antibiotic trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) (Bactrim, Bethaprim, Cotrim, Septra), taken once daily with two placebo pills, or one cranberry capsule with 500 milligrams of cranberry extract taken twice a day with one placebo pill. Women who took cranberry capsules were more likely to develop at least one symptomatic UTI compared with their counterparts who received the antibiotic, 4 versus 1.8, respectively. On average, women in the cranberry group developed a new UTI after four months, while recurrence occurred within eight months among those who received the antibiotic, the study showed. Rates of antibiotic resistance tripled among women in the antibiotics group, but these did return to baseline three months after they stopped talking the medication. After one month, antibiotic resistance to E. coli was higher than 85 percent in the antibiotic group and less than 30 percent among women who took the cranberry extract. “Cranberry has long been touted as a natural preventative for UTIs, and numerous clinical studies using either juice or dry extracts have lent credence to this premise,” Bill J. Gurley, of the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences in Little Rock, wrote in an accompanying editorial. Exactly how cranberries may prevent or treat UTIs is not fully understood, but cranberries contain fructose (fruit sugar) and type A proanthocyanidins, which can prevent E. coli from sticking to the bladder walls. The cranberry extract may not have been as bioavailable as the antibiotic, which could have skewed the findings in favor of the antibiotic in this study, Gurley wrote. “We have been using cranberry juice extract and capsules for a long time,” said Dr. Carolyn Dean, a naturopathic physician in Maui, Hawaii. “It stops adhesion of bacteria to the bladder wall.” Antibiotics kill bacteria, while the cranberry extract provides more of a mechanical solution, she explained. Dean said there is still a role for cranberry juice and/or extract in preventing UTIs. “Sexually active women whose bladder feels irritated after sex should take cranberry capsules after intercourse as a preventative,” she said. “If you do develop a UTI, you can increase the amount of cranberry extract you are taking or consider antibiotics.” More information The U.S. National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases has more on urinary tract infections . SOURCES: Suzanne Geerlings, M.D., Ph.D., infectious diseases expert,  Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam; Bill J. Gurley, Ph.D., University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, Ark.; Carolyn Dean, M.D., N.D., naturopathic physician, Maui, Hawaii; July 25, 2011, Archives of Internal Medicine Last Updated:  July 25, 2011 Copyright © 2011 HealthDay . All rights reserved. Twitter Facebook Most Popular Stories From Health.com: How to Sick-Proof Your Winter Get Headaches? Smart Ways to Deal The 50 Fattiest Foods in the States Advertisement Advertisement Close Social Web E-mail Facebook Digg StumbleUpon del.icio.us reddit BlinkList Newsvine Furl Tailrank Ma.gnolia E-mail It To Addresses (up to 5): Your Name: Your Address: Health A-Z Healthy Living Weight Loss Eating Recipes Health.com Health A-Z Healthy Living Weight Loss Eating Recipes Health News Inside Health Magazine Sweepstakes Site Map About Us Contact Us Free Newsletters Help Advertise with Health.com Advertise with Health Magazine Health Buzz Health Magazine Customer Service Subscribe Tablet Edition Give a Gift Renew Your Subscription Stay Connected to Health.com Sign Up for Newsletters Become a Fan of Health Get Health Twitter Updates Subscribe to RSS Join Healthy Voices Copyright © 2012 Health Media Ventures, Inc. All rights reserved. The material in this site is intended to be of general informational use and is not intended to constitute medical advice, probable diagnosis, or recommended treatments. See the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy for mo