Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Miracles of the Qur'an - Modern Science Reveals New Miracles of the Qur'an FISH: A VALUABLE SOURCE OF NUTRITION Anything you catch in the sea is lawful for you, 
                and all food from it, for your enjoyment and that of travellers… 
                (Qur'an, 5:96) The fact the average age of people developing and dying from heart 
              disease is constantly decreasing has considerably increased the 
              importance attached to coronary health. Although a great many advances 
              have been registered in the treatment of heart disease, experts 
              in the field basically recommend that careful precautions be taken 
              before such diseases ever arise. Experts also recommend one important 
              foodstuff for the healthy functioning of the heart and the prevention 
              of disease: fish . The reason why fish is such an important source of nutrition is 
              that it both provides substances necessary for the human body and 
              also reduces the risk of various diseases. For example, it has been 
              revealed that when fish-which acts as a shield in terms of health 
              with the omega-3 acid it contains-is consumed on a regular basis, 
              it reduces the risk of heart disease and strengthens the immune 
              system. The fact that fish, the health benefits of which have only newly 
              been scientifically registered, is an important nutritional source 
              is revealed in the Qur'an. Almighty Allah makes the following references 
              to seafood in the Qur'an: " It is He Who made the sea subservient 
              to you so that you can eat fresh flesh from it... " (Qur'an, 
              16:14), " Anything you catch in the sea is lawful for you, 
              and all food from it, for your enjoyment and that of travellers… " 
              (Qur'an, 5:96) Furthermore, particular attention is drawn to fish 
              in Surat al-Kahf, in which it is revealed that the Prophet Musa 
              (as) set out on a long journey with his servant and that they took 
              fish along with them to eat: But when they reached their meeting-place, they 
                forgot their fish which quickly burrowed its way into the sea. 
                When they had gone a distance further on, he said to his servant, 
                " Bring us our morning meal. Truly this journey of ours has 
                made us tired ." He said, "Do you see what has happened? When 
                we went to find shelter at the rock, I forgot the fish…" (Qur'an, 
                18:61-63) It is noteworthy that in Surat al-Kahf fish should be specially 
              chosen as a foodstuff after a long, tiring journey. Therefore, one 
              of the pieces of wisdom in this tale may well be an indication of 
              the nutritional benefits of fish. (Allah knows best.) In fact, when we examine the nutritional properties 
              of fish, we encounter some very striking facts. Fish, given to us 
              as a blessing by our Lord, are a perfect food, particularly in terms 
              of protein, vitamin D and trace elements (certain elements found 
              in minimal quantities in the body but which are still of great importance 
              to it). Due to the minerals they contain-such as phosphorus, sulphur 
              and vanadium-fish encourages growth and enables tissues to recover. 
              Fish meat also assists in the formation of healthy teeth and gums, 
              benefits the complexion, makes the hair healthier and contributes 
              to the fight against bacterial infection. It also plays an important 
              role in the prevention of heart attacks as it beautifully regulates 
              the level of cholesterol in the blood. It helps the body to break 
              down and use starch and fats, making it stronger and more energetic. 
              On the other hand, it also influences the functioning of mental 
              activities. In the event that the vitamin D and other minerals contained 
              in fish are not consumed in sufficient quantities, disorders such 
              as rickets (bone weakness), gum disease, goitre and hyperthyroid 
              may all arise. 124 In addition, modern science has also discovered that the omega-3 
              fatty acids in fish also occupy an important place in human health. 
              These fats have even been described as essential fatty acids. The Benefits of Omega-3 in Fish Oil There are two kinds of unsaturated fatty acid in fish oil which 
              are particularly important for our health: EPA ( e icosa p entaenoic a cid) 
              and DHA ( d ocosa h exaenoic a cid). EPA and DHA are known as polyunsaturated 
              fats and contain the important omega-3 fatty acids. Since the fatty 
              acids omega-3 and omega-6 are not manufactured in the human body, 
              they need to be taken in from the outside. There is a large body of evidence relating to the benefits to human 
              health of fish oil, the actual benefit stemming from its omega-3 
              fatty acid content. Despite being present in vegetable oils, these 
              omega-3 fatty acids are less effective in relation to human health. 
              However, marine plankton is very effective at turning omega-3 into 
              EPA and DHA. When fish eat plankton, their constitution becomes 
              much richer in EPA and DHA. That, in turn, makes fish one of the 
              richest sources of these vitally important fatty acids. Vital Benefits of the Fatty Acids Found in 
              Fish One of the main features of the fatty acids in fish is the contribution 
              they make to the body's energy production. These fatty acids carry 
              out electron transfers by attaching themselves to oxygen in the 
              body and permit energy to be produced for various chemical processes 
              within it. There is therefore considerable evidence that a diet 
              rich in fish oil helps combat fatigue and increases mental and physical 
              capacity. Omega-3 increases the individual's powers of concentration 
              as much as it does his or her energy levels. There is a scientific 
              foundation to the old saying "fish is good for the brain": The main 
              compound in brain fat is DHA, which contains omega-3 fatty acids. The Importance of Fish for a Healthy Heart 
              and Arteries The omega-3 fatty acid in fish is acknowledged 
              to protect against cardiovascular disease by reducing blood pressure 
              and the cholesterol and triglyceride in the blood. 125 Triglyceride is a form of fat and resembles LDL (bad cholesterol) 
              which is high in fat and low in protein content. A raised triglyceride 
              level, especially together with high cholesterol, increases the 
              risk of heart disease. In addition, fish oils reduce life-threatening 
              post-heart attack abnormal heart rhythms. In one study by the American Medical Association, it was observed 
              that heart attack levels in women eating five portions of fish a 
              week fell by one-third. This is thought to stem from the omega-3 
              fatty acids in fish oil causing less blood clotting. The normal 
              speed of blood in our veins is 60 kmph (37.3 mph) and it is of vital 
              importance for the blood to be of the right viscosity and for the 
              density, quantity and speed to be at normal levels. The worst danger 
              for our blood-apart from normal conditions of bleeding-is for it 
              to clot and lose the ability to flow properly. Fish oils are also 
              effective in reducing blood clotting by preventing the thrombocytes 
              in the blood (blood platelets that concentrate the blood in the 
              event of bleeding) from adhering to one another. Otherwise, blood 
              thickening can lead to narrowing of the arteries. In turn, this 
              can lead to many organs in the body-especially the heart, brain, 
              eyes and kidneys-receiving an inadequate blood supply, function 
              deceleration and eventually, loss of function. For example, when 
              an artery is totally blocked on account of clotting this can lead 
              to heart attack, paralysis or other disorders, depending on the 
              location of the artery. Omega-3 fatty acids also play an important role in the production 
              of the molecule haemoglobin, that carries oxygen in the red blood 
              cells, and in controlling the nutrients passing through the cell 
              membrane. They also prevent the damaging effects of fats harmful 
              to the body. Importance for the Development of New Born 
              Babies Being 
              an important component of the brain and eye, omega-3 fatty acids 
              have been the subject of research, especially over the last 10 years, 
              in connection with the needs of new born babies. There is a considerable 
              body of evidence relating to the importance of omega-3 to the development 
              of the foetus in the mother's womb and of the new-born baby. Omega-3 
              is of the greatest importance for the proper development of the 
              brain and nerves throughout pregnancy and in early babyhood. Scientists 
              emphasise the importance of mother's milk since it is a natural 
              and perfect store of omega-3. Benefits for Joint Health The major risk in rheumatoid arthritis (a painful joint condition 
              linked to rheumatism) is that of wearing of the joints, leading 
              to irreparable damage. It has been proven that a diet rich in omega-3 
              fatty acids prevents arthritis and reduces discomfort in swollen 
              and sensitive joints. Benefits Regarding the Healthy Functioning 
              of the Brain and Nervous System A large number of studies have revealed the effects 
              of omega-3 fatty acids on the healthy functioning of the brain and 
              nerves. In addition, it has been shown that fish oil reinforcement 
              can reduce symptoms of depression and schizophrenia and prevent 
              Alzheimer's disease (a brain disease which causes loss of memory 
              and hinders day-to-day activities). For example, reductions in such 
              problems as anxiety, stress and sleeping difficulties have been 
              observed in individuals suffering from depression who took 1 gram 
              of omega-3 fatty acid over a period of 12 weeks. 126 Benefits against Inflammatory Disorders and 
              Strengthening of the Immune System At the same time, omega-3 fatty acids have an anti-inflammatory 
              (infection preventing) function. Omega-3 can therefore be employed 
              in the following diseases: Rheumatoid arthritis (joint infection linked to rheumatism), Osteoarthritis (a form of arthritis gradually degenerating the 
                functions of joints) Ulcerative colitis (ulcers linked to the inflammation of the 
                colon), and Lupus (a disease which causes patches on the skin). It also protects myelin (the material surrounding nerve cells). 
                It is therefore used in the treatment of Glaucoma (an eye disorder marked by abnormally high pressure 
                within the eyeball that may even lead to blindness) Multiple sclerosis (a serious progressive disease resulting 
                from tissue hardening in the brain and spinal cord), Osteoporosis (a disease leading to structural weakening in the 
                bone structure) Diabetes patients. In addition, it is also reported to be useful in the treatment 
                of Migraine patients, Anorexia (a possibly fatal eating disorder) Burns Problems concerning skin health. There is also wide-ranging evidence that societies such as the 
              Greenland Eskimos and Japanese, who eat a lot of fish, rich in omega-3 
              fatty acid, have a much lower incidence of heart and artery disease, 
              asthma and psoriasis. Fish is therefore recommended as a form of 
              treatment and is particularly recommended by nutritionists on account 
              of its proven benefits for coronary health. Additional benefits to those outlined above are emerging every 
              day. Moreover, it has only been possible to reveal the health benefits 
              of fish by a great many scientists working in well-equipped research 
              laboratories. The fact that such a valuable source of nutrition 
              is indicated in the Qur'an, and especially that it is described 
              as a fatigue eliminator in Surat al-Kahf, is nothing short of awe-inspiring. 
              All the benefits provided by fish are a great blessing given us 
              by our Lord. As with all foods, it is Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, 
              Who has created the superior structure in fish for our benefit. 124. Bilim ve Teknik 
              Dergisi (Journal of Science and Technology), September 1998, 86. 125. Holub BJ, “Fish oils and cardiovascular disease,” 
              CMAJ 1989, 141:1063; Connor WE, “The importance of n-3 fatty 
              acids in health and disease,” Am J Clin Nutr 2000; 71 (1 Suppl): 
              171S-5S; Angerer P, von Schacky C., “n-3 Polyunsaturated fatty 
              acids and the cardiovascular system,” Curr Opin Lipidol 2000; 
              11 (1): 57-63. 126. Archives of General Psychiatry, October 2002; 59: 913-919. >>Other Languages ------------------------ Français Deutsch Türkçe Urdu Indonesian Chinese Chinese (GB Version) Bulgarian BOOKS - MOVIES - ARTICLES - INTERACTIVE 
                    PRESENTATIONS Watch