Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding

Auto Accidents and Acupuncture at MMG | Mattos Medical Group | Tampa Acupuncture | (813) 871-2950 Try Our New Mobile App Today! For iPhone | For Android Home About us Commercials Radio Show Videos Testimonials Aesthetic Services Weight Loss Microdermabrasion Facials/Peels Carboxitherapy HCG Medical Services Auto Injury Primary Care IV Nutritional Therapy Tampa Chinese Herbal Medicine Tampa Acupuncture Cupping Moxibustion Tui Na Specialties Acupunture Auto Injury Chinese Herbal Pharmacy IV Therapy Weight Loss Staff Management Practitioners Dr.K Mattos bio Dr.Cheesman bio Testimonials Contact Customer Survey Blog Online Store Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) Are you suffering from Chronic Fatigue Syndrome? Auto Accidents and Acupuncture at MMG On July 18, 2010, 
									in Acupuncture , Auto Accidents , Cupping , Injection Therapy , Intersegmental Traction , Modalities , 
									by Kenneth Mattos Share Acupuncture is the process of stimulating specific points on the body by inserting very fine needles into the skin and underlying tissues. This procedure unblocks the flow of Qi along energy pathways and resores balance to the body. This has the effect of releasing various chemical messengers into the brain (neurotransmitters such as serotonin) that serve as natural painkillers. Acupuncture can be used in the treatment of auto accident injuries, including whiplash and herniated discs. It is an effective tool in relieving the pain and anxiety associated with car crashes and is safe, painless, and drug free. Acupuncture and Whiplash Whiplash occurs when a sudden movement forces the head to jerk forward abruptly, pulling at the neck muscles and affecting bone structure and soft tissues. When left untreated, whiplash can lead to chronic pain that is often difficult to treat, so it is important to address the condition as soon as possible. Symptoms of Whiplash People who experience whiplash may report experiencing one or more symptoms. Symptoms can occur immediately after the accident, or may appear several days or even weeks later: ·    Neck / Shoulder pain and stiffness ·    Headaches ·    Difficulty in moving the neck ·    Low back pain ·    Sensations such as burning or “pins and needles” ·    Irritability ·    Poor sleep ·    Fatigue ·    Difficulty with concentration or memory ·    Depression ·    Dizziness / Light-headedness ·    Pain or numbness in the arm and/or hand ·    Ringing in the ears ·    Blurred vision ·    Muscle spasm In Chinese medicine, whiplash is thought of as a balance disorder because the structure of the bones has been affected by a sudden movement. Treatment focuses on helping patients regain proper balance. Acupuncture also works to alleviate the pain associated with whiplash. Acupuncture for Herniated Discs Herniated discs occur during auto accidents because the force of impact is often strong enough to damage the human body in very serious ways. The discs of the spine act as a cushion between the vertebrae. When a disc herniation occurs, the soft, inner part of the disc bulges or slips out of place, affecting the nerves and causing pain. In this case, as with whiplash, the sooner acupuncture is begun after the initial onset of symptoms, the more effective it can be in terms of pain relief. While acupuncture cannot resolve the actual structural spinal condition, it is a powerful weapon in fighting pain. By stimulating the nervous system, acupuncture helps the body to release chemicals that ease pain. For herniated discs, results may be best achieved when acupuncture is combined with extra modalities at MMG such as Tui Na, Cupping , Moxibustion, Intersegmental Traction , Ultrasound Therapy and Hydrotherapy Massage . Anxiety and Stress The traumatic experience of an automobile accident can sometimes lead to powerful and negative emotions. Because accidents happen at a very fast pace, the brain is sometimes unable to process the experience until after the incident has passed and the participant is no longer in danger. This is known as post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and it can occur in car crash victims. The energy blockages associated with anxiety can be addressed through acupuncture. Acupuncture points serve as openings to the body’s meridians; when these are liberated from unhealthy blockages, energy can begin to flow smoothly once again. This can help to alleviate the symptoms of anxiety as well as relieve the anxiety disorder itself. The experience of acupuncture is often very calming, and can decrease heart rate, relax muscles, and lower blood pressure. Mattos Medical Group Under Florida No Fault law, acupuncture is covered by the personal injury protection provided by your insurance policy. This coverage is available only when the treatment is administered by a License practitioner. Will acupuncture be covered by my automobile insurance policy? please email us at info@mattosmedicalgroup.com or call us at 813.871.2950 to schedule your consultation. About the author Kenneth Mattos Visit Authors Website If you enjoyed this article, please consider sharing it! Comments are closed. Customer Survey Recent Posts Treatment of Neurological Disorders with Acupuncture TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE FOR INSOMNIA Therapeutic effect on combined acupuncture and Chinese medicine for reflux esophagitis Enhance Your Endocrine Health with Acupuncture Effectiveness of Traditional Chinese ‘Gua Sha’ Therapy in Patients with Chronic Neck Pain Testimonials "I hurt my shoulder from working out too hard, so I went to see Dr.K got some Tuina, cupping done which draws out all the bad toxin by sucking onto the pores, then I got acupuncture done. Looks worse than it is. its not bad, 3 treatments later im feeling 100% back to normal. Thanks Dr.K" Allen T. - Tampa, FL 9/3/10 "I had never had acupuncture before. However, I decided to try it after I hurt my back after i had a car accident, I decided to try acupuncture at Mattos Medical Group. Dr.Kenn was very courteous and professional. After 2 sessions of tui na, cupping and acupuncture, I felt like I was a child again. All my muscles were relaxed and I was back to a normal life again in no time! I would highly recommend using them for preventative maintenance, stress and pain relief. Trust me, you will not be disappointed" Jack T. - Lutz, FL 4/20/10 "Thank you for taking such care of me. I came in today with really bad shoulder pain, but when I was done, I was able to move my shoulder around again. I was very impressed with how in depth the treatment was and how everything was throughly explained to me. I woulded definitely referr anyone who needs it!!!!" Anh L. - Tampa, FL 3/22/10 Read more›› Tags abdominal pain Acupuncture Acupuncture Injection therapy AITs anti-inflammatory Arthritic pain Arthritis Calcium Pyruvate Chinese Herbal Medicine Chronic low back pain Chronic Pain common cold Community style acupuncture cough crushed nerve Cupping diet emotional Fat Burning Film star Ginseng HCG headache hormone imbalance Human Chorionic Gonadotropin hypertension indigestion Inflammation Injection Therapy Injury insect and poisonous snake bite. IV nutritional therapy IVs Krebs Cycle low back pain nutrition painful menstruation painkillers Pain relief physical activity Qi and blood stasis spinal joints spiritual stomach ache Weight Loss Translator Translate to: Arabic Bulgarian Catalan Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) Croatian Czech Danish Dutch English Filipino Finnish French German Greek Hebrew Hindi Indonesian Italian Japanese Korean Latvian Lithuanian Norwegian Polish Portuguese Romanian Russian Serbian Slovak Slovenian Spanish Swedish Ukrainian Vietnamese Powered by Google Translate . Find Me On Get this widget for your own blog free! Go To Top » Looking for something? Use the form below to search the site: Still not finding what you're looking for? Drop a comment on a post or contact us so we can take care of it! Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Visit our friends! A few highly recommended friends... Acuhut.com – MMG altMD.com – MMG Healthgrades.com-MMG Holisticunited.com-MMG Local healers Spoke.com-MMG Therapynext.com – MMG Voice over services Yelp – Tampa "These days, vitamin C is used most often for preventing and treating the common cold. Some people use it for other... http://t.co/Ug1815F0" — drkennmattos Mattos Medical Group | Tampa Acupuncture | (813) 871-2950 Pages Home About us Aesthetic Services Medical Services Specialties Staff Testimonials Contact Blog Online Store Stay In Touch Site RSS Feed Twitter Facebook LinkedIn More Thanks for dropping by! Feel free to join the discussion by leaving comments, and stay updated by subscribing to the RSS feed . © 2010 Matt