Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Fri, 27 May 2011 16:08:07 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "80d1144881ccc1:24d6"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
PICS-Label: (PICS-1.0 "http://www.rsac.org/ratingsv01.html" l by "info@ccspublishing.com" on "2003.10.23T23:22-0700" exp "2010.03.23T12:00-0700" r (v 0 s 0 n 0 l 0))
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sun, 29 Apr 2012 14:44:44 GMT
Connection: close

Rheumatoid Arthritis, August 1, 2011 Click here to view next page of this article Rheumatoid
Arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic systemic inflammatory disease which affects 
the synovial membranes of multiple joints. The cause remains unknown, and the 
disease has a wide clinical spectrum. The pathologic findings in the joint include chronic synovitis with pannus formation.
The pannus erodes cartilage, bone, ligaments, and tendons. In the acute phase, effusion
and other manifestations of inflammation are common. In the late stage, organization may
result in fibrous ankylosis; true bony ankylosis is rare. In both acute and chronic
phases, inflammation of soft tissues around the joints may be prominent and silicone
breast implants. The microscopic findings most characteristic of rheumatoid arthritis are 
those of the subcutaneous nodule. This is a granuloma with a central zone of 
fibrinoid necrosis, a surrounding palisade of radially arranged elongated 
connective tissue cells, and a periphery of chronic granulation tissue. 
Pathologic alterations indistinguishable from those of the subcutaneous nodule 
are occasionally seen in the myocardium, pericardium, endocardium, heart valves, 
visceral pleura, lungs, sclera, dura mater, spleen. Clinical Findings A. Symptoms and Signs: The clinical manifestations of rheumatoid disease are 
highly variable. The onset of articular signs of inflammation is usually 
insidious, with prodromal symptoms of malaise, weight loss, and vague 
periarticular pain or stiffness. Less often, the onset is acute, apparently 
triggered by a stressful situation. Treatment Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): The first drug used to treat
rheumatoid arthritis is an NSAID. These agents have analgesic and anti-inflammatory
effects but are believed not to be capable of preventing erosions or altering progression
of the disease. A number of NSAIDs are available, including ibuprofen, fenoprofen, naproxen, 
tolmetin, sulindac, meclofenamate sodium, piroxicam, flurbiprofen, diclofenac, 
oxaprozin, nabumetone, etodolac. Methotrexate B Many now believe 
that methotrexate is the treatment of choice for patients with severe rheumatoid 
arthritis. Antimalarials B Hydroxychloroquine sulfate
is the antimalarial agent most often used against rheumatoid arthritis. It should be
reserved for patients with mild disease, since only 25 B 50%
will respond and in some of those cases only after 3 B 6
months of therapy. The advantage of hydroxychloroquine is its comparatively low toxicity.
A dosage of 200 B 400 mg/d minimizes the 
likelihood of toxic reactions. The most important reaction, pigmentary 
retinitis. Gold salts (chrysotherapy) B For patients
who fail to improve on or who cannot tolerate methotrexate, treatment with gold salts 
is recommended. Indications B Disease responding unfavorably
to conservative management; erosive disease. Contraindications B Previous gold toxicity;
significant renal, hepatic, or hematopoietic dysfunction. Preparations of choice B Intramuscular gold
sodium thiomalate or aurothioglucose; oral auranofin. Intramuscular gold is used most
often because it is more effective than oral gold. The oral dose of auranofin is 3 mg twice daily until benefit or toxicity occurs. Corticosteroids B Although 
corticosteroids usually produce an immediate and dramatic anti-inflammatory 
effect in rheumatoid arthritis, they do not alter the natural progression of the 
disease; furthermore, clinical manifestations of active disease commonly 
reappear when the drug is discontinued. Sulfasalazine B This drug has 
become established as a second-line agent for rheumatoid arthritis, with an 
efficacy similar to that of gold and penicillamine. Sulfasalazine is usually 
introduced at a dosage of 0.5 g twice daily and then increased each week by 0.5 
g. Azathioprine B This agent, like 
methotrexate, is an antimetabolite that is effective for severe rheumatoid 
arthritis. Penicillamine B Penicillamine may 
be used in patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis who have continuing 
rheumatic activity in spite of therapy with the agents discussed above. This 
agent may prove effective in a number of such patients, although toxicity is 
substantial. Minocycline B Minocycline has been shown to
be more effective than placebo for rheumatoid arthritis. This agent should be reserved for
mild cases, since its efficacy is modest. The mechanism of action is not clear, but
tetracyclines do have anti-inflammatory properties, including the ability to inhibit
destructive enzymes such as collagenase. The dose of minocycline is 200 mg/d. Adverse
effects are uncommon except for dizziness, which occurs in about 10%. Experimental Therapy: Cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil, cyclosporine, total 
lymph node irradiation, immunization with allogeneic mononuclear white blood 
cells, and monoclonal antibodies directed against cytokines or T cells have been 
used with success