Vary: Accept-Encoding

rheumatoid Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis This booklet is for people who have rheumatoid
                        arthritis, as well as for their family members, friends,
                        and others who want to find out more about this disease.
                        The booklet describes how rheumatoid arthritis develops,
                        how it is diagnosed, and how it is treated, including
                        what patients can do to help manage their disease. It
                        also highlights current research efforts supported by
                        the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal
                        and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) and other components of the
                        National Institutes of Health (NIH). If you have further
                        questions after reading this booklet, you may wish to
                        discuss them with your doctor. Features Of Rheumatoid
                        Arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease that
                        causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function
                        in the joints. It has several special features that make
                        it different from other kinds of arthritis. For example,
                        rheumatoid arthritis generally occurs in a symmetrical
                        pattern. This means that if one knee or hand is
                        involved, the other one is also. The disease often
                        affects the wrist joints and the finger joints closest
                        to the hand. It can also affect other parts of the body
                        besides the joints. In addition, people with the disease
                        may have fatigue, occasional fever, and a general sense
                        of not feeling well (malaise). Another feature of
                        rheumatoid arthritis is that it varies a lot from person
                        to person. For some people, it lasts only a few months
                        or a year or two and goes away without causing any
                        noticeable damage. Other people have mild or moderate
                        disease, with periods of worsening symptoms, called
                        flares, and periods in which they feel better, called
                        remissions. Still others have severe disease that is
                        active most of the time, lasts for many years, and leads
                        to serious joint damage and disability. Although rheumatoid
                        arthritis can have serious effects on a person's life
                        and well-being, current treatment strategies-including
                        pain relief and other medications, a balance between
                        rest and exercise, and patient education and support
                        programs-allow most people with the disease to lead
                        active and productive lives. In recent years, research
                        has led to a new understanding of rheumatoid arthritis
                        and has increased the likelihood that, in time,
                        researchers can find ways to greatly reduce the impact
                        of this disease. Features
                                of Rheumatoid Arthritis Tender, warm,
                                    swollen joints. Symmetrical
                                    pattern. For example, if one knee is
                                    affected, the other one is also. Joint
                                    inflammation often affecting the wrist and
                                    finger joints closest to the hand; other
                                    affected joints can include those of the
                                    neck, shoulders, elbows, hips, knees,
                                    ankles, and feet. Fatigue,
                                    occasional fever, a general sense of not
                                    feeling well (malaise). Pain and
                                    stiffness lasting for more than 30 minutes
                                    in the morning or after a long rest. Symptoms that
                                    can last for many years. Symptoms in
                                    other parts of the body besides the joints. Variability of
                                    symptoms among people with the disease. How Rheumatoid
                        Arthritis Develops And Progresses The Joints A normal joint (the place where two bones meet) is
                        surrounded by a joint capsule that protects and supports
                        it (see illustration). Cartilage covers and cushions the
                        ends of the two bones. The joint capsule is lined with a
                        type of tissue called synovium, which produces synovial
                        fluid. This clear fluid lubricates and nourishes the
                        cartilage and bones inside the joint capsule. In rheumatoid arthritis,
                        the immune system, for unknown reasons, attacks a
                        person's own cells inside the joint capsule. White blood
                        cells that are part of the normal immune system travel
                        to the synovium and cause a reaction. This reaction, or
                        inflammation, is called synovitis, and it results in the
                        warmth, redness, swelling, and pain that are typical
                        symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. During the
                        inflammation process, the cells of the synovium grow and
                        divide abnormally, making the normally thin synovium
                        thick and resulting in a joint that is swollen and puffy
                        to the touch (see illustration). As rheumatoid arthritis
                        progresses, these abnormal synovial cells begin to
                        invade and destroy the cartilage and bone within the
                        joint. The surrounding muscles, ligaments, and tendons
                        that support and stabilize the joint become weak and
                        unable to work normally. All of these effects lead to
                        the pain and deformities often seen in rheumatoid
                        arthritis. Doctors studying rheumatoid arthritis now
                        believe that damage to bones begins during the first
                        year or two that a person has the disease. This is one
                        reason early diagnosis and treatment are so important in
                        the management of rheumatoid arthritis. Other Parts of the
                        Body Some people also experience the effects of rheumatoid
                        arthritis in places other than the joints. About
                        one-quarter develop rheumatoid nodules. These are bumps
                        under the skin that often form close to the joints. Many
                        people with rheumatoid arthritis develop anemia, or a
                        decrease in the normal number of red blood cells. Other
                        effects, which occur less often, include neck pain and
                        dry eyes and mouth. Very rarely, people may have
                        inflammation of the blood vessels, the lining of the
                        lungs, or the sac enclosing the heart. Occurrence And Impact
                        Of Rheumatoid Arthritis Scientists estimate that about 2.1 million people, or 1
                        percent of the U.S. adult population, have rheumatoid
                        arthritis. Interestingly, some recent studies have
                        suggested that the overall number of new cases of
                        rheumatoid arthritis may actually be going down.
                        Scientists are now investigating why this may be
                        happening. Rheumatoid arthritis
                        occurs in all races and ethnic groups. Although the
                        disease often begins in middle age and occurs with
                        increased frequency in older people, children and young
                        adults also develop it. Like some other forms of
                        arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis occurs much more
                        frequently in women than in men. About two to three
                        times as many women as men have the disease. By all measures, the
                        financial and social impact of all types of arthritis,
                        including rheumatoid arthritis, is substantial, both for
                        the Nation and for individuals. From an economic
                        standpoint, the medical and surgical treatment for
                        rheumatoid arthritis and the wages lost because of
                        disability caused by the disease add up to millions of
                        dollars. Daily joint pain is an inevitable consequence
                        of the disease, and most patients also experience some
                        degree of depression, anxiety, and feelings of
                        helplessness. In some cases, rheumatoid arthritis can
                        interfere with a person's ability to carry out normal
                        daily activities, limit job opportunities, or disrupt
                        the joys and responsibilities of family life. However,
                        there are arthritis self-management programs that help
                        people cope with the pain and other effects of the
                        disease and help them lead independent and productive
                        lives. These programs are described later in this
                        booklet in the section Diagnosing and Treating
                        Rheumatoid Arthritis. Searching For The
                        Cause Of Rheumatoid Arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis is one of several
                        "autoimmune" diseases ("auto" means
                        self), so-called because a person's immune system
                        attacks his or her own body tissues. Scientists still do
                        not know exactly what causes this to happen, but
                        research over the last few years has begun to unravel
                        the factors involved. Genetic (inherited)
                        factors: Scientists have found that certain
                        genes that play a role in the immune system are
                        associated with a tendency to develop rheumatoid
                        arthritis. At the same time, some people with rheumatoid
                        arthritis do not have these particular genes, and other
                        people have these genes but never develop the disease.
                        This suggests that a person's genetic makeup is an
                        important part of the story but not the whole answer. It
                        is clear, however, that more than one gene is involved
                        in determining whether a person develops rheumatoid
                        arthritis and, if so, how severe the disease will
                        become. Environmental
                        factors: Many scientists think that something
                        must occur to trigger the disease process in people
                        whose genetic makeup makes them susceptible to
                        rheumatoid arthritis. An infectious agent such as a
                        virus or bacterium appears likely, but the exact agent
                        is not yet known. Note, however, that rheumatoid
                        arthritis is not contagious: A person cannot
                        "catch" it from someone else. Other factors: Some
                        scientists also think that a variety of hormonal factors
                        may be involved. These hormones, or possibly
                        deficiencies or changes in certain hormones, may promote
                        the development of rheumatoid arthritis in a genetically
                        susceptible person who has been exposed to a triggering
                        agent from the environment. Even though all the
                        answers aren't known, one thing is certain: Rheumatoid
                        arthritis develops as a result of an interaction of many
                        factors. Much research is going on now to understand
                        these factors and how they work together (see the
                        Current Research section of this booklet). Diagnosing And
                        Treating Rheumatoid Arthritis Diagnosing and treating rheumatoid arthritis is a team
                        effort between the patient and several types of health
                        care professionals. A person can go to his or her family
                        doctor or internist or to a rheumatologist. A
                        rheumatologist is a doctor who specializes in arthritis
                        and other diseases of the joints, bones, and muscles. As
                        treatment progresses, other professionals often help.
                        These may include nurses, physical or occupational
                        therapists, orthopedic surgeons, psychologists, and
                        social workers. Studies have shown that
                        people who are well informed and participate actively in
                        their own care experience less pain and make fewer
                        visits to the doctor than do other people with
                        rheumatoid arthritis. Patient education and
                        arthritis self-management programs, as well as support
                        groups, help people to become better informed and to
                        participate in their own care. An example of a
                        self-management program is the arthritis self-help
                        course offered by the Arthritis Foundation and developed
                        at one of the NIAMS-supported Multipurpose Arthritis and
                        Musculoskeletal Diseases Centers. Self-management
                        programs teach about rheumatoid arthritis and its
                        treatments, exercise and relaxation approaches,
                        patient/health care provider communication, and problem
                        solving. Research on these programs has shown that they
                        have the following clear and long-lasting benefits: They help people
                            understand the disease. They help people
                            reduce their pain while remaining active. They help people cope
                            physically, emotionally, and mentally. They help people feel
                            greater control over their disease and help build a
                            sense of confidence in the ability to function and
                            lead a full, active, and independent life. DIAGNOSIS Rheumatoid arthritis can be difficult to diagnose in its
                        early stages for several reasons. First, there is no
                        single test for the disease. In addition, symptoms
                        differ from person to person and can be more severe in
                        some people than in others. Also, symptoms can be
                        similar to those of other types of arthritis and joint
                        conditions, and it may take some time for other
                        conditions to be ruled out as possible diagnoses.
                        Finally, the full range of symptoms develops over time,
                        and only a few symptoms may be present in the early
                        stages. As a result, doctors use a variety of tools to
                        diagnose the disease and to rule out other conditions: Medical history: This
                        is the patient's description of symptoms and when and
                        how they began. Good communication between patient and
                        doctor is especially important here. For example, the
                        patient's description of pain, stiffness, and joint
                        function and how these change over time is critical to
                        the doctor's initial assessment of the disease and his
                        or her assessment of how the disease changes. Physical
                        examination: This includes the doctor's
                        examination of the joints, skin, reflexes, and muscle
                        strength. Laboratory tests: One common test is for rheumatoid factor, an antibody
                        that is eventually present in the blood of most
                        rheumatoid arthritis patients. (An antibody is a special
                        protein made by the immune system that normally helps
                        fight foreign substances in the body.) Not all people
                        with rheumatoid arthritis test positive for rheumatoid
                        factor, however, especially early in the disease. And,
                        some others who do test positive never develop the
                        disease. Other common tests include one that indicates
                        the presence of inflammation in the body (the
                        erythrocyte sedimentation rate), a white blood cell
                        count, and a blood test for anemia. X rays: X
                        rays are used to determine the degree of joint
                        destruction. They are not useful in the early stages of
                        rheumatoid arthritis before bone damage is evident, but
                        they can be used later to monitor the progression of the
                        disease. TREATMENT Doctors use a variety of approaches to treat rheumatoid
                        arthritis. These are used in different combinations and
                        at different times during the course of the disease and
                        are chosen according to the patient's individual
                        situation. No matter what treatment the doctor and
                        patient choose, however, the goals are the same: relieve
                        pain, reduce inflammation, slow down or stop joint
                        damage, and improve the person's sense of well-being and
                        ability to function. Treatment is another key
                        area for communication between patient and doctor.
                        Talking to the doctor can help ensure that exercise and
                        pain management programs are provided as needed and that
                        drugs are prescribed appropriately. Talking can also
                        help in making decisions about surgery. Goals of
                                Treatment Relieve pain Reduce
                                    inflammation Slow down or
                                    stop joint damage Slow down or
                                    stop joint damage Improve a
                                    person's sense of well-being and ability to
                                    function Current
                                Treatment Approaches Lifestyle Medications Surgery Routine
                                    monitoring and ongoing care Lifestyle This approach includes several activities that help
                        improve a person's ability to function independently and
                        maintain a positive outlook. Rest and exercise: Both rest and exercise help in important ways. People
                        with rheumatoid arthritis need a good balance between
                        the two, with more rest when the disease is active and
                        more exercise when it is not. Rest helps to reduce
                        active joint inflammation and pain and to fight fatigue.
                        The length of time needed for rest will vary from person
                        to person, but in general, shorter rest breaks every now
                        and then are more helpful than long times spent in bed. Exercise is important for
                        maintaining healthy and strong muscles, preserving joint
                        mobility, and maintaining flexibility. Exercise can also
                        help people sleep well, reduce pain, maintain a positive
                        attitude, and lose weight. Exercise programs should be
                        planned and carried out to take into account the
                        person's physical abilities, limitations, and changing
                        needs. Care of joints: Some people find that using a splint for a short time
                        around a painful joint reduces pain and swelling by
                        supporting the joint and letting it rest. Splints are
                        used mostly on wrists and hands, but also on ankles and
                        feet. A doctor or a physical or occupational therapist
                        can help a patient get a splint and ensure that it fits
                        properly. Other ways to reduce stress on joints include
                        self-help devices (for example, zipper pullers,
                        long-handled shoe horns); devices to help with getting
                        on and off chairs, toilet seats, and beds; and changes
                        in the ways that a person carries out daily activities. Stress reduction: People
                        with rheumatoid arthritis face emotional challenges as
                        well as physical ones. The emotions they feel because of
                        the disease-fear, anger, frustration-combined with any
                        pain and physical limitations can increase their stress
                        level. Although there is no evidence that stress plays a
                        role in causing rheumatoid arthritis, it can make living
                        with the disease difficult at times. Stress may also
                        affect the amount of pain a person feels. There are a
                        number of successful techniques for coping with stress.
                        Regular rest periods can help, as can relaxation,
                        distraction, or visualization exercises. Exercise
                        programs, participation in support groups, and good
                        communication with the health care team are other ways
                        to reduce stress. Healthful diet: With
                        the exception of several specific types of oils
                        (mentioned in the Current Research section), there is no
                        scientific evidence that any specific food or nutrient
                        helps or harms most people with rheumatoid arthritis.
                        However, an overall nutritious diet with enough-but not
                        an excess of-calories, protein, and calcium is
                        important. Some people may need to be careful about
                        drinking alcoholic beverages because of the medications
                        they take for rheumatoid arthritis. Those taking
                        methotrexate may need to avoid alcohol altogether.
                        Patients should ask their doctors for guidance on this
                        issue. Climate: Some people notice that their arthritis gets worse when
                        there is a sudden change in the weather. However, there
                        is no evidence that a specific climate can prevent or
                        reduce the effects of rheumatoid arthritis. Moving to a
                        new place with a different climate usually does not make
                        a long-term difference in a person's rheumatoid
                        arthritis. Medications Most people who have rheumatoid arthritis take
                        medications. Some medications are used only for pain
                        relief; others are used to reduce inflammation. Still
                        others-often called disease-modifying antirheumatic
                        drugs, or DMARDs-are used to try to slow the course of
                        the disease. The person's general condition, the current
                        and predicted severity of the illness, the length of
                        time he or she will take the drug, and the drug's
                        effectiveness and potential side effects are important
                        considerations in prescribing drugs for rheumatoid
                        arthritis. The table starting on page 20 shows currently
                        used rheumatoid arthritis medications, along with their
                        effects, side effects, and monitoring requirements. Traditionally, rheumatoid
                        arthritis therapy has involved an approach in which
                        doctors prescribed aspirin or similar drugs, rest, and
                        physical therapy first, and prescribed more powerful
                        drugs later only if the disease became much worse.
                        Recently, many doctors have changed their approach,
                        especially for patients with severe, rapidly progressing
                        rheumatoid arthritis. This change is based on the belief
                        that early treatment with more powerful drugs, and the
                        use of drug combinations in place of single drugs, may
                        be more effective ways to halt the progression of the
                        disease and reduce or prevent joint damage. Surgery Several types of surgery are available to patients with
                        severe joint damage. These procedures can help reduce
                        pain, improve the affected joint's function and
                        appearance, and improve the patient's ability to perform
                        daily activities. Surgery is not for everyone, however,
                        and the decision should be made only after careful
                        consideration by patient and doctor. Together they
                        should discuss the patient's overall health and the
                        effects of a surgical procedure, the condition of the
                        joint or tendon that will be operated on, and the reason
                        for and cost of the surgery. Surgical procedures include
                        joint replacement, tendon reconstruction, and
                        synovectomy. Joint
                        replacement: This is the most frequently
                        performed surgery for rheumatoid arthritis, and it is
                        done to relieve pain, improve or preserve joint
                        function, and improve appearance. In making a decision
                        about replacing a joint, people with rheumatoid
                        arthritis should consider that some artificial joints
                        function more like normal human joints than do others.
                        Also, artificial joints are not always permanent and may
                        eventually have to be replaced. This may be an issue for
                        younger people. Tendon
                        reconstruction: Rheumatoid arthritis can
                        damage and even rupture tendons, the tissues that attach
                        muscle to bone. This surgery, which is used most
                        frequently on the hands, reconstructs the damaged tendon
                        by attaching an intact tendon to it. This procedure can
                        help to restore some hand function, particularly if it
                        is done early, before the tendon is completely ruptured. Synovectomy: In this surgery, the doctor actually removes the
                        inflamed synovial tissue. Synovectomy by itself is
                        seldom performed now because not all of the tissue can
                        be removed, and it eventually grows back. Synovectomy is
                        done as part of reconstructive surgery, especially
                        tendon reconstruction. Routine Monitoring
                        and Ongoing Care Regular medical care is important to monitor the course
                        of the disease, determine the effectiveness and any
                        negative effects of medications, and change therapies as
                        needed. Monitoring typically includes regular visits to
                        the doctor. It may also include blood, urine, and other
                        laboratory tests and x rays. Osteoporosis prevention
                        is one issue that patients may want to discuss with
                        their doctors as part of their long-term, ongoing care.
                        Osteoporosis is a condition in which bones lose calcium
                        and become weakened and fragile. Many older women are at
                        increased risk for osteoporosis, and their rheumatoid
                        arthritis increases the risk further, particularly if
                        they are taking corticosteroids such as prednisone.
                        These patients may want to discuss with their doctors
                        the potential benefits of calcium and vitamin D
                        supplements, hormone replacement therapy, or other
                        treatments for osteoporosis. Alternative and
                        Complementary Therapies Special diets, vitamin supplements, and other
                        alternative approaches have been suggested for the
                        treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Although many of
                        these approaches may not be harmful in and of
                        themselves, controlled scientific studies either have
                        not been conducted or have found no definite benefit to
                        these therapies. Some alternative or complementary
                        approaches may help the patient cope or reduce some of
                        the stress associated with living with a chronic
                        illness. As with any therapy, patients should discuss
                        the benefits and drawbacks with their doctors before
                        beginning an alternative or new type of therapy. If the
                        doctor feels the approach has value and will not be
                        harmful, it can be incorporated into a patient's
                        treatment plan. However, it is important not to neglect
                        regular health care. The Arthritis Foundation publishes
                        material on alternative therapies as well as established
                        therapies, and patients may want to contact this
                        organization for information. (See the For More
                        Information section of this booklet.) Medications
                        Commonly Used To Treat Rheumatoid Arthritis Medications Uses/Effects Side
                                Effects Monitoring Aspirin
                                and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) Examples: · Plain aspirin · Buffered
                                aspirin · Ibuprofen (Advil,* Motrin IB) · Ketoprofen (Orudis) · Naproxen (Naprosyn) · Diclofenac (Voltaren) · Diflunisal (Dolobid) ·
                                Used to reduce pain, swelling, and inflammation,
                                allowing patients to move more easily and carry
                                out normal activities · Generally part
                                of early and continuing therapy ·
                                Upset stomach · Tendency to
                                bruise easily · Fluid
                                retention (NSAIDs other than aspirin) · Ulcers · Possible
                                kidney and liver damage (rare) Patients
                                should have periodic blood tests. Medications Uses/Effects Side
                                Effects Monitoring Disease-modifying
                                anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) (also called slow-acting antirheumatic drugs [SAARDs]
                                or second-line drugs) Examples: · Gold,
                                injectable or oral (Myochrysine, Ridaura) · Antimalarials, such as hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) · Penicillamine
                                (Cuprimine, Depen) · Sulfasalazine
                                (Azulfidine) ·
                                Used to alter the course of the disease and
                                prevent joint and cartilage destruction · May produce
                                significant improvement for many patients · Exactly how
                                they work still unknown · Generally take
                                a few weeks or months to have an effect · Patients may
                                use several over the course of the disease Toxicity
                                is an issue­ DMARDs can have serious side
                                effects: · Gold­skin
                                rash, mouth sores, upset stomach, kidney
                                problems, low blood count · Antimalarials­ upset stomach, eye problems (rare) · Penicillamine­skin
                                rashes, upset stomach, blood abnormalities,
                                kidney problems · Sulfasalazine­ upset stomach Patients
                                should be monitored carefully for continued
                                effectiveness of medication and for side effects: · Gold­blood
                                and urine test monthly; more often in early use
                                of drug ·Antimalarials­ eye exam every 6 months · Penicillamine­ blood and urine test monthly; more often in
                                early use of drug · Sulfasalazine­ periodic blood and urine tests Medications Uses/Effects Side
                                Effects Monitoring Immuno- suppressants (also considered DMARDs) Examples: · Methotrexate (Rheumatrex) · A This is a publication of the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin
                Diseases This booklet is not copyrighted.
                Readers are encouraged to duplicate and distribute as many
                copies as needed. Additional copies of this booklet
                are available from the National Arthritis and Musculoskeletal
                and Skin Diseases Information Clearinghouse, NIAMS, National
                Institutes of Health, 1 AMS Circle, Bethesda, Maryland
                20892-3675, and on