
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 03 May 2012 18:18:44 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.hotflashfreedom.com/hot-flashes-info/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Hot Flashes Hot Flash Freedom Logo Menopause Ingredients/Use Guarantee FAQ Testimonials Contact Us Order Can you get HOT FLASHES from birth control pills? Filed under: Blog I am 27 and I take Ortrotricyclen. I get hot flashes frequently. Especially when I am Pmsing and More at nighttime. I've been taking bcp's for 4 years now. Could this be caused by the pill? Hot flushes occur in both perimenopause and menopause, yet hormone levels are very different. Why? Hot flushes appear to be caused by dropping estrogen levels when the brain has been exposed to, and gotten “used to” higher estrogen levels. Therefore the hot flushes in perimenopause occur because of the big swings in estrogen from super- high to merely high, or even from high to normal. In menopause, hot flushes occur because estrogen levels have become low after the normal levels of the menstruating years and the higher levels of perimenopause. Although no one has tracked the life experience of hot flushes within a woman, as opposed to in categories of women, I suspect that most women who are going to get hot flushes—except those with surgical menopause or who stop estrogen therapy—start having them before they are officially menopausal. You can find more information at the following website: http://www.cemcor.ubc.ca/articles/misc/progesterone_hot_flushes.shtml I would also recommend checking back with your doctor to see what he/she says could be causing this. Good luck Tags: What can I do about these hot flashes? Filed under: Blog I am only 4 weeks pregnant and I have terrible hot flashes! I had them even before I got pregnant (the doc thought I was premenapausal). Now it's out of control. I know I can't take any of the medicine I use to take for it. Any suggestions? Oh, and I can't stop sneezing. I don't have a cold nor allergies. To make matters worse…I live in Florida!! I had the same thing for a while at the beginning of my pregnancy. I immediately started taking bottles of water around with me everywhere. You eventually come to know your limits. Whenever you start feeling hot or faint know to sit down, relax, and drink some water. At least when I was going through this in the winter, I could go outside and cool off. It may be a little more difficult for you, but I'd keep a fan near, too. Good luck. Tags: I've been having severe headaches everyday along with hot flashes and dizziness.  Any ideas or suggestions? Filed under: Blog I have been having severe headaches every day.  I have been diagnosed in the past with migraines, but I can tell the difference between migraines and just a regular headache and what I'm experiencing is not migraines.  I have tried sleeping this off and everything you normally do with a migraine and nothing works.  I've also taken tylenol, aleve, exedrin migraine, advil, exedrin tension headache and asprin and also have put a cool cloth over my eyes.  I have had a lot of stress, which has been reduced so I'm not sure that's what it is. In addition, I have been having some dizziness mostly when I move my eyes around, nausea (which I bought medicine for) and hot flashes a lot.  I sleep with a fan on to help with this.  I've had 2 CT scans done in the past year, so it's not anything serious like that.  I'm only 24.  Does anyone have any ideas or suggestions on what I could do or what this is? This may sound silly, but in your list, you didn't mention Sudafed.  A sinus infection, cold, or allergies can give you a nasty headache.  If your ears are congested, that can make you dizzy…  So can sinus pressure around your eyes.  Not too sure if the hot flashes fit into that scenario, but hey, can't have everything! LOL Hope you are back to your old self soon. Tags: I have hot flashes when I am at work. I would like to know what I can do about not having them at work? Filed under: Blog I have hot flashes that come on very strong and last only a few moments. I need to know if there is any medication or any other thing I can do to get the hot flashes from coming so often? ♦ Try going to the bath room, put some cold water on a rag or small towel, and put that on the back of  your neck. Other than that, they usually just have to run there coarse… Tags: What are some of the possible causes of hot flashes in men? Filed under: Blog I am a 53 year old man in good health and I do not take any medications. Sometimes at night I have a hot flash with  profuse sweating and practically soak the bed. Mine was low testosterone, which was because I lost my testicles in an accident in 84. I'm 58 yrs old now. There is such a thing regardless what the younguns say on here. Go to the doctors, you have a chemical imbalance and if he checks your FSH TSH and chemistry he can find out. Good Luck! I can sympathize with women and you believe me. I still get them but not as often or as extreme as before. Tags: The Magic Of Black Cohosh For Hot Flashes Filed under: Blog You might ask those around you “is it hot in here or is it just me?” If everyone in the room is fine with the temperature, you might be suffering from the onset of menopause. While sifting through the many supplements geared towards women, you will encounter a wide range of products. But most will pale in comparison to the results offered through the use of black cohosh for hot flashes. For many years, this herbal medication has been highly regarded for its powers on premenstrual distress and other gynecological concerns. If you ever wanted to know where black cohosh for hot flashes comes from, you will find that it is a perennial plant located throughout North America. Also referred to as Squaw Root, Black Snake Root and Rattle Weed, black cohosh belongs to the same family as the buttercup. The plant can reach a height of nine feet tall, presenting white flowers that give off an undesirable scent. When using black cohosh to treat hot flashes, you should know that it is the roots that provide the medicinal effects you seek. Black Cohosh Side Effects Many individuals warm up to the idea of using black cohosh for hot flashes because there are very few side effects associated with this herbal remedy. Usually, the worst a consumer encounters is an upset stomach. Additional complaints received in regards to the use of black cohosh for hot flashes include headaches and a heavy feeling in the legs. Purchasing Black Cohosh For many years, Native Americans have used black cohosh for hot flashes, to sooth sore throats and ease kidney ailments. Recent studies suggest that the fukinolic acid discovered in the plant is responsible for the positive changes in menopausal symptoms, especially hot flashes. There are numerous dietary supplements on the market that utilize the healing properties of this plant. Today, black cohosh for hot flashes can be found at many large grocery stores, specialty shops, and health food centers. Linda Bruton http://www.articlesbase.com/medicine-articles/the-magic-of-black-cohosh-for-hot-flashes-82042.html Tags: Which Natural Cure For Hot Flashes Actually Works To Relieve Symptoms? Filed under: Blog When someone says the word “menopause” there are two words that immediately come to mind – “hot flashes.” The two terms pretty much go hand in hand. Depending on which study you listen to – between 60%-90% of women will experience hot flashes when menopause hits. One advantage with so many women experiencing the same thing is that there are multiple information sources to help guide you to hot flash relief. The overwhelming consensus is to start by exploring a natural cure for hot flashes. Hot flashes vary in intensity and duration. One woman finds sufficient relief fanning herself while another finds herself reaching for a hand towel to wipe off the pouring perspiration. As for consistency, some women experience upwards of fifteen hot flashes a day, where another will feel a hot flash about once a month. Also varying from one woman to another is what works as a natural cure for hot flashes. One natural cure for hot flashes is to change your diet. Some find that a low-fat diet helps. But if you find yourself losing excessive weight your menopause symptoms may worsen. Each woman will find that different foods and spices increase their symptoms. By monitoring yourself you will easily find a culprit or two. As for relaxation and stress reduction: just do it! Not only can it be a natural cure for hot flashes, but a regular part of a healthy lifestyle. Every one has stressors in their lives and the onset of menopause doesn’t help. Yoga, meditation, massage and relaxation exercises are a great way to begin your natural cure for hot flashes. A less popular natural cure for hot flashes is the use of Chinese medicine. Well, less popular in North America. This little used method is long in tradition when treating hot flashes. The Chinese doctor will first determine if you are experiencing “hot” or “cold” menopause. “What?” you may say, “of course it’s a hot menopause.” In Chinese medicine this term is not referring to the physical temperature, but the type of menopause. A natural cure for hot flashes in Chinese medicine includes acupuncture and herbology. Acupuncture involves the combination of your inner wind, energy or spirit. Achieving balance by following Chinese acupuncture may result in a natural cure for hot flashes. Not all women find relief through acupuncture, but again, some do. Herbology is, in short, the study of herbs and their relation to each other. Herbology is a significant natural cure for hot flashes in Chinese medicine. The doctor understands which herbs work together in order to help. However you never want to experiment with herbs without knowing what you’re doing. There is a possibility of concocting a harmful mixture. If you find yourself wondering about the nature of your sudden flushed face and warm upper body, it may be time to find a natural cure for hot flashes. With the plethora of available resources, you will easily find one or ten tips that will significantly alleviate your sudden discomfort! Linda Bruton http://www.articlesbase.com/medicine-articles/which-natural-cure-for-hot-flashes-actually-works-to-relieve-symptoms-81254.html Tags: Hot Flashes Remedy – Is There One That Really Works? Filed under: Blog Looking for a much needed hot flashes remedy? Then you are obviously experiencing “the change.” Hot flashes are the first sign of approaching menopause and the one symptom that most women would like to conquer. Before you run to your doctor and begin hormone therapy, try employing a few simple tips that can work as your hot flashes remedy. One little known hot flashes remedy is apple cider vinegar. Taking a little of this vinegar has given many women relief from migraines, sinus headaches and even allergy symptoms. More importantly, women report fewer hot flashes! If apple cider vinegar works as your hot flashes remedy it may even increase your energy, alleviate dry skin and aid in weight loss. For no known side effects, I say bottoms up! Another more prevalently known hot flashes remedy is exercise. Women who reported hot flashes so severe that they plagued them day and night sing the praises of exercise as the ultimate hot flash cure. The amount of exercise required to diminish your symptoms and act as your hot flashes remedy will vary. Reportedly, moderate exercise for 1-2 hours a day, 4-6 times a week has squelched hot flashes completely. On a side note, when the regular exercise stopped, the hot flashes immediately came roaring back. Talk about an incentive to keep exercising! An increasingly popular hot flashes remedy is to drink soy milk or take soy products. In some women a glass of soy milk has almost a miracle effect. One woman reported that a glass of daily soy milk kept her hot flash free during the day, but she was continuing to experience night sweats. After warming up a good old cup of soy and enjoying it before bed, her night sweats disappeared and she finally got that elusive good night’s sleep. As long as you’re not allergic to soy, there’s a great possibility it may be your long sought after hot flashes remedy. Soy not doing it for you? How about trying a little Tumeric? Women in India use this powder to help ease their menopause symptoms. This spice is said to not only ease hot flashes, but also soothe irritated skin. Taken in a small dose Tumeric has no known side effects, but they have the potential to help your fight in finding your hot flashes remedy. A more common hot flashes remedy is cutting out the sugar in your diet. Cutting your sugar intake is known to help with many physical and emotional ailments, but also may decrease the frequency and intensity of your hot flashes. If the above suggestions don’t help, never give up! There’s no need to live in misery for years and years to come. There are many other natural remedies that relieve hot flashes. It is simply a matter of systematically finding what your triggers are and eliminating them, then trying some of the many remedies that are readily available to you. Keep at it and you will eventually develop your own hot flashes remedy. Linda Bruton http://www.articlesbase.com/women’s-issues-articles/hot-flashes-remedy-is-there-one-that-really-works-80758.html Tags: Do Herbs For Hot Flashes Really Work? Filed under: Blog The use of herbs for hot flashes has been around for centuries. Yet it seems like we still know very little about what they do or how they work. Part of the reason is that every woman’s body is different and what works for one woman may not work well for another. That being said, it’s still worth investigating which herbs for hot flashes may work for you. A few of the more popular herbs for hot flashes are Black Cohosh, Chaste Tree Berry, and Ginsing. Out of the three, Black Cohosh is probably the most widely used when treating hot flashes. Chaste Tree Berry is a close second with Ginsing having hit and miss reviews. So how exactly is Black Cohosh supposed to help? Black Cohosh is known to alleviate hot flashes, decrease night sweats, and even reduce mood swings. Talk about a miracle herb! It’s not known exactly how Black Cohosh helps curb menopausal symptoms. At first it was believed that the herb bound itself to the estrogen receptor. But further study has shown no such evidence. This is good news for women concerned with estrogen remedies or supplements. Black Cohosh has also been proven not to affect tissue in the uterine lining. Thus, using Black Cohosh herbs for hot flashes will not increase bleeding since the uterine lining is not affected. Studies measuring the effectiveness of Black Cohosh for hot flashes have produced mixed results. However, one study did find that 86% of women who took Black Cohosh for six weeks had lessened hot flash symptoms. Using Black Cohosh herbs for hot flashes does not result in many side effects. However, gastric irritability is a possibility. Be sure to contact your doctor and discontinue use of any herb if you experience any discomfort. The second most popular herb for hot flashes is Chaste Tree Berry. Many women already use this herb to help beat PMS. How Chaste Tree Berry works is that it has a progesterone-like effect on the body. It affects neurotransmitters such as dopamine and prolactin, which help regulate hormone levels. Chaste Tree Berry seems to help regulate heavy menstruation and reduce mood changes due to an imbalance of hormones. Not only can you utilize these herbs for hot flashes, but they are helpful in reducing headaches, anxiety and fatigue. Minimal side effects have been reported with the use of Chaste Tree Berry. The use of Ginsing herbs for hot flashes has shown minimal success in actual studies. If it works for you, then by all means use it! There are few side effects with Ginsing, but if you’re experiencing insomnia, diarrhea, or rashes you should discontinue use. It is evident that using herbs for hot flashes is helpful. More and more women are effectively using them all the time. Researchers continues to gather more and more encouraging results about the success of herbs to alleviate menopausal symptoms. The big benefit is that these herbs don’t have the problems and risks that have been associated with hormone replacement therapy. On top of that, they are inexpensive and easy to find. Linda Bruton http://www.articlesbase.com/careers-articles/do-herbs-for-hot-flashes-really-work-78690.html Tags: Are There Side Effects Of Black Cohosh When Used For Hot Flashes? Filed under: Blog What is Black Cohosh? It is a natural herb found in the United States and was something that the Native Americans used to treat women’s illnesses. They would brew it into a tea and drink it for relief from the common side effects of menopause. This has continued to be a treatment today for the relief of menopause symptoms and is found in pill form. There are some possible side effects of black cohosh just as there are with any other medication. However, they are not very common. Most women use black cohosh without any side effects at all. Some of these include an upset stomach, headache and weight gain. The degree to which you will experience side effects will depend on the amount that you are taking. Your general all around health will also have some impact on the degree of frequency or severity of the side effects of black cohosh. Dizziness is also a possible side effect of black cohosh, so you will need to be careful depending on your daily routine. If you are pregnant you should not use this herbal treatment as it has been found to increase your risk of miscarriage. You should also not use this herbal treatment while you are breast-feeding. If you are not pregnant or breast-feeding and your health is otherwise in good condition, you are safe to use this medication. For the most part, if you are perimenopausal or menopausal, black cohosh is a safe, very effective herbal medication. The results you will have with this herbal remedy will vary, as is the case with any medication. We are all different and that means that we will all react differently to the medications we take. The side effects of black cohosh will vary and you may gain more weight than the next person or not gain any at all. It is also recommended that you keep track of what you are taking, how much of it you are taking and how often you are taking it. This information should be shared with your doctor to help prevent drug interaction risks with other medications. Linda Bruton http://www.articlesbase.com/medicine-articles/are-there-side-effects-of-black-cohosh-when-used-for-hot-flashes-92005.html Tags: Menopause Relief From Hot Flashes Filed under: Blog Menopause is a natural occurrence in the reproductive cycle of the entire female population, eventually one way or another.  But thankfully, millions of women have found a menopause treatment by taking a combination of herbs for menopause and vitamin E.  This herbal menopause remedy has been utilized to prevent menopause hot flashes, night sweats, mood swings, vaginal dryness, and all the other 35 symptoms that are attributed to menopause.  Let us take a look at what group of herbs for menopause have brought the most effective, lasting menopause relief to so many. Soy, Black Cohosh, Damiana, and Vitamin E have been proven to work best in combination as a menopause treatment.  Each has its own quality to relieve menopause symptoms, but in combination, these herbs for menopause provide the most optimum menopause natural remedy. Soy comes from a seed and contains natural plant estrogens called phytoestrogens.  No other food has a higher phytoestrogen content than soy.  While phytoestrogens are weaker than human estrogens, they still behave similarly in the human body.  Once in the body, phytoestrogens can balance a woman’s estrogen level by attaching themselves to the body’s estrogen receptor sites.  After attaching, phytoestrogens have been shown to decrease estrogen levels in perimenopausal women and increase estrogen levels in postmenopausal women.  Additionally, besides providing  menopause relief, research has shown that soy can beneficially promote heart health. Black Cohosh comes from the root of a perennial plant that is native to North America, and its extract is primarily used today for menopause treatment.  Black cohosh was used in North American Indian medicine for treatment of gynecological disorders, malaria, rheumatism, kidney disorders, and sore throat. It was also used for backache, colds, cough, hives, constipation, and to induce lactation.  In 19th-century America, black cohosh was used as a home remedy for rheumatism, fever, as a natural diuretic, and to bring on menstruation.  The American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology has stated that black cohosh can provide menopause relief for up to six months, specifically in the treatment of the menopause symptoms of sleep and mood disorder, and menopause hot flashes. Damiana comes from a yellow-flowering shrub that typically grows in hot and humid climates such as Central and South America, and the state of Texas. Damiana has historically been used as an aphrodisiac and some claim it induces euphoria.  It has been shown to alleviate depression and relieve anxiety, thus producing relaxation.  Some studies have shown that people suffering from sexual dysfunction, resulting from stress or emotional troubles, could benefit from supplementation of this herb. Vitamin E is an antioxidant that many believe also relieves menstrual hot flashes.  Studies done in the late 1940′s showed it to relieve hot flashes and postmenopausal vaginal dryness.  There are other substantial benefits of this vitamin.  A Nurses Health Study showed that women who took vitamin E over a two-year period reduced their risk of fatal heart attacks by 40%. Vitamin E is currently being studied for its possible effect on Alzheimer’s disease and cancer.  It is maintained, by advocates of natural herbal treatments, that combining vitamin E with other antioxidants such as vitamin C, selenium, chromium, and beta-carotene may offer a plethora of relief for a number of maladies, and most likely work better together than separately. Medical menopause treatment has radically changed over the past few decades.  In the beginning, Estrogen Replacement Therapy (ERT) was used extensively, but this gave way to Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT) using synthetic hormones.  Lately, Natural Hormone Replacement Therapy (NHRT) is all the buzz.  But all these medical treatments have been wrought with various adverse side effects, perhaps a return to the tried and true, safe and natural herbal remedies are a more prudent choice.  You can learn much more about menopause and menopause treatment at GreatNewsHealth. Resource box: Menopause symptoms can be alleviated through a menopause treatment of safe and natural herbs for menopause.  Menopause information about treatments, cures, and a best selling menopause natural remedy can be found by visiting http://GreatNewsHealth.com today. Cherie Mae Nelson http://www.articlesbase.com/supplements-and-vitamins-articles/menopause-relief-from-hot-flashes-138225.html PR: wait… I: wait… L: wait… LD: wait… I: wait… wait… Rank: wait… Traffic: wait… Price: wait… C: wait… Tags: How to Get Better Sleep When you Have Severe Hot Flashes Filed under: Blog The stage of menopause is a natural process that occurs in every woman’s life. Once she is in her 40s or older, menopause begins to creep in. Part of the reason why menopause is considered a transition is because it makes it possible for a woman to enjoy pleasures in life and explore many possibilities. The children have grown, there is no fear for responsibilities, and she can now have more time for herself. But menopause is not a very bright episode. Along with it are the symptoms of menopause like hormonal fluctuations, cold sweats, weight gain, and of course, hot flashes. So what are hot flashes? Hot flashes happen to women during years leading to menopause. Hot flashes occur due to a drop of estrogen level in a woman’s body, leading to a sudden rise of body temperature, and a feeling of warmth on her chest, neck, head, arms and shoulders. Not all women have them, but to those who do, they are a pain in the neck. To make matters worse, hot flashes can also cause insomnia in women.  Researchers from Stanford University School of Medicine interviewed 982 women, aged 35 – 65 years old by phone between June 28 and April 2004, by asking their age, stage of menopause, severity of hot flashes and sleeping habits. 57.2 percent of the participants were premenopausal. Another 20.5 percent were postmenopausal, without experiencing having periods within the past year, and 22 percent were perimenopausal. 33 percent of the subjects they had hot flashes. Half of the women who had hot flashes said they usually did not cause sweating. One – third said they had moderate hot flashes that made them perspire but not enough to make them stop what they were doing. On the other hand, 15 percent said their hot flashes caused them profuse perspiration, which made them stop their activities. 81 percent of the women who experienced severe hot flashes said they had trouble falling asleep or staying asleep for long. Researchers found that as the severity of their hot flashes increased, so did their insomnia symptoms. Another interesting finding: According to a study done by researchers of the University of California, Davis, in general, women who were overweight were at greater risk of frequent vasomotor symptoms as were smokers. To women reading this article, you might be saying, “So what’s the use of counting sheep? The odds are all against me.” No, not at all. Simple changes to your habits daily will improve your sleep. Here are some things you can do. 1. Say no to caffeine. Caffeine is found in chocolate, tea, coffee and certain medicines. 2. Get lots of morning sunshine by walking outside the house. 3. Quit smoking and lose weight. As stated earlier, smoking and being overweight make you experience hot flashes more frequently. Besides, they don’t do anything good to your health. 4. Do relaxation exercises like breathing exercises, meditation and guided imagery. 5. Exercise during the day, during late afternoon.  The more tired you are, the better chances you have of falling asleep. And exercise decreases your chances of getting heart illnesses, osteoporosis and other conditions that may occur due to a drop of estrogen in the body. To reduce the effects of hot flashes, here are the things you can do. 1. Exercise regularly. Taking a brisk walk for 30 minutes helps you cool down when hot flashes arise. Avoid anything that can worsen your hot flashes, like spicy foods, a hot weather, or alcohol. 2. Black cohosh. A series of German studies done in the past have shown its efficacy in relieving hot flashes and other menopause-related symptoms. The North American Menopause Society supports its use for up to 6 months, because of its low side effects. However, cases vary in each woman, but it’s still worth a try. 3.  Hormone therapy seems controversial because of a large study funded by the National Institutes Of Health. The study was stopped because the participants were found to have an increased risk of heart attack, stroke and breast cancer. Low doses are recommended, depending on your doctor’s advice. So cheer up. Insomnia is not inevitable just because you are menopausal. If these strategies do not work it’s high time for you to seek your doctor’s help. Dulce Azogue http://www.articlesbase.com/wellness-articles/how-to-get-better-sleep-when-you-have-severe-hot-flashes-57658.html Tags: How To Find Simple Relief For Hot Flashes And Night Sweats Filed under: Blog Hot flashes and night sweats usually go hand in hand during menopause. To differentiate, hot flashes are considered the intense heat and flushing you experience during the daytime hours. Night sweats usually happen when you are sleeping or during the nighttime hours. Essentially they are the same; they are just sometimes triggered for different reasons. Night sweats are relatively easy to control. Certain changes in your lifestyle can rectify a night sweat before it actually happens. The first thing you need to do is to avoid any foods, caffeine, or alcohol for about 3 hours before you plan on going to bed. Also, you should avoid exercise, hot liquids, hot showers, or smoking for 3 hours before bedtime. This will help to relieve any triggers that may be associated with hot flashes and night sweats and aid in a good nights sleep. Lowering the thermostat in your house and your bedroom especially will aid in any discomfort you feel from the heat. You should plan on dropping the temperature by 2 to 3 degrees without adding any additional blankets or covers which would defeat the purpose. It may be a bit chilly but you will fall asleep and stay asleep easier. Wearing light clothing such as a t-shirt or light cotton nightgown will also help to control hot flashes and night sweats at bedtime. This, along with cotton sheets should keep you cool and comfortable. If you have had a particularly stressful day at work or with the family in the evening, take an hour or so to unwind alone before you go to sleep. The most common cause of hot flashes and night sweats is anxiety, so you want to plan on avoiding any unnecessary stress right before bed. During this time it is especially beneficial to try some easy breathing techniques or meditation routines. Fifteen minutes of deep breathing and exhaling will do wonders for your stressed state. Yoga is also an excellent way to relax before bed. You will find yourself sleeping better and spending less time worrying about your next hot flashes and night sweats. Linda Bruton http://www.articlesbase.com/women’s-issues-articles/how-to-find-simple-relief-for-hot-flashes-and-night-sweats-85689.html Tags: Using Natural Herbs to Curb Hot Flashes Filed under: Blog For women suffering from hot flashes during menopause and perimenopause, finding a cure is often a long and ultimately frustrating process.  But amid all of the synthetic treatments currently available on the market, none compare to natural herbal treatments that have been used for centuries by women in the know. Hot flashes, which are noted by increased heat and flushing in the face, is common among women approaching menopausal age, and some are afflicted by severe symptoms.  Finding relief in the form of natural herbs helps eliminate stress that accompanies the problem. While hormone therapy is a popular treatment which is used by many women, others prefer the natural route, taking doses of Vitamin E and Vitamin B to aid in the easing of symptoms.  But herbs play an important role in natural hot flash therapy. Flaxseed, also perhaps more commonly known as linseed, is used in whole seed and oil form to help ease hot flash symptoms. While there is no hard or solid scientific evidence to back up the support of this claim, many women have used it successfully for years in the treatment of hot flashes. Evening primrose oil is another herb commonly used to treat hot flashes during menopause.  However, this botanical is sometimes accompanied by side effects such as diarrhea and nausea.  It’s important to talk to your doctor before combining evening primrose with other medications, such as blood thinning drugs, because it could cause adverse reactions. Soy products such as plant estrogen, which is found in isoflavones, contribute an estrogen-similar effect to the body to weaken hot flash symptoms.  Many women concentrate on using soy-based food products to treat hot flashes, not soy supplements. Another natural herbal remedy for hot flash symptoms during menopause and perimenopause is the use of black cohosh.  As a short-term natural remedy, it works very effectively.  But side effects can include an upset stomach, so it needs to be used carefully. With so much controversy in the news about hormone replacement therapy, it is important that women find reliable and natural ingredients they can use to treat various symptoms associated with menopause. The herbs mentioned in this article only serve as a small reminder of natural cures that you can find to treat a single symptom – hot flashes.  There are dozens of other herbs that can help alleviate the other menopausal symptoms women have to endure over the years. James Penn http://www.articlesbase.com/non-fiction-articles/using-natural-herbs-to-curb-hot-flashes-107492.html Tags: Are hot flashes and nausea/dizziness related to ovulation? Filed under: Blog I am ttc. I feel SO GROSS >:P right now (and have felt like this all day) hot flashes started around Friday/Saturday night and know it is too early to show symptoms I would only be 2-3 dpo. I feel so gross, hot flashes, nauseaous and dizzy is this related to ovulation/ pre-conception? I am only 23 years old so it cannot be menopause it's not naturally/physically possible. I am no doctor either, but if something could be a symptom of menopause, I would say that it is definitely a possibility of period, ovulation, pre-conception, conception, pregnancy….it is all a hormonal thing….so I would have to say it could be from whatever…just give it a week or two and see what else progresses. Tags: I am always hot even when everyone else is cold. Is it possible that I am experiencing hot flashes at age 24? Filed under: Blog I told a coworker of mine about these heat waves or hot flashes and she told me,"You know what the gynecologist is going to say to you right? She is referring to the fact that I am celibate/sexually inactive/single by choice. If that is case I guess I would have to live with these flashes because I have no sex drive or sexual appetite. Hot flashes are caused by hormonal fluctuations (the drop in your estrogen level) that usually occur not only during the menopausal stage but also during pregnancy and before, after, or during menstrual periods. This means that young people are not at all spared from hot flashes. There is no established proof that sexual inactivity or celibacy can cause hot flashes.  Hormonal fluctuations are the sole cause of hot flashes.  And you don't have to live with hot flashes for the rest of your life (whether or not you are celibate) because there are many ways on how to alleviate the symptoms.  You can try natural-based solutions, you can check out this site http://www.hotflashfreedom.com/. Tags: Is it possible to have hot flashes at age 21? Filed under: Blog What do hot flashes even feel like because I feel like I get them all the time! It can be possible to have hotflashes at the age of 21 if someone is having issues with their ovaries like with premature ovarian failure (an example only). Hotflashes are when the body feels warm all the time.  Sometimes it can cause a person to feel pretty hot (learned this from friends who have had it happen to them). The only way to know for sure what is going on is to see your doctor for further evaluation of the situation to see what they say. Tags: Is there anything natural that stops hot flashes? Filed under: Blog My mom is going through menopause and is experiencing hot flashes that are really bothering her. She is too afraid to take any kind of drugs so I was wondering if there is anything natural she can do to stop the hot flashes and if there is what and where can she get it? One of the best ways to reduce hot flashes and many other symptoms of menopause is regular exercise. You can also find relief from hot flashes by paying careful attention to the clothes that you wear. Avoid things that are made from wool, synthetics, or silk. Try to wear clothes made from breathable fabrics like cotton instead. To reduce night sweats, you can also use cotton sheets on your bed.  If you are looking for a natural supplement to help reduce hot flushes, there are many alternatives, such as Hot Flash Freedom, to prescription drugs. Whatever natural therapy you choose, stick with it faithfully and you should see results. Tags: What does it mean when you don't have hot flashes just chills during your pregnancy? Filed under: Blog I am about 6-7 weeks pregnant now and for the past week I have had cold chills all hours of the day instead of hot flashes. I have gained 7lbs. and am sicker than with my last pregnancy that  I had about 4yrs. ago.  I wanted to know if anyone has experienced this same thing and what it meant to them. Your body is going through an amaxing amount of hormones right now and is out of balance oN THIS SITE YOU SHOW 2 OF THE SIGNS OF A PROBLEM I would call your doctor http://www.allayurveda.com/pregnancy/pregnancy3.htm The vast majority of pregnancies are uncomplicated and end with the birth of a normal, healthy baby. Even when complications do occur, early diagnosis and treatment will often prevent serious problems. Early and regular prenatal care is the best insurance against problems in pregnancy. Regular care enables the doctor to watch for abnormal changes in blood pressure, blood, urine, or weight. Such changes may be warnings of potential problems. Regular care also helps you learn to recognize the difference between the normal changes your body is going through and those which may represent early warning signs. It is important that you recognize these early warning signs so that you can notify your doctor or someone at the clinic immediately. Bleeding, no matter how slight, from the vagina, rectum, nipple, or lungs (coughing blood) Swelling or puffiness of the face or hands A SUDDEN LARGE WEIGHT GAIN Persistent severe swelling of the legs Severe or repeated headaches Dimness, blurred vision, flashes of light, or spots before your eyes Sharp or prolonged pain in your abdomen Severe or continued vomiting CHILLS/OR FEVER Sudden escape of fluid from the vagina If you notice any of these signs, do not wait for your next checkup. Contact your doctor immediately, so the cause of the problem can be identified and treatment begun. Following are some of the problems that can occur during pregnancy. Tags: Menopause and hot flashes, anyone tried something that helps? Filed under: Blog My mom is 48 and going through menopause. She gets these horrible hot flashes and I would like to know of something she can take "AT HOME" that could possibly help. I'm sure she could get prescribed something and all, but her appointment for the doctor isn't for another 2 months, so just wondering if anyone knew of something she could take or use? I am 46 and done with menopause.  I used natural progesterone cream to balance out my estrogen/progesterone. Here are the benefits I experienced: no hot flashes weight loss around the abdomen no more irritability no more sadness return of sex drive no more fatigue dramatic increase in energy dramatic increase in ability to handle stress no more bloating To sum up, I feel better than I have ever felt in my life.  As mentioned earlier, menopause is natural and normal.  It should not make us sick and certainly does not warrant the use of drugs-menopause is not a disease to be treated with man-made chemically altered hormones or antidepressants. Tags: Next Page » Hot Flashes Articles Are There Side Effects Of Black Cohosh When Used For Hot Flashes? Do Herbs For Hot Flashes Really Work? Hot Flashes Remedy – Is There One That Really Works? How To Find Simple Relief For Hot Flashes And Night Sweats How to Get Better Sleep When you Have Severe Hot Flashes Menopause And Hot Flashes: What You Need To Know Menopause Relief From Hot Flashes Natural Relief For Hot Flashes The Magic Of Black Cohosh For Hot Flashes Using Natural Herbs to Curb Hot Flashes Which Natural Cure For Hot Flashes Actually Works To Relieve Symptoms? Hot Flashes Categories Blog Hot Flashes Archives June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 Tags causes hot flashes cure for hot flashes effective cure for hot flashes herbal menopause relief herbal remedies for hot flashes herbal remedy for hot flashes hot flash hot flash cure hot flashes hot flashes remedy hot flash relief hot flash remedy hot flash symptoms menopause menopause cure menopause herbs menopause hot flash menopause hot flashes menopause relief menopause remedies menopause signs menopause symptoms menopause treatment natural herbs for hot flashes natural hot flash cure natural relief for hot flashes natural remedy for hot flashes pregnancy hot flashes relief for hot flashes remedies for hot flashes remedy for hot flashes symptoms of menopause Recent Posts Can you get HOT FLASHES from birth control pills? What can I do about these hot flashes? I've been having severe headaches everyday along with hot flashes and dizziness.  Any ideas or suggestions? I have hot flashes when I am at work. I would like to know what I can do about not having them at work? What are some of the possible causes of hot flashes in men? The Magic Of Black Cohosh For Hot Flashes Which Natural Cure For Hot Flashes Actually Works To Relieve Symptoms? Hot Flashes Remedy - Is There One That Really Works? Do Herbs For Hot Flashes Really Work? Are There Side Effects Of Black Cohosh When Used For Hot Flashes? Menopause Relief From Hot Flashes How to Get Better Sleep When you Have Severe Hot Flashes How To Find Simple Relief For Hot Flashes And Night Sweats Using Natural Herbs to Curb Hot Flashes Are hot flashes and nausea/dizziness related to ovulation? I am always hot even when everyone else is cold. Is it possible that I am experiencing hot flashes at age 24? Is it possible to have hot flashes at age 21? Is there anything natural that stops hot flashes? What does it mean when you don't have hot flashes just chills during your pregnancy? Menopause and hot flashes, anyone tried something that helps? Is there any way to relieve Hot Flashes? Can someone please advise me on weird hot flashes? Is it normal to experience hot flashes at 25? Any non-prescription remedies  for hot flashes after a total hysterectomy? Is it possible to have hot flashes at 15? Does anyone else get hot flashes while pregnant? Is it normal for me to have hot flashes? Overcoming The Symptoms Of Menopause Menopause Symptoms Treatments for Each Menopause Symptom Does anyone know of a natural supplement to take for hot flashes? Menopause Symptoms May be Eased Through Natural Ways Coping With The Symptoms Of A Hot Flash Taking Control Of Your Hot Flash Symptoms Before They Take Control Of You How To Take On That Hot Flash Symptom And Win! Question about hot flashes during pregnancy? Chinese Medicine Can Provide An Effective Hot Flash Remedy Common Hot Flash Symptoms And How To Cope With Them Coping With The Dreaded Menopause Hot Flash Getting Control Of Your Hot Flash Symptoms Menopause Strategies: Taking Vitamins For A Hot Flash Why do I get hot flashes and have an emotional rush whenever I hear a baby cry? Is it normal to feel like your heart is going to jump out of your chest when having hot flashes? Is it possible to begin having hot flashes at age 66? What Causes Hot Flashes And When Will They Be Over? Is there an average  length of time for hot flashes to last? what causes a person to have hot flashes and lower abadom pain? Stopping Menopausal Hot Flashes For Fast Relief Use An Herbal Remedy For Hot Flashes Help For Hot Flashes Without Hrt What do you women out there do for hot flashes? Natural Relief For Hot Flashes How do I tell if I'm having hot flashes or just hot from the temperature? A Natural Remedy For Hot Flashes - How To Be Side-effect Free! How to Control Hot Flashes Without HRT What all natural herbal pill and what diet do you use for hot flashes? Is There A Safe And Effective Cure For Hot Flashes? What Is The Truth About Black Cohosh For Hot Flashes? What Causes Hot Flashes? Get Control Of Hot Flashes With These 8 Simple Tips Are Hot Flashes During Menopause More Common In American Women? Medications Such as Effexor and Has Been Shown to Ease the Number and Intensity of Hot Flashes How long after hot flashes start does your period stop? Using Herbal Remedies For Hot Flashes To Avoid The Dangers Of HRT Relief From Pregnancy Hot Flashes Have you/can you start getting hot flashes at two weeks pregnant? What do they feel like? How To Get Menopausal Relief With These Natural Herbs For Hot Flashes Why Do I Have Hot Flashes During Pregnancy? How long will hot flashes continue after menestration stops? Menopause Hot Flashes Overview Herbal Remedies For Hot Flashes: Are They Effective? How long will I continue to have hot flashes? Recent Posts Can you get HOT FLASHES from birth control pills? What can I do about these hot flashes? I've been having severe headaches everyday along with hot flashes and dizziness.  Any ideas or suggestions? I have hot flashes when I am at work. I would like to know what I can do about not having them at work? What are some of the possible causes of hot flashes in men? Because this product is not a drug and contains none, it has not been evaluated by the FDA. This product is not intended to diagnose, cure or prevent any disease. Hot flashes | Affiliate Program | Menopause | SiteMap | Privacy | Contact Us |  © HotFlashFreedom.com  All Rights Reserved Blogs: Hot Flashes | Menopause | Perimenopause | Night Sweats | Natural Health Products Web Designer DiscountWebDesigner.com Internet Mark