
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 10:50:26 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.37 (Unix) PHP/4.4.4 mod_ssl/2.8.28 OpenSSL/0.9.8d
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Honey (feng mi) Meet the Staff Site Map Contact Us The ABCs of TCM & Acupuncture Find an Acupuncturist Ask an Acupuncturist Find a School Extended Search Acupuncture Calendar Classified Advertising Industry News Discussion Forum Needles, Supplies & Equipment Herbs, Nutrients, Supplements Seminars, Education & Services Quick Links News Current Issue Previous Issues Author Guidelines Editorial Calendar Columnists Acupuncture Links FAQs Herbs & Botanicals Vitamins, Minerals and Dietary Supplements Newsletters To Your Health AT News Update AT Deals & Events Browse Editorial Topics AT News Update e-mail newsletter Subscribe Today Local Guides E-mail to a Friend | Printer Friendly Version | PDF Version Herbs & Botanicals A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I-J-K | L | M | N-O | P-Q | R | S | T | U | V | W-X-Y-Z Honey (feng mi) What is honey?  What is it used for? Honey is a sweet, natural fluid produced by bees and derived from the nectar of flowers.  Natural, raw honey is actually sweeter than table sugar, and has a distinctive flavor that some people prefer to sugar and other sweeteners.  Because of its extremely high sugar content and its low moisture content, liquid honey does not spoil; it can actually kill bacteria and airborne yeasts that it comes in contact with. The flavor and color of honey is determined largely by the types of flowers from which nectar is gathered.  Several types of honey exist, some with very strong (or mild flavors) and light (or dark) colors.  Most commercially available honey consists of a variety of other blends.  In addition to its uses in cooking, baking and as a general food, honey has a variety of medicinal uses. Based on the principles of traditional Chinese medicine, honey has sweet and neutral properties, and is associated with the Lung, Large Intestine, Spleen and Stomach meridians.  Its main functions are to tonify the spleen and stomach, to restore qi , and to prevent dryness.  It is also one of the most common ingredients of herbal pills, capsules and formulas, and is often added to herbal preparations to make them taste better and be easier to consume. The known medicinal uses of honey are too numerous to mention in one article, but it has been used over time as a laxative, a demulcent (to soothe and soften inflamed membranes), an emollient (in the treatment of chronic bronchitis), and as a remedy for dry throat and dry mouth.  It has been used to treat coughs, stomach pain, burns, dry skin, and constipation, and to enhance the functioning of the immune system in the elderly population.  Honey has also been used as a sort of antidote to help fight the toxic properties associated with aconite root and prepared aconite. How much honey should I take? The amount of honey to be taken depends on the condition being treated.  There are not set therapeutic doses for honey, but some practitioners recommend that people consume between 10 and 75 grams of honey per day for general health and wellness and to promote the function of the immune system. What forms of honey are available? Honey is widely available at supermarkets, organic health food stores, Asian markets, herbal shops, and various other locations.  It can be taken raw or as an infusion, pill, powder or extract, either alone or with other items. What can happen if I take too much honey?  Are there any interactions I should be aware of?  What precautions should I take? Honey is considered extremely safe.  Because of its laxative properties, however, honey should not be consumed by patients with loose stools or diarrhea.  Honey may also be potentially dangerous for infants due to the possibility of botulinum spores, which can survive in honey and may affect an infantÕs digestive system. Incidences of infant botulism are extremely rare, however, especially when commercially produced honey is used.  As always, make sure to consult with a licensed health care provider when using honey as a dietary supplement. References Biswal BM, Zakaria A, Ahmad NM. Topical application of honey in the management of radiation mucositis. A preliminary study. Support Care Cancer 2003;11:242-248. Cooper RA, Molan PC, Harding KG. The sensitivity to honey of gram-positive cocci of clinical significance isolated from wounds. Journal of Applied Microbiology 2002;93:857-863. Molan PC. The potential of honey to promote oral wellness. General Dentistry 2001;49 (6):584-9. Postmes T, van den Bogaard AE, Hazen M. Honey for wounds, ulcers and skin graft preservation. Lancet 1993:341(8847):756-57. Wahdan HAL. Causes of the antimicrobial activity of honey. Infection 1998;26:30-35. AT Deals & Events e-mail newsletter Subscribe Today Alternative Health News Re-Framing the Idea of Referring New Clients to Other LMT's Recently, I called a licensed massage therapist to find out about the 
possibility of getting a session. If I liked her work, I told her, I'd 
be interested in working with her as my regular LMT. The first thing she
 said was that she wasn't doing massage now. Foods Consumed by the Healthiest People, Part 4: Ikaria, Greece The other day I read a couple of nutrition articles in a chiropractic 
publication that covered topics I have previously addressed in detail. The Next Best Thing to Being There Right now, as you are reading this column you are likely adding 
inflection to my words and possibly imagining what I look like speaking 
based on the photograph above – one that is admittedly a few years old. Challenging Sacred Cows, Round Two I want to clear up something before I go forward. First, an esteemed 
colleague and visionary of our profession wrote to me asking if I did 
not believe in science because of my comment, "While I am not a fan of 
evidence-based medicine..." Unlocking the Secret to a Thriving Massage Practice Whether you own a thriving massage practice, you just want to develop a 
base of recurring customers, or you're just starting to get clients this
 article will reveal the little known secret to have more joy from your 
work, get more clients. Chiropractic Around the World: WFC Quarterly Country Reports The following reports are reprinted with permission from the World 
Federation of Chiropractic's latest Quarterly World Report (December 
2011). Careful Coding: With or Without Myelopathy Clinicians must be on their toes when it comes to the spelling, 
pronunciation and definition of different anatomical and health care 
terms. Many terms have similar spelling and pronunciation, and thus can 
be easily confused. Expanding Your Massage Therapy Practice An e-mail survey conducted in December 2011 found that many massage 
therapists are missing out some potential revenue streams by not 
offering any additional products or services to their clients. Practice What You Preach and Go Back to Massage School For all of us, the massage school experience is (or was) 
transformational in nature. As students, we were feeling "new" things, 
literally and figuratively, every day. Our wonder at and reverence for 
the human body and all of its systems grew by the hour. Seeing Your Massage Clients Through a New Lens I've worked with people young and old with complex medical conditions 
since 1979 when I began my career as an occupational therapist. Conservative Care Beats Medication for Neck Pain A study published in the Jan. 3, 2012 issue of the Annals of Internal Medicine suggests conservative care 
consisting of either spinal manipulation or home exercise is more 
effective than over-the-counter and prescription medication for 
relieving acute and subacute neck pain. Massage Therapy Reduces Low Back Pain Non-specific low back pain is one of the most common muscular-skeletal issues reported by patients/clients seeking pain relief. Massage therapy is recognized in clinical practice as an effective treatment. Think Outside the Box and the Spine Over the years, understanding and treating the extremities has moved to the forefront of my practice. Integrating extremity analysis and adjusting into your patient protocols can make you a more skilled practitioner. Entrepreneur or Employee? Which is Right for You? There is no denying the massage and wellness industry is here to stay. 
People are becoming far more proactive with their health care and are 
looking to alternatives to heavy medications and a costly doctor visit. Natural Support for Sexual Health: Effective Herbal Supplements In the normal aging process, the decline in sex hormone levels and 
number of functioning nerve endings in the genitalia region often 
contribute to a reduction in sex drive, arousal capabilities, climax and
 intensity of pleasure-full sensations. Positional Release Self Care for Soreness and Other Pains If your patients are anything like mine, they will report to you that 
there is commonly a degree of discomfort, soreness or stiffness a day or
 so following manual treatment no matter how gentle or appropriate that 
treatment might have been. Target Your Marketing for Success When asked what clients they want to work with, many massage therapists 
answer, "Everybody." When you try to market to everybody, that's called 
"blanket" marketing. News in Brief Western States Announces New Degree Program; FCP Acknowledges Top Two Corporate Sponsors. New Rules for Contemporary Chiropractic Marketing Hold off on the tar and feathers! Of course, everyone with a spine and a functioning nerve system needs chiropractic care. The planet would be a better place if every man, woman and child received regular spinal adjustments. Hip and Thigh Pain: The Tensor Fascia Latae Connection Have you ever had a patient with hip and lateral thigh pain that did not
 respond to your traditional treatment? Would it be helpful to know 
which muscles to double check that refer pain into the hip and lateral 
thigh? Giving a Big Thumbs Up for Healthy Thumbs The thumb is one of the most practical and necessary implements of the 
body. It is the first self-comforting tool to be used, often seen thrust
 into the mouth of a fetus in the womb. Normal Radiographic Differences Between the Adult and Pediatric Cervical Spine There are several normal anatomical differences between the adult and the pediatric cervical spine. This is a brief review of the main radiographic features that one should be aware of in order to avoid confusing normal differences with pathologic findings. Paging Dr. Frankenstein "Upper Cervical Techniques are considered Experimental or Investigational because current scientific evidence has not shown it to be safe, scientifically plausible, or effective. WIBB Exclusive: Who Runs the Show? Staffing issues abound.  By far, it is the number one complaint of 
employers and the reason I am most contacted for consulting.  It goes 
something like this.  You have a successful practice and are turning 
away business. The Death of the CCE Cartel After several organizations testified in favor of the CCE being renewed as the accrediting agency for chiropractic colleges, some of those organizations issued less-than-accurate communications implying that the CCE was victorious in its effort. Treatment Checklist for Plantar Fasciitis, Part 1 Plantar fasciitis (PF) is inflammation of the plantar fascia or arch 
tendon of the foot. It is an overuse injury causing heel pain which may 
radiate forward into the foot. Plantar fasciitis
 can also be known as a heel spur, although they are not strictly the 
same. The Facts About Fevers Anything that suggest the slightest thing is wrong with a child will 
cause concern in a parent. A fever, for example, is one of the primary 
reasons parents will call their child's pediatrician. Dealing with Fibromyalgia It is estimated that between two to four percent of the population are 
now suffering from fibromyalgia, including Irritable Bowel Syndrome and 
TMJ. Perhaps our massage school education did not include how to 
successfully deal with fibromyalgia. Get Optimal Energy with Nutritional Self Care It is our experience that massage therapists are some of the most 
giving, compassionate people on the planet. While we might be 
exceptional at caring for others, many massage therapists put themselves
 last when it comes to their own self-care. A Massage Protocol for Peripheral Neuropathy My last article in the October 2011 issue focused on diabetic peripheral neuropathy and I want to stress the importance of reviewing that information before proceeding on to this protocol. We Get Letters & E-Mail Conservative Care Instead of Surgery? Not Always Possible; Ditch the Philosophy Except for Its Historical Significance. CAMTC Honors CA State Senator Lou Correa In closing out a busy 2011, the California Massage Therapy Council 
(CAMTC) honored California State Senator Lou Correa with its Legislator 
of the Year award at the final 2011 Board of Directors meeting. Freeing the Heart, Part 2: Equalizing the Pressure Cardiovascular disease does not happen overnight. It is a progression 
that evolves over decades and genetic pre-disposition can accelerate 
this progression dramatically. Impacting Children: CranioSacral Therapy and Pediatrics Working with children is an art as well as a science. Using CranioSacral
 Therapy (CST) on a child can be especially gratifying as a qualified 
CST practitioner can facilitate significant changes that can positively 
improve the quality of a child's life. To report inappropriate ads, click here . Archives News Current Issue Previous Issues Previous Polls Advertising Advertiser Resource Center Marketing Resource Center Editorial Editorial Resource Center Just For Students Acupuncture Schools Free Positions Wanted Posting Where To Practice? Important Links Editorial Topics Link To Us Acupuncture Links The ABCs of TCM & Acupuncture Herbs & Botanicals Vitamins, Minerals and Dietary Supplements Media Guide Acupuncture Today Media Guide Member Services Classified Advertising Acupuncture Calendar Acupuncture Directory Discussion Forum Reader Services Receive The Print Publication Update Your Mailing Address Other Links About Us Contact Us Meet The Staff News Update Subscribe Unsubscribe Update E-mail Current Issue Deals & Events Subscribe Unsubscribe Current Issue To Your Health Subscribe Unsubscribe Update E-mail Current Issue Archives Policies Privacy Policy User Agreement Other MPA Media Sites Toyourhealth.com Chiroweb.com Chirofind.com Dynamicchiropractic.com Dynamicchiropractic.ca DCPracticeINSIGHTS.com Massagetoday.com Nutritionalwellness.com Naturopathydigest.com Chiropracticresearchreview.com 