Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 26 May 2009 21:24:04 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "3c6dcd4b48dec91:b909c"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 19:25:57 GMT
Connection: close

Jon Christian Ryter - Jason Vale:  Folk Hero or Huckster? Home News Behind the Headlines Two-Cents Worth Video of the Week News Blurbs Short Takes Plain Talk The Ryter   Report Articles Testimony Bible Questions Internet Articles   (2009) Internet   Articles (2008) Internet Articles (2007) Internet Articles   (2006) Internet Articles (2005) Internet Articles (2004) Internet Articles (2003) Internet Articles (2002) Internet Articles (2001) From The   Mailbag Books Order   Books Mouse Mall Search About Comments Links Free Christian Books www.freechristianbooks.us Free Natural Health  Resources www.healthreasources.biz August 19, 2003 By Jon Christian 
Ryter Copyright 2003 - All Rights Reserved To distribute this article, please post this web address or hyperlink hen 
        Jason David Vale was 18-years old, he contracted a very rare form of Ewing’s 
        Sarcoma called Askin’s Tumor. Ewing’s Sarcoma, a fast growing 
        small cell malignancy, is identified under a microscope by its blue color. 
        Its cause is unknown but Ewing’s, a very deadly cancer, generally 
        attacks the bones of children and teenagers. Occasionally Ewing’s 
        Sarcoma deviates and, instead of attacking the bones in its victim’s 
        arms and legs, it attacks the chest wall. Those cases are called 
        Askin’s Tumor. It was that form of Ewing’s Sarcoma that Jason 
        Vale developed. On his website, www.apricotseeds.org (which 
        was shut down by the FDA and the domain name seized to keep it from being 
        reactivated by Vale when his legal troubles with the government first 
        began), Vale claimed that the rare cancer he developed had a 100% mortality 
        rate. While any form of Ewing’s Sarcoma is a nasty, aggressive cancer, 
        the mortality rate of all forms of Ewing's, including Askin’s Tumor, 
        is 50%--which is deadly enough. Twenty percent of all medically treated 
        cases of Ewing’s Sarcoma are kept in remission with pharmaceuticals 
        after surgery has removed the cancerous tumors, or the affected limb has 
        been amputated. The remaining 30% of Ewing’s Sarcoma cases are treated 
        with a combination of drugs and chemotherapy. Vale, in promoting his cancer cure on www.apricotseeds.org, 
        wanted to make it appear that amygdalin--vitamin B-17--or its serum extract, 
        Laetrile, was solely responsible 
        for his continued life since he began eating apricot seeds in 1994. By 
        declaring that his condition was 100% fatal when in fact it was not, Vale 
        implied (without saying so) that there was no medical treatment that would 
        have prolonged his life and, for that reason, he was alive only because 
        his parents discovered the healing power of apricot seeds. With that lie and a Christian testimony 
        that he believed God would heal him, Vale began to market his product, 
        apricot seeds, and later the serum extract of amygdalin, Laetrile, over 
        the Internet on www.apricotseeds.org. The 
        sale of amygdalin-based apricot seeds was very profitable for Vale and 
        for a variety of other herbalists and naturopathic doctors who offered 
        it to cancer victims who were frantically searching for the magic bullet 
        that would prolong their lives. Cancer is the most frightening word in 
        the human universe--and www.apricotseeds.org offered cancer victims not 
        just hope for a prolonged life, but a productive, normal life thanks to 
        the bitter seed within the pits of apricots, peaches, plums, and several 
        other fruits. And, Jason Vale, a three times U.S. arm wrestling champion, 
        was a perfect testimonial that Laetrile not only worked, but worked phenomenally 
        well. Jason 
        David Vale was a walking sales pitch for the picture of good health. Tall, 
        handsome, muscular--and successful. He had everything he needed, including 
        the spiel, to become a motivational speaker. Instead, he became the US 
        arm wrestling champion three times and an international champion once. 
        What he did not look like was a man wasting away from very rare neuroectiderna 
        tumors. He attributed his good health to amygdalin (vitamin B-17) extract. In 
        1986, after he was diagnosed with what his website described as terminal 
        cancer, Vale underwent surgery to remove a cancerous tumor in his chest 
        wall, chemotherapy and radiation treatments. Since he endured several 
        medical procedures to treat his rare cancer over a period of eight years, 
        Vale’s claims that he was cured by apricot seeds cannot be construed 
        as wholly accurate. Based on the known attributes of Laetrile, it is reasonable 
        to say (providing Vale was taking no prescription medications during the 
        period when he was taking apricot seeds) that amygdalin was holding his 
        neuromuscular cancer at bay. Thousands of people believed his claims 
        and went to www.apricotseeds.org and bought the bitter tasting elixir 
        of life that “healed” Vale of his cancer. Vale watched his business 
        grow from the sale of a few bags of apricot seeds per month into a behemoth 
        business enterprise that ultimately escalated far beyond the sale of a 
        few fruit pits into an operation that synthesized amygdalin pulp into 
        a serum form of B-17 called Laetrile--a process developed in 1920 by Dr. 
        Ernest T. Krebs. When Vale took that entrepreneurial step, he crossed 
        the invisible line from selling a natural vitamin to a synthesized one. 
        That same year, labeling amygdalin as a dangerous toxin, the FDA banned 
        the interstate trafficking of vitamin B-17 even though only its serum 
        form (because it had to be injected rather than ingested) legally belonged 
        under the purview of the FDA. Unknown to Vale at the time was the fact 
        that the American and Canadian pharmaceutical industries were already 
        doing trials with artificial forms of Laetrile like 
        Sarcarinase™, Nitriloside™ and Koch’s Synthetic Anitoxin™ 
        (which was a blend of malonide, glyoxylide and parabenzoquinone that supposedly 
        had the curative affects as amygdalin on cancer cells without the toxic 
        side affects). In the United States, a clinical study is currently being 
        done on a new artificial form of amygdalin. For some time, Jason Vale stayed off the 
        radar screen of the FDA, and www.apricotseeds.org flourished. But, as 
        Vale’s entrepreneurial venture grew, it was inevitable that www.apricotseeds.org 
        would be noticed--and his claims of miraculous cures, examined by the 
        FDA. It is unclear whether or not Vale’s FDA problems would have 
        become severe enough to merit criminal contempt charges if he had confined 
        his entrepreneurial activities exclusively to selling a natural supplement, 
        apricot seeds, and his book, “Slim For Life,” rather than adding 
        the serum form of Laetrile to his inventory. On October 28,1998 the FDA sent Vale a letter 
        informing the anticancer entrepreneur that the United States government 
        considered Laetrile to be a “drug” and not a natural vitamin 
        supplement. The letter 
        (shown on left) began: “This letter is in reference to your promotion 
        and distribution of the unapproved drug Laetrile in the form of your products: 
        ‘Apricot seeds’, ‘Vitamin B-17’, and ‘Amygdalin’ 
        ampules. Labeling for these products make therapeutic claims which cause 
        the products to be drugs as defined in Section 201(g) of the Federal Food, 
        Drug and Cosmetic Act. Labeling is not limited to the immediate product 
        containers but includes all promotional material including video tapes 
        which you distribute with your products...” Vale hired an Illinois law firm, Dilling 
        & Dilling, to argue his position to the FDA. On December 6, 1998, 
        Kirkpatrick W. Dilling responded to the FDA’s contention that Vale’s 
        food supplements were drugs by virtue of the way in which they were marketed. 
        In the text of his rely, Dilling observed that “...With respect to 
        the Amygdalin products we have suggested a new label (copy enclosed) which 
        should more accurately reflect the nature of product, also conforming 
        to certain regulatory strictures...” The proposed label would not warn those 
        buying it that amygdalin converted to cyanide when mixed with the enzyme 
        beta-glucosidase, or that the FDA believed that Laetrile was toxic and, 
        for that reason, had been banned from interstate sales since 1971. Instead, 
        the new label, which would not satisfy the FDA in any way, said: “Excess 
        consumption may cause temporary nausea. Can be used as nutritional adjunct 
        in conjunction with chemotherapy or radiation or solely as a dietary supplement.” Dilling concluded by telling the FDA “...This 
        product is per se a food for special dietary use by virtue of its ingredients. 
        As such it is subject to the provisions of Part 105.3.21, Code of Federal 
        Regulations...” If Vale thought, even for a minute, that Dilling & Dilling had solved 
        his legal problems, he was sadly mistaken. His problems were just beginning. 
        And, most of them were of his own making. The FDA failed to buy the argument advanced 
        by Dilling and Dilling. Dilling argued that amygdalin--even in its serum 
        form--was a food supplement. The government’s injunction specifically 
        targeted the selling of amygdalin in its serum form, but it had the affect 
        of shutting down Vale’s entire operation--which is precisely what 
        the FDA intended to do. Then, to make sure Vale could not change his corporate 
        name, slap a new name on his website (while maintaining the numeral address) 
        and continue his business uninterrupted, the FDA seized Vale’s website 
        domain address and apricotseeds.org was out of business. But not for long. Dr. Ernest T. Krebs, Sr. developed the first 
        synthetic Laetrile in 1920. It was marketed by the Christian Medical Research 
        League. Kreb’s son, Dr. Ernest T. Krebs, Jr. began using Laetrile 
        to treat cancer patients in California in the 1950s. (Laetrile has been 
        used successfully in Russia as a cancer-fighting drug since 1948. Amygdalin 
        has been used, either in a solid or liquid form, to treat cancer in most 
        of the nations of the world since the mid-19th century. It is banned only 
        in the United States.) In 1971 the FDA banned Laetrile from interstate 
        commerce. However, several States, bowing to pressure from Laetrile users, 
        legalized the intrastate sale of the apricot seed extract. In 1977, the 
        US District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin ruled that amygdalin 
        “...is a drug within the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and that injectable 
        amygdalin is a prescription drug...” When the FDA issued its preliminary injunction 
        and shut down his website, Vale scrambled to find another suitable name 
        under which he could continue selling apricot seed extract even though 
        he had just been banned from doing so. He chose the name Christian Brothers 
        Contracting Corporation. Quite likely Vale’s logic in picking that 
        name was a mental association with the old Krebs’ Christian Medical 
        Research League name that very likely would have been recognized by many 
        of the cancer victims seeking the magic elixir of life, with amygdalin. Setting up a new dummy corporation, Vale 
        rented the new company’s post office box with his own credit card 
        and purchased the packaging supplies, etc. with the same card, leaving 
        a trail from the new company to his own hip pocket that even a blind FDA 
        investigator could follow. And follow it they did. When Vale’s old customers called apricotseeds.org 
        to reorder their anticancer supplies, Vale told them he was no longer 
        selling amygdalin. He then recommended Christian Brothers. Vale would 
        then hang up his apricotseeds.org telephone and wait for his Christian 
        Brothers phone to ring. Many of his former customers called that number. But, just as many did not. According to the FDA, both phones were on the same desk in Vale’s 
        home. Even though the federal government shut down www.apricotseeds.org, 
        it took Vale less than month to begin filling reorders for his old customers 
        under the new corporate name. But Vale still had a major marketing dilemma. 
        Far too many of his former customers didn’t want to do business with 
        what they perceived to be a brand new company. Not knowing that Vale was 
        Christian Brothers Contracting Corporation, many of his customers opted 
        to shop around before making a buying decision. Since he was a dot.com company (or, more 
        aptly, a dot.org company), Vale felt he needed to do some cyber advertising 
        to pull back his old clients and add some new ones. Utilizing the services 
        of a computer hacks and spammers, Vale managed to assemble a mailing list 
        that contained thousands of AOL email addresses. He flooded thousands 
        upon literal hundreds of thousands of consumers with amygdalin scare mail. 
        At times, according to AOL’s complaint, Vale was sending hundreds 
        of thousands of spam emails per hour. The unsolicited emails, sent with 
        an AOL 
        return address, provided links to a website that offered Vale’s apricot 
        seeds and ampules of serum for sale. Enter Steve Case, then CEO of America OnLine. 
        AOL, like most of the dot.coms before the collapse of the dot.com industry, 
        was desperately in search 
        of revenue since most of the dot.coms were so overvalued that Wall Street 
        had begun to ask some real hard questions about the basis upon which value 
        of the dot.coms were established. In 1998 when Christian Brothers Contracting 
        Corporation was desperately seeking apricotseeds.org’s client base, 
        AOL was desperately seeking advertising revenue from any source. When consumers subscribe to AOL, they are 
        obligated to “sign” a membership agreement that prohibits them 
        [a] from sending unsolicited commercial bulk email messages, and [b] from 
        collecting and/or harvesting user names, email addresses or other information 
        about other AOL members. In the evidence offered to the court by 
        AOL, in February, 1998--after receiving thousands of complaints from members--AOL 
        demanded that Christian Brothers Contracting Corporation stop misusing 
        its network. On December 18, 1998 AOL filed a complaint against Christian Brothers 
        and Jason Vale. The summons was served on Vale on Sunday, December 20. That would become Vale’s “no-defense” 
        defense when AOL won a default judgment against Christian Brothers Contracting 
        and Jason Vale. Vale, who apparently chose not to consult his attorneys, 
        decided that summons that are served on Sunday are invalid and could be 
        ignored. So, he ignored it. In fact, when AOL’s process server 
        delivered the summons, Vale threw the papers at him, and slammed his door 
        in the man’s face. Vale was now making one tragic legal mistake 
        on top of another. He was no longer on top of the world--the world was 
        now on top of him and the weight was going 
        to become unbearable. The US District Court granted AOL summary judgment 
        against Christian Brothers and Jason Vale on June 5, 1999 and scheduled 
        a hearing to establish damages. At that point, Vale began to pay attention, 
        but it was too late. The case was transferred from Federal Magistrate 
        Pitman to US District Court Judge Deborah Batts for final disposition. 
        In his order, Pitman ruled that any requests for extensions for filing 
        objections had to be done within 10 days. “Failure to object within 
        ten (10) days,” Pitman said, “will result in a waiver of objections 
        and will preclude appellate review.” On January 4, 2000, seven months after his 
        10-day objection period expired, Vale filed a petition asking the court 
        to vacate the summary judgment against “defendant” Jason Vale 
        in his individual capacity and also as a representative of Christian Brothers. 
        By this time, Vale was suffering financially. And, although he initially 
        retained Dilling & Dilling to represent him in the AOL matter, Vale 
        had literally run out of money and decided to defend the action himself. That proved to be the most costly mistake 
        Vale had made to date. According to Rowland v. California Men’s Colony, 506 US 194, 202 
        (1993), legal corporations, partnerships and associations may not appear 
        in federal court except through a licensed attorney. In other words, they 
        may not represent themselves. Using a legal technicality to keep from 
        dismissing the entire judgment, Judge Batt dismissed the default only 
        insofar as it applied to Vale personally. She refused to dismiss the judgment 
        against Christian Brothers Contracting because of Vale’s willful 
        negligence. Further, in the view of the court, while the action was pending 
        before the court, Vale continued to spam email account holders while ignoring 
        the judicial process that threatened to consume him. In Batt’s mind, 
        Vale showed absolute contempt for the court and the judicial process. In his defense, Vale argued that under New 
        York General Business Law §11 the summons was invalid because it 
        was served on Sunday--particularly since he was a born-again Christian 
        (Vale, Decl. at ¶¶ 3, 5-6.) However, the service did not violate 
        Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Under federal guidelines, 
        process servers are not prohibited from serving subpoenas or summons on 
        Sundays or other holidays. Nor is there a requirement that service in 
        a federal action must comply with State law to be valid. Batt, who felt Vale was attempting to manipulate 
        the court by continuing his unlawful practices as he attempted to stall 
        justice, was an “obstructionist adversary”--and, for that reason, 
        she was determined to punish him. Batts awarded AOL $17,940.00 for hardware 
        processing costs, treble damages of $389,020.00 for “lost advertising 
        revenue,” $24,625.00 in attorney fees, and $200,000.00 in punitive 
        damages, for a total judgment of $631,585.00. The damages were levied 
        against Christian Brothers Contracting and not Jason Vale. But, since 
        Christian Brothers was Jason Vale, it was pretty much the same thing. On 
        January 27, 2000 when US, District Court Judge Deborah Batts refused to 
        vacate the $631,585.00 default judgment against Jason Vale, he was suddenly 
        very, very broke. On top of that, AOL now had a legal claim against every 
        asset owned by Christian Brothers Contracting Corporation, and thus, Jason 
        Vale. When the FDA proceeded, first with its civil action and later, with 
        its criminal case against Vale, the anticancer entrepreneur lacked the 
        financial wherewithal to launch a meaningful defense. The government’s civil case against 
        Jason Vale and his company began on April 20, 2000 when US District Court 
        Judge John Gleeson issued a preliminary injunction ordering Vale and his 
        company not to directly or indirectly sell, distribute, package, label 
        or promote Laetrile. During that hearing, the FDA argued that Laetrile, 
        also known as amygdalin or vitamin B-17 or apricot pits, had no known 
        effect on cancer and that it was, in fact, a toxic element because when 
        it broke down in the digestive system of the user, amygdalin was converted 
        into hydrogen cyanide that could be lethal to humans if consumed in large 
        enough doses. On November 16, 2000 Gleeson’s preliminary 
        injunction was made permanent, and Vale was permanently enjoined from 
        engaging in any commerce where amygdalin was involved. The case against 
        Jason Vale, apricotseeds.org and Christian Brothers Contracting Corporation 
        should have ended on January 27, 2000 and would have if Vale been willing 
        to give up the business he created from apricot seeds and the income it 
        generated. He wasn’t. Vale 
        decided, early on, to make his legal woes a public issue and to try his 
        “case” in the court of public opinion over the Internet, making 
        his legal problems a case of big business and big government against the 
        little guy suffering from cancer. And, because he did, Jason Vale very 
        likely damaged the ability of thousands of cancer patients in the United 
        States to receive naturopathic amygdalin treatments in the future. Based on the evidence that has accumulated since the original injunction, 
        it appears Vale’s defiance of the November 16, 2000 court order was 
        motivated more by profits and self-interest than it was from a personal 
        defense based on selfless principles. Beginning with the first warning letter 
        from the FDA, Vale posted the communiqués from the government and 
        from his own lawyers on the Internet, believing that the sympathy he would 
        generate as a martyr would turn the tide and he would somehow prevail. 
        Vale’s public relations campaign was directed at convincing those 
        who suffered from cancer and relied on amygdalin or Laetrile that Vale 
        was an unflinching, selfless provider of the elixir of life who was more 
        interested in their well-being than his own. Vale did a good job of convincing those 
        who ascribe to the use of alternative medicines that he was 
        the latest government scapegoat. Eliezer Ben-Joseph, a naturopathic physician 
        and the host of the radio talk show, Natural Solutions, in El Paso, Texas 
        took up Vale’s defense on his radio program. He considered Vale’s 
        case to be a freedom issue, and denounced the government’s prosecution 
        of the anticancer entrepreneur as an inappropriate use of judicial power. 
        “It’s vindictive prosecution,” Ben-Joseph declared on his 
        program. “We’re talking about apricots here...and yet the government 
        is so drastically opposed to having this information out.” Ben-Joseph 
        declared the government’s interest in Vale “ludicrous,” 
        noting the government had run clinical tests on Laetrile and concluded 
        that it had no medicinal value. Ben-Joseph poophahed the credibility of 
        the trials observing that “...concerns have been expressed about 
        the way the study was conducted,” adding that some recently developed 
        cancer treatments utilized an artificial cyanide which, he pointed out, 
        was very similar to the organic cyanide that is emitted from amygdalin 
        when it comes into contact with the enzyme beta-glucosidase. Laetrile, 
        Ben-Joseph admitted, does not provide a cure. “There is no cure for 
        cancer,” he said. “But there are a lot of things we can do that 
        augment how metabolism works. These are chemicals the body would use to 
        detoxify or get rid of cancer.... To make a law,” he concluded, “that 
        says that the public cannot eat an apricot pit because they think it might 
        keep people from going to regular cancer therapy, I think, is a ludicrous 
        jump in jurisdiction.” Amygdalin message boards suddenly sprang 
        up on the Internet. Interest in the amygdalin case swelled as Jason Vale’s 
        day in court loomed near. Several testimonials to the effect amygdalin 
        or the serum form of B-17, Laetrile, had on the author of the message 
        or on some family member were posted on the message board sites, reflecting 
        the attention the Vale case was receiving in the naturopathic community. Throughout this period, even though he had 
        been ordered by the US District Court to cease and desist from engaging 
        in any commerce or in the promotion of any commerce that involved amygdalin, 
        vitamin B-17, or its serum extract, Laetrile, Vale secretly started a 
        new company in which he was the sole secret operator, to market and sell 
        apricot seeds and serum Laetrile. When the US Attorney discovered that 
        Vale was the owner of Christian Brothers Contracting Corporation, they 
        conducted an undercover investigation of Vale. The investigation culminated 
        with a raid of his home. Investigators found over 100,000 packaged apricot 
        seeds in his basement. (Vale insisted to investigators that these seeds 
        were for his own personal use and not for resale. If Vale’s statement 
        was true, then he had enough amygdalin in his possession to last him 242 
        years.) The investigation by the US Attorney’s 
        office led to the criminal contempt charges for which Vale was found guilty 
        on July 21, 2003. Sentencing is scheduled for October 24. Over 
        the last five or six thousand years, man has experimented with every imaginable 
        herb, seed, root, blade of grass, tree leaf and bark in search of balms, 
        elixirs, and poultices that could be used to heal everything and anything 
        from a simple headache to festering gout. Man has consumed ground-up bone 
        and cartilage, fetal tissue, glandular oils and animal organs in the erroneous 
        belief that these primitive remedies will heal the most exotic diseases 
        known to man, or that they will increase male potency or even reverse 
        aging. Most of these homeopathic remedies have no more healing qualities 
        than a placebo. But every now and then man stumbles across 
        a herb, a seed, a gnarled root, or common bread mold with true medicinal 
        qualities, and one more secret of nature’s organic remedies in the 
        order of life is revealed for the benefit of mankind. 
        Such was the case with the cancer-killing characteristics of apricot seeds, 
        peach pits, plum pits, almonds, and apple seeds. But, is amygdalin a curse 
        or a cure? Apricot seeds were used as a remedy as early 
        as 500 A.D when they were used by the Chinese to treat respiratory ailments 
        such as asthma, bronchitis, emphysema and temporary ailments that triggered 
        spasms of wheezing or coughing. Apricot pits were also used as a laxative. 
        References to the use of the pharmaceutical use of the pulp of apricot 
        and peach seeds has been found in the writings of Pier Andres Mattiott 
        (Matthiolus) in his principle work, Commentari 
        in Sex Libros Pedacii Dioscorides , which was published in 1544. 
        Mattiott’s work was the most widely read book on botany in the world 
        at that time. Thirty-two thousand copies of this book were in circulation. 
        Mattiott described the use of apricot seed pulp as a poultice to heal 
        tumors. Botanist 
        Jonathan Hartwell worked as a research scientist at the Natural Products 
        Division of the National Cancer Institute from 1938 until his retirement 
        in 1975. He devoted a life of research to one subject: botanical sources 
        for cancer treatment. After his retirement, Hartwell wrote the 
        book Plants Used Against Cancer . The 
        book was published by Quarterman Publications in Lawrence, Massachusetts 
        in 1981. Hartwell died shortly after the publication of his book, and 
        within a year or two after that Quarterman Publications went out of business. 
        A few copies of the book remain in private collections. On October 2, 
        1981, not long after Hartwell’s book was published, the Board of 
        Scientific Counselors at the NCI voted to abolish the NCI research grant 
        which funded all natural product research dealing with the development 
        of anticancer agents from plants or seeds. Jim 
        Duke, who promoted Hartwell’s work after the death of the botanist, 
        noted somberly at the time that “...I fear this signals the end of 
        significant government sponsored research in the United States on medicinal 
        plants, leaving research to the pharmaceutical firms who have shown relative 
        disinterest in plant products.” One of the plants Duke was referring 
        to was cassava (and other geographic variations of the manihot esculenta 
        plant that grow in Africa, South America, Central America and as far north 
        as the southwestern United States). Cassava, like apricot seeds, produce hydrogen 
        cyanide which, when it comes into contact with active cancer cells, kills 
        them. In the bush country of Africa, and in Central and South America, 
        the cassava plant is used to promote the healing of snakebites, boils, 
        flu, hernia, inflammations of the joints, and a variety of sores. The 
        stems of the cassava plant are boiled or fried and eaten as a food. In 
        the case of cassava, it contains the enzyme linamarase which releases 
        hydrogen cyanide if it is not harvested and prepared properly. Many people 
        in the third world countries which use cassava as a dietary supplement 
        suffer from cyanide side effects such as vertigo, headaches, confusion, 
        convulsions, and sometimes, comas. Nevertheless, the artificial amygdalin that 
        is currently being tested in clinical studies as a cancer treatment was 
        reportedly synthesized from cassava and not either apricots or peaches. In his book, Plants 
        Used Against Cancer, Hartwell observed: “The National 
        Cancer Institute has screened about 45,000 higher plant species of activity 
        against cancer. As of 1977, about 3,000 of these had demonstrated reproducible 
        activity. A small fraction were appropriate for screening [and] should 
        perhaps be accelerated....Although no exciting new leads developed during 
        my association with the program, some plant species with anticancer activity 
        will suffer extinction before they are ever studied. Some natural drugs 
        that could save thousands of lives and alleviate much suffering will disappear 
        from the face of the Earth, irretrievable, without ever being used...” The question that still begs an answer is: 
        is amygdalin a deadly toxin? Does amygdalin break down in the digestive 
        system and create a form of deadly cyanide gas that can kill or seriously 
        injure the unsuspecting consumer who believes that apricot seeds, apple 
        seeds, or peach or plum pits will kill any cancer within their bodies, 
        or otherwise keep them healthier than they would be if they did not consume 
        them? After almost a hundred years, the jury is still out. The cancer victims who have been consuming 
        apricot seeds, peach seeds, apple seeds or the serum form of amygdalin, 
        Laetrile, are convinced that not only is 
        amygdalin safe, it is an effective organic cure for cancer. Because they 
        have been consuming as few as 5 or 6 apricot seeds or as many as 10 or 
        more a day and are still alive, they poophah claims made by the FDA that 
        amygdalin, vitamin B-17, apricot seeds, or Laetrile secrete a sufficiently 
        high enough dose of cyanide that it could either prove to be fatal, or 
        at least cause serious damage to the person who is consuming it. When Vale used the Internet to drum up public 
        support for his cause against the FDA, several cancer victims who used 
        apricot seeds and were afraid that if Vale lost that their supply would 
        of apricot seeds would dry up and they would die from the cancer that 
        amygdalin held in abeyance, came to his defense. Most of the postings 
        were directed at US District Court Judge John Gleeson, as though they 
        were “testifying” as character witnesses for Vale. • Davis642@****.com wrote: “...I had a basal cell on my face which was confirmed by my 
        physician. I ate apricot seeds for several weeks and when I went to 
        the dermatologist to have the basal cell removed, it was gone. My father 
        died of cancer, my grandmother died of cancer, and I eat seven seeds a 
        day for preventative measure...” • Robert Mathew 
        P******s wrote: “A little over three years ago I noticed a 
        growth on my back above my right kidney area. It was just a bump and at 
        the time I didn’t think much of it until it began to grow uncommonly 
        fast...[After watching the video, World Without Cancer, I began to take 
        [apricot seeds]. Within 
        two weeks the growth on my back began to shrink. I started eating more 
        and more of them, and the growth got smaller and smaller...After it looked 
        like my problem was taken care of, I stopped eating the seeds. I stopped 
        because I hate the way they taste. For awhile...I was fine. But after 
        a few months, I realized that same growth on my back was returning...” • Timothy B****n wrote: “My own personal healing of skin cancer in 1997 is due to 
        the ingestion of apricot seed. Two quarter-sized blotches on the back 
        of my left hand, and another on my left elbow, both diagnosed as early 
        stage skin cancer, disappeared after three to four weeks and have never 
        reappeared. I continue to consume 6-8 seeds daily as a maintenance dose...[C]onsider 
        that anyone is free to purchase apricots, peaches, nectarines, and other 
        ‘stone fruits.’ I do so freely and eat the raw seed from the 
        pit of any of them. Christian Brothers simply makes it easier to obtain 
        the seed that I want to buy as a finished product in bulk...” • Thomas Elliott 
        J••••s wrote: “In December I discovered 
        a tumor on my left testicle...I ordered Vitamin B-17 and Apricot Seeds 
        from Christian Brothers and after two weeks, the tumor was completely 
        gone...” The testimonials continued in an almost endless stream. Vale’s customers, 
        as well as those who offered an opinion because they think the government 
        intrudes too much in the lives and affairs of the American people, were 
        loyal to the end. Vale succeeded in winning the public relations battle 
        for the minds of his customers; but his customers weren’t on the 
        jury. And, none of the consumers who offered their testimonials to Judge 
        Gleeson via the Internet died from toxic shock due to dangerous levels 
        of hydrogen cyanide in their bloodstream--at least, not at that time they 
        offered their support. The government argues, and rightfully so, that 
        unless an autopsy is done to determine if recently deceased cancer patients 
        had toxic levels of cyanide in their bodies. However, when the family 
        physician lists the cause of death on the death certificate as cancer, 
        few jurisdictions require an autopsy. The British Columbia Cancer Agency reported 
        several serious cases of cyanide poisoning as a result of people eating 
        fruit pit seeds. Two reported deaths resulted from swallowing amygdalin 
        preparations intended for treatment of cancer have been published in Canada: 
        one of a child, the other of a 17-year old girl. The Vancouver Province 
        reported on October 15, 1979 that a three year old boy suffering from 
        leukemia died in Mexico where he was undergoing Laetrile treatments. The 
        Los Angeles Times reported on February 8, 1979 that a 42-year old woman 
        suffering from breast cancer died of cyanide poisoning after taking massive 
        doses of Laetrile. Around the same time, research scientists for the British 
        Columbia Cancer Agency in Vancouver conducted a test on cancerous lab 
        rats. After receiving doses of Laetrile, all of the test rats died from 
        cyanide poisoning. In the 1980s the Mayo Clinic and three other 
        prominent cancer centers participated in a clinical trial for Laetrile. 
        The National Cancer Institute funded the study. In charge of the test 
        was Dr. Charles Moertel who headed the Mayo Clininc’s North Central 
        Cancer Treatment Group study. (Moertel was probably not the best choice 
        the NCI could have made to head up such a study since he was the most 
        anti-alternative medicine physician in the country. Although he didn’t 
        know it at the time, Moertel was himself dying from cancer when he headed 
        up the study. Dr. Moertel also led the Mayo Clinic’s attack against 
        Nobel prize winner Dr. Linus Pauling’s unconventional vitamin/amino 
        acid treatment of cancer. Within a year of the NCCTG clinical tests, Moertel 
        succumbed to his cancer.) Moertel insisted his study was unbiased 
        by noting that the routes, dosage and schedule of administration of Laetrile 
        where chosen to be representative of current Laetrile practices. Patients 
        were also placed on diets identical to the one recommended by most Laetrile 
        practitioners. “Each patient,” Moertel indicated 
        in his report, “had either a tumor area which could be measured in 
        two dimensions or malignant hepatomegaly with a clearly defined liver 
        edge extending at least 5 cm on below the costal margin. Lesions visible 
        by radioisotope liver scan or by computerized tomographic scan were accepted 
        if they measured 5 cm in diameter.” According to Moertel, only patients 
        in good general condition, who were ambulatory and who were able to maintain 
        good nutrition were selected to participate. Patients who were bedridden 
        or otherwise disabled were ineligible. Naturopathic physicians who have 
        studied the medical pathology of the patients included in the study, and 
        manner in which Dr. Moertel conducted the study, believe Moertel was biased 
        and deliberately selected patients with very aggressive cancers who had 
        been diagnosed as terminal even though they were ambulatory at the time--patients 
        who most likely would not respond to alternative methods of treatment. The NCI admits that the patients selected 
        for the NCCTG study were all terminal, and that none of them had ever 
        received chemotherapy or had endured any surgery to remove tumors. Further, 
        Dr. Moertel admitted that he selected only those where the doctors knew 
        that conventional cancer drugs would not work due to the types of cancers 
        the patients had. Dr. Moertel did not want to “waste” people 
        who could be saved with conventional treatment. The deck was stacked against 
        the naturopathic physicians. The study was extremely biased since the 
        only patients included were people with aggressive, nontreatable cancers 
        that not even conventional cancer drugs could help. An honest, unbiased 
        study would have included patients with a great variety of cancers at 
        varying stages of development. To include only those written off as dead 
        by the medical community shows a clear bias on the part of the study coordinator. One hundred seventy-eight patients were 
        included in the clinical test. Fifty-four percent showed measurable cancer 
        progression after 21 days of intravenous treatment of Laetrile. After 
        3 months, 91% showed disease progression. After 7 months, 100% of the 
        patients had markedly larger tumors. Fifty percent of the patients died 
        within 5 months. Within 8 months, 85% of the patients were dead. During the test period, according to the 
        NCI, none of the four centers involved in the study found any anticancer 
        effect. All of them reported significant blood levels of cyanide in some, 
        but not all, of the patients. The NCI said: “...[L]aetrile failed 
        on four counts. It did not make cancer regress. It did not extend the 
        lifespan of cancer patients. It did not improve cancer patients’ 
        symptoms; and it did not help cancer patients to gain weight or otherwise 
        become more physically active. Laetrile and natural products containing 
        it...were thus found to be ineffective as a treatment for cancer.” In the minds of the naturopaths, the debate 
        over Laetrile and the attempt of the federal government to label amygdalin 
        as a regulated drug instead of a vitamin supplement, is one of money and 
        the issue of whether or not the medical community really wants to find 
        a cure for cancer. In the view of some alternative health practitioners 
        the medical community wants to ban the use of organic amygdalin (Vitamin 
        B-17) since it represents “the cheap cure” for cancer. However, 
        with non-FDA approved Laetrile shots ranging up to $300 per injection, 
        that doesn’t sound like a cheap cure to me--nor does using a medical 
        procedure (injection) to assimilate amygdalin without a practitioner’s 
        license strike me as either legally or medically prudent. When you want 
        a Vitamin B-12 shot, you go to your doctor. B-12 is an organic vitamin, 
        but in its serum form, it is regulated by the FDA and administered by 
        a licensed physician (even though the shot is given by a Physician’s 
        Assistant or a registered nurse). On the other hand, the naturopath can 
        rightfully argue that diabetics regularly give themselves injections of 
        insulin. The insulin, however, is regulated by the FDA and dispensed through 
        a licensed pharmacist. Is 
        there any merit to the cost argument? When you compare the price of a 
        $16.95 hundred-count bag of apricot seeds that lasts 15 to 20 days, to 
        a prescription of 30 to 60 Laetrile tablets at $5 to $20 per pill--or 
        whatever the market will bear--it is easy to see that an FDA-approved, 
        pharmaceutical company produced cancer fighting drug could be extremely 
        expensive for Americans without prescription coverage. Then there is the argument that cancer treatment 
        centers like the Mayo Clinic and others do not want to find a cure for 
        cancer since that would literally put them out of business. That is an 
        unsupported argument since the same logic could have been advanced about 
        the doctors who operated the polio treatment and research centers in the 
        early half of the century. The medical community did everything humanly 
        possible to put themselves out of business--and did. Polio was pretty 
        much eradicated in the industrialized world. The same can also be said 
        about small pox (even though new strains of that disease are now appearing 
        in AIDS victims) or muscular dystrophy, or any other horrible disease. 
        The doctors and research scientists in each of these fields are trying 
        hard to put themselves out of business. That said, we return to the question: is 
        there medical merit to Laetrile? And, the NCCTG clinical study notwithstanding, 
        does amygdalin have a curative effect against cancer? And, is it likely 
        that the medical community will create a prescription drug from amygdalin 
        that will be used to fight cancer? Dr. 
        Philip Binzel, Jr., M.D., a former physician with the FDA has been arguing 
        for years that Laetrile is the answer to fighting, and curing, cancer. 
        His book, Alive and Well , details 
        his investigation--and his conclusions. In the 1970s when the FDA banned both the 
        import of amygdalin into the country from Mexico, and the interstate transportation 
        of Vitamin B-17 from State to State, they claimed the reason for the ban 
        was that amygdalin (apricot, peach and plum pits and apple seeds) contained 
        traces of cyanide and if a consumer ate massive doses of amygdalin, it 
        could prove to be lethal, or at least that the person consuming amygdalin 
        risked severe toxic side affects. Clearly, the decision of the FDA to 
        ban amygdalin was influenced by the pharmaceutical industry which has 
        been experimenting with artificial forms of laetrile for several years 
        since the FDA has changed its opinion too many times why Laetrile needed 
        to be banned. After the NCCTG study, the view of the FDA 
        was that Laetrile was “neutral worthless.” It did nothing. It 
        had no medicinal value as an anticancer drug, nor would it do any serious 
        damage to the people who used it other than to discourage them from seeking 
        cancer treatment from a medial specialist. When the FDA went after apricotseeds.org, 
        their view was that Laetrile was a drug by definition of the Food, Drug 
        and Cosmetic Act and therefore had to be dispensed by a licensed physician. 
        When the FDA came back against Jason Vale the second time, their view 
        had changed. Once again, Laetrile was worthless as an anticancer agent 
        and Vale was a con man who profited by deceiving unfortunate Americans 
        with cancer into believing that apricot seeds would cure them. The FDA scientists missed what Dr. Binzel’s 
        research uncovered. The National Cancer Institute and the FDA knew from the NCCTG clinical 
        tests that amygdalin created cyanide in cancer patients since they detected 
        trace elements of the poison in all of the subjects in the NCCTG study. 
        They just didn’t know why it was there. Nor, apparently, did they 
        take the time, or expend the effort, to discover the answer. No one was 
        interested--no one, that is, except Dr. Philip Binzel. Addressing the subject on the British website, 
        World Without Cancer, Binzel said: “A doctor from the United States 
        FDA once said that Laetrile contains ‘free’ hydrogen cyanide 
        and, thus, is toxic. I would like to correct that misconception. There 
        is no ‘free’ hydrogen cyanide in Laetrile. When Laetrile comes 
        in contact with the enzyme beta-glucosidase, the Laetrile is broken down 
        to form two molecules of glucose, one molecule of benzaldehyde and one 
        molecule of hydrogen cyanide [HCN]. Within the body, the cancer cell and 
        only the cancer cell contains that enzyme. The 
        key word here is that the HCN must be FORMED. It is not found 
        floating around freely in the Laetrile and then released. It must be manufactured. 
        The enzyme beta-glucosidase, and only that enzyme, is capable of manufacturing 
        the HCN from Laetrile. If there is no beta-glucosidase, no HCN can be 
        formed from the Laetrile. “Laetrile does contain the cyanide 
        radical [CN]. This same cyanide radical is contained in Vitamin B-12 and 
        in berries such as blackberries, blueberries and strawberries. You never 
        hear of anyone getting cyanide poisoning from B-12 or any of the above-mentioned 
        berries, because they do not. The cyanide radical [CN] and hydrogen cyanide 
        [HCN] are two completely different compounds, just as pure sodium [Na+]--one 
        of the most toxic substances known to mankind--and sodium chloride [NaCl], 
        table salt, are two completely different compounds.” When the medical community first explored 
        the possibility of using Laetrile as a cancer drug in the 1920s, they 
        discovered that amygdalin secreted cyanide. They just didn’t understand 
        what triggered it, and they were clueless why it was important. Cyanide 
        was, after all, a poison that killed people. That was enough. Hydrogen cyanide [HCN] is a chemical that 
        kills cancer cells and leaves healthy cells intact. While the NCI found 
        HCN in the patients in the NCCTG study, the FDA, a couple of years later 
        found no evidence that Laetrile contained cyanide. Of course, the FDA 
        tested the Laetrile extract. Cyanide, Dr. Binzel discovered, does not 
        appear until Laetrile comes into contact with a cancer cell. At that point, 
        cyanide is metabolized and at that time, it attacks and kills the cancer 
        cell. The reason the FDA flip-flops so much on 
        whether or not Laetrile is a toxic element is that when they alleged that 
        Laetrile was toxic in the first Jason Vale hearing, Vale’s lawyers 
        challenged their claim and asked them to present evidence to that fact. 
        The FDA admitted they had none. Nevertheless, they still insist that a 
        minimum lethal dose of HCN is 100 mg per 150 lbs. In 1984 the FDA determined 
        that an apricot seed contains 2.92 mg/g of HCN and a peach pit contains 
        2.50 mg/g. This is interesting since a later FDA test revealed that Laetrile, 
        the serum form of amygdalin contains no HCN at all, and thus, is worthless 
        as an anticancer agent. It is clear that the Laetrile debate will 
        continue for the foreseeable future. In the meantime, the pharmaceutical 
        industry continues to test anticancer medicines derived from artificial 
        amygdalin, claiming that it is much safer, and much more stable, than 
        organic amygdalin. It’s a safe bet, however, that before the pharmaceutical 
        industry introduces an effective cancer-fighting amygdalin drug which 
        will cost the consumer much, much more than a bag of apricot seeds, serum 
        and tablet forms of Vitamin B-17 will be a regulated by the FDA and Laetrile 
        will be classified as a prescription drug. Jon 
        Christian Ryter's shocking expose: Whatever Happened To America? ORDER 
        IT TODAY. JUST 
        CLICK ON THE HYPERLINK BELOW CLICK 
              HERE TO ORDER IN 
              STOCK AND READY FOR SHIPMENT ISBN 
              0-87319-049-1 • 550 Pages • Comprehensive Index • Hardcover with dust jacket PRICE $29.95 US • $34.95 Canada NEW 
              REVISED PAPERBACK EDITION ISBN 
              0-87319-049-1 • 564 Pages • Comprehensive Index • Paperback PRICE $22.95 US • $29.95 Canada INTRODUCTORY 
              OFFER: $17.95 US • $24.95 Canada ORDER 
              TODAY! 