
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 15:48:20 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 15:48:20 GMT
Cache-Control: store, no-cache, must-revalidate
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Pyridoxine dependency | Epilepsy Action Site A-Z Terms and conditions Skip to Navigation Epilepsy Action Home | Information for... | Syndromes | Pyridoxine dependency Last updated 19 Oct 2011, review date due 19 Oct 2013 Pyridoxine (also called vitamin B6, which is one of the B-complex vitamins) dependency is a very rare condition that has been recognised for about 50 years. The condition is also sometimes called pyridoxine responsive epilepsy. Although it is not exactly known how rare the condition really is, it probably occurs in no more than one in 200,000 - 400,000 children. The condition usually presents in the first few days or weeks of life but may present in the week or two before the baby is born (called in-utero seizures) or, rarely as late as 15 or 18 months of age. The seizures may be all types - myoclonic, clonic, tonic, tonic-clonic or even infantile spasms. It is in fact quite common for an infant with pyridoxine-dependency to have many different types of seizures, all at the same time. Occasionally young children who present with infantile spasms in the first year of life (and these children have a type of epilepsy called West Syndrome) will respond to pyridoxine but this does not always mean that they will have pyridoxine-dependency. In view of this, a number of doctors - particularly in Japan and some Eastern European countries - will give pyridoxine as the very first drug when an infant presents with infantile spasms. This is just in case they may have pyridoxine-dependency. However, less than one in ten or even one in 20 of children who present with infantile spasms as their first or only seizure type actually turn out to have genuine pyridoxine-dependency. Clearly this means that at least nine or nine and a half out of ten of children with infantile spasms do not have pyridoxine-dependency. Recent advances Until very recently there were no specific tests that could diagnose pyridoxine-dependency including blood and urine tests or brain scans (either a computerised tomography (CT), or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan). However, there is now a blood test that may show a biochemical or even genetic abnormality in a number of children with this condition. However, it is not yet clear if these abnormal tests will be found in every child with pyridoxine dependency. The electroencephalogram (EEG) is usually very abnormal in children with pyridoxine-dependency and may even look like the EEG pattern in infants who have West Syndrome who have infantile spasms. This EEG pattern is called hypsarrhythmia. At the present time, the diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependency can only really be made by what is called a drug trial, or ‘therapeutic challenge’. A therapeutic challenge This means the following: when a child is thought to have the condition, pyridoxine (vitamin B6) is given for a period of time, varying from a few days, or ideally, for three or four weeks. If the child’s seizures continue after a three or four week trial of pyridoxine, then it is very unlikely that they have pyridoxine-dependency. If the child’s seizures show a dramatic reduction or stop altogether, then the pyridoxine is stopped immediately (not withdrawn gradually first). If the child’s seizures then recur, the pyridoxine is restarted. If the seizures then stop again after the pyridoxine has been restarted, then this makes the diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependency very likely. The pyridoxine is then continued, either indefinitely or certainly for the next 12 months before deciding whether to undertake another ‘therapeutic challenge’ by stopping the drug. If the blood tests mentioned above have shown the biochemical or genetic abnormality that have been found in this condition, then there will probably be no need to give a second therapeutic challenge with pyridoxine. Pyridoxine is given by mouth, usually twice a day. Sometimes the drug may be injected into a vein while the child is having an EEG to see if the EEG becomes normal during or immediately after the injection. Clearly this must only be carried out in specialist centres. It is also important to understand that even if the EEG remains abnormal during or just after the injection of pyridoxine, this does not necessarily exclude a diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependency. For this reason most specialists (paediatric neurologists) would recommend giving pyridoxine by mouth for at least three or four weeks - before then deciding whether to continue the drug for longer. The dose of pyridoxine is based on the child’s weight; some children need only a small dose, while others need quite high doses, depending on how quickly the seizures stop after pyridoxine is prescribed. Pyridoxine is given either once or twice a day. When given by mouth, pyridoxine has very few long-term side effects. More recently, a drug called pyridoxal phosphate has been used when pyridoxine has not been helpful. Pyridoxal phosphate is similar to but not the same as pyridoxine. This should be discussed with your hospital doctor. A very rare condition Most, if not all children who have pyridoxine-dependency do not respond to the commonly used antiepileptic drugs, such as carbamazepine, sodium valproate, lamotrigine, topiramate, phenobarbital, phenytoin or diazepam. In view of this and the fact that, once diagnosed, pyridoxine-dependency is so easily treated, most specialists would always consider giving a three or four week course (a ‘therapeutic trial’) of pyridoxine to all children who present with epileptic seizures in the first year of life and where the seizures do not respond to the usual antiepileptic drugs. However, it is again important to emphasise that despite this approach pyridoxine-dependency remains a very rare condition, and a very rare cause of epilepsy in children. In 16 years at Alder Hey I have often thought about the diagnosis and given a trial of pyridoxine and also pyridoxal phosphate but have never been able to make a definite diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependency Possible causes It is not entirely clear why pyridoxine-dependency causes epilepsy. However the most likely explanation is that pyridoxine is used by the body to make a substance within the brain called gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA). GABA is one of a group of chemicals found within the brain called neurotransmitters which are very important in epilepsy. The other most important neurotransmitter in the brain is one called glutamic acid, which is an excitatory neurotransmitter. GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter - which means that it has a very important function in inhibiting or preventing epileptic seizures. If pyridoxine is not being used properly (as occurs in pyridoxine-dependency), then GABA will not be present in sufficient amounts. As a result seizures will not be prevented, and are likely to occur very frequently. The inheritance factor Pyridoxine-dependency is a genetic disorder - which means that it is inherited. The pattern of inheritance is what is called ‘autosomal recessive’, which means that both parents are carriers of the disorder but do not have the disorder themselves. It is the recent blood test mentioned above that may be very helpful in understanding more about the genetics or inheritance factor in pyridoxine dependency. Support organisation Contact a Family, 209-211 City Road, London, EC1V 1JN, telephone 0808 808 3555. www.cafamily.org.uk Epilepsy Action is indebted to Dr Richard Appleton, a Consultant Paediatric Neurologist who specialises in children’s epilepsy, and to Dr Rachel Kneen, Consultant Paediatric Neurologist and Dr Stewart Macleod, Specialist Registrar in paediatric neurology, at Alder Hey at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital, Liverpool, who have kindly prepared this information. Because this page is written by an epilepsy healthcare professional and not by Epilepsy Action, it falls outside the requirements of the Information Standard. This is why the Information Standard logo is not shown on this page. ↑ Syndromes ↑ ‹ Panayiotopoulos syndrome Rasmussen syndrome › Select rating Give it 1/5 Give it 2/5 Give it 3/5 Give it 4/5 Give it 5/5 Your rating: None Average: 2.7 ( 12 votes) No one has commented on this page yet. Be the first. Add new comment Contact Author Your name: * Email: * Comment: * CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. What code is in the image?: * Enter the characters shown in the image without spaces, also respect upper and lower case. Information for... people with epilepsy children with epilepsy teenagers with epilepsy parents of children with epilepsy education professionals employers GPs, family doctors and health professionals prisons Information on... what is epilepsy? first aid seizures diagnosis treatment driving women and epilepsy everything else Fundraise Events Give as you shop Share your day Give as you recycle Give as you search Online shop Donate General donations Latest appeal In celebration In memory A gift in your will Payroll Giving Home Money Box Company Trust and foundations Gift Aid Membership Join Renew Standard Professional memberZONE Campaigns Take epilepsy action campaign Automatic substitution of anti-epileptic drugs National commissioning of paediatric epilepsy surgery National Epilepsy Week Save our Sapphires, protecting all epilepsy specialist nurse posts Women's campaigns Epilepsy in England: time for change 'Epilepsy Aware' scheme for GP practices and pharmacies Campaign Supporters' Group Surveys News Epilepsy Today magazine Positive Action newsletter Drugwatch Press Press Releases Research Our services Local branches Local events Volunteering Insurances Training Forum About us Impact Report Annual report Epilepsy Action's goals Governance Vacancies What we do Contact us Epilepsy advice and information What is epilepsy? Caring for a baby or young child when you have epilepsy: a detailed guide Children Depression and epilepsy Developing epilepsy in later life Driving and epilepsy Education Entitlements and benefits for people with epilepsy Epilepsy and learning disabilities Epilepsy and Travel abroad Epilepsy information for prisons Epilepsy, osteoporosis and osteomalacia Epilepsy: diagnosis, treatment and healthcare in the UK Epileptic seizures explained Flu and epilepsy Identity jewellery Inheritance Me and my dad Memory Mobile phones and epilepsy Photosensitive epilepsy Safety advice for people with epilepsy Sports and leisure Stress and epilepsy Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) Syndromes Aicardi syndrome Angelman syndrome Benign epilepsy of childhood with occipital paroxysms (BECOP) Benign myoclonic epilepsy in infancy Benign neonatal convulsions Benign partial epilepsy in infancy Benign rolandic epilepsy Childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) Early myoclonic encephalopathy Electrical status epilepticus during slow-wave sleep (ESESS) Epilepsy with myoclonic absences Eyelid myoclonia with absences (EMA) Gelastic Epilepsy Generalised epilepsy with febrile seizure plus (GEFS+) Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) Landau Kleffner Syndrome Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome Migrating partial epilepsy in infancy Myoclonic astatic epilepsy (Doose syndrome) Ohtahara Syndrome Panayiotopoulos syndrome Pyridoxine dependency Rasmussen syndrome Rett syndrome Ring chromosome 20 syndrome Severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy (SMEI) Sturge-Weber syndrome Unverricht-Lundborg syndrome West syndrome (infantile spasms) The Disability Discrimination Act The Equality Act and epilepsy Vagus nerve stimulation therapy in epilepsy Work and epilepsy Women and epilepsy Young people and epilepsy Epilepsy Action and the Information Standard The Epilepsies: You, Epilepsy and the NICE Guideline Epilepsy Action Information Reviewers (EAIRs) Technical editing/writing and copyright Tell us what you think of our website Printer-friendly version PDF Version Epilepsy Helpline UK freephone 0808 800 5050 International +44 113 210 8850 Email: helpline@epilepsy.org.uk Twitter: epilepsyadvice Txt msg: 0753 741 0044 info Twitter Updates | Epilepsy Action on Twitter Want to link to our site? Department of Health The Information Standard : Epilepsy Action is one of the first organisations in the UK to be certified as a quality provider of health and social care information. Main office: +44 (0)113 210 8800  epilepsy@epilepsy.org.uk, Epilepsy Helpline: freephone 0808 800 5050 (UK only)  helpline@epilepsy.org.uk Epilepsy Action is the working name of British Epilepsy Association. British Epilepsy Association is a registered charity in England (No. 234343) and a company limited by guarantee (registered in England No. 797997). Registered office: New Anstey House, Gate Way Drive, Yeadon, Leeds LS19 7XY, United K