
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 00:30:40 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: TMX-194.19
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
ETag: 40c25e5784636c1175cb888abaaf2e64
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Mon, 20 Feb 2012 00:30:40 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Kegels Workouts Womens Forum - The Place For Moms Forums Login/Register Contact Us Sunday, 19th February 2012 Parenting Pregnancy & Birth Baby Toddler Adoption Teens & Tweens Family Budgets Family Travel Family Health Crafts & Activities Education Single Moms Parenting Videos Parenting Expert Blogs Thought I Was Perfect Mommy Savers The List Family Ties Budget101 Buzz Food Healthy Can Be Delicious Recipes Quick & Easy Snacks Backyard BBQ Holidays & Parties Desserts Tips and Techniques Food Videos Food Expert Blogs Sally's Food for Thought Homestyle Cooking Made Simple Tomgirl Taste Health Fitness Wellness Diet Digestion Caregivers Managing Stress Heart Smarts Sexual Health OB GYN Bladder Health Depression Cancer Awareness Cold & Flu Allergies Health Videos Health & Wellness Expert Blogs Be Healthy, Be Moved Dietician on a Mission Word on Wellness Living Decorating Do It Yourself Organization The Garden Go Green Cleaning & Laundry Pets Safety Tips Careers Auto Living Videos Living Expert Blogs Biz Buzz Life Happenings Style Fashion Makeup Skin Care Hair Care Celebrity Style Live Beautifully Plus Size Men's Fashion Style Videos Style Expert Blogs Fuel Your Fashion Fashion for Real Life The StyleList The Beauty Duo Real Deal Beauty Entertainment Red Carpet Showdown Celebrity Gossip Movies & TV Music & Concerts Travel & Leisure Culture & Arts Books & Authors Humor & Fun Girls Night Out Entertainment Videos Love Friends & Family Dating & Romance Weddings Marriage Sex Divorce Love Videos Love Expert Blogs Divorce And You Dating Tales Antebellum Collections Video Easter / Passover Traditions Recipes Family Gatherings Crafts Skip to content by: Andrea Metcalf new: How to Speed Recovery After a Workout by: Franceen Friefeld new: Franceen Friefeld's Biography by: Bretton Holmes new: Whitney Houston's Drug Addiction Health OB GYN Kegels Workouts Kegels Workouts Tweet Kegels Benefits Kegels exercises are most often associated with pregnancy. However, they are an important part of our overall health as women whether or not we have been or currently are pregnant. Kegels exercise strengthens the pelvic floor muscles that are responsible for keeping our pelvic organs in place in order to avoid urinary incontinence. Kegels increase sexual response as well. As the pelvic floor muscles are strengthened, women have reported more sexual satisfaction. Kegels Exercises Kegel exercises are named after Dr. Kegels who developed them. Sometimes the pelvic floor muscles are even referred to as Kegels muscles. If you have never done Kegels exercises, one easy way to identify your pelvic floor muscles is to start and stop the flow of urine. Once you know where the muscles are, you can exercise them almost anytime without anyone even knowing. You can exercise in the car, while watching television, or sitting at the computer. It is important to exercise your kegels everyday for about 5-10 minutes by alternatingly clentching and relaxing the muscles in 30 second intervals. While doing kegels workouts , make sure to keep breathing. While doing kegels, it can be easy to tighten the muscles in the buttocks, abdomen, or thighs, so remember to isolate the pelvic floor muscles. If you have never done kegels, they may feel awkward at first. Keep at it. Just as in any exercise, it may take a few sessions before you are comfortable with the workout. One technique many women recommend is to do kegels while at a stop light in traffic. You can exercise your kegels by simply tightening the muscles and holding them, with a short rest period in between. Start at 10 seconds and work your way up to 30 seconds. Another easy kegels exercise is to hold for 5 seconds and then release for 5 seconds. You can work up to 10 seconds with rest in between. If you are pregnant, doing kegels everyday during your pregnancy can help to make childbirth easier. The stress of childbirth can stretch your muscles. Kegels will help your muscles rebound more quickly. You will also be less likely to experience stress incontinence (such as urinating while coughing) after childbirth. If you are having trouble doing kegels, consider discussing the issue at your next docto'’s appointment or with other women. Although we may feel some embarrassment in discussing these issues, they are common to women. Men can also experience Kegels benefits from the workouts, although this is less commonly known. Some doctors even recommend doing Kegels exercises using biofeedback to ensure they are done correctly. Seeking help to increase health and well-being is one way to empower ourselves as women. Keep Reading: Common STDs What are the Most Common Sexually Transmitted Diseases? 
Sexually transmitted Endocrinology  and Metabolism Thyroid Problems Affect Fertility and Metabolism in Women
We may not mention Th Signs of Early Menopause Not the Best Situation to be Early in
Not only is menopause an inevitable pro Early Menstruation Are Girls Menstruating At a Younger Age?
“Children are growing up so fast t Teresa Graham Brett I am mom to two boys, Martel and Greyson, and partner to Rob. I've learned so much about being a parent and a better person from all of them. They're my inspiration and my partner Rob supports me in all my endeavors! For my entire life, I spent much of my career in universities until I decided to leave my more than full-time position to start a consulting business and spend more time with my family. I now do consulting for universities, I published a website www.parentingforsocialchange.com and my book "Parenting for Social Change" was released in February 2011. In addition to spending time with family, I love to write, read, watch movies, and garden. You need to login or register to post comments. Discuss this item on the forums. Sign Up For Our Newsletter! First Name: Last Name: Email: Zip Code: Country: Gender Birth Year About Us | Contact Us | Become a WF Pub