
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Tue, 08 May 2012 21:18:42 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

Orthaheel orthotic insoles HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Health » Personal Health Information and Self-Help » Health Self-Help » Orthaheel orthotic insoles 77 rate or flag By michifus See all 8 photos Orthaheel Insoles The feet have
evolved to provide exceptional cushioning for the body, however the muscles,
ligaments and tendons are best suited to walking in soft ground. As the heel strikes,
soft ground provides cushioning for the heel absorbing the impact force. As the
foot moves through the walking cycle the ground gives way underfoot and
stretches the muscles allowing the plantar fascia to work as a natural shock
absorber. However things go somewhat awry on harder surfaces such as concrete
and tarmac which has no “give”, and shockwaves are sent up the legs aggravating
the joints. Hard surfaces
cause the feet to overpronate, or roll over when walking, a problem which
affects up to 70% of people. When the feet pronate, the arches of the feet
flatten and are required to work outside of optimal conditions. This interferes
with movement of the ankles, knees, hips and back and can lead to pain. Developing a solution The problem
was all too apparent to Phillip Vasyli, a leading Australian podiatrist, who
had long been treating aches and pains of his patients by developing custom
orthotics to fit inside their shoes. The shoe inserts were costly to make and
time consuming to develop, however by altering the angles and position of the
feet whilst walking, they were remarkably successful in reducing pain not just
in the feet and legs, but throughout the body. He decided to set about developing a cheaper alternative
to the custom orthotic, and developed Orthaheel, an over the counter treatment
based on the shape of an average foot. Orthaheel
orthotic insoles realign the foot and improve the posture. They reduce the
forces acting on the feet and in turn, the rest of the body. The feet are the
only parts of the body which are in contact with the ground, and are required
to support the whole of the body weight. By using Orthaheel orthotic insoles
the forces affecting the feet, ankles, knees, hips and back are reduced, providing
important pain relief. Orthaheel pain relief Orthaheel helps to eliminate foot, ankle, knee and lower back pain Orthaheel Insole size guide The Orthaheel Insole range offers pain relieving insoles for all shoe types and all foot sizes. Use the size chart below to work out the insole size you need Scholl Size Guide for
men Size  1 – 2.5        XXS Size  3 – 4.5        XS Size  5 –
6.5        S Size  7 – 8.5        M Size  9 –
10.5      L Size 11 –
12.5   XL Scholl Size guide for
women Size  1.5 - 3        XXS Size  3.5 - 5        XS Size  5.5 -
7        S Size  7.5 - 9        M Size  9.5 -
11      L The Orthaheel orthotic insoles range Due to the excellent benefits of Orthaheel inserts, foot
care experts Scholl teamed up with Phillip Vasyli to produce a range of insoles
and inserts to offer support and help prevent pronation of the feet. The range
was developed to fit all feet and be inserted into all shoe types. They provide
superior pain relief, cushioning and correction for the feet and are designed
to last for up to 12 months before replacement is advised. Whether pain is
caused by posture defects, sports, diseases or even high heeled shoes, Scholl
have a product to match. Choosing the correct orthotic will help to eliminate pain
from overpronation, reduce the painful symptoms of diseases such as
osteoarthritis and diabetes, and can improve well being throughout the whole
body by making small adjustments to the walking gait and alignment of the bones
and muscles in the feet. The insert and insole range is available for men and women,
with six styles geared to different shoe types and designed to help reduce pain
in specific areas of the lower body. Orthaheel regular insoles Orthaheel Relief Insoles 3/4 Length Amazon Price: $33.50 List Price: $32.99 Regular Orthaheel Orthotic insoles The standard insole to reduce pronation and provide support
for the heel and foot arches ¾ length insole Reduces pronation and stresses in
the feet, legs and lower back Ideal to ease pain under and at
the back of the heel, knee pain and lower back pain Supports the heel and the foot
arch Suitable for use in most shoe
types Stays in place without glue Left and right insole included Sizes: XXS, XS, S, M, L, XL Orthaheel Gel Inserts Orthaheel Gel Heel inserts Ideal for heel pain and easing symptoms of plantar
fasciitis, and can fit in all shoe types Relieves pain under heel and in the back of the heel Elevates the heel and holds it in position Reduces forces acting on the plantar fascia Reduces stress on the Achilles tendon Suitable for any shoe style Stays in place without glue Left and right insole included Sizes: S, M, L Orthaheel Workforce Insoles Orthaheel Slimfit Women's 3/4 Length Orthotics Amazon Price: $34.95 List Price: $32.99 The Orthaheel Workforce range If you spend all day on your feet, this insert helps to
provide the right level of cushioning for the whole of the foot, including the
toes. Relieves pain under and at the
back of the heel Relieves knee pain and some
lower back pain Reduces pronation which leads
to pain Reduces stress to the feet,
ankles, knees and lower back Support for the entire foot,
including the toes Suitable for wide shoes such
as work shoes, sports shoes and boots Stays in place without glue Left and right insole included Sizes: XS,S, M, L, XL Orthaheel Slim fit for high heels and narrow shoes Orthaheel Slimfit Women's 3/4 Length Orthotics Amazon Price: $34.99 Orthaheel slim fit inserts Designed for narrow shoes, high heels and stilettos, custom
developed for the female foot.  If your
feet are a total mess after a night in your spikes, this insert could well be
the answer. Relieves heel pain and burning
in the ball of the foot Great for tired and aching
feet Helps prevent hard skin and
callus formation Support for the ball, heel and
foot arch Reduces pressures which lead
to pain Runs to just behind the toes ¾ length insert ideal for
shoes with a narrow toe box Stays in place without glue Left and right insole included Sizes: XS,S, M, L Orthaheel Sports Insoles Orthaheel Shock Absorber Men's / Women's Orthotic Insoles Amazon Price: $34.99 The Orthaheel sports orthotic The ideal insole for jogging, running and most sports. Provides
shock absorption for the whole foot and prevents side to side movement of the
foot. Relieves pain under heel and
in the back of the heel Eases knee and metatarsal
pain, and some lower back pain Motion control to prevent
lateral movement of the foot Reduces pronation and stress
to the joints Full length insole to support
the whole foot Suitable for wide shoes
including sports shoes and walking boots Stays in place without glue Left and right insole included Sizes: XS,S, M, L, XL Orthaheel Shock absorber The Orthaheel Shock Absorber The super shock absorbing insole, perfect for high impact
sports to combat pain throughout the lower body and back Relieves pain under heel and
in the back of the heel Eases knee and metatarsal
pain, and some lower back pain Ideal for high impact sports Shock absorption for the whole
length of the foot Reduces pronation which leads
to pain Support for the whole foot Suitable for wide shoes Stays in place without glue Left and right insole included Sizes: S, M, L, XL Where to buy Orthaheel insoles and inserts All of the inserts have been clinically proven to reduce pronation, to aid the movement of the feet and target heel and ankle pain. In the words of Phillip Vasyli, podiatrist and creator of Orthaheel, "It is my experience that many common aches and pains occur from poor lower limb alignment. Pain relief can be natural and affordable for everyone." Scholl Orthaheel Insoles are available to UK customers from Scholl UK For details of Orthaheel Sandals for summer for men, visit my Mens Orthaheel sandals hub vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful Funny Awesome Beautiful Interesting Foot Health: Supination and Pronation Explained Foot Health: The health benefits of barefoot walking and running Comments Loading... No comments yet. Submit a Comment Members and Guests Sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account. Name: Comment: working No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites 89 michifus 156 Followers 99 Hubs Joined 2 years ago Read more Hubs by michifus Contact michifus Related Hubs Sesamoiditis and the Sesamoid Bones by michifus Best Shoe Inserts for Plantar Fasciitis: Orthotic Insoles... by Chris Telden Walkfit Orthotics Insole Reviews: The Theory and the... by belizerealestate Orthotic Insoles by James Wikman Orthaheel review by belizerealestate Powerstep Insoles by James Wikman Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. t