Set-Cookie: persistence=1325798316.20480.0000; expires=Wed, 31-Dec-2014 21:01:36 GMT; path=/
Vary: Accept-Encoding

All PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions  messages About Us Sponsored by: CTCA Cancer News Low 'Bad' Cholesterol Levels May Be Linked to Cancer Risk Preliminary study found patients had low LDL cholesterol years before cancer diagnosis Read full story > Cancer News Categories Breast Cancer News Colorectal Cancer News Gynecologic Cancer News Hematological Cancer News Lung Cancer News Prostate Cancer News Pancreatic Cancer News Other Cancer News Message Board Cancers Bladder Cancer Bone Cancer Brain Cancer Breast Cancer Colon Cancer Esophageal Cancer Gynecological Cancers Kidney Cancer Leukemia Liver Cancer Lung Cancer Melanoma Pancreatic Cancer Prostate Cancer Stomach Cancer Testicular Cancer After Treatment Emotional Support Nutritional Concerns Side Effects Cancer Diagnosis Diagnostic Imaging Lab Tests Other Tests Cancer Nutrition Diet Recipes Supplements Cancer Prevention Genetics Prevention Tips Screening Cancer Treatments Alternative Treatments Clinical Trials & Research Conventional Treatments Insurance Questions Spiritual Support Caregivers Lifestyle Support Tips Bereavement Stories Can't find a topic you're looking for? View all of our message board topics Blog Resources Cancer Atlas Cancer Information Weekly Cancer Newsletter Insurance Information Your Guide to Cancer Care Podcasts CF Thrive Magazine Recipes Login or Join Now CancerCompass Participate Message Board Cancer Treatments Clinical Trials and Research PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions View all Clinical Trials and Research Discussions Post A New Discussion 7 Posts | Page(s): 1 Jaspar Add As Friend Private Reply Report Abuse Stop Tracking Track Thread Email Friend PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions by Jaspar on Mon Dec 12, 2011 03:04 PM Quote | Reply Kelly A. Turner "is a researcher, lecturer, and consultant in the field of Integrative Oncology. Her specialized research focus is the “unexpected remission” of cancer—a remission that occurs either in the absence of Western medicine or after Western medicine has failed to achieve remission." She interviewed 20 people who experienced spontaneous remissions from cancer and 50 healers. She summarizes the most common beliefs and actions of people who experience such remissions. The title of the article is When Cancer Disappears: The Curious Phenomenon of “Unexpected Remission” and it appears in the December 2011 issue of Noetic Now, the journal of the Institute of Noetic Sciences, available online. Jaspar Quote | Reply Share andy73 Add As Friend Private Reply Report Abuse Stop Tracking Track Thread Email Friend RE: PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions by andy73 on Tue Dec 13, 2011 04:46 AM Quote | Reply Thanks, thought this article was interesting. Excerpt - "In addition to these three underlying beliefs about health, there were also six treatments that the cancer survivors and healers discussed most frequently. These included physical as well as emotional, energetic, and spiritual “treatments.” They are listed below in alphabetical order. Changing One’s Diet The majority of my interviewees believed it was important to change their diet to primarily whole vegetables, fruits, grains, and beans, while eliminating meat, sugar, dairy, and refined grains. Unexpected Survivor #16, who overcame liver cancer without conventional medical treatment, explains the major changes he made in his diet: [I healed] by just going on a basic, good, predominantly raw, vegan diet alone and supplementing it with lots of juices, like carrot juice, which of course is packed with nutrients. And the reason why the juices are so important is we have depleted basically all of our produce . . . That’s the reason for using juices as a supplement . . . All of a sudden the body says, Wow! It’s like watering the lawn when it’s dry. " full article - http://www.noetic.org/noetic/issue-seventeen-december/unexpe Quote | Reply Share Angelben Add As Friend Private Reply Report Abuse Stop Tracking Track Thread Email Friend RE: PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions by Angelben on Fri Jan 13, 2012 05:52 PM Quote | Reply Many of these spontanious remissions are due to oncolytic viruses, which generates an immune response to the virus & to the antigens released from the lysed cancer cells. Quote | Reply Share Angelben Add As Friend Private Reply Report Abuse Stop Tracking Track Thread Email Friend RE: PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions by Angelben on Thu Feb 16, 2012 09:54 PM Quote | Reply Many spontanous remissions are due to oncolytic viruses, which replicated only in cancer cells and destroy them. In clinical trials they are using these special viruses to treat cancers. My website has several articles from medical journals and videos from several medical schools that explain "Virotherapy". http://www.biologicalcancertreatments.com/ I am an example of this. I had Euwings Sarcoma when I was 9 and I contracted the real Measles & a few weeks later the real Mumps. I was a very sick little boy, but my cancer dissappeared in a "spontanous remission", which they later determined was from these back to back viral infections. The Mayo clinic has studied this for many years and today they are using the Measles Vaccine to treat cancers in clinical trials. They are using the Reo-virus, the Seneca Valley Virus, Adneoviruses and Pox viruses in clinical trials to treat various cancers. These oncolytic viruses work very quickly in destroying a tumor and the method of administration make all of the difference in success. Benjamin Quote | Reply Share mehitabel Add As Friend Private Reply Report Abuse Stop Tracking Track Thread Email Friend RE: PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions by mehitabel on Fri Feb 17, 2012 12:50 AM Quote | Reply The author of this article, Kelly Turner, PhD., readily admits to her "research" consisting of "traveling the world in search of fifty nonallopathic cancer healers" and upon return from this "amazing" trip, she "found twenty unpublished cases of unexpected remission and conducted phone interviews with the survivors." She identifies 75 "treatments" having been given to her interviewees without mentioning how many, if any, were conventional treatments. There is complete absence of proof of cancer and proof of remission. I was hoping for something interesting, enlightening, supported by science -- but there is none of that. This is woo -- vegan-biased, positive self-talk woo. On the subject of genuine cancer remissions, I follow Coley's Toxins -- a tragic suppression of good medicine in American history. William Coley M.D., in the early 1900's witnessed some spontaneous remissions occuring to cancer patients after coincidental hunger and fever. http://www.second-opinions.co.uk/coleys_toxin2.html And thank you Angelben for the links on oncolytic viruses. I think oncolytic viruses hold great potential for attacking cancer directly. They present a biological elegance missing from targeted chemos.  I try to follow progress on the seneca valley virus. These areas of medicine seem to move so slowly. Spontaneous remissions do happen with possibly greater frequency than we are aware of. "At least for small tumors the frequency of spontaneous regression most likely was drastically underrated. In a carefully designed study on mammography it was found that 22% of all breast cancer cases underwent spontaneous regression. [3] Searching for 'cancer AND (spontaneous AND (regression OR remission))' in the database PubMed retrieves about 10000 publications." (wiki) I feel the only thing that can be said of certainty with regard to spontaneous remissions is that they have ABSOLUTELY NOTHING TO DO WITH A VEGAN DIET or positive self-talk. good health, ron Quote | Reply Share andy73 Add As Friend Private Reply Report Abuse Stop Tracking Track Thread Email Friend RE: PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions by andy73 on Fri Feb 17, 2012 04:43 PM Quote | Reply Respectfully, we can simply look to the work and results of Dr Gerson Dr Robert Good's extensive work, former head of Sloan Kettering, is further confirmation Quote | Reply Share mehitabel Add As Friend Private Reply Report Abuse Stop Tracking Track Thread Email Friend RE: PhD writes thesis on spontaneous remissions by mehitabel on Fri Feb 17, 2012 06:33 PM Quote | Reply oh andy, andy, andy, (btw, your kids are georgeous) -- have you ever met woo that you didn't just fall in love with? ------------------------------------------- http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/index.php/the-not-so-bea Actually, the Gerson protocol was a precursor to the now more commonly discussed and more (in)famous Gonzalez protocol, which my co-blogger Dr. Kimball Atwood IV deconstructed in such exquisite detail over the course of several posts right here on this very blog a while back ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 ). Grafted onto the therapy by his daughter Charlotte since Max Gerson’s death have been other forms of woo , such as liver extract injections, ozone enemas, "live cell therapy," thyroid tablets, castor oil enemas, clay packs, laetrile, and "vaccines" made from influenza virus and killed Staphylococcus aureus bacteria. Gerson’s "evidence" in the form of his case series was examined by the National Cancer Institute back in the 1950s, and this is what was found : In 1947, the NCI reviewed ten cases selected by Dr. Gerson and found his report unconvincing. That same year, a committee appointed by the New York County Medical Society reviewed records of 86 patients, examined ten patients, and found no evidence that the Gerson method had value in treating cancer. An NCI analysis of Dr. Gerson’s book A Cancer Therapy: Results of Fifty Cases concluded in 1959 that most of the cases failed to meet the criteria (such as histologic verification of cancer) for proper evaluation of a cancer case [16]. A recent review of the Gerson treatment rationale concluded: (a) the "poisons" Gerson claimed to be present in processed foods have never been identified, (b) frequent coffee enemas have never been shown to mobilize and remove poisons from the liver and intestines of cancer patients, (c) there is no evidence that any such poisons are related to the onset of cancer, (d) there is no evidence that a "healing" inflammatory reaction exists that can seek out and kill cancer cells [17]. And: Charlotte Gerson claims that treatment at the clinic has produced high cure rates for many cancers. In 1986, however, investigators learned that patients were not monitored after they left the facility [19]. Although clinic personnel later said they would follow their patients systematically, there is no published evidence that they have done so. A naturopath who visited the Gerson Clinic in 1983 was able to track 21 patients over a 5-year period (or until death) through annual letters or phone calls. At the 5-year mark, only one was still alive (but not cancer-free); the rest had succumbed to their cancer [20]. ------------------------------------------- http://allbleedingstops.blogspot.com/2009/09/human-cost-of-w "The Human Cost of Woo" "Most woo is harmless -- but that's because most woo is directed at chronic, ill-defined, or otherwise incurable conditions. Think chronic fatigue or fibromyalgia. Wave a magnet at somebody, get them to do a lot of enemas and go on a special diet, and you get to write a book and go on Oprah and collect a lot of money. If the subjects of the "magical thinking medicine" think they are better from the intervention, then so much the better. ... But when woo supplants real medicine against lethal diseases that actually have effective treatments , the harm is so much more severe and so apparent that it cannot be left unrecognized. Because of the practitioners of "alternative" medical treatments who irresponsibly and dishonestly teach people to distrust medicine and embrace unscientific treatments, this young woman is enduring incalculable pain, and may well lose her life. It's sad, and it's an outrage." ---------------------------------------- "Respectfully" there is no way to deal with woo-meisters like Gonzalez, Kelly, Gerson et al with respect. good health, ron Quote | Reply Share 7 Posts | Page(s): 1 Track this discussion When you track a discussion, you will get notified by e-mail if anyone else posts a new message on this discussion. Are you sure you want to track this discussion? Track Discussion Stop tracking this discussion If you stop tracking this discussion, you will no longer get notified by e-mail if anyone else posts a new message on this discussion. Are you sure you want to stop tracking this discussion? Stop Tracking Subscribe to this message board discussion Latest Messages View More RE: hpv tonsil recurrence posted 2 minutes ago by aharnes RE: Pancreatic Cancer  - chemo... posted 6 minutes ago by praying4acure Hard to Understand posted 8 minutes ago by rachael RE: teeth removal post radiati... posted 8 minutes ago by Sdurnell New here posted 24 minutes ago by praying4acure CancerCompass Poll Changes in the shade, distribution or color throughout a mole could be a sign of melanoma True False Connect Search For Others Create Your Profile Participate Message Board Learn Cancer Atlas Cancer News Cancer Blog Cancer Information Weekly Cancer Newsletter Insurance Information Your Guide to Cancer Care Podcasts CF Thrive™ Magazine Recipes About Us Contact Us Help Us Improve Why Join? Tour Our Sponsors RSS Feeds Sitemap Latest Features © Copyright 2012 Rising Tide. Disclaimer Guidelines Online Service Agreement Privacy Policy Sponsored Resources: Cancer Treatment Cancer Nutrition We care about your feedback. L