Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bacterial Vaginosis - My Home Remedies Home Remedies for Bacterial Vaginosis WARNING: This home remedies site is intended to be archival in nature.  The natural remedies here are submitted by numerous people from around the world, and we have no way to test or verify every remedy. As such these home remedies should be used for academic purposes only.  Never use any home remedy or other self treatment without being advised to do so by a physician. NOTICE: This page was generated previously and may not be up to date.  To view the most recent page, go to the dynamically generated version of the Bacterial Vaginosis home remedies page. Bacterial Vaginosis Home Remedies: Submitted at 2010-10-18 20:56:27 I had BV for 6 months and alos a yeast infection off and on, I used the gel crap the doc prescribed and it didn't work.....then I looked online and noticed what other women were doing to treat BV and I went out and bought acidophilus 1 billion, folic acid 800mcg, and vitamin c 1000mg, and apple cider vinegar. I started taking the vitamins a few times a day and I washed the outside of my vagina with a splash of apple cider vinegar and warm water when I showered. It cleared up within a day or so. Also to prevent it from coming back, every time my boyfriend and I have sex I shower right away and wash the outside really good with apple cider vinegar! It really is a good method. I also got a UTI twice in one month and ever since I've been washing the outside of my vagina with ACV I havent gotten one.  TRY IT ! rating: 6 (11 votes) Submitted by Lori at 2011-12-07 23:17:58 Always wash and dry really well esp after sex.  Its the concept of bad bacteria vs good bacteria.  Lactic acids and the good bacteria that come with it are just what a healthy vagina needs to keep bad bacteria at bay.  And it is what is found naturally occurring in a healthy vagina.  The place to get it is plain yogurt, no sugar added or flavors.  Apply a little like a cream to the outside.  If the situation is really bad then put some on the inside to.  This can be used to clear up a situation and avoid having to get chemical treatments.  If my smell is off for whatever reason or have a irritation starting then i apply a tiny bit of yogurt and it is fine within a day.  If you take antibiotics then they likely killed off all your good bacteria, in which case you need to recolonize with with good bacteria, so that bad bacteria doesn't have an opening to take over causing much discomfort.  Its all about creating a balance in the vagina flora. rating: 6 (10 votes) Submitted by betternow at 2011-10-01 22:08:26 Hi, As of 2 weeks ago, I had a really bad smell (fishy and lots of discharge), and I just got tired of it. I came online, read alot of articles... I think I had either BV or a yeast infection. Not sure. But I took out most of the sugar I was eating in my diet, started preparing foods at home, but most importantly and what I think helped a lot was that I went to a good holistic grocery store that sold vitamins, and I bought these supplements (I was not interested in doing the douching or applying anything to my vagina directly so i went with the oral route)  1) acidophilus (iflora women's multi probiotic) 2) garlic (garlinase) 3) cranberry 500mg4) a women's multivitamin new chapter women's one daily 5) folic acid 6) B12 1000mg and 6)Folic Acid 400mcg I started taking everything all at once at night right before going to sleep. And after a few days of doing this my smell started to go away. It even cleared up the really awful smell towards the end of my cycle. I also starting about a month and a half ago really increased my water intake to 6 to 8 cups of water a day from not really drinking water at all. Last but not least, I am pretty much dairy free, and all the supplements I am taking are gluten free/vegetarian. On the downside some of the vitamins are pretty big.  I'm willing to look past it though because the combination of everything has made me not have any bad/irregular/way too much discharge on top of the small going away. And I want to smell good for myself. And for any future partner I may have. It's made my self esteem really rise alot. I feel so much more healthy. Background, I'm not on the pill or any medications like antibiotics or anything, nor am I a doctor. Just wanted to share what has worked for me, in such a short time. rating: 5 (16 votes) Submitted at 2009-10-28 11:32:47 What worked for me might work for you. I started taking acidophilus and regular probiotics. These help with the friendly bacteria. I also soaked a tampon in plain yogurt and inserted it in the vagina right before bedtime. I recommend you use Stonyfield Farms Yogurt. It contains all the different probiotics. I also douche once a week with tea tree oil. 1/4 of tea tree oil and 3/4 of water. Hoprfully it works for you! GOOD LUCK LADIES!! rating: 4 (31 votes) Submitted by sunil at 2011-09-06 05:06:41 take a mixture of lemon juice 1 part and mustard oil 8 part. Massage this mixture gently in vegina. Five to seven time massage at first day.then three times. rating: 4 (6 votes) Submitted at 2010-09-24 19:41:34 I know this may sound crazy but BORIC ACID really helps with BV. I struggled with BV for about 2 and a half years. My gyno actually recommended it to me the first time he diagnosed me but I was to worried about what it could do to me. After months of research I decided to try it. Now I feel free from BV :-). I haven't had the symptoms in months. Here is what I did: Purchased gel caps and boric acid from amazon, I made my own suppository, placed in deep into the vagina (1 suppository at night or 2 if its a really bad infection) at night. Do this for two weeks and you should have relief forever! Tips: Dont do it during your period Wear a pad Use them during the day if necessary Research this before you try it Hope this helps ladies! rating: 3 (11 votes) Submitted by get rid of it for good at 2012-04-06 16:24:02 Ihave tried some of everything and it only made my infection worse. But here are some good things to try to get rid of it for good.Make up a slat water concocksuion and pour it over your vagina do this for two days or until u think you need to stop.fresh lemon squeeze some into a cup and get a qtip and rub the lemon over your labia and over the front of ur thingy. Garlic water put a pice of garlic in awatr bottle and put nuke warm water in the bottle shake i up and drink. i would put down some other remedies but