<http://health.makemoneyforyou.info/?p=560>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Find More Infomation About Health and Beauty Home HEALTH BEAUTY BEAUTY Beauty Tips Product HEALTH Health Tips Product Uncategorized A Complete Guide To Probiotics April 06, 2012 pitracy24 No comments Probiotics are live microorganisms. The microorganisms are quite similar to the ones that are found in the human gut. There are quite a few different strains of the microorganisms in probiotics. The microorganisms in the human gut are consider beneficial. Probiotics are also referred to as good bacteria or friendly bacteria. The good bacteria in probiotics are usually available to people in the form of supplements or food. Probiotics are also used as complementary and alternative medicine. Many people use them to prevent illnesses and to treat certain illnesses. They are also used to support general health and well being. There are a few side effects associated with probiotics. The side effects have not really been scientifically studied so it is hard to say if some side effects are more common than other side effects while using probiotics. It is reported that side effects are a rare occurrence when taking probiotics. Abdominal discomfort is one of the most common side effects that is reported when using probiotics. People sometimes report feeling bloating after taking probiotics. Bloating happens when the digestive process produces excess gas. Feeling extremely full is a sign of bloating. Pain in the abdominal region is another side effect that users report while using probiotics. People need to see their doctor if they experience any kind of abdominal discomfort after they use the supplement. Not only are abdominal pains and bloating some reported side effects but headaches are also commonly reported side effects of using probiotics. People who suffer from headaches after using probiotics should lower their dosage. Some people say that their headaches go away once their body becomes used to taking the probiotics supplement. People should contact their doctor if their headaches do not get better over time or if the headaches become severe. Some reports of probiotics say that a small number of people should not take the supplement because they could become more prone to catching infections, mainly fungal infections. Sometimes the infections can happen more often due to the immune system being compromised. Intestinal infections are other types of infections that can occur as a result of taking probiotics. Anybody who gets symptoms of infection after taking the supplement should call their doctor. Diarrhea has been reported as one of the side effects of using probiotics. Diarrhea has not been a commonly reported side effect and probiotics are also used to treat diarrhea. Skin rashes are rare when using probiotics supplements but rashes have been reported in some cases. A person who experiences any abnormal changes in their body after taking probiotics should contact their doctor and make an appointment to see them. Side effects are quite rare when using probiotics but they do happen once in a while. Probiotics Supplements Probiotics supplements are sold in many different places. A lot of probiotics supplements come in pill form but sometimes the supplements come in liquid form too but pill form is the most common form the probiotics come in. Powder form is also a popular form that it comes in. The powder is simply stirred into a drink such as water and then consumed by drinking it. Probiotics supplements are made by many manufacturers. Research on companies and manufacturers of probiotics is needed when a person decides to buy the supplement because some probiotic supplements may be better than others as some manufacturers may use slightly different ingredients than other manufacturers. Many manufacturers will make their own recommendations on when to take the probiotics supplements. However, most companies recommend taking probiotics supplements before breakfast with a glass of water. After taking it, a person should wait around twenty minutes before eating because this will help a person get the full benefits of the supplement. The probiotics supplements should not be taken within three hours of consuming an antibiotic. Almost every single company will recommend taking probiotics right around meal time, most likely breakfast time. Side effects are usually mild but there are rare cases where the supplement has been linked to major side effects. Probiotics Benefits There are many positive benefits of taking probiotics. There are some reports that say that one of the benefits of consuming probiotics is an enhanced immune system response. Sometimes antibiotics can cause negative side effects but probiotics can reduce those negative side effects. A lot of people experience colon inflammation after a surgery. Probiotics actually helps treating the inflammation as well as preventing it. Eczema is a nuisance for many people but youths can take measures to prevent eczema. Eczema is a nasty rash that can cause severe itching. The skin condition is something that is very hard to treat. However, one of the measures that can be taken to treat eczema is probiotics supplements. Eczema prevention is one of the benefits of taking it. Another benefit of probiotics is that a person can expect to digest food better because their ability to digest food will increase. The overall immune system gets enhanced too and this acts as a therapeutic for viral tract infections. Lactose intolerance is reduced when taking probiotics. Incidents of vaginitis, yeast infections and candidiasis are also reduced when taking the probiotics supplements. Women love taking it because of these benefits. Many women do not know how to effectively reduce incidents of yeast infections and vaginitis and taking probiotics is one of the best things to take to reduce such incidents. Probiotics also help with bad breathe. Bad breathe is a very common problem among many people. Bad breathe causes thousands and thousands of people embarrassment and shame. Many do not know how to battle bad breathe. There are way too many remedies out there that claim they battle bad breathe but often people are let down by such products making such claims. However, many people believe that the best remedy for bad breathe are probiotics supplements. There are many reports out there that show that probiotics work very well in preventing and even curing bad breathe. Probiotics may help with preventing cavities. Preventing cavities is something that many people try to do. Brushing teeth and using mouthwash are both great ways to prevent cavities but taking probiotics is possibly another way to prevent cavities. There are not a lot of studies out there to back up the claims but many people do believe the good bacteria can prevent cavities. There is a small amount of studies that do claim certain strains of probiotics can prevent cavities. Probiotics are also great for digestive disorders. Digestive disorders such as IBS, diarrhea and constipation are some common forms of digestive disorders. These disorders are uncomfortable and can cause a person to feel a lot of abdominal pain. A lot of people feel helpless when they suffer from digestive disorder symptoms. However, probiotics alleviates disorders such as diarrhea, IBS and constipation. The benefits are usually noticed shortly after consumption. Many elderly people seem to have issues with constipation and this is why they love the benefits of taking probiotics. A lot of elderly believe that the symptoms of constipation are reduced shortly after taking the probiotics supplements. There are a lot of men and women who encounter bladder infections. Bladder infections can be treated with different types of medicines but the treatments may not always be effective. People who suffer or experience bladder infections frequently should give probiotics a try because there are many studies out there that show they are effective at relieving symptoms of bladder infections and sometimes even curing them too. Men and women have reported positive improvements in bladder infections’ symptoms shortly after taking probiotics. There are some studies out there that show that probiotics promote healthy bacteria in the colon. This is great news but it is amazing news for men because a lot of men suffer from problems relating to the colon but probiotics help lower the conversion of bile into carcinogens in the colon. Colon cancer is one of the leading cause of deaths in men. Probiotics increases the availability of vitamin K as well as fatty acids and lactase. They also produces very important enzymes. Allergies affects millions of people all over the world. Allergies are sometimes hard to deal with. However, there is some good news for people who suffer from mild or severe allergies. A lot of people find that taking probiotics help relieve allergy symptoms. Chronic fatigue suffers also can feel the benefits. One of the benefits of the probiotics supplements is that it helps relieves symptoms of chronic fatigue. People find themselves more energized and able to stay awake more shortly after consuming probiotics. Nutrients such as vitamin B and calcium are affected by probiotics. Vitamin B is easier to synthesize because the supplements increases the ability to do so. Calcium is also absorbed easier because probiotics increases the ability to absorb calcium. Cholesterol is something that affects all types of people and sometimes lowering it can be a difficult task. Probiotics actually can lower cholesterol in people. There have been many people who have said that their cholesterol have been lowered as a result of taking probiotics. Reducing blood pressure is another claim that is made by quite a few people who take probiotics. Parasites are also something that a lot of men and women have to deal with. Some parasites can be harmful to the body and cause serious problems. Not only are probiotics good for types of fungal problems but they are also good for treating people with parasites and can sometimes prevent people from getting parasites. Parasites are often eliminated completely soon after consuming probiotics supplements or food with probiotics in them. Stress is something that almost all people deal with. It does not matter how old somebody is or what their sex or race is, stress is something that is unavoidable at times. There are people who suffer from stress more than others and they find it hard to relax and relieve stress. Although there are not many studies about the positive benefits that probiotics have on people who deal with stress, there are a few studies that say probiotics actually help people who suffer from stress. Some foods and probiotics supplements boosts peoples’ overall moods and helps them cope with stress a lot easier. Probiotics Yogurt The good bacteria is also found in yogurt. Different strains of the good bacteria are found in different yogurts. This means that all yogurts are not created equal when it comes to probiotics. Some strains of the bacteria are considered to be more beneficial than others, so it is important to read the labels on yogurt carefully. Read on and find out the different types of strains that are found in some types of yogurts. Almost all yogurts have some form or amounts of probiotics in them. However, probiotic yogurts have many more beneficial probiotics in them, and this is why they are called probiotic yogurts. One of the most popular strains of the bacteria is Lactobacillus GG (or LGG) and it is found in many yogurts. LGG in yogurt has been shown to help people reduce the effects of diarrhea and atopic eczema in kids. LGG is also shown to reduce illness in kids who attend day care. LGG is the most studied strain of probiotics and is thought to have the most benefits. This is why LGG is found in many yogurts. Bifildobacterium is another strain that is commonly found in yogurts. Both of the strains are similar to good bacteria that is found naturally within the body. There are many different brands of probiotic yogurts. Before discussing the types of brands who market probiotic yogurts, lets discuss how safe these types of yogurts are. Side effects of consuming probiotics were discussed earlier in the first paragraph and some of those side effects can occur due to eating probiotic yogurts. Read on and find out what possible side effects can occur from eating probiotic yogurts. Although rare, bloating and gas is a reported side effect of eating probiotic yogurts. Bloating and gas are the two side effects that are most commonly reported after consuming probiotic yogurts. Gene transfer is another side effect that sometimes occur due to eating probiotic yogurts. Unhealthy metabolic activities is another side effect that is sometimes due to eating the yogurts. Sometimes another ingredient in the yogurt could be the cause of certain side effects and not the probiotics causing the side effects. A person should see a doctor if they experience any severe side effects or side effects that don’t go away within two or three weeks. Now lets discuss the different types of yogurt brands that have probiotic yogurts on the market today and what kind of reputation they have. Activia is considered to be the most popular brand that makes probiotic yogurts. Activia products contain bifildobacterium. Activia is said to improve digestive health and is considered to be a functional food. The brand has a wide selection of probiotic yogurts to choose from and can be found at virtually any grocery store. The brand of yogurt is available in more than thirty countries including the UK, Russia, United States and France just to name a few. Yoplait is a very popular brand that produces probiotic yogurts. Lactobacillus bulgaricus and Streptococcus thermophilus are the two main live microorganisms that Yoplait uses in their probiotic yogurts. Yoplait is not quite as popular as Activia is but many people do claim to experience great benefits in regards to their digestive system. Yoplait is said to be one of the best yogurts with probiotics in it because hundreds of people have claimed that Yoplait yogurts have helped their digestive system as well as making their bowels regular. Yoplait is very popular among the elderly and kids. Stonyfield is a producer of probiotic yogurts too. The company creates some of the best selling probiotic yogurts in the United States. Their yogurts contain a few types of probiotics and there are a lot of positive reviews about the yogurts that the company makes. Stonyfield is very popular for a reason and one of the main reasons is that the benefits people feel are extraordinary. The company also uses many natural ingredients in their products and they are strong believers in using organic ingredients in all of their products. Gerber is also a good brand that produces probiotic yogurts. Gerber has many different types of yogurts but all of the yogurts are rather healthy. Gerber has yogurts specifically made for toddlers, infants, women, pregnant women and more. The yogurts are packed with beneficial probiotics. The yogurts are popular among all types of people. Gerber is known for producing quality probiotic yogurts and they can be found in stores all over the world. The brand is known for producing yogurts that do not cost a lot of money to purchase. There are a lot of positive reviews about the yogurts that Gerber produces. When it comes to probiotics in yogurts, some of the best ones can be found in the yogurts that Nature Valley produces. The company makes great tasting yogurts that are filled with quality probiotics. People who want to improve their digestive systems love Nature Valley yogurts because the yogurts can do just that. EasiYo is a company that a lot of people have not heard of but the company is one of the best companies that make yogurts. They have a large line of probiotic yogurts. The yogurts are known for having a rich thick taste as well as a smooth taste. The probiotics in EasiYo yogurts help regulate bowel movements and are great for the digestive system. A lot of people say that they can feel the benefits of eating the yogurt shortly after consuming them. The probiotic yogurts that EasiYo has are also high in calcium and protein. The yogurts are affordable too and can be found all over the world. Probiotics Brands There are tons of probiotics brands on the market today. Some brands are better and more well known than other brands. Knowing which brands to get probiotics from is very important. Some probiotic brands have better probiotics than other brands. Choosing the right brand can help a person get the most benefits from the probiotics. Lets discuss some of the top probiotics brands on the market, so a person can make a wise decision when they want to get their hands on a brand that has the best probiotics in their products. Align is one of the top probiotics brands on the market today. Align has capsules available. The capsules are taken just once a day. A person can expect to be able to build and maintain a healthy digestive system when they take the probiotics from Align. The capsule that Align has is very easy to swallow and it does not take long to start feeling the benefits of the supplement. Most people who take probiotics from Align start to feel and see the benefits just a few weeks after starting the supplement. A lot of people also say that they feel less stressed out while they take probiotics from Align. It is very easy to see why Align is one of the best probiotics brands on the market. The brand produces quality products that are affordable. The brand has also received a lot of positive feedback from many satisfied customers. Activia is one of the most popular probiotics brands. Their major product line is a line of yogurts with probiotics in them. Activia offers customers many different types of flavors. The brand’s yogurts contain quite a bit of probiotics and they have yogurts that all kinds of people will like. Young and old love the benefits that the yogurts Activia produces offers them. People usually have to eat two or three yogurts a day to start feeling the positive benefits of the probiotics in the yogurts. The company’s yogurts are inexpensive and the brand has yogurts in stores all over the world. It is no secret why Activia has a solid reputation for creating quality yogurts that contain many good probiotics. Florastor is considered by many to be one of the top probiotics brands. Florastor is another brand that produces a probiotics capsule which is extremely easy to take. The pill is easy to swallow. A person may not want to swallow the pill, and if that’s the case, then they can even crush the pill and place the powder in their food. The capsule is taken just once a day. Florastor is unique because it does not take long to feel the benefits of the brand’s probiotics. Kids can also take the brand’s product. The product can be mixed with liquid and given to kids. Kids as young as two months old can also take Florastor’s products. There are many benefits of taking Florastor and many people experience benefits in as little as two weeks. A lot of customers say that they feel healthier after being on Florastor’s product for just a few weeks. Many customers report being in better moods, feeling stronger, taking regular bowel movements and suffer from less indigestion after taking probiotics from Florastor. The brand can be found at many pharmacies throughout the world and the product is very affordable. Garden For Life produces quite a few products with probiotics in them. Garden For Life has products that are meant just for kids, women and even men. The products are designed to offer the best benefits to men, women and kids in a short about of time. Just one capsule a day is all that is needed in order to start feeling the benefits of what the probiotics have to offer. The Garden For Life probiotics supplement is not only easy to take but the formula is very healthy for people. Customers claim that the probiotics by Garden For Life helps them with their immune system, bowel movements and overall moods, just to name some of the benefits they experience. The brand offers other products but one of the most popular probiotics product they have is called Primal Defense, which is a capsule. The capsule also contains other important nutrients that the body needs and should have. The company also has a powder, which is great for people who do not want to take a probiotic in pill form. Garden For Life is a reputable company and they have more happy customers than unhappy ones. Nutraelle claims that their products deliver over one billion beneficial bacteria to their customers’ intestinal flora. The company recommends that a person takes one pill a day in order to start reaping the benefits of the supplement. One capsule a day is suppose to help improve a person’s immune system and even help people with diarrhea and help people who have constipation. The supplement is very easy to take and many people consider Natraelle’s supplement to be much better than yogurt when it comes to providing them with probiotics. Vegetarians also love to take the company’s probiotics supplements because the product does not contain any gelatin. There is also no calories in the supplement, which is good news for people who carefully watch their calorie intake. The product also does not contain sugar or sodium. Culturelle is one of the most popular probiotics brands out there because they have affordable products and their products are known to work very well. Culturelle offers customers an easy to take capsule that is taken just once a day. Just like other brands out there, Culturelle has capsules that are specifically made for men, women and even kids. Many customers feel benefits such as a healthier digestive systems, stronger immune system, healthier bowel movements and more. Culturelle supplements are usually a big hit with people of all ages and sexes. Puritan’s Pride is a probiotic brand that has been around for many years. Puritan’s Pride produces some of the most affordable probiotics on the market today. The brand is known for only using quality ingredients that are needed, and they avoid using any unnecessary ingredients. The brand offers a few supplements to customers, as well as a chewable tablet that is very easy to take. There are many positive reviews about the brand. Threelac is one of the most prominent probiotic brands. The brand produces probiotics that comes in the form of a powder. The flavor is a fruit flavor and is mixed in water or even food. The product is great for kids too because sometimes kids do not like to take capsules. Threelac has three important probiotics that are resistant to acid in the stomach. The product helps people maintain a healthy immune system and helps people with their digestive system. The brand’s product may not be considered cheap in price but the product is a high quality product. Dr. Ohhira’s probiotics are named after himself and he created his probiotic brand using fermentation techniques used in Japan. The probiotics have won many different types of awards. Twelve beneficial strains are used in Dr. Ohhira’s probiotics, and one of the strains is E. faecalis TH which is considered to be one of the strongest types of bacteria. The capsules are easy to take and only one capsule a day is needed. A lot of customers claim that they feel relief from heartburn and other digestion problems shortly after taking the capsules. The supplements are very affordable and are known all over the world. Yakult is a great company that produces a probiotic formula that was created after a great deal of research was done. The product is a beverage that a person consumes once a day. The brand sells their beverage in many different countries and the beverage also contains an exclusive strain of bacteria. The brand’s beverage is great for men, kids and even women. Yakult’s beverage tastes great, is affordable and very easy to consume. Many customers say that the brand’s beverage tastes excellent and works very well. The brand is popular among many different types of people. Yakult has many positive reviews about their product. Probiotics Foods There are many different types of probiotics foods out there. A lot of people are not aware of what types of foods have probiotics in them. Some foods are very common and then there are foods that people may not have even heard of. Lets discuss some of the foods that have probiotics in them and which foods people should be eating or at least try for a few weeks. One of the best foods to eat that has probiotics in it is Natto. Fermented soybeans is what is used to make Natto. The food has bacillus subtilis in it. Natto has a distinguished taste to it but the beans are easy to chew and swallow, although the beans are a little bit sticky. Natto is very high in protein and is also high in vitamin K. Natto provides many different types of benefits, including benefits that have already been talked about previously in this article. The food is inexpensive and can be found at Asian stores worldwide. Many other types of stores may have the food but Asian stores are commonly the stores that sell the food. Kimchi has lactobacillus kimchii and other probiotics in it. The food is beneficial to peoples’ immune system, intestinal health and bowel movements. The food is typically used as a condiment. Kimchi can be bought at a lot of specialty stores located throughout the world. A lot of people actually make their very own Kimchi but it is very inexpensive to buy. Customers love the food because it tastes great and the benefits are amazing. The largest exporter of Kimchi is Japan but is more of a Korean dish. Miso is a food with probiotics and is a seasoning that is used in many Japanese dishes. The food is fermented with a wide range of ingredients such as soybeans, brown rice and barley. Miso is said to have a buttery taste to it but very easy to consume. Miso is available worldwide and is very cheap to buy. Miso is great for overall health and is very high in vitamin B12. Yogurt was already discussed earlier on but almost all yogurts have probiotics in them. Yogurts are sold all over the world and there are many different types of yogurts available to people. Yogurt is one of the most commonly consumed food with probiotics in them. Tempeh is high in protein and is easy to eat. Tempeh can be eaten cooked or uncooked but usually people boil it. The food is derived from soybeans that are fermented. The food originates from Indonesia. The food kind of resembles a cake. Tempeh is sometimes stirred into veggies too. Tempeh is also eaten as a meatless burger too. The food is inexpensive and can be found in many supermarkets throughout the world. It is also available at many different health stores too. Kefir is another great probiotics food. It has a similar texture to yogurt and can be bought in many different supermarkets. Fermented grains and goat milk make up Kefir. Not only does Kefir contain probiotics but it is also a great source for antioxidants. It tastes great and is inexpensive, and that is why the food is extremely popular among people. When it comes to healthy food, many do not consider chocolate as being a source of healthy nutrients. However, dark chocolate actually has probiotics in them. Dark chocolate actually has quite a few probiotics in them and has more probiotics than a lot of dairy based products. There are many different types of dark chocolate and it can be bought almost everywhere and anywhere throughout many stores worldwide. Microalgae is a food that is not known to many people. Microalgae refers to plants that are ocean based, such as blue-green algae. The food is popular and has a unique taste to it. Pickles are not something that is often considered healthy, let alone a good source for probiotics. Pickles are actually an excellent source of probiotics and they can be found and bought at many places. A lot of people also make their own pickles. Pickles provide people with many benefits that can have a positive impact on their health. Pickles also taste very good and they do not cost a lot of money to buy. Cheese tastes good and can be used on many different types of foods. Cheese is often used on cheeseburgers, ham sandwiches and eaten alone. Cheese is a great source of probiotics. However, aged cheese is the best type of cheese to eat when one wants a good source of probiotics. There are different types of cheese but most cheese provides people with the benefits that probiotics are known for. Cheese can help a person maintain a healthy immune system as well as help with diarrhea. Many types of beans, especially soybeans, have good amount of probiotics in them. Beans are consumed by many people around the world and are very common. Beans can be served alone or on top of foods. Beans are beneficial to people with irregular bowel movements because beans are extremely beneficial for bowel movements, thanks to the probiotics in them. A lot of elderly and kids love beans because of how easy they are to swallow and most beans have a taste that is easy to get use to. Anybody who wants to feel the benefits of probiotics should get their hands on some beans. Traditional sourdough breads are an excellent source of probiotics. Grains are also good for probiotics and cereals with grains in it are some of the best sources for probiotics. Cereals that are grain based are often eaten by kids because of the other nutrients that are found in them. However, the probiotics in grain cereals provide kids and adults many great benefits. People often feel better, less stressed out and have regular bowel movements when they consume grain cereals on a daily basis. Grain cereals can be bought in virtually any supermarket throughout the world. The cereals containing probiotics are inexpensive and easy to fin More info at probiotics yogurt Posted in: Health Tips Tags: probiotic foods , probiotics benefits , probiotics brands , probiotics side effects , probiotics supplements Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name * Email * Website Comment You may use these HTML tags and attributes: <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong> Notify me of followup comments via e-mail Recent Posts beauty product review, eyeshadow, face wipes, and perfect curls! Ioford – Racing Pigeon Health Product Chatroulette: le premier mariage  qui fait discuter sur la toile BEAUTY TIPS: EYELASH EXTENSIONS WITH JULZ PART 10 中華醫藥養生之十CHINESE HEALTH TIPS – REC BY INNOSS NETVISION DVRS (D1 704 x 480) Recent Comments nigella4me on And Some More Beauty Tips h3ll00nurs3 on And Some More Beauty Tips nigella4me on And Some More Beauty Tips h3ll00nurs3 on And Some More Beauty Tips nigella4me on And Some More Beauty Tips Archives April 2012 March 2012 Categories BEAUTY Beauty Tips HEALTH Health Tips Product Product Uncategorized Meta Register Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Share Subscribe Follow Us! Be Our Fan Archives April 2012 March 2012 Blogroll Documentation Plugins Suggest Ideas Support Forum Themes WordPress Blog WordPress Planet Meta Register Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org © 2012 Find More Infomation About Health and Beauty . All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress | Designed by: Wordpress Templates | Thanks to Wicked Pittsburgh , LSU Footbal