
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.0.4
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 18:57:32 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Vary: Accept-Encoding

SOLE Store — Softec Ultra Web Site: http://www.yoursole.com Phone (toll-free): 1-866-235-7653 Customer Service Email: customerservice@yoursole.com SOLE HOME STORE PRODUCTS WHY SOLE Region United States Canada United Kingdom Your SOLE Loyalty Program Login CUSTOM FOOTBEDS Signature DK Response Signature EV Ultra Softec Ultra Softec Response Softec Casual Thin Sport Thin Casual CUSTOM FOOTWEAR Men's Premium Flips Women's Premium Flips Men's Sport Flips Women's Sport Flips Men's Casual Flips Women's Casual Flips Men's Sport Slides Women's Sport Slides Men's Exhale Women's Exhale PERFORMANCE SOCKS Lightweight Sport Dual Layer VALUE BUNDLES Footbeds & Socks 3 Pairs of Footbeds 5 Pairs of Footbeds 8 Pairs of Footbeds SALES AND DEALS Men's Deals Women's Deals CUSTOMER SERVICE Order Status Shipping & Returns Money Back Guarantee Softec Ultra No Items in Cart Checkout 3.2mm Softec cushioning Moldable, orthopedic base layer Moisture-wicking top sheet American Podiatric Medical Association Accepted View Detailed Product Information Size Chart Sold in full sizes only. If you are a half size, move up one size and trim the footbed to fit. Footbed top sheet graphics may not be exactly as shown. Free Shipping on orders over $99.00 $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD $45.00 USD Size Men's 3 / Women's 5 Men's 4 / Women's 6 Men's 5 / Women's 7 Men's 6 / Women's 8 (out of stock) Men's 7 / Women's 9 Men's 8 / Women's 10 Men's 9 / Women's 11 Men's 10 / Women's 12 Men's 11 Men's 12 Men's 13 Men's 14 Men's 15 Men's 16 Men's 17 Thanks. Your review is awaiting approval. We are moderating reviews to prevent spam and inappropriate content. REVIEWS 4.91 out of 5 rating after 34 reviews. Write Your Own Review November  28, 2011 5/5 Stars Best Insole Ever I bought a pair of these 5 years ago while in the Marine Corps, they went through my last two deployments, and even now I where a uniform in the private sector, the same pair go in any boot or shoe I put on regardless of what I am doing.  I initially thought the price was high, but now 5 years later and the same pair are in the boots I am wearing right now, these are the most comfortable, functional, and durable insole's available, hands down. Joshua from RICHMOND October   16, 2011 5/5 Stars Do your feet a favor I've used these in my combat boots for the past 3 years. When on my feet for extended periods of time while wearing body armor I can feel the pressure on the soles of my feet. This product completly mitigates that. Blake from Camp Leatherneck September 22, 2011 5/5 Stars The Best This is the best sole I ever used while I'm in the Army. It worked perfectly and comfortly inside your running shoes and combat boots. I utilized in all my deployments and save a lots of yrs on my knees and backs and trust me with all the loads you carried, it will bring relieve to the pain on your soul..lols and I recommended to all the Soldiers and Warriors downrange.. Tevita from Camp Buehring August    20, 2011 5/5 Stars go to I bought a pair of these from a running store a couple of years ago.  I put them in a pair of my post office aproved shoes.  I have four different shoes I wear for work all with factory insoles or after market insoles.  My favorite pair of shoes hands down is the pair with these Sole Ultra Inserts.  Take it from a mail man that walks twelve miles a day and was a foot soldier for seven years, I have tried almost everything when it come to footwear. This is the best insole I have tried so far... Curtis from Davenport August    17, 2011 4/5 Stars Best so far While the Sole Ultra has helped my sore feet alot it has not solved all my problems 100%. I work in a warhouse on a cement floor all day and I'm still looking for that product out there that fixes my soreness 100%.  This product is the best thing I have found so far, but it has not been the entire answer for me.  I don't know where else to go or what else to do. Foot Doctor was recommended to me, so I checked them out, but I can't afford to put out 800 dollars for what they want to give me, so I guess I will keep these for now as they have done better than anything else I have tried. Wayne from Des Moines July      29, 2011 5/5 Stars I love the support!! I have pttd (posterior tibal tendon dysfunction. My doctor told me to try these in my shoes. They are wonderful and really give me the support I need. I am so thankful for this product and recommend it to anyone and everyone...Excellent product will use this for along time coming.. Thanks Sandi from Florida June      10, 2011 5/5 Stars Best Insoles ever Hi I had a mid foot fusion some 10 months ago, and as a Physiotherapist who knows which insoles should work and not only help my problem but other patients problems, I was blown away at how much pain relief and support the sole insoles have given me. I can now walk 4 miles in minimal pain after only 6 weeks of using them in my neutral trainers. 

I have now started issuing them at our military base for service personnel and every user had come back and made exactly the same positive remarks. 

I would highly recommend these insoles to anyone. Keith from Newcastle-Upon-Tyne May       7, 2011 5/5 Stars The Best I am a 35+ old military officer who spends most of his waking hours either boots or running shoes. I bought two pairs of these 5 1/2 years ago right after I joined the military. I have since logged more miles road marching and running in both pairs than I can even recall. Well, I recently bought a pair of boots and after getting awful blisters walking with the factory soles I was desperate. I was also just a few days from attempting a 26.2 mile race through the desert with a 40-lb pack. So I took out my 5 1/2 year old SOLE insoles and threw them in my boots. Why? Because I suspected they would still be up to the challenge ... which they were. I finished the race in just over six hours, finished in the top 20 overall in my division, and had but a few minors blisters. I will never put any other sole in my boots or running shoes. Don from Miami April     30, 2011 5/5 Stars Good Stuff I have been using Your Sole products for about 2 years now. The insoles are at least as good as the ones I had custom made when I was first diagnosed with plantar fasciatus and gait issues. 

The ultra softec footbeds are great to run in and when you have finished the flip flops are great to relax in. In fact it is great that I can now wear flip flops and not end up crippled by pain as ordinary ones seem to do to me after only  short period of wear. 

I have now bought my first pair of sports socks to see if they are as good as the other products. Mark from Nottingham, UK December  8, 2010 5/5 Stars Best relief available I've read the other reviews and agree. there isn't anything better. I 'had' plantar faciatis.
I had a knee replaced. I had a lot of foot pain. I got 3 pair of these and put them in my shoes. Switched them for whatever insoles come with the shoes, and there's always a noticeable improvement. The insoles that come with most any shoe you buy is the cheapest part of the shoe, yet is what you need for good support. Go figure. These are great and will be the only insoles I use... Harold from Lake Mills October   20, 2010 5/5 Stars 5 years + and still working. I bought these inserts because I was diagnosed with plantar faciitis.  It was very painful and the doctor recommended these.  I molded them to my feet and immediately felt relief.  I have had the same pair for the last five years and they are still working.  I put them in whatever shoes or sneakers that I am wearing after removing the inserts that come with the shoes.  I am on my feet all day working and walking back and forth on cement floors.  These inserts saved me from constant pain. The top layer is finally wearing thin after all these years so I am going to get another pair.  I highly reccommend them to everyone with foot or knee pain. Marian from New London August    24, 2010 5/5 Stars "acclimated to the sole" A year ago I had severe knee pains along with discomfort in my lower back. The job I worked for at the time required me to be on my feet a lot. So eventually I visited an Orthopedic Specialist for physical therapy and the Specialist recommended these insoles for both work and leisure. Since then the pain has gotten a lot less severe, I’m also not standing as much at work anymore. The arch and heel of my feet have acclimated to the sole. So overall I’m impressed, I think anyone who might be experiencing any sort of back, knee or feet pain should give them a try. Andreas from Colorado Springs June      18, 2010 5/5 Stars VERY GOOD but . . . I bought these because I felt I needed more support in my shoes for playing badminton. Since badminton is very intense on the knees and ankles, when you play at a high standard. 

Before I used these insoles I used to get knee pain every so often , but now since i got them, I haven't had it since. SO THEY WORK IN MY OPINION!!

I do have a few small problems with them though

They are quite thick, it may not sound like a lot on the page but trust me they will make a normal shoe tight to wear for a while untill the shoes break out a bit (especially badminton shoes).
 
Also it may not be a problem for most people but in badminton these will only last as long as your shoes really i have burned through the cushioning down to the plastic on some parts.

Lastly they weigh quite a bit for an insole, i measured them and one is 80grams, a normal insole is roughly half that.

BUT. . . these problems are minor compared to what they give you in return (no pain). I will be trying the sole response next time. Edmond from Manchester June      6, 2010 5/5 Stars Superior Been to the foot doctors and had special orthotics made and they did not help me at all. I purchased these sole products and they are superior. It has helped me tremendously and I will be and on going customer.

I just purchased a pair of the slide sandals. Bruce from Valley Township, Pa May       20, 2010 5/5 Stars Thank you I suffered with plantar fasciitis for over two years, very miserable, I am a nurse and of course on my feet for hours.  Finally the third Podiatrist I went to said to buy a shoe that bends only at the ball of the foot, and buy Sole inserts.
  The relief was immediate and I have been comfortable for over two yrs. now.  I can tell when I need to reheat and mold, or new ones or new shoes.  For the relief I got and the price, very thankful, worth every penny for sure!!! Marv from Cottage Grove, Or March     10, 2010 4/5 Stars I love them but... I love these, but they don't fit in all the shoes they suggest.  I find that in some shoes my foot sits too high and my heel rubs in and out of the back of the shoe.  I do take out the stock insole and that doesn't seem to help.  
I do LOVE how my feet feel when they do fit properly in some of my shoes, so I am buying the thin sport ones today in hopes they fit my running and walking shoes a bit better.  
I have also done the "orthotics" thing from the doctors and while they keep your feet in the correct position, these do not solve the cushion problem that I think most of us have.  These do both! karen from Tampa February  25, 2010 5/5 Stars Red Wing re-badge Wow.  The regular insoles are pretty good to begin with, but these things are worth every penny of the fifty bucks I spent on them.  I assume Red Wing charges another 5 bucks just to put their name on them, but I don't care.  It's hard to go wrong here. Royce from Raymond November  29, 2009 5/5 Stars Best Insoles I have had this insert for years, with this insert I'v had no problems with my feet or knees running at all. It is the best, ya gotta try it!

Diane in Avondale, AZ D from Avondale November  16, 2009 5/5 Stars Plantar Fasciitis I have never had foot problems my entire life; but recently have been diagnosed with the very painful Plantar Fasciitis.  My Physio recommended custom footbeds; but I tried Soles first to see if they would help.  All of my symptoms are gone in less that 3 weeks of wearing Soles.  I have just ordered 5 more pairs for all of my shoes and a pair of flip flops - I dont want that pain again. Garvey from Vancouver November  2, 2009 5/5 Stars Urban streets, high altitude mountains or desert terrain, you can't go wrong! I've owned 4 pair of your insoles and have used them in every conceivable environment to include the craziness you find in combat zones.  They really do breathe new life into new and old footwear.  Why pay big money for new shoes or boots when you can spend one quarter to one half the amount and renew your footwear to practically brand new status?  SOLE insoles had me at hello.... Steve from hope mills October   13, 2009 5/5 Stars Happy feet, back & knees! I have wide feet with high arches and insteps and I have always had trouble with shoes fitting properly. I've had long time lower back pain and a bad knee that's recently made my hip joint act up. My sister was visiting (see Susan from Santa Fe review below) and showed me her ultra insoles and raved about them.  I ordered a pair which arrived last week and I'm completely sold on them!  

I've just returned to your web site and ordered two more pairs for myself and one for my husband to try.  After one week of wearing your ultra softec insoles my stiff knee is much better, my back ache is nearly gone and I noticed yesterday that my hip doesn't hurt any more!  Thank you for a great product! Priscilla from Pine Plains October   12, 2009 5/5 Stars Bravo! My physical therapist recommended these Sole footbeds while treating me for arthritis in my knees. He noted that I have high arches, and felt that these inserts might help with my foot pain as well as my knee pain. I was very skeptical as I had been fitted for custom orthotics by a podiatrist several years ago, and those inserts only added pain to the balls of my feet, for a cost of $300!

But I tried these Sole inserts anyway. Unbelievable! The relief was so immediate, and has continued on. We just took a three week trip, and spent much time walking in New York City. Unforgiving pavement no problem. 

I am recommending Sole footbeds to my two children who are runners and to my sister who also has foot   and knee pain. 

Very grateful,
Sue from Santa Fe Susan from Santa Fe August    15, 2009 5/5 Stars Best I've Found I have had a pair of these for my hiking boots for quite a while. They eventually wore out so I decided to get new insoles. I have very low arches and my feet get sore easily. Well, I tried out some of those Superfeet deals and they didn't even come close to these heat form ones. These insoles doubled the mileage I am capable of in a day. Just ordered my second pair. Woody from Syracuse July      28, 2009 5/5 Stars Simply amazing!!! I am a mail man who walks 5 to 8 miles a day.  I recently bought these because I had heard so many good things from my brother about this product.  I was skeptical at first, factoring how much wear and tear I put on my feet daily.  But let me tell you, I am amazed how much better I feel through the coarse of the day, DAY ONE of placing these into my shoes.  I will tell everyone I work with to purchase these! S. from Newark June      17, 2009 4/5 Stars Na I can't believe it I work in a busy Emergency room, these inserts have eliminated back pain and foot pain.  I am a big man, without pain..thank you very much Rich from San Jose,Ca June      15, 2009 5/5 Stars Sole footbeds my fisrt Sole footbeds is approx. 3years old, since that time  I put Sole footbeds in every boot for my sports activies-  alpineturing, mountain runnig. I especially apreciated them in hard plastic boot, last 3 years I dont  feel the pain sole even after 8-12 hour of skiing and climbing, I'm very satisfied and recomend Sole for my friends in our community. miroslav  from brno May       12, 2009 5/5 Stars Best Footbed on the Market!! I am a Retired US Army veteran and Volunteer Firefighter/EMT-Basic and I suffered with Plantar Fasciitis for many years.  I purchased a set of Spenco moldable insoles and they didn't work for beans!!  While on a shopping trip to Mt. Home AFB I found these SOLE footbeds, I took them home popped them in the oven and fitted them for my feet.  I am now pain free.  Just like "American Express" I don't leave home without them!!  These are The Best Footbeds on the Market!! Ron from La Grande April     24, 2009 5/5 Stars Fallen arches from combat boots After spending 10 years in the Marine Corps and wearing countless pairs of combat boots with no arch support, I could kick myself for not getting some proper supports years earlier... but in my last year or two in the service they did give me solid plastic supports.

Once I got out, my brother introduced me to SOLE. They felt really good the first few minutes, and then they still felt good after several hours. I was blown away.

I went on to work a job where I would regularly spend 10-12 hours a day on my feet climbing ladders, etc... and SOLE's went with me every step of the way. I never would have survived that job without them.

Now I have a pair of these footbeds in every pair of shoes I own. They last longer than the shoe does, and my feet last longer than I could have ever imagined.

Thanks guys. Keep it up. Hugh from Huntington Beach April     5, 2009 5/5 Stars Love Um I work on concrete 10 hours a day and me feet hurt so bad I would just about cry when I would get home. I went and bought some Redwing boots and bought the sole insoles and my feet dont hurt at all anymore. I have bought 5 pair for all my shoes. These things are worth every penny! Jason from Nashville March     14, 2009 5/5 Stars Totally sold on SOLE! My wife and I have jobs that keep us on our feet through most of our work day. We both invest in high quality shoes to make sure our feet don't suffer. 

Both of us have purchased 2 pair of shoes for work over the past 3 years and all of those shoes immediately have the standard footbeds replaced with the SOLE Ultra footbeds. 

There are no words to decribe the comfort provided by the SOLE Ultra. Thank you for the comfort and durability of this outstanding product. Joel from Charlotte March     2, 2009 5/5 Stars Couldn't live without them! I have been using SOLES ULTRA for several years.  They are awesome!  I  had  bouts of plantar fasciitis for  years.  I tried two different custom orthodics- nothing helped. Since I am a tall gal (6'3") with long feet (13 women's/12.5 mens) I was finding it a challenge to find narrow supportive athletic shoes.   Then I was introduced to SOLES several years ago when a friend suggested that I try wearing a supportive men's running shoe for everyday use as well as hiking.  The people at Portland Running Company in Beaverton, Oregon suggested using SOLES.  Since them, my feet have been feeling great!   I don't even mold them with heat.  I slip them in my shoe and away I go! They have not only saved my feet on a daily basis at home,SOLES have carried me MANY miles on jaunts through Europe. Cheryl from Hillsboro February  20, 2009 5/5 Stars Better than Custom Orthodics I have had several pairs of custom orthodics that run more than $400 a pair.  But I keep reaching for the Soles I bought here.  I even took the Soles to the Doctor to see if they could make the arch in their orthodics like the Soles.  No luck.  The Soles still felt better than the expensive custom ones.  The deep heel cup keeps my ankle more stable than anything I have ever tried.   I'm buying another pair.  No more custom orthodics for me. Judy from Brookings February  18, 2009 5/5 Stars Heavenly The best pieces of gear I own.  They kept my feet happy walking 12-20 miles a night in Iraq.  The boots were trashed when I got back but the Soles still had their shape.  I own three pairs now and I'm going to order three more. Oliver from Pittsburgh, PA December  22, 2008 5/5 Stars Army boots and plantar fasciitis I have plantar fasciitis.  I require custom orthotics, but insurance companies suck swampwater.  My custom orthotics fell apart so I tried the Sole brand insoles after finding them in the PX.  These things fit like a glove, hold arches where they need to be and all my foot pain has gone.  I have about 6 pairs of these things and I'm sold on sole. Randall from Mt. Gilead, OH Change Region Canada United States United Kingdom Blog RSS Legal Press FAQ Contact Retailer Login Size Chart Where To Buy Site Map