
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 20:51:01 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2
Cache-Control: max-age=0
Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1
Expires: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 20:51:01 GMT
Connection: close

Using Hypnotherapy To Stop Smoking Self-Help Article Directory Neuro-VISION ® POLICIES Privacy

                Policy Guarantees

                & Returns Ordering By Mail
                Or Fax Why
                Buy From Us INTRODUCTIONS Alan B.
                Densky, CH Dr. Paul Inkeles BUSINESS Affiliate

                Program Wholesale Sales Neuro-VISION Licenses RESEARCH View
                Alan's Video Blog Video
                Hypnotism Self-Help
                Library Misconceptions Forms Of
                Hypnotism Other
                Articles Free
                Newsletters Free
                MP3 Downloads Suggested
                Resources Link
                To Us All
                HYPNOSIS & NLP Programs Available Agoraphobia
                & Phobias Appetite
                Suppression Asthma Chewing
                Tobacco-Quit Clearance
                Items Confidence Exercise
                Motivation Headache

                & Migraine Insomnia Hypnosis Memory New

                Programs Nail

                Biting Pain Elimination Phobias
                & Agoraphobia Quit Smoking Stress Management Stress

                - Advanced Tics

                - Facial Weight

                Loss Hypnosis

                Books Custom

                Made Tapes Article
                    Directory Using Hypnotherapy To Stop Smoking by Alan B. Densky, CH If you are someone who is trying to quit smoking, you know how tough it is to break this damaging addiction. It is possible however, and half of all adult smokers are able to successfully quit smoking forever. Many smokers have been able to quit smoking cigarettes by replacing them with new, positive habits without having to experience withdrawal symptoms. By far, the most effective, easiest method to quit smoking and achieve this end is stop smoking hypnotherapy. Stop smoking hypnosis is one of the most regularly practiced forms of hypnotherapy. It is often cited as a tool to quit smoking along with strategies such as nicotine replacement therapy and other popular techniques. It helps to end the smoking addiction by combating cravings to smoke, motivating you to stay committed to quitting, and promoting stress relief and relaxation so you will not be tempted to smoke. The smoking addiction is made up of both physiological and psychological components. The physiological addiction is a physical addiction the body acquires for nicotine. This component of the addiction causes the physical withdrawal symptoms that make it seem near impossible to quit smoking. However, this is a short, temporary phase in the overall process of quitting smoking, lasting only between three days and one week. By the end of this period, your body adjusts to usual, nicotine-free functioning. Based on thirty years of experience, I believe that the physical need for nicotine represents barely ten percent of the addiction to smoking. By far, the most challenging part of breaking the smoking addiction is overcoming the psychological addiction, which are the mental and emotional aspects of smoking. I believe this makes up ninety percent of the tobacco addiction. When you develop a smoking habit, you unconsciously develop a desire to smoke in certain environments, such as when watching TV. This is called a conditioned response. Stop smoking hypnotherapy helps eliminate the unconscious associations that cause one to crave cigarettes, thereby eliminating the conditioned compulsion to smoke. Hypnotherapy also helps you stay motivated to cease smoking by strengthening your beliefs that gave you the desire to quit smoking in the first place. Smokers get stuck in the habit of lighting up and smoking. This is why many people who attempt to quit smoking using nicotine gums or patches alone are unable to quit. They quickly overcome the physiological addiction, but they have no replacement or relief for the ritual of smoking, which has become a mental habit and comforting source of stress relief. Self hypnosis techniques eliminate this habit and serve as stress reducers as well. As a relaxation tool, hypnosis helps effectively relieve stress and anxiety so you will lose the cravings for cigarettes. By adding some powerful NLP (Neuro-Linguistic Programming) techniques, stop smoking hypnotherapy can keep you committed to kicking the habit by training your unconscious mind to focus on the benefits of quitting. Eliminating tobacco benefits you in numerous ways. Within days of quitting, body parts damaged by smoking begin to heal, damaged nerves re-grow, and your sense of taste and smell improves. Within weeks, lung function and blood circulation improve. Within one year, your risk of heart disease is less than half that of a smoker. Within five to fifteen years, your risk of having a stroke is the same as a non-smoker. Your risk of death from lung cancer and a number of other cancer risks have decreased, and your risk of heart disease is the same as someone who has never smoked at all. In spite of the dangers of smoking and the health benefits of quitting, some smokers never overcome their addiction. For the most part, this is because they have never seriously committed to quitting. Other smokers are often afraid to suffer from withdrawal symptoms or give up the smoking habit. But quitting smoking does not have to be the difficult process that makes so many smokers hesistant to even attempt quitting. Hypnotherapy provides a very simple, natural technique for quitting. Hypnosis is an effective tool for easing cravings for cigarettes, building powerful motivation, and promoting relaxation and stress relief to completely eliminate the psychological addiction to smoking. Stop smoking hypnotherapy techniques can be learned from specialized self-hypnosis CDs that have been developed after decades of experience using hypnosis, NLP, and Neuro-VISION video hypnotherapy to get clients to quit smoking . Stop smoking hypnosis CDs make it easy to quit smoking forever because they break the smoking addiction in a process that helps eliminate cravings and any desire to smoke. Whatever your motivation is for quitting, hypnosis and NLP makes it easier to focus your mind on these reasons, which makes you feel a powerful urge to quit. Stop smoking hypnotherapy CDs eliminate the urge to smoke. Even though quitting smoking can be a painful endeavor for some, those who use stop smoking hypnotherapy have a much greater percentage of success because it makes the process much easier. Hypnotherapy is the most effective method for smoke cessation. Alan B. Densky, CH pioneered the use of video stop smoking aids and received a U.S. Patent on the process. He offers a number of ways to stop smoking if you are ready to quit smoking now . Published February 4th, 2008 Filed in Fi