
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 22:25:18 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_fcgid/2.3.6 Phusion_Passenger/3.0.9 mod_bwlimited/1.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Cough and Cold Natural Treatments | Ayurvedic Cure Home Ayurveda Ayurvedic Treatment Ayurvedic Herbs Home Remedies Alternative Therapies Articles Home Men’s Health Women’s Health Weight Loss Skin Care Hair Care Oral Care Stress Management Cough and Cold Natural Treatments | Ayurvedic Cure According to ayurvedic thought, the causes for cough and cold include 
  irritation of the kapha by consuming cold or fried items. Kapha is one of 
  the three humors of the body in ayurveda and is similar to the concept of 
  phlegm in Western thought on the humors. The other two humors in  ayurvedic 
  medicine are called vata and pitta. It is when there is an imbalance in 
  these humors that various diseases and conditions develop. It is also 
  possible for cough and cold to be the result of the changing seasons. Here are some things that, according to ayurvedic thought, should be avoided 
  while you have a cough and cold as they are thought to aggravate the 
  condition: Cold: food, drinks, showers, air conditioning Sweets: juices, pastries, candies Milk Products: like cheese and yogurt Meat Products Breads and Nuts Sleeping during the day Following the kapha-lowering diet is not difficult if you keep in mind the 
  basics, mainly, avoid heavy items like meats and cheeses. Eat primarily
  light items like vegetables and broths. While this sounds like a lot of things to avoid, there are other things that 
  you are encouraged to take during this time for relief of symptoms, 
  including: Vegetables: boiled, steamed, or made into soups Teas: spiced or herbal Hot milk with crushed ginger mixed in Milk with half a teaspoon of turmeric mixed in Ayurvedic medicine provides many natural remedies for those suffering from 
  cough and cold. Below you will find some of the suggested remedies for  this 
  condition. Keeping warm, especially the extremities, is very  important; do not worry 
    about sweating as this is seen as a good thing Several times a day drink half a cup of warm water to which  one teaspoon 
    each of lemon juice and honey has been added You can also try this home recipe: take one teaspoon each  of cardamom, 
    ginger powder, black pepper and cinnamon, four teaspoons of sugar; grind 
    until you have a very fine powder; twice a day after your meal, take half a 
    teaspoon with some warm water or honey Many ayurvedic practitioners recommend various types of drink mixtures using 
  various herbs and spices, but you might notice that most seem to suggest 
  adding honey to the mixture. This is because honey is helpful in acting  as 
  a moisturizer for the throat, which helps to alleviate the itching sensation 
  in the throat often experienced with a cough. If you do not feel up to making your own remedies, there are a couple of 
  natural herbal remedies widely available in drugstores and other health food 
  stores. Echinacea is recommended in ayurvedic medicine for helping to 
  activate the body’s  immune system. The other suggested herbal remedy is 
  goldenseal, which helps to clean the mucous membranes. These may be taken 
  according to the directions on the packages. It is also important during this time to remember personal hygiene in order 
  to keep from spreading germs to other people. Use disposable tissues and empty garbage frequently so the  germs are not 
    sitting around for long periods of time Wash hands often Use warm water for bathing Visit our blog on ayurveda, herbal and natural health. Acai Berry Colon Cleansing Green Tea HGH(Human Growth Hormone) Penis Enlargement Ayurveda and AIDS 2010-2011 (c