
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 17:12:15 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=windows-1251
Connection: close
Server: Apache
Cache-Control: max-age=0
Expires: Wed, 21 Mar 2012 17:12:15 GMT

Anti-Aging-Guide -- Your plan to stay young -- HYPERLIPIDEMIA Anti-Aging-Guide.com Printable Version To print this page, please select File/Print 
      from your browser's menu ANTI-AGING BIOMEDICINE. HIGH TECH BIO-MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES FOR DISEASE TREATMENT AND LIFE EXTENSION. EXPERIMENTAL AND CLINICAL DATA . 6.1 
              HYPERLIPIDEMIA A strategy for 
                  the ubiquitous overexpression of human catalase and CuZn superoxide 
                  dismutase genes in transgenic mice. Ubiquitous overexpression 
                  of CuZn superoxide dismutase does not extend life span in mice. Gene therapy for the hemoglobin 
                  disorders. Mech Ageing Dev 
                    2003 Feb;124(2):219-27. A strategy for the ubiquitous overexpression 
                    of human catalase and CuZn superoxide dismutase genes in transgenic 
                    mice. Chen X, Mele J, Giese H, Van Remmen 
                    H, Dolle ME, Steinhelper M, Richardson A, Vijg J. Department of Cellular and Structural 
                    Biology, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
                    Antonio, 78229, San Antonio, TX, USA. In the present study, we generated transgenic 
                    mice that overexpress catalase or CuZn superoxide dismutase 
                    (CuZnSOD) in all tissues using large genomic DNA fragments. 
                    An 80 kb human genomic DNA, containing the 33 kb human CAT 
                    gene as well as the 41 kb of 5' and the 6 kb of 3' flanking 
                    regions, was obtained by screening a human P1 library and 
                    was used to produce transgenic mice Tg(CAT). Transgenic mice 
                    Tg(SOD1) were produced by a similar strategy using a 64 kb 
                    human genomic DNA containing the 10 kb human SOD1 gene and 
                    the 27 kb of both 5' and 3' flanking regions. Catalase mRNA 
                    levels were 2-6- fold higher and catalase activity levels 
                    were 2-4- fold higher in the various tissues of the hemizygous 
                    Tg(CAT) mice compared with wild type mice. The mRNA levels 
                    for CuZnSOD were 2-12- fold higher and the CuZnSOD activity 
                    levels were 2-5- fold higher in the hemizygous Tg(SOD1) mice 
                    compared with wild type mice. In summary, our study demonstrates 
                    that a strategy of using large genomic DNA containing either 
                    the entire human CAT or SOD1 gene with large flanking regions 
                    gives ubiquitous increased _expression of CuZnSOD and catalase. 
                    In addition, the _expression of catalase closely reflects 
                    the tissue specific pattern found in the endogenous gene. 
                    These transgenic mice will be useful in studying the role 
                    of oxidative stress/damage in aging and age-related pathologies. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 2000 
                      Jan;55(1):B5-9. Ubiquitous overexpression of CuZn 
                      superoxide dismutase does not extend life span in mice. Huang TT, Carlson EJ, Gillespie AM, 
                      Shi Y, Epstein CJ. Department of Pediatrics, University 
                      of California, San Francisco 94143-0546, USA. Oxidative damage has been implicated 
                      in the aging process and in a number of degenerative diseases. 
                      To investigate the role of oxygen radicals in the aging 
                      process in mammals, the life spans of transgenic mice on 
                      a CD-1 background expressing increased levels of CuZn superoxide 
                      dismutase (CuZnSOD), the enzyme that metabolizes superoxide 
                      radicals, were determined. Homozygous transgenic mice with 
                      a two- to five-fold elevation of CuZnSOD in various tissues 
                      showed a slight reduction of life span, whereas hemizygous 
                      mice with a 15- to 3-fold increase of CuZnSOD showed no 
                      difference in life span from that of the nontransgenic littermate 
                      controls. The results suggest that constitutive and ubiquitous 
                      overexpression of CuZnSOD alone is not sufficient to extend 
                      the life spans of transgenic mice. Curr Hematol Rep. 2003 Jul;2(4):348-55. Gene therapy for the hemoglobin disorders. Persons DA, Nienhuis AW. St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
                      332 North Lauderdale Drive, Memphis, TN 38105, USA. The hematologic disorders of beta-thalassemia 
                      and sickle cell disease are the most prevalent of human 
                      genetic diseases. Although palliative therapies and curative 
                      stem cell transplantation therapy have been developed for 
                      these disorders, treatment still remains suboptimal and 
                      many patients suffer significant morbidity and early mortality. 
                      Therefore, development of a gene therapy approach has been 
                      sought for many years. Major progress in the globin gene 
                      therapy field has been achieved by several laboratories. 
                      Using lentiviral vectors to obtain high-level _expression 
                      of complex globin gene cassettes, therapeutic correction 
                      of several murine models of beta-thalassemia, and sickle 
                      cell disease was recently reported. This progress, coupled 
                      with developments in the ability to select and expand genetically 
                      modified stem cells in vivo, has advanced the possibility 
                      of gene therapy for the hemoglobin disorders in the near 
                      future. We review the developments in several areas that 
                      are critical for successful gene 