Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0
X-AspNet-Version: 2.0.50727
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 10:17:07 GMT
Connection: close

Stop Smoking Programs & Techniques | Smoking Cessation | Wellness Information - Partners HealthCare | Partners HealthCare Find a Physician Hospitals International Services Careers For Employees Partners Services Directory Media Center Partners HealthCare® Innovation and Leadership About Partners For Patients For Medical Professionals Research Medical Education Serving Our Communities Spectrum of Care Find a Physician Physician Referral Service Rehabilitation Care at Home Wellness Information Public Health Clinical Trials Online Services Performance and Quality Services Directory Partners International Patient Services Pioneer ACO Find a Physician Physician Referral Service Clinical Trials Partners Initiatives Performance and Quality Education and Training Services Directory Partners International Physician Services Partners Community Healthcare Inc - PCHI Current Research Activities Clinical Trials Research Funding Education Industry Collaborations Resources for Research Collaborators Graduate Medical Education (GME) Continuing Medical Education (CME) MGH Institute of Health Professions Online Learning Enhancing Access to Health Care Improving Health Through Prevention Building Tomorrow's Health Care Workforce Partners Points of View Quality and Safety Innovation Improving Efficiency and Controlling Costs Applying Technology to Patient Care Graduate Medical Education and Training Sustainability Community Health Company Information History of Partners Philanthropy at Partners Partners HealthCare Global Mission Media Center Ethics at Partners Vendor Information Contact Us/Feedback FAQ Page Performance and Quality Hospitals and Affiliates Shuttle Schedule Services Locator Map General Service Directories Parking Building Your Career with PCWD Employee Assistance Program Child Care Housing Partners Corporate Careers Careers at Our Members Search All Open Positions Home > For Patients > Wellness Information > For Tobacco Users > Referring Patients to Quit Smoking Programs ShareThis Font Size A A A Ways to Help You Quit In-Person Support Programs See a schedule of all Partners related smoking cessation programs. Or, just call your institution's program below. Location Phone Number Massachusetts General Hospital - Main Campus 617-726-7443 MGH Community Health Associates (Charlestown, Chelsea, Everett, Revere) 781-485-6210 North Shore Medical Center 978-741-4151 Smokers with significant psychiatric co-morbidity should have treatment for that problem begun simultaneously with referral to a smoking cessation program. The Quit Tips Line is available 24 hours a day at 1-800-9-GETATIP(1-800-943-8284) Your medical provider can also send a referral to the Massachusetts Smokers’ Helpline on your behalf.  Click to find links to the Quitworks form to give to your doctor or nurse in: English Spanish Or, visit http://www.quitworks.org for more information Telephone- Based Support Programs The Massachusetts Smokers’ Helpline 1-800-Try-To-Stop (1-800-879-8678), TTY: 1-800-833-1477, Spanish-speaking 1-800-8-Dejalo (1-800-833-5256) offers: Free one-on-one support Information about local quit-smoking groups and in-person support options Advice about taking quit-smoking medications The Massachusetts Smokers’ Helpline is open Monday – Thursday 9:00am to 7:00pm and Friday 9:00am to 5:00pm. The Massachusetts Smokers’ Helpline is provided by The Massachusetts Tobacco Cessation and Prevention Program (MTCP), which is part of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health in the Massachusetts Executive Office of Health and Human Services. Web-Based Support Programs The following websites can guide you in how to quit smoking: http://www.trytostop.org/ http://quitnet.com/ http://smokefree.gov/ www.freeclear.com These resources are not only for patients. Nurses, take a look at http://www.tobaccofreenurses.org/ for resources tailored just for you. Medications Download a PDF of all available products . Stress Management Many smokers find themselves reaching for a cigarette whenever they feel stressed. It is important to find other ways to tackle stress! When do you feel under pressure? At work? Home? With friends? Think of how to reduce this pressure. Discuss problems with others. Plan your day, take time out to relax. You don't need to smoke to relax. As soon as you feel stress, try these activities instead: Deep Breathing: Take two deep breaths. Inhale slowly and hold it, then exhale slowly. Tense and Relax Method: Lie down or sit in a comfortable position. Close your eyes and take a few deep breaths. Tighten your feet and toes and hold them tight for about three seconds, then relax them. Repeat this exercise for muscles between your knees and feet, then your thighs, stomach muscles and chest. Keep moving up your body, finishing with your mouth, face and scalp muscles. After you complete this exercise, wait a few moments. Then open your eyes. Relax Your Mind: Lie down or sit in a comfortable position. Close your eyes and take a few deep breaths. Imagine enjoying yourself at your favorite place, perhaps the beach listening to the waves breaking on the shore, watching the seagulls circling overhead, or going for a swim. When you have relaxed, come back from your favorite place by slowly opening your eyes. Bring that state of mind with you. Stress Management Tecnhiques: Exercise: Exercise can be an effective tool in your smoking cessation program. When the urge to smoke hits, try the following: Take a 10 minute walk, reminding yourself how much faster you can go now that you're smoke-free. Visit About.com’s Desktop Yoga website and do some relaxing yoga exercises right at your desk. Walk the stairs and keep track of how much easier it gets each day. Visit About.com’s Office Fitness Clinic to find out how to stay fit at work. Try this office workout to get your blood moving and put yourself in a good mood. Take a deep breath, stand up and stretch your entire body. Also, many individuals put off quitting smoking because they are afraid of weight gain.  Exercise is a great way to avoid gaining weight while you quit! Many people have found the following techniques to be helpful as well! Massage Yoga Meditation Prayer The Four Ds: The Four Ds can also help you to manage a craving. They can be done anywhere, anytime. Delay . Delay acting on the urge to smoke. The urge will pass in a few minutes. Don't give in. Deep Breathing . Take two deep breaths. Breathe in slowly and deeply, then breathe out slowly. Drink Water . Sip the water slowly and hold it in your mouth a little while. Distract . Take your mind off smoking. Focus on the task you're doing, get up and move around or refer back to your list of reasons to quit. Anything that shifts your attention away from smoking for a few minutes can help. Complementary Therapies There is no clear scientific evidence about these techniques; however, many smokers have found them helpful. Hypnotherapy and acupuncture are two complementary therapies that have been used by many smokers to help them quit. Other complementary approaches that have been shown to be useful in quitting smoking include movement therapies like yoga, tai chi, and dance. Prayer and meditation have also helped many smokers learn to handle stress without using tobacco. Hypnotherapy There are a couple of ways that you can use hypnosis to stop smoking: Self-hypnosis Hypnotherapy by a certified hypnotherapist Self-hypnosis involves using techniques to relax yourself, and guide yourself through the images that can make quitting smoking work. This technique can take practice and time to master. A hypnotherapist is typically certified (or should be) and has specific training and expertise to help you relax and guide you using specific images and words that work to help a person quit smoking. Some hypnotherapists will offer a one-session program, while some may suggest multiple sessions to make sure you succeed. A third alternative is really a combination of these first two methods: a recorded program produced by a professional that you listen to in the comfort of your own home or office. This option is far less costly than visiting a hypnotist in person, and it gives you flexibility and repeatability in your program Quitting on Your Own If you want to quit on your own, that's great too! There are a number of resources out there that can help you quit on your own.  Check out the following links that include wonderful informational tools to help yourself quit. Visit the Office on Smoking and Health at The Centers for Disease Prevention and Control. Visit The American Cancer Society . Patient Gateway Login Learn More Physician Search Easily search the Partners HealthCare network by specialty, hospital affiliation, or location. Search Clinical Trials & Studies Partners Research Study Volunteer Program (RSVP) is recruiting for dozens of current and future studies. Learn more For Patients Spectrum of Care Find a Physician Physician Referral Service Rehabilitation Care at Home Wellness Information Public Health Clinical Trials Online Services Performance and Quality Services Directory Partners International Patient Services Pioneer ACO For Medical Professionals Find a Physician Physician Referral Service Clinical Trials Partners Initiatives Performance and Quality Education and Training Services Directory Partners International Physician Services Partners Community Healthcare Inc - PCHI Research Current Research Activities Clinical Trials Research Funding Education Industry Collaborations Resources for Research Collaborators Medical Education Graduate Medical Education (GME) Continuing Medical Education (CME) MGH Institute of Health Professions Online Learning Serving Our Communities Enhancing Access to Health Care Improving Health Through Prevention Building Tomorrow's Health Care Workforce Innovation and Leadership Partners Points of View Quality and Safety Innovation Improving Efficiency and Controlling Costs Applying Technology to Patient Care Graduate Medical Education and Training Sustainability Community Health About Partners Company Information History of Partners Philanthropy at Partners Partners HealthCare Global Mission Media Center Ethics at Partners Vendor Information Contact Us/Feedback FAQ Page Performance and Quality Services Directory Hospitals and Affiliates Shuttle Schedule Services Locator Map General Service Directories Parking Directory of International Services For Employees Building Your Career with PCWD Employee Assistance Program Child Care Housing Careers Partners Corporate Careers Careers at Our Members Search All Open Positions Events Partners Healthcare® Site Map Contact Us Ethics at Partners Vendor Informat