<http://www.0800-hair-transplants.co.uk/?p=582>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

The Lure of Aloe Vera as a Hair Loss Treatment | Hair Transplants - Stop Hair Loss Hair Transplants – Stop Hair Loss Twitter updates RSS not configured Popular Posts What You Need to Kno Hair transplantation is relocating the bald-resistant hair follicles from the ... Hair Transplant: The Over time, the gradual increase of people undergoing hair transplant ... Hair Transplants and Throughout the course of history, attitudes towards baldness have been ... Hair Transplant: A G Hair loss can have a drastic effect on a person’s ... Hair Transplant: Tip Hair transplant is a surgical procedure done to up lift ... Sponsors Blogroll Best Hair Loss Treatment Products for Hair Loss Remedy for Hair Loss The Lure of Aloe Vera as a Hair Loss Treatment Posted by Angela Evans On April - 24 - 2012 Aloe vera is one of the most renowned herbs in the modern world. But did you know that its medicinal value dates back to the ancient civilization of Egypt, Rome and Greece? In fact, historical data show that the benefits of using aloe vera for treating various ailments and conditions have been known for thousands of years, with its therapeutic and healing properties recorded by the Chinese. In alternative medicine, aloe vera is recognised for its nourishing, softening and soothing effects. For decades, the extracts of aloe vera have been used by the natives to improve the quality of their hair. Today, extracts of this herb are found in a host of cosmetic products ranging from skin creams to mouthwash solutions to hair loss products . Indeed, most hair loss product manufacturers are using aloe vera as an essential ingredient of their formulae and solutions since it contains polysaccharides and glycoproteins which are two elements that can stimulate healthier hair growth . In addition, extracts of aloe vera soothe and balance the pH level in the scalp, normalising its biological processes and relieving itchiness, dryness and hair oiliness; and to a certain extent, it is considered to be an effective hair loss treatment. Clinical Studies Columbia University. Scientific study from the Columbia University Health Services revealed that the juice of the aloe vera plant helps treat lung cancer, colon ulcers and wounds. Its juice also helps soothe dry skin and sunburns as well as dandruff and psoriasis. Dandruff and psoriasis are two factors that cause hair loss and hair thinning conditions when not properly controlled and treated. MayoClinic.com. According to MayoClinic.com, aloe vera extracts show promising results for treating dermatological conditions like dandruff, dry skin and burns. However, there is insufficient evidence to consider aloe vera as a serious medication for other types of skin conditions including being a hair loss treatment or a solution for hair thinning problems. Bottom Line Even though there is no hard scientific evidence that proves that aloe vera is an excellent herb for hair loss treatment , still a myriad of shampoos, conditioners and other hair care products contain aloe vera as its ingredient. This is probably due to the fact that aloe vera contains vital elements such as vitamins A, B1, B2, B6, B12, C and E, which are all needed for the growth of fuller, thicker and healthier hair strands. Get Shareaholic Related posts: Vitamin A: Vital Element in a Thinning Hair Treatment The 4 Types of Hair Loss Treatment Homeopathic Medication: An Alternative Solution to Hair Loss Laser Hair Growth Treatment: Girls’ New Best Friend Features of the Best Hair Loss Product Categories: Hair Loss Treatment Click here to cancel reply. You must be logged in to post a commen