
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 04:02:15 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14
Content-Language: en-US
Cache-Control: max-age=0
Expires: Thu, 15 Mar 2012 04:02:15 GMT
X-ServerName: web-111
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8

Older antidepressants linked to cardiovascular disease - Latest News - Best Health About this site Contact us Help Login Subscribe Text Larger Smaller Reset Search Best Health Home Conditions and treatments Operations Decision support Latest news Videos Latest News Older antidepressants linked to cardiovascular disease Taking an older type of antidepressant called a tricyclic may increase your risk of developing heart and circulation problems, reports a new study. However, the researchers found no higher risk with newer antidepressants called SSRIs. What do we know already The number of people taking antidepressants has risen dramatically in recent years, with prescriptions doubling in the UK from 1993 to 2004. Two of the most common types are tricyclic antidepressants (such as amitriptyline) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (such as fluoxetine, brand name Prozac). Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs for short) are newer antidepressants that have fewer side effects than tricyclics, so they are now more commonly prescribed. Even so, both types continue to be used for an expanding range of conditions, including depression, anxiety, migraine, fibromyalgia, back pain, sleep apnoea, and nerve pain (neuralgia). This has led to growing concern about the long-term safety of these drugs, with some studies suggesting that they may increase the risk of strokes, heart attacks, and other heart and circulation problems related to cardiovascular disease. However, many of these studies have been too small or too short to provide reliable findings. Some have also focused on antidepressant use among people already diagnosed with heart and circulation problems. This makes it difficult to know whether taking antidepressants actually played a role in causing these problems, or whether having these problems increased people's risk of depression, which then led to their use of antidepressants. Researchers have now done a large, long-term study focusing on people who had no signs of heart and circulation problems at the start of the study. Nearly 15,000 men and women in Scotland were assessed for symptoms of depression and anxiety, and were asked questions about their health, their lifestyle, and what medicines they took. Using hospital records, the researchers then tracked who had heart attacks, strokes, and other cardiovascular problems over the next eight years. What does the new study say? People who'd taken tricyclic antidepressants were more likely to have had cardiovascular problems by the end of the study, compared with those who'd not taken antidepressants. After factoring in other things that can increase the risk of heart and circulation problems (such as being older, obese, or more severely depressed or anxious), the researchers concluded that people who'd taken tricyclics had a 35 percent higher risk of cardiovascular disease. However, the researchers found no higher risk for people who'd taken SSRIs. And people who'd taken either type of antidepressant were no more likely to have died by the end of the study than those who'd not taken antidepressants. The study didn't explore why tricyclic antidepressants might increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. However, these drugs are known to cause side effects related to heart and circulation problems, including weight gain, raised blood pressure, and diabetes. How reliable are the findings? These findings should be fairly reliable, as this was a large, well-designed study that followed people for several years. However, this type of study can't show cause and effect, so we can't be certain that taking tricyclic antidepressants was what increased people's risk of heart and circulation problems. There could have been something else about people who took these antidepressants that raised their risk. Also, the researchers recorded participants' use of antidepressants only at the start of the study, so they don't know how people's use of these drugs changed over the following eight years and whether this might have affected their risk of cardiovascular disease. Where does the study come from? The study was conducted by researchers in the UK and the Netherlands, who received funding from several research foundations. It was published in the European Heart Journal, which is owned by the European Society of Cardiology. What does this mean for me? This study suggests you may have a higher risk of cardiovascular problems if you take a tricyclic antidepressant. However, we need more studies to confirm these findings. It's also worth noting that the possible increase in risk from tricyclics is small compared with the heightened risk caused by smoking, taking little exercise, or being very overweight. Making changes in these areas could more than offset any increase in risk from taking tricyclic antidepressants, say the researchers. What should I do now? If you are taking a tricyclic antidepressant and are concerned about your risk of cardiovascular disease, it's important that you don't suddenly stop treatment, as this can cause withdrawal symptoms. Instead, make an appointment to talk to your doctor. Together, you can decide whether this is the best treatment for you. From: Hamer M, Batty GD, Seldenrijk A, et al. Antidepressant medication use and future risk of cardiovascular disease: the Scottish Health Survey. European Heart Journal. Published online 1 December 2010. To learn more, see our information on depression, heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. Dec 02, 2010 RELATED CONDITIONS Stroke, prevention Stroke, emergency care Heart failure Heart attack Depression in adults This information does not replace medical advice. If you have a medical problem please see your doctor. Website terms & conditions | Privacy policy | Home | To