<http://www.healthypark.com/blog/?p=33>; rel=shortlink
Vary: User-Agent,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Benefits of Probiotic Supplements | Health & Fitness Blog HealthyPark.com is a health website directory. You can find links to website relate to health, diseases and conditions,  cancer, beauty, fitness, nursing, yoga, healing, weight loss and other information about health. Home About ♫ Breast Cancer and Women’s Health Looking For A Fat Loss Solution ♫ Benefits of Probiotic Supplements Probiotics are very helpful in rejuvenating the friendly bacteria in the bowel/gut of the human body. The probiotic supplements have been proven to be very helpful when a person suffers from a severe injury of the intestine. In case a person gets injured, the percentage of friendly bacteria in his body is likely to come down. Taking probiotic supplements can really help in revitalizing the lost beneficial bacteria. The following is a short list of the most recognized benefits of probiotics: • Children- With clinical studies that reveal the potential link between bacterial imbalances and the occurrence of childhood eczema in children, probiotics were employed as a remedy that not only reduced the symptoms of eczema, but also, on some occasions, eliminating it entirely. Infants given probiotic fortified formula experienced fewer instances of diaper rash for the same reasons. Minimizing the symptoms of acute diarrhea and rotavirus shedding are two other benefits of probiotics for children. • Adults – Men have experienced a lowering of overall cholesterol levels with the use of probiotics. In women, probiotics have proven to relieve symptoms of yeast infections by promoting the growth of vaginal flora (healthy vaginal bacteria). Because of the well-known ability of probiotics to regulate the digestive process, the elderly have experienced marked improvements in episodes of constipation. • Digestive Disorders – With multiple causes like stress, travel, infection and the use antibiotics that can upset the balance of bacteria in the digestive tract, symptoms of digestive disorders can include constipation, gas, diarrhea and discomfort. If left untreated, symptoms such as these can cause other problems like disruption of the immune system. However, the use of probiotic supplements or eating foods containing probiotics can bring the natural bacterial balance back into line allowing the body to self correct and reduce symptoms of discomfort. By promoting the growth of flora in the colon, particular forms of acidophilus found in probiotics can stop the conversion of bile into carcinogens thereby inhibiting autoimmune disorders. Likewise, active bacterial cultures in certain strains of probiotics can create lactase enzymes that counteract the effects of lactose on those who are intolerant. This is why many people with lactose intolerance are capable of eating yogurt with active culture. • Bioavailability – The body’s capacity to absorb nutrition from food is known as bioavailability. Probiotics increase bioavailability by breaking down complex hydrocarbons, which allow for superior absorption. The use of probiotic supplements allow the body to regulate itself in a natural way. This allows a person to increase quality of life, avoid common discomforts and lead a healthier lifestyle. Align daily probiotic supplement can help restore your natural balance, building & maintaining a strong, healthy digestive system. Align is intended for people with healthy digestive function who are looking for help with occasional digestive upsets or who are interested in promoting their digestive health. With Align, you can reclaim your freedom to travel, eat out, and enjoy life without the same interruption of these occasional digestive upsets, and help restore the natural balance of your digestive system. Get more information on Align, please visit at Aligngi.com . Tags: Nutrition , Probiotic Supplement , Supplements This entry was posted on March 1, 2011 at 9:31 pm and is filed under Nutrition & Supplements . You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.
													You can skip to the end and leave a response. Pinging is currently not allowed. Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Search for: Recent Posts Lasik Dallas – The Best Place For You Site of the Month for August 2011 Looking For A Fat Loss Solution Benefits of Probiotic Supplements Breast Cancer and Women’s Health Fitness, Exercise, and Diet Tips to Improve Overall Health Massage Therapy Does Your Body Good Categories Aging Beauty Dentistry Diseases and Conditions Fitness General Insurance Massage Therapy Medication Nutrition & Supplements Senior Health Software Teen Health Vision Weight Loss Women's Health Calendar February 2012 M T W T F S S « Oct 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 Archives October 2011 August 2011 March 2011 January 2011 August 2010 July 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 May 2009 April 2009 Tags Anti-Aging Baltimore Eye Center Benefit Breast Cancer Care Cataract Surgery Chiropractic Software Dental Health Articles Dental Hygiene Diet Effects Exercise Eyes Vision Face Masks Fat Fitness Gout Causes Gout Information Gout Symptoms Health Health Care High Blood Pressure Medicine High Blood Pressure Treatment Hypertension Improve Overall Health Insurance LASIK Massage Therapy Men's Health Nutrition Osteoporosis Medication Osteoporosis Treatment Overweight Probiotic Supplement Program Senior Health Skin Care Supplements Tags: Health Teenager Ulcerative Colitis Ulcerative Colitis Treatment Utah Massage Therapy Weight Loss Women's Health Blogroll Aging Blog Alternative Medicine Blog Dentistry Blog Diseases Blog Health 6 Health Care Step Home Care Law Blog Mental Health Blog Spinal Health