
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 05:46:20 GMT
Server: Apache/2.0.53 (Fedora)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.0.5
Set-Cookie: PHPSESSID=9sdco6rf9iqg8voikc0rjed5e7; path=/
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Fri, 02 Mar 2012 00:00:00 -0500
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Coping with Urinary incontinence? This treatment may help you regain control. Home About EGH | Make a Donation | Careers | Contact Us Find a Physician Healthcare Services Events & Education Patient & Visitor Information News & Publications Home › News and Publications › Newsletters & Stories of Interest › Stories of Interest › 
    Coping with Urinary incontinence? This treatment may help you regain control. Stories of Interest Coping with Urinary incontinence? This treatment may help you regain control. July 21, 2009 As many as one in three women will deal with chronic bladder control problems, especially in their later years. The condition is frequently caused by weak pelvic floor muscles that no longer provide adequate support for the bladder and other pelvic organs. The muscles have simply lost normal tone, often due to childbirth, menopause, or aging. Fortunately for many of these women, help is available in the form of a non-invasive treatment that helps restore strength to the pelvic floor muscles. The treatment is Pelvic Floor Therapy and it is offered at the Elkhart General Women’s Center. The Continence Nurses use biofeedback which helps you “see” your pelvic floor muscle activity during a pelvic muscle exercise or Kegel. A Kegel is a simple muscle contraction technique that, over time, can rebuild muscle strength and tone, resulting in improved support of the urethra (the tube that empties urine from the bladder). The therapy also involves stimulating these muscles by administering mild electrical impulses, causing the muscles to contract. Over the course of the treatment series, which for most patients includes six to eight once-a-week, one-hour sessions, the muscles strengthen and continence is improved or completely restored. According to Michelle Streb, RN, Continence Nurse, “This therapy has helped hundreds of Elkhart-area women achieve significant bladder control improvement. On a one-to-ten scale, with one representing the condition before treatment, most patients grade their improvement as a seven or eight. Word is spreading, and we’re now seeing patients from distant towns where this procedure is not yet available.” The therapy is done in a comfortable, private setting. “It is a very safe and effective treatment for women struggling with symptoms of overactive bladder, urge, and stress urinary incontinence,” according to Jennifer Zmyslo, RN, Continence Nurse. Streb adds that the Elkhart General Continence Program is also available to men. “We have successfully helped men improve their bladder control following prostate surgery,” she says. Pelvic Floor Therapy can also be used to treat women who experience falling organs or prolapses of the uterus, bladder, or bowel through the vaginal opening. Risk factors for pelvic organ prolapse include complicated childbirth deliveries, obesity, heavy lifting, chronic coughing, constipation, and genetic predisposition. Some patients may need medical intervention or surgery to correct the problem depending on severity. For more information, please call the Continence Clinic at (574) 523-2751. DISCLAIMER: Information presented through
this medium (i.e., the Elkhart General Healthcare System Web Site) is provided for
general information only and should not be construed as medical advice or instruction.
For diagnosis of specific illnesses and disorders, consult the appropriate healthcare 
professionals. Search Our Site Search Our Site EGH Quick Links How to Find Us Visiting Hours Baby Photos Health Information Ce Outpatient Pharmacy Volunteering Gift Shop Healthy Living Library Research a topic or read health-related news. Select a Topic Illnesses 
& Conditions Drug 
guide Medical 
Tests Health News Healthy 
Living Health Living Library Home Career Opportunities Join our team and discover why our employees love working at EGH. find a job Have a health question? Need to find a doctor? Registered Nurses will help 8am to 8pm, Monday - Friday, Call (888) 344-6773 or email ask@egh.org . © 2006 Elkhart General Healthcare System 600 East Boulevard, Elkhart, IN 46514  | (574) 294-2621 All Rights Reserved. Disclamer & Privacy Notice | Authorization for Use or Disclosure 