
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 16:31:40 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

persons -  DOObiz DOO.biz Lekomat Marketplace - persons Main persons Most popular: persons Most linked: persons Most respected: persons Smart Acupuncture Device - Medicomat Easy To Use Flu Medical Treatment and Medicomat Smart Acupuncture Device - Source Of Health. If you need more information about the effectiveness of ear stapling the best thing to do is to seek professional advice regarding ear stapling. Many people are for it, but some people think it is not a good idea because it has been known to cause pain in some people, and soreness in a persons jaw as well. However, if you contact a professional and ask as many questions as possible you will find the information you need regarding this procedure. 

Western doctors are now starting to recognize the world of good acupuncture and traditional Chinese medicine can do for female health problems. Here, we are going to look at two common health issues that TCM has produced excellent results for – endometriosis and urinary tract infections. Back Pain Treatments and Smart Acupuncture Device - Home Practice. The following are other conditions Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine can treat which are not classified using the above system: Acute sinusitis, Common Cold, Acute bronchitis, Acute conjunctivitis, Central retinitis, Myopia (in children), Cataract (without complications), Toothache, post-extraction pain, Gingivitis, Acute and chronic pharyngitis, Spasms of esophagus and cardia, Hiccough, Gastroptosis, Acute and chronic gastritis, Gastric hyperacidity, Chronic duodenal ulcer (pain relief), Acute duodenal ulcer (without complications), Acute and chronic colitis, Acute bacillary dysentery, Constipation, Diarrhea, Paralytic ileus, Trigeminal neuralgia, Frozen shoulder, Pareses following a stroke, Sequelae of poliomyelitis (early stage, i.e., within six months), Meniere's disease, Nocturnal enuresis, Intercostal neuralgia, Cervicobrachial syndrome. 

Auricular therapy is a branch of acupuncture specifically related to the ear. It is based on Traditional Chinese Medicine and is used to treat a variety of conditions. Ear acupuncture is a holistic approach to medicine that attempts to treat the entire person with acupuncture points found on the ear. Our Own Healing Immunity and Smart Acupuncture Device - Improvements. Disease LECI ACUPUNCTURE - A list of the World Health Organization is based on clinical experience: an acute inflammation of the sinuses (sinusitis), acute inflammation of the lining of the nose (rhinitis), common cold, acute tonsillitis (tonsillitis), acute bronchitis, asthma, acute inflammation of the joints of the eye ( conjunctivitis), central retinitis, myopia children (miopia), uncomplicated cataracts, toothache, pain after tooth extraction, gum inflammation (gingivitis), acute inflammation of the pharynx (pharyngitis), chronic inflammation of the pharynx (pharyngitis), esophageal spasm, hiccups, gastritis, acute ulcer (ulcer) duodenal ulcer chronic duodenal ulcers, acute colitis, chronic colitis, acute dysentery bacillus, constipation (constipation), diarrhea (diarrhea), paralytic ileus, headache, migraine, neuralgia n.trigeminusa, n.facijalisa paralysis, paresis after stroke stroke, peripheral neuropathy, poliomyelitis, Meniere's disease, neurogenic bladder, intercostal neuralgia, cervicobrachial syndrome, sciatica (low back syndrome), frozen shoulder, tennis elbow, pain lumbosakralnog areas, osteoarthritis ... 

In addition to the acupuncture points mentioned above, it is common to use several additional points for their direct effect on regulating the blood pressure and managing hypertension. Several points on the ear are very effective and can have immediate effects on lowering your blood pressure.hese include bleeding points on the tip and backside of the ear. These auricular acupuncture points are commonly added in conjunction to the body acupuncture points to enhance the treatment. 

Diseases for which acupuncture is worth trying, because the treatment by western medicine is difficult - Diseases, symptoms or conditions for which there are only individual controlled trials reporting some therapeutic effects, but for which acupuncture is worth trying because treatment by conventional and other therapies is difficult: Chloasma, Choroidopathy, central serous, Colour blindness, Deafness, Hypophrenia, Irritable colon syndrome, Neuropathic bladder in spinal cord injury, Pulmonary heart disease, chronic, Small airway obstruction. 

Visit the site http://lekomat.org , it lets you expirience pain and disease relief in the comfort of your own home. Medicomat a fully automatic apparatus for home cure, alternative therapy, pain treatment and healthcare at home .