
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 10:16:59 GMT
Server: Apache/1.3.39 (Unix)
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

NLP-Engaging The Power Of The Mind Stop Smoking Smoking Effects of Smoking Lung Cancer Cigarettes Quitter's Guide search Fagerstrom Scale This scale is a scientific measure of showing... Nicotine Patches Learn everything you need to know about nicotine... Nicotine Gum Learn about how nicotine gum can help you stop... NRT What are the various Nicotine Replacement Therapies... Quit Smoking This article provides topics and links to all... Best Way To Quit Is any one method of for quitting smoking better... What is Chantix? If you need a prescription solution to your smoking... Clinics For Quitting For smokers who have tried everything else the... Why Is It So Difficult Learn why it is so difficult to stop smoking and... An Easy Way Every smokers wants to quit but many make the... Free Aids To Stop learn about the many free resources available... Avoid Gaining Weight The weight gained from quitting smoking puts most... Getting Fit To Quit Increasing your fitness level is one of the best... A Healthy Food Learn what to include in your diet for quitting success Lasers To Quit Believe it or not lasers are now being used in... The Natural Way Learn how to quit smoking naturally without the... Nicotine Nasal Sprays Learn about nicotine nasal sprays and how they... Aids To Stop Smoking You don't have to quit on your own - there are... Laser Treatment Cold lasers are now being widely used in the treatment... Secret To Quitting Now you can discover the true secret to quitting... Mindset To Quit Learning how to stop smoking is difficult but... Falling Off The Wagon ... Programs To Quit Do programs to help you quit smoking work and... Teeth Whitening Years of smoking can and will yellow your teeth.... Tips To Quit Just a collection of tips to help you stop smoking Zayban vs Patches Zyban is one of the most commonly used treatments... Stop Smoking Programs This article looks at stop smoking programs and... Quitting Smoking Benefits The purpose behind this article is to address... Zyban Curbs Smoking This article focuses on Zyban as a method for... Methods for Quitting This article presents a brief look at a number... Nicotine Withdrawal The purpose of this article is to focus on what... Nicotine Gum Nicotine gum is an anti-smoking aid that helps... Ways To Quit Smoking The first key to quitting smoking is to commit... Stop Smoking Pill Adding to the options of how to quit smoking,... Stop Smoking Aids There are various smoking aids that can help you... Smoking Ban Public policies, criminal laws and occupational... No Smoking Signs There are more and more cities and states that... Nicotine Patch When smoking cigarettes, you are at risk of becoming... Facts About Smoking Many research studies have been conducted to conclude... Cigarette Ingredients This article lists the ingredients of cigarettes. Programs and Quit Rates This article gives statistics on heart attack... Coping with Cravings This article is a personal tale of how one woman... Nicotine Anonymous This article is an overview of the twelve step... Support For Quitters The decision to quit smoking is a big one and... Relapse Help Research indicates that a person who wants to... Success Strategies Quitting smoking can be a difficult and lengthy... Nicotine Inhaler The nicotine inhaler is a cigarette-like invention... Physical Effects Nobody thinks about becoming addicted when they... Quit With NLP In recent years there has been an increase of... Hypnosis Works Learn about hypnosis and how it just might be... Speaking With Kids Learn about how to talk to kids about smoking... E-Cigarettes This article describes a new aid that promises... Getting Paid To Quit Researchers are paying people to quit smoking. Help To Break The Habit Most American States are trying to help people... Quit With Acupuncture Auriculotherapy otherwise known as ear acupuncture... Quit With Hypnosis Learn about how hypnosis can help someone stop smoking Biofeedback Biofeedback, a clinically proven therapy, is an... Cognitive Therapy Cognitive therapy is an effective tool in changing... Negative Feelings Quitting smoking is much easier said than done.... Stop-Smoking Hypnotherapy By eliminating the associations that cause smokers... First Weeks of Withdrawal This article gives you some tips to manage nicotine... Withdrawal Insomnia Why does smoking cessation cause insomnia?  This... Managing Withdrawal Symptoms of nicotine withdrawal include just about... Managing Withdrawal 2 In this article we continue with strategies to... NLP-Engaging The Power Of The Mind Mind Over Matter Over the past few years, more and more emphasis has been placed upon man's ability to control his destiny using the power of his own mind. Different methods are employed, some with great success and others only proving to be empty claims. One method that has gained credence is NeuroLinguistic Programming or NLP. NLP is used as an effective way to help people overcome nicotine addiction and to quit smoking. Often employed in conjunction with other methods, such as hypnosis, NLP has been found to work on people who are looking for help to stop smoking. However, the truth is that no type of therapy will work effectively unless several factors are present, including a sincere desire to quit smoking. If the smoker is looking to quit because someone is nagging him/her, then it is not likely any method will work for long. Quitting has to be the internal desire of the smoker. Once that is established then, through hypnotherapy and/or NLP, reprogramming can be established, the mind can be reconditioned, and the person can take control of their life, changing for the better. Becoming Aware Of Oneself NLP uses self-image and attitude toward an issue, such as smoking, weight loss, or illness, to create and effect change and promote a positive change. When a person has no hope for change, then the mental picture they develop is one of discouragement and disappointment. Once this person becomes aware of their abilities and possibilities, the ability to see things from a different paradigm kicks in and they are able to change their situation. Using the concept that, "if what you're doing isn't working you should do something else," NLP embraces the idea that people are different and by being flexible, a person can develop a strategy that works well for them as an individual. For a smoker, acknowledging that the health risks associated with cigarette smoking harms the body and second-hand smoke harms others can open the door to an internal prompting to quit smoking. NLP and hypnotherapy focus on both the physical and mental aspects of quitting smoking, addressing the addiction as well as the symptoms of withdrawal. An Example Of NLP Anchors For instance, a person who is using NLP to quit smoking will become more aware of the triggers or anchors that cause them to go for a cigarette. If the common practice first thing in the morning is to brew a cup of coffee and have a cigarette, then the anchor is coffee. To reprogram this behavior, understanding the link between the coffee and cigarette is the first step. Then, instead of having a cup of coffee, the individual may choose to have a glass of milk. The connection changes and the first cigarette of the day is averted. By observing and recognizing an anchor, and by changing the anchor, the behavior changes as well. Privacy Po