
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 09 May 2012 00:34:34 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Mon, 26 Jul 1997 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Wed, 09 May 2012 00:34:34 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=iso-8859-1

Acupuncture for Addiction AU UK NZ More... Home Improvement Pages Pet Pages Viteknologies.com.au ntpages.com.au Australia's #1 Natural Health Site Home Practitioners Schools Products Positions Vacant Articles List your business Search 1789 Articles Search Welcome! Login Shortlist ( 0 ) | New User? Register now! Find out how to add your business to Natural Therapy Pages Articles | Acupuncture | Acupuncture for Addiction Acupuncture for Addiction Jun 17, 2010 Share Tweet Print Print Addiction, in its simplest form, is a term used to describe any habitual, psychological and physiological dependence on any substance beyond one’s voluntary control. It can turn us into drugs addicts, neurotics, alcoholics and workaholics, just to name a few. Whilst modern scientists have thus far developed some forms of therapies that aim to relieve symptoms of addiction, other alternative therapies such as acupuncture may prove useful in its treatment. Please read on for more information. What is Acupuncture? Acupuncture is ancient Chinese practice that employs the use of needles on the skin to restore the body from symptoms of illness, injury and disease. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) is founded on the principle that energy channels (meridians) run all over the body nourishing tissues with energy. When blocked, the energy is obstructed and prevented from nourishing the tissues, which may result in poor states of physical, emotional and mental health. Acupuncture & TCM bases it practice on the principles of yin and yang energy, which in a healthy individual are balanced. When out of balance with deficient yin energy, feelings of desperation and emptiness can result. This can lead a person attempting to fill the ‘void’ with an addictive substance or behavior, which may manifest physically as a kind of hyperactivity. This hyperactivity then exacerbates the abuse, depleting yin energy even further, increasingly creating more and more of a desperation for the addictive substance or behavior at hand. Acupuncture Points for Addiction Most acupuncturists treat addiction with the use of needles on acupuncture points outside and around the ear. Other points that may be addressed include those of the lungs, liver and kidney which assist an addict to detoxify and clear any unwanted toxins that have derived from the addictive substance in their body. How Does Acupuncture Benefit Addiction? Auricular acupuncture, or acupuncture of the ear, has been used to treat addiction for many years.  The theory is that there are 200 points in the ear that correspond to organs in the body and, when stimulated, these points nourish and replenish these organs.  This helps with detoxification and, in the case of addiction, to suppress withdrawal symptoms such as anxiety, agitation, and insomnia.  It also helps to bolster the levels of energy in the body, and leaves the patient feeling relaxed, energised, and in a positive frame of mind. An acupuncturist unblocks energy and re-establishes energy flow along meridians by needling specific acupuncture points. In doing so it improves the state of internal organs, assisting everything from digestion, absorption, blood circulation and energy production activities. Modern scientific research has proven acupuncture to be beneficial in addiction control and elimination by: Increasing feelings of relaxation Reducing the intensity of withdrawal symptoms Improving sleep patterns Raising the level of feel-good endorphins in the nervous system Freeing any blocked energy from around the body How Many Treatments Will You Need? The number of acupuncture treatments required to treat addiction will differ between individuals. For more long-standing addictions however, treatments up to several months may be recommended. Find out about other effective natural treatments for addiction. Topic: Acupuncture , Addictions Share this page Share Tweet Print Print Link to This Page: Application (A): Email List - NTP Consumer: Email: Postcode: Subscribe Enter your details to receive our weekly newsletter, packed with the latest natural health news, articles and offers. Featured Acupuncture Kerrie Sevenoaks Acupressure, Acupuncture, Cupping, Ear Candling, Massage - Connective Tissue, Massage - Deep Tissue,... 0410 979 794 By Kerrie Sevenoaks Health Heaven Health Heaven is located in the heart of Sydney.  An oasis of tranquility in the midst of the hustle... 0414 434 827 Make an Enquiry Request Appointment By Health Heaven Acupuncture Chinese Medicine Fertility Clinic Acupuncture, Natural Fertility Management, Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) 0414 922 988 By Acupuncture Chinese Medicine Fertility Clinic Newtown Osteopathic Health Feel and Move better with Osteopathy and Acupuncture
 Our practitioners offer over 10 years of clin... 02 9565 2793 Make an Enquiry Request Appointment By Newtown Osteopathic Health Health Dimensions Ernestina is a qualified acupuncturist with over 10 years of experience in providing solutions for p... 0416 090 997 Make an Enquiry Request Appointment By Health Dimensions View more Acupuncture Latest Acupuncture Articles Acupuncture: increasing the live birth rate after IVF Migraine Sufferers Helped by Acupuncture Acupuncture for Headaches Training To Become an Acupuncturist Graduate Stories: A Career in Acupuncture What is Acupuncture? Modalities Acupuncture Featured Articles Staying Safe with Colon Hydrotherapy In Pursuit of Happiness Should Sugar Be Regulated? Exhale, Pause Breathe Healthy Eating Tips from a Nutritionist How Happy is Australia? Directory Massage Natural Medicine Beauty Yoga Spiritual Exercise & Fitness Energetic Structural Cognitive Practitioners Schools Products Room for Rent Courses Aromatherapy Counselling Herbal Medicine Homoeopathy Kinesiology Naturopathy Nutrition Remedial Massage Sports Massage For Business Owners List your business Advertiser Login Customer Support We're ranked #1 in the Hitwise Australia 'Natural Therapies' category. View awards Partner Sites Natural Therapy UK Natural Therapy NZ Home Improvement Pages Pet Pages Resources Associations Modalities Practitioners by Name Media Centre Forums/Blogs Discussion Articles Glossary Other Links Link to Us Subscribe to our Newsletter Enter your details to receive our weekly newsletter with the latest natural therapy articles, news & views of natural health. Application (A): Email List - NTP Consumer: First Name: Last Name: Name: Email: Postcode: Haven't found what you're looking for? Try searching our entire site: Go © 2012 Contact Us Career Opportunities Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy 