Cache-Control: max-age=60
Expires: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 18:50:12 GMT
MS-Author-Via: DAV
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Seal America: The Prevention Invention Table of Contents Introduction Step 1: 
          Getting Started Step 2: 
          Gaining and Maintaining Community Support Step 3: 
          Staffing Step 4: 
          Purchasing Dental 
          Equipment and Supplies Step 5: 
          Funding Step 6: 
          Developing Forms and Records, Tracking Students, and Collecting and Analyzing
          Data Step 7: 
          Preparing to Launch Step 8: 
          Implementing the Program Step 9: Referral and Follow-up Step 10: Program Evaluation Video: Seal in a Smile Seal America, The Prevention Invention Step 5 Funding Sidebar Step 5 Overview Obtaining Initial Funding Sustaining Funding References To operate effectively, school-based dental sealant programs need adequate
  funding. Programs must capture reimbursements whenever possible and must also
  secure external funding. The school-based dental sealant program director needs
  to determine whether the program can be reimbursed for certain services and
  to create an infrastructure to document, bill, and reconcile billings. To ensure
    that funding can be secured and reimbursements maximized, school-based dental
    sealant programs should start small and expand over time. As programs
    become more efficient and established, funders are more likely to invest
  generously. Obtaining Initial Funding Preparing to Secure Funding Although it may seem reasonable to determine
              whether funds are available to set up and support a school-based
              dental sealant program before
                embarking on the process of planning a program, in most instances
                this is not possible. Rather, program administrators must be
            far enough along in the planning process to demonstrate to potential
                funders the feasibility and value of the program. The keys to
            acquiring
                funding are as follows: Stating a problem or demonstrating
              a need convincingly (e.g., demonstrating untreated tooth decay
              among children from families with low incomes, demonstrating lack
              of access to care, using data to support statements). Explaining how a proposed
              solution will reduce disparities and meet Healthy People 2020 objectives
              and MCHB
              performance measures . Providing
              measurable objectives (e.g., how many students will benefit from
              dental sealants in this program in a given year) to monitor and
              demonstrate the program’s impact. Presenting a business plan that demonstrates an understanding
              of the expenses and revenues associated with the school-based dental
              sealant program and communicates to potential funders that the
              program will be sustainable. (e.g., providing a previous track
              record or a budget plan to sustain the program). Providing realistic capital
              and operating budgets (e.g., the cost of equipment, supplies, and
              staff) with supporting narrative. Supplying evidence of support
              for the program from key members of the community (e.g., letters
              from the dental society, school administrators, the teacher's association,
              child-advocacy groups). Before seeking funding, therefore, program administrators must Define the target population
              (see Step
              1, Getting Started .) Acquire support from the
              school administrators (See Step 2, Gaining
              and Maintaining Community Support .) Determine the level of staffing
              and funding needed to start and sustain the program (See Step 3, Staffing and Step
                4, Purchasing Dental Equipment and Supplies .) However, while planning a program, it is useful to make informal
            contacts with representatives of potential funders to gauge their
            interest. These representatives may help school-based dental sealant
            program administrators focus on an aspect of the program that is
            in line with a particular funder’s mission. For example, one
            foundation might be interested in prevention and would provide funds
            for dental sealants, while another may be more interested in funding
            the referral and follow-up component of the program. MCH Block Grant Funding Funding for State Health Departments. Some state and local
                school-based dental sealant programs have received funding through
                the federal MCH Block Grant awarded to state health departments.
                As part of the MCHB Block Grant application, every 5 years states
                are required to conduct a statewide needs assessment that includes
                an oral health needs assessment as a required component. State
                health department personnel interested in acquiring funds to
            support school-based dental sealant programs should offer to help
            with
                the department’s oral health needs assessment and MCH Block
                Grant application to help ensure that funds for dental sealant
                programs are incorporated in the application. For assistance in preparing
                needs assessments, see Step 1, Designing the Program in Assessing
                Oral Health Needs: ASTDD Seven-Step Model, rev ed . Funding for County and Local Health Department and Nonprofit
              Agencies. Staff of county and local health departments and
              nonprofit agencies interested in acquiring funds to operate or
              support school-based dental sealant programs should contact the
              oral health director in their state health department to determine
              whether public funds are available for school-based dental sealant
              programs and to request assistance in identifying and acquiring
              those funds. Where there is no state oral health director, staff
              should contact the MCH director at the state health department
              and offer to help prepare the oral health needs assessment. This
              may place the health department or agency in an advantageous position
              to acquire a portion of the state’s MCH Block Grant award
              to fund a school-based dental sealant program. If dental sealants
              are not a component of a state MCH program, the local or county
              health department or nonprofit agency should urge state officials
              to include dental sealants in the program in the future. A helpful
              document is Strategies to Improve Health by Integrating Oral
              Health and Maternal and Child Health Programs . [Back to Top] Sidebar In preparing grant applications, it is essential that  directions about
			  length and content be followed exactly. Other Funding Options Funding from Nonprofit Agencies. In addition to securing
                funds from MCH Block Grants, there are other options for obtaining
                funding. Nonprofit agencies in the community, such as United
            Way, may be willing to provide staff or funding to start a school-based
                dental sealant program. Funding from City Councils, Companies, Service Groups, or Foundations. If
            a school-based dental sealant program has the active support of community
            groups, county commissioners might be convinced that the project
            is worthy of financial support. Local companies, Rotary Clubs, Kiwanis,
            and other service groups may be willing to provide funding. Directories
            of foundations can be found in public libraries and on the websites
            of professional organizations (e.g., the National
            Association of County and City Health Officials ). Figure
	              5.1. Foundation Directories Can Help Guide a Search for Funding. Courtesy of the Cincinnati Department of Health. Characteristics of Successful Grant Applications. Every grant
            application is different. Some funders may ask for a 3-page proposal
            and budget, while others may request a detailed 25-page proposal
            with a problem statement, program description, evaluation, budget,
            and budget justification. In preparing grant applications, it is
            essential that the directions concerning length and content be followed
            exactly. Successful applications are clearly written, well organized,
            and grammatically correct and include measurable objectives. It is
            important to present a viable business plan. It may be useful to
            have a person familiar with grantwriting but unfamiliar with dental
            sealants read the proposal before it is submitted to make sure it
            clearly communicates the need, the methodology, and the measurable
            outcomes of a school-based dental sealant program. For assistance
            in preparing successful grant applications, see the Foundation
            Center's free Proposal Writing Short Course . Existing
            school-based dental sealant programs may be able to provide examples
            of grant applications that have received funding. Funding from Multiple Sources. All program dollars do not
            have to come from one source. Some funders may not be able to support
            a program entirely but may be willing to provide partial funding.
            In one city, for example, a local United Way agency funds two dental
            hygienists for a school-based dental sealant program, and the local
            health department funds the dental assistants, the supplies and equipment,
            and the program administrator. While the school-based dental sealant
            program is consistent with the mission of both the United Way agency
            and the local health department, neither could have funded the entire
            program alone. Sustaining Funding Once a school-based dental sealant program
              has obtained initial funding, a regular source of income is needed
              for operations to continue.
              Historically, school-based dental sealant programs have received
              a substantial proportion of funding from program-generated revenue
              through collections from Medicaid, CHIP, and Medicaid managed care.
              Some dental sealant programs have received ongoing funding from
              the school district in which they operate. Funding from Medicaid and Insurance Companies School-based dental
              sealant program administrators need to learn how Medicaid operates
              in their state to maximize reimbursements.
                Medicaid reimbursement policies (e.g., replacement dental sealants,
                teeth eligible for sealing, billing cycles, follow-up assessments)
                vary from state to state. Currently, almost all states provide Medicaid reimbursement for
            dental sealants on a fee-for-service basis to practices and programs
            with a valid National Provider Identifier. School-based dental sealant
            program administrators should become familiar with the Medicaid billing
            process to determine whether the agency providing the dental sealants
            can bill Medicaid. Program administrators should determine the number
            of students eligible for Medicaid in the service area to estimate
            Medicaid revenues and allow for accurate budgeting. To receive adequate
            and timely reimbursement, school-based dental sealant programs need
            a competent staff member to oversee billing and collections. Sidebar To ensure that they receive adequate and timely reimbursement, school-based dental sealant
			  programs need a competent staff member to oversee billing and collections. The actual method of billing Medicaid and other insurance companies
            for reimbursement varies by state and by insurance company. The staff
            member responsible for billing and collections needs to work closely
            with the various payors to learn how to maximize collections. He
            or she also needs to work closely with the dental hygienist and dental
            assistant and must educate them about the necessity of adhering to
            state regulations and about the importance of timely and accurate
            documentation of dental sealants provided. [Back to Top] Collecting Identification Information for Billing Purposes Collecting
              accurate student-identification information is critical to successful
              billing and collections. Most insurance companies,
                including Medicaid and CHIP, have assigned an identification
            number to each participant. Previously this number may have been
            the person’s
                social security number, but now it is usually a random identification
                number. Some programs have had success in collecting Medicaid
            identification numbers by putting a blank sample Medicaid card on
            the consent form. Parents then copy their child’s
                identification number from their Medicaid card onto the consent
                form. Programs have also used logos from managed care organizations
                (MCOs) on the consent forms so parents can more easily identify
                the company that matches their card and can provide accurate
                identification numbers. Many state Medicaid programs and private
                MCOs also have
                web-based programs that can be used to verify Medicaid eligibility.
                While checking students’ eligibility for Medicaid is time
                consuming, it can greatly increase program revenue. Sidebar Alameda County’s school-based dental sealant program uses
              the assessment process to identify students in need of oral health
              care. A referral is made to the county’s health insurance
              specialist, who helps to enroll students and their families eligible
              for Medicaid in public insurance programs or helps them obtain
              low-cost private insurance. Billing for Uninsured Students Medicaid regulations prohibit programs from billing Medicaid for
              services if the programs do not bill other insurance plans, However,
              it is permissible for programs receiving Title V funds and that
              qualify as Medicaid providers to bill Medicaid and not seek reimbursement
              for services for students who are not eligible for Medicaid and
              are uninsured. 1 Funding for Outreach Some school-based dental sealant programs have sought reimbursement
              for outreach activities using administrative matching funds under
              Medicaid. There are specific guidelines for the use of these funds. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has developed the Medicaid
                School-Based Administrative Claiming Guide 2 to inform schools, state Medicaid agencies, and other interested
                parties about appropriate methods for claiming reimbursement
                for the costs of Medicaid administrative activities performed
                in the school setting. Programs
              not operated by government agencies are not eligible for Medicaid
              reimbursement. Administrative activities that are eligible for reimbursement (also
            known as allowable activities) are categorized by function. Those
            that pertain to school-based dental sealant programs are Medicaid outreach and public
              awareness . Activities that inform individuals who are
              or may be eligible about Medicaid and how to access services. Facilitating Medicaid eligibility determination . Activities
              that assist individuals in the Medicaid-eligibility-determination
              process. This does not include actual determination of individual’s
              eligibility for Medicaid. Program planning, policy development,
              and interagency coordination related to medical services . Activities
              for the collaborative development of programs with other agencies
              that ensure the delivery of Medicaid-covered medical, dental, and
              mental health services to Medicaid beneficiaries. Referral, coordination, and monitoring
              of Medicaid services . Activities for developing appropriate
              referral sources for program-specific services at local health
              departments and for monitoring the delivery of Medicaid services
              within local health departments. These activities are also used
              for coordinating programs and services at local health departments. Medicaid-specific training on outreach
              eligibility and services . Activities for coordinating,
              conducting, or participating in training events and seminars for
              staff who provide outreach services related to the benefits of the
              Medicaid program, including how to assist families in accessing
              Medicaid services and how to more effectively refer individuals
              for services. Arranging for Medicaid-related transportation . Activities
              for assisting individuals in obtaining transportation for Medicaid-covered
              services. Arranging for provision of Medicaid-related
              translation services . Activities for arranging
              or providing translation services or developing translation materials
              that assist individuals with accessing and understanding necessary
              care or treatment covered by Medicaid. CMS’s guide provides more detail about each of these categories.
            It is strongly recommended that school-based dental sealant program
            staff seek assistance from the state Medicaid agency before proceeding
            with any of the methods for claiming reimbursements that are discussed
            in the guide. State Medicaid Programs Converted to Managed Care A number of states
              have converted Medicaid programs to a managed care format. Under
              such models, state Medicaid programs contract
                with private MCOs to provide oral health services. The MCOs in
                turn contract with individuals or agencies to provide oral health
                care. Some of these MCOs reimburse oral health professionals
            on a capitation basis, and others pay fee-for-service. In instances where fee-for-service reimbursement is an option under
            a Medicaid managed care plan, the school-based dental sealant program
            should consider participating with as many MCOs in a service area
            as possible. If reimbursement by MCOs is capitated, school-based
            dental sealant programs may not be eligible for Medicaid reimbursement.
            School-based dental sealant program administrators might consider
            approaching state Medicaid programs directly to contract for the
            provision of dental sealants on a fee-for-service basis. Sidebar School-based dental sealant program
                  administrators need to learn how Medicaid operates in their
                  state to maximize reimbursements. Funding from School Districts If a school-based dental sealant
              program is a joint partnership with the local health agency, then
              the school district may be willing to provide funding to
    sustain the program. Engaging in discussions with the school district finance
    department and the school board may help with developing a budget line-item
    for needs assessment or staffing. References Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
                  2005. Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment
              of Individuals Under the Age 21—Section 5000. In State Medicaid
                    Manual. Baltimore, MD: Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
                  Services. http://www.cms.hhs.gov/Manuals/PBM/itemdetail.asp?filterType=none&filter ByDID=-
                  99&sortByDID=1&sortOrder=ascending&itemID=CMS021927 . Centers
                    for Medicare and Medicaid Services. 2003. Medicaid School-Based
                      Administrative Claiming Guide. Baltimore , MD: Centers
                      for Medicare and Medicaid Services. http://www.cms.hhs.gov/MedicaidBudgetExpendSystem/Downloads/ Schoolhealthsvcs.pdf . [Back to Top] Previous
                    Step Next Step Copyright © 2007, 2011 • National
          Maternal and Child Oral Health Resource Center • Georgetown
          University Accessibility • Disclaimer
        and Copyright Cite as: Carter NL, with 
          the American Association for Community Dental Programs and the National Maternal and Child Oral Health Resource Center. 2011. Seal America: The Prevention Invention (2nd ed., rev.). Washington, DC:
  