Age: 1494
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

allAfrica.com: Tanzania: Good Progress in Male Circumcision Campaign English En Français AllAfrica myAfrica Travel blogAfrica Sources Free Headlines: Email RSS My Account Countries All Countries Algeria Angola Benin Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Comoros Congo-Brazzaville Congo-Kinshasa Cote d'Ivoire Djibouti Egypt Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Gabon Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea Bissau Kenya Lesotho Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Morocco Mozambique Namibia Niger Nigeria Rwanda Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa South Sudan Sudan Swaziland São Tomé and Príncipe Tanzania Togo Tunisia Uganda Western Sahara Zambia Zimbabwe Central Africa Angola Burundi Cameroon Central African Republic Chad Congo-Brazzaville Congo-Kinshasa Equatorial Guinea Gabon Rwanda São Tomé and Príncipe East Africa Burundi Comoros Djibouti Eritrea Ethiopia Kenya Madagascar Mauritius Rwanda Seychelles Somalia South Sudan Sudan Tanzania Uganda North Africa Algeria Egypt Libya Morocco Tunisia Western Sahara Southern Africa Angola Botswana Lesotho Malawi Mozambique Namibia South Africa Swaziland Zambia Zimbabwe West Africa Benin Burkina Faso Cameroon Cape Verde Cote d'Ivoire Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea Bissau Liberia Mali Mauritania Niger Nigeria Senegal Sierra Leone São Tomé and Príncipe Togo Topics All Topics AIDS Africa on the Move Agribusiness Aid and Assistance Arms and Armies Arts Asia, Australia, and Africa Athletics Banking Book Reviews Books Business Capital Flows Children Climate Commodities Company Conflict Construction Corruption Currencies Debt Ecotourism Education Energy Environment Europe and Africa External Relations Food and Agriculture Game Parks Governance Health Human Rights ICT Infrastructure International Organisations Investment Labour Land and Rural Issues Latin America and Africa Legal Affairs Malaria Manufacturing Media Middle East and Africa Migration Mining Music Music Reviews NGO Nutrition Oceans Olympics Peacekeeping Petroleum Polio Pregnancy and Childbirth Privatization Refugees Religion Science Soccer Sport Stock Markets Sustainable Development Terrorism Trade Transport Travel Tuberculosis U.S., Canada and Africa Urban Issues Water Wildlife Women World Cup Arts Book Reviews Books Music Music Reviews Business Agribusiness Banking Capital Flows Commodities Company Construction Currencies Debt Energy ICT Infrastructure Investment Labour Manufacturing Mining Petroleum Privatization Stock Markets Trade Transport Conflict Arms and Armies Peacekeeping Refugees Terrorism Environment Climate Oceans Water Wildlife Health AIDS Malaria Nutrition Polio Pregnancy and Childbirth Tuberculosis Sport Athletics Olympics Soccer World Cup Travel Ecotourism Game Parks Development Aid and Assistance Education Environment Food and Agriculture Health Women BizTech BizTech Home Agribusiness Banking Capital Flows Commodities Company Construction Currencies Debt Energy ICT Infrastructure Investment Labour Manufacturing Mining Petroleum Privatization Stock Markets Trade Transport Arts Book Reviews Books Music Music Reviews Sport Athletics Olympics Soccer World Cup External Relations Asia, Australia, and Africa Europe and Africa International Organisations Latin America and Africa Middle East and Africa U.S., Canada and Africa Governance Corruption Governance Human Rights Land and Rural Issues Legal Affairs Media NGO Multimedia Video Audio Document Web Site InFocus Pages PhotoEssays Email Print Share Tanzania: Good Progress in Male Circumcision Campaign 18 January 2012 Dar es Salaam — The demand for medical male circumcision is growing among Tanzania's non-circumcising communities, and officials say the country is on track to surpass its goal of reaching 2.8 million men by 2015. "The response is good and encouraging. Government and health officials are very cooperative," said Charles Wanga, a communications officer with Jhpiego, an NGO affiliated with Johns Hopkins University that is working with the government to roll out the programme in Iringa, a region in the southern Tanzanian highlands. An estimated 67 percent of Tanzanian men are circumcised, but prevalence varies from region to region; in some parts of western Tanzania, circumcision levels are as low as 20 percent. The programme - launched in 2011 - aims to circumcise 2.8 million males aged between 10 and 34 within five years. It focuses on seven regions in western Tanzania where levels of male circumcision are particularly low: Iringa, Kagera, Mar, Mwanza, Rukwa, Shinyanga and Tabora. Wanga told PlusNews that the project aimed to circumcise 260,000 men and boys in Iringa by 2015; the first phase, which ended in December 2011, was expected to cover 20,000. "Up to September [2011], 30,000 men and boys were circumcised under the programme, which reflects success of 150 percent," he said. According to Jhpiego, most of those volunteering for male circumcision in Iringa are adolescent boys and unmarried men; older, married men have been more reluctant to come forward. Just 38 percent of Iringa men are circumcised; the region has an HIV prevalence rate of 15.7 percent - about three times the national average. In the northwestern region of Kagera, more than 13,000 men and boys underwent circumcision between 2010 and 2011, according to Songoro Biki, an official with the NGO, International Centre for AIDS Prevention, which is supporting male circumcision in the area. "The response to the campaign is quite promising as more people were showing up voluntarily for the 'cut'; we expect to reach over 300,000 by 2015," he said. He said the service was being provided at the Bukoba Regional hospital and Rubya hospital, in Muleba district, adding that plans were under way to provide the service at Maruku and Izimbya Wards, in Bukoba Rural district. The programme - supported by the Tanzanian government, the US government and the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria - provides the service free of charge; male circumcision usually costs US$10-17. Tanzania has also trained nurses to perform the procedure, as the country has a shortage of doctors. Three randomized controlled trials in Kenya, South Africa and Uganda provided evidence that male circumcision can reduce a man's risk of becoming infected with HIV through heterosexual intercourse by as much as 60 percent. According to the UN World Health Organization, Tanzania needs to circumcise some 1,373,271 men in order to achieve 80 percent prevalence, which would potentially avert 200,000 new HIV infections within five years. [This report does not necessarily reflect the views of the United Nations] Tagged: East Africa , Health , Tanzania Copyright © 2012 PlusNews. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media ( allAfrica.com ).
  To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections — or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, click here. AllAfrica aggregates and indexes content from over 130 African news organizations , plus more than 200 other sources , who are responsible for their own reporting and views. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica . Comments Post a comment Gregory Boyle, PhD, DSc Feb 11 2012, 00:06 Report Abuse See: Boyle GJ, Hill G. Sub-Saharan African randomised clinical trials into male circumcision and HIV transmission: Methodological, ethical and legal concerns. J Law Med 2011;19:316-34.   The Journal of Law and Medicine, has published a new critique of those three randomized clinical trials from Africa that claimed that male circumcision reduces female-to-male sexual transmission of HIV by 60 percent.   This critique finds numerous flaws in the execution of these studies and finds that the actual reduction in… [ Read Full Text ] Tanzania» Tanzania: Electricity Made From Sisal Tanzania/Algeria: Algiers Eye Zamalek, Yanga Tie Tanzania: Kikwete Wants Gas to Profit All Tanzania: Mkapa Commends Former ICGLR Chief Tanzania: Woman Charged With Theft of 32 Million... More» Health» Nigeria: 40 Die From Lassa Fever Outbreak Zimbabwe: Plans Afoot to Scrap Maternity Fees Nigeria: UNICEF to Spend U.S.$500,000 on Immunisation Kenya: Honour Allowances Deal Uganda: Finance Ministry Blocks Shs7 Billion for... More» InFocus : Tanzania Combating Corruption in East Africa The East African Community member countries intend to intensify the war on ... Tanzania: Salty Soil Drives Farmers to Forests Thousands of farmers in the Rufiji Delta have been accused of ... Tanzania's Natural Gas Plans Grow The government has started working on strategies to prepare the economy to ... Stories: Tanzania Most Read East Africa: Fresh Beer Wars As Brewers Expand Tanzania: Research Is Not Showing the GMOs Are Harmless Kenya: Fight or Flight? Dilemma of Local Investors in Tanzania Kenya: 600,000 Nationals Went to Tanzania Last Year Tanzania: Oil Firm Invites Locals to Venture in Exploration see more » Most Commented Tanzania: Rukwa Men Undergo Mass Circumcision Tanzania: Region Mulls the 'Cut' for More Males East Africa: Kenya Breaks With Uganda, Tanzania on Syria Vote Tanzania: Zamalek Jet in Dar es Salaam On Thursday Tanzania: EU Donates 1.6 Billion- to Fight Child Labour in Geita see more » Most Emailed Tanzania: Oil Firm Invites Locals to Venture in Exploration Tanzania: Aviation Services Get Boost Tanzania: BMTL Introduces Latest Technology Tanzania: New System to Track Government Expenditure East Africa: Doctors in Another Round of Strikes see more » Top News Tanzania: Electricity Made From Sisal Tanzania/Algeria: Algiers Eye Zamalek, Yanga Tie Tanzania: Kikwete Wants Gas to Profit All Tanzania: Mkapa Commends Former ICGLR Chief Tanzania: Woman Charged With Theft of 32 Million From Employer see more » PlusNews South Africa: Outrage Over HIV-Positive Journalist's Dismissal and Deportation Africa: WHO Clarifies Guidance On Hormonal Contraception and HIV South Africa: Tips for Making HIV Discordancy Work South Africa: You, Me and HIV Swaziland: Reaching Out to Gays for the First Time see more » Popular Discussions Nigeria: Sanusi, Boko Haram and His 'Marshal… 1 comment Zimbabwe: Diaspora Calls for 88-Year-Old Mugabe… 1 comment Nigeria: Why We Attacked Maiduguri Market -… 1 comment Zimbabwe: Mugabe Declares Himself Fit at 88 1 comment Zimbabwe: Harare Abuzz With Zahara's Debut… 1 comment Uganda: Gulu Youths Want Government to Relax… 1 comment AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 2000 news and information items daily from over 130 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Lagos, Monrovia, Nairobi and Washington DC. © 2012 AllAfrica // Privacy // Con