
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 10:39:14 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treatments - Tips for pain, fever, cough, stuffy nose and sore throat and Seasonal Influenza - Health and Social Services- Government of Yukon Contact Us | Français Search: Health and Social Services All Government Sites Health and Social Services 1 2 3 4 5 6 Government of Yukon » Departments » Health and Social Services » Health Services » Community Health Programs » Yukon Communicable Disease Control (YCDC) » Influenza » Flu Treatments » Treatments - Tips for pain, fever, cough, stuffy nose and sore throat and Seasonal Influenza Explore our site ... A-Z Publications News Releases Department Minister Deputy Minister Employment - Jobs Mission Organizational Charts Boards & Committees Funds - Bursaries Contact Us Organization Continuing Care Corporate Services Health Services Social Services Treatments - Tips for pain, fever, cough, stuffy nose and sore throat and Seasonal Influenza Muscle pain and fever Use acetaminophen (the best choice for older adults), for example Tylenol. If you take acetaminophen for a long time or in high doses, it can affect the liver and kidneys; or Ibuprofen, for example Advil or Motrin. Ibuprofen can irritate the stomach. Cough Try a medication with Dextromethorphan (DM) for a dry cough that prevents you from sleeping or causes chest discomfort. Stuffy nose Use a decongestant. Nose drops or sprays act quickly and have fewer side effects than medications you take by mouth but should only be used for 2 Ð 3 days to avoid rebound congestion. If stuffy nose continues, consider an oral medication such as pseudoephedrine. Decongestants may cause dry mouth, sleep problems, rapid heartbeat or other side effects. People who have long-term health problems or who are on other medications should not take decongestants without talking to a health-care provider. Sore throat Try lozenges or throat sprays. Dyclonine works best to numb the throat. Products containing honey, herbs or pectin soothe the throat. Was this page useful? Yes No Comments: An explanation of why this information was useful or why it wasn’t useful will help us in our ongoing effort to improve our site for you. Flu Treatments Flu Treatments Treatments - Caring for Children with Influenza Treatments - Caring for Children with Influenza: Symptoms that need medical attention Treatments - Self Care and Seasonal Influenza Treatments - Tips for pain, fever, cough, stuffy nose and sore throat and Seasonal Influenza Last Updated: 10/28/2009 | © Government of Y