
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 02 May 2012 04:46:49 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.bladderkidneyinfection.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Urinary Tract Infection Home Remedies | Kidney Infection Symptoms - Part 2 Home Contact Kidney Disease Privacy Policy Kidney Infection Symptoms About Us Sitemap Bacterium Bladder Infection Causes Kidney Infection Kidney Disease Treatments Urine Health Tag Archives: urinary tract infection home remedies Natural Remedies for Healthy Bladder September 21, 2010 Bladder Infection The bladder is an organ which will collect all the urine secreted by kidneys.  It is vital to keep the bladder healthy and avoid any damages which could be cause by cancer, infections or other ailments. One way people can take care of the bladder is by consuming natural food that will boost the bladder’s health. Below are some natural remedies for healthy bladder, and also please read about bladder infection symptoms as well. Cranberries Cranberries have been known to be the best known source to promote healthy bladder. Cranberries contain natural antioxidants, and with the aid of it’s acidic content will help control and prevent bacteria which can cause bladder infection (urinary tract infection) Yogurt Yogurt contains good bacteria which is excellent to the bladder. With consuming yogurt, a person could cut the risk of getting bladder cancer by 30-45 percent. Wheat Bread Wheat bread is a source for high fiber. High fiber generally helps to prevent constipation in human, and with this will greatly reduce the pressure on the bladder and allow normal functionality. Bananas Banana is another excellent source of fiber to help promote a healthy bladder. Banana also contains potassium in which will strengthens and protect the bladder from bacterial infection. Water Water is extremely important for the maintenance of healthy bladder. It is important for people to consume water daily as water will help the kidney to produce urine and flushes any toxins and bacteria from the body. Bookmark It Hide Sites Read More Newer posts » Recent Posts What do your Kidney Test Results Mean? What does Chronic Kidney Disease Mean? Stages of Chronic Kidney Disease Urine Retention Kidney Cleanse at Home Causes of Kidney Pain How do Kidneys Function? Causes of Urinary Tract Infection among the Elderly Benefit of Parsley Tea Kidney Infection Treatment: Parsley Tea Why Do Kidney Fails? What Do the Kidney Do? Food for Kidney Urinary Tract Infection Home Remedies Bacteria that causes Bladder and Kidney Infection Pages About Us Contact Kidney Disease Kidney Infection Symptoms Privacy Policy Sitemap Categories Bacterium Bladder Infection Causes Kidney Disease Kidney Infection Treatments Urine H