
Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion Home News Products Services Calendar FAQ Contact 中医Traditional Chinese Medicine Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion By Chen Xinnong Translated by Xie Zhufan Published by Foreign Languages Press, 3rd Edition, Mar 2010 Library binding book, dimensions 210 x 297 mm, 1 volume, 577 pages ISBN: 9787119059945 SKU #: b00acumox Price: $64.95 This is the official revision of Essentials of Chinese Acupuncture used by 
the International Acupuncture Training Centers in Beijing, Shanghai, and 
Nanjing. Presented in 18 chapters, it begins with a brief history, followed by a 
discussion of yin-yang and the five phases, a review of the zang fu, and 
extraordinary fu and their interrelationships, a discourse on qi, blood and body 
fluids, a description of the meridians and collaterals, and location of the 
acupuncture points. Theoretical discussions include etiology and pathogenesis, diagnostic methods, 
differentiation of syndromes, and acupuncture techniques. Treatment information 
includes moxibustion and cupping, general principles of acupuncture treatment, 
internal diseases, and gynecological diseases. There is a supplementary section 
on ear acupuncture and anesthesia, a bibliography, a cross-index of acupuncture 
points, and an index. The book incorporates the experience of teaching classes 
of Western physicians as well as clinical practice and acupuncture research. The 
information retains the characteristic features of traditional acupuncture and 
stresses the integration of theory and practice. A number of revisions and readjustments have been made in the light of 
existing needs in education, scientific research, medical treatment, and 
international academic exchanges. These include typographical corrections, 
locational and terminological standardization according to guidelines set out by 
the WHO and the PRC State Bureau of Technical Supervision standards, and 
elimination of more abstruse contents. Students sitting for the U.S. licensure 
exams will find this book requisite reading. Acupuncture and Moxibustion are indispensable parts of traditional Chinese 
medicine in the prevention and control of disease. Since the founding of the 
People's Republic of China these arts have been developed and are highly 
regarded by the international, academic community. Based upon Essentials of 
Chinese Acupuncture, used as a textbook by the International. Acupuncture 
Training Centers in Beijng, Shanghai and Nanjing, Chinese Acupuncture and 
Moxibustion incorporates the rich experience of class teaching and clinical, 
practice and the results of acupuncture research, retaining the characteristic 
features of the traditional theory of acupuncture and stressing the integration 
of theory and practice. Contents Preface to the Revised Edition Preface Chapter 1 A Brief History of Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion Chapter 2 Yin-Yang and the Five Elements Chapter 3 The Zang-Fu Organs Chapter 4 Qi, Blood and Body Fluid Chapter 5 The Meridians and Collaterals Chapter 6 An Introduction to Acupuncture Points Chapter 7 Acupuncture Points of the Taiyin and Yangming Meridian Chapter 8 Acupuncture Points of The Shaoyin and Taiyang Meridians Chapter 9 Acupuncture Points of Jueyin and Shaoyang Meridians Chapter 10 Acupuncture Points of the Governor and the Conception Vessels and the 
Extra Points Chapter 11 Aetiology and Pathogenesis Chapter 12 Diagnostic Methods Chapter 13 Differentiation of Syndromes Chapter 14 Acupuncture Techniques Chapter 15 Moxibustion and Cupping Method Chapter 16 A General Introduction to Acupuncture Treatment Chapter 17 Internal Diseases Chapter 18 Gynecological and Other Diseases Ear Acupuncture Therapy Acupuncture Analgesia Bibliography Standard Nomenclature of the Acupuncture Points of the Fourteen Meridians Cross Index of Acupuncture Points (Pinyin) Index The Way to Locate Acupoints The Way to Locate Acupoints By Yang Jiasan Translated English by Meng Xiankun and Li Xuewu Published by Foreign Languages Press, Beijing, China, 2nd edition, 2009 Paperback, dimensions 25.2 x 18.2 x 0.6 cm, 1 volume, 78 pages ISBN: 9787119059976 SKU #: b00locate Price: $22.00 This book is specifically designed for students of traditional Chinese 
medicine who require a handy and easy-to-use guide to point location. Its 
concise approach is a boon to those who want a quick overview of the subject. 
Points of several channels adjacent to one another are grouped together 
according to different areas of the body. Dr. Yang Jiasan has developed a method 
of locating points that exploits modern anatomical landmarks as much as 
possible, and its efficiency has been appreciated by students as well as 
patients of acupuncture treatment. It is illustrated and explained in this book. Standard Meridian Points of Acupuncture Standard Meridian Points of Acupuncture: Charts Prepared by the Institute of Acupuncture and Moxibustion of 
					the China Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine Published by Foreign Languages Press, 2003 ISBN 7119014439 SKU #: b0091 Price: $29.95 Standard Meridian Points of Acupuncture (Charts) includes one 44 page booklet and three full-size charts (700 x 1,000 mm or 27.15" x 39.15". Chart 1 - Names and locations of meridians and acupoints on the front of the human body. Chart 2 - Names and locations of meridians and acupoints on the back of the human body Chart 3 - Names and locations of meridians and acupoints on the lateral sides of the human body. This set of charts, the first of its kind in standard form to be made in China, has been prepared by the Institute of Acupuncture and Moxibustion of the China Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine under the supervision of the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine on the basis of the State Standard of the People's Republic of China for the Location of Acupoints. This set of charts presents a thorough and accurate location of the points of the 14 meridians and a part of the extra points. The charts respectively show names and locations of meridians and acupoints on the front, back and lateral sides of the human body, along with the international standard nomenclature and alphanumeric code. The booklet accompanying the charts describes in detail names and locations of 409 points (361 meridian points and 48 extra points) to facilitate the use of the charts. The acupuncture nomenclature in this state standard is based on the Standard Acupuncture Nomenclature appraised and approved by the WHO Scientific Working Group to Adopt a Standard International Acupuncture Nomenclature. This set of charts published for the purpose of helping with implementing the Standard and facilitating clinical practice, teaching and research. If you are looking for a detailed description of acupoints and are trained in the US perhaps this is not for you. These are the most affordable posters that one can buy. For others one expects to pay >$60. It illustrates all 14 meridians, and extra points (EX). It nicely lists the names in PinYin with tones so the LACs can pronounce them properly. It also has the Traditional Chinese 
names. The Int'l Standard Org (ISO) designations (LU,ST,GB etc.) are not printed on the charts. Rather, they are included in the 44 page pamphlet. All in all, this is an excellent pictorial representations of Acupuncture Meridian points available. They can be used as posters or framed in the office as conversational center piece. Acupuncture-Moxibustion Therapies for Common Diseases Chinese-English Illustrated Acupuncture Moxibustion Therapies for Common 
Diseases Chief Compliers Zhao Jingsheng Chief Translator Zhang Qingrong Published by Shanghai Scientific and Technological Publishers, 2007 Format: Hardcover, 10.5 x 7.75 inches 224 pp ISBN: 9787532387403 SKU #: b00amther Price: $29.95 Synopsis of Contents This is a practical book on acupuncture and moxibustion therapy. It is excellent in both illustration and text. In the book, more than 70 kinds of commonly-encountered diseases in modern clinic, involving the departments of internal medicine, surgery, gynecology, pediatrics, dermatology, and eye, ear, nose, and throat, are dealt with about their patterns in differentiation and acupuncture-moxibustion remedies. For the sake of practical demands, the main points are all illustrated. The book is precise in text with both Chinese and English. It is especially suitable for the overseas readers who have had a 
certain fundamental knowledge of acupuncture and moxibustion in Chinese medicine. Contents Chapter 1 Health Care Chapter 2 Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Chapter 3 Simple Obesity Chapter 4 Diabetes Mellitus Chapter 5 Hypertension Chapter 6 Sequela of Apoplexy Chapter 7 Peripheral Facial Paralysis Chapter 8 Prosopalgia Chapter 9 Sciatica Chapter 10 Intercostal Neuralgia Chapter 11 Angioneurotic Headache Chapter 12 Insomnia Chapter 13 Pharyngeal Paraesthenia Chapter 14 Melancholy Chapter 15 Paralysis Agitans Chapter 16 Cervical Spondylopathy Chapter 17 Dysfunction of Temporomandibular Joint Chapter 18 Stiff Neck Chapter 19 Scapulohumeral Periarthritis Chapter 20 External Humeral Epicondylitis Chapter 21 Gonitis Chapter 22 Rheumatoid Arthritis Chapter 23 Lumbago Chapter 24 Acute Lumbar Sprain Chapter 25 Sprain of Soft Tissues of Limbs Chapter 26 Amyotrophy Chapter 27 Influenza Chapter 28 Acute and Chronic Bronchitis Chapter 29 Bronchial Asthma Chapter 30 Arrhythmia Chapter 31 Coronary Heart Disease Chapter 32 Acute Gastritis Chapter 33 Chronic Gastritis Chapter 34 Peptic Ulcer Chapter 35 Gastroptosis Chapter 36 Acute and Chronic Enteritis Chapter 37 Biliary Infection and Calculi Chapter 38 Habitual Constipation Chapter 39 Leukocytopenia Chapter 40 Primary Thrombocytopenic Purpura Chapter 41 Infection of Urinary Tract Chapter 42 Lithangiuria Chapter 43 Urinary Retention Chapter 44 Prostatitis Chapter 45 Sexual Dysfunction of Men Chapter 46 Hyperthyroidism Chapter 47 Hemorrhoids Chapter 48 Urticaria Chapter 49 Eczema Chapter 50 Herpes Zoster Chapter 51 Neurodermatitis Chapter 52 Acne Vulgaris Chapter 53 Flat Wart Chapter 54 Acute Conjunctivitis Chapter 55 Aural Vertigo Chapter 56 Nasosinusitis Chapter 57 Rhinallergosis Chapter 58 Acute and Chronic Laryngopharyngitis Chapter 59 Dysmenorrhea Chapter 60 Irregular Menstruation Chapter 61 Amenorrhea Chapter 62 Premenstrual Tension Syndrome Chapter 63 Climacteric Syndrome Chapter 64 Acute Mastitis Chapter 65 Hyperplasia of Mammary Glands Chapter 66 Sterility Chapter 67 Malposition of Fetus Chapter 68 Infantile Diarrhea Chapter 69 Infantile Enuresis Chapter 70 Infantile Convulsion Chapter 71 High Fever Chapter 72 Synope Chapter 73 Anorexia Chapter 74 Diaphragmatic Spasm Chapter 75 Reaction of Radiotherapy and Chemotherapy Chapter 76 Smoke Stopping Chapter 77 Temperance Applied Anatomical Atlas of Acupoints English-Chinese Applied Anatomical Atlas of Acupoints Compiler-in-Chief: Yan Zhenguo Published by Publishing House Of Shanghai University Of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 2004 Hardcover, 889mm x 1194mm, 183 pages ISBN 7-81010-703-8 SKU #: b00aaaa Price: $39.95 About the Atlas: This color photographic Atlas depicts acupoints on the human body in various postures, acupoints along the fourteen meridians or regional acupoints on the head, neck, trunk and extremities, sectional figures of commonly used acupoints, stratified structural figures of acupoints and their clinical application, some CT scintigrams of acuppoints, microstructure of acupoints, various receptors of acupoints and histochemical changes of acupoints. This Atlas has accurately described the structural features and location of acupoints, needling techniques, indication, procedure of insertion and the important internal organs around. It has also labeled the depth, direction and angle of needling. This Atlas is helpful for acupuncturists, teachers and students in TCM colleges and those who study acupuncture and moxibustion by themselves in and outside of China. Practical Anatomical Charts of Acupuncture and Moxibustion Instructions of Anatomical Charts of Internationally Standardized Acupoints Binding: Hardback chart, Set of 12 Charts, Instruction Book Attached Publisher: Shanghai College of Traditional Chinese Medicine Press, 2000 ISBN: 7810102095 SKU #: b00acha Price: $24.95 There are totally twelve color-printed big charts in "Practical Anatomical Charts of Acupuncture and Moxibustion", three pieces are the charts of acupoints on the whole body surface in which the courses of the fourteen meridians and the location of 361 meridian acupoints and 48 extraordinary acupoints (approved by WHO) are shown respectively on the front, back and lateral side; two pieces are the anatomical charts of acupoints on the head and neck, including one chart about acupoint anatomy in the superficial layer and the other chart about acupoint anatomy in the deep layer, each chart contains three pictures of the 
front, back and lateral side; three pieces are the anatomical charts of acupoints on the trunk respectively about the front, back and lateral side, each chart contains two pictures of acupoint anatomy respectively in the superficial layer and in the deep layer. Two pieces are the anatomical charts of acupoints on the upper limbs, including one chart about acupoint anatomy in the superficial layer and the other chart about acupoint anatomy in the deep layer, each chart contains three pictures of anatomy respectively about the front, back and lateral side. This set of charts has been prepared in the combined form of the whole anatomy and regional anatomy. There are three pieces of charts on the acupoints of the whole body and nine pieces of charts on the regional anatomy of acupoints, in each region the anatomical structure in the different superficial and deep layers are supposed to explain their relations with the meridian acupoints in total twenty‑seven pictures. The anatomy in the superficial layer indicates the relation between the muscles and the distribution of the superficial nerves with the acupoints; the anatomy in the deep layer is drawn in three dimensions for indicating the relation between the structural layers of nerves, blood vessels, bones and viscera with the acupoints, in the attachment with a comparatively detailed booklet of instructions. In comparison with the published sets of acupuncture charts, this set of charts is mainly characterized by the close integration between the acupoints and anatomical structure in the art of three dimensions for fully indicating the relation between the acupoints and the anatomical structure of the superficial and deep layers in the human body. This set of charts is most plentiful in anatomical illustration and most meticulous about the relation between the acupoints and the anatomical structure among the various available acupuncture charts of the similar type: This set of charts, in the newest, most abundant and 
most complete big scale color pictures, is of the stronger scientific nature and practical value. Author: Yan Zhenguo Professor and Director, Anatomy Teaching Section of Shanghai University of TCM Tests: Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion Tests: Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion By Cui Yongqiang Publisher: Foreign Language Press; 93 edition (January 1, 2001) Hardcover, 240 pages, English ISBN 7119015877 SKU #: b0013 Price: $27.00 This book has been compiled on the basis of basic TCM principles and clinical observations, at the same time referring to traditional modes of Chinese acupuncture and moxibustion tests and relevant teaching materials currently in use at home and abroad. Containing multiple-choice and traditional questions together with their correct answers, the book is useful as a source of ready-made questions for use by examiners, a source of ideas for them in the construction of new questions, an aid to students planning to take tests of the subject, and a means by which to assess one's own progress in acquiring TCM knowledge. The questions in this book will show you what is required and therefore help you get the most out of your studies. You will also get the "feel" of the examination. This book contains many "similar situations"—as you will discover when you take the actual examinations. Included in this book are multiple-choice and traditional questions, both focusing on the mastery of basic TCM theory, acupuncture and manipulations, diagnosis and case analysis. There is now growing evidence to suggest that these questions appear simultaneously in all kinds of examinations, as are being demonstrated daily in China. The answers appear at the back and , where available, a figure is provided showing the facility of the question. This is derived from the average proportion of candidates correctly answering the question over all the occasions when it has been used in formal examinations. It has to be emphasized also that all the answers involved in this book do not go far from the textbooks Essentials of Chinese Acupuncture and Chinese Acupuncture and Moxibustion. Related Links Clinical Research and Application of Acupuncture and Tuina Essentials of Contemporary Cchinese Acupuncturists' Clinical Experiences The Way to Locate Acupoints 100 Diseases Treated by Single Point of Acupuncture and Moxibustion Clinic Wonders of Acupuncture-Moxibustion Acupuncture, Meridian Theory and Acupuncture Points The Miracle of Acupuncture Handbook to Chinese Auricular Therapy Scalp Acupuncture and Clinical Cases Hand Acupuncture Therapy Effective Points Therapy of Acupuncture Illustrated Tuina Therapies for Common Diseases Illustrated TCM External Therapies for Common Diseases Illustrated Acupuncture Moxibustion Therapies for Common Diseases Chinese-English Edition of Acupuncture Treatment for Hypertension Chinese-English Edition of Acupuncture Treatment for Diabetes Mellitus Chinese-English Edition of Acupuncture for the Weight Loss Chinese-English Edition of Acupuncture Cosmetology Chinese-English Edition of Acupuncture Treatment for Depression Facial Beautification in Traditional Chinese Medicine Typical TCM Therapy for Rheumatoid Arthritis Treating Rheumatoid Arthritis by Three-part Acupuncture -TCM Therapy DVD Chinese-English Edition of Acupuncture Cosmetology Facial Beautification in Traditional Chinese Medicine Typical TCM Therapy for Diabetes Mellitus Acupuncture Treatment for Diabetes Mellitus Diagnosis and Treatment of Infantile Cerebral Palsy for Rehabilitation Medicine Rehabilitation of Paralysis Due to Apoplexy Traditional Chinese Medicine Therapy of Insomnia Traditional Chinese Medicine Therapy of Facial Paralysis Special Therapy to Treat Stroke TCM Therapies for Five Types of Insomnia Therapies and Functional Exercise for Facial Paralysis Typical TCM Therapy for Viral Hepatitis Typical TCM Therapy for Primary Glomerulonephritis Typical TCM Therapy for Chronic Gastritis Typical TCM Therapy for Lung Cancer Typical TCM Therapy for Bronchial Asthma Typical TCM Therapy for Primary Hypertension Typical TCM Therapy for Cervical Spondylosis Typical TCM Therapy for Cholelithiasis Acupuncture Therapy for the Headache (Occipital headache, Vertex headache) -TCM Therapy DVD Acupuncture Therapy for the Headache (Forehead Ache, Migraine) -TCM Therapy DVD Treating Asthma with Three-acupoint and Five-acupuncture -TCM Therapy DVD Syndrome on Diapophysis of the 3rd Lumbar Vertebra; Strain of Ankle Joint - TCM Therapy DVD Integrating Chinese and Western Medicine Chinese doctor's effectively experimental formula Health Food Deal with Diabetes Do you get ready for pandemic influenza? Chinese Herbal Formulas is useful to prevent common cold and virus flu. Headache, insomnia, stress, tired? Try Healthy Brain Pills . It can help maintain and increase the health 
		and capacity of the brain. Shou Wu Chih tonic liquid promotes blood circulation and increases energy.
20ml, three times a day, will help improve the condition of CAD with hyperlipidemia . Chinese tui na therapy: Self-health Care in Daily Life for the Middle-aged People Slimming Computer Syndrome Qigong and Health Preservation: Valuable Traditional Health Preservation Series Antrodia Camphorata Mushroom - Zhang Zhi is a well known and high valued 
mushroom from Taiwan. Premium Reishi Extract Tablets Reishi Spores with Cordyceps & Phellinus Mushroom Extracts Reishi Mushroom Extract Ganoderma Lucidum Mycelium & Fruiting Body Reishi Extract Capsules Natural Lingzhi (野生云芝多糖胶囊) Alive (Yun Zhi Tang Tai Jiao Nang) Yun Zhi (Coriolus versicolor Mushroom Extract) Pearl Lingzhi Capsules Ginseng Root & Reishi Extract (Hua Fen Ren Shen Ling Zhi) Home | Chinese | Classics | Calligraphy | Drawing | Medicine | Poetry | Opera | Entertainment | Kungfu | Cuisine | FAQ | Information Links | Products | Promotions | Services | Site Map Copyright © 2011 China Guide Corporation. All Rights Res