<< Lessons on Dumpling King Getting Started Mind Harbour >> ShaoLin Medicine & Acupuncture Clinic Doctor Benny Fan's Bio He is the famous Chinese doctor in Australia, and the disciple of Xu Gongwei and Shi Suxi in Chinese medicine,Qigong and Kungfu. He was invited to perform acupuncture for Channel 7 in the year 2000, and was invited by NIB TV commercial team to be the medical consultant in charge of acupuncture in June 2007. He has gained Wushu advanced level (duan wei: 7) authoried by the Chinese government. He was the champion in Chen Taichi, Wu Taichi and Xingyi stick in Hongkong second international Wushu competition. Beauty Treatments at the ShaoLin Chinese Acupuncture Clinic Weight Loss - Before and After ShaoLin Medicine & Accupuncture Clinic treat many kinds of beauty problems and health issues including beauty cleaning. No Botox or Plastic Surgery required for cosmetic acupuncture. Best Doctor, Magic Results Acne Allergies Anxiety Arthrities Asthma Backpain Blood Pressure Cancer Cold and Flu Depression Diabetes Gaut Goyta Problems Hay Fever Hepatities Impotence Infertility Insomnia Irritable Bowel Kidney Disease Menopause Migrain Multiple Sclerosis Period Pain Prostate cancer Sinrs Sports Injury Skin Problems Weight Loss anti-CFS ( Chronic Fatigue Syndrome) Treatments The ShaoLin Medicine & Acupuncture Clinic Specialise in: Internal Disease, Sport Injuries, Sexual Impotence, Headache, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS), Rheumatoid Arthritis, Insomnia, Skin Problems,Asthma, Sinus, Cancer, Weight Lost. etc. Acupuncture, Herbs Acupressure, Massage Service Special Acupuncture performance in TV series "All Saints" produced by Channel 7 (Australia) and to be medical consultation in charge of Acupuncture in NIB TV commercial. What is the difference in Dr Benny's techniques compared with those of other Acupuncturists and Herbalists? Dr Benny 's acupuncture and point acupressure techniques are called "Qigong acupuncture and Qigong Point Acupressure"."Qingong" is a very powerful meditation and energy method practised in China for many thousand years. In the USA, university research has already proven that Qigong Acupuncture and Qigong Point Acupressure are much more effective and 3-5 times more powerful than normal acupuncture and acupressure. Dr Benny's Qigong training extends over 30 years. He followed the best Qigong and meditation master Suxi (the former president of Shaolin Temple) and another famous Chinese doctor, Qigong Acupuncture and Point Acupressure master XuGong Wei(the nominatied Doctor for the old China government leaders)These masters and their techniques have led Dr Benny to gain special power and the ability to heal. He has already helped thousands of patients recover form their illnesses and has had miraculous results in his past 16 years in Australia. Respected Doctor Dr. Benny Fan was invited to talk about herbal medicines for anti-cancer and anti-diabetes on the ABC 7:30 Report. Martial Arts Shaolin and Wudang Kungfu (Qigong) college Master Benny Fan: The top Kungfu and Qigongmaster from ShaoLin temple The top Wudang internal Kungfu and Qigong master, discieple of Zhao Yifan The top KungFu instructor nomfunated by China government Gained Duan Wei 7 (Advanced Level) in Chinese Wushu from Chinese Wushu Association Benny has trained chinese kungfu over 30 years, he followed the top kungfu master Suxi (the formor president of shaolin temple) and Xu Gongwei (the top master in interial kungfu: Taichi, Xinyi, bagua, and northern kungfu) Benny has taught the students for over 20 years. His students have won medals in many big competitions. In year 2000, one of his students Shong was the runner-up in 16 countries of south Asia, another student was the runner-up in Austraian Taichi competition. In 2006, his student brett was the champion in the free fighting in australia (the judges were from shaolin temple Qualifications Qualifications: • Master of Herbal Medicines ( University of Sydney ) , Dip.Remedial Massage,Australia • Bachelor in TCM in University of FuJian Chinese Medicine • The disciple in medical skills of Zhao Yifang who was the nominated doctor of emperor in Qing dynasty • The top master in ShaoLin temple and unique medical skills from ShaoLin temple • The top Kung Fu instructor nominated by china government (Duan Wei 7) and the champions of TaiChi Forms & XingYi Stick in Hong Kong second international Wushu competition Contact Details Shaolin Medicine & Acupunture Clinic Address: Shop 5  741 George Street Sydney  NSW 2000  Australia Telephone: 02 92120172 Mobile: 0416213229 Website: www.bennyfan.com Zimbo Website: www.zimbo.com.au/bennyfan Email: benny_fan@bigpond.com Opening Hours: Open 10:30am-6pm Mon, Wed, Fri, Sat Our Business Description ShaoLin Medicine & Acupuncture Clinic's owner Benny Fan says, "We not only cure your diseases but we also make you become younger, stronger and more beautiful." Well known Dr Benny Fan practices traditional Chinese medicine at his Chinese acupuncture clinic right in the heart of city of Sydney Australia. Dr Fan's acupuncture and point acupressure techniques are called "Qigong acupuncture and Qigong Point Acupressure". Benny was born into a family in which the members were well known as the experts of the traditional Chinese medicine. His grandfather was a Shaolin monk and expert in Chinese medicine, Qigong and Martial art. Benny started learningChinese medicine, Qigong and Shaolin traditional medicine from his great grandfather when he was seven. He followed Xu Gongwei, a famous Chinese medicine expert and the instructor of martial art in the army of Guo Ming Party, to study Chinese medicine, Qigong and Kung Fu. Xu's teacher Zhao Yifan was the nominated doctor and bodyguard of the emperor in Qing Dynasty. Another teacher Yu Zheng Sheng (Shaolin & Chaquan Master) was the general instructor of Huang Pu Militery school (Training for the Army generals). After that, Benny learned the secret of prescription, Qigong and Kung Fu from Su Xi who was the Master of Medicine, Qigong and Kung Fu in Shaolin Temple. All of these made great contributions to Benny Fan's mastery on Chinese medicine. Benny has obtained a bachelor degree of Chinese medicine & acupuncturein China . He holds a master degree in herbal medicine from Sydney University .Benny has managed to cure many patients who cannot be recovered by surgery or taking medicine since he carried out his career for 17 years in Sydney . His patients come not only form Sydney , but also from Japan , USA and other countries . ManyAustralian TV starts are also his patients. Benny Fan was ever invited to perform his acupuncture on channel 7 and gained great success and high reputation in Australia . The clinic specializes in Chinese remedies for Internal Disease, Sport Injuries, Sexual Impotence, Headache, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS), Rheumatoid Arthritis, Insomnia, Skin Problems,Asthma, Sinus, Cancer, Weight Lost. etc. This Chinese acupuncture herbal clinic provides natural therapies for the benefit of patients. Related Information J&p Timber Flooring T&gb Education Center Jenny Clinic Sydney Cosmetic Clinics Gold Coast Aus