Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Comox Valley Acupuncture - Testimonials Bios Testimonials Pain / Sports Injuries Stress Relief Infertility Menstrual Irregularities Pregnancy Support Menopausal Symptoms Cosmetic Acupuncture “During a  frustrating battle with unexplained fertility, I turned to acupuncture sessions  with Michelle to help focus my body and mind for further medical  treatments. Her sessions were  encouraging and positive. They helped me  feel less stressed and more in control of my health. I believe this preparation contributed to our  first IUI procedure being successful. I  also sought Michelle’s care near the end of my pregnancy and feel that her  acupuncture and acupressure techniques helped prepare my body for the baby’s  arrival. I delivered our son quickly  without any drugs or interventions. We  couldn’t be happier!” - Melanie  Dane “I first  learned of Michelle and Comox Valley Acupuncture through a mutual acquaintance  when my husband and I decided to have a baby. As any other woman would, I desired a happy and healthy pregnancy free  from stress, discomfort and especially morning sickness and I wanted it to all  happen 'according to schedule'. Through  regular visits to Michelle for acupuncture treatment before and during my  pregnancy, I got exactly that. I also  got something that I wasn’t expecting and that was a quiet, relaxed, drug-free  and relatively pain-free labour and delivery. Even though my child was a healthy 8 lbs. and the proud owner of an  unusually large head, I had no tearing and a relatively short 10 hour  labour. For those reasons and far too  many others to mention, I went to Michelle again for my second pregnancy and  enjoyed all of the same benefits once again. Michelle is a caring, sensitive and trustworthy practitioner with a  light touch and a friendly personality.  I never felt any pain during my treatments and was usually so relaxed  and comfortable that I could enjoy a little nap while the pins worked their magic. Over the last 5 years I have recommended  acupuncture treatments to many people either wanting to become pregnant or  suffering through the usual pregnancy ailments and have referred them to  Michelle and Comox Valley Acupuncture and I will continue to do so. I also know that our relationship will not  end at pregnancy… have a look at the website… there is a mountain of ailments  that are treatable with acupuncture.” - Nicole  McQueen “I  have been treated by Michelle for a wide array of ailments – sport’s injuries,  menopausal symptoms, and post surgery. For the most part I have experienced immediate relief . An added bonus is the deep sleep I fall into during the  treatments. I have always found Michelle to be very professional, thorough, and  insightful.” -  Kathy Penner “As  a fitness trainer and endurance athlete I put plenty of miles on my body and  need to spend as little time recovering as possible. Acupuncture has been a regular part of my  training/racing plan for over 6 years and it plays a very important role. I use acupuncture as a pre-race treatment to  help my body shed fatigue and prepare for big events. I also rely on acupuncture to treat chronic  and acute injuries and I see a significant improvement in my recovery time by  doing this. Acupuncture calms my mind,  balances out my bodies systems, helps me train harder and recover faster. What could be better than that?  Thanks Michelle!” -  Sarah Seads “When I leave Comox Valley Acupuncture I feel  like I've been well cared for. Acupuncture has had the ability to calm my crazy  mind, help me conceive, flip my breech baby and induce my labour when I was  late. Recently, I was diagnosed with a sometimes painful chronic illness,  and acupuncture does wonders at relieving my pain and soothing my soul.” -  Lisa Williams "Hello there my name is Maria and I would like to tell my story about acupuncture. I have had migraines for most of my life. I have been receiving acupuncture and the migraines are a lot, lot better. If I get one they are very mild and I do not have to lie in bed for days, I also no longer get a stomach ache. I am very relaxed when I have my session. So if you suffer from migraines give Dr. Michelle a call, she will help you." - Maria V Sign up for my FREE newsletter Name: Email: Privacy Policy Home | Bios | Testimonials | Pain / Sports Injuries | Stress Relief | Infertility | Menstrual Irregularities | Pregnancy Support Menopausal Symptoms | Cosmetic Acupuncture | About TCM | Articles | Press Releases | Links | Blog | FAQ | Contact Office in Courtenay, Comox Valley, Vancou