
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 05 Mar 2012 10:11:13 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Debian)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze3
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Do I have to exercise to heal my lower back pain? Home Overview Why Choose PhysioFit? Orthopedic Manual Therapy Post-Surgical Rehab Vestibular/Balance Rehab Lymphedema Therapy Women's Health Pelvic Floor Therapy Blocked Milk Duct Therapy TMJ PT for Children Sports Rehab The ATM2 Machine The Back2Life Machine Patient Testimonials Physical Therapy Pilates Pilates Gyrotonic /Gyrokinesis TRX Suspension Training Feldenkrais Personal Training Bodywork and Pilates Golf Fitness Program Senior Fitness Program Independent Gym Program Craniosacral Therapy PhysioFitness Massage Therapy Nutritional Counseling Self Pay Physical Therapy Magic Bodies Wellness Testimonials Wellness Profiles Newsletters Store Workshops/Training Contact Us Class Schedule Wellness Forms Patient Forms Injuries & Conditions Ankle Arthritis Upper Back and Neck Mid Back Lower Back Lumbar Spine Anatomy Lower Back Issues Faqs Research Articles Lower Back Surgery Exercises Cumulative Trauma Elbow Fibromyalgia Foot Hamstring Hand Hip Knee Muscle Cramps Osteoporosis Pediatric Shoulder Tendonitis Wrist Sports Activities Work Activities Injury Care Women's Health Issues Pain Care Receive relevant articles Access all content Receive our newsletter User: Password: Sign up | Forgot Password? Do I have to exercise to heal my lower back pain? Q: I've had bouts of low back pain off and on for the last three years. I notice when I work out at the gym I feel better. As soon as I lay off the exercise, the back pain is back. Will I ever heal or am I stuck with the daily gym routine? A: Research shows over and over that exercise helps reduce low back pain (LBP). Positive results are reported when exercise is done correctly and on a regular basis. Patients with chronic LBP who exercise have better function with less pain than those who don't exercise at all. Patients who are given motivational tools and emotional support have twice the results of those who just follow a standard exercise program. Physical healing usually takes place in about six to eight weeks after injury or trauma. Unless you are doing work or activities that cause microdamage or reinjury, your tissues have probably healed long ago. Back pain that keeps coming back is often a sign of stress. Exercise is a great stress reliever and has many, many other health benefits. Keeping up a daily exercise habit will benefit your back and much more! Martin Friedrich, MD, et al. Long-Term Effect of a Combined Exercise and Motivational Program on the Level of Disability of Patients with Chronic Low Back Pain. In Spine . May 1, 2005. Vol. 30. No. 9. Pp. 995-1000. Copyright (2010) Physiofit.  All r