<http://wp.me/phDzi-1DK>; rel=shortlink
Cache-Control: max-age=600, private, must-revalidate
Expires: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 15:03:35 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Bariatric Surgery to Treat Diabetes Put to the Test  |Weight Loss Surgery Channel Home About Archives Advertising Contact Us Add WLS TV on YOUR Site Live channel-popup Live Video Streaming New home page Surgeon Update Upgrade Subscribe Breaking WLS News Programs WLS News WLS Family Dynamics 90 Seconds to Success WLS Journeys Melting Mamas Reality Bites The Big Do-Over Eating Right Every Bite Weight Loss Surgeons Patient Education Gastric Bypass Lap-Band® Duodenal Switch Life After WLS Sleeve Gastrectomy Success Stories Faculty Craig Thompson Dr. David Provost Dr. Adam Smith Yvonne McCarthy Leslie J. Thompson Beth Sheldon-Badore Chef Dave Fouts Laura Preston Forums Mobile App eNewsletter You are here: Home » Breaking WLS News » Bariatric Surgery to Treat Diabetes Put to the Test Bariatric Surgery to Treat Diabetes Put to the Test Bariatric surgery to treat Type 2 Diabetes is being put to the test, to see which is more effective, surgery or lifestyle modification. A team of researchers at the University of Pennsylvania are preparing to launch a new study to determine whether bariatric surgery is more effective than lifestyle modification at reducing weight and treating Type 2 Diabetes. The study, which is funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), will investigate whether bariatric procedures, such as gastric bypass or adjustable gastric banding surgery, are more effective than lifestyle modification alone to reduce weight and treat Type 2 diabetes. The study will also test whether people with a lower body mass index (BMI) may benefit from surgery to treat diabetes and other significant health problems, such as high blood pressure. Study participants will have a BMI of 30 or greater, compared to the current recommended 35 or greater BMI experts generally require for weight loss surgery . The Center for Weight and Eating Disorders and Bariatric and Metabolic Surgery Program at the University of Pennsylvania recently received a Challenge Grant from the NIH as part of the nationwide economic stimulus package. Patients that are eligible for the upcoming study will be randomly assigned to undergo one of three options: Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery, laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding, or intensive lifestyle modification. Participants will be closely monitored for a full year to compare the effects of the treatments on their diabetes status. To learn more or find out whether you qualify for the  study, contact clinical research coordinator Jacque Spitzer at jspitzer@mail.med.upenn.edu Get the Flash Player to see the wordTube Media Player. Leave a Reply Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Similar Posts: Weight Loss Surgery News – February 26, 2010 Weight Loss Surgery More Effective in Less Obese Patients Study to Examine Gastric Bypass for Treatment of Diabetes in Non-Obese What is Lap-Band Surgery? Gastric Bypass Surgery Benefits Endure for Diabetes Patients Breaking WLS News Tags : bariatric surgery , diabetes , laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding , lifestyle modification , National Institutes of Health , Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery , The Center for Weight and Eating Disorders and Bariatric and Metabolic Surgery Program , Type 2 diabetes , University of Pennsylvania Weight Loss Surgery Channel on Facebook Recent Comments Dont have a gravatar yet? Get one here Kim : Hello everyone, I’m 32 years old 4’11 and 230 pounds. I’ve tried just about everything to... Becky : Hi im all to familiar with the pain these people have to live. Im not going to tell my whole story I will... Tracy : I am 41yrs old and am extremely overweight. I have a BMI of 53.3. I have read each and every one of the... Dr.Steve : Well-great stories–but most a bunch of garbage of folks who do not respect themselves enough to do... Melinda Proctor : im a 39yr old woman whohas struggled with my weight for the past 10yrs. after i had my second son... Vicki : I have been wanting to do something about the extra weight for some time but scared to death . I am close to... Alison : I would think that part of the increase in portion size is due to that we no longer eat what’s in... Tina : Just a question for Melani……did you ever hit a plateau along your journey so far?? I had surgery... Janet Dolfi : Hi. I just had bypass surgery and my Dr’s office gave me your name to look up. Where can I buy... Letta Young : I am disabled and was on steroid treatments for 5years to treat MCTD. I am 35yrs old