
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 09:42:19 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Ergo Health : Ergonomics Ergo Health Ergonomics Home About Feedback 7 Secrets to Preventing Lower Back Pain I am a huge believer in the power of intention. By flexible hamstrings (back of the leg muscles). If saying your thoughts out loud, letting others know you are unsure of the correct exercises to of your dreams and future plans, doors open and accomplish this, consult a physical therapist or opportunities arise. I've always said the universe certified personal trainer. Invest in one session and gives you what you need. learn a routine that is effective and efficient. I was recently helping a friend of mine who has 3. Increase daily movement through exercise and been plagued with lower back pain for the past frequent breaks from inactivity. Movement is few months. I tried to use my professional what is needed to nourish the spine. Long periods knowledge to help her figure out the possible of inactivity at your desk or on the couch deprive causes of her constant discomfort and create a back muscles of oxygen and nutrients. Build up to program to strengthen and stretch the muscles 30 minutes of continuous aerobic exercise on supporting her core, hopefully avoiding a trip to most days of the week. When at your desk, the doctor. take frequent stretch breaks every 15-20 Afterward I thought about increasing my own minutes and get up and walk for a few minutes commitment to my back program, making sure every 90 minutes. to include my lower back exercises into all my 4. Invest in a new mattress every 8-10 years. daily workouts. I had no idea that the power of Since we spend approximately 1/3 of our life in intention could actually backfire (no pun intended). bed, it makes sense that we should be sleeping Shortly after that discussion, I woke up with an on a mattress that supports a healthy back. unfamiliar sensation; a dull ache in my lower back. Research is showing a medium-firm mattress is I was shocked. I have always prided myself on best to maintain the same natural spinal alignment not being one of the thousands of American you have when standing up. If your mattress is adults who suffer from occasional low back pain. older than ten years, worn or squeaking, or just Was age catching up to me? Would I have to eat feeling uncomfortable, it's probably time for a new my words? one. Following the same advice I had given my friend, 5. If you spend hours at an office desk and/or in and had been giving clients for years, I swung into front of a computer, make sure you chair and action. Ice and Advil round the clock, decrease the set-up is ergonomically correct. To maintain intensity of workouts, and stretch, stretch, proper posture, and avoid pain, uncross your legs stretch. It worked. Within a few days, I was and sit with your feet flat on the ground and your feeling no pain, just confusion. Where did it come hips slightly higher than your knees. Your chair from in the first place? should offer low back support, and armrests to So, I began pooling my knowledge and increased support your elbows. Make sure your computer my research on avoiding low back pain. I do think screen is eye-level, facing straight ahead. I discovered the cause of my own discomfort. I 6. Lift properly. Always bend at the knees, tighten guess the universe did deliver what I needed, your abdominal muscles, keep the heavy object along with a new mattress and an office desk close to your body, and straighten using the chair! strength in your legs, not your back. Here are Tips for Preventing Lower Back Pain: 7. Ladies, lighten your handbags, and give yourself 1. Maintain a healthy body weight. Excess body a break from high heels. Hauling a heavy bag weight causes a constant pull on the back throws your body out of alignment, and puts muscles forward, and weakens the abdominal extra stress on the neck, upper back, and muscles, which need to be strong to support the shoulders. Walking in high heels cause lower-back spine. A lo-fat, lean protein, high complex muscles to tighten. Your center of gravity shifts carbohydrate diet and a consistent exercise causing you to lean backward, and results in program will make you look and feel great, and compression of the joints of the lower back. help alleviate low back pain. Either scenario alone is a recipe for pain, 2. Develop and adhere to a routine that combined, a disaster waiting to happen. strengthens the core muscles. In order to support With a little attention to your daily habits, and the the many movements we put our back and body other above tips, you should be able to prevent through in the course of a day, we need strong lower back pain from derailing your busy days. abdominal, low back and waist muscles, and Articles Comfort in Ergonomic Chairs... Finding the Ergonomic... Finding the Perfect Chair... Making Decisions Without... Ergonomic Furniture Ergonomic Workstations - A... Say Goodbye to Back Pain... Office Chair Back Support... Ergonomic Chairs - For... Mesh Office Chair... What is Ergonomics? Best decorative recliner... Kneeling Ergonomic Chair... Home | | About | Policy | Feedback | Terms of U