
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Tue, 08 May 2012 22:55:09 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

Powerstep Insoles HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Health » Powerstep Insoles 75 rate or flag By James Wikman Orthotic insoles are becoming more and more popular all the time.  I think this is due, in part, to the fact that exercise has become popular again.  There was a time in the mid 90's that working out just wasn't cool.  Walk down any street today though, and chances are you'll see men and women of all ages running or jogging down the street.  Now, while insoles do benefit athletes an awful lot, they can also work for ordinary people.  Anyone who spends a lot of time on their feet should probably consider getting some shoe inserts for their preferred pair of kicks.  So where should one start?  There are so many choices when it comes to insoles.  Well, one company that's been around for a while now is Powerstep.  According to their website, Powerstep insoles are "The podiatrists prescription for pain relief".  They claim to cure heel and arch pain as well as help with knee and lower back issues. PowerSteps On Amazon Powerstep ProTech FULL LENGTH Size G WOMENS 12 to 12.5 MENS 10 to 10.5 Amazon Price: $27.95 It's tough to say which insoles are the best.  Everyone's foot is slightly different and so are their lifestyles.  An orthotic insert that's good for a runner with a narrow foot might not work for a walker with a wide foot.  Because of this, it's important that you do a lot of research before deciding an insole that's right for you.  I find that the Internet is as good a place as any to do this research.  You'll be able to read reviews from a number of different people and even seek some medical advice.  When it comes time to buy insoles, online stores are a good place to start.  Prices are competitive and some sites even offer free shipping!  Anyway...  In this article we'll be looking at the 5 different types Powerstep insoles available. Powerstep Orthotic Insoles - Five Different Types Powerstep Insoles Some insole companies, including Spenco and Superfeet, have a ton of different products.  It actually gets a bit confusing when all you a want is an insert to put in your shoe!  One thing I like about Powerstep's product line up is that it's small.  There are only 5 different insoles that this company makes.  The first, and most popular, insoles they make is the Pinnacle.  Chances are you'd recognize this item if you saw it.  It's made of EVA foam and is available in both mens and womens sizes.  The Powerstep Pinnacle insoles is a pretty straightforward insert and can be used by just about anyone.  It will help to relieve shin splints and knee pain, while offering the user a more comfortable shoe.  Another type of insole that they have is simply titled the Full-Length.  This is, as you'd expect, a full length shoe insert that has a bit more of a medicinal quality than the Pinnacle.  It features an arch support system that is comparable to most prescription insoles.  It has a double layered insole that is great for people with heel or arch pain.  The Powerstep Full-Length is available in 10 sizes.  Another product on this company's roster is the Slimtech.  This is an insole that's designed for those of us with narrow feet.  It sits really nicely inside casual, slip-on and dress shoes.  For folks that are a bit overweight, Powerstep recommends the Arch Booster insoles.  These are quite similar to the Pinnacle series but offer a bit more in the way of support for obese people.  Men and women with flat feet will also benefit from the Arch Boosters.  The final type of Powerstep insole is the Metatarsal Relief.  Metatarsal is a medical term that refers to the front of the foot.  These insoles, understandably, are meant for women and men that are seeking some kind of relief from pain in this area. For for information, check out the following links.  Feel free to leave a comment as well.  I'd love to hear from you! More Insole Reading... Powerstep Insoles - The Official Site Orthotic Insoles There has been an awful lot of talk these day about insoles and orthotic shoes and the like. With more people trying to improve their life through exercise, this is perfectly understandable. If you're... Superfeet Insoles Superfeet has been in the game of making quality insoles for quite a few years now. In fact, this company was started in 1977! Since that time, orthotic insoles have obviously evolved quite a bit. One... Spenco Insoles When people think of insoles, chances are the first company that comes to mind is Spenco. This corporation is more or less synonymous with orthotic support inserts now. In this article we'll look at the... vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful Funny Awesome Beautiful Interesting Loading... No comments yet. Submit a Comment Members and Guests Sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account. Name: Comment: working No HTML is allowed in comments, but URLs will be hyperlinked Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites 86 James Wikman From California 42 Followers 99 Hubs Joined 3 years ago Read more Hubs by James Wikman Contact James Wikman Related Hubs Choosing the right shoe inserts and insoles - Corrective... by Knowledge Ninja Best Shoe Inserts for Plantar Fasciitis: Orthotic Insoles... by Chris Telden Plantar Fasciitis Treatment Options: Stretches, Exercises... by Chris Telden Walkfit Orthotics Insole Reviews: The Theory and the... by belizerealestate The Best Relief For Shin Splints by fascialhealth Sciatic nerve pain relief - home & natural remedies by nifwlseirff Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. t