<< La Jolla researchers create first cellular movies showing destruction underlying type 1 diabetes | Two-thirds of women with catamenial epilepsy have diagnosis of partial epilepsy, study finds >> Read in
                 | English | Deutsch | Português | 日本語 | Finnish | Norsk | Svenska | Polski Government leaders make statements in recognition of World AIDS Day Published on December 3, 2011 at 6:33 AM · 1 Comment Tweet A number of government leaders made statements on Thursday in recognition of World AIDS Day. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in a press statement said, "We have come a long way in the fight against AIDS, but there is still a long road ahead to realize our ambitious goals. If we continue to work together and coordinate a global effort guided by science, we may one day live in an AIDS-free generation" (12/1). In a post on the White House Blog , Gayle Smith, special assistant to the President, and U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator Eric Goosby write, "As President Obama made clear, the fight against global AIDS is a shared responsibility, not one the U.S. can meet alone. … As we move forward, we will work with a growing number of partners as the global community joins the U.S. in a heightened focus on this fight" (12/1). In a Huffington Post opinion piece , USAID Administrator Rajiv Shah writes, "Today, as we once again mark World AIDS Day, we should do so knowing the world finally has the ability to create a future without AIDS." He adds, "To realize the future of an AIDS-free generation, we have to strategically focus our efforts on proven, cost-effective ways to fight against HIV/AIDS : stopping mother-to-child transmission, expanding voluntary medical male circumcision, supporting community adherence and investing in new biomedical tools" (12/1). This article was reprinted from kaiserhealthnews.org with permission from the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. Kaiser Health News, an editorially independent news service, is a program of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health care policy research organization unaffiliated with Kaiser Permanente. f9bb83fc-00f2-44a1-928a-df1fcb9e4c55|0|.0 Posted in: Disease/Infection News | Healthcare News Tags: Circumcision , HIV/AIDS Permalink | Comments (1) Comments Avoid Circumcision Ronald Goldman, Ph.D. says: December 5, 2011 at 5:57 PM Many professionals have criticized the studies claiming that circumcision reduces HIV transmission. They have various flaws. Authorities that cite the studies have other agendas. Circumcision causes physical, sexual, and psychological harm. Other methods to prevent HIV transmission (e.g., condoms and sterilizing medical instruments) are much more effective, much cheaper, and much less invasive. Reply » The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of News-Medical.Net. Cancel reply to comment Quirky Comment Title Name* E-mail* Country [Not specified] Afghanistan Albania Algeria Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Belarus Belgium Belize Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Cambodia Canada Caribbean Chile Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Estonia Ethiopia Faroe Islands Finland France Georgia Germany Greece Greenland Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong S.A.R. Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Islamic Republic of Pakistan Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao P.D.R. Latvia Lebanon Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao S.A.R. Macedonia (FYROM) Malaysia Maldives Malta Mexico Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Nigeria Norway Oman Panama Paraguay People's Republic of China Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Principality of Monaco Puerto Rico Qatar Republic of the Philippines Romania Russia Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Serbia and Montenegro (Former) Singapore Slovakia Slovenia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Thailand Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan U.A.E. Ukraine United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen Zimbabwe b i u quote Comment Preview Comment Leave this field blank News A to Z Drugs A to Z Health A to Z Medical / Health Products Medical / Health Services Newsletters News Archive Talk Medical Medical News Tweets Information Subscribe Other AZoNetwork Websites AZoM.com AZoNano.com AZoOptics.com AZoCleantech.com AZoSensors.com AZoRobotics.com AZoMining.com AZoBuild.com AZoQuantum.com News-Medical.Net News-Medical.Net provides this medical information service in accordance
                                    with these terms and conditions .
                                    Please note that medical information found
                                    on this website is designed to support, not to replace the relationship
                                    between patient a