
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 14 Feb 2012 22:37:14 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/4.4.9
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Whooping Cough (Pertussis) - What are the causes of Whooping Cough? COMMON AILMENTS HOME REMEDIES HERBAL REMEDIES HERBAL MEDICINES ARTICLES WELCOME TO HOME-REMEDIES.INFO Information on Various Common Ailments Acne Alcoholism Amnesia Anaemia Anorexia Appendicitis Areriosclerosis Arthritis Asthma Backache Boils Bronchitis Bruxizm Cataract Cholera Cirrhosis Colitis Conjuctivitis Corns Coronary Heart Disease Cough Cystitis Dandruff Dark Circles Defective Vision Depression Diabetes Mellitus Diaper Rash Dysmenorrhoea Diarrhoea Dry Skin Female Sterility Ear-Ache Emphysema Epilepsy Fever Gallstone Gall Bladder Disorders Gastritis Goitre Gout Hair Loss Halitosis Headaches High Blood Cholesterol High Blood Pressure Hives Hypoglycemia Hypertension Influenza Indigestion Insomania Intestinal Worms Jaundice Kidney Stones Leucorrhoea Leucorderma Low Blood Pressure Malaria Measles Menopausal Disorders Migraine Mumps Nausea Nephritis Obesity Palpitation Pancreatitis Peptic Ulcer Piles Pleurisy Pneumonia Psoriasis Pyorrhea Ringworm Scar Scurvy Schizophrenia Sinusitis Smallpox Snoring Sore Throat Stress Teeth Whitening Tinnitus Tonsillitis Toothache Tuberculosis Urinary Tract Infection Urticaria Varicose Veins Vaginitis Vision Impairment Warts Whooping Cough Whooping Cough Causes Medical Name: Pertussis Whooping Cough Menu What is Whooping Cough? What are the symptoms for whooping cough? What are the causes of whooping cough? Some Herbal and Home Remedies for the treatment of whooping cough. What are the causes of whooping cough? Whooping cough is usually caused by the bacteria named bordetella pertussis or simply b.pertussis and is one of the highly contagious bacterial infections known. Humans are the only known reservoir of these bacteria. In pertussis, there is a inflammation around your lungs that makes your breathing narrow, making it very difficult to breathe. Pertussis is spread very easily through direct contact. It can also be transferred from one person to other when the droplets coughed or sneezed out by someone already suffering from whooping cough comes on a healthy person or by contact with recently contaminated surfaces upon which the droplets landed. Anyone who has not been vaccinated or his vaccination date has been over, can easily get whooping cough just by spending time in the same room as an infected person. The incubation period - the time between contracting the infection and the appearance of the main symptoms - can vary from 5 to 15 days or even longer. The person can be infectious (able to pass the infection to others) for a maximum of six weeks after the symptoms start. But, you must take prevention by some home remedies from the beginning only, so that at whatever stage the disease is at, after 3-5 days of you start taking medicines and following home remedies, the person can be considered non-infectious, and there is no danger to others. It is usual, however, to have an antibiotic for 7 to 14 days. Older children are usually not seriously affected by whooping cough, but they can spread the infection to younger babies. Web