
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 02:15:11 GMT
Server: Jetty(6.1.25)
Expires: Thu, 01-Jan-1970 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Set-Cookie: view_tracker=705;Path=/;Expires=Tue, 12-Mar-2013 02:15:11 GMT
Connection: close

Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Antidepressants | FoundHealth Sign In Sign Up Help Contact Us Find Home Health Challenges Treatments Contributors About Us Blog Low Back Pain and Sciatica What is it? Overview Causes Symptoms Diagnosis Prevention Resources View All 38 Treatments Medicine Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Acetaminophen Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Analgesics Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Antidepressants Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Disk Replacement Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Diskectomy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Laminectomy (Spinal Decompression) Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Muscle Relaxants Low Back Pain and Sciatica and NSAIDs Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Nucleoplasty Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Spinal Fusion Herbs Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Boswellia Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Cayenne Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Chondroitin Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Comfrey Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Devil's Claw Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Ginger Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Proteolytic Enzymes Low Back Pain and Sciatica and St. John's Wort Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Turmeric Low Back Pain and Sciatica and White Willow Diet Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Glucosamine Body Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Acupuncture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Alexander Technique Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Balneotherapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Chiropractic Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Exercise Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Hatha Yoga Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Losing Weight Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Magnet therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Massage Therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Osteopathic Manipulation Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Physical Therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Posture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Prolotherapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Resting Mind Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Relaxation Therapies Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Stress Management Low Back Pain and Sciatica and biofeedback Spirit Answers FoundHealth will send you weekly updates on new content in this area. You can opt out at any time. The number to the right of the Follow button shows how many people are currently following this topic. Low Back Pain and Sciatica > Low Back Pain and Sciatica Treatment: Medicine > Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Antidepressants Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Click Wheel to discover your Treatment options Sign up to receive your FREE toolkit from Dr. Mark Hyman Tune your body now! Subscribe Now! We never spam or sell your e-mail People Found These Useful... Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Stress Management Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Relaxation Therapies Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Boswellia Want Answers? Ask Question FoundHealth on Facebook FoundHealth on Twitter Ask Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Antidepressants Written by sshowalter . Overview | Effect of Antidepressants on Low Back Pain and Sciatica | Side Effects and Warnings | Treatments Tried or prescribed Antidepressants for Low Back Pain and Sciatica?  
														Share your experience. Have you? I've Tried it 0 I'm a professional and I've Prescribed it 0 0 people                                                         have tried Antidepressants 0 people                                                         have prescribed Antidepressants Share your experience with this treatment. The community appreciates your insights. I would recommend it I would not recommend it I have no recommendation Preview Post Common names include: Duloxetine (Cymbalta) Amitriptyline (Elavil) Ask Effect of Antidepressants on Low Back Pain and Sciatica Antidepressants might also be prescribed for lower back pain and sciatica treatment. Read more details about Antidepressants . Did you know... precautions after low laminectomy surgery Answered by sheetal110990 -
                    1 answer Ask Side Effects and Warnings Trazodone The most common side effects associated with trazodone use include: nausea, dizziness, muscle pain, loss of coordination, tiredness, dry mouth, constipaton, headache and blurred vision. Call your doctor immediately if you have any new or worsening symptoms such as: unsual changes in behavior, anxiety, panic attacks, trouble sleeping, or if you feel impulsive, irritable, agitated, hostile, aggressive, restless, more depressed, or have thoughts about suicide or hurting yourself. Drug interactions Patients taking trazadone are advised to avoid alcohol. It is also important to inform your doctor about all the prescription and over-the-counter drugs that you are taking. The following drugs may interact with trazadone: •indinavir (Crixivan) or ritonavir (Norvir); •ketoconazole (Nizoral) or itraconazole (Sporanox); •digoxin (Lanoxin, Lanoxicaps); •carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Tegretol) or phenytoin (Dilantin); •warfarin (Coumadin); •MAO inhibitors, such as isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), rasagiline (Azilect), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). Mirtazapine Remeron may cause weight gain, sometimes this may requiring discontinuation of treatment. Mirtazapine may increase cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Other common side effects include: dizziness, nausea, flu symptoms and constipation. Seek immediate medical attention when you experience any severe side effect such as Severe allergic reactions, mental or mood changes thoughts of hurting yourself, tremors and worsening of depression. Drug interactions Mirtazapine potentiates the sedating effects of other drugs of drugs that can cause sedation such as the benzodiazepine class of anti-anxiety drugs, the narcotic pain relievers, tricyclic class of antidepressants, certain drugs for hypertension and some antihistamines. Mirtazapine should not be used with MAO inhibitors such as selegilin (Carbex), phenelzine (Nardil), furazolidone (Furoxone), procarbazine (Matulane), or tranylcypromine (Parnate). Avoid drinking alcohol because it may worsen some of the side effects of mirtzapine. Click Here to See All 38 Treatments for Low Back Pain and Sciatica FoundHealth has 38 treatments for Low Back Pain and Sciatica! See all Low Back Pain and Sciatica Treatment options and start building your care plan today. Medicine Herbs Diet Body Mind Spirit Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Disk Replacement Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Diskectomy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Acetaminophen Low Back Pain and Sciatica and St. John's Wort Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Turmeric Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Ginger Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Glucosamine Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Magnet therapy Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Exercise Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Posture Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Stress Management Low Back Pain and Sciatica and Relaxation Therapies Low Back Pain and Sciatica and biofeedback Low Back Pain and Sciatica Treatment: Spirit Share 0 Comments No one has made any comments yet.  Be the first! Your Comment Preview Post Comment Preview Post Comment Link to Existing article Search Home | About Us | Contact Us | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy © 2012
 FoundHealth, Inc. All rights reserved. FoundHealth does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Receive weekly updates on topics of your interest. Share your experiences on treatments that you have tried or prescribed. Ask or Answer a question within our community. Create a FoundHealth Contributor profile to highlight your health expertise. As a welcome gift, we will send you the complete e-book Give Yourself a Biologic Tune-Up by Dr. Mark Hyman . Already have an account? Sign In ! Email Address * We promise that we will not spam or share your information. Password * At least 6 characters Confirm Password * Enter code shown * I agree to the FoundHealth Terms o