
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 06 May 2012 06:35:28 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.7a mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Comparison of Skeletal Muscle Relaxers Home About Blog Facts Conditions Comparisons Lists Classes Side Effects Patents Products More on Muscle Relaxants Comparison of Skelaxin, Flexeril, Soma Carisoprodol (Soma) Facts Carisoprodol (Soma) versus ... Cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril) Facts Cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril) versus ... Skeletal Muscle Relaxers eMedExpert Home > Comparisons > Skeletal Muscle Relaxers Comparison of Skelaxin, Flexeril and Soma Brief history Indications and uses Mechanism of action Efficacy Side effects Key differences between drugs Conclusions Brief comparison table This review examines the efficacy, side effects, and safety of three 
        commonly prescribed skeletal muscle relaxants metaxalone (Skelaxin), cyclobenzaprine 
        (Flexeril), and carisoprodol (Soma). Skeletal muscle relaxants are commonly used drugs prescribed for the 
        treatment of muscle spasms and discomfort. Muscle relaxants are not really 
        a class of drugs, but rather a group of different drugs that each has 
        an overall sedative effect on the body. Muscle relaxants treat both muscle spasm and spasticity. These drugs 
        relieve muscle spasms due to low back pain, neck pain, fibromyalgia, tension 
        headaches. They also relieve spasticity due to cerebral palsy, multiple 
        sclerosis, spinal cord injury, or stroke. Brief history Carisoprodol (brand name: Soma) was approved by the FDA in 1959. Carisoprodol 
          is a muscle relaxant that is used to treat muscle spasms and musculoskeletal 
          pain. Carisoprodol is also a drug treatment option for fibromyalgia symptoms. Cyclobenzaprine was FDA approved on August 26, 1977. Cyclobenzaprine 
          is distributed and marketed by McNeil under the brand name Flexeril. 
          Flexeril is one of the strongest muscle relaxants. It has been shown 
          to be beneficial in fibromyalgia, muscle spasms and musculoskeletal pain. Metaxalone was approved by FDA on August 13, 1962. This medication 
          is manufactured by King Pharmaceuticals under the brand name Skelaxin. 
          Skelaxin is indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other 
          measures for the relief of discomforts associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. FDA approved indications and uses All three medications are indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, 
        and other measures for the relief of discomforts associated with acute, 
        painful musculoskeletal conditions. Carisoprodol, cyclobenzaprine and metaxalone are not found to be effective 
        in the treatment of spasticity associated with upper motor neuron syndromes. Mechanism of action The mechanisms of action of the medications in this class are widely 
        varied and many are not thoroughly understood. Carisoprodol: The actions of carisoprodol are related to a central 
        nervous system (CNS) mechanism and not to a direct effect on skeletal 
        muscle. Carisoprodol appears to interrupt neuronal communication within 
        the reticular formation and spinal cord. CNS depression produces sedation, 
        and the perception of pain could be altered. Some believe that most of 
        the benefit seen with carisoprodol is secondary to a generalized sedative effect. Cyclobenzaprine: Since cyclobenzaprine is closely similar to amitriptyline 
        in chemical structure, some of its effects are similar to the tricyclic 
        antidepressants. Cyclobenzaprine relieves muscle spasms through a central 
        action, possibly at the brain stem level, with no direct action on the 
        neuromuscular junction or the muscle involved. It is not a peripheral 
        neuromuscular blocker. Treatment with the drug reduces pain and tenderness, and improves mobility. Metaxalone: The mechanism of action of metaxalone has not been 
        established. Metaxalone has no direct effect on the contractile mechanism 
        of striated muscle, the motor end plate, or the nerve fiber. Its mode 
        of action may be due to general central nervous system depression. Efficacy No studies have documented superior efficacy of one skeletal muscle relaxant over another. Adverse reactions and side effects All three drugs appear to have equal efficacy, but their side effects vary considerably. Sedation is the most commonly reported adverse effect of muscle relaxants. 
        These medications should be used with caution in people driving motor 
        vehicles or operating heavy machinery. More absolute contraindications 
        do exist to the use of carisoprodol and cyclobenzaprine. By initially 
        prescribing muscle relaxants at bedtime, the physician might take advantage 
        of their sedative effects and minimize daytime drowsiness. While cyclobenzaprine may not share the dangerous cardiac and neurological 
        potential of its close relatives the TCAs, it does share other properties, 
        particularly confusion, lethargy, and anticholinergic side effects, and 
        may have some toxicity in overdose and in combination with other substances. Carisoprodol presents the most significant concern, due particularly 
        to its potential for dependence and abuse. Several investigators have 
        called for carisoprodol to be classified as a controlled substance. Carisoprodol 
        is thought to carry an important risk for abuse because of its metabolism 
        to meprobamate. In the head to head trial of cyclobenzaprine and carisoprodol, dry mouth 
        was more frequent with cyclobenzaprine (38% vs. 10%) and dizziness less 
        frequent (8% vs. 26%). Withdrawal rates due to adverse events were equal 
        (8%). Metaxalone has the fewest reported side effects of any skeletal muscle 
        relaxants and appears to be the safest. Key differences among drugs Cyclobenzaprine has been evaluated in the most clinical trials and 
          so has the most proof of being effective. Related to TCAs, use with caution in cardiac patients. Carisoprodol can be addictive. Metaxalone is the least likely to cause drowsiness making it more 
          compatible with day time use. Do not use in hepatic dysfunction or patients 
          with history of drug-induced anemia. Treatment with Skelaxin (which is available only as a branded  medication) is more expensive than with 
		carisoprodol or cyclobenzaprine. Conclusions The centrally acting skeletal muscle relaxants have been shown to be 
        efficacious in the treatment of painful musculoskeletal disorders. Studies 
        have indicated they may be more effective in combination with analgesics. When there is no a clearly superior agent, side effect profiles become a significant factor in the selection of medications to be prescribed in individual cases. Brief comparison table Carisoprodol Soma (Wallace) Cyclobenzaprine Flexeril (McNeil) Metaxalone Skelaxin (King) FDA approval date April 09, 1959 August 26, 1977 August 13, 1962 Pharmaceutical Forms 350 mg tablets 5 mg, 10 mg tablets 800 mg tablets FDA approved indications relief of discomforts associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions relief of muscle spasm associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions relief of discomforts associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions Most common side effects - drowsiness - dizziness - ataxia - tremor - agitation - drowsiness - dry mouth - dizziness - drowsiness - dizziness - headache Less common side effects - irritability - headache - depressive reactions - insomnia - nausea - vomiting - tachycardia - tiredness - asthenia - nausea - constipation - dyspepsia - unpleasant taste - blurred vision - headache - nervousness - tachycardia - arrhythmia - nervousness - nausea - vomiting - gastrointestinal upset Onset/ Duration of action Onset: 30 min Duration: 4-6 hours Onset: 1 hour Duration: 12-24 hours Onset: 30 min- 1 hour Duration: 4- 6 hours Generic availability Yes Yes No References & Resources 1. The Merck Manual of Medical Information. Mark H. Beers et al., eds. 2nd Home Edition. Whitehouse Station, NJ: Merck; 2003. Published: May 05, 2007 Last updated: May 10, 2011 Home | Contact Us This site complies with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here . Copyright © 2011 eMedExpert.com. All rights