<http://www.hotflashfreedom.com/blog/?p=187>; rel=shortlink
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Menopause and Natural Alternatives | Hot Flashes Hot Flash Freedom Logo Menopause Ingredients/Use Guarantee FAQ Testimonials Contact Us Order Menopause and Natural Alternatives Most women experience the menopause at around fifty years old. At this time a woman stops ovulating and ceases to have a monthly menstrual cycle. The menopause may occur overnight or can be more of a gradual process. The period of time leading up to menopause is often described as the perimenopause. For every woman, this is the time when the production of estrogen decreases and hormonal changes occur which can affect her physically, mentally and emotionally. When the estrogen production slows down, the adrenal glands may become overworked, resulting in smaller amounts of hormonal production. The blood vessels dilate, and this can often result in hot flushes.Ã‚Â Ã‚Â  Other common symptoms are restlessness, anxiety, strange food cravings, achy joints and emotional instability.Ã‚Â  There could also be changes in sexual desire, excessive sweating, palpitation, frequent urination, insomnia, night sweats and headaches. It is important to consider all these different symptoms in the treatment of the menopause. Through the centuries, ancient medicine has recommended natural remedies for the treatment of the menopause . The traditional Chinese remedy for menopausal symptoms is Dong Quai. This well-researched natural remedy has phytoestrogenic properties and has proved effective in inducing progesterone receptor activity, which balances the progesterone/estrogen ratios. Another remedy is Goji, which is also said to restore hormonal balance. Today, Black Cohosh is also fast gaining popularity as an herbal cure for menopausal symptoms. This thoroughly researched herb contains phytoestrogens which balance the systemic estrogen production and suppress the high levels of the Luteinizing Hormone (LH) which is responsible for hot flashes. Other remedies that have proved helpful in the treatment of the menopause are flaxseed oil and Evening Primrose oil, both of which alleviate the menopause symptoms . Though the results on the use of soy in the treatment of the menopause are inconclusive, many women swear by it and say that they have felt much better after including soy in their diet. Red clover which is full of isoflavones is also being widely used instead of hormone replacement therapy (HRT). The menopause is certainly a time for women to look after their general health. Healthy eating and exercise are particularly important. Many women gain weight during the menopause so it is important to keep an eye on your diet. Limit high fat and high sugar foods; include plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables, lean sources of protein and complex carbohydrates. It is very important to ensure adequate calcium intake at this time, as the protective effect of estrogen on the bones will be diminishing. From Around 50 years of age a womenÃƒÂ¢Ã‚â‚¬Ã‚â„¢s requirements for calcium increases from 1000 to 1200mg per day. This can be met through diet through ensuring 3-5 portions of calcium containing food per day. A portion is equivalent to glass of milk or calcium-fortified soy milk, a small pot of yogurt, an ounce of cheese, a large helping of green leafy vegetables, or a few ounces of tofu. It is also essential to ensure adequate vitamin and mineral intake at this time to assist with the treatment of menopause. Vitamin C is essential to keep the immune system in good shape. Vitamin B6 increases progesterone levels and helps to raise serotonin production which can calm a person down. Folic acid helps in cellular metabolism, assists in repairing damaged cells and neutralizes toxins. Zinc helps the immune system and assist with building strong bones. Besides what one takes, what one does is very important too and thereÃƒÂ¢Ã‚â‚¬Ã‚â„¢s nothing to beat a bit of exercise in the treatment of menopause. One study had 55% of women experiencing a reduction in the severity of hot flushes with aerobic exercise. Walking is a great form of exercise and it is weight-bearing which is important in keeping your bones healthy. In a study conducted at Tufts University, postmenopausal women who lifted weights twice a week for a year gained 1% in bone density. Yoga and acupuncture have also proved beneficial in studies. All in all, placing a little more emphasis on staying fit and healthy and putting you first seem to be key in overcoming problems associated with menopause. Mitamins Team http://www.articlesbase.com/health-articles/menopause-and-natural-alternatives-95474.html PR: wait… I: wait… L: wait… LD: wait… I: wait… wait… Rank: wait… Traffic: wait… Price: wait… C: wait… Share and Enjoy: Tags: Categories Blog Hormone Imbalance Hot Flashes Menopause Menopause Treatment night sweats Progesterone Cream Tags Hot Flashes hot flashes menopause menopause relief menopause symptom symptoms of menopause If you are looking to losing weight the healthy way, see why over 20,000 doctors have recommended the Medifast Diet. Save on your order with medifast coupons Recent Posts How to Prevent Menopause Symptoms in Your Daily Life Overcoming The Symptoms Of Menopause Menopause Symptoms May be Eased Through Natural Ways Coping With The Symptoms Of A Hot Flash Taking Control Of Your Hot Flash Symptoms Before They Take Control Of You How To Take On That Hot Flash Symptom And Win! Chinese Medicine Can Provide An Effective Hot Flash Remedy Common Hot Flash Symptoms And How To Cope With Them Coping With The Dreaded Menopause Hot Flash Getting Control Of Your Hot Flash Symptoms Menopause Strategies: Taking Vitamins For A Hot Flash Are There Side Effects Of Black Cohosh When Used For Hot Flashes? The Magic Of Black Cohosh For Hot Flashes Stopping Menopausal Hot Flashes Some Facts About Early and Premature Menopause Hot Flashes Remedy - Is There One That Really Works? Why Do I Have Hot Flashes During Pregnancy? For Fast Relief Use An Herbal Remedy For Hot Flashes Overview of Male Menopause Which Natural Cure For Hot Flashes Actually Works To Relieve Symptoms? Some Things About the Male Menopause Help For Hot Flashes Without Hrt The Causes of Early Menopause Medications Such as Effexor and Has Been Shown to Ease the Number and Intensity of Hot Flashes Finding Relief Through Menopause Treatment How To Find Simple Relief For Hot Flashes And Night Sweats Few Clarifications Regarding Menopause What Causes Hot Flashes And When Will They Be Over? What Can Trigger An Early Menopause Natural Relief For Hot Flashes Dealing With Post Menopause Problems What Is The Truth About Black Cohosh For Hot Flashes? Can Acupuncture Help Control Menopause Symptoms? What Causes Hot Flashes? Menopause Symptoms: Different For Every Woman Using Herbal Remedies For Hot Flashes To Avoid The Dangers Of HRT The Connection Between Menopause And Mood Swings Are Hot Flashes During Menopause More Common In American Women? How Male Menopause is Different From Female Menopause Relief From Pregnancy Hot Flashes A Brief Overview Of Endometriosis And Menopause How To Get Menopausal Relief With These Natural Herbs For Hot Flashes Frequent Urination and Menopause Are Hot Flashes During Menopause More Common In American Women? Positive Aspects Of Menopause? Get Control Of Hot Flashes With These 8 Simple Tips Sex After Menopause - The Difficulties And The Delights Menopause How Early Is Too Early? Get Control Of Hot Flashes With These 8 Simple Tips Menopause and Insomnia Herbal Remedies For Hot Flashes: Are They Effective? Menopause and Natural Alternatives Menopause Hot Flashes Overview Keeping An Eye Out For Menopause Signs Menopause Relief From Hot Flashes Early Menopause Symptoms - How Early Symptoms of Menopause Can Occur What Is The Link Between Hysterectomy And Menopause? Menopause Migraine Breaking The Cycle Supplementation Suggestions To Ease Menopause Symptoms Vitamins For Menopause - Naturally! How Stress Can Play A Large Role In Menopause Fatigue How To Have Better Sexual Health By Eating The Right Foods Coping With The Emotional Impact Of Menopause What You Do Not Know About Panic Attacks Can Hurt You Menopause and Diminished Sex Drive Natural Ways To Avoid Hormone Imbalance How Menopause Can Effect Your Appetite From A Nurse: Choosing The Best Prostate Cancer Treatment Options For You What Is Menopause? Informative Speech On Migraine In Children Vitamin for Menopause, Understanding What's Good for You Detecting Menopause Through Testing Lupron And Endometriosis What You Need To Know Find Your Menopause Supplement Today! Why Exercise Really Can Provide Menopause Relief Should You Take Menopause Diet Pills? Menopause and Complications Strategies In Dealing With Menopause The Truth On Menopause and Weight Gain Tips in Coping With Menopause Herbs Dealing With and Treating Menopause Menopause Natural Solutions 6 Questions and Answers to Help Prepare you to Go Through Menopause Induced Menopause is Not the End When Menopause Happens, Symptoms And Treatment Advice Detox Hepatitis C? Menopause and High Blood Pressure The Change of Life The Recommended Diet for Menopause Are Natural Hormone Products Hype Or Helpful? Symptoms of Early Menopause Menopause Help - Don't Go Into Self Denial Menopause: What Every Woman Needs to Know Treatment of Symptoms in Menopause Learning How to Deal With Menopause Recent Posts How to Prevent Menopause Symptoms in Your Daily Life Overcoming The Symptoms Of Menopause Menopause Symptoms May be Eased Through Natural Ways Coping With The Symptoms Of A Hot Flash Taking Control Of Your Hot Flash Symptoms Before They Take Control Of You Because this product is not a drug and contains none, it has not been evaluated by the FDA. This product is not intended to diagnose, cure or prevent any disease. Hot flashes | Affiliate Program | Menopause | SiteMap | Privacy | Contact Us |  © HotFlashFreedom.com  All Rights Reserved Blogs: Hot Flashes | Menopause | Perimenopause | Night Sweats | Natural Health Products Web Designer DiscountWebDesigner.com Search Engin