Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Types of Bariatric Surgery - The 16 Primary Established & Experimental Procedures Unbiased. Informed. Current. Obesity Surgery Topics Surgery Types Payment Life After Find a Surgeon Share | FREE Quarterly Newsletter Bariatric Surgery Is It Right for You? Bariatric Treatment Overview Types of Bariatric Surgery How to Choose the Right Bariatric Doctors Find a Bariatric Surgeon in My Area Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Obesity Cause & Effect Causes of Obesity Obesity and Genetics Does Fast Food Cause Obesity? Obesity Virus Cause and Effect of Obesity Obesity Health Problems Effects of Teen Obesity Gastric Bypass Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery Complications of Gastric Bypass Surgery Adjustable Gastric Banding Analysis & Cost of Lap Band Surgery Gastric Lap Band Procedure Lap Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Other Effective Procedures Gastric Sleeve Surgery Duodenal Switch Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Diet Before & After Surgery Bariatric Diet Bariatric Eating Techniques Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Recipes Financing & Insurance Financing Bariatric Surgery Unsecured Medical Loans Bariatric Surgery Insurance Weight Loss Surgery Mexico & Abroad Cost of Bariatric Surgery Life After Surgery Life after Weight Loss Surgery Exercise for Bariatric Surgery Patients Weight Loss Surgery Support Groups Online Weight Loss Support Pregnancy After Weight Loss Surgery Risks & Challenges Bariatric Surgery Complications Bariatric Surgery Risks Weight Gain after Bariatric Surgery Blood Clot Symptoms Dumping Syndrome Community YOUR Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery Experiences Ask & answer questions about obesity and bariatric surgery About Us Contact Us Bariatric Surgery Directory of External Resources What's New? We Proudly Support... Types of Bariatric Surgery - 16  Established & Experimental Weight Loss Surgery Procedures Reviewed by: Gregg H. Jossart, MD, FACS The types of bariatric surgery
you should consider depend on a number
of factors, including how much weight you want to lose,
which health
problems you are looking to improve, each surgery’s risk level and how
much they cost. There is no “one size fits all” procedure, so we’ll
help you determine which ones best fit your goals. Categories
of bariatric surgery (restrictive vs malabsorptive) Open
vs Laparoscopic weight loss surgery Banding vs Stapling 16
bariatric surgery procedures (overview of each & links to
more details) Comparison
of procedures & positives and negatives of each Summary Procedures chosen by other visitors to this page (please share your own decisions as well!) Categories of
bariatric surgery YOUR Weight Loss Journey Help visitors like you by sharing your advice related to this page or other topics ... Which bariatric surgery procedures fit YOU best and why? Why
    did YOU decide to move forward with surgery? All types of bariatric surgery work in one of 3 ways (an
overview of each surgery is provided further down the page)… Restrictive surgeries shrink the size of the stomach which reduces the amount of
food it can hold. This makes you feel full when eating much sooner than
you did before
surgery. Primarily restrictive procedures include… Vertical banded gastroplasty Adjustable gastric banding (lap band surgery) Gastric sleeve Transoral gastric volume reduction Malabsorptive surgeries rearrange and/or remove part your digestive system which
then limits the amount of calories and nutrients that your body can
absorb.
Treatmens with a large malabsorbtive component result in the most weight loss but tend to
have higher complication rates. There are no longer any purely malabsorptive operations being performed (the jejunal ileal bypass was a purely malabsorptive procedure but it is no longer performed). Combination – When surgery combines both restrictive and malabsorptive techniques,
  it is know as a “combination” procedure. Most types of bariatric
  surgery carry at least a small element of both components, but the
  following surgeries achieve a notable portion of weight loss from each… Gastric bypass (more malabsorption than the restrictive
procedures listed above, but works primarily through restriction) Mini-gastric bypass (also works mainly through
restriction) Duodenal switch (more malabsorption - the sleeve stomach is the restrictive portion and the inestinal bypass (duodenal switch) is the malabsorptive component) Back
to top of Types of Bariatric Surgery Open vs Laparoscopic
Types of Bariatric Surgery Most bariatric procedures can be performed either open or
laparoscopically. Open surgery may be required in rare cases (such as a
build up of scar tissue from previous operations), although
with a good surgeon laparoscopic surgery is usually a much better
option. It results in shorter hospital stays, lower infection rates and
smaller scars. "Laparoscopic weight loss surgery results in shorter hospital
stays, lower infection rates and smaller scars." Open surgeries are performed by making a relatively large incision in the abdomen and
carrying out the operation by direct observation through the open
incision. While many surgeons still perform open bariatric surgery
successfully, these surgeries have a longer recovery time and a bigger
risk of infection. Obese patients’ bodies often have more difficulty
healing which can complicate things further. With open bariatric surgery, you should expect to be in the
hospital for up to 5 days or more. With
laparoscopic weight loss surgery , the surgeon makes five
or six small incisions that are just big enough to pass surgical
instruments through. Smaller incisions mean less healing time, so you
could leave the hospital in as soon as 2 days or less. In addition to other medical instruments, the incisions are
used to insert a special camera. The surgical camera projects the
inside of the patient’s body onto a screen, and the surgeon uses that
image to perform the surgery. Back
to top of Types of Bariatric Surgery Stomach Banding vs Stomach Stapling Many patients now think about surgery in terms of "banding" versus "stapling". Stomach banding , also called gastric banding or lap band surgery, is the process of placing a synthetic band around the upper portion of the stomach. It works by creating a small  "pouch" at the top of the stomach just below the esophagus, thus dramatically reducing the amount of food a patient can eat. The primary procedure that utilzes stomach banding is gastric banding surgery, more commonly known as lap band surgery (vertical banded gastroplasty (VBG) surgery also utilizes a band, but it is only performed in special circumstances and also involves stapling). Stomach stapling , on the other hand, is used to either section off or seal the part of the stomach that remains after the other portion is removed (VBG works differently here as well - more on how in the next section). Procedures that utilize stapling include: Roux-en-Y gastric bypass Duodenal switch Gastric sleeve surgery Mini gastric bypass surgery Generally speaking, banding procedures - more specifically, lap band surgery - result in less weight loss but have fewer serious complications. Gastric banding is also reversible, meaning that the band can be completely removed thus returning the digestive tract to its original state. However, gastric banding has been found to have a higher rate of minor complications than procedures involving stapling. In contrast, stomach stapling should be considered permanent. It tends to result in greater and more consistent weight loss among patients along with a greater reduction in obesity-related health problems, but it does carry a higher risk of serious complications. The following section will give you a high level overview about how banding and stapling are utilized in each procedure... Back
  to top of Types of Bariatric Surgery Overview of the 16
  Types of Bariatric Surgery
  (with links to more
  details) Jump down to the types of bariatric surgery that interest you
by clicking one of the
following links or scroll down to review them all. Further
down the page we
will compare and review the pros and cons of each. Established Types of Bariatric Surgery Gastric
    Bypass Surgery (Roux-en-Y) Adjustable
    Gastric Banding (Lap Band Surgery) Gastric
    Sleeve Surgery (Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy) Biliopancreatic
    Diversion with Duodenal Switch (Duodenal
    Switch or
    BPD/DS) Vertical
    Banded Gastroplasty (“Stomach Stapling” or VBG) Mini
    Gastric Bypass Surgery (MGBP) Gastric Bypass Revision Surgeries : ROSE Procedure StomaphyX Procedure Lap band surgery as a gastric bypass revision procedure Lengthen the Roux limb Conversion to duodenal switch Experimental Types of Bariatric Surgery To review all procedures currently being investigated, see our Experimental Weight Loss Surgery Procedures page. You can also click one of the following to jump straight to your procedure of interest. EndoBarrier Gastrointestinal Liner Implantable Maestro System TOGA bariatric surgery Transoral
    Gastric Volume Reduction (TGVR) Established Types of Bariatric Surgery Gastric
  Bypass Surgery (Roux-en-Y) Gastric bypass, also called Roux-en-Y or RNY for short, is the
most
commonly performed bariatric surgery in the United States. An entire section of our web site is dedicated to this popular
and
effective procedure, so we’ll save most of our discussion about it for
those pages (link is below). The surgery is mainly restrictive in
nature, but it
also has elements of malabsorption. From a very high level perspective, to perform gastric bypass
surgery
the surgeon... Cuts and staples the top portion of the stomach to create a small pouch at the end of the
esophagus Leaves the remainder of the stomach attached to the top of
the small
intestines Goes further down the small intestine, cuts it, and
attaches it to the
pouch Takes the end of the small intestine that is still
connected with the
non-pouch portion of the stomach and attaches it to the bottom of the “Roux
limb.” This allows the digestive juices produced by the stomach to meet
up with the food in the intestines. It’s much more easily understood by watching a video… Most patients have successful long term weight loss with minimal weight regain. However, over time some patients' stomach pouch or stoma (the opening between the stomach and small intestines) can stretch causing signifcant weight regain. In these cases, gastric bypass revision surgery may be appropriate. See our Laparoscopic
    Gastric Bypass Surgery page
    for all the details specific to this surgery. Alternatively, contact an experienced local qualified surgeon. Most qualified surgeons offer free seminars and/or free one-on-one consultations that  teach you about your options and their office's specific results. Click here to find and schedule a free in-person seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area . Back
  to top of Section (  16 types of bariatric surgery ) Adjustable
Gastric Banding (Lap Band Surgery) This is the second most popular U.S. bariatric surgery
procedure and is
restrictive in nature. It’s been used in Europe since the 90’s, but
wasn’t approved by the FDA in the States until 2001. The lap band surgery procedure involves the sewing of a
silicone and
Silastic band around the top of the stomach. A balloon around the inner
surface of the band (imagine the inside of a bicycle tire) is connected
to a tube that leads to a half-dollar-sized port above the abdominal
muscles but below the skin. During follow up visits, your doctor will
add or remove saline solution (salt water) to make it tighter or
looser. The tighter it is, the less hungry you feel and vice-versa. Here’s the procedure… There is also an entire section devoted to this
    procedure. See our Analysis
      and Cost of Lap Band Surgery page to learn more. To review the specific differences between gastric bypass and lap band
    surgery, see our Lap
      Band vs Gastric Bypass page. Alternatively, contact an experienced local qualified surgeon that performs both lap band and gastric bypass surgery. Most qualified surgeons offer free seminars and/or free one-on-one consultations that  teach you about your options and their office's specific results. Click here to find and schedule a free in-person seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area . Back
  to top of Section (  16 types of bariatric surgery ) Gastric
Sleeve Surgery (Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy) The Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy (VSG) is quickly being adopted
by
surgeons throughout the country, but it has yet to be one of the
insurance-approved types
of bariatric surgery as it is still relatively new. Several studies have
shown it to be extremely effective and safe, and it may even work
better than gastric bypass or lap band surgery. If you’re financing
bariatric surgery on your own, you should definitely consider
this procedure. In
general the procedure is performed by dividing the stomach to create a
long pouch that connects the esophagus to the small intestine. The
pouch is stapled and the rest of the stomach is removed… Read more on our Gastric
    Sleeve Surgery page. Alternatively, contact an experienced local qualified surgeon. Most qualified surgeons offer free seminars and/or free one-on-one consultations that  teach you about your options and their office's specific results. Click here to find and schedule a free in-person seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area . Back
  to top of Section (  16 types of bariatric surgery ) Biliopancreatic
Diversion with Duodenal Switch (BPD/DS)
(Duodenal
Switch) More simply referred to as a Duodenal Switch, this procedure
could be
classified as a Gastric Bypass/Gastric Sleeve combination with a
twist…. A large portion of the stomach is removed to create a
cylinder-shaped
pouch connecting the esophagus to the top of the small intestine. The top of the small intestine is cut, but the surgeon
leaves part of
the duodenum, or the top part of the small intestine where most
chemical digestion occurs, attached to the stomach. The surgeon then cuts the small intestine several feet
down. The part
that is still attached to the large intestine (or colon) is connected
to the duodenum. The loose part of the small intestine (the part that wasn’t
just
attached to the stomach) is then attached to the small intestine so the
digestive juices it creates can mix with the food coming from the
stomach. Since the stomach is shrunk and only a small portion of the
intestine
has a chance to digest food before it enters the colon, the duodenal
switch procedure is both restrictive and malabsorptive. But
this surgery is effective
mainly because of malabsorption. See our Duodenal
    Switch page for all of the details. Alternatively, contact an experienced local qualified surgeon. Most qualified surgeons offer free seminars and/or free one-on-one consultations that  teach you about your options and their office's specific results. Click here to find and schedule a free in-person seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area . Back
  to top of Section (  16 types of bariatric surgery ) Vertical
Banded Gastroplasty (“Stomach Stapling” or VBG) Insurance companies typically cover this surgery (along with
gastric
bypass, lap band and sometimes duodenal switch surgery) because it’s
been around the longest and has shown decent results. While other
surgeries have been proven much more effective long-term in regards to
the reintervention and reoperation rates, VBG is an acceptable
alternative for those who aren’t a fit for other options. The Vertical Banded Gastroplasty works through restriction and
is
performed by creating a “hole” in the upper-middle part of the stomach
and stapling the stomach from the hole to the top of the stomach so no
food can pass through. Then the surgeon places a band around the
opening between the hole and the side of the stomach… See our Vertical
    Banded Gastroplasty page for additional
    information related to this procedure. Alternatively, contact an experienced local qualified surgeon. Most qualified surgeons offer free seminars and/or free one-on-one consultations that  teach you about your options and their office's specific results. Click here to find and schedule a free in-person seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area . Back
  to top of Section (  16 types of bariatric surgery ) Mini
gastric bypass surgery (MGBP) As the name suggests, the mini gastric bypass is like the
Roux-en-Y
gastric bypass discussed above but is a simpler version of that
procedure. Since it’s less invasive, MGBP has less complications and a
faster
recovery associated with it. But there is debate surrounding whether
the long-term results are as good as Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, and
evidence has been presented suggesting that less experienced surgeons
sometimes promote and perform the surgery due to its less complicated
nature. With the Roux-en-Y
gastric bypass (RNY) reviewed above, there are two
surgical
attachments made… The small intestine is cut and attached to the small pouch
(top part of
the stomach) The end of the small intestine that is still connected with
the
remainder of the stomach is attached it to the bottom of the “Roux
limb” During the laparoscopically performed Mini Gastric Bypass the
small
intestine is not cut. Rather, a tubular chamber is partitioned from the
stomach at the base of the esophagus (larger than the RNY pouch) and is
connected about six feet down the small intestine. The MGBP only uses
one connection where the RNY uses two… See our Mini
    Gastric Bypass Surgery page for all of the
    details. Alternatively, contact an experienced local qualified surgeon. Most qualified surgeons offer free seminars and/or free one-on-one consultations that  teach you about your options and their office's specific results. Click here to find and schedule a free in-person seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area . Back
  to top of Section (  16 types of bariatric surgery ) Comparison of the
  Types of Bariatric Surgery Patient Experiences At the very bottom of this page you'll learn which procedure other visitors chose and why. Please share your thoughts and experiences as well! As you review this page and the pages we’ll guide you to, keep
the
following in the back of your mind… Bariatric surgery
  procedures that result in more weight loss are often accompanied by
  higher risk
  and additional lifestyle changes. The following shows a high level comparison of all major types
of bariatric surgery. Below the chart we’ll get into a summary
of the positives and negatives of each procedure and how they
compare to one another. Types of Bariatric Surgery (click links  for more info) Category ( explained
above ) Average Long-Term Excess Weight Lost (approx. %) Comp- lication Rate Research Ranking* (and
reason if
below ‘A’) Average U.S. Cost (assuming no comp- lications) Covered by insurance and/or Medicare ? *We developed the Research
Ranking scores using a combination of
factors including supporting research for short- and long-term weight
loss, complication rates, risk factors and insurance coverage. Percentages listed for the above types of bariatric surgery are meant
to provide a rough idea for each
procedure. No studies are available that directly compare all types of
bariatric surgery, so we have combined the results of many
studies. Gastric
Bypass (Roux-en-Y) Combination (primarily restrictive) 50 to 70% Up to 15% A $15,000 - $35,000 Yes Gastric
Banding (i.e. Lap Band) Restrictive Extremely variable –
average is about 50%, but ranges from 25% to 80% Up to 33% A $10,000 -
$25,000 Yes Biliopancreatic
Diversion with Duodenal Switch (BPD/DS) Mal-absorptive 65% to 75% Up to 24% A $20,000 - $30,000 (plus around $1,500 per year
for bariatric
vitamins ) Depends Vertical
Banded Gastroplasty (VBG) Restrictive 50% to 60% Up to 21% B (good op- tion if others won’t work, but may be associated with more
long-term problems) $15,000 - $25,000 Depends Gastric
sleeve surgery (Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy) Restrictive Needs
more long-term research. Studies conducted to date show 65% to
75%
range. Up to 10% B (looks pro- mising, but needs more research) $10,000 -
$20,000 Depends Mini
gastric bypass surgery Combination (primarily restrictive) Needs
more research. Studies conducted to date show 60% to 70% range. Up to
8% C (with the right sur- geon, research suggests this could be a
viable option, but you may want to avoid it until the controversy
surrounding this procedure is resolved) Normally $7,000 - $10,000 (but could be up
to $17,000) No Transoral gastric volume reduction (TGVR) Restrictive Needs more
research n/a C (very promising, but still too new) n/a No TOGA System Restrictive n/a n/a D (these techn- ologies are something to look out
    for, but additional research is needed before we can recommend them) Expected range from $12,000 to $13,000 No EndoBarrier Endoluminal Lining Mal-absorptive n/a n/a Expected to range from $5,000 - $12,500 No Implantable Maestro System neither restrictive nor mal-absorptive; electrical impulses said to affect hunger n/a n/a n/a No Back
to top of Types of
Bariatric
Surgery Summary
of Positives & Negatives of All Types of Bariatric surgery ( click links below to
jump to pages dedicated to each surgery) Following is a comparison of the five procedures that have
received a
research ranking of ‘A’ or ‘B’. It doesn’t mean that other procedures
aren’t effective. Either they just don’t have enough research
available for us to confidently compare them at this time (TGVR and
gastric pacing) or there is too much controversy surrounding them (mini
gastric bypass). Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass Patients typically don’t lose as much weight after laparoscopic
gastric
bypass surgery as
they do after the more complicated duodenal switch, but 60 to 70% of
excess weight lost after gastric bypass is substantially better than
after banding procedures (lap band and VBG). The presence of dumping
syndrome is a significant difference
versus
other procedures. While the symptoms are extremely uncomfortable, many
patients feel that they help to keep their diet and long-term weight
loss on track. In addition, the malabsorptive component of gastric bypass can
lead to
malnutrition issues, so careful and ongoing attention should be paid to
diet supplementation. However, malnutrition risks are much less after
gastric bypass than after the duodenal switch. Adjustable Gastric Banding (Lap band surgery) Lap
band surgery has an impressively low rate of serious
complications
and is the only well-researched surgery that is completely reversible. While the average 50% of excess weight lost is a decent
percentage, the
amount each patient could lose ranges from below 25% to over 80%. It
also has a much higher rate of minor complications and reoperations
than any other procedure. The number of doctor visits after surgery is another
consideration.
Patients see their surgeon up to 10 times or more in the two to three
years following surgery for band adjustments. See our Lap Band vs Gastric Bypass page for a full comparison of the two
    most commonly performed bariatric procedures. Duodenal Switch The Biliopancreatic
Diversion with Duodenal Switch , or
“Duodenal
Switch” for short, deserves more credit and attention than it’s been
given by those seeking bariatric treatment. On average, it results in
more weight loss than any other
procedure. And although it carries the highest risk of complications, it's mortality risks are on par with other procedures and it may be
the best
procedure for those with a body mass index of 50 or over
(“super-obese”) in terms of average weight loss and elimination of obesity health problems .  (See our How
to Calculate BMI page for more about body mass index.) However, its higher rate of serious complications and the
amount of
malabsorption that it causes command careful consideration by the
patient and surgeon before moving forward. Vertical Banded Gastroplasty ("Stomach Stapling") Vertical
Banded Gastroplasty (stomach stapling) has been around the
longest, so
there may be more surgeons out
there with experience performing it. While initial weight loss and
improvement in co-morbidities is good, the longer hospital stays,
higher complication rates and required diet following surgery make
other procedures more viable for most patients. Keep in mind that it could still be right for some patients,
especially
when medical conditions make other procedures unsafe. Gastric Sleeve (Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy) We are extremely excited by the data presented so far for gastric
sleeve surgery , but more long-term research is needed to
verify the short-term
results. The gastric sleeve appears to carry the low risks of
gastric banding with
the higher weight loss associated with gastric bypass. The main fear is
that the pouch could stretch over time, and the long staple line could
cause problems. Summary Your individual situation will determine which surgery is
right for
you, but following is a general summary… Roux-en-Y Gastric bypass is a “best of all worlds” procedure. It has a relatively low
complication rate compared with its high levels of excess weight
lost and significant improvement in co-morbidities. Its popularity also
means that there are more surgeons out there with enough procedures
under their belt to improve your chances for a good outcome. However, lap
band surgery is a better option for some
mentalities. It
has a lower risk of serious complications, and for those who are not
100% sure that they’re ready to permanently change their body, it is
completely reversible and can be easily converted into a more extreme
procedure down the road. Unfortunately, it has a very high variability
in weight loss from patient to patient, and is associated with more
minor and annoying complications. The duodenal
switch is probably the most effective procedure
for the
super-obese. It has been proven to be successful (result in at least
50% of excess weight loss) for about 85% of patients after 3 years. 2 It may also be the  most effective procedure for treating obesity-related health problems. For example, in one study duodenal switch surgery cured 100% of diabetic patients (Alverdy and Prachand, University of Chicago). The amount of
  weight loss long-term also appears to be better than any other
  procedure, but it has the highest rate of serious complications and the
  most intensive bariatric
    vitamin adherence requirements due to the level of
  malabsorption. Vertical
banded gastroplasty has some positives,
especially for
patients with certain health problems. But in general, its risks may
be too high to justify the rewards. While gastric
sleeve surgery needs a bit more long-term research, its track record as
a first-step
procedure and its stand-alone short-term results led us to elevate its
Research Ranking to 'B'. Mini
  gastric bypass surgery and Transoral Gastric Volume Reduction
  both
  look
  like promising types of bariatric surgery, but neither has enough
  long-term research available. (Sign up for our Bariatric Surgery Blog if you want
  to stay up to date on new
  research as it becomes available). From a payment perspective ,  insurance will typically only cover gastric bypass,
lap band, duodenal switch and/or gastric sleeve surgery. See our Weight Loss Surgery Insurance page to learn how to determine which procedures your insurance will cover. Weight
  loss surgery financing programs are also available for most
  bariatric procedures. Hear It Straight from the Source... For Free Most surgeons offer free seminars that  teach you about your options and their office's specific results. The seminars also allow you to get to know the surgeon prior to a one-on-one consultation (usually free as well). Click here to find and schedule a free in-person seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area . Back
  to top of Types of Bariatric Surgery Which bariatric surgery procedures fit you best and why? Deciding between bariatric surgery procedures can be difficult, and many other visitors to this site are still struggling with their decision. Please share how you were able to decide by including any or all aspects of your decision, such as... 1. The top 2 procedures you were deciding between and what led you to choose your procedure. 2. What factors ruled out certain procedures? (i.e. health/diet/nutrition issues, potential complications, etc.) 3. How much weight do you expect to lose? 4. What health problems do you expect to improve? 5. Was cost and/or insurance coverage a factor? Enter the name of the surgery you chose Tell us what led to your decision [ ? ] Close Help Entering your story is easy to do. Just type!... Your story will appear on a Web page exactly the way you enter it here. You can wrap a word in square brackets to make it appear bold. For example [my story] would show as my story on the Web page containing your story. TIP: Since most people scan Web pages, include your best thoughts in your first paragraph. Upload a picture (optional) [ ? ] Close Help Do you have a picture to add? It can be anything relating to your story, such as a before or after photo or something that helped you with your decision like your surgeon, a chart/picture/diagram relating to your chosen procedure, friends and family, etc. Click the "Browse" button and find it on your computer. Then select it. Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Click here to upload more images (optional) Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Add a Picture/Graphic Caption (optional) Author Information (optional) To receive credit as the author, enter your information below. Your Name (first or full name) Your Location (ex. City, State, Country) Submit Your Contribution Check box to agree to these submission guidelines . (You can preview and edit on the next page) Click here to see the rest of the form and complete your submission. How Other Visitors Chose Their Bariatric Surgery Procedures Click below to see contributions from other visitors to this page... Why I Chose Lap Band Over Gastric Bypass Originally, I had chosen the gastric bypass surgery.  It seemed like the best option for me as I had over 100 lbs to lose. However, after meeting ... Why I Chose the Lap-Band as My Weight Loss Surgery I'd like to tell you why I chose the Lap Band as the right weight loss surgery for me.  First, I am not 'anti' any particular Weight Loss Surgery (WLS)... Back
to top of Types of Bariatric Surgery New! Comments Have your say about what you just read! Leave a comment in the box below. For additional research, search for your topic... Also see... Schedule a free  seminar or one-on-one consultation with a qualified weight loss surgeon in your area Financing
       Bariatric Surgery Back
to Bariatric Treatment Overview Back
to Bariatric Surgery Source Home Page from Types of Bariatric Surgery References Brigham and Women's Hospital. Promising Results Reported
      from First Completed Transoral Gastric Volume Reduction Trial. October
      2008. Available at:
      http://www.brighamandwomens.org/medical/ppd/2008/TGVR_trial.aspx.
      Accessed: October 4, 2009. Prachand VN, et al. Duodenal Switch Provides Superior
      Weight Loss in the Super-Obese (BMI ≥50kg/m2) Compared With Gastric
      Bypass. Ann Surg. 2006 October; 244(4): 611–619. Fobi Mal, Lee H, Felahy B, et al. Choosing an operation for weight control and the transected banded gastric bypass. Obes Surg. 2005;15:114–121. [Last editorial review/modification of this page: 11/8/2011] Disclaimer: The information contained in this web site is provided for general informational purposes only. It is not intended as nor should be relied upon as medical advice.  Rather, it is designed to support, not replace, the relationship that exists between a patient/site visitor and his/her existing physician(s). Before you use any of the information provided in the site, you should seek the advice of a qualified medical, dietary, fitness or other appropriate professional. In the spirit of full
disclosure: We proudly support this
website through advertising and affiliate ("aff") marketing. In other words,
when you click on a link that takes you outside of this website, we
sometimes earn a small commission. These small commissions allow us to keep
the site up and running and to continue offering it completely free of
charge to you. Rest assured that all content, recommendations and
advice are created before, and are independent of, any sponsorship or
affiliate relationship. Click
here for more info. Use right scroll bar to view entire site map Ask a Weight Loss Surgery Question Surgery Q & A Click Here Our community gives and receives real-life, honest and constructive feedback and advice. Sponsored Section The Bariatric Examiner: Your FREE Quarterly Newsletter Sign up now to receive important bariatric surgery news and research updates... Email Name Then We promise to keep your information private . The Bariatric Surgery Blog: FREE real-time updates Chose your favorite RSS reader below to stay up-to-date on important new content... Subscribe To The Bariatric Surgery Blog Get the BMI Calculator widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox ! Not seeing a widget? ( More info ) WLS Blogs We Like Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Girl Gastric bypass blog posts by Bariatric Life Coach Lap band blog posts by the Bandit Lap band surgery blog posts by Lap Band Groupie Bariatric Girl Bari Bits Lap Band Groupie at The Sweet Spot Lonicera's LapBand & Other Stories Waning Woman Who Hid the Donuts? Have a WLS blog? Contact us! Research on Obesity Obesity United States Statistics - Adults Child Obesity Statistics & Teenage Obesity Statistics How to Calculate BMI (body mass index) Free BMI Calculator (right margin of page) BMI Calculator Chart How to Calculate Body Fat Percentage Causes of Obesity (page focuses on causes) Cause and Effect of Obesity (page focuses on effect) Teen Obesity Effects Obesity and Genetics Set Point Theory Does Fast Food Cause Obesity? Obesity Virus Treatments for Obesity Obesity Discrimination Obesity Health Problems Obese and Pregnant Bariatric Treatment Is Bariatric Surgery Right for You? Choosing
 the Right Bariatric Doctors & Bariatric Weight Loss Center Find a Bariatric Surgeon in My Area (city/state/ country search) Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Bariatric Surgery Canada Weight Loss Surgery Risks & Complications Bariatric Surgery Risks (mortality) Bariatric Surgery Complications (incl. risks, complications & side effects) Dumping Syndrome Blood Clot Symptoms, Prevention and Treatment Gastric Bypass Side Effects Gastric Bypass Surgery Deaths & Risks of Gastric Bypass Complications of Gastric Bypass Gastric Bypass Revision Surgery Lap Band Problems & Lap Band Complications Lap Band Erosion Lap Band Surgery Failure Types of Weight Loss Surgery Types of Bariatric Surgery - Overview & Comparison Bariatric Surgery Video Laparoscopic Gastric Bypass Surgery - Analysis & Cost Gastric Lap Band Procedure Analysis & Cost of Lap Band Surgery Lap Band Surgery Results Lap Band vs Gastric Bypass Gastric Sleeve Surgery (Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy) Duodenal Switch (Bileopancreatic Diversion with Duodenal Switch - BPD/DS) Vertical Banded Gastroplasty Mini Gastric Bypass Surgery Experimental Weight Loss Surgery EndoBarrier Gastrointestinal Liner Implantable Maestro System TOGA bariatric surgery system Transoral Gastric Volume Reduction (TGVR) Gastric Bypass Revision ROSE procedure StomaphyX Procedure Conversion to lap band surgery Lengthen the Roux limb Conversion to duodenal switch Bariatric Diet Bariatric Diet Guidelines Before & After Surgery Bariatric Eating - What vs How to Eat Free Online Diet Journal Reviews Bariatric Vitamins Bariatric Recipes Alcohol After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Life After Weight Loss Surgery Bariatric Surgery Recovery Weight & Health After Obesity Surgery Exercise for Bariatric Surgery Patients Relationships After Bariatric Surgery Diet After Bariatric Surgery Pregnancy After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Bariatric Surgery Weight Gain After Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Support In-person Bariatric Surgery Support Online Weight Loss Support Free Diet Journal Reviews Top Bariatric Surgery Forum Options:
Gastric Bypass Forum, Lap Band Forums & Forums for Other Procedures Support from Family & Friends After Weight Loss Surgery Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Bariatric Plastic Surgery After Weight Loss Affordable Tummy Tuck Thigh Lift Plastic Surgery Financing Weight Loss Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Loan & Plastic Surgery Loans (Unsecured Medical Loans) Secured Medical Loans Cost of Bariatric Surgery Financing Bariatric Surgery & Getting the Costs Down Weight Loss Surgery Tax Considerations Bariatric Surgery Insurance (incl. DS, VBG, gastric bypass & lap band insurance) Health Insurance Appeal Letter & the Appeals Process Medicare Bariatric Surgery Coverage Weight Loss Surgery Mexico & Abroad (medical travel / medical tourism) Free weight loss surgery (charity care & government assistance) Cost of Gastric Bypass Surgery BSS Community YOUR Obesity & Weight Loss Surgery Experiences Ask & answer questions about obesity and bariatric surgery How to Get the Most Out of Bariatric Surgery Source What's New? About Us Contact Us Bariatric Surgery Directory of External Resources Weight Loss Surgeon Directory Pages United States Weight Loss Surgeons Canada (Bariatric Surgery Canada) Alabama (Alabama Weight Loss Surgery) Alaska (Alaska Weight Loss Surgeon) Arizona (Bariatric
      Surgery Arizona) Arkansas (Weight Loss
      Surgery in Arkansas) California
      - Northern (Northern
        California Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Bay Area - Alta Bates California
      - Southern (Bariatric
        Surgery Southern California) Bariatric Surgery Los Angeles - Dr. Korman Weight Loss Surgery Los Angeles - CBGSA Colorado (Colorado
      Weight Loss Surgery) Connecticut (Weight Loss
      Surgery Connecticut) Delaware (Weight Loss Surgery in Delaware) District of Columbia (Washington D.C Weight Loss Surgery) Florida (Bariatric Surgeons Florida) Georgia (Bariatric Surgery in Georgia) Hawaii (Hawaii Weight Loss Surgeon) Idaho (Idaho Weight Loss Surgery) Illinois (Illinois Bariatric Surgery) Indiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Indiana) Iowa (Iowa Bariatric Surgery Clinics) Kansas (Weight Loss Surgery in Kansas) Kentucky (Weight Loss Surgery in Kentucky) Louisiana (Weight Loss Surgery in Louisiana) Maine (Weight Loss Surgery in Maine) Maryland (Bariatric Surgery Maryland) Massachusetts (Bariatric Surgery in Massachusetts) Michigan (Bariatric Surgery Michigan) Minnesota (Bariatric Surgery Minnesota) Mississippi (Weight Loss Surgery in Mississippi) Missouri (Weight Loss Surgery Missouri) Montana (Weight Loss Surgery in Montana) Nebraska (Weight Loss Surgery in Nebraska) Nevada (Weight Loss Surgery in Nevada) Gastric Bypass Surgery Las Vegas & Lap Band Surgery Las Vegas - Dr. Teng New Hampshire (Bariatric Surgery in New Hampshire) New Jersey (Bariatric Surgery New Jersey) Weight Loss Surgery New Jersey - Dr. Feteiha New Mexico (New Mexico Weight Loss Surgery) New York (New York Weight Loss Surgery) New York Bariatric Surgery - The Center for Metabolic & Weight Loss Surgery North Carolina (North Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) North Dakota (North Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Ohio (Bariatric Surgery Ohio) Oklahoma (Bariatric Surgery in Oklahoma) Weight Loss Surgery in Oklahoma - Dr. Gornichec Oregon (Oregon Weight Loss Surgery) Bariatric Surgery Oregon - Dr. Patterson Pennsylvania (Pennsylvania Weight Loss Surgery) Rhode Island (Rhode Island Weight Loss Surgery) South Carolina (South Carolina Weight Loss Surgery) South Dakota (South Dakota Weight Loss Surgery) Tennessee (Bariatric Surgery Tennessee) Tennessee Gastric Bypass Surgeons - Dr. Boyce Texas (Weight Loss Surgery in Texas) Weight Loss Surgery Houston Lap Band Surgery Dallas TX - Dr. Kim Bariatric Surgeons Dallas - Dr. Kuhn Houston Bariatric Surgery - Dr. St. Laurent Utah (Utah Weight Loss Surgery) Vermont (Weight Loss Surgery in Vermont) Virginia (Weight Loss Surgeon in Virginia) Washington (Bariatric Surgery Washington) Washington, DC (Washington D.C Bariatric Surgery) West Virginia (West Virginia Weight Loss Surgery) Wisconsin (Bariatric Surgery Wisconsin) Wyoming (Wyoming Weight Loss Surgery) Home | Types of Bariatric Surgery | Qualification for Bariatric Treatment | Financing Bariatric Surgery & Insurance Life After Weight Loss Surgery | Find a Bariatric Surgeon Copyright © 2008-2012  Bariatric Surgery Source | Privacy Policy | Forum Policy | Advertising  Policy | Disclaimer | Advertise Resources | About Us | Advisory Council | Contact Us | RSS This site complies with the HONcod