
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 20:56:59 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 09:46:52 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Cinnamon and Cholesterol eMedTV Sitemap Cholesterol Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Cholesterol Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Cholesterol Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Cholesterol Articles Video eMedTV Video Cholesterol Video Cholesterol Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Cholesterol Triglycerides High Cholesterol Zocor Cholesterol Levels Low Cholesterol Diet Lowering Cholesterol Low Cholesterol Food Lipitor Crestor Vytorin Zetia Lipitor Side Effects Niacin Red Yeast Rice Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Cinnamon and Cholesterol There have been only a couple of studies in the last 15 years that looked at cinnamon and cholesterol, and they involved specific types of people. While a study published in 2003 showed that cinnamon lowered cholesterol in people with type 2 diabetes, a more recent study showed no effect for postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes. Cholesterol Diet Cinnamon and Cholesterol: An Introduction Too much cholesterol in the blood, or high cholesterol , can be serious, increasing a person's chances for developing heart disease . Because this risk is well known and so many people have high cholesterol, people are always looking for ways to lower it. One of the latest possibilities to surface is using cinnamon to lower cholesterol . Research Studies on Cholesterol and Cinnamon In 2003, a study published in Diabetes Care conducted by researchers in Pakistan showed that for people with type 2 diabetes , large amounts (up to 6 grams/day) of cinnamon decreased LDL cholesterol ("bad" cholesterol) and total cholesterol. HDL ("good" cholesterol) was not affected. In this study, LDL was decreased by 7 percent to 27 percent and total cholesterol by 12 percent to 26 percent. On the other hand, a study conducted by Dutch researchers and published in the April 2006 Journal of Nutrition showed no effect of cinnamon on cholesterol for postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes. Recommendations Before you run out and buy large quantities of cinnamon, there are a couple of things to consider. Cinnamon and its effects have not been widely studied. In fact, there have been only a couple of studies in the last 15 years that have looked at cholesterol and cinnamon. These studies involved very specific types of people. Until larger scientific studies are done, it is not recommended that people rely on this as a treatment for cholesterol. Also, there are already a number of lifestyle changes that allow people to lower their cholesterol naturally. And if these lifestyle changes are not effective, medications are quite effective in decreasing cholesterol. Both lifestyle changes and cholesterol-lowering drugs have been studied extensively, and their effects and side effects are well known. Because the verdict on cinnamon and cholesterol is still out, stick with lifestyle changes and (if necessary) medications that have been shown to reduce cholesterol and its effects. Advertisement Written by/reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Advertisement Other Articles in This eMedTV Presentation Low Cholesterol Diet High Cholesterol Foods Low Cholesterol Food Cholesterol Free Foods Foods That Raise HDL Alcohol and High Cholesterol Fish Oil to Increase HDL Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t