
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 25 Mar 2012 01:48:27 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

gastroenteritis -  DOObiz DOO.biz Lekomat Marketplace - gastroenteritis Main gastroenteritis Most popular: gastroenteritis Most linked: gastroenteritis Most respected: gastroenteritis Acupuncture Schools - Healing Gout Diet Treatment and Medicomat Acupuncture Schools - An Alternative to Drugs. Auricular acupuncture, or ear acupuncture as it is more commonly known, is similar to body acupuncture but with ear acupuncture stimulation is only to the external ear. It is a method of treating a variety of physiological and psychological health problems by the stimulation of certain acupuncture points on the external ear. 

The overall positive effects of acupuncture: a significant increase vitality and energy levels, skin, hair and nails look healthier and shinier; improves and stimulates general and local circulation in the body and organs, improves the quality and length of sleep, the immune system is stronger, so the less common occurrence of infection and control of autoimmune and allergic diseases better - patients rarely have a need for increasing doses of drugs or the introduction of more serious drugs (eg corticosteroids) to control the disease, rarely need to visit their doctors because of urgent deterioration, etc., mood and emotions become more balanced ; processes of thought and concentration are better; fertility improves as the reproductive organs better nourish, strengthen and increase the libido (sexual desire) and potency, allows the skin to the face and neck remain in or return to their youthful appearance and glow. Glossopharyngeal Neuralgia Treatment and Acupuncture Schools - Medicobot Information. Acupuncture (Lekomat) successfully treat sinusitis. Sinusitis is a serious illness. Boring, because it does not go away easily. Curable if it becomes a chronic and become a curse for a lifetime. However, not all that bad. Acupuncture is effective in LekomatU, treating chronic sinusitis, but requires prolonged and persistent treatment, as well as the patience of the patient. 

Implementation of home appliance Lekomat is simple, safe and painless. With the probe placed over the ear-shells performed acupuncture therapy. When upotrene apparatus tingling sensation is felt and heard a quiet pleasant music. The device runs on two batteries of 1.5V and can use more than one person, that the whole family. Chinese Medicine Gastritis and Acupuncture Schools - Medicomat For All. Diseases for which acupuncture is effective, but further proof is needed to include it into mainstream healthcare - Diseases, symptoms or conditions for which the therapeutic effect of acupuncture has been shown but for which further proof is needed: Abdominal Pain (in acute gastroenteritis or due to gastrointestinal spasm), Acne vulgaris, Alcohol dependence and detoxification, Bell's palsy, Bronchial asthma (View detailed Acupuncture FAQ information) (most effective in children and in patients without complicating diseases), Cancer Pain, Cardiac neurosis, Cholecystitis, chronic, with acute exacerbation, Cholelithiasis, Competition stress syndrome, Craniocerebral injury, closed, Diabetes mellitus, non-insulin-dependent (View detailed Acupuncture FAQ information), Earache, Epidemic haemorrhagic fever, Epistaxis, simple (without generalized or local disease), Eye Pain due to subconjunctival injection, Female infertility (View detailed Acupuncture FAQ information), Facial spasm, Female urethral syndrome, Fibromyalgia and fasciitis, Gastrokinetic disturbance, Gouty arthritis, Hepatitis B virus carrier status, Herpes zoster (human (alpha) herpesvirus 3), Hyperlipaemia, Hypo-ovarianism, Insomnia, Labour Pain, Lactation, deficiency, Male sexual dysfunction, non-organic, Ménière disease, Neuralgia, post-herpetic, Neurodermatitis, Obesity, Opium, cocaine and heroin dependence, Osteoarthritis (View detailed Acupuncture FAQ information), Pain due to endoscopic examination, Pain in thromboangiitis obliterans, Polycystic ovary syndrome (Stein-Leventhal syndrome), Postextubation in children, Postoperative convalescence, Premenstrual syndrome (View detailed Acupuncture FAQ information), Prostatitis, chronic, Pruritus, Radicular and pseudoradicular Pain syndrome, Raynaud syndrome, primary, Recurrent lower urinary-tract infection, Reflex sympathetic dystrophy, Retention of urine, traumatic, Schizophrenia, Sialism, drug-induced, Sjögren syndrome, Sore throat (including tonsillitis), Spine Pain, acute, Stiff neck (View detailed Acupuncture FAQ information), Temporomandibular joint dysfunction, Tietze syndrome, Tobacco dependence, Tourette syndrome, Ulcerative colitis, chronic, Urolithiasis, Vascular dementia, Whooping cough (pertussis). 

In 1989 the World Health Organization of the United Nations declared that auriculotherapy is a viable medical therapy. Recent studies and clinical trials have also verified the benefits of ear acupuncture to treat a wide variety of illness and disorders. 

By using the monitor for home treatment LEKOMAT improvements are felt after only a day or two. In a few minutes automatically reduces pain in the stomach, back, neck and legs. The device runs on two 1.5V batteries, and can be used by multiple people. 

Visit the site http://lekomat.org , it lets you expirience pain and disease relief in the comfort of your own home. Medicomat a fully automatic apparatus for home cure, alternative therapy, pain treatment and healthcare at home . T a g s