
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 04 Mar 2012 18:03:10 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Medical Acupuncture: Does it Work or Not? The Fact Helpful Information Portal Navigation Home page Submit an article Disclaimer Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Medical Acupuncture: Does it Work or Not? The Fact Michael Biehn Today, people are quite concentrated on their health. Therefore, they try all kinds of activities of staying fit and getting rid of disorders. One of such activities is that use of acupuncture. It involves inserting needles inside the body. The body gets rid of the ailment when heat stimulation is, provided along with insertion of needles. Acupuncture is kind of a natural healing method and it can enhance the functioning of the body. Therefore, acupuncture is one of the most effective techniques in the world. Today, acupuncture, is used, to relieve pain. It can ensure that the needling involved in this process activates the nervous system so that chemicals are, released adequately inside the muscles and brain. Acupuncture is widely used as an imbalance restoration technique. It can make sure that you do not suffer from any problems in digestion and production of energy. It can ensure that the body is able to carry out all the activities normally. The technique of acupuncture functions on the energy channels known as meridians, which are rivers that move through the body. Any hindrance in the flow of these rivers causes problems with other meridians. Since acupuncture improves the biochemical balance inside the body, the healing powers of the body are, raised. This makes sure that a person is both physically and emotionally well. The internal regulating system of the body improves tremendously through generation of proper hormones and chemicals inside the body, which happens through acupuncture. Today, so many people have started trusting this system as a way to remove ailments like pain in the joints. Acupuncture is not only, related with pain control, it can have serious implications once a trained practitioner does it. In many surgical disorders, this treatment method can provide the required support. It can be, used to rectify digestive disorders like spastic colon, gastritis constipation, and hyperacidity. Even respiratory disorders can, be cured like bronchitis, sinusitis, asthma and sore throat. Even females can use this technique to cure any kind of menstrual, urinary and reproductive disorders. Therefore, acupuncture can make sure that you get your periods on time and do not suffer from any unnecessary pain in the periods. It’s also the right kind of treatment method for problems like tennis elbow, low back pain and frozen shoulder. If the victim of these disorders is, given medications, then they do not work that effectively on reducing the pain.  World health organization has identified the use of acupuncture as an effective treatment method for various illnesses. Most of the people also fear the use of needles in this technique. No pain is, caused once these needles are, inserted inside the body. When insertion is happening, some pain might, be felt. However, still the pain caused is not as much when a person is, injected. In injections, a hollow needle is used but in acupuncture, the tip of the needle is soft, due to which no chances of irritation on skin and bruising exist. Therefore, use acupuncture and all your troubles will be over. Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16