
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 04:18:38 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.com.au - Education - Acupuncture Points - HT5 (Heart 5) The Basics Q & A Library Find a Practitioner Professional Resources Professional Community About Acupuncture What can Acupuncture do for me? How does Acupuncture work? What conditions can be treated? What is involved in a treatment? What is the cost? Library Home Asthma Diabetes Fertility Fibromyalgia Low Back Pain Menstrual Pain Migraine Muscle Strain Neck Pain Osteoarthritis The history and theory of Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine Acupuncture Meridian Pathways Acupuncture Points Directory Acupuncture Indications Search The Zang Fu Organs and Syndromes Chinese Herbal Therapy Ear Acupuncture and Auriculotherapy Reference Books ACNM Nanning Internship Members Area Practitioner Discussion Forum Media Gallery Monthly Newsletter News, Research and Articles Events Calendar Acupuncture Courses Live RSS Newsfeeds Free 250mb Email Make a contribution HT5 (Heart 5) - Acupuncture Point Information Chinese Name : Tongli English Name : Communication with the Inside Location : On the radial side of the tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris, 1.0 cun above the transverse crease on the palmar aspect of the wrist. Nature: Luo-Connecting point of the Heart channel. Functions: Calms the Shen, regulates the Heart Qi, the point of choice for aphasia, special point for palpitations, effective for disturbances of cardiac rate and rhythm (research) Primary Indications: Palpitations, pain in wrist & arm. Secondary Indications: Aphasia (with tongue stiffness/hysterical aphasia), sudden loss of voice. Tertiary Indications: Dizziness, sore throat, headache, psychosis (Diankuang), neuraesthenia, uterine haemorrhage, urinary incontinence. Other Indications: Cardiac arrhythmia, bradycardia, chest pain, cough, asthma, hysteria, fever with malaise in the chest, hot face without sweating, groaning, pain & blood congestion in eyes, frequent yawning, vomiting, sensation of chills in the heart, heart feels as if lifted upwards. References: This information is from the book Acupuncture Point Dynamics and has been used with permission from the author John McDonald. View other points on the Heart channel: ( HT1 , HT2 , HT3 , HT4 , HT5, HT6 , HT7 , HT8 , HT9 ) [Click here to return to the complete Acupuncture Points Listing] [Click here to return to the Heart Meridian chart] Acupuncture.com.au | About | Community | Copyright | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | We support The Coomera Busines