
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 08:16:24 GMT
Server: Apache
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Drug Rehab And Detox Side Effects And Prescription Medication Dictionary Aleve Side Effects | Tamiflu Medication | Lipitor Side Effects | Medication Dictionary | Drug Rehab And Detox What to expect from your drug detox! Drug detox is a step that needs to be taken for some people, 
    but its a scary step when you dont know what to expect. Dont think for a minute though that you are not in good company. There are 
    legions of people in the world facing the same problems you are with drugs. Each year in the United States, approximately 8.2 million persons are dependent 
    on alcohol and 3.5 million are dependent on illicit drugs, including stimulants 
    (1 million) and heroin (750,000). Lets check out what you'll have to go through 
    if you finally want to detox and fix up your life. The goal of drug detox is to rid the body of toxins accumulated by 
    drug use. The first step to expect during drug detox is drug withdrawal. The 
    definition of withdrawal is "Discontinuation of the use of an addictive substance, 
    and the physiological and mental readjustment that accompanies such discontinuation." 
    Once you have discontinued using drugs, physical and behavioral withdrawal 
    symptoms may follow. But the detox people know this and have come up with some ways to make your 
    drug detox go smoother so the withrawal doesnt suck so much. the pharmacologic treatment of drug withdrawal often involves substituting 
    a long-acting agent for the abused drug and then gradually tapering its dosage. The nature and severity of the withdrawal symptoms during drug detox vary 
    greatly depending on the particular drug or drugs that were being used as 
    well as the frequency of use. These days there are few people who use one 
    drug exclusively so it is very common to see individuals in drug detox that 
    use alcohol and cocaine, or alcohol and prescription medications (dont worry, 
    every one can be helped). Alcohol Detox If alcohol is your demon, alcohol-withdrawal symptoms might be expected to 
    peak about 72 hours after the last use of alcohol, but medications can reduce 
    symptoms within hours. In patients with delirium tremens, management with 
    medication requires high doses of benzodiazepines (e.g., 5 to 10 mg of diazepam 
    by intravenous injection, repeated in two to four hours if seizures occur). 
    Unless delirium is present, medication is typically needed for no more than 
    seven days after the last use of alcohol, although some patients will report 
    withdrawal symptoms, including sleep problems, for several more weeks. Protracted 
    symptoms may precipitate relapse. Heroin Detox As for heroin, symptoms peak within 36 to 72 hours and last for 7 to 10 days, 
    whereas for methadone, symptoms peak at 72 to 96 hours but last for 14 days 
    or more, and for buprenorphine, symptoms are less severe and of shorter duration. Cocaine and Amphetamine Detox Severe depressive symptoms may last only 8 to 48 hours, but milder ones typically 
    persist for approximately two weeks. Although no medications have shown efficacy 
    in reducing the severity of drug withdrawal symptoms, acute stimulant toxicity 
    characterized by delusions, paranoid thinking, and stereotyped compulsive 
    behavior may require neuroleptic agents or benzodiazepines such as chlordiazepoxide 
    in the first 48 hours after abrupt discontinuation of the drug. Because those 
    who are dependent on stimulants are often also dependent on alcohol or heroin, 
    withdrawal symptoms due to the discontinuation of these drugs and other substances 
    may require concomitant treatment. Drug Detox- The Process Drug detox is performed in many different ways depending on where you decide 
    to receive treatment. Most drug detox centers simply provide treatment to 
    avoid physical withdrawal to alcohol and other drugs. Ideally, a trained detox 
    facility will incorporate counseling and therapy during detox to help with 
    the psychological distress that the individual may experience as well. I think this is great because most drug addictions are caused by an underlying 
    emotional strain that caused the addiction in the first place. So its fine 
    to get the person into detox and get them off the drugs, but if you dont fix 
    what caused the problem in the first place then its very easy to get back 
    into your chosen addiction again as soon as the emotional pain resurfaces. Detoxification should cover all aspects of the individual's withdrawal and 
    purification from drugs. The removal of drug residuals is a key goal in drug 
    detox. Without this process, drug residues can remain in ones body and cause 
    cravings for years after drug use has ceased. A vital step in a successful 
    drug detox as well as drug rehabilitation is flushing out these accumulated 
    toxic residues so that the individual no longer experiences unwanted adverse 
    effects from the drugs they have taken. So there you have the first steps of drug detox, they take you in and get 
    rid of the physical addiction to the drug, clean out the by products of your 
    chosen drug or drugs and set you up with some counselling to make sure that 
    all your emotional scars are clean to heal. Just remember that recovery doesnt end with the detox and is an ongoing process 
    and each aspect of life that is affected by alcohol and drug use must be addressed. I'm truly proud of you for making it this far. Drug abuse is a huge weight 
    on your shoulders and I would love for you to shake the monkey and see what 
    the world is like on the other side. If you need an ear or just a pat on the back, I can be reached at Ray@buildingbodies.ca Best of luck...go make it happen. Prescribed Drugs And Prescription Medication Information Drug Article Site Map Arthritis Medications Pain Medication Antianxiety medications Antidepressant Medications Side Effects List Pet Medicatio