Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Natural Remedies for Yeast Infections - Revealed by Pharmacists Latest Updates Common Questions Herbs A - Z Common Herbs Health Conditions A-Z Common Conditions References [ ? ] Subscribe To This Site Natural
Remedies for Yeast Infections The table below contains detailed list of natural remedies for yeast
infections. Yeast infection is caused by the overgrowth of the fungus candida
albicans. Using
natural remedies to cure yeast infections is the best way to resolve
this condition. Often several steps may be required to treat the
candida overgrowth. For
example, you may need to do the following together. First, cut back on
simple sugar and alcohol which feed yeast. Second, take garlic and oregano oil to kill off the yeast.
Third, take acidophilus capsules to restore the balance of good
bacteria in the gut. And fourth, boost the immune system by using the
herb echinacea . Many of the
natural cures are very effective in helping you get rid of the yeast
overgrowth. The book Yeast Infection No
More written by Linda Allen is an excellent guide to help you cure yeast infections permanently,
safely and quickly. She offers 100% no questions asked money back
guarantee so there's no risk to you. Natural Remedies for Yeast Infections and
Overgrowth Natural
Remedy What
experts say about the natural remedies for yeast infections Lactobacillus acidophilus (What's this?) Also
called probiotics, lactobacillus is essential bacteria that help
protect against yeast overgrowth in the body. Antibiotic use kills off
these bacteria and may cause a person to suffer from yeast infection. Experts suggest using a course of lactobacillus therapy after taking
antibiotics. Yogurt is a rich source of lactobacillus and some brands
are even marketed as a high-potency probiotic blend. Vaginal suppositories are shown to be effective in curing vaginal
candidiasis and bacterial
vaginosis . Dose: Take 1 to 10 billion live lactobacillus bacteria daily (divided into
two to four doses) for 5 to 14 days. For bacterial
vaginosis - Use 1 or 2 vaginal
tablets once or
twice daily for 6 days. Each tablet may contain 10 million to 1 billion
live lactobacillus bacteria. Of all the natural remedies for yeast infections, this is one of the more effective one to use. Garlic Garlic has potent antibacterial and antifungal properties that can be
very useful in killing off yeast infections. Dose :
Take 200 to 400 mg three times daily. Anecdotal
reports suggest that a peeled whole clove of garlic can be wrapped in a
gauze and inserted in the vagina to treat this condition. Make sure you do patch
test first to see if you develop an allergic reaction as it
is a common side effect. Tea
Tree Oil When applied to the skin, tea tree oil is able to kill off bacterial
and fungal infections. A mouthwash formulation was shown to kill off
Candida albicans in the mouth in individuals suffering from AIDS. Dose :
Apply the oil on the skin. Make sure you do patch test first to see you you develop an allergic reaction as it is a common
side effect. A mouthwash of 5% strength (5 mL of tea tree oil in 100 mL of
lukewarm water) was used four times daily for thrush. Be careful not to
swallow this mixture. See our report on tea tree oil dosage and dilution ratios for complete directions and details . Tea tree oil is a commonly used natural remedies for yeast infections on the skin and nails. Oregano Oregano
shows potent activity against parasites and fungus. Studies show that
oregano call kill off parasites in the intestine when taken for 6 weeks. Dose :
Take 200 to 400 mg enteric-coated capsules two or three times daily. Also, a tea can be made by steeping 1 heaping teaspoon of leaf in a 250
mL of water, boil for 10 minutes, strain and drink. The tea can also be
used as a mouthwash or applied to the skin. Lemon Juice and Lemon Grass In one small well-designed study involving 90 patients with HIV/AIDS suffering from oral thrush,
lemon juice and lemon grass shown to be as effective as gentian violet
solution (standard treatment for oral thrush) after 11 days of
treatment. Dose :
Use lemon juice directly into the mouth or use a lemon grass extract . Use
several times daily. Echinacea Echinacea stimulates and boost the immune system. It is shown
to help fight off viral infection (as in the common
cold and the flu ). This herb may
allow your body to fight off the fungus infection better. One study showed that combining echinacea with standard anti-fungal
medications reduces the frequency of the infection. Dose :
Take 500 to 1,000 mg three times daily. Propolis Propolis
has antifungal activities. It has been used on the skin to treat
wounds & herpes. As a mouth rinse, it is used to help with
healing and treating
pain and inflammation. Dose :
A 3% ointment formula has been used to treat skin viral infections
such as herpes. Thyme Thyme
and thyme oil have been historically used for its disinfectant and
antifungal properties. Today, thyme oil can be found mouthwash and
natural toothpaste products. Thyme oil is also found in some natural product drops used
to treat
fungal and bacterial infections in the ear. Dose :
There is limited information on the dose to use. We suggest using 3 to
5 drops in 30 mL of mineral oil to treat fungal ear infections. Higher concentration may be used but always do a patch test first to make
sure you don't suffer from excessive skin irritation. Caprylic acid Caprylic acid is a type of fatty acid that shows antibacterial and
antifungal activities. It is found in foods such as milk and is known
to help maintain the bacterial flora in the gut. Dose :
The effective dosage is unknown. Experts suggest taking 300 to 1,200 mg
daily about 30 minutes before meals. Cinnamon One
small study showed that taking this herb (as a candy or chewing gum)
helped to treat fungus infection in the mouth. Another study
also
showed that it helped oral fungus infections in patients with HIV/AIDS. Dose :
Use lozenges or gum containing cinnamon as often as needed for up to
one week. Apple
cider vinegar (ACV) One report suggested that using an apple cider vinegar bath mixture can
treat vaginal yeast infection. Procedure: Mix 2 cups of apple cider vinegar in a tub of warm water. Sit in this
solution for about half an hour. When done, dry the outside carefully.
Repeat this once daily or every other day. Cinnamon oil Cinnamon oil possesses antifungal
properties. It is historically used on the skin to treat thrush (yeast
infection in the mouth). Dose :
Mix 30 drops into a 100 mL of lukewarm water. Gargle and swallow (or
spit out) up to three times daily. Catnip Lab studies show that the essential oil of catnip was able to kill
yeast cells. Click here to get the full comprehensive review on catnip. Candidate Supports natural systemic balance       of Candida levels Maintains balanced pH levels in       the body Balances probiotic       flora in the digestive tract Maintains healthy digestion & efficient metabolism Helps control sugar cravings & vitality and energy Fast-acting formula in a       concentrated tincture Get More Info on Candidate Ads Vagi-Soothe Relieves symptoms of yeast infections Alleviates vaginal itching and burning Reduces discharge and odor Promotes soothed skin Maintains delicate vaginal tissues Get More Info on Vagi-Soothe Ads Vitamins &
              Minerals Natural Remedies For Yeast Infections Natural
Remedy What
experts say about the natural remedies for yeast infections Boric Acid (What's this?) A study showed that boric acid vaginal capsules were able to cure 85%
of recurring vaginal yeast infection. Dose :
Insert one 600 mg boric acid capsules vaginally twice daily for 2
weeks. This is one of the natural remedies for yeast infections that often are suggested by pharmacists. Zinc Helpful Since zinc is known to stimulate the immune system, it may provide some
relief from infections with Candida
albicans .
One small study showed that zinc was able to help fight off
 candida
even in people who had normal levels of zinc in their system. However,
another study could not verify this initial finding. Dose :
Take at least the RDA amount daily. Click
here to see the U.S. RDA amount to take for the different age
groups. Vitamin
C Helpful Vitamin C is helpful in supporting and enhancing the immune system. Dose :
Take 500 to 1,000 mg once to twice daily. Vitamin
A Vitamin
E Helpful Zinc
acts to boost the immune system by stimulating the thymus gland (which
has some control over the production of germ-fighting white blood
cells). It can be combined with vitamin A and vitamin
E to enhance the benefit in fighting off fungus infections. Dose :
Take 30 mg daily of zinc (which is twice the RDA amount of 15 mg daily). Recommended Guide Rating : The book Yeast Infection No More is a well-written and comprehensive guide that gives you everything you
need to cure yeast infections including a comprehensive list of natural remedies for yeast infections. The author Linda Allen also include five valuable bonuses with the
purchase of her book: A complete 265 page Handbook of Nature Cures Lessons from The Miracle Doctor How and When to be Your Own Doctor Healing Power of Water Free lifetime updates on the books The offer carries a 100% money back guarantee with no questions asked
              so there's no risk to you. Get it today and get rid of
              yeast infections permanently. Related Articles and Resources to Natural Remedies for
                Yeast Infections Information and Frequently Asked Questions
                About Yeast Infections Get More Info on Candidate for Candida and Yeast Infections Return to Health Conditions List References for Natural
              Remedies for Yeast Infections Revised: May 4, 2011 Use the search box below to
quickly find what you are looking for! Ho