
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 10 Mar 2012 16:51:44 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Does Hypnosis Work To Stop Smoking? Helpful Information Portal Navigation Home page Submit an article Disclaimer Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Does Hypnosis Work To Stop Smoking? Carl Davidson If you have tried to quit smoking and failed, it's not your fault.  Every method from cold turkey to the patch focus you mind on smoking and actually make you want to smoke more. They focus your head on your but and that can't be good. Now, you can get your life back, become a first class citizen again and never be looked down on again by simply finding out about hypnotherapy. I have used hypnosis for many changes in my life and I recommend it as a great way to quit smoking Unlike other quitting aids, hypnosis  gently programs your mind to stop wanting to smoke through easy and enjoyable relaxation and where the mind goes, the body willingly follows. You won't be fighting your body that craves a smoke, you will have diverted your mind and body for a guaranteed cure. You won't need patches, gum or drugs like Chantix. Once your mind decides you do not smoke and don't want to smoke, you will no longer be focused on cigarettes and smoking. You won't be focused on what you're missing, your mind will tell you that you just don't smoke any more. There are a few things to look for in a hypnotherapist for this important work. Be sure they offer a free analysis session. The goal of this meeting is for you to be sure you trust the therapist and want to work with him/her. Also, the therapist will determine if you are a good candidate for hypnosis and if so, what triggers your need to smoke. Some people smoke when they are lonely, some smoke when they drink coffee, some when they are on the phone, some when they are nervous. A good hypnotherapist will find out what your triggers are and work with your unconscious mind to eliminate the cravings. You will no longer automatically reach for a cigarette  with a desire to smoke. You won't be struggling to get through withdrawals; you just will not want to smoke. Hypnosis also prevents weight gain and using food consumption to repalce cigarettes. If you don't want to gain weight as you stop the smoking habit, hypnosis can help. Be sure too that the hypnotherapist has a guarantee. Many offer a "we won't quit until you do" guarantee that allows you to keep coming back as often as necessary for additional sessions at no additional charge for as long as it takes until you quit for good. That means you cannot fail with hypnosis unless you stop coming for sessions. It's a guaranteed solution that can not fail. Good hypnotherapists customize their therapy to the triggers that make you crave cigarettes.  The goals is to customize your sessions to eliminate cravings. They guarantee you will quit without withdrawal and they stay with you until you quit and get your life back. Some practitioners of hypnosis average a 95% success rate compared to 5% for cold turkey and 15% for the patch. You will be a non smoker the first day you visit and they will stick with you as long as necessary until you succeed. Get your life back. Be proud of yourself again. Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16