
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 11:52:50 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Wax Problems in Ears - Medical Advice Medical Advice Home | Submit | Search | RSS Welcome Guest Main Menu Home Login Register Submit Advice Guidelines Latest Advices Search Contact Us Medical Advice » General-health » Wax Problems in Ears Wax Problems in Ears By: Brian Harmon Total Views: 417, Word Count: 561, Ear wax is a sticky liquid concealed by Cerumen glands. Skin contains tiny glands whose purpose is to secrete a variety of substances. Cerumen glands are found in the skin of the ear canals. Earwax is a coating that forms inside the ear to protect objects from damaging the eardrum. Unfortunately, wax problem in ear is that it sometimes blocks the ear, creating pain in ear and hearing problems too. Wax Problems in Ears Ear wax causes hearing loss, pain, and cough. When wax completely blocks the ear canal, hearing loss occurs. It blocks sound waves to reach the ear drum. Even a less amount of wax, if stuck between the ear drum and the canal wall of ear, minimizes the ability of the ear drum to conduct sound. Few people create hard wax, which creates pain by putting pressure on sensitive ear canal walls. As ear canal shares some of the same nerves that give sensation to the throat, ear wax can create a tickling in the throat leading to cough. Excessive buildup of ear wax also can cause problems. Dizziness or nausea and vomiting Earache An object visible in the ear Bleeding from the ear Loss of hearing Swelling or redness Wax causes problems only when it builds up, that may be due to problems in the natural clearance of the wax. Symptoms of Wax Problems in Ear You will notice a build-up of wax by- · Increase difficulty in hearing · Hearing a noise in your ears · Awareness of something jamming your ears · Pain in your ears · Deafness for temporary period after swimming or having a bath Prevention of Wax Problems in Ear · Do not clean out your ears by using a cotton bud. This merely acts like a ram rod, which can damage the ear drum. · If you work in a dusty environment, wear ear plugs · Pour few drops of olive oil into each ear, twice a week. This can help you in preventing ears blocked with wax. Treatment for Wax Problems in Ear · If you have ear wax blocking your ears, then you can buy some wax softening drops or use a couple of drops of warmed olive oil into your ear two times a day, for a few weeks. · If you have ear pain, or temperature, or are otherwise concerned, it is advisable to visit a doctor soon. · If you know that you have a hole in your ear drum, do not put drops in your ear without having first consulted with your doctor or a capable medical advisor. Ear, nose, and throat doctors usually remove wax by suction techniques. It is typically done with the help of an operating microscope to give the doctor clear visibility. These doctors have many tools to remove wax, and will typically use their methods depending on how hard the wax is and where is it located. · You can use irrigation with a solution that contains hydrogen peroxide over the counter wax removal systems. It can be effective. Remember, hard wax and complete blockages are wax problems in ears that require more aggressive treatment. About the Author Brian Harmon is a General Health Practitioner. He has an MD degree and has worked in different Medical Clinics of Texas for 25 long years Advice Rating: Not yet rated Login to vote Comments No comments posted. Add Comment Enter the c