
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 13 Feb 2012 02:16:23 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Ginkgo Biloba-Detox and Cleanse Health Articles Home Buy
a
Cleanse Other
Products Learn
About
Health Contact Detox & Cleanse Real health, naturally! Ginkgo Biloba Ginkgo biloba has been used for thousands of years in Chinese medicine and has recently become very popular in the west. Today it is renowned for its tonic affect on the mind by improving metal clarity and memory. It is also very useful for circulation problems. The Ginkgo biloba we recommend is totally organic and is an excellent price as it comes straight from the bulk suppliers in America . BUY: Ginkgo biloba Capsules Ginkgo biloba Powder Ginkgo biloba Tincture Also known as- Ginkgo biloba, and Maidenhair Tree. Introduction Ginkgo  extracts are the most widely used, and among the least natural„herbal  products in North America and Europe today. Most of the ginkgo capsules  you find on the market are actually extracts of ginkgo leaves made by  bathing them in hexanol and evaporating the toxic solvent away to make  a concentrated slurry of a single healing chemical. Constituents Gibberellin, cytokinin-like substances, ginkgolic acid, bilobol, ginnol, aspartine, calcium. Parts Used Leaves and nuts. Leaves are considered "sweeter" and have a gentle effect d are primarily used for cerebral circulation. Typical Preparations Teas, capsules, and extracts. Summary The  natural herb has a long history in Chinese medicine. Ginkgo nuts and  ginkgo leaves are used to treat lung conditions (rather than mental  conditions). They are sweet, astringent, and non-heating; they stop  "leakage" of fluids into air passageways without causing heat,  increased heartbeat, or excitability. Recent research into the  plant has discovered a range of medicinally active compounds in the  leaves and this has excited a lot of interest in the health-promoting  potential of the plant. In particular, the leaves stimulate the blood  circulation and have a tonic effect on the brain, reducing lethargy,  improving memory and giving an improved sense of well-being. They have  also been shown to be effective in improving peripheral arterial  circulation and in treating hearing disorders such as tinnitus where  these result from poor circulation or damage by free radicals. The  leaves contain ginkgolides, these are compounds that are unknown in any  other plant species. Ginkgolides inhibit allergic responses and so are  of use in treating disorders such as asthma. Eye disorders and senility  have also responded to treatment. The leaves are best harvested in the  late summer or early autumn just as they begin to change colour. They  are dried for later use. Precautions The leaf is not recommended for persons currently taking blood thinning medications. For nuts- do not use if you have a current outbreak of poison ivy or  contact dermatitis, since the increased circulation to the skin caused  by the herb could spread the toxin. Order: Ginkgo biloba Capsules Ginkgo biloba Powder Ginkgo biloba Tincture We hope our website is useful to you, please support our 
              site if you can, and purchase our eBook for just $US4.50 Follow Health Topics Colon Cleansing Detox Vegan-Vegetarian Herbs Organic Products Bowel Disorders Lifestyle Join The Detox Mailin