Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture Newsletter | Doylestown, PA | Oriental Wellness Center 577 Limekiln Road 
						Doylestown, PA 18901 215-489-0375 Dan-Ning Lewis Board Certified Acupuncturist Board Certified Herbalist HOME ACUPUNCTURE HERBAL MEDICINE TESTIMONIALS OFFICE INFORMATION RESOURCES / LINKS NEWSLETTER EVENTS Newsletter April 2012 Manage Your Reproductive Health with Acupuncture Oriental medicine has a long history when it comes to enhancing 
			reproductive health and fertility for both men and women. In fact, 
			evidence that acupuncture and herbal medicine have been used to aid 
			fertility can be found in early medical literature dating back to 3 
			AD. Statistics state that one in five couples over the age of 30 have 
			difficulty conceiving after one year of trying. Many of these 
			couples are turning to acupuncture and Oriental medicine for a safe, 
			effective and natural solution to have a healthy baby. Fertility treatments were first recorded by Zhang Zhong Jing, a 
			famous physician from the Han Dynasty, in his discussion of diseases 
			in women in the Jin Gui Yao Lue or Essentials of the Golden Cabinet. According to the principles of Oriental medicine, a person's 
			health is determined by the quality of Qi, the vital life energy, 
			and blood circulating through the body. When Qi and blood are 
			circulating properly, the body is properly nourished and functioning 
			optimally which, in turn, enhances fertility. Researchers have confirmed the benefits of acupuncture and 
			Oriental medicine for: regulating the menstrual cycle improving sperm count and motility reducing stress and anxiety associated with infertility normalizing hormone and endocrine systems improving blood flow in the uterus decreasing the chance of miscarriage increasing the chance of pregnancy for women undergoing in 
				vitro fertilization (IVF) Fertility treatment approaches can vary from person to person, 
			but are usually scheduled for at least three consecutive cycles 
			(twelve weeks). Treatments can include acupuncture, customized 
			herbal therapy, stress reduction and dietary counseling. If you or someone you know is experiencing difficulties 
			with their reproductive health please call to see how acupuncture 
			and Oriental medicine can help. Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) Gynecological conditions including premenstrual syndrome (PMS), 
			fibroids, endometriosis, menopause and infertility are some of the 
			problems treated most successfully by acupuncture and Oriental 
			medicine. Oriental medicine has long recognized that health and 
			vitality can be sustained over a woman's lifetime by restoring 
			balance within the body and supporting the natural production of 
			essential hormones. Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS) Premenstrual syndrome covers a broad spectrum that can include 
			emotional symptoms such as depression, irritability, sadness, 
			anxiety, or poor concentration and can also include physical 
			symptoms, such as breast tenderness, a change in bowel habits, acne, 
			or loss of libido. Symptoms can change from month to month and vary 
			widely in terms of severity. Imbalances can arise from a variety of 
			factors, including poor diet, too much work, physical or emotional 
			trauma, constitutionally weak Qi (energy) or stress. In Oriental medicine, the liver is considered responsible for the 
			smooth flow of Qi (life force) throughout the body and for smoothing 
			our emotions. When the liver's function of moving Qi is disrupted, 
			Qi can become stuck. This is referred to as Liver Qi Stagnation and 
			is commonly associated with PMS. In addition to irritability and 
			moodiness, signs and symptoms may include: distending pain in the 
			area below the ribs, stuffiness of the chest, sighing, abdominal 
			distention, nausea, sour regurgitation, belching, diarrhea or 
			constipation, feeling of a lump in the throat, irregular periods, 
			painful periods and distention of the breasts prior to periods. If you or someone you know is struggling with symptoms 
			associated with premenstrual syndrome call today to see how 
			acupuncture can help! Pregnancy & Childbirth Pregnancy is an amazing time in a woman's life. Many women report 
			feeling healthier than they have ever felt before; however, the 
			physical growth of the baby and changes in hormone levels can bring 
			about pain, discomfort and a variety of health problems. Acupuncture and Oriental medicine can provide a safe, effective 
			alternative for many of the health complications that may arise 
			before, during and after pregnancy. A growing number of women are 
			choosing acupuncture to manage their health throughout their 
			pregnancy and as an optional treatment for an overdue or difficult 
			labor. Planning for a Healthy Baby Healthy parents produce healthy babies. With acupuncture and 
			Oriental medicine, parents can improve their health to create the 
			most optimal environment for their unborn child. In addition to 
			their ability to strengthen, support, and balance overall health and 
			well-being, acupuncture and Oriental medicine are effective 
			treatments for regulating menstruation and hormone levels, reducing 
			stress and addressing any pre-existing medical conditions or 
			concerns. Acupuncture during Pregnancy Acupuncture and Oriental medicine can play a vital role in the 
			comfort of a pregnant woman. There is strong evidence to support the 
			belief that acupuncture is highly effective in treating some of the 
			most common problems experienced during pregnancy. Some of the problems that an acupuncturist often treats 
			during pregnancy include: nausea, vomiting and morning sickness heartburn constipation edema and swelling pelvic pain neck and back pain sciatica leg cramps fatigue and exhaustion insomnia anxiety and depression water retention Acupuncture for Childbirth While there are acupuncture points that can provide natural pain 
			relief during labor, acupuncture is more commonly used to induce 
			labor. There are several points that stimulate contractions and 
			influence cervical ripening. There is also an acupuncture point that 
			has been found to turn a breech baby. Postpartum Recovery Many women feel depleted after the birth experience. Acupuncture 
			and Oriental medicine can help smooth the transition during those 
			first few months after birth to ensure a quick recovery. Some postpartum disorders that can be treated with acupuncture: fatigue postpartum depression mastitis insufficient or excessive lactation post-operative healing night sweats Postpartum care focuses on the physical, emotional and 
			psychological recovery of the mother from the effects of pregnancy 
			and labor, as well as encouraging breast feeding. If you would like learn how acupuncture and Oriental 
			medicine can facilitate your postpartum recovery, please call for 
			more information. ORIENTAL WELLNESS CENTER Dan-Ning Lewis Board Certified Acupuncturist Board Certified Herbalist 577 Limekiln Road Doylestown, PA 18901 TEL 215