
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 21 Apr 2012 22:27:19 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.22 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_bwlimited/1.4
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Care & Treatment > Dementia > Aging & Health A To Z > Health in Aging News About Foundation Contact Aging & Health A to Z Find a Geriatrics  Healthcare Professional Medications & Older Adults Making Your Wishes Known Home & Community Home › Aging & Health A to Z › Dementia › Care & Treatment Font size A A A Print Share Glossary Unique to Older Adults Basic Facts & Information Causes & Symptoms Diagnosis & Tests Care & Treatment Lifestyle & Management Other Resources Caregiving How To's Ask the Experts Tools & Tips Latest Research Getting More Help Related Topics Advance Directives Anxiety Delirium Depression Diabetes Fecal Incontinence High Blood Pressure Nutrition Prevention Stroke Urinary Incontinence Aging & Health A to Z Dementia Care & Treatment There is no cure for Alzheimer’s disease or vascular dementia. But there are medications, treatments, and strategies that can slow declines, help people with dementia make the most of the abilities they have and function as well as possible to have the highest possible quality of life. When caring for someone with dementia, physicians and other healthcare professionals will: Identify, treat, and monitor underlying health problems, such as heart disease and diabetes, that boost risks of dementia and can worsen symptoms Check for and treat other things that contribute to changes in mental abilities and mood, such as depression, hearing loss or vision loss Watch for new medical problems Check for drug side-effects Teach caregivers how to best manage symptoms, behavioral problems, and find caregiving, financial, and legal advice and support They may also: Take the patient off any “anticholinergic drugs” he or she may be taking. These drugs can contribute to mental decline.  Commonly prescribed anticholinergic medicines include the blood pressure drug nifedipine (brand names Adalat and Procardia), the stomach antacid ranitidine (Zantac), and tolterodine (Detrol), which is prescribed for loss of bladder control. Prescribe certain drugs, called “cholinesterase inhibitors,” that may temporarily slow declines in cognition, mood, behavior and daily functioning in people with early dementia. These increase the amount of a chemical called acetylcholine in the brain. These drugs appear to slow down the decline of mental abilities, mood, behavior and functioning. Recommend certain care or management strategies, prescribe new or discontinue medications, or both, to treat new symptoms, such as agitation or aggression. Updated: March 2012 Posted:  March 2012 © 2012 Health in Aging. All rights reserved. Site Map • Privacy Policy • Terms of Use • Disclaimer • We subscribe to the HONcode principles. share, learn! Share this p