Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

5 all natural menopause treatments that are worth a try | 34-menopause-symptoms HOME Menopause Symptoms Topics About: Menopause Early Menopause Peri Menopause Post Menopause Articles About: Menopause General Research 5 all natural menopause treatments that are worth a try Are you desperate to find relief from those hot sweats, the embarrassing vaginal dryness, or another menopausal symptom that is severely disrupting your normal lifestyle? Fortunately, there are ways to alleviate, or at least reduce, the severity of the 34 menopause symptoms, and many are natural. Using a natural method is less invasive and leaves less room for side effects. They come highly recommended and should be the first treatment option you try. During menopause, the production of estrogen, progesterone and testosterone is disrupted and levels of the hormones fluctuate. It is this change in hormone pattern that causes the body to react in strange ways, ways that can cause disruption to a woman’s life. Read on to find out how you can make life more bearable with all natural methods. 5 tips for dealing with menopause naturally With the controversy that surrounds HRT (hormone replacement therapy) it is no surprise that women are looking for alternatives. Making lifestyle changes and using non-hormonal treatments are alternative ways to rebalance the hormones in the body, in a relatively easy and risk free way. Read on to find out what natural treatments are worth considering if you are suffering with any of the menopausal symptoms: Change your diet Changing your diet can be extremely beneficial, but self discipline is needed. Try to have a healthy and well balanced diet that includes all the necessary food groups. Depending on what symptom you are suffering with, there is more specific dietary advice, but generally a good diet, with a good intake of vitamins B, C, D and E is required. Try to consume more soy too. Exercise, exercise, exercise! Exercise alone can alleviate some menopausal symptoms. Exercise not only maintains a healthy body but it triggers hormone rebalance. Although the prospect of exercise during menopause might seem awful, it is highly recommended and you should try to do at least half an hour of aerobic exercise every day. De-stress and relax If you are stressed your hormones become even more unbalanced because the stress hormone has a negative effect on the sex hormones. Yoga is a wonderful way to de-stress because it allows you to concentrate on your breathing, whilst stretching the muscles. Additionally, make time for yourself and relax in the bath with a good book. Avoid triggers and prepare It depends on what symptom you have, but making behavioral changes to avoid making a symptom worse is important, as is preparing for the symptom. For example, for hot flashes or night sweats, avoid hot rooms and spicy food, but wear light cotton clothing, or for vaginal dryness, avoid alcohol and buy lubrication to combat the problem. Avoiding caffeine and alcohol is highly advised for all symptoms, and staying hydrated and getting a good night’s sleep is important for all too. Use non-estrogenic herbs These herbal supplements don’t contain any artificial hormones, so little risk is involved. Instead, these herbs work by stimulating a woman’s hormone production and making the natural hormones work more efficiently. They do this by nourishing the pituitary and endocrine glands that produce the hormones. All three sex hormones can be balanced using non-estrogenic herbs, but it is worth speaking to your doctor if you want to use them on a long term basis. More information about menopause treatments If you are seeking relief from menopausal symptoms, always try these natural methods first because they can be very effective, yet they are safe and easy to combine into your lifestyle. If you want to consider any other treatment method always talk to your doctor first and get the appropriate advice. To find out more about alternative menopausal treatments, follow this link. Other Related Articles: What do night sweats indicate? What causes heavy night sweats? Understanding Night Sweats Causes The causes of Night Sweats Sources: ©Copyright 2011. 5 all natural meno