Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Common Cold and Cough Main Common Cold and Cough Symptoms The common symptoms in this condition are running or blocked nose, sneezing specially
    when exposed to cold air or drinking ice cold drinks, sore throat, cough, congestion,
    headache sometimes low fever with body pains. Anorexia , laziness and difficulty in
    sleeping are also seen when the symptoms become severe. Causes This is a very common problem and is caused by aggravation of Kapha . It may
    sometime be caused by weak digestion. When the food we eat is not fully digested it
    changes into mucus which in Ayurvedic language is called as ama. This mucus
    or ama mixed with various circulations reaches the respiratory system and causes
    cold or cough. Other causes are exposure to cold or humid conditions or cold air. Exposure to hot and cold conditions alternately with in a short period that is exposing
    the body to extreme temperature conditions. For example if an individual is sweating
    heavily and he drinks very cold water at the same time. Eating hot and cold food at the
    same time e.g. ice-cream with hot coffee. Eating cold foods and ice cold drinks in the
    cold weather that is not eating according to the season. Eating foods which increase Kapha like milk products, foods heavily fried in oil or ghee (clarified butter). It is also
    generally caused at the time of change of the season. Remedies The body should be kept warm especially feet, chest, throat and head. Precaution should
        be taken when going out in cold. Sweating is very helpful. The simplest way to do it is
        drink hot spice tea or some other hot drink and lie down on the bed .Take some warm cover
        like blanket and let the body sweat for 15 to 20 minutes. Fresh ginger juice (half a tea spoon) mixed with half tea spoon honey should be taken
        three times a day- morning , noon and in the night. In the winter it is better to warm the
        mixture before taking it. Mixing a tea spoon of warm water in this misture also helps. Half a glass of warm water mixed with one tea spoon of lemon juice and one tea spoon of
        honey can be taken 2-3 times a day. In case of dry cough especially if it trouble is during the night, take fresh ginger and
        peel off the skin. Cut it into small pieces of about two inches long. Apply some common
        salt and then chew it. You can also keep it in the mouth and sleep. Black salt or rock
        salt gives better relief. Take cardamom, dry ginger, black pepper and cinnamon in equal quantity, say 10 gms.
        each. Take white sugar or rock candy equal to the total weight that is 40 gms. Grind them
        and make a fine powder. From this take half a tea spoon ( about 3 gms.) twice a day with
        honey or warm water after meals. In case of sore throat a clove or two cardamoms or rock candy or a few raisins can be
        chewed. Gargling with warm salty water is also beneficial. This can be done two to three
        times a day. Fasting is also helpful to relieve the symptoms of cold and cough. It is
        very important that the patient has no constipation. In that case some laxatives can be
        taken in order to clean the system every day. Diet and Regimen Cold foods, cold drinks, ice cream, sweets, fried foods, milk products like cheese,
        creams, yogurt etc. should not be taken. Hot milk without fat can be taken if boiled with
        a piece of crushed ginger. Half tea spoon of turmeric powder is good to mix with the milk.
        Sweet fruit juices should also be avoided. Breads, meats, nuts and pastries are not good
        to take. It is good to take light and warm diet like boiled or steamed vegetables, vegetable soup
        and fruits which are not juicy like papaya and apple. Spice teas, herbal teas and some
        other hot drinks are good. Sleeping during day time should be avoided. Taking cold shower, exposure to cold 