
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 01:29:41 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.10
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Ua-Compatible: IE=8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Prevention Tips for Children - Dentist Canton, MI - Dental Education Library 734.981.4040 Home Contact Us Meet Our Dentists Meet Our Staff Office Manager Dental Hygienists Appointment Coordinators Insurance Experts Dental Assistants Why Choose Us Dental Services Patient Testimonials Serving The Community Free Dental Day Insurance Specials Suggestions/Comments Hours & Location Office Tour Smile Gallery Patient Education Click here to... Contact Us Click here to... Request an Appointment 42301 Cherry Hill Road │ at LIlley │ Canton, MI 48188 │ 734.981.4040 Prevention Tips for Children Patient Education Oral Health Topics Introduction Fluoride The Preventive Program Fillings Infection Control Medication and Heart Disease Latex Allergy Age and Oral Health Tobacco Oral Piercing Tooth Care What is Tooth Decay? Brushing Flossing Fluoride Facts Mouth Rinses Sealants X-Rays Denture Care Emergency Care Prevention Tips for Children Women and Tooth Care Seniors and Oral Health Nutrition and Your Teeth Dental Problems Abscessed Tooth Bad Breath (halitosis) Bulimia Nervosa Canker/Cold Sores Cavities and Tooth Decay Toothaches Diabetes Dry Mouth Fluorosis Gum Disease (Gingivitis) Impacted/Wisdom Teeth Lacerations and Cuts Oral Cancer Plaque Sensitive Teeth Teeth Grinding (Bruxism) Jaw Disorders Treatment Braces (Orthodontia) Sealants Missing Teeth Bridges Crowns Root Canal Therapy Extractions Scaling and Root Planing Flap Surgery Dentures Jaw/TMJ Maxillofacial Surgery Cosmetic Dentistry Veneers Teeth Whitening Bleaching Chipped, Cracked, and Worn Teeth Implants Grafts Old and Unsightly Fillings Bonding Excessive or Uneven Gums Ridge Augmentation Invisalign ® Crowns and Bridges Pain Management Overview Managing Pain Anesthesia Medications Patient Information Your First Dental Visit Dental Emergencies Your Rights as a Patient Product Reviews Oral Health Products Choosing a Toothbrush Types of Floss Water Picks Mouth Guards Glossary Links Online Dental Education Library Our team of dental specialists and staff strive to improve the overall health of our patients by focusing on preventing, diagnosing and treating conditions associated with your teeth and gums. Please use our dental library to learn more about dental problems and treatments available. If you have questions or need to schedule an appointment , contact us . Infants Infants should be seen by our office after the first six months of age, and at least by the child's first birthday. By this time, the baby's first teeth, or primary teeth, are beginning to erupt and it is a critical time to spot any problems before they become big concerns. Conditions like gum irritation and thumb-sucking could create problems later on. Babies who suck their thumbs may be setting the stage for malformed teeth and bite relationships. Another problem that can be spotted early is a condition called "baby bottle tooth decay," which is caused by sugary substances in breast milk and some juices, which combine with saliva to form pools inside the baby's mouth. If left untreated, this can lead to premature decay of your baby's future primary teeth, which can later hamper the proper formation of permanent teeth. One of the best ways to avoid baby bottle tooth decay is to not allow your baby to nurse on a bottle while going to sleep. Avoid dipping pacifiers in sweet substances such as honey, because this only encourages early decay in the baby's mouth. Encouraging your young child to drink from a cup as early as possible will also help stave off the problems associated with baby bottle tooth decay. Teething, Pacifiers and Thumb-Sucking Teething is a sign that your child's gums are sore. This is perfectly normal. You can help relieve this by allowing the baby to suck on a teething ring, or gently rubbing your baby's gums with the back of a small spoon, a piece of wet gauze, or even your finger. For babies under the age of 4, teething rings and pacifiers can be safely used to facilitate the child's oral needs for relieving gum pain and for suckling. After the age of 4, pacifiers are generally discouraged because they may interfere with the development of your child's teeth. Moreover, thumb-sucking should be strongly discouraged because it can lead to malformed teeth that become crooked and crowded. Primary and Permanent Teeth Every child grows 20 primary teeth, usually by the age of 3. These teeth are gradually replaced by the age of 12 or so with a full set of 28 permanent teeth, and later on, four molars called "wisdom teeth." It is essential that a child's primary teeth are healthy, because their development sets the stage for permanent teeth. If primary teeth become diseased or do not grow in properly, chances are greater that their permanent replacements will suffer the same fate. For example, poorly formed primary teeth that don't erupt properly could crowd out spaces reserved for other teeth. Space maintainers can sometimes be used to correct this condition, if it is spotted early enough. Brushing Babies' gums and teeth can be gently cleaned with special infant toothbrushes that fit over your finger. Water is suitable in lieu of toothpaste (because the baby may swallow the toothpaste). Parents are advised to avoid fluoride toothpastes on children under the age of 2. Primary teeth can be cleansed with child-sized, soft-bristled toothbrushes. Remember to use small portions of toothpaste (a pea-sized portion is suitable), and teach your child to spit out, not swallow, the toothpaste when finished. Fluoride Fluoride is generally present in most public drinking water systems. If you are unsure about your community's water and its fluoride content, or learn that it has an unacceptable level of fluoride in it, there are fluoride supplements your dentist can prescribe. Your child may not be getting enough fluoride just by using fluoride toothpaste. Toothaches Toothaches can be common in young children. Sometimes, toothaches are caused by erupting teeth, but they also could indicate a serious problem. You can safely relieve a small child's toothache without the aid of medication by rinsing the mouth with a solution of warm water and table salt. If the pain doesn't subside, acetaminophen may be used. If such medications don't help, contact your dentist immediately. Injuries You can help your child prevent oral injuries by closely supervising him during play and not allowing the child to put foreign objects in the mouth. For younger children involved in physical activities and sports, mouth guards are strongly encouraged, and can prevent a whole host of injuries to the teeth, gums, lips and other oral structures. Mouth guards are generally small plastic appliances that safely fit around your child's teeth. Many mouth guards are soft and pliable when opened, and mold to the child's teeth when first inserted. If the tooth has been knocked out, try to place the tooth back in its socket while waiting to see our office. Remember to hold the dislocated tooth by the crown-not the root. If you cannot relocate the tooth, place it in a container of cold milk, saline or the victim's own saliva. Place the tooth in the solution. First, rinse the mouth of any blood or other debris and place a cold cloth or compress on the cheek near the injury. This will keep down swelling. For a fractured tooth, it is best to rinse with warm water and again, apply a cold pack or compress. Ibuprofen may be used to help keep down swelling. If the tooth fracture is minor, the tooth can be sanded or if necessary, restored by the dentist if the pulp is not severely damaged. If a child's primary tooth has been loosened by an injury or an emerging permanent tooth, try getting the child to gently bite down on an apple or piece of caramel; in some cases, the tooth will easily separate from the gum. Irritation caused by retainers or braces can sometimes be relieved by placing a tiny piece of cotton or gauze on the tip of the wire or other protruding object. If an injury occurs from a piece of the retainer or braces lodging into a soft tissue, contact our office immediately and avoid dislodging it yourself. Sealants Sealants fill in the little ridges on the chewing part of your teeth to protect and seal the tooth from food and plaque. The application is easy to apply and typically last for several years. Women's Teeth Women have special needs when it comes to their oral health. That's because the physical changes they undergo through life-things like menstruation, pregnancy and childbirth, breast-feeding and menopause-cause many changes in the body, some harmful to teeth and gums. Lesions and ulcers, dry sockets, as well as swollen gums, can sometimes occur during surges in a woman's hormone levels. These periods would be a prime time to visit the dentist. Birth control pills have been shown to increase the risk of gingivitis, and hormone replacement therapy has been shown to cause bleeding and swollen gums. Gum disease can also present a higher risk for premature births. Some research has shown that women may be more likely to develop dry mouth, eating disorders, jaw problems such as temporomandibular joint disorders, and facial pain-all of which can be difficult from a physical and emotional standpoint. Taking care of your oral health is essential, and can go a long way to helping you face the physical changes in your body over the years. Pinkney, Greenbaum, MacFarland and Timpner, DDS | 42301 Cherry Hill Rd, Ste D, Canton, MI 48188 | (734) 981-4040 Home Meet Our Dentists Why Choose Us Our Services Patient Testimonials Serving the Community Insurance Specials Suggestions/Comments Hours and Location Patient Education