Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Hypnotherapy for Stop Smoking Stop Smoking Weight Loss Fear of Flying Public Speaking Habits Drinking Nail Biting Thumb Sucking Confidence Exam Nerves Wedding
    Nerves Anxiety Links Audio Downloads Reading List Relaxation Fees Contact The Hypnotherapy Centre tel: 01753 853124      mob: 07988 765559 Watergate House, Straight Road, Old Windsor, Berkshire Company Registration No. 4772149 Click here to send an email Home Treatments Stop Smoking Our Therapists What Is Hypnosis FAQs / Links Many people want to stop smoking but find that their habit is so ingrained that it
    is really unpleasant and difficult when they try to stop. Hypnotherapy addresses
    the habit at its unconscious root. This means that not only is it much more effective
    than other methods you may have previously tried, but it is also so much easier and
    pleasant for you. What Does The Treatment Consist Of? Treatment for smoking cessation typically takes place during a single session of
    approximately two hours duration, the cost of which is £120.  Your Therapist will
    usually begin by answering any questions you may have, offering you a brief explanation
    of how hypnosis works and outlining what is going to happen during the session. Your
    Therapist will then assess what situations and emotional triggers are specific to
    your smoking habit to allow the therapy to be tailored to meet your exact needs.
    Your therapist will also deal with any concerns you may have about quitting smoking.
    For example, if you are concerned about putting on weight as a consequence of quitting
    the therapist will incorporate suggestions into the treatment to minimise the chance
    of this happening. During the second half of the treatment the therapist will guide you into a pleasant
    hypnotic trance, during which direct suggestions tailored to your specific needs,
    are delivered. What if I don’t really want to stop? It is important that you are at the point in your life where you have decided to
    leave the smoking habit behind you and are now looking for an effective way to maximise
    your chance of success. However, even people that are determined to stop can have
    a part of them that really doesn’t want to quit. We can help you identify and work
    with that part to help you succeed. Is Hypnotherapy An Effective Way Of Quitting? One of the largest surveys of effective ways of giving up smoking concluded that
    for most smokers the most effective technique for giving up smoking was hypnosis. The study, undertaken by Frank Schmidt and colleagues at the University of Iowa (reported
    in New Scientist vol. 136 issue 1845 - 31 October 92) analysed the results of more
    than 600 independent researchers. ”Hi Sandra, I came to you 3 weeks ago to stop smoking and I just wanted to let you know how I
    am getting on. I'm getting on really well, I haven't smoked anything at all since
    my visit to yourself and I feel so much better in myself already. I have passed your details on to a few friends who smoke and hopefully they will
    be making appointments with you too. Once again, thank you so much for your help, you have changed my life!!” KS, George Green If you would like to book a smoking cessation session, you can pay by credit card
    in advance using Google Check-out. We recommend that you telephone or contact us first to arrange a suitable appointment
    time and then complete your  booking by clicking on the button Send This Page To a Friend Weight Loss Smoking Habits Confidence - Public Speaking - Wedding Nerves - Fear of Flying Anxiet