
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 20:05:03 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.8
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Suzanne Havala Hobbs :: on the table :: Probiotics offers good bugs for eating :: Email 
                        this page Probiotics 
                    offers good bugs for eating Dec. 13, 2007 Suzanne Havala Hobbs How about some bugs in your dinner 
                    tonight? Many people love them, the bacterial kind, that is. They use 
                    probiotics, an alternative medicine approach to supporting 
                    health. Probiotics are often referred to as “friendly bacteria,” 
                    though a range of microorganisms can qualify, including yeasts. 
                    The idea goes like this: Some people think that live microorganisms 
                    in foods or supplements can boost the immune system and help 
                    treat certain conditions by replacing or increasing the body’s 
                    natural supply of friendly bacteria when supplies are low. For example, colonies of beneficial bacteria live in your 
                    intestines and help in the normal function of the gut. If 
                    you take antibiotics to fight an infection, the drugs kill 
                    both the problematic bacteria as well as the good guys. Eating 
                    yogurt with live bacterial cultures such as Lactobacillus 
                    bulgaricus or Streptococcus thermophilus, for example, may 
                    help replenish the gut’s normal supply. Other foods that contain probiotics include soy products such 
                    as miso and tempeh, soy beverages such as kefir, fermented 
                    milk such as buttermilk, and fermented vegetables such as 
                    sauerkraut and kimchi. The beneficial bugs are available in 
                    capsules, tablets and powdered forms, too, at natural foods 
                    stores and pharmacies. Probiotics have been used since ancient times, but attempts 
                    to scientifically validate their usefulness are only beginning. 
                    The National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, 
                    a unit of the National Institutes of Health, and the American 
                    society for Microbiology in 2005 sponsored a conference on 
                    probiotics. A report was produced summarizing the evidence for the health 
                    benefits of probiotics. Among the benefits with the most scientific 
                    support: * Treatment of diarrhea and irritable bowel syndrome. Diarrhea 
                    caused by rotavirus was the condition for which there was 
                    the greatest evidence of efficacy. * Prevention and treatment of urinary tract infections, female 
                    genital tract and reduction of the risk for recurrence of 
                    bladder cancer. * Shortening the amount of time it takes for the body to recover 
                    from an intestinal infection caused by Clostridium difficile 
                    bacteria, and prevention and treatment of infection that follows 
                    surgery to remove the colon. * Prevention and treatment of eczema in children. More information about probiotics is available online from 
                    the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine 
                    at http://nccam.nih.gov/health/probiotics/ . More studies are needed before firm recommendations can be 
                    made about probiotics. A strong placebo effect may be at play 
                    where benefits from probiotics are concerned, according to 
                    NCCAM. In other words, it’s possible that benefits are 
                    all in your head. Still, there doesn’t appear to be much risk from using 
                    probiotics, though their use hasn’t been studied well, 
                    especially in young people, older adults, and people with 
                    depressed immune systems. For healthy adults, the primary 
                    side effects are likely to be gas or bloating. If you use probiotics and are being treated for a medical 
                    condition, be sure to let your health care provider know what 
                    you are eating or taking, especially if you are using supplemental 
                    forms of probiotics such as capsules, tablets or powders. On the other hand, foods such as sauerkraut, miso and tempeh 
                    aren’t likely to pose much risk. If you eat yogurt or 
                    drink kefir (a cultured yogurt drink), buy nonfat varieties 
                    to limit your saturated fat intake. Miso and pickled vegetables 
                    such as kimchi and sauerkraut are high in sodium, so if you 
                    include them in your diet, balance your sodium intake by eating 
                    more low sodium foods such as fresh vegetables and fruit. And embrace the promise of probiotics, because not all bugs 
                    are bad. The contents

                of this website are not intended to provide

                personal medical advice.Individual medical advice

                should be obtained from a qualified health

                professional. Site contents © Suzanne Havala Nutrition

                Consultants Inc. www