
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 30 Mar 2012 17:11:57 GMT
Server: Apache
X-SilverStripe-Cache: hit at Fri, 30 Mar 2012 12:11:57 -0500
Cache-Control: max-age=21600
Expires: Fri, 30 Mar 2012 23:11:57 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Theophylline and Caffeine: Related Pages PLEASE NOTE: Your web browser does not have JavaScript enabled.
                                            Unless you enable Javascript ,
                                            your ability to navigate and access the features of this website will be limited. Search Help? Tests List of all tests and synonyms Test not listed? 5-HIAA 17-Hydroxyprogesterone A/G Ratio A1c ACE Acetaminophen Acetylcholinesterase ACT ACTH ADH AFB Smear and Culture AFP Maternal AFP Tumor Markers Albumin Aldolase Aldosterone Allergy Blood Testing ALP Alpha-1 Antitrypsin ALT AMA Ammonia Amniocentesis Amylase ANA ANCA Anti-dsDNA Anti-Mullerian Hormone Antibody ID, RBC Antibody Tests Anticentromere Antibody Antiglobulin, Direct Antiglobulin, Indirect Antiphospholipids Antithrombin APC Resistance Apo A-I Apo B ApoE Genotyping aPTT ASMA ASO AST Autoantibodies B Vitamins BCR-ABL Beta-2 Glycoprotein 1 Antibodies Beta-2 Microglobulin Bicarbonate Bilirubin Blood Culture Blood Donation Blood Gases Blood Ketones Blood Smear Blood Transfusion Blood Typing BMP BNP Body Fluid Analysis Bone Markers Bone Marrow BRCA Breast Cancer, Gene Expression BUN c-ANCA C-peptide C. difficile CA 15-3 CA 19-9 CA-125 Caffeine Calcitonin Calcium Carbamazepine Cardiac Biomarkers Cardiac Risk Cardiolipin Antibodies Catecholamines CBC CCP CD4 and CD8 CEA Celiac Disease Tests Ceruloplasmin CF Gene Mutation Chem 7 Chemistry Panels Chickenpox Chlamydia Chloride Cholesterol Cholinesterase Chromogranin A Chromosome Analysis Chymotrypsin CK CK-MB Clopidogrel CMP CMV CO2, Total Coagulation Cascade Coagulation Factors Complement Copper Cortisol Creatinine Creatinine Clearance CRP CRP, high-sensitivity Cryoglobulin CSF Analysis Cyclosporine Cystatin C D-dimer DCP DHEAS Diabetes Autoantibodies Differential Digoxin Dilute Russell Viper Venom Test Direct LDL-C Drugs of Abuse Testing E. coli (Shiga toxin-producing) eAG EBV Antibodies eGFR EGFR [Her-1] Electrolytes Electrophoresis Emergency/Overdose Drug Testing ENA Panel Erythropoietin ESR Estradiol Estrogen Receptors Estrogens Ethanol Factor V Leiden Fecal Fat Fecal Occult Blood Test Ferritin fFN Fibrinogen First Trimester Screen Flu Tests Folate Free Light Chains Fructosamine FSH Fungal Tests G6PD Gastrin GFR GGT Glucose Gonorrhea Gram Stain Group B Strep Screen Growth Hormone H. pylori Haptoglobin hCG HDL Heavy Metals Hematocrit Hemoglobin Hemoglobin Variants Heparin Anti-Xa Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Hepatitis C Hepatitis Panel Her-2/neu Herpes HIT Antibody HIV Antibody HIV Genotypic Resistance HLA Testing HLA-B27 Home Tests Homocysteine HPV hs-CRP IGF-1 IMA Immunoelectrophoresis Immunoglobulins Immunophenotyping Influenza Tests Inhibin A INR Insulin Intrinsic Factor Antibody Ionized Calcium Iron Tests Iron, serum JAK2 Kappa/Lambda Ratio Karyotyping Ketones, blood Kidney Stone Analysis Lactate LDH LDL Lead LH Lipase Lipid Profile Lipoprotein Subfractions Lithium Liver Panel Lp(a) Lp-PLA2 Lupus Anticoagulant Testing Lyme Disease M/C Ratio Magnesium MCH MCHC MCV Measles Mercury Metanephrines Methotrexate Microalbumin MMA Mono MPA MRSA MTHFR Mumps Mycoplasma Myoglobin Nicotine / Cotinine NT-proBNP O&P Osmolality p-ANCA p24 Pap Smear PAPP-A Parvovirus B19 Pericardial Fluid Analysis Peritoneal Fluid Analysis Pertussis Pharmacogenetic Tests Phenobarbital Phenytoin Phosphorus PKU Plasma Metanephrines Platelet Count Platelet Function Tests Pleural Fluid Analysis Porphyrins Potassium Prealbumin Pregnancy Test Procalcitonin Progesterone Progesterone Receptors Prolactin Protein C Protein Electrophoresis Protein S PSA PSEN1 Pseudocholinesterase PT PT 20210 PTH PTT Quad Screen RBC RBC Antibody ID RDW Renin Reticulocyte Count Rheumatoid Factor RSV Rubella Semen Analysis Sensitivity Testing Serotonin Serum Iron SHBG Shingles Sickle Cell Tests Sirolimus Smooth Muscle Antibody SMRP Sodium Soluble Transferrin Receptor Sputum Culture Stool Culture Strep Test Susceptibility Testing Sweat Test Synovial Fluid Analysis Syphilis T3 T4 Tacrolimus Tau/Aß42 TB Screening Tests Testosterone Theophylline Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Throat Culture Thrombin Time Thyroglobulin Thyroid Antibodies Thyroid Panel TIBC TORCH Total Protein Toxoplasmosis TPMT Trace Minerals Transferrin Trichomonas Triglycerides Triple Screen Troponins Trypsin Trypsinogen Tryptase TSH tTG Antibody Tumor Markers UIBC UP/CR Uric Acid Urinalysis Urine Culture Urine Metanephrines Urine Protein Valproic Acid Vancomycin Viral Load (HIV) Vitamin A Vitamin B12 Vitamin D Vitamin K VLDL VMA von Willebrand Factor Warfarin Sensitivity Testing WBC West Nile Virus Whooping Cough Widal Test Wound Culture Xylose Absorption ZPP Conditions/Diseases List of all conditions/diseases Acidosis/Alkalosis ACS Addison's Disease Adrenal Insufficiency Alcoholism Allergies Alzheimer's Disease Anemia Angina Pectoris Ankylosing Spondylitis Anthrax Antiphospholipid Syndrome Arthritis Asthma Autoimmune Disorders Bioterrorism Agents Bleeding Disorders Bone Marrow Disorders BPH Breast Cancer Celiac Disease Cervical Cancer CFS CHF Chlamydia Colon Cancer Conn's Syndrome Cushing's Syndrome CVD Cystic Fibrosis Diabetes Diarrhea DIC Down Syndrome Encephalitis Endocrine Syndromes Epilepsy Excessive Clotting Disorders Fibromyalgia Folate Deficiency Fungal Infections Gonorrhea Gout Graves Disease Guillain-Barre Syndrome Hashimoto Thyroiditis Heart Attack Heart Disease Hemochromatosis Hepatitis Herpes HIV HPV Huntington Disease Hypertension Hyperthyroidism Hypothyroidism Infertility Inflammatory Bowel Disease Influenza Insulin Resistance Jaundice Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis Kidney Disease Lead Poisoning Leukemia Liver Disease Lung Diseases Lupus Lyme Disease Lymphoma Malabsorption Malaria Malnutrition Meningitis and Encephalitis Menopause Metabolic Syndrome MRSA Multiple Myeloma Multiple Sclerosis Myeloproliferative Disorders Neural Tube Defects Neuropathy Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Ovarian Cancer Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic Diseases Pancreatic Insufficiency Pancreatitis PCOS Peptic Ulcer PID Pituitary Disorders Pneumonia Pregnancy Prostate Cancer Proteinuria Reactive Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sarcoidosis Scleroderma Sepsis Septic Arthritis Shingles Sickle Cell Anemia Sjögren Syndrome Staph Wound Infections STDs Stroke Syphilis Testicular Cancer Thalassemia Thyroid Diseases Travelers' Diseases Trichomonas Tuberculosis UTI Vasculitis Vitamin B12 Deficiency Vitamin K Deficiency West Nile Virus Wilson Disease Wound and Skin Infections Screening List of screening recommendations Newborns Infants Children Teens Young Adults Adults Adults 50+ Pregnancy Theophylline and Caffeine Also known as: [Often referred to by brand names (see MedlinePlus Drug Information )] Formal name: Theophylline; Caffeine Related tests: Therapeutic Drug Monitoring ; Emergency and Overdose Drug Testing At a Glance Test Sample The Test Common Questions Ask Us Related Pages At a Glance Why Get Tested? To determine the concentration of theophylline or caffeine in the blood and to maintain a therapeutic level When to Get Tested? At regular intervals to monitor the drug’s concentration; when indicated, to detect low or excessive (potentially toxic) concentrations Sample Required? A blood sample drawn from a vein in your arm or from pricking an infant’s heel Test Preparation Needed? None The Test Sample What is being tested? These tests measure the amount of theophylline or caffeine in the blood. Both theophylline and caffeine are methylxanthines – drugs that ease breathing and stimulate respiration. Theophylline is one of several medications that may be taken by children and adults who have asthma and by adults who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) . It is a bronchodilator with a narrow therapeutic window – too little theophylline is ineffective, too much can cause toxicity . Chronic theophylline toxicity is associated with an increased risk of seizures. Both acute and chronic toxicity can be life-threatening. Theophylline may also be prescribed to treat apnea in premature neonates , but caffeine citrate is the preferred medication. Apnea compromises the amount of oxygen available to the body. It is a common and serious condition in premature neonates that must be promptly treated and closely monitored. While both medications can reduce episodes of apnea, caffeine has fewer side effects and, thus, a lower risk of toxicity. At very high doses, symptoms similar to those found with theophylline toxicity may be seen. Establishing and maintaining therapeutic doses can be a challenge. Both theophylline and caffeine levels may need to be monitored because the range of concentrations in which the drugs are effective, but not toxic, is narrow and in some cases the dose given does not always correlate well with concentrations in the blood. The rate at which the drugs are metabolized will vary from person to person and is decreased in both the very young and the elderly. The drug levels may also be affected by underlying conditions such as liver disease , hypothyroidism , and by acute infection or illness. Many drugs interact and interfere with the metabolism of theophylline. They may increase or decrease its rate of metabolism. How is the sample collected for testing? A blood sample is obtained by inserting a needle into a vein in the arm.  In infants, blood may be collected by pricking a heel. NOTE: If undergoing medical tests makes you or someone you care for anxious, embarrassed, or even difficult to manage, you might consider reading one or more of the following articles: Coping with Test Pain, Discomfort, and Anxiety , Tips on Blood Testing , Tips to Help Children through Their Medical Tests , and Tips to Help the Elderly through Their Medical Tests . Another article, Follow That Sample , provides a glimpse at the collection and processing of a blood sample and throat culture. Is any test preparation needed to ensure the quality of the sample? No test preparation is needed. The Test How is it used? When is it ordered? What does the test result mean? Is there anything else I should know? How is it used? The theophylline test is used to monitor the amount of theophylline in the blood. It is usually ordered as a trough level – prior to the next dose when the concentration is expected to be at its lowest level. Random tests may also be ordered if a doctor suspects that a patient may be experiencing theophylline toxicity. Serial samples may be ordered to track theophylline concentrations in a person who does have excessive theophylline levels, until therapeutic concentrations are reached. Caffeine blood levels are not used to monitor therapy as routinely as theophylline tests. Usually, neonates receiving caffeine are monitored clinically for episodes of apnea and signs of toxicity, and physiological effects of the drug are closely watched. The majority of those treated respond to standardized doses of the medication. The test is primarily ordered if an infant is not responding to therapy as expected or if the infant is demonstrating signs of toxicity. Since daily doses and an extended half-life in the premature neonate generally result in stable drug levels, the sample collected is usually a random level, not a trough level. ^ Back to top When is it ordered? When a person is beginning theophylline treatment, the theophylline test may be ordered several times as the dosage is adjusted as needed, until therapeutic levels are attained. The test may be ordered whenever a person has symptoms that the doctor suspects are due to theophylline toxicity and whenever a person is not responding as expected to therapy. A doctor may order multiple theophylline tests when a patient is being treated for theophylline toxicity. The physician may order a test when a patient taking theophylline experiences a significant change in health status and/or when the patient starts or discontinues taking a drug that is known to affect the metabolism of theophylline. Symptoms associated with acute theophylline toxicity may include: Low blood pressure Rapid heart rate Restlessness Tremors Nausea Abdominal pain Confusion A caffeine test may be ordered whenever a premature neonate is not responding as expected to treatment and/or whenever an infant has symptoms that the doctor suspects are related to excessive caffeine levels. Symptoms associated with excessive caffeine levels may include: Feeding intolerance Jitteriness Irritability Tremors Rapid heart rate Convulsions ^ Back to top What does the test result mean? Low levels of theophylline and caffeine may indicate that the patient has not reached therapeutic concentrations and that there is insufficient drug present to be effective. The therapeutic concentration for theophylline, when used as a bronchodilator, is generally considered to be 10 – 20 mcg/mL (44-111 micromol/L), with levels greater than 20 mcg/mL (111 micromol/L) considered toxic. Some patients may experience significant side effects at concentrations less than 20 mcg/mL (111 micromol/L). When theophylline is used to treat apnea in premature neonates, the therapeutic range is 6-13 mcg/mL (33-72 micromol/L). Therapeutic concentration for caffeine for the treatment of premature apnea is 8-14 mcg/mL (41-72 micromol/L), while concentrations greater than 20 mcg/mL (103 micromol/L) are considered toxic. Blood levels in the therapeutic range mean that most people will have their symptoms relieved without experiencing significant side effects. Adverse effects and the risk of seizures increase with higher concentrations of these drugs. ^ Back to top Is there anything else I should know? Theophylline can affect, and be affected by, a wide variety of drugs and compounds. When your doctor prescribes theophylline, you should discuss all of the prescribed and over-the-counter medications that you are taking as well as if taking oral contraceptives, any herbal supplements such as echinacea, chamomile, and gingko, the amount of caffeine and alcohol that you consume, and whether or not you smoke. The use of theophylline as a bronchodilator has decreased as other more effective and less toxic asthma treatments have become available. It is still in use throughout the United States but is not generally the first treatment choice. In infants, a significant amount of the theophylline dose is metabolized to caffeine. This occurs to a much lesser degree in children and adults. In cases where the theophylline concentration is within the therapeutic index but the infant is showing signs of toxicity, caffeine levels should be determined. Likewise, theophylline is one of the metabolites of caffeine. ^ Back to top Common Questions Should I tell all of my doctors that I am taking theophylline? How long does a premature neonate have to take caffeine? 1.  Should I tell all of my doctors that I am taking theophylline? Yes; this is an important part of your medical history and will have an affect on other treatment plans. ^ Back to top 2.  How long does a premature neonate have to take caffeine? In most cases, the caffeine is a short-term treatment, given for a few

weeks until the baby matures and ceases to have apneic episodes. ^ Back to top Ask a Laboratory Scientist This form enables you to ask specific questions about your tests. Your questions will be answered by a laboratory scientist as part of a voluntary service provided by one of our partners, American Society for Clinical Laboratory Science. If your questions are not related to your lab tests, please submit them via our Contact Us form. Thank you. * indicates a required field First Name: Last Name: Please indicate whether you are a: Patient, Family member or Friend Laboratorian or Other Medical Professional Other Your Email Address *: Confirm Your Email Address *: You must provide a valid email address in order to receive a response. Subject: Question or Comment I Agree to the disclaimer * | Read The Disclaimer Spam Prevention Question *: | | Related Pages On This Site Conditions: Asthma , Lung Diseases Elsewhere On The Web American Lung Association: What is asthma? American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology: Tips to Remember, Asthma and allergy medications National Heart Lung and Blood Institute: So You Have Asthma » See all Article Sources Article Sources « Return to Related Pages NOTE: This article is based on research that utilizes the sources cited here as well as the collective experience of the Lab Tests Online Editorial Review Board . This article is periodically reviewed by the Editorial Board and may be updated as a result of the review.  Any new sources cited will be added to the list and distinguished from the original sources used. Wu, A. (2006). Tietz Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, Fourth Edition. Saunders Elsevier, St. Louis, Missouri. Pp 1280, 1490-1491. Ram, F. (2006 March 8). Use of Theophylline in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: Examining the Evidence. Medscape From Current Opinion in Pulmonary Medicine [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/524508 through http://www.medscape.com . Accessed on 9/14/08. Kirkland, L. and Horn, A. (2008 May 29). Toxicity, Theophylline. eMedicine [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.emedicine.com/med/TOPIC2261.HTM through http://www.emedicine.com . Accessed on 9/14/08. (© 2008). What is Asthma? American Lung Association [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.lungusa.org/site/c.dvLUK9O0E/b.4061173/apps/s/content.asp?ct=5314727 through http://www.lungusa.org . Accessed on 9/14/08. (2007 December). Asthma Medications Chart. American Lung Association [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.lungusa.org/site/pp.asp?c=dvLUK9O0E&b=263990 through http://www.lungusa.org . Accessed on 9/14/08. Buck, M. (2008 June). Caffeine Citrate for the Treatment of Apnea of Prematurity. Pediatric Pharmacotherapy v14 (6) [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.healthsystem.virginia.edu/internet/pediatrics/pharma-news/ through http://www.healthsystem.virginia.edu . Accessed on 9/14/08. Natarajan, G. et. al. (2007 May 1). Therapeutic Drug Monitoring for Caffeine in Preterm Neonates: An Unnecessary Exercise? Pediatrics Vol. 119 No. 5 May 2007, Pp. 936-940. [On-line information]. Available online at http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/cgi/content/abstract/119/5/936 through http://pediatrics.aappublications.org . Accessed on 9/14/08. (2007 August 1, Reviewed). Theophylline. MedlinePlus Drug Information [On-line information].  Available online at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/druginfo/medmaster/a681006.html">http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/druginfo/medmaster/a681006.html. Accessed on 9/14/08. Perez, E. (2008 January 23). Aminophylline overdose. MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/002572.htm . Accessed on 9/14/08. (© 2007). American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology. Tips to Remember: Asthma and allergy medications [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.aaaai.org/patients/publicedmat/tips/asthmaallergymedications.stm through http://www.aaaai.org . Accessed on 9/14/08. Pesce, A. et. al. (1998). Standards of laboratory practice: theophylline and caffeine monitoring. Clinical Chemistry 44:5 1124–1128 [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.clinchem.org/cgi/content/full/44/5/1124 through http://www.clinchem.org . Klein, J. (2008 June 26, Modified). Management of Neonatal Apnea. Iowa Neonatology Handbook: Pulmonary [On-line information]. Available online at http://www.uihealthcare.com/depts/med/pediatrics/iowaneonatologyhandbook/pulmonary/managementapnea.html through http://www.uihealthcare.com . Accessed on 9/21/08. Baselt, R.C., (2002). Disposition of Toxic Drugs and Chemicals in Man, Sixth Edition. Biomedical Publications, Foster City, CA. Caffeine, Pp. 149 – 152; Theophylline, Pp. 1013 – 1017. Hammett-Stabler, C.A., and A. Dasgupta (2007). Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Data: A Concise Guide, Third Edition. AACC Press, Washington, D.C., Pp. 222 – 230. Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry and Molecular Diagnostics. Burtis CA, Ashwood ER, Bruns DE, eds. St. Louis: Elsevier Saunders; 2006. Appendix, Pp. 2304 and 2314. Understanding Your Tests Sample Lab Report Reference Ranges Test Reliability Genetic Tests Forensic Tests Pharmacogenomics Collecting Samples Tests into Practice FDA Approval Testing Tips Home Testing Screening Your Role Lab Methods Inside the Lab In the News Article Index About This Site Send Us Your Comments This article was last reviewed on November  7, 2008.  |  This article was last modified on June  3, 2011. The review date indicates when the article was last reviewed from beginning to end to ensure that it reflects the most current science. A review may not require any modifications to the article, so the two dates may not always agree. The modified date indicates that one or more changes were made to the article. Such changes may or may not result from a full review of the article, so the two dates may not always agree. Understanding Your Tests | Inside the Lab | In the News | Article Index | About This Site | Send Us Your Comments ©2001 - by American Association for Clinical Chemistry  • Contact Us | Terms of Use | Privacy We comply with the HONcode standard for tru