<http://www.woodchuckmedical.com/?p=1721>; rel=shortlink
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Honey is potent in reversing antibiotic Resistance | Woodchuck Medical Woodchuck Medical Medical News and Health Information Home Diseases & Conditions ADHD Allergies Arthritis Back Pain Blood Pressure Cancer Cholesterol Cold & Flu Depression Diabetes Fibromyalgia Heart Health Migraines Osteoporosis Sexual Health Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Living Better Healthy Eating Quit Smoking Physical Therapy Parenting & Pregnancy Health Conditions Bones & Joints Diseases & Conditions ADHD Allergies Arthritis Back Pain Blood Pressure Cancer Cholesterol Cold & Flu Depression Diabetes Fibromyalgia Heart Health Migraines Osteoporosis Sexual Health Skin Problems Sleep Disorders Living Better Healthy Eating Quit Smoking Medical News Parenting & Pregnancy Physical Therapy Featured Articles Tuberculosis: An Infectious Disease Tuberculosis is an infectious disease, known since ancient times. The name was changed to tuberculosis when it was associated with small nodules or tuberculones. Number of Recent Articles Healthy Meal for Pregnant Women COSMOS Investigates the Health Impacts of Mobile Phone to Users How to Prevent the Occurrence of Leg Sprain How to keep your child’s health in optimum shape? Inability of Individuals to Detect Lies and Sarcasm May Be Early Signs of Dementia How to Pick a Healthy Diet Can labor made painless? Combining Alcohol Cocktail and Energy Drink Only Increases a Person’s Urge to Drink More Alcohol by Himself ADHD Allergies anemia arthritis Arthroscopy Asthma back pain blood Pressure Breast cancer Caffeine Calcium cancer Cholesterol Congenital Heart Disease Dairy dementia depression Diabetes drugs ED epilepsy exercise Fatigue Fibromyalgia Heart Disease Hypercholesterolemia Inflammation insomnia Insulin labor LDL Magnesium melanoma MRI obesity Palliative Surgery Potassium pregnancy red blood cells Saturated Fat senile diabetes smoking Stress vitamin yoga WP Cumulus Flash tag cloud by Roy Tanck requires Flash Player 9 or better. Honey is potent in reversing antibiotic Resistance Manuka honey has been known as an effective remedy for chronically infected wounds but recent studies show that it could even help reverse bacterial resistance to antibiotics. This is the conclusion presented by Professor Rose Cooper of University of Wales in the Society for General Microbiology’s Spring Conference in Harrogate. Cooper studied the effects of manuka honey in three types of bacteria which commonly infest wounds. These are Pseudomonas aeruginosa, , Meticilin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Group A Streptococci. Her team discovered that honey has several ways of interfering with the growth of these bacteria which makes it an attractive option in the treatment of drug resistant wound infections. In the research study which they conducted, they investigated the inhibiting properties of honey in the molecular level. In the case of streptococci and pseudomonads; honey hampers the attachment of these bacteria to body tissues which is a vital step in preventing the initiation of acute infections. As for MRSA, honey shows to effectively reverse antibiotic resistance of certain sensitive antibiotics like oxacillin. Thus, the team suggests a combination of honey and these antibiotics for a more effective remedy against drug resistant infections. The team further suggested an increased clinical study with regards to the other potential uses of manuka honey especially now that the world is experiencing and discovering new virus and bacteria which results to stronger infections. More anti-microbial interventions has to be discovered, invented and manufactured which can help humanity. There may be several existing topical agents available in the market today, but potentially cheaper products need to be manufactured so more individuals will benefit from antibiotic therapy in the future. In the past, honey has been used to treat wounds of different types because of its anti-microbial properties. The ancients acquire it from the nectar collected by honey bees that forage in the Manuka trees of New Zealand. But now, modern medicine is exploring the possibility of using it for other potential benefits it may bring to mankind. There may be a lot to learn about the works of our ancestors but medical science is now humbling itself by accepting the fact that our forefathers may have more knowledge in medical treatment than we can ever think of. Related Posts: Researchers Optimistic with the new pneumococcal vaccine Home Remedy for Sore Throat Home Remedy and Prevention for Nail Fungus Article Published April 15, 2011 
									in Medical News tagged with antibiotics , Pseudomonas , Streptococci . Know More About Anemia Blood In Urine Woodchuck 