Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

A Beginner's Guide to Environmental Control of Allergens - AchooAllergy.com 1-800-339-7123 LIVE CHAT MY ACCOUNT HELP LOG IN CART (0) ALL PRODUCTS Allergy Bedding Allergy Bedding Allergy Armor Dust Mite Covers Mattress Covers Air Quality Control Air Purifiers Dehumidifiers Humidifiers Portable ACs Home Care Cleaning Products Eco Products Furnace Filters Pet Allergy Steam Cleaners Vacuum Cleaners Personal Care Asthma Treatment Child Allergy Food Allergy Masks Nasal Irrigation Personal Care Sinus Care AIR PURIFIERS By Brand 3M Filtrete Airgle Alen AllerAir Amaircare Austin Air Blueair Germ Guardian AP Honeywell Hunter IQAir NQ Whirlpool By Need Allergies & Asthma MCS & Gas Pet Dander & Odor Small / Portable UV / Pathogen Air Purifier Filters ALLERGY BEDDING By Brand Allergy Armor Coyuchi Moonlight Slumber Mulberry West Ogallala PrimaLoft Pure-Rest Royal-Pedic Snoozer Vellux By Need Blankets Comforters Duvet Covers Mattresses Mattress Covers Mattress Pads Mattress Protectors Pillows Pillow Covers VACUUM CLEANERS By Brand Dyson Electrolux FilterStream Miele SEBO By Need Canister Vacuums Handheld & Cordless Stick Vacuums Upright Vacuums Vacuum Attachments DEHUMIDIFIERS By Brand Alen Aprilaire Danby Dri-Eaz Ebac Eva-Dry Soleus By Need Basement Dehumidifiers Crawlspace Dehumidifiers Portable Dehumidifiers Restoration Dehumidifiers HUMIDIFIERS By Brand Air-O-Swiss Enviracaire Germ Guardian Swizz Fred Vornado By Type Cool Mist Humidifiers Small Humidifiers Ultrasonic Humidifiers Warm Mist Humidifiers DUST MITES By Type Air Purifiers Box Spring Covers Carpet Cleaning Dehumidifiers Dust Cloths & Mops Dust Mite Bedding Laundry Mattress Covers Pillow Covers Upholstery Products Vacuum Cleaners STEAM CLEANERS By Brand Gruene Steam Mop Ladybug Reliable Vapamore By Type Handheld Steam Cleaners Steam Mops Vapor Steam Cleaners Allergy Relief Air Purifiers Allergy Bedding Allergy Armor Dust Mite Covers Mattress Covers Vacuum Cleaners Dehumidifiers Steam Cleaners Portable Air Conditioners Dust Mite Allergy Humidifiers Furnace Filters Nasal Irrigation Asthma Treatment Mattresses Masks Child Allergy Food Allergy Personal Care Pet Allergy Cleaning Products Eco Products AchooAllergy.com » Allergy Relief Learning Center »  Environmental Control of Allergens A Beginner's Guide to Environmental Control of Allergens Three basic treatment options exist for allergy sufferers: Allergy Medication Immunotherapy (Allergy Shots) Environmental Control What Is Environmental Control? Environmental control requires a bit of work on your part - it's not quite as easy as swallowing a pill or getting a shot - but it is the 
			most effective treatment for allergies. If you can control your environment and avoid your allergens, then you will not experience 
			allergy symptoms. It's that simple! Environmental control may involve frequent vacuuming with a HEPA-filtered vacuum cleaner, encasing your mattress and pillows with special 
			allergy relief bedding, running an air purifier, wearing a mask, or placing a dehumidifier in your basement. Your environmental control plan 
			depends on the specific allergens to which you are allergic. What Causes Allergy Symptoms? Allergy symptoms appear after a sensitive individual is exposed to allergens. The most common allergens are proteins from plants and 
			animals (although some people may be allergic to certain chemicals). Once an allergen makes its way inside the body, it sets off a 
			chemical chain reaction within the immune system of sensitive individuals. This chain reaction, which includes the release of histamine 
			and other inflammatory chemicals, leads to allergy symptoms - sneezing, watery eyes, congestion, etc. How Do I Discover My Specific Allergens? Before you can formulate an environmental control plan, you must know the substances that cause your allergy symptoms. You should visit an allergist or ENT physician for allergy testing. In the most common method of allergy testing, an allergy 
			technician pricks the skin with a tiny needle to insert a small amount of the allergen. If the patient is allergic, then the site 
			of the skin prick will become red and swollen. As another option that's more cost-effective and convenient, you can use MyAllergy Test in your own home. This easy-to-use 
			kit allows you to collect a sample of blood (using a finger stick lancet) and send it to a lab for allergy testing. MyAllergy Test shows if you're allergic to timothy grass, bermuda grass, mountain cedar, short ragweed, mold, milk, egg whites, wheat, cat dander, and dust mites. If you want more extensive testing, you should make an appointment with an allergist. Once you know your specific allergens, then you can start implementing environmental controls to help you avoid exposure to your allergens. Dust Mite Allergy Like villains 
			in a microscopic sci-fi movie, dust mites are everywhere. They can live inside automobiles, 
			deep within carpet fibers, and on furniture. Since dust mites feed on dead human skin, they tend to hang out where the shed skin collects: in the fibers of 
			your bedding, mattress, and pillows. That's why it's vitally important to encase your bed with allergy relief bedding, also known as dust mite encasings . These encasings will keep dust mites from invading your bed. 
			See the Allergy Bedding Buying Guide to learn more. You should also vacuum frequently with a HEPA vacuum cleaner . Vacuuming alone 
			will not suck up all the dust mites, but it will take away their food. To kill dust mites in carpet, use anti-allergenic carpet powders and sprays . 
			We also recommend using anti-allergenic laundry detergents and additives
			to kill dust mites and denature allergens in your laundry, especially if you normally wash your laundry in cold water. (Water must be very hot 
			in order to kill dust mites, but you can kill them in a cold water wash by using de-mite laundry additive or Allergen Wash .) If you have a dust mite allergy, you should monitor your relative humidity. Dust mites like warm, humid environments, and they cannot thrive if you keep 
			the relative humidity below 50 percent. Monitor your humidity with a humidity gauge. 
			If necessary, you can lower the humidity in your home with a dehumidifier . 
			See the Dehumidifier Buying Guide to learn more. Finally, although an air purifier won't eliminate the 
			actual dust mites, it will eliminate excess dust in your home. To reduce dust mite populations, it's important to keep your home 
			free of dust and clutter. If you can, replace carpet with hardwood floors and low-pile area rugs. Stuffed animals also harbor dust mites. You can kill dust mites on small items like stuffed animals by placing them out in the sun for 
			several hours or by putting them in the freezer over night. Or, you can buy washable toys like Gund Stuffed Animals. Mold Allergy As with dust 
			mites, it's impossible to get rid of every single mold spore in your home. They're everywhere! However, using environmental control measures, 
			you can greatly reduce the number of mold spores in your home and thereby reduce the frequency and severity of your allergy symptoms. Like dust mites, mold requires a warm, humid environment for growth. 
			Monitor the humidity in your home with a humidity gauge , and 
			keep the humidity below 50 percent using a dehumidifier. For protection while you're sleeping, Allergy Armor allergy relief bedding features a special antimicrobial finish that prevents mold growth. Use M-1 Sure Cote Mold & Mildew Resistant Sealant to clean up mold around your home and prevent future growth. AllerMold and Vital Oxide are two additional household cleaners that are 
			effective against mold but safe for your family and the environment. Be careful when cleaning mold! If the growth is significant, you'll want to wear a mask , 
			along with gloves and goggles. HEPA air purifiers and HEPA vacuum cleaners also capture mold spores and remove them from 
			your environment. For more information, see the Vacuum Cleaner Buying Guide and the Air Purifier Buying Guide . Pet Dander Allergy We've 
			already discussed several products that will help you avoid pet dander in your home; these products include allergy relief bedding, 
			air purifiers, and HEPA vacuum cleaners. Allergy Armor Ultra bedding , 
			for instance, blocks animal dander from your bed. Other products specially made for pet allergies include the Dyson DC17 Animal vacuum and the Austin Air Pet Machine air purifier . If you own a pet, we also offer items to help you keep your pet's dander to a minimum, including the Dyson Groom and Ecology Works Pet Allergy Shampoo . See all Pet Allergy products for more suggestions. Of course, if you're severely allergic to a specific animal, the best advice is to stay away from that animal. If you cannot avoid spending time 
			with an allergenic animal, try avoid touching your face, and wash your hands (or better yet, shower) as soon as possible. And keep all pets out of your bedroom! Pollen Allergy The 
			main problem with pollen allergy is that you can't go outside and vacuum up all the pollen, nor can you stick an air purifier in your backyard 
			and expect it to have any affect on the pollen level. When dealing with a pollen allergy, it's best to wear a mask outdoors. Watch your local pollen count and try to stay inside when the 
			pollen counts are high. Once you get inside, shower as soon as possible. Indoors, you can use HEPA vacuums and air purifiers to capture pollen grains. Be aware that pollen will find its way inside your home any 
			time a door opens or window opens. If you want to get some fresh air without the pollen, put a Safeguard Window Filter on your window. Sinus and nasal irrigation products also work well for pollen allergy sufferers because the saline washes away pollen grains in the nasal 
			passages. The SinuPulse Elite is the world's most advanced nasal irrigation 
			system, but a simple neti pot works well, too. See our Seasonal Allergy Solution Guide for more information about pollen allergy. 10 Years Online Same Day Shipping Low Price Guarantee Authorized Retailer Friendly Product Experts 60 Day Return Policy Pay No Sales Tax 1/30/12 Achooallergy.com has long been my go-to source for air purifiers and dehumidifiers. Never has been anything short of excellent. More Testimonials Live Chat now! Order Hotline 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Product Experts Available Mon-Fri 8:30am-5:30pm EST Sat-Sun 10am-5pm EST Customer Service Mon-Fri 9am-5pm EST Store Hours Mon-Sat 10am-5pm EST Call Us at
        1-800-339-7123 View Cart AchooAllergy.com Making you healthier and happier through allergy relief On our website, you will find the widest selection of allergy products and the very latest allergy and asthma information.  For more than a decade, our mission has been to provide you with the best prices and an excellent shopping experience. Sign Up To Receive Our Newsletter Read Our Blog Visit Our Learning Center Join The Conversation AchooAllergy.com About Us Our Core Values In the News Contact Us Careers Request a Catalog Receive Our Newsletter Request a Fabric Sample Physician Services Become an Affiliate Site Map Customer Service Shopping Cart Account Log-in Shipping Return Policy Returns Form Special Discounts Corporate Purchase Orders Government Purchase Orders Medical Reimbursement Form User Agreement Privacy Policy More Info What's New Popular Products Top 5 HEPA Air Purifiers Learning Center Clearance Coupons & Sales Gift Certificates Allergist Referrals Marketers Vendors Buying Guides Air Purifier Buying Guide Vacuum Cleaner Buying Guide Allergy Bedding Buying Guide Pillow Buying Guide Miele Vacuum Buying Guide Dehumidifier Buying Guide Humidifier Buying Guide Royal-Pedic Buying Guide Ogallala Buying Guide Furnace Filters Buying Guide AllerAir Buying Guide Masks Buying Guide Solution Guides Dust Mites Mold Sinus Seasonal Allergy Pet Allergy Asthma MCS Food Allergy AchooAllergy.com&reg 3411 Pierce Drive Atlanta, GA 30341 © 2000 - 2012 AchooAllergy.com, All Rights Reserved *Free 