
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 15:16:12 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
Cache-Control: max-age=3600
Expires: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 16:16:12 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Diyhealth - Everything you want to know about health care, fitness, diseases, diet, nutrition, supplements, home remedies and your health DIYHEALTH CONDITIONS Acne Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Myeloid Leukemia Acute Renal Failure ADD/ADHD Adenoiditis Aging Alcohol Abuse Allergies Alzheimer's More... FORUM HOTLISTS STORIES Diseases Diet and Nutrition Mental Health Skin Health Women's Health Healthy Living Alternative Therapy Sexual Health More »» Infographics Introduce yourself Herbal medicines to cure chronic pain Posted By: Priyanka Chandra | 3 months ago Chronic Pain is the worst type of pain that could affect any individual. Apart from the actual pain inflicted on one’s body, the individual also has to go through a long time of suffering. The actual suffering could come as shooting, stabbing, burning and in numerous irritable varieties. Normally, people suffering from chronic pain lose resistance and often break down. People suffering from chronic pain normally have tried and tested all the modes such as allopathy, homeopathy, herbal or naturopathy etc. It is a state of chaos and confusion that tempts an individual to try anything and everything that comes in his way. Chronic Pain may affect the shoulders, knees, nerves, neck, back and pelvic parts. Chronic Pain It is however advisable to treat chronic pain with herbal medicines. These are a safe mode of treating chronic pain, unlike prescribed drugs (antidepressants, tricyclic antidepressants, acetaminophen, anticonvulsants and also non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) which can cause functional disorders like gastrointestinal bleeding, liver dysfunction and certain side-effects. Moreover, if prescription is carried for a long duration, it could also cause serious damage to brain and other sensory functions. a.Herbal recipes for Chronic Pain There is a lot of Herbal medication for Chronic Pain available in the market such as: 1. Feverfew 2. Ginger Tea 3. Carom Seeds 4. Devil’s Claw 1.Feverfew It is an age old herbal formula belonging to the sunflower family, used to treat toothaches, stomachaches and headaches. This herbal remedy is also used for reducing fever, treating rheumatoid arthritis and migraines. Fewer Few can be used as tincture or in raw form (leaves). Recipe Ingredients - If prepared from fresh leaves, tincture will contain flavonoids, sesquiterpene lactones, camphene, bornyl acetate, camphor,and volatile oils Preparation - Feverfew is best taken as a tincture. There are a lot of recipes available online for its tincture preparation. Home based tincture can be prepared by soaking or macerating dried Feverfew herb in a solution of alcohol. However, certain experts prescribe the use of glycerol instead of alcohol. How to use Use 30 drops of feverfew tincture, thrice daily with a cup of water, juice or hot tea. One can also use it externally by adding one dropper of tincture to half a cup of distilled water. It is recommended to use tincture under supervision. How Feverfew works It works for prevention of headaches, persistent migraines and other chronic pain ailments, which are consistent in nature. There is a chemical compound known as sesquiterpene lactones present in it that inhibits serotonin secretion. Serotonin secretion aids in alleviating of migraine and other mild and moderate varieties of chronic pain. Moreover, this herb to a great extent aids in correcting arthritis to a great extent, enabling person mobility. 2.Ginger tea Ginger reduces pain. It is used to treat chronic pain patients suffering inflammation. However, it is best taken as tea. Ginger tea is also used for treating loose motions, aiding digestion and in relieving sore throats. Recipe Ingredients - 4 cups water, 2 inch piece of fresh organic ginger root Preparation – Cut peeled ginger root into thin pieces.  Boil water and add the sliced ginger after boiling. Let it simmer for 15 mins.  Strain.  Add stevia, honey and lemon to taste. How to use Drink the above preparation at least 3 times a day. How Ginger tea works It works for prevention of chronic joint pains, bladder dysfunction, chronic inflammation, neck stiffness, muscle spasm and nerve related chronic pain ailments. There is a chemical compound known as sedative valerian along with constituents like volatile oil, mucilage, phenols and alkeloids that aids in alleviating inflammation. 3.Carom Seeds This seed is used to treat abdominal discomfort and for other antiseptic purposes. It also remains a remedy for intestinal dysfunction. How to Use Use 1 tsp. of carom seeds with a pinch of salt, to calm indigestion, gas and other symptoms of gastritis including intestinal problems. Its tincture can been used to relieve rheumatic pains. How Carom Seeds works It has calming effect on chronic joint pains, arthritis, joints and musculature. It has certain sedatives, anti-spasmodic, anticonvulsant chemicals that aid in relieving the pain. This herb also enhances blood circulation and negates production of toxins. 4.Devil’s Claw It is a South African medicinal herbal root. It soothes pain in neck, shoulders, rheumatoid arthritis, back and other muscular tensions. It relieves pain by improving digestive system for good intake of food. As an arthritis cure, this herb is responsible for relieving gall bladder and stomach related pain which are the prime constituents of arthritis related ailment. Its active ingredients are harpagoside, iridoide glycosides and harpagide with anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties. How to use Take 750 mg dose (iridoide glycosides) three times daily. When used as a tincture, intake of 1 teaspoon, three times daily with tea is advisable. But patients with liver or kidney diseases should keep away from its use. How Devil’s claw works Chemical compounds such as harpagoside and iridoid glycoside present in it, aid in alleviating the cause of muscular and other chronic ailments. These are only a few herbal recipes used to treat Chronic Pain. If neglected for a period of time, Chronic pain can lead to a new set of problems like depression, fear, anxiety, failing immune system, stress and disability. You might also like ABOUT US DIYHealth is a community generated website dedicated to the principles of 'Help, Support, Overcome' when it comes to health matters. We are building together a health resource which is entirely collaborative and completely editable. Contributors Aastha Reputation: 262 Lisa Reputation: 203 Laura Reputation: 190 Christi Reputation: 175 Jason Reputation: 168 Jacob Reputation: 163 Garcia Reputation: 152 Caley Reputation: 148 David Reputation: 124 Mita Reputation: 119 Garima Reputation: 117 William Reputation: 110 Cole Reputation: 100 Iftikar Reputation: 86 Spandex Reputation: 62 Aristo Reputation: 36 Ashish Reputation: 29 Ruchi Reputation: 27 Suparna Reputation: 26 Terence Reputation: 26 » See All EXPLORE Health Living Diseases Diet and Nutrition Mental Health Skin Health Women's Health Healthy Living Alternative Therapy Sexual Health Infographics Introduce yourself Conditions Yeast Infection Stroke Stress STDs Snoring Schizophrenia Obesity Menopause Lower Back Pain Liver Failure more... COMMUNITY CONTACT US & FAQ NEWSLETTER ADVERTISE SITEMAP ARCHIVE Copyright © 2011 InstaMedia, Inc. Use of this web site constitutes acceptance of the DIYHEALTH.COM Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. The material appearing on DIYHEALTH.COM is for educational use only. It should not be used as a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Moreover, we do not select every advertiser or advertisement that appears on the web site-many of the ad