Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treatment for sciatica Loading Home About Us Contact Us Glossary Privacy Policy Treatment for sciatica Sciatica Cure Resources Treatment for sciatica may include symptoms like pain that radiates from back or buttock and moves into foot. The pain is sharp and burning in nature. Treatment for sciatica pain used by intervertebral disc rupturing that causes the pressure over the sciatic nerve and causes pain. Sciatica may be caused by other conditions too like tumors or pregnancy, etc. Injury or strain to body muscles that support our body is the major cause of sciatica. Treatment for sciatica improves with time but initial treatment may include exercises and medicines to relieve pain. Additionally Drugs/medications, surgery , etc… are also included in treatment for sciatica. Natural Treatments: Sciatica can also be treated naturally. Natural treatment for sciatica rules out all the possible side effects that are favored be other medicines. Treatment For Sciatica Using Food Altering the Diet may help in treatment for sciatica. Foods that possess anti-inflammatory activity may be helpful in treating sciatica pain. Several studies have shown that sciatica symptoms improve by adding potassium rich food in daily use like potatoes, oranges and banana, etc. Juices of carrot, celery, potato also helps in treatment for sciatica. Treatment For Sciatica Using Home Remedies There are many home remedies that are helpful in treating sciatica pain. Applying poultice horseradish over the painful area and covering it with thick towel for few minutes will ease the pain and nerve inflammation. Juices of carrot, potato and celery leave help in treatment for sciatica when drunk in a minimum quantity of 10 ounce per day. If juice does not taste too good for you, you may try celery tea in daily life, this will also be very much beneficial to relieve sciatica pain. Treatment For Sciatica Using Acupuncture Acupuncture is an alternate therapy for treatment for sciatica pain in which small thread like needles are introduced in to the body at the site of pain and very low voltage current is passed through it. This help in release of the blocked energy in the body and pain relieve but acupuncture must be practiced by a professional acupuncturist or it may even worst the sciatica symptoms. Treatment For Sciatica Using Massage Studies have shown that massage can also ease out the sciatica symptoms. It causes relieve in sciatica pain by reducing the pressure over the pain thus the patient feel comfort. There are different massage techniques which help in treatment for sciatica. Traditional Chinese massage works best for sciatica pain relief. Treatment For Sciatica Using Vitamin B1 and B-complexes along with garlic supplements Treatment for sciatica uses Vitamin B-Complex which helps in pain relieving and to improve the blood circulation in the body. These are also anti-oxidant and provide energy and heat to the body. Common source (natural) for vitamin B are spinach, green peas, beef, liver, soybeans, banana, breads and fresh vegetables. Pain-killers and Drugs: Painkillers are very much effective in treatment for sciatica. Pain killer like NSAID s (Non-Steroidal Anti Inflammatory Drugs) are favored as drug of choice in relieving sciatica pain. Long term use of NSAID may cause other problems like stomach ulcer or internal bleeding, etc. In some cases, sciatica doctor may prescribe anti-inflammatory drugs in combination with some muscle relaxant that relaxes the muscles. Anti-depressant drugs (Drugs that are used for the treatment for depression) may be prescribed for chronic pain which work by blocking pain signals to reach the brain or by enhancing the production of Endorphin (natural painkiller) in our body. Epidural steroid injection may be prescribed in which steroid is injected at the pain site. But these Steroid injections may have many side effects. Exercise and Physiotherapy Most of the patients are getting relief from sciatica pain with many of the exercises that alleviate sciatic nerve pain. Various exercises are recommended that help to strengthen the muscles that support our back. An exercise also initiates/enhances the production of endorphin (natural painkilling chemical of our body). Physical therapy for sciatica is considered as valuable component of rehabilitation program to get relieve from sciatica pain. Your physiotherapist can teach you exercises that strengthen the muscles and improve the spine flexibility. They can also teach you to how improve your walking style, posture that can reduce the future strain on your back. Surgery Surgery may be the option for the treatment for sciatica when the pain is due to slipped intervertebral disc or those symptoms that are getting worst with time. Find out more about Sciatica Operation » Please enter valid email address, you may need to verify it. Treating Sciatica Acupuncture and Sciatica Sciatica Cure Treatment Sciatica Operation Sciatica Doctor Sciatica Support Tens Sciatica Sciatica Blog @ Wordpress Sitemap Useful Links Sciatica Cure Treatment © All Rights 