
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 01 Apr 2012 23:03:13 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://devilsaidmaybe.com/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Doctor | Carisoprodol Guide Muscle Pain Info, Treatment & More! Carisoprodol Guide You are currently browsing the Carisoprodol Guide posts tagged: doctor What is Soma? March 29, 2012 Carisoprodol 6 comments The doctor took me off Durgesic Patches and gave me a medication called Soma (Carisoprodol) what is soma and does it have the same affects as a narcotic? This better not be one of those stupid muscle relaxers! Well, I mean does it have narcotic affects? Why do they consider it to be habit forming if it’s just a muscle relaxent? Chosen Answer: I’m really surprised your Dr. took you directly from a Duragesic patch to Soma, unless you were on a Duragesic patch for a short period of time post opperative? A Duragesic patch delivers Fentany which is a synthetic opiate pain killer that is 80 times stronger than Morphine. Soma is a muscle relaxant that has no opiate properties. Though technically not a narcotic it is now a scheduled medicine in most states because it is widely abused and addictive. It does give a euphoric effect especially when taken in a larger dose that 350mg which is the only dose it comes in, and when taken on an empty stomach. Fentanyl and the Duragesic patch are a second line drug that are usually only used for those that do not respond to heavy opiates such as Oxycontin, Diauladid and such. And to stop you cold turkey is odd unless this was a post operative short term situation. If you find yourself in withdrawal you need to tell you Doctor that you are “requesting” to be tapered down from the Fentanyl. If they do so it will probably by Duragesic to Percocet, to Vicodin then no opiates. Soma can be taken in conjunction with all the above as it works at blocking pain in a different manner than opiates. The only way I can see this change in meds is if you were on the patch very short term or your Doctor is suspecting abuse of the drug by: alohamalibu2000 on: 8th February 08 Is more than 4 Soma per day safe? March 25, 2012 Carisoprodol 2 comments I was recently prescribed darvocet and Soma for a chronic muscle pain condition. I used to take 4 per day, the max daily recommended dose. But when I saw my doctor he said that if needed I could take up to 6. I looked online and in the literature and info out there, it says that the max dose per day of Soma [Carisoprodol] is 4. My muscles really hurt bad and would like to take more if it is safe. But obviously don’t want to kill myself and realize that sometimes doctors mess up. I called the pharmacy and they just say follow your dr’s orders, so not much help. I was wondering if anyone has experience with soma and if so, if you’ve ever taken or been prescribed more than 4 per day? Or even better, hopefully a nurse or doctor on here if that’s not hoping too much. thanks again everyone. i’ve posted a lot of questions lately and have gotten so many great and helpful answers. The only reason i am questioning the doctor’s order is because the prescription has been being filled for over a year on refills, so the prescription instructions are the same on the bottle [take 4 a day as needed for pain]. but he verbally told me otherwise. and doctors are human and make mistakes. they are busy and may have made a mistake. i was hoping to hear from someone that has taken it, or knows otherwise. also, i tried calling the doctor this morning but he is on vacation for 2 weeks. Chosen Answer: It is okay to take 6 a day. I have taken that many for a long period of time. I know they have a long half life, they keep building up in your system so you dont want to take any more than that. by: charleejo on: 23rd March 08 What would the symptoms be as a over dose.A hand written quiz for a E.M.T. class.? March 22, 2012 Carisoprodol 1 comment 100 Lotrel 10/20mg? 100 Bisoprl/HCTZ 5/6.25mg? 100 Tricor 145mg? 100 Fluoxetine 20mg? 30/100 Carisoprodol 350mg? 60/100 Hydrocodone 5/500mg? All the above all at ones? Chosen Answer: Willy, whatever is going wrong around you please don’t do this. Go to see a doctor or a counsellor or join a help group. If all around you seems dark find a way to bring the light back into your life. I have been there and it was bad but things got better and I’m very glad that I gave it the time it needed. I know people who have tried and failed and they say that it was the worse thing they could have done. by: Debi on: 24th October 07 Can I take these drugs together? March 21, 2012 Carisoprodol 8 comments My dentist gave me Carisoprodol (a muscle relaxer) for my tight jaw muscles, and my doctor gave me Xanax for my anxiety.  Can I take these together or will it not be good if I do? Chosen Answer: http://www.drugs.com/drug_interactions.php It would have moderate interactions at most. Long list here but in alphabetical order. Type in carisoprodol and it will list all the drugs that it has interactions with. by: jc on: 10th April 08 muscle pain? March 11, 2012 Muscie Pain Q&A 1 comment i am experiencing very bad muscle pain in my tricep when i play football (throwing). nothing i do helps to make it go away. my friends say i am throwing the ball too hard but i want ur opinion. if it helps i can throw a junior football 50 yards and i am 13.               thank you so much! Chosen Answer: Slow down, let the arm heal. You keep going and you might damage it more and you might not be throwing a ball for a long time. Get it check out, you know a Doctor. by: pappyg on: 2nd March 08 I popped a pimple on my shoulder, now I have deep muscle pain there. Should I be worried about infection, MRSA February 23, 2012 Muscie Pain Q&A 1 comment I recently popped a pimple on my shoulder, and now have deep muscle pain. The pimple has looked the same the last 2 days, very small. There have been MRSA outbreaks in the area. Should I be worried? How long would it take to see a change in the pimple? Chosen Answer: please go to see a doctor. by: princess on: 3rd November 07 I have a pain on the left side on the back of my neck, a sharp pain not muscle pain. What is it? February 14, 2012 Muscie Pain Q&A 2 comments I hate to go visit the doctor as Im only 17 and its a whole process to get an appointment and then i have to go with a parent. So if its something someone knows that’s no big deal can someone just tell me what the cause of this sharp pain can be. Chosen Answer: Check to make sure you do not have an arrow embedded in your neck. That can cause a really sharp pain. If its not that, I haven’t a clue. by: Knick A on: 27th November 09 Is soma (carisoprodol) addictive? February 9, 2012 Carisoprodol 2 comments I’ve been prescribed darvocet and soma for back pain. I have noticed that while the darvocet are nice at times, the soma tends to help more. I mentioned this to my doctor and he said that was good and that most people just want the pain killers and that he’d be happy to prescribe me whatever I need when it came to the Soma. One thing I have noticed the past couple of days, is that I’ve gotten to a point where i REALLY enjoy the soma. I still only take them when I need to, but I feel like they could possibly be habit forming…are they? Chosen Answer: My Nursing Drug Handbook states that the drug can be habit forming and that abrupt withdrawal can cause  insomnia, headaches, nausea, or abdominal cramps. by: vtsztpu on: 14th November 08 What kind of doctor should I see for muscle pain/spasm? January 12, 2012 Muscie Pain Q&A 2 comments I got into a car accident 5 months ago and injured the muscle next to/under my shoulder blade and every few weeks or so it spasms and is in constant pain.. I don’t just want pain meds, I want my back fixed… Chosen Answer: Basically the only Doctor who can help you without pain meds (which don’t help anyway) is a Chiropractor. Get a good one off an HMO list, even if you aren’t insured they are the best and give discounts if you have to pay, or if the case is open they can maybe bill the car insurance directly. Call a few, ask what kind of experience they have with whiplashes (which your shoulder pain is definitely related to) and ask what they charge and how many treatments they might want to do (about 8-10 I’m guessing).  If they can’t give you a straight answer on the phone call another. Shop around. Watch out for people more interested in money than making you better – that’s more important. by: future on: 25th July 09 carisoprodol for pain? December 29, 2011 Carisoprodol 1 comment i was in a motorcycle crash not a bad one but im super sore and awhile back my doctor gave me carisoprodol 350mg for some back pain. i was wondering if it be good to take it just stick with excedrin. Chosen Answer: Probably.  Carisoprodol is a muscle relaxant.  If you are not having problems with muscle spasms, etc., you could probably do without it. Soma, the brand name of your medicine is good for certain muscle pain related issues, but I have a feeling it won’t do much for you in your case, hence bruising, and muscle soreness (not spasms). Doctors are afraid to offer narcotic pain medicines, because of the very high risk of addiction.  I suggest you work with Ibuprofen (Naproxin etc.) or other OTC pain medicine, and as long as you can tolerate the pain, and you are getting good rest, you will be fine.. by: thinkaboutmoney on: 5th February 11 ← Older Entries Archives April 2012 March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 Categories Carisoprodol Muscie Pain Q&A Recent Comments *̡͌l̡* evO *̡͌l̡* on Can i sell Indian made Carisoprdol, Fioricet, and Tramadol to customers in USA and UK by call center ? Ring0Rosie on Can i sell Indian made Carisoprdol, Fioricet, and Tramadol to customers in USA and UK by call center ? Tim on how long can soma be detected in a gas chromatography/mass spectrum urine test? Samantha on how long can soma be detected in a gas chromatography/mass spectrum urine test? Mark on How many pills can I take at once? Recent Posts LIFE THREATENING PLEASE HELP? Muscle Relaxants & Lactic Acid? “Imma Pop Pills” Question? What is Soma? My friend might have ODed, PLEASE HELP.? Tags answer anyone anything carisoprodol chosen days doctor doing dont drug first give going have having january legs muscle narcotic need over pain prescribed prescription pulled really recently relaxant relaxer relief right soma something started sure taking test thanks that think time what wondering work yesterday Copyright © 2012 Carisop