<http://www.thelaboroflove.com/articles/?p=1831>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close

Circumcision and HIV Click here for some great mommy and baby freebies from BabiesOnline.com Main Page Getting Pregnant Articles Pregnancy Articles Parenting Articles Chinese Gender Chart « Circumcision and STDs Talking To Your Child About Having A New Sibling » Circumcision and HIV There were several studies conducted in Africa during the 1980s that suggested that those men who were not circumcised had a higher risk of contracting HIV. The studies were conducted using information from maps, high risk populations, as well as the individuals that visited STD health clinics. The information in these studies resulted in a conclusion that men who were not circumcised had a greater chance of contracting HIV through unsafe sex and other risky activities. However, several studies that were performed on random populations in Africa have shown that men who are circumcised re actually more likely to have HIV infections. Medical literature makes this very confusing because it is frequently stated that a male’s foreskin places him at a high risk for contracting HIV. Locations in Africa that practice male circumcision found that HIV seroprevalence was much lower than in places that don’t practice circumcision in Africa. Information that could affect the study like when the individual first had sex, whether they were monogamous, and other factors were not considered. Circumcision data from the 1950s was used because it was decided that it had not changed since then. It was noticed that in areas that had high levels of circumcision also had high levels of HIV. The idea that circumcision could help reduce the spread of HIV is not correct and it is actually dangerous to think this because it could result in males involving themselves in unsafe sexual situations. There are other studies, like those from the WHO, that correlate HIV infection with individuals who have not been circumcised. With so much contradicting information floating around it is difficult for people to determine what is right and what is not. The most important thing to keep in mind in regards to circumcision and HIV is that it won’t prevent an HIV infection. Males who are circumcised and those who are not should always take care to prevent themselves from being exposed to HIV and other STDs. There is no way to prevent HIV and STDs in males regardless of whether they are circumcised or not other than through abstinence. Due to this, parents should consider the other benefits and risks of circumcision before deciding whether or not they should circumcise their child. Posted in Circumcision Related Articles: Circumcision Basics Why is Circumcision so Popular in the US and Nowhere Else? Can a Circumcision be Performed at any Age or Only on Infants? Does Circumcision Leave A Scar? Why Do They Circumcise Babies? How is Circumcision Performed? What Does Circumcision Cost? What Are The Percentages Of Boys Circumcised In US? Are There Medical Benefits To Circumcision? Can An Infant Die From Circumcision? Syndicate Subscribe to this site's RSS feed. Desktop Reader Bloglines Google Live Netvibes Newsgator Yahoo! What's This? Articles Main Page Categories Baby and Toddler Circumcision Elizabeth Pantley Potty Training Toddler Time Breastfeeding Health and Well-Being House and Home Parenting Pregnancy Relationships School Issues Trying to Get Pregnant The information provided here should not be considered medical advice.  It's not meant to be a replacement for any advice you may receive from your doctor. If you have any concerns about your cycle or our ability to get pregnant, your pregnancy or your baby's health, we advise you to contact your doctor. Part of iVillage Family Please feel free to email us at if you have any questions or comments! &copy Earth's Magic Inc 2000 - 20