
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/0.7.65
Date: Wed, 11 Apr 2012 23:48:04 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Connection: close
Set-Cookie: fe_typo_user=27915946ee9afacba54076bbda1f31e5; path=/
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Set-Cookie: SESSID=vtkvbaevig0jj38da0710ge7c1; expires=Thu, 12-Apr-2012 23:48:03 GMT; path=/; domain=www.jcm.co.uk; httponly

Acupuncture treatment of post-herpetic neuralgia - The Journal of Chinese Medicine Skip to navigation Skip to content Home About us Contact us Register Login Product search Site search Search keyword(s): Search Currency Settings British Pound Sterling Danish Krone Euro Norwegian Krone Swedish Krona US Dollar Shopping Basket Your basket is empty The Journal Latest issue Sample articles Subscribe JCM Article Archive Drum Tower Archive Research Archive Book reviews Journal Information Endangered species campaign Extraordinary archaeological find Shops Acupuncture Shop Book Shop Digital Download Shop Tea Shop Herbal Supplements Professional Herbal Supplies Special Offers Gift Vouchers Community Case histories Chinese medicine forums Seminars & Events Idan Frank's blog Chinese poems Home » Community » Case histories » Acupuncture treatment of post-herpetic neuralgia Acupuncture treatment of post-herpetic neuralgia Author Mendez C. M. MD, Cardoso T. MD, Jimenez I. Centro Internacional de Restauracion Neurologica. Introduction Herpes zoster disease (HZ) is caused by varicela  zoster virus. HZ typically presents as a vesicular rash involving the  thoracic or lumbar dermatomes. Pain, tingling, or itching sensation in  the affected dermatome often precedes the rash, which consists of  irregularly sized vesicles on an erythematous base. Patients may also  have systemic signs with fever, malaise, stiff neck, or headache. HZ  produces pain by nerve involvement in one-third of cases. In some cases a  persistent intense burning pain follows the initial acute illness. The  discomfort may persist (particularly in the elderly) for months or  years. The pain is localized over the distribution of the affected nerve  and associated with fine tenderness to the lightest touch.  Pathologically, HZ produces predominantly large fiber damage, resulting  in reduced inhibitory input of large fibers on the secondary nociceptive  cells. In the majority of healthy persons, herpes zoster remits within  3-4 weeks. The pain sometime is difficult to release, even with current  medication. Case history A 56-years-old man patient with an intense,  constant, deep burning pain in the right arm, with 3 month of evolution  after a Herpes zoster infection in the ulnar and median nerve  territories, rebellious to pharmacological treatment and an  electrophysiological study which verifies severe lesion on right  brachial plexus. He has a hypertension controlled with medication. He  came with the diagnosis of neuralgia postherpes zoster and was treated  with vitamins analgesic and steroids during a month and half; the last  month, Carbamazepine and Neurobion without release of the pain. ThatÅfs  why he was remitted to the Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine.  In the evaluation, he complained of pain as was described before. At  physical exam, it was found redness skin lesions in the ulnar and median  nerve territories, burning pain with tender palpation in this area, and  functional impairment of movement in right hand and arm (75%). He has  insomnia since the beginning of the process. According to the  bioenergetic diagnostic, it was considered as a syndrome of endogenous  damp heat with a deficiency of QI and Yin and hyperactivity of the fire  on liver and gall bladder. Stagnation of QI and blood in the channels  and collaterals was also considered. Treatment The general strategy was to release stagnation in  channel and collaterals to promote free circulation of qi and xue;  disperse heat damp pathogenic factor; tonify the Qi and regulate the  affected Zang Fu. First phase of treatment was applied with a seven star  needles in the affected area. Acupuncture in points Houxi SI-3, Neiguan  P-6, Zhongchong P-9, Hegu L.I.-4, Dazhui DU-14, in dispersion, and Quze  P-3, Shaohai HE-3, Quchi L.I.-11, Zusanli ST-36 with reinforcing  methods, 3 times a week. A second phase of treatment reinforcing with  needle the points Baxie, Waiguan SJ-5, Quchi L.I.-11, Dazhui DU-14,  twice a week. Result At the end of first moth of treatment, the pain was  in 4 according to the visual analogue scale for pain. At the end of  second month, pain was in 1 and follows with that until the 6th month  when it was 0. The insomnia was 2 in a scale from 0 (no insomnia) to 10  (the condition of the patient at the beginning), and 0 at the end of the  2nd month. The functional impairment of the arm was 8, in a scale from 0  (no functional impairment) to 10 (the functional impairment when the  patient arrive to our consultation); the second month was 6; the 3rd, 3,  the 4th month. Comments In this patient is relevant not only the insomnia  and pain rebellious to other pharmacological treatments released by  acupuncture but the recovery of functional impairment with an  electrophysiological study which verifies severe lesion on right  brachial plexus. Other comments to the author: cmanuel Subscribe to the Journal of Chinese Medicine - combined print & online Receive our beautifully printed journal on your doorstep three times a year in February, June and October and get 24/7 access to our vast digital archive of back content. Subscribe online now Recently Viewed Products Some Acupuncture Points Which Treat Disorders of Blood The Treatment of Pompholyx Eczema by Chinese Herbal Medicine The Foundations of Chinese Medicine: Second Edition Mawangdui poster The Essential Guide to Acupuncture in Pregnancy & Childbirth Terms & Conditions Postage & Packing Privacy Related Websites Accessibility Sitemap RSS Feeds © 2012 The 