Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Stop smoking the easy way - Sudbury Hypnotherapy Clinic, Toronto, Ontario Celebrating 25 years of successful therapy Welcome ~ Home ~ What is Hypnosis ~ Suggestion Therapy ~ Pure Hypnoanalysis™ ~ History of Pure Hypnoanalysis™ ~ About Daniel ~ Session Fees ~ Free Consultation ~ Contact Information ~ Useful Links Symptoms Treated ~ Phobias & Fears ~ Panic Attack Treatment ~ Anxiety Treatment ~ Emetophobia Treatment ~ Social Anxiety Treatment ~Depression Treatment ~ Sexual Problems Treatment ~ Shy Bladder/Paruresis Treatment ~ Stuttering/ Stammering Treatment ~Eating Disorder Treatment ~IBS Treatment ~Weight Loss Treatment ~ Complete List of Symptoms ~ Stop Smoking Easily - The Rob Kelly Method™ Daniel has trained with the U. K.'s leading hypnotherapist Rob Kelly to bring you one of the most successful smoking cessation methods in the world today. Rob has used his method on over 6000 clients with an incredible 95% success rate. Become a non- smoker today and change your life! Learn more here.. Stop Smoking Easily - The Rob Kelly Method™ soon to be offered in Sudbury Ontario! Daniel DesLauriers, a hypnotherapist in Toronto  is about to bring Sudbury one of the  most successful stop smoking  methods available in the world today.. "After incredible success with this method with my clients in southern Ontario I really wanted to open up this method to the residents of the North. Because I run a busy practice down south I will only be booking clients one, perhaps 2 days a month. I encourage those who are ready to email me their interest now as there will most definitely be a waiting list. " Daniel Deslauriers Keep reading to find out more about this method... Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy work, but... One of the largest studies ever undertaken on quitting smoking was conducted in the U.S. at the University of Iowa. This study included everything from willpower, to nicotine patches, gum, positive thinking etc... Of all the stop smoking methods included, hypnosis came out on top; "most techniques turned out hopeless. Hypnosis however came out as the most effective anti-smoking technique." As great of a win this study was for hypnosis and hypnotherapy, only an average of 30% of people quit smoking as a result. From 40% to 92.5% Rob's frustration as to why 60% of his clients did not stop smoking using 'suggestion therapy' (normal hypnotherapy) led him to further investigate why those 60% had failed. Rod developed his method with the aid of his decades of experience in analytical therapy. He fused together a mixture of applied psychology, suggestion and visualization to develop a method that has seen him treat over 5000 smokers with a 92.5% success rate (verifiable) . He has since taught his method to over 400 therapists in Europe and abroad, including Daniel. How is the Rob Kelly Method different than traditional hypnotherapy and hypnosis? The major difference is how little 'actual' hypnosis and hypnotherapy is used in the session. It involves about an hour long chat between you and myself and about 20min of actual hypnosis. This hour long chat will turn your belief systems about smoking upside down. Everything you have ever thought about smoking will be challenged and you will see smoking from an entirely new perspective. Ask your self this... if you received a fantastic sense of well-being,
calmness, pride and satisfaction
every time you got yourself in a situation
where you used to have a cigarette,
why would you EVER want or need to smoke again ? SURVEY RESULTS OF THE ‘ROB KELLY METHOD ® ’: AN APPLIED PSYCHOLOGICAL TECHNIQUE FOR SMOKING CESSATION Kelly, R.C. & Allen, C.E.L. ABSTRACT : This study presents the results of an online questionnaire for a novel smoking cessation treatment utilising applied psychological techniques. Participants were 107 paying clients attending Rob Kelly’s Cambridge Clinic. Post treatment 92.5% of participants reported that they had stopped smoking. RESULTS : 92.5% (99) of participants reported that they had stopped smoking after the treatment. Participants filled in the questionnaire between one day and 209 days (approximately seven months) after the session. The average time at which participants completed the questionnaire was 28.1 days post-session. The average time at which those who stated that they had stopped smoking completed the questionnaire was 29.7 days post-session (approximately one month), whereas the average time at which those who stated that they had not stopped smoking completed the questionnaire was 7.9 days post-session. When given the opportunity to state why they felt that they had or hadn’t stopped smoking, as well as comment on the effects of the process, 84 participants out of 107 (78.5%) submitted answers. 61 participants’ responses indicated that they found the process of stopping smoking easy or very easy (72.6% of those that gave answers to this part of the questionnaire). Responses were categorised as indicative of this if they explicitly stated the words ‘simple’, ‘easy’, ‘very easy’, ‘not hard at all’, or stated that it was ‘painless’, involved ‘no effort’, they had not had any cravings, withdrawal symptoms or side effects, or that they did not miss smoking at all. Examples of such comments included: “I stopped easily, and with no cravings at all” “very simple and easy process” “really easy - piece of cake” “I can't belive [sic] it was so simple” “don't miss smoking at all” A further 12 participants indicated that they found the process of quitting smoking post-treatment quite easy (14.3% of those that gave answers to this part of the questionnaire). Responses were categorised as such if the participant stated that stopping was quite easy, easier than expected, easier or not as hard as before, or involved only a few cravings or withdrawal. For example: "few cravings but basically simple" “quite easy and only a few cravings” “was so easy compared to previous attempts” “very few withdrawal feelings - just for three days” “not as hard as when I stopped before” Overall a total of 73 participants (86.9% of those that gave answers to this part of the questionnaire) indicated that they found the process either quite easy, easy or very easy. Another theme that reoccurred was that the process was quick, which was mentioned by four participants. Four participants, also, indicated that it was the fact that their beliefs around smoking that had changed which had enabled them to quit. For the 8 participants who did not stop smoking, some of the reasons they gave included that they were stressed, had a row, had put on weight, they felt no different and that they did not know why they had not stopped smoking. One participant did not give a reason for why they felt that they had not quit smoking. One participant stated that they had not stopped smoking, but then left a very positive comment regarding the treatment, suggesting that it was lifesaving. It is not known why this discrepancy occurred. References Kelly, R.C. & Allen, C.E.L. (2011) Survey results of the ‘rob kelly method’: an applied psychological technique for smoking cessation. Downloaded from http://www.robkelly.org/robkellymethodsurvey.html Frequently asked questions: Will I be 'out of control' while in hypnosis? For the purposes of therapeutic hypnosis and hypnotherapy only a light hypnotic state is sought. You will be entirely aware of what is going. Most people feel as if they hadn't been hypnotized at all, then again most people have no idea what hypnosis feels like. Do you offer 'guarantees ' to your clients? No. Nor do I think it is ethical for any professional therapist to offer any guarantees. Therapy, whether it is for smoking or otherwise involves YOUR participation to overcome YOUR problem. I will help you a great deal, but I can not stop smoking for you. There is no MAGIC or MIRACLES in hypnosis or hypnotherapy. Why does it cost so much more for a quit smoking cession than your other sessions? The Stop Smoking Easily method is the most engaging and involved type of therapy I do at the clinic. It requires a great deal of time, effort, character assessment and is harder work than any of the other symptoms I treat. Is every smoker suitable for this method? Yes, except for those with a history of psychosis. I have been to other hypnotherapist's, will it still work? Yes. The method I practice is entirely different in approach and mechanism to what any other hypnotherapist is using. Why cash payment only? A great deal of what we will chat about is 'tangible' reasons you want to quit. Cash is a 'tangible' resource, whereas credit, debit and cheques are not. Do I need to put in effort? YES! More information on Stop Smoking Easily - The Rob Kelly Method™: Stop Smoking Easily with  The Rob Kelly Method - amazing and quick way to stop smoking  permanently in just one session. Quit those cigarettes easily, without  the need for willpower or nicotine replacement. No cravings, no  withdrawal symptoms, no fuss. Completely unique smoking cessation  technique Home | What Is Hypnosis | Suggestion Therapy | Pure Hypnoanalysis | History of Pure Hypnoanalysis | About Daniel | Session Fees | Free Consultation | Contact Daniel | Useful Links | Phobias and Fears | Panic Attacks | Anxiety | Emetophobia | Social Anxiety | List of Symptoms Treated | Stop Smoking Easily | Hypnotherapy, Pure Hypnoanalysis and Hypnosis in GTA, Toronto, Mississauga, Hamilton, Barrie, Kitchener, Waterloo, Pickering, Brampton, Ma