
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 05 May 2012 20:43:58 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: Mono
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention Donate | Contact Us | Events | Home By Prevention Option Vaccines Microbicides Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision PrEP HSV-2 Suppression Treatment as Prevention HPV By Topic Policy Research Process Ethics Community Engagement Current Research Global Map Timeline Trials Clinical Site Capacity Database Px Wire Anticipating Results Hormonal Contraceptives and HIV Risk Download Materials Research Literacy Database Meeting Reports and Materials Publications Educational Materials Presentation Center Order Publications Materiales en Espanol Advocates' Corner Take Action Advocates' Network P-Values Weekly NewsDigest Calendar of Events The Omololu Falobi Award Links For Media Press Releases AVAC in the News Media Inquiries About AVAC Our Story Programs Staff Donors Board AVAC Fund Support AVAC Financial Information Jobs Quick Links Current Research Global Map Timeline Trials Clinical Trials Process Vaccine Clinical Trials Microbicide Clinical Trials PrEP Clinical Trials Medical Male Circumcision Clinical Trials HSV-2 Clinical Trials Treatment as Prevention Clinical Trials Fact Sheet: Data Safety Monitoring Boards Clinical Site Capacity Database Px Wire Anticipating Results Hormonal Contraceptives and HIV Risk Share Print AVAC Fact Sheet: Data Safety Monitoring Boards Clinical trials are closely monitored and
regulated by a variety of entities, including
independent bodies that review the trial
protocol and data on an ongoing basis to ensure
that the trial is ethical and should continue.
This fact sheet is designed for advocates who
would like to learn more about how these
entities work, what they do, and what impact
their recommendations can have on clinical
trials. As more and more AIDS
prevention trials take place, the role of the
Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) 1 is receiving increased
public attention. This fact sheet reviews some
recent situations in which a DSMB has made a
recommendation that affected the conduct of a
trial. It is important to recognize that such
recommendations are a sign that the system of
checks and balances that protects participants
and researchers involved in trials is working.
Regular review and prompt recommendations on
the part of DSMBs are an essential part of this
system. NOTE: The main focus of this piece is on
oversight of prevention research trials, but
these review boards function for all clinical
trials research. A PDF version of this document is available
here . Introduction The global effort to develop and test new
medicines and other approaches to prevent and
treat HIV/AIDS has raised public awareness of
the importance of conducting well-designed and
ethical clinical studies of promising
interventions. These clinical trials evaluate safety – whether it is safe for use
in humans – and efficacy – how well the
experimental therapy or approach works.
Clinical trials may also compare an
experimental approach to an existing approach,
or compare two new products to each other. A
multi-site clinical trial is a study that is
carried out at more than one location. This
type of trial helps to gather information about
different populations and what factors may
impact trial results. HIV Prevention Trials: There are many different types of HIV
prevention trials taking place in the world
today. There are studies which look at how
different types of support, education, services
and skills affect rates of risk-related
behavior, like unprotected sex or sharing
needles. There are also studies looking at new
biomedical strategies such as AIDS vaccines or
microbicides. Microbicides are experimental
products that could be applied vaginally or
rectally to reduce the risk of being infected
with HIV during sex. HIV prevention trials offer participants
access to a package of proven prevention
strategies, which include male and female
condoms, risk reduction counseling, HIV testing
and counseling, treatment for sexually
transmitted infections and clean needles.
Anyone who participates in a trial will get the
standard package of prevention options,
regardless of whether they are in the
experimental arm of the study, or in the
control arm, where they may receive a placebo
(an inactive substance administered to some
study participants while others receive the
agent under evaluation, to provide a basis for
comparison.) Some trials study whether a specific
strategy blocks HIV infection. Other trials
study whether the strategy, such as a vaccine,
might be able to make HIV-related disease less
severe in people who become infected. In this
case the prevention strategy is preventing disease progression rather than preventing infection. Highlighting Patient Safety In all clinical trials, researchers must pay
careful attention to the number one concern:
participant safety. Clinical trials have two
independent review bodies that make participant
safety a number one concern as they plan,
implement and monitor trial activities: an Institutional Review Board
(IRB) and a Data Safety
Monitoring Board (DSMB) . Together,
these review bodies are responsible for setting
and following ethical and scientific standards
for clinical trials that safeguard the
identity, safety and health of volunteer
participants. Anyone who is carrying out a
clinical study that poses more than a minimal
risk to participants must have a DSMB. Ongoing Review: Clinical
trials are carried out in a carefully
controlled setting. The DSMB provides ongoing
monitoring of the progress of the trials and
reviews data collected at regular intervals
throughout the trial (sometimes called interim
data) that will indicate whether the study
should continue according to plan, be changed,
or be stopped based on preliminary
results. IRBs and DSMBs – Complementary
roles: The IRB and DSMB have different
roles to play in safeguarding patient safety in
clinical studies. The IRB reviews the study
plan for the trial before the trial begins.
These plans are also referred to as a protocol.
IRBs are made up of individuals who have no
commercial or institutional ties to the group
planning the study, but bring needed expertise.
They often include ethicists and specialists in
clinical trial design and implementation. The
IRB’s job is to make sure the study plan
follows an ethical process to assure that
participation in the study is entirely
voluntary, and that individuals being recruited
have provided their informed consent to participate – meaning that they have
understood what strategy the trial is going to
test and why, and what it means to participate
in the study, as well as the potential risks
and benefits of their participation. The IRB
reviews the informed consent materials before
the study starts enrolling volunteers to make
sure the documents are easy to understand and
that it is translated in different languages as
needed. It pays attention to issues such as
diversity and representation of the study
group, to make sure that women and minorities
are represented. This is important since
products may have different effects in
different populations. The IRB also monitors
safety of study volunteers at a local level. A Data Safety Monitoring
Board is made up of outside experts
who monitor participant safety and the efficacy
of the study product while a clinical study is
taking place. A DSMB is composed of at least
three people (typically 3-10) who are not
directly involved in the conduct of the study
and have no financial links to the study. A
DSMB will typically include an ethicist,
statistician and medical personnel who
specialize in the disease being studied and any
possible adverse events (side effects) related
to the experimental drug. Many studies today
also include a community or patient advocate
– a representative from the primary target
population for the study drug. Role of the DSMB: The DSMB
provides an ongoing independent review of data
from the trial to address safety concerns. The
DSMB will follow a Data and Safety
Monitoring Plan to review whether one
drug is significantly safer of more effective
than another. It has the authority to stop a
trial based on different criteria (see below).
The DSMB will review whether the study data is
being properly collected, analyzed, and
reported, by whom and to whom, and how often.
It can also compare the study to other related
studies. Who does the DSMB report
to? The DSMB make its recommendations
regarding continuing or stopping the study to
the IRB and the study investigators. There are
also strict requirements and deadlines for
reporting unanticipated adverse events to
different groups, for example, regulatory
agencies and research sponsors. There also may
be different criteria or grading scales for
evaluating the severity or toxicity of an
adverse event. Why do we need a DSMB? The
duration of clinical trials varies, and some
can go on for years. Many studies are
“double-blind” randomized clinical trials
– studies in which no one involved in the
study (neither the volunteer participants,
doctors, investigators, nor sponsors) knows to
which group trial participants have been
assigned. For that reason, it’s important for
an independent group to be monitoring the
benefits and risks for trial participants, to
protect their safety and health. In most trials, participants are assigned by
chance to either a control or experimental
group – a selection process called randomization . The control group may
be given a placebo (see
definition above). In a trial of surgical
intervention, such as male circumcision, the
participants do not receive a placebo; they
always receive the same package of proven
prevention strategies as people in the
intervention arm. The experimental strategy is
given to the other group. A “blinded” trial
is designed so that neither the study staff nor
the volunteer participants know if they have
received the experimental agent or placebo.
This ensures that counseling provided to
participants at each study visit is the
same—since staff do not know who is in the
active arm, and who is in the control arm. As part of a period review of trial
activity, the DSMB reviews the results of the
study at regular intervals – typically 3 and
6 months – and compares the results in the
two groups. There may also be unscheduled
analysis or additional analysis requested by
the investigators or by the DSMB. The DSMB thus
plays a critical ongoing watchdog role for
trial participants, using patient safety as a
litmus test for their ongoing
participation. At each interim analysis, the DSMB makes a
recommendation about the trial. Often the
recommendation is simply that the trial should
continue. This happens when there is no
evidence of risk to participant safety and—in
the case of efficacy trials—when there is
also no evidence that the product has such a
great and obvious benefit that it would be
unethical not to offer it to the people
receiving the placebo. A recommendation to
continue also indicates that the trial should
be able to answer the research question it is
asking with current rates of volunteer
enrolment and retention. There are several occasions when a DSMB may
make a recommendation which dramatically
changes what is happening in the trial. There
are three common reasons why this might
happen: Overwhelming positive effect 2 : The interim
data suggests that the experimental strategy
offers a statistically measurable significant
benefit – it is working so well that everyone
should be offered the intervention. The DSMB
can recommend ending randomization. Ending
randomization means that the people in the
placebo or control arm are also offered the
intervention, and that the people in the
experimental arm continue to have access to the
intervention (if it is an ongoing treatment,
rather than a one-time strategy such as male
circumcision. Since the trial site is offering
the intervention to all participants,
activities at the site continue. The facilities
and staff continue to follow up with
participants and provide the intervention to
people in the control arm as well. At the same
time, the trial sponsor may start to take steps
to seek early approval from regulatory
authorities (see section below), or make plans
for additional follow-up trials to confirm the
results in different populations. A caveat:
Long-term safety data is considered very
valuable to make sure any early benefits seen
in a study won’t be temporary, so favorable
early or interim results must really be
considered ‘overwhelming’ evidence. Harm: The DSMB may
recommend that a study be stopped if analysis
of the data suggests that the experimental
intervention appears harmful to the trial
participants. This recommendation could be made
on the basis of serious adverse events or side
effects that are cropping up in those getting
the experimental intervention; it could also be
made on the basis of evidence that people
receiving the experimental strategy have higher
rates of HIV infection than people who are
receiving the standard prevention package.
Here, too, the trial site will remain
functioning for some time to ensure that the
medical needs of the participants are met. In some cases, the DSMB will weigh these
emerging risks or side effects against possible
longer-term benefits that could also develop
with the experimental drug. For example, an
experimental cancer drug (chemotherapy) might
cause initial hair loss, and severe nausea, or
anemia, but lead to greater survival in the
longer run. Such risk-benefit analyses are an
ongoing aspect of the DSMB’s work during the
duration of a study. Futility: In the context
of prevention research, a DSMB can recommend a
trial stop for “futility” when interim data
analysis shows that the trial is unlikely to be
able to answer the question(s) posed by the
trial. This can happen because enrollment rates
are slow, because rates of new HIV infections
are lower than anticipated, or because of other
changes in the site or the study community make
it impossible to conduct the study as it was
originally designed. A futility finding can
also happen in certain situations when the DSMB
reviews the data and finds that there are
equivalent numbers of HIV infections in the
active and control arm. In such instances, a
DSMB might advise that the trial is highly
unlikely to ever be able to demonstrate the
effectiveness of the intervention and recommend
trial closure. When it comes to drugs and other
therapeutics, another reason for a futility
finding, is early evidence that an experimental
drug isn’t likely to work as well or better
than existing approved drugs. In such cases,
there’s little benefit to participants and
the trial sponsor can save money by ending the
study early. Another scenario where a DSMB may
make a recommendation to stop based on futility
is if it appears that the study is not
recruiting or retaining enough participants to
generate enough data to adequately evaluate the
experimental product – something called
“statistical power”. In some cases, the
DSMB may recommend a change or revision of an
original study protocol, to allow for
additional recruitment or enrollment, rather
than recommending that the trial be stopped
completely. Ongoing Challenges: The
above examples represent the most common
reasons why DSMBs vote to end studies early, or
continue them, or ask for modifications in the
study protocol. In all these cases, participant
safety remains the guiding principle for DSMB
decision-making. They can be difficult
decisions, since the DSMB or equivalent body
must evaluate incomplete data sets, and it is
hard to draw definitive conclusions from
limited data. If a trial continues to run, more
data can be collected, and there is a better
chance of getting a clear sense of whether the
strategy works or not. But if there is evidence
of any safety issue to the participants, the
trial should be stopped. The scientific, financial and personal
stakes in clinical trials are often very high
for different parties, and generally involve
considerable investment by various groups.
These include the product manufacturer and
trial sponsors, the physicians, and most
importantly, the volunteer participants who are
putting their bodies on the line to test the
merits of an experimental product. Patient
advocacy groups are naturally very invested in
the outcome of clinical trials and may play an
important community watchdog role related to
participant safety. They can be very vocal
about the performance or actions of an IRB or
DSMB. It’s not uncommon to see a backlash of
controversy, community debate and harsh media
coverage directed at DSMBs and IRBs and their
members when difficulties or negative events
arise, adding to the pressure faced by the DSMB
to act, even when clear evidence is lacking
about what course of action is best. The DSMB
will put participant safety ahead of other
considerations as its central mandate. Final Approval: The DSMB
does not make final determinations about
whether a product should be made available once
it proves effective in a trial. After a trial
has ended, either on schedule or due to a DSMB
recommendation of significant benefit, there
are other authorities who grant final approval
for new strategies. This separation is another
way that the rights and interests of
participants and study communities are
protected. This approval is legally-required
before marketing in the country or region where
the agency sits. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) is the final authority that
reviews clinical trial data and provides
approval required for any new therapy or
vaccine or other biomedical strategy to be
licensed in the US. In Europe, the
corresponding body is called the
European Agency for Evaluation of Medical
Products (EMEA) . South Africa has a
similar body called the Medicines
Control Council (MCC) ; India’s
approval authority is called the Drug
Controller of India (DCI) . Many
developing countries lack the regulatory
capacity and reso urces to conduct full-scale
reviews of products independently, and so may
look to EMEA and FDA decisions to help guide
their own approaches. The EMEA and the World
Health Organization are also working with other
partners to help build regulatory capacity in
many developing countries. HIV Prevention Trials: Recent Examples and
Challenges In recent years, several HIV prevention
trials have been stopped early, including the
three cited below which demonstrate the three
main reasons for stopping trials early. These
studies and the ongoing public and community
debates related to participant safety reveal
the complex challenges involved in conducting
HIV prevention trials in high-risk populations
and countries being ravaged by the epidemic.
They have also highlighted the important role
HIV prevention advocates play in educating and
mobilizing grassroots communities and leaders
about these trials, particularly in regions
where the trials were abruptly halted or new
trials are planned. Case Study 1: Male Circumcision –
An example of significant benefit In December, 2006, the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), a
branch of the NIH, announced the early end to
two large-scale, carefully controlled and
randomized clinical trials of adult male
circumcision, one in Kisumu, Kenya, the other
in Rakai, Uganda. The decision was based on an
interim review of the data which showed that
medically performed circumcision significantly
reduced a man’s risk of HIV infection during
vaginal intercourse. The study was carried out
in HIV-negative men and compared men who were
randomly assigned to undergo circumcision in a
medical setting immediately versus men who were
circumcised at a later date. Men in both the
immediate and the delayed circumcision arms of
the trial were provided with counseling,
condoms and STD treatment. The studies were totally enrolled by
September 2005, and were originally slated to
continue follow-up until mid-2007. But on
December 12th, during a review of interim data
by the National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases (NIAID) DSMB for this
trial, it recommended to stop the trials early,
given the strong evidence of the benefit of
circumcision. What does “overwhelmingly significant”
benefit mean to the DSMB and in turn, the
NIAID? The Kenya data, which involved 2,784
HIV-negative men, showed a 53% decrease in
their risk of acquiring HIV; in Uganda, 4,996
men participated in the study, which showed a
48% decrease in risk for the circumcised men.
Given such powerful evidence in favor of
circumcision as a prevention tool, the NIAID
DSMB moved to offer circumcision to all men
participating in the trial. It’s important to note that the Kenya and
Uganda circumcision trial results were also
preceded by favorable findings in an earlier
study. In 2005, a team of French and South
African researchers reported on the results of
the first large, randomized HIV and male
circumcision trial involving 3,000 HIV-
negative men. That study showed circumcision
decreased the risk of exposure to HIV by
60%. Case Study 2: A Case of
Unanticipated Harm In February, 2007, two clinical trials being
carried out in Africa of a candidate vaginal
microbicide (a Cellulose Sulphate (CS) compound
named Ushercell) were unexpectedly halted after
an interim review of the data from one of the
trials suggested a possible increased risk of
HIV infection among women participants
receiving the experimental product. Many
microbicides are being developed today, but
none to date have proven to be effective. The Ushercell Phase III efficacy studies
were sponsored by CONRAD, a reproductive health
consortium, and followed 11 earlier safety
trials suggesting it was safe to use in women.
But an interim review by CONRAD’s DSMB of
trial data at three sites – Benin, South
Africa, and Uganda – suggested that Ushercell
might increase a woman’s risk of acquiring
HIV. The DSMB recommended stopping the trial
early. Their decision prompted a DSMB review of
a similar Cellulose Sulphate trial in Nigeria,
sponsored by Family Health International (FHI).
Although the DSMB found no evidence of an
increased risk there, the FHI DSMB decided to
err on the side of caution and closed that
trial early too. Case Study 3: A Case of
Futility A recent example of a DSMB futility finding
came from a microbicide trial of a candidate
called SAVVY in Ghana. At a scheduled DSMB
review, an analysis of the rates of new HIV
infections (incidence) in the study population
found that it was much lower than the trial
planners had expected. This could indicate that
participants are benefiting from prevention
messages and services provided by the site and
in other contexts. In some instances, incidence
is lower than expected because of limitations
in the surveillance data that were used as the
basis when designing the trial. If incidence is
drastically lower than what statisticians had
expected when they designed the trial, then it
will not be able to answer the question. This
was the case with the Ghana SAVVY trial, and
the DSMB recommended that the trial be
stopped. 1 Each clinical
trial has its own data safety monitoring
committee that is charged with protecting
participant safety and advising study sponsors
and Investigators. These committees are often
called DSMBs, and may be known as Data
Monitoring Committees or DMCs. We use the term
“DSMB” throughout this document as the
generic name for such data safety
committees. 2 An
“overwhelming positive effect” could be
clear evidence of reduced rates of HIV
infection in the group of participants who
received the experimental intervention. In the
case of an HIV vaccine trial, positive effect
could also be a clear difference in the viral
load setpoint of people who received the
experimental vaccine and went on to become
infected with HIV, versus those in the placebo
arm. Scientists are hoping that this difference
in viral setpoint will translate into a
long-term benefit in terms of slower disease
progression; however, this will need to be
confirmed in further studies. Site Map | Links | Jobs | Disclaimer | Webmaster | © 2012 AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention Lima | New York | Rio | London | Johannesburg | Nairobi | Delhi | Bangkok | Sydney AVAC: Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention 101 West 23rd Street · New York, NY +1 212.796.6423 (main) · avac@avac.org Copyright 2012,  All rights reserved. Design by Lo