
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 15:27:06 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private
Connection: close

Black Los Angeles Health 
            Information Network promotes health care awareness in the African American community Journey to Wellness UTI: A COMMON BUT SERIOUS PROBLEM By Dr. Mary Harris Presented 
                  by: Most 
            adults have experienced the pain and discomfort of a urinary tract 
            infection (UTI) at one time or another, but may not have known what 
            it was. The symptoms of UTI can be ignored or mistaken for other conditions. 
            Pain or pressure in the lower abdomen, pain or stinging during urination 
            and an urgent need to urinate frequently, even when the flow is just 
            a trickle, can mean an infection in the urinary tract is present. 
            Left untreated, UTI can spread to the bladder or kidneys and cause 
            kidney disease. Bacteria 
            that enter the urinary tract through the urethra and multiply in the 
            bladder cause most UTI's. Diabetics and men with an enlarged prostate 
            are particularly susceptible, along with most women whose urethras 
            are shorter than men's. The 
            most used treatment for UTI is antibiotic therapy, but antibiotics 
            kill good bacteria along with the bad and leave infected persons with 
            reduced defenses to fight future infections. Instead, many health 
            professionals are now opting to treat this common problem with a variety 
            of herbal tinctures that include marshmallow, uva ursi, and cornsilk, 
            among others. The goal is to strengthen the urinary tract system as 
            well as quell the infection. While the herbs mentioned are readily 
            available in most health food stores, dosing is important. A trained 
            herbalist or physician should oversee herbal therapies for any condition. High 
            doses of vitamin C have also proven effective in treating UTI. Three 
            to five grams of the vitamin daily acidifies urine and retards bacterial 
            growth. Alternating streams of hot and cold water directed toward 
            the pelvic region several times a day is also a useful therapy to 
            increase blood flow to the infected area and reduce inflammation. Your 
            chances of contracting a urinary tract infection are greatly reduced 
            by remaining fully hydrated with lots of fresh drinking water. It's 
            estimated that a half-ounce of water is needed for each pound of body 
            weight, so a 180-pound person would need 90 ounces of water daily 
            to guard against this type of infection, and more if they're physically 
            active. A 
            balanced diet that avoids wheat, dairy and citrus fruits (known for 
            promoting low grade inflammatory reactions) is also beneficial. Avoid 
            coffee and caffeinated drinks. Good hygiene, especially for women, 
            is essential. Women should always cleanse themselves from front to 
            back after using the bathroom. Doing so decreases the amount of bacteria 
            introduced into the urethra. Douches, bubble baths, vaginal creams, 
            spermicides - even harsh or perfumed laundry detergents and synthetic 
            underwear- can trigger or aggravate an infection by upsetting the 
            body's natural protection from good bacteria. Cranberries 
            have proven to be highly effective in battling UTI, but beware! Heavily 
            sugared cranberry juice or sauce may have the opposite effect since 
            sugar feeds bacteria rather than killing it. Instead, dilute unsweetened 
            cranberry juice concentrate or search your local health food store 
            for cranberry extract capsules. They may be sold under the Latin name 
            Vaccinium macrocarpon. Remember, 
            urinary tract infections can be serious. If you suspect you have one, 
            please see your doctor immediately. The self-help treatments listed 
            above are preventive measures against future infections, not cures 
            for the one you have. Always visit www.journeytowellness.com for more important news about your health. # # # # # About 
            Journey to Wellness Journeytowellness.com is the Internet component of the Journey To Wellness Radio programs 
            that provides healthcare and health literacy information through syndicated 
            radio programming on public radio stations and on the CNN Radio network. Journeytowellness.com allows visitors to actually listen to archived 
            radio programs of the nationally syndicated radio programs-Journey 
            To Wellness, as well as read program related articles and link to 
            credible related resources. Please 
            visit our Journey to Wellness Air Times and Topics page to find out 
            our schedule, the radio stations that carry ou