<http://www.thehealthyvillage.com/blog/?p=4954>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

The Roots of Acupuncture | The Healthy Village Blog The Healthy Village Blog Healthy Living For Healthy People Home Diet & Nutrition Vitamins & Supplements Diseases & Conditions Womens Health Article Directory Contribute The Roots of Acupuncture Published on March 5, 2011 by Sam  Burner in Acupuncture 0 The recorded history of China clearly shows how acupuncture was formulated there several thousand years ago. This medical technique was not witnessed in other countries until perhaps several hundred years ago. Yet, this ancient Chinese process began to be broadly accepted in Western countries in the course of the second half of the twentieth century. Along with this acceptance, the medical and professional group has been engaged in research on many aspects of acupuncture. In the US, it is typical to see certified acupuncture practitioners, as well as qualified Chinese doctors of traditional Chinese medicine providing their services. Acupuncture incorporates inserting thin, specialized needles just slightly into the skin at extremely specific spots. According to Chinese medical theory, there are very many uses and disease situations that can be successfully treated using acupuncture. On the other hand, we wish to say that you should make a scheduled appointment with your primary medical professional before using this technique. Obviously it is your judgement, but you never know what may be a concern which is precisely why you should see your own doctor. However along with all the other information and understanding, where the needles are required are all in accordance with the key theory. Yet, the acupuncture points exist in special regions of the body called meridian lines. These lines are located all over the body, and there are hundreds of acupuncture points. The official explanation of meridians is they are the channels through which our life force flows. So depending on the disorder, that is exactly where the trained person will put the needles. According to acupuncture texts, it is the blockage, or increased resistance, of energy at a location that results in particular medical problems. The activity of the acupuncture needles is to clean the obstacle to energy flow and regain health and well being. Pain caused by other conditions can be reduced using the same basis. That is why very many people undergo acupuncture, and it’s for alleviation of pain from other issues. If a person can feel pain relief this way, then there’s no need for taking pain relievers given by physicians. All of the various conditions and situations for which acupuncture may be helpful, or effective, have not been thoroughly studied. Acupuncture can be effective for managing stress and the types of headaches that can end up from it. Migraines are a typical problem that people apply acupuncture for, and they state that effective treatment can occur. Additional benefits consist of being a safe option, but it is very important you consult your doctor and seek a skilled and licensed acupuncture therapist. Apparently there may be some side effects with some kinds of problems, but the best path to take is ask a professional acupuncture therapist. An added reason some people make use of this method is in special situations when other methods of alleviating pain are not effective. Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Type your comment here... Categories Select Category Diet & Nutrition Vitamins & Supplements Diseases & Conditions Cystic Fibrosis Migraines Urinary Tract Infections Eye Care Family Fitness & Exercise General Hair Care Self Improvement Skin Care Treatment & Therapy Acupuncture Aromatherapy Bodywork Reiki Herbal Medicine Hypnotherapy Womens Health Health Tags Aromatherapy catalyn coconut oil cystic fibrosis dha eczema enzymes essential oils inflammation leptin licorice menopause migraines nausea nori omega3 omega6 perimenopause premenopause protein reiki respiratory seaweed Skin supplements Urizol UTI vegan vegetarian weight loss whey Zumba Recent Health Posts Migraine-Associated Vertigo Migraines: When Nausea Is As Bad As The Headache Reduce Inflammation And Improve The Respiratory System With Proteolytic Enzymes High Level Nutrition: An Introduction To Catalyn Lept