
Acupuncture Amita Holistic Center We provide a unique, alternative approach to holistic healing. We use bio-energy screening tests to detect disorders. We use and teach healing based on the primary holistic schools. Tweet In Russian About Us Home Diagnostics Treatment Diseases Beauty Education Partners E-Shop Treatment Energy Healing Reiki and Karuna-Kei Bio-energy Healing Techniques Tatyana's unique approach Microcurrent Therapy Acupuncture Massage Cellulite removal Reflexology Detox Detox Protocol Detox Spa Infrared Sauna Homeopathy Treatment Acupuncture Acupuncture is a very effective and safe ancient Chinese technique based on the theory and practice of Chinese Medicine. Introduction Acupuncture is an element of alternative medicine which works by stimulating specific points within the body (acupoints) using techniques such as needling, and cupping (moxibustion) to rebalance the flow of energy (Qi) through the body's energy channels (meridians). Qi is said to circulate around the body via 14 meridians and there are thousands of acupoints located along the different meridians, all of which are associated with specific organs. An acupuncturist works on the principle that disease is the result of unbalanced or blocked Qi within various parts of the body. When the flow of Qi is restored, the body can heal itself. Ten to 15 million Americans every year use acupuncture for treatment of allergies, asthma, arthritis, bladder and kidney problems, bronchitis, constipation, depression, diarrhea, dizziness, colds, fatigue, flu, gynecologic disorders, headaches, high blood pressure, migraines, paralysis, PMS, sciatica, sexual dysfunction, smoking, stress, stroke, tendonitis, and vision problems. The following benefits of Acupuncture are supported by research: Acupuncture harmonizes the body without chemical or secondary effects It strengthens the immune system It helps to prevent illness and promotes the recovery of health It increases circulation of Qi and blood that is impaired by chronic illness It promotes the release of endorphins, the body's natural pain killer It balances the Mind, Body, and Spirit In her practice Dr. Yakovleva uses several ancient and modern techniques based on the principles of Acupuncture and Eastern Medicine. Several are described below. Auriculotherapy Dr. Yakovleva uses Auriculotherapy, a system of ear acupuncture.  It is a form of alternative medicine based on the idea that the ear is a microsystem, meaning that the entire body is represented on the auricle, the outer portion of the ear.  It is an integrated system of Chinese and Western practices of acupuncture. Korean Su Jok Acupuncture Dr. Yakovleva incorporates Korean Su Jok tradition in her acupuncture practice. In Korean, "Su Jok" means "hand and foot." The advantage of this system is its simplicity, safety and efficiency. In Su Jok, practitioners concentrate on the patient's hands and feet to influence the whole body and treat diseases. Su Jok Acupuncture stimulates the hands and feet with various medical instruments such as needles, moxa, stimulators, seeds, lasers, and finger pressure. Using a unique combination of ancient techniques and advanced alternative methods, Dr. Yakovleva has developed many disease-specific treatments. These combination treatments have been widely used in her practice. Dr. Yakovleva firmly believes in tailoring all treatment regimens to each individual's needs. Dr. Yakovleva's regimens include treatments for the following disorders: 1. Migraine, stress, insomnia, depression, and anxiety Hans-Christoph Diener, a neurologist at the University of Duisburg-Essen in Germany stated that "Acupuncture is as effective as drug treatment for the prophylaxis of migraine." This sentiment is echoed by many of Dr. Yakovleva's patients who find this treatment both effective and pleasant. 2. Respiratory Disorders Dr. Yakovleva has developed a new treatment regimen to prevent asthma attacks. She uses acupuncture to treat emphysema, bronchitis, allergies, sinusitis, laryngitis, cough, as well as the common cold and flu. 3. Circulatory Disorders Dr. Yakovleva has effectively treated patients with hypertension, anemia, arteriosclerosis, and angina pectoris. Of her patients with long-term hypertension, 85% report decreasing their routine blood pressure medication dosage, while 15% report that they no longer require medication for blood pressure control. 4. Musculoskeletal and Neurological Disorders Dr. Yakovleva has effectively treated spasms, tendonitis, torticollis, RSD, Carpal Tunnel, musculoskeletal weakness, rheumatism, arthritis, as well as lower back, neck, and shoulder pain. 5. Gastrointestinal Disorders Dr. Yakovleva has successfully treated patients for peptic ulcers, constipation, chronic diarrhea, gastrointestinal weakness, indigestion, anorexia, gastritis, colitis, Crohn's disease, bloating, vomiting, and food allergies. 6. Irritable Bowel Syndrome Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) is an intestinal disorder causing a variety of symptoms, which may include cramping, abdominal pain, gas, bloating, and irregular bowels. Some people with IBS have diarrhea with frequent loose stools, while others have constipation, causing infrequent bowel movements that are difficult to pass. Still other IBS patients suffer from alternating diarrhea and constipation. Symptoms are frequently triggered by stress, emotional factors, or the ingestion of food. Most of Dr. Yakovleva's patients who have suffered from IBS report improvement in IBS symptoms after first treatment. 7. Urogenital Disorders Dr. Yakovleva has had success in treating such disorders as prostatitis, stress incontinence, hesitancy, urinary tract infections, and sexual dysfunction. 8. Gynecological Disorders Dr. Yakovleva has effectively treated painful menstruation, infertility in both men and women, and menopause-associated discomfort. 9. Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat Disorders In her practice, patients with some types of partial deafness, decreased vision, glaucoma, tinnitus, and vertigo reported improvement after Dr. Yakovleva's treatment. About Us Contact Us Terms & Conditions * Copyright © 2006-2012 Amita Usa. All Rights 