
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.0.52 (Red Hat)
Vary: Accept-encoding
Expires: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 03:31:38 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=0, no-cache, no-store
Pragma: no-cache
Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2012 03:31:38 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=UTF-8

Circumcision decision is only for consenting grown-ups - Times-Standard Online Mobile | Digital Subscribe | e-edition | Print Subscribe Search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH Site Web Subscriber Services Home News Local News State News On The Record Business Market Review Local Gas Prices Earthquakes Technology Travel Autos Eureka Earthquake Northcoast 101 Web Cams Special Sections Videos Top Ten 2011 Stories Lifestyle Opinion Editorials Guest Opinion Letters Dave Stancliff Sports Prep Sports Humboldt Crabs Fishing the North Coast Entertainment Humboldt Dining Guide TV Listings Horoscopes Lottery Results Photo Galleries Obits Announcements Anniversaries Engagements Weddings Announcement Forms Cars Place an Ad Deals on Wheels Jobs Place an Ad Classifieds Garage Sales Business & Service Dir Tri-City Weekly Place an Ad Today's Ads All Top Listings Legal & Public Notices Real Estate On the Market Circumcision decision is only for consenting grown-ups Amanda Windsor/For The Times-Standard times-standard.com/ Posted:
						 
						09/01/2011 02:30:20 AM PDT Genital cutting as a medical procedure rather than as a ritual sacrifice got its start as a Victorian fad treatment for masturbation. They blamed masturbation for many of the serious illnesses they could not understand or treat. A lot of Americans of my generation don't know this, but the foreskin is the most sensitive erogenous zone on the male body, and cutting it off was seen as a convenient “cure” for this problem of pleasure. Other treatments involved chastity belts and burning the head of the penis with hot pokers.  I'll quote one of the fathers of medical genital cutting, Dr. John Harvey Kellogg: ”A remedy for masturbation which is almost always successful in small boys is circumcision, especially when there is any degree of phimosis. The operation should be performed by a surgeon without administering anesthetic, as the pain attending the operation will have a salutary effect upon the mind, especially if it be connected with the idea of punishment, as it may well be in some cases. The soreness which continues for several weeks interrupts the practice, and if it had not previously become too firmly fixed, it may be forgotten and not resumed.” The same “benefits” were also recommended for girls, and clitoridectomies (removal of the clitoris) were also performed. But even Dr. Kellogg thought circumcision was inappropriate for infants and could lead to problems later. Nevertheless, as more births began happening in Advertisement hospitals instead of at home, attended by doctors instead of midwives, the procedure began to be performed on infants more and more often. After World War II, doctors in all other industrialized nations rejected circumcision as harmful and unnecessary, but the U.S. followed a different path. Wartime military policy, the medicalization of childbirth, the adoption of a for-profit medical system instead of a public health service, and the opinions of popular figures such as Dr. Spock all played a role. Now the U.S. is also beginning to abandon the practice. Circumcision rates in the United States have dropped as low as one-third in recent years. I'm thrilled! Circumcision permanently removes 50 to 75 percent of a person's healthy erogenous tissue, is very painful, and has all of the same human rights issues as cutting girls and all of the risks that come with any surgery. What about those HIV results in Africa? The media likes to talk about a 50 percent risk reduction, and that sounds impressive, until you look at the numbers and discover that the risk was reduced from 3.38 percent to 1.58 percent. Not so exciting, and for each new study the benefit goes down; original studies suggested that cut men were eight times less likely to get HIV. Skeptical scientists suspect that when all the outside factors have been thought of and accounted for, there will be no benefit at all. These sorts of minuscule results are why no medical association in the world, not even in the U.S., recommends the surgery to prevent disease. I'll quote the American Medical Association: ”... behavioral factors are far more important risk factors for acquisition of HIV and other sexually transmissible diseases than circumcision status, and circumcision cannot be responsibly viewed as 'protecting' against such infections.” Ladies, would you cut off half or more of your happy parts for a reduction in your disease risk that's no better than the risks from the surgery? Would you like someone to surgically alter you to make you look just like your mother? Would you rather amputate your sensitive bits than go to all the work of washing them? Maybe you would. Hey, everybody's different, and I'm down with that. But maybe you wouldn't, and maybe it's time that guys have that freedom of choice too. Let's face it. Genital cutting is only for consenting grown-ups. A 2006 report estimated 100 neonatal circumcision-related deaths occur annually in the United States from anesthesia reaction, stroke, hemorrhage, and infection. A newborn has to be among the worst candidates for an unnecessary surgery. It's true that estimates of the annual number of deaths vary widely, everywhere from 2 to 2,000. Data on the number of injuries and unintentional amputations is also difficult to nail down. I can't wait for the number to certain: zero. Amanda Windsor resides in Eureka. Copyright 2012 Eureka Times-Standard.  All rights reserved. Print Email Font Resize Return to Top Readers: • Read our FAQ and let us know what you think of the new commenting system • Experiencing any glitches or bugs with the commenting system?  Are any of your comments disappearing? Report these instances and note the date, time and article your comment was made. Most Viewed Most E-Mailed (From the last 12 hours) Eureka tops nation in gas prices; supervisors send letter to... Alleged drug deal leads Eureka police to marijuana grow APD searching for man telling juveniles to get in his car Fortuna police department arrests two Fortuna residents Sheriff's office finds 220 pounds of pot at art collective APD warrant uncovers hash lab Dad pleads as son's accessory to murder; Donald Steele faces a year... (From the last 12 hours) No data currently available. Job Home Car Rental Administrative Assistant (Job) Front Desk Night Audit (Job) Job Opportunities (Job) Yurok Tribe Openings (Job) Millwright, Forklift Driver, Utility (Job) CNAs (Job) Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Program Specialist (Job) Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Supervisor (Job) Social Services Coordinator (Job) Multi Media Sales Rep (Job) Food Service (Job) Training Specialist (Job) Medical Assistant (Job) Food Service (Job) All Listings REAL ESTATE AUCTION (Home) Offices for Lease (Home) All Listings 2003 Ford F250 XLT (Car) 2003 Ford F250 XLT (Car) 2008 Dodge Dakota (Car) All Listings Eureka Spacious 2BD (Rental) Lg RV for rent (Rental) Pacific Partners Property Management (Rental) 1BD Upstairs Apt (Rental) Arc Pristine 3bd/1.5ba (Rental) Furnished Room (Rental) Ferndale House for Rent (Rental) Eureka 2bd/1ba & 1bd/1ba (Rental) 1BD Mobile Home (Rental) Home Rentals (Rental) Homes for Rent (Rental) Fortuna: Lovely 3BD apt (Rental) Arcata/Valley West (Rental) Eureka 1bd apt (Rental) 1 BDM/1 BTH Apt (Rental) All Listings Copyright © - Times-Standard MediaNews Group - Northern California Network Privacy Policy | MNG Corporate Site Map | Copyright | RSS | | About Us | Single Copy Locations | Find Eureka Jobs About Our Ads | Today's Ads | Subscribe Now | Contact Us | Write a Letter | Press Release 101 | Let Them Know | Contact Circulation Privac