Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bloody stools and hemorrhoids celibacy
              heals colon/kidney
              detoxification exercise juicing
              for health liver
              detoxification Ayurveda healing
              diet home Around the world, healing and prevention are needed. "Lasting world peace can only exist on the basis of happiness.
Without happiness there can be no lasting world peace.
We are all made of Bliss.
Only we need to EXPERIENCE our own nature, to be happy in life." Learn how here. Bloody
        stools and hemorrhoids This
            page deals with the subject of stools and hemorrhoids. Not necessary
            the two most pleasant topics to discuss, but very important to health
            none the less. Lots of
        medical conditions can cause blood to appear in a person's stool. They
        range from the very minor to the very serious, and can include: Hemorrhoids (also called piles) - Enlarged veins in the lower
                part of the rectum or anus Anal
                fissures - Small cracks or tears around the anus which can be
                caused by forceful or large bowel movements Infection or disease in the GI (gastrointestinal tract) - Bacterial
                infections, stomach ulcers, or inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) Tumors or cancer of the GI tract - Polyps or colon
                cancer. Cramps in relation to bright red rectal bleeding are
                suggestive of a partial colonic obstruction and especially suggest cancer . A black
        stool usually means that the blood is coming from the upper part of the
        gastrointestinal tract (GI). Passing bright red blood usually suggests
        that the blood is coming from the large bowel or the rectum. The ingestion
        of black licorice, iron pills, or blueberries can all cause black stools. Red blood
        in the stool We will
        limit this article, for the moment, to bright red blood in the stool. Usually,
        bright red blood in the stool comes from a tear in the tissues of the
        rectum, or from hemorrhoids (also sometimes spelled 'hemroids'), and would
        normally be combined with constipation, straining to have a bowel movement,
        and the consequent bleeding from the rectal tissue or hemorrhoids. According
        to the National Institutes of Health, about 50% of the United States population
        over 50 have hemorrhoids. If you
        see bright red blood in your stools, it's probably hemorrhoids. Hemorrhoids
        are the most common source of bleeding from the rectum and the anus. However,
        if the bleeding lasts for more than a couple of days, you should have
        an exam. Most people
        in the United States, if you looked into their toilets, would have "sinkers"
        rather than "floaters". In other words, if your diet and digestion
        are proper, the stool will float in the toilet water, will be soft but
        well-formed (not watery), will be light in color, and will not have a
        foul smell. How many people do you suppose have proper stool? The National
        Institute of Health estimates that about 50% of the United States population
        over 50 have hemorrhoids, which means that even more have problems with
        their stools. The most common reason for poor stool would be the lack
        of fiber in the diet and the excessive use of processed
        foods , particularly sugar and bread. If your
        stool is dark, sinks in the water, and if you have to strain to eliminate,
        you are a candidate for constipation, and then for bloody stool. This is
        a simple problem to fix, but seldom will people get serious enough about
        doing anything to solve this problem. Instead they wait until it is much
        too late and then ask their doctor for a remedy. Hemorrhoids
            are enlarged, raised varicose veins in the rectal and anal region,
            which can lead to protrusion, pain, and bleeding after bowel movements.
            Hemorrhoids can occur at any age, and the symptoms can come and go
            unpredictably. Constipation, overeating, and inadequate exercise can contribute to the problem. What are
        the symptoms of hemorrhoids? Symptoms of hemorrhoids may include painful
        swelling or a lump in the anus which can bleed and become inflamed, often
        causing discomfort and itching. There may also be bright red blood on
        the toilet paper or the stool. Common
        hemorrhoids are often triggered by the straining which accompanies chronic
        constipation. Therefore, to treat hemorrhoids we must focus on overcoming
        constipation. Natural
        remedies for hemorrhoids. An increase
        in dietary fiber in combination with an increased intake of water helps people with hemorrhoids. Double-blind
        trials showed that 7 grams of psyllium ,
        an herb high in fiber, taken 3 times daily reduced the pain and bleeding
        associated with hemorrhoids.(1) Psyllium has many benefits for health
        and is discussed in more details here . Topically
        applied astringent herbs have also been used traditionally as a treatment
        for hemorrhoids. A leading astringent herb for topical use is witch hazel,
        which is typically applied to hemorrhoids 3 or 4 times per day in an ointment
        base. In my opinion, the best price on the internet for witch
        hazel can be found here . Horse chestnut
        extracts have been shown in a double-blind trial to reduce symptoms of
        hemorrhoids.(2) The
        lowest price on the internet for horse chestnut extracts in my opinion
        can be found here . What
          is your healing topic of interest? 2012
              - The year to Be like a little child. Healing through Women Inheriting the Earth. Oprah
              Winfrey discusses her experience with Transcendental Meditation. References (1). Moesgaard F, Nielsen ML, Hansen JB, Knudsen JT. High-fiber diet
        reduces bleeding and pain in patients with hemorrhoids. Dis Colon Rectum
        1982;25:454–6. (2). Nini G, Di Cicco CO. Controlled clinical evaluation of a new anti-hemorrhoid
        drug, using a completely randomized experimental plan. Clin Ther 1978;86:545–59 Disclaimer:
        Throughout this website, statements are made pertaining to the properties
        and/or functions of food and/or nutritional products. These statements
        have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration and these
        materials and products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or 