
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 20 Apr 2012 21:42:51 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Debian) DAV/2 mod_jk/1.2.32 PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze3 with Suhosin-Patch mod_python/3.3.1 Python/2.6.6 mod_ssl/2.2.16 OpenSSL/0.9.8o mod_wsgi/3.3 Phusion_Passenger/3.0.8 mod_perl/2.0.4 Perl/v5.10.1
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3-7+squeeze3
Cache-Control: max-age=600
Expires: Fri, 20 Apr 2012 21:52:51 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Harvard Medical School: Cranberry products prevent UTIs, research finds In this issue of HEALTHbeat : • Cranberry products prevent UTIs, research finds • Minimally-invasive vs. traditional knee replacement Help
      us be sure this email newsletter isn’t filtered as spam. Add HEALTHbeat@hms.harvard.edu to
      your address book to ‘whitelist’ us with your filter, helping
      future issues get to your inbox. View
              the HEALTHbeat archives | RSS June 10, 2008 Dear
        HEALTHbeat subscriber, Many  of us wonder about the value of home remedies. Feed a cold, starve a fever;  drinking warm milk before bedtime can help you sleep; eating carrots improves  eyesight — useful information or old wives’ tale? Every now and then we actually  have evidence on whether such beliefs have any merit. This issue of HEALTHbeat  discusses research on the use of cranberry juice to stave off bothersome  urinary tract infections. Also in this issue, Dr. Donald T. Reilly, member of  the Harvard Health Letter editorial  board, helps a reader weigh the options for knee replacement surgery. Wishing you good health, Nancy Ferrari Managing Editor Harvard Health Publications HEALTHbeat@hms.harvard.edu Cranberry products prevent UTIs, research finds [ READ ] Notable from Harvard Medical School: * Better Bladder and Bowel    Control * Knees and Hips [ READ ] Minimally-invasive vs. traditional knee replacement [ READ ] From
              Harvard Medical School Better Bladder and Bowel Control Urinary incontinence is surprisingly common. Surgery, medications, childbirth, or injury can interfere with the muscles, nerves, and other tissues that work together for bladder control and urinary and rectal function. Middle-aged and older people are particularly susceptible to these conditions. This Special Health Report, Better Bladder and Bowel Control , describes the causes of urinary and bowel or fecal incontinence and treatments tailored to the specific cause. [ READ
              MORE ] TELL A FRIEND Invite someone to sign up for HEALTHbeat and you both will
            receive a FREE gift. Click
            here to start . Cranberry products prevent UTIs, research finds In what may be the biggest boost for cranberries since  Thanksgiving, researchers with the highly respected Cochrane Collaboration —  experts who identify and evaluate studies of health care interventions — say  that scientific evidence supports daily consumption of cranberry products to  reduce the likelihood of urinary tract infections (UTIs). The preventive effect  is strongest in women with a history of recurrent UTIs — that is, three or more  a year. Cranberry juice has been used for years to treat and prevent  UTIs, which are roughly 50 times more common in women than in men. UTIs can  affect any part of the urinary tract but occur most often in the bladder  (cystitis), producing symptoms of frequent, urgent, or painful urination, and  sometimes abdominal pain or blood in the urine. Most UTIs are caused by Escherichia  coli, or E. coli, which can travel from the anus to the urethra  during activities such as using the toilet or having sexual intercourse. Women  are more vulnerable to UTIs than men are, because a woman’s urethra is close to  the vagina and anus, allowing bacteria easier access to the bladder.  Antibiotics are very effective in preventing and treating these infections, but  side effects deter many women from taking them. The research The Cochrane reviewers searched medical databases and  clinical trial registries and consulted cranberry industry sources to find  studies that lasted at least one month and compared cranberry juice, capsules,  or tablets with a placebo or water for the prevention of UTIs in a variety of  populations. They identified 10 studies — involving a total of 1,049  participants — that met their inclusion criteria. Results showed that over a  12-month period, cranberry products reduced the overall incidence of UTIs by  35%. Among women with recurrent symptomatic UTIs, cranberries cut the annual  rate of new infections by 39%. One of the drawbacks of the studies being reviewed was their  lack of consistency in dosing and in the concentration of cranberries. Also,  the chemical composition of the cranberry products was not standardized, and it  is unclear whether the juice, capsules, and tablets all carry the same effect. So  it’s hard to know exactly which and how much of the various cranberry components  people were getting, or what level of intake was effective. (The traditional  recommendation is a glass or two of 100% cranberry juice a day.) How do cranberries help? Cranberries contain several compounds that could confer  health benefits, including salicylic acid (the active ingredient in aspirin)  and plant chemicals called polyphenols, which have antioxidant properties. No  exact mechanism of action has been established, but in laboratory tests,  cranberry extracts have been shown to hamper the ability of E. coli to stick to the type of cells that line the urinary tract. A possible limitation of cranberry therapy is that regular  cranberry juice is fairly high in calories (130 to 140 calories per 8 ounces,  about 50% more than orange juice and even colas). Also, the flavor may not be  agreeable to some people, especially over the long term. Fortunately, there are  many other things you can do to help stave off UTIs: Drink       plenty of water, to help increase urine output. Don’t       resist the urge to urinate; go when you need to. Take       showers instead of tub baths. Urinate       before and after sexual intercourse. If you continue to have  problems, talk to your clinician about prophylactic antibiotic therapy — that  is, taking an antibiotic daily, or after intercourse, or for a few days at the  first sign of symptoms. For more information on  urinary conditions, order our Special
      Health Report, Better Bladder and Bowel Control , at www.health.harvard.edu/BBBC . FOR
            FURTHER READING For more information on  urinary conditions, order our Special
      Health Report, Better Bladder and Bowel Control . [ READ
              MORE or BUY ] [ Back
        to top ] Notable
      from Harvard Medical School **  	
Better Bladder and Bowel Control Urinary incontinence is surprisingly common. Surgery, medications, childbirth, or injury can interfere with the muscles, nerves, and other tissues that work together for bladder control and urinary and rectal function. Middle-aged and older people are particularly susceptible to these conditions. This Special Health Report, Better Bladder and Bowel Control , describes the causes of urinary and bowel or fecal incontinence and treatments tailored to the specific cause. [ CLICK
        TO READ MORE or BUY ] **
      Knees and Hips: A troubleshooting guide to knee and hip pain People are living longer, and that means their knees and hips must also last longer. These are the two largest joints of the body and they must bear your full body weight while allowing for a wide range of motion. That makes them susceptible to injury and arthritis. Knees and Hips: A troubleshooting guide to knee and hip pain covers a wide range of knee and hip pain symptoms and describes knee pain treatment, preventive strategies, and surgeries in detail. [ CLICK
        TO READ MORE or BUY ] [ Back
        to top ] Minimally-invasive vs. traditional knee replacement Q: I  need a knee replacement and am trying to decide between a minimally invasive  operation and a traditional one. Which is better? A. The traditional operation involves an incision that’s about  eight to 10 inches long that goes down the front of the knee and leg. With the  minimally invasive operation, the incision is about half as long, and some of  the operations use a “lateral” approach that involves making the incision on  the outside of the knee. But the traditional and the minimally invasive  operations have more in common than not. The surgeon still cuts away portions  of the femur (thighbone) and the tibia (shin bone) that form the knee, and it  still involves replacing them with a prosthesis that is designed to restore  movement and decrease pain. Some people find minimally invasive surgery appealing for  cosmetic reasons — and it does result in a smaller scar. But the main selling  points are less pain after the operation and a speedier recovery, so the  benefits of knee replacement are experienced sooner. Minimally invasive surgery  should be able to deliver on these promises: a smaller incision does mean less  tissue damage. And proponents of the operations can point to some studies that  have shown some advantages, such as shorter hospital stays and less blood loss. But replacing a knee isn’t like taking out a gall bladder. A  device has to be implanted into the body. The jury is still very much out  whether replacements done through smaller incisions will last as long and be as  stable as those done through the larger incision. As a surgeon who has done  thousands of knee replacements the traditional way, I think the view — the  direct visualization — that the surgeon gets of the joint through the larger  incision is important to proper placement of the prostheses and avoiding  surgical complications. And there are other ways to reduce postoperative pain  and speed recovery besides making a smaller incision. They range from  injections of long-acting painkillers into the joint and surrounding tissues,  to cold wraps around the joint, to “constant passive motion” machines that can  be used in the days right after surgery to exercise the knee gently, keeping  down swelling and stiffness. I don’t think minimally invasive surgery is the  kind of “disruptive technology” that is going to revolutionize total knee  replacement, which is already a safe, effective, time-tested operation. The  gains, if any, are likely to be marginal, and I think these other approaches to  postoperative care can probably match them. A couple of general points about new surgical procedures.  Surgeons have learning curves. You don’t want to be a patient on the steep  part. It’s important, therefore, to ask how many of these procedures a surgeon  has done. And surgical techniques aren’t like medications that go through  clinical trials and FDA approvals before they are on the market. It’s great that there’s innovation. The recovery from knee  replacement is painful — and always requires a lot of hard work. Anything that  makes it easier for patients is welcome. But joint replacement is a big money maker that engenders a  lot of competition for patients among surgeons and hospitals. Touting minimally  invasive surgery before it has proven its value is a way of drumming up  business. So my advice to you is pick a skillful surgeon who does a large  number of knee replacements, in a hospital that does the same. — Donald T. Reilly, M.D. Harvard Health Letter Editorial Board New England Baptist Hospital,  Boston This Question and Answer first appeared in the May 2008 Harvard Health Letter , available at www.health.harvard.edu/health . FOR
            FURTHER READING For more information on knee pain and treatment options, order our Special
          Health Report, Knees and Hips: A troubleshooting guide to knee and hip pain . [ READ
              MORE or BUY ] [ Back
        to top ] Harvard
        Medical School publishes authoritative Special Health Reports on a wide
        range of topics. Each report delivers practical information on diagnosis,
        treatment, and prevention of major health concerns in clear, easy-to-understand
        language. For more information on a specific topic, click the appropriate
        link below: Alzheimer’s , Arthritis , Bladder , Cholesterol , Depression , Diabetes , Digestion , Energy , Exercise , Eye
          Disease , Headache , Heart
          Disease , High
          Blood Pressure , Memory , Menopause , Prostate , Sexuality , Sleep , Stroke , Vitamins [ Back
        to top ] Harvard Medical School offers special reports on over 50
      health topics. Visit our Web site at http://www.health.harvard.edu to
      find reports of interest to you and your family. Copyright 2008 by Harvard University. To view our archive of past HEALTHbeat e-newsletters click
        here . Harvard Health Publications Harvard Medical School 10 Shattuck Street, Suite 612 Boston, MA 02115 USA Visit our Web site at: www.health.harvard.edu Email us at: HEALTHbeat@hms.harvard.edu * Please note, we do not provide responses to personal medical
      concerns, nor can we supply related medical information, other than what
      is available in our print products or Web site. For specific, personalized
      medical advice we encourage you to contact your physician. HEALTHbeat
      is distributed to individuals who have subscribed via the Harvard Health
      Publications Web site ( www.health.harvard.edu/healthbeat ).
      You are currently subscribed to HEALTHbeat as %%$email%% . PHONE
      ORDERS To
      order a subscription or Special Health Report by phone, please call our
      toll free number 1-877-649-9457. TELL
      A FRIEND Share
      the gift of good health with your friends and family. Follow
      this link and fill out the form. We’ll send your friends an email
      invitation to sign up for HEALTHbeat, and a FREE gift if they sign up. TO
      JOIN OUR E-MAIL LIST If
      you would like to receive HEALTHbeat, our free e-mail newsletter, visit www.health.harvard.edu/healthbeat and
      fill out our form. It’s that simple. TO
      STOP RECEIVING HEALTHbeat You
      can remove yourself from o