
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 21:21:01 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Ergo Health : Ergonomics Ergo Health Ergonomics Home About Feedback Why You Should Use Offloading Back Supports First The medical indications or reasons why a doctor back pain sufferers with relief. For many patients, prescribes my supports for their patients are as this gentle stretching of the spine is enough to follows: severe low back pain, also known as enable the protruding, or herniated disc to re-seat lumbago, or lumbalgia. Herniated or bulging discs, itself in the disc space. This will relieve the also called HNP lumbar, which stands for Herniated symptoms relating to the pain caused by the disc Nucleus Propulsus, when the center of the disc coming into contact with the sciatic nerve, bulges out and makes contact with the Sciatic thereby relieving the pain, tingling and numbness nerve, this condition also is called sciatica. Sciatica that many patients experience with the sciatica refers to the pain caused when the disc and radiculopathy. With continued intermittent and protrudes and makes contact with the sciatic repeated application of the spinal orthotic the nerve and the pain runs through the buttock(s), patients' conditions improve over time, giving down the leg(s) and radiates down into the foot. them ultimate freedom from the use of their This is also known as radiculopathy. Many patients lumbar support orthotic. Patients suffering with who present radiculopathy may also experience stenosis experience great relief with the use of burning, tingling, numbness. or aching in their feet. my Lumbar Support Orthotic. Because of the Other causes of low back pain are spinal stenosis degenerative and deteriorative processes that commonly referred to as spinal arthritis. Stenosis lead to stenosis, those patients will improve over is basically an arthritic deterioration of the time. As their spine is gently stretched the vertebrae in the lumbar spine which basically arthritic welding may be reversed. causes the vertebrae to weld together Those patients who present degenerative disc accompanied by a deteriorative narrowing of the disease normally do very well with the use of my spinal canal. Degenerative disc disease occurs to offloading lumbar support orthotic. As the orthotic many people for a variety of reasons: as we age works to re-establish the normal, healthy, our normal healthy intervertebral disc space intervertebral disc space, the structure of the diminishes, this is compounded by gravity, poor support itself encourages the patients to use and postural habits, an improper hydration (we do not engage the postural musculature of their lumbar drink enough water), which in turn leads to disc spine. This lends itself, once again to the space dessication and deterioration. Many adults rehabilitaional quality of the support, encourages over forty experience a degree of degenerative the patients to be independent of the support. It disc disease. This condition may cause the structurally encourages patients to improve their effected vertebrae to ultimately fuse, in which posture and use the muscles in their low back. case their pain normally diminishes, but it may be Patients with spondylolisthesis also normally do quite painful in the interim. very well with the use of this support. It isolates Other causes are spondylolisthesis, which is a and stabilizes the lumbar spine as well as providing condition cased by vertebral slippage, normally at the offloading lift and re-establishment of the the fourth or fifth lumbar vertebrae, or between normal healthy intervertebral disc space. In the fifth lumbar vertebrae and the first sacral combination with the encouragement of the use vertebrae. These are commonly referred to as of the musces and musculature of the lumbar L4, L5, and S1. Spondylolisthesis is often the result spine and low back, it is truly a win-win situation of a previous, unattended to injury, many athletes for the patients. will injure themselves and the Spondylolisthesis Patients with lumbar sprain and spondylosis also does not fully manifest itself or present for benefit greatly from the comfortable offloading several years. It is graded as type I, or type II, support, the re-establishment of the normal, depending on the severity of the slippage. There healthy intervertebral disc space, and the benefit can also be certain genetic predispositions which of the encouragement and use of the muscles of may present as spondylolisthesis. the low back. Spondylosis, is another cause of low back pain. The use and prescription of an offloading lumbar Spondylosis basically refers to a sick vertebral support orthotic should be in the first line of body. This often leads to lumbar instability, which consideration for physician treating patients with is also caused by other metabolic and disease low back pain. It is harmless, non-invasive, conditions. Another common cause of low back, non-narcotic, and can only benefit the patients. It or lumbar pain is known as lumbar sprain or strain, is not a brace, it's an orthotic support. A brace is and it may be either chronic or more long term, like a cast, used to hold a structure or bone in or acute which normally means sharp or sudden. place and immobilized so the healing process can The medical and clinical benefits of an offloading take place. An orthotic is a rigid, or semi-rigid lumbar support orthotic are as follows: the structure or device that applies a gentle force to orthotic itself, by virtue of its application gently a specific area to mitigate, correct or promote stretches the lumbar spine in an attempt to the healing of a diseased, malformed or injured re-establish the normal, healthy intervertebral disc area of the anatomy. space. This action in and of itself will provide many Articles What is an Aeron Chair? What to Look for in Quality... The Good Qualities of an... Self-Regulating Office Chairs Ergonomic Chair Review... Disease caused by bad... Find a Chair Cushion Ergonomic Chairs - Enabling... Affiliate Marketing... Training for Success with... Why Should You Consider the... Sleep Well With Orthopedic... 7 Secrets to Preventing... More Desk Chair Options Kohler Toilet Seat Review... Home | | About | Policy | Feedback | Terms of U