Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Los Angeles Gastric Bypass Surgery | Requirements for Gastric Bypass Surgery Requirements for Gastric Bypass Surgery Los Angeles, Irvine and Santa Monica, California Roux en-Y Gastric Bypass is performed more than all other bariatric surgery procedures because it has been successful for thousands of patients over a long period of time. The procedure was first used more than 40 years ago, and its success is well documented. There are two types of gastric bypass surgery: open and laparoscopic. Patients should keep in mind that open gastric bypass is the most invasive of bariatric surgery options because it requires incisions. Open gastric bypass also requires a longer recovery time than laparoscopic methods. Gastric Bypass Requirements A number of factors must be present before a patient is deemed a good candidate for either version of gastric bypass surgery. A potential gastric bypass patient should have some combination of the following indications: Obesity is not caused by other illness or medications Has a Body Mass Index of 40 or higher, weighs twice ideal weight, or is 100 lbs over ideal weight Ability to show commitment to permanent lifestyle changes that include eating habits, exercise requirements, and continued medical supervision Has tried, and failed, to reach weight loss goals through a medically supervised diet and exercise program Has quit smoking for at least ninety days Other Gastric Bypass Considerations Patients who do not meet the BMI requirements for gastric bypass surgery may be eligible if other complicating conditions exist. Patients with a BMI between 35 and 40 may be candidates if they also have at least two of the following obesity-related medical problems: Adult Onset Diabetes Arthritis of the spine, knee, or hip Asthma Congestive Heart Failure Coronary Artery Disease Enlargement of the heart caused by obesity (cardiomegaly) Gastric Reflux Disease(GERD) Hiatal Hernia Hypertension Hypothyroidism Pedal Edema Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Sleep Apnea Urinary Incontinence Medical Contraindications for Gastric Bypass Not everyone who is obese makes a good candidate for gastric bypass surgery.  An experienced weight loss surgeon like Dr. Carson Liu can help patients determine if they possess any major risk factors that might complicate the procedure. Certain conditions may prevent a surgeon from performing gastric bypass safely. Patients should consult a bariatric surgeon to find out more information about the requirements for gastric bypass surgery. Please call or e-mail Dr. Carson Liu's Los Angeles bariatric surgery office to schedule a consultation. Contact Dr. Carson Liu Please Type Your Questions/Comments Here Type of Request Make Appointment Insurance Question Confidential Email Appointment Enter the code above here: * Home About Obesity Obesity: A Disease Effects of Obesity Obesity Questions BMI Calculator What is Diabesity™? Procedures Surgery Options Do I Qualify for Weight Loss Surgery? Surgical Weight Control SPIDER® Surgical System Bariatric Surgery and Age Lap-Band® Info Requirements for Lap-Band Surgery What to Expect After Surgery Single-Incision Laparoscopic Surgery (SILS) LAP-BAND® Questions My Lap-Band® Journey Weight Loss Surgery Medical Considerations Questions About Lap-Band® Weight Loss Surgery Lifestyle Changes after LAP-BAND® Working With Your LAP-BAND® Surgeon Gastric Bypass Info Requirements for Surgery What to Expect Gastric Bypass Questions Lap-Band® vs. Gastric Bypass Realize Band Revisional Surgery ROSE Questions About ROSE StomaphyX™ Diabetes Control Heartburn Relief Laparoscopic Bariatric Surgery Recovery Time Tax Refunds for Your Bariatric Surgery Emotional Readiness and Weight Loss Surgery Last Minute Reminders before Weight Loss Surgery Before & After Testimonials Post-op Patients Post-op Patients Post-Operative Care Support Groups Our Team Dr. Carson Liu Media Media Recent Articles Recent Videos Recent Radio Interviews Blog Surgery Financing Can I Afford Weight Loss Surgery? Weight Loss Financing Contact Dr. Carson Liu Contact Us Map & Directions Testimonial Julie Are you obese? BMI Calculator. Carson D. Liu online at visit superdoctors.com "Through preventive weight loss surgery we could reverse or improve diabetes, hypertension, and joint disease." "LAP-BAND® weight loss surgery is the wave of the future. We are here to guide you to a happier, healthier life." "The LAP-BAND® procedure is very, very safe. The surgery is quick, minimally invasive and virtually painless." "We provide our patients with safe and effective weight loss surgery. We also offer quality post-op care." "Throughout his career as a weight loss surgeon, Dr. Carson Liu has performed over 2600 Bariatric Surgeries." "Obesity is a chronic disease. We provide information to help you know whether obesity surgery is right for you." "Dr. Liu makes a difference in the lives of his patients through his commitment and care. - American Diabetes Association" "If you are obese and have failed at numerous diets, surgery may be your only realistic option for lasting weight loss." attend a free seminar Are you interested in lasting weight loss? Lap Band Weight Loss Surgery | Contact us | Privacy Policy | Site Map | Gastric Bypass Surgery Bariatric Surgery Disclaimer: Lap Band weight loss surgeon Dr. Carson Liu provides information about Gastric Bypass Surgery and Lap Band Weight Loss Surgery for informational purposes only and is not to be taken as medical advice. Serving bariatric patients in the Los Angeles, Santa Monica, Irvine and Culver City, area. c Dr. Carson Liu - Bariatric Surgery Marketed by LookingYourBest.com | Online Resourc