
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 11:16:10 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.10
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Sat, 28 Apr 2012 11:16:10 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Orthotics / Certified Pedorthist Orthotics / Certified Pedorthist Do you suffer from foot pain, knee pain, leg pain or low back pain? Call the Collingwood Sport Medicine Clinic for an appointment with a Certified Pedorthist to see if Custom-Made Orthotics are right for you. What is a Certified Pedorthist? A certified pedorthist is a heath care professional who is trained and certified in the assessment, design, manufacture, fit and modification of foot appliances (i.e. orthotics) and the fitting and modification of footwear with the goal of alleviating painful or debilitating conditions of the foot and lower limb. What is a Foot Orthotic? A foot orthotic is a special type of insole to be worn inside a shoe.  It is designed to relieve foot pain by limiting movement in unstable foot joints or by providing support to excessively stressed areas of the foot. Foot orthotics can range from simple off-the-shelf arch supports to custom-made devices.  The materials used to make them vary from firm plastic to softer foams of varying densities.  Depending on the combinations used, the orthotics may be semi-rigid or soft.  In general, semi-rigid orthotics provide the best combination of support and comfort.  If your symptoms are mild and of short duration, and if the degree of your foot abnormality is minimal, an inexpensive off-the-shelf insole may suffice. What should I Expect at my Appointment with a Certified Pedorthist? An in-depth biomechanical assessment including weight bearing, non-weight bearing and range of motion testing A gait analysis Education in footwear features and style appropriate to your needs If necessary, a 3-dimensional cast of the foot will be taken to create a custom-made pair of foot orthotics, designed to address your specific needs If you are casted for orthotics, there is a Fitting which includes fine-tuning of the orthotics on-site to achieve optimal comfort and function What are some common conditions treated by Pedorthists? Metatarsalgia - pain in the ball of the foot Plantar Fasciitis - pain in the heel or arch area of the foot Numbness or Tingling in the toes Achilles Tendinitis Tibialis Posterior Tendinitis – shin splints Arthritis – pain and swelling in the first toe joint and ankle Diabetes - loss of sensation/decreased blood flow Bunions Callouses Knee Pain Hip Pain Low Back Pain Leg Length Difference These conditions are treated and can be alleviated by the re-alignment of anatomical structures and the redistribution of external and internal forces in the foot through the use of orthotics.  Orthotics can also help to accommodate foot deformities and improve balance. How are Custom-Made Foot Orthotics Made? Measurements for custom-made foot orthotics are obtained by taking a semi-weight bearing cast of the foot in a foam block.  Plaster is then poured into the mold and the orthotic is constructed on the positive image of the foot. How are Custom-Made Foot Orthotics Fitted? When you schedule an appointment to pick up your orthotics you will be asked to bring your shoes so that the devices can be fit properly into them.  The pedorthist will look at the devices under your feet to make sure that they are supporting you in the correct way and will make adjustments accordingly while you wait. What Type of Footwear can I wear my Custom-Made Orthotics in? Depending on the extent of your problem and the footwear that you are normally in for every day activities, different styles of custom-made orthotics can be created.  These options are something that the pedorthist will go over with you during your assessment.  That being said, the best type of footwear for an orthotic is a lace-up shoe that provides enough room and support for the orthotic such as a walking or running shoe. What is a Ski boot Footbed? Ski shops provide a type of support called a foot-bed. Foot-beds can make the boot more comfortable and improve edge control by adding inward or outward tilt to the foot. Since foot-beds gain a lot of support from the rigidity of the ski boot, they don’t necessarily need to be as substantial (or as expensive) as daily wear orthotics.  However, if you are experiencing specific problems that cannot be addressed with the accommodative foot-bed, you may need to visit a Certified Pedorthist to have a custom-made pair of orthotics made for you. What type of professional training does a Certified Pedorthist have? To become a Canadian Certified Pedorthist one must first have a degree in a university health sciences field such as Kinesiology.  The pedorthics course is offered through the University of Western Ontario and involves intense training in lower limb biomechanics, gait analysis, manufacturing and fitting of foot appliances, and fitting and modification of footwear.  In order to be eligible to write the certification exams a three month internship in each of the following areas must be completed: clinical, laboratory and footwear. More Information about Certified Pedorthists All Certified Pedorthists in Canada are members of the Pedorthic Association of Canada and the College of Pedorthics of Canada.  Information about this association and college can be found at www.pedorthic.ca and www.cpedcs.ca. Why Choose a Certified Pedorthist? There are currently no government standards for the making and selling of orthotic devices.  As a result, many individuals with no foot care education, training or qualifications dispense supposed “custom foot orthoses” at health fairs, lifestyle, home, and sportsman shows and mall kiosks.  Typically, the individuals selling these products are unqualified, unaccountable and in many cases misleading in their practices.  As well, some health care professionals who are highly trained in their fields have absolutely no training in providing foot orthoses. Certified Pedorthists have extensive training and their primary focus is in the fitting and fabricating of orthotics and in footwear modification.  They have the to capability to not only do your biomechanical assessment but to make, fit and fine-tune your devices prior to dispensing them.  On-site adjustments and alterations are key to proper fit and comfort. For more information regarding pedorthics and Canadian Certified Pedorthists, please visit www.pedorthic.ca Information about Elisa Harrison, Canadian Certified Pedorthist Elisa Harrison Certified Canadian Pedorthist H.B.Sc. (KIN), PCP, C Ped (C), C Ped Tech (C) Canadian Certified Pedorthist, Elisa Harrison, graduated from the University of Waterloo with an Honours Science degree in Kinesiology and from the University of Western Ontario with her Professional Certificate of Pedorthics. Her patients range from young children to seniors with foot, leg, and low back pain.  After completing a full biomechanical assessment and gait analysis she strives to educate patients on their condition, while recommending proper footwear specific to a patient’s needs.  The custom-made foot orthotics are created from a 3-dimensional cast of the foot and are fine-tuned on-site to achieve optimal comfort and function. Elisa is a part of Pedorthic Services, a group of Certified Pedorthists that maintain their own local lab to fabricate orthotic devices rather than sending them to a remotely located facility. This provides for quicker turn-around time and also means that adjustments or modifications to the orthotics can be easily made.  Elisa is able to make most adjustments immediately, while you wait, as she has all of the necessary equipment on site. How much will it Cost? Technical Assessment: $75.00 Custom-Made Foot Orthotics: $460.00 (includes technical assessment) What are the Payment Options? Visa, Mastercard, Cheque, Cash How long will it Take? Turnaround time is 2 weeks from Assessment to Fitting What do I need to Bring? Patients must have a written referral on a physician’s prescription pad for prompt processing of claims.  The referral must include a diagnosis and recommendation for custom foot orthoses for daily use. Patients should also bring samples of the shoes worn on a regular basis at home, during activity and at work. Are Custom-Made Orthotics covered by OHIP? No, custom-made orthotics are not covered by OHIP.  They are, however, often covered by your extended healthcare benefits.  Please check your policy to determine the amount of your coverage as it varies from plan to plan. Please note that most insurance companies require a written referral on the physician’s prescription pad in order for the devices to be covered.  Please make sure to have this documentation when coming to your appointment.  The referral must include a “diagnosis” and a recommendation for “custom foot orthoses”. More Information / Websites: www.elisaharrison.com Ped