
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 00:13:51 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.3 ZendServer/5.0
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Belfast Airport to charge smokers - Stopsmoking News - The Therapy Lounge Home Treatments Stop Smoking Hypnotherapy Jealousy Weight Loss Hypnotherapy Overcoming Anxiety Public Speaking Fear Cure Phobias Other Treatments Therapies Hypnotherapy NLP CBT Success Coaching Research About us The Therapy Lounge Our Hypnotherapists Hypnotherapy Locations Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Professional Accreditation Treatments Overcoming Anxiety Stop Smoking Weight Loss Public Speaking Conquer Addiction Overcome Jealousy Anger Management Cure Phobias Improve Self-Esteem Relieve Stress Build Confidence Cure Fear of Flying Cure A Fear Of Driving Enhance Performance Cure Insomnia Cure A Fear of Heights Recover From Divorce Treat IBS Exam Nerves Curing Emetophobia Relieve Depression Children's Therapy Home » Hypnotherapy News » Belfast Airport To Charge Smokers 10/05/2011 Belfast Airport to charge smokers by Ashley Curtis Holidaymakers travelling from Belfast Airport will be charged £1 to have a cigarette outside the airport, Compare Away reported. A designated smoking area has been opened but smokers will have to cough up in order to light up. They will have to pop a pound coin into a mechanism which opens the entrance to the smoking area. It is thought to be the first airport to implement a pay-to-smoke scheme. The scheme is yet another incentive to get smokers to stub out their cigarettes. Financially-flush smokers who can afford the airport's charge but truly cannot beat the urge might want to utilise stop smoking hypnosis. The anti-smoking hypnotherapy uncovers any deep rooted reasons for the addiction through a mixture of negro-linguistic practices and other measures. It's a great way in which to beat nicotine cravings. In a statement cited by The Mirror , an airport spokesman confirmed the news: "We recognised that there was a demand but providing a specialist facility for a relatively small number of users is expensive, so it is not unreasonable that a small charge should be levied." Pro-smoking pressure group Forest welcomed the smoking area, with spokesman Paul Rowlandson stating: "It is encouraging that Belfast International is making provision for travelling smokers." "The modest charge seems fair, providing revenue goes towards the maintenance of the smoking facility, as the airport assures us it will." To find out how the Therapy Lounge can help Stop Smoking click here Hypnotherapy used to cont : Next → ← Previous : Obese mothers-to-be fed w By Month October September August July June May April March Febuary January December November Locations Charing Cross The City Harley Street Westminster Canary Wharf Kentish Town East Dulwich Mill Hill Borehamwood Hertfordshire Accrediations This website is dedicated to the provision of accredited Hypnotherapy services in London . All our Hypnotherapists are fully qualified and extremely experienced. The Therapy Lounge has NW London Hypnotherapy , Central London Hypnotherapy and Canary Wharf Hypnotherapy. The Therapy Lounge is dedicated to helping clients to stop smoking with hypnosis , using weight loss hypnosis and helping clients to overcome jealousy . Hypnotherapy London From The Therapy Lounge Hypnotherapy News | Hypnotherapy Clinics In London | Hypnotherapy Definitions Facebook : www.facebook.com/thetherapyloungeuk Twitter : twitter.com/therapylounge1 Head Office: 440 Highgate Studios, 53-79 Highgate Road, London, NW5 1TL, United Kingdom Totally Communications | Site Map |
         © 2