Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Yoga for Women:DVD for Women,yoga VCD for women & Yoga DVD for Women by Swami Ramdev Ji Home A to Z Herbal Supplements / Ayurvedic Stores Yoga DVD / VCD / Books Customer support / Shipping Contact Us Yoga DVD Pranayama & Yoga Exercises DVD Yoga DVD for Beginners of All Age Yoga DVD for Diabetes Yoga DVD for Asthma Yoga DVD for Spinal Cord Yoga DVD for Eye Problems Yoga DVD for Cancer Yoga DVD for Children Yoga DVD for Childless Couple Yoga DVD for Various Ailments Yoga DVD for Life Style Yoga DVD for Muscular Dystrophy Yoga DVD for Weight Loss Yoga DVD for Women Yoga DVD for High BP DVD for Parkinson & Paralysis Yoga DVD for Skin Diseases Yoga DVD for Youth VCD Divya Yoga Sadhna VCD in English / Hindi Yog Science (Pranayama & Yog Assan) Yoga VCD for Childless Couples Yoga VCD for reducing Obecity VCD for Reducing Diabetes Yoga VCD for Heart diseases Yoga VCD for Asthma Yoga VCD for Back Bone Yoga VCD for Stomach Ailments Yoga VCD for Cancer VCD for Pregnant Ladies Yoga VCD for Women Yoga VCD for Youth Yoga VCD for Kids Yoga VCD on Yoga & Lifestyle Yoga VCD for Weekly Yoga Teacher Yoga VCD for Parkinson Yoga VCD for Paralysis Yoga VCD for Piles Yoga VCD for Skin Diseases Yoga VCD for High Blood Pressure Yoga VCD for Eye Diseases Yoga VCD for Epilepsy Yoga VCD for Migraine Yoga VCD for Muscular Dystrophy Yoga VCD for Various Diseases Yoga VCD for Musculoskeletal Disorders Yoga VCD for Constipation & Piles Yoga VCD for Kidney Yoga VCD for Leucoderma Yoga VCD for Heapatitis & Jaundice VCD for Misconceptions, Risks & Precautions of Yoga Dahn (Dhyan) Yoga VCD Yoga Somnia (Conscious Sleep) VCD VCD for Eight Yogic Practices Yoga Books Pranayama (Its philosophy & Practice) Pranayama Rahasya in Hindi Yog Its Philosophy & Practice Yog Sadhna and Yog Chikitsa Rahasya (Hindi) Yog Sadhna Yoga Healing Secrets Yog in Synergy with Medical Sciences Ayurvedic Siddhant Rahasya. Divya Aushadhi, Sugandhit Avam Saundaryakaran Paudh Jeevani Shakti Vardhak Ashtavarg Paadap Vitality Strengthening Astavarga Plants Aushadh Darshan in Hindi Aushadh Darshan in English Jadi Bhooti Rahasya Yoga VCD for Women Yoga VCD for Women By Swami Ramdev ji in Hindi Your Price 1 Qty : $10.99 Free Shipping Worldwide DVD for Women by Swami Ramdev Ji in English & Hindi both in one DVD Your Price 1 Qty : $16.99 Free Shipping Worldwide Menopause is a part of every  woman's life. It is the stage when your menstrual period permanently stops.  This stage usually occurs between the age of 40 and 60 associated with  hormonal, physical and psychological changes. These changes can occur gradually  or abruptly. It can start as early as the age of 30 and last until as late as  the age of 60. It can also occur when the ovaries are removed or stopped  functioning. Menopause is not an illness but a natural biological process,  though the risk for heart disease and osteoporosis rises after menopause. The asanas that have been  described below are not just meant for the women in menopausal age group only  but it can also be regularly used and practiced by any female of reproductive  age. Kapalabhati: Kapalabhati is a Breathing Technique used  specifically for cleansing. If you have a lot of mucus in the air passages  or feel tension and blockages in the chest it is often helpful to breathe quickly. Tadasana or the Mountain pose: The Mountain Yoga Pose promotes the experience  of stillness, strength, relaxed power, and immovable stability associated with  mountains. This yoga posture, and coming back to this  stillness after other poses, is one of the ways of becoming acquainted with  stillness. Increases strength within the legs. Straightens the spine out. Pada Hastasana or the Hands to Feet pose: The Hands to Feet Pose or Pada Hastasana gives  many of the same benefits as the Forward Bend. It brings about the reduction in the waist. Restoring elasticity to the spine. Stretches the ligaments of the legs, especially  the hamstrings. Virasana or the Warrior Pose: The Warrior Pose stretches and strengthens the  arms and legs, increases stamina, improve balance and concentration, and can  also relieve backaches. If you are suffering from diarrhea, high blood  pressure or neck problems, you should take extra caution practicing this pose. Trikonasana or the Triangle pose: Provides your body the required stability. Strengthens the spinal column. Releases the pressure and tension with the upper  as well as lower back muscles. Padmasana or the Lotus pose: The Lotus Yoga Pose is usually done in  Meditation. It is a classic seated posture which strengthens  your ankles and knees, enhances concentration, and improves flexibility of your  legs. Bhujangasana or the Cobra pose: This Yoga Pose improves spinal flexibility and  strengthens the muscles in the arms and back. It is also effective in relieving menstrual  irregularities and constipation. Balasana or the Seated pose: The Child Pose is a gentle way of stretching  your shoulders, hips, thighs, ankles, and back muscles. It is a relaxation posture which is done to  normalize the circulation after performing the headstand and to serve as  counter pose after backbends. Anuloma Viloma: Anuloma Viloma is also called the Alternate  Nostril Breathing Technique. In this Breathing Technique, you inhale through  one nostril, retain the breath, and exhale through the other nostril. This is extremely beneficial for women of all  ages. Ayurvedic Products Choorna ( Powders ) Bhasmas ( herbs/metal ) Guggulu Kvath (Herbs Mixture) Ras (herbal essence) Vati / Tablets Home Remedies & Diseases and Package Acidity and Hyperacidity Adenitis / Tumor growth AMA (Toxic By product) Amenorrhea Asthma Cataract Cervical Spondylitis Chronic Headache Chronic Renal Failure Chronic Rhinitis Cirrhosis of Liver Constipation Coronary Artery Disease Coryza Deafness Depression Diabetes Mellitus Diarrhoea Eczema Epilepsy Erectile Dysfunction Fibroid Uterus Flatulence Gastric Trouble Genital Diseases Glaucoma Gout Hepatitis-A B C Hernia High Blood Pressure Impotency in Males Infertility Joint Pain Leucoderma Menorrhagia Mental Retardation Migraine Mongoloid Children Multiple Sclerosis Obesity Oligospermia Osteoporosis Otorrahagia Parkinsonism Pimples or Acne Vulgaris Premature Ejaculation Psoriasis Sciatica Sinusitis Sprue Syndrome Thalassemia Tympanitis Ulcerative Colitis Health Products Shortcuts Divya Amla Churna for Eyes, Digestion and General Health Divya Arshakalp Vati for Piles Divya Ashmarihar Ras for Kidney Stones Divya Ashwagandha Churna for Stress, Fatigue and General Health Divya Chandraprabha Vati for Urinary Disease Divya Churna for Constipation Divya Dant Manjan Tooth Powder Divya Gashar Churna for Removal of Gas Divya Hridayamrita Vati for Heart Disease Divya Kanti Lep for Increasing Skin Splendour Divya Kayakalp Tail Oil for Skin Problems, Cracks and Burns Divya Kayakalp Vati for Skin Disease, Acne and Pimples Divya Kesh Tail Hair Oil for Hair Loss, Dandruff and Headache Divya Madhu Nashini Vati for Diabeties Divya Madhukalp Vati for Diabetes Divya Medha Kwath for Headache and Memory Enhancement Divya Medha Vati for Memory Loss and Improving Intelligence Divya Medohar Vati for Weight Loss Divya Mukta Vati for High Blood Pressure Divya Peya Herbal Tea Divya Pidantak Ras for Joint Pain and Arthritis Divya Pidantak Tail Massage Oil for Joint Pain and Arthritis Divya Punarnavadi Mandur for Kidney Problems and Anemia Divya Sanjivani Vati for Cold, Fever and Flu Divya Shilajeet Rasayan Vati for Impotency Divya Shilajeet Sat for Gout and Weak Immune System Divya Singhnaad Guggulu for Rheumatism Divya Stri Rasayan Vati for Menstruation Divya Swasari Ras for Lung Problems, Bronchitis and Asthma Divya Triphala Churna for Rejuvination Divya Triphala Guggulu for Joint Pain, Piles and Weight Loss Divya Udaramrita Vati for Digestion and Stomache Problems Divya Udarkalp Churna for Indigestion and Constipation Divya Vatari Churna for Arthritis Divya Yauvanamrita Vati for Weak Bodies and Impotency Divya Yograj Guggulu for Joint Pain © All Rights Reserved 2009.www.swamiramdevmedicines.com  | About Us | Customer Service | Testimonials | Contact Us | Sitemap 1 | Sitemap 2 Disclaimer : The information offered on the displayed page is not proposed to reinstate the guidance of a doctor approved in the diagnosing or healing of disease or ailments. Any submission of the material in above content is at the reader's prudence and own accountability. If you have a constant health state or your symptoms are rigorous, seek advice from a well qualified medical doctor. Content on the above page about physical and mental conditions and remedies have not been checked by the U.S. FDA. www.swamiramdevmedicines.com claims no responsibility for any content and remedies mention any where on this website. IMPORTANT/DISCLAIMER : swamiramdevmedicines.com is not official website of Swami Ramdev Ji. swamiramdevmedicines.com is a FREE INFORMATION website & to share experience about Swami Ramdev's Yoga and Products. We have no intention to hurt anyone, please use this information at your own understanding. swamiramdevmedicines.com DOES NOT gurantee of completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the swamiramdevmedicines.com or the information. if you are looking for Swam