
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 01:34:38 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.8 (Ubuntu) mod_ssl/2.2.8 OpenSSL/0.9.8g
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.12-0.dotdeb.0
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Sat, 18 Feb 2012 01:34:39 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Dementia Site map RSS Contact us Accessibility A-Z Home my NHS services my PCT my Voice /my-NHS my Healthy Living Work for us my NHS services my PCT /my-NHS this is my nhs Home my Health Advice Long Term Conditions Dementia my NHS services GPs Extended Opening Hours Out of Hours GP Services Dentists Optometrists Community Pharmacists Pharmacy First Hospital Services Eliminating Mixed Sex Accomodation Independent Sector Treatment Centres Improving Access to Primary Care Mental Health and Learning Disabilities Services Community Services End of Life Care End of Life Care films Funding medicines, assessments and treatments Infection Control and Quality Monitoring Medicines Management Specialst Children's Services Summary Care Records Fit for work Patient Transport Personal Care Plans Information Prescriptions my PCT Our Mission and Goals Who's Who How we are structured Our Health Priorities Alcohol Cancer Child Obesity Dementia End of Life Care Falls in the Elderly Smoking Stroke Teenage Pregnancy Our Values Our Performance Standards for better health World class commissioning Our Publications Annual Report Audit Reports Financial Reports Local Operating Plan Partners Newsletter Research and Development Operational Capability Statement Take A Healthy Interest Winter Planning Our Plans Our Financial Plans The White Paper Commissioning for Patients Democratic Legitimacy in Health Regulating Health Care providers Transparency in Outcomes How to find us Equality and diversity Activities DisabledGo Equality Impact Assessments Meetings Single Equality Scheme Workforce How we work Area Prescribing Committee Traffic Lights Board Meetings Freedom of Information Partnership Working Understanding Obesity in Notts Practice Based Commissioning Highpoint NNEC Principia NWC Procurement Live procurements Health reports and strategies Health reports Strategies and Plans Vital Signs my Voice Ways to get involved Take a healthy interest Patient and public involvement Patient Participation Groups Expert patient programme Patient advice and liaison service Carers LINk Plain language group Partnership in Maternity Recruitment to Citizens' Reference Panel Consultations Big Healthy Debate Walk In Centres Review Out of hours service review - public and patient questionnaire Take a healthy interest Take a healthy interest membership form Corporate Membership Application Tell us what you think Contact us How to make a compliment or complaint Patient and Public Involvement Information we hold about you Newark Review The Consultation Historical Information Transforming Community Services PALS Children and Young People's Partnership Our NHS Our Future Maternity and new born Partnership in maternity Have your say on breast feeding my NHS Video and interactive area Stop Smoking Films End of Life Films my Health Advice Patient Choice Choose Well It's your health Sexual Health Confidentiality Contraception Sex and Relationships Education Sexual Health Services Sexually Transmitted Infections Healthy Weight Healthy Notts Healthy Eating Healthy Schools Personal and Social Health Education Healthy Eating Physical Education Emotional Health and well-being Healthy Early Years Status Healthy Schools Enhancement Model Physical Activity Long Term Conditions Long Term Neurological Care Diabetes Diabetes Services Diabetic Retinopathy North Nottinghamshire Diabetic Retinopathy Greater Nottingham Patient Education Central Nottinghamshire Patient Education Greater Nottingham Guidelines Heart Disease Stroke Care Personal Care Plans Expert Patient Programme End of Life Care COPD Dementia Information Presciptions Oral Health Mental Health Looking after your mental health Self Help Help and Support Stress Anxiety and Depression Older People Carer Support Key Facts Arts on Prescription Cancer Services Bowel Cancer Screening Breast Cancer Screening Cervical Cancer Screening Prostate Cancer Stop Smoking Stop Smoking Films Make the Smokefree Pledge Older People Keep Well, Keep warm Falls in Older People The Good Practice Guidance Toolkit for care homes Respiratory Disease Immunisations & Vaccinations Patient Prospectus Alcohol Information Drinking at home survey Pregnancy Information Maternity and newborn information Medicines Management Let's Talk Wellbeing Winter Advice Summer Advice Work for us Search for jobs NHS Nottinghamshire County Recruitment team Tips and advice Talking to staff Pay and benefits Apprenticship Scheme Equality and Diversity How to find us Contact us Search Search Home page my Health Advice Patient Choice Choose Well It's your health Sexual Health Healthy Weight Healthy Notts Long Term Conditions Long Term Neurological Care Diabetes Heart Disease Personal Care Plans Expert Patient Programme End of Life Care COPD Dementia Information Presciptions Oral Health Mental Health Cancer Services Stop Smoking Older People Respiratory Disease Immunisations & Vaccinations Patient Prospectus Alcohol Information Pregnancy Information Medicines Management Let's Talk Wellbeing Winter Advice Summer Advice Dementia Dementia Care Tthe first Nottingham City and Nottinghamshire County Dementia Strategy Newsletter is available to download [Adobe Acrobat PDF - 356.42 KB]. We would like to thank all of you who took part in the series of workshops across the city and county between August 2009 and March 2010. We were delighted by the commitment and effort put in by so many people with dementia and their carers; people from the voluntary and independent sectors and health and social care staff. Your contributions are being used to plan and improve local services. We will continue to update you and engage you in further decision making. This newsletter contains some information about progress following the dementia mapping workshops. Facts about dementia In Nottinghamshire there are 9,700 people predicted to have dementia, however only 1/3 rd of people with dementia have a formal diagnosis. By 2025 the over 65 population will go up by 50% and numbers of people with dementia in Nottinghamshire are predicted to grow to nearly 15,000 Dementia mainly affects older people. However, it can affect younger people: there are over 200 people in Nottinghamshire under the age of 65 who have dementia. Dementia can affect both men and women. What is Dementia? ‘Dementia’ is a term used to describe a number of illnesses where there is a progressive decline in multiple areas of function, these include Alzheimers disease, vascular disease, dementia with lewy bodies and fronto-temporal disease. Symptoms of dementia include : Loss of memory − for example, forgetting the way home from the shops, or being unable to remember names and places, or what happened earlier the same day. Mood changes Communication problems − a decline in the ability to talk, read and write. Decline in reasoning Individuals may also develop behavioural and psychological symptoms such as depression, aggression, psychosis and wandering. In the later stages of dementia, the person affected will have problems carrying out everyday tasks, and will become increasingly dependent on other people. Most forms of dementia cannot be cured, although research is continuing into developing drugs, vaccines and treatments. Drugs have been developed that can temporarily alleviate some of the symptoms of some types of dementia. These drugs are known as acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. If you are worried about yourself, or someone close to you, talk to your GP. It is very important to get a proper diagnosis. Having a diagnosis may mean it is possible to be prescribed drugs to slow down the symptoms. Diagnosis can also help you prepare and plan for the future. What can I do to reduce the risk of developing dementia? Have a balanced diet - A healthy and balanced diet that enables a person to maintain a normal body weight is likely to reduce the likelihood of developing high blood pressure or heart disease, both of which put a person at greater risk of developing dementia. Try to stop smoking - Smoking has an extremely harmful effect on the heart, lungs and vascular system, including the blood vessels in the brain. This increases the risk of developing vascular dementia. Drink alcohol in moderation − People who drink excessive amounts of alcohol over a long period of time increase their risk of developing a form of dementia.However some research has suggested that moderate amounts of red wine, which contains antioxidants, might help to protect the brain against dementia and keep the heart and vascular system healthy. Stay active − Regular physical exercise helps to keep the heart and vascular system healthy. This helps to reduce a person's risk of developing vascular dementia, which is caused by problems with the circulation of blood to and around the brain. The National Dementia Strategy Living well with dementia: A National Dementia Strategy was published in 2009 and said that services for people with dementia needed to improve. In
Nottinghamshire a lot of work has already taken place and further work is
underway to improve services for people living with dementia. We have developed
a strategy to outline progress and our local priorities based on the views of
carers, people with dementia, staff delivering services and commissioners. This
strategy forms part of Improving lives in Nottinghamshire: Nottinghamshire Joint
Commissioning Framework and can be seen at here . Further information and support for people with dementia http://www.alzheimers.org.uk/ http://www.mind.org.uk/help/diagnoses_and_conditions/dementia related links what do you think ? We'd love to hear from you if you have any comments on our services or about this website. Please email us and we'll be pleased to help. copyright privacy terms and conditi