
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:02:52 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat)
Last-Modified: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 17:18:17 GMT
Cache-Control: max-age=300
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Erythromicin eMedTV Sitemap Antibiotics Sitemap Please sign in to your HealthSavvy account to continue: Lost Password Don't have a HealthSavvy account yet? Click Here to sign up! SWITCH TO MOBILE VIEW Home eMedTV Home Antibiotics Home Health Topics eMedTV Health Topics Antibiotics Health Topics Disease & Conditions Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Symptoms Articles eMedTV Articles Antibiotics Articles Video eMedTV Video Antibiotics Medications Advertisement View All Related eMedTV Health Channels Doxycycline Augmentin Cephalexin Keflex Omnicef Tetracycline Minocycline Amoxicillin Plaquenil Levaquin Avelox Biaxin Flagyl Bactrim Metronidazole Macrobid Erythromycin Ciprofloxacin Site Map HealthSavvy Sign In | Erythromicin Were you looking for information on Erythromycin ? Erythromicin is a common misspelling of erythromycin. Bacterial infections such as acne, acute pelvic inflammatory disease, chlamydia , and pertussis can all be treated with the antibiotic erythromycin. This prescription drug works by inhibiting the action of ribosomes, a component of bacteria cells that aids in the formation of protein. As a result, bacteria are unable to properly grow and multiply. Commonly expected side effects of erythromycin include diarrhea , nausea, and vomiting. In fact, diarrhea is so often seen with this drug that it is often prescribed in an off-label fashion to treat diabetic gastroparesis in order to increase the rate at which food moves through the digestive tract. If the diarrhea is bloody or accompanied by muscle weakness, stomach pain, or dark urine, a healthcare provider should be seen right away. (Click Erythromycin to learn more about this antibiotic medication, including when and how to take it, what to do in cases of overdose, and other possible side effects. You can also click any of the links in the box to the right for specific information.) Advertisement What's the Cost of the Morning-After Pill for Emergency Contraception Can I Use Emergency Contraception as Regular Birth Control? Where Can You Buy the Morning-After Pill for Emergency Contraception? Can I Get Emergency Contraceptive Pills Before I Need Them? Is the Morning-After Pill Available Over-the-Counter? What Should I Expect If I Go to a Pharmacy to Get Emergency Contraception? Can I Use My Birth Control Pills as Emergency Contraception? What Are the Side Effects of the Morning-After Pill? Is Plan B Considered a Morning-After Pill? Is the Morning-After Pill the Same as Emergency Contraception (EC)? What's the Difference Between Emergency Contraception and the Abortion Pill (RU-486)? Does Emergency Contraception Cause an Abortion? Written by/reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD; Arthur Schoenstadt, MD Last reviewed by: Kristi Monson, PharmD Advertisement Referring Pages Articles Terms of Use Advertise with Us Contact Us About eMedTV Privacy Policy Copyright © 2006-2012 Clinaero, Inc. eMedTV serves only as an informational resource. This site does not dispense medical advice or advice of any kind.
	Site users seeking medical advice about their specific situation should consult with t