
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 03:03:47 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.11 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.11 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 PHP/5.2.8 mod_nss/2.2.3 NSS/3.12.2.0 Basic ECC mod_perl/2.0.4 Perl/v5.8.8
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.8
Expires: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 04:03:47 GMT
Cache-Control: must-revalidate
Pragma: no-cache
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Treatments, Raleigh Chiropractor Chiropractic Raleigh Chiropractors North Carolina 27614 POPULAR PAGES: What Is Chiropractic? - Low Back Pain - Headaches - Neck Pain - Auto Injuries - Sports Injuries - Adjustments - Subluxations About Us Chiropractic Conditions Health Newsletter Success Stories CONDITIONS Auto Injuries Headaches Low Back Pain Anatomy of Lower Back Treatments Causes of Low Back Pain Related Articles and Research Mid Back Pain Neck Pain Sports Injuries Work Injuries NEWSLETTER SIGN-UP Sign-up for our monthly health newsletter! First Name: Last Name: Email: SEARCH TOOL SUGGESTIONS Can't find information on a particular condition? Navigating our website seems too difficult? Help us improve our site by sharing your thoughts and suggestions below: RECENT NEWS ARTICLES Most recent newsletter articles... Click article name to view. 1. Chiropractic Care Improves Urinary Incontinence In Some 2. Frequent Breaks Good For Blood Sugar 3. How Well Does Your Doctor Understand Back Pain? 4. Chiropractic Groups Unite to Make Greater Impact on Capitol Hill QUICK LINKS: Schedule Appointment - Map and Directions - Online Specials - Calendar of Events - Contact Us - - - - - - - Treatments for Low Back Pain Doctors of chiropractic are the health care leaders in the treatment of low back pain as well as other spinal conditions. Treatments are gentle, safe, natural, noninvasive and highly effective.
  Also, the treatments are designed to correct the root cause of your problem and not simply cover up the symptoms you experience. In fact, a Canadian government commissioned study on the
  effectiveness and cost effectiveness of chiropractic management of low back pain concluded, "Chiropractic manipulation is safer than medical management of low back pain. Chiropractic management is greatly superior to medical management in terms of scientific validity, safety,
  cost-effectiveness and patient satisfaction." - The Manga Report Identifying The Cause The Treatment Proper Habits and Techniques Other Therapies How To Maintain A Healthy Lower Back Identifying The Cause The first step in treating low back pain is to determine what has and is causing the low
  back pain. Once the causes and contributing factors are identified, a successful treatment plan can be structured to eliminate the pain and achieve the goals of the patient. Most individuals experiencing low back pain have a combination of: vertebral subluxations faulty spinal biomechanics deconditioned and weak spinal musculature improper firing patterns of spinal musculature poor postural habits poor diet and nutritional practices a history of activities (work or play) generating high levels of spinal stress page top The Treatment Chiropractic doctors have successfully treated low back pain for over 100 years. Through the
  use of natural and safe procedures, chiropractors correct the underlying problems which cause and contribute to the majority of low back pain cases. The main treatment employed by the chiropractor is the chiropractic spinal adjustment. This noninvasive therapy consists of a gentle, manually or mechanically applied force into the segments of the
  spinal column. Spinal adjustments have been shown to decrease pain, increase spinal range of motion, decrease muscle spasm, reduce inflammation, optimize spinal biomechanics, and reduce the
  recurrence of old injuries. Clinical practice guidelines for the management of acute low back pain released by the US Department of Health and Human Services (AHCPR) stated: Conservative treatment such as spinal manipulation should be pursued in most cases before considering surgical intervention; Prescription drugs such as oral steroids, antidepressant medications and colchicine are not recommended for acute low back problems. The risk of serious complications from lumbar spinal manipulation is rare Acute Low Back Problems in Adults. Clinical Practice Guidelines. Bigos S, et al. Agency for Health Care Policy and Research Publication No. 950642 (1994) - U.S. Department of
  Health and Human Services. According to researcher Pran Manga, PhD, "Spinal manipulation applied by chiropractors is shown to be more effective than alternative treatments for low back pain. Many medical therapies are of questionable validity or are clearly
  inadequate." The Effectiveness and Cost Effectiveness of Chiropractic Management of Low-Back Pain (The Manga Report). Pran Manga and Associates (1993) - University of Ottawa, Canada. page top Proper Habits and Techniques Another key ingredient to a successful low back pain treatment plan includes the learning of
  proper postural habits and other techniques. Proper posture is a significant factor in the health of the back and proper posture should always be practiced. Techniques common to daily living and
  work also play a major role in the development or lack of development of low back pain. This includes proper lifting techniques, avoidance of repetitive motions, avoidance of prolonged sitting, and
  much more. We can teach you correct habits and techniques which will protect your back from discomfort and injury. page top Other Therapies Other manual therapies such as massage, trigger point therapy, proprioceptive neuromuscular
  facilitation, and acupressure therapy may be utilized to assist in the relaxation of lumbar muscles and increase lumbar spine mobility. Low back stabilization exercises are commonly prescribed to patients suffering from low back pain. These exercises are designed to teach the patient a "neutral spine" position as well as
  subconsciously enhance the muscles ability to stabilize and protect the spine from injury. Exercises and stretches are unique in that they can be performed outside the office without the assistance
  of the doctor. Physical therapies may also be employed and include hot and cold applications, muscle stimulation, interferential therapy, therapeutic ultrasound, and diathermy. Diet and nutrition also play a key role in the health of the spine. Without the proper nutrients, the lumbar spine and rest of the body are less able to remain healthy and heal once injured. If
  your diet and nutritional status is poor, we can help get you on track. page top How To Maintain A Healthy Lower Back Regular spinal checkups. Maintaining proper alignment and functioning of the lower
  back through periodic spinal adjustments minimizes the stresses to structures of the lower back. Also, keeping the nervous system free from interference ensures proper communication between the
  various structures of the lower back. Proper lifting and ergonomics. Practicing proper lifting techniques and ergonomics
  are key in preventing lower back injury at work and preventing future recurrences of old injuries. Regular exercise. Routine physical activity keeps the heart healthy and keeps the
  spine and the rest of the body strong and healthy. A minimum of 3 times per week for 40 minutes should be your goal. Involve friends and family, mix up the activities, keep it fun and stay
  consistent! Proper diet and nutrition. Providing your body with the proper fuel increases
  performance, reduces the likelihood of injury and sickness, speeds recovery after injury, and keeps you feeling good. If, like the rest of us, you're finding it difficult to get all the nutrients
  your body needs, it's probably time to supplement. If you're suffering from low back pain, join the millions of other individuals who have benefited from gentle, safe and natural chiropractic care. Our treatments provide fast, effective relief
  which not only eliminates pain, but can help increase the performance and health of the entire body. page top Health Source Raleigh | Dr. Gregory Carter 10640 Durant Road Suite 102 | Raleigh, North Carolina 27614 Tel: (919) 866-0087 | Fax: (919) 866-0950 Office Hours - call for appointment times Raleigh North Carolina Chiropractor Chiropractors Chiropractic Doctors Privacy Notice: Website - Clinic Copyr