< 5-10% for 
EPA and 2-5% for DHA. Thus, total n-3 requirements may be higher for vegetarians 
than for nonvegetarians, as vegetarians must rely on conversion of ALA to EPA 
and DHA. Because of the beneficial effects of n-3 fatty acids, it is recommended 
that vegetarians make dietary changes to optimize n-3 fatty acid status. Cleland, L. G., M. J. James, et al. (2003). "The 
role of fish oils in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis." Drugs 63 (9): 
845-53. Fish oils are a rich source of omega-3 long chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 LC PUFA). The specific fatty acids, 
eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid, are homologues of the n-6 fatty 
acid, arachidonic acid (AA). This chemistry provides for antagonism by n-3 LC 
PUFA of AA metabolism to pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic n-6 eicosanoids, as 
well as production of less active n-3 eicosanoids. In addition, n-3 LC PUFA can 
suppress production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and cartilage degradative 
enzymes.In accordance with the biochemical effects, beneficial anti-inflammatory 
effects of dietary fish oils have been demonstrated in randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trials in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Also, fish oils have 
protective clinical effects in occlusive cardiovascular disease, for which 
patients with RA are at increased risk.Implementation of the clinical use of 
anti-inflammatory fish oil doses has been poor. Since fish oils do not provide 
industry with the opportunities for substantial profit associated with patented 
prescription items, they have not received the marketing inputs that underpin 
the adoption of usual pharmacotherapies. Accordingly, many prescribers remain 
ignorant of their biochemistry, therapeutic effects, formulations, principles of 
application and complementary dietary modifications. Evidence is presented that 
increased uptake of this approach can be achieved using bulk fish oils. This 
approach has been used with good compliance in RA patients. In addition, an 
index of n-3 nutrition can be used to provide helpful feedback messages to 
patients and to monitor the attainment of target levels.Collectively, these 
issues highlight the challenges in advancing the use of fish oil amid the 
complexities of modern management of RA, with its emphasis on combination 
chemotherapy applied early. Chen, W. J. and S. L. Yeh (2003). "Effects of 
fish oil in parenteral nutrition." Nutrition 19 (3): 275-9. OBJECTIVE: Fish oil is a rich source of omega-3 fatty acids (FAs), 
especially eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid. The existing data 
suggest that eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid are the active 
agents in fish oil. A number of clinical trials have shown that dietary fish oil 
supplementation has antiatherogenic properties and immunomodulation effects. 
Fish oils are not used widely in parenteral nutrition because fish oil emulsions 
have not been commercially available until very recently. Studies concerning the 
use of fish oil in parenteral route are rare. METHODS: We reviewed the effect of 
parenteral fish oil infusion on lipid metabolism and immune response in normal 
and disease conditions. RESULTS: Studies showed that the main effects of 
parenteral infusion of fish oil are: 1) incorporation of omega-3 FAs into 
cellular membranes of many cell populations that consequently influence the 
disease process of some disease conditions, 2) an effect on eicosanoid 
metabolism leading to a decrease in platelet aggregation and thrombosis, 3) 
amelioration of the severity of diet-induced hepatic steatosis, 4) less 
accumulation of lipid peroxidation products in liver tissue, and 5) 
immunomodulation effects and therapeutic benefits in animal disease models or 
various disease conditions of humans. Most of these studies suggested that 
parenteral infusion of omega-3 FAs have clinical beneficial effects comparable 
to those of dietary administration. However, different effects of omega-3 and 
omega-6 FAs in some situations has been reported. For example, plasma 
triacylglycerol levels were not lowered after fish oil infusion in normal or 
diabetic rats when compared with those of safflower oil or soybean oil infusion. 
The reason for the difference remain unclear. CONCLUSION: The metabolic and 
immunologic effects of parenteral use of omega-3 FAs requires further 
evaluation, especially in some disease conditions. Calder, P. C. (2003). "Long-chain n-3 fatty 
acids and inflammation: potential application in surgical and trauma patients." Braz J Med Biol Res 36 (4): 433-46. Lipids used in nutritional support of surgical or critically 
ill patients have been based on soybean oil, which is rich in the n-6 fatty acid 
linoleic acid (18:2n-6). Linoleic acid is the precursor of arachidonic acid 
(20:4n-6). In turn, arachidonic acid in cell membrane phospholipids is the 
substrate for the synthesis of a range of biologically active compounds (eicosanoids) 
including prostaglandins, thromboxanes, and leukotrienes. These compounds can 
act as mediators in their own right and can also act as regulators of other 
processes, such as platelet aggregation, blood clotting, smooth muscle 
contraction, leukocyte chemotaxis, inflammatory cytokine production, and immune 
function. There is a view that an excess of n-6 fatty acids should be avoided 
since this could contribute to a state where physiological processes become 
dysregulated. One alternative is the use of fish oil. The rationale of this 
latter approach is that fish oil contains long chain n-3 fatty acids, such as 
eicosapentaenoic acid. When fish oil is provided, eicosapentaenoic acid is 
incorporated into cell membrane phospholipids, partly at the expense of 
arachidonic acid. Thus, there is less arachidonic acid available for eicosanoid 
synthesis. Hence, fish oil decreases production of prostaglandins like PGE2 and 
of leukotrienes like LTB4. Thus, n-3 fatty acids can potentially reduce platelet 
aggregation, blood clotting, smooth muscle contraction, and leukocyte chemotaxis, 
and can modulate inflammatory cytokine production and immune function. These 
effects have been demonstrated in cell culture, animal feeding and healthy 
volunteer studies. Fish oil decreases the host metabolic response and improves 
survival to endotoxin in laboratory animals. Recently clinical studies performed 
in various patient groups have indicated benefit from this approach. Bistrian, B. R. (2003). "Clinical aspects of 
essential fatty acid metabolism: Jonathan Rhoads Lecture." JPEN J Parenter 
Enteral Nutr 27 (3): 168-75. The clinical implications of the metabolism of the 2 
essential fatty acids, linoleic and alpha-linolenic acid, are most clearly 
related to the membrane phospholipid concentrations of their elongation and 
desaturation products, arachidonic, eicosapentaenoic, and docosahexaenoic acid. 
Levels of these very long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids can be altered by 
diet, prematurity, and disease which can affect growth (nutritional repletion) 
and the intensity and character of systemic inflammation as well as cognitive 
and visual function in infants. Woods, R. K., F. C. Thien, et al. (2002). 
"Dietary marine fatty acids (fish oil) for asthma in adults and children." Cochrane Database Syst Rev (3): CD001283. BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies suggest that a diet high 
in marine fatty acids (fish oil) may have beneficial effects on inflammatory 
conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and possibly asthma. OBJECTIVES: 1. To 
determine the effect of marine n-3 fatty acid (fish oil) supplementation in 
asthma. 2. To determine the effect of a diet high in fish oil in asthma. SEARCH 
STRATEGY: The Cochrane Airways Review Group register was searched using the 
terms: marine fatty acids OR diet OR nutrition OR fish oil OR eicosapentaenoic 
acid OR EPA. Bibliographies of retrieved trials were searched and fish oil 
manufacturers contacted. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials in 
patients with asthma more than two years of age were included. The study 
duration had to be in excess of four weeks. Double blind trials were preferred, 
but single-blind and open trials were also reviewed for possible inclusion. 
Three reviewers read each paper, blind to its identity. Decisions concerning 
inclusion were made by simple majority. Quality assessment was performed by all 
three reviewers independently. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The only comparison 
possible was between marine n-3 fatty acid supplementation and placebo. There 
were insufficient trials to examine dietary manipulation alone. MAIN RESULTS: 
Nine randomised controlled trials conducted between 1986 and 2001 satisfied the 
inclusion criteria. Seven were of parallel design and two were cross-over 
studies. Eight compared fish oil with placebo whilst one compared high dose vs 
low dose marine n-3 fatty acid supplementation. Two studies were conducted in 
children, whilst the remaining seven studies were conducted in adults. None of 
the included studies reported asthma exacerbations, health status or hospital 
admissions. There was no consistent effect on any of the analysable outcomes: 
FEV1, peak flow rate, asthma symptoms, asthma medication use or bronchial hyper 
reactivity. One of the studies performed in children which combined dietary 
manipulation with fish oil supplementation showed improved peak flow and reduced 
asthma medication use. There were no adverse events associated with fish oil 
supplements. REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: There is little evidence to recommend that 
people with asthma supplement or modify their dietary intake of marine n-3 fatty 
acids (fish oil) in order to improve their asthma control. Equally, there is no 
evidence that they are at risk if they do so. Von Hoff, D. D. and D. Bearss (2002). "New drugs 
for patients with pancreatic cancer." Curr Opin Oncol 14 (6): 
621-7. This past year has proved to be a relatively disappointing 
one for the development of agents that could improve the survival rates of 
patients with advanced pancreatic cancer. A well designed randomized trial of 
treatment of patients with gemcitabine with or without a farnesyl transferase 
inhibitor (tried because pancreatic cancers have a high incidence of K- 
abnormalities) showed no improvement in survival rates. A definitive randomized 
controlled trial with a histone deacetylase inhibitor also proved negative. 
There are some signs of hope in that in early nonrandomized studies there are 
some new agents that appear to have some activity against the disease. These 
agents include the thymidylate synthase inhibitor capecitabine (which is 
possibly activated at the tumor site), the antigastrin immunogen G17DT (which is 
an immunization designed to neutralize the pancreatic growth factor gastrin), 
and the topoisomerase I inhibitor 9-nitrocamptothecin. In addition, the 
combination of the new agent oxaliplatin to high-dose 5FU plus leucovorin, which 
gave a median survival rate of 12.5 months, is also worthy of further study. 
Supportive care findings of interest for the patient with advanced pancreatic 
cancer of note include: the study in which eicosapentaenoic acid (fish oil) 
caused a modest weight gain (median of 1 kg), and the finding that ofloxacin 
plus ursodeoxycholic acid was not superior to ursodeoxycholic acid alone for the 
prevention or occlusion of biliary stents. Tisdale, M. J. (2002). "Biochemical mechanisms 
of cellular catabolism." Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care 5 (4): 
401-5. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To provide an in-depth analysis of current 
developments concerning biochemical mechanisms of cellular catabolism. There 
have been a number of important developments in this area over the past 12 
months, particularly with respect to protein catabolism. RECENT FINDINGS: 
Protein degradation in a range of catabolic conditions is mediated primarily 
through the ubiquitin-proteasome proteolytic pathway. Glucocorticoids have been 
suggested to activate this system in sepsis, while in cancer cachexia a tumour-produced 
sulphated glycoprotein, proteolysis-inducing factor, induces protein catabolism 
in skeletal muscle by increasing expression of proteasome subunits and the 
ubiquitin carrier protein, E2(14k). Apoptosis may also be important in the loss 
of muscle protein during the early stage of cachexia. Induction of proteasome 
expression by glucocorticoids appears to be a direct result of the 
downregulation of the activity of nuclear factor kappaB, while 
proteolysis-inducing factor acts through 15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid as an 
intracellular transducer. SUMMARY: Formation of 15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid 
is inhibited by eicosapentaenoic acid, which has been shown to attenuate the 
development of weight loss in patients with pancreatic cancer. When 
eicosapentaenoic acid is combined with an energy dense nutritional supplement, 
there is an increase in body weight of cachectic cancer patients through an 
increase in lean body mass. Eicosapentaenoic acid also prevents protein 
catabolism and activation of the ubiquitin-proteasome proteolytic pathway during 
acute starvation in mice, suggesting a similar pathway is involved. Thus 
eicosapentaenoic acid may be effective in the treatment of protein catabolism in 
conditions other than cancer. Tisdale, M. J. (2002). "Cachexia in cancer 
patients." Nat Rev Cancer 2 (11): 862-71. Tapiero, H., G. N. Ba, et al. (2002). 
"Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) and eicosanoids in human health and 
pathologies." Biomed Pharmacother 56 (5): 215-22. Linoleic and alpha-linolenic acids, obtained from plant 
material in the diet are the precursors in tissues of two families with opposing 
effects which are referred to as "essential fatty acids" (EFA): arachidonic acid 
(AA) and pentaene (eicosapentaenoic acid: EPA) and hexaene (docosahexaenoic 
acid: DHA) acids. The role of EFA is crucial, without a source of AA or 
compounds which can be converted into AA, synthesis of prostaglandins (PGs) by a 
cyclooxygenase (COX) enzyme would be compromised, and this would seriously 
affect many normal metabolic processes. COX, also known as prostaglandin 
endoperoxide synthase (Pghs) or as prostaglandin G/H synthase, is a key membrane 
bound enzyme responsible for the oxidation of AA to PGs. Two COX isoforms have 
been identified, COX-1 and COX-2 that form PGH2, a common precursor for the 
biosynthesis of thromboxane A2 (TxA2), prostacyclin (PGI2) and PGs (PGD2, PGE2, 
PGF2alpha. COX-1 enzyme is expressed constitutively in most cells and tissues. 
Its expression remains constant under either physiological or pathological 
conditions controlling synthesis of those PGs primarily involved in the 
regulation of homeostatic functions. In contrast, COX-2 is an intermediate 
response gene that encodes a 71-kDa protein. COX-2 is normally absent from most 
cells but highly inducible in certain cells in response to inflammatory stimuli 
resulting in enhanced PG release. PGs formed by COX-2 primarily mediate pain and 
inflammation but have multiple effects that can favour tumorigenesis. They are 
more abundant in cancers than in normal tissues from which the cancers arise. 
COX-2 is a participant in the pathway of colon carcinogenesis, especially when 
mutation of the APC (Adenomatous Polyposis Coli) tumour suppressor gene is the 
initiating event. In addition, COX-2 up-regulation and elevated PGE2 levels are 
involved in breast carcinogenesis. It seems that there is a correlation between 
COX-2 level of expression and the size of the tumours and their propensity to 
invade underlying tissue. Inhibition by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) 
of COX enzymes which significantly suppress PGE2 levels, reduced breast cancer 
incidence and protected against colorectal cancer. Therefore it is suggested 
that consumption of a diet enriched in n-3 PUFA (specifically EPA and DHA) and 
inhibition of COX-2 by NSAIDs may confer cardioprotective effects and provide a 
significant mechanism for the prevention and treatment of human cancers. Simopoulos, A. P. (2002). "Omega-3 fatty acids 
in inflammation and autoimmune diseases." J Am Coll Nutr 21 (6): 
495-505. Among the fatty acids, it is the omega-3 polyunsaturated 
fatty acids (PUFA) which possess the most potent immunomodulatory activities, 
and among the omega-3 PUFA, those from fish oil-eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and 
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)--are more biologically potent than alpha-linolenic 
acid (ALA). Some of the effects of omega-3 PUFA are brought about by modulation 
of the amount and types of eicosanoids made, and other effects are elicited by 
eicosanoid-independent mechanisms, including actions upon intracellular 
signaling pathways, transcription factor activity and gene expression. Animal 
experiments and clinical intervention studies indicate that omega-3 fatty acids 
have anti-inflammatory properties and, therefore, might be useful in the 
management of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Coronary heart disease, 
major depression, aging and cancer are characterized by an increased level of 
interleukin 1 (IL-1), a proinflammatory cytokine. Similarly, arthritis, Crohn's 
disease, ulcerative colitis and lupus erythematosis are autoimmune diseases 
characterized by a high level of IL-1 and the proinflammatory leukotriene LTB(4) 
produced by omega-6 fatty acids. There have been a number of clinical trials 
assessing the benefits of dietary supplementation with fish oils in several 
inflammatory and autoimmune diseases in humans, including rheumatoid arthritis, 
Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, lupus erythematosus, multiple 
sclerosis and migraine headaches. Many of the placebo-controlled trials of fish 
oil in chronic inflammatory diseases reveal significant benefit, including 
decreased disease activity and a lowered use of anti-inflammatory drugs. Sanderson, P., Y. E. Finnegan, et al. (2002). 
"UK Food Standards Agency alpha-linolenic acid workshop report." Br J Nutr 88 (5): 573-9. The UK Food Standards Agency convened a group of expert 
scientists to review current research investigating whether n-3 polyunsaturated 
fatty acids (PUFA) from plant oils (alpha-linolenic acid; ALA) were as 
beneficial to cardiovascular health as the n-3 PUFA from the marine oils, 
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). The workshop also 
aimed to establish priorities for future research. Dietary intake of ALA has 
been associated with a beneficial effect on CHD; however, the results from 
studies investigating the effects of ALA supplementation on CHD risk factors 
have proved equivocal. The studies presented as part of the present workshop 
suggested little, if any, benefit of ALA, relative to linoleic acid, on risk 
factors for cardiovascular disease; the effects observed with fish-oil 
supplementation were not replicated by ALA supplementation. There is a need, 
therefore, to first prove the efficacy of ALA supplementation on cardiovascular 
disease, before further investigating effects on cardiovascular risk factors. 
The workshop considered that a beneficial effect of ALA on the secondary 
prevention of CHD still needed to be established, and there was no reason to 
look further at existing CHD risk factors in relation to ALA supplementation. 
The workshop also highlighted the possibility of feeding livestock ALA-rich oils 
to provide a means of increasing the dietary intake in human consumers of EPA 
and DHA. Renaud, S. and D. Lanzmann-Petithory (2002). 
"Dietary fats and coronary heart disease pathogenesis." Curr Atheroscler Rep 4 (6): 419-24. The intake of saturated fat seems to be the main 
environmental factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). However, decreasing the 
intake of saturated fat and replacing it in part with linoleic acid in primary 
or secondary intervention trials did not satisfactorily reduce CHD clinical 
manifestations. It is only when omega-3 fatty acids, alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), 
or eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) were added to the 
diet that sudden cardiac death (ALA, EPA plus DHA) and nonfatal myocardial 
infarction (only ALA) were significantly lowered. The protective effect of 
omega-3 fatty acids occurs rapidly, within weeks. The mechanism for preventing 
ventricular fibrillation seems to be through a direct effect on myocytes. The 
additional effect of ALA on nonfatal myocardial infarction may be through 
thrombosis, at least partly caused by an effect on platelets. Nordoy, A. (2002). "Statins and omega-3 fatty 
acids in the treatment of dyslipidemia and coronary heart disease." Minerva 
Med 93 (5): 357-63. Dyslipidemia including hypercholesterolemia and 
hypertriglyceridemia often associated with low levels of HDL-cholesterol is a 
common and important cluster of risk factors for coronary heart disease. 
Dyslipidemia is also commonly associated with hypertension, hyperinsulinemia and 
central obesity in the metabolic syndrome. Lifestyle adjustments including 
increased physical activity and dietary modifications leading to weight 
reduction are important first steps in the prevention of coronary heart disease 
in patients with such abnormalities in lipid metabolism. When these adjustments 
are insufficient to achieve desirable results, the combined treatment with 
statins and omega-3 fatty acids is an efficient treatment alternative. Both 
statins and omega-3 fatty acids have documented their effects against coronary 
heart disease (CHD) both in primary and secondary prevention trials. The 
mechanisms involved are only partly explained, however, the synergistic effects 
of statins and omega-3 fatty acids significantly reduce the risk for CHD in 
patients with dyslipidemia. Mayser, P., H. Grimm, et al. (2002). "n-3 fatty 
acids in psoriasis." Br J Nutr 87 Suppl 1 : S77-82. Increased concentrations of free arachidonic acid (AA) and 
its proinflammatory metabolites have been observed in psoriatic lesions. 
Replacement of arachidonic acid by alternative precursor polyunsaturated fatty 
acids (PUFA), especially eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), which can be metabolized 
via the same enzymatic pathways as AA, might be a therapeutic option in 
psoriasis. However the results of studies evaluating the therapeutic benefit of 
dietary fish oil have been conflicting and not clearly dose-dependent. To 
overcome the slow kinetics and limited availability of oral supplementation, we 
have performed three studies to assess the efficacy and safety of an 
intravenously administered fish oil derived lipid emulsion on different forms of 
psoriasis. Patients received daily infusions of either an n-3 fatty acid-based 
lipid emulsion (Omegaven) or a conventional n-6 lipid emulsion (Lipoven) in 
different time and dose regimens. In addition to an overall assessment of the 
clinical course of psoriasis, EPA- and AA-derived neutrophil 5-lipoxygenase 
(LO)--products, thromboxane (TX) B2/B3, PAF and plasma free fatty acids were 
investigated. Treatment with n-3 fatty acids resulted in a considerably higher 
response rate than infusion of n-6 lipids. A more than 10-fold increase in 
neutrophil EPA-derived 5-LO product formation was noted in the n-3 group, 
accompanied by a rapid increase in plasma-free EPA within the first days. In 
conclusion, intravenous n-3-fatty acid administration causes reduction of 
psoriasis, which may be related to changes in inflammatory eicosanoid 
generation. The rapidity of the response to intravenous n-3 lipids exceeds by 
orders of magnitude the hitherto reported kinetics of improvement of psoriatic 
lesions upon use of oral supplementation. Kinoshita, M. (2002). "[Anti-hyperlipidemic 
agents]." Nippon Rinsho 60 (5): 968-74. There are several drugs for hyperlipidemia except for statin 
and fibrate. Resin is a commonly used drug for hypercholesterolemia and is known 
to very useful for the prevention of coronary heart disease(CHD). Probucol is 
also used for hypercholesterolemia and recently is known that it prevent the 
restenosis of the coronary artery after PTCA. Nicotinic acid is used for 
hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia, both. It is also known to very 
useful for the prevention of CHD. Eicosapentaenoic acid is effective for 
hypertriglyceridemia and also shows an inhibition of platelets aggregation. 
These drugs as well as statin and fibrate are used in combination with each 
other for severe hyperlipidemia. Horrobin, D. F. (2002). "A new category of 
psychotropic drugs: neuroactive lipids as exemplified by ethyl eicosapentaenoate 
(E-E)." Prog Drug Res 59 : 171-99. New treatments for psychiatric disorders are urgently 
required. Recent reviews show that there have been no improvements in efficacy 
of drugs for either affective disorders or schizophrenia since the first 
compounds were introduced over 40 years ago. Neuroactive lipids represent an 
entirely novel class of psychotropic compounds. Ethyl eicosapentaenoate is the 
first example of this group. Placebo-controlled studies have found it to be 
effective in depression, in treatment-unresponsive schizophrenia and in tardive 
dyskinesia. It is extremely well tolerated with none of the usual side-effects 
of either antidepressants or neuroleptics. It probably works by modulating 
postreceptor signal transduction processes. Gil, A. (2002). "Polyunsaturated fatty acids and 
inflammatory diseases." Biomed Pharmacother 56 (8): 388-96. Inflammation is overall a protective response, whose main 
goal is to liberate the human being of cellular lesions caused by 
micro-organisms, toxins, allergens, etc., as well as its consequences, and of 
death cells and necrotic tissues. Chronic inflammation, which is detrimental to 
tissues, is the basic pathogenic mechanism of hypersensitivity reactions against 
xenobiotics. Other frequent pathologies, for instance atherosclerosis, chronic 
hepatitis, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), liver cirrhosis, lung fibrosis, 
psoriasis, and rheumatoid arthritis are also chronic inflammatory diseases. 
Chemical mediators of inflammation are derived from blood plasma or different 
cell-type activity. Biogenic amines, eicosanoids and cytokines are within the 
most important mediators of inflammatory processes. The different activities of 
eicosanoids derived from arachidonic acid (20:4 n-6) versus those derived from 
eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5 n-3) are one of the most important mechanisms to 
explain why n-3, or omega-3, polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) exhibit 
anti-inflammatory properties in many inflammatory diseases. Dietary supplements 
ranging 1-8 g per day of n-3 PUFA have been reportedly beneficial in the 
treatment of IBD, eczema, psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, 
recent experimental studies in rats with experimental ulcerative colitis, 
induced by intrarectal injection of trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid, have 
documented that treatment with n-3 long-chain PUFA reduces mucosal damage as 
assessed by biochemical and histological markers of inflammation. Moreover, the 
defence antioxidant system in this model is enhanced in treated animals, 
provided that the n-3 PUFA supply is adequately preserved from oxidation. Fujita, T. (2002). "[Formation and removal of 
reactive oxygen species, lipid peroxides and free radicals, and their biological 
effects]." Yakugaku Zasshi 122 (3): 203-18. It is well known that biomembranes and subcellular organelles 
are susceptible to lipid peroxidation. There is a steadily increasing body of 
evidence indicating that lipid peroxidation is involved in basic deteriorative 
mechanisms, e.g., membrane damage, enzyme damage, and nucleic acid mutagenicity. 
The formation of lipid peroxides can be induced by enzymatic or nonenzymatic 
peroxidation in the presence of oxygen. The mechanisms of formation and removal 
of reactive oxygen species, lipid peroxides, and free radicals in biological 
systems are briefly reviewed. In recent years, there has been renewed interest 
in the role played by lipid peroxidation in many disease states. Xanthine 
oxidase has been shown to generate reactive oxygen species, superoxide (O2-.), 
and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) that are involved in the peroxidative damage to 
cells that occurs in ischemia-reperfusion injury. During ischemia, this enzyme 
is induced from xanthine dehydrogenase. We have shown that peroxynitrite (a 
reactive nitrogen species) has the potential to convert xanthine dehydrogenase 
to oxidase. The following biological effects of lipid peroxidation were found: 
a) the lipid peroxidation induced by ascorbic acid and Fe2+ affects the membrane 
transport in the kidney cortex and the cyclooxygenase activity in the kidney 
medulla, and b) the hydroperoxy adducts of linoleic acid and eicosapentaenoic 
acid inhibit the cyclooxygenase activity in platelets. The balance between the 
formation and removal of lipid peroxides determines the peroxide level in cells. 
This balance can be disturbed if cellular defenses are decreased or if there is 
a significant increase in peroxidative reactions. Once lipid peroxidation is 
initiated, the reactive intermediate formed induces cell damage. Demaison, L. and D. Moreau (2002). "Dietary n-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acids and coronary heart disease-related mortality: a 
possible mechanism of action." Cell Mol Life Sci 59 (3): 463-77. Epidemiological and interventional studies indicate that 
dietary n-3 PUFA reduces mortality due to coronary heart disease (CHD). They act 
at a low dose, since one or two meals with fatty fish per week is sufficient to 
provide protection when compared with no fish intake. These fatty acids are 
effective in providing primary prevention in low- and high-risk subjects and 
secondary prevention. At high doses, dietary n-3 PUFAs have several beneficial 
properties. First, they act favourably on blood characteristics: they are 
hypocholesterolemic and hypotriglyceridemic; they reduce platelet aggregation; 
they exhibit antithrombotic and fibrinolytic activities; they reduce blood 
viscosity and they exhibit antiinflammatory action. Second, they reduce 
ischemia/reperfusion-induced cellular damage. This effect is apparently due to 
the incorporation of eicosapentaenoic acid in membrane phospholipids. Third, 
they reduce ischemia and reperfusion arrhythmias. All the effects exerted by n-3 
PUFAs at high doses are incompatible with the beneficial action on CHD mortality 
in humans observed at low doses, where their main properties are related to 
circulation in the form of free fatty acids. Numerous experimental studies have 
indicated that low concentrations of exogenous n-3 PUFAs reduce the severity of 
cardiac arrhythmias. This effect is probably responsible for the protective 
action of n-3 PUFA on CHD mortality. Further studies are necessary to confirm 
this assumption in animals. Such studies should take account of the fact that 
only a low dose of n-3 PUFA (20 mg/kg/day) is necessary to afford protection. 
Furthermore, since the beneficial effect of n-3 PUFAs on CHD mortality is 
observed in fish eaters versus no-fish eaters, and since populations in 
industrialised countries consume excess n-6 PUFAs, control animals in long-term 
dietary experiments should be fed a diet with only n-6 fatty acids as a source 
of PUFAs. Calder, P. C., P. Yaqoob, et al. (2002). "Fatty 
acids and lymphocyte functions." Br J Nutr 87 Suppl 1 : S31-48. The immune system acts to protect the host against pathogenic 
invaders. However, components of the immune system can become dysregulated such 
that their activities are directed against host tissues, so causing damage. 
Lymphocytes are involved in both the beneficial and detrimental effects of the 
immune system. Both the level of fat and the types of fatty acid present in the 
diet can affect lymphocyte functions. The fatty acid composition of lymphocytes, 
and other immune cells, is altered according to the fatty acid composition of 
the diet and this alters the capacity of those cells to produce eicosanoids, 
such as prostaglandin E2, which are involved in immunoregulation. A high fat 
diet can impair lymphocyte function. Cell culture and animal feeding studies 
indicate that oleic, linoleic, conjugated linoleic, gamma-linolenic, 
dihomo-gamma-linolenic, arachidonic, alpha-linolenic, eicosapentaenoic and 
docosahexaenoic acids can all influence lymphocyte proliferation, the production 
of cytokines by lymphocytes, and natural killer cell activity. High intakes of 
some of these fatty acids are necessary to induce these effects. Among these 
fatty acids the long chain n-3 fatty acids, especially eicosapentaenoic acid, 
appear to be the most potent when included in the human diet. Although not all 
studies agree, it appears that fish oil, which contains eicosapentaenoic acid, 
down regulates the T-helper 1-type response which is associated with chronic 
inflammatory disease. There is evidence for beneficial effects of fish oil in 
such diseases; this evidence is strongest for rheumatoid arthritis. Since n-3 
fatty acids also antagonise the production of inflammatory eicosanoid mediators 
from arachidonic acid, there is potential for benefit in asthma and related 
diseases. Recent evidence indicates that fish oil may be of benefit in some 
asthmatics but not others. Calder, P. C. (2002). "Dietary modification of 
inflammation with lipids." Proc Nutr Soc 61 (3): 345-58. The n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) eicosapentaenoic 
acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) are found in high proportions in oily 
fish and fish oils. The n-3 PUFA are structurally and functionally distinct from 
the n-6 PUFA. Typically, human inflammatory cells contain high proportions of 
the n-6 PUFA arachidonic acid and low proportions of n-3 PUFA. The significance 
of this difference is that arachidonic acid is the precursor of 2-series 
prostaglandins and 4-series leukotrienes, which are highly-active mediators of 
inflammation. Feeding fish oil results in partial replacement of arachidonic 
acid in inflammatory cell membranes by EPA. This change leads to decreased 
production of arachidonic acid-derived mediators. This response alone is a 
potentially beneficial anti-inflammatory effect of n-3 PUFA. However, n-3 PUFA 
have a number of other effects which might occur downstream of altered 
eicosanoid production or might be independent of this activity. For example, 
animal and human studies have shown that dietary fish oil results in suppressed 
production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and can decrease adhesion molecule 
expression. These effects occur at the level of altered gene expression. This 
action might come about through antagonism of the effects of arachidonic 
acid-derived mediators or through more direct actions on the intracellular 
signalling pathways which lead to activation of transcription factors such as 
nuclear factor kappa B (NFB). Recent studies have shown that n-3 PUFA can down 
regulate the activity of the nuclear transcription factor NFB. Fish oil feeding 
has been shown to ameliorate the symptoms in some animal models of chronic 
inflammatory disease and to protect against the effects of endotoxin and similar 
inflammatory challenges. Clinical studies have reported that oral fish oil 
supplementation has beneficial effects in rheumatoid arthritis and among some 
patients with asthma, supporting the idea that the n-3 PUFA in fish oil are 
anti-inflammatory. There are indications that inclusion of n-3 PUFA in enteral 
and parenteral formulas might be beneficial to patients in intensive care or 
post-surgery. Brenna, J. T. (2002). "Efficiency of conversion 
of alpha-linolenic acid to long chain n-3 fatty acids in man." Curr Opin Clin 
Nutr Metab Care 5 (2): 127-32. Alpha-linolenic acid (18:3n-3) is the major n-3 (omega 3) 
fatty acid in the human diet. It is derived mainly from terrestrial plant 
consumption and it has long been thought that its major biochemical role is as 
the principal precursor for long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids, of which 
eicosapentaenoic (20:5n-3) and docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3) are the most 
prevalent. For infants, n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids are required 
for rapid growth of neural tissue in the perinatal period and a nutritional 
supply is particularly important for development of premature infants. For 
adults, n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation is implicated 
in improving a wide range of clinical pathologies involving cardiac, kidney, and 
neural tissues. Studies generally agree that whole body conversion of 18:3n-3 to 
22:6n-3 is below 5% in humans, and depends on the concentration of n-6 fatty 
acids and long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids in the diet. Complete oxidation 
of dietary 18:3n-3 to CO2 accounts for about 25% of 18:3n-3 in the first 24 h, 
reaching 60% by 7 days. Much of the remaining 18:3n-3 serves as a source of 
acetate for synthesis of saturates and monounsaturates, with very little stored 
as 18:3n-3. In term and preterm infants, studies show wide variability in the 
plasma kinetics of 13C n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids after 
13C-18:3n-3 dosing, suggesting wide variability among human infants in the 
development of biosynthetic capability to convert 18:3n-3 to 22:6n3. Tracer 
studies show that humans of all ages can perform the conversion of 18:3n-3 to 
22:6n3. Further studies are required to establish quantitatively the 
partitioning of dietary 18:3n-3 among metabolic pathways and the influence of 
other dietary components and of physiological states on these processes. Berger, G. E., S. J. Wood, et al. (2002). 
"Implications of lipid biology for the pathogenesis of schizophrenia." Aust N 
Z J Psychiatry 36 (3): 355-66. OBJECTIVE: Preclinical and clinical data suggest that lipid 
biology is integral to brain development and neurodegeneration. Both aspects are 
proposed as being important in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. The purpose of 
this paper is to examine the implications of lipid biology, in particular the 
role of essential fatty acids (EFA), for schizophrenia. METHODS: Medline 
databases were searched from 1966 to 2001 followed by the cross-checking of 
references. RESULTS: Most studies investigating lipids in schizophrenia 
described reduced EFA, altered glycerophospholipids and an increased activity of 
a calcium-independent phospholipase A2 in blood cells and in post-mortem brain 
tissue. Additionally, in vivo brain phosphorus-31 Magnetic Resonance 
Spectroscopy (31P-MRS) demonstrated lower phosphomonoesters (implying reduced 
membrane precursors) in first- and multi-episode patients. In contrast, 
phosphodiesters were elevated mainly in first-episode patients (implying 
increased membrane breakdown products), whereas inconclusive results were found 
in chronic patients. EFA supplementation trials in chronic patient populations 
with residual symptoms have demonstrated conflicting results. More consistent 
results were observed in the early and symptomatic stages of illness, especially 
if EFA with a high proportion of eicosapentaenoic acid was used. CONCLUSION: 
Peripheral blood cell, brain necropsy and 31P-MRS analysis reveal a disturbed 
lipid biology, suggesting generalized membrane alterations in schizophrenia. 
31P-MRS data suggest increased membrane turnover at illness onset and persisting 
membrane abnormalities in established schizophrenia. Cellular processes 
regulating membrane lipid metabolism are potential new targets for antipsychotic 
drugs and might explain the mechanism of action of treatments such as 
eicosapentaenoic acid. Abhyankar, B. (2002). "Further reduction in 
mortality following myocardial infarction." Hosp Med 63 (10): 
610-4. Omacor is a new omega-3 fatty acid product that is licensed 
for secondary prevention post-myocardial infarction. It confers an additional 
20% reduction in all-cause mortality, based on the Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio 
della Sopravvivenza nell'Infarto miocardico prevenzione (GISSI-P) study data. 
The GISSI-P results are compared with other trials of secondary prevention. Yazawa, K. (2001). "Recent development of health 
foods enriched with DHA, EPA and DPA in Japan." World Rev Nutr Diet 88 : 
249-52. Tsushima, M. (2001). "[Eicosapentaenoic acid]." Nippon Rinsho 59 Suppl 3 : 650-6. Tisdale, M. J. (2001). "Loss of skeletal muscle 
in cancer: biochemical mechanisms." Front Biosci 6 : D164-74. Patients with cancer often undergo a specific loss of 
skeletal muscle mass, while the visceral protein reserves are preserved. This 
condition known as cachexia reduces the quality of life and eventually results 
in death through erosion of the respiratory muscles. Nutritional supplementation 
or appetite stimulants are unable to restore the loss of lean body mass, since 
protein catabolism is increased mainly as a result of the activation of the ATP-ubiquitin-dependent 
proteolytic pathway. Several mediators have been proposed. An enhanced protein 
degradation is seen in skeletal muscle of mice administered tumour necrosis 
factor (TNF), which appears to be mediated by oxidative stress. There is some 
evidence that this may be a direct effect and is associated with an increase in 
total cellular-ubiquitin-conjugated muscle proteins. Another cytokine, 
interleukin-6 (IL-6), may play a role in muscle wasting in certain animal 
tumours, possibly through both lysosomal (cathepsin) and non-lysosomal (proteasome) 
pathways. A tumour product, proteolysis-inducing factor (PIF) is produced by 
cachexia-inducing murine and human tumours and initiates muscle protein 
degradation directly through activation of the proteasome pathway. The action of 
PIF is blocked by eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), which has been shown to attenuate 
the development of cachexia in pancreatic cancer patients. When combined with 
nutritional supplementation EPA leads to accumulation of lean body mass and 
prolongs survival. Further knowledge on the biochemical mechanisms of muscle 
protein catabolism will aid the development of effective therapy for cachexia. Tisdale, M. J. (2001). "Cancer anorexia and 
cachexia." Nutrition 17 (5): 438-42. Patients with cancer cachexia experience a profound wasting 
of adipose tissue and lean body mass. Anorexia, although often present, is 
insufficient to account for tissue wasting because 1) cachexia involves massive 
depletion of skeletal muscle that does not occur during anorexia, 2) nutritional 
supplementation cannot replenish the loss of lean body mass, 3) cachexia can 
occur without anorexia, and 4) food intake might be normal for the lower weight 
of the cancer patient. Anorexia can arise from 1) decreased taste and smell of 
food, 2) early satiety, 3) dysfunctional hypothalamic membrane adenylate cyclase, 
4) increased brain tryptophan, and 5) cytokine production. Appetite stimulants 
such as cyproheptadine, medroxyprogesterone acetate, and megestrol acetate do 
not significantly improve lean body mass. Tumor products might be more important 
in the development of cachexia. Cachectic patients excrete in their urine a 
lipid-mobilizing factor that directly stimulates lipolysis in a cyclic 
AMP-dependent manner and increases energy expenditure. Loss of skeletal muscle 
in cachexia is caused by upregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome catabolic 
pathway. Cachexia-inducing tumors elaborate a sulfated glycoprotein, which 
directly initiates protein catabolism in skeletal muscle. The action of this 
proteolysis-inducing factor is attenuated by the polyunsaturated fatty acid 
eicosapentaenoic acid, which is also effective in preventing loss of skeletal 
muscle in cancer patients. Antagonists of tumor catabolic factors will provide 
important new agents in the treatment of cancer cachexia. Thatcher, W. W., A. Guzeloglu, et al. (2001). 
"Uterine-conceptus interactions and reproductive failure in cattle." Theriogenology 56 (9): 1435-50. The dialogue between trophectoderm cells of the conceptus and 
epithelial cells of the endometrium is critical to CL maintenance and embryo 
survival. The signal transduction mechanisms by which bovine interferon (IFN)-tau 
regulates cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 expression and secretion of prostaglandin 
F2alpha (PGF2alpha) in bovine endometrial (BEND) cells is examined. Stimulation 
of Protein Kinase C with a phorbol ester (phorbol 12, 13 dibutyrate [PDBu]) 
activates COX-2 gene expression and PGF2alpha secretion via the mitogen-activated 
protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Interferon-tau attenuates PDBu activation of 
PGF2alpha secretion, but this inhibitory effect appears to be independent of the 
MAPK pathway. Embryonic IFN-tau, acting through a Type I IFN receptor, activates 
the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 
pathway resulting in activation or repression of interferon-stimulated genes. 
Experimental evidence is provided that IFN-tau regulation of STATs regulates 
gene expression of COX-2 in a manner that decreases secretion of PGF2alpha. 
Maternal regulation of the antiluteolytic pathway is discussed relative to the 
ability of the polyunsaturated fatty acid, eicosapentaenoic (EPA), to decrease 
endometrial secretion of PGF2alpha and progesterone to increase both conceptus 
development and IFN-tau secretion. Terano, T. (2001). "Effect of omega 3 
polyunsaturated fatty acid ingestion on bone metabolism and osteoporosis." World Rev Nutr Diet 88 : 141-7. Shimokawa, H. (2001). "Beneficial effects of 
eicosapentaenoic acid on endothelial vasodilator functions in animals and 
humans." World Rev Nutr Diet 88 : 100-8. Senzaki, H., A. Tsubura, et al. (2001). "Effect 
of eicosapentaenoic acid on the suppression of growth and metastasis of human 
breast cancer cells in vivo and in vitro." World Rev Nutr Diet 88 : 
117-25. Rudolph, I. L., D. S. Kelley, et al. (2001). 
"Regulation of cellular differentiation and apoptosis by fatty acids and their 
metabolites." Nutr Res 21 (1-2): 381-93. We have reviewed the literature regarding the effects of 
fatty acids and their metabolites on cellular differentiation and apoptosis. 
Results obtained in different studies have been variable, but some 
generalizations can be made. Differentiation was increased by incubation of 
cells with arachidonic acid (AA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic 
acid (DHA), prostaglandin E1 (PGE1), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), or leukotriene D4 
(LTD4). Effects of these agents on differentiation could be magnified with the 
simultaneous addition of other differentiation-inducing agents like 
dimethylsulfoxide or retinoic acid. AA and gamma-linolenic acid increased 
apoptosis while the effects of n-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA) and of eicosanoids 
varied from stimulation to inhibition. These inconsistencies are attributed to 
the differences in methods used to evaluate differentiation and apoptosis, 
concentrations of fatty acids and serum, exposure time and the cell models used. 
Studies using the physiological concentrations of the fatty acids and 
standardized experimental conditions need to be conducted to establish effects 
of fatty acids and their metabolites on these cellular processes. Nordoy, A., R. Marchioli, et al. (2001). "n-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acids and cardiovascular diseases." Lipids 36 
Suppl : S127-9. An expert round table discussion on the relationship between 
intake of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) mainly of marine sources and 
coronary heart disease at the 34th Annual Scientific Meeting of European Society 
for Clinical Investigation came to the following conclusions: 1. Consumption of 
1-2 fish meals/wk is associated with reduced coronary heart disease (CHD) 
mortality. 2. Patients who have experienced myocardial infarction have decreased 
risk of total, cardiovascular, coronary, and sudden death by drug treatment with 
1 g/d of ethylesters of n-3 PUFA, mainly as eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and 
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). The effect is present irrespective of high or low 
traditional fish intake or simultaneous intake of other drugs for secondary CHD 
prevention. n-3 PUFA may also be given as fatty fish or triglyceride 
concentrates. 3. Patients who have experienced coronary artery bypass surgery 
with venous grafts may reduce graft occlusion rates by administration of 4 g/d 
of n-3 PUFA. 4. Patients with moderate hypertension may reduce blood pressure by 
administration of 4 g/d of n-3 PUFA. 5. After heart transplantation, 4 g/d of 
n-3 PUFA may protect against development of hypertension. 6. Patients with 
dyslipidemia and or postprandial hyperlipemia may reduce their coronary risk 
profile by administration of 1-4 g/d of marine n-3 PUFA. The combination with 
statins seems to be a potent alternative in these patients. 7. There is growing 
evidence that daily intake of up to 1 energy% of nutrients from plant n-3 PUFA 
(alpha-linolenic acid) may decrease the risk for myocardial infarction and death 
in patients with CHD. This paper summarizes the conclusions of an expert panel 
on the relationship between n-3 PUFA and CHD. The objectives for the experts 
were to formulate scientifically sound conclusions on the effects of fish in the 
diet and the administration of marine n-3 PUFA, mainly eicosapentaenoic acid 
(EPA, 20:5n-3) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3), and eventually of plant 
n-3 PUFA, alpha-linolenic acid (ALA, 18:3n-3), on primary and secondary 
prevention of CHD. Fish in the diet should be considered as part of a healthy 
diet low in saturated fats for everybody, whereas additional administration of 
n-3 PUFA concentrates could be given to specific groups of patients. This 
workshop was organized on the basis of questions sent to the participants 
beforehand, on brief introductions by the participants, and finally on 
discussion and analysis by a group of approximately 40 international scientists 
in the fields of nutrition, cardiology, epidemiology, lipidology, and 
thrombosis. Nestel, P. (2001). "Fish oil fatty acids 
beneficially modulate vascular function." World Rev Nutr Diet 88 : 
86-9. Mori, T. A. and L. J. Beilin (2001). "Long-chain 
omega 3 fatty acids, blood lipids and cardiovascular risk reduction." Curr 
Opin Lipidol 12 (1): 11-7. Increasing evidence suggests that omega 3 fatty acids derived 
from fish and fish oils may play a protective role in coronary heart disease and 
its many complications, through a variety of actions, including effects on 
lipids, blood pressure, cardiac and vascular function, prostanoids, coagulation 
and immunological responses. Interesting differences between the effects of 
highly purified eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid are emerging, 
which may be relevant in the choice of omega 3 fatty acid for incorporation into 
food products. On the basis of our current knowledge, we believe it is justified 
to recommend, particularly to high-risk populations, an increased dietary intake 
of omega 3 fatty acids through the consumption of fish. McLennan, P. L. (2001). "Myocardial membrane 
fatty acids and the antiarrhythmic actions of dietary fish oil in animal 
models." Lipids 36 Suppl : S111-4. Epidemiologic studies, animal studies, and more recently, 
clinical intervention trials all suggest a role for regular intake of dietary 
fish oil in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Prevention of 
cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death is demonstrable at fish or fish oil intakes 
that have little or no effect on blood pressure or plasma lipids. In animals, 
dietary intake of fish oil [containing both eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, 20:5n-3) 
and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3)] selectively increases myocardial 
membrane phospholipid content of DHA, whereas low dose consumption of purified 
fatty acids shows antiarrhythmic effects of DHA but not EPA. Ventricular 
fibrillation induced under many conditions, including ischemia, reperfusion, and 
electrical stimulation, and even arrhythmias induced in vitro with no 
circulating fatty acids are prevented by prior dietary consumption of fish oil. 
The preferential accumulation of DHA in myocardial cell membranes, its 
association with arrhythmia prevention, and the selective ability of pure DHA to 
prevent ventricular fibrillation all point to DHA as the active component of 
fish oil. The antiarrhythmic effect of dietary fish oil appears to depend on the 
accumulation of DHA in myocardial cell membranes. Lanzmann-Petithory, D. (2001). "Alpha-linolenic 
acid and cardiovascular diseases." J Nutr Health Aging 5 (3): 
179-83. The intake of saturated fat was postulated to be the main 
environmental factor for coronary heart disease. It was also postulated that the 
noxious effects of saturated fatty acids (FA) was primarily through the increase 
in serum cholesterol. Nevertheless intervention trials either in coronary 
patients or even in primary prevention did not observe significant reduction in 
cardiac mortality, especially sudden death, when the diet was markedly enriched 
in linoleic acid (LA), the most efficient FA to lower serum cholesterol. In 
intervention trials, It is only when the diet was enriched in n-3 FA, especially 
alphalinolenic acid (ALA) that cardiac death was reduced. Studies in animals as 
well as in vitro on myocytes in culture, have shown that ALA was preventing 
ventricular fibrillation, the chief mechanism of cardiac death. Furthermore, 
studies in rats have observed that among n-3 FA, ALA, the precursor of the n-3 
family, may be more efficient to prevent ventricular fibrillation than 
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). In addition it was 
demonstrated that ALA was the main FA lowering platelet aggregation, an 
important step in thrombosis, i. e. non fatal myocardial infarction and stroke. 
Thus, without side effects, a higher intake of ALA (2g / day) with a ratio of 
5/1 for LA/ALA, could possibly constitute a nutritional answer to the main cause 
of morbidity and mortality in industrialized countries. Kelley, D. S. (2001). "Modulation of human 
immune and inflammatory responses by dietary fatty acids." Nutrition 17 (7-8): 669-73. I review the effects of the amount and composition of dietary 
fat on indices of human immune and inflammatory responses. A reduction in the 
amount of fat intake enhanced several indices of immune response, including 
lymphocyte proliferation, natural-killer-cell activity, cytokine production, and 
delayed-type hypersensitivity. When total fat intake was held constant, an 
increase in the intake of linoleic acid (18:2 omega-6) or arachidonic acid (20:4 
omega-6) by healthy human volunteers did not inhibit many indices of immune 
response tested but did increase the production of inflammatory eicosanoids 
(prostaglandin E2 and leukotriene B4). Supplementation of human diets with 
omega-3 fatty acids reduced several aspects of neutrophil, monocyte, and 
lymphocyte functions, including the production of inflammatory mediators. Most 
of the studies have indicated reductions in these functions, with a minimum of 
1.2 g/d of supplementation with eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid 
for 6 wk. However, other studies concomitantly supplementing with 205 mg/d of 
vitamin E did not find inhibition of immune-cell functions, even with larger 
amounts and longer durations of supplementation with these fatty acids. One 
study reported that supplementation with docosahexaenoic acid selectively 
inhibits inflammatory responses without inhibiting T- and B-cell functions. 
Despite some discrepancies, fish oils have been used successfully in the 
management of several inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. The potential for 
the use of fish oils in the management of these diseases is tremendous, even 
though further studies are needed to establish safe and adequate intake levels 
of omega-3 fatty acids. Kaboyashi, J. (2001). "[The importance of the 
quality and quantity of fatty acids in food]." Nippon Rinsho 59 Suppl 
3 : 543-8. Jatoi, A., Jr. and C. L. Loprinzi (2001). 
"Current management of cancer-associated anorexia and weight loss." Oncology 
(Huntingt) 15 (4): 497-502, 508; discussion 508-10. Loss of appetite and weight predict a poor prognosis for 
cancer patients. Although caloric supplementation might benefit subgroups of 
patients--specifically, perioperative, severely malnourished cancer patients, 
stem cell and bone marrow transplant patients and head and neck cancer 
patients--its use remains controversial and is not recommended for the majority 
of patients with cancer-associated weight loss. Most patients with advanced 
cancer, anorexia, and/or weight loss do not appear to benefit from nutritional 
supplementation. Instead, discussions with patients and families about realistic 
eating goals ans, at time armacologic interventions with progestational agents 
or corticosteroids--both of which are aimed at palliating anorexia--provide 
clinical benefit. Other phamalogic interventions such as eicosapentaenoic acid, 
thalidomide (Thalomid), adenosine triphosphate and nonsteriodal 
anti-inflammatory agents focus on the fact that cancer-assciated weight loss is 
an enitty dintinct for simple starvation These interventions promise to 
replenish lean tissue but require further investigation before they can be 
recommndedas standard clinical practice. Gadducci, A., S. Cosio, et al. (2001). 
"Malnutrition and cachexia in ovarian cancer patients: pathophysiology and 
management." Anticancer Res 21 (4B): 2941-7. In ovarian cancer patients the poor nutritional status and 
cachexia are caused by the metabolic effects of the enlarging tumor masses and 
bowel obstruction. These patients may have a high resting energy expenditure due 
to increase in Cori cycle activity, glucose and triglyceride-fatty acid cycling 
and gluconeogenesis. Biochemical mediators of cachexia include cytokines, such 
as tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-6, and tumor-produced catabolic 
factors, such as lipid-mobilizing factor, proteolysis-inducing factor, and 
anemia-inducing factor. Mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of obstruction 
may include extrinsic occlusion of the bowel due to pelvic, mesenteric omental 
masses, or intestinal motility disorders due to infilor tration of the mesentery 
or bowel muscle and nerves. The relief of malnutrition and cachexia may be 
attempted through nutritional support, pharmacological approach (megestrol 
acetate, cyclooxygenase inhibitors) and palliative treatment of bowel 
obstruction. Very few agents have been demonstrated to have true anticachectic 
activity, so future research should be addressed to the identification of drugs 
able to block the activity of tumor-produced catabolic factors. The decision 
regarding optimum management of bowel obstruction should be individualized. 
Krebs' and Goplerud's score (based on age, nutritional status, tumor status, 
ascites, previous chemotherapy and irradiation) seems to offer reliable 
eligibility criteria for those patients who can benefit from surgery. Duchen, K. and B. Bjorksten (2001). 
"Polyunsaturated n-3 fatty acids and the development of atopic disease." Lipids 36 (9): 1033-42. The relationship between polyunsaturated longchain fatty 
acids and atopy has been discussed for decades. Higher levels of the essential 
fatty acids linoleic acid and alpha-linolenic acid and lower levels of their 
longer metabolites in plasma phospholipids of atopic as compared to nonatopic 
individuals have been reported by several, but not all, studies. Largely similar 
findings have been reported in studies of cell membranes from immunological 
cells from atopics and non-atopics despite differences in methodology, study 
groups, and definitions of atopy. An imbalance in the metabolism of the n-6 
fatty acids, particularly arachidonic acid and dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid, 
leading to an inappropriate synthesis of prostaglandin (PG) E2 and PGE1 was 
hypothesized early on but has not been corroborated. The fatty acid composition 
of human milk is dependent on the time of lactation not only during a breast 
meal but also the time of the day and the period of lactation. This explains the 
discrepancies in reported findings regarding the relationship between milk fatty 
acids and atopic disease in the mother. Prospective studies show disturbances in 
both the n-6 and n-3 fatty acid composition between milk from atopic and 
nonatopic mothers. Only the composition of long-chain polyunsaturated n-3 fatty 
acids was related to atopic development in the children, however. A relationship 
between lower levels of n-3 fatty acids, particularly eicosapentaenoic acid 
(20:5 n-3), and early development of atopic disease is hypothesized. Das, U. N. (2001). "Essential fatty acids as 
possible mediators of the actions of statins." Prostaglandins Leukot Essent 
Fatty Acids 65 (1): 37-40. Statins and polyunsaturated fatty acids have similar actions: 
both enhance endothelial nitric oxide synthesis, inhibit the production of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines, lower cholesterol levels, prevent atherosclerosis 
and are of benefit in coronary heart disease, stroke and osteoporosis. Statins 
enhance the conversion of linoleic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid to their long 
chain derivatives. Animals with essential fatty acid deficiency show an increase 
in HMG-CoA reductase activity, which reverts to normalcy following topical 
application of linoleic acid. Similarly to statins, polyunsaturated fatty acids 
also inhibit HMG-CoA reductase activity. In view of the similarity in their 
actions and as statins influence essential fatty acid metabolism, it is 
suggested that essential fatty acids and their metabolites may serve as second 
messengers of the actions of statins. Darlington, L. G. and T. W. Stone (2001). 
"Antioxidants and fatty acids in the amelioration of rheumatoid arthritis and 
related disorders." Br J Nutr 85 (3): 251-69. The generation of reactive oxygen species (free radicals) is 
an important factor in the development and maintenance of rheumatoid arthritis 
in humans and animal models. One source of free radicals is nitric oxide 
produced within the synoviocytes and chondrocytes and giving rise to the highly 
toxic radical peroxynitrite. Several cytokines, including tumour necrosis 
factor-alpha (TNFalpha) are involved in the formation of free radicals, partly 
by increasing the activity of nitric oxide synthase. Indeed, nitric oxide may 
mediate some of the deleterious effects of cytokines on bone resorption. 
Aspirin, tetracyclines, steroids and methotrexate can suppress nitric oxide 
synthase. Dietary antioxidants include ascorbate and the tocopherols and 
beneficial effects of high doses have been reported especially in 
osteoarthritis. There is also evidence for beneficial effects of beta-carotene 
and selenium, the latter being a component of the antioxidant enzyme glutathione 
peroxidase. The polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) include the n-3 compounds, 
some of which are precursors of eicosanoid synthesis, and the n-6 group which 
can increase formation of the pro-inflammatory cytokines TNFalpha and 
interleukin-6, and of reactive oxygen species. Some prostaglandins, however, 
suppress cytokine formation, so that n-3 PUFA often oppose the inflammatory 
effects of some n-6-PUFA. gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) is a precursor of 
prostaglandin E1, a fact which may account for its reported ability to 
ameliorate arthritic symptoms. Fish oil supplements, rich in n-3 PUFA such as 
eicosapentaenoic acid have been claimed as beneficial in rheumatoid arthritis, 
possibly by suppression of the immune system and its cytokine repertoire. Some 
other oils of marine origin (e.g. from the green-lipped mussel) and a range of 
vegetable oils (e.g. olive oil and evening primrose oil) have indirect 
anti-inflammatory actions, probably mediated via prostaglandin E1. Overall, 
there is a growing scientific rationale for the use of dietary supplements as 
adjuncts in the treatment of inflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis 
and osteoarthritis. Calder, P. C. and R. B. Zurier (2001). 
"Polyunsaturated fatty acids and rheumatoid arthritis." Curr Opin Clin Nutr 
Metab Care 4 (2): 115-21. Rheumatoid arthritis is characterized by infiltration of T 
lymphocytes, macrophages and plasma cells into the synovium, and the initiation 
of a chronic inflammatory state that involves overproduction of proinflammatory 
cytokines and a dysregulated T-helper-1-type response. Eicosanoids synthesized 
from arachidonic acid and cytokines cause progressive destruction of cartilage 
and bone. The n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid gamma-linolenic acid is the 
precursor of di-homo-gamma-linolenic acid. The latter and the n-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid, which is found in fish oil, 
are able to decrease the production of arachidonic acid-derived eicosanoids and 
to decrease the production of proinflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen 
species, and the reactivity of lymphocytes. A number of double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trials of gamma-linolenic acid and fish oil in rheumatoid 
arthritis have shown significant improvements in a variety of clinical outcomes. 
These fatty acids should be included as part of the normal therapeutic approach 
to rheumatoid arthritis. However, it is unclear what the optimal dosage of the 
fatty acids is, or whether there would be extra benefit from using them in 
combination. Calder, P. C. (2001). "Polyunsaturated fatty 
acids, inflammation, and immunity." Lipids 36 (9): 1007-24. The fatty acid composition of inflammatory and immune cells 
is sensitive to change according to the fatty acid composition of the diet. In 
particular, the proportion of different types of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) 
in these cells is readily changed, and this provides a link between dietary PUFA 
intake, inflammation, and immunity. The n-6 PUFA arachidonic acid (AA) is the 
precursor of prostaglandins, leukotrienes, and related compounds, which have 
important roles in inflammation and in the regulation of immunity. Fish oil 
contains the n-3 PUFA eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). Feeding fish oil results in 
partial replacement of AA in cell membranes by EPA. This leads to decreased 
production of AA-derived mediators. In addition, EPA is a substrate for 
cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase and gives rise to mediators that often have 
different biological actions or potencies than those formed from AA. Animal 
studies have shown that dietary fish oil results in altered lymphocyte function 
and in suppressed production of proinflammatory cytokines by macrophages. 
Supplementation of the diet of healthy human volunteers with fish oil-derived 
n-3 PUFA results in decreased monocyte and neutrophil chemotaxis and decreased 
production of proinflammatory cytokines. Fish oil feeding has been shown to 
ameliorate the symptoms of some animal models of autoimmune disease. Clinical 
studies have reported that fish oil supplementation has beneficial effects in 
rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, and among some asthmatics, 
supporting the idea that the n-3 PUFA in fish oil are anti-inflammatory and 
immunomodulatory. Agostoni, C. and M. Giovannini (2001). 
"Cognitive and visual development: influence of differences in breast and 
formula fed infants." Nutr Health 15 (3-4): 183-8. Several recent studies document a beneficial effect of 
breast-feeding on later neurodevelopmental outcomes. The mechanisms involved are 
still in need of elucidation, but evidence is accruing that the fatty acid (FA) 
composition of human milk plays a role. The composition of body fats, from 
circulating erythrocyte lipids to brain phospholipids, is linked in infants to 
the early feeding mode and which FA predominates among circulating lipids 
influences visual and neurodevelopmental performance test scores. In these 
studies, greater differences were found between breast-fed and standard 
formula-fed infants, the latter showing low tissue long-chain polyunsaturated 
fatty acids (LCPUFA: arachidonic acid, AA, 20:4n-6; eicosapentaenoic acid, EPA, 
20:5n-3; docosahexaenoic acid, DHA, 22:6n-3) accretion and lower visual and 
neurodevelopmental test scores. Human milk contains LCPUFA, while most available 
formulas, especially those intended for full-term infants, do not. With the 
progressive introduction of solid foods, the question arises whether a specific 
or "ideal" dietary lipid mixture can be found to meet growth requirements and 
ensure a lipid balance adequate for the early and effective preventive purposes. 
These complementary aspects are challenges for the paediatric nutrition 
researcher today. Ziboh, V. A., C. C. Miller, et al. (2000). 
"Metabolism of polyunsaturated fatty acids by skin epidermal enzymes: generation 
of antiinflammatory and antiproliferative metabolites." Am J Clin Nutr 71 (1 Suppl): 361S-6S. In the skin epidermis, the metabolism of polyunsaturated 
fatty acids (PUFAs) is highly active. Dietary deficiency of linoleic acid (LA), 
the major 18-carbon n-6 PUFA in normal epidermis, results in a characteristic 
scaly skin disorder and excessive epidermal water loss. Because of the inability 
of normal skin epidermis to desaturate LA to gamma-linolenic acid, it is 
transformed by epidermal 15-lipoxygenase to mainly 13-hydroxyoctadecadienoic 
acid, which functionally exerts antiproliferative properties in the tissue. In 
contrast, compared with LA, arachidonic acid (AA) is a relatively minor 
20-carbon n-6 PUFA in the skin and is metabolized via the cyclooxygenase 
pathway, predominantly to the prostaglandins E(2), F(2)(alpha), and D(2). AA is 
also metabolized via the 15-lipoxygenase pathway, predominantly to 
15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid. At low concentrations, the prostaglandins 
function to modulate normal skin physiologic processes, whereas at high 
concentrations they induce inflammatory processes. PUFAs derived from other 
dietary oils are also transformed mainly into monohydroxy fatty acids. For 
instance, epidermal 15-lipoxygenase transforms dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid 
(20:3n-6) to 15-hydroxyeicosatrienoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5n-3) to 
15-hydroxyeicosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3) to 
17-hydroxydocosahexaenoic acid, respectively. These monohydroxy acids exhibit 
antiinflammatory properties in vitro. Thus, supplementation of diets with 
appropriate purified vegetable oils, fish oil, or both may generate local 
cutaneous antiinflammatory and antiproliferative metabolites which could serve 
as less toxic in vivo monotherapies or as adjuncts to standard therapeutic 
regimens for the management of inflammatory skin disorders. Youdim, K. A., A. Martin, et al. (2000). 
"Essential fatty acids and the brain: possible health implications." Int J 
Dev Neurosci 18 (4-5): 383-99. Linoleic and alpha-linolenic acid are essential for normal 
cellular function, and act as precursors for the synthesis of longer chained 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) such as arachidonic (AA), eicosapentaenoic 
(EPA) and docosahexaenoic acids (DHA), which have been shown to partake in 
numerous cellular functions affecting membrane fluidity, membrane enzyme 
activities and eicosanoid synthesis. The brain is particularly rich in PUFAs 
such as DHA, and changes in tissue membrane composition of these PUFAs reflect 
that of the dietary source. The decline in structural and functional integrity 
of this tissue appears to correlate with loss in membrane DHA concentrations. 
Arachidonic acid, also predominant in this tissue, is a major precursor for the 
synthesis of eicosanoids, that serve as intracellular or extracellular signals. 
With aging comes a likely increase in reactive oxygen species and hence a 
concomitant decline in membrane PUFA concentrations, and with it, cognitive 
impairment. Neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's 
disease also appear to exhibit membrane loss of PUFAs. Thus it may be that an 
optimal diet with a balance of n-6 and n-3 fatty acids may help to delay their 
onset or reduce the insult to brain functions which these diseases elicit. Woods, R. K., F. C. Thien, et al. (2000). 
"Dietary marine fatty acids (fish oil) for asthma." Cochrane Database Syst 
Rev (2): CD001283. BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies suggest that a diet high 
in marine fatty acids (fish oil) may have beneficial effects on inflammatory 
conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and possibly asthma. OBJECTIVES: 1. To 
determine the effect of marine n-3 fatty acid (fish oil) supplementation in 
asthma. 2. To determine the effect of a diet high in fish oil in asthma. SEARCH 
STRATEGY: The Cochrane Airways Review Group register was search using the terms: 
marine fatty acids OR diet OR nutrition OR fish oil OR eicosapentaenoic acid OR 
EPA. Bibliographies of retrieved trials were searched and fish oil manufacturers 
contacted. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials in patients with 
asthma more than two years of age were included. The study duration had to be in 
excess of 4 weeks. Double blind trials were preferred, but single-blind and open 
trials were also reviewed for possible inclusion. Three reviewers read each 
paper, blind to its identity. Decisions concerning inclusion were made by simple 
majority. Quality assessment was performed by all three reviewers independently. 
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The only comparison possible was between marine 
n-3 fatty acid supplementation and placebo. There were insufficient trials to 
examine dietary manipulation alone. MAIN RESULTS: Eight randomised controlled 
trials conducted between 1986 and 1998 satisfied the inclusion criteria. Six 
were of parallel design and two were cross-over studies. Seven compared fish oil 
with placebo whilst one compared high dose vs low dose marine n-3 fatty acid 
supplementation. None of the included studies reported asthma exacerbations, 
health status or hospital admissions. There was no consistent effect on any of 
the analyzable outcomes: FEV1, peak flow rate, asthma symptoms, asthma 
medication use or bronchial hyper reactivity. The single study performed in 
children also combined dietary manipulation with fish oil supplementation and 
showed improved peak flow and reduced asthma medication use. There were no 
adverse events associated with fish oil supplements. REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: 
There is little evidence to recommend that people with asthma supplement or 
modify their dietary intake of marine n-3 fatty acids (fish oil) in order to 
improve their asthma control. Equally, there is no evidence that they are at 
risk if they do so. Woods, R. K., F. C. Thien, et al. (2000). 
"Dietary marine fatty acids (fish oil) for asthma." Cochrane Database Syst 
Rev (4): CD001283. BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies suggest that a diet high 
in marine fatty acids (fish oil) may have beneficial effects on inflammatory 
conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and possibly asthma. OBJECTIVES: 1. To 
determine the effect of marine n-3 fatty acid (fish oil) supplementation in 
asthma. 2. To determine the effect of a diet high in fish oil in asthma. SEARCH 
STRATEGY: The Cochrane Airways Review Group register was search using the terms: 
marine fatty acids OR diet OR nutrition OR fish oil OR eicosapentaenoic acid OR 
EPA. Bibliographies of retrieved trials were searched and fish oil manufacturers 
contacted. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials in patients with 
asthma more than two years of age were included. The study duration had to be in 
excess of 4 weeks. Double blind trials were preferred, but single-blind and open 
trials were also reviewed for possible inclusion. Three reviewers read each 
paper, blind to its identity. Decisions concerning inclusion were made by simple 
majority. Quality assessment was performed by all three reviewers independently. 
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The only comparison possible was between marine 
n-3 fatty acid supplementation and placebo. There were insufficient trials to 
examine dietary manipulation alone. MAIN RESULTS: Eight randomised controlled 
trials conducted between 1986 and 1998 satisfied the inclusion criteria. Six 
were of parallel design and two were cross-over studies. Seven compared fish oil 
with placebo whilst one compared high dose vs low dose marine n-3 fatty acid 
supplementation. None of the included studies reported asthma exacerbations, 
health status or hospital admissions. There was no consistent effect on any of 
the analyzable outcomes: FEV1, peak flow rate, asthma symptoms, asthma 
medication use or bronchial hyper reactivity. The single study performed in 
children also combined dietary manipulation with fish oil supplementation and 
showed improved peak flow and reduced asthma medication use. There were no 
adverse events associated with fish oil supplements. Updated Search conducted 
August 2000. No new trials were found. REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: There is little 
evidence to recommend that people with asthma supplement or modify their dietary 
intake of marine n-3 fatty acids (fish oil) in order to improve their asthma 
control. Equally, there is no evidence that they are at risk if they do so. Weber, P. and D. Raederstorff (2000). 
"Triglyceride-lowering effect of omega-3 LC-polyunsaturated fatty acids--a 
review." Nutr Metab Cardiovasc Dis 10 (1): 28-37. There is increasing evidence that serum triglycerides are a 
significant and independent risk factor for CVD. The aim of this report is to 
review recent literature pertinent to the triglyceride-lowering effect of 
omega-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFA). Animal data are not 
considered because they are difficult to extrapolate to the human situation. A 
large body of evidence derived from epidemiological studies and clinical trials 
has consistently demonstrated that this effect is dose-dependent and can be 
achieved by diet. The smallest amount of omega-3 LC-PUFA needed to significantly 
lower serum triglycerides appears to be approximately 1 g/day as provided by a 
fish diet. Use of fish oil administering as little as 0.21 g EPA and 0.12 g DHA 
per day significantly lowered serum triglycerides in hyperlipidemics. In 
normolipidemics, a daily intake of 0.17 g EPA and 0.11 g DHA, given as a fish 
oil supplement, induced a non-significant reduction of 22%. These findings must 
be considered as preliminary and warrant further research. Intake of omega-3 LC-PUFA 
is frequently reported to modestly increase LDL cholesterol. However, in normo- 
or slightly hyperlipidemic individuals who received omega-3 LC-PUFA for 4 months 
or longer, changes of LDL cholesterol were not significantly different from a 
placebo group. Both EPA and DHA lower serum triglycerides, but they may have a 
differential effect on lipoproteins. Intake of omega-3 LC-PUFA in the amount 
mentioned above is safe. Valk, E. E. and G. Hornstra (2000). 
"Relationship between vitamin E requirement and polyunsaturated fatty acid 
intake in man: a review." Int J Vitam Nutr Res 70 (2): 31-42. Vitamin E is the general term for all tocopherols and 
tocotrienols, of which alpha-tocopherol is the natural and biologically most 
active form. Although gamma-tocopherol makes a significant contribution to the 
vitamin E CONTENT in foods, it is less effective in animal and human tissues, 
where alpha-tocopherol is the most effective chain-breaking lipid-soluble 
antioxidant. The antioxidant function of vitamin E is critical for the 
prevention of oxidation of tissue PUFA. Animal experiments have shown that 
increasing the degree of dietary fatty acid unsaturation increases the 
peroxidizability of the lipids and reduces the time required to develop symptoms 
of vitamin E deficiency. From these experiments, relative amounts of vitamin E 
required to protect the various fatty acids from being peroxidized, could be 
estimated. Since systematic studies on the vitamin E requirement in relation to 
PUFA consumption have not been performed in man, recommendations for vitamin E 
intake are based on animal experiments and human food intake data. An intake of 
0.6 mg alpha-tocopherol equivalents per gram linoleic acid is generally seen as 
adequate for human adults. The minimum vitamin E requirement at consumption of 
fatty acids with a higher degree of unsaturation can be calculated by a formula, 
which takes into account the peroxidizability of unsaturated fatty acids and is 
based on the results of animal experiments. There are, however, no clear data on 
the vitamin E requirement of humans consuming the more unsaturated fatty acids 
as for instance EPA (20:5, n-3) and DHA (22:6, n-3). Studies investigating the 
effects of EPA and DHA supplementation have shown an increase in lipid 
peroxidation, although amounts of vitamin E were present that are considered 
adequate in relation to the calculated oxidative potential of these fatty acids. 
Furthermore, a calculation of the vitamin E requirement, using recent 
nutritional intake data, shows that a reduction in total fat intake with a 
concomitant increase in PUFA consumption, including EPA and DHA, will result in 
an increased amount of vitamin E required. In addition, the methods used in 
previous studies investigating vitamin E requirement and PUFA consumption (for 
instance erythrocyte hemolysis), and the techniques used to assess lipid 
peroxidation (e.g. MDA analysis), may be unsuitable to establish a quantitative 
relation between vitamin E intake and consumption of highly unsaturated fatty 
acids. Therefore, further studies are required to establish the vitamin E 
requirement when the intake of longer-chain, more-unsaturated fatty acids is 
increased. For this purpose it is necessary to use functional techniques based 
on the measurement of lipid peroxidation in vivo. Until these data are 
available, the widely used ratio of at least 0.6 mg alpha-TE/g PUFA is 
suggested. Higher levels may be necessary, however, for fats that are rich in 
fatty acids containing more than two double bonds. Tisdale, M. J. (2000). "Metabolic abnormalities 
in cachexia and anorexia." Nutrition 16 (10): 1013-4. An increased glucose requirement by many solid tumors 
produces an increased metabolic demand on the liver, resulting in an increased 
energy expenditure. In addition, several cytokines and tumor catabolic products 
have been suggested as being responsible for the depletion of adipose tissue and 
skeletal-muscle mass in cachexia. A sulphated glycoprotein of molecular mass 24 
kDa, produced by cachexia-inducing tumors and present in the urine of cancer 
patients actively losing weight, has been shown to be capable of inducing direct 
muscle catabolism in vitro and a state of cachexia in vivo, with specific loss 
of the non-fat carcass mass. In vitro studies have shown the bioactivity of this 
proteolysis-inducing factor to be attenuated by the polyunsaturated fatty acid, 
eicosapentaenoic acid. Preliminary clinical studies have shown that 
eicosapentaenoic acid stabilizes body weight and protein and fat reserves in 
patients with pancreatic carcinoma. Further trials are required to confirm the 
efficacy of eicosapentaenoic acid and to determine the anticachectic activity in 
other types of cancer. Stone, N. J. (2000). "The Gruppo Italiano per lo 
Studio della Sopravvivenza nell'Infarto Miocardio (GISSI)-Prevenzione Trial on 
fish oil and vitamin E supplementation in myocardial infarction survivors." Curr Cardiol Rep 2 (5): 445-51. A recent large-scale, open-label, randomized, controlled 
trial in 11, 324 myocardial infarction (MI) survivors has shown low-dose fish 
oil, but not vitamin E, to reduce significantly the cumulative rate of all-cause 
death, nonfatal MI, and nonfatal stroke. Neither intervention significantly 
reduced the other primary endpoint, the cumulate rate of cardiovascular death, 
nonfatal MI, and nonfatal stroke. Analysis of secondary endpoints indicated that 
the benefits of the 875 mg fish oil capsules containing 850 to 882 mg 
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) as ethyl esters was 
in reducing mortality and not in a reduction of nonfatal MI. It was a safe 
intervention. The internal validity and external validity of the data was 
examined and the findings placed in clinical perspective. Important questions 
remain about the benefits of increased plant sources of n-3 polyunsaturated 
fatty acids (PUFA) for those who cannot obtain or consume fish. Also the 
benefits of diet versus fish oil supplementation haven't been determined 
precisely. Although it seems reasonable to increase sources of n-3 PUFA in the 
diet for those at high risk of coronary heart disease, current data do not 
support a policy of promoting fish oil capsules for secondary prevention of 
coronary heart disease. Sinclair, A. J., K. J. Murphy, et al. (2000). 
"Marine lipids: overview "news insights and lipid composition of Lyprinol"." Allerg Immunol (Paris) 32 (7): 261-71. The omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have had a major 
impact on thinking in medicine in the last twenty years. The parent fatty acid 
in the omega 3 fatty acid family is alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) which is an 
essential fatty acid found in high concentrations in certain plant oils, such as 
flaxseed oil, walnut oil and canola oil. Several longer chain or derived omega 3 
fatty acids are formed from alpha-linolenic acid and these are mainly found in 
fish, fish oils and from other marine organisms. The main marine omega 3 fatty 
acids are eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic 
acid (DHA). It is of interest that DHA is specifically localised in the retina 
and the brain in humans and other mammals. The longer chain omega 3 fatty acids 
are rapidly incorporated into cell membrane phospholipids where it is regarded 
they influence the metabolism/metabolic events within the cells. The mechanisms 
by which these changes occur include alteration in the fluidity of membranes 
such that there are subtle changes in receptor function, alteration in cell 
signalling mechanisms, membrane-bound enzymes, regulation of the synthesis of 
eicosanoids, and regulation of gene expression. In this chapter, we report a 
comparison between the composition of the oil derived from the New Zealand Green 
Lipped Mussel (Lyprinol') and two other oils rich in omega 3 fatty acids, namely 
flaxseed oil and tuna oil. The main lipid classes in Lyprinol' were sterol 
esters, triglycerides, free fatty acids, sterols and phospholipids while 
triglycerides were the main lipids in the other two oils. The main omega 3 fatty 
acids in Lyprinol' were EPA and DHA, while in flaxseed oil and tuna oil the main 
omega 3 fatty acids were ALA and DHA, respectively. The main sterols in Lyprinol' 
were cholesterol and desmosterol/brassicasterol, while in flaxseed oil and tuna 
oil the main sterols were beta-sitosterol and cholesterol, respectively. 
Epidemiological observations, populations' studies and basic research indicate 
the possibility of influencing the outcome of cardiovascular disease, 
inflammatory disorders and neural function by ingestion of the omega 3 
polyunsaturated fatty acids. Simopoulos, A. P. (2000). "Human requirement for 
N-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids." Poult Sci 79 (7): 961-70. The diet of our ancestors was less dense in calories, being 
higher in fiber, rich in fruits, vegetables, lean meat, and fish. As a result, 
the diet was lower in total fat and saturated fat, but contained equal amounts 
of n-6 and n-3 essential fatty acids. Linoleic acid (LA) is the major n-6 fatty 
acid, and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) is the major n-3 fatty acid. In the body, 
LA is metabolized to arachidonic acid (AA), and ALA is metabolized to 
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). The ratio of n-6 to 
n-3 essential fatty acids was 1 to 2:1 with higher levels of the longer-chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), such as EPA, DHA, and AA, than today's diet. 
Today this ratio is about 10 to 1:20 to 25 to 1, indicating that Western diets 
are deficient in n-3 fatty acids compared with the diet on which humans evolved 
and their genetic patterns were established. The n-3 and n-6 EPA are not 
interconvertible in the human body and are important components of practically 
all cell membranes. The N-6 and n-3 fatty acids influence eicosanoid metabolism, 
gene expression, and intercellular cell-to-cell communication. The PUFA 
composition of cell membranes is, to a great extent, dependent on dietary 
intake. Therefore, appropriate amounts of dietary n-6 and n-3 fatty acids need 
to be considered in making dietary recommendations. These two classes of PUFA 
should be distinguished because they are metabolically and functionally distinct 
and have opposing physiological functions; their balance is important for 
homeostasis and normal development. Studies with nonhuman primates and human 
newborns indicate that DHA is essential for the normal functional development of 
the retina and brain, particularly in premature infants. A balanced n-6/n-3 
ratio in the diet is essential for normal growth and development and should lead 
to decreases in cardiovascular disease and other chronic diseases and improve 
mental health. Although a recommended dietary allowance for essential fatty 
acids does not exist, an adequate intake (AI) has been estimated for n-6 and n-3 
essential fatty acids by an international scientific working group. For Western 
societies, it will be necessary to decrease the intake of n-6 fatty acids and 
increase the intake of n-3 fatty acids. The food industry is already taking 
steps to return n-3 essential fatty acids to the food supply by enriching 
various foods with n-3 fatty acids. To obtain the recommended AI, it will be 
necessary to consider the issues involved in enriching the food supply with n-3 
PUFA in terms of dosage, safety, and sources of n-3 fatty acids. Schwartz, J. (2000). "Role of polyunsaturated 
fatty acids in lung disease." Am J Clin Nutr 71 (1 Suppl): 393S-6S. DF Horrobin hypothesized that the low prevalence of lung 
disease among Eskimos is the result of their diet, which is high in n-3 fatty 
acids. The n-3 and n-6 fatty acids shunt eicosanoid production away from the 
arachidonic acid pathway, and hence decrease the production of 
bronchoconstrictive leukotrienes. Animal studies showed that eicosapentaenoic 
acid or gamma-linolenic acid supplementation of animals exposed to endotoxins 
results in decreased effects on thromboxane B(2) and pulmonary vascular 
resistance. Small human trials confirmed that supplementation with 
eicosapentaenoic acid results in increased eicosapentaenoic acid in 
phospholipids and decreased generation of leukotrienes by neutrophils. Hence, a 
protective effect of such fatty acids in lung disease is biologically plausible. 
The results of human intervention studies looking at respiratory outcomes have 
been mixed, but they do suggest a possible difference between long-term and 
short-term effects. Epidemiologic studies showed possible protective effects 
against asthma in children, but weak to no evidence of such effects in adults. 
Results for bronchitis are more positive, although intervention trials are 
lacking. Recently, a cross-sectional analysis of data from the first National 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey reported an approximately 80-mL 
difference in forced expiratory volume at 1 s between adults with high compared 
with low fish consumption. This response was not limited to asthmatic subjects. 
Others found that both fish consumption and n-3 fatty acid consumption (as 
estimated from food-frequency questionnaires) were protective against 
physician-diagnosed emphysema and chronic bronchitis and low spirometry values. 
Only smokers were included in this analysis. These results suggest that dietary 
fatty acids may play a role in lung disease; further work is needed to elucidate 
that role. Osmundsen, H. and P. Clouet (2000). "Metabolic 
effects of omega-3 fatty acids." Biofactors 13 (1-4): 5-8. Some metabolic effects of dietary marine oils, or of dietary 
eicosapentaenoic or docosahexaenoic acid are reviewed. It is pointed out that 
docosahexaenoic acid appears more effective as regards induction of peroxisomal 
beta-oxidation. Similarly, docosahexaenoic appears more powerful in terms of 
suppression of hepatic delta9-desaturase activity and mRNA-levels. The potential 
inhibitory effect of polyunsaturated fatty acids, particularly docosahexaenoic 
acid, on mitochondrial beta-oxidation is discussed. Experiments with rats 
suggesting that the hypolipidaemic response of eicosapentaenoic acid is more 
marked when the fatty acid was given to fed rats, as compared to fasted rats, 
are discussed. Okabe, H. (2000). "[Ageing society and 
laboratory medicine]." Rinsho Byori 48 (9): 783-96. An interest in the ageing process has increased greatly with 
increasing the population of the aged. The goal of this interest is to improve 
the quality of life(QOL) in the aged. In this paper, the presidential address 
"Ageing Society and Laboratory Medicine" at the 46th annual meeting of JSCP in 
Kumamoto'99 was summarized on the important research for ageing in the past 
decades. The paper presented was age- and gene-related changes, the latent 
variation of serum constituents and lipids abnormality in the ageing process. 
Concerning to the definition of reference value of healthy populations and the 
subjects who had no combined ailments, the reference interval of 
individuals(intra-personal), followed 5 years categorized by age, sex, and 
social conditions, gave a narrow range of variation than did a larger mixed 
populations(inter-personal). The reference intervals set would be a more 
sensitive reference than is the customary "normal range" for values occurring in 
inter-personal. Concerning to the study of the relationship between laboratory 
test and activity of daily living(ADL), the higher serum levels for TP, Alb, Hb, 
Glu, TC were observed in the higher ADL. The basic research techniques were also 
evaluated in the paper. The serum lipoperoxides were correlated with serum 
lipoprotein free radicals which caused atherosclerosis. The higher frequency of 
cerebral- and myocardial-infarction in the aged were observed in the higher 
serum LDL-C and lower serum level of arachidonic acid(AA), eicosapentaenoic 
acid(EPA), and AA/EPA ratio were observed in AMI patients with lower HDL-C 
groups than the healthy aged. Although Alzheimer(AD)'s disease had a progressive 
memory loss and immobile dementia and was reported the decrease of 
acetyltransferase activity in the brain, decrease of serum level of free choline, 
lyso-phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylcholine(PC) and sphingomyelin(SM)/PC ratio 
were observed in spite of keeping normal serum level of SM. The decreased serum 
levels of pseudocholin esterase and albumin, especially mercaptoalbumin were 
observed in the healthy aged with advancing age. The early diagnosis and 
prediction of prognosis for the latent ailments in the aged was stressed. As to 
the study of variations of serum protein levels in the healthy aged, variations 
of serum proteins were classified into three types, 1) mainly acute phase 
reactant proteins such as alpha 1AT increased with advancing age, 2) 
transporting proteins such an albumin decreased and 3) proteins with no 
significant variation these were useful proteins for the early finding of latent 
ailments. The higher increase of alpha 1AT/beta 2III in the healthy aged over 60 
y.o. was suspected to become severe in near future. McMurray, D. N., C. A. Jolly, et al. (2000). 
"Effects of dietary n-3 fatty acids on T cell activation and T cell 
receptor-mediated signaling in a murine model." J Infect Dis 182 Suppl 
1 : S103-7. A short-term feeding paradigm in mice, with diets enriched 
with eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), was used to 
study the modulation of T cell activation via the T cell receptor (TcR) and the 
downstream pathways of intracellular signaling. Diets enriched in EPA and DHA 
suppressed antigen-specific delayed hypersensitivity reactions and mitogen-induced 
proliferation of T cells. Cocultures of accessory cells and T cells from mice 
given different diets revealed that purified fatty acid ethyl esters acted 
directly on the T cell, rather than through the accessory cell. The loss of 
proliferative capacity was accompanied by reductions in interleukin (IL)-2 
secretion and IL-2 receptor alpha chain mRNA transcription, suggesting that 
dietary EPA and DHA act, in part, by interrupting the autocrine IL-2 activation 
pathway. Dietary EPA and DHA blunted the production of intracellular second 
messengers, including diacylglycerol and ceramide, following mitogen stimulation 
in vitro. Dietary effects appear to vary with the agonist employed (i.e., 
anti-CD3 [TcR], anti-CD28, exogenous IL-2, or phorbol myristate acetate and 
ionomycin). Mattos, R., C. R. Staples, et al. (2000). 
"Effects of dietary fatty acids on reproduction in ruminants." Rev Reprod 5 (1): 38-45. Fats in the diet can influence reproduction positively by 
altering both ovarian follicle and corpus luteum function via improved energy 
status and by increasing precursors for the synthesis of reproductive hormones 
such as steroids and prostaglandins. Dietary fatty acids of the n-3 family 
reduce ovarian and endometrial synthesis of prostaglandin F2alpha, decrease 
ovulation rate in rats and delay parturition in sheep and humans. 
Polyunsaturated fatty acids such as linoleic, linolenic, eicosapentaenoic and 
docosahexaenoic acids may inhibit prostaglandin F2alpha synthesis through 
mechanisms such as decreased availability of its precursor arachidonic acid, an 
increased competition by these fatty acids with arachidonic acid for binding to 
prostaglandin H synthase, and inhibition of prostaglandin H synthase synthesis 
and activity. It is not known whether polyunsaturated fatty acids regulate 
expression of candidate genes such as phospholipase A2 and prostaglandin H 
synthase via activation of nuclear transcription factors such as peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptors. Manipulation of the fatty acid profile of the 
diet can be used potentially to amplify suppression of uterine synthesis of 
prostaglandin F2alpha during early pregnancy in cattle, which may contribute to 
a reduction in embryonic mortality. Feeding fats and targeting of fatty acids to 
reproductive tissues may be a potential strategy to integrate nutrition and 
reproductive management to improve animal productivity. Makrides, M. and R. A. Gibson (2000). 
"Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid requirements during pregnancy and 
lactation." Am J Clin Nutr 71 (1 Suppl): 307S-11S. Much interest has been expressed about the long-chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acid (LCPUFA) requirements of both preterm and term 
infants, whereas relatively little attention has been given to the LCPUFA needs 
of mothers, who may provide the primary source of LCPUFAs for their fetuses and 
breast-fed infants. Although maternal requirements for LCPUFAs are difficult to 
estimate because of large body stores and the capacity to synthesize LCPUFAs 
from precursors, biochemical and clinical intervention studies have provided 
some clues. From a biochemical viewpoint, there appears to be no detectable 
reduction in plasma n-3 LCPUFA concentrations during pregnancy, whereas there is 
a clear decline during the early postpartum period. The postpartum decrease in 
maternal plasma docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) concentration is not instantaneous, 
may be long-term, is independent of lactation, and is reversible with dietary 
DHA supplementation (200-400 mg/d). From a functional standpoint, the results of 
randomized clinical studies suggest that n-3 LCPUFA supplementation during 
pregnancy does not affect the incidences of pregnancy-induced hypertension and 
preeclampsia without edema. However, n-3 LCPUFA supplementation may cause modest 
increases in the duration of gestation, birth weight, or both. To date, there is 
little evidence of harm as a result of n-3 LCPUFA supplementation during either 
pregnancy or lactation. However, researchers need to further elucidate any 
potential benefits of supplementation for mothers and infants. Careful attention 
should be paid to study design, measurement of appropriate health outcomes, and 
defining minimum and maximum plasma n-3 LCPUFA concentrations that are optimal 
for both mothers and infants. Kris-Etherton, P. M., D. S. Taylor, et al. 
(2000). "Polyunsaturated fatty acids in the food chain in the United States." Am J Clin Nutr 71 (1 Suppl): 179S-88S. In the United States, intake of n-3 fatty acids is 
approximately 1.6 g/d ( approximately 0.7% of energy), of which 1.4 g is alpha-linolenic 
acid (ALA; 18:3) and 0.1-0.2 g is eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA; 20:5) and 
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA; 22:6). The primary sources of ALA are vegetable oils, 
principally soybean and canola. The predominant sources of EPA and DHA are fish 
and fish oils. Intake data indicate that the ratio of n-6 to n-3 fatty acids is 
approximately 9.8:1. Food disappearance data between 1985 and 1994 indicate that 
the ratio of n-6 to n-3 fatty acids has decreased from 12.4:1 to 10.6:1. This 
reflects a change in the profile of vegetable oils consumed and, in particular, 
an approximate 5.5-fold increase in canola oil use. The ratio of n-6 to n-3 
fatty acids is still much higher than that recommended (ie, 2.3:1). Lower ratios 
increase endogenous conversion of ALA to EPA and DHA. Attaining the proposed 
recommended combined EPA and DHA intake of 0.65 g/d will require an 
approximately 4-fold increase in fish consumption in the United States. 
Alternative strategies, such as food enrichment and the use of biotechnology to 
manipulate the EPA and DHA as well as ALA contents of the food supply, will 
become increasingly important in increasing n-3 fatty acid intake in the US 
population. Kremer, J. M. (2000). "n-3 fatty acid 
supplements in rheumatoid arthritis." Am J Clin Nutr 71 (1 Suppl): 
349S-51S. Ingestion of dietary supplements of n-3 fatty acids has been 
consistently shown to reduce both the number of tender joints on physical 
examination and the amount of morning stiffness in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis. In these cases, supplements were consumed daily in addition to 
background medications and the clinical benefits of the n-3 fatty acids were not 
apparent until they were consumed for > or =12 wk. It appears that a minimum 
daily dose of 3 g eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids is necessary to 
derive the expected benefits. These doses of n-3 fatty acids are associated with 
significant reductions in the release of leukotriene B(4) from stimulated 
neutrophils and of interleukin 1 from monocytes. Both of these mediators of 
inflammation are thought to contribute to the inflammatory events that occur in 
the rheumatoid arthritis disease process. Several investigators have reported 
that rheumatoid arthritis patients consuming n-3 dietary supplements were able 
to lower or discontinue their background doses of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory 
drugs or disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. Because the methods used to 
determine whether patients taking n-3 supplements can discontinue taking these 
agents are variable, confirmatory and definitive studies are needed to settle 
this issue. n-3 Fatty acids have virtually no reported serious toxicity in the 
dose range used in rheumatoid arthritis and are generally very well tolerated. Kang, J. X. and A. Leaf (2000). "Prevention of 
fatal cardiac arrhythmias by polyunsaturated fatty acids." Am J Clin Nutr 71 (1 Suppl): 202S-7S. In animal feeding studies, and probably in humans, n-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) prevent fatal ischemia-induced cardiac 
arrhythmias. We showed that n-3 PUFAs also prevented such arrhythmias in 
surgically prepared, conscious, exercising dogs. The mechanism of the 
antiarrhythmic action of n-3 PUFAs has been studied in spontaneously contracting 
cultured cardiac myocytes of neonatal rats. Adding arrhythmogenic toxins (eg, 
ouabain, high Ca(2+), lysophosphatidylcholine, beta-adrenergic agonist, 
acylcarnitine, and the Ca(2+) ionophore) to the myocyte perfusate caused 
tachycardia, contracture, and fibrillation of the cultured myocytes. Adding 
eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA: 5-15 micromol/L) to the superfusate before adding 
the toxins prevented the expected tachyarrhythmias. If the arrhythmias were 
first induced, adding the EPA to the superfusate terminated the arrhythmias. 
This antiarrhythmic action occurred with dietary n-3 and n-6 PUFAs; saturated 
fatty acids and the monounsaturated oleic acid induced no such action. 
Arachidonic acid (AA; 20:4n-6) is anomalous because in one-third of the tests it 
provoked severe arrhythmias, which were found to result from cyclooxygenase 
metabolites of AA. When cyclooxygenase inhibitors were added with the AA, the 
antiarrhythmic effect was like those of EPA and DHA. The action of the n-3 and 
n-6 PUFAs is to stabilize electrically every myocyte in the heart by increasing 
the electrical stimulus required to elicit an action potential by approximately 
50% and prolonging the relative refractory time by approximately 150%. These 
electrophysiologic effects result from an action of the free PUFAs to modulate 
sodium and calcium currents in the myocytes. The PUFAs also modulate sodium and 
calcium channels and have anticonvulsant activity in brain cells. Joy, C. B., R. Mumby-Croft, et al. (2000). 
"Polyunsaturated fatty acid (fish or evening primrose oil) for schizophrenia." Cochrane Database Syst Rev (2): CD001257. BACKGROUND: Limited evidence gives support to an hypothesis 
suggesting that the symptoms of schizophrenia may result from altered neuronal 
membrane structure and metabolism. The latter are dependent on blood plasma 
levels of certain essential fatty acids (EFAs) and their metabolites. Several 
studies have shown those with schizophrenia often have low levels of the 
particular EFAs necessary for normal nerve cell membrane metabolism. OBJECTIVES: 
To review the effects of supplementing standard antipsychotic treatment with 
polyunsaturated fatty acids, whether essential (EFAs) or non-essential, for 
those with schizophrenia and, in recent updates to also evaluate the effects of 
EFA's as a sole antipsychotic treatment. To evaluate the relative efficacy of 
different types of fatty acid supplementation. SEARCH STRATEGY: Relevant 
randomised trials were identified by searching the following electronic 
databases: Biological Abstracts (1985-1998), CINAHL (1982-1998), Cochrane 
Library (Issue 4, 1999), Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's Register (February 
2000), EMBASE (1980-1998), MEDLINE (1966-1998) and PsycLIT (1974-1998). In 
addition, reviewers searched references of included and excluded studies and 
contacted authors to identify further studies. SELECTION CRITERIA: All 
randomised clinical trials of polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation to 
standard treatment or as primary intervention for schizophrenia (however 
defined) versus standard care. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Reviewers evaluated 
data independently and analysed on an intention-to-treat basis. They assumed 
that people who left the study early or were lost to follow-up had no 
improvement. Where possible and appropriate relative risk (RR) and their 95% 
confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. The number needed to treat (NNT) was 
estimated. For continuous data weighted mean differences (WMD) and their 95% 
confidence intervals were calculated. Data were inspected for heterogeneity and 
publication biases. MAIN RESULTS: Four relatively small trials (total n=204) 
showed low levels of loss to follow up and adverse effects for those taking 
essential fatty acids. Early results from a few trials suggest a positive effect 
of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) over placebo for scale-derived mental state 
outcomes. The data, however, is limited making these results difficult to 
analyse and interpret with confidence. A single small study (n=30) investigated 
the value of using EPA as sole treatment for people hospitalised for relapse. 
Results suggest that EPA may help one third of people avoid instigation of 
standard antipsychotic drugs for 12 weeks (RR 0.6, CI 0.4-0.91). There were no 
clear effects of primrose oil (omega-6) EFA supplementation. REVIEWER'S 
CONCLUSIONS: All data are preliminary, but results look encouraging for fish 
oil. EPA does not seem harmful, may be acceptable to people with schizophrenia 
and have moderately positive effect. A further trial is soon to be reported from 
the USA and more are underway or planned in the South Africa and Norway. 
Considering that EPA may be an acceptable intervention, large, long simple 
studies reporting clincially meaningful data should be anticipated. James, M. J., R. A. Gibson, et al. (2000). 
"Dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids and inflammatory mediator production." Am J Clin Nutr 71 (1 Suppl): 343S-8S. Many antiinflammatory pharmaceutical products inhibit the 
production of certain eicosanoids and cytokines and it is here that 
possibilities exist for therapies that incorporate n-3 and n-9 dietary fatty 
acids. The proinflammatory eicosanoids prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and 
leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) are derived from the n-6 fatty acid arachidonic acid 
(AA), which is maintained at high cellular concentrations by the high n-6 and 
low n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid content of the modern Western diet. Flaxseed 
oil contains the 18-carbon n-3 fatty acid alpha-linolenic acid, which can be 
converted after ingestion to the 20-carbon n-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid 
(EPA). Fish oils contain both 20- and 22-carbon n-3 fatty acids, EPA and 
docosahexaenoic acid. EPA can act as a competitive inhibitor of AA conversion to 
PGE(2) and LTB(4), and decreased synthesis of one or both of these eicosanoids 
has been observed after inclusion of flaxseed oil or fish oil in the diet. 
Analogous to the effect of n-3 fatty acids, inclusion of the 20-carbon n-9 fatty 
acid eicosatrienoic acid in the diet also results in decreased synthesis of 
LTB(4). Regarding the proinflammatory ctyokines, tumor necrosis factor alpha and 
interleukin 1beta, studies of healthy volunteers and rheumatoid arthritis 
patients have shown < or = 90% inhibition of cytokine production after dietary 
supplementation with fish oil. Use of flaxseed oil in domestic food preparation 
also reduced production of these cytokines. Novel antiinflammatory therapies can 
be developed that take advantage of positive interactions between the dietary 
fats and existing or newly developed pharmaceutical products. Heller, A. and T. Koch (2000). "[Immunonutrition 
with omega-3-fatty acids. Are new anti-inflammatory strategies in sight?]." Zentralbl Chir 125 (2): 123-36. In the early phase of sepsis and SIRS an overwhelming 
activation of humoral and cellular mediator systems can alter vascular 
resistance and causes capillary leakage increasing the risk of organ 
dysfunction. omega-6-arachidonic acid is released from lipid pools of cellular 
membranes during inflammation and is metabolized to pro-inflammatory 
prostaglandins and leukotriens, which are key mediators in the pathogenesis of 
organ dysfunction. omega-3-eicosapentaenoic acid-derived lipid mediators present 
altered biologic effects. Thus, omega-3-fatty acid application enables 
anti-inflammatory intervention on the level of lipid mediators. The current 
article reviews experimental and clinical data on omega-3-fatty acids. Besides 
the decrease of pro-inflammatory mediators, fish oil supplementation lowered 
post operative infection rates and showed a tendency to reduce hospital stay in 
surgical patients. It is believed that the decreased formation of LTB4 and TXA2 
during sepsis after administration of omega-3-fatty acids accounts for improved 
microcirculatory perfusion and declined lactate acidosis. Hedqvist, P., N. Gautam, et al. (2000). 
"Interactions between leukotrienes and other inflammatory mediators/modulators 
in the microvasculature." Am J Respir Crit Care Med 161 (2 Pt 2): 
S117-9. Fidler, N. and B. Koletzko (2000). "The fatty 
acid composition of human colostrum." Eur J Nutr 39 (1): 31-7. We reviewed 15 studies reporting on the fatty acid 
composition of colostrum lipids from 16 geographic regions: 11 European studies 
and one study each from Central America, the Caribbean, Australia and Asia. The 
contents of essential fatty acids, saturates and polyunsaturates were similar in 
the southern European countries Spain, Slovenia and France. Colostrum of St. 
Lucian women was high in saturates and low in oleic acid, reflecting a 
high-carbohydrate, low-fat diet. Abundant fish intake was reflected in high 
contents of docosahexaenoic acid and total n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty 
acids in St. Lucia. Two French studies published with an interval of two years 
showed a very similar colostrum fatty acid composition, whereas two German 
studies obtained with an interval of 14 years showed higher docosahexaenoic acid 
and arachidonic acid contents in the later study, with an unchanged n-6/n-3 
long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid ratio. Studies from Spain reported a 
decline of alpha-linolenic acid in colostrum over a time period of 13 years. 
Colostrum of Australian women contained the lowest polyunsaturated/saturated and 
n-6/n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids ratios (0.28 and 1.58) and the 
lowest contents of linoleic and alpha-linolenic acids (7.8 and 0.4 wt.%). In 
contrast, the contents of docosahexaenoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid and total 
n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (0.6, 0.4 and 1.4 wt.%) were higher 
in Australian than in European samples. Fatty acid composition of human 
colostrum appears to be markedly influenced by geographic differences in 
maternal dietary composition. Donadio, J. V., Jr. (2000). "Use of fish oil to 
treat patients with immunoglobulin a nephropathy." Am J Clin Nutr 71 (1 
Suppl): 373S-5S. This review describes the use of fish oil in the treatment of 
patients with immunoglobulin (Ig) A nephropathy. IgA nephropathy is the most 
common glomerular disease worldwide. It has a variable course and leads to 
end-stage renal disease in a substantial number of cases. Among the 4 published 
randomized clinical trials that tested the efficacy of fish-oil treatment of IgA 
nephropathy, 2 reported beneficial effects on renal function and 2 showed 
negative results. In the largest trial conducted by my collaborative study 
group, convincing evidence was provided for protection against progressive renal 
disease after daily treatment for 2 y with fish oil providing 1.8 g 
eicosapentaenoic acid and 1.2 g docosahexaenoic acid-the 2 major n-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acids in fish oil. Oral prednisone has also been 
advocated, especially in the treatment of children with IgA nephropathy. Two 
randomized trials are currently underway in the United States to resolve the 
discrepancy of results in previous fish-oil trials and to determine whether 
corticosteroids or fish oil is the better treatment of patients at risk for 
developing progressive disease; results of these studies are not yet available. Connor, W. E. (2000). "Importance of n-3 fatty 
acids in health and disease." Am J Clin Nutr 71 (1 Suppl): 171S-5S. In the past 2 decades, views about dietary n-3 fatty acids 
have moved from speculation about their functions to solid evidence that they 
are not only essential nutrients but also may favorably modulate many diseases. 
Docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3), which is a vital component of the phospholipids 
of cellular membranes, especially in the brain and retina, is necessary for 
their proper functioning. n-3 Fatty acids favorably affect atherosclerosis, 
coronary heart disease, inflammatory disease, and perhaps even behavioral 
disorders. The 38 articles in this supplement document the importance of n-3 
fatty acids in both health and disease. Babcock, T., W. S. Helton, et al. (2000). "Eicosapentaenoic 
acid (EPA): an antiinflammatory omega-3 fat with potential clinica