
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 21:46:25 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.21 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.2.21 OpenSSL/0.9.8e-fips-rhel5 mod_auth_passthrough/2.1 mod_bwlimited/1.4 FrontPage/5.0.2.2635
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://at-homeopathy.com/wp/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

2008  July | The Ultimate Guide to Homeopathy The Ultimate Guide to Homeopathy Guide to Homeopathy : Articles on homeopathy for lay persons, cases, opinion of senior homeopaths on important issues for students and practitioners. Home Homeopathic Remedies Store Homeopathic Kits What Is Homeopathy Homeopathic Remedies Homeopathic Remedy Finder Homeopathic Medicine Homeopathy Training Privacy Policy Sitemap Categories Diseases, Conditions and Treatments Health and Fitness History of Homeopathy Homeopathic Certificate Programs Homeopathic Medicine Homeopathic Remedies Homeopathic Software Homeopathic Treatment Homeopathy Making a Homeopathic Remedies Self Awareness Of Homeopathy Articles of Interest Natural Tinnitus Remedies Work Wonders Natural Asthma Relief Treatment ? Home Remedies for Asthma Attacks Treating Diarrhea With Home Remedies? All-Natural Home Remedies for Yeast Infection Cure Details and Remedy About Vaginal Yeast Infection Tinnitus Test – a Quick and Easy Remedy! 5 Things to Look for in ADHD Homeopathic Remedies First Aid Homeopathy for Bites and Stings Alternative Allergy and Hay Fever Treatments: Allergy Nosodes Three Natural Treatments for Bad Breath Medicinal Herb Gardening – Favorite Homeopathic Herbs You Can Grow Homeopathic Ways to Get Rid of Sinus Infections Medical Measures and Homeopathy for Back Pain Alternative Medicine ADHD Treatments – Traditional Medicine Isn’t Always the Best Answer Homeopathic Medicine for Eczema Why a Homeopathic Treatment for Tinnitus Might Be Good Home Remedies and Herbal Medicine for Congestive Heart Failure Learn About Homeopathic Human Growth Hormone Homeopathic HGH Overcoming Motion Sickness in Dogs Get Rid of Acid Reflux – Homeopathic Remedies Are Highly Effective, Safe and Drug Free The Benefits of Using Homeopathic Remedies Rather Than Prescription ADHD Medicine Ingredients in Homeopathic Flu Remedies to Look Out For 3 Reasons Why Home Remedies for Cat Urinary Tract Infections Are a Smart Way to Go The Pros and Cons of Homeopathy Blogroll Google Meta Register Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Homeopathic Remedies Archive for July 2008 « Older Entries Easy Home Remedies for Curing Snoring July 31, 2008 | Author Dr. Waqas Yousaf Snoring is not a disease. It is a sort of an imbalance in the human body mechanism. Though, it is quite embarrassing for those who know that they snore. It causes a peculiar kind of disturbance and amusement to those around the person who is snoring. Well, if the level of snoring could be controlled or eliminated altogether, it would be a good contribution to social peace. And it is certainly possible with some very easy home remedies. 1. Try some realignment with the sleeping postures. Elevate your head with pillows; or raise the head of your bed by several inches. The chances of your throat muscle blocking the air passage, when they relax in sleep are less. Don’t sleep on your back. You are giving absolute freedom for the snoring exercise by doing so. Your tongue and soft palate fall back, narrowing the airway. 2. Next remedy for curing snoring is to bring in some lifestyle changes in your living. In addition to snoring, this step may solve many other problems as well. Exercise regularly and lose extra pounds of your body. Prohibit the habit of smoking and drinking as alcohol relaxes the throat muscles and blocks the air passages further. Smoking also puts additional blocks in the air passages and leads to snoring. If you are in the habit of taking sleeping pills, antihistamines and tranquilizers, avoid them. They all help the cause of snoring. 3. Some over the counter medications can also be categorized under the home remedies. They are anti-snoring pills, throat sprays and nasal strips. The reason for their being counted as home remedies is that the ingredients contained in the anti-snoring pills are plant enzymes and herbs. They control nose and throat tissues from swelling. Thus they are conducive for smoother airflow that counters snoring. 4. Any drug free medication is equivalent to a home remedy. The formula of such medication is based on the experience of generations. Then there are some drug-free snoring aids that keep your jaw in a pushed forward position. It is also known as the “mandibular advancement splint”. Its function is to open up your airways and it is reported to have helped in stopping snoring in more than 80% of the cases. Many models of these types of apparatus are available in the market. The combination of all your conscious efforts on the lines indicated above should help you reduce the level of snoring. You have begun to think about the problem. You are working on it daily. You will soon see the good results and come out of the embarrassing situation- sooner than you expected! Posted in Health and Fitness | Tags: Air Passage , Home Remedies | 1 Comment » Homeopathic Cure and Hair Loss Treatment July 31, 2008 | Author Dr. Waqas Yousaf There are millions of people suffering from alopecia androgenetica; a problem of hair loss that most research indicates is a genetic problem. In most cases if the men or women in the family lost their hair, odds are good their children will also lose their hair. There are numerous contributing causes to hair loss in addition to genetics, most attributed to hormonal changes and finding a homeopathic cure and hair loss treatment to prevent baldness is a continuing process. While there have been some commercial products introduced to the market recently, many of the potential for adverse side effects that preclude many from taking advantage of their availability. Propecia, for example is not recommended for use by women who may become pregnant. One of the problems is that it has been shown to cause birth defects. Another product, minoxidil sold under the trade name Rogaine, is sold over the counter and has a success rate of under 30 percent. It also has serious potential side effects, pushing the development of a homeopathic cure and hair loss treatment . Minoxidil has been known to cause hypertension and is not recommended for use by people who already suffer from high blood pressure. It can also cause breast pain in women and well as gastrointestinal pain, especially if the instructions are not followed. With its relatively low success rate, a homeopathic cure and hair loss treatment is slowly finding its way onto the market. Homeopathic Cures Bypass Lengthy Processes By using only natural and safe ingredients, homeopathic cure and hair loss treatments can often be on the market in a much shorter time, without the need to pass through rigorous testing by the FDA. Side effects of most homeopathic cures are non-existent due to the natural make up of the ingredients. One homeopathic cure and hair loss product currently available combines calf thymus extract with botanicals such as aloe vera, nettle and birch. Immune boosters are also included in the ingredients along with vitamins to help boost the immune system while helping grow hair. The success rate for this product is about 60 percent, slightly higher in women, when used as a homeopathic cure and hair loss treatment. Another product using herbal preparations as a homeopathic cure and hair loss treatment has shown to increase the average hair count by about 75 percent. Of the patients tested, about 90 percent showed improvement while 30 percent showed improved hair growth using only a placebo. Posted in Homeopathic Remedies , Homeopathic Treatment , Homeopathy | Tags: Homeopathic Cure , Homeopathic Cure And Hair Loss Treatment , Homeopathic Hair Loss Treatment , Homeopathic Remedies | Comments Closed Natural Remedies for Anxiety July 29, 2008 | Author Dr. Waqas Yousaf Given that there has been a large amount of literature that has been created with regard to understanding anxiety disorders, there is also an equal amount of literature that has been created with regard to treating it. Among the different methods by which anxiety disorders are being treated, a majority of them advocate using medication that have been developed to deal with the symptoms of anxiety disorders, including anti-depressants, relaxants, beta-blockers, and benzodiazepines. However, in recent years, and given the popularity of natural remedies, a number of natural remedies to treat anxiety disorders have also been developed. Below are some of the most common natural remedies that have been used to treat anxiety disorders. Some Natural Remedies Most of the natural remedies that have been formulated focus on how people who suffer from anxiety disorders can relax and calm themselves to relieve the debilitating symptoms of anxiety disorders. Some of these include doing relaxation and breathing exercises, which can help people focus either on their breathing or the exercise they are doing in order to divert their attention from the fear that they would feel if they had an anxiety attack. With regard to natural substances that they can take, there are also a number of herbal medicines that have been proven to help alleviate the symptoms of anxiety disorders. Some of these include kava, valerian, California poppy, hops, passionflower, lemon balm, catnip, lavender, and chamomile. However, people suffering from anxiety disorders who are thinking of taking these natural remedies would do well to consult their physician first. This is because doing so can ensure that they would be taking the remedies that would really be able to help them with their anxiety disorder. This is especially true for some of the herbal medicines, as some of them need to be taken under the supervision of a physician because some of them have side effects. There has been much research done in understanding anxiety disorders and the different ways to treat them. Among these treatments, one that is becoming very common is the use of natural remedies that include doing certain exercises and taking some herbal medication, which have been proven to help alleviate some symptoms of anxiety disorders. However, people using these remedies also need medical supervision so that they can be assured that they are using the remedy that is right for them and their type of anxiety disorder. Posted in Health and Fitness | Tags: Lemon Balm , Symptoms Of Anxiety Disorders | No Comments » Homeopathic Cancer Treatment Can Prove More Effective Than Cancer Surgery July 28, 2008 | Author Dr. Waqas Yousaf There are many who may be wishing to try out homeopathic cancer remedies , but may not as yet know how effective such a form of treatment really is and would thus like more information on the topic. There is good news for them because there are many homeopathic cancer treatment methods available and these include certain remedies that specifically target treatment of cancer and such remedies can be used along with conventional treatments as well. Treat Fear Of Dying As Well Furthermore, homeopathic cancer treatment can also be used for treating patients having terminal pain and who fear that they will soon die because of their cancerous condition. What’s more, homeopathic cancer treatment came about when there were few effective conventional treatment medicines available to deal with cancer though cancer surgery did evolve albeit at a rather unsophisticated level. It was thus left up to homeopaths to find means of treating cancer and despite the fact that many may believe that an advanced cancerous condition would not be effectively treated through homeopathic cancer treatment ; the truth was that that was not the case in every instance. How effective homeopathic cancer treatment is going to be will ultimately depend on how well the symptoms of cancer have been diagnosed which would enable homeopaths to find the best remedies and in this regard homeopaths consider cancer as being both a disease as well as disturbances to crucial forces and that there must be some reason for such a condition. It is thus necessary for homeopaths to seek out the causes before an effective homeopathic cancer treatment can be prescribed. Another factor worth considering is that cancer surgery may not prove to be more effective than homeopathic cancer treatment because simply cutting off the cancerous parts will not make the cancer go away since it may recur in other parts and even turn more malignant than before. However, homeopathy can offer an explanation as to why cancer may spread and so is a good alternative to cancer surgery and other allopathic treatments and it is also effective in dealing with the psychological matters that accompany a cancer condition. Among the different homeopathic cancer treatment that you may come across are some that are very effective and among these you can find remedies such as arsenicum, conium, hydrasis, carcinosin, phosphorous and asterias as well as cadmiums as too lycopodium. With so many homeopathic cancer treatment options to choose from, you can confidently do away with conventional treatment methods and opt instead for a safe and effective alternative treatment method . Posted in Homeopathic Medicine , Homeopathic Remedies , Homeopathic Treatment | Tags: Homeopathic Cancer Remedies , Homeopathic Cancer Treatment , Homeopathic Remedies , Homeopathic Treatment | Comments Closed For Hemorrhoids Homeopathic Treatment Works Quickly July 25, 2008 | Author Dr. Waqas Yousaf One of the major pains many people suffer is from hemorrhoids, which can occur for a variety of reasons such as pregnancy, bowel problems and in some case from certain types of physical exertion. While there are numerous products on the market to relieve the typical pain and burning associated with this problem, for some with hemorrhoids homeopathic treatment alternatives are more appealing. Many times, hemorrhoids are accompanied by diarrhea, which can exacerbate the problem. Some products such as aloe used for hemorrhoids homeopathic treatment also relieve the problem of loose stools. However the cause of the flare up and the individual’s history in this area will need to be understood before any type of hemorrhoids homeopathic treatment can be effective. While aloe is a soothing agent for many problems, using it for hemorrhoids can be more effective if taken internally. In many severe cases, sulphur in a C30 dilution can be an effective, fast cure for hemorrhoid flare-ups. The dilution on the C scale is determined by the regulated dilution during the succession process. Essentially, it is interpreted as one drop of the dilution to 100 drops of water. Mixed with alcohol as a preservative, it can last for several months, but in most cases people using hemorrhoids homeopathic treatment report the problems disappeared in two to three days. Different Causes May Call For Different Treatments In cases where there has been a history of minor problems with hemorrhoids , a sudden flare up of severe problems caused by physical activity, may require a more subtle approach. Using horse chestnut as a hemorrhoids homeopathic treatment , for example has been shows to help greatly reduce the symptoms of hemorrhoids in only two days, with them be completely gone in three days. Another product of the same tree, aesculus is also used by hemorrhoid sufferers to relieve the pain that often accompanies a severe flare up. This by-product from the horse chestnut tree is also used to relieve pain in the sacroiliac in homeopathic medicine. The native American Indians often used a porridge-like mixture from this tree for a variety of topical treatments, which led to its use as a hemorrhoids homeopathic treatment. Persons who are inexperienced in mixing their own homeopathic medicines can usually find them through outlets that cater to homeopathic medicine. For those wanting to save money and mix their own hemorrhoids homeopathic remedies , it will be necessary to use the appropriate succession methods when mixing the dilutions to achieve the proper dilution. Posted in Homeopathic Remedies | Tags: Hemorrhoids Homeopathic Remedies , Hemorrhoids Homeopathic Treatment , Homeopathic Treatment | Comments Closed Remedies for Yeast Infection – Medicines and Home Remedies for Yeast Infection July 22, 2008 | Author Dr. Waqas Yousaf Yeast infections are very common. It’s estimated that 1 in three women has had a yeast infection before. The cause of yeast infections is a fungus which is called Candida Albicans. Everybody has this fungus in their body but when given the right conditions it can grow and start causing problems such as infections. There are many factors that can contribute to vaginal yeast infections. Some of these factors include: - Pregnancy - Diabetes - The use of Birth Control Pills (use oral contraceptives) - Use of antibiotics - Use of steroids The use of antibiotics is probably one of the biggest factors in the development of a yeast infection. The good news is that there are a number of remedies that you can use to treat yeast infections. Some of these remedies can be found in your home. Always consult your doctor for a proper diagnosis if you suspect that you have a yeast infection. This is always recommended because yeast infections can easily be confused with other conditions such as bacterial vaginosis, trichomoniasis and non infectious vaginitis. Trichomoniasis is considered a sexually transmitted disease. After your doctor has made the diagnosis of a vaginal yeast infection, he can prescribe a medicine to treat it. One of the medicines which is often prescribed is Diflucan. Diflucan has been proven to be very effective when treating yeast infections. Some people choose to use over the counter medicines such as creams and suppositories which are widely available from the pharmacy. They are often referred to as anti-fungal creams and suppositories. Some of the best well known names and brands include Monistat and Vagistat. There are other generic brands similar to these that are also available from most stores. There are also some natural remedies for yeast infection that you can use. One of the most popular remedies is yogurt! Many research findings have confirmed that women who often eat yogurt on a daily basis or regularly tend to have very few occurrences of yeast infection. This is because yogurt contains Lactobacillus cultures which help to fight the fungus that causes vaginal yeast infections. Another natural cure that has been used to cure yeast infections garlic. There are a number of guides and e-books that have been written on how to cure yeast infections naturally. These can be found online by conducting a search on any major search engine. Yeast infections can be annoying, but with proper treatment using remedies or medicines, you can be back to normal in no time. Posted in Health and Fitness | Tags: Bacterial Vaginitis , Cause Of Yeast Infections , vaginal yeast infections | No Comments » Cough Remedies – Natural Home Remedies for Coughs July 21, 2008 | Author Dr. Waqas Yousaf Old fashioned, natural home remedies just might be the best way to reduce the number of coughing spells without eliminating them altogether. You might ask why we would not want to wipe them out altogether. The answer would be that as irritating as a hacking cough can be, it is a necessary reflex that helps to keep our airways clear of obstruction. When the upper respiratory tract becomes inflamed due to an infection, the act of coughing ensues with the trigger being a buildup of phlegm in the trachea. The symptoms of the common cold are rarely cause for alarm even though when we hear the first cough, our thoughts immediately run to the possibility of an impending illness. In most cases all that is called for is the treatment of the symptoms and keeping our patient as comfortable as possible for the week or so that it takes to clear the virus out of our system. This situation is where natural home remedies really shine. For most children, the worst part of a cold is the coughing that prevents them from getting much needed rest. With the recent concerns over the safety of kid’s cough medicines, old home remedies may be worth a try. The good news is that most of the ingredients for old home remedies may be right there in your kitchen cupboard. If you see a home remedy listed here that you would like to try, ask your pediatrician or family physician what he thinks about it. If he tells you that he believes it won’t hurt; give it a whirl. You may be amazed at how much these simple practices can help to give your child or yourself some relief. Before we make suggestions on how to whip up a batch of old fashioned remedies to eliminate that cough, we should cover what items that should be eliminated that might be contributing to the problem. For the duration of the cold or when symptoms are present all dairy products, meat and fried foods should be avoided as they tend to increase mucous production which in turn triggers the cough reflex. No natural home remedy will help if the diet is working against it. Many parents believe in the healing properties of orange juice, but grapes are perhaps one of the most effective, old fashioned cough remedy. Adults can enjoy eating the fruit and help to reduce their coughing spells at the same time. If eating the fruit whole is not an option, you might try dissolving some honey in grape juice to make syrup that will be easier to swallow. A sauce prepared from pureed raisins is another handy way to use grapes as a cough remedy. Many old timers recommend home remedies based on the curative properties of honey alone. Honey can be effective and safe for many, but some add other ingredients to the honey to get even better results. Some advise the combination of a teaspoon of honey with turmeric powder for a dry cough and others have said that equal parts of glycerin, honey and lemon juice do the trick with the recommended dosage of a single teaspoon before going to bed. Another old fashion trick involves juicing an onion and then mixing the juice with honey for an excellent although pungent cough remedy. One essential item that is neglected far too often is plain water. It has mucous thinning properties when drunk, gargled with a little salt or when used in a humidifier. The old school mentality was that the more water that a patient drank the quicker the virus was washed out of the body. For serious illness, modern medicine is hard to beat. We are lucky that we have much better means to deal with chronic coughs and serious illnesses like whooping cough and flu. However, you may find that natural home remedies offer enough comfort and relief for minor coughs and colds that you have no need for commercial preparations. And of course we want to remind you to always consult your physician on matters concerning your health and that of your child as well as before administering any natural home remedies. Posted in Health and Fitness | Tags: Remedies For Coughs , Upper Respiratory Tract | No Comments » « Older Entries Homeopathic Medicine Archives January 2012 October 2011 May 2011 April 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 September 2008 August 2008 July 2008 June 2008 May 2008 April 2008 March 2008 February 2008 January 2008 December 2007 November 2007 Copyright 