
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2012 07:18:43 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Thu, 19 Nov 1981 08:52:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Ergo Health : Ergonomics Ergo Health Ergonomics Home About Feedback Lumbar Support Isn't Just For Lifting We've all seen those lumbar support belts that to meet your needs. Some people like the thicker movers and other people who lift regularly wear ones while others need them to be thinner to fit to protect their backs. Increasingly, you see behind their backs while they are driving. In people in retail establishments and in offices who addition, many of the styles of support pillows might only lift occasionally wearing those belts. come with straps that you can attach to your Since back injuries are so prevalent and office or dining chair while other pillows are easily prevention is key, this is a really good idea. able to be transported wherever you go. However, lumbar support isn't just for lifting. You It's easy to forget about maintaining correct can offer your back comfort and support at posture until we catch ourselves slouching or other times too. worse, when we get a back ache. When you're That's not to suggest that everyone walk around using support pillows for your lumbar region, wearing a lumbar support belt. On the contrary, however, you are also working to improve your you can protect your back and improve your posture as the support allows you to maintain posture as well when you're just sitting around correct posture while offering comfort as well. By the house, at the pool, or even in the car. In fact, being proactive and taking care of your back some people are so attached to their support now, you run a lower risk of having aggravating pillows that they take them with them on back pain and injury down the road. Don't wait airplanes and use them when they stay in hotels until your lumbar region is strained or injured. Start and motels too. supporting your back today and you'll notice the Lumbar support pillows come in a variety of difference! styles and levels of firmness so you can find one Articles Reception Chairs - Reliable... Ergonomic Chair Gives... Computer Use And Repetitive... Ergonomics -- Improving the... Choosing a 'Top of the... An Executive Office Chair... Ergonomic Workstations Are... Leather Dining Chairs... Best Office Chairs Are the... Workstation Health and... If You a Computer User... Choosing the Right Office... Ergonomic Home Office Chair... Executive Chairs for... What Every User Needs to... Five Simple Tips For... 5 Tips For Purchasing the... The Kneeling Office... Home | | About | Policy | Feedback | Terms of U