
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: No-Cache, no-store, must-revalidate
Pragma: No-Cache
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Expires: Sun, 26 Dec 1999 01:01:01 GMT
Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.5
cm-server: Web10
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Sun, 12 Feb 2012 23:14:08 GMT
Connection: close

Acupuncture & Chinese Medicine Clinic of Vancouver Home About TCM Acupuncture & Herbs Cosmetic Acupuncture Women's Health Skin Disorders Articles FAQ's Testimonials Links Resources Fees for Services About Us Recommend Website Contact Us & New Patients Acupuncture & Chinese Medicine Clinic of Vancouver Cosmetic Acupuncture    Facial Rejuvenation Cosmetic Acupuncture in the News Benefits How it works Research Surgery and Botox FAQ's Rates Interview with Breakfast Television Testimonials Cosmetic Procedures are no pain, more gain - Vancouver Sun Article January 4, 2010 Cosmetic Acupuncture Targets Tiny Wrinkles - Georgia Straight Interview with Dr. Maryam Mahanian - September 3, 2009 Click here to watch Living Vancouver on CBC featuring Dr. Maryam Mahanian and Facial Acupuncture (Sept 10, 2007) Cosmetic Acupuncture in the News Elle Canada on Facial Acupuncture Vancouver Sun Article: A New Way to Face the Future Vancouver Province: Stick a needle in your wrinkles USA Today: Acupuncture gets a face lift and much more Alive Magazine Article  -  Cosmetic Acupuncture by Dr. Mahanian, DTCM What is Cosmetic Acupuncture? Cosmetic Acupuncture, or “Acupuncture Facelifts” as it is commonly called, is an effective way to remove fine lines and wrinkles from the face. More and more people are turning to this ancient medical system instead of surgery, botox, and laser and chemical peels as it is free of any negative side effects. It reduces the signs of aging by revitalizing the skin and bringing a more youthful look to the face! Benefits of Cosmetic Acupuncture Reduction of wrinkles Erasing of fine lines and reduction of deeper lines Reduction of frown lines Helps to eliminate dark circles and puffiness under the eyes Tightens the pores Improves the facial complexion by increasing the local circulation to the face Helps to reduce double chin Clearing or reduction of age spots Improves the elasticity of facial muscles & prevents wrinkles from forming Keeps acne prone skin under control An overall rejuvenation of the whole body How does Cosmetic Acupuncture work? The insertion of tiny needles into the facial tissue increases blood circulation to the area and stimulates collagen production. The skin will be nourished, oxygenated, and moisturized from the inside out. When the circulation is increased, the collagen production is also increased which will give the skin more tightness and elasticity helping to fill out the fine lines and lift and firm the skin. Research Study “A 1996 report in the international Journal of Clinical Acupuncture reported that among 300 cases treated with Cosmetic Acupuncture, 98% had marked effects with one course of treatment. The effects included: -skin becoming more delicate and fair -improvement of the elasticity of facial muscles -diminished wrinkles -healthier complexion -overall rejuvenation Other Skin Care Treatments We also prescribe Chinese Herbal Medicine and nutritional/dietary consulting for skin ailments such as Eczema, Psoriasis, Acne and more. Please refer to the following articles: Articles: Acne Articles: Eczema Why Not Surgery or Botox? Surgical Facelift: Cost is over $6,000.00! Risks include scarring, nerve damage, infection, asymmetry, allergic reactions, damage to deeper structures, complications due to anesthesia. Long Recovery Time Painful recovery – pain medications needed May not look like yourself afterward (Artificial looking) Why not Botox? Cannot treat wrinkles due to aging or sun exposure or reduce the fine lines (only for dynamic wrinkles) Risk of paralysis of surrounding muscles & upper eyelid droop Only temporary results..the more you get, the more you need to achieve same effect Cost is at least $600.00 every 3-4 months! May not be able to raise eyebrows and have other expressions Long term effects of botox are still unknown Cosmetic Acupuncture: Total cost is approximately $1000.00! No risks involved! No negative side effects! No recovery time needed! Requires no drugs or injections! Look like yourself but better! A very natural process! Frequently Asked Questions How many treatments are needed? A course of treatment is 10 treatments twice per week for five weeks. A patient can choose to do three times per week as well. Follow-up maintenance treatments must be done once per month or once every season depending on the reaction of the patient. For some difficult cases, for example if the patient is older with deeper lines, they may need to repeat another 10 sessions. How long is each treatment? Each treatment is 1 hour long. The initial consultation typically is 20 minutes. What can I expect in a treatment? Cosmetic Acupuncture treatments are extremely relaxing. Small fine needles are gently inserted into the face and body and are left in for 35 minutes as the patient relaxes in a comfortable dimly lit room with relaxing music to relieve the stress that is so prominent in our daily lives. Cosmetic acupuncture not only consists of facial rejuvenation but also overall rejuvenation. If a patient has other complaints such as digestive problems, acute or chronic pain, stress, insomnia, fatigue etc.., these symptoms will be addressed in the session and specific points chosen accordingly. The wrinkles disappear and your health improves at the same time! Does Cosmetic Acupuncture hurt? The answer is no. The needles used in cosmetic acupuncture are extremely thin and are inserted into the skin superficially. The most patients feel are very slight pinching in sensitive area's such as the upper lip and under the eyes but it shouldn't be uncomfortable. Are the needles sterile? Definitely! Needles are only used one time and disposed of in sterile sealed containers after every treatment. How long does the effect last? Typically, results last from 3 to 5 years after a course of 10 treatments. Each patient will be different, but usually each patient will need maintenance treatments once per month or once per season. Cosmetic Acupuncture diminishes the fine lines already existing on the skin and prevents the skin from aging. Will my insurance cover the cost? Yes! Most extended health insurance plans will partially cover the cost of Cosmetic Acupuncture. Simply submit your receipts to your individual insurance company and they will reimburse you. How old do I have to be? Typically, best results are seen in patients before the age of 55. The best age range is between 20 to 55 years old. Even younger youthful skin will benefit from cosmetic acupuncture to delay the aging process and keep the skin glowing. How do I know the practitioner is qualified to do Cosmetic Acupuncture? Make sure that the acupuncturist/TCM Doctor is a registered acupuncturist with the CTCMA (College of Traditional Chinese Medicine and Acupuncturists) and certified in specialized Cosmetic Acupuncture. Refer to the following link for the CTCMA of BC: www.ctcma.bc.ca Is everyone a candidate for Cosmetic Acupuncture? No. If a patient has the following disorders, they will not be treated with Cosmetic Acupuncture: -Haemophiliacs -Pacemakers -High Blood Pressure -Diabetes -Severe Migraines -Former plastic surgery -Pregnant Women What if I've had Botox? Cosmetic Acupuncture actually is recommended for patients who have previously had botox injections in the face. Cosmetic Acupuncture keeps the botox effective for a longer period of time and most people find they only need to upkeep the botox every 8 to 12 months rather than every 3 to 6 months! Rates Cosmetic Acupuncture Consultation is complimentary (up to 30 minutes long) Cosmetic Acupuncture Treatment $105.00 per session Interview - Breakfast Television (March 2006) with Simi Sara Some questions that were asked: "How is Cosmetic Acupuncture different from regular acupuncture?" It is the same as regular acupuncture but more needles and different types of needles are used in the face and additional techniques are used as well. "Tell us a little bit about the history of this practice." Many think that cosmetic acupuncture is a new procedure since they have never heard of it. On the contrary, it was done in ancient china for emperors and empresses concubines for beautifying. Calling it “cosmetic acupuncture” is fairly new in Canada but is very popular in Europe and the U.S. It is just now growing in popularity in Canada . It can be traced back to the Song dynasty (AD 960 to 1279). "What happens to the skin/body when the needle is strategically positioned. Describe how the wrinkles and lines are erased. " The insertion of the needle generates blood and energy to flow towards them. With more blood circulation, more collagen is produced by the dermal layer of the skin (the second layer). As we age, our collagen production decreases. The acupuncture needles, by helping the collagen production, essentially fill out the fine lines and wrinkles, and help to lift sagging skin. Generating more blood circulation in the skin is great to bring a glow to the overall complexion. "How is this procedure better than botox or plastic surgery"? Cosmetic acupuncture is a great natural alternative to these procedures because it does not have side effects. First of all, botox injects a foreign substance into the body called botulinum toxin and a lot of people don’t like the idea of that. The long term effects of botox are still unknown, and botox also creates an inability to move the facial muscles if overdone. Plastic surgery involves many risks and complications. Not to mention, both procedures are quite costly. Yes, with botox and plastic surgery, the changes are immediate, whereas, with cosmetic acupuncture, the changes are more subtle and gradual. A great thing about cosmetic acupuncture is that it does not result in an artificial look, but rather you end up looking like yourself but just better! "What are some of the other benefits of cosmetic acupuncture"? Cosmetic acupuncture is not only to make you look better. It is a medical procedure that treats the whole body. If a patient has any problems such as insomnia, digestive troubles, menopausal symptoms, or stress (which is of course quite common in most people), those problems are dealt with at the same time in the cosmetic acupuncture treatments. " What are some of the health benefits"? Within even just the first few visits, patients feel energized, less stressed, and they sleep better at night. " Describe the process that a new client goes through". The very first meeting with a new patient is simply a brief introduction to the procedure and is free of charge. It is a time where I explain how it works, what is involved, and what the patient can expect. The patient will then be able to ask any questions they may have, and I ask them what their particular concerns are. The first cosmetic acupuncture visit involves a thorough medical assessment. Questions are asked regarding all systems of the body…sleep, digestion, reproductive system, etc… Acupuncture is done on the first visit as well. Patients should expect to be at the clinic for one and a half hours. Follow up cosmetic acupuncture sessions take one hour. " How long does it take to get this done and how long does it last"? A course of treatment involves ten sessions done twice per week in a span of five weeks. After that, maintenance visits of once per month or once every two months are recommended to keep the skin improving and help the ten sessions to last. Cosmetic acupuncture results last from 2 to 5 years depending on the individual. " What about the costs compared to botox/plastic surgery"? It costs $100.00 per session which is quite reasonable considering botox costs at least $500.00 per session and only lasts from 4 to 6 months on average…and of course everyone knows that plastic surgery is very costly and does not come without risks. "Are there any dangers in the use of these needles"? No…the most that could happen is a bit of bruising which is very minimal and won’t last more than 5 days or so…and small enough that make up can cover it up. Of course, this is a technique that should only be done by a trained acupuncturist which is licensed with the college of acupuncturists and Chinese medicine practitioners. If you are looking to get cosmetic acupuncture done, you should go to someone who has additional special specific training in it....it is not learnt in college but rather additional training is needed. "Why doesn’t one bleed"? The needles are coated with silicon so that they get into the skin very easily with very little pain. The facial skin is very delicate so the needles used in cosmetic acupuncture are specialized for delicate areas. The needles tips are very sharp. One may have slight bleeding with a few of their points but it is very minimal. " What other anti-aging tips do you have"? Lots of water, rest, sleep, and a healthy diet. Trying to manage stress is also a big one…of course easier said than done! I also focus on helping people to improve their mental health and to have positive attitudes. "Is there anything else that you think is relevant, interesting or useful that I haven’t already asked you"? -most extended health plans will partially cover the costs of acupuncture -it is such a relaxing procedure that patients look forward to…they are able to have that hour in their day all to themselves in a very peaceful environment. -many celebrities are getting the procedure done such as Cher and Madonna. Testimonials Cosmetic Acupuncture has been great to tighten the skin under my eyes, eliminate the dark circles, and lift my drooping eyelids. It has actually tightened my whole face! My overall complexion has also improved with a reduction in scarring under my chin! -29 yrs old Cosmetic Acupuncture greatly improved the saggy skin around my chin & mouth & my skin has been smoother & more radiant. - 56 yrs old I have never been happy with my skin until I tried Cosmetic Acupuncture. My complexion improved right away with a visible difference in the tightness around my eyes and forehead. My energy level and general health has also impoved dramatically! -27 yrs old The deep lines around the sides of my mouth are now a lot less visible since I started Cosmetic Acupuncture. Around my eyes has also become a lot tighter. My friends comment on how different I look now! -56 yrs old Cosmetic Acupuncture felt like the best facial. My skin felt rejuvenated and was tingling even till the next day. I couldn't keep from touching my skin because it felt like it tightened up so much. After only the 3rd treatment, I saw an actual lift on my eyelids and the skin under my chin and around my mouth firmed up. I'm currently on my 6 th treatment and my skin is just getting better and better! -33 yrs old Back to Top Acne I Arthritis I Crohn's Disease I Eczema I Fertility I Fibromyalgia I Irritable Bowel Syndrome I Irregular Menstruation I Menopause I Migraines I Painful Menstruation I PMS I Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome I Psoriasis I Weight Loss I Stress & Infertility I IVF I Children Enter your search terms Submit search form _________________________________________________________________________________ The Acupuncture & Chinese Medicine Clinic of Vancouver 212-2760 West Broadway  Vancouver, BC  Canada V6K 2G4 (604) 568-1712 © Copyright Dr. Marya