
Foot care at work and anti-fatigue insoles home log-in register basket ( 0 ) £ 0.00 Winter Products Blisters & Bunions Skincare & Foot Creams Insoles & Orthotics Odour & Athletes Foot Shoe Accessories Toe & Nail Dressings Physiotherapy Products Help Calluses & Corns Bunion Care Blister Care In-Shoe Comfort Foot Measurement Kiwi Shoe Polish Klenz Sanitiser Shoe Horns Shoe Stretching Spray Diaped Diabetic Socks Flight Socks Moisturising Socks Toe Toe Socks Shoe Colour Sprays Amputee Products Night Splints Hot & Cold Therapy Achilles Protection Post-Op Care Wraps and Supports Rehabilitation Mobility Aids Walking Braces faq support how to shop Item Item 2 Menu Item Hi Callus Care Corn Care Exfoliators Moisturising Creams Washing & Bathing Warts and Verrucas Cracked Heels Aches & Pains Cosmetic Care Flexitol Foot Creams Scholl Foot Care CCS Foot Cream Diabetic Foot Care Forefoot Pain Heel Lifts Insoles Foot Orthotics Arch Supports Heel Cushions & Pads Silicone Insoles Traction Devices Little Hotties Gel Warmers Cushion Insoles Socks Toe Protection Toe Separators and Spreaders Scholl Odour Solutions Athletes Foot Solutions Scholl Party Feet Shoe Pads & Liners Toe Nail Care Toe Protection Delivery & Terms Articles Wishlist Website Advice Foot Health News Dressings & Plasters BK Prosthetic Sock Gel Liner Sock Cosmetic Hose BK Prosthetic Tube Sock Home > Footcare Articles > Foot Health at Work > Insoles - A new approach to worker fatigue Categories Winter Products Traction Devices Little Hotties Gel Warmers Cushion Insoles Socks Blisters & Bunions Calluses & Corns Bunion Care Blister Care Skincare & Foot Creams Exfoliators Moisturising Creams Washing & Bathing Warts and Verrucas Cracked Heels Aches & Pains Cosmetic Care Flexitol Foot Creams Scholl Foot Care CCS Foot Cream Diabetic Foot Care Insoles & Orthotics Forefoot Pain Heel Lifts Insoles Foot Orthotics Arch Supports Heel Cushions & Pads Silicone Insoles Odour & Athletes Foot Odour Solutions Athletes Foot Solutions Shoe Accessories In-Shoe Comfort Foot Measurement Kiwi Shoe Polish Klenz Sanitiser Shoe Horns Shoe Stretching Spray Diaped Diabetic Socks Flight Socks Moisturising Socks Toe Toe Socks Shoe Colour Sprays Toe & Nail Toe Nail Care Toe Protection Dressings Dressings & Plasters Physiotherapy Products Amputee Products Night Splints Hot & Cold Therapy Achilles Protection Post-Op Care Wraps and Supports Rehabilitation Mobility Aids Walking Braces Help Delivery & Terms Articles Wishlist Website Advice Foot Health News Insoles - A new approach to worker fatigue 15 Nov 2010, 11:14 PM For years workers have complained about foot, knee and back 
                    pain in the workplace. Many of these complaints have arisen 
                    due to the increasing exertion we apply to the feet. After many studies and much research on this subject, biomechanics 
                      experts agree that a clear solution to the reduction of 
                      these ailments lies in alleviating the reactionary forces 
                      which occur while standing and walking. One solution was to introduce cushion/fatigue mats into 
                      the workplace. This was helpful but did not address those 
                      occupations in which the worker is mobile. We believe that a professional insole has the following 
                      advantages over comfort floor matting. Cushion 
                          mats at stationary workstations do not address mobile 
                          and outdoor work settings Professional insoles 
                          are beneficial to long term foot health by working inside 
                          the footwear, next to the foot Costs overall are 
                          lower for shoe inserts than for floor mats and have 
                          require less maintenance Matting increases 
                          the likelihood of trips and fall on raised edges Insoles require no installation like 
                          mats and can be implemented instantly Another and more practical solution was to introduce the Anti-Fatigue Insole into the workplace. Such inserts 
                      supply a cushion interface between the foot and the floor, 
                      which reduces exertion on the foot and hence biomechanical 
                      pressures across the body. What are anti-fatigue insoles? The Anti-Fatigue Insole is a specialist insole placed in the 
                      shoe to help balance the body’s posture and maintain 
                      alignment. Anti-Fatigue Insoles perform functions that make standing, 
                      walking, and running more comfortable and efficient, by 
                      slightly altering the angles at which the foot strikes a 
                      walking or running surface. Insoles are proven to solve a number of biomechanically 
                      related problems, not only for obvious foot problems but 
                      also for ankle, knee, pelvis, hip and back pain. This is 
                      achieved by preventing misalignment of the foot which can 
                      significantly alter the way in which the bones move within 
                      their joints. Insoles take different forms and are constructed 
                      of various materials. All are concerned with improving foot 
                      function and minimising stress forces that could ultimately 
                      cause foot deformity and pain. Insoles come in many styles and features depending 
                      on your needs and the shoes you choose to wear. Why do workers need specialist insoles? Several studies show a statistically significant improvement 
                        in reducing back pain with Orthotic inserts Inserts offer a preventative approach to reducing general 
                        fatigue, poor posture and foot pain. Motion control at the feet can improve standing posture. Supporting the feet reduces the tendency for the body 
                        to slouch forward. The right amount of cushioning inside the shoe avoids 
                        the need for floor mats. Costs are lower for shoe inserts than for floor mats 
                        and other anti-fatigue solutions. Inserts from Foothealthcare.com do not require specialist 
                        fitting as they are designed to be size specific to match 
                        shoe sizes. Most employees spend the majority of their shift standing. Most employees will wear cheap, poor fitting shoes that 
                        lack support for standing. Complaints of back and foot pain combined with hard 
                        work surfaces lead to high employee turnover, workers 
                        compensation claims and lost days. We can supply insoles for your workforce in bulk quantities 
                      at much lower prices. If you would like a quote or to talk 
                      to a sales representative, please contact us on 0151 280 
                      4555 or sales@foothealthcare.com Reviews Article isn't rated yet. Click here to review this article Related Products Prothotics Professional - 3/4 Length Insoles Price: £14.40 Peripeds Peristaltic Insoles for Sweaty Feet Price: £10.80 Poron XRD Insoles Price: £6.00 MEGA Comfort ESD Anti Static Insoles Price: £19.20 Related Articles Foot health care in the workplace Many things affect the condition of our feet: activity 
                      level, occupation type, other health conditions, and perhaps 
                      most importantly, our shoes. Feet are often neglected, as people are unaware of the 
                      damage that can be caused to them in day-to-day life. Being in a working environment where you are on your feet 
                      all day is a major cause of foot problems .... read more Product spotlight: Walking Safely with SPIKY When winter brings the snow and ice it yields a landscape that is both picturesque yet potentially deadly. Slips, trips and falls account for 15% of all accidental deaths, second only to automobile fatalities, and icy surfaces are a major cause of this. read more These boots were made for 'Working' It is important to look after your feet, so they can look after you by walking you through every day of your life. However feet are often neglected, as people are unaware of the damage that can be caused to them in day-to-day life. read more Our Brands Bausch Brillo BSN Medical Canesten Carr,Day & Martin CCS Cherry Blossom ClearZal Compeed Credo Daktarin Darco Diaped Due North Dylon Fabrifoam Flexitol Hapla Lamisil Magix Multicast Nova Instruments Novartis Peripeds Podotech Prothotics Scholl Slimflex Spenco Spiky Yaktrax Quick Links My Account Support Terms Contact Information t: +44 (0)151 280 4555 f: +44 (0)151 448 1008 Payment Methods All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form without express written permission is prohibited. Foothealthcare.com, Sheridan House, B