Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

THE BRAIN FROM TOP TO BOTTOM The Sleep/ Dream/ Wake
                      Cycle Our Biological Clocks The maximum jet lag
                  that you can experience is 12 hours. If the difference between
                  your flight’s departure point and its destination exceeds
                  12 time zones, then you have to subtract the actual number
                  of time zones from 24 to calculate the actual number of hours
                  of jet lag that you will feel. For example, if you are flying
                  from Los Angeles to Hong Kong, you will pass through 16 time
                  zones, so you will experience 24 - 16 = 8 hours of jet lag—the
                  same as if you had flown through 8 time zones from, say,
                  London, England to Los Angeles. For flights that cross the International Date Line, the calculation
                  is the same, but you do not have to take the date change into
                  account. JET LAG Industrial
              civilization , with innovations such as night
                shiftwork, variable shiftwork , and intercontinental
                  air travel , has subjected the human brain to conditions that evolution never
              foresaw. For instance, when a businesswoman arrives in New York on a flight from Paris,
              her endogenous
                circadian rhythms are still synchronized with the time
              of day in the French capital, but the ambient light signals
              that her brain is receiving match the time of day in the
              Big Apple, which is 6 hours earlier. Thus her need for
              sleep is out of phase with the local time at her destination. The uncomfortable symptoms known as jet lag generally start to appear when the
              departure and arrival points for a flight are three or more time zones apart.
              The most obvious of these symptoms is sleepiness in
              the daytime and wakefulness in the middle of the night. But other symptoms may
              include fatigue, loss of appetite, indigestion, headaches, nausea, irritability,
              and a bad mood. Over 75% of air travellers whose flights cross several time zones
              report problems in sleeping the first night afterward. But after
              three nights, this figure is down to 30%. It takes just about one
              day to recover for every time zone that you travel through, but
              this figure varies widely from one person to the next. People who
              have a very regular routine when they are at home are more sensitive
              to jet lag than people who lead less structured lives. People do not experience jet lag when they fly from north to south or south to
              north, even on long-haul flights such as from Lima, Peru to New York (flight
              A in the diagram below). Because these people are staying
                in the same time zone , their biological clocks are not thrown off, and all
              they have to deal with is the fatigue due to the long period of immobility, which
              is rapidly overcome. On this map, flight B, from New
                York to Paris, passes through 6 time zones and will cause its
                passengers moderate jet lag that takes them two to three days
                to overcome. Flight C, from Copenhagen to Alaska, passes through
                11 time zones, and even though it is westbound rather than eastbound
                (see below), will cause very heavy jet lag that will take a good
                week to dissipate. Westbound long-haul flights are often said to cause less jet lag
              than eastbound ones passing through the same number of time zones.
              Many explanations have been offered to support this assertion.
              One, which applies only to eastbound flights departing in the evening,
              is that passengers on such flights may get only a few hours of
              darkness in which to sleep before seeing the next sunrise. Another explanation is that because
              the human biological clock’s
              endogenous cycle is naturally
                slightly more than 24 hours long , and because westbound flights
              through more than one time zone lengthen the passengers’ days,
              such flights are easier for the body to recover from than eastbound
              ones. But this hypothesis would seem to contradicted by experiments
              in which westbound and eastbound time lags were simulated for animals
              whose endogenous cycle was almost exactly 24 hours, and these animals
              too experienced fewer physiological disturbances in the westbound
              case. In short, when it comes to jet lag, so many variables seem to
              be involved and there seems to be so much variability among individuals
              that it is impossible to state categorically which direction of
              travel is more difficult. The usual advice for reducing the effects of jet lag is as follows. Start to adjust your body to your
                    destination time zone in advance. If you will be flying
                    east, go to bed earlier and get up earlier. If you will
                    be flying west, go to bed later and get up later. The extra
                    time you spend awake in the morning in one case and in
                    the evening in the other will be more effective if you
                    spend it in a brightly lit environment. As soon as your flight takes off,
                    set your watch to the time at your destination. Once you arrive at your destination,
                    expose yourself to sunlight to help your biological clock
                    reset itself more quickly. During the days following your arrival,
                    be physically active and eat a balanced diet. And perhaps most important, make sure
                    you are well rested before your flight. This advice is based on today’s scientific understanding
              that jet lag consists of a desynchronization between our central
                biological clock and our multiple
                  peripheral biological clocks . There is much controversy
                  about whether melatonin can
                  be an effective treatment for the symptoms of jet lag. In
                  some studies, people have reported positive effects when
                  they took a dose of 0.5 mg to 5 mg of melatonin at bedtime,
                  local time, for the first few days after they arrived at
                  their destination. But other studies have found that melatonin
                  had none of the desired effects, nor any undesirable side
                  effects, at least in the short term. In some countries, such as the United States, melatonin is
                  freely sold as a food supplement and represents a gigantic
                  market, worth $US 200 to 300 million per year. These supplements
                  may help to regulate sleep and are therefore widely used 