
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 17 Apr 2012 08:38:04 GMT
Server: Apache
Expires: Tue, 10 Apr 2012 08:38:04 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, max-age=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Pingback: http://myonlinehealtharticles.com/xmlrpc.php
Last-Modified: Tue, 17 Apr 2012 08:38:04 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Herbal Supplements | My Online Health Articles and Healthy Recipes - Part 7 My Online Health Articles and Healthy Recipes Featured Health Articles Health Articles Fitness and Weight Exercises for Children Fitness Nutrition Fitness Training at Home Healthy Weight Gain Lose Weight Naturally Natural Treatments for Physical Conditions Acid Reflux Arthritis Arthritis (Using Hot and Cold) Cholesterol Hair Loss (5 Natural Remedies) Hair Loss (Saw Palmetto) Headaches Insomnia Lateral Epicondylitis (Tennis Elbow) Panic Attacks Vaginal Thrush (Vaginal Yeast Infection) Skin Eliminating Acne Redness Natural Home Remedies for Acne Natural At Home Facials Natural Skin Tightening Exercises Natural Facial Treatments Vision Eye Exercises Vitamins and Nutrients Do You Need Enzyme Supplements? Goji Berry: The Original Happy Meal Should You Take Vitamins and Minerals? Vitamin A Fact Sheet B Vitamins Fact Sheet Vitamin B12 Benefits and Deficiency Symptoms Vitamin C Fact Sheet Phytochemicals Fact Sheet Drugs That Deplete Vitamins and Minerals To adjust the type size on this blog, hold down the Ctrl key and use the scroll wheel on your mouse. (For PC users only.) Google Authorship Confirmation Healthy Food and Recipes Asparagus Recipes Beetroot Juice Recipes Blueberry Recipes with Antioxidant Power Growing Blueberries Broccoli Recipes Garlic Recipes with Antiviral Power The Health Benefits of Detox Teas Pasta Recipes to Boost Your Immune System Recipes to Control Blood Sugar Recipes to Help Your Vision Recipes to Keep Anemia at Bay Herbal Supplements Guide Herbal Supplements A-F Herbal Supplements G-L Herbal Supplements M-R Herbal Supplements S-Z Medical Recalls Hip Replacement Recall Miscellaneous Health Terms Fact Sheet Using Natural Remedies Normal Blood Sugar Levels Rejuvenate Yourself Naturally Please do not post these articles or recipes on your blog or Web site; they are for personal use only. If you’d like your readers to access our information, please provide a link to this site. Thanks! About Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Contact Us XML Site Map Blogroll Acne Scar Removal Easy Dutch Oven Recipes Healthy Diet National Institutes of Health Herbal Supplements Encyclopedia — Herbs (S to Z) January 17th, 2008 Health Articles Posted in health articles , herbal supplements , herbal supplements encyclopedia , herbs 1 Comment » This health article is part four of four installments of our herbal supplements encyclopedia. Please see the bottom of this page for links to the other encyclopedia health article sections. Saw Palmetto This botanical product is derived from a small palm tree found in South Carolina and Florida.  Over the last few years saw palmetto has gained notoriety for its beneficial effects on a condition called benign prostatic hyperplasia, a benign (non-cancerous) growth within the prostate gland.  Also referred to as enlargement of the prostate, this condition is common in men age 50 and older.  The male hormone testosterone is converted into a chemical called DHT (dihydrotestosterone), which seems to play a part in causing the prostate to become enlarged.  Saw Palmetto has been found to inhibit this action. It’s effect on DHT has also recently made saw palmetto a popular natural treatment for hair loss. Silymarin (Milk Thistle) Silymarin (milk thistle) is an herb generally used to protect the liver from a variety of toxic substances.  It prevents toxins from penetrating the interior of liver cells while promoting the growth of healthy new cells to repair liver damage.  Milk thistle seed has demonstrated significant value in the treatment of hepatitis, cirrhosis, inflammatory liver disease and liver damage from toxic substances.  It has also been used as an antidote for death-cap mushroom poisoning, and has antioxidant properties. Slippery Elm Slippery elm is taken orally for stomach inflammation, ulcers and sore throat.  Applied to the skin it can be used as a treatment for wounds, burns and skin conditions. For much of the 20th century, slippery elm was a popular over-the-counter remedy for sore throat and upset stomach.  It was listed in The United States Pharmacopoeia until 1960, and was declared safe and effective by the Food and Drug Administration, disappearing from drug store shelves only after Dutch elm disease destroyed nearly all the elm trees in the US. The powdered inner bark of the tree provides relief by forming a slippery, viscous coating that soothes irritation in the throat and the lining of the stomach.  Its water-retaining properties also make it an ideal ingredient for a soothing compress. St. John’s Wort Sometimes referred to as “Nature’s Prozac,” St. John’s wort is believed to combat depression by boosting the levels of certain chemical messengers in the brain.  It works on two levels: Like the prescription antidepressant Prozac, it seems to increase the amount of serotonin available to the nervous system.  And like the monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor Nardil, St. John’s wort is thought to promote higher levels of dopamine and certain other chemical messengers. St. John’s wort has also been used to treat sleep disturbances, gallbladder disorders, gastritis, bronchitis, asthma, diarrhea, bed-wetting, rheumatism, muscle pain, hemorrhoids and gout.  Researchers are currently studying its use in acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) patients. Cut at the start of the flowering season and processed in bunches, St. John’s wort must be dried quickly to preserve its oil and secretions.  Early Christians named the plant in honor of St. John the Baptist because they believed the plant secreted its blood-red oil each year on Aug. 29, the day the saint was beheaded.  Used medicinally for over 2000 years, Ancient Greeks believed that the odor of St. John’s wort repelled evil spirits.  St. John’s wort is also known as amber, goat weed, hardhay, klamath weed and tipton weed. Excessive use of St. John’s wort increases sensitivity to sunlight.  To avoid sunburn, minimize your exposure to the sun while using this medication.  This herb can also cause bloating and constipation. Do not use St. John’s wort while taking a prescription MAO inhibitor, such as Nardil or Parnate, as a dangerous interaction may be possible.  Avoid aged, pickled and fermented food and beverages while taking St. John’s wort.  Foods such as aged cheese, wine and beer contain tyramine, which was formerly used to treat abnormally low blood pressure.  The combination of St. John’s wort and these foods could cause a sudden, dangerous surge in blood pressure.  Additionally, St. John’s wort should not be used by anyone with hypertension or borderline hypertension, as it can increase blood pressure. Most recently, research indicates St. John’s wort lessens the effectiveness of indinavir, a medication given to HIV patients, and of the drug cyclosporin, which is used to suppress the immune systems of heart transplant patients so their bodies don’t reject the new organ. Turmeric Turmeric is a major ingredient in curry powder and is also used in certain varieties of mustard.  Its active ingredient, curcumin, is prescribed as an anti-inflammatory agent in the treatment of numerous disorders, including jaundice, bruises, chest pain and menstrual difficulties.  Although medical evidence does not support its use in all these ailments, turmeric does appear to be an effective antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial agent, and it may aid heart, liver and gastrointestinal problems. Valerian The odor of valerian has been likened to dirty gym socks, but this herb is a powerful remedy for spasms — it relaxes muscles and has a sedative effect.  Valerian is also commonly taken for anxiety, mental strain, lack of concentration, excitability, hysteria, stress, headache, epilepsy, premenstrual syndrome, symptoms of menopause, nerve pain, fainting, stomach cramps and colic. This plant, which produces bright pink to white flowers, grows 20 to 40 inches in height.  It is native to Europe and the temperate regions of Asia, and is cultivated in Europe, Japan and the US.  Valerian’s medicinal value comes from the underground stem and the roots. Check with your doctor before using valerian extract or its volatile oil if you have a skin injury, an acute skin disorder, a severe infection, heart problems or severe muscle tension.  In rare instances, valerian can cause digestive problems or an allergic reaction.  Long-term use can lead to headache, restlessness, sleeplessness, pupil dilation and heart problems. White Willow Bark White willow bark (Salix alba) has been used for centuries to reduce fever, alleviate headaches and reduce pain and swelling in the joints.  The discovery of the salicin nutrient in white willow bark led to the synthesis of today’s modern aspirin compound, which contains acetylsalicylic acid.  Unlike aspirin, however, which can cause stomach irritation and even ulceration, white willow bark contains bioactive nutrients that are good for the digestive system.  White willow bark is generally considered a relatively effective aspirin substitute. Wild Yam (Dioscorea villosa) Wild yam, a member of the Dioscorea family that includes the common potato, is considered a remedy for rheumatism, gallbladder problems, cramps, nerve pain, painful menstruation, upset stomach and morning sickness, although its effectiveness is unconfirmed.  An extract of wild yam, however, has been shown to lower triglycerides and raise levels of the “good” HDL cholesterol that combats build-up of plaque in the arteries.  Wild yam also calms muscular spasms, stimulates the flow of bile, promotes perspiration and seems to have anti-inflammatory properties. Also known as China root, colic root, devil’s bones, rheumatism root and yuma, wild yam is used in the production of artificial progesterone.  It does not, however, serve as a natural source of the female hormone progesterone.  No known medical conditions preclude the use of wild yam, but take care to avoid excessive doses.  Large doses have been known to cause nausea, and poisoning is conceivable. Yohimbe Yohimbe is an herbal nutrient that may get your blood pumping because of the natural component of yohimbe bark and yohimbe powder — hydrochloride.  Pure yohimbe hydrochloride has been used in the medical profession for a number of years to treat male impotence.  In its action as an “alpha adrenergic agonist” it appears to increase the flow of blood to the penis, while at the same time preventing blood from flowing out. Yucca Yucca is currently used as a treatment for arthritis, although its effectiveness has not been officially recognized.  Research suggests that yucca relieves arthritis by blocking intestinal release of toxins that inhibit normal formation of cartilage.  Historically, Native Americans used yucca for sprains, sores, bleeding and inflammation.  It has also been used as a shampoo to fight dandruff and hair loss. Yucca, a desert plant related to the Joshua tree, grows primarily in the southwestern United States.  The medicinal parts are the stalk and root.  Yucca is an FDA-approved food additive used as a foaming agent in beverages such as root beer. Yucca poses a theoretical danger to red blood cells because in test-tube studies, ingredients in yucca have caused the cells to burst (a process known as hemolysis).  This problem, however, has never been reported in humans.  Yucca is considered otherwise safe under all medical conditions, but large doses may cause loose stools. Read part one (A-F) Read part two (G-L) Read part three (M-R) We hope you found this herbal supplements encyclopedia helpful! Tags: health , herbs , minerals , supplements , nutrition « Previous Entries Next Entries » Content by B2B Content Solutions Copyright