
Read A Blog - About Dietary Supplements - Just another WordPress.com site Search About Dietary Supplements Released: 10/15/2010 2:56:55 PM RSS Link: http://aboutdietarysupplements.wordpress.com/feed/ Last
                  View : 4/10/2012 3:56:16 AM Last
                  Refresh : 4/10/2012 2:08:02 PM Page
                  Views : 1886 Comments: Read user comments (0) Share : Share Description: Just another WordPress.com site Contents: Why Take DHA Fish Oil Supplements? DHA fish oil supplements are definitely one of the most in-demand supplements on the market today. These supplements are known to be effective in promoting the health and fitness of millions of people across the globe. But do you really need them? DHA, which stands for docosahexaenoic acid, is an important omega-3 fatty acid that is abundantly found in the cell membranes of the brain, heart and eyes. The body is capable of producing its own DHA in small amounts, but sufficient amounts can only be obtained through the diet. Also, factors such as age, pregnancy and lactation negatively affect the bodys natural capacity to produce DHA. Western diets, at least in many geographical areas, are largely lacking in this essential fatty acid. This necessitates an individual to take DHA fish oil supplements to suffice his growing needs for DHA. DHA fish oil supplements bring about a number of benefits to the human body. Scientific studies show that fish oil is capable of promoting the healthy functioning of the cardiovascular system by keeping the amount of bad cholesterol, good cholesterol, sugar and blood pressure in optimum levels. Through these mechanisms, the risk of developing life threatening diseases is substantially reduced. In fact, daily intake of DHA fish oil supplements helps in preventing the development of diabetes, hypertension, arrhythmias, stroke, coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis. DHA fish oil supplements are also prescribed to pregnant and lactating women because of its positive effects to the growth and development of the fetus brain and eyes. In fact, lack of DHA fish oil can cause a delayed motor and cognitive development among toddlers. Adequate intake of DHA fish oil supplements is also effective in promoting an efficient blood circulation and boosting the immune system of an individual. Clinical studies show that regular intake of fish oil supplements can help the body fight against common illnesses such as flu, fever, cold and cough. In fact, fish oil is now used to treat Lupus and the inflammation of the joints, lungs, kidneys and heart. Because of its anti-inflammatory effect, DHA fish oil is used to treat osteoarthritis, rheumatism, Raynauds symptoms and arthritis. Fish oil supplements are also prescribed to people who suffer from different gastrointestinal disorders such as short bowel syndrome, Crohns syndrome, ulcerative colitis and sprue. These supplements are also effective in improving vision and skin quality. In fact, fish oil is used to treat a number of skin imperfections such as psoriasis, itching, eczema, skin lesions and itching. The supplement is also found to be effective in providing hair luster and improving the quality of hair. There are even cases where fish oil supplements are used to treat ulcer, cancer and acne. Intake of fish oil supplements also proves to be effective in treating a number of psychological disorders such as Bipolar disorder, anxiety, depression, Alzheimers disease and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Increased DHA in the blood causes a more efficient communication between brain cells which results to an increased production of serotonin, an anti-depressant chemical. Through this chemical, the symptoms of psychological disorders such as restlessness, fatigue, stress and loss of sexual appetite are significantly alleviated. Through the years, lots of fish oil supplements are introduced on the market because of the growing demand for this product. Though there are lots of claims about the benefits and helpful effects of fish oil to the human body, numerous scientific studies are still conducted worldwide to find out the effectiveness of DHA fish oil in promoting the health and fitness of human beings. DHA fish oil supplements are definitely one of the most in demand supplements on the market today. These supplements are known to be effective in promoting the health and fitness of millions of people across the globe. DHA is an important omega-3 fatty acid that is abundantly found in the cell membranes of the brain, heart and eyes. The body is capable of producing its own DHA however factors such as age, pregnancy and lactation negatively affect the bodys natural capacity to produce DHA. This necessitates an individual to take DHA fish oil supplements to suffice his growing needs for DHA. Scientific studies show that fish oil is capable of promoting the healthy functioning of the cardiovascular system by keeping the amount of bad cholesterol, good cholesterol, sugar and blood pressure in optimum levels. Through these mechanisms, the risk of developing life threatening diseases is substantially reduced. In fact, daily intake of DHA fish oil supplements helps in preventing the development of diabetes, hypertension, arrhythmias, stroke, coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis. DHA fish oil supplements are also prescribed to pregnant and lactating women because of its positive effects to the growth and development of the fetus brain and eyes. In fact, lack of DHA fish oil can cause a delayed motor and cognitive development among toddlers. Adequate intake of DHA fish oil supplements is also effective in promoting an efficient blood circulation and boosting the immune system of an individual. Clinical studies show that regular intake of fish oil supplements can help the body fight against common illnesses such as flu, fever, cold and cough. In fact, fish oil is now used to treat Lupus and the inflammation of the joints, lungs, kidneys and heart. Because of its anti-inflammatory effect, DHA fish oil is used to treat osteoarthritis, rheumatism, Raynauds symptoms and arthritis. Fish oil supplements are also prescribed to people who suffer from different gastrointestinal disorders such as short bowel syndrome, Crohns syndrome, ulcerative colitis and sprue. These supplements are also effective in improving vision and skin quality. In fact, fish oil is used to treat a number of skin imperfections such as psoriasis, itching, eczema, skin lesions and itching. The supplement is also found to be effective in providing hair luster and improving the quality of hair. There are even cases where fish oil supplements are used to treat ulcer, cancer and acne. Intake of fish oil supplements also proves to be effective in treating a number of psychological disorders such as Bipolar disorder, anxiety, depression, Alzheimers disease and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Increased DHA in the blood causes a more efficient communication between brain cells which results to an increased production of serotonin, an anti-depressant chemical. Through this chemical, the symptoms of psychological disorders such as restlessness, fatigue, stress and loss of sexual appetite are significantly alleviated. Through the years, lots of fish oil supplements are introduced on the market because of the growing demand for this product. Though there are lots of claims about the benefits and helpful effects of fish oil to the human body, numerous scientific studies are still conducted worldwide to find out the effectiveness of DHA fish oil in promoting the health and fitness of human beings. Addressing The Question, Does Creatine Work In Enhancing Lean Muscle Size And Strength? A single question that a large number of fitness buffs ask is, does creatine work in assisting to develop muscles or body strength? In looking to address this we need to pay attention to what creatine is as well as it actually works. When you have to decide on fish oil vs. flaxseed oil which one should you take? Many say both are both equally effective. Still others prefer one over the other. That being said, which is superior, fish oil or flaxseed oil? For starters we have to examine each one and then suggest a selection. More information about Flaxseed oil vs. Fish oil Advice For Searching Out The Safest Fish Oil Capsules You certainly have heard about the many benefits of taking fish oil. It is all over the press as well as ads. What they dont tell concerning fish oil is that there are also health hazards particularly when it comes to your product of choice. So, what is the safest fish oil to take? Well, read on. Top Bodybuilding Supplements You Can Find Happily, there are many healthy and legal muscle mass building supplements that have been proven to give good results time and again throughout the years. The science and technology of natural supplements has really progressed, making it possible for natural (drug-free) body builders to make superior gains than ever before. Find out more about top bodybuilding supplements About Omega Three Oil and Reasons Why It Is Such a Nutritional Wonder Nonetheless take care. Fish oil dietary supplements are not made in the same way. The truth is, using the wrong type, you could be doing your body system more harm than good. Quite a few fish oil supplements have been found to contain harmful toxins in addition to contaminants which are bad to your health. That is a problem that is understood across the industry and the Food and drug administration knows about it. Read on on omega three oil Finest and Safest Muscle Building Supplements The typical routine of going to the gym and balanced diet plan normally requires months up to a year to get the overall result of your system you want to attain. Nonetheless, this may be quickened as well as increased if you take high-quality muscle building supplements . What Are A Few Of The Optimum Foods For Healthy Skin? It is sometimes odd that most of us do not pay as much care as we should to diet for skincare. Were often advised that we have to consume food thats heart healthy, and thus staying away from all the unhealthy fats and so forth. However, what in particular should we be focusing on when it comes to taking care of our skin? Read more on Foods For Healthy Skin Your Ad Here Home Link to us