Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Wellness Center - Honey - Nature's Prescription | thewholefoodfarmacy.com Referring Farmacist Info. Name Kaleah LaRoche Phone 928-639-2176 ID Number 5390401 Send Farmacist Email Whole Foods 7 & 13 Day Programs Wholefood Beverages Soups Bulk Packaging Sample Packs Salt, Spices & Food Oils Bath & Beauty The Whole Truth Unhealthy Diagnosis How To Get Fat Dangerous Prescriptions Meat & Cancer Body Pollution Ordering Options: Online 24 hours a day Fax Order Line 423.921.7847 Phone Order Line 866.661.5011 Mon-Fri, 8am-5pm EST Whole Foods A Good Nut To Crack A History of The Doctrine of Signatures - Broccoli Tips A History of The Doctrine of Signatures - Carrots A History of The Doctrine of Signatures - Grapes A History of The Doctrine of Signatures - Tomatoes A History of The Doctrine of Signatures - Walnuts A Slice Of Life A Woman's Heart Almonds & Vitamin E An Apple A Day Are You At Risk? Avocados - The Luxury Food Back To The Future Berry Me Alive! Black Beans & Dietary Fiber Brown Rice - The Fiber Rich Whole Grain Carrots Raise Nutritional Benefits Cinnamon Can Reduce Blood Sugar Levels Cloudy Apple Juice Eat Your Colors Eat Your Oats! Fruits & Veggies Go With The Grain Healthy Spices Honey - Nature's Prescription Hot Peppers May Kill Cancer How About A Date? Lasting Vision Let's Go Bananas! Lower Your Alzhiemers Nature's #1 Nutrition For Teens Pass The Fiber Peanuts & Antioxidants Pecans Have It All Prunes May Slow Aging Pucker Up! Quinoa - The Mother Grain Raspberries Can Boost Your Immune System Raw Power! Spinach - The Anti-Cancer Agent The Amazing Cranberry The Amazing Kernel The Fabulous Four The Skinny On Fats Whole Grain Corn Wholefood Synergy Yams & Heart Disease Children's Health A State Of Denial A Triple Play For Healthy Bones Active Kids Do Better In School Artificial Diet Disorder Back To School Calling All Parents Can The Soda Children, TV & Blood Pressure Children, Young Adults & Diabetes Cinnamon Can Reduce Blood Sugar Levels Food For Thought Fueling Young Athletes Get Active Healthy Spices Mother's Milk Nutrition for Teens Sleep & Obesity In Young Children Teach Your Children Well Teens: Eat More - Weigh Less The Secret Of Slim Kids Watch Your TV Time Where's The Fruit? Prevention A Good Nut To Crack A Little Goes A Long Way A Slice Of Life A State Of Denial A Triple Play For Healthy Bones A Woman's Heart An Apple A Day Almonds & Vitamin E Are You At Risk? Artificial Diet Disorder Avocados - The Luxury Food Back To The Future! Berry Me Alive! Black Beans & Dietary Fiber Brown Rice - The Fiber Rich Whole Grain Calling All Parents! Can The Soda Can You Fight ADHD With Proper Nutrition? Carrots Raise Nutritional Benefits Children, TV & Blood Pressure Children, Young Adults & Diabetes Chocolate & Blood Clots Cinnamon Can Reduce Blood Sugar Levels Cloudy Apple Juice Diets Don't Work Downsize Your Stomach Eat Your Colors Eat Your Oats! Electrolytes & Inner Balance Exercise Is Important As We Age Exercise Your Brain Four Habits You Can Live With Free Radicals & Antioxidants Fruits & Veggies Garlic & Onions Garlic & Your Heart Get Active Ginger & Ovarian Cancer Go With The Grain Health And Longevity Honey - Nature's Prescription Hot Peppers May Kill Cancer How About A Date? How To Prevent Diabetes Lasting Vision Let Food Be Thy Medicine Let's Go Banana's! Lower Your Alzheimer's Risk Mother's Milk Nature's #1 Olive Oil & LDL Cholesterol Pass The Fiber Peanuts & Antioxidants Pecans Have It All Pedometers - The Step Counter Preventing Ovarian Cancer Prunes May Slow Aging Pucker Up! Quinoa - The Mother Grain Raspberries Can Boost Your Immune System Raw Power! Red Meat & Processed Meat Red Wine & Antioxidants Saline Sprays Sleep & Obesity In Young Children Spinach - The Anti-Cancer Agent Sunny Facts Sunshine & Vitamin D Teach Your Children Well Teens: Eat More - Weigh Less The Amazing Cranberry The Amazing Kernel The Fabulous Four The Skinny On Fats Understanding Type 2 Diabetes Walk Away From Your Risk Of Stroke Water & Heart Disease Weight Gain vs. Cancer Risk What's Your pH? What's Your Risk? Whole Grain Corn Wholefood Synergy Yams & Heart Disease Physical Activity & Exercise A Woman's Heart Children, TV & Blood Pressure Electrolytes & Inner Balance Exercise Is Important As We Age Fueling Young Athletes Get Active Health & Longevity It's Never Too Late Let's Go Bananas! Pedometers - The Step Counter Sleep & Obesity In Young Children Stretching Offers Many Benefits The Fabulous Four The Secret Of Slim Kids Healthy Lifestyles A Little Goes A Long Way A Woman's Heart Active Lifestyles And Slow Aging Are You At Risk? Back To School Back To The Future Brown Rice - The Fiber Rich Whole Grain Calling All Parents Children, TV & Blood Pressure Diets Dont Work Downsize Your Stomach Eat Your Colors Exercise Your Brain Four Habits You Can Live With Free Radicals & Antioxidants Get Active Gold For Medicinal And Healing Purposes Health & Longevity Healthy Weight Loss How To Prevent Diabetes It's Never Too Late Let Food Be Thy Medicine Low-Carb Diet Exposed Pass The Fiber Processed Foods & Weight Loss Red Meat & Processed Meat Sleep & Obesity In Young Children Sunny Facts Sunshine & Vitamin D Teach Your Children Well Teens: Eat More - Weigh Less The Fabulous Four The False Low-Fat Diet The Right Way To Exercise The Secret Of Slim Kids Watch Your TV Time Water & Heart Disease Weight Gain vs Cancer Risk Weight Loss In America What's Your pH? What's Your Risk? Honey - Nature's Prescription Many parents are concerned about the recent FDA recommendation that over-the-counter cough and cold medicines not be given to children under 6 years of age because of a lack of effectiveness and potential for side effects. With this recent news in mind, a team of researchers from the Penn State College of Medicine decided to put nature to the test. They tested the effectiveness of three different approaches for children who were having trouble sleeping due to a cough. The children in the study were given either no treatment at all, a little bit of buckwheat honey or dextromethorphan (DM), the chemical cough suppressant found in many over-the-counter cold medicines. The children receiving the honey or DM took it about 30 minutes before bedtime. The research team found that honey was more effective in reducing the severity and frequency of nighttime cough compared with DM or no treatment at all. Honey also allowed the children to sleep better. The findings are published in the December, 2007, issue of the Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine. According to the study’s lead researcher, Dr. Ian Paul, Penn State’s director of pediatric clinical research: "Honey provided the greatest relief of symptoms compared with the other treatments. With honey, parents now have a safe and effective alternative to use for children over age 1 that have cough and cold symptoms”. Some of the children were hyperactive for a short time after being given the honey, Dr. Paul said. However, children who received honey slept better and so did their parents, he noted. Paul cautioned that honey should never be given to children younger than 1, because of the rare risk of infantile botulism. In addition, he noted, cough medicines that mention "honey" on the label actually contain artificial honey flavor not real honey. Honey has been used for centuries to treat upper respiratory infection symptoms such as cough. In addition, honey has antioxidant and antimicrobial effects, and also soothes the back of the throat. Once again, science has proven that food really can be your medicine. Wholefood Farmacy Philosophy | Privacy Policy | Legal Notice | Wholefood Farmacy Affiliate Program Login | Home | About | Natural Organic Food Products | Diet Healthy Weight Loss Customer Service | Terms & Conditions | Wholefood Farmacy FAQ'S | Testimonials Copyright Â© Natural Organic Who