X-Varnish: 2145382711
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
X-Cache: MISS
X-Type: backend
X-Secret: Hi there! Mention this at howdy@wpengine.com for a prize. And we're hiring.

Cough Medicine and Children | Health Eagle Nutrition Medication Mental Health Exercise Children's Health Health News Diet Disease Your Health Information ADVERTISEMENT Editor's picks Soothing Drinks for Cold and Flu Season Children and Multi-Vitamins Teen Acne Treatments Cholesterol and Children Medication and Yeast Infections ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Cough Medicine and Children October 13th, 2011 Posted by Tom Seman MD FAAP | Pediatrician on Call Share My six year-old son develops a terrible cough every time he has a cold. He can’t sleep, and he misses a lot of school.  I have heard that cough medicine may be harmful to children, yet I don’t know what else to do to help him.  Any suggestions? This is a very interesting question, but it is actually somewhat more complex to answer than it may seem. If we deal only with cough and cough suppressants, we still need to understand the type of cough – dry, productive (also known as wet), spasmodic (difficult to stop each event while it is happening, and looks as if the patient will “cough a lung up”). Dry coughs are typically a result of some irritation to the back of the throat from dry, dusty or particulate air. Moisturizing the throat helps this. This can be achieved by drinking fluids or by taking some honey (for children over 12months old). This will typically calm the cough while the body resolves the irritation. Productive coughs are often associated with post nasal drip from colds and allergies. The irritation to the throat is also calmed down by some honey. Why honey and not some man made cough medicine? A recent study by Tulane University evaluated the different cough medicines and remedies, and determined that the best available for these sort of coughs is honey – wild honey and buckwheat being most preferable. A tight spasmodic cough, where it appears to not be able to be controlled, is often associated with lung conditions, such as asthma. This cough presents itself with colds, changes in temperature, and exercise to name a few. Often the children will cough in the middle of the night. These children may be frequently diagnosed with bronchitis, broncho-pneumonia, and even frequent pneumonia. There is no good over the counter medicine to help relieve this type of cough. The child should be evaluated by his/her pediatrician to determine the best treatment for the cough. Have a safe and happy school year. Good Luck, DRTOM Tweet This Post Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting. Trending Topics Addiction Ask the Doctor children Diet Exercise flu food Health Medication Mental Health Nutrition pain prevention smoking stress symptoms treatment Vitamins weight loss winter Friends industrial disease claim My Fitness Tunes Outdoors Eagle Oxygen Concentrator Supplements Weight loss Diet Supplements Interesting Links best diet pills Buy Viagra Online Discount Supplements low glycemic foods Shrink fibroids Archives 2012 March February January 2011 December November October September August July June May April March February January 2010 December November October September August July June May April March February January 2009 December November October September August July June May April March February January 2008 December November October September August July June May April March February January 2007 December November October September August June April January 2006 December November October September August July June May April March February 2005 December November October September August July May March February Canadian Pharmacies - buy medication from a trusted, cheap pharmacy. Home Video Contact Advertise The medical professionals that run drug and alcohol treatment programs are well-equipped and trained to help addicts drop the drug habit. All health and medical information is provided for educational purposes and is not meant to replace the medical advice or treatment of your healthcare professional. Copyright © 2007-2012 W