X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Harris Active Sports Ltd ELETE Electrolyte 25ml Pocket bottle - Electrolyte Add-In ELETE Electrolyte 25ml Pocket bottle - Electrolyte Add-In Elete™ was launched in response to an unanswered need within the marketplace. We recognized that no other electrolyte-replacement formula on the market offered a method to allow athletes to add a complete balance of electrolytes to their water bottle or hydration system. In addition, we desired to create a product that would allow athletes to consume carbs in the manner that works best for him or her. Why elete™ is a Superior Electrolyte? HYDRATION = WATER + ELECTROLYTES + DELIVERY SYSTEM Electrolytes are essential to our health. They help our body absorb water and control fluid balance. Although drinking water during exercise is critical to avoid dehydration, drinking plain water that is not fortified with electrolytes can lead to a serious condition called hyponatremia. Hyponatremia occurs when blood sodium concentration falls to extremely low levels, which can result in seizures, coma, and death. Electrolytes not only prevent dehydration, but they're critical to muscle function, nerve conduction, energy production and flow, and heart function. For the endurance athlete, a major benefit of electrolytes is that they help prevent muscle cramps, which can impede performance. Athletes must be careful to avoid a shortage of electrolytes during training: Loss of electrolytes through sweat must be replaced, but most sports drink and electrolyte replacement supplements, powders, and gels ignore the fact that the body also uses an additional balance of minerals beyond sodium. One essential electrolyte is magnesium, which is necessary for energy production, muscle contraction, cardiovascular and respiratory function. Another important reason athletes need to supplement with a balance of electrolytes is that if minerals (electrolytes) become depleted, negative effects like cramping occur. Magnesium—not sodium—can help prevent muscle cramps. Sweat contains more than sodium and potassium: While sodium and potassium are two important elements in sweat, they are not the only ones. Sweat also contains magnesium, chloride, and other trace minerals. It is better to replace electrolytes throughout activity: The best way to replace electrolytes is in moderated quantities every time you drink, not in short, concentrated bursts. Sugar-laden sports drinks can be overwhelming: While carbohydrates are necessary for the body to manufacture energy, drinking sugar in every gulp fatigues the palette, causes nausea, and, in some instances, provides more calories than is necessary. Did you know that a serving of most sports drinks contains as much sugar as Kool-Aid? elete™ is the only electrolyte fully compatible with hydration systems: Unlike sports drinks or electrolyte-replacement powders or gels, elete™ can be added to your hydration system without negatively affecting the integrity of the bladder, hose, or valve. In addition, elet