< Acupuncture in London acupuncture 
          in Knightsbridge, at Kingston upon thames. Acupuncture case reports 
          and testimonials Chinese 
          Acupu nctu re 
          in London Feng Zhi Chao MD (Beijing) PhD (Edinburgh) MBAcC Case 
                  reports and testimonials 1. IVF acupuncture– case notes 2. One in a Million-Parkinson’s 
                  syndrome 3. Acupuncture helping Heart failure 
                  patient. 4. Pain control – rheumatoid arthritis 5. Acupuncture for ME (patient’s 
                  letter) 6. Asthma control 7. Tennis elbow (patient’s letter) 8. Painful tongue 9. Thyroid nodules – patient’s 
            letter 10. In-vitro fertilisation – 
            patient’s letter following repeated unsuccessful attempts 11. IBS (Irritable Bowel Syndrome) 
            and uterine fibroids 12. Acupuncture for Clomiphene 
            treatment patient 13. Severe period pains (primary 
            dysmenorrhoea) 14. Polycystic Ovary 15. Uterine fibroids More Testimonials... 1. IVF – 
            case notes Jean (aged 40) was a professional lady following five unsuccessful 
            IVF treatments. She was about to try again, and was extremely nervous. 
            She had not previously has acupuncture in conjunction with IVF. She 
            had acupuncture treatments for a month and also before and after the 
            sixth IVF, she conceived successfully. She and her partner, who had 
            previously lived in separate houses during the previous two years, 
            decided to live together, and were settled and happy. Mary (aged 28) was a happily married lady, but both she and her husband 
            wished to start a family. For reasons, which no-one could understand, 
            she could not conceive. Having endured six failures with IVF, with 
            a friend for moral support she finally decided to seek help with a 
            course of acupuncture. After two months of acupuncture, complemented 
            by infusions of Chinese medicine, with great emotion, she one day 
            reported that she was pregnant. She remained concerned about the possibility 
            of miscarriage, and was able to be reassured that this was neither 
            less nor more likely than for any other pregnancy. Two months into the pregnancy, Mary experienced mild bleeding, which 
            had plainly been brought on by overwork in relation to her family 
            and commitments to friends. She had not at that time told anyone that 
            she was pregnant. A treatment of acupuncture stopped the bleeding, 
            but she also agreed on the paramount importance of easing up; others 
            would have to manage without her. A further complication lay in the 
            fact that she was a mild epileptic. With acupuncture symptoms of epilepsy 
            were reduced, and medication could also be scaled back to a minimum 
            during the remainder of her pregnancy. Mary gave birth to a healthy 
            baby boy. Clinical note: As a general rule for obstetric cases, women under 
            30 years of age need acupuncture treatment at least once a week for 
            a period of three months. This period of treatment doubles after the 
            age of 30. Depending on the problems, women with uterine fibroids 
            may need between 7 – 12 months of continual treatment. Men with 
            poor fertility will usually achieve an increase in both sperm quality 
            and quantity with two months; in their cases, acupuncture and/or laser 
            acupuncture will be required twice a week. For blocked tube patients, multichannel laser with/without needle 
            acupuncture is preferable to needle acupuncture alone. 2. One in a Million Some time ago, the television programme ‘One in a Million’ 
            featured a sufferer from Parkinson’s syndrome, a nervous disorder 
            characterised by uncontrollable shaking and lack of co-ordination, 
            which could affect all movement, including walking. This particular 
            sufferer had experienced an apparently remarkable improvement following 
            a shock he had received during a thunder storm. This suggested to 
            me that electrical acupuncture might provide a useful technique for 
            the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. A few months later a gentleman came to my clinic with Parkinson’s 
            disease. He agreed to be treated with electrical acupuncture. The 
            results for both of us were immensely encouraging – in fact, 
            it is fair to say, amazing! Within four months his symptoms had subsided 
            to a point at which he was once again able to dance. With a broad 
            smile, he demonstrated this at his last visit to the clinic. 3. Acupuncture helping Heart failure patient. Derek (aged 54) was referred to me by his family doctor for backache. 
            During treatment he revealed that, although comparatively young, he 
            was waiting for a heart transplant as a result of ischemic heart disease 
            (lack of blood supply in the heart). He was wheel chair bound, and 
            almost totally dependent on his wife. He agreed to a course of acupuncture, 
            which research in China had shown to be effective in enhancing coronary 
            blood supply. With the agreement and support of his GP, Derek received 
            acupuncture both for his back as well as his heart condition. Acupuncture 
            sessions took place on a weekly basis. Derek gained strength and increasing independence to the point of 
            once again being able to enjoy cooking for himself. Four months after 
            commencement of the treatment, this even caused a stir in the local 
            supermarket, where people he knew expressed surprise and pleasure 
            to see him out of a wheel chair. He recounted this with pride and 
            a broad smile. Because he now felt so well, he even queried with his 
            heart specialist the need for an operation. Unfortunately, his heart 
            had already suffered irreparable damage, so the transplant continued 
            to be necessary. As it transpired, Derek was the only patient to be 
            kept on his original waiting list, all the others having been discharged 
            as they were simply too weak to survive the operation. His wife firmly 
            believed that he too would not have survived without the acupuncture 
            treatment. Four months later Derek received a new heart. 4. Pain control – rheumatoid arthritis Peter [age36] became wheel chair bound after suffering with rheumatoid 
            arthritis for four years. Although he had been taking different combinations 
            of pain killers, none was effective. When his doctor recommended reverting 
            to the first regime of pills, he became despondent, and decided to 
            seek an alternative therapy. Following a brief course of acupuncture, 
            he was able to stand again without pain, and was even able to walk 
            again. 5. Acupuncture for ME (patient’s letter) Dear Dr Chao, This is just a note to thank you for your treatments and to let you 
            know how things are progressing with me. As you are aware this time last year I was at the worst point of 
            a distressing post viral fatigue syndrome when I could scarcely get 
            out of bed for more than a couple of hours a day for nearly 2 months. 
            This for a very active person was very frightening. I slowly started to recover but reached a plateau beyond which I 
            seemed unable to improve which fell a long way short of my normal 
            potentially marathon fit status. Your acupuncture soon began to address 
            the various symptoms which included cramps, muscle fatigue, insomnia 
            and panic attacks, all of which (except for occasional insomnia) seem 
            to be behind me. Indeed I have now started playing tennis regularly and am even considering 
            training again for another marathon although this may be too ambitions 
            at this stage. I also feel that I am back in control of my life and 
            have the confidence to travel and work again. I am about to go walking 
            in the Alps for 10 days, and in October I intend a visit to New England 
            and then to Quingdao for a wedding. I feel that your intervention has helped considerably to facilitate 
            my recovery, and as someone who had a sceptical western scientific 
            upbringing: well I am now much more open minded.Many thanks and best 
            wishes. Hugh 6. Asthma control Denise (aged 36) had been suffering from asthma for five years. Following 
            an acute attack, she had been admitted to hospital on an emergency 
            basis which, however, had no benefits. Following this episode, she 
            began a course of acupuncture, which provided rapid relief. She reported 
            that symptoms eased after only ten minutes, and that acupuncture would 
            henceforth remain her treatment of choice. Comment: Medical research has confirmed that acupuncture can control 
            acute asthma attacks. Dr. Chao also reports that over 95% of her asthma 
            patients find acupuncture helpful within twenty minutes of needle 
            insertion. That said, it is also clear that conventional treatment 
            in hospital or in general practice surgeries remains valuable, in 
            particular for the treatment of acute episodes. Being itself easy 
            and safe, it is, of course, helpful that acupuncture can be deployed 
            as an additional treatment. 7. Tennis elbow (patient’s letter) Before I attended Dr Chao’s acupuncture clinic I was in despair. 
            Having had a sporting life playing golf and tennis on a regular basis 
            and to a good standard. I found that due to injury I was unable to 
            play either, infect I couldn’t lift a golf club without great 
            pain. My path to your clinic was a long one, having had two unsuccessful 
            cortisone injections from my GP. I then visited a physiotherapist 
            specialising in tennis injuries. Following in unsuccessful six weekly 
            course I noticed the Crystal Palace Sport Injuries Clinic but again 
            the result was unsuccessful. I was recommended an Osteopath and then 
            a Chiropractitioner but after a succession of treatment neither was 
            beneficial and I found myself at a large Indoor Tennis Centre Sports 
            Therapy Department where after six sessions she suggested second opinion. 
            At this stage, being desperate for exercise I had started to use my 
            left arm for almost everything and had heart to play darts and play 
            tennis but unfortunately after a months this arm started to give me 
            problems, I could now no longer lift a pint of beer in either hand 
            and it was in this condition that I saw another Sport Therapist for 
            the second opinions. Somewhat reluctantly, he agreed to treat me suggesting 
            that treatment on the left arm first might at least enable me to start 
            playing golf again, by now I had became quite depressed, not playing 
            league tennis for over a year, playing golf off an 8 handicap was 
            a compensation, but this stopped without the use of the left arm. My first visit to this Sports Therapist was on the Saturday on the 
            Monday I had treatment from Dr. Chao, on Wednesday I again saw the 
            Sports Therapist who was astonished at the improvement in both arms. 
            He stated and these words of his stack in my mind. “Its incredible, 
            on the Saturday when I saw you, you were semi disabled and now you’ve 
            got all this movement in both arms, it can’t be just me because 
            I only worked on your left arm.” My visits to the Sports Therapist stopped shortly afterwards and 
            he was so impressed by my treatment that he wanted Dr Chao’s 
            clinic address for referrals. Dr. Chao treated me for a few weeks and I am happy to say that both 
            arms are fully recovered and I am playing tennis four times per week 
            for my club once again. Michael Michael had a total of four treatments. The following year, he reported 
            that he was now able to play tennis four times a week, and had won 
            a recent club competition. 8. Painful tongue Johnson came complaining of a painful tongue, which had troubled 
            him for three years. He was otherwise a healthy university student. 
            He reported having received acupuncture on half a dozen occasions 
            in the past, but these had not helped. Treatment of this condition 
            was new to Dr. Chao, and it was decided to use different acupuncture 
            points to those previously chosen. A week after the first session, 
            he reported that the pain had noticeably improved, and this steady 
            improvement continued to the point at which he was able to dispense 
            with pain killers. However, when study and exam commitments prevented 
            him receiving regular treatments, the condition worsened, in particular 
            during protracted speech. This made social life difficult, and interfered 
            with friendships. As a result, for a further four months, he continued 
            to receive treatment, which resulted in a cure, which was still in 
            evidence one year later, and he has not returned for further sessions. 9. Thyroid nodules 
            – patient’s letter “After being diagnosed with thyroid nodules, the surgeon to 
            whom I had been referred, recommended a partial thyroidectomy. My 
            daughter who has great faith in acupuncture, suggested that I try 
            that first. I started going regularly to Dr Chao for treatment. After 
            several months I returned to the hospital for a further ultrasound 
            test and the radiologist found that a particular, rather hard nodule 
            had shrunk noticeably. When the surgeon saw these results, he decided 
            that it was not necessary to have an operation after all. I was only 
            too delighted and still see Dr Chao from time to time, to keep the 
            troublesome nodules under control.” 10. In-vitro fertilisation – patient’s 
            letter following repeated unsuccessful attempts Dear Feng, It worked - I am pregnant! We are so thrilled (although obviously 
            we know that it's still very early days) and both Charlie & I 
            wanted to thank you so, so much for all your support. None of this 
            would have been possible without your treatment getting us to the 
            right place. The ARGC are checking my hcG and progesterone levels every 2-3 days 
            to make sure that everything is going in the right direction (progesterone 
            was low to begin with but they have given me extra and all is well 
            at the moment). Thank you so much again. Jo x 11.IBS (Irritable Bowel Syndrome) and uterine 
            fibroids Fiona (aged 28) was a an actress. She had been married for two years, 
            but had failed to conceive. IBS pain during ovulation made sex unpleasant. 
            After a single acupuncture treatment, the pain ceased. She wrote: Dear Feng, It’s wonderful for someone to be talking about me and "my 
            baby"! I haven't really told anyone yet besides you and my husband 
            so it feels like lovely, fun secret! I wanted to write to you and say how happy and grateful I am for 
            your amazing healing hands! Its staggering that we only had one session, 
            but straight away I knew that it was because of you when I found out 
            that I was pregnant. I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart 
            for the joy you've brought my husband and me. Its impossible to put 
            into words. I love coming to your sessions, your keenness to learn 
            and work things out make you such an outstanding, caring doctor - 
            a rare thing these days. You are my sweet blessing. All the best with your practice and your family, I'll keep you posted 
            about how things progress. Lots of Love, FN 12. Acupuncture for Clomiphene treatment patient Heather (aged 30) and her husband (aged 34) had been trying for a 
            baby for 18 months. Heather had PCOS (Polycystic Ovary Syndrome), 
            and was about to embark on a fifth course of Clomiphene Citrate. An 
            earlier pregnancy seven months previously, also initiated with a course 
            of Clomiphene Citrate, had ended with a miscarriage after nine weeks. 
            Both Heather and Mark began a course of acupuncture. Four weeks later 
            Heather conceived. The pregnancy went smoothly to term. She wrote 
            as follows: “Dear Feng, Apologies for not getting in touch sooner, but I am delighted to 
            inform you that I gave birth to a lovely baby boy 3 months ago. He 
            is absolutely amazing and has been keeping me very busy for the last 
            12 weeks, hence the delay in me e-mailing you. Thank you so much for all your help – your course of acupuncture 
            worked wonders.” Comment: Acupuncture does not interfere with standard conventional 
            treatments, but complements them. 13. Severe period pains (primary dysmenorrhoea) Over the course of the past ten years, many patients have sought 
            help for acute primary period pains, often described as being similar 
            to labour pains. Emergency visits to hospital are of little value, 
            and often the condition leads to days being missed at work. To date, 
            all patients treated with acupuncture have had to condition brought 
            under control. Treatment lasts for two or three months on a weekly 
            basis, and involves a mix of acupuncture and Chinese medicines. Women with a combination of fertility problems and severe period 
            pains benefit greatly from acupuncture, which also enhances chances 
            of conception. 14. Polycystic Ovary Research has demonstrated that both acupuncture and electrical acupuncture 
            are helpful in the treat of polycystic ovary. Case study: From scans and blood tests a 25 year old student was 
            diagnosed with polycystic ovary.. Her periods had ceased for twelve 
            months prior to her first consultation. Following three months of 
            acupuncture and herbal infusions, a fresh scan revealed only a small 
            cyst on one side of the ovary, with none on the other. Her periods 
            had recommenced. Ten months later menstruation was still normal. The 
            scans were carried out at the Lister Hospital. 15. Uterine fibroids Clinical reports from China on the use of acupuncture for the treatment 
            of uterine fibroids have been encouraging. From two studies (n=346 
            and n=135,) an overall effective rate of 95% has been reported. Our 
            own experience suggests that fibroids of less than one centimetre 
            can disappear entirely. Fast growing fibroids up to about 2.5 cms 
            will stop growing after three months of acupuncture. Where surgery 
            is needed, its combination with acupuncture is believed to yield a 
            better prognosis than surgery alone. More Testimonials “I was able to stop smoking (40 cigarettes daily for 30 years) 
            completely and never had a bad temper, much to the relief of my family.” 
            Mr S.P. “After six failed attempts of IVF, I am pleased that I am now 
            pregnant and have our baby naturally!” Mrs MD “I have been hooked on chocolate for 11 years. After only 
            one treatment I now no long have a craving.” Ms M. A. (Shepherd) “A feeling of generally well-being. I am in heaven!” 
            Dr P.W. (G.P.) “My eyesight has improved 100%.” Mr.F N (accountant) “I recommend her services to colleagues, friends and family 
            at every opportunity.” Dr R.H. (Consultant) to find out 
            if acupuncture can help you, please call: 020