<http://www.sharequotes.org/?p=399>; rel=shortlink
X-Cache: HIT from Backend

Valerian Tea | Share Quotes Share Quotes Just another Sites site ← The 100K Adsense Blueprint Is What We Are Taking A Look At Here Maintaining Your Post Diet Bodyweight → Valerian Tea Posted on December 31, 2011 by webmaster Valerian, also known as garden valerian and garden heliotrope is a flowering plant which grows in the northern hemisphere in the months of June to September. children with generalized anxiety disorder gad It grows about four feet tall and has pointed leaves with a pink bloom. obsessive compulsive disorder It generally grows at temperatures around 105 degrees F. anxiety attack treatment at home Valerian root uses are widely known all over the world. Earlier, in the sixteenth century, valerian root was used for making perfume, due its aromatic flowers. Besides that, valerian is also used for its medical qualities. The most renowned use of valerian is fighting insomnia. Valerian’s root stock is said to promote sleep and also helps in relaxing easily. Unlike most other cures of insomnia, valerian does not cause any kind of hangover or weird feeling after completing the sleep. Besides this major health benefit, valerian is also said to cure headaches. However valerian needs to be taken in specific doses only as extra dosage can have some major side-effects. This root is not only beneficial to humans, but also to cats. This was a little about valerian root, now let’s take a look at valerian tea benefits. Valerian tea has a unique taste, a mixture of sweet, spicy and bitter. Along with a unique taste, valerian tea also has a strong smell. Talking about valerian root tea benefits, valerian tea is one of the best herbal teas and has been used since centuries in India and China, as a constituent of various medicines. Unlike most of the herbal teas, valerian root tea is not made just with the leaves, but also with the valerian root. Just like the valerian root, valerian tea is quite beneficial in treating insomnia it is also said to be a calming agent, due to its tranquilizing qualities. Besides this, valerian tea also calms the nervous system which helps those who suffer from panic attacks, attention deficit disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder. This tea also helps to lower the blood pressure, which is why it is said to be beneficial for the circulatory system also. Women who suffer form menstrual problems, especially cramps, find relief after the consumption of valerian root tea. This tea is also said to help the digestive system by preventing cramps caused due to irritable bowel movements. Regular consumption of valerian tea is said to control muscle spasms, which is why it is recommended to people suffering from injured muscles due to conditions like fibromyalgia. These were some of the major benefits of valerian tea. Talking about the valerian tea side-effects, there are certain valerian root side effects but most of the time, it depends on the right dosage, if taken it excess and if consumed regularly for a long time, some valerian tea side effects like drowsiness might be caused. After knowing the loads of benefits of valerian tea, I am sure you must be eager to know how to make valerian tea. Given below is a recipe for valerian tea. This recipe is especially for decreasing anxiety. So in extreme cases of anxiety, make yourself a nice cup of valerian tea. Boil 10 cups of water in a pot. As the water boils, turn off the stove and place the stove on a cold burner. Open and add only one valerian capsule to the water and stir until it is completely dissolved. Now add in 2 tsp honey and stir well until dissolved. Add in the bag of chamomile tea in the water for about 4 minutes. Add in more honey, if the tea is not enough sweet, stir well. Let cool for about two minutes and then serve. This was all about valerian tea. Along with other teas, do have valerian tea for a change, especially if you are stressed out due to hectic schedule. This entry was posted in Uncategorized and tagged agoraphobia , fitness , health , panic attacks . Bookmark the permalink . ← The 100K Adsense Blueprint Is What We Are Taking A Look At Here Maintaining Your Post Diet Bodyweight → Comments are closed. Search for: Recent Posts Stumbling On Stop Smoking? Consider Most Of These Thoughts! On Do it yourself – Most typical Feng Shui Philosophy Starcraft 2 Terran Strategy2- Is it essential? How One Can Be Successful Learn How To Get Help In Real Estate Foreclosure And Prevent Being Fooled Recent Comments Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 Categories Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments 