</node/3642>; rel="shortlink",</CD001823/lumbar-supports-for-the-prevention-and-treatment-of-low-back-pain>; rel="canonical"
X-Generator: Drupal 7 (http://drupal.org)
Cache-Control: public, max-age=0
Last-Modified: Thu, 08 Mar 2012 06:53:24 +0000
Expires: Sun, 19 Nov 1978 05:00:00 GMT
Vary: Cookie,Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Lumbar supports for the prevention and treatment of low-back pain | Cochrane Summaries Skip to main content Cochrane Summaries beta Independent high-quality evidence for health care decision making English Deutsch Español to Cochrane.org to The Cochrane Library Tell us what you think! How to use this site Browse health topics | New and updated Lumbar supports for the prevention and treatment of low-back pain Have your say! ' Your views on The Cochrane Library : survey ' van Duijvenbode I, Jellema P, van Poppel M, van Tulder MW Published Online: February 16, 2011 Lumbar supports (also called braces or corsets) are used in the prevention and treatment of low-back pain. This review is important because low-back pain is very common. Prevention and treatment are important both to people with back pain and to society, which bears the expense of back pain treatment and sick leave due to back pain. We included seven studies on prevention (14,437 people) and eight studies on treatment (1361 people) in this review. Prevention: There was little or no difference between individuals with low-back pain who used back supports and those who received no treatment (five studies, 13,995 people), or education on lifting techniques (two studies, 954 people) in back pain prevention or reduction of sick leave. In one study (82 people), back supports added to back school (patient education about recovering from back pain) were helpful in reducing the number of days of sick leave but not in preventing back pain. Back supports plus usual medical care reduced the number of days of low-back pain and improved function, but did not reduce sick leave (one study, 360 people). Treatment: In four studies (1170 people), there was little or no difference between patients with acute or chronic back pain who used back supports and those who received no treatment in short-term pain reduction or overall improvement. There is conflicting evidence (two studies, 550 people) about whether back supports are better than nothing in helping low-back pain patients return to work faster, however in three studies (410 patients), they were better than nothing in helping individuals with subacute and chronic low-back pain recover function in the short term. In three studies (954 people), there was little or no difference in short-term pain reduction, overall improvement and return-to-work between those who used back supports and those who received manipulation, physiotherapy, or electrical stimulation. One study (164 people) reported mixed results on whether back supports improved function more than massage and in another study (19 people), use of a lumbar corset with back support was more effective in reducing pain in the short-term than a corset alone. Conclusions from this review should be viewed with caution due to the low quality of many of the studies. In the future, researchers should report side effects from wearing back supports and measure how many hours per day the supports are actually worn. Abstract (click to read) Background: Lumbar supports are used in the treatment of low-back pain patients, to prevent the onset of low-back pain (primary prevention) or to prevent recurrences of a low-back pain episode (secondary prevention). Objectives: To assess the effects of lumbar supports for prevention and treatment of non-specific low-back pain. Search strategy: We updated the search in the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed, EMBASE, and CINAHL to December 2006. We also screened references given in relevant reviews and identified trials, and contacted experts to identify additional RCTs. Selection criteria: Randomized controlled trials that reported on any type of lumbar supports as preventive or therapeutic intervention for non-specific low-back pain. Data collection and analysis: One review author generated the electronic search. Two review authors independently identified trials that met the inclusion criteria. One review author extracted data on the study population, interventions, and final results. The methodological quality and the clinical relevance were independently assessed by two review authors. Because it was not possible to perform a quantitative analysis, we performed a qualitative analysis in which the strength of evidence on the effectiveness of lumbar supports was classified as strong, moderate, limited, conflicting, or no evidence. Main results: Seven preventive studies (14,437 people) and eight treatment studies (1361 people) were included in this updated review. Overall, the methodological quality of the studies was rather low. Only five of the fifteen studies met 50% or more of the internal validity items. There was moderate evidence that lumbar supports are not more effective than no intervention or training in preventing low-back pain, and conflicting evidence whether lumbar supports are effective supplements to other preventive interventions. It is still unclear if lumbar supports are more effective than no or other interventions for the treatment of low-back pain. Authors' conclusions: There is moderate evidence that lumbar supports are not more effective than no intervention or training in preventing low-back pain, and conflicting evidence whether they are effective supplements to other preventive interventions. It remains unclear whether lumbar supports are more effective than no or other interventions for treating low-back pain. There is still a need for high quality randomised trials on the effectiveness of lumbar supports. One of the most essential issues to tackle in these future trials seems to be the realization of an adequate compliance. Special attention should be paid to different outcome measures, types of patients and types of lumbar support. This record should be cited as: van Duijvenbode I, Jellema P, van Poppel M, van Tulder MW. Lumbar supports for prevention and treatment of low back pain. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2008, Issue 2. Art. No.: CD001823. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001823.pub3 Assessed as up to date: December 30, 2006 Find the research Get full text at The Cochrane Library Primary Review Group: Back Group PEARLS - Practical Evidence About Real Life Situations (click to read) Clinical question: How effective are lumbar supports for prevention and treatment of non-specific low back pain (LBP)? Bottom line: There is moderate evidence that lumbar supports are no more effective in preventing LBP than no intervention or training, and conflicting evidence whether they are effective supplements to other preventive interventions. It remains unclear whether lumbar supports as a treatment for LBP are more effective than no or other interventions. Caveat: Assessment of clinical relevance found many of the trial publications provided inadequate information, eg, in the description of the study population and reporting of both pain and functional status. No trial specifically evaluated lumbar support for acute LBP. Conclusions from this review should be viewed with caution due to the low quality of many of the studies. Context: LBP is a major health problem in western industrialised countries. Seventy to 85% of the population has LBP at some time in their life. Most patients recover quickly and without residual functional loss - 60-70% recover within 6 weeks and 80-90% recover within 3 months.¹ Lumbar supports (braces or corsets) are used in the treatment of patients with LBP, to prevent the onset of LBP (primary prevention) or to prevent recurrences of a LBP episode (secondary prevention).

1. Krismer M et al. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol 2007;21:79-91. Cochrane Systematic Review: van Duijvenbode ICD et al. Lumbar supports for prevention and treatment of low back pain. Cochrane Reviews 2008, Issue 2. Article No. CD001823. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001823. pub3. This review contains 7 preventive studies involving 14,437 participants and 8 treatment studies involving 1361 participants. Authored by: Brian R McAvoy Cochrane Primary Health Care Field Health topics: Orthopaedics & trauma > Back disorders > Non-specific low back pain Rheumatology > Back disorders > Non-specific low back pain More like this Exercises for the prevention of recurrences of episodes of low-back pain Advice to rest in bed versus advice to stay active for acute low-back pain and sciatica Behavioural treatment for chronic low-back pain Multidisciplinary biopsychosocial rehabilitation for subacute low-back pain among working age adults. Back schools for non-specific low-back pain Podcast Low back pain is a very common condition. A newly updated Cochrane review from Ingrid van Duijvenbode and colleagues in The Netherlands looks at an intervention that has been proposed for both preventing and treating it - lumbar supports. Download this podcast as mp3 issue2_2008_lumbar.mp3 Special topics Asthma Depression (coming soon) Dementia (coming soon) Arthritis (coming soon) and more (coming soon) Browse New and updated New and updated RSS Podcasts PEARLS Top 50 Last 24 hours Last 7 days Last 30 days Last 3 months About About this site How to use this site Tell us what you think About Cochrane Discl