
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 09:39:17 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
P3P: CP="NOI ADM DEV PSAi COM NAV OUR OTRo STP IND DEM"
Expires: Mon, 1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 GMT
Last-Modified: Sun, 15 Apr 2012 09:39:17 GMT
Cache-Control: no-store, no-cache, must-revalidate, post-check=0, pre-check=0
Pragma: no-cache
X-Powered-By: PleskLin
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Gestational Diabetes Home | Contact | Membership | About | Events | Employment | Shop | Clothing Collection Diagnosis Pre-diabetes Gestational diabetes Useful links Order publications Are you at risk Healthy eating and lifestyle Prevention Programs Take steps for diabetes Type 2 diabetes and kidney damage Support Groups Balancing blood glucose Complications of diabetes Pregnancy Mental Health Knowing your rights Diabetes in the workplace Driving and diabetes Travel Smoking, drugs and alcohol Day surgery Diabetes and coeliac disease Partner pharmacies - PARS Newly diagnosed Healthy eating Physical activity Diabetes Camps Victoria When you are unwell Insulin therapy and pumps Hypoglycaemia Children & Adolescents Oz DAFNE Type 1 diabetes enewsletter Program, Services & Events Newly diagnosed Healthy Eating Physical activity Medication and insulin When you're unwell Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Programs and Services Younger adults HP eNewsletter Workshops Post Graduate Unit General Practice Program Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Oz DAFNE Life! Taking Action on Diabetes Resources Gwen Scott Grants Order publications Health Professionals Community Webinars Behavioural Research-ACBRD Grants and Funding Diabetes trials Join DA-Vic now Login to member area Membership benefits Member Renewal Register for member area Donate online Media releases Position Statements Diabetes: the silent pandemic National Diabetes Week Diabetes National Election Agenda World Diabetes Congress Melbourne Diabetes Epidemic World Diabetes Day Previous Campaigns Photos Diabetes FAQs enewsletters Ways to donate Volunteer Fundraising and events Supporter feedback Corporate support Clothing Collection Wills and Bequests Social media Diagnosis Pre-diabetes Gestational diabetes Useful links Order publications Home About diabetes Gestational diabetes Pregnancy brings changes within the mother’s body to ensure the normal growth and development of the baby. Gestational diabetes occurs when the mother’s body is unable to cope sufficiently with the increased level of hormones from the placenta. These hormones block the action of the mother's insulin. This is called insulin resistance. During pregnancy a mother’s body needs two to three times more insulin than usual to keep blood glucose levels normal. When a woman develops gestational diabetes, her pancreas is unable to produce the extra insulin needed at this time. Gestational diabetes is diabetes that occurs for the first time during pregnancy and goes away after a baby is born. In some women, the diabetes may not disappear after birth. Management of gestational diabetes involves Eating a healthy balanced diet Physical activity Monitoring blood glucose levels It is essential to see a dietitian who will make sure you are getting the proper nutrients for you and your baby, while helping you to make healthy food choices for the gestational diabetes. Insulin injections are often needed to help bring blood glucose levels into the target range. Find out more about Gestational diabetes and Healthy eating for gestational diabetes . Facts In Australia, three to eight per cent of pregnant women are diagnosed with gestational diabetes The most common time to develop this condition is between the 24th and 28th week of pregnancy All women should be routinely tested for gestational diabetes around the 26th or 28th week of their pregnancy. Sometimes, especially if there is a previous history of gestational diabetes, the test may be done earlier. The National Gestational Diabetes Register The National Gestational Diabetes Register was established within the National Diabetes Services Scheme (NDSS) to help women who have had gestational diabetes to manage their health into the future. Women who have had gestational diabetes have a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes later in life. NEW Translated Gestational Diabetes Booklets The NDSS booklet for women with gestational diabetes, Caring for yourself and your baby, is available to download in five languages: Arabic, Chinese (traditional and simplified), Turkish and Vietnamese. These resources are only available online. Click here to access the resources. top Last Updated Monday 12 September 2011, 17:08 © 2008 Diabetes Australia - Vic Joomla Development by Butterfly Internet | Privacy policy | Sit