Cache-Control: max-age=7200, must-revalidate
Expires: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 17:08:45 GMT
Vary: Accept-Encoding,Cookie
X-Pingback: http://www.consultation.ayurvediccure.com/xmlrpc.php
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Natural Remedies for Type 2 Diabetes - Natural Treatment for Type 2 Diabetes - How to Treat Type 2 Diabetes | Health Questions & Answers Register | Member Log In What are the natural treatments for Type 2 Diabetes? In our body, sugar in the form of glucose is the master source of fuel for body cells. Insulin is a hormone that allows glucose in blood to enter cells. In type 2 diabetic patients, either the body is not capable of producing enough insulin or cells are resistant to effects of insulin. Aloe Vera Gel Study from different parts of the world evaluated the effect of aloe vera gel on blood sugar. Researchers isolated a number of active phytosterol compounds from the gel that were found to be useful to reduce blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels. Ginseng There are several different types of ginseng, most of the promising studies on ginseng and diabetes have used North American ginseng. Ginseng is also an effective herb to reduce blood sugar levels to reasonable levels for people who have type-2 diabetes. North American ginseng is useful to improve blood sugar control and glycosylated hemoglobin levels. Chromium Chromium is an important trace mineral that plays a vital role in carbohydrate and fat metabolism and helps body cells properly respond to insulin. In diabetic patients low levels of chromium has been found. Examination on the effect of chromium on glycemic control in insulin-dependent people with type 2 diabetes proved that there was no significant difference in glycosylated hemoglobin, body mass index, blood pressure, or insulin requirements across the three groups. Chromium picolinate must be avoided as it may affect levels of neurotransmitters and also may be a concern for people with conditions such as bipolar disorder, depression schizophrenia and more. cinnamon Studies proved that cinnamon improves blood glucose control in people with type 2 diabetes. Cinnamon significantly reduces total cholesterol, fasting blood glucose, triglycerides and LDL cholesterol. After taking cinnamon extract, equivalent to 3 g of cinnamon powder three times a day for four months showed reduction in fasting blood glucose levels in people who took the cinnamon. Zinc The mineral zinc plays a vital role in the production and storage of insulin. Research shows that people with type 2 diabetes have suboptimal zinc status due to decreased absorption and increased excretion of zinc. Food sources of zinc include fresh oysters, sardines, chicken, pecans, split peas, egg yolk, rye, beef liver,  ginger root, lamb, lima beans, almonds, walnuts, and buckwheat. Recommended Products Diabeta 2 Bottle – $49 Free Shipping Worldwide In: Diabetes , General Health By: editor2 points No Answers yet, be the first to Answer! Tweet Share Share | Answer this Question You must be Logged In to Answer this Question Not a member yet? Sign Up Now » Related Questions Masturbation and digestive problem Body weakness Natural treatment for boils Irreguar menses mera penis  ka size kam hai aur nikal bahut jaldi jata hai Memory loss Herbal treatment for weak erections and small penis size. Low sperm count and quick ejaculation sex problems to increase penis size Can you Answer these Questions? Get your questions answered now! Member Log In Now » Recent Questions ask a question about masturbation and health related my body in Men's Health sir, I have started to take vringraja capsule daily as you prescribed.How much time will take to observe any change? in Hair Care is zyx hair cream available at any ayurvedic medicine shop? in Hair Loss Effectiveness of Kohinoor Gold slowed? in Sexual Problems solution for hand job bad effects………. in Sexual Problems abou pines size plz slove my problm in Penis Health want to buy Orgy oil in noida delhi in Men's Health Recent Comments Alice on Effectiveness of Kohinoor Gold slowed? Alice on solution for hand job bad effects………. Alice on abou pines size plz slove my problm Alice on want to buy Orgy oil in noida delhi Alice on Masturbate in night during sleeping.cant control myself.Became dull n boring and specially dont remember any thing even studies. Popular Categories Beauty Body Care Face Care Hair Care Nails Care Skin Care General Health Acid Reflux Acne Allergy Alternative Therapies Arthritis Asthma Back Pain Cardiovascular Disorder Cellulite Child & Teen Health Cholesterol Constipation Diabetes Diarrhea Diet Dysentery Ear, Nose & Throat Eczema Fitness Gastrointestinal Disorders Hair Loss Headache Herbal Remedies High Blood Pressure Home Remedies Immune System Injuries & Burns Insomnia Kidney Problems Liver Problems Migraine Obesity Respiratory Tract Disorders Senior Health Skin & Hair Problems Stress & Depression Tooth Care Vitamins Warts Men's Health Erectile Dysfunction Fitness & Diet Penis Health Premature Ejaculation Prostate Problems Sexual Health Skin Problems Products Women's Health Breast Care Breast Enlargement Breast Reduction Diet & Fitness Fertility & Infertility Leucorrhoea Menopause Menstrual Problems Other Pregnancy Sexual Problems Uterine Bleeding Vaginal Problems Weight Loss Question & Answers Links Home Ask a Question Answer a Question Sitemap Expert Rating Scale Level 1 Newbie Level 2 Few Days Old Level 3 Contributor Level 4 Reputed Member Level 5 Expert Member Level 6 Professional Kohinoor Gold - Breast Enlargement - How to Tight Vagina © 2011 Health Questions & Answers . All R