
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu)
Content-Type: text/html
X-Varnish: 398612309
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
Date: Mon, 27 Feb 2012 03:10:32 GMT
Connection: close

Child at Sick Kids' Hospital has new superbug | CTV News CTV CTV.ca Mobile Canada AM Autos Entertainment Olympics Contests Local Stations Pick your location Atlantic British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Montreal Northern Ontario Ottawa Regina Saskatoon Southwestern Ontario Toronto Winnipeg All CTV Stations Top Stories - News Sections Top Stories Canada Atlantic British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Montreal Northern Ontario Ottawa Regina Saskatoon Southwestern Ontario Toronto Winnipeg World Canada in Afghanistan Canadian Casualties Entertainment Photo Galleries Movie Reviews TIFF About e talk Oscars Junos Sports CTV Olympics TSN Scoreboard Business Current Markets Sci-Tech Webnation Health MedNews Express Health Blog Avis Favaro Dr. Marla Shapiro Dr. Rhonda Low Politics CTV Question Period Power Play Election 2011 Weather Canada United States International Weather Restrictions News Programs CTV National News with Lisa LaFlamme Watch CTV National News Canada AM Canada AM Family Recipes Food Travel Tips Health Movies Gardening Home & Decor Nutrition Fitness Consumer Alert W5 W5 archive Victor Malarek Power Play Question Period Features Autos Consumer Browse: Video Galleries MyNews 1 Home : Top Stories : Child at Sick Kids' Hospital has new superbug Child at Sick Kids' Hospital has new superbug Viewer CTV News Video Canada AM: Dr. Neil Rau, infectious disease expert CAN08_rau CTV News: Avis Favaro on the contagious superbug 10p_superbug CTV News: Monica Matys looks at ear infection symptoms cfto07_infection CTV Newsnet: Dr. Neil Rau, infectious diseases specialist MM07_superbug_chat Watch: See all Videos in the Player A A | Email | Print | Comments (3) Tweet Share CTV.ca News Staff Date: Thu. Nov. 8 2007 12:17 PM ET Doctors in Ontario have identified a new antibiotic-resistant strain of bacteria that's led to a case of meningitis in a child. The "superbug," a new substrain of Streptococcus pneumoniae 19A, has caused dozens of ear infections in Massachusetts and New York State. Now, CTV News has learned that this new substrain of 19A has caused a serious infection in a child at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto. The child's illness developed into bacterial meningitis, a potentially fatal infection of the fluid around the spinal cord and brain. After trying numerous antibiotics designed for children, doctors eventually turned to levofloxicin, a powerful antibiotic not typically used in children. That drug was effective against the bacteria. The child is still quite ill, says hospital official Dr. Upton Allen, and treatment is continuing. The child had been otherwise healthy and had received all the vaccinations recommended for children. Experts believe the child caught the infection in the community -- not in hospital. Doctors may soon be asked by the Ministry of Health to watch for recurrent ear infections that don't respond to treatment with antibiotics, because they could be the result of this new strain. S. pneumonia is not new in Canada. It causes hundreds of chest and throat infections, ear infections. In rare cases, it triggers pneumonia and meningitis, the illnesses that are usually easily treated with antibiotics. The 19A strain is not new either. But doctors have identified the growth of a subtype of 19A that can't be killed off with any of the antibiotics approved for use in children. The patient at SickKids Hospital was treated with one antibiotic after another without success. The infection only responded to a powerful antibiotic usually reserved for adults called levofloxacin. Dr. Michael Pichichero, a professor of microbiology, immunology and pediatrics at the University of Rochester Medical Center was the first to identify the new 19A super-strain while he was treating children whose ear infections wouldn't clear up. In October, he published a report in the Journal of the American Medical Association , describing his experience with the 19A superbug. He tried 18 antibiotics approved in the U.S. for children. The only drug that worked was levofloxacin, (also called Levaquin), which is approved for adults and is not recommended for children. For one child, the cure came too late; the infection led to permanent hearing loss. Pichichero's team believes the new substrain was most likely created by a combination of the superbug's ability to evolve quickly and the over-prescribing of antibiotics, which has led to antibiotic resistance. Pichichero told CTV News that he's worried that this multi-drug-resistant superbug could cause infections that invade the lungs and bloodstream, where it could cause pneumonia or blood infections. "If this germ starts to cause infections in the brain or in the lungs it could have devastating consequences," he says. "And if doctors aren't aware that it could be the 19A superbug, they would not normally use the one antibiotic that might work because that one antibiotic is not actually approved for use in children." What's more, the strain could also cause illnesses in adults, he says. "We've learned over the years that young children spread their germs, not only to each other in daycares and in schools, but also to their parents and to their grandparents. So that the fact that we found this superbug in children also has significant implications for the possibility that it would also occur in adults," he says. There is a childhood vaccine currently in wide use for S. pneumoniae, a vaccine called Prevnar. Since its introduction in 2000, the incidence of pneumonia and meningitis caused by pneumococcus has fallen by at least 69 per cent. As well, difficult-to-treat ear infections were reduced by 24 per cent. But Prevnar does not include this new 19A strain and so that vaccine offers no protection against it. The makers of Prevnar are reportedly aware that the vaccine needs to include the new strain and are reformulating their vaccine. Other vaccine makers are working on other formulations that are still being tested. But it will take two years for a new vaccine to be approved and placed on the market. In the meantime, doctors need to know that this strain is circulating, and that if a patient has a pneumococcal infection that isn't resolving -- such as an ear infection that defies treatment -- it may need more aggressive treatment. With a report by CTV medical specialist Avis Favaro and Elizabeth St. Philip Comments are now closed for this story Kevin Kuo said Point very well taken.  Antibiotics overprescription and unwarranted use do result in the development of antiobiotic resistance in bacteria.  Antibiotics are often prescribed for viral illnesses in children and adults alike, but antibiotics do not work against viruses! One minor correction if I may, Streptococcus pneumonia A19 is a bacteria, not virus, in reference to the statement "...causing the [virus] to evolve and mutate." Rhonda said I dont agree with the one comment of the parents pushing for antibiotics when in fact the last doctor i took my newborn too for an ear infection pushed some drug on him that even the pharmacist didn't understand why my baby was given it, I didn't give that drug to my baby and went to another doctor who did perscribe another medicine which WAS needed and they are monitoring my child for this new superbug. My baby is four months old and hasn't been on drug after drug and he still got it. These flus and other illnesses will always be here, and getting stronger. we are not able to fight them like we use to due to the unhealthy lifestyles, pollution, and stress in our lives. Most doctors are here to help and parents just want the best for their children. Tamouh said Very unfortunate, impatient parents who tend to push for anti-biotics to treat their children whenever they have a small infection end up on the long-term causing the virus to evolve and mutate. This also goes back to the fact many parents can't stay at home to take care of the kids. Daycares can't take sick kids, therefore the parents have one option and that is to get the kids back & healthy as quick as possible using medicine instead of allowing the immune cells the time to adapt to the disease. User Tools Print Article Feedback Share with your social Network: Advertisement Contest Related Websites JAMA - Emergence of a Multiresistant Serotype 19A Pneumococcal Strain Not Included in the 7-Valent Conjugate Vaccine as an Otopathogen in Children Canadian Paediatric Society -- ear infection information Most Popular 3 Via train engineers killed in Ontario derailment Warden prepared to carry out Canadian's death sentence Nepalese man, 72, declared shortest human on record Chinese flood Obama site after Google Plus block lifted Is Pinterest just another passing social media fad? About 70 injured in B.C. pool chlorine accident Moon mining: Canada's possible new role in space Harper approved $22K hospitality tab for bureaucrats Today's Top Stories 3 Via train engineers killed in Ontario derailment More 19 6 About 70 injured in B.C. pool chlorine accident More Toronto transit employee shot at Dupont station More Most Viewed News Stories 3 Via train engineers killed in Ontario derailment Warden prepared to carry out Canadian's death sentence Nepalese man, 72, declared shortest human on record Chinese flood Obama site after Google Plus block lifted Is Pinterest just another passing social media fad? About 70 injured in B.C. pool chlorine accident Moon mining: Canada's possible new role in space Harper approved $22K hospitality tab for bureaucrats View More News Stories Most Talked about Stories I am disgusted by comments from any Canadian supporting this activity. I don't care what your political stripe is, you must defend your ability to have free and fair elections. No decent person should support election tampering in any shape or form. This is a serious issue and people should encourage and support the investigation by Elections Canada and the RCMP untainted by political interference. Island Man Opposition MPs take Tories to task over 'robocalls' Got something to say? Share on CTV News About CTV Careers Bell Media Announcements Advertise on CTV Bell Media PR Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Contact Us Producer Guidelines Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy © 2012 CTV All rights reserved Bell Media Television Shows Filter: CTV CTV Two Primetime/Late Night The Amazing Race American Idol Anger Management Betty White's Off Their Rockers The Big Bang Theory Blue Bloods The Borgias Castle The Colbert Report Conan Criminal Minds CSI CSI: New York The Daily Show Dancing with the Stars Desperate Housewives etalk Flashpoint GCB Grey's Anatomy Grimm Hot in Cleveland Law and Order: Special Victims Unit The Listener The Mentalist Mike & Molly Missing Once Upon A Time Pan Am Shark Tank Smash The River TMZ Two and a Half Men Undercover Boss Unforgettable Up All Night The Voice Whitney The X Factor Daytime Anderson The Bold and the Beautiful The Dr. Oz Show Dr. Phil The Ellen DeGeneres Show Fashion Television Live! With Kelly The Marilyn Denis Show The View CTV Movies & Specials 2012 Canadian Figure Skating ... The 84th Annual Academy Awards Bell Let's Talk The JUNO Awards More CTV & CTV Two Movie Listings Online Exclusives The Bridge Comedy Inc. Comedy Now! Defying Gravity Hiccups So You Think You Can Dance Canada Only at CTV.ca CTV App CTV Goes Mobile CTV.ca Insider TheRoyals.ca - William & Kate Listener Vision Buster Game Primetime/Late Night Access Hollywood American Idol America's Next Top Model The Big Bang Theory Blue Bloods Castle Criminal Minds CSI: Miami CSI: New York Dan For Mayor Dateline Desperate Housewives etalk Fashion Star Flashpoint Late Night with Jimmy Fallon Law and Order: Special Victims Unit The Listener The Mentalist Mike & Molly Nikita Once Upon A Time Sanctuary Shark Tank The Tonight Show with Jay Leno Two and a Half Men Undercover Boss Unforgettable Up All Night The Vampire Diaries The X Factor Daytime Anderson The Bold and the Beautiful The Ellen DeGeneres Show Fashion Television Look-A-Like The Marilyn Denis Show CTV Movies & Specials More CTV & CTV Two Movie Listings Oscars Red Carpet Live Online Exclusives The Bridge Comedy Inc. Comedy Now! Defying Gravity Hiccups Only at CTV.ca CTV App CTV Goes Mobile CTV.ca Insider Listener Vision Buster Game Video Watch Videos 2012 Canadian Figure Skating ... The Amazing Race Anderson Anger Management Bell Let's Talk Betty White's Off Their Rockers The Big Bang Theory The Bold and the Beautiful The Borgias The Bridge Castle The Colbert Report Comedy Inc. Comedy Now! Conan Criminal Minds The Daily Show Dan For Mayor Defying Gravity Desperate Housewives The Dr. Oz Show The Ellen DeGeneres Show etalk FaceTime with Jeanne Beker Fashion Television Flashpoint Grey's Anatomy Grimm Hiccups Hot in Cleveland Late Night with Jimmy Fallon Law and Order: Special Victims Unit The Listener Look-A-Like The Marilyn Denis Show The Mentalist Nikita Once Upon A Time Pan Am Sanctuary Shameless Idealists Shark Tank Smash So You Think You Can Dance Canada The River TMZ The Tonight Show with Jay Leno Two and a Half Men Undercover Boss Unforgettable Up All Night The Vampire Diaries The View The Voice Whitney More Video Options CTV Video Player CTV News Video Player Browse All Video News Go to the News Home Page CTVNews Top Stories Canada World Entertainment Health Sports Business Sci-Tech Politics Weather News Programs CTV National News with Lisa LaFlamme Canada AM W5 PowerPlay Question Period CTV News Channel Home Watch Live CTV News Team Lisa LaFlamme Sandie Rinaldo See All Features Autos Consumer Alert Health Blog Local News All CTV Stations Browse Video Photo Galleries MyNews Services CTV News Mobile Newsletters RSS CTV News Stox Contact CTV News Schedule Related TV Shows Gossip Girl Watch Show Show Page Gossip Girl Watch Show Show Page Gossip Girl Watch Show Show Page Gossi