
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Tue, 13 Mar 2012 00:20:34 GMT
P3P: policyref="http://info.yahoo.com/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="CAO DSP COR CUR ADM DEV TAI PSA PSD IVAi IVDi CONi TELo OTPi OUR DELi SAMi OTRi UNRi PUBi IND PHY ONL UNI PUR FIN COM NAV INT DEM CNT STA POL HEA PRE LOC GOV"
Last-Modified: Mon, 12 Mar 2012 17:43:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Age: 2
Server: YTS/1.19.8

Relieve Neck and Back Pain With Spinal Decompression Therapy - DFWChiromassage Spine Blog DFWChiromassage Spine Blog Blog articles about chiropractic, spinal decompression, neck pain, low back pain, and various forms of wellness. Subscribe via Email Home About Contact Us Insurances Accepted Relieve Neck and Back Pain With Spinal Decompression Therapy Thursday, March 1st, 2012						at
						9:45 am By Roosevelt Smith Spinal decompression therapy is an FDA approved, non-surgical treatment for chronic neck and low back pain. It has saved thousands of people from having to undergo surgery or taking strong pain medications. With up to an 86% success rate, many patients have experienced dramatic pain relief and healing with this therapy. Many medical doctors simply do not know how to treat chronic neck and back pain. They may write you a prescription for a strong painkiller but this only masks the symptoms and does not fix the problem. These strong medications can be addictive and may cause problems in the future. Other doctors may try to steer you toward surgery in an effort to relive back pain. While surgery may be effective in some cases, it is not always necessary. Considering the difficult recovery, time off of work and potential complications, surgery should only be a last resort. People suffering from chronic neck and back pain who are looking for non-surgical treatment options often turn to a chiropractor for assistance. Chiropractors are experts at relieving neck and back pain without the use of surgery or drugs. They use gentle techniques that reduce pain and promote healing. They also make recommendations for lifestyle changes and exercises that will help strengthen the muscles and expand range of motion. Some common lower back complaints include: herniated or bulging discs, degenerative disc disease, posterior facet syndrome, sciatica and acute or chronic back pain. Patients suffering from these conditions have found relief with spinal decompression therapy . The treatment is not only safe and painless, but also comfortable and relaxing. The course of therapy includes approximately 20 treatment sessions and is completed in about 35 days. Each procedure is performed with a unique, patent pending physio-therapeutic device and is administered by a certified clinician, specializing in back pain care. The treatment sessions are brief, lasting approximately 30 minutes. Each treatment consists of a physician prescribed treatment on the Spinal Decompression and is designed to provide static, intermittent, and cycling distraction forces to relieve pressures on structures that may be causing back pain. During this procedure, by cycling through distraction and relaxation phases and by proper positioning, a spinal disc can be isolated and placed under negative pressure, causing a vacuum effect within it. This vacuum effect accomplishes two things. From a mechanical standpoint, disc material that has protruded or herniated outside the normal confines of the disc can be pulled back within the disc by the vacuum created within the disc. Also, the vacuum within the disc stimulates growth of blood supply, secondarily stimulating a healing response. This results in pain reduction and proper healing at the injured site. Spinal decompression therapy relieves pain associated with herniated discs, protruding discs, degenerative disc disease, posterior facet syndrome, sciatica, and general neck and low back pain. Studies have concluded that at some time 80% of all Americans suffer from back pain, making spinal decompression therapy a much-needed component in the treatment of those conditions. Spinal decompression traction therapy is an accepted medical procedure. It is covered by most health insurance. Keep in mind that your medical insurance may have constraints with regarding co-payments and prior authorization for therapy. These constraints would apply to spinal decompression as well. Ask your chiropractor’s office staff to assist you in filing with your insurance company. Dr. Roosevelt Smith is a licensed chiropractor at HealthSource of Greensboro, NC. He uses a variety of procedures and techniques to treat disorders of the neck and back, soft tissue sprains and strains, non-surgical intervertebral disc lesions, carpal tunnel syndrome, whiplash associated disorders, fibromyalgia and myofascial pain syndromes, as well as headaches and migraines. Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Roosevelt_Smith Marco Abanico is a curator for DFWChiromassage Spine Blog and a chiropractor in the Dallas/Fort Worth metroplex.  He is a leading authority on how to easily and naturally relieve spine pain.  His clinic has helped thousands of patients put an end to their neck and back pain.  If you are considering surgery for neck pain relief or if other forms of treatment have not worked, CALL US at 817-801-9000 or logon to DFWChiroMassage Spine Blog . Tagged with: andrea milne chiropractic • andrea milne dc reviews • arkansas lane chiropractic center arlington tx • arkansas pioneer chiropractic arlington texas • arlington family wellness center arlington tx • arlington family wellness center eric alvarado arlingto • arlington skatium roller skating rink tx • cameron laboret chiropractic dallas texas • cameron laboret dc lanechiropractic • capuli chiropractic healthcare arlington tx • capuli chiropractic healthcare arlington tx capulichiro • central health and wellness arlington • central health and wellness centralhealthandwellness • charles r lane dallas • charles r lane dc arlington reviews • crown chiropractic clinic arlington tx • crown chiropractic clinic crownechiropractic • eric alvarado dc reviews arlington tx • forum roller world grand prairie tx • forum rollerworld grand prairie tx • frank greenberg dc • frank greenberg dc reviews • frank r greenberg chiropractic reviews • frank roland greenberg chiropractic reviews • health works of arlington healthworksofarlington • health works of arlington tx • jeff pedersen dc chiropractor reviews • jeff peterson dc arlington tx • jerrod edwards dc reviews • joseph viernow arkansaspioneerchiropractic • joseph viernow chiropracticofarlington • joseph viernow dc reviews arlington tx • martin family chiropractic arlington tx • martin family chiropractic rmartinchiropractic • matlock road chiropractic arlington tx • matlock road chiropractic matlockroadchiro • monte anderson dc chiropractic • monte anderson dc reviews chiropractor • monte anderson drmonteanderson • monte anderson drmonteanderson reviews • nader j awwad chiropractor • randall w martin chiropractic reviews • robert aldridge chiropractor reviews • roller skating arlington tx • roller skating grand prairie tx • s collins st arlington • salvador a capuli dc reviews • salvador a capuli reviews arlington tx • sciatica • senor jalapeno mesquite tx n town east blvd • senor jalapeno mexican restaurant mesquite tx • wellness in arlington tx wellnessinarlington Filed under: arlington tx chiropractor • fort worth chiropractor • spinal decompression • spinal decompression therapy arlington tx • spinal decompression therapy dallas tx • spinal decompression therapy fort worth tx Like this post? Subscribe to my RSS feed and get loads more! Comments RSS Feed TrackBack URI Leave a Reply Click here to cancel reply. Name (required) Mail (will not be published) (required) Website Notify me of followup comments via e-mail About this blog The purpose of this blog is to educate the public on spinal degeneration that can  contribute to neck or low back pain. It is our aim to determine a solution to your back pain without resorting to addictive drugs or invasive surgery. Recent Posts Arlington group home plans to help homeless mothers and children Tree falls near the home of famous Dallas writer Pinched Nerve Neck Pain – Causes, Symptoms, and Chiropractic Treatment Chiropractic Pain Management Is Great For Back Pain, Neck Pain, and Headaches Prince Royce | House of Blues | Dallas, TX Ease in Neck Pain: Therapeutic Exercises and Chiropractic Adjustments Chiropractic Treatment For Body Aches, Neck Pain Recent Comments Garry Melchiorre : Real riches will be the riches possessed inside.
It usually... Julia Mohair : Hello, I became planning to touch upon something completely... Free NX : There is a great share of your knowledge in the field on thi... Morgan Palmer : my grandfather is fond of ayurvedic medicines coz he know th... Jamie Stewart : i tried ayurvedic medicines and chinese medicines and both a... Pomrebeti : Hi :)
I would like to present interesting site:
... Breereack : Hi Everybody

Discussions on the earths temperature increa... Categories alternative health arlington tx chiropractor ayurvedic medicine chiropractic fort worth chiropractic fort worth chiropractor low back pain managing back pain in fort worth massage dfw massage fort worth massage therapy fort worth multivitamins for postmenopausal women myofascial release natural health neck pain osteopathy sensual massage soapy massage spinal decompression decompression therapy for back pain arlington tx decompression therapy for back pain dallas tx decompression therapy for back pain fort worth tx spinal decompression therapy arlington tx spinal decompression therapy dallas tx spinal decompression therapy fort worth tx trigger point massage Uncategorized Pages About Contact Us Insurances Accepted Copy