
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 23:57:20 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Connection: close
Cache-Control: no-cache

Homemade Cough Syrup Safe for Kids HubPages explore topics hubs answers forums sign in join now All Topics » Education and Science » Medicine and Health Science » Alternative Medicine » Homemade Cough Syrup Safe for Kids 84 rate or flag By ChristinS Safe, all-natural and super easy! 3 simple ingredients are all you need to make a very effective, all-natural cough syrup.  Lemon, Raisins, and Honey Source: Christin Sander You May Also Like ... Remedies for a Sore Throat A large list of remedies for sore throat: nutrition recommendations, supplements, environmental factors, and more ideas for how to treat a sore throat. Herbal Remedies: Immune Boosting Astragalus & Its Many Benefits Astragalus is a lesser known and very powerful herbal remedy with a variety of applications. It is a very effective herb for long-term immunity support and great for use during the cold and flu season. DIY All Natural Cough Syrup The FDA and most doctors warn against the use of cold and cough medicines in children under 6 years old. The risks posed by these medications far outweigh any benefits. Unfortunately, when nasty viruses make the rounds this often means bouts of coughing that can be unnerving to parents. At night coughs tend to worsen, making it difficult for children to relax and sleep well. The following recipe is for a cough syrup that is completely natural and safe for children OVER 1 year. The recipe contains honey and therefore should not be used in infants. Babies under one should never be given honey for any reason due to the risk of botulism. Remember coughs can sometimes mean serious illness! Be sure to see a doctor should a cough become serious, be accompanied by fever, or last longer than a few days. Ingredients: 1/2 cup 100% pure lemon juice – fresh is best, but bottled is still ok as long as it is 100% lemon juice only no additives, sugar, etc. 1/2 cup 100% pure honey – be sure your honey is real honey – not mixed with corn syrup etc. it must be pure honey (organic and unprocessed is best) 1/4 cup raisins – again organic is preferred for nutrition purposes. * You will also need a sterilized sauce pan, spoon, and glass jar with lid. chop the raisins up into a paste - as fine as you can get them to help them dissolve better into the syrup. cooking your cough syrup this is what it looks like as the raisins cook down.  If you find it gets too thick and you want it thinner simply add more lemon juice until it's the desired consistency - keeping in mind it will thicken a bit more as it cools. Source: Christin Sander The finished syrup This is an *optional* step - you don't have to strain it - we prefer to use it as is.  However if you prefer syrup that is smooth in texture you may want to strain off the extra bits of raisin - otherwise leave them in there for health benefits! Source: Christin Sander Directions: Run your raisins through a food processor to chop them up very fine – set aside. In a saucepan over very low heat combine half of the honey with the full amount of lemon juice. Stir until well blended. Add the remainder of the honey and continue to stir until well blended. Heat stirring very frequently until the mixture just starts to boil. Add the chopped raisins to the mixture and cook over low/medium heat until the raisins are mostly dissolved. This takes about 10 to 15 minutes. Stir constantly and watch the heat so the mixture doesn't scorch. Once the raisins are mostly dissolved remove completely from heat and allow to cool for several minutes. You can pour the mixture as is into the sterilized jar or if you prefer a very smooth syrup you can pour the mixture through a strainer(also sterile) to catch the few bits of raisin that are left. We don't mind leaving them in there so I typically skip this step. The extra raisin bits are beneficial - but some people don't like the grainier texture. Refrigerate your syrup and do not keep it longer than one week. If it hardens up too much in the refrigerator you can place the jar into a bowl of warm water to soften it up before taking it. This syrup can be given as needed and works very well at night. Take a couple of teaspoons 3-4 times daily to soothe cough and loosen chest congestion. Refrigerate your syrup and do not keep longer than one week. Adults and children alike (over 1 year) can use this remedy. Kids love the taste because it is sweet. ** Other Things to Consider ** Although you can keep it up to a week, it's a good idea to prepare a fresh batch every few days. For that reason this is a very small recipe. The fresher this is the better. You can double the recipe if you like. If your kids hate raisins - they won't like this syrup! The honey and lemon really bring out the raisin flavor. It is very sweet with a very strong raisin flavor. :) We love it, but some may find it too strong. In that case I recommend stirring it into a cup of warm organic chamomile tea. Chamomile is safe for most kids as well. It also soothes and relaxes. How it Works How It Works Raisins/Grapes have natural expectorant properties, meaning they loosen phlegm and make it easier to get rid of congestion. Honey is a natural antiseptic used to promote healing. Studies have shown it has the ability to calm cough and work as a natural cough suppressant. According to the Mayo Clinics website “In one study, children age 2 and older with upper respiratory tract infections were given up to 2 teaspoons of honey at bedtime. The honey seemed to reduce nighttime coughing and improve sleep.” This same report went on to state that the effects were as good if not better than taking the over the counter cough suppressant Dextromethorphan. Lemons are naturally cleansing and loaded with phytonutrients. They have been shown to reduce inflammation in the body. Citrus fruits in general are loaded with vitamin C and have natural antiseptic, antimicrobial, and germicidal properties. Combining these three ingredients soothes and eases coughing, loosens congestion, fights germs, and provides nutrients essential to healing - all from natural food sources. This is definitely a safer alternative to OTC cold remedies, which have proven to be very dangerous for children. **This article is provided for information purposes only and not intended to diagnose, treat, or prevent any illness** vote up vote down share print flag Was this Hub ...? Useful (5) Funny Awesome Beautiful Interesting (1) how-to's and tutorials: How to Make Sun-Dried Tomatoes Easy & Awesome how-to's and tutorials: DIY Natural Insect Repellent with Essential Oils Comments Loading... Go to last comment SMD2012 Level 3 Commenter 4 weeks ago Very timely information. I was shocked when I heared that cough medicines were deemed unsafe and unnecessary for children...all those years of parents giving their children something the belied was OK. How could the medical system have allowed that to happen! Thanks for sharing this very helpful information. Voted up! Tweeted and FB shared. ChristinS Hub Author 4 weeks ago Thanks for voting and sharing SMD2012.  Fortunately there are safer alternatives like this that can give the little ones some relief from coughs/sore throats without the risks! :) Esmeowl12 Level 6 Commenter 4 weeks ago How interesting! I've never seen a recipe for homemade cough syrup. I might have to try this. Thanks for the valuable info! Billrrrr Level 5 Commenter 4 weeks ago Great hub!  I have always felt that some of those cough medicines are dangerous.  Yours is the best. ChristinS Hub Author 4 weeks ago Thanks Esmeowl12 and Bill - glad you both enjoyed the hub. Thanks for commenting and I hope it works well for you if you try it :) Submit a Comment You Must Sign In To Comment To comment on this Hub, you must sign in or sign up and post using a HubPages account. 95 ChristinS From Midwest 259 Followers 46 Hubs Joined 9 months ago Read more Hubs by ChristinS Contact ChristinS Related Hubs Driving Safety. Loud Motorcycles and Bright Headlights by putnut Safe Driving Tips To Drive Safely In Extreme Weather... by LensMan999 Can driving a Manual Transmission or 'Stick' Vehicle really... by adjkp25 Are Airbags a Safe Necessity? by strkngfang Checking Your Tires Made Simple: Air Pressure by InMyEyes Helping Teens Drive Safely by wsteveg Tags HubPages about us blog advertise faq link to this page copyright Copyright © 2012 HubPages Inc. and respective owners. All rights reserved. Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners. term