Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Accupuncture Charlotte North Carolina GO BACK TO SPECIALTY
        AREAS Acupuncture for Insomnia It
                  is to achieve mental peace when there are so many demands being
                made upon us at any given time. It is also difficult to
                maintain a sense of balance and perspective concerning the
                impermanence and transience of these factors. Our thoughts race
                around in our heads, perhaps as quickly as we would like to
                accomplish everything that needs to get done. We worry. We fret.
                We dwell on old hurts and disappointments. It is as if our mind
                is a spooked horse that gallops out of control and we are taken
                wherever it may go. This
              feeling of having thoughts racing out of control is often the
              worst at night when we try to go to sleep. A whole day’s worth
              of stress and tension flickers about in our mind’s eye as we lay
              in bed, trying in vain to get to sleep. Many times, the body has
              also reacted to our stressors by stiffening up, so that it is hard
              to even be comfortable enough to fall asleep. It can feel as if
              the mind is an engine that is overheating. A
              car’s engine requires coolant in order to prevent it from
              overheating. We humans also require coolant to prevent our body
              and our mind from overheating. In Chinese medicine, anything with
              a cooling, soothing influence on the bodymind
              is considered to be yin, whereas anything that is active, heating,
              and energizing is considered to be yang. Most of us live extremely
              demanding “yang” lifestyles nowadays. This tendency towards
              constant stress and activity needs to be balanced with yin. People
              with insomnia are generally considered to be deficient in
              “yin”. The cooling, relaxing, soothing influence that
              encourages a good night’s rest has been exhausted and is in need
              of replenishment. Acupuncture,
                  Chinese herbal medicine, and meditation can all aid insomnia
                  through bringing balance back to the body. One acupuncture
                  point that is useful for encouraging sleep and relaxation is
                  right between the eyebrows. It is called “Yintang”. You
                  can go to an acupuncturist for a full treatment, or you can
                  try pressing on this point once in a while when you are trying
                  to unwind enough at night to fall asleep. One
                  Chinese herbal formula that is often very useful for insomnia
                  is called Suan Zao Ren Wan. This formula can often be found in
                  pill form in health food stores and Asian markets. The main
                  ingredient is a Chinese herb called Suan Zao Ren, or ziziphus
                  seed, which has a calming, yin influence on the body. Research
                  in China has shown it to be useful for anxiety, heart
                  palpitations, and insomnia. It also helps reduce the
                  occurrence of disturbing dreams. The usual dosage is eight to
                  twelve pills three times a day for the Chinese patent pills.
                  If you buy a different version, read the instructions. It is
                  important to take it regularly throughout the day for a few weeks
                  to see results. It is not a quick fix to be taken only at
                  night. For a complete consultation, please
                  contact us at 704.968.0351. Of
                  course, in addition to acupuncture and herbs, it is important
                  to modify the habit patterns that result in insomnia. It is
                  important to have a regular bed time, preferably before
                  midnight. The Chinese believe that sleeping at irregular times
                  and sleeping too late depletes the body. It
                  is also crucial to learn to put aside our stress, our tension,
                  and our worries before going to bed. This is done most
                  effectively through the use of meditation. A Western version
                  that utilizes meditation for insomnia is the old tradition of
                  counting sheep. It is important to have a point of focus for
                  meditation, whether it is a candle flame, a mantra, your own
                  breathing, or sheep. My personal favorite is reciting “Om
                  Shanti Shanti Om”, which is a Hindu mantra that focuses on
                  “shanti”, or satisfaction and peace. As
                  a result, letting go of extraneous mental chatter becomes
                  easier and easier. Our mind stops overheating. The body can
                  loosen up and relax. It becomes easier to fall asleep at
                  night. We remain calm and poised during the day. Through
                  the use of meditation, herbal medicine, and acupuncture, most
                  people with insomnia can gain considerable relief. © 2008  Wang's Acupuncture &
Herbal Clinic 7810 Ballantyne Commons Pkwy,
