
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 22:52:21 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Pingback: http://www.bravemania.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Cookie
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4
Last-Modified: Fri, 27 Apr 2012 22:52:21 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Yoga | Fitness Review Home About Us Encyclopedia Privacy Sitemap Fitness Review All About Fitness and Lifestyle for to improve your Health Posts Tagged ‘Yoga’ Pilates December 25th, 2009 | Author: Syidat pilates-exercise Pilates is an exercise for body training to build flexibility, strength, endurance, and muscle coordination without adding muscle mass. Joseph Pilates was the founder of the pilates exercise method, he was born in Germany in 1880. As a nurse in England during World War I, he designed exercise methods and equipment for moving patients and wounded soldiers from the war.Joseph pilates observed that the wounded soldiers, which is limited to their joseph pilates-pilates bed, can not exercise. So joseph pilates to create a tool and designing a training method that will help the soldiers in rehabilitation get stronger and regain their strength. In 1926, he moved to New York and brought this exercise method, which he called ‘pilates’. Because pilates introduced, have appeared everywhere from ballet school to the local gym. Pilates exercise helps improve blood circulation and helps to increase stamina. People who do pilates regularly will feel that they have better posture, resistance to injury, and better health overall. In the United States, with more than 5 million people participate in the growing popularity of pilates has produced a long list of followers, including Hollywood stars, experts and professional athletes. Brief Pilates like yoga in how to use movement, movements deliberate and controlled for toning muscles and improve your flexibility. The main difference is that pilates is not a holistic health system such as yoga – its focused on the exercises and breathing techniques alone. Its will impact in your body, especially your abdominal muscles, hips, back, shoulders and buttocks. The main keys are: precision, alignment, centering, concentration, control, precision, breathing and flowing movement. By doing pilates you will get a better body, taut muscles and bones strong. Moreover, it can also improve your posture – so, you will be sturdy and free of bent. Pilates can also be done at home, start by leveling your shoulders, relaxed position. Your spine straight, in what is called the neutral spine. If you are sitting, feel your weight down through your sit bones. Let’s head floats up. Your throat open and relaxed. You can perform exercises using your own body weight, or with the help of various equipment. Any exercise done with attention to breathing techniques and abdominal control. To gain the maximum benefit, you have to do pilates at least two or three times per week. You can see the improvement after 10-20 sessions. Pilates can be done individually or in small groups using a special tool, designed to ensure that you are doing the movement with perfect technique. Pilates exercises can be done by means of the above mat, which will help you make the best move. No matter what your age or condition, he will work for you. Pilates get your mind in harmony with your body. With emphasis on proper breathing is very important, and helps you execute movements with maximum power and efficiency. Everyone agrees that pilates helps coordinate movement, using the right muscle groups with a focus minds will form a coordinated series of movements well as an orchestra. Pilates can be an alternative sport for those of you who wants better health, lets to try. Good luck. Sources : http://www.pilates.com/BBAPP/V/about/what-is-pilates.htmlxercise http://www.wahanda.com/treatment/pilates/ http://www.asseenontv.com/prod-pages/zone_pilates_vhs.html http://www.disability.vic.gov.au/dsonline/dsarticles.nsf/pages/Pilates?OpenDocument http://www.pilatesconnections.com/ http://pilates.about.com/od/whatispilates/a/YogaPilatesConn.htm http://kidshealth.org/teen/food_fitness/exercise/pilates.html Posted in Cardio Training | Tags: altus atletic 6-inch , basic resistance bands workout set , Fitness , joseph pilates , latex bands 6 yard , pilates , pilates suit powerhouse womens yoga workout pants , pilates toe socks , tools , xertube resistance band with door attachment and exercise charts , Yoga , yoga and pilates mat | 89 Comments » Yoga December 23rd, 2009 | Author: Syidat Yoga is one of the ancient art of training that includes physical strengthening, breathing, stretching and balance, this is an exercise that combines physical, mental and spiritual, this tradition began in India more than 3,000 years ago. The word Yoga comes from the Sanskrit (ancient Indian language): “yoke,” which means to unite, the mind, body, and soul. Unification between atman and brahman (the all-powerful). In essence, the yoga one can know her better, and his Lord. This exercise aims to form a union between mind and body to achieve spiritual enlightenment. Yoga method refers to a particular state of consciousness that helps a person reach a state of unity with God. There are nine forms of yoga flow to suit the special needs of students of yoga, namely: Inana yoga , karma yoga , bhakti yoga, yantra yoga, tantric yoga, mantra yoga, kundailini yoga, hatha yoga, and raja yoga. The branch of the widely used today is hatha yoga or union through body and breath control.  Hatha is a combination of two words ha and tha , which means the sun and moon. Hatha yoga focus on technique asan a (posture), pranayama (breath though), bandha (locks), mudra (gesture), and deep relaxation. Hatha goal is to balance on the body  with five principles of yoga practice. These principles are practiced regularly, breathe deep, well-balanced diet, enough rest, positive thinking, and meditation. Men who do yoga called Yogi and a woman who does yoga called Yogini . Yoga is built on three main structures: exercise, breathing, and meditation. Body is seen as the main tool that allows us to work and activities in the world, so the Yogi must do so with great care and respect. Breathing techniques are based on the concept that breath is the source of life in the body. Samadhi is a simple form of meditation that can be done by concentrating minds to achieve physical and mental balance. In addition to physical and mental benefits, yoga also can help people in improving the daily routine they are. Yoga has been recognized as a practice to improve the physical and mental health both in India and in the western world. Many people are turning to yoga to find solutions to cope with stress, illness and achieve a peaceful life. In fact, it was reported that more than 11 million americans now practicing some form of yoga. In particular, research shows that yoga helps manage or control anxiety, arthritis, asthma, back pain, blood pressure, carpal tunnel syndrome, chronic fatigue, depression, diabetes, epilepsy, headaches, heart disease, multiple sclerosis, stress and diseases and conditions another. To achieve this, yoga uses a variety of movements, breathing exercises, relaxation techniques and meditation. Another benefit of yoga is to improve muscle flexibility, physical strength and stamina, reduce stress and tension. Yoga exercises designed to put pressure on the body’s lymph system, thereby increasing efficiency and total health. To get the most out of yoga one has to get proper instruction and regular practice. You feel bored with your job everyday? You should try to do yoga, find a place to practice or someone who specializes in yoga. Posted in Lifestyle | Tags: bhakti yoga , hatha yoga , inana yoga , karma yoga , kundalini , meditation. , samadhi , strengthening , unity , Yoga | 50 Comments » Recommended Body Mass Index This Widget requires Javascript Height in cm: Weight in kg: Your BMI is . Check your Body Mass Index » Recent Posts Healthy Sleep What is Reiki ? Advanced Training How to avoid injury during exercise ? Drink water when you wake up. Shoulder Exercises Arnold Dumbell Press Bench Press Treadmill Review Lose Weight by Dancing Video of Compound Excercise Starting a Weight Training Do you need to consume Food Supplement? Bulking Reiki, an Alternative Healing Method. How Healthy your Heart? Hypnoslimming Weight Loss Review What the relationship between Fitness and Sex ? Diet Program A Guide to Healthy Diet Atkins Diet Overweight and Obesity How to looking for cheap Hosting? Sit Up Let me share Pilates Video Pilates Why do you join in the Gym? Yoga Jogging Technic and Style of Fitness Fat Burning Gymnastic Exercises How to get the strengthen arm muscle? How to make Home Fitness? Fitness and Health Recent Comments Jesse Griffin on Fitness and Health Jesse Griffin on How to make Home Fitness? What is Reiki ? | Fitness Review on Advanced Training What is Reiki ? | Fitness Review on Reiki, an Alternative Healing Method. Advanced Training | Fitness Review on How to avoid injury during exercise ? Massage NJ on Reiki, an Alternative Healing Method. Bodybuilding Supplements on Shoulder Exercises Awesome fitness app on Sit Up online weight loss on Arnold Dumbell Press reiki on Bulking Recent Tag aerobics Arm muscle back barbell bend knee bhakti yoga Body body weight Bravemania burn fat buttocks muscle clothes compound movement Diet dumbell exercise. Fitness Gym gymnastic exercise hatha yoga Health inana yoga jogging karma yoga kundalini lose weight mentally metabolism. muscle Physical exercise physically pilates protein. rubber 8 running samadhi shoes. shoulder muscle straight leg strengthening thigh muscle vegetables Weight loss weight training Yoga Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Products Search Categories Body Building Cardio Training Food Supplement Health News Lifestyle Tips Tools Review Videos Weight Loss Weight Training Archives February 2012 (1) January 2012 (1) December 2011 (1) October 2011 (2) May 2011 (2) March 2011 (1) February 2011 (1) January 2011 (1) December 2010 (3) November 2010 (1) October 2010 (2) June 2010 (1) April 2010 (1) March 2010 (1) February 2010 (3) January 2010 (2) December 2009 (5) October 2009 (1) September 2009 (3) July 2009 (2) June 2009 (1) Recommended Links Carb blocker reviews Development Blog Directory World Exercise Equipment Fat Burning Fitness Fitness Equipment Fitness Online Fitness Review Fitness Tools Health News Health Product Lifespafitness PPI Claims Scotland Volley Ball Store Volleyball Weight Loss Weight Loss Resources Live Traffic Feedjit Live Blog Stats Web Hosting Blog Statistic My Top Fitness Blog Ranking link directory Web Directories Submit Express Submit Express - SEO Services About Us | Sitemap | Privacy Statement Copyright © 2009 Fitn