
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Tue, 17 Apr 2012 08:56:30 GMT
Server: Apache/2
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.17
X-Pingback: http://www.sanrafaelhealth.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding,User-Agent
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

2009  January  21 | Healthcare, Health Insurance, Vitamins, Nutrition Healthcare, Health Insurance, Vitamins, Nutrition January 21, 2009 Need Health Insurance?  Buy It Online Filed under: Health Insurance — Tags: aetna , blue cross blue shield , blue cross health insurance , florida health insurance , georgia health insurance , group health insurance , Health Insurance , insurance quotes , medical insurance , pennsylvania health insurance , texas health insurance , unicare —   @ 7:53 am by Ethan Kalvin As the popularity of the internet has grown, so has online shopping.  What was once a very small segment of the market, is now growing at lightning speed.  People are buying anything imaginable on the internet, and the list is growing daily.  With this growth, also comes the interest of searching for health insurance quotes. There are many benefits to search for insurance online.  For instance, you can easily compare one company to another.  You can carefully look over policy options and can easily flip around the coverage, until you land on the policy that is right for you.  You can also search for the best deals and can even purchase your insurance from your home computer.  This makes the process fast and efficient and that is extremely helpful to those with busy lives. If you do choose to go online to investigate health insurance plans, be advised that there are some possible drawbacks.  First, many of the sites you visit are not providers, but merely collectors of your personal information which they sell as leads to insurance agents.  This means that once you give them identifying information, you will likely begin receiving contacts from insurance agencies looking to sell you coverage.  Also keep in mind, as with any online purchase, that you determine that the site is secure before providing personal information. You will be able to learn quite a bit about the different companies and their policy offerings with your internet connection.  This can be helpful and save a lot of time, especially of you have a good idea of your needs before you begin your search. Shopping around for health insurance is easier than it ever has been when you use your home computer.  Just be sure you get the facts you need and stay alert to who you give your personal information to.  If you have any questions at all, telephone the company direct and ask to speak to a customer service representative.  That way you will be able to proceed in your research with confidence and assurance that you are in safe hands. About the Author: If you are searching for Georgia Health Insurance , click over to the internet’s top rated resource for quotes for all major carriers, including Blue Cross Blue Shield . The professionals at www.GoHealthInsurance.com can provide easy answers to your difficult questions in an instant. Comments (0) Demystifying Prostate Vitamins Filed under: Nutrition — Tags: alternative medicine , cancer , cancer of prostate , diseases , health , Illness , men's issues , Nutrition , prostate cancer —   @ 7:22 am by Clare Wabz If you’ve ever had the faintest concern about your prostate and the possibility of cancer, you’ve probably turned to the internet to do some research. What you’ve immediately run into has been a confusing assortment of contradictory claims.  Some articles maintain that Vitamin E will protect you. Others recommend multivitamins. Yet others, zinc or beta-carotene. And let’s not forget the big scare of 2007, which had headlines screaming that prostate vitamins might actually increase the risk of cancer. Which version should you trust? Well, a little further research into the the National Cancer Institutes 2006-2007 actual study should reassure you that the media may have been doing what they do best all too often – scaremongering for the sake of a good story. A closer look at the actual study indicates there was only an increase in aggressive cancer noted when the subjects regularly took prostate vitamins in excess of the recommended dosage. Of the 1,476 men who developed cancer requiring aggressive treatment during the study, the 12% fatality rate proved to be one third higher than among the group who stuck religiously to the recommended vitamin dosage. The Actual Study Results Tell You What Really Counts Karla A. Lawson, who directed the study, concluded that “the relationship between multivitamin use and prostate cancer is unclear”, minimizing a connection between vitamins and early prostate cancer.  However, she did amend that by documenting the suspicious rise in aggressive cancer among those males who overused supplements and vitamins. Its tempting to start treating yourself prophylactically if your family has a history of cancer of the prostate, especially if you are no longer young. Lawsons study seems to firmly caution against this. Those most likely to use high amounts of vitamins and multivitamins fall into two groups: men whose families show a history of prostate cancer, and men who are proactively health-conscious.  The study leaves both groups with a clear warning. Lets look at the accepted ways of maintaining health as we grow older. Nothing new and exciting here, and some healthy habits may have no effect at all whether or not you are one of the unlucky people who develop cancer ” but one habit you should stick to at all costs! # Eat healthily * Even if its only a walk in the morning and some simple stretches, make sure you regularly participate in some form of exercise * Pay attention to your sleep habits – insomnia can cause a world of hurts # Focus on the positives in life ” what you want in your life, not what you don’t want. # And yes ” you can take prostate vitamins ” but don’t overdo it by a single capsule! * And that last, important tip ” if you are over 50, do get your prostate gland checked out by your family physician regularly. Its a simple examination ” and it may save more than your life! About the Author: If you are worried about your prostate health, get facts of the shocking truth about prostate vitamins and make sure you check out this site and learn more on how to take care of cancer of prostate . Comments (0) 3 Ways to Cure Menopause Hot Flashes Filed under: Healthcare — Tags: cancer , disease , health , Health & Fitness:Womens Issues , Healthcare , menopause , menopause herb , menopause medication , menopause relief , menopause symptom , menopause treatment , signs menopause , women , womens health menopause —   @ 4:15 am by Grace Lam Whenever you are waking up in the night experiencing hot flashes or night sweats and chills, menopause might be just coming soon. You might think that you are too young to experience menopause. However symptoms like hot flashes or night sweats and chills can really begin occurring up to two years before menopause begins. A menopause hot flash happens when your body is slowing down its production of estrogen. Estrogen is a very important hormone that found in both men and women. For women, this hormone regulates ovulation which in turn determines the cycle of a woman’s menses. Estrogen is not only help in the development of your follicles into eggs, it also related with how and when your ovaries release those eggs. While you grow older, your body slows the estrogen production. That is why you no longer produce eggs of have a monthly period after menopause. Estrogen also manages how your body regulates temperature. When you have less estrogen in your body system, the part of your brain which tells you how hot or cold you are short wires. As a result, you start experiencing menopause symptoms like night sweats, hot flushes and chills. Herbal Remedy for Hot Flashes Since herbs aren’t regulated the same way that prescription drugs are, it is a good idea to do some studies before you take a hot flash relief supplement. Some herbal remedies just don’t include the suitable amount of ingredients to do you any real good. If you need a natural remedy stick to good products like the menopause treatment that mention in our website, so you can confirm that you are getting the right ingredients in the right amounts to cure hot flashes. Effexor and Neurontin Hot Flashes Medication Drugs like Effexor and Neurontin have shown some promise when it comes to hot flash treatment. Unluckily they have also shown some dangerous side effects. Many doctors have no longer endorse of prescribe these controversial to treat hot flashes. Lifestyle Hot Flashes Relief Choices Many women choose not to be medicated for hot flashes. Instead they allow a lifestyle of exercise, better eating and avoiding things that can trigger a hot flash. Anything that you do to make yourself healthier will be some help for hot flashes. If you are suffering from menopause symptoms like hot flashes or night sweats and chills, there is a possibility you are beginning menopause. The good news is with the correct treatment, hot flashes never have to get the best of you. If you are combing your lifestyle with herbal supplementation, you can relief from menopause symptoms easily. About the Author: Grace Lam, who has studies various medical studies and eliminate menopause symptoms successfully, has share her knowledge through website where you can get Free E-book and Useful Guide-line about Menopause and Menopause Treatment . Comments (0) January 2009 M T W T F S S « Dec Feb » 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Recent Posts Go for Less Sugar Losing Weight Done The Simple Way Healthy Snacks for Kids and Making Smarter Snacking Choices 10 Top Healthy Foods To Keep Fit Maximise manufacturing efficiency and scale-ability for miniaturisation and bead milling Categories Blog General Health Insurance Healthcare Nutrition Archives January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 July 2010 June 2010 May 2010 April 2010 March 2010 February 2010 January 2010 December 2009 November 2009 October 2009 September 2009 August 2009 July 2009 June 2009 May 2009 April 2009 March 2009 February 2009 January 2009 December 2008 November 2008 October 2008 MSNBC Health News Using AIDS drugs to prevent infection: a bargain? Tattooed people drink more, says new study Dole recalls bagged salad for salmonella risk Saltiness of fast food depends on where you buy it Wallower, bottler or yeller? Understand your anger style Blogroll International Health Insurance International Stu