
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 09:57:03 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: *
PRAGMA: no-cache
P3P: CP="IDC DSP COR DEVa TAIa OUR BUS UNI"
Cache-Control: max-age=-3600
Expires: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 08:57:03 GMT
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Menopause About.com Health Alternative Medicine Alternative Medicine Search Alternative Medicine Supplements Treatments By Condition Share See More About: menopause hot flashes Natural
        Approach to Menopause by Rishma
Walji, B.Sc.,
N.D. continued
from Page 1 Herbal
Medicine Studies
have found the herb black cohosh ( Cimicifuga racemosa ) to be effective in
relieving perimenopausal symptoms, including hot flashes and depressed mood.
Other herbs, such as red clover, chasteberry, and dong quai are also commonly
used in menopause but have not been fully researched. When considering the use
of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and natural hormones, it is important to
weigh individual risks and benefits before deciding which route to take. There
are many factors involved, so it is necessary to seek the advice of a qualified
health care practitioner before using any herbal medicines. Exercise Physical
activity has been shown to reduce hot flashes, weight gain, and depression. It
is also beneficial for sleep and to maintain healthy cholesterol levels.
Resistance and weight-bearing exercise, such as weight training, walking, and
dancing, are particularly useful for the prevention of osteoporosis, while
aerobic exercise benefits the cardiovascular system. Other
Therapies Homeopathic
medicine can be used during menopause to address both physical symptoms and
emotional responses. Asian medicine is another method of treating imbalances
within the body. Both homeopathic and acupuncture treatments are individualized
and can be used in conjunction with HRT as well as for those not taking hormonal
therapy. Back
> Page 1 Related
Articles Hormone
Replacement Therapy; Any Good Alternatives? What
Are Some Food Sources of Vitamin E? Survey:
What Alternative Therapies Do Women Use During Menopause? Breast
Cancer and Menopause: Some Herbs Unsafe References 1. 
Albertazzi P, et al. The effect of dietary soy supplementation on hot flashes. Obstetrics
and Gynecology. 1998;91:6. 2. 
Brezezinski et al. Short-term effects of phytoestrogen-rich diet on
post-menopausal women. Menopause: Journal of the North American Menopausal
Society. 1997;4:89. 3. 
Gruenwald, J. Standardized black cohosh ( cimicifuga ) extract clinical
monograph. Quarterly Review of Natural Medicine . Summer 1998:117. 4. 
Hammar M, Berg G, Lindgren R. Does physical exercise influence the frequency of
postmenopausal hot flushes? Acta Obstet Gynecology Scandanavia . 1990;
69:409. 5. 
Hudson T. Women's Encyclopedia of Natural Medicine. Los Angeles: Keats
Publishing, 1999. 6. 
Katz, T. Homeopathic treatment during menopause. Complementary Therapies in
Nursing and Midwifery . 1997;3:46. 7. 
Lihmenn-Willenbrock E, et al. Clinical and endocrinologic examinations of
climacteric symptoms following hysterectomy with remaining ovaries. Zent
Gynakol 1998; 110-611. 8. 
Lucerno M, McCloskey W. Alternatives to estrogen for the treatment of hot
flashes. Annals of Pharmacotherapy . 1997;31:915. 9. 
McKenna DJ, et al. Black cohosh: efficacy, safety, and use in clinical and
preclinical applications. Alternative Therapies in Health and Medicine. 2001;7:93. 10. 
North American Menopause Society. The role of isoflavones in menopausal health:
consensus opinion of the North American Menopause Society. 2000;85;2797. 11. 
Ryan et al. Resistance training increases fat-free mass and maintains BMR
despite weight loss in postmenopausal women. Canadian Journal of Cardiology .
1996;12:1253. 12. 
Women's Health Initiative. Risks and benefits of estrogen plus progestin in
healthy postmenopausal women. JAMA . 2002;288(3). Recent Articles Related Articles Menopause - Natural Approach to Menopause Menopause Treatment Why Some Women Choose MHT Alternatives - Menopause Professional Qualifications - Menopause Menopause, HRT and Alternative Therapy Cathy Wong Alternative Medicine Guide Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Free Alternative Medicine Newsletter! Sign Up Discuss in my forum Explore Alternative Medicine Must Reads Are My Supplements Safe? Popular Herbs Massage: Worth the Money? Before You Detox Sleep Better - Naturally Most Popular Detox Quiz Stool - What's Healthy? The Detox Diet Green Stool High Blood Pressure Remedies See More About: menopause hot flashes By Category Acupuncture to Yoga The Basics Conditions & Remedies Herbs & Supplements Diets Healthy Recipes Massage Therapy Mind & Body Find a Practitioner Natural Health Schools Alternative Medicine About.com Health Alternative Medicine Most Popular Latest Articles RSS Also from About.com: Calorie Count - Nutrition Database Advertise on About.com Our Story News & Events Work at About SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2012 About.com. All rights reserved. A part of The New York Times Company . We comply with the HONcod