
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2012 06:46:15 GMT
Server: Apache
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.2.13
X-Pingback: http://www.wlshelp.com/news/xmlrpc.php
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Weight Loss Surgery |  Weight Loss Surgery News HOME ABOUT NEWS SURGEON DIRECTORY Weight Loss Surgery News Weight Loss Surgery Sex Guidelines Released for Bariatric Surgery Women May 31, 2010 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (or CDC) released Friday the 2010 US Medical Eligibility Criteria for Contraceptive Use. In the document, US health officials issued safety guidelines and warnings regarding contraception use for millions of women who have had weight loss surgery. In the guidance, the CDC issued recommendations concerning the use of [...] Read the full article  → Insurance Company to Cover Newer Method of Bariatric Surgery April 21, 2010 Aetna, one of the nations largest health insurers, revised its policy on obesity surgery this month to include open and laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy among its covered bariatric procedures. The sleeve gastrectomy procedure, often referred to as the gastric sleeve, is a newer method of bariatric surgery that is gaining in popularity as a treatment for [...] Read the full article  → New Wellness Program Pays for Weight Loss Surgery April 13, 2010 Hawaii Pacific Health, a non-profit healthcare organization, has implemented a wellness program that will fully reimburse the cost of weight loss surgery for certain qualified employees. While some people may question whether or not an employer should offer a benefit that only a few employees may need or want, others may applaud the company’s forward [...] Read the full article  → Hospital’s Bariatric Program Has What it Takes for Weight Loss Success March 30, 2010 The Bariatric and Weight Management Program at Hallmark Health’s Lawrence Memorial Hospital of Medford has been designated a Bariatric Surgery Center of Excellence (BSCOE) by the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. For a medical center to earn this distinction is something akin to an actor being awarded an Oscar or an athlete winning [...] Read the full article  → Bariatric Surgery Center Opens For Teens February 1, 2010 One of the first Obesity Weight Loss Programs specifically targeted to teens has opened at Rose Medical Center in Denver. Although the center provides a full range of surgical and medical weight loss services for overweight adolescents, a primary feature of the program is to cater to teens wanting weight loss surgery. The surgical weight [...] Read the full article  → 10 Year Old Is Youngest for Weight Loss Surgery January 25, 2010 At 10 years of age, Kshitiji Jindger is the youngest patient in Asia to undergo weight loss surgery. According to the Times of India, the operation was performed last month by laparoscopic and obesity surgeon Dr Mahendra Narwaria. According to Dr Narwaria, the boy had a normal body weight at birth, but started gaining excess [...] Read the full article  → Diabetes Study to Compare Weight Loss Surgery vs Lifestyle Intervention January 20, 2010 Obesity and diabetes are closely linked diseases that have both been shown to improve following weight loss surgery. Yet, to date, weight loss surgery is performed only as a treatment for severe obesity. Many scientific and medical experts, however, are recommending that weight loss surgery be studied as a primary treatment for diabetes as well. [...] Read the full article  → Health Reform Taxes Bariatric Plastic Surgery December 8, 2009 The health care bill proposed by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid includes a 5% tax on all cosmetic plastic surgery. The proposed tax is expected to raise an estimated $5.8 billion over 10 years and would help pay for the health insurance overhaul that is currently being debated in Congress. According to the bill, if [...] Read the full article  → Patients Lose Weight with New Incisionless POSE Procedure November 30, 2009 You will soon be able to lose weight via a groundbreaking incisionless, pain-free weight loss procedure known as POSE (Primary Obesity Surgery, Endolumenal). The POSE procedure reduces the size of your stomach without making a single incision into the body by utilizing special tools that access the stomach through the mouth and esophagus. Not only [...] Read the full article  → United Healthcare Covers Gastric Sleeve November 6, 2009 United Healthcare (UHC), one of the largest health carriers in the United States, has changed its bariatric medical policy to include coverage for gastric sleeve surgery. The new policy, which went into effect October 1, 2009, is a significant event for bariatric surgery patients and gastric sleeve advocates. UHC’s decision reflects a fundamental change in [...] Read the full article  → « Older Posts Newer Posts » Search WLS Help RSS News Feed Subscribe to WLS Help News and keep up-to-date on current obesity and weight loss surgery news! Subscribe via email or RSS feed now! News Categories Bariatric Surgery Study Duodenal Switch Experimental Treatments Gastric Bypass Surgery Lap Band Surgery New Technology Obesity Research Weight Loss Weight Loss Surgery News Tags Allergan ASMBS bariatric surgery benefits BMI body-sculpting childhood obesity clinical trials complications Covidian da Vinci diabetes dietary supplements drugs duodenal switch EndoBarrier FDA gastric balloon gastric banding gastric bypass gastric imbrication gastric plication gastric sleeve GI Dynamics insurance lap band New Technology NOTES obesity patient criteria POSE pregnancy realize band risks robots safety Satiety Inc study TOGA United Healthcare USGI Medical weight gain Weight Loss weight loss study wls for teens Follow Us on Twitter WLS Articles Weight Loss Surgery Options Cost of Weight Loss Surgery Gastric Bypass Surgery Lap Band Surgery Gastric Sleeve StomaphyX Weight Loss Surgery Diet Financing Weight Loss Surgery Like Us on Facebook Contact Us | Privacy | Disclaimer © 2002 - 2009 WLShelp.com.  All rights reserved. Disclaimer: All medical information published on wlshelp.com is for informational purposes only and is not meant to replace professional medical or health advice, examination, diagnosis, or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health professional before starting any new treatment, making any changes to existing treatment, o