Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Journeywoman - Jet Lag & Melatonin FREE 
            ADVICE Browse 
            Our Travel Ads Receive 
            Our Newsletter Use 
            Our Search Engine Discover 
            Hermail.Net Where's 
            Journeywoman? BEST 
            SHE CAN BE 500 Best Travel Tips What to Wear, Where Travel 
              Safely and Well Her Guide to Packing JUST 
            FOR HER Her Travel Tales Her Cities of the World She Travels Solo She Loves to Cruise The Older Adventuress She Travels to Learn Her 
            EcoAdventures She's 
            a Biz Traveller She Shops the World She Travels with Kids GirlTalk 
            Cyberguides THINGS 
            SHE LOVES Men Have Their Say Travel Love Stories Tour Guides Worldwide Restaurants Worldwide Books She Suggests We 
            Love Our Sponsors HEALTH 
            & WELLNESS She Visits Spas JourneyDoctor Advice CONTACT 
            US Letter 
            to the Editor Send 
            a travel tip Media 
            request Speaking 
            Engagements Want 
            to Advertise? LINKS Bloggers 
            We Recommend Jet Lag & Melatonin S haron 
              B. Wingler is a flight attendant and the author of the newly released 
              guide, Travel Alone and Love it. If anyone should know about dealing 
              with jet lag, it is this much travelled woman. I began researching melatonin because I'd heard so much about it being 
              used to combat jet lag. My health food guru told me it is primarily 
              used as a sleep aid. He said his store can hardly keep up with the 
              demand for it. One customer was cured of a 15 year case of insomnia. 
              In further reading it occurred to me that melatonin seems to be 
              the "vitamin C" of the 90s. Some studies have shown it to offer 
              many exciting benefits. Among them are not only help in fighting 
              jet lag and insomnia, but also help in the fight against aging and 
              cancer. It seems to boost the body's immune system and protects 
              cells from free-radical damage. W hat 
              is melatonin? It is a hormone that occurs naturally in the human 
              body. Secreted by the pineal gland in response to light, melatonin 
              helps regulate the rhythms of our sleep and the action of other 
              hormones. The level of melatonin in our bodies peaks in childhood 
              and continue to decline as we age. Therefore, replacing the older 
              body's "lost" melatonin helps us to "sleep like a baby." B e 
              cautious with this, as with many other supplements, as the jury 
              is still out over long term effects. Still, as a sleep aid, it seems 
              to me to be more natural and, safer than sleeping pills. The pills 
              I have are sublingual (to be dissolved under the tongue) and in 
              2.5 milligram strength. I usually break the tablet into half dose 
              size. I have always slept well but I do notice that I drift off 
              to sleep a bit more quickly with melatonin, and I wake up with no 
              groggy after-effect. T he 
              recommended nightly dosage in combating jet lag is 5 milligrams. 
              You should not continue this high a dosage after your jet lag passes. 
              Definitely do not take melatonin with a sleeping pill. Read the 
              label carefully for any possible warnings. Melatonin is not to be 
              taken by children, teenagers, pregnant or lactating women, nor by 
              people with certain medical conditions. It is best to ask your doctor 
              about it. F or 
              further information, you may read the articles in Newsweek, August 
              7, 1995 and Newsweek, November 6, 1995. Books include The Melatonin 
              Miracle, by Pierpaoli and Regelson with Colman (Simon and Shuster) 
              and Melatonin: Your Body's Natural Wonder Drug by Reiter and Robinson 
              (Bantam Books) Ed. note: To 
              date, melatonin can be purchased freely in the U.S.A. but has not 
              yet been approved by the Canadian Food and Drug. And, while it is 
              illegal for stores to sell it in Canada, there seems to be no law 
              against bringing it in from the States. More 
          JourneyDoctor articles Home free newsletter | gal-friendly city sites | go-alone travel tips | love stories travel classifieds | ms. biz | journey doctor | women's travel tales | she goes shopping what should I wear? | letters to the editor | the older adventuress | travel 101 | girl talk guides women helping women travel | her spa stop | her ecoadventures | best books travel with kiddies | shopping | cruise holidays | awards and kudos | home | search engine Contact Informatio