
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Tue, 10 Apr 2012 22:28:26 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.3.6
X-Pingback: http://www.weightlosslib.com/xmlrpc.php
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

An Introduction To Weight Loss Surgery |  Fast Weight Loss Fast Weight Loss Tips - Quick Weight Loss Diet Plan, Lose Weight Fast Home Fast Weight Loss Tips Advertise BMI Calculator Contact Resources Categories Weight Loss Tips Weight Loss Methods Lose Belly Fat Weight Loss Diet Health & Fitness Popular Posts 10 Tips For Fast Weight Loss How to Lose Belly Fat Without Exercise How To Lose 50 Pounds Fast 5 Quick Weight Loss Diet Tips How Do I Lose 10 Pounds in 2 Weeks Home » weight loss surgery »  An Introduction To Weight Loss Surgery An Introduction To Weight Loss Surgery Posted by Journey Weight loss surgery is done to remove excess fat collected in various parts of an obese person’s body. Weight loss surgery is also known as bariatric surgery. A bariatric surgeon is qualified to perform this complex surgery. MGB or mini gastric bypass is a laparoscopic surgery, which is simple and inexpensive. It is widely used and is believed to be the safest and most effective bariatric surgery. The entire operation takes only about thirty minutes and the patient is hospitalized for less than twenty-four hours. Bariatric surgeons first recognized the scope for surgical weight loss while performing operations, which required the removal of large segments of a patient’s stomach and intestine. They saw that most patients undergoing such operations were unable to maintain their pre-surgical weight. Keeping this observation in mind, they were able to recommend similar modifications that could be safely used to produce weight loss in obese patients. Bariatric surgery works by helping to reduce food intake. It does not hinder with the normal absorption of food. After the surgery, patients must stick to the guidelines and restrictions that their surgeon prescribes. Even though the guidelines may change depending on the surgeon, the patient must follow the surgeon’s instructions. Patients who learn to eat slowly, eat less, and avoid drinking too many fluids are usually the ones who see the best results. In certain cases, the operation alters the digestive procedure. This causes the food to be in an indigested and incompletely absorbed stage. In such cases, the food is eliminated along with the stool. Surgeons are trying to perfect the operation to avoid such situations. Prior to the surgery, a patient is made to sign a consent form. This is an acknowledgement from the patient that they have received and understood information provided about the procedure’s benefits and risks. Bariatric surgery has proved to be a huge boon for many obese people. It has helped people attain better health and life styles. It is important to get it done at a reputed clinic by a surgeon who has successfully conducted similar surgeries. By Kent Pinkerton - z-weightloss.com « Seven Steps to Flat Stomach Fast 3 Important Vitamins For Weight Loss Diets » July 24th No Tags Related Articles Related posts: Weight Loss Surgery Options Weight Loss Surgery is a Blessing for the Obese People Obesity Surgery and Weight Loss Surgery The Benefits Of Lap Band Surgery Gastric bypass surgery is the perfect weight loose solution Surgery for Weight Loss - 21 Questions to Ask Before Surgery Lose Weight in No Time With a Gastric Bypass Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Options Your Reply Name Mail (will not be published) Website RSS Featured Sponsored Health Sites Diet Plan Melinda’s Fitness Blog RECENT COMMENTS: midhat : i thnk u should go 4 banana diet amber : 1cup honey .1/4 cup apple vinegar and... Kasey : I am 13 pounds over weight. I need to... Fitnesstroop : The ideal steps to weight loss... Joe : Some good common sense tips. I’m on... Disclaimer: The Weight loss diet and tips on our site are intended as an aid to lose weight and weight maintenance, and do not offer medical advice.If you suffer from, or think you may suffer from, a medical condition you should consult your doctor before starting it. The lose weight ways is only an advice, please note it. How To Slimming We provide you fast weight loss ways, free quick weight loss tips on how to lose weight fast and get the best way to rapid weight loss .
Free diet plan to help you lose weight. Find the best diet pills to lose belly fat. Copyright © 2