<http://www.hqbk.com/blog/?p=304>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Non Surgical Spinal Decompression | HQBK Blog Home | About HealthQuest | Professional Staff | Specials/Events | Privacy Policy | Contact Us | Blogs Query Apr 01 Non Surgical Spinal Decompression This entry is filed under Spinal decompression , Spinal decompression therapy . Severe back and neck pain is a debilitating condition faced by people worldwide, and these problems if left untreated, can cause permanent loss of functioning in regions associated with the neck and the back. Although traditional techniques exist, new treatment methods have been developed which are faster and more effective. One such new treatment procedure for treating back pain is the non-surgical spinal decompression technique. Spinal decompression is a safe, drug-free and painless treatment for treating back pain. The treatment works on the principle that a linear force applied to the body can create a negative pressure between the vertebrae. This pressure can push back a misaligned disc into its proper place, thus maintaining the alignment which increases the normal circulation of oxygen, water and nutritional liquids into the area. Earlier treatment procedures required the patient to take harmful drugs and sometimes even undergo surgeries. One associated technology is the Decompression Therapy System (DTS) and all decompression techniques require the patient to lie on his/her back on the decompression table with padded straps around the chest and waist. The treatment is comfortable for patients and all equipments used are FDA certified. Spinal decompression techniques have been found successful in treating physical ailments such as bulging or herniated discs, facet syndrome, sciatica, spinal arthritis, spinal stenosis, degenerative joint disease, chronic back pain and post-surgical low back pain. Decompression technique is an effective solution for common difficulties associated with the back pain arising from damages to the vertebrae, which often cause the gelatinous material inside to flow out. The technique also reduces the strain on muscles, wrenching of ligaments and reduces the pain of arms and legs. With more and more patients receiving decompression treatment, the credibility of this technique is increasing rapidly. The treatment is producing better results, while the cost is effective compared to other available treatments. Tweet Posted by admin Tags: brooklyn non-surgical spinal decompression , brooklyn spinal decompression , spinal decompression new york city , spinal decompression therapy , spinal decompression treatment Leave a Reply Name * Mail (will not be published) * Website Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 April 2011 March 2011 February 2011 January 2011 December 2010 November 2010 October 2010 September 2010 August 2010 August 2008 Recent Posts Neck Pain Treatment Physical Therapy Exercises for Spinal Stenosis Does Physical Therapy Exercises Help Relieve Lower Back Pain? How Rehabilitation Services Can Reduce Disability When Do People Need Physical Therapy? Subscribe RSS Feed Atom Feed Add to Google My Yahoo Twitter Facebook Patient Forms | Medical Consultation | Physical Examination | Chiropractic Manipulation | Rehabilitation Services | Physical Therapy | Neurology | MRI and Diagnostics | Spinal Decompression | Smoking Cessation | Orthopedics | Pain Management | Weight Loss Program | Slip Fall Prevention | Professional Staff | Site Map Website design by Managed Outsource Solutions Medical Consultation Physical Examination Chiropractic Manipulation Rehabilitation Services Physical Therapy MRI & Diagnostics Spinal Decompression Smoking Cessation Orthopedics Pain Managemen