Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Evidence Summary: Dementia 28 August 2007 Evidence Summary: Dementia Evidence Summary Author: Barbara James RN BA(Hons) MA Summary What is it? Dementia affects a person's memory, personality, thinking and ability to look after themselves. There are many different forms of dementia. The most common form is Alzheimer's disease.  The second most common form is vascular dementia, which is caused by changes in the blood vessels of the brain. Illnesses such as Parkinson's disease, Huntington's chorea, AIDS and head injuries can also progress to a stage where a person develops dementia. 1 What are some early  symptoms of dementia? • difficulty handling familiar tasks •	difficulty finding the right word to use •	getting lost following a familiar route home •	anxiety •	personality changes The early signs may be very subtle and a person may dismiss them as not being important. What is the treatment? Early diagnosis is important as medication and medical treatment can slow the progress of some types of dementia. 2 When the illness progresses, treatment focuses on managing the person's symptoms and providing ongoing support for the family. 1 How does the condition progress? Although each individual is different, and different types of dementia run different courses, there tends to be three recognisable stages of the condition. 1.	The first is the loss of memory and the ability to concentrate. 2.	The middle stage usually involves increased confusion, difficulty communicating, personality changes and wandering, especially at night. 3.	In the third stage both long and short term memory are lost and family members are no longer recognised. 1 What are some non medical therapies that have been tried with people who have dementia? • Music.  Because music can affect mood, music therapy has been used to see if it improves symptoms in people with dementia. While some experiments report success in terms of wandering, aggression, language skills, cognitive and social skills, the small size of the samples means it is not scientifically proven. 3 • Reminiscence therapy. This consists of individual or small group sessions over at least a month. It involves reminiscing with photographs, music and videos of the past. Several trials of reminiscence therapy carried out for six sessions or more reported good results resulting in better mood, behaviour and thinking in dementia patients and decreased stress in caregivers. However, more research is needed to support these conclusions. 4 •	Extra stimulation. There is some evidence that people diagnosed with 'dementia with Lewy bodies' respond well to extra stimulation, social interaction and novelty, but this also is not yet proven. 2 The evidence suggests… Early diagnosis and appropriate medication can slow the progress of some types of dementia and help with distressing symptoms. Non medical therapies such as music, reminiscence therapy and extra stimulation have been reported to have positive effects but are not yet proven. People with dementia and their family need ongoing support and follow-up care with attention to symptoms causing distress. Please note This is a summary of research evidence undertaken by the Joanna Briggs Institute in order to provide you with reliable information regarding dementia. Consumers with concerns about their condition should seek medical advice.  We strongly recommend all of the information contained in this evidence review be carefully reviewed with your health care provider. References 1.	Fishers Center for Alzheimer's research Foundation. [Online]. [cited 2007 Aug 20]. Available at; http://www.alzinfo.org/ 2.	McKeith IG, Dickson DW, Lowe J, Emre M, O'Brien JT, Feldman H et al. Diagnosis and management of dementia with Lewy bodies, Third Report of the DLB consortium. Neurology. 2005;65:1863-72. 3.	Vink AC, Birks JS, Bruinsma MS, Scholten RJPM. Music therapy for people with dementia. Cochrane Database Systemic Review. 2003;(4). 4.      Woods B, Spector A, Jones C, Orrell M, Davies, S. Reminiscence therapy for dementia. Cochrane Database Systemic Review. 2005;2. JBI Le