
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Apache/1.3.34 (Unix) mod_ssl/2.8.25 OpenSSL/0.9.7a
X-ATG-Version: ATGPlatform/7.2 [ DASLicense/0 DPSLicense/0 DSSLicense/0  ]
Content-Type: text/html
Cache-Control: private
Date: Thu, 05 Apr 2012 19:25:36 GMT
Connection: close
Set-Cookie: BROWSER_ID=4^rc13-5.babycenter.com^1333653935^528271^63019; DOMAIN=.babycenter.com; PATH=/
Set-Cookie: SID=b539352827631666; DOMAIN=.babycenter.com; PATH=/

Coughs Advertisement Search Home > Baby > Baby health > Send to a friend Printable version Share Reader comments Coughs Written for BabyCenter India Last reviewed: December 2011 What is causing my baby's cough? How can I help to soothe my baby's cough? When should I call the doctor if my baby has a cough? Will over-the-counter medicines help my baby? What is causing my baby's cough? Your baby coughs because he is either trying to get rid of mucus, or because his throat and airway are swollen. Many things cause a cough, but it is usually a sign of a cold or the flu. Colds: If your baby's cough is caused by a cold , he may also have a stuffy, runny nose, a sore throat, watery eyes and a fever . Your baby coughs to get rid of the extra mucus caused by the cold. Flu: Flu can look very similar to a cold. If your baby has the flu, he will have a fever, runny nose and sometimes diarrhoea or vomiting . But a cough caused by flu will be different to one caused by a cold. It will be 'dry' instead of 'chesty'. This means that your baby will be coughing up very little mucus. Find out how to tell the difference between a cold and the flu. Croup: If your baby has croup , he will cough because his airway is swollen. Babies have narrow airways. They are much smaller than yours. This makes it harder for your baby to breathe when it is swollen. Children aged between six months and three years are most likely to get croup. A croup cough will sound like barking. It often starts in the night. Whooping cough: Whooping cough is a bacterial infection. It is infectious. A baby with whooping cough will have an intense, hacking cough. There will be a lot of mucus and your baby will make a 'whoop' sound when he breathes in. Find out how to protect your baby from whooping cough. Asthma: Asthma can also cause your baby to cough. A baby with asthma will wheeze when breathing in and out, have a tight chest and will also be short of breath. Tuberculosis: A persistent cough is a possible sign of TB. A TB cough will last for over two weeks. A baby with TB may cough up blood, be breathless and have less of an appetite. He may also have a fever. Read more about Tuberculosis in children . Sometimes, a viral infection can develop complications. Complications such as pneumonia and bronchitis can both cause your baby to cough. How can I help to soothe my baby's cough? Your baby will recover from his cough on his own. But, there are some things that you can do to make your baby more comfortable. Put him in a steamy room. If your baby has a chesty cough that makes a lot of mucus, steaming can help clear his nose and chest. Run a hot shower and then place your baby in the room. Shut the door and use a towel to block the bottom of the doorway. Stay there for about 15 minutes. Try taking some books or toys with you, to give your baby something to do whilst sitting in the room. Raise the head of the mattress. Sometimes a cough can keep your baby awake at night. Raising the head of his mattress may help him to breathe easier. Try putting a couple of towels or pillows underneath your baby's mattress at the head end. This will make a slight slope. Give him plenty of fluids. If your baby is under six months old, give him plenty of your breastmilk. It will help him to fight the cause of his cough. It will also soothe his throat if it is sore. If your baby is older than six months, give him plenty of water or other drinks. Try not to give him fruit juices or soda drinks. They may irritate his throat if it is sore. Give him honey if he is over a year old. Research has found that honey can be more soothing for the throat than cough syrups. If your child is between one and five years old, give him half a teaspoon a day. If your child is between six and 11 years old, give him a whole teaspoon. Make sure his teeth are brushed afterwards. You can also make your own warm, soothing drinks for your baby if he is over six months old. These drinks will be much better for him than the syrups you can buy. Why not try the following recipes? Lime drink Juice three small limes Add to a glass of drinking water Add one large spoonful of sugar Give one glass three times a day Ginger drink Chop and peel two large pieces of root ginger Boil the ginger in four glasses of drinking water for 15 minutes Divide it into three. Give one part every eight hours Tamarind drink Finely chop some tamarind leaves Boil them in two glasses of drinking water for 15 minutes Strain and cool Divide into three, and give one part every eight hours Read more on what to feed a child down with cough and fever . When should I call the doctor if my baby has a cough? A cough will usually clear up on its own, especially if you follow the tips above. If your baby's cough is caused by a cold or the flu , the care you give will be all your baby needs. Colds and the flu are viruses. Antibiotics won't get rid of them. But, you should always take your baby to the doctor quickly if: your baby's cough lasts for over two weeks your baby's cough gets worse your baby starts coughing up green, yellow, brownish or blood-stained mucus your baby has rapid or shallow breathing, and is wheezing your baby has an intense, hacking cough or 'whoop' your baby is losing weight and lacks an appetite your baby is coughing constantly, or begins to turn blue Will over-the-counter medicines help my baby? You may be tempted to give your baby over-the-counter medicines to help him. These medicines will not cure your baby, but they may help to soothe his symptoms. Always ask your doctor before giving your baby any medicines. Some cough syrups contain lots of alcohol. This is bad for your baby. Check the ingredients before you give your baby any syrups. Sign up for our award-winning weekly newsletter Enter your due date or child's birthday: dd 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 mm Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec yyyy 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 I'm trying to conceive I'm trying to conceive Receive weekly stage-based newsletters detailing your child's development See our privacy policy Reader comments about this page See all reader comments This week's hot topics Editors' choice Most Popular Fun Stuff Editors' choice What your baby needs to thrive . Babycare myths and truths Seven reasons babies cry and how to soothe them Most Popular Check out the top 40 baby names of 2011 ! How to breastfeed: a visual guide . Must read tips on coping with a toddler and a new baby. Fun Stuff Try our amazing baby namer , create a name poll or choose a name based on your baby's birth star . Are you a big fan of horoscopes? Find out how different signs relate! Family fun: Check out our top 10 fun things to do as a family! Photos and videos Inside pregnancy videos Labour and birth video Yoga videos See all our videos Fetal development photos Swaddling your baby How to massage your baby See all our photo galleries Photo service Tools and calendars Ovulation calculator Due date calculator Pregnancy calendar Baby calendar Antenatal appointment scheduler Baby name finder Immunisation scheduler All our tools Baby names Find a baby name Birth star names Baby name ideas Create a baby name poll All our baby name articles Favourites Fetal development Baby development Find your stage Family horoscopes Birthday fun fact All our forums and birth clubs Most popular All our articles... Get answers How long will it take to get pregnant? What antenatal tests and scans will I have? Is it safe? How will my sex life change during pregnancy? How will I know when I'm in labour? When to call the doctor Breastfeeding solutions What causes a tantrum? All our expert answers... Advertisement Eating well Wondering how to buy the freshest fruits and vegetables? Check out our tips to help you get the best value for your money. Our Advertisers JOHNSON'S® Baby Baby Wipes Top to Toe Prickly Heat Powder Sleep Profile Already registered? Log in here. Your Pregnancy Week by Week Subscribe to our free email newsletters that millions of parents rave about. Enter your due date or baby's birth date: dd 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 mm Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec yyyy 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 I'm trying to conceive I'm trying to conceive Receive weekly stage-based newsletters detailing your child's development Receive regular bulletin emails with tips on planning a baby, pregnancy and caring for your family See our privacy policy Advertisement Topics: Go to our Baby health area. Go to our Winter care area. Talk about this topic Search our community to find others talking about this and more! &nbsp&nbsp About BabyCenter Contact us Privacy policy Terms of use About us FAQ Advertise with us BabyCenter shortcuts: Getting pregnant Pregnancy Baby Toddler Mobile Homepage Community Baby names Pregnancy calendar Ovulation calculator Stages Our International sites BabyCenter Arabia (Arabic) BabyCenter Arabia (English) BabyCenter Australia BabyCenter Austria BabyCenter Brasil BabyCenter Canada BabyCenter China BabyCenter France BabyCenter Germany BabyCenter Korea BabyCenter Malaysia BabyCenter Philippines BabyCenter Russia BabyCenter Singapore BabyCenter Spain BabyCenter Spanish (US) BabyCenter Sweden BabyCenter Switzerland BabyCentre UK BabyCenter US (Community) Other sites powered by BabyCenter Baby.com Pregnancy.com All contents copyright © BabyCenter, L.L.C. 2012. All rights reserved. This site is published by BabyCenter, L.L.C., which is responsible for its contents as further described and qualified in terms of use . It is intended for visitors from India. This internet site provides information of a general nature and is designed for educational purposes only. If you have any concerns about your own health or the health of your child, you should always consult a doctor or other healthcare professional. Please review the terms of use before using this site. Your use of the site indicates your agreement to be bound by the terms of use . Getting pregnant All our getting pregnant info Ovulation calculator Before you begin Actively trying Suspecting a problem Fertility treatments Sample BBT chart Pregnancy All our pregnancy info Due date calculator Inside pregnancy videos Early pregnancy Pregnancy care Fetal development Pregnancy complications Baby names Is it safe? Pregnancy diet Labour & birth All our giving birth info Planning birth Labour videos Pain relief Giving birth Labour complications You after the birth Baby All our baby info Newborn care Keeping your baby safe Breastfeeding Baby development Baby health Baby sleep Starting solids Work and childcare Toddler All our toddler info Feeding your toddler Toddler sleep Toddler development Potty training Learning to talk Social and emotional issues Traditions Godh bharai Garbha sanskar Confinement practices Naamkaran Annaprashan Karna vedha Mundan Community All our forums Birth clubs Trying for a baby Pregnancy Infants and toddlers Working parents Fitness and weightloss after