
Unit 6 - Dysentery, Persistent Diarrhoea, and Diarrhoea Associated with Other Illnesses - Medical Education: Teaching Medical Students about Diarrhoeal Diseases Focus on Diarrhoea, Dehydration and Rehydration Rehydration 
					Project Home . Whats 
					New Site 
					Map About 
					us Challenges for the year What 
					You can do .. 
					Money Talks Health Professional Information Contact us . Diarrhoea .. What Every Family has a Right to Know .. What is diarrhoea? .. Why is it dangerous? .. Diarrhea Fact Sheet .. Causes 19 percent of child deaths .. How to prevent it .. Good foods during Diarrhoea .. 
					Diarrhoea Management Training Course .. Clinical Management of Acute Diarrhoea .. Teaching Medical Students . Dialogue 
					on Diarrhoea .. 
					Subject Index .. 
					Country Reference Index .. Author 
					Index . Dehydration .. 3 million deaths a year .. Symptoms .. How to treat dehydration .. How to prevent it .. Treatment Plans . Rehydration .. Oral 
					Rehydration Therapy (ORT) .. Save 1 million a year .. How ORT works .. 10 Things you should know .. What the Experts say .. A Solution for survival .. The Salts of life .. 25 years of saving lives .. ORT Achievements and Challenges .. The drink that saved my daughters life . Solutions .. Home made .. Packaged . Breastfeeding .. 
					Breastfeeding News .. Facts for Feeding .. 
					Breastfeeding FAQ .. Breastfeeding and HIV . Oral 
					Rehydration Salts (ORS) .. Low-osmolarity ORS (ORS) .. Treat Your Child's Diarrhoea at Home .. 
					Frequently Asked Questions .. Rice-Based ORS .. WHO UNICEF Update . Rotavirus .. Rotavirus Vaccines .. Global deaths by Rotavirus . Zinc 
					Supplementation . Hygiene, hand-washing, clean water . Water 
					harvesting, disinfection, storage . Resources .. 
					Links .. 
					Expanded Links .. 
					Slide Shows .. 
					Dialogue on Diarrhoea .. Diarrhoeal Diseases Tutorials / Images CD .. Selling Survival .. Combata la diarrea .. ORT Success Stories . Facts .. Another child will die in the time ... .. 
					About Children .. About Children at risk .. 
					About Child Rights .. About Women at Risk .. 
					About Water .. 
					About Hunger-Myths and Realities .. About Environment at Risk .. About Security at Risk .. 
					About Refugees .. Ending Hunger-Now that we can, we must! .. Breastfeeding protects babies .. World Summit for Children 1990 .. Convention on the Rights of the Child .. Summary of Convention . Frequently Asked Questions - faq's .. What is diarrhoea? .. Why is diarrhoea dangerous? .. What is dehydration? .. How does dehydration occur? .. What if symptoms begin to appear? .. How long will the effects last? .. 
					What is Oral Rehydration Therapy? .. How does ORT work? .. How do I use an ORS package? .. How do I prepare an ORS solution? .. Can the solution be made with dirty water? .. Can the ORS solution be stored? .. Can ORS be used by everyone? .. What to do if the child vomits? .. Should feeding continue with ORT? .. Is is necessary to use drugs? .. What can be done to prevent dehydration? .. How can I protect myself? .. Is home-made and packaged the same? .. How do I replace potassium loss? .. Important aspects of diarrhoea management . Dialogue 
					on Diarrhoea .. 
					Subject Index .. 
					Country Index .. Author 
					Index .. Quick 
					Menu .. Back 
					Issues Menu .. 
					Table of Contents of All Issues .. PDF 
					Issues Menu . *** 
					Dialogue on Diarrhoea Subject Index *** . Aetiology .. Cholera .. Escherichia Coli .. Parasites .. Rotavirus .. Shigella Drug therapy .. Antimicrobials Epidemiology Health education and training .. Health education .. Training Immunisation Laboratory services Nutrition .. Breastfeeding .. Feeding and diarrhoea .. Growth monitoring .. Vitamin A .. Malnutrition and diarrhoea .. Weaning .. General Oral rehydration therapy .. Management of diarrhoea .. Infants .. Formula .. Measuring ORS Sanitation and hygiene .. Handwashing .. Latrines Survey and evaluation methods Traditional remedies / local beliefs Urban health Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Behaviour Water supply .. Water purification Women Facts for Life 7 Point Plan Diarrhoea prevention and treatment Health Education To Villages Mother and Child Nutrition & Malnutrition Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding Breast Crawl Guide to Child Care Home > Diarrhoea > Medical Education: Teaching Medical Students about Diarrhoeal Diseases Unit 1 - The Epidemiology and Etiology of Diarrhoea Unit 2 - Pathopysiology of Watery Diarrhoea: Dehydration and Rehydration Unit 3 - Assessing the Diarrhoea Patient Unit 4 - Treatment of Diarrhoea at Home Unit 5 - Treatment of Dehydrated Patients Unit 6 - Dysentery, Persistent Diarrhoea, and Diarrhoea Associated with Other Illnesses Unit 7 - Diarrhoea and Nutrition Unit 8 - Prevention of Diarrhoea Unit 6 - Dysentery, Persistent Diarrhoea, and Diarrhoea Associated with 
Other Illnesses Medical Education: Teaching Medical Students about Diarrhoeal Diseases http://www.who.int/child-adolescent-health/New_Publications/CHILD_HEALTH/Meded/6med.htm INTRODUCTION DYSENTERY Definition, etiology, and importance Clinical 
features and diagnosis Management Antibiotic therapy Fluids Feeding Follow-up Prevention PERSISTENT DIARRHOEA Definition, etiology, and importance Risk 
factors Nutritional impact Management History and examination Laboratory examination Fluid and electrolyte replacement Nutritional 
therapy Drug therapy DIARRHOEA ASSOCIATED WITH OTHER ILLNESSES Measles-associated 
diarrhoea Pneumonia and diarrhoea Fever and diarrhoea EXERCISES UNIT 6 - DYSENTERY, PERSISTENT DIARRHOEA, AND DIARRHOEA ASSOCIATED WITH OTHER ILLNESSES INTRODUCTION Some children with diarrhoea are not adequately treated by the combination of 
rehydration and diet therapy described in Treatment Plan A (see Unit 4). This 
applies in particular to children with dysentery or persistent diarrhoea, or 
whose illness is complicated by severe undernutrition or an infection outside 
the intestinal tract. While such patients may need rehydration, they may also 
require special approaches to feeding, antimicrobial therapy, or other 
treatment. This unit describes the management of children with dysentery, 
persistent diarrhoea, or other infections that may accompany or predispose to 
diarrhoea. The management of children with diarrhoea and severe undernutrition 
is considered in Unit 7. DYSENTERY Definition, etiology, and importance Dysentery is defined as diarrhoea with visible blood in the stools. The most 
important and most frequent cause of acute dysentery is Shigella , 
especially S. flexneri and S. dysenteriae type 1. Other causes 
include Campylobacter jejuni , especially in infants, and, less 
frequently, Salmonella ; dysentery caused by the latter agents is usually 
not severe. Enteroinvasive Escherichia coli are closely related to Shigella and may cause severe dysentery. However, infection with this 
agent is uncommon. Entamoeba histolytica cause dysentery in older 
children and adults, but rarely in children under 5 years of age. Dysentery is an important cause of morbidity and mortality associated with 
diarrhoea. About 15% of all diarrhoeal episodes in children under 5 years are 
dysenteric, but these cause up to 25% of all diarrhoeal deaths. Dysentery is 
especially severe in infants and in children who are undernourished, develop 
clinically evident dehydration during their illness, or are not breast-fed. It 
also has a more harmful effect on nutritional status than acute watery 
diarrhoea. Dysentery occurs with increased frequency and severity in children 
who have measles or have had measles in the preceding month, and diarrhoeal 
episodes that begin with dysentery are more likely to become persistent than 
those that start with watery stools. Clinical features and diagnosis The clinical diagnosis of dysentery is based solely on the presence of 
visible blood in the diarrhoeal stool. The stool will also contain numerous pus 
cells (polymorphonuclear leukocytes) which are visible with a microscope, and it 
may have abundant mucus; these latter features suggest infection with a 
bacterial agent that invades the intestinal mucosa (such as C. jejuni or Shigella ), but alone are not sufficient to diagnose 
dysentery. In some episodes of shigellosis, the stool is initially watery, 
becoming bloody after one or two days. This watery diarrhoea is sometimes severe 
and may cause dehydration. Usually, however, numerous small bloody stools are 
passed and dehydration does not occur. Patients with dysentery frequently have 
fever, but sometimes the temperature is abnormally low, especially in the most 
serious cases. Cramping abdominal pain and pain in the rectum during defecation, 
or attempted defecation (tenesmus) are common; however, young children are 
unable to describe these complaints. A number of severe and potentially fatal complications can occur during 
dysentery, especially when the cause is Shigella ; they include: 
intestinal perforation, toxic megacolon, rectal prolapse, convulsions (with or 
without a high fever), septicemia, haemolytic-uraemic syndrome, and prolonged 
hyponatraemia. A major complication of dysentery is weight loss and rapid 
worsening of nutritional status. This is caused by anorexia, which may be 
marked, the body's increased need for nutrients to fight infection and repair 
damaged tissue, and the loss of serum protein from the damaged intestine (i.e., 
protein-losing enteropathy). Death from dysentery is usually caused by extensive 
damage to the ileum and colon, complications of sepsis, secondary infection 
(e.g., pneumonia), or severe undernutrition. Children convalescing from 
dysentery are also at increased risk of death from other infections, owing 
perhaps to their poor nutritional state or impaired immunity. The cause of an episode of dysentery usually goes undetermined. Stool 
culture, to detect pathogenic bacteria, is rarely possible. Moreover, at least 
two days are required before results of a culture are available, whereas a 
decision on antimicrobial therapy must be made immediately. Stool microscopy to 
detect protozoa may also be unavailable or unreliable. Amoebiasis can only be 
diagnosed with certainty when trophozoites of E. histolytica containing 
red blood cells are seen in fresh stools or in mucus from rectal ulcerations 
(obtained during proctoscopy). The detection of cysts alone is not sufficient for a diagnosis of amoebiasis. Amoebiasis should be suspected when a child with dysentery does not improve following appropriate antibiotic 
therapy for shigellosis. Management Children with dysentery should be presumed to have shigellosis and treated 
accordingly. This is because Shigella cause about 60% of dysentery cases 
seen at health facilities and nearly all cases of severe, life-threatening 
disease. If microscopic examination of the stool is performed and trophozoites 
of E. histolytica containing erythrocytes are seen, antiamoebic therapy 
should also be given (see below). The four key components of the treatment of 
dysentery (see Figure 6.1) are: antibiotics fluids feeding follow-up Antibiotic therapy Early treatment of shigellosis with an appropriate antibiotic shortens the 
duration of the illness and reduces the risk of serious complications and death; 
however, such treatment is effective only when the Shigella are sensitive 
to the antibiotic that is given. If treatment is delayed or an antibiotic is 
given to which the Shigella are not sensitive, the bacteria may cause 
extensive damage to the bowel and enter the general circulation causing 
septicaemia, prostration, and sometimes septic shock. These complications occur 
more frequently in children who are undernourished or in infants, and may be 
fatal. As the antibiotic sensitivity of the infecting strain of Shigella is 
not known for each case, it is important to use an oral antibiotic to which most Shigella in the area are known to be sensitive. Co-trimoxazole is the 
usual choice, but ampicillin is effective in some areas (see Annex 7). Although 
treatment is recommended for five days, there should be a substantial improvement after two days, i.e., less fever, pain, faecal blood, and loose 
motions. If this does not occur, the antibiotic should be stopped and a 
different one used; in many areas this would be nalidixic acid. Although other 
bacteria, such as C. jejuni and Salmonella , can cause dysentery, 
the disease is usually relatively mild and self-limited. Young children with dysentery should not be treated routinely for amoebiasis. Treatment should only be given 
when E. histolytica trophozoites containing red blood cells are 
identified in faeces or when bloody stools persist after consecutive treatment 
with two antibiotics that are usually effective for Shigella . The 
preferred treatment for amoebic dysentery is metronidazole (see Annex 7). If 
dysentery is caused by E. histolytica an improvement will occur within 
2-3 days of starting treatment. Fluids Children with dysentery should be evaluated for signs of dehydration and 
treated accordingly (see Units 3-5). All patients with dysentery should be 
offered water and other drinks during their illness, especially if they have 
fever. Feeding Children with dysentery should continue to eat, so that nutritional damage 
during the disease can be prevented or minimized. Feeding may be difficult, 
however, because of anorexia. The general feeding guidelines in Treatment Plan A 
(Units 4 and 7) should be followed: continue breast-feeding; give frequent small 
meals at least six times a day; encourage the child to eat; choose energy and 
nutrient-rich foods that the child prefers; and give one extra meal a day using 
the same foods for at least two weeks after diarrhoea stops. Follow-up Most patients with dysentery show substantial improvement within two days 
after beginning treatment with an effective antibiotic. These patients should 
complete the five-day treatment, and do not require special follow-up. Other 
patients should be followed closely, particularly children who do not show a 
clear improvement within two days, and children known to be at high risk of 
death or other complications. High-risk children (i.e. infants, the 
undernourished, those not breast-fed, and any who have been dehydrated) should 
be monitored frequently as outpatients or admitted to hospital. Dysentery 
patients with severe undernutrition should be hospitalized routinely. Children 
showing no improvement after the first two days of antibiotic treatment should 
be given a different antibiotic, as described above. Prevention The microorganisms that cause dysentery are spread by faecally-contaminated 
hands, food, and water. The spread of shigellosis by hands is very efficient 
because the number of Shigella required to cause disease is very small 
(as few as 10-100 organisms). Important measures to prevent shigellosis are 
described in greater detail in Unit 8. PERSISTENT DIARRHOEA Definition, etiology, and importance Persistent diarrhoea is a diarrhoeal episode that lasts for 14 days or longer 
(see Unit 1). Up to 20% of acute diarrhoeal episodes become persistent. 
Persistent diarrhoea often causes nutritional status to deteriorate and is 
associated with increased mortality. In some areas, it causes 30-50% of all 
diarrhoea-associated deaths, and as many as 15% of episodes of persistent 
diarrhoea result in death. There is no single microbial cause, although 
enteroadherent E. coli may play a greater role than other agents; Cryptosporidium may also be important in severely undernourished or 
immunodeficient persons. A number of other pathogenic bacteria and protozoa are 
found with nearly equal frequency in cases of acute and persistent diarrhoea, 
but their role in causing this problem is unclear. Irrespective of its cause, 
persistent diarrhoea is associated with extensive changes in the bowel mucosa, 
especially flattening of the villi and reduced production of disaccharidase 
enzymes; these cause reduced absorption of nutrients and may perpetuate the 
illness after the original infectious cause has been eliminated. Risk factors A number of risk factors for persistent diarrhoea have been identified: Undernutrition - this may delay the repair of damaged intestinal 
epithelium, causing diarrhoea to be prolonged. Recent introduction of animal milk or formula (or soya-based milk) - this 
could reflect lactose intolerance, hypersensitivity to milk (or soya) protein, 
bacterial contamination of the milk, or some other mechanism. Animal milk 
appears to be an important factor in 30-40% of episodes of persistent diarrhoea. Young age - most episodes occur in children under 18 months of age. Immunological impairment - this is seen in undernourished children, during 
or following measles or some other viral infections, and in patients with the 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Recent diarrhoea - this includes children who have experienced a recent 
episode of acute diarrhoea or a previous episode of persistent diarrhoea. Knowledge of these risk factors helps to 
identify children who are most likely to develop persistent diarrhoea and, in 
some instances, to guide treatment. Nutritional impact Persistent diarrhoea is largely a nutritional disease. It occurs more 
frequently in children who are already undernourished and is itself an important 
cause of undernutrition. A single episode of persistent diarrhoea can last 3-4 
weeks or longer and cause dramatic weight loss, sometimes leading rapidly to 
severe undernutrition, i.e. marasmus. Weight loss during persistent diarrhoea is caused by reduced absorption of 
all nutrients, but especially of fat and, in some children, lactose. Other 
contributing factors include poor food intake, owing to anorexia or withholding 
of food, or substituting dilute, low-energy foods. Patients are also likely to 
be deficient in various vitamins and minerals: those of special importance 
because of their role in the renewal and repair of the intestinal mucosa and/or 
their role in normal immunological responses include folate, vitamin B12, 
vitamin A, zinc, and iron. Management The initial management of children with persistent diarrhoea is summarized in 
Figure 6.1 and discussed below. History and examination These should cover the same areas as in cases of acute diarrhoea, but with 
special attention to the following questions: How many days has this episode of diarrhoea lasted? What is the child being fed, breast milk or animal milk? If over 4-6 months 
of age, is the type and amount of weaning food adequate? Is the food given in 
small frequent servings? How is the child's appetite? Was animal milk or formula (or soya formula) introduced recently? Does the 
diarrhoea seem to be worse soon after animal milk or formula is given? Has an antibiotic been given? If so, which one? If this is a repeat visit, has the mother noted: any change since the last 
visit in frequency of diarrhoea, blood in the stool, fever, or feeding problems? 
Could she follow the last treatment advice given? Is the child dehydrated? What is the child's nutritional status? Has it declined during this 
illness? (Measure and plot weight and height, if possible.) Has the stool been bloody? Is it bloody now? Laboratory examination For all patients, it is important to observe whether the stool is bloody. The 
use of other laboratory examinations will depend upon their availability. Some 
of the most useful ones are summarized in Table 6.1. Fluid and electrolyte replacement The child's hydration status should be assessed as described in Unit 3. ORS 
is satisfactory for replacing losses of water and salts in most children with 
persistent diarrhoea; a few patients have severe glucose malabsorption (see Unit 
5) and require intravenous fluid therapy. Some patients with persistent 
diarrhoea develop dehydration and continue to lose stool rapidly after 
rehydration; they should be hospitalized and may require treatment with 
intravenous fluids until the rate of purging declines. Nutritional therapy Proper feeding is the most important aspect of treatment for most children 
with persistent diarrhoea. Many can be treated on an ambulatory basis with food 
available in the home; however, some require specialized care in hospital. The 
goals of nutritional therapy are to: temporarily reduce the amount of animal milk (or lactose) in the diet; provide a sufficient intake of energy, protein, vitamins, and minerals to 
facilitate the repair process in the damaged gut mucosa and improve nutritional 
status; avoid giving foods or drinks that may aggravate the diarrhoea; and ensure that the child's food intake during convalescence is adequate to 
correct any undernutrition and prevent its recurrence. The general guidelines for feeding during 
and after diarrhoea given in Treatment Plan A (see Unit 4) should be followed. 
Some especially important or additional guidelines are shown in Figure 6.1 and 
given below: Children under 6 months of age or with evidence of dehydration should be rehydrated and referred to hospital for further management. They may require 
special efforts to maintain hydration, replacement of animal milk with 
lactose-free or artificial milk formula, laboratory studies to identify 
pathogenic bacteria or protozoa in their faeces, or other specialized 
procedures. For older children, the mother should be instructed to: continue breast-feeding; dilute any animal milk given to the child with an equal amount of water or 
replace it with a fermented milk product, such as yoghurt. This reduces by half 
the amount of lactose in the child's diet. In many cases, this step will cause 
the diarrhoea to subside rapidly; ensure a full energy intake for the child (i.e., about 110 kcal/kg/day) by 
giving thick cereal with added vegetable oil; mix this with other foods, such as 
well-cooked and mashed pulses, vegetables, and if possible, meat or fish. Avoid 
low energy foods that are dilute or bulky. At least half of the child's energy 
intake should come from foods other than milk or milk products; avoid foods that are hyperosmolar (these are usually foods or drinks made 
very sweet by the addition of sucrose, such as soft drinks or commercial fruit 
drinks); these can make the diarrhoea worse; give food in frequent small meals, at least six times a day; and provide supplementary vitamins and minerals, in particular folate, vitamin 
B12, vitamin A, zinc and iron, if possible. Tell the mother to follow these instructions for five days and then bring 
the child back to be checked: if the diarrhoea has not stopped, refer the child to hospital for 
specialized care, as described above; if the diarrhoea has stopped, tell the mother to: continue to give the same foods for the child's regular diet; after one more week, gradually reintroduce the usual animal milk or formula 
(if the child normally takes it) over several days; and given an extra meal each day for at least one month. If the child is 
undernourished, this regimen should be continued until the deficit of weight for 
height is corrected. The child should also be seen at monthly intervals to 
monitor growth (see Annex 3) and ensure that the feeding guidelines are being 
followed. Drug therapy Persistent diarrhoea patients with bloody stool or a stool culture positive 
for Shigella should receive an antibiotic for shigellosis. If stool 
culture yields another bacterial pathogen, e.g. enteropathogenic E. coli , 
an oral antibiotic to which that agent is sensitive should be given. If Giardia cysts, or trophozoites of either Giardia or E. 
histolytica are seen in the faeces, a course of appropriate antiprotozoal 
therapy should be given (see Annex 7). However, "blind" therapy with antibiotics 
or antiprotozoal agents is not rewarding and should not be given. 
Similarly, no "antidiarrhoeal" drug (including antimotility drugs, antisecretory 
drugs and adsorbents) has any proven value in patients with persistent 
diarrhoea; such drugs should not be given (see also Unit 4). DIARRHOEA 
ASSOCIATED WITH OTHER ILLNESSES Children with diarrhoea may also have other potentially serious illnesses, 
especially undernutrition or other infections. Two nutritional disorders 
associated with diarrhoea are considered in Units 3 and 7: vitamin A deficiency 
and severe undernutrition. The following discussion concerns infections that may 
be associated with diarrhoea. Measles-associated diarrhoea The incidence of diarrhoea is increased during measles, during the 4 weeks 
following illness, and possibly for up to 6 months after the measles episode. 
Measles-associated diarrhoea is often severe and of longer than usual duration; 
the risk of death is also substantially higher than with diarrhoea that is not 
related to measles, and is probably even greater when children are also 
undernourished. Where the incidence of measles is high, measles-associated 
diarrhoea can account for one third, or more, of diarrhoea-associated deaths in 
young children. Measles vaccination is therefore an important measure for 
preventing both diarrhoeal episodes and diarrhoea-associated deaths, as well as 
for preventing measles (see Unit 8). The mechanisms by which measles predisposes to diarrhoea are not clear but 
may include: (i) a direct effect of measles virus on the bowel epithelium, and 
(ii) virus-induced immuno-suppression, which can last for several months after 
an episode of measles and reduces the child's defenses against a variety of 
pathogenic bacteria and protozoa. Measles-associated diarrhoea is frequently 
bloody, suggesting that Shigella is an important causative agent. The evaluation of children with diarrhoea should include an enquiry about 
recent measles. Treatment of measles-associated diarrhoea should include: treatment of dehydration and dysentery, when present; adequate feeding (as described in Treatment Plan A, Figure 4.1); mouth care for patients with stomatitis, so that this does not interfere 
with eating; and administration of a prophylactic dose of vitamin A (see Unit 7). Pneumonia and diarrhoea Diarrhoea with severe dehydration causes rapid breathing that may suggest a 
diagnosis of pneumonia. However, in pneumonia the respiratory rate equals or 
exceeds 40 per minute (50 per minute for infants aged 2-11 months), the child is 
coughing, and intercostal retractions may be seen in the lower half of the 
chest. In children with severe dehydration, the breathing pattern improves 
rapidly when dehydration is corrected. If pneumonia is confirmed, an appropriate 
antibiotic should be given. Fever and diarrhoea Fever is frequent in patients with diarrhoea. It is often present when 
diarrhoea is caused by rotavirus or an invasive bacterium such as Shigella , C. jejuni or Salmonella . Fever may also 
accompany dehydration and disappear during rehydration. Fever in a patient with diarrhoea may also be a sign of another infection 
such as pneumonia, otitis media, or malaria. Diarrhoea patients with fever 
should be examined for other infections and treated appropriately. However, it 
is not appropriate to give antibiotics to patients with diarrhoea simply 
because they have fever: a more specific indication is required, such as 
pneumonia or bloody stools. If one is not found, the patient should be observed, 
and the search for the cause of the fever continued, if it persists. Children 
with fever (38° C or above) or a history of fever during the past five days and 
who live in an area where there is falciparum malaria should be given an 
antimalarial or managed according to the recommendations of the national malaria 
control programme (see Figure 6.1). A child with a temperature of 39° C or greater should be treated to reduce 
the temperature. This may be done by giving paracetamol or, when fever is very 
high, by sponging the head and abdomen with tepid water and fanning. EXERCISES 1. Ayaz, who is 2 years old, is brought to the health centre because he 
has had bloody diarrhoea for three days. The health worker assesses Ayaz and 
finds that he has no signs of dehydration and is neither febrile nor 
malnourished. What should the health worker do for Ayaz? (There may be more than 
one correct answer.) Treat Ayaz with metronidazole for possible amoebiasis, since he has no 
fever. Refer Ayaz to the nearest hospital for a stool examination and culture. Teach the mother to continue feeding Ayaz an energy-rich diet. Treat Ayaz for five days with an antibiotic effective for Shigella in the area. Advise the mother to bring Ayaz back if blood has not disappeared from the 
stool after two days of treatment. 2. Pedro is 9 months old. He was well 
until three months ago when his mother stopped breast-feeding and began giving 
him cow's milk with other food. Since then Pedro has had three episodes of 
diarrhoea, the current one having begun 18 days ago. Pedro still takes cow's 
milk but his mother has reduced his intake of solid food since the diarrhoea 
began. There has been no blood in the stool. Pedro weighs 6 kg. What should the 
health worker do? Prescribe a special lactose-free formula and have the mother give this 
in place of the cow's milk. Give Pedro metronidazole for possible giardiasis. Advise the mother to dilute Pedro's milk with an equal amount of water and 
to increase other energy-rich foods in his diet, e.g., by adding some vegetable 
oil to his cooked cereal. Tell the mother to give Pedro sweetened fruit drinks or soft drinks, which 
he likes, so that he receives enough fluid. Tell the mother to take Pedro to a hospital if he is not improving in two 
days. 3. Maria, aged 16 months, began having 
watery diarrhoea. After two days, her mother noted some blood in the stool and 
brought her to the health centre. The doctor noted that Maria had a fever (39° 
C) and saw that the stool contained blood. There was no evidence of 
undernutrition. The doctor gave Maria co-trimoxazole but the mother came back 
after two days saying Maria had not improved and the stool was still bloody. 
What should the doctor do next? Tell the mother to continue giving co-trimoxazole, since it is supposed 
to be given for five days and she has given it for only two days. Send Maria to the hospital for a stool culture. Treat Maria with metronidazole for possible amoebiasis. Stop the co-trimoxazole and give another antibiotic to which most Shigella in the area are sensitive, e.g. nalidixic acid. Give Maria erythromycin to treat a possible infection with C. 
jejuni . 4. Alam is 6 months old and takes only 
formula milk. He has had watery diarrhoea for the past 14 days and during the 
last 2-3 days his mother noted some blood in the stool. During the illness, Alam 
has continued to take his formula. He has not had a fever. How should Alam be 
treated? (There may be more than one correct answer.) Alam should be given an antibiotic effective for Shigella in the 
area. Alam's mother should start diluting his milk with an equal volume of 
water. He should start to take cooked cereal with oil and other soft foods to 
ensure an adequate intake of nutrients. If his diarrhoea has not stopped in five 
days, he should be referred to hospital for further evaluation and treatment. Alam should be referred to hospital for special dietary care. This may 
require the use of a lactose-free or soy-based formula. Alam's stool should be cultured and examined for amoeba and giardia. Alam should receive an antidiarrhoeal drug to help control his diarrhoea. 5. Chinta is 14 months old. She has 
had a fever and watery diarrhoea for three days. Today some blood was seen in 
the stool. When seen in the health centre, she is well nourished, drinks ORS 
eagerly, and has reduced skin turgor. Chinta lives in an area where falciparum 
malaria occurs. Which of the following steps are appropriate? (There may be more 
than one correct answer.) Chinta should receive an antimalarial effective for falciparum malaria, 
if that is recommended by the national malaria programme. Chinta should receive oral rehydration following Plan B for "some 
dehydration". Chinta should receive treatment for shigellosis, using an antibiotic to 
which Shigella in the area are usually sensitive. Chinta's mother should continue to give her a normal energy-rich diet, 
feeding her frequent small meals. Chinta's mother should bring her back after two days of treatment to be 
certain she is responding adequately. ANSWERS 1. C, D, E. Absence of fever is not unusual in children with shigellosis or 
dysentery caused by other bacteria. Even in this situation, amoebiasis is very 
unusual. 2. C. The mother should bring Pedro back to the health centre after five 
days; if his diarrhoea has not stopped, he should then be referred to hospital. 3. D. 4. A, B. Answer D would be correct only if reliable laboratory facilities 
were readily available, which is not usually the case. 5. A, B, C, D, E. The reason Chinta should return for follow-up is that she 
had dysentery and was dehydrated when first 
seen. Quick feedback Has this 
              information been useful? Thank you Yes No |   Keep me informed Name email previous | home | diarrhoea | dehydration | rehydration | solutions | nutrition | breastfeeding | ors | rotavirus | zinc hygiene | water | resources | facts | faqs | links | professional | about us | support us | contact us | site map The Mother and Chil