
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 11 Apr 2012 07:43:27 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (Fedora)
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Which Foods Have Vitamin E 49 Tips Which Foods Have Vitamin E Submitted By: Mark Monteiro in Health Tips category You can find Vitamin E naturally in some foods, added to others and is also available as a dietary supplement. Vitamin E is the combined name for a group of fat soluble compounds with characteristic antioxidant activities. If you wonder which foods have Vitamin E, then the following points would clear all your questions or doubts. It’s important that you eat plenty of foods with Vitamin E in order to balance your nutritional intake and meet your body’s needs. There are several people who frequently ignore several minerals and vitamins that they need to take it on a daily basis as they are too concerned about their calories, fat, carbohydrate and protein intake. Importance of Vitamin E It’s vital that apart from monitoring your macronutrient and calorie intake, you should also give importance to your micronutrient intake as well as it’s vital for your health’s success. That’s where foods containing Vitamin E come into picture. Getting high adequate amounts of Vitamin E is extremely critical to your well being as it is a fat soluble vitamin that has essential role to play in the body. You can start to become deficient by overlooking eating Vitamin E foods which could also lead to several health problems in the future. Foods Containing Vitamin E Learning which foods have vitamin E and including them in your diet regularly would make meeting your daily requirements extremely easy. The top foods containing Vitamin E are: Swiss chard, mustard greens, sunflower seeds, spinach, almonds, dry roasted, turnip greens, collard greens, olives, papaya and kale. You can easily meet your full daily intake and don’t have to depend on any supplements for this vital vitamin if you eat a salad made with spinach and sprinkle some sunflower seeds and slivered almonds on top. These are some vital foods that you would like to know containing Vitamin E. You can miss on this fat soluble vitamin if you’re consuming an ultra low fat diet, thus something important to consider. Health Benefits of Vitamin E Adding more Vitamin E foods to your diet can benefit you immensely, if you’re suffering from a wide variety of health conditions. However, it’s recommended to speak with a health professional before doing so. The conditions that could be benefited by incorporating Vitamin E foods in to your diet are: asthma, atherosclerosis, breast cancer, epilepsy, diabetes, gout, inflammatory bowel disease, oral cancers, menopause, osteoarthritis, peptic ulcers, Parkinson’s disease and rheumatoid arthritis. Keep in mind that these health conditions would be most benefited by consuming the foods rich in Vitamin E and not simply by adding a supplement to your diet plan. You can only get sufficient amount of Vitamin E by eating variety of foods rich in it. Healthy people who consume a balanced diet seldom need supplements. You must know which foods have Vitamin E and must also follow the dietary guidelines as laid by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Human and Nutrition Information Service. Remember, that you must always incorporate healthy fats in a proper diet plan and must focus on the Vitamin E foods in restraint that contain these healthy fats. By doing so you’d still maintain or lose weight, but it would also promote better health. Received total of 73 page views [id: 19142]; Arts Tips Auto Tips Business Tips Career Tips Computer Tips Education Tips Environment Tips Finance Tips Health Tips Home Tips Internet Tips Real Estate Tips Recreation Tips Shopping Tips Sports