
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2012 22:39:00 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.16 (Amazon)
Vary: Accept-Language,Cookie
Content-Language: en-gb
Set-Cookie: csrftoken=be196dc711ddc890ea253f3987f2fee2; Max-Age=31449600; Path=/
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

Shop Sign in Basket: £ 0.00 Require Assistance? 0800 993 0125 Home Shop Ingredients About Us What Our Customers Say News & Events Contact Aloe Vera Skincare Range Aloe Vera Benefits Aloe Vera Benefits for Men Mum's & Babies Shop New Range Coming Soon Loyalty Club Subscribe to our Loyalty Club for great discounts Plus receive skincare advice, offers and more. Click here to read more. Follow us now 

                                on Facebook & Twitter! If you have a Loyalty Club discount code, please shop normally and enter your discount code where prompted in your basket area. Your discount will be applied then. Aloe Super Hydrating Moisturiser 225ml Fragrance Free Eternal Skincare's Aloe Super Hydrating Moisturiser is a botanically based, luxuriously rich hydrating cream suitable for all skin types, but particularly beneficial for those with dry skin conditions. It contains a high concentration of pure Aloe leaf juice, traditionally used as a natural remedy to soothe, soften, moisturise and heal even the most sensitive skin. Price (incl. tax): £ 45.00 Quantity How to use For best results, apply morning and evening after gently removing all traces of dirt and make up with Aloe Cleanse and Soothe . Eternal Skincare’s products have been carefully formulated to actively work alongside each other to achieve optimum results. Gently massage into face and neck, avoiding the delicate eye area. May also be used as a powerful, intensive body moisturiser for top-to-toe skin wellbeing. Active Ingredients Aloe Vera (Barbadensis Miller) Leaf Juice Traditionally used to treat many skin conditions, including psoriasis, eczema, inflammations, burns and wounds. Also a moisturiser that helps to keep skin supple. Grapeseed Oil Light emollient oil rich in Linoleic acid, has an astringent and toning effect on the skin. Sweet Almond Oil Moisturises, softens and smoothes, rich in Essential Fatty Acids (EFA's) to nourish the skin. Rosehip Oil High in Linoleic and Linolenic Fatty Acids. Due to its natural Vitamin A content, is good for skin infections such as acne. Also useful in the treatment of damaged skin tissue caused by scalds, burns and varicose veins. Hyaluronic Acid Occurs naturally in the body to cushion and lubricate cells. An effective moisturiser that can retain up to 1,000 times its weight in moisture. Roman Chamomile Extract Useful where inflammation may be present, i.e. acne, irritation and other forms of rashes and skin complaints, also helps to promote cell regeneration. Green Tea Extract Astringent, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent. Also has an inhibitory action on collagenase, an enzyme that breaks down collagen which helps skin maintain elasticity. Calendula Oil Possesses anti-inflammatory, healing, soothing and softening properties. Helps relieve sore, inflamed and itchy skin conditions. Glycerine Moisturises. Shea Butter Moisturising and soothing. Allantoin Has a moisturising effect, increasing the smoothness of the skin, promotes cell proliferation and wound healing; has a soothing anti-irritant, and skin protecting effect by forming complexes with irritant and sensitizing agents. Tocopherol Acetate Vitamin E & Vitamin E Acetate, antioxidants. Water Hydrating. Customer reviews Sue, Devon Royal Cornwall Show. I bought a 225ml Fragrance Free Moisturiser which cleared up a very dry patch on my elbow which I had had for about 2 years. I had previously used all sorts of products on it to no avail. However, your cream cleared it within a week. I have used it ever since. Brilliant. Tasneem, Gloucestershire I came to the BeautyUK show in Birmingham last year, and I have never used a moisturiser for my face that left me feeling Fab until I used this cream!! Love it!! Home Shop Help Sitemap Terms & Conditions Privacy Security Eternal Skincare, East Wolves, London Road, Ashington, West Sussex,  RH20 3AX Tel: 0800 993 0125 Fax: 01903 891418 Email: info@eternalskincare.com Eternal Skincare is owned by Renapur Ltd. Renapur Ltd is a company registered in England & Wales with company number 2929564. Registered Address: Church House, 94 Felpham Road, Felpham, West Sussex, PO22 7PQ © Eternal Skincare 2012 The range of natural skincare products from Eternal Skincare are a result of over three years research and development to create the finest natural beauty products with a proportionately high concentration of the main ingredient - Aloe Vera. Eternal's Aloe Vera skincare products contain no harmful preservatives making them ideal for sensitive skin. Website by: Marke