Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Dementia - Dementia symptom, treatment, causes Home | Home Remedies | Family Health | Drugs | Health Directory | Contact Us Health Menu Baby Health Men Health Skin Care Neurology Disorders Respiratory Diseases Eye Disorders Women Health Infectious Diseases Reproductive Diseases Achalasia Achondroplasia Acidosis Acoustic Neurinoma Acromegaly Actinomycosis Addiction Adenitis Adenoid Adenoma Adhesion Adrenal Hyperplasia, Congenital Agranulocytosis And Neutropenia Akathisia Alkalosis Amenorrhoea Amnesia Amoebic Dysentery Anabolic Steroids Anaesthesia Anal Fissure Anal Itch Anaphylaxis Abdominal pain Abnormal movements Abortion Abscess Acanthosis nigricans Achilles tendon Acne Acute renal failure Addison's Disease Alcoholism Allergic rhinitis Allergy Alopecia Alzheimer's Disease Anemia Aneurism Angioedema Anorexia nervosa Asthma Atheroma Atrial flutter Autism Balanitis Barber's Rash Bell's Palsy Beriberi Black Eye Bladder Tumours Blepharitis Blister Blue Baby Boil Carbuncle Cardiac Arrest Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Cataplexy Cataract Catarrh Catatonia Cellulitis Cerebral Haemorrhage Cerebral Palsy Cervical Barriers Cervical Eversion Dacryocystitis Deafness Decompression Sickness Deep Venous Thrombosis Dehydration Delirium Dementia Dengue Depression Earache Eclampsia Ectopic Pregnancy Eczema Elephantiasis Embolism Emphysema Encephalitis Fatigue Fever Fibroadenoma Fibrocystic Breasts Fibroma Fibromyalgia Syndrome Fibrosarcoma Fibrosis Filariasis Galactorrhoea Gallstones Ganglion Cyst Gangrene Gastritis Gastroenteritis Gastro Oesophageal Reflux Gastroparesis Giardiasis Gigantism Gingivitis Haemangioblastoma Haematemesis Haematoma Haematuria Haemochromatosis Haemolysis Haemophillia Haemoptysis Haemorrhoids Haemothorax Hallucination Hammer toe Hashimoto's Thyroiditis Iatrogenic Ileus Immunodeficiency Impacted Tooth Impetigo Impotence Incontinence Lactose Intolerance Laryngitis Lead Poisoning Legionnaire's Disease Leprosy Leptospirosis Leukaemia Lice Infestation Mascular Degeneration Malabsorption Malaise Malaria Home :: Family Health :: Dementia Dementia - Dementia symptom, treatment, causes Dementia is the disturbance or loss of norma emotional expression and social responsibility. In some cases dementia may be reversible if its cause is treated, for example after head injury and in encephalitis, SYPHILIS, hypothyroidism (thyroid hormone deficiency), certain poisonings, brain tumours and alcohol dependence. Permanent, pro-gressive dementia occurs in ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE . The sooner reversible causes of dementia are corrected, the better the chance of complete recovery. Dementia is a broad term for a range of conditions that involve loss of mental ability and so causes problems with memory, language, behaviour and emotions. It is caused by the destruction of brain cells. It is not a single disease. Instead, dementia refers to a group of illnesses that involve memory, behavior, learning, and communicating problems. A head injury, a stroke, a brain tumor or a problem like Alzheimer's disease can damage brain cells. Some people have a family history of dementia. The problems are progressive, which means they slowly get worse. Dementia may also change a person's mood and personality. At first, memory loss and trouble thinking clearly may bother the person who has dementia. About 4-5 million people in the United States have some degree of dementia, and that number will increase over the next few decades with the aging of the population. Dementia with Lewy bodies is a leading cause of degenerative dementia in elderly adults. This condition is linked to abnormal protein structures in certain areas of the brain. Some dementia is reversible and can be cured partially or completely with treatment. The degree of reversibility often depends on how quickly the underlying cause is treated. Dementia is one of the most serious disorders affecting the elderly. The prevalence of dementia increases rapidly with age. Conditions that damage blood vessels or nerve structures of the brain can also lead to dementia.Without careful assessment, delirium can easily be confused with dementia and a number of other psychiatric disorders because many of the signs and symptoms are conditions present in dementia. Symptoms of dementia can be classified as either reversible or irreversible depending upon the etiology of the disease. Dementia usually occurs in older age. Dementia is rare in people under age 60. The risk for dementia increases as a person gets older. The prevalence of dementia has increased over the past few decades, either because of greater awareness and more accurate diagnosis, or because increased longevity is creating a larger population of elderly, which is the age group most commonly affected. A careful history of the illness, a physical examination, and blood tests are important to identify reversible causes of dementia, such as infection. Diagnosing dementia can help the person and his or her family members seek help from many available resources. Causes of Dementia The common causes and risk factor's of Dementia include the following: The destruction of brain cells. Injury to the brain caused by tumors, head injury, or strokes. Alzheimer's disease. Long-term alcohol dependence. Illness other than in the brain - kidney, liver, and lung diseases can all lead to dementia. A family history of dementia. Genetic or metabolic disease. Symptoms of Dementia Some sign and symptoms related to Dementia are as follows: Progressive memory loss. Hallucinations and delusions. Loss of interest in daily or usual activities. Inability to concentrate. Unclear thinking, including losing problem-solving skills. Lack of spontaneity. Behavior disorders - Paranoia and suspiciousness. Treatment of Dementia Dementia Treatment of people with progressive dementia aims to provide the best possible quality of life for them and their carers. Here is list of the methods to treat Dementia: Symptoms of dementia may be treated with a combination of psychotherapy, environmental modifications, and medication. Cholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil (Aricept), rivastigmine (Exelon), or galantamine (Razadyne, formerly called Reminyl) for Alzheimer's-type dementia. Mood stabilizers such as fluoxetine, imipramine, or Celexa. Behavioral approaches may be used to reduce the frequency or severity of problem behaviors, such as aggression or socially inappropriate conduct. Stimulants such as methylphenidate to increase activity and spontaneity. Physical activity helps maintain a healthy weight, promotes relaxation and healthy sleep, and lifts the mood. Health Menu Mastalgia Mastitis Mastoiditis Measles Medulloblastoma Megacolon Melaena Malignant Melanoma Naevus Fungal Nail Infection Nappy Rash Narcolepsy Necrosis Nephritis Obesity Osteogenesis Imperfecta Osteoma Osteomalacia Osteomyelitis Osteoporosis Otitis Externa Otosclerosis Ovarian Cancer Ovarian Cyst Parkinson's Disease Paronychia Parotitis Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pemphigus Peptic Ulcer Disease Pericarditis Peripheral Vascular Disease Rabies Raynaud's Disease Rectocele Reiter's Syndrome Repetitive Strain Injury Restless Legs Syndrome Retinoblastoma Rett Syndrome Reye's Syndrome Rheumatic Fever Rheumatic Heart Disease Rheumatoid Arthritis Rhinitis Rhinophyma Rickets Rickettsia Rosacea Roseola Infantum Ross River Fever Rubella Salpingitis Sarcoidosis Scabies Schistosomiasis Schizophrenia Scoliosis Scurvy Sebaceous Cyst Septicaemia Serum Sickness Shingles Shock Sick sinus Syndrome Sickle Cell Disease Silicosis Sjogren's Syndrome Skin Cancer Sleep Apnoea, Obstructive Sleeping Sickness Smallpox Sparganosis Spermatocele Spondylosis Stomach Cancer Stress Stretch Mark Stroke Stye Swimmer's Itch Syphilis Toxaemia Tracheitis Trichomoniasis Trigeminal Neuralgia Tuberculosis Turner's Syndrome Tardive Dyskinesia Tay Sachs Disease Telangiectasia Temporal Arteritis Temporomandibular Joint Syndrome Tendinitis Tenosynovitis Teratoma Testicular Cancer Testicular Torsion Thalassaemia Thermolysis Thrombophlebitis Thyroiditis Tick Paralysis Toenail Ingrown Tonsillitis Torticollis Tourette's Syndrome Urinary Retention Urinary Stones Urinary Tract Infection Urticaria Uterine Cancer Uterine Prolapse Uveitis Ulcer Ulcerative Colitis Underweight Uraemia Ureteric Colic Urethral Stricture Urethral Syndrome Urethritis Von Hippel Lindau Disease Vulvitis Vitiligo Volvulus Varicose Veins Vertigo Vaginal Discharge Vaginal Fistula Vaginismus Vaginosis ( Bacterial ) Varicocele Vaginitis Zollinger Ellison Syndrome Zoonosis Thanks Dementia - Dementia symptom, treatment, causes Home | Site Map | Blog Copyright ©2011 http://www.health-care-clinic.com (All Rights Reserved) Disclaimer : Health-Care-Clinic.com is designed for educational purposes only and is not engaged in rendering medical advice or professional medical services. It is not a substitute for professional medical advice. Any medical or other decisions should be ma