<http://wp.me/pCt2W-3Vt>; rel=shortlink
Expires: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 16:42:14 GMT
Pragma: public
Etag: 6d6509ffe4dc4b785fa7a225dfeed8ef
Connection: close
Last-Modified: Sat, 03 Mar 2012 15:42:14 GMT
X-Powered-By: W3 Total Cache/0.9.2.4

How To Treat A Urinary Tract Infection At Home - Natural Remedies For Urinary Tract Infection | Home Remedies, Natural Remedy Recent Posts 5 Common Symptoms Of Epstein Barr Virus 5 Common Symptoms Of Vaginitis Effective Treatment For Psoriatic Arthritis 10 Common Symptoms Of Tapeworm Top Natural Substitutes For Antihistamine 5 Common Symptoms Of Dementia How To Treat Anaphylaxis How To Prevent A Heart Attack How To Treat Diabetic Foot Ulcers Atrial Fibrillation Treatment In Three Steps Health Ailments 5 Common Symptoms Of Epstein Barr Virus 5 Common Symptoms Of Vaginitis Effective Treatment For Psoriatic Arthritis 10 Common Symptoms Of Tapeworm Top Natural Substitutes For Antihistamine Home Remedies Home Remedies For Arthritis How to Treat Infertility Through Acupressure Alternative Liver Failure Treatments 5 Home Remedies For Tonsillitis Different Graves Disease Treatment Options Diet Diet For Six Packs Abs The Best Vitamins For Toddlers How To Reduce Cellulite Through Diet Thanksgiving Appetizers For Kids Appetizer Ideas For Easter Natural Cures Treatment Options For Angular Cheilitis 7 Easy Jet Lag Cure 6 Effective Natural Cure For Herpes Natural Dandruff Treatment Without Side Effects Natural Remedies For Candida Nutrients Uses For Ginger Beer How To Choose Good Pomegranates What Are The Health Benefits Of Vitamin C ? 3 Commonly Available Natural Anabolic Steroids For A Muscular Body Vitamin D Deficiency Symptoms Beauty Tips Makeup Tips For Oily Skin Five Secrets To Look Younger Home Remedies That Delay Aging For A Longer Time Beauty Tips For Glowing Skin How To Get Glowing Skin Skin Care Different Treatments For Dry Skin How To Reduce Acne Redness 3 Best Methods Of Treating Ingrown Hair On Legs Treatment For Edema In The Legs How To Use Witch Hazel For Treating Acne Beauty Tips Diet Health Ailments Herbal Remedies Home Remedies Natural Cures Nutrients Skin Care Home » Home Remedies »
Treat Urinary Tract Infection Effectively At Home Treat Urinary Tract Infection Effectively At Home 11 June, 2011 Tweet Enter your email address: Urinary tract infection or UTI as commonly known can be a pretty persistent problem for those who are subjected to it. It is caused by bacteria that affects the urethra and spreads to the kidney and bladder as well. Although everyone is susceptible to this infection, adult women are more prone to it. Often many are not able to recognize the symptoms of urinary tract infection . The major symptoms are a burning sensation while urinating and a constant urge to urinate. More severe symptoms are passing blood along with the urine and fever due to infection. Usually UTI is a nagging problem that refuses to go away permanently. It can recur with the slightest neglect. So keep a close eye on your personal hygiene to ensure that you don’t get infected by it. Along with that take natural steps at home to cure and prevent UTI at home . Natural Remedies To Fight UTI The medicine to all ailments: water It is not without reason that doctors advise you to drink 8 glasses of water or approximately 3 liters of water every day. That amount of water forces you to urinate and thus flush out the bacteria that hangs on to the walls of your urinary tract. If you have already suffered from urinary tract infection then don’t refrain from drinking water regularly. It will help prevent further assault of the UTI. Try Aromatherapy For Relief from Urinary Tract Infection Aromatherapy is the use of pure essential oils for enhancement of your beauty and also certain medicinal purposes as well. You can use oils like sandalwood oil, tea tree oil or even bergamot oil to ease your pain. Massage these oils around the bladder area and you will find relief. You can individually use these oils or even mix them in equal amounts to get relief from the burning sensation while urinating. You can use this remedy after the major symptoms subside to provide relief from the pain around the bladder; aromatherapy however has nothing to with the real infection. The Benefits of Cranberry Juice in Treating Urinary Tract Infection Cranberry juice is considered to be one of the best ways of treating UTI at home. If you have a recurring problem of urinary tract infection then add cranberry juice to your daily diet to prevent it from infecting your system again.  But how does cranberry juice work? It simply does not let the bacteria to stick to your urinary passage and helps wash it out well. The more you include it in your diet the more beneficial it is for you! You can mix it in some fruit juice punch and have it to add more taste to it! If there are children in your house who have a tendency to suffer from it then make them drink cranberry juice at least once in three days. Children can often be susceptible to this infection. How Can Grapes Help ? Grapes and fresh grape juice is considered to be a good way of reducing urinary tract infections. Add liberal quantities of fresh grapes to your morning breakfast and also drink grape juice for dealing better with UTI. It will help reduce the burning sensation that characterizes UTI and can be quite painful. Grape seeds are also considered to be very effective in dealing with urinary tract infection. Add Liberal Amounts of Vitamin C in Your Diet. Vitamin C is considered to have an important role to play in the prevention of urinary tract infection . Food that contains generous amounts of vitamin C should be included in your diet. The reason? It helps improve your immunity and reduce the onslaught of bacteria. It also helps keep your bladder healthy and increase the acidic content in your urine thus reducing the onslaught of bacteria. Eat a lot of citrus fruits to build up your immunity against this nagging problem. Take A Bath with Apple Cider Vinegar When you are recovering from urinary tract infection, you can ease the pain while urinating, by taking a relaxing bath! Simply add a few teaspoons of apple cider vinegar to your bath water and cleanse your intimate parts well. It will help you get rid of the remaining bacterial faster . The Usefulness Of Baking Soda Many suffer from UTI problem and cannot find some easy resort at home immediately. Antibiotics and medicine should be your last resort. In such a situation drink lots and lots of water to flush out most of the bacteria. You can take one glass of water and add half a teaspoon of baking soda to it and drink it. It will be a great help to deal with this problem initially. Try Hot Compression Method Hot compression can be used as an effective way of relieving pain from the abdominal area. Usually along with the infection in the tract there comes a searing pain around the lower abdomen. To ease the pain you can take a hot water bag and give the surrounding area a hot water compress. It will not only give some relief from the pain but the high temperature will help you contain the bacteria and prevent it from spreading further. Some Dos and Don’ts If You Are Prone To Urinary Tract Infection If you are prone to UTI then there are certain guidelines that you must adhere to: If you have severe infection then it is better that you refrain from sexual intercourse . Sex can aggravate your problem and push the bacteria further in and may cause more severe infection. Maintain a healthy toilet regime. Never try and forcibly control your urge to urinate. The more you hold up the more the chances are of infection as it causes bacteria to thrive. Always wash your private parts well when you visit the loo. And when you wipe your vagina, wipe it from front to back and never the other way around. Wear comfortable underwear when you are prone to infection. Cotton panties are a must as it allows your skin to breathe. The more laces and synthetic materials you wear the higher the chances of infection there are. Refrain from having excess caffeine and aerated drinks that have artificial sweeteners and can trigger your infection further. Whenever you have intercourse visit the rest room immediately afterwards to clean up well to minimize the chances of the bacteria from moving deeper into your tract. Add your Buzz here.. Enter your email address: Subscribe to feed Ask and Discuss Home Remedies Natural Home Remedies Buzz Ask a Question Natural Home Remedies and Treatment | © Copyright 2011 Disclaimer: All information available here is for educational purposes only. We do not claim to cure, prevent or treat any disease. If you have, or suspect to have a h