
Holista – Take it for life™ | Melatonin You are here Canada Your Location Canada USA Search Contact Us Ask An Expert Health News Our Products About Holista Health Articles Other Articles The Many Uses of Tea Tree Oil Menopause Kit Vitamin D Omega-3 Essential Fatty Acids Tea Tree & Vitamin E Antiseptic Cream Melatonin Sleep, wonderful sleep: reset your body’s “clock" Can you naturally improve the quality of your sleep? Yes, there are many things you can do and nutrients that can help improve your quality and quantity of sleep. The pineal gland near the centre of the brain produces a hormone called melatonin, at night when it becomes dark, to regulate the sleep-wake cycle (circadian rhythms). When melatonin levels in the blood rise, you begin to feel less alert and you feel like sleeping. Melatonin levels stay elevated for about 12 hours, while you sleep and drop down to minimal levels during the daytime. When sleep patterns are disturbed by traveling, shift work or other factors, you may find it difficult to fall asleep and stay asleep. Supplemental melatonin helps regulate circadian rhythms and improve sleep quality, especially when the problem is related to certain sleep disorders and jet lag. Using melatonin in sublingual tablet (that dissolves under the tongue) allows it to be absorbed quickly into the bloodstream. Why supplement with Holista m elatonin? Our bodies’ natural melatonin production decreases with age, and this can contribute to age-related sleep difficulties. Studies suggest that melatonin supplements hasten sleep and ease jet lag, without the potential dependency issues or side effects of prescription or over-the-counter “sleeping pills”. Melatonin has also been reported to make people feel better, strengthen the immune system, and reduce free radicals in the body. Is melatonin safe? Based on available studies and clinical use, melatonin is regarded as safe when used in recommended doses. In the most extensive clinical trial to date a high dose of 75 milligrams of melatonin per day was given to 1400 women in the Netherlands for up to four years with no ill effects. ( Newsweek , 6 Nov. 1995, 60-63.) Does melatonin make you feel drowsy in the morning? Not for most people. You should normally wake up well refreshed and full of energy. If you wake up feeling a little tired, you should reduce your dosage. Wh en should I take it? Because Holista melatonin is in a sublingual tablet, it is quickly absorbed under the tongue. Take it about half an hour to an hour before bedtime. Should certain people avoid it? As no research has been done specifically on the effects of melatonin on children or on pregnant or nursing women, these people should not take melatonin unless recommended by a health professional. I don’t recommend taking it with alcohol and other drugs. If you have an autoimmune disorder, liver or kidney disease, you should consult your physician. Check out all our other nutritional supplements for all your health needs! We want to hear from you! For answers to your questions and the latest health news, follow Holista on Facebook and Twitter ! Copyright ©
                    2012 Holista Health