
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 20:36:58 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.6 (Fedora)
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Urinary Tract Infection Calculate Your Body Fat Percentage How Flexible Are You? Sit and Reach Test Assess Your Active and Resting Metabolic Rate Calculate Your Real Age & Life Expectancy How Many Calories Do You Burn While Walking Calculate Child or Teen Body Composition Have You Posted  Pictures on the Internet? Invasive Surveillance Awaits MSG Lurks As A Slow Poison In Common Food Items Without Knowing Avoid Ice Creams With Toxic Ingredients Cure Tooth Decay Naturally By  Identifying The Real Cause of Cavities Why is Glycemic Load More Significant Than Glycemic Index? Everything Is A Lie: The Deliberate Intent To Deceive People Is At An All Time High The H1N1 Vaccine Is A Much Greater  Risk To Your Health Than The Flu Itself The Facts, Stats and Dangers of Soda Pop Soy Lecithin: How It Negatively Affects Your Health And Why You Need To Avoid It VO2 Max: How Fit Is An Athlete? Hogwash Alert: One Flu Shot To Protect All Humans From All Flu Strains For Ten Years? Awaken Your Brain: Coming Alive to Vibrant Well-being and a New Reality Free Energy Is An Absolute Imperative For The Future Of The Earth And Humanity How Dangerous Is Fluoride To Your Health? Never Be Sick Again: Understanding Disease Email Address * Please note that most treatment modalities listed below are based on conventional medicine. PreventDisease.com does not advocate the use of any pharmaceutical drug treatments. Long-term drug therapy is very detrimental to human health. All drug information is for your reference only and readers are strongly encouraged to research healthier alternatives to any drug therapies listed. Urinary 
                Tract Infection WHAT 
                IS A URINARY TRACT INFECTION? General 
                Description of Urinary Tract Infections A urinary tract 
              infection (UTI) is a condition where one or more structures in the 
              urinary tract become infected after bacteria overcome its strong 
              natural defenses. In spite of these defenses, UTIs are the most 
              common of all infections and can occur at any time in the life of 
              an individual. Almost 95% of cases of UTIs are caused by bacteria 
              that typically multiply at the opening of the urethra and travel 
              up to the bladder (known as the ascending route). Much less often, 
              bacteria spread to the kidney from the bloodstream. [ See Box The 
              Urinary System and Its Defenses Against Bacteria .] Different classifications that have been devised to help physicians 
              choose treatments and determine the causes of UTIs. Primary or Recurrent UTIs. UTIs are classified as primary 
              or recurrent, depending on whether they are the first infection 
              or whether they are repeat events. Uncomplicated and Complicated. They are also sometimes further 
              defined as either being uncomplicated or complicated depending on the factors that trigger the infections. Uncomplicated 
                  infections are only associated with bacterial infection, most 
                  often Escherichia coli ( E. coli ). They affect 
                  women much more often than men. Complicated 
                  infections, which occur nearly as often in men as women, are 
                  also caused by bacteria but they occur as a result of some anatomical 
                  or structural abnormality, such as catheter use in the hospital 
                  setting, bladder and kidney dysfunction, or kidney transplant. 
                  Recurrences occur in up to 50% to 60% of patients with complicated 
                  UTI if the underlying structural or anatomical abnormalities 
                  are not corrected. Classifications 
              Based on Symptoms and Levels of Infection. UTIs can also occur 
              without symptoms and with symptoms but very low bacterial levels. When bacteria 
                  is present and there are no symptoms it is called asymptomatic 
                  UTI or also bacteriuria . Some patients 
                  can also have symptoms of infection with very low bacterial 
                  counts. In such cases, the condition is called acute urethral 
                  syndrome. Uncomplicated 
                Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs) Cystitis. Cystitis is the most common urinary tract infection and is sometimes 
              referred to as acute uncomplicated UTI . It occurs in the 
              lower urinary tract (the bladder and urethra) and nearly always 
              in women. In most cases, the infection is brief and acute and only 
              the surface of the bladder is infected. Deeper layers of the bladder 
              may be harmed if the infection becomes persistent, or chronic, or 
              if the urinary tract is structurally abnormal. Pyelonephritis (Kidney Infection). When infection spreads 
              to the upper tract (the ureters and kidneys) it is called pyelonephritis , 
              or more commonly, kidney infection. As many as half of all women 
              with cystitis may have infections of the upper urinary tract at 
              the same time as cystitis. Urethritis. When infection is limited only to the urethra, 
              the infection is known as urethritis . This is a common sexually 
              transmitted disease in men. Complicated 
                UTIs Complicated UTIs 
              may develop because of any one of a number of physical problems 
              and affect any gender and age group. The common feature in most 
              complicated UTIs is the inability of the urinary tract to clear 
              out bacteria because of a physical condition that causes obstruction 
              to the flow of urine or problems that hinder treatment success. Recurrent 
                Urinary Tract Infections Recurrence is 
              common after both complicated and uncomplicated UTIs. After 
                  a single uncomplicated acute urinary tract infection recurrence 
                  occurs in approximately 27% to 48% of women. Infections usually 
                  recur a few months apart. The risk 
                  after a complicated UTI is even higher; between 50% and 60% 
                  of individuals will have recurrent infection by 4 to 6 weeks 
                  following treatment if the underlying problem is not corrected. Recurrence is 
              often defined as either reinfection or relapse . Reinfection. About 80% of recurring UTIs are reinfections. 
              A reinfection occurs several weeks after antibiotic treatment has 
              cleared up the initial episode and is caused by a different organism 
              from the one that caused the original episode. The infecting agent 
              is usually introduced through the rectal region from fecal matter 
              and moves up through the urinary tract. It should be noted that 
              the original infecting organism frequently persists so it is often 
              difficult to distinguish a reinfection from a relapse. Relapse. Relapse is the less common form of recurrent urinary 
              tract infection. It is diagnosed when a UTI recurs within two weeks 
              of treatment of the first episode and is caused by the same organism. 
              Relapse usually occurs in kidney infection (pyelonephritis) or is 
              associated with obstructions such as kidney stones, structural abnormalities, 
              or, in men, chronic prostatitis. Asymptomatic 
                Urinary Tract Infection (Bacteriuria) When a person 
              has no symptoms of infection but significant numbers of bacteria 
              have colonized the urinary tract, the condition is called asymptomatic 
              UTI (also called bacteriuria). (In general, there must be at least 
              10 5 UTI bacteria per milliliter of urine.) The condition 
              is harmless in most people and rarely persists, although it does 
              increase the risk for developing symptomatic UTIs. Screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria is not necessary during most 
              routine medical examinations, with the following exceptions: Pregnant 
                  women (who are at higher risk for kidney infections People 
                  undergoing urologic surgery (such as prostate surgery in men), 
                  in whom the condition can lead to serious infection. It also may be 
              an indicator for serious health problems in the elderly. Acute 
                Urethral Syndrome People who have 
              symptoms of cystitis but have a bacterial count lower than that 
              ordinarily found in UTI are sometimes diagnosed with acute urethral 
              syndrome. This condition is usually caused by E. coli or 
              other bacteria that cause cystitis, but in lower numbers, or by 
              a sexually transmitted disease such as Chlamydia or gonorrhea. THE URINARY SYSTEM AND ITS DEFENSES AGAINST BACTERIA The Urinary System The urinary 
                    system is made up of several organs that help maintain proper 
                    water and salt balance throughout the body and also expel 
                    urine from the body. It is made up of the following organs 
                    and structures: The two kidneys, located on each side below the ribs and 
                        toward the middle-back, play the major role in this process. 
                        They filter waste products, water, and salts from the 
                        blood to form urine. Urine passes from each kidney to the bladder through 
                        thin tubes called ureters . Ureters empty into the bladder , which rests on 
                        top of the pelvic floor . This is a muscular structure 
                        similar to a sling running between the pubic bone in front 
                        to the base of the spine. The bladder stores the urine, which is then eliminated 
                        from the body via another tube called the urethra , 
                        which is the lowest part of the urinary tract. (In men 
                        it is enclosed in the penis. In women it leads directly 
                        out.) Defense Systems Against Bacteria Infection 
                    does not always occur when bacteria are introduced into the 
                    bladder. A number of defense systems protect the urinary tract 
                    against infection-causing bacteria: Many bacteria are washed out with normal urination. Urine itself functions as an antiseptic, washing potentially 
                        harmful bacteria out of the body. (Urine is normally sterile, 
                        that is, free of bacteria, viruses, and fungi.) The ureters are designed to prevent urine from backing 
                        up into the kidney. The prostate gland in men secretes infection-fighting 
                        substances. The immune systems itself in both sexes continuously fight 
                        bacteria and other harmful micro-invaders. In addition, 
                        the immune system defenses and antibacterial substances 
                        in the mucus lining of the bladder eliminate many organisms. In normal fertile women, the vagina is colonized by lactobacilli, 
                        beneficial microorganisms that maintain a highly acidic 
                        environment (low pH). Acid is hostile to other bacteria. 
                        Lactobacilli also produce hydrogen peroxide, which helps 
                        eliminate bacteria and reduces the ability of E. coli to adhere to vaginal cells. ( E. coli is 
                        the major bacterial culprit in urinary tract infections.) Some interesting research suggests that when bacteria 
                        infect the bladder, the cells that line the bladder literally 
                        sacrifice themselves and self-destruct (a process called 
                        apoptosis). In so doing, they shed away from the lining, 
                        carrying the bacteria with them. This eliminates about 
                        90% of the E. coli . Some researchers have identified a possible natural antibiotic 
                        called human beta-defensin-1 (HBD-1), which fights E-coli 
                        within the female urinary and reproductive tract. WHAT 
                ARE THE INFECTIOUS AGENTS IN URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS? Bacterial 
                Strains in Uncomplicated UTIs Bacteria are 
              the primary organisms that cause UTIs, mostly one called Escherichia 
              coli. Bacterial Strains in Cystitis (Acute Uncomplicated UTI). The bacterial strains likely to cause acute uncomplicated UTI are 
              the following: E. 
                  Coli. The gram-negative bacteria Escherichia coli is responsible for between 80% and 85% of cystitis cases. In 
                  most cases of UTI, E. coli, which originates as a harmless 
                  microorganism in the intestines, spreads to the vaginal passage 
                  where it invades and colonizes the urinary tract. One study 
                  suggests that even when infected cells lining the bladder die 
                  and slough off, carrying the E. coli bacteria with them, 
                  some bacteria can invade into deeper tissue in the bladder, 
                  where they survive to reinfect the patient later on. Staphylococcus 
                  Saprophyticus. S. Saprophyticus is the second major bacterial 
                  culprit, causing 5% to 15% of cases in women. Interestingly, 
                  infections caused by this bacteria have a seasonal variation, 
                  with incidence being higher in the summer and fall than in the 
                  winter and spring. Other 
                  Primary Bacterial Agents. Klebsiella and Proteus 
                  mirabilis bacteria account for most of the remaining causes 
                  of UTI. Enterococci and Pseudomonas aeruginosa are 
                  rare bacterial agents and are most often detected in hospital-acquired 
                  UTIs. Some evidence suggests that ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis , which are generally harmless 
                  organisms, may be responsible for occasional urinary tract disorders. Bacterial 
              Strains in Acute Uncomplicated Pyelonephritis (Kidney Infection). The bacteria that cause pyelonephritis are generally the same 
              bacteria that cause cystitis. There is some evidence, however, the E. coli strains tend to be a more virulent (more able to 
              spread). Organisms 
                in Complicated Infections Complicated UTIs, 
              which are related to physical or structural conditions, are apt 
              to be caused by a wider range of organism. E. coli is still the most common organism, but others have 
              also been detected, including the following: Other 
                  intestinal bacteria, including Klebsiella , P. mirabilis , and Citrobacter . Fungal 
                  organisms, particularly Candida species. ( Candida 
                  albicans. for example, causes the so-called "yeast infections" 
                  that also occur in the mouth, intestinal area, and vagina.) Others 
                  include Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Enterobacter, and Serratia species, gram-positive organisms, including Enterococcus species, and S. saprophyticus . Bacterial 
                Strains in Recurrent UTIs Recurring infections 
              are often caused by bacteria that are different from those that 
              caused a previous or first infection. Even if the reinfecting bacterium is still E. coli , it may 
              be a variant of the original infecting E. coli strain. Such 
              strains produce substances, such as one called P fimbriae , 
              which tend to make the bacteria more infectious. Uncommon causes 
              of reinfection include ureaplasma, and Mycoplasma hominis, which are sometimes associated with the acute urethral syndrome. Factors 
                in Overcoming the Bacterial Defense Systems The bacteria 
              that cause most UTIs are very common and nearly everyone harbors 
              them. It is not clear, then, how they proliferate and break down 
              the natural defenses of the body. Among the possible ways this occurs 
              is the following. Changes in the Acid-Alkaline Balance of the Urinary Tract. Changes in the amount or type of acid within the genital and urinary 
              tracts are major contributors to lowering the resistance to infection. 
              For example, beneficial organisms called lactobacilli increase 
              the acidic environment in the urinary tract. Reductions in their 
              number (which, for example occurs with estrogen loss after menopause), increases pH and therefore the risk of infection. Biofilm. One theory, called the biofilm mode of growth, suggests 
              that sometimes bacteria form capsules that adhere to the urinary 
              tract, which protects them from many of the normal defenses. WHAT 
                ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS? Symptoms 
                of Lower Urinary Tract Infections (Cystitis and Urethritis) Symptoms of lower 
              urinary tract infections usually begin suddenly and may include 
              one or more of the following symptoms: The urge 
                  to urinate frequently, which may recur immediately after the 
                  bladder is emptied. A painful 
                  burning sensation. (If the only symptom is a burning sensation, 
                  then the infection is most likely urethritis.) Discomfort 
                  or pressure in the lower abdomen. The abdomen can feel bloated. Cramping 
                  in the pelvic area or back. The urine 
                  often has a strong smell, looks cloudy, or contains blood. This 
                  is a sign of pyuria , which means the presence of a high 
                  white blood cell count, and is a very reliable sign for urinary 
                  tract infections. Occasionally, 
                  fever develops. Symptoms 
                of Kidney Infection (Pyelonephritis) Symptoms of kidney 
              infections tend to be generalized and more severe than those of 
              cystitis. They may include the following: Severe 
                  cystitis symptoms, which include frequent, irritating, and strong-smelling 
                  urination that can be cloudy and contain blood. (In some patients 
                  with kidney infection, the only symptoms may be those of cystitis. 
                  In such cases, pyelonephritis should be strongly suspected if 
                  symptoms last seven to ten days. People at highest risk for 
                  such "silent" upper urinary tract infections include patients 
                  with diabetes, impaired immune systems, or who have a history 
                  of relapsing or recurring UTIs.) An increased 
                  need to urinate at night. Chills 
                  and persistent fever (typically lasting more than two days). Pain that 
                  runs along the back at about waist level. Vomiting 
                  and nausea. In elderly 
                  people, mental changes or confusion may occur. Symptoms 
                in Infants and Toddlers UTIs in infants 
              and preschool children are more likely to occur in the kidneys and upper urinary tract. (Older children are more likely to have 
              lower urinary tract infections and standard symptoms.) Infants and 
              young children should always be checked for UTIs if the following 
              symptoms are present: A persistent 
                  high fever of otherwise unknown cause, particularly if it is 
                  accompanied by signs of feeding problems and debility, such 
                  as listlessness and fatigue. (Between 3% and 5% of infants and 
                  toddlers who are brought to the emergency room with fevers have 
                  UTIs.) Painful, 
                  frequent, and foul smelling urine. Cloudy 
                  urine. (If the urine is clear, the child most likely has some 
                  other ailment, although it is not absolute proof that the child 
                  is UTI-free.) Abdominal 
                  and low back pain (may be present). Vomiting 
                  and abdominal pain (usually in infants). WHAT 
                ARE THE RISK FACTORS FOR URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS? Risk 
                Factors for Primary UTIs in Women After the flu 
              and common cold, urinary tract infections are the most common medical 
              complaint among women in their reproductive years. Women are 30 
              times more likely to have cystitis than men . An estimated 7 million 
              episodes of urinary tract infection occur each year in the US, although 
              this rate may be much higher. And, every year about 250,000 American 
              women develop kidney infections (pyelonephritis), and 100,000 are 
              hospitalized for treatment. On average, 10% to 20% of all women will develop a urinary tract 
              infection at some time in their lives and 20% of those will have 
              recurrent UTIs. The risk for UTIs, both symptomatic and asymptomatic, 
              is highest after menopause. (About 2% to 5% of young women have 
              asymptomatic bacteriuria; in women over 65 the prevalence is between 
              10% to 15%.) Structure of the Female Urinary Tract. In general, the higher 
              risk in women is mostly due to the shortness of the female urethra, 
              which is one and one half inches compared to eight inches in men. 
              Bacteria from fecal matter can also be easily transferred to the 
              vagina or the urethra. Sexual Behavior. Frequent sexual activity increases the 
              risk of urinary tract infection, and studies indicate that nearly 
              80% of all urinary tract infections occur within 24 hours of intercourse. 
              A number of different factors are responsible for the increased 
              incidence of UTIs among sexually active women: Highly 
                  active sexual behavior may increase the risk for sexually transmitted 
                  infections such as Chlamydia, gonorrhea, or herpes simplex virus. 
                  Such agents may cause urethritis (infections in the urethra). Women 
                  having sex for the first time or who have intense and frequent 
                  sex after a period of abstinence are at risk for a condition 
                  called honeymoon cystitis. A sudden 
                  increase in the frequency of sexual intercourse poses a significant 
                  risk for UTI, particularly if a diaphragm is used. Sexual 
                  position can contribute to the risk. Contraceptives 
                  may also contribute to risk in a number of ways: The spring-rim 
                  of the diaphragm may bruise the area near the bladder neck, 
                  making it susceptible to bacteria. Unlubricated 
                  condoms may injure vaginal tissue and make it vulnerable to 
                  infections. (Using a sterile lubricant, such as KY jelly, may 
                  help reduce this risk. Petroleum-based lubricants should be 
                  avoided because they weaken latex condoms.) Spermicides 
                  are not protective, and, in fact, greatly increase the risk 
                  for urinary tract infections. Some women 
                  experience UTI as an allergic reaction to latex in condoms or 
                  to oral contraceptives. Pregnancy. Although pregnancy does not increase the rates of asymptomatic 
              bacteriuria, it does increase the risk that it will progress to 
              a full-blown infection. About 2% to 11% of pregnant women have asymptomatic 
              bacteriuria and, of those, 13% to 27% will develop kidney infection 
              late in their term. (It should be noted, however, that in early 
              pregnancy, frequent urination, a common symptom of UTI, is most 
              likely due to pressure on the bladder.) Although all pregnant women should be tested for UTIs, those at 
              particularly high risk are those with the following conditions or 
              situations: Diabetes. Sickle 
                  cell trait. Members 
                  of low-income groups. Women 
                  who have had many children. A history 
                  of childhood UTIs. Women 
                  who have undergone a cesarean section with catheterization of 
                  the bladder. Women 
                  who have received epidural anesthesia. Women who have 
              had a UTI before or during pregnancy also have a higher risk of 
              developing recurrent urinary tract infections after delivery. Approximately 
              25% to 33% of women who experience bacteriuria during pregnancy 
              will have another urinary tract infection, sometimes as long as 
              ten to 14 years later. Other Risk Factors in Women. Women who have skin allergies 
              to ingredients in soaps, vaginal creams, bubble baths, or other 
              chemicals that are used in the genital area are at high risk for 
              UTIs that may enter through small injuries. Smoking and taking tub 
              baths have also been implicated in increasing the risk for recurrent 
              urinary tract infections. Risk 
                Factors of Recurring Infection in Women Almost 20% of 
              all women who recover from a bout of cystitis experience recurrent 
              episodes. The major groups of women who are at highest risk for 
              recurrent infections are young highly sexually active women and 
              postmenopausal women. It might be argued that nearly all women who 
              have a urinary tract infection are at risk for another, particularly 
              if they are not treated for the first one. Lifestyle Factors. Why urinary tract infections become chronic 
              and recurring in many women is not entirely clear, but researchers 
              are identifying certain lifestyle factors that may increase the 
              risk in specific women: Having 
                  more than four sexual intercourse episodes a month. Recent 
                  changes in sexual partners. Having 
                  a mother with a history of UTIs. Having 
                  a first UTI before age 15. Use of 
                  spermicides. Biologic and 
              Physical Factors. Some women may also have certain biologic 
              or anatomical factors that increase the risk for recurring UTIs: Having 
                  a shorter than average distance between the urethra and the 
                  anus. Certain 
                  women may carry a compound called sialosyl galactosyl globoside 
                  (SGG) on the surface of kidney cells, which is a highly powerful 
                  receptor for E. coli bacteria. Certain 
                  women have a genetic susceptibility to greater numbers of infecting 
                  organisms in the vaginal areas that adhere to the lining. Certain 
                  women may be deficient in human beta-defensin-1 (HBD-1), believed 
                  to be a naturally occurring antibiotic. Changes in 
              the Aging Woman. Changes after menopause put older women at 
              particular risk for primary and recurring UTIs. In fact, studies 
              indicate that between 20% and 25% of women over 65 years old have 
              UTIs. A number of biologic factors in older women may also contribute 
              to this risk: With estrogen 
                  loss, there is a reduction of certain immune factors in the 
                  vagina, which results in E. coli to adhere to vaginal 
                  cells. Lactobacilli levels (the protective organisms) decline after menopause (perhaps 
                  due to drops in estrogen). Some women 
                  carry the blood group P1, which, as they get older, makes them 
                  susceptible to large numbers of cells in the vagina and urethra 
                  that attract and bind a specific strain of E. coli . 
                  This strain is resistant to normal infection-fighting mechanisms. The walls 
                  of the urinary tract thin out, weakening the mucous membrane 
                  and reducing its ability to resist bacteria. The bladder 
                  may lose elasticity and fail to empty completely. Aside from menopause, 
              other very strong risk factors for recurrences that are associated 
              with aging include urinary incontinence and previous operations 
              on the genital or urinary tracts. Risk 
                Factors in Children Primary UTIs 
              in Children. About 2% of children develop urinary tract infections. 
              Because males are more likely to be born with structural abnormalities 
              of the urinary tract, UTIs during the first six months of life are 
              more common in boys. The rates are about equal in toddlers. Afterward, 
              however, UTIs are far more common in girls. By the age of five, 
              UTIs are 50 times more common in girls than in boys. Within the 
              first ten years, boys will have a 1% and girls a 3% chance for developing 
              a UTI. Vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) is the source of urinary tract infections 
              in 30% to 50% of childhood cases. This is a structural defect of 
              the valve-like mechanism between the ureter and bladder which allows 
              urine to flow backward, carrying infection from the bladder up into 
              kidneys. Recurring UTIs in Children. Recurrence will occur in about 
              30% of boys and 40% of girls. According to one study, the risk for 
              recurrence is highest in children with severe UTI caused by vesicoureteral 
              reflux, and such recurrences nearly always occurs within the first 
              six months after the first UTI. Risk 
                Factors in Men Men become more 
              susceptible to UTI after 50 years of age, when they begin to develop 
              prostate problems. From 5% to 15% of men over 65 will have asymptomatic 
              bacteriuria. Unhealthy 
                Elderly Adults All older adults 
              are at risk who are immobilized, catheterized, or dehydrated. Nursing 
              home patients, particularly those who are incontinent and demented, 
              are at very high risk for UTIs. Up to 40% of elderly patients who 
              live in nursing homes will contract a urinary tract infection. In 
              most cases, the infections are asymptomatic and no more harmful 
              than similar infections in the general population. Nursing home 
              patients, however, are at higher risk for developing symptoms. Specific 
                Risk Factors for Complicated UTIs Catheters 
              and Hospitalizations. About 40% of all infections that develop 
              in hospitalized patients are in the urinary tract, and 80% of those 
              are due to catheters. Nearly all patients who need urinary catheters 
              develop high levels of bacteria in their urine, and the longer the 
              catheter is in place, the higher the risk for infection. Catheterized 
              patients who develop diarrhea are nine times more likely to develop 
              UTIs than are patients without diarrhea. In most cases of catheter-induced 
              UTIs (90% in one study) the infection produces no symptoms. Because 
              of the risk for wider infection, however, anyone requiring a catheter 
              should be screened for infection. Catheters should be used only 
              when necessary and should be removed as soon as possible. Kidney Stones. Kidney stones, in some cases, can cause obstruction 
              and cause infection, particularly pyelonephritis. Symptoms of severe 
              urinary tract infection in people with a history of kidney stones 
              may indicate obstruction of the urinary tract, which is a serious 
              condition. Diabetes. Diabetes puts women (but not men) at significantly 
              higher risk for asymptomatic bacteriuria. The longer a woman has 
              diabetes, the higher the risk. (Control of blood sugar has no effect 
              on this condition.) The risk for symptomatic complicated UTIs may 
              also be higher in people with diabetes. In fact, certain UTI-related 
              abscesses are reported only in patients with diabetes. These patients 
              are also at higher risk for fungal-related UTIs. Prostate Conditions in Men. Benign prostatic hyperplasia 
              can produce obstruction in the urinary tract and increase the risk 
              for infection. In men, recurrent urinary tract infections are associated 
              with prostatitis, an infection of the prostate gland that can also 
              be caused by E. coli . Sickle-Cell Anemia. Patients with sickle-cell anemia are 
              particularly susceptible to kidney damage from their disease, and 
              UTIs put them at even greater risk. Anatomical Abnormalities. Some people have structural abnormalities 
              of the urinary tract that cause urine to stagnate or flow backward 
              into the upper urinary tract. Such conditions include the following: A prolapsed 
                  bladder (cystocele) can result in incomplete urination so that 
                  urine collects, creating a breeding ground for bacteria. Crevasses 
                  called diverticula sometimes develop inside the urethral wall 
                  and can become tiny pockets for urine and debris, further increasing 
                  the risk for infection. Kidney Problems. Nearly any kidney disorders increased the risk for complicated 
              UTIs. Antibiotics Antibiotics often 
              eliminate lactobacilli , the protective bacteria, along with 
              harmful bacteria. This causes an overgrowth of E. coli in 
              the vagina. In one study, the risk for UTI increased during the 
              15 to 28 days that women were taking antibiotics. In fact, some 
              research suggests that antibiotics taken for a urinary tract infection 
              increases the risk for a subsequent infection. Medical 
                Conditions that Increase Risk for UTIs AIDS and Immunosuppressed 
              Patients. Any infection is dangerous in people whose immune 
              systems are damaged, and UTIs are no exception, particularly pyelonephritis. HOW 
                SERIOUS IS A URINARY TRACT INFECTION? Emotional 
                Distress In the great 
              majority of women with recurrent UTIs, urinary discomfort and emotional 
              distress are the primary concern. One study reported significant 
              impairment of a woman's quality of life during symptom periods, 
              which affected social function, vitality, and emotional well being. Medical 
                Complications of Urinary Tract Infections in Adults Nearly all urinary 
              tract infections are mild, treatable, and have no long-term consequences. 
              Serious physical complications can occur in some cases, however, 
              most often in hospitalized patients: Obstruction and Widespread Infection. Very severe upper 
              urinary tract infections may cause obstruction that results in widespread 
              and even life-threatening infection. Patients who develop UTIs in 
              the hospital are at higher risk for such infections than those whose 
              infections develop in the community. A particularly dangerous form 
              of kidney infection obstructs the ureter. In such cases, mortality 
              rates are over 40%. The condition should be suspected in diabetics 
              who have severe UTIs with a slow response to antibiotics. Kidney Damage. In high-risk adults, recurrent UTIs may cause 
              scarring in the kidneys, which over time can progressively damage 
              the kidney and lead to hypertension and kidney failure. People with 
              UTIs who develop serious kidney disease from UTIs are likely to 
              have other predisposing diseases or structural abnormalities. (Recurrent 
              urinary tract infections, even in the kidney, almost never lead 
              to progressive kidney damage in otherwise healthy women.) Urge Incontinence. Recurrent UTIs may increase the risk 
              for urge incontinence after menopause. (People with urge incontinence 
              experience leakage and the need to urinate frequently.) Kidney Stones. Kidney stones can be caused by urinary 
              tract infections (as well increase the risk for UTIs in the first 
              place). Those known as struvite stones are almost always caused 
              by urinary tract infections due to bacteria that secrete certain 
              enzymes. These enzymes raise urine concentrations of ammonia, which 
              composes the crystals forming struvite stones. The stone-promoting 
              bacterium is usually Proteus , but others include Pseudomonas , Klebsiella , Providencia , Serratia , and staphylococci. Complications 
                of Urinary Tract Infections in Pregnancy Urinary tract 
              infections during pregnancy pose particular risks for both mother 
              and child: If asymptomatic 
                  bacteriuria is not detected and treated promptly in pregnant 
                  women, as many as 25% develop kidney infection (pyelonephritis), 
                  which in turn increases the risk for premature birth, infant 
                  mortality, and later chronic kidney disease. According 
                  to a 2000 study, even if kidney infection does not develop, 
                  untreated UTIs occurring in the first and third trimester of 
                  pregnancy increase the risk for mental retardation and developmental 
                  delay in the infant from 1.2% to 2%. Certain 
                  strains of E. coli can increase the risk for complications 
                  during pregnancy, including miscarriage or premature delivery, 
                  even if pyelonephritis does not develop. Infants 
                  of women who harbor Ureaplasma urealyticum also have 
                  increased risk for respiratory infections. Complications 
                in Children with Urinary Tract Infections Urinary tract 
              infections are a major cause of hospitalization in children and, 
              untreated, can be very serious, particularly in children under four 
              years old. Fortunately, with prompt treatment childhood cases of 
              upper urinary tract infections rarely cause any serious consequences. 
              Widespread infection is a major complication of a primary infection. In children who develop serious or recurrent UTIs, a greater concern 
              is kidney scarring. This occurrence in young growing kidneys is 
              much more serious than in the mature kidney. Over the years, it 
              increases the risk for hypertension and kidney failure. In one study, 
              evidence of scarring developed in 6% of children who had been hospitalized 
              for a urinary tract infection. Children most at risk for this complication 
              include the following: Children 
                  with vesicoureteric reflux. (Carefully managed vesicoureteric 
                  reflux without scarring is not associated with serious complications.) Abnormally 
                  structured urinary tracts. Recurrent 
                  kidney infections. A delay 
                  in treating an acute UTI. One encouraging 
              2000 study followed children with evidence of kidney scarring for 
              16 to 26 years. On average, their total kidney function was well 
              preserved, although the scarred kidney had signs of lower function 
              and patients with scarring in both kidneys were at higher risk for 
              future problems. Earlier studies have shown poorer results, which, 
              evidence suggests, are now improving with early detection and better 
              follow-up. WHICH 
                TESTS WILL CONFIRM THE DIAGNOSIS OF URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS? A physical examination 
              and urine samples are the standard initial tests both to diagnose 
              urinary tract infections and rule out other conditions. These tests 
              may not be necessary if the patient has clear-cut UTI symptoms, 
              including frequent urination and, in women, vaginal burning, without 
              other complications, such as fever, chills, and pain in the kidney. 
              In such cases, a phone call may confirm the diagnosis, and the physician 
              can call in a prescription for antibiotics to the pharmacy. Increasingly, 
              a nurse rather than a physician is consulted for uncomplicated urinary 
              tract infections. A good response to antibiotic therapy usually 
              eliminates the need for further tests. Pregnant women should be 
              screened for E. coli because of the risk of complications, 
              including miscarriage, form certain strains of this bacteria. Ruling 
                Out Other Conditions with Similar Symptoms Studies have 
              shown that up to 40% of women with symptoms of cystitis have so-called 
              sterile urine, in which the bacterial count is lower than that which 
              would normally cause an infection. Such cases may be caused by irritation 
              of the urethra, vaginitis, interstitial cystitis, or sexually transmitted 
              diseases. Some of these problems may also accompany or lead to UTIs. Vaginitis. Vaginitis is a common problem caused by a fungal 
              infection (candidiasis), by bacteria, or by sexually transmitted 
              diseases. Occasionally, the infection causes frequent urination, 
              mimicking cystitis. The typical symptoms of vaginitis are itching 
              and an abnormal discharge. Sexually Transmitted Diseases. Women with painful urination 
              but whose urine does not exhibit signs of bacterial growth in culture 
              may have a sexually transmitted disease. The most common culprit 
              is the organism Chlamydia trachomatis . Other STDs that may 
              be responsible include gonorrhea and genital herpes. Interstitial Cystitis. Interstitial cystitis (IC) is an 
              inflammation of the bladder wall that occurs almost predominantly 
              in women. The average age of patients with IC is 40, but 25% of 
              cases occur in women under 30. Symptoms are very similar to cystitis, 
              but no bacteria are present. Pain during sex is a very common symptom 
              and stress may intensify symptoms. Bladder Cancer. Bladder cancer is a rare cause of painful 
              urination and is more common in men than in women. Kidney Stones. The pain of kidney stones along with blood 
              in the urine can resemble the symptoms of pyelonephritis. There 
              are no bacteria present with kidney stones, however. Thinning Urethral and Vaginal Walls. After menopause, the 
              vaginal and urethral walls become dry and fragile causing pain and 
              irritation that can mimic a UTI. Disorders in Children that Mimic UTIs. Problems that might 
              cause painful urination in children include reactions to chemicals 
              in bubble bath, diaper rashes, and infection from the pinworm parasite. Prostate Conditions in Men. Prostate conditions, including 
              prostatitis (inflammation of the prostate) and benign prostatic 
              hyperplasia, can cause symptoms similar to urinary tract infections. Physical 
                Examination During an exam, 
              the physician should examine the pelvic and vaginal area in women. 
              Men require a digital rectal examination to determine if prostate 
              enlargement is present. The physician will also examine the male 
              genitals for signs of infection. In both men and women, the physician 
              should also check the abdomen and areas around the kidneys for swelling 
              and tenderness. Urine 
                Samples Clean-Catch 
              Sample. A clean-catch sample for UTI depends on a sample free 
              of contaminants normally present at the opening of the urethra (eg, 
              white blood cells and bacteria unrelated to UTIs). To obtain an 
              untainted urine sample, physicians usually request a so-called midstream, 
              or clean-catch, urine sample. To provide this, the following steps 
              are taken: Patients 
                  must first wash their hands thoroughly, then wash the penis 
                  or vulva and surrounding area four times, with front-to-back 
                  strokes, using a new soapy sponge each time. The patient 
                  must then begin urinating into the toilet and stop after a few 
                  drops. The patient 
                  then positions the container to catch the middle portion of 
                  the stream. Ideally, this urine will contain only the bacteria 
                  and other evidence of the urinary tract infection. The patient 
                  then urinates the remainder into the toilet. The patient 
                  securely screws the container cap in place without touching 
                  the inside of the rim. For the majority 
              of cases of suspected cystitis, this sample is considered adequate. 
              In fact, a 2000 study reported that the clean-catch sample had identical 
              contamination rates as a simple urine sample taken with no precautions. 
              Researchers in the study suggested that in young, sexually active 
              women with symptoms of cystitis, a urine sample may not even be 
              necessary. Collection with a Catheter. Some patients (eg, small children, 
              elderly people, or hospitalized patients), cannot provide a urine 
              sample. In such cases, a catheter may be inserted into the bladder 
              to collect urine. This is the best method for providing a contaminant-free 
              sample. Testing the Sample. The sample is generally given to the 
              physician or sent to the laboratory for analysis. Other procedures 
              are available as well. Dipstick 
                  Tests. Dipstick tests employ a chemical on a stick dipped 
                  in urine that reacts to nitrite. Nitrite is produced by the 
                  bacteria that cause UTI. These tests detect about 90% of infections 
                  and are useful for women with recurrent UTIs. They may also 
                  be useful for identifying UTIs in children and infants. Home 
                  dipstick urine tests are now available without prescription. Incontinence 
                  Pads. Testing and diagnosing UTIs in elderly patients who 
                  are incontinent is especially difficult, because of the similarities 
                  in symptoms. Researchers have found that pressing a dipstick 
                  into an incontinence pad is an effective way to screen for urinary 
                  tract infections in incontinent patients. Urinalysis A urinalysis 
              involves a physical and chemical examination of urine. In addition, 
              the urine is spun in a centrifuge to allow sediments containing 
              blood cells, bacteria, and other particles to collect. This sediment 
              is then examined under a microscope. A urinalysis, then, offers 
              a number of valuable clues for an accurate diagnosis: Simply 
                  observing the urine for color and cloudiness can be important. Acidity 
                  is measured. White 
                  blood cells (leukocytes) are counted. A high count in the urine 
                  is referred to as pyuria . (A leukocyte count over 10 
                  per microliter is considered to indicate pyuria.) Pyuria is 
                  usually sufficient for a diagnosis of UTI in nonhospitalized 
                  patients if standard symptoms (or just fever in small children) 
                  are also present. Treatment can 
              be started without the need for further tests if the following urinalysis 
              results are present in patients with symptoms and signs of UTIs: A high 
                  white cell count. Cloudy 
                  urine. Gram 
                Stain If physicians 
              suspect that bacteria other than E. coli may be present, 
              a Gram stain is used to help predict the species. This is a staining 
              procedure used to make bacteria visible through a microscope. Many 
              bacteria are categorized by the terms gram-positive and gram-negative . Bacteria 
                  that are pink are called gram-negative. Those 
                  that turn blue from the stain are called gram-positive bacteria. Escherichia 
              coli is gram negative and the most common cause of UTIs. If 
              physicians suspect that bacteria other than E. coli are 
              present in cases of UTI, a Gram stain is useful for identifying 
              other species. Urine 
                Culture A urine culture 
              is a urine specimen observed 24 to 48 hours in a laboratory for 
              the presence of any bacterial growth. It is not routinely performed 
              but may be conducted under certain circumstances: If urinalysis 
                  is negative but the patient has severe UTI symptoms, particularly 
                  in hospitalized patients with catheters who develop fever or 
                  other signs of infection. If the 
                  infection is recurrent. If the 
                  physician suspects complications. In girls 
                  less than two years with a high fever of unknown origin that 
                  lasts two days or more. Even if bacteria 
              are present in the culture, a diagnosis of UTI depends on symptoms 
              and gender: Even without 
                  symptoms, the presence in a culture of at least 100,000 colonies 
                  of any single type of bacterium per milliliter of urine usually 
                  provides conclusive evidence of infection in women. In women 
                  who experience pain while urinating, a diagnosis of infection 
                  is made with as low a count as 100 colonies per milliliter. 
                  (One study found that half of women who had low counts in an 
                  initial specimen progressed to high counts in two days.) Men are 
                  considered to have an infection with a count of only 1,000. Urinary tract 
              infection is nearly always caused by a single species of bacteria. 
              If a mix of different species is found, the test is considered contaminated 
              and is redone. Cultures have limitations. For example, even if E. coli is indicated, researchers are recognizing variants of this bacteria. 
              Certain types may indicate a higher risk for a second infection, 
              while others may even be protective against recurring infections. 
              Furthermore, some organisms, such as Chlamydia , are not detected 
              using ordinary cultures and require special tests. Indications for 
              such tests may be the presence of pus in bacteria but no bacterial 
              growth. Investigative 
                Tests An interesting 
              test called the Diag-Nose is under investigation in England. 
              The test first involves mixing urine with a specific growth medium, 
              which the bacteria eat. They then emit characteristic odors that 
              are detected by the device and identified as UTI bacteria. More 
              research is warranted. Imaging 
                Techniques Because of the 
              expense and the limited accuracy of imaging procedures, these techniques 
              are used only for the following: Serious 
                  and recurrent cases of pyelonephritis. When structural 
                  abnormalities are suspected. If infections 
                  do not respond to treatment. If a physician 
                  suspects obstruction or an abscess. As follow-up 
                  care in children. Ultrasound. Ultrasound is a noninvasive, risk-free imaging test that can be 
              used to screen for hydronephrosis (obstructions of the flow of urine), 
              kidney stones that predispose to infection, and kidney abscesses. 
              Ultrasounds of the prostate in men with UTI can detect enlargement 
              or abscesses. In children with urinary tract infections they also 
              can be used to detect vesicoureteral reflux, the defect of the valve-like 
              mechanism between the ureter and bladder. They are not as accurate 
              as voiding cystourethrography [see below]. Nuclear Scans. Imaging techniques called nuclear scans may 
              be useful in certain cases. One such scan called dimercaptosuccinic 
              acid (DMSA) scintigraphy first employs injections of tiny amounts 
              of radioactive tracing medicine. A scanning machine (scintillation 
              or gamma camera) is then used to detect pictures of the tracer in 
              the kidney. This information is recorded on a computer screen or 
              on film. Nuclear scans are very useful for detecting kidney scarring 
              after pyelonephritis in children. They produce better images and 
              expose the patient to far less radiation than x-rays do. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) or Computed Tomography (CT). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) and computed tomography (CT) 
              scans are noninvasive advanced imaging techniques that are sometimes 
              used when nuclear scans are inconclusive. A CT scan is useful for 
              ruling out kidney stones or obstructions in women with recurrent 
              UTIs. X-Rays. Special x-rays can be used to screen for structural 
              abnormalities, urethral narrowing, or incomplete emptying of the 
              bladder, which can cause stagnation of urine and predispose to infection. Voiding 
                  cystourethrogram is an x-ray of the bladder and urethra. 
                  To obtain a cystourethrogram, a dye, called contrast material, 
                  is injected through a catheter inserted into the urethra and 
                  passed through the bladder. An intravenous 
                  pyelogram (IVP) is an x-ray of the kidney. For a pyelogram, 
                  the contrast matter is injected into a vein and eliminated by 
                  the kidneys. In both cases, the dye passes through the urinary 
                  tract and reveals any obstructions or abnormalities on x-ray 
                  images. Due to the possible risks to the fetus, x-rays are not 
                  performed on pregnant women. Cystoscopy. Cystoscopy is used to detect structural abnormalities, interstitial 
              cystitis, or masses that might not show up on x-rays during an IVP. 
              The patient is given a light anesthetic and the bladder is filled 
              with water. The procedure uses a cystoscope, a flexible, tube-like 
              instrument that the urologist inserts through the urethra into the 
              bladder. Other 
                Diagnostic Tests for Kidney Infection and Severe UTIs No noninvasive 
              test will differentiate between upper and lower urinary tract infections. 
              This is a particular problem because of the high percentage of women 
              whose cystitis symptoms mask infections that also exist in the upper 
              tract. Antibiotic Trial. The best current test for pyelonephritis 
              is the short-term antibiotic therapy given for cystitis. If the 
              infection returns within two weeks after treatment, upper urinary 
              tract infection is usually present. Blood Cultures. If symptoms are severe, blood cultures will 
              be taken to determine if the infection is in the blood stream and 
              threatening other parts of the body. WHAT 
                ARE THE TREATMENTS FOR SYMPTOMS OF URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS Although antibiotics 
              successfully treat most urinary tract infections, severe symptoms 
              can persist for several days before treatment starts and then effectively 
              eliminates the bacteria. (One study revealed that many women who 
              suffer from UTIs often wait one or two days before seeing a physician. 
              As a result, up to another two or more days may pass before treatments 
              can relieve symptoms.) A number of options are available for treating 
              symptoms until the antibiotics are effective. It should be stressed 
              that all of these drugs treat only symptoms and are not cures; they 
              should never be used to replace antibiotics. Phenazopyridine Phenazopyridine 
              (Barodium, Eridium, AZO Standard) relieves pain and burning caused 
              by the infection. It should not be taken for more than two days 
              and should be discontinued when symptoms are relieved. Side effects 
              include headache and stomach distress. The drug turns urine a red 
              or orange color, which can stain fabric and be difficult to remove. 
              In rare cases, it can cause serious side effects, including shortness 
              of breath, a bluish skin, a sudden reduction in urine output, shortness 
              of breath, and confusion. In such cases, patients should call the 
              physician immediately. Antispasm 
                Agents Drugs that reduce 
              bladder spasms include methenamine (Atrosept, Prosed, Urised) or 
              flavoxate (Urispas). These agents can have severe side effects that 
              the patient should discuss with the physician. HOW 
                ARE ANTIBIOTICS USED IN TREATING URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS? A variety of 
              antibiotics are available for UTIs. The choices depend on many factors, 
              including whether the infection is complicated or uncomplicated, 
              primary or recurrent. Treatment decisions should not necessarily 
              be based on the actual bacteria count. If a woman has symptoms, 
              even if bacterial count is low or normal, infection is probably 
              present and antibiotic treatment should be considered. [ See Box Specific 
              Antibiotics Used in UTIs .] Specific Antibiotics Used for Most UTIs Amoxicillin. Until recent years, the standard treatment for a UTI was ten 
                    days of amoxicillin, a penicillin antibiotic, but it is now 
                    ineffective against E. coli bacteria in up to 25% of cases. TMP-SMX. The current typical treatment is a three-day 
                    course of the combination drug trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, 
                    commonly called TMP-SMX (Bactrim, Cotrim, Septra). It should 
                    not be used in patients whose infections occurred after dental 
                    work or in patients allergic to sulfa drugs. Allergic reactions 
                    can be very serious. TMP-SMX interferes with the effectiveness 
                    of oral contraceptives. Trimethoprin (Proloprim, Trimpex) 
                    or sulfamethoxazole (Thiosulfil, Forte) may be used alone 
                    or in combination. Fluoroquinolones. Antibiotics known as fluoroquinolones 
                    (also called quinolones) are now standard alternatives to 
                    TMP-SMX. Examples of quinolones include ciprofloxacin (Cipro), 
                    norfloxacin (Noroxin), ofloxacin (Floxacin), levofloxacin 
                    (Levaquin), and sparfloxacin. These antibiotics are expensive 
                    and, in general, are used only for the following conditions: Complicated UTIs. In patients who do not respond TMP-SMX. In patients who are allergic to TMP-SMX. In communities where there are high rates of bacteria 
                        resistant to TMP-SMX. Pregnant 
                    women should not take them. Cephalosporins. Antibiotics known as cephalosporins, 
                    either second generation (cefuroxime axetil, cefaclor, cefprozil) 
                    or third generation (cefixime, cefotaxime, cefpodoxime) are 
                    also alternatives for infections that do not respond to standard 
                    treatments. Tetracyclines. Long-term treatment with tetracycline 
                    or doxycycline (both are tetracyclines) may be used for infections 
                    that are caused by Mycoplasma or Chlamydia . 
                    Tetracyclines have unique side effects among antibiotics, 
                    including skin reactions to sunlight, possible burning in 
                    the throat, and tooth discoloration. Nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin (Furadantin, Macrodantin) 
                    is an antibiotic that is used specifically for urinary tract 
                    infections. It should not be used in patients with kidney 
                    disease. It interacts with many drugs and other chronic or 
                    serious medical conditions may also affect its use. It should 
                    not be used in pregnant women within a week or two of delivery 
                    or in nursing mothers. Fosfomycin. The antibiotic fosfomycin (Monurol), which 
                    comes in an orange-flavored, soluble powder, may prove to 
                    be an effective one-dose treatment for many women, including 
                    those who are pregnant. Aminoglycosides. Aminoglycosides are given by injection 
                    for very serious bacterial infections, gentamicin is an example. Antibiotics 
                for Uncomplicated UTIs Oral antibiotic 
              treatment cures 85% of uncomplicated urinary tract infections, although 
              the rate of recurrence remains high. There is some debate over whether 
              to treat young sexually-active women with high bacterial counts 
              but no symptoms (asymptomatic bacteriuria). Given growing bacterial 
              resistance to antibiotics and the benign nature of this condition, 
              many experts do not recommend routine treatment. Specific Antibiotics Used. The antibiotics used most often 
              for uncomplicated UTIs are either trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, 
              commonly called TMP-SMX (Bactrim, Cotrim, Septra), or an antibiotic 
              known as a fluoroquinolone. Pregnant women should not take fluoroquinolones. 
              For uncomplicated UTIs, better options during pregnancy may be sulfisoxazole 
              or a cephalosporin. [See Box 
              Specific Antibiotics Used for Most UTIs .] Duration of Treatment. Studies are now reporting that uncomplicated 
              female UTIs can often be successfully treated over the phone. In 
              such cases, a health professional, usually a nurse, provides the 
              patients with three-day antibiotic regimens without even requiring 
              a urine test. A single oral dose of antibiotics, usually 
              TMP-SMX or a fluoroquinolone, is sometimes prescribed in mild cases, 
              but cure rates are generally lower than with the three-day regimens. 
              (Long-term therapy, seven- to ten-day course, is now mostly limited 
              to men, children, the elderly, people with diabetes with any UTI, 
              and women with pyelonephritis or who are pregnant.) After a week 
              of antibiotic treatment, most patients are free of infection. If 
              the symptoms do not clear up within the first few days of therapy, 
              physicians generally suggest that women discontinue their antibiotic 
              and provide a urine sample for culturing in order to identify the 
              specific organism causing the condition. Treatment 
                for Relapsing Infection A relapsing infection 
              (caused by the same organisms the first episode) occurs within three 
              weeks in about 10% of women. Relapse is treated similarly to a first 
              infection but the antibiotics are continued for at least two weeks. 
              (Relapsing infections may be due to structural abnormalities, abscesses, 
              or other problems that may require surgery, and such conditions 
              should be ruled out.) Bacterial 
                      Resistance to Antibiotics Of major concern for physicians and the public is the emergence 
                    of strains of common bacteria, including E. coli , 
                    that are resistant to specific antibiotics. The prevalence 
                    of such bacteria has dramatically increased worldwide, and, 
                    although resistance is highest to penicillin, it is also increasing 
                    rapidly to other antibiotics. More than 20% of E. coli bacteria are now resistant to ampicillin, cephalothin, 
                    and sulfamethoxazole. The percentage is growing with TMP-SMX. 
                    (In the US, higher rates are observed in Western states.) E. coli resistance to nitrofurantoin, gentamicin, and 
                    ciprofloxacin is still under 2%, but as these drugs are increasingly 
                    used, resistant bacterial will also increase. (It should be 
                    noted that such resistance has not yet had any significant 
                    effect on antibiotic treatments for infections outside the 
                    hospital setting. To date this problem will not effect most 
                    people.) Antibiotic 
                Treatment and Prevention of Reinfections By six weeks, 
              the rate of reinfection is 18% among those taking TMP-SMX and may 
              be up to 40% in patients taking short-term therapy of other types 
              of antibiotics. All women with an initial episode of UTI should 
              use hygienic measures to prevent recurrences. [ See How Can 
              Urinary Tract Infections Be Prevented?] Self Treatment. A number of studies now suggest that many, 
              if not most, women with recurrent UTIs can accurately self-diagnose 
              an infection and self treat recurrent UTIs without going to a physician: As soon 
                  as the patient develops symptoms, she takes the antibiotic. 
                  Infections that occur less than twice a year are usually treated 
                  as if they were an initial attack, with single dose or three-day 
                  antibiotic regimens. At that 
                  time, she also performs a clean-catch urine test and sends it 
                  to the physician for culturing to confirm the infection. A physician should 
              be consulted under the following circumstances: If the 
                  symptoms have not completely resolved within 48 hours. If there 
                  is a change in symptoms. If the 
                  patient suspects that she is pregnant. If the 
                  patient has more than four infections a year. Women who are 
              not good candidates for self-treatment are those with impaired immune 
              systems, previous kidney infections, structural abnormalities of 
              the urinary tract, or a history of infection with antibiotic-resistant 
              bacteria. Preventive Antibiotics (Prophylaxis). Prophylaxis (preventive 
              antibiotics) are an option for women who experience two or more 
              symptomatic UTIs within six months or three or more over the course 
              of year. A woman's own perception of discomfort should guide her 
              decisions on whether to use preventive antibiotics or not. The increasing 
              use of antibiotics for many common infections is causing concern 
              because of emerging strains of common bacteria that have become 
              resistant to standard antibiotics. [ See Box Bacterial 
              Resistance to Antibiotics .]. Regimens for Recurrent Infections. Preventive regimens for recurrent infections may vary depending 
              on the circumstances: The physician 
                  may prescribe continuous preventive low-dose antibiotics for 
                  six months to a year. Typical regimens include one dose of nitrofurantoin 
                  (50 mg), 1/2 tablet of TMP-SMX, or cephalexin (250 mg). Taking 
                  the antibiotic at bedtime may be most effective. (Taking TMP-SMX 
                  for as long as five years has been reported to be effective 
                  and well tolerated.) If the 
                  infection is related to sexual activity and episodes recur more 
                  than three times a year, a single preventive dose taken immediately 
                  after intercourse has proven to be very effective in many cases. 
                  Effective antibiotics in such cases include, TMP-SMX, nitrofurantoin, 
                  cephalexin, or a fluoroquinolone (such as ciprofloxacin). (Fluoroquinolone 
                  are not appropriate during pregnancy.) In elderly 
                  people with frequent recurrences, half doses of trimethoprim 
                  are beneficial. Antibiotics 
                for Kidney Infection Treating Uncomplicated 
              Kidney Infections. Patients with uncomplicated kidney infections 
              (pyelonephritis) are those who are not experiencing nausea or vomiting 
              and show no other overt symptoms of kidney involvement. Sometimes 
              patients are first given an antibiotic injection, if indicated. 
              In general, the standard treatment for uncomplicated pyelonephritis 
              is a 14-day course of oral antibiotics, usually trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 
              (TMP-SMX) or ampicillin. A 2000 study reported, however, that a 
              seven day course of ciprofloxacin was as effective for patients 
              with uncomplicated kidney infections as 14 days of TMP-SMX.) In 
              any case, a urine culture is obtained within one week of completion 
              of therapy and again four weeks later. Treating Moderate to Severe Kidney Infection. Patients with 
              moderate to severe acute kidney infection and those with severe 
              symptoms or other complications may need to be hospitalized. In 
              such cases, antibiotics (ceftriaxone and gentamicin) are usually 
              given intravenously for three to five days or until symptoms are 
              relieved and patients have not shown any signs of fever for 24 to 
              48 hours. One study reported that oral cefixime may be as effective as intravenous 
              antibiotics in small children with UTIs and fever. In any case, 
              adult patients are switched to oral antibiotic therapy after symptoms 
              have been relieved and continued for another two weeks; treatment 
              for longer than this has no additional benefit. If fever and back 
              pain persist after 72 hours of antibiotic administration, the physician 
              will usually order imaging tests to see if abscesses, obstructions, 
              or other abnormalities are present. [ See Diagnostic Tests 
              for Pyelonephritis and Acutely Ill Patients, above. ] Treating Chronic Kidney Infections. Patients with chronic 
              pyelonephritis are often treated with long-term antibiotic therapy, 
              even during periods when they are asymptomatic. Treating the Pregnant Woman with Kidney Infections. Pregnant 
              women with pyelonephritis have, to date, been hospitalized for treatment, 
              but a recent study found that outpatient treatment is safe and effective 
              if the condition develops in the early months of pregnancy. In the 
              study, women were given an injection of ceftriaxone in the emergency 
              room, observed for a few hours and then administered a second injection. 
              After this, they were sent home with a prescription for an oral 
              antibiotic. Antibiotics 
                for Urethritis in Men Urethritis in 
              men has typically been treated with a seven-day regimen of doxycycline. 
              Some research is showing that a single dose of azithromycin may 
              be just as effective while causing fewer side effects. One-dose 
              treatment also improves compliance, so cure rates may even be better 
              than with a long-term regimen. Of concern, however, is an infection 
              that spreads to the prostate gland, which is harder to treat, so 
              most physicians still prefer the longer regimen. It should be noted 
              that azithromycin and similar antibiotics do not cure the infection 
              and may mask the symptoms of an accompanying sexually transmitted 
              disease, such as gonorrhea. Tests for such diseases should be conducted 
              if urethritis is diagnosed. Preventive 
                Treatments for Children with Vesicoureteral Reflux Antibiotics are 
              often used to prevent infections in children (particularly girls) 
              with vesicoureteral reflux. The current choices include low doses 
              of nitrofurantoin and trimethoprim. The treatment usually continues 
              for years with the idea that the condition will resolve when the 
              child has grown. The use of long-term antibiotics for preventing infections in children 
              is controversial, however, and few well-conducted studies have been 
              performed to confirm or refute their use. In one 2000 study, treatment 
              was stopped after an average of 4.8 years. Reflux had resolved in 
              only about 20% of the children (whose average age was nearly nine). 
              UTIs occurred, however, in just 12% of the children after an average 
              of 2.3 years following the end of the antibiotic regimen. Furthermore, 
              another 2000 study suggested that children on preventive antibiotics 
              were at higher than average risk for developing infections with 
              resistant bacteria. Surgery to correct the reflux is the alternative when the condition 
              does not resolve over time with antibiotics. Debate is ongoing over 
              whether surgery might be a better first option than long-term antibiotics. 
              Studies are finding no significant difference in kidney damage between 
              children who are treated with antibiotics or surgery. WHAT ARE THE NON-ANTIBIOTIC MEASURES FOR PREVENTING RECURRENT 
                URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS? General 
                Female Hygiene The following 
              hygiene tips may be helpful for women at risk for UTIs: Cleanse 
                  the genital and urinary areas from front to back with soap and 
                  water after each bowel movement. Avoid 
                  tight-fitting pants. Wear cotton-crotch 
                  underwear and panty hose, changing both at least once a day. 
                  (Mild detergents are best for washing underwear.) Take showers 
                  rather than baths. Avoid 
                  bath oils, feminine hygiene sprays, douches, and powders. In 
                  fact, as a general rule, any product containing perfumes or 
                  other possible allergens should not be used near the genital 
                  area. Choose 
                  sanitary napkins instead of tampons (which some physicians believe 
                  encourage infection). Napkins and tampons, in any case, should 
                  be changed after each urination. Urinate 
                  frequently. Sexual 
                Precautions The following 
              recommendations may reduce the risks from sexual activity: Keep the 
                  genital and anal areas clean before and after sex. Urinate 
                  before and after intercourse to empty the bladder and cleanse 
                  the urethra of bacteria. Note: these precautions are not proven 
                  to prevent UTIs. Discuss 
                  the best contraceptive choice with a physician; this is for 
                  women who don't want to get pregnant and who also want to reduce 
                  the risk for UTIs. For example, women in a monogamous relationship 
                  (in which both partners are at low risk for sexually transmitted 
                  disease) should consider contraceptive devices that don't contain 
                  spermicides. [ See also the Report, #91 
                  Female Contraception.] Uncoated condoms do not pose a risk for 
                  recurrent UTIs, but the friction they produce in use may pose 
                  a risk for infection. Uncoated condoms are also not as protective 
                  against sexually transmitted diseases. Avoid 
                  sex with multiple partners. This causes many psychologic and 
                  health problems, including sexually transmitted diseases and 
                  UTIs. Estrogen Studies are finding 
              that postmenopausal women who use an estrogen vaginal cream or estrogen-releasing 
              vaginal ring (Estring) have a significantly lower incidence of recurring 
              urinary tract infections than women not using such topical estrogens. 
              Researchers suggest that estrogen may resist infection by increasing 
              the number of lactobacilli, the microorganism that fights infection 
              by lowering the vaginal pH levels and preventing E. coli from adhering to vaginal cells. It is not clear whether taking oral 
              estrogen has the same benefit as the topical forms. Studies of oral 
              estrogen to date have been contradictory; some have, in fact, reported 
              a higher incidence of UTI in women taking oral estrogen. Dietary Considerations Fluids. Many physicians believe that emptying the bladder 
              frequently will help prevent bladder irritation and therefore recommend 
              drinking plenty of water daily and urinating often. Alcohol and 
              coffee should be avoided. Cranberry Juice and Blueberries. Cranberries and blueberries 
              are two of the three fruits native to North America. During the 
              Colonial period, cranberries were used to alleviate fever and were 
              also used for liver and stomach problems. Cranberry juice offers 
              well-known protection against urinary tract infections. In one study, 
              only 15% of elderly women who drank 300 ml (1.25 cups) of cranberry 
              juice daily for six months experienced UTIs compared with 28% of 
              women who did not drink the juice. Its effects were stronger in 
              helping the body rid itself of infections than in preventing them 
              in the first place, but it showed benefits in both situations. Furthermore, 
              a 2001 study showed that women who drank 2 oz. of cranberry juice 
              had fewer UTIs than women taking nothing after 6 months. Researchers are finding that chemicals in cranberries and blueberries 
              called tannins, or proanthocyanidins, prevent the E. coli bacteria from adhering to cells in the urinary tract. Fructose, 
              which is present in all fruit juices, may also interfere with bacterial 
              adhesion. Vitamin C. Taking vitamin C regularly may make urine more 
              acidic and less hospitable to bacteria, but there is no evidence 
              that it prevents UTIs. Probiotics Lactobacilli. Some researchers are investigating probiotics (essentially 
              friendly organisms), particularly lactobacilli , which may 
              protect against infections in the genital and urinary tracts. Many 
              yogurt products contain lactobacilli . Lactobacilli are also 
              found in acidophilus, a natural supplement. Lactobacilli have the potential to help protect women from UTIs in a number of 
              ways: Maintain 
                  a low pH environment. Hinder E. coli growth. Produce 
                  hydrogen peroxide, which produces an environment hostile for 
                  bacteria. Escherichia 
              Coli 83972. E. coli 83972 is being investigated because 
              it is an E. coli strain associated with asymptotic conditions 
              in the urinary tract. Some research suggests that it may even be 
              protective in certain individuals. Vaccines Vaccines are 
              being developed against urinary tract infections. There is some 
              urgency in the need for such vaccines, as bacterial strains resistant 
              to many common antibiotics are becoming increasingly prevalent. 
              In an early trial of the vaccine SolcoUrovac, after five months, 
              antibodies to the infection were increased significantly in the 
              urinary tracts of women with recurrent UTIs. More studies are needed 
              to determine long-term effects. A vaccine administered as a suppository 
              in the vagina has helped some women develop resistance to recurrent 
              infection. Investigators are also testing a vaccine that prevents E. coli from attaching to the lining of the bladder. Circumcision 
                in Infant Males Although there 
                is some controversy over whether circumcision helps prevent UTIs 
                in boys, a 2000 analysis of nearly 15,000 male infants born in 
                1996 reported that the uncircumcised boys under one years old 
                had nine times the risk for UTIs as circumcised boys. (The risk 
                is still very low, however.) MANAGEMENT OF CATHETER-INDUCED URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS Preventing Catheter-Induced Infections Catheter-induced 
                    urinary tract infections are very common and preventive measures 
                    are extremely important. Catheters should not be used unless 
                    absolutely necessary, and they should be removed as soon as 
                    possible. One study found that catheters impregnated with 
                    antibiotics reduced UTI rates during the two weeks they were 
                    in place after surgery. Reducing the risk for infections during 
                    long-term catheter use, however, is problematic. Catheter Coatings. Catheter coatings, such as silver 
                    nitrate and other substances, are being tested and are showing 
                    some benefits, but the problem is still not resolved. Intermittent Use of Catheters. If a catheter is required 
                    for long periods, it is best to use it intermittently if possible 
                    (as opposed to an indwelling catheters). Some physicians recommend 
                    replacing it every two weeks to reduce the risk of infection 
                    and irrigating the bladder with antibiotics between replacements. Daily Hygiene. A typical catheter is one that has been 
                    preconnected and sealed and uses a drainage bag system. To 
                    prevent infection, some of the following tips may be helpful: Drink plenty of fluids, including three glasses of cranberry 
                        juice a day. The catheter tube should be free of any knots or kinks. Clean the catheter and the area around the urethra with 
                        soap and water daily and after each bowel movement. (Women 
                        should be sure to clean front to back.) Wash hands before touching the catheter or surrounding 
                        area. Never disconnect the catheter from the drainage bag without 
                        careful instructions from a health professional on strict 
                        methods for preventing infection. Keep the drainage bag off the floor. Stabilize the bag against the leg using tape or some other 
                        system. Antibiotics for Catheter-Induced Infections Patients 
                    using catheters who develop UTI with symptoms should be treated 
                    for each episode with antibiotics and the catheter should 
                    be removed, if possible. A major problem in treating catheter-related 
                    UTI is that the organisms involved are constantly changing. 
                    Because there are likely to be multiple species of bacteria, 
                    experts generally recommend an antibiotic that is effective 
                    against a wide variety of microorganisms. These medications 
                    include those in the fluoroquinolone group and drug combinations 
                    such as ampicillin plus gentamicin or imipenem plus cilastatin. Although high bacteria counts in the urine (bacteriuria) occur 
                    in most catheterized patients, administering antibiotics to prevent a UTI is rarely recommended. Many catheterized 
                    patients do not develop symptomatic urinary tract infections 
                    even with high bacteria counts. If bacteriuria occurs without 
                    symptoms, antibiotic therapy has little benefit if the catheter 
                    is to remain in place for a long period. WHERE 
                ELSE CAN INFORMATION ABOUT URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS BE OBTAINED? National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse, 
              Three Information Way, NIDDK, NIH, 31 Center Drive, MSC 2560,Bethesda, 
              MD 20892-2560. Call (800-891-5388) or on the Internet ( http://www.niddk.nih.gov ) Provides information from a number of government sources and patient 
              information, Urinary Tract Infections In Adults . American Urological Association (AUA) or on the Internet ( http://www.auanet.org/ ) and its journal ( http://www.jurology.com/ ) American Foundation for Urologic Disease, 1128 North Charles Street, 
              Baltimore, MD 21201. Call (800-242-2383) or (410 468-1800) or on 
              the Internet ( http://www.afud.org/ ) National Association for Continence (NAFC), Box 8310, Spartanburg, 
              SC 29305-8306. Call 800-BLADDER or (864-579-7900) or fax (864-579-7902) 
              or on the Internet ( http://www.nafc.org/ ) Although devoted to information on continence, the association will 
              provide names of specialists in urinary tract infections in local 
              areas. Interstitial Cystitis Association (ICA), 51Monroe St., Suite 1402, 
              Rockville, MD 20850. Call (301-610-5300) or on the Internet ( http://www.ichelp.com ). Provides patients with information and support network. National Women's Health Resource Center, Women's Health Interactive 1136 East Stuart, Ft. Collins, CO 80525-1276 Call (970-282-9437) 
              or fax (970-282-0023) or on the Internet ( http://www.womens-health.com/ ) National Women's Health Network, 514 10th St. NW, Suite 400, Washington, 
              DC 20004. Call (202-347-1140) or (202-628-7814) for health information 
              or ( http://www.womenshealthnetwork.org/ ) Membership is $25 per year and provides a bimonthly newsletter and 
              access to information. Reports cost $6.00. for members and $8.00 
              for nonmembers. American Urogynecologic Society, 2025 M Street NW, Suite 800, Washington, 
              DC 20036. Call (202-857-1167) or on the Internet ( http://www.augs.org/ ). 
              This organizations is concerned with urologic and gynecologic problems 
              that coincide in women. Site gives names of professionals in specific 
              locations. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Resource Center, 
              409 12th Street SW, P.O. Box 96920, Washington, DC 20090-6920. Call 
              (202-638-5577) or on the Internet ( http://www.acog.com/ ) VIEWER RELATIONS About Us | Contact Us | Write For Us | Advertise | Services | Media Inquires | Terms and Conditions | Copyright Policy | Privacy Statement STAY CONNECTED Newsletter | RSS | FaceBook | Twitter | YouTube | Buzz | Bloggers | Volunteer | Donate This site is owned and operated by PreventDisease.com  2011. All Rights Reserved. All content on this site may be copied, without permission, whether reproduced digitally or in print, provided copyright, reference and source information are intact and use is strictly for not-for-profit purposes.  Please review our copyright policy for ful