Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

630 pages, 7" x 10", illustrated (Cloth) ISBN: 0-939616-30-0 $65.00 New, expanded edition! Acupuncture in the Treatment of Children (Third Edition) by Julian Scott & Teresa Barlow Pediatrics has long been recognized as an important branch of traditional Chinese
    medicine, and there are many specialized texts in Chinese devoted to this topic. In its
    first two editions (1986, 1991), Acupuncture in the Treatment of Children became
    the leading English-language textbook in this field. In this broadly expanded third edition, the authors explore a number of new topics and
    revisit many of the old ones with fresh perspective. In addition to the thirty subjects
    covered in earlier editions are sixteen new chapters which examine a wide variety of
    topics, from basic childhood patterns, puberty and the stages of development,
    immunizations, and learning difficulties to hayfever, hyperactivity and attention deficit
    disorder, autism, Down’s syndrome, cerebral palsy and infantile paralysis. There is a
    new outline of patterns commonly seen in children, and an extensive survey of pediatric
    symptoms and disorders that are treatable with acupuncture. The focus of this third edition is squarely on the problems of treating children in the
    Western clinic. New patterns that are unique to the lifestyles of children in the
    West—and new wrinkles on old patterns—are presented candidly and with a
    refreshing lack of jargon. There are also many new case histories sprinkled throughout the
    text, bringing theory down to earth. "A superb example of how a clinical textbook should be both written and
        presented." — The Journal of Chinese Medicine "Provides a wealth of easy-to-read, easy-to-use information." — Journal of Traditional Acupuncture Contents FUNDAMENTALS: Differences Between Children and Adults, Causes of Disease in Children,
        Excess and Deficiency, Diagnosis, Using Acupuncture in the Treatment of Children, Outline
        of Common Patterns in Children DIGESTIVE DISORDERS: Constipation, Diarrhea, Teething, Abdominal Pain, Vomiting,
        Childhood Nutritional Impairment, Oral Thrush and Mouth Ulcers RESPIRATORY DISORDERS: Fevers and Influenza, Chronic Cough, Acute Cough, Pneumonia,
        Asthma INFECTIOUS DISEASES: Immunizations and Their Side Effects, Measles, Mumps, Pertussis,
        Tonsillitis, Conjunctivitis, Otitis Media, Hay Fever MISCELLANEOUS DISORDERS: Insomnia and Night Terrors, Eczema in Infants and Young
        Children, Failure to Thrive, Learning Difficulties and Mental Retardation, Hyperactivity
        and Attention Deficit Disorder, Down’s Syndrome, Autism, Dyslexia, Cerebral Palsy and
        Infantile Paralysis,  Myopia, Strabismus, Strong Convulsions and Fits, Weak or
        Chronic Convulsions (Chorea), Epilepsy, Nocturnal Enuresis, Urinary Tract Infection,
        Stages of Growth and Problems at Puberty, Glandular Fever (Infectious
        Mononucleosis),  Purpura, Anemia CASE HISTORIES: Case Histories (30 cases) APPENDIX I What Acupuncture Can Cure APPENDIX II Table of Hot and Cold Foods BIBLIOGRAPHY GLOSSARY POINT INDEX GENERAL INDEX Questions or comments? Send them to us at info@eastlandpress.com | Home | Book List | The Journal of
Chinese Medicine | How to Order | Last Update July  2004 Copyright © 2004, Eastland Press, Inc. All rights rese