
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Sat, 11 Feb 2012 06:58:53 GMT
Server: Apache
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Bacterial pneumonia All about pneumonia types of pneumonia walking pneumonia aspiration pneumonia bacterial pneumonia viral pneumonia bronchial pneumonia community-acquired pneumonia hospital-acquired pneumonia atypical pneumonia causes of pneumonia risk factors for pneumonia complications of pneumonia symptoms of pneumonia diagnosis of pneumonia treatment for pneumonia prevention of pneumonia What is bacterial pneumonia? Bacterial pneumonia is pneumonia caused by bacteria. Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacterial pneumonia. Bacterial pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that causes increased fluid in the lungs. It is also called bacterial pneumonitis. This disease is most serious in young children and those over 60 years. Bacterial pneumonia develops when bacteria that normally live harmlessly in the throat enter the lungs. This usually happens when the body's immune system is weakened in some way. This usually occurs after an upper respiratory infection, such as influenza. The lungs are damaged enough to allow the bacteria to infect the area. Bacterial pneumonia is usually caused by bacteria called either pneumococcus or streptococcus pneumoniae. Infection with the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacterium, also called pneumococcus, is the most common cause of bacterial pneumonia. Pneumococcus usually causes lobar pneumonia, attacking an entire lobe or portion of a lobe of the lung; in double pneumonia, pneumococcus attacks both lungs. Pneumococcal lobar pneumonia often occurs in winter after an acute, viral upper respiratory infection. Usual symptoms include a shaking chill followed by a fever of about 40°C (104°F), pain in the chest while breathing, a cough, and blood-streaked sputum. Other bacteria that cause pneumonia include Klebsiella pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Legionella pneumophilia (the bacterium that causes Legionnaires' disease), and various staphylococci and streptococci bacteria. Infections with these organisms primarily cause bronchopneumonia. Onset of symptoms is generally slower than with lobar pneumonia, and the fever is lower. More information on pneumonia What is pneumonia? - Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs. Pneumonia is an inflammation of the lung caused by infection with bacteria, viruses, or other organisms. What types of pneumonia are there? - Types of pneumonia are bacterial pneumonia, viral pneumonia, mycoplasma pneumonia, pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, aspiration (or inhalation) pneumonia. What is walking pneumonia? - Walking pneumonia is pneumonia that is usually mild enough that the child does not have to stay in bed. What is aspiration pneumonia? - Aspiration pneumonia is an inflammation of the lungs and bronchial tubes caused by inhaling foreign material. What is bacterial pneumonia? - Bacterial pneumonia is pneumonia caused by bacteria. Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacterial pneumonia. What is viral pneumonia? - Viral pneumonia is caused by various viruses. Viral pneumonia is usually milder than bacterial pneumonia. What is bronchial pneumonia? - Bronchial pneumonia is when the pneumonia spreads to several patches in one or both lungs. What is community-acquired pneumonia? - Community-acquired pneumonia occurs most commonly in very young and very old people. What is hospital-acquired pneumonia? - Hospital-acquired pneumonia, also called nosocomial pneumonia, is an infection that patients get while they're in the hospital. What is atypical pneumonia? - Atypical pneumonia is a pneumonia that does not respond to the usual antibiotic treatment. What causes pneumonia? - Pneumonia is caused by viruses, bacteria, or parasites or other organisms such as Streptococcus pneumoniae. What're the risk factors for pneumonia? - Alcohol or drug abuse is strongly associated with pneumonia. The elderly and infants and young children are at greater risk of pneumonia. What're the complications of pneumonia? - Complications of pneumonia that may occur include buildup of fluid in the space between the lung and chest wall. What are the symptoms of pneumonia? - Symptoms of pneumonia are shortness of breath, chest pain, coughing, shallow, and fever and chills. How is pneumonia diagnosed? - The diagnosis of pneumonia is usually made from a medical history, a physical examination, and a chest X-ray. What's the treatment for pneumonia? - Treatment of pneumonia consists of respiratory support, including O2 if indicated, and antibiotics. How to prevent pneumonia? - Vaccines are available to protect against pneumococcal pneumonia, pneumonia caused by the bacterium. Respiratory & lung diseases Mainpage Topics in respiratory and lung diseases Lung diseases Occupational lung diseases Asthma Respiratory infections Respiration disorders Broncheal diseases Pleural diseases Lung transplant Featured articles on respiratory and lung diseases COPD (Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) Emphysema Asbestosis Lung cancer Mesothelioma Silicosis Pulmonary hypertension Cystic fibrosis Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) Influenza Bronchitis Pneumonia All information is intended for reference only. Please consult your physician for accurate medical advices and treatment. Copyright 2005, healt