Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Sat, 24 Oct 2009 00:22:09 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "7c8d1e64054ca1:139ac7"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2012 16:19:05 GMT
Connection: close

AUA Report to HCFA on Urinary Incontinence REPORT OF THE AD HOC COMMITTEE TO SUGGEST BROAD GUIDELINES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF
MANAGEMENT OF URINARY INCONTINENCE CHAIRPERSON Alan J. Wein, MD COMMITTEE MEMBERS Jerry Blaivas. MD Roger Dmochowski, MD Edward McGuire, MD Peggy Norton, MD Nancy Reilly, MSN, RN, CURN, CRNP [Note: While every effort has been made to ensure accuracy,
        this is NOT an official copy of the document, and may contain typographical errors outside
        the scope of Microsoft products, was well as British-American spelling discrepancies.
        Readers needing an official copy should contact the AUA directly at aua@auanet.org ] [End of cover page] REPORT OF THE AD HOC COMMITTEE TO SUGGEST BROAD GUIDELINES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF URINARY INCONTINENCE I. INTRODUCTION This ad hoc committee was convened by the American Urological Association consequent to
a dialogue with the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) relating to the management
of urinary incontinence. The facts and opinions expressed here represent a broad consensus
of this multidisciplinary committee and follow the format of the recently completed 1st
International Consultation on Incontinence, in which recommendations were made by focused
subcommittees which based their composite opinion on a review of the available literature
and global subjective opinion. The document is not meant to be an all-inclusive treatise on the subject of urinary
incontinence. Rather, the committee members intend it to be a brief review of the
following subjects: definition and subtypes (classification) of urinary incontinence;
scope and impact of urinary incontinence; pathophysiology (broadly) of the various types
of urinary incontinence; and, broad guidelines for appropriate management (the term
'management" referring to evaluation and treatment). It was felt that the algorithms
produced by the various subcommittees of the 1st International Consultation on
Incontinence provided a broad consensus for appropriate management with some exceptions
which are specifically noted. A limited number of source documents are cited as
references. II. DEFINITION AND CLASSIFICATION OF URINARY INCONTINENCE Urinary incontinence is defined as the involuntary loss of urine. The term is used in
various ways. It may denote a symptom, a sign, or a condition. The symptom is generally
thought of as the patient's complaint of involuntary urine loss. The sign is the objective
demonstration of urine loss. The condition is the underlying cause (pathophysiology). A
simple classification of the various subtypes of urinary incontinence is seen in
attachment 1. Most practitioners use definitions that conform, either exactly or
approximately, to those formulated by the International Continence Society for lower
urinary tract dysfunction. Attachments 2 and 3 define terms relevant to the description of
urinary incontinence. These categorizations are further explained under the subheading,
pathophysiology. [Page 1] One additional fact with respect to definition, however, bears mention. The traditional
perspective on urinary incontinence fails to account for instances in which symptoms of
urinary frequency and urgency are present without the involuntary loss of urine.
"Overactive bladder is a new term which is being applied to the symptoms of
frequency, urgency, urge or reflex incontinence, alone or in any combination, when
existing in the absence of local pathologic factors (urinary tract infection, bladder
stone, bladder cancer, interstitial cystitis, etc.) explaining these symptoms. In the
opinion of this committee, the management (evaluation and treatment) of these lower
urinary tract symptoms should be the same as that of urgency incontinence or reflex
incontinence. III. SCOPE AND IMPACT OF URINARY INCONTINENCE In 1996, the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research reported urinary incontinence
as affecting 13 million Americans in community and institutional settings, with an annual
cost, estimated in 1994 dollars, of 16.4 billion dollars. Reported prevalence rates of
urinary incontinence vary considerably, depending on definition (how frequently, how much,
how bothersome), how the information is obtained, and on the population studied.
Reasonable estimates of the prevalence of urinary incontinence in the population between
15 and 64 years of age range from 1.5 to 5% in men and from 10% to 30% in women. For
non-institutionalized persons older than 60 years of age prevalence estimates range from
15% to 35%, with women having twice the prevalence of men. Among the more than 1.5 million
nursing facility residents, the prevalence of urinary incontinence is estimated at 50% or
greater. Other data regarding incidence and prevalence are readily available from
reference texts (see bibliography). Besides the strictly financial costs, urinary
incontinence imposes a significant psychosocial impact on individuals, their families, and
caregivers. Quality of life, as measured by both generic and lower urinary tract specific
indices, is adversely affected to a significant degree. The primary spheres affected are
(1) self esteem; (2) ability to maintain an independent lifestyle; (3) social interactions
with friends and family; (4) activities of daily life; (5) sexual activity. IV. PATHOPHYSIOLOGY The lower urinary tract functions as a group of interrelated structures whose joint
function in the adult is to bring about efficient and low pressure bladder filling, low
pressure urine storage with perfect continence, and periodic voluntary urine expulsion,
again at low pressure. The anatomic, morphologic, physiologic, pharmacologic, and
mechanical factors involved in both the storage and expulsion of urine by the lower
urinary tract have been detailed [Page 2] by numerous authors in numerous texts. Our discussion here excludes so-called
extraurethral incontinence (see attachment 1), which is due either to a fistula (an
abnormal communication between the bladder and the vagina, ureter and vagina, or urethra
and vagina), and those individuals with an ectopic ureter (a ureter which drains into an
abnormal site with no sphincteric mechanism between it and the exterior environment).
Excluding individuals with so-called functional incontinence (individuals who do not
recognize a need to urinate in a socially acceptable manner or place, because of neural
immaturity, cerebral disease or dementia and those who cannot access an acceptable place
to urinate because of physical disability), the pathophysiology of urinary incontinence
involves the bladder, the bladder outlet (the bladder neck and urethra), or both. One can
summarize the requirements for normal bladder filling and urine storage very simply as 1. Accommodation of increasing volumes at a low intravesical pressure and with
  appropriate sensation 2. A bladder outlet that is closed and competent at rest and remains so during
  increases in intra-abdominal pressure 3. The absence of involuntary bladder contractions. Any type of voiding dysfunction having to do with the filling/storage phase of
micturition, including urinary incontinence, must result from an abnormality of one or
more of the factors listed above. Overactivity of the bladder during
filling/storage can be expressed as phasic involuntary contractions, as low compliance (a
tonic increase in the pressure/volume curve), or as a combination of the two. Involuntary
bladder contractions are most commonly seen in association with neurologic disease or
after neurologic injury. However, they may be also associated with inflammation or
irritation of the bladder wall, bladder outlet obstruction, aging, or they may be
idiopathic. Decreased compliance during filling may be secondary to a neurologic injury or
disease (usually at the level of the sacral spinal cord or below), but may result also
from any process that destroys the viscoelastic or elastic properties of the bladder wall.
Storage failure may occur also in the absence of hyperactivity, but secondary to hypersensitivity
or pain during filling . In this instance, the incontinence results from an
uncontrollable need to get rid of the painful bladder sensation, a circumstance which may
be seen with irritation, inflammation, neurologic, or psychological causes. Incontinence
due to decreased outlet resistance (so-called sphincteric related, as opposed to
bladder related incontinence) may result from any process that damages the innervation or
the structural [Page 3] elements of the smooth or striated sphincter or their supports. This may occur with
neurologic disease or injury, surgical or other mechanical trauma, or aging. Urethral
instability refers to the rare phenomenon of episodic decreases in outlet pressure
unrelated to increases in bladder or abdominal pressure. The term urethral instability is
probably a misnomer, because many feel that the drop in urethral pressure represents
simply the urethral component of a normal voiding reflex in an individual whose bladder
does not measurably contract, either because of myogenic or neurogenic reasons. There are
situations where urethral incontinence cannot be considered merely as an isolated
abnormality of either bladder contractility or sphincteric resistance. These situations,
listed in attachment 4, are more complicated to deal with, because they are more difficult
to diagnose and because one entity may adversely affect or compromise treatment of the
other. A brief description of the more common types of urinary incontinence follows: Outlet Related Incontinence in the Female: In women there are two
  clinical types of sphincteric incontinence, that related to urethral hypermobility
  (so-called 'genuine" stress incontinence) and to intrinsic sphincter deficiency
  (ISD). With urethral hypermobility there is weakness of the pelvic floor. During increases
  in intra-abdominal pressure there is descent of the bladder neck and proximal urethra. If
  the urethra opens concomitantly, stress urinary incontinence ensues. In the classic form
  of urethral hypermobility, there is rotational descent of the bladder neck and urethra.
  However, the urethra may also descend without rotation (it shortens and widens) or the
  posterior wall of the urethra may be pulled open while the anterior wall remains fixed. It
  should be noted, however, that urethral hypermobility is often present in women who are
  not incontinent, and thus the mere presence of urethral hypermobility is not sufficient to
  make a diagnosis of a sphincter abnormality unless urinary incontinence is also
  demonstrated. The "hammock hypothesis" proposes that, for stress incontinence to
  occur with hypermobility, there must be a lack of stability of the suburethral supportive
  layer. This theory proposes that the effect of abdominal pressure increases on the normal
  bladder outlet, if the suburethral supportive layer is firm, is to compress the urethra
  rapidly and effectively. If the supportive suburethral layer is lax and/or movable,
  compression is not as effective. ISD denotes an intrinsic malfunction of the urethral
  sphincter mechanism itself. In its most overt form, it is characterized by a bladder neck
  which is open at rest, a low Valsalva leak point pressure and urethral closure pressure [Page 4] (specialized urodynamic studies -- see section on management) and is usually the result
  of prior surgery, trauma with scarring, or a neurologic lesion. As the physiology and
  pathophysiology of the bladder outlet is better studied, many individuals are beginning to
  feel that some element of intrinsic sphincter deficiency is present in every case of
  sphincteric incontinence, including "genuine" stress urinary incontinence. The
  two extremes, however, are clearly separate and readily recognizable. Outlet Related Incontinence in the Male: In theory at least, categories
  of outlet related incontinence in the male are similar to those in the female. In reality,
  there is little if any information regarding the topic of urethral instability in the
  male. Sphincteric incontinence is due generally to neurologic impairment or anatomic
  disruption after prostatic surgery or urethral trauma. Sphincteric incontinence in the
  male is not associated with hypermobility of the bladder neck and proximal urethra, but is
  rather more similar to what is termed ISD in the female. Bladder Related Incontinence in the Female; Bladder related abnormalities
  causing urinary incontinence consist of either detrusor overactivity or low bladder
  compliance. Detrusor overactivity is a generic term for involuntary bladder contractions.
  These can be either due to neurologic conditions (in which case detrusor hyperreflexia is
  the term applied) or non-neurologic in origin (in which case the term detrusor instability
  is employed). Neurologically, involuntary bladder contractions can be due to any lesion
  occurring above the sacral spinal cord. The cause(s) of detrusor instability in the female
  is (are) obscure. In addition to the prior etiologies, one subject that should be
  mentioned is the simultaneous occurrence of bladder instabilty in stress urinary
  incontinence. The fact that minor components of detrusor instability, and sometimes major
  ones, often disappear after successful surgery for stress incontinence suggest that these
  two phenomena may be causally related in an as yet unknown fashion. Bladder Related Incontinence in the Male; The pathophysiology of bladder
  related incontinence in the male is similar to that in the female except that there is no
  known association between detrusor instability and stress incontinence in the male. There
  is, however, a unique association of detrusor overactivity with bladder outlet obstruction
  in the male. The incidence of detrusor instability in males with outlet [Page 5] obstruction secondary to prostatism ranges from 50 to 80%. When the outlet obstruction
  is relieved in such patients, there is a high reversion rate of the bladder status to
  stability (approximately 50%), although this reversion generally takes between one and six
  months, and may take as long as 12 months. Overflow Incontinence; This is a descriptive term that denotes leakage of
  urine associated with urinary retention. This is more common in the male than female. The
  primary pathophysiology is actually a failure of emptying, leading to urinary retention
  with "overflow" incontinence, resulting from either continuous or episodic
  elevation of intravesical pressure over urethral pressure. This generally results in
  outlet obstruction or detrusor inactivity, either neurologic or pharmacologic in origin,
  or may be secondary to inadvertent overdistention of the bladder. V. MANAGEMENT Management includes the processes of evaluation and treatment. Various algorithms are
available for each, ranging from the simplest to the most complicated. What is appropriate
for one patient/health care provider combination may not be appropriate for another. The
level of complexity of the evaluation and management depends on A. The clinical problem at hand B. The prior treatment experience(s) C. The desire for an exact diagnosis D. The patient's desire for treatment E. The patient's goals of therapy F. The patient's ability and desire to follow instructions or carry out specific tasks G. The expected level of improvement under optimal circumstances H. The health care provider's level of expertise Environmental considerations J. Economic considerations A complete idealized evaluation menu is seen in attachment 5. Not every test may be
necessary or desirable for each patient. For behavioral modification and/or drug therapy
in a patient who has previously received no treatment, these may be minimal. For treatment
failures, for follow up when silent upper and lower tract deterioration can occur, for a
situation where an exact diagnosis is desired, or prior to consideration for surgery or
other irreversible therapy, these may be extensive. There are differences of opinion as to
the value or non-value [Page 6] of various studies under selected circumstances. The committee submits as attachment 6
a modification of pages 947-950 of the test [sic] Incontinence (see references) as
a general guideline for the evaluation of incontinence. In addition, Dr. Blaivas has
prepared, as attachment 7, a description of the various studies included under the term
"urodynamic evaluation". All known treatments for urinary incontinence are summarized in attachment 8.
Inclusion in this list does not imply majority agreement on efficacy. Treatment should
generally begin with the simplest most reversible forms of therapy, proceeding gradually
up the order of complexity. A patient may elect to bypass a given form of treatment or
choose not to remain on a given treatment for a period which the provider recommends. In
deciding to proceed up the level of complexity of treatment or to remain at a given level,
only the patient (and/or family) is (are) empowered to say when "enough is
enough". A perfect result need not be achieved. Satisfaction is the goal, as long as
the patient and/or family understands the possible benefits, practicalities, and risks of
further therapy. Although there may be some other differences of opinion as to management strategies in
differing conditions, the committee with the exceptions noted above, advocates serious
consideration of the recommendations of the International Scientific Committee of the 1St International
Consultation on Incontinence (see attachment 9, including algorithms). These
recommendations include, for various subtypes of patients (children, men, women,
neurogenic urinary incontinence, urinary incontinence in frail-disabled older people),
algorithms for initial and specialized management. The committee recommends that when
specialized level assessment and procedures are available, they should be performed by
specialists. The division into initial and specialized management is somewhat artificial
but is intended to outline what the committee feels are the absolute limits of
non-specialist treatment in health care systems where initial management may be performed
by generalists. [Page 7] REFERENCES Abrams P Khoury S, Wein A (eds): Incontinence (1st International
Consultation on Incontinence), Plymbridge Distributors, Ltd., Heath Publications Ltd.,
United Kingdom, 1999. Blaivas JG, Romanzi U, Heritz OM: Urinary Incontinence: pathophysiology,
evaluation, treatment overview, and nonsurgical management. In, Walsh P, Retik A,
Vaughan ED, Jr., Wein AJ: Campbell's Urology 7th edition, Saunders, Philadelphia,
pp.1007-1043, 1997. Fantt JA, Newman DK, Coiling J, et al: Urinary Incontinence in Adults: Acute
and Chronic Management. Clinical Practice Guideline, No.2, 1996 Update. Rockville. MO;
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Public Health Service. Agency for Health
Care Policy and Research. AHC PR Publication No. 96-0682. March 1996. O'Donnell, PD. Urinary Incontinence. . Mosby Year-Book Inc. St. Louis.
1997. Steers WO. Barrett OM. Wein AJ: \/oiding Dysfunction:
diagnosIs. classification, and managemenL In. Glilenwater JY, Grayhack JT.
Howards SS. Duckert JW (eds): Adult and Pediatric Urology . Mosby Year-Book. Inc..
St. Louis. 1996. pp. 1220-1326. Urinary Incontinence Guideline Panel. Urinary Incontinence in Adults: Clinical
Practice Guideline. AHCPR Pub. No.92-0038. Rockville. MO: Agency for Health Care Policy
and Research. Public Health Service, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, March
1992. Wein AJ: Pathophysiology and categorization of voiding
dysfunction. In, Walsh P, Retik A, Vaughan ED. Jr.,
Wein AJ: Campbell's Urology 7th edition, Saunders, Philadelphia. pp.917-926, 1997. Wein AJ, Barrett, DM: Voiding Function and Dysfunction: A Logical and
Practical Approach . Year Book Medical Publishers. Inc., Chicago, 1988. Attachment 1 CLASSIFICATION OF INCONTINENCE Extraurethral A. Fistula (vesicovaginal, ureterovaginal, urethrovaginal) B. Ectopic ureter II. Urethral A. Functional 1. Because of physical disability 2. Due to lack of awareness or concern B. Bladder abnormalities 1. Overactivity a. Involuntary contractions b. Decreased compliance 2. Sensory urgency with incontinence C. Outlet abnormalities 1. "Genuine" stress incontinence 2. Intrinsic sphincter deficiency 3. Urethral instability 4. Post-void dribbling a. Urethral diverticulum b. Vaginal pooling of urine D. Overflow incontinence Attachment 2 Blaivas, et al.  "Definition and
Classification of Urinary Incontinence: Recommendations of the Urodynamic Society".
  Neurology and Urodynamics 16:149-151; 1997.  [This page contains a
copyright notice and therefore has not been reproduced.] Attachment 3 I. Definitions The consultation agreed to use the current International
    Continence Society definitions (~988) for lower urinary tract dysfunction (LUTD)including
    incontinence. In the text of the book and in some parts of the recommendations possible
    changes to definition will be signaled. However it should be emphasized that no changes in
    nomenclature can be viewed as official until they have passed through the rigorous ICS
    standardization process. The Following ICS
    definitions are relevant: 1. Overactive Detrusor Function Overactive detrusor function is characterized by involuntary detrusor
    contractions during the filling phase. which may be spontaneous or provoked (and which the
    patient cannot completely suppress). . The overactive detrusor is divided into the uns table
    detrusor and detrusor hyperreflexia. The unstable detrusor is one that is shown objectively to contract.
    spontaneously or on provocation during the filling phase while the patient is attempting
    to inhibit mictuntion. Detrusor hyperreflexia is defined as overactivity due to disturbance of
    the nervous control rnechanisms. Note: There has been a move to change the  definitions referable to
    the overactive detrusor and replace it with "the overactive bladder" (Abrarns
    and Wein). Sufferers from incontinence more readily understand this term than either the
    'overactive detrusor" or the "unstable bladder'. 2. Urinary Incontinence Urinary
    incontinence is involuntary loss of urine which is objectively demonstrable and a social
    or hygienic problem. Incontinence may be defined according to the patient's symptoms: · Urge incontinence is the involuntary loss of
    urine associated with a strong desire to void (urgency). · Stress incontinence : the symptom
    indicates the patient's statement of involuntary loss of urine during physical exertion · " Unconscious " incontinence . Incontinence may occur in the absence of urge and without
    conscious recognition of the urinary loss. · Enuresis means any involuntary loss of urine. If it
    is used to denote incontinence during sleep. it should always be
    qualified with the adjective nocturnal". · Post-micturition dribble and continuous leakage denotes other symptomiatic forms of
    incontinence. · Genuine stress incontinence is the
    involuntary loss of urine occurnng when. :'n the absence of a detrusor contraction. the
    ntravesical pressure exceeds the maximum urethral pressure. · Reflex incontinence is loss of urine due to det:rusor
    hyperreflexia and/or involuntary urethral relaxation in the absence of the sensation
    usually associated with the desire to micturate. This condition is only seen in patients
    with neuropathic bladder/urethral disorders. · Overflow incontinence is any involuntary
    loss of urine associated with over-distension of the bladder. This term has been
    criticized and the Consultation's Scientific Committee prefers a term such as
    'incontinence associated with poor bladder emptying'. The symptoms and signs of incontinence do not give a definite diagnosis and the cause of incontinence can only be absolutely
    determined by urody namic studies (UDS). UDS allow the disease processes to be defined. Attachment 4 COMBINED PROBLEMS ASSOCIATED WITH INCONTINENCE Detrusor overactivity with outlet obstruction Detrusor overactivity with impaired bladder contractility Sphincteric incontinence with impaired bladder contractility Sphincteric incontinence with detrusor overactivity Attachment 5 EVALUATION OF URETHRAL URINARY INCONTINENCE History and general assessment Nature and duration Detailed symptomatic assessment or voiding diary Prior treatments Medications Mental and physical status; fitness for various treatment Physical examination To include abdomen, perineum, rectal, neurologic, genitalia, vaginal exams and stress
    test for suspected stress incontinence Urinalysis, possible culture and cytology Renal function assessment Screening uroflow and post-void residual measurement Formal urodynamic/videourodynamic testing Radiologic imaging of the urinary tract Endoscopy of the lower urinary tract Pad testing Quality of life assessment Neurophysiologic testing Attachment 6 EVALUATION OF INCONTINENCE (Modified slightly by the Committee from Abrams et al, 1999, pp.947-950) The following was utilized to classify diagnostic tests and studies: · A highly recommended test is a test that
  should be done on every patient · A recommended test is a test of proven
  value in the evaluation of most patients and its use is strongly encouraged during initial
  evaluation. · An optional test is a test of proven
  value in the evaluation of selected patients: its use is left to the clinical judgment of
  the physician. · A not recommended test is a test of no
  proven value in the evaluation of most patients. However, such tests may be helpful in
  selected patients who do not fulfill the criteria for the standard (usual) patients. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED TESTS DURING INITIAL EVALUATION The main recommendations should be read in conjunction with the management algorithms for children,
men, women, neurogenic patients and the frail older person. The initial evaluation should be done on every patient presenting with incontinence to
a health care professional. 1. History and General Assessment Management of a disease such as incontinence requires caregivers to assess the sufferer
as a whole individual. Many factors may influence a particular individual's symptoms, some
may cause incontinence, and other factors will determine the success of treatment. General assessment has a number of important components: · Nature and duration of genitourinary tract
  symptoms. · Previous surgical procedures in particular as they
  affect the genitourinary tract). · Environmental issues: these
  may include the social and cultural environment. · Patient mobility: individuals who have compromised mobility may need to be managed differently. · Mental status: each
  individual needs to be assessed for their ability to understand proposed
  management plans and to enter into discussions when there are a range of treatment
  options. In some groups of patients formal testing of cognitive function is essential,
  e.g., those thought to be suffering from dementia. · Disease status: Coexisting diseases may have a profound effect on incontinence sufferers, for
  example asthma patients with stress incontinence will suffer greatly during attacks.
  Diseases may also precipitate incontinence, particularly in frail older persons. · Patient medication: It is always important to review every patient's medication
  and to make an assessment as to whether the treatment is in fact causing or worsening the patient's condition. · Sexual function. At
  present little information exists on the impact of
  incontinence: this aspect of the patient's life should be assessed where appropriate. · Bowel function: Although urinary
  incontinence is the subject of this consultation, bowel function has considerable
  influence on urinary problems. In addition, certain groups of urinary incontinent patients
  may have co-existing fecal incontinence, and/or constipation which may trouble them as
  much or even more than their urinary leakage. · Patient's fitness
  for possible surgical procedures. 2. Quantification of Symptoms: A full urinary history should be taken and can be substituted for a diary. It should
include: a. The frequency of
incontinence b. The perceived quantity of urinary leakage C . The perceived impact of urinary leakage on every day life. The use of a urinary diary (frequency-volume chart), a simple chart, is highly
recommended to document the frequency of micturition,
the volumes voided, incontinence episodes and the use of incontinence pads. 3. Physical Examination: There are a number of essential components in the examination of sufferers with
incontinence. · Abdominal examination in an effort to detect a palpable
  bladder. · Perineal examination to assess sensation. · Rectal
  examination to assess anal tone, the consistency of stool, and in the male, the
  prostate gland. · Neurological examination: concentrating on the
  S24 segments (the nerve supply of bladder and urethra). · External genitalia. · Vaginal examination to assess pelvic organ prolapse
  and estrogen status. · Stress test for incontinence - patients with suspected stress incontinence should be asked to cough repeatedly and to bear down. 4. Other Diagnostic Tests: a. Urinalysis: As urinary infection is a readily detected
and easily treatable cause of LUTS, urine testing is highly recommended. Testing may range
from examination of urine in a clear glass container, through dipstick testing, to urine microscopy. b. Estimation of Residual Urine: In neurogenic patients
and frail older persons and those with symptoms suggestive of bladder measured outlet
obstruction or signs suggestive of an enlarged bladder, it is highly recommended to assess
post-void residual urine (PVR) is measured during
initial assessment as in these groups of patients the management
is dependent on assessment of voiding efficiency. PVR
may be assessed by abdominal examination or more accurately by ultrasound estimation. This
will simultaneously provide information about bladder capacity and bladder wall changes,
and can detect the presence of bladder stones, diverticula and a median lobe. The invasive
nature of any other means (i.e. catheterization) to determine residual urine must be
weighed against the benefits of the test. Because of the marked intraindividual
variability of residual urine volume, the test should be repeated to improve precision, if
residual urine volume is significant at the first measurement. RECOMMENDED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS: 1. Further Symptom Assessment The use of a number of validated questionnaires is recommended for a more detailed
assessment of the symptoms of incontinence and their impact on quality of life. The
International Consultation on Incontinence aims to develop a standard questionnaire for
the assessment of symptoms and impact on quality of life for use in assessing the
effectiveness of treatments for incontinence. 2 Detailed Physical Examination In female patients, formal assessment is recommended when initial evaluation indicates
the possibility of estrogen deficiency, urethral diverticulum, urinary fistula or pelvic
organ prolapse. Pelvic organ prolapse should be assessed. Urethral hypermobility should be
addressed by visual inspection or a cotton swab test. 3. Renal Function Assessment Standard chemical tests for renal function are recommended in patients with urinary
incontinence and a high probability of renal impairment or prior to surgical
interventions. 4. Uroflowmetry and PVR Uroflowmetry and the measurement of postvoid residual urine (PVR) are recommended as a
screening test for voiding dysfunction. 5. Urodynamic Testing It is recommended that routine urodynamic evaluation should consist of: a. Filling cystometry (with provocation, and tailored to the individual
  patient's requirements together with b. Voiding cystometry c. Leak point pressure(s) The aims of routine urodynamic evaluation are: · The detection of detrusor
  overactivity · The assessment of
  urethral competence during filing · The assessment of outlet function during voiding · The measurement of residual urine Urodynamic evaluation is recommended: · When an exact diagnosis is desired · Prior to invasive treatments · After treatment failure · As part of a long-term surveillance program in neurogenic
  lower urinary tract dysfunction · In "complicated incontinence". Filling and voiding cystometry are most accurately performed as part of multichannel
urodynamic studies. For these studies, it is necessary to measure abdominal pressure and
calculate detrusor pressure. For any given patient, the greater the degree of
sophistication of urodynamic evaluation, the greater the diagnostic accuracy. Thus,
cystometry with synchronous abdominal pressure
recording and calculation of detrusor pressure is more accurate
than single channel cystometry. Synchronous detrusor pressure/uroflow studies are more
accurate than either parameter measured alone and videourodynamic is the most accurate of
all. In all multichannel studies, each measured parameter serves as a check against the
other and offers not only a higher degree of accuracy, but a means by which technical artifacts can be analyzed and excluded. In this context, there are no
absolute indications for individual studies. Rather, the need for each depends on the
degree of accuracy demanded by the patient, his physician and the clinical setting. 6. Urinary Tract Imaging Imaging may be by ultrasound, simple X-ray, or X-ray with contrast. · a. Imaging of the lower
  urinary tract is recommended in all patients referred for
  specialist management and particularly those with
  suspected lower tract pathology. This is most appropriately performed in conjunction with
  urodynamic studies. b. Imaging of the upper urinary tract is recommended only in specific
  situations. These include: · Low bladder compliance · Neurogenic urinary incontinence, e.g., myelodysplasia,
    spinal cord trauma · Severe urethral obstruction · Incontinence
    associated with significant post-void residual · Co-existing loin/kidney pain · Severe untreated pelvic organ prolapse · Suspected extra-urethral urinary incontinence · All children with incontinence 7. Endoscopy · Endoscopy is recommended: · In men with incontinence · In the evaluation of suspected vesicovaginal fistula and
    extra-urethral urinary incontinence · In patients who have previously undergone bladder,
    prostate, or other pelvic surgery · When initial testing suggests other pathologies, e.g.,
    microscopic hematuria raises the possibility of bladder tumor · When pain, discomfort, persistent urge incontinence,
    persistent or symptoms of bladder overactivity feature in the patient's symptoms: these
    may suggest an intravesical lesion OPTIONAL DIAGNOSTIC TESTS 1. Additional Urodynamic Testing If a more detailed estimate of urethral function is required then the following
urethral function tests are optional: · Static and stress urethral pressure profilomety · Video-urodynamics and/or electromyography If initial urodynamics have failed to demonstrate the causes for the patient's
incontinence then the following tests are optional. · Repeated provocative routine urodynamics · Ambulatory urodynamics 2. Pad Testing Pad testing is an optional test for the routine evaluation of incontinence. Either
a short test (20 minutes to 1 hour) or a 24 hour test is suggested. 3. Quality of Life Assessment: A number of existing measures of quality of life have been reviewed by the Symptom
and Quality of Life Assessment Committee. A generic or disease specific QOL index may be
utilized. 4. Neurophysiological Testing: The information gained by clinical examination and urodynamic testing may be enhanced
by neurophysiological testing of striated muscle and nervous pathways. Appropriately
trained personnel should perform these tests. The following neurophysiological tests are
optional in patients with incontinence and suspected peripheral lesions. · Concentric needle EMG · Sacral reflex responses to electrical stimulation or
    penis/clitoris 5. Further Urinary Tract Imaging: CT or MRI imaging of the lower urinary tract and pelvic floor are optional and
should have a specific indication. 6. The ICS Classification of pelvic organ prolapse may be used to document
the extent of prolapse. TESTS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR THE INITIAL OR FURTHER EVALUATION OF INCONTINENCE · Urinary tract imaging is
  not recommended unless there are specific indications (see above) · Endoscopy of the urinary
  tract is not recommended unless there are specific indications (see above) · Gas cystometry is not
  recommended as part of the urodynamic evaluation of incontinence. Attachment 7 URODYNAMIC STUDIES (Jerry Blaivas, MD) The term urodynamic studies refers to one or more of a series of diagnostic procedures
designed to evaluate the lower urinary tract during its storage and emptying phase. Much
of urodynamics is an interactive process between patient and physician and, as such, it
requires live interpretation of the findings as they occur. During the testing it is
usually necessary for the patient to be queried about
what he or she is feeling or trying to do and to be instructed to perform certain
maneuvers. Depending upon the degree of sophistication needed, as many as nine components may be
evaluated during a single diagnostic session. Simple studies such as uroflow and single
channel cystometry may be performed in physician offices without specialized
configurations, but sophisticated videourodynamic studies require a dedicated room with
fluoroscopy, multichannel electronic urodynamic equipment and a nurse and/or radiology
technician in addition to the physician. The examinations
generally last from 30 minutes to 90 minutes, depending
upon their complexity. URODYNAMIC TESTS Cystometry Cystometry is a test of the storage function of the bladder. It is performed by filling
the bladder with fluid while bladder pressure and volume are recorded. The examination is
an interactive one -- there is constant communication between the patient and examiner.
This is necessary not only to put the patient at ease, but also to be sure that the
patient's symptoms are reproduced during the study and that mechanical artifacts are
recognized. Cystometry is necessary to detect involuntary bladder contractions and abnormalities of
bladder sensation, capacity, and compliance. When involuntary detrusor contractions are
detected, the examiner/patient interaction is crucial to determine the patient's
awareness, concern, ability to contract the sphincter, interrupt the urinary stream and
abort the detrusor contraction. Cystometry may be performed either as a single test or as part of multichannel study.
As a single test, it may be performed without any electronics using a manometer and
estimations of vesical pressure. Abdominal Pressure Recording During cystometry, any rise in intra-abdominal pressure will be recorded by the
cystometer as a rise in vesical pressure. This simulates a bladder contraction and is the
source of many misdiagnoses. Moreover, if a patient strains in an attempt to urinate, the
rise in abdominal pressure may obscure an underlying
bladder contraction. For this reason, simultaneous measurement of intra-abdominal pressure
(by inserting a rectal catheter) is necessary to recognize and exclude artifacts and a
sophisticated examiner must be present to interpret these findings. Measurements of
abdominal pressure is, thus, an integral part of multichannel urodynamic studies. As an
isolated measurement, it is also useful to estimate the leak
point pressure (described below). Thus, abdominal pressure recording may be used as either part of a multichannel urodynamic study or as a single test for the estimation of leak
point pressure. Detrusor Pressure Recording Detrusor pressure is determined by electronic subtraction of abdominal pressure from vesical pressure. Detrusor pressure is the driving force behind
micturition and its estimation is a necessary component for diagnosing urethral
obstruction and impaired detrusor contractility. Because detrusor pressure is calculated electronically, it must always be part of a
multichannel study, it can never be done as a single test. Urofiow Urinary flow rate assesses the interaction between the bladder and the urethra. The
patient voids into an electronic flowmeter which displays the flow curve and a number of
other parameters such as mean and maximum flow rate, voided volume, voiding time, etc.
Although the uroflow is an excellent screening procedure, a low flow rate cannot
distinguish between the two most important pathologic conditions -- bladder outlet
obstruction and a weak bladder muscle. The only means of making this important distinction
is the pressure/flow analysis. Uroflow may be performed as an isolated procedure or as part of multichannel urodynamic
studies. Detrusor Pressure/Uro flow The synchronous measurement of detrusor pressure and uroflow is a basic tool of
multichannel urodynamic studies. It is the only means by which a diagnosis of urethral
obstruction can be confirmed. It is performed synchronously measuring vesical pressure,
abdominal pressure and uroflow. Detrusor pressure is calculated electronically and
displayed as a separate channel. The catheter for measuring vesical pressure may be placed
transurethrally obstruction can be confirmed. It is performed synchronously measuring vesical pressure,
abdominal pressure and uroflow. Detrusor pressure is calculated electronically and
displayed as a separate channel. The catheter for measuring vesical pressure may be placed
transurethrally or suprapubically. If the transurethral route is chosen, the patient voids
around a small catheter (which measures intravesical pressure) into the flowmeter. If the
suprapubic route is chosen, the suprapubic catheter is usually placed percutaneously and
flow is measured without the mechanical interference of a catheter in the urethra. By definition, detrusor pressure/uroflow studies are multichannel studies. Sphincter Electromyography There are two methods of sphincter electromyography. In the first method, it is
performed by a competent electromyographer using
coaxial needle electrodes in a fashion similar to electromyography performed elsewhere in
the body. As such it provides objective diagnostic criteria that enables one to assess the
integrity of the innervation to the external urethral sphincter. In addition, the
coordination between the bladder and the external urethral sphincter can be accurately
assessed. In the second method, surface electrodes are used to identify contractions and
relaxations of the striated component of the sphincter and pelvic floor muscles. It is
most useful in determining (1) whether a urethral obstruction is due to detrusor-external
sphincter dyssynergia or a "non-relaxing" sphincter; (2) whether the patient is
able to voluntarily contract the sphincter; and (3) whether the patient is able to
voluntarily relax the sphincter. Except for use in biofeedback for pelvic floor physiotherapy, sphincter
electromyography cannot be performed as an isolated test; it must always be done in
conjunction with either cystometry or uroflow or part of more sophisticated multichannel
urodynamic studies. Voiding Cystourethrography/Cystogram Cystography and voiding cystourethrography refer to radiologic visualization of the
bladder at rest, and the bladder and urethra during voiding, respectively. In order to
perform these test, radiographic contrast is used as the infusant for cystometry and the
bladder and urethra are visualized by fluoroscopy both during filling and voiding. These
two procedures are necessary to (1) provide the precise localization of the point of
urethral obstruction; (2) diagnose vesical and urethral diverticulum; (3) diagnose
vesicoureteral reflux; (4) assess the integrity of the urethral sphincter, and (5)
determine the degree of vesical and urethral prolapse. These procedures may be done as isolated examinations or as part of multichannel
urodynamic studies. Fluoroscopy Fluoroscopy is an essential part of the radiographic examination because it is the only
method by which the temporal relationship between physiologic measurements and anatomic
function can be appreciated. Vesical and Abdominal Leak Point Pressure (LPP) The vesical (VLPP) and abdominal (ALPP) leak point pressures are measures of urethral
sphincter function. The VLP and ALPP are the lowest vesical and abdominal pressure,
respectively, at which urinary leakage occurs during increases in abdominal pressure
(affected by straining or coughing), in the absence of a detrusor contraction. The VLPP is the most accurate means of assessing sphincteric function because it actually measures the force that drives urine across the urethra. In
some patients, however, urinary leakage is not seen with a urethral catheter in place. In
those instances, the urethral catheter can be removed and the rectal catheter left in
place. The abdominal pressure at which leakage occurs is recorded as the ALPP. These tests may be done as individual procedures or part of multichannel urodynamic
studies. Detrusor Leak Point Pressure (DLPP) The DLPP is the lowest detrusor pressure at which urinary leakage occurs during bladder
filling. It is a measure of the interaction between the detrusor pressure and urethral
resistance and is an important prognostic indicator of risk or the kidneys. By definition, DLPP cannot be done as an isolated procedure. It is always performed as
part of multichannel urodynamic studies. Urethral Closure Pressure Profile The urethral closure pressure is a measure pressure for a specified length of urethra
in the absence of a detrusor contraction. It may be performed as an isolated procedure or
as part of multichannel urodynamic studies. Micturitional Urethral Pressure Profile The micturitional urethral pressure profile measures pressure for a specified length of
urethra during micturition. It defines the point of urethral obstruction and/or the point
of the flow controlling zone. Stress Urethral Pressure Transmission Ratios This procedure measures the ratio of pressure transmission from vesical and abdominal
pressure to the urethra and is an indirect measure of sphincter strength. It requires
simultaneous measurement of urethral and vesical and/or abdominal pressure and, for this
reason, cannot be performed as an isolated test. Videourodynamics Synchronous measurement and display of urodynamic parameters with radiographic visualization of the lower urinary tract videourodynamics is the most precise
diagnostic tool for evaluating disturbances of micturition. In these studies, radiographic
contrast is used as the infusant for cystometry. Depending on the level of sophistication
required, other urodynamic parameters such as abdominal, detrusor and urethral pressure,
uroflow and sphincter electromyography may be recorded as well. There are important
advantages to synchronous video/pressure flow studies
compared to conventional single channel urodynamics and to conventional
cystography and voiding cystourethrography. By simultaneously measuring multiple urodynamic variables one gains a better insight into the
underlying pathophysiology. Moreover, since all variables are visualized simultaneously
one can better appreciate their interrelationships and identify artifacts with ease. Attachment 8 TREATMENT OF URETHRAL URINARY INCONTINENCE IN THE ADULT Bladder Related Incontinence (Inhibiting bladder contractility,
decreasing sensory input and/or increasing bladder
capacity) Behavioral therapy Fluid restriction Timed bladder emptying Pelvic floor exercises +/- biofeedback Bladder training Pharmacologic therapy Anticholinergic agents Musculotropic relaxants Calcium antagonists Potassium channel openers Prostaglandin inhibitors Beta-adrenergic agonists Alpha-adrenergic antagonists Tricyclic antidepressants Dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) Polysynaptic inhibitors Therapy decreasing sensory input (capsaicin, resinifenatoxin) Bladder overdistention Electrical stimulation (reflex inhibition); neuromodulation Acupuncture Interruption of innervation Central (subarachnoid block) Sacral rhizotomy, selective sacral rhizotomy Perivesical (peripheral bladder denervation) Augmentation cystoplasty; autoaugmentation Sphincter Related Incontinence (Increasing outlet resistance) Behavioral therapy Fluid restriction Timed bladder emptying Pelvic floor exercises +/- biofeedback Bladder training Electrical stimulation Pharmacologic therapy Alpha-adrenergic agonists Tricyclic antidepressants Beta-adrenergic antagonists, agonists Estrogens Occlusive and supportive devices; urethral plugs Nonsurgical mechanical compression Periurethral polytef injection Periurethral collagen injection Vesicourethral suspension (stress urinary incontinence) Sling procedures Closure of the bladder outlet Artificial urinary sphincter Bladder outlet reconstruction Prolapse repair (female) Circumventing the problem Antidiuretic hormone-like agents Diuretics Intermittent catheterization Continuous catheterization Urinary diversion External collecting devices Absorbent products Attachment 9 (a&b) (a) Thuroff, et al.  Clinical Guidelines for the Management of
Incontinence [Note: This document is a very poor photocopy of ten pages length that can not be
scanned.]  Pages 933-943 from 1st International Consultation on
Incontinence, 1998. (b) Abrams, et al.  Recommendations of the International Scientific
Committee: The Evaluation and Treatment of Urinary Incontinence.  1st International
Consultation on Incontinece, 1998. [Note: the report consists of 20 color Xerox pages of complex flow charts and
supporting material. It may be possible to reproduce this by Adobe Acrobat.  The
section contains very important material.] Included pages (from the published book) are: 945 and 951-969.  Most
these pages a