Date: Fri, 10 Feb 2012 22:13:07 GMT
Connection: close

Cough COUGH Symptom Definition A cough 
  is the sound made when the cough reflex suddenly expels air and secretions from 
  the lungs. A coughing spasm is longer than 5 minutes of continuous coughing. Causes Most are 
  part of a cold, a viral infection of the large airway (viral bronchitis). Other common causes: croup, bronchiolitis, asthma, allergic cough. Sputum or Phlegm Yellow or green phlegm is a normal part of the healing process of viral bronchitis. This means the lining of the trachea was damaged by the viral infection and is being coughed up as new mucosa replaces it. Bacteria do not cause bronchitis in healthy children.  Antibiotics are not indicated for the yellow or green phlegm seen with colds. The main treatment of a productive cough is to facilitate it with good fluid intake, a humidifier (if the air is dry) and warm chicken broth or apple juice for coughing spasms (if over age 1). See More Appropriate Topic (instead of this one) If Barky cough 
  and hoarseness, see CROUP. Previous diagnosis of asthma, see ASTHMA ATTACK. Wheezing but no previous diagnosis of asthma, see WHEEZING. WHEN TO CALL YOUR DOCTOR FOR COUGH Call 911 Now (your child may 
      need an ambulance) If: Severe 
  difficulty breathing (struggling for each breath, unable to speak or cry because 
  of difficulty breathing, making grunting noises with each breath). Child has passed out with 
        coughing spasms. Lips are bluish when not coughing. Call Your Doctor Now (night or day) If Your child looks or acts very sick. Choked on a small object that could be caught in 
          the throat. Difficulty breathing (less than 1 year old) not 
          relieved by cleaning the nose. Difficulty breathing (older than 1 year ) present 
          when not coughing. Lips have turned bluish during coughing. Birth to 12 weeks with fever above 100.4°F (38°C) 
          rectally. Fever above 105°F (40.6°C) at any age. Severe chest pain, coughed up blood or wheezing. Call Your Doctor Within 24 Hours (between 9am and 4pm) If You think 
  your child needs to be seen. Continuous (nonstop) coughing. Age less than 1 month old with any cough. Age 1 to 3 months with a cough for more than 3 days. Earache or sinus pain/pressure is also present. Fever present for more than 
        3 days. Chest pain present even when not coughing. Call Your Doctor During Weekday Office Hours If You have 
  other questions or concerns. Coughing has kept home from school for 3 or more days. Symptoms of nasal allergy are also present. Cough has been present for more than 3 weeks. Parent Care at Home If Cough with 
  no complications and you don't think your child needs to be seen. ^Back to Top HOME CARE ADVICE FOR COUGH Cough Medicine for Mild 
        Coughs: Use 
  corn syrup ½ to 1 teaspoon as needed as a homemade cough medicine.  It 
  can thin the secretions and loosen the cough.  After age 4, use cough drops. Cough Suppressant for Severe Coughs: For coughs that interfere 
  with sleep, school or work, use dextromethorphan (DM) which is present in most 
  cough syrups.  See dosage chart.  Do not use under 1 year old. Coughing Spasms: For coughing spasms, give warm fluids 
  (e.g., apple juice).  Expose to warm mist (e.g., foggy bathroom) (reason: 
  both relax the airway and loosen up the phlegm).  (Avoid juice if less 
  than 4 months old.)  Children older than 4 years can suck on hard candy 
  or cough drops (reason: to coat the irritated throat).  Also, try not to 
  talk or cough at these times. Vomiting: For vomiting that occurs with hard coughing, 
  reduce the amount given per feeding (e.g., in infants, give 2 oz. less formula) 
  (reason: cough-induced vomiting is more common with a full stomach). Humidifier: If the air is dry, use a humidifier (reason: 
  dry air makes coughs worse). Fever Medicine: For fever above 102°F (39°C), 
  give acetaminophen (e.g., Tylenol) or ibuprofen. Avoid Tobacco Smoke: Active or passive smoking makes coughs 
  much worse. Contagiousness: Your child can return to day care or school 
  after the fever is gone and your child feels well enough to participate in normal 
  activities.  For practical purposes, the spread of coughs and colds cannot 
  be prevented. Expected Course: Viral bronchitis causes a cough for 2 
  to 3 weeks.  Sometimes the child coughs up lots of phlegm (mucus).  The 
  mucus can normally be gray, yellow or green.  Antibiotics are not helpful. 
   Coughing up mucus is very important for protecting the lungs from pneumonia. 
  We want to encourage a productive cough, not turn it off. Call Your Doctor If: Difficulty breathing occurs Wheezing occurs Cough lasts for more than 3 weeks Your child becomes worse or develops any of the 
			"Call Your Doctor" symptoms ^Back to Top Disclaimer: This 
      information is not intended be a substitute for professional medical 
      advice. It is provided for educational purposes only. You assume full 
      responsibility for how you choose to use this information. Pediatric HouseCalls Online. Copyright © 2000-2005
        Barton Schmitt, M.D. FAAP Reviewed 8/2005 Revised 8/2005 See Other Topics: Asthma 
    Attack Croup Whee