Content-Type: text/html
Last-Modified: Tue, 13 Mar 2012 02:33:09 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
ETag: "9ef8f9a0c10cd1:6b9"
Server: Microsoft-IIS/6.0
MicrosoftOfficeWebServer: 5.0_Pub
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
Date: Tue, 13 Mar 2012 10:46:56 GMT
Connection: close

About Incontinence - Types of Incontinence The Simon Foundation for Continence Promoting Continence ... Changing Lives Home About Us About Incontinence News Meetings Contact Us Features World Continence Week Education Materials Simon in the Press Request Information Incontinence Solutions My Story Living with Quiggles Take Our Survey Contributors to Simon Make a Contribution About Incontinence What is Incontinence? Incontinence is the   involuntary loss of bladder and/or bowel control, resulting in the loss of urine   and/or fecal matter. Incontinence of the bladder , resulting in urine loss, is    called "urinary incontinence" or "UI" for short. Incontinence of the bowel , resulting in loss of gas or fecal   matter, is  called "fecal incontinence" or "bowel incontinence". Who has incontinence? According   to recent reports by the US National Institutes of Health, approximately   twenty million adult women and six million adult men experience or have   experienced urinary incontinence in the US - with countless more living with fecal   incontinence. None of these statistics represent how many children are   affected by incontinence. One of the common myths about incontinence is that it   only affects older people or women. Actually, men, women and children of all   ages and races can experience incontinence, but it is more common in older   adults and women, especially women who have had children . What  causes   incontinence? Incontinence is not a disease in and of itself. Rather,   it is a symptom of something else that is going wrong, or not working quite   right, in the body.  That is why it is always important to see a doctor about any   problems with incontinence or leakage of urine or fecal matter. Click here to see a list   of factors that can contribute to incontinence. What types of incontinence are there? There   are  different types of urinary incontinence, and there is also   fecal (also called bowel) incontinence. The two main types of urinary   incontinence are stress urinary incontinence (SUI), which occurs when you laugh,   sneeze, cough, or otherwise exert pressure on your pelvic floor, and urge   incontinence, which occurs when you have a sudden and intense urge to urinate -   even if you emptied your bladder a short while ago. Click here to see a list of the different types of   incontinence. What treatment options are available? There   are many different treatment options available for both urinary and fecal   incontinence, including Kegel exercises, electrical stimulation, bulking agents,   dietary changes, medication, injections, and several types of surgeries. In some   cases, incontinence can't be treated/cured, and  it must be managed using   tools such as absorbent products  and urine collection devices. It is important to speak with a nurse or   doctor before attempting any treatment, or if you use products to manage   incontinence. Click here to see a   list of the available treatment options for incontinence. Page last modified 29 May 2011 The Simon Foundation website content is for informational purposes only and does not replace advice from health care professionals. Nothing contained on this site is intended to be used for medical diagnosis or treatment. We make no endorsement, representation or warranty of any service or product listed on our website, or held within the websites of any links found on our site. Please contact our Webmaster at: webmaster@simonfoundation.org Copyright © 2