
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 08:36:49 GMT
P3P: policyref="http://info.yahoo.com/w3c/p3p.xml", CP="CAO DSP COR CUR ADM DEV TAI PSA PSD IVAi IVDi CONi TELo OTPi OUR DELi SAMi OTRi UNRi PUBi IND PHY ONL UNI PUR FIN COM NAV INT DEM CNT STA POL HEA PRE LOC GOV"
X-Host: p9w2.geo.bf1.yahoo.com
X-INKT-URI: http://www.natural4life.com//ginkgo-info.html
X-INKT-SITE: http://www.natural4life.com
Expires: Wed, 15 Feb 2012 08:36:49 GMT
Pragma: no-cache
Last-Modified: Thu, 16 Feb 2012 08:36:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Age: 0
Server: YTS/1.19.8

AIM Ginkgo Sense - a high quality ginkgo biloba supplement Quick Shop: AIM Ginkgo Sense Information 30 Capsules Elsewhere:
    $25.00 Our Price: $19.00 International orders: Canada Australia New Zealand UK The nervous system controls communication
in the body. Its leader is
the brain, which allows us to think,
decide, control our actions, and coordinate
the ability to move, touch, smell,
hear, and see. As with any body system,
good nutrition plays an important
part in seeing that the good
health of the nervous system is maintained.
AIM GinkgoSense™ helps
maintain your neuro health, especially
in regard to memory, concentration,
and vision. When we think of aging, we think of
the obvious—wrinkles and achy joints,
for example. We usually don’t consider
things such as worsening vision or memory
loss until we are well on our way to
senior status. But we should. After all, the
disorders that may go along with the aging of the
nervous system are some of the most frightening problems
we face—dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, and macular
degeneration, for example. However, there is a way
to fight this “neuro aging.” Through the use of dietary
supplements. DHA DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) is an essential fatty
acid (EFA). EFAs are called “essential” because very
little can be synthesized by the body—we must obtain
them from our diet. DHA is one of the omega-3 fatty
acids, whose perhaps best-known source is fish oil. EFAs are necessary for good health, and DHA is
well-known as one of the keys to a healthy nervous system.
DHA is the building block of human brain tissue—
60 percent of the brain is fat, and DHA is the most
abundant fat in the brain, as well as in the retina of the
eye. It plays a key role in the structural development of
retinal, neural, and synaptic membranes. DHA is essential
in communication between the brain and nervous
system—it plays a role in the cell membrane, where the
electrical impulses that are the basis of communication
within the nervous system are generated. Without
DHA and other fatty acids, communication within this
system can break down or become less effective. The importance of DHA to the brain and
nervous system is seen early in our development.
In the first few weeks of embryonic
development, the mother’s blood supplies the
fetus with large amounts of DHA. In the
last trimester of a pregnancy, the DHA
content of the brain’s cerebrum and cerebellum—
which contains centers for
speech and abstract thought—increases
threefold. DHA supplementation may be especially
important as we grow older. The
body’s ability to synthesize DHA, which
is limited in all people, may decline even
further with age. This is compounded by
the small amounts of DHA we get in our
diet, especially those who strive for a vegetarian
diet—the richest sources of DHA
are red meats, animal organs, and eggs. Research indicates that low levels of DHA
may be involved in a number of health problems relating
to the nervous system. Depression Depression is on the rise in North America. This is
often attributed to the ups and downs of our lives and is
often seen among the aging population. However,
recent research indicates that there may be a physiological
aspect to depression that relates to nutrition. A study published in the American Journal of Clinical
Nutrition (62 (July 1995): 1-9) presents research indicating
that omega-3 fatty acids, specifically DHA, may
reduce the risk of depression. The authors associate the
increase in depression in North America in the past
century with the decline in consumption of DHA during
the same period. To lend support to this idea, the
authors also note that there are lower rates of major
depression in those societies that consume large
amounts of fish, a key dietary source of DHA. Dementia and Alzheimer’s disease DHA is also being considered as a factor in dementia
and Alzheimer’s disease. In 1997, a link between low levels
of DHA and Alzheimer’s disease and memory loss was
the subject of a conference at the New York
Hospital–Cornell Medical Center’s Nutrition Information Center. Among the findings discussed at the
conference was that a low level of DHA is a significant
risk factor for dementia, including Alzheimer’s disease. The Japan Functional Food Research Association
has also investigated DHA and dementia. The association
notes that those with senile dementia achieved
positive results when taking DHA: in 10 of 13 cerebral
vascular dementia cases and five of five senile dementia
cases, the patients showed more than slight improvements
in psychiatric symptoms such as communications,
will power, motivation, delirium, the tendency to
wander, emotional disorders, and mental depression
(www.jafra.gr.jp/DHA2-e.htm). Vision DHA is also the major fat in retinal tissue. It plays a
strong role in the photoreceptor cells of the retina, suggesting
an essential role for DHA in vision. DHA deficiency
in laboratory animals showed a marked decrease
in proper functioning of the visual cycle. In a recent study looking at fish oil, which contains
DHA, and macular degeneration, researchers found
that more frequent consumption of fish appeared to
protect against late age-related macular degeneration.
Only a moderate intake of fish was necessary for the
protective effect (Archives of Ophthalmology 118 (March
2000): 401-404). Bilberry In addition to DHA, bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus) is
good support for a healthy nervous system. It is closely
related to American blueberry, cranberry, and huckleberry.
It was bilberry jam that first spurred medical
interest in this fruit. During the Second World War,
British and American fighter pilots hailed bilberry jam
as a secret weapon for improved night vision. Bilberry contains bioflavonoids, which help remove
harmful chemicals from the retina, and phytochemicals,
which help stabilize the capillary walls and maintain
the integrity of the retina. There have been very few studies on bilberry since
the 1960s and more current research is needed to confirm
bilberry’s properties. Lutein and zeaxanthin Lutein and zeaxanthin, carotenoids found in green,
leafy vegetables, are also good for the eyes. Like other
carotenoids, they are antioxidants. What is unique
about these two is that they are the only carotenoids
found in the eyes—in the macula (the part of the retina
responsible for detailed vision) and the lens.
Current research is investigating what function they
may serve, and recent studies have found that diets rich
in lutein and zeaxanthin may play a role in reducing
the risk of age-related macular degeneration and
cataracts—two problems that are usually a result of the
aging process. Macular degeneration Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the
leading cause of legal blindness among the elderly in
the United States and other developed countries. In
AMD, the retinal tissue breaks down. It is the retina
that converts light into the electrochemical energy
needed to produce vision. Those with the greatest risk for AMD tend to have a
lower amount of lutein and zeaxanthin in the eyes than
those without AMD. In the mid-1990s, one large epidemiological
study (a study that looks at a population
and charts its general risk) reported that increased consumption
of lutein and zeaxanthin reduces the risk of
AMD (JAMA 272, no. 18 (1994): 1,410-23). A study published in November 2000 supports this.
In this 140-day study, it was shown that lutein supplementation
increases macular pigment—this is important
because macular pigment may protect against
AMD (Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science 41
(November 2000): 3,322-26). This is further confirmed
in a report that notes in the abstract that “Some observational
studies have shown that generous intakes of
lutein and zeaxanthin, particularly from certain xanthophyll-
rich foods like spinach, broccoli, and eggs, are
associated with a significant reduction in the risk for
cataract (up to 20 percent) and for age-related macular
degeneration (up to 40 percent).” The author goes on
to note that further research is necessary (J Am Coll
Nutr 5 Suppl (October 19, 2000): 522S-527S). Cataracts Cataracts are the leading cause of vision impairment
in the United States and other developed countries. In
cataracts, the lens of the eye, which is normally colorless
and clear, grows cloudy. The lens is then unable to
focus accurately on the retina, which makes seeing
more difficult. Interestingly, lutein and zeaxanthin are
the only carotenoids generally found in the lens. There have been three epidemiological studies looking
at the correlation between dietary lutein and zeaxanthin
and the risk of cataracts. These found a trend
toward reduced risk of cataracts and cataract surgery
with increased intake of lutein and zeaxanthin (Am J
Clin Nut 70, no. 4 (1999): 517-24; Am J Epidemiol 149,
no. 9: 801-9; Optom Vis Sce 77: 499-504). How they work Although exactly how lutein and zeaxanthin function
in the eye is not fully understood, researchers propose
that their health benefits have to do with their
antioxidant ability and their absorption of near-to-UV
blue light. They absorb near-to-UV blue light, potentially the
most damaging light that reaches the retina. As antioxidants,
they inhibit the formation of free radicals—this
is important because the eye is rich in fatty acids that
are easily attacked and damaged by free radicals. Ginkgo Ginkgo biloba is an herb with a 5,000-year history in
Chinese medicine. Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) has
been studied since the 1950s, and shows positive results
for what is known as “cerebral insufficiency”: a collection
of symptoms that include difficulties in concentration
and memory, absentmindedness, confusion, lack of
energy, tiredness, decreased physical performance,
depressive mood, anxiety, dizziness, tinnitus, and
headache. The German Commission E—a group of
physicians, pharmacists, and toxicologists who evaluate
herbs for safety and efficacy—notes that GBE does lead
to an improvement in memory performance and learning
capacity. This is largely due to its effect on circulation. Ginkgo
increases blood flow to the extremities and the brain, so
the brain gets more oxygen and glucose, explaining
why there is significant improvement in patients with
some form of dementia. GBE also has antioxidant properties that counteract
free radicals, also a cause of dementia. In fact, in October 1997, the prestigious Journal of the
American Medical Association (JAMA) reported that
GBE may be beneficial in the treatment of Alzheimer’s
disease. Since then, it has received increased attention.
In 1998 and 1999, analyses of previous ginkgo studies
noted that ginkgo does positively affect cognitive functions
to some degree. A more recent study (Dement
Geriatr Cogn Disord 11, no. 4 (July-August): 230-7),
looked at ginkgo and dementia in a 26-week, doubleblind,
placebo-controlled trial. The abstract notes that
“In comparison to the baseline values, the placebo
group showed a statistically significant worsening in all
domains of assessment, while the group receiving GBE
was considered slightly improved on the cognitive
assessment and the daily living and social behavior.” Ginkgo also inhibits PAF (platelet-activating factor),
which causes the platelet blood cells to clump together. Recently, GBE is showing promise with intermittent
claudication, a cramp-like pain in the calf on walking,
which usually disappears on resting. It is caused by narrowed
arteries in the legs, usually from plaque buildup,
that reduces the blood supply to the muscles. A metaanalysis
shows that GBE increases pain-free walking
distance (Pittler et al 2000). AIM GinkgoSense AIM GinkgoSense combines ginkgo biloba, bilberry,
lutein, zeaxanthin, and DHA in a synergistic product to
maintain your neuro health. Each capsule contains: 120 mg of ginkgo biloba extract standardized to contain
24 percent ginkgo flavonglycosides and 6 percent
terpene lactones—the same percentages used in
clinical trials. 40 mg of bilberry extract, derived from the fruit,
standardized to contain 25 percent anthocyanosides 400 mcg of lutein, as marigold extract 18 mcg of zeaxanthin, as marigold extract 2.5 mg of DHA in 21 mg of fish oil Click here for more info on 
AIM Ginkgo Sense
: Benefits & Features Product Details Frequently Asked Questions Suggested Reading Instructions on Usage AIM Products AIM Daily Life AIMega AIM BarleyLife AIM Bear Paw Garlic AIM CalciAIM New! AIM Cell Sparc 360 AIM Cell Wellness AIM Composure AIM FitnFiber New! AIM Flora Food AIM Frame Essentials AIM Garden Trio AIM GinkgoSense AIM GlucoChrom AIM Herbal Fiberblend AIM Herbal Release AIM Just Carrots AIM LeafGreens New! AIM Para90 AIM Peak Endurance AIM PrepZymes AIM Proancynol AIM ReAssure AIM RediBeets AIM Renewed Balance AIM RevitaFem Prices and charges are subject to change without notice.
This page contains copyrighted materials and/or trademarks of AIM International, Inc. and is reprinted with permission. AIM products are not intended to diagnose, cure, treat, mitigate, or prevent a disease or illness. Results may vary per person. All articles and information on this website are for educational purposes only. They are not to be regarded or relied upon as medical advice. The articles and information have not been evaluated by the FDA. C