Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Acupuncture.Com - Acupuncture Points - Urinary Bladder UB 15 Acupuncture.Com - Gateway to Chinese Medicine, Health and Wellness Store PATIENTS Conditions A-Z Acupuncture Clinic Find an Acupuncturist Herbal Remedies Diet & Nutrition Chi Gong &Tai Chi Chinese Medicine Basics Patient Testimonials Animal Acupuncture Store PRACTITIONERS/STUDENTS Syndromes A-Z AcuPoint Locator Herbology Practice Building CEUs/Events Employment Study Acupuncture Acupuncture Schools Research TCM Library Laws & Regulations Practitioner Links Practitioner Store MORE Points Newsletter Catalog Requests Contact Us About Acupuncture.Com Privacy Policy ANNOUNCEMENTS Acupuncture.Com accepts article contributions. Email 

							submissions to contact@acupuncture.com FIND AN ACUPUNCTURIST Search In Please select ------------------- United States Canada ------------------- Africa Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Czech Republic Denmark Ecuador El Salvador Europe Finland France Germany Greece Guatemala Hong Kong Hungary India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Latin America Luxembourg Malaysia Mexico Middle East Netherlands New Zealand North Africa Norway Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Rep. Dominicana Romania Russia Singapore Slovakia Slovenija South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Turkey United Kingdom Venezuela West Indies Iceland Cyprus within 10 Miles 20 Miles 50 Miles of ( Zip/Postal Code ) Over 30,000 Professionals Listed Advanced Search Search Help List Your Practice Subscribe Keep informed on current news in the world of 

							Traditional Chinese Medicine. Home > Education > Acupuncture 
				Point Location > Urinary Bladder Meridian > 
				UB 15 Urinary Bladder 15 Chinese Name : 
Xinshu (English translation: Heart Shu) Location: On the back, 1.5 cun lateral to the lower 
border of the spinous process of the 5th thoracic vertebra. Classification: Back-Shu point of the Heart Indications: Cardiac pain, palpitation, chest congestion, 
	shortness of breath Cough, hematemesis Insomnia, forgetfulness, epilepsy Nocturnal emission, night sweating Functions: Strengthens and nourishes the Heart, calms the Shen, regulates Heart Qi, opens 
the chest, resolves Blood stagnation, clears Heart Heat/Fire. Notes: UB 15 is one of the best points for 
insomnia and anxiety, especially if the pattern is due to heat. Back-Shu points are corresponding points on the back where the 
Qi of the respective Zang-Fu organ is infused. If the Five Zang organs are 
diseased, abnormal reactions appear on the Back-Shu points. Back-Shu points have 
a direct therapeutic effect on the diseases of the Five Zang organs. For more 
complete information on Back-Shu and Front-Mu points, click here. Needling: Oblique insertion .5 - .8 cun. Featured Products Calm-Fort 
                                Sleeping Elixir Calm and 
                                Relaxation in a Bottle Super 
                                Clarity Elixir Helps 
                                Improve Memory, Alertness & Concentration Suan 
								Zao Ren Tang Wan Relieves 
								Insomnia Anxiety, & Irritability Handbook 
								of Oriental Medicine By Hyunbae 
								Kim, L.Ac. Top-Rated 
								Student's Study Guide to Everything TCM Chinese Herbology Made Easy By 
								Maoshing Ni A Complete 
								and Concise Guide to Chinese Herbs Tonic 
								Oil Warms and 
								circulates for the relief of minor aches and 
								pains Featured Products All Contents Copyright © 1996-2010 Cyber Legend Ltd. All 
		rights reserved. Acupuncturist directory and Acupuncture school referral services 
		provided by Acufinder.com. Use of this website is subject to our Terms and 
		Conditions . All logos, service 