Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Hodgkin's lymphoma in children: better alternatives ■ Home ■ site map ■ email healthknot .com Health news: May 2010 Time to move beyond salt ? Salt 
				hypothesis vs. reality Is sodium bad? April 2010 Salt studies: the latest score From 
				Dahl to INTERSALT Salt hypothesis' story March 2010 S alt 
			war Do bone 
				drugs work? Diabetes vs. drugs, 3:0 ? February 2010 The MMR vaccine war: Wakefield vs. ? Wakefield proceedings: an exception? Who's afraid of a littl' 1998 study? January 2010 Antibiotic children Physical 
		activity benefits late-life health H ealthier 
		life for New Year's 
			resolution December 2009 Autism epidemic worsening: CDC report Rosuvastatin 
				indication broadened High-protein diet effects November 2009 Folic 
			acid cancer risk Folic acid 
			studies: message in a bottle? Sweet, 
			short life on a sugary diet October 2009 Smoking 
			health hazards: no dose-response C. 
			difficile warning Asthma risk and waist size in women September 2009 Antioxidants' melanoma risk: 4-fold or none? Murky waters 
				of vitamin D status Is vitamin D deficiency hurting you? August 2009 Pill-crushing children New gut test for children and adults Unhealthy habits - whistling past the 
		graveyard? July 2009 Asthma solution - 
		between two opposites that 
		don't attract Light wave therapy - how does it actually work? Hodgkin's lymphoma in children: better 
		alternatives June 2009 Hodgkin's, 
				kids, and the abuse of power Efficacy and safety of the 
		conventional treatment for Hodgkin's: behind the hype Long-term mortality and morbidity after
		conventional treatments for pediatric Hodgkin's May 2009 Late 
			health effects of the toxicity
		of the conventional treatment for Hodgkin's Daniel's true 5-year chances
		with the conventional treatment for Hodgkin's Daniel Hauser Hodgkin's case: child 
		protection 
		or medical oppression? April 2009 Protection from EMF: you're on your own EMF 
				pollution battle: same old... EMF 
				health threat and the politics of status quo March 2009 Electromagnetic danger? No such thing, in our view... EMF 
				safety standards: are they safe? Power-frequency field exposure February 2009 Electricity and health Electromagnetic spectrum: health connection Is 
				power pollution making you sick? January 2009 Pneumococcal vaccine for adults useless? DHA 
		in brain development study - why not boys? HRT 
		shrinks brains NEWS ARCHIVE 2009 2008 2007 YOUR 
		BODY HEALTH RECIPE NUTRITION TOXINS SYMPTOMS July 200 9 Hodgkin's lymphoma in children: better 
		alternatives Daniel's case - True chances - Late effects - Mortality - Real picture Hodgkin's kids - } Alternatives S o, 
			how did the conventional treatment for Hodgkin's lymphoma fare with 
			respect to the four requirements, set in the very beginning, that 
			would justify legal enforcement, against the will of 
			children/adolescents diagnosed with the disease and their parents? Here's the short summary: 1. Does it have nearly 100% success rate? NO 2. 
					Does limited delay of this particular treatment generally involves serious health risk? NO 3. Is it nearly free from dangerous side effects? NO 4. Is it the only viable alternative? NO No w that we have unveiled the true face of "cure" for Hodgkin's 
			offered by the conventional medicine, can we blame parents for 
			trying to use non-invasive alternatives first? That is all that Danny Hauser and his 
			parents - as well as Katie Wernecke and her parents, Abraham Cherrix and his parents, and many others - asked for. For that, the parents 
			have been labeled by the government to be neglectful, unfit to take 
			care of their own children. Are there alternative, non-invasive therapies for Hodgkin's 
			disease that can actually work? Certainly. Mind you, Hodgkin's does 
			not result from the body being deficient in highly toxic chemicals 
			and/or deadly radiation. It has its physiological/environmental causes and, as with any 
			other disease in general - and cancers in particular - the key for a 
			true cure lies in the body itself. Hoxsey herbal formula alone, while helpful in strengthening the 
			immune system, probably wouldn't do it for most Hodgkin's patients. When 
			combined with nutritious, organic diet - which is originally part of 
			it - it does become significant healing force. More so with added detox 
			routine. But there are alsio other 
			cancer-fighting forces among non-invasive therapeutic options. Here are some of 
			them. Laetrile , also called Amygdalin and vitamin B17, is a natural 
			non-toxic substance belonging to the large family of plant 
			substances known as nitrilosides. Common source are apricot 
			kernels, but many other edible plants have high 
			nitriloside content. Their complex molecules are made 
			of hydrogen cyanide, a benzene ring or acetone, and sugar. In the 
			intestine, it is broken by the bacterial/fungal enzyme β-glucosidase into 
			hydrogen cyanide, benzaldehyde or acetone, and sugar (cancer cells 
			themselves produce high levels of β-glucosidase enzyme, as opposed 
			to the normal cells which hardly produce any). Hydrogen 
			cyanide is highly cytotoxic, but readily neutralized in the normal 
			cell by the rhodonase enzyme. Cancer cells, typically low in 
			rhodonase, are left exposed to hydrogen cyanide's toxicity. Similarly, benzaldehyde's strong cytotoxicity is quickly neutralized 
			by oxidation into non-toxic benzoic acid in the oxygen-rich 
			environment of the normal cell, but not so in the oxygen-depleted 
			cancer cell. Synergistic toxic effect of these two compounds on the 
			cancer cell exceeds that of any chemotherapy agent, yet to the rest 
			of the body laetrile is only 1/20 as toxic as aspirin. How did conventional medicine manage to get around such a 
			cancer-fighting commodity? Easily. In the clinical trial at Mayo 
			Clinic in the early 1980s, sponsored by the National Cancer 
			Institute, they used laetrile as racemic mixture, 
			having only 1/10 the strength of its levo-rotary form. Even so, 
			some improvement did show, but the trial was 
			terminated, proclaiming laetrile ineffective. Case closed. As a result, most of clinical applications of laetrile in the 
			U.S. (some states do allow its use in officially terminal cases, on 
			patient's request; also, it is legal in Europe, and used regularly 
			by Dr. Ernesto Contreras at his clinic in Tijuana, Mexico) have 
			taken place before 1980s, and were limited in size. One of them was on a group of 10 patients with inoperable 
			metastatic cancers, by Dr. John A. Morrone, M.D., 
			Attending Surgeon at the Jersey City Medical Center, New Jersey, in 
			1962. Three of these patients were diagnosed with Hodgkin's; here's 
			how they responded to laetrile therapy, as reported by Dr. Morrone ( Chemotherapy 
			of inoperable cancer , Preliminary report of 10 cases treated with laetrile): Case 5. R.F., age 20, male, single, premedical student, 
			weight 200 lb., height 59 in., blood pressure 114/70 mm. Diagnosis: 
			malignant lymphoma, type Hodgkin's. Condition started as enlarged 
			cervical gland, diagnosis on biopsy. Urinalysis negative, hemoglobin 
			11 Gm./100cc. Deep X-ray therapy was employed. The patient complained of 
			weakness, dizziness, and pain in the axillae and groin. The 
			cervical, axillary and inguinal glands were palpably enlarged. The 
			conjunctivae and sclerae were pale and icteric. Laetrile 1 Gm. was injected intravenously. In ten minutes the 
			systolic blood pressure dropped 6 mm. but there were no other 
			apparent effects. Four days later the patient reported that he felt 
			more active, had a better appetite, and had suffered no ill-effects. An injection of Laetrile 1Gm. was repeated. The systolic blood 
			pressure dropped 4 mm. in ten minutes, no other apparent effects. In a period of four and a half months he received nineteen 
			injections of Laetrile, five of 1 Gm. and fourteen of 2 Gm. During the period of medication the pains in the neck and groin 
			ceased and the adenopathy disappeared. The patient felt euphoric and 
			his general appearance was considerably improved. There were no 
			apparent adverse effects from the injections. The blood picture 
			improved after Laetrile therapy. Case 7. G.P., age 21, male, single, college student, weight 
			149 lb., height 70 in., blood pressure 110/70 mm. Diagnosis: 
			malignant lymphoma, Hodgkins type. Urinalysis and hematology 
			negative. A growing mass in front of the right ear, which returned four 
			years after its initial appearance and recession, was removed and 
			found to contain multinucleated giant cells typical of Hodgkin's 
			disease. There was a hard, tender, enlarged lymph node in the mid-sternocleidomastoid 
			region measuring 3x2cm. Urinalysis and liematology were negative. Laetrile 1 Gm. was injected intravenously. The systolic blood 
			pressure dropped 4 mm. but there were no apparent side-effects. 
			Three days later the enlarged gland was smaller, softer, and less 
			painful. By the sixth day all pain had ceased. In a period of four months he received twenty-seven injections of 
			Laetrile, ten of 1Gm. and seventeen of 2 Gm. There were no 
			side-effects. One injection, made directly into the tumor mass, was 
			followed by itching and local tenderness. During the period of treatment the patient returned to college. 
			Pain was absent, appetite good, weight increased 13 lb., and his 
			appearance was excellent. The blood picture improved under Laetrile 
			therapy. Case 10. F.F- Age 17, male, single, student. weight 140 lb., 
			height 71 in., blood pressure 110/70. Diagnosis: Hodgkin's disease, 
			granuloma type, with metastasis to the thorax. During the last three months a growing mass in the left 
			supraclavicular region had reached the size of a quarter sphere of 
			an average orange. The patient complained of pain in both axillae, 
			weakness, nausea and anorexia. He had lost 25lb. and was jaundiced. 
			Biopsy confirmed the diagnosis. The axillary lymph glands were 
			enlarged, especially on the right side. The roentgenograms showed 
			progressive nodal enlargement inside the thorax. Laetrile 1 Gm. was injected intravenously. In five minutes the 
			systolic blood pressure dropped 6 mm. but there were no apparent 
			other effects. On examination two days later the mass in the neck was softer and 
			smaller. By the fifth day it was reduced to about half the original 
			size, and was softer and movable. The axillary lymph glands were 
			barely palpable. He was free from pain and his appetite had 
			returned. In a period of five months he received thirty-six injections of 
			Laetrile, nineteen of 1 Gm. and seventeen of 2 Gm. There were no 
			side-effects. During the period of treatment there was no pain and no 
			enlargement of the supraclavicular mass occurred. Appetite improved 
			and the patient gained 24 lb. He returned to his studies. Comparison 
			of before and after hemograms showed distinct improvement in the red 
			blood cell count and hemoglobin. All 10 patients had similar positive response, resulting in 
			partial or full cancer remission. Coincidence? Make your own 
			conclusion. Another natural compound with similar, selectively toxic effect 
			targeting cancer cells is the common mineral cesium . Being strong alkalizer, cesium is attracted to typically acidic cancer cells. 
			Readily absorbed through their potassium channels, cesium lowers 
			their acidity level; when the typical cancer cell pH of 6.5 drops to 
			7 (neutral), the cell stops growing; as it turns alkaline, with pH 
			exceeding 7, cancer cell begins to die. One of the "side effects" of 
			cesium being very unhealthy for cancer cells is its very efficient 
			suppression of pain caused by cancer, even in terminal cases. As 
			with laetrile, their direct side effects are mild and rare; however, 
			their efficiency can over-saturate the body with toxins created by 
			dying and decomposing cancer cells, thus requiring simultaneous 
			detox routine (which is very desirable for cancer patients in 
			general, regardless of treatment type). As a side note, this secondary toxicity is very likely the main cause of the 
			mysterious retinoic acid syndrome , potentially 
			life-threatening complications following remission of acute 
			promyelocytic leukemia as a result of treatment with non-toxic 
			vitamin A derivative, which has demonstrated efficacy making it an 
			alternative to cytotoxic chemotherapy. Is it really so hard for the conventional medical doctors to 
			comprehend how critically important 
			is to help the body detoxify when treating any cancer? These non-toxic anti-cancer agents are illustration and proof 
			that treatments based on toxicity selectively targeting cancer calls, 
			while sparing good cells, are 
			possible and available. They are possible for the simple reason that 
			cancer cell has different, anaerobic 
			(sugar/fermentation based, pretty much as in plant - specifically 
			yeast - cell) metabolism, as opposed to aerobic (oxygen-based) metabolism of 
			normal cells. One of the consequences is the above mentioned 
			difference in the level of β-glucosidase and rhodonase enzymes in 
			the cancerous vs. healthy cell. This basic distinction of the cancerous cell has been known since 1925, when it was discovered by Nobel Prize 
			laureate Dr. Otto Warburg. But the official medicine won't switch to the non-toxic treatment 
			direction unless 
			supplied by a superior (to laetrile and/or cesium) pharmacological 
			agent, produced by pharmaceutical industry, so that it can be 
			patented, get a high-price tag and make big profits. Simply using 
			natural (unpatentable), inexpensive agents already available is a 
			no-no practice that would lead to a profit collapse for the pharmaceutical 
			industry, and loss of the dominant position in the field of medical 
			services by the American Medical Association (i.e. conventional, 
			allopathic medicine). For them, sticking to their guns 
			is literally "to be or not to be". There are also other non-invasive treatments with proven 
			ability to fight cancer: Budwig diet, macrobiotics, chelation therapy, ozone 
			therapy, pulsed magnetic field therapy, enzyme therapy, colonic 
			cleansing/enemas, positive imagery, vitamin/mineral mega doses, and 
			others. But they are being ignored or ridiculed by the official medicine 
			for the reason just stated above. Why is it that the conventional medicine never even contemplated 
			having "combined modality" clinical trials with these effective, but 
			non-invasive treatments? The simple answer is: there's no money in 
			it, and that's not "their thing". The "no money" part is what primarily concerns the pharmaceutical 
			industry - the mighty power that has created and controls much of 
			what the conventional medicine is today. It had also so effectively 
			infiltrated the overseeing government's agency, FDA, that whatever 
			positive comes from its existence results more from it preventing pharmaceutical industry from self-destructing due to excessive greed, than from its genuine concern for the wellbeing of the American people. The "not their thing" part is what concerns AMA (American Medical 
			Association), which wants to keep its official and practical 
			monopoly in the area of medical services by proclaiming its medical practices to 
			be the only proper way of doing medicine. Since these practices are 
			mainly created by the pharmaceutical industry so that they sell its 
			products - drugs, radiation and surgery aids - the two are 
			tied together "till death do us part". Considering this, it is no wonder that so much money and research 
			has been put into minimizing toxicity of inherently highly toxic 
			conventional treatments for Hodgkin's, as well as into building a picture of 
			deception that it is not only a "cure", but also the only option 
			available, 
			and so little in non-invasive natural alternatives. It is no wonder 
			that researching the actual causes of Hodgkin's - immune deficiency, 
			Epstein-Barr virus link, genetic predisposition, environmental 
			toxins, etc. - is lagging behind for decades. There's no money in it, and it ain't their thing. Sadly, the entire cause-oriented medicine is sidetracked and 
			officially downgraded to "unproven" or "experimental" at best, 
			simply because suppressing symptoms with patented drugs and 
			expensive surgeries is where the big profits lie. Addressing the 
			causes, most of which originate in the environment and unhealthy 
			lifestyle, would not only drastically reduce the profit, but would 
			also dwarf the size of the patient market. It would, inevitably, 
			also expose, and financially hurt those who don't wont you to know 
			that their smokestacks, littering of the environment, toxic 
			chemicals, processed foods or electromagnetic fields are harming 
			your health. Aside the enormous influence that these multibillion dollar 
			businesses have, the government becomes 
			even more sympathetic when the economic growth is at stake. All this 
			is what the drug-free and 
			cause-oriented medicine is up against. After this little digression that helps understand why the things 
			are the way they are, we can finally conclude this lengthy 
			discourse, and answer the question: Does the government, under the pretext of child protection, 
			have the right to force Americans bellow 18 years of age to undergo 
			conventional Hodgkin's treatment against their and will of their 
			parents? It does not. There is no guarantee that child will survive; 
			depending on the severity of the disease, the chances that it won't 
			be alive after 5 years are between 1 in 20 and 1 in 3 
			(approximately). If child dies within this period, the most likely cause is 
			Hodgkin's. Longer-term, the chances of premature death - about 2 in 
			3 within 30 years after the treatment - and morbidity - nearly 100% 
			chance of suffering chronic diseases - make the conventional 
			Hodgkin's treatment all but safe and bullet-proof. One could argue that this is still better than no treatment, in 
			which case nearly all patients would die within 10 years. But "no 
			treatment" is not what Wernecke, Cherrix, Hauser and other families 
			wanted. They wanted to give a chance to less invasive, or 
			non-invasive treatments first, to spare their child from 
			excruciating, dehumanizing ordeal of the conventional Hodgkin's 
			treatment, which still retains very real, significant risks. What the government is doing by criminalizing the parents for 
			this, and forcing their children to undergo toxic conventional 
			therapy, is not child protection. It is protection of self-serving 
			medicine abducted by profit-hungry pharmaceutical companies and 
			political ambitions of American Medical Association, determined to 
			dominate the field of medical services. There is no right way to do wrong. If the government wants to get 
			involved and help the children diagnosed by Hodgkin's - and other 
			life-threatening diseases - it can only do so by giving fair, 
			factual advice to parents who want best to their children about all 
			treatment alternatives, and let them make their choice. It can only 
			have the right to step in and enforce treatment when parents, by any 
			reasonable measure, fail to act. But it cannot allow those who have 
			vested interest from practicing particular treatment - or, for that 
			matter, particular kind of medicine - to decide for the parents what 
			is their only choice. And, this cannot be overemphasized: cancer is too serious and 
			complex disease to allow anyone without necessary medical training 
			to decide about the particulars of child's treatment - including its 
			parents. Guidance of a competent medical professional is essential. Information and updates about Daniels's progress, authorized by 
			the Hauser family, you can find at www.dannyhauser.com web 
			site. TOP ñ YOUR BODY �