Content-Type: text/html
Cache-control: private

Health Topic: Diabetes (Type-2) Affiliations Contact Us History &  Mission Location & Directions Management Find an Adventist Church Calendar How-to Place an Order Up-coming Events Return Policy Book Department Food & Health Department Gift Department Music Department Children's Department About the Book Dept Meet the Staff New or On Sale! Choosing A Bible Book of the Month Top 50 Best Sellers About the Food & Health Dept Meet the Staff On Sale Now! Meatless Alternatives Supplements Grains, Nuts, Dried Fruit, More Want to Live Longer? Health Topics Archive About the Gift Dept Meet the Staff About the Music Dept Meet the Staff New or On Sale! Concerts & Events WGTS FM 91.9 About Children's Dept Meet the Staff Friday, February 10, 2012 Diabetes (Type-2) If you or someone you care about has  Type-2 Diabetes, you know how downright incovenient and scary it can be. Some  choose to ignore their condition, which almost guarantees future complications,  while others manage their disease through their medicine cabinet. What you might not know is that much  is being written today about the reversibility of Type-2 Diabetes. Many cases  have been documented in which a diabetic individual has experienced a lowering  or even an elimination of their medication, as well as the signs, symptoms and  complications that come with this disease--all in a matter of weeks! How, you  may ask? Through lifestyle choices and changes. Over the past decade Lifestyle  Center of America has emerged as the center in the country for a proven-effective,  bona fide miracle program for preventing, stopping, and even reversing the  adverse effects of diabetes. And now, for the first time, their revolutionary  3-part program is outlined in book form: The 30-Day Diabetes Miracle . By following The 30-Day Diabetes Miracle ,  you will: Achieve and maintain your ideal  weight for the rest of your life Be likely to dramatically reduce or  stop many of your medications Avoid hospitalizations, surgeries,  and debilitating complications Eliminate counterproductive  lifestyle choices and habits Have more hope, energy, and zest  for life Take ownership of your own health  and future Feel and look healthier than you  ever imagined possible Discover that you can control or  stop--not just 'manage'--your diabetes "The diagnosis of diabetes no  longer needs to be a disability and death sentence. The drug cabinet no longer  needs to run your life. By following the clinically proven program in The  30-Day Diabetes Miracle, you can stop the progress of diabetes, reverse its  signs and symptoms, and even reverse some of its complications, and lower, if  not eliminate, your medication requirements within weeks. At the same time,  your high blood pressure and cholesterol will drop, your excess weight will  come down, and you can start living again. The 30-Day Diabetes Miracle is the  path back to sanity, to health, and to hope." --Dr. Hans Diehl, DrHSc, MPH Founder of the Coronary Health  Improvement Project (CHIP) Director of the Lifestyle Medical  Institute The book also features dozens of  recipes, from which this is a delicious sample (used with permission) M editerranean Barley and Lentil Soup *(items in large,  bold print are available at our store) 1  c. water ½  c. dry French  lentils , cleaned  and rinsed 2  Tbsp. pearl barley 2  tsp. olive oil ¾  c. onion, chopped 3  large garlic cloves, minced 2  tsp. ground cumin ½  tsp. ground  coriander 1/16 tsp. ground cayenne pepper ¼  tsp. salt ½  tsp. onion salt 1 cinnamon stick 1  c. plus 2 Tbsp. canned low-sodium diced tomatoes 5  c. water 1  Tbsp. plus 2 tsp. McKay's  chicken style seasoning, vegan In  a large soup pot, combine 1 cup water, lentils, and barley.  Bring to a boil uncovered and cook for 20  minutes.  The water should be nearly  gone.  While the lentils and barley are  cooking, in a medium skillet heat the olive oil, add the onion and garlic and sauté  10 minutes.  When lentils and barley are  done cooking, add sautéed onion and garlic to the soup pot along with the  remaining ingredients.  Bring to a boil  again, reduce the heat, partially cover, and simmer for 40 minutes.  Remove the cinnamon stick and serve hot. Another  book that is very helpful for those with Diabetes and other health issues is The Optimal Diet , The  Official CHIP Cookbook by Darlene Blaney, M.Sc., N.C.P. and Hans Diehl,  DR.H.Sc., M.P.H., F.A.C.N. The  Optimal Diet Recipes  to reverse and prevent Obesity, High Blood Pressure, High Cholesterol,  Diabetes, Heart Disease. CHIP,  the Coronary Health Improvement Project, is a successful lifestyle-intervention  program. More than 40,000 people have enjoyed the results of attending this  world-class program: lower blood pressure, fewer pounds, lower cholesterol and  blood sugar, less angina pain, and fewer medications. How did they do it? They  simplified their lifestyle, especially their rich Western diet. And here are  some of the recipes they used that made all the difference. If  you want to enjoy good food--and good health--this book is for you! Special  features include guidelines for stocking a healthy pantry, a glossary of  nutrition terms, a two-week menu plan, nutritional analysis on recipes, and  valuable information about fats, sugar, protein, vitamin B12, calcium, soy, and  food additives. 