Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html

Foods That Promote Longevity Foods Than Promote Longevity and Anti-aging Bee Pollen Bee Pollen is a mixture of plant pollen, plant nectar, and bee saliva.  It is like a super,
multivitamin and mineral supplement, designed and manufactured in nature's laboratory by some of
our hardest workers - bees. Bee pollen contains an extensive collection of nutrients and offers a long list of benefits that
can extend our lives by building the blood, boosting energy, and rejuvenating the body's cells.
High in anti-oxidants, bee pollen counteracts the effects of aging both mentally and physically. Bee pollen is 35% protein, including lots of lysine, leucine, and valine; that's is more than
beef, eggs, or cheese.  It contains 2% fat made up of healthy phosphatidycholine and linoleic acid. 
Bee pollen also contains a wealth of minerals (1 1/2%), including  iron, zinc, potassium, magnesium,
calcium, copper, sodium, and selenium, as well as an equal percentage of vitamins (1500mg/100g),
especially riboflavin, nicotinic, pantothenic and folic acids, B2, inositol, vitamin C and even
some B12. Bee pollen also contains the essential chromosomal nucleic acids DNA and RNA, as well as
a whopping 5,000 different healthful enzymes and phytochemicals, including lycopene, quercetin,
carotenes, and flavonols. Royal Jelly and Propolis Royal Jelly is another bee food.  It contains components that can smooth the wrinkles in aging
skin.  Royal jelly is high in B vitamins and beneficial fatty acids. The antioxidant and
antimicrobial activity of propolis and royal jelly make them awesome
antibiotics.  It is so valuable that it is fed exclusively to the queen bee.  It is credited with
maintaining the queen's larger size and extending her life.  Queen bees live four to five years
compared to worker bees, who llive approximately 40 days.  Imagine what it might do for us! Propolis is collected by bees from flowers, trees, and vegetables, then mixed with their
own secretions, including beeswax, to form a gummy, resinous substance. Propolis contains a wealth
of polyphenols and antioxidants. Extracts on bee pollen, royal jelly, and propolis from Power Juices Super Drinks , by Steve Meyerowitz Bee Alert Bee Alert contains Bee Pollen, Royal Jelly, Ginseng, and Bee
Propolis to help increase endurance, relieve stress, enhance immunity, and reduce allergies. Bee
Pollen contains thousands of enzymes and coenzymes, every known vitamin and trace mineral,
prostaglandins (hormone precursors), essential fatty acids, RNA and DNA, flavonoids, carotenoids,
and more. Royal Jelly helps slow the aging process, strengthen the immune system, and increase
endurance and energy levels. Ginseng works as a tonic, stimulant, and rejuvenator.  Propolis may
tone and heal epithelial tissue, the gastrointestinal tract, and the mucus membranes
of our bodies' numerous organs, glands, and ducts. Ginkgo biloba Most of us loss memory and mental acuity as we age.  We have been searching for a fountain of youth
since the beginning of time, and it may well be under the ginkgo tree. Ginkgo eases age-related hearing loss by improving blood circulation to the ears.  It may help relieve
tinnitus, which causes people to hear background noises as they age.  It may also prevent age-related 
macular degeneration by protecting the retinas from the effects of free radicals.  And it reduces 
the susceptibility of the eyes to edema and cellular lessions. Now that we can see and hear better, what about our mental faculties?  Normal aging causes the receptors
in our brains to diminish in quantity and efficiency. Ginkgo biloba slows this process and actually increases 
the number of receptors.  It increases the brain's alpha waves and decreases the theta rhythms, effectively
increasing alertness. Ginkgo's ability to improve blood circulation may also be a factor since this 
increases oxygenation to the brain.  Ginkgo is one of the most effective substances for boosting 
circulation to the capillaries.  Ginkgo nourishes our brain's neuotranmitters and expands the number of
receptors for acetylcholine. This improves concentration, attention span, learning ability, and memory. Ginkgo is made up of a unique blend of phytochemicals.  Its bioflavonoids are extremely active in preventing
free radicals from destroying cells.  It is rich in organic acids, polyphenols, quercetin, 
proanthocyanidins, flavones, glycosides, ginkgolic acid, lactones, and ginkgolides. Ginkgo is completely non-toxic even at higher doses.  It generally takes from 3 to 6 months of continued use
to achieve desired results. Extracts on Ginkgo from Power Juices Super Drinks , by Steve Meyerowitz Ginkgo biloba Ginkgo biloba is a natural phytochemical wonder benefits:
brain function and a wide array of common ailments. More than one thousand scientific papers have
been published world-wide to document the clinical effects of Ginkgo biloba extract.  Ginkgo has been
used in Chinese medicine for over 5,000 years. Memory Enhancer Memory Enhancer contains concentrated Ginkgo biloba extract to improve your memory and protect the brain cells and nerves from degeneration associated
with aging. Increases both Qi and blood circulation by improving the quality of blood and blood
ve