<http://www.homeopathyhaven.com/?p=709>; rel=shortlink
Connection: close
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8

Treat UTI Infections Naturally | Homeopathy Haven Homeopathy Haven Pages Home Allergy Homeopathy Arthritis Homeopathy Boiron Homeopathy Homeopathy Books Homeopathy Kits Homeopathy Magnets Homeopathy Medicine Phosphorus Homeopathy Psoriasis Homeopathy Pulsatilla Homeopathy Sepia Homeopathy Sulphur Homeopathy Thuja Homeopathy Categories Homeopathy Articles Homeopathy FAQs Homeopathy News Archives March 2012 February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 Blogroll Meta Log in WordPress XHTML RSS Comments RSS October 1, 2011 (0) Comments Treat UTI Infections Naturally admin Treat UTI Infections Naturally UTI infections are one of the most common types of infections. They are especially prevalent among women and more than 50% of women will have a UTI at some point in their lives. If left untreated, these infections can cause serious complications. Thus, it is important to know how to treat UTI infections. UTI infections can be difficult to treat and some doctors believe that the use of antibiotics increases the likelihood of future infections. Luckily, there are many natural remedies that can be used right at home to treat UTI infections. The most widely known remedy for UTI infections is cranberry juice. Juice should be 100% natural with no added sugars. Another option is to take cranberry extract tablets, available at your local health food store. It may be easier for you to take tablets than to drink cranberry juice throughout the day, and the tablets have been shown to be equally effective in the treatment of UTI infections. Drinking cranberry juice is beneficial to having a clean urinary tract. Think of the urinary tract the same way that you would think of a sink. If it gets clogged with bacteria too much then it will become irritated and will not function properly. Vitamin C, like the cranberry juice remedy, is high in acidity and can be used as a treatment for uti. Taking 1000 milligrams per day can help restore the balance of the urinary tract and can also help prevent future bladder infections as well. Having good hygiene is important if you have a chronic UTI. Women should wipe themselves front to back when they use the bathroom. Women who have poor hygiene habits often wipe back to front which can cause fecal mater to enter the urinary tract. This creates bacteria in the urinary tract which causes recurrent urinary tract infections to occur. A product is available that can do all of these things in one all natural, herbal supplement. Urizol (www.urizol.com) is a herbal supplement that contains many ingredients that will fight any signs of infection in your urinary tract. It contains asparagus, a diruetic which will flush out your system. Urizol also contains cranberry and juniper to destry and prevent growth of bacteria. Urizol cleans and disinfects your urinary tract with an ingredient called Buchu. Buchu is a plant commonly used as a urinary tract disinfectant. Echinacea is also added to Urizol to boost your immune system and help fight infection. And to soothe your urinary tract, Urizol contains Marshmallow mucilage, which is commonly used for both UTI’s and kidney stones. Urizol is wonderful alternative to the expense of antibiotics, which can wreak havoc on your digestive system and have unpleasant side effects. Learn more about uti natural . Visit our site where you can find out all about Urinary Infection Cure – Choosing Antibiotics or a U.t.i. Natural Remedy for Treatment? . Similar Posts Treat UTI Infections Naturally No responses to " Treat UTI Infections Naturally " No comments yet. Leave a comment Name : Mail : Website : Message : Subscribe/Search Subscribe via RSS Feed Subscribe via Email Great Deals Recent Entries Tips On How To Remove Skin Tags Best Resveratrol Viral Bronchitis The Most Wonderful Thing That Give The Genuine Thing Seeking Out Acupuncture For Fertility Things You May Need To Understand About Medical Cannabis In Sacramento Homeopathy Remedies Amazon.com Widgets Tag Cloud acid reflux Acupuncture acupuncture for fertility acupuncture for infertility alternative alternative health alternative medicine alternative_medication anxiety anxiety attacks aromatherapy body cleansing chinese medicine cleansing colon cleanse colon cleansing cosmetics depression detoxification disease electronic cigarettes essential oils fitness health heartburn hemorrhoids herbs home homeopathy homeopathy remedies hypnosis medicine natural natural health natural remedies natural remedy panic attacks psychology Sacramento Medical Marijuana skin treating children with homeopathy treatment Vitamins Weight Loss yeast infection More Great Deals © Copyright 2008. Maggo The