Date: Fri, 16 Mar 2012 22:06:49 GMT
X-Varnish: 2364717769
Age: 0
Via: 1.1 varnish
Connection: close

Male Circumcision and HIV: 5 entries from June 2008 Male Circumcision and HIV Front Page The Intactivists The AAP/CDC Project FAQ ARCLaw Intact America Donate! « May 2008 | Main | July 2008 » 5 entries from June 2008 Monday, June 23, 2008 The End of the Epidemic, Spray-on Prophylactic, Herpes and HIV, and The Future of MC & HIV The End of the Epidemic? The Independent reported this month that the World Health Organization believes the world-wide threat of a generalized epidemic has in fact passed. The story is rather long, but the message in a few words is that the disease outside of Africa remains and looks to remain localized and concentrated in sub-populations that engage in behaviors necessary for its spread, namely among marginalized people who inject illegal drugs, among sex workers, and in gay men whose sexual networks coincidentally mirror those of sub-Saharan Africa, i.e. multiple concurrent partnerships. (It bears noting that this last category is not all inclusive. Those most at risk are the gay men who maintain such networks, which isn't to say that this makes up a majority of gay men.) This is a courageous statement. It goes against the two decade juggernaut that would rather use fear and hype to maintain attention on the problem than the humanitarian aspects of infection to keep the money flowing. To be fair, I'm not sure that this approach wasn't necessary given the world's antipathy towards the most affected groups. But it has had its counterproductive fall-out. Again, contrary to Halperin and Bailey and Gray and their acolytes, a concentrated, targeted response is still the best approach all things considered. Spray-on Prophylactic? Aidsmap has a more considered discussion on the recently reported research that spraying Estrogen on the penis could produce a barrier of keratin that may reduce the risk of HIV infection. Aidsmap interprets the study as a possible way for intact men to gain the benefits of circumcision without being circumcised. But as usual, the tone of the article belies the assumption that circumcision is the gold standard and spraying hormones is the next best thing. Again, the romance of circumcision continues to weave its way into the discourse. Nevertheless, at least Aidsmap gives the reader a more nuanced view behind the idea. Treating Herpes Still Not Predictive of HIV Infection In a final report on research started some time ago to assess whether treating herpes with suppressive drug therapy would reduce rates of HIV infection, researchers have concluded that the approach has no apparent effect in reducing HIV in women and gay men. This is contrary to the by-now common belief viz circumcision where the mechanism of reduction in transmission has been pinned on the reduction of ulcerative diseases in circumcised men. Of course, numerous studies have failed to demonstrate this. In fact, the literature is replete with contradictory studies viz the reduction of STDs in circumcised men. Demographic studies have also shown circumcision provides no predictive value of relative rates of HIV. (It of course bears noting here that other research has concluded that the groups studied, women and gay men, receive no protective benefit from circumcision.) An objective view would seem to support that STDs are simply not a risk factor for contracting HIV although they remain a predictor of risky behavior conducive to HIV transmission. The Future of MC & HIV June has been a lean month for the blog. It's not that there hasn't been news to report and comment on. In fact, this has been a busy month over all for that. However, the present model is less effective in keeping this website current and timely. I'm working on coming up with a sustainable solution. In the mean time, I would point you towards this article on the "anti-preneurs." Is this method of economic support a possible avenue for influencing the public debate? Note the no-commercial radio station. I hope you will leave comments to this post on what you want to see here and how you would support it. Thanks for reading. Posted by David Wilton at 08:22 AM in Health Care Cost/Benefit Analysis , HIV Prevention , MSM, Same Sex Issues , Research & Politics | Permalink | Comments (3) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Saturday, June 14, 2008 Aidsmap: Single virus often responsible for HIV infection, suggesting high barrier to infection Aidsmap has reported on a study out of Alabama that purports to show that three quarters of HIV infections results from a single virus penetrating the new host. In other words, "a single virus was the ancestor of all the viruses isolated from that
individual, suggesting to the researchers that immune defences against
HIV are highly efficient and usually able to prevent infections by
swarms of viruses." The significance of this for prevention is unclear. However, I think one can speculate that the way to get infected is to engage in activities that make the body's defenses less effective, such as using drugs that degrade the immune system or injecting the virus directly into the blood stream. It has been widely accepted for some time now that drugs such as "poppers" and methamphetamine weaken mucous membranes as well as overall immunological defenses. Until now, the effect of lowering inhibitions has logically gotten all the attention. If an otherwise healthy individual possesses rather robust innate defenses to initial HIV infection, just how much risk are individuals taking to finally get infected? Unfortunately, I'm not sure that's the right question to ask. At least in the developed world, it isn't in fact the average healthy individual who is getting this virus. It's the marginalized population of the poor, drug-addicted, and disadvantaged who are coming down with the disease. Risk taking of all forms increases the more marginalized one is. HIV has exploited this reality of society. Where do you find fewer marginalized people? In the developed, rich countries of the world, excluding the US, such as those of Europe and even Japan. And how do these countries compare? They have lower rates of HIV and AIDS. Two reasons stand out: a broader social safety net and universal health care. And yes, you guessed it. They don't circumcise in the majority. So, it would appear that circumcision is for the poor and marginalized. And that population is huge in Africa. As for big-picture strategy, once again, contrary to Halperin and Potts, Bailey and others, targeted
prevention efforts would seem to be the best way to go. Reference Keele BF et al. Identification and characterization of transmitted and early founder virus envelopes in primary HIV-1infection. PNAS 105 (21): 7552-7557, 2008. Posted by David Wilton at 11:37 AM in HIV Prevention | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Wednesday, June 04, 2008 Roger Short's Little Australian Shop of Horrors [Updated on the recent story viz circumcision of HIV+ men] At what point do the advocates of circumcision reach the extremes of plausibility and pass over to the other side into the realm of absurdity? And will the international HIV research community recognize when THAT membrane has been crossed? Now here comes Australian Roger Short, a Brian Morris acolyte(?), suggesting that female hormones be given to men to spray on their penis to increase the "membrane" of keratin threefold as a way to create a "natural condom." Scary, absurd, and once again clinical trials to be conducted on Africans, the guinea pigs of choice. For Short, if it works, he's a star. If it fails, dead Africans. How can he lose? I can just see a scenario where the law of unintended consequences penetrates quite nicely that threefold layer of keratin. Little Shop of Horrors , indeed. Link: Australian researchers say 'natural condom' could stop HIV - Yahoo! News [link will expire]. EDIT: In response to several emails regarding recent research that circumcision is safe for HIV+ men, I am elevating a comment I made in response to a comment to yesterday's post. The comment highlighted the apparent discovery that HIV+ men can be circumcised just like HIV- men. The article in question, referenced above in the comments, suggests that circumcision in HIV+ men is safe in "optimal" clinical settings. The implication is that the stigma of being intact in a time of rising levels of circumcision could result in many HIV+ men coming forward for the operation -- despite there being no benefit to themselves, and the very real danger that they could then claim to be negative because they are circumcised. Why was it necessary to determine safety? HIV testing prior to the procedure would add an additional level of complexity and cost to providing circumcision in low resource settings although some would say this would be the ideal time to test. Moreover, the motivation to undergo a painful and dangerous operation could evaporate, as we have seen where testing is almost taboo. Even where men are willing to be tested, determining status entails counseling and presumably some kind of treatment requirement. This last aspect, the circumcisers want nothing to do with. But ethically, they would have some obligation. Obviously, circumcision is fraught with ethical conflicts, dilemmas and pitfalls -- and all this in light of evidence that demographically there will be no benefit from the procedure, but rather a trail of destruction from its almost certain poor implementation. Clearly, circumcision of HIV+ men would serve no purpose other than to mask their HIV+ status. The dual claims that circumcised men are at less risk from HIV infection and that circumcision is safe for already infected men enable the latter to avoid the social disadvantages of their HIV status while making their circulation and sexual interaction all the more dangerous and potent. How is giving the vectors of HIV heightened credibility in denying their infectiousness anything other than self-defeating for those who would claim circumcision is "the vaccine we have been waiting for?" Posted by David Wilton at 07:04 AM in Crazy | Permalink | Comments (10) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Tuesday, June 03, 2008 Reuters reports, Uganda shuns gays in anti-HIV drive More evidence that perhaps east African culture is ill-equipped and too inflexible to effectively deal with the HIV/AIDS epidemic: Uganda's government said on Monday it would not focus any of its
HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment programmes on outlawed homosexuals
because the east African country is short of funds. ... "Gays are one of the drivers of HIV in Uganda, but because
of meagre resources we cannot direct our programmes at them at
this time," the chairman of the Uganda AIDS Commission, Kihumuro
Apuuli, told reporters in the capital Kampala. ... Most homosexuals hide their sexual preferences in Uganda,
where courts can punish homosexual acts with a life sentence in
prison, and even "attempted" homosexuality can draw a jail term
of seven years. Circumcision won't fix cultural prejudices and a willful failure to implement effective strategies. One might also wonder, as has been mentioned here before, how reliable the African circumcision trial data was when gay men face life sentences and seven year terms for "attempted" homosexuality. Would anyone honestly answer questions about homosexual behavior under these circumstances? Link: Uganda shuns gays in anti-HIV drive | Reuters . Posted by David Wilton at 07:11 AM in HIV Prevention | Permalink | Comments (2) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Monday, June 02, 2008 Notebook: Halperin, Bailey, others take advantage of African culture Nothing tells the story of HIV in Africa than the recent headline, Four in five Swazi men reject AIDS testing: survey . One begins to wonder whether the real message behind the HIV epidemic in countries like Swaziland is that culturally these societies are simply ill-equipped to deal with a disease like HIV. In light of the evident low transmission rates around the world outside of Africa, except in certain subpopulations, one is forced to conclude that there must be something about sub-Saharan Africa that HIV finds exceptionally hospitable. What could it be except culture? Viewed in this light, it isn't so hard to see the point of view of people like Daniel Halperin, Robert Bailey, Helen Epstein and even Elizabeth Pisani. All of these commentators (and others) except perhaps Pisani basically say that condoms don't work in Africa (see PlusNews article Tackling low condom use ). Abstinence doesn't work in Africa. Monogamy doesn't work in Africa. And even voluntary testing and counseling doesn't work in Africa. And they are right -- to a point. They go wrong in saying these things don't work anywhere. That position is demonstrably untrue, especially in places like Brazil and Thailand. Halperin and Bailey particularly may be intentionally disingenuous when they publicly seek to discredit all methods other than the one they are selling in light of the ineffectiveness of the traditional approaches. They can only get away with it because there is a grain of truth there that ABC works poorly in some settings compared to the rest of the world. And it's quite notable that their greatest success is where this truth seems most evident. Apart from the ripple effects of a concerted effort to discredit enduring methods of prevention, perhaps a more disturbing implication of their stance is that people's rights should now take a backseat to prevention efforts. Low or no tolerance for "stupid" behavior as Pisani puts it, or attempts to discredit traditional methods of prevention that "lack evidence" as Bailey and Halperin are trying to do to their eternal shame, point to a new approach that coerces people into undergoing sexual surgery and encourages the international community to give up on first world approaches to HIV prevention in Africa. Circumcision may not prevent HIV infection, but its implementation will pave the way for other draconian measures, perhaps including criminalization of infection , monitoring or even registration of the infected, and perhaps eventual restrictions on HIV positive individuals' civil rights. A new intolerance has arrived on the scene that should rightly frighten Africans. The question remains, will it scare them into changing their ways any more than the spector of AIDS itself? Fair use AFP article below the fold. Continue reading "Notebook: Halperin, Bailey, others take advantage of African culture" » Posted by David Wilton at 12:20 PM in HIV Prevention , Notebook | Permalink | Comments (0) | TrackBack (0) | Digg This | | Subscribe and receive a numbered copy of The Intactivists: San Francisco Pride 2009-2010 as our thank you! Or buy the book online to support us! Here's why . { IAS 2011 - Rome } Did you know that our twitter feed includes many news items you won't find in the blog? Click on MC_HIV to view and follow our full twitter feed. Twitter Feed follow MC_HIV on Twitter Subscribe to this blog's feed Enter your email address: Delivered by FeedBurner Search About Male Circumcision and HIV provides a place for a public health policy debate on the linking of male circumcision and HIV/AIDS. It seeks to address questions of cost versus benefit, the effectiveness of circumcision in the fight against HIV/AIDS in real world settings, and the differing points of view of researchers, the media, and all contributors to the policy discussion. Contributors David Wilton David Wilton is a lawyer by training. He has a long-standing interest in issues of body integrity and HIV/AIDS. He maintains this site and blogs from San Francisco, California. His primary interests outside of nurturing a debate on the controversial measure of removing sexual tissue to reduce the spread of HIV are in the areas of international relations, languages, and journalism. Interviews Circumcision and HIV: A Conversation with David Wilton CUT, The PODCAST: In this episode, Eli Ungar-Sargon sits down with David Wilton of Male Circumcision and HIV to discuss the issue of circumcision and HIV-AIDS. Below, San Francisco attorney David Wilton discusses male circumcision, HIV, and human rights. Read a transcription of this interview here . San Francisco attorney David Wilton interviewed on Outlook Video viz human rights and male circumcision Contact Circumcisionandhiv.com PO Box 40312 San Francisco, CA 94140 [Please put CIRCUMCISIONANDHIV in the subject line.] San Francisco Pride Outreach 2011 2010 2009 Bonobo3D - Documenting Intactivism Intactivist Blogs infocirc End Routine Infant Circumcision IntactNews Barefoot Intactivist peaceful parenting Men Do Complain | Mythbusting Circumcision Choose Intact IntactByDefault no circumcision Beyond the Bris Jewish Intactivist Organizations קה"ל - קהילת הורים לילדים שלמים ברית מילה - חדשות מהארץ והעולם Beyond the Bris Jewish Circumcision Resource Center Jews Against Circumcision ברית מילה Gonnen.org Intactivist Organizations The WHOLE Network: Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information - The WHOLE Network - Accurate Circumcision & Foreskin Information Circumcision Information Resource Center of Colorado Doctors Opposing Circumcision NORM - The National Organization of Restoring Men MGMbill.org International Coalition for Genital Integrity - Intactivist Group Bay Area Intactivists | Promoting Genital Integrity For All Intaction.org to End Infant Circumcision Now ARC - Attorneys for the Rights of the Child National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers  Intactivists Intactivist Allies ~ Peaceful Parenting ~ Woman, Uncensored TLC Tugger The Teapot Atheist The Lifelube Blog - gay . sexy . healthy The Kvetcher · David Kelsey The Guggie Daily Tantalus Prime Stop Circumcision RollingDoughnut.com NOHARMM Home Page mothering magazine - inspiring natural families since 1976 ManHood: The foreskin substitute for men who are circumcised, foreskin restoration, or intact with penile discomfort Joseph4GI Intactivism Pages - HIV page History of Circumcision Growing with my Girls Gloria Lemay Global Health Council Gene Expression DailyKos: Diarist RealityBias Cut: The Film Circumcision information for Australians | Circinfo.org Circumcision Information and Resource Pages Blog powered by TypePad Amazon.com Widgets Categories 15th CROI (2008) AAP 2010 AAP NCE 2009 Affliction Fiction AIDS 2008 - Mexico City AIDS 2012 ASHM 2008 Circumcision Journalism Crazy Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) Genital Integrity Genital Integrity 2008 Genital Integrity 2010 Health Care Cost/Benefit Analysis Health Care Policy HIV Prevention IAS 2007 - Sydney IAS 2009 - Cape Town IAS 2010 - Vienna IAS 2011 - Rome Informed Consent Intactivism Law MSM, Same Sex Issues NHPC 2009 Notebook Off Topic pdf files Prevalence Pro-Circumcision Lobby Public Policy Activism Q & A Religion Research & Politics Science SFMGMBill.org Trends Vaccines Web/Tech Weblogs Around the Web Circumcision and AIDS at MGMbill.org A decidedly anti-circumcision site with a calm approach to addressing the human rights issues likely to become problematic in the rush to roll out circumcision as an HIV prophylactic. Circumcision and HIV at circumstitions.com One of the most thorough reviews anywhere of circumcision and the history behind the HIV prevention community's study of it. The science behind this prophylactic tool is much more equivocal than the most recent researchers would have you believe. New Zealand based. Circumcision and HIV: Harm Outweighs Benefits from circumcision.org From the Circumcision Resource Center, Boston, Massachusetts. This human rights organization has published such books as Questioning Circumcision: A Jewish Perspective and Circumcision: The Hidden Trauma . Sitting on its board are a number of individuals affiliated with Harvard and other Ivy League institutions. Circumcision and HIV infection from CIRP.org From the Circumcision Information Resource Pages. An excellent primer on the issue. Doctors Opposing Circumcision statement on HIV Doctor's Opposing Circumcision is a Seattle based physicians group that provides education, information and advice on medical circumcision and its effects. Statement on AIDS and Circumcision from the International Coalition for Genital Integrity Another thorough treatment of male circumcision's likely impact on the spread of HIV from an "alliance of organizations dedicated to protecting the normal anatomy of males, females and the intersexed ... [that] was formed to coalesce the many activist organizations, each with a specific focus, into one, common voice." Does circumcision prevent HIV infection? - NORM-UK John Dalton puts together a critique of the African studies and their weaknesses. He examines the evidence, appropriateness, and possible outcomes from promoting circumcision and calling it a "prevention." Archives February 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 Jul